Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian 11

OPINIONS

Sakharov’s Views Middle East Are Outdated

Bilal El-Amine
and
Sally Howell

Although Vladimir Sakharov was an entertaining
speaker who made several valid points about the United
States’ and Soviet Union’s interests and intentions to-
ward the Middle East, we would like to express our dis-
satisfaction with both Sakhorov as an expert on the re-
gion and on the Davidson audience’s reaction to his
speech.

One of Sakharov’s first points was that the number of
Moslem citizens in the Soviet Union is growing much
faster than the Slavic Russian population. It is even esti-
mated that in the next decade the number of Moslems
will exceed the number of Slavs. Sakharov maintained
that this enables the Soviet government to further its in-
fluence in the predominantly Moslem Middle East by
using religious similarities to appeal to the Arabs’ sense
of Moslem unity.

We feel, however, that this is not only disadvantage-
ous to the Russian leaders in the Soviet Union, but is also
not an effective policy. Communism and Islam are ir-
reconcilable because the nature of both is that of an en-
tire social system. For this reason the Arabs are unwil-
ling to accept communism as anything more than a
means to overthrow the existing order. By no means are
they willing to adopt communism as their way of life.
Furthermore, the Gulf states have witnessed the Soviet
expansionists invasion of Afghanistan and are fearful
and unwilling to have this happen in their own states.
This has, in fact, led Arab leaders to seek the friendship
and protection of the United States.

Soviet policies of usirig their Moslem population to
gain support in the Middle East may also threaten Soviet
leaders by activating a Moslem front, both within and
outside of the Soviet borders to increase Moslem influ-
ence in the Politburo. This is not an unrealistic sugges-
tion when the revolutionary appeal of fundamental Islam
is considered. The expansionist nature and potential ex-
plosiveness of fundamentalist Islam must not be undere-
stimated.

Another major flaw we saw in Sakhorov’s premises
was the actual outdatedness of his arguements and infor-
mation. His experience in the region appears to have
ended when he left in the early Seventies. Not only has
the Middle East changed tremendously since then, but it
is also difficult to apply experiences gained in one area to
other conflicts in the region. Hence the foundatins for his
arguments and predictions appear to be misfounded.

For instance, three incidents which have over-
whelmingly influenced the reshaping of the Arab mind
in this decade have been the Iranian revolution, the
Lebanese Civil War and the Camp David Accords.
When Sakharov implied that he could predict long range
Soviet policies in the area it struck us that many Arabs
are willing to be held to their own personal predictions in
an area as unstable and turbulent as the Middle East.
This is made obvious by the absolute surprise the world

expressed over the Iranian revolution, including the sur-
We are frustrated that Love

Auditorium was packed for a
speaker whose understanding
of the Middle East was dis-
torted and outdated.

prise of Iran’s closest Arab allies.

We were also shocked to note that the conflict within
the Middle East with the most far reaching and disturb-
ing implications, that between the Arabs and the Israelis,
was completely overlooked by Sakharov. The major set-
back to U.S. foreign relations with Arab nations in the
region is the United States’ close alliance with Israel.
The Arab leaders viewing this alliance with hostility feel
that it has given Israel the power to act beligerantly
against its neighbors and to occupy territory in Syria,
Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt. Hence the United States,
in its best diplomatic efforts, will always be limited by
the resentment and distrust of the Arab world. A good
example of this hostility was the attack against the U.S.
Marine barracks in Lebanon.

We are frustrated that Love auditorium was packed
for a speaker whose understanding of the Middle East
was distorted and outdated. We wish that he could have

put aside his pro-America worldview to give us a repson-
sible, well-informed and objective address on an area of
the world that this community in particular seems to be
ignorant of. It is depressing that this ignorance allowed
the Davidson audience to receive Sakharov’s speech
without question.

An easy remedy of this lack of understanding would
be for the Davidson community to expose itself to a
higher level of international awareness. This could be
accomplished through an upgrading of our area studies
opportunities and through attracting responsible speak-
ers to the College. Greater student participation in inter-
national events here on campus is necessary for the ad-
ministration to be convinced that this is worthy invest-
ment on the part of the College.

El-Amine is a sophomore political science major from
Dharan, Saudi Arabia. Howell is a senior Center major
from Charlotte, N.C.

The Davidsonian “Opinions” section is the only
forum on campus for extended commentary on perti-
nent issues. We will print opinions articles on any
subject of general interest we receive from the cam-
pus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1)We require that all articles be in our hands by 7
p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those written legi-
bly, double-spaced.

3)We require that opinions be signed. We will
print unsigned articles only if compelling reason
exists for withholding the author’s name, and the au-
thor is known to either the editor or executive editor.

4)We will not edit opinions for style or content
but we reserve the right to edit for rules of common
English. We will inform the author of substantial
changes.

5)Since space for Opinions articles is limited, we
reserve the right to select articles from those we re-
ceive for publication. We will attempt to print any ar-
ticle we withhold from publication for space reasons
the next week.

realize this fact and, acknowledging the
lack of spots in adequate locations, take a
much more tolerant attitude towards cars
parked on the curb around Patterson
Court. The problem is especially serious
at lunch and dinner times.

Also, if the police refuse to adopt a
more reasonable stance on this issue, let
them be at the very least indiscriminate in
their ticketing. SAE isn’t any worse than
the other houses, but it isn’t any better
either. Check it out Mr. Policeman!
Every meal you’ll find 20 cars parked in
front of SAE just begging to get one of
those obnoxious little tickets. Only once
this year have I seen a ticket on a BMW.
How come the dude in the little go-go
buggy “runs out of time” as soon as he
finishes with the Delts?

And another thing. If you cops con-
tinue with this unreasonable practice
then how about dropping fines to three or
five dollars like they used to be? Take a
look at other campuses and you'll find
five dollars is about average — I know
it’s two dollars at Furman.

The point of this letter is not to attack
SAE. I want the cops to get off every-
body's backs in light of the cir-
cumstances. I know I am supported by
most of the student body. I beg a re-
sponse from the Davidson College Cam-
pus Police, either through this paper or
through the absence of the tickets.

A. Boyd Blackbum

RAPE

To the editors:

While I admire the intentions of the
RAPE Committee, as a direct result of its
flyer distribution in my dorm this past
week I am forced to question the commit-
tee’s priorities. At this point it appears to
me that RAPE is doing more harm than
good. According to statistics quoted in
last week’s Davidsonian, acquaintance
rape accounts for about 70 percent of all
rapes. Assuming that acquaintance rape
is the same as “date” rape, I would argue
that atDavidson this form of rape occurs
at least 95 percent of the time, if not more
often. With this in mind why does RAPE
put out flyers with self-protection tips,
50 percent of which are directed towards
the less common non-acquaintance rape?

The flyers’ advice like “lock your
room and residence hall” and “avoid
travelling alone” promotes, I believe,
unjust fear among female students. The
flyers also state that “most rapists know
their victims in advance.” Are our female
students not supposed to trust their male
friends? This is Davidson, not New York
City. We trust one another here more
than do students at most campuses. Fear
of the sort the flyers produce can almost
only serve to undermine this trust.

Locking doors or walking with an es-
cort service does not and will not address
or prevent the real rape problem at

Davidson. Davidson is a college. Men
and women here have new freedoms that
they must use wisely and new responsi-
bilities to themselves and others that they
must accept. In short, Davidson stu-
dents, male and female, must learn how
to conduct themselves in a college’s so-
cial atmosphere. “Date” rapes are a di-
rect result of students failing to learn this.
The RAPE committee should concen-
trate its resources on this unfortunate
social ignorance.

RAPE, you are bravely attempting to
redress an important dilemma at David-

son. Please, educate us. Don’t scare us.
Andy Kromer

Football

To the Editors:

I was intrigued to see the incredible
irony in last week's issue. The Davidso-
nian was willing to run D. D. Wright's
article (“No Hoopla, No Respect”) and
then prove Wright’s point by printing the
wrong photo (that’s D. E. Wright, nor
D. D. Wright). It just goes to show that
football players are indeed the Rodney
Dangerfield’s of Davidson — no respect.

Wright’s article gives a good insight
into the football team’s feelings about
life at Davidson: frustration, anger, and
even a sense of persecution. Playing

football at Davidson certainly does not
live up to the expectations of college
football and this is due to many factors:
lack of scholarships, high admission
standards, poor facilitites, difficult
schedules, etc. However, blaming the
student populace is not going to solve the
problems.

I am sure that D. D., and several
others, are frustrated by the weakness of
the football program, but venting their
anger on the students’ lack of support is
hardly profitable. Granted that “the fun
comes in performing for a crowd,” bui
this should not be the reason for playing
the game — that borders on the egocen-
trical. Instead, true athletes receive
gratification in the knowledge of a game
well played, knowing they did their best
regardless of the score of the number of
people in the stands.

D. D. claims that “it is hard to get ex-
cited about a losing team.” This
phenomena is not unique to football, it
holds true for every sport everywhere.
The true measure of success, though,
should not be measured by how large the
crowd is, but how well one lives up to
their potential. All it takes is a positive
attitude, the willingness to try, and not
making excuses if the goals are not
reached. Though this no guarantee for
“hoopla”, it will bring repect, which is
far more valuable.

lan F. Dunn
