Friday, May 3, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students Complacent About Reputation

a EK PES YD I
7 Ne »

Steve MacMillan

As my final days as a Davidson student rapidly ap-
proach, I feel compelled to voice some opinions which |
hope may trigger constructive thoughts about our institu-
tion. Davidson, you are a good school, but not the best,
most difficult, or most prestigious.

I have witnessed an arrogance around this campus for
four years which seems to assert that Davidson is the pre-
mier school in the country, boasting the toughest work load
or the most intense academic format. Sure, Time magazine
rated our work load as one of the most demanding, and
U.S. News and World Report ranked us as the ninth-best
liberal arts college in the nation.

Such rankings are instantly spouted around here as
though they indicate we are the best. I have not heard many
questions about what we can do to improve our status in the
rankings. We should not praise ourselves for being number
nine, but strive to become number one. Would that not
make us all more proud?

A basic element of the liberal arts education is to learn
to read, evaluate, and think critically. Yet when it comes to
applying these skills to analyzing our own institution, they
seem. to escape many of us and we become blindly
praiseworthy.

This lofty opinion of ourselves seems to breed a degree
of haughtiness which leads to a more serious concern: nar-
row-mindedness. At the risk of being attacked on this
point, I will attempt to clarify myself. First, | am not saying
close-minded. I choose the term narrow because many of
us are open-minded on many issues, but not all issues. I am
nyt sure if it stems from many people arriving at Davidson
with relatively sheltered backgrounds, or if it just seems
that many come from such similar environments.

I must express my own shocked concern that a class-
mate of mine could write earlier this fall that Davidson does
not shelter us from the real happenings of the world. The
statement declared that anyone who has spent a Saturday
night at Davidson has surely been exposed to most of the
vagaries(?) of life. Really? Are we exposed to the problems
of poverty, crime, famine, or the many who go to sleep

Aye

11

wees

qa
At;

Pacey. * tas st Oa TH ee Se
C2 > ~ >

every night without a roof over their heads?

Although the College is making progress in its drive to
increase diversity among the student body, we must recog-
nize several key points. Simply obtaining students from
different geographic regions does not in itself provide a di-
verse student body. We must seek people with different
socio-economic backgrounds, experiences, religions and
heritage. While such considerations are essential, they are
still only the beginning. For there must exist a desire on the
part of the community to help integrate and want to learn
from everybody else. Our educational experience would be
greatly enhanced by a more diverse student body, yet many
students appreciate the relative homogeneity of our student
body. We must also observe that efforts toward greater di-
versity should be undertaken on a large scale, for other-
wise, we merely create more subgroups within the commu-
nity, and therefore, do not stimulate the positive interaction
necessary for learning from others.

There remain several points which I hope people will
consider. Davidson needs to make major decisions regard-
ing its view toward athletics. As the situation currently
stands, the entire student body is severely shortchanged.
Varsity teams are expected to compete against teams with
far superior resources. Those seeking to participate in casu-
al athletics activities are severely restricted simply because
of grossly inadequate facilities.

I must quarrel with Dean Terry's remark at convocation
last week, implying that because our football and basket-
ball teams had poor records this year, we therefore are
doing a good job in allocating our resources. Must we res-

ign ourselves to an inferior athletic program, and take sol-
uce In saying we spend our money on academics? Other
schools in the country have managed to maintain both
strong academics and solid athletic programs; surely we
can, too? But we must first lessen the attitude prevalent in
some administrative circles which seems to believe that we
can only strengthen our athletic programs by sacrificing
academic quality in some way.

The opportune time to recognize the athletic situation is
now. We have a new athletic director and new football
coach whose leadership can be effectively harnessed to
bring about positive change. Although winning is certainly
not everything, we should in no way accept that we will
field second-rate teams and then just tell them to do their
best. This becomes not only frustrating and demoralizing,
but in contact sports like football, can lead to physical in-
juries as well.

While I could continue with other less important obser-
vations, I will conclude here. The point of this article is not
to tear apart Davidson, but to point out faults which can
hopefully be addressed by the community as a whole, par-
ticularly during this time of self-study. Davidson is a fine
institution with an outstanding student body, and a presi-
dent whose concern for the institution is sure to improve it.
We have produced many outstanding graduates and will
continue to do so. But we should not be complacent when it

comes to looking at ways we can make this institution bet-
ter.

MacMillan is a senior economics major from Stockton, NJ

A Little Understanding

Ann Blue

In recent weeks, and also in the past
few months, some situations have come
to light that have made me painfully
aware of a universal problem that plagues
every level of our society from the inter-
national and political levels to the level at
which we are all experienced, the level of
inter-personal relationships. What I see
everywhere I turn is a lack of understand-
ing. This lack is not “come by honestly,”
in other words, it is not the result of dog-
ged effort and diligence to try to under-
stand something that is a bit out of reach.
It is, rather, a chauvinistic denial of
others’ thoughts, feelings, and histories,
it is the product of a laziness, in one re-
spect, for we are spoon-fed so many
stories that we aren’t used to investigat-
ing for ourselves. It is also the product of
stubbornness and pride, because as
human beings we may see that another's
viewpoint is feasible, but refuse to get
down off that “high horse” of ours.

Two major things have moved me to

write this letter—the recent international
controversy over President Reagan’s
planned visit to the cemetary at Bitburg,
and the letter of April 26, 1985, entitled
“Freedom,” published in The Davidso-
nian. In my mind, these two things serve
as reminders that what the world could
use right now is a little understanding.
As for Reagan’s visit, we have all
read the papers and watched the news; we
have all heard Elie Wiesel’s plea to the

million lives cannot be justified.

James Lewis’ letter on the die-in
brings this phenomenon of “missed” un-
derstanding closer to home, in some
sense. I must agree with Mr. Lewis’ point
that America is a wonderful place to dem-
onstrate; we should all be thankful that, at
least in that sense, our freedoms are pre-
served. But freedom goes deeper than
that. To me, freedom encompasses many
aspects which are all grouped somehow

I would find it hard to say that children cut down in
their youth by gunfire in Nicarauga have reached

their potential

President. I tend to be sympathetic to
Wiesel’s view—it seems as though, in
visiting Bitburg, Reagan would be hon-
oring those S S men buried there. The
Holocaust should not be forgotten; yet it
should not become a focus for hard feel-
ings. but rather a focus for understand-
ing, for realization that violence is not
right and that the loss of one life or six

under the heading of “That Which Al-
lows People, as Individuals and as a
Community, to Reach Their Potential.” |
would find it hard to say that children cut
down in their youth by the gunfire in
Nicaragua have reached their potential. |
would find it hard to say that a country,
torn by such conflict as in Nicaragua, has
reached its potential. Potential is ac-

tualized through growth, but all that
seems to be going on South of the Border
is reaping—grim reaping, if you will ex-
cuse the cliché. What ts at the root of all
of this 1s the absence of understanding; in
this case, no one seems to understand
what freedom ts. Lam not saying that my
definition should be accepted. What lam
saying ts that the focus needs to change.
that both sides abandon their chauvinistic
tenacity, their stubbornness in upholding
their respective opinions. Understand-
ing, through words, through brother-
hood, needs to be engendered by a trade
of opinions, not bullets.

As a final note, 1, too, must applaud
Ms. Pierotti on her courage in speaking
for what she believes. While | must say
that I rarely agree with her, | understand
that she must have her own opinions just
as any other human being does. The key
is not to let differences become walls
over which we hurl grenades. Let these
differences become opportunities for us
to learn, to grow, to understand.

Blue is a freshman from Greenville, SC

our military buildup in general and specific-
ally the use of military support both to di-
rectly influence the politics of countries and
to aid tyrannical rulers in central America.

In spite of the conservative trend in re-
cent years, there are still many people who
feel that a lot of the activist movements of
the sixties should be continued. Such issues
as human and civil rights and the danger of

military buildup transcend the fads of the
decades and may be even more important in
1985 than they were twenty years ago. We
are hoping that, with the influence of such
“nostalgic” actions as the die-in, govern-
ments will make a greater effort to find
peaceful solutions to conflicts, and mis-
takes made in the past will not be repeated.

Sharon Spong and Stu King

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
trom its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
our guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require that letters be signed

and include the author's phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements,
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs. or
inside jokes .

