Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

9

ASenior’s Farewell To Davidson

Hrtley Hall
a

Ah, how I look forward to Fridays! It is with childlike
expectation that I greet each new edition of The Davidso-
nian, and with fixed absorption I sit and ponder there the
dark shadow of Mankind’s soul editorialized upon its
pages. And so with pressure building for weeks and with a
strong desire to see my name in print just one more time, I
was shaken not from my apathy nor my complacency but
from my contentment to write a few words of Tesponse.

Steve McMillan’s article was a real gut-wrencher
wasn’t it? Steve flatters himself that the hackneyed logic
and sufferous plattitudes of his time-worn arguments might
even “tear apart Davidson.” Who is arrogant, Steve? Your
critical, high tone so removed from the necessities of prac-
tical application is a regrettable departure from your nature
and remind me of your close friends the negativist, jabber-
mouthed Democrats in Congress, so intuitive to identify
problems, so impotent to suggest solutions. (I love you
Steve, but get out of here!)

Tim Brown does a little more admirable job, but after
careful consideration I must disagree with him. A line-item
veto would, in effect, make the President a legislator—no
subtle shift in the balance of power. Tim might be happy to
see some particular president have such power, perhaps
even the present one. But, particularly in the area of forei gn

David Williams

While I am a very serious proponent
of minority rights and I believe strongly
in movements which foster equality of
Opportunity and racial harmony, I
Strongly resent that the Civil War
reenactment had to be dropped from the
Davidson Town Day Celebration. The
banning of the reenactment symbolizes a
movement to repress the freedom of ex-
pression which all Americans so greatly
cherish.

On Friday May 3, The Charlotte Ob-
server stated that several Davidson stu-
dents had complained that “the reenact-
ment would glorify war on a day meant to
celebrate life,” while “others objected to
what they saw as the racist overtones of
latter-day Johnny Rebs appearing in town
on a day that is meant to bring people to-
gether.”

These objecting students have neg-
lected the purpose of reenacting Civil
War battles, In reenacting a battle, the

repeat it. As Walter King of the SCWS
has stated: “We just present history as it
was. We don’t say that the South was
right and the North was wrong. We’re not
racist, and we're not warmongers.”

policy, the thought scares the hell out of me. The line-veto
is designed to reduce the expense of political “Pork-Barrel-
ing,” but still this is saving money only at the bare margin.
Two thirds of the federal budget goes to Defense and Social
Security. Ultimately, a line item veto can only go so far. I
think that I would just as soon see politicians keep them-
selves busy fighting over relatively petty money allocations
than have the leisure to dream up grandiose programs for
my own good. Sure its expensive, but if the government
that governs least governs best, then we still have the best
government money can buy. Good try Tim.

Ah, and The Davidsonian itself! Of the many truths that
I have garnered these past four years about human nature
this one stands out in my mind: that man is a relative and
adaptive animal and remains appropriately indignant des-
pite his condition or situation. The Davidsonian proves this
weekly. And now I am made to feel apologetic for my lack
of indignation (and ‘apathy’)! Give me a break guys. Since
Project '87 was sent to the Board of Trustees and the
R.A.P.E. Committee established some basic security
measures, no real campus issues have emerged, despite
The Davidsonian’s undaunted efforts to drum some up.
The lack of attendance at the SGA forum should be recog-
nized for what it is—a triumph of past SGA policy and a re-
sponsive (though not instant) administration. Just because
some of us have trouble getting heated over the lottery sys-
tem doesn’t mean that the campus is apathetic. Ihave never
seen a campus that can so quickly and completely mobilize

Civil War Reenactment An Important Reminder

contingent of the Southern Civil War So-
ciety is merely educating people about an
important episode in American history.
Though the Civil War is not something
that any of us can be proud of, we should
not thereby forget that it existed. In ig-
noring history, men have a tendency to

~

The civil war brought about the freedom of slaves and
was the force that began the movement for equal op-
portunity and racial harmony. How can the Black Stu-
dent Coalition resent the reenactment of a war whose
end brought about freedom of black Americans?

‘

I question the racist overtones which
the students perceived in the members of
the Southern Civil War Society. In the
first place, the Civil War was fought over
other issues besides slavery, such as
States’ rights. In addition, the Civil War
brought about the freedom of slaves and

was the force that began the movement
for equal opportunity and racial har-
mony. How can the Black Student Coali-
tion resent the reenactment of a war
whose end brought about freedom of

over an important issue, but, unlike the student body at
large, The Davidsonian can't seem to see a difference in the
importance of an issue like Project ’87 and an issue like the
lottery system. I have mental pictures of Peggy Pierotti
praying nightly for some spectacle of a major campus issue
that will legitimize her world view. I line my bird cage with
you.

If only The Davidsonian would expand its scope past
the self-proclaimed gadfly of nothing to include some cul-
tural material/criticism (and I don’t mean glowing reviews
of the latest Waren Puss album). Marvin Overby would no
doubt love to introduce us to some of his favorite Eastern
(Central) European dissident winters. Dr. Randy Nelson
could have done a great critique of Tom Wolfe—our recent
Reynolds lecturer (couldn't you, Dr. N?). The possibilities
are limitless, but alas I expect it not.

So long Davidson, I have loved you dearly (pardon my
‘arrogance’). A community challenging when not comfort-
ing, predictable when not pleasing; I carry from you mixed
emotions—the pain of loss, the restless desire to move on,
and the regrets that will not be resolved in two weeks.

For experiences irreplaceable, for insights gained, for
friends deeply loved whom I cannot reasonbly expect to see
again, for these things, I remember.

Alenda lux—

Hall is a senior economics major from Richmond, Va.

black Americans?

Furthermore, the objecting students
were inconsistent in their actions. If they
banned one educational display, then
they should have banned all the educa-
tional displays, including the nuclear
freeze proponents, the hunger walkers,
and the abortion opponents.

Finally, the denial of the Southern
Civil War Society to allow the Civil War
demonstration is simply a movement
against one of the most cherished values
of American citizens—the freedom of
expression. Freedom of expression is
what makes the United States so different
from many other nations of the world.
Davidson Town Day is supposed to be a
celebration of life and community, but
the objecting students have denied that
celebration to the Southern Civil War So-
ciety by denying them their freedom of
expression.

Williams is a sophomore political science
major from Memphis, TN.

A Plea For The Community Center

Last week, all residents of the Town of Davidson re-
ceived a letter from our recently elected congressman, Alex
McMillan. Many of us discarded the mailing, expecting
another constituent survey. It was however, a letter that
may affect us all in the near future.

The letter was one of praise, for in the face of a growing
federal deficit, Mayor Knox and our Town Council passed
a resolution that calls for the elimination of Federal Reve-
nue Sharing. What many do not realize is that this money
directly supports the services at our Community Center.
More importantly, this resolution was passed without the
knowledge of the town, and on the heels of a meeting where
the Community Development Club expressed their concern
for the Community Center to the Mayor.

At this meeting, Mayor Knox pointed out that currently
the Community Center is financed through revenue sharing
funds, and that if these funds were cut off, it would not be
clear how they would be replaced. Barely two weeks later,
Mayor Knox signed a resolution that was sent both to our

Congressman and President Reagan stating, “That the
Mayor and Board of Comissioners of the Town of David-
son, North Carolina, go on record as opposed to further
revenue sharing with local governments . . . .”

We have not lost the Community Center yet, and we
would hope that the Town Council will be the first to state
their support for it. Accordingly, we encourage all who
share a concern for the future of the Community Center to
document their support by signing the following petition.
The petition will be available in the lobby of Chambers Fri-
day, Monday and Tuesday mornings and will also be circu-
lated to offices in Chambers and eating houses. Thank you
for your support of this important concern.

Beth Maczka
Missy Kuykendall
Anne Lambert
Charlie Summers
Harriette Root
Ruth Pittard
Chris Gunn

Charles Ratliff
William Brown

Whereas in recent days there has been communication
from Congressman Alex McMillan notifying the citizens of
Davidson of the recent resoluton by the Town Council to
terminate revenue sharing

And whereas Revenue Sharing has provided the finan-
cial base for the Community Center,

We the undersigned faculty, staff, and students of
Davidson College affirm the value of the Davidson Com-
munity Center and particularly the services that this facility
provides, including the hot lunch program for senior citi-
zens, tutoring and recreational facilities for children, the
agriculture extension agency, and meeting facilities for
town groups.

Furthermore, we urge the Town Council to take an ac-
tive role in assuring the successful continuation of this fa-
cility in the future.

C.E. Ratliff
