Opinions

ikThe Davidsonian

Lf ar

|

Friday, April 26, 1985

RACE Sends Anti-Aparthied Petition To Reagan

Mike Stephens

Last quarter the Davidson RACE committee circulated
a petition conceming the present Apartheid policies in
South Africa: The petition received much support and at-
tention and read as follows:

We the undersigned students, faculty, administrators,
and staff of Davidson College strongly condemn apartheid
in South Africa. We urge the current administration of the
government of the United States to take immediate steps to
insure that the government of the Republic of South Africa
make genuine and measurable progress toward the elimina-
tion of apartheid. '

810 persons signed the petition, representing a sizable
portion of the Davidson staff and student body.

Attached to the petition was a cover letter written by
Andrew Yon which was not available for inspection at the
time the petition was circulated. Below, with the permis-
sion of Mr. Yon, appears the entire cover letter accom-
panying the petition in the form sent to President Reagan.
Dear President Reagan,

I am the chairperson of R.A.C.E. (Racial Attitudes
Concerning Everyone) Committee at Davidson College in
North Carolina. The committee was developed to address
the problem of racism in this liberal arts institution. While
most of our activities are designed to facilitate better race
relations here at Davidson, we are sensitive to racial prob-
lems outside of our own campus.

Recently, a great deal of attention has been given to the
situation in South Africa. With the enclosed petition, we
members of the Davidson College community are adding
our voices to the universal cry of protest against the injus-
tices in South Africa. It is our opinion that the policies of
your administration do not adequately address the apar-
theid problem. “Quiet diplomacy” and “constructive en-
gagement” appear to be very quiet ‘and not very construc-
tive. Here are some possible alternative policies offered by
a member of the Davidson faculty, Dr. Clark G. Ross:

1) All U.S. corporations operating in South Africa must
sign and abide by the recently strengthened Sullivan Princi-
ples.

3
wy
RS

oe

2) U.S. corporations investing in or in partnership with
South African corporations may do so only if the South Af-
rican corporations abide by the Sullivan Principles.

3) U.S. corporations should actively encourage and sup-
port and independent black trade union movement in South
Africa. ,

4) U.S. corporations should devote some portion of their
profit from activity in South Africa to socially responsible
investment in black areas. These investments could include
education and health-care facilities.

5) The U.S should continue to ban the export of military
equipment, computer equipment, and other goods poten-
tially detrimental to the standard of living of blacks.

6) Cease intelligence cooperation with the South African
government.

Although we lack the political and economic expertise
to advocate any particular policy toward South Africa, we
are certain that the United States can make a more positive
contribution than it is now making toward the eventual
elimination of apartheid. Since South Africa is an “ally” of

the United States, and since we benefit both politically and
economically from our relationship with them, we strongly
believe that the United States has a moral obligation to in-
sure that non-white South Africans enjoy their inalienable
rights to political and economic opportunity and justice.
Davidson Coillege has been a launching pad for many
highly influential corporate, political, and religious lead-
ers, including the recently elected Republican Governor of
North Carolina, Jim Martin. This institution produces en-
lightened and successful scholars. The enclosed petition
represents what we believe to be an enlightened opinion
which we hope will be considered seriously by you and
your administration. Thank you for your time arid atten-
tion. :
Sincerely,
Andréw Yon
R.A.C.E. Chairperson

Stephens is a sophomore from Marietta, GA and is opin-
ions editor emeritus of The Davidsonian.

IBM Works To Solve Aparthied

Tim Brown

Recently in the media, the opinion has been gaining
favor: an American business should not do business in
South Africa which supports apartheid, a policy of segrega-
tion and political and economic discrimination against non-
European groups. I stand in disagreement to this opinion. I
shall use an American corporation, IBM, as an example of
how an American business can serve to help greatly blacks
in South Africa. I wish to point out that IBM could depart
from South Africa with little cost. John F. Akers, president
and chief executive officer of IBM, states, “Less than one
percent of IBM’s revenues come from South Africa.” Like

«
Aad,

°

\
Keep up with events at Davidson—

piso:
ole

1 600)
net” gow
wi ven WOW wn

After a

News, Sports,

Residents pct of Nonp Man ee-_ -

most American firms, IBM combats segregation by pro-

moting nonsegregated working environment. IBM com-

bats political and economic discrimination by offering

equal pay for equal work and by increasing the recruitment

of blacks, especially for managerial positions. IBM serves

to help South Africa not only at the business level, but also
at the grass- roots level in the community. IBM has directed
its efforts to improving the education system. It has do-
nated to community schools, video recorders, textbooks
and the teaching abilities of its employees. It also funds
three training colleges founded specifically for the de-
velopment of black teachers.

eee
Brown is a freshman from Charlotte, NC and is opinions
editor of The Davidsonian

mamane 4,
Pecific ¢ on

cited
Y clude
as MS CUtine

aerogy 4
* faw
Miyps . - ms. Yehicta,

and campus life.

Subscribe now and get 28 issues of The Davidsonian for just $12.

ug
Sean

Re ty dea
