. Friday, October 11, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘News Summary- Security, parking committee
and Court Council
discuss future escort service

South African to discuss role of women

South African exile and literature scholar TheJma Ravell-
Pinto will speak on the role of women in the South African polit-
ical crisis on Oct. 16.

Ravell-Pinto, who once directed a women’s center for the
training and rehabilitation of ex-guerilla women who fought in
the liberation movement in Zimbabwe, will also talk about the
image of women in African literature.

‘Ravell-Pinto has written over 30 essays in books, academic
joumals, magazines and newspapers. With her husband, James
Ravell, she authored the 1982 book “Can a White Man Speak for

Me? Black Literature in South Africa.” She serves as consultant °

to various anti-apartheid organizations and peace groups and is
an editorial board member for “Third Speaker Series,” a transla-
tion project of the Netherlands Organization for International
Development Cooperation.

Ravell-Pinto, a visiting scholar at Spelman College in At-
lanta, Ga., is a native of Capetown, South Africa.

Her speech, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room, is sponsored by
Davidson’s Center for Special Studies and the Dean Rusk Pro-
gram in International Studies.

Crop walkers raise $2,000

One hundred and twenty five people participated in last Sun-
day’s Crop walk, raising $2,000 for efforts to eliminate hunger.
A final sum between $3 ,500-$4,000 is expected to be reached as
other pledges come in.

Walkers who have not turned in their money should do so by
the 20th of this month. Money may be turned in to Pat Sellers,

Watts 202 (-6329); Elodie McMillan, faculty dept. 201 (-5356); ,

or Chaplain Charlie Summers. Donations are still being ac-
cepted.
4

Material contributed by Thomas Nicholson.

Trustees meet, elect replacements

Last week's Trustee Meeting included the President’s Re-
port, a report on the College's Self-Study and the naming of two
new Trustees, according to Assistant to the President Rick
Love.

Elected by Wilmington Presbytery, the Rev. Edward Hay

’42 of Wilmington will fill the unexpired term of trustee Bob
Grigsby in the Class of 1987. Currently interim Presbyter for
Wilmington Presbytery, Hay is.a former member of the Col-

lege’s Board of Visitors. He holds Bachelor of Divinity and —

Master of Theology degrees from Louisville Theological Semi-
nary, and an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Rhodes
College. Hay is a Trustee of St. Andrews Presbyterian College
and the father of two Davidson alumni, Edward C. Hay Jr. °71
and May Hay °79.

The Mecklenburg Presbytery elected the Rev. William’ .

Wood °65 of Charlotte to fill the unexpired term of J. Randolph
Taylor, Class of 1988. Since 1983, Wood has served as senior
minister at First Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. Wood holds
Bachelor of Divinity and Doctor of Theology degrees from
Union Seminary.

__This material contributed by co-news editor Nelle McCorkle.

SPOOK UP

FANTASY

‘CARDS MASISPARTY GO00S
‘COSTUMING ACCESSORIES

THE VILLAGE STORE

By HEIDI HOOKER

The SGA Security and Park-
ing Committee and the Patterson
Court Council met on Oct. 2 at
Dean of Students Will Terry’s re-
quest to discuss the need for pro-
viding an escort service to David-
son students, though the service.
was attempted twice unsuccess-

. fully and discontinued last year.

Chairman of the Security and
Parking Committee Louis Zbin-
den commented that the issue was
not “whether the escort service is
or isn’t a good idea but whether it
would be used.” .

Both committees at the meet-
ing expressed doubts on student
interest in such a service and de-
cided to get more information on

- current..student opinion using

some sort of poll through the girls’
dorms and eating houses. Zbinden
has postponed taking any definite
action, though, until the positions
on his committee are filled and

: settled by the SGA and its newly-

4

elected members.

At the meeting Zbinden pro-
posed the idea of spreading out re-
sponsibility for an escort service
among the Patterson Court houses
and their members so as to create a
court-wide policy in cooperation
with promoting campus security.

‘Last year the Security and

‘Parking Committee made: two ef-

forts to establish a service which
would provide escorts from the li-
brary between 10 p.m. and | a.m.
Zbinden felt that the first one es-
tablished in response to last fall’s
rape incident failed because it was
not adequately publicized.

However, he remarked that
when the escort service was set up
again for the spring, publicity was
everywhere and the = service
“strove to make themselves visi-
ble” with signs posted on the li-
brary door in particular. Even then
the service was rarely used,
though Zbinden felt students were
more security conscious than ever
last year.

Security Officer Ray Thrower
said that patrolling officers are
“more than happy to provide es-
corts to anyone at anytime and
anywhere.”

Terry feels that a student es-
cort service should be available to
compliment this service whether

students request it or not. Terry
said students should have “the op-
tion to assume responsibility for
their own safety.”

As to why the escort service
was not being used last year,
Chairman of the Patterson Court
Council Lisa McNeilly com-
mented that girls are embarrassed
to get an official escort because
such protective action or concerns
over campus security are often
considered as “overreactions.”

She added, “As for me, I'd
rather just ask a friend to walk me
back.”

According to Rape Crisis
Committee chairperson Melissa
McLemore, students seem very
protective and defensive concern-
ing the issue of Davidson’s cam-
pus safety and are deceived by
what Terry describes as “the myth
that Davidson’s campus is invul-
nerable‘to the outside.”

Terry remarked, “Students
perpetuate an idealistic image of
Davidson and its — secu-
rity ... which promotes care-
lessness in behavior.” Terry made
it clear that “nobody here is safer
than they take résponsibility to
be,” and students must adjust their
attitudes accordingly and take pre-
cautions.

A major concerd for students
studying late at night in Chambers
is that there is no phone and they
are forced to walk back to the
dorms alone with no other alterna-
tive. Thrower said the campus
police has definite plans for instal-
ling on Chambers’ second floor an
emergency phone with a direct
line to the campus police head-
quarters so that needed escorts can
be contacted and used from there
at late hours. The campus police
routinely check ail rooms in
Chambers hourly after the library
closes.

Many students have also ex-
pressed frustrations concerning
the lighting problem in relation to

campus security. Terry is distres-

sed by the quantity of lights that
have been vandalized this year by
students. He said all the lights that
were installed this year through
the middle of Patterson Court
have been torn down by uniden-
tified students.

Terry expressed a very posi-

tive attitude toward campus secu-
rity, commenting that: “We have
the best and most cooperative, in-
telligent, and concerned security
force ever. They are individuals
who care about and communicate
with students.” He expressed
hopes that the SGA Security and
Parking Committee would be sen-
sitive to student needs by taking
such significant steps as providing
a student escort system.
McLemore hopes too that the
Committee of Security and Park-
ing will take a stand on campus is-
sues and play an active role in
treating them. She feels that stu-
dents must not assume it is the
school’s responsibility to protect
them but that they must “make it
their business to speak up, be

aware, and not foster any sense of__

false security concerning campus
security.”

McLemore suggested having
a work-study security system
similar to the one existing at Geo-
rgetown University in which
trained students would supple-
ment the security force in patrol-
ling and keeping an eye on the
campus while: being available to
escort girls at request. Suchi stu-
dents would act as “deterrant
bodies” and be less conspicuous
than campus police.

Presenting another perspec-
tive, McNeilly said that at Vir-
ginia Tech the honor code firmly
states that a guy can not refuse to
escort a girl back to a dorm,
though ’'this may be unnecessary at
Davidson. ;

McLemore expressed that she
was personally impressed that
Davidson security had increased
its patrolling and had made an ef-
fort to get to know students and be
in touch with the campus commu-
nity. She said she was disap-
pointed in the student apathy to-
wards and abuse of security meas-
ures.

In light of campus security,
students have requested installing
emergency phones in Chambers
on each floor and in the art build-
ing and increasing lighting along
Patterson Court back to the
dorms, in Jackson Court, on the
track, and through the center of
Patterson Court.

CAROLINA

$60 PER HUNDRED PAID for remailing letters from. BANK

home! Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for in- ucb

1-77 at Hwy 73
Lake Norman
892-7805

formation, application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle,
N.J. 07203.

137 N. Main St.
Davidson
892-7815

