6 Friday, January 11, 1985/The Davidsonian

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Class Studies Film
Development From

Its Beginnings

By SAMUEL SCOTT

The Davidson Department of Film? Well, not quite.
But if you are interested in the history of film from its be-
ginnings through its modern masters, the English depart-
ment offers just the course for you. “Film as Narrative
Art,” taught by English professor John Engell, offers an
overview of the history of motion pictures, and presents
film as a form of narrative art as viable as novels, short
stories and plays.

Listening to Dr. Engell lecture in class, you get the
idea the man speaking not only knows the subject matter
but fosters a great love for it as well. Although he admits
his partiality to silent films, much more than Charle

‘Chaplin’s work is covered in class. Students look at the
technical side of filmmaking as well as the great direc-
tors, actors and films.

Some of the course’s topics include D.W. Griffith
and the making of Birth of a Nation — the first major
motion picture, Orson Welles and Citizen Kane, Chaplin
and his films, and modern movements in the art. Four
novels and their adaptation to film are covered in the
course. In addition, students complete a project in which
they must adopt a passage from a novel to script form.

The idea for the film class was Engell’s. Before join-
ing the English department here, he taught classes in
film at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
“When I came here four years ago, I npticed there were
no courses in film offered,” he said. “When I was inter-
viewed for the position here at Davidson, I mentioned
my interest in teaching a course in film.” The resulting
course is now offered every other year, but due to its

Children’s Play Features Naughty Mouse

By TREEBY WILLIAMSON

The life and times of a naughty rodent is the subject
of this weekend’s-production of Henry Mouse. For the
eleventh straight year, Davidson thespians will act in as
well as direct the annual children’s play. With a cast of
six, scenery from the theatre workshop class, and spon-
sorship from the Davidson Community Players, local
children will able to enjoy a production designed just for
them.
Henry Mouse, by Roberta Nobleman, is the tale of
— who else — Henry Mouse, a mischievous rodent who
pulls the tails of the other mice. Henry is rudely awak-
ened by. the great and powerful Magic Mouse, who
punishes him by making his tail.grow long. Henry then
must experience the excruciating pain of others pulling
and stepping on his tail.

According to director Jenny Cooper, who directed a
one-act play last year, Henry Mouse was chosen because
its format involves the audience. The children are able to
go on stage to make a forest and a jail, and are allowed to
decide the future of Henry ee — whether or not his
tail will always be unusually féng. This type of audience
participation and spontaneity is meant to stimulate the

arm. *

Dr. Engell
popularity, Engell said he would like to see it offered
often enough to meet student interest. “We have 38 stu-
dents in the class now, and the ceiling is supposed to be
thirty. But some of the students waited two years to take
the course and were still unable to get it.”

The class gets great reviews from the students pre-

sently enrolled. Students have many different reasons *

for taking Film as Narrative Art, not the least of which is
its reputation. Junior Nick Lowther said he heard about
the class from people who had taken it two years ago,
and they recommended it highly. “The course exposes
you to a number of great films you wouldn’t otherwise
have a chance to see,” Lowther said.

Learning about the great films and the cinematic
genius behind them is another reason for taking the
class. Junior Boyd Blackburn said, “I have always en-
joyed the classic films, and this class gives you the op-
portunity not only to see them, but to learn how they
were made, the men who made them, and the impact
they have had upon society.”

The class meets three times weekly in Perkins au-

‘ditorium for lectures and viewing and discussing the

films. Each film is shown twice — at 3 p.m. Monday af-
temnoons and at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. Engell invites
the public to attend all showings free of charge.

children and allow them to enjoy drama and the theater,
said Cooper. | ;

Cooper noted a difference between directing a chil-
dren’s play and a play meant for more mature audiences.
“There must be more action and more movement be-
cause you must keep the attention of the children,” she
said. “You don’t need, however, to be more obvious
about making a point because children are more percep-
tive than they’re often given credit for.”

Cooper has never appeared in a Davidson children’s
play but she had much childhood experience in chil-
dren’s theater. Returning children’s play actors include
sophomore Caroline Vinson as Susie Mouse, and junior
Alison McGill as Mrs. Mouse. Newcomers to the chil-
dren’s play include freshmen Grier Stewart as Henry
Mouse and Dan Michaelis as Freddie Frog, senior John

~ Syme as Mr. Mouse, sophomore Jack McCollum as the

Magic Mouse.

Phillip Dennis

Performances are scheduled for 11 a.m. and 2
p.m. Saturday, and 2 p.m. Sunday, in the theatre
workshop in Hodson Hall. Tickets are $2 for chil-
dren, $3 for adults. For reservations, call ext. 361.

War On Pixies
Declared

I would agree wholeheartedly with Time
magazine’s “stunning” choice of Peter Ueberroth as
Man of the Year — an “arresting” decision, I’m sure
they consider it — except for one phenomenon he
induced: Mary Lou Retton: The Rettoning of America
will be the end of us all, and it is the Ueberr-man’s
fault. If there had been no Olympics, we would be

ET

MORE OR LESS

By
_ ANN MEADOR
CT ea
Rettonless today and sleeping better to boot. Get her
out of here; it’s 1985, for heaven’s sake.

What really gets me pig-biting mad is her “perfect
execution and victorious exuberance in the same
nanosecond” (Time, Jan. 7, 1985, p. 50). If America
needs another embodiment of its spirit (where’s the
Statue of Liberty?), put Peter Ueberroth on the
Wheaties box. The one thing I cannot endure is perfect
execution and victorious exuberance staring me in the
face at 10a. m. In the same nanosecond. Spunky is
gross, particularly when one gets paid lots of money
for being it. America’s sweetheart spunking in her little
red Corvette. $punky for dollars.

Perhaps this is a bit harsh. After all, what other life
awaits this high school dropout whose claim to fame is
the ability to put her feet over her head lots of different
ways? At the very least gymnastics can be called a
specialized sport. How do you translate a triple
Noguchi half-twist vault into resuméspeak? “Worked
well in materials manipulation situations,” she could
write, but fortunately she won't have to.

As Cathy Rigby said 64 times last summer,
girl, Mary Lou! She really nailed that one!”

‘ Tite Idle Idol

Peter U. may be Man of the Year, but no one will
deny the title Man of the Decade to one whose career
has blossomed remarkably in the past seven years or
so. Yes, he’s hot, he’s Elvis, and he made the career
move of his life by dying back in 1977.

With the 50th anniversary of his birthday January
8, record sales are up, his HBO special is a hit, and
Graceland is more crowded than ever. Things are
going well.

However, the resurgent popularity of Presleyism
has left us diehard fans a little adrift. After all, the
King may be eternal, but Harum Scarum is not. Thirty-
seven peculiar movies do not a burgeoning career
make, I fear, and even I can’t sit through Spinout twice
in a row. What is there for us?

This strategy — killing off Elvis so his fans would
realize how much they miss him — works in the short
run but is bound to fall apart eventually. Original fans
will join Elvis in the great bye and bye, and potential
new fans never missed him in the first place. How does
one induce nostalgia for a long-dead someone they
never liked? No new videos, no big coliseum tours —
whoever figures out how to keep Elvis hot beyond
1987 will get Man of the Century.

Next week: Tap Happy

“Good

Short Courses Help Bust The January ‘Blahs’

By THURSTON HATCHER

January is back. Thrown headlong into arctic tem-
peratures, forced to trudge knee-deep through academic
slush, Davidson students can find dashed their hopes for
coping with the new year.

But comfort is never far away. Along come the Short
Courses, what the College Union innovatively call the
“Blah Busters.” The Short Courses are two and four
week classes covering aspects of the liberal arts that
might not fit into Davidson’s more traditional cur-
riculum.

Is it an economics course you want? Why wait until
March? Home Economics are a Blah Buster forte: Ruth
Pittard teaches her popular bread-baking course for the

eighth year. Dana Lemon and Janet Stovall share the
finer recipes from an often overlooked culinary school in
their course on Soul Food cooking.

If you would rather be out of the kitchen, Grounds
Supervisor Irvin Brawley explains how to achieve
maximum vegetable output through raised-bed garden-
ing, while the Needlecraft Center teaches knitting and
yarn belt making.

The Wine Tasting course has become an annual fa-
vorite. Trissy Lomax of Natural Resources shares her
savoir faire du vin with a select number of connoisseurs-
to-be. Wine Tasting grad Roxanna Guilford learned a
good deal about wine and had a great time in the process.
“It was one of the more interesting experiences I have

had at Davidson,” she says. “Entertaining is something a
lot of Davidson students will be doing, so they might as
well learn how to do it right.”

Not all of the courses are crafts and cooking, how-
ever. In classes devoted to more personal development
you can learn more about Human Rights, explore Char-
lie Summers’ “Spiritual Resources for Stress, Depres-
sion and Celebration,” discuss your future in “Career
Conversations,” or make your voice heard in Missy
Kuykendall’s “Assertiveness Training.”

Though official registration for the Short Courses
took place yesterday, you can still sign up before 9 a.m.
Saturday for one of these or the many other courses not
listed here.
