Friday, October 25, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Foundation donates$300,000 to attract newfaculty

By ANDY BALL

The Charles A. Dana Founda-
thon has given Davidson College a
grant of $300,000 to support the
college’s efforts to attract out-
standing new faculty.

The grant, effective over a
seven-year period, will enable the
college to enhance the quality of
cumiculum and create retirement

The Dana grant 1s Davidson’s
newest step toward lowering the
student-professor ratio from 13:1
to 12:1, according to vice presi-

dent of academic affairs and dean
of faculty T. C. Pnce Zammer-
mann. He added that i provides
for the appomtment and base
salanes of four new professors
and will work in conjunction with
the Mellon Grant, another similar
donation, to reach the desired
Kuykendall's period of adenine

ww The college has afoo comanit-
ted an equal amount of money to-
ward an early retirement program
for semior faculty members and an

additional $575 ,000 toward salary
enhancement, Zimmermann said.

The need for a strong carly re-
tirement program rises from a
1976 Age Discramination m Em-
ploymeat Act passed by Congress
which raises the age of retirement
ployees from 65 to 70. if all pro-
fessors chose to retire at 70, the
number of opportunities for young
professors to gain employment
would decrease, Zimmermann
said.

Assistamt professor of biology

Pamela Camp is the first of the
four faculty members appointed
under the grant. Zimmermann
said the remaining three will be
hired within the seven year grant
period as need dictates. He noted
that both the English and History
departments are currently review-
ing possible candidates for the
grant in order to ease the class
loads in English Composition and
to enhance the Dean Rusk Pro-
gram in International Studies.
Zimmermann is optimistic
about the effect he anticipates the

Dana grant will have upon the
Davidson faculty. He said he
looks forward to “.. . the en.
largement of the faculty with the
new talents and energies of
younger scholars.”

The Charles A. Dana Founda-
tion has financially assisted
Davidson several times before.
Included among its various con-
tributions are the funding for the
Dana Science Building in 1960
and the partial sponsorship of four
faculty members in 1966.

Symposium examines
AT&T breakup

By BILL BUGG
and JIMMY LEWIS

The breakup of AT&T has caused wide-
spread public misunderstanding. Local
phone rates have increased in many places,
but lower long-distance rates can now be
found in the ranks of AT&T's rising com-
versial public policy have been important
factors in the divestiture process, but to
what end is not yet fully known.

Why was AT&T dismantled? In what
ways has its divestiture affected its ability to
serve the public? What roles have public
policy and technology played in the scheme
of AT&T’s-breakup? How can we address
the aftermath of the complex and controver-
-sial court decisions leading to divestiture?
A New Liberal Arts Symposium examined
these and related issues Monday and Tues-
day m a series of presentations entitled
“Telephones and Technology: the Breakup
of AT&T.”

The symposium, sponsored by the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, IBM Corpora-
tion, and Davidson College, featured lec-
tures by Gerald Brock, economist of the
Federal Communications Commission,
Alfred Partoll, executive vice president for
external affairs of AT&T Communications,
and Davidson associate professor of politi-
cal science Mary Thornberry, and Jim Van-
der Weide, a consultant for Southern Bell
on the faculty of the Fuqua School of Busi-
ness at Duke University.

Judicial Decisions

in a lecture entitled “The Problem of
Regulatory Boundaries: Telephones, Com-
puters, and Communication,” Gerald
Brock argued that a series of court decisions
were responsible for AT&T's breakup.
Originally AT&T thought of itself as one
eatity, a natural monopoly, and con-
sequently the corporation claimed that any
hardware connected to its equipment was its
sole right to own, manufacture, and distri-
bute. In Brock’s words, AT&T essentially
claimed, “Anything attached to our prop-
erty is undes our services.”

A ctitical case with far-reaching ramifi-
Cations, according to Brock, involved a
small company, Hush-a-Phone, which de-
veloped a simple attachment piece for the
telephone receiver to cut down extraneous
noise. AT&T claimed that Hush-a-Phone
could not market such a piece because in
doing so the company would touch AT&T's
boundaries. Hush-a-Phone took the case to
the Court of Appeals and won—the first of a
number of defeats for AT&T.
questions about boundaries: into how many
areas can AT&T expand? How much does
AT&T need to be regulated?

In 1980 the Federal Communications
Commission ruled that the corporation
would be split into two pieces: a competi-

trve, unregulated section, and a regulated
monopoly; divestiture soon followed.
Technology

Alfred Partoll espoused the idea that di-
vestiture resulted from the impact technol-
ogy had on the telecommunications market.
in his lecture, “AT&T Drvestiture: The Im-
pact of Technology on Public Policy.” Des-
cribing advances in microelectronics,
photomics, and data processing, Partoll
reasoned that increases in technology laid
the foundation for the entry of competition
into the telecommunications field.

Partoll said many argue that rapid tech-
nological advances necessitaie competi-
tion, and hence claim that the cheapest and
most efficient structure for telecommunica-
tions is unregulated competition rather than
a natural monopoly . Eventually the govern-
ment’s public policy folded to the pressure,
and divestiture took place, leading Partoll
to conclude, “Technology was at the heart
of divestiture .”
Divestiture: A Public Policy Blunder of

the Judiciary

The controversy of divestiture was ulti-
mately settled by the judicial branch of the
government, Mary Thornberry said in her
lecture, “The Breakup as Public Policy:
Purple Prose and the Purple Curtain.”

Thornberry discussed whether the judi-
cial branch should have the power to formu-
late such controversial public policy. With
the present system of regulation “obviously
outmoded,” the legislative branch was not
able to pass a communications reform bill.
Thornberry stated that the executive branch
was not able to forge a position and had “no
clear policy in mind.” Therefore, it was left
to the judiciary, whose power and wisdom
Thornberry questioned, to arrive at a solu-
ton.

Aftermath

Divestiture was implemented to benefit
the public as a whole, yet local telephone
prices are steadily increasing. Why? In a
lecture entitled “Licensing the Locals: State
and Local Aspects of the Aftermath,” Jim
Vander Weide compared the advantages
and disadvantages of AT&T as a natural
monopoly with those of the new system of

Vander Weide claimed that the old sys-
tem in which AT&T functioned as a natural
monopoly did contain certain advantages.
One such advantage was that the company
did not have to base local price systems on
actual costs.

Under the new system of evolving com-
petition, regulators have adopted the neces-
sary policy of allowing local prices to equal
the actual cost, not the subsidized cost. Re-
local telephone rates of many people, Van-
der Weide claimed, although he acknow!l-
edged that some local service customers
will lose money.

UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA
MBA PROGRAM

An Admissions Representative from
the University of Georgia Graduate School
of Business Administration

will be on campus
to meet with students interested in
the MBA Program

Contact the
Career Planning and Placement Center

for more details and to sign up for
an information session

BUFFET
Sunday
12 Noon
9:30 P.M.

SPAGHETTI 100% purnam wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD

PARMESON— ROMANO CHEESE ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
SALAD BAR 4s rom FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES SWEET ONIONS
FLAVORFUL MEATS SOUP OF TH
i MEATS E DAY
RICH DRESSINGS CREAM OF POTATO
TASTY CHEESES VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE CHICKEN NOODLE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD CREAM OF MUSHROOM
CHILI CON CARNE CLAM CHOWDER

ALL FOR
ALL RATES PER PERSON

FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

BUFFET

—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE— 663-3030

BUFFET

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-Sat., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39
ed

‘Meal Includes:

$/435

SPECIAL RATES

PIZZA sun mooreevitte's Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON

PERSON

