Features

the Davidsonian
\ Friday, October 18, 1985

Jane Campbell

Jane Campbell

Goodrich, Lille and Speidel played to a packed 900 room last Saturday
night.

M&M soda shop
continues tradition

By NELLE McCORKLE
In any other restaurant, seeing a cus-
tomer ring up her own total on the cash re-
gister might be startling; at the M & M Soda
Shop on Main Street, this sight indicates
business as usual.

Mary Potts, owner and co-founder of
the M & M, began the business with her
late partner and friend Murray Fleming on
October 28, 1951. Fleming, the other “*M”
in the shop’s name, died in May 1984.

Of the firm’s payment policy, Potts
said, “I think it [allowing students to total
and pay their bills directly into the cash re-
gister] gives them the feeling that we trust
them. The whole thirty-four years there’ ve
been a few who love to do that. A few
squeeze their own orangeade — I think it

makes them feel at home, and that’s what I
want. .

“Lots walk out and forget to pay —
they’ve always come back and paid.”

One of the M & M’s great appeals is its
unchanging menu. With helpers Judy
Nance and Willie Torrance, Potts prepares
M & M specialties of egg salad and Big O's
[a crushed ice concoction including fresh-
squeezed orange juice] Monday through
Saturday from 7:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.

Busily preparing for Friday night's
Class of 1950 reunion party to be held at the
M & M, Potts calmly announces that she
‘will use twelve pounds of bread for the
party sandwiches. “The students,” she ex-
plains, “really keep me going. It's always
so great when they come by to see you
and they usually do!”

By SARA BEASLEY

Lights are flashing, bells are ringing,
and buzzers are buzzing in the Union.

It’s Monday night and College Bowl
Intramurals are keeping players and spec-
tators on the edges of their seats. “Who
was the first man to run the four-minute

?” “Roger Bannister!” answers Rand
Hartsell, with a brilliant “buzz.”

College Bowl Intramurals have got-
ten off to a fast and fun start. Where else
can you find freshmen making seniors
look foolish? Where else can you watch
the Universal Solvent interact with Nutt's
Knights in a chemical conflagration?
Where else can you watch Jim’s Mom
was a Queenie suffer from the Solipsistic
Plague?

Next Monday's games offer promis-
ing matches. Watch Sons of Buzz Aldrin
(led by hot-on-the-buzzers Dan Murrey
and Richard Tankard) take on Alcoholics
Unanimous. Relentless Picnic offers tan-

College bowl:
right on the button

talizing food before every match. “Will
Bfongo Motts and the Apemen be able to
digest it all? And will Les Idiots Savants,
featuring Rob Norman, be able to beat
the New Wrong, featuring Steven
White’s calm assurance at the buzzer’”
Come to the Union any time from 7 p.m.
until 8:30 p.m. to catch College Bowl ac-
tion.

The Varsity team will be traveling to
Berry College once again for the Invita-
tional Early Bird) Tournament” on
November 1-2. Team members are giv-
ing up a visit with their parents to play
College Bowl against other teams from
the South. This year’s team is quite dif-
ferent from last year’s senior-dominated
squad. Sophomores Jeff Gregory and
Mark Chen, juniors Edwin Page and Gor-
don Watkins and senior Sara Beasley
compose the team. They are younger but
they hope to maintain Davidson's strong
record in College Bow! tournaments.

Policeman enjoys
young people’ company

By JEFF LESESNE

Davidson police officer Rickey Moore
became one of the newest members of the
Campus Police force in September of 1984.
Moore came to Davidson from the Iredell
County Sheriff's department, where he
served from 1982-1984.

Moore, a native of Mooresville, went to
the police academy and became a lieutenant
in 1972. He served with the Mooresville
Police Department until 1979.

In 1980 Moore became Chief of Police
at Holden Beach, N.C. The Holden Beach
town board awarded him a commendation
for extraordinary service in dealing with or-
ganized crime and drug trafficking.

Because of his discouragement with law
enforcement, Moore resigned from the Hol-
den Beach Police Department in 1982. He

came to Davidson after a five month break.

“It is more appealing to work around
young people,” Moore said. “I've enjoyed
it more than any place I've ever been, as far
as law enforcement.”

Moore holds the qualifications for an
advanced law enforcement certificate. He
has taken over 1000 hours of credit in law
enforcement schools. He has training in
family crisis intervention and domestic
problems, as well as experience in dealing
with organized crime and drugs.

Moore was a fireman and ambulance at-
tendant in Mooresville before becoming an
officer. It was from this safety work that he
became interested in police work

Moore is married and has one son in the
Air Force
