10 Friday, January 11, 1985/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager

Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Cry RAPE

As with RACE, RAPE has added a new acronym to the Davidson
lingo. And like RACE, RAPE is an organization long needed. Though
violent rape is not acommon occurrence here, certain attitudes prevalent
in Davidson life tend to foster situations in which another kind of viola-
tion — “date rape” — can occur.

No one knows how often these crimes occur; many go unreported be-
cause of the ambiguity of the offense. The situation appears neutral, the
victim knows her attacker, and the attacker may not even realize what he
is doing is rape.

Ross Holt) Editor

The attitude exists in some circles here — especially in some frater-
nities — that to be a member of the group, or a “real” man, or whatever,
one must achieve sexual conquests. The attempted conquests are more
often than not fueled by alcohol, further blurring the already fine line be-
tween seduction and subtle rape.

Another dangerous attitude can be found in some male students’ as-
sumptions about the roles of women. Beyond the clichéd perception of
women as sex-objects lies the more dangerous feeling that women owe
men their bodies in any case — that women ought to have sex with them
because that’s the way it’s supposed to be.

Some women, too, sometimes unwittingly aid these perceptions and
their results by being uninformed about the hidden agendas of social situ-
ations, especially those of college life. Others find nowhere to turn after
the fact, so the violation remains secret — both to those who committed
it and those who would attack the attitudes that caused it.

The RAPE Committee, then must work to dismantle these unhealthy
attitudes. If it can do that, as well as provide counseling and legal help for

victims, it will become, like the RACE Committee has, more than just
another acronym.

A Thankless Job

It’s time again to choose next year’s hall counselors. That there is
stiff competition for hall counselor positions every year usually ensures
that Davidson gets the best counselors it can.

Hall counselors wield much influence; they determine how the Code

of Responsibility is enforced among freshmen. They introduce freshmen - -

to life at Davidson: the Honor Code, flickerball, and the time-worn ritu-
als of mixers.

Unfortunately, the hall counselor program has suffered abuses in the
past. For example, hall counselors have used their halls as recruiting
grounds for their eating house or fraternity. Rules against illegal drug
and alcohol use are ignored on some halls and enforced on others.

Yet despite some problems, the program enjoys the devotion of
many students who at times carry out a thankless job.

The deadline for sophomores to apply to be a hall counselor is next
Tuesday. Living like a freshman again as a hall counselor serves ‘as’one
way to give back a little of what you’ ve gotten from Davidson.

Just A Thought

While we do not claim to be in a position to cast the first stone, we
could not resist passing on this tidbit of editorial oversight from The
Mecklenburg Gazette's “Around Davidson” column:

“We have learned about two students accepted early for Davidson’s
next academic year: Marion Stone, daughter of Bob and Genie and
Robert Avinger, Jr. of Bob and Jane of Davidson.”

Bet they have great family reunions.

Letters

Elections

To the Editors:

Questions concerning the adequacy
of publicity for the sign-up period for the
winter term elections of student offices
led to the convening of the SGA on Mon-
day, Dec. 10. At this meeting, the deci-
sion was made that the publicity con-
ducted by the Elections Council was in-
adequate, and therefore the sign-up
period should be continued until Jan. 8.
The elections that were to be held on
Dec. 11 were postponed until Jan. 15.

Due to this decision, the candidates
who had signed up during the appropriate
period have been greatly inconvenienced
and those groups who will have offices
filled by these elections have had to en-
dure these alterastions. Furthermore,
these candidates were not informed that
the elections might be postponed before
the SGA convened on Dec. 10, and
therefore, did not have the opportunity to
make comments at the SGA unless they
had learned of the meeting by chance.
The Elections Council argued the case
that these candidates would be incon-
venienced, but the SGA felt that the only
recourse was to postpone the elections in
light of the situation.

For the problems and inconveniences
caused by these actions and decisions, I
apologize on behalf of the SGA to the Y
Student Service Corps, which had con-
ducted its own publicity of the contested
election for Y president, to those candi-
dates who campaigned thinking the elec-
tion was to be held Dec. 11, and to those
groups that were forced to delay their
leadership transitions. We regret that the
postponement had to occur, and we hope
that the problems caused will not further
disrupt student group activities.

John Laughlin,
SGA President

Why Wait?

To the Editors:
Aaron Taylor’s letter to the editor (12
December) was disturbing because it

. Tings all too familiar. There are too

things about Taylor’s letter that are prob-
lematic: first, his assumption that admis-
sion of 100 Black students and 10 Black
professors by 1987 would be “disastr-
us.” His answer to this impending dis-
aster is the second problem — he asks
that we “proceed cautiously — and
slowly if necessary . . .”
Taylor says “naturally Davidson will
seek quantity and quality when it begins
to expand its minority base . . .” Expan-

sion will of course require quantitative
changes — that part of the statement is
ridiculous. But the real problem rests in
the fact that Taylor felt it necessary to
make such a statement at all. Why is it
that whenever a discussion arises con-
cerning an increase in the Black presence
on this campus, White members of the
College community automatically begin
discussing issues of quality control?
There is a spontaneous assumption that a
reciprocal relationship exists between in-
creased numbers and _ decreased
academic quality. Taylor’s statement
doesn’t reassure anyone; rather, it makes
me wonder why he made the statement at
all. Why does it even come up? The argu-
ment that there are few qualified Blacks
“out there” and therefore we must com-
promise to get increased numbers is a
myth. White students and faculty ‘out
there’ capable of meeting Davidson’s
standards are a minority, but you do not
consider it a compromise in standards to
set quantitive goals when White people
are concerned. There are plenty of qual-
ified Blacks ‘‘out there” but you’ll have
to stop looking in white prep schools and
graduate schools. We are sick of White
people automatically assuming that
Black means inferior.

And how dare yqu ask us to wait?
Taylor suggests that ten years as a time
frame for change is more “realistic.” It’s
also unjust. I think that Dr. Martin
Luther King in his “Letter from a Birmin-
gham Jail,” stated best how we feel about
waiting:

For years now I have heard the word “Wait”
. This “wait” has 3 always meant “Never.”
It ‘has been a tranquilizing thalidomide, ‘re-
lieving the emotional stress for a moment
only to give birth to an ill-formed infant of
frustration. We must come to see with the dis-
tinguished jurist of yesterday that “justice too
long delayed is justice denied.” We have
waited for more than three hundred years. . .
for our constitutional and God-given rights.

If rapid change frightens you, then
too bad. We cannot say that we are sorry,
nor can we apologize for the inconveni-
ence. We have been ‘inconvenienced’
for centuries — try to understand our im-
patience now.

So Davidson, wait if you want —
you’ll wake up one day to find yourself
discredited and obsolete. Black people
have survived, prospered, and made it in
spite of those who would have stopped
us. We shall continue and we shall not do
so by your timetables. Davidson’s option
threrefore, is simply whether it will de-
mand progress or stand in its way — the
choice is up to you.

Janet Stovall

The Davidsonian welcomes
letter from its readers. We try to
print all letters of general inter-
est, but we adhere to these four
guidelines:

1)We require that letters be
in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be
neatly typed.

3)We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s

Letters Policy

phone number and address. If
you have a compelling reason
for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the
editors.

4)We reserve the right not to
print letter that a)function as ad-
vertisements; b)contain _ in-
nuendo, off-color slurs, or in-
side jokes; c)represent a view-
point very similar to other letters
printed on the same topic.

