4 Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian

War College Sends Policymakers Here

(continued from page |)

Hansen and panel members em-
phasized that their comments were only
personal opinions and did not represent
the view of the Army or the government.

The panel is chosen from the 260 stu-
dents of the War College who themselves
compose the top 3 to 4 percent of officers
of their rank and age. They are, Major
David Hill of the ROTC department
explained, “the cream of the crop. Their
experience and credentials are truly im-
pressive.” All are lieutenant colonels
awaiting promotion to full colonel after
their graduation from the one-year col-

lege.

The panel’s response to questions re-
sted on its members’ diverse back-
grounds and areas of interest. LTC Jose
Muratti, for instance, was the Military
Aid to both President Carter and Presi-
dent Reagan, and he has assisted in form-
ing government policy to El Salvador.
LTC Jack W. McGuiness has com-
manded intelligence, air assault, and
special forces units in Southeast Asia and
has participated in rescue operations of
Americans in North Vietnamese POW
camps.

SPE Faces Opposition

(continued from page !)

social house. “This college can accom-
modate alternatives. And I think the
CCRL backed that up by agreeing in
principle to allow social houses on the
Court.”

Social houses, many fear, would
jeopardize other eating houses on the
Court. A social house would require less
commitment and financial burden than
eating houses do. Though SPE _ has
agreed to abide by Self-Selection if it re-
turns to campus, members of the CCRL
feel criteria would have to be established
which would govern how a social house
would operate under Self-Selection.

Some have asserted that SPE has
gained an unfair rush advantage by eat-
ing at the Commons where freshmen are
required to eat. In the two years SPE
members have eaten at the Commons,
their pledge classes have increased
noticeably: last year 34 freshmen
pledged SPE compared to approximately

18 the year before. Tnirty freshmen have
pledged this year.

Potentially, the CCRL feels, with
more upperclassmen associated with
fraterniites eating at the Commons, the
rules of Self-Selection would be harder
to enforce, and freshmen may face more
pressure from rush.

Still, the two emptry houses on Pat-
terson Court, others say, ought to be
granted to those groups who wish to use
them.

As aresult of campus groups wanting
to open social houses on the Court, the
CCRL may have to examine the viability
of current houses, which may experience
declining membership.

A central question remains: would
permitting social houses on Patterson
Court meet a possibly growing prefer-
ence for social houses or threaten David-
son’s tradition of small-group dining?

Women’s Eating House

(continued from page |)

Clark said the group would like to get
the house which formerly belonged to
ATO. Terry said the new house, if ap-
proved, would not receive as much
money as Warner Hall did when it
opened in 1982. Clark noted that the
ATO house would already be mostly fur-
nished.

Clark has met with College Business
Manager Bob Currie to discuss the finan-
cial aspects of a new house. Currie told
her that a new house would need 60
members to be financially stable. Clark
has also been in touch with Jane Alexa-
nian *84 and Connie Kyle °83 who

helped draw up the proposal for Warner
Hall in 1982.

“People seem to be enthusiastic about
the possibility of a new house,” Clark
said. She added that members of Rusk
and Warner Hall have been very suppor-
tive of the idea.

Warner Hall president Jean Shepherd
said waiting lists at both women’s eating
houses demonstrate the need for a new
house. “I wish them luck,” she said. She
said forming a new eating house “‘is a lot
of work, but we’ll be glad to help if we’ re
needed.”

Student Watch Begun

(continued from page ! )

procedures rape victims should follow.

RAPE also announced it has insti-
tuted a Student Watch system in which
volunteer students will patrol the campus
between 10 p.m. and 1:30 a.m. Seniors
Bill Warner and Kirk Gavel are heading
the watch, said RAPE chairperson
Melissa McLemore.

McLemore said a system of shifts to-
talling eight hours per month has been set
up for volunteers. Students on duty will
wear orange or yellow armbands and
scout areas such as perimeter houses, the
gym, the track, second Chambers, and
the DCPC Lounge, as well as Patterson
Court. She has asked Patterson Court
Council President Murray Simpson to
send escorts to court parties, she added.

McLemore emphasized that the Stu-
dent Watch is not a police force. “You
are not to take matters into your own
hands .. . you are a deterrent, not the
police,” she told a group of volunteers at
a Sentelle dorm meeting Tuesday night.

In addition, RAPE has set up a phone
line through which a committee member

can be reached at any time. McLemore
said a rape victim can call 331-5090,
leave her first name and the phone
number from which she is calling. The
committee member on duty will be
notified by beeper, she said, and return
the call.

BE THERE

Other panel members were LTC
Louis M. Jackson of the Chemical
Corps; LTC James H. P. Kelsey, mili-
tary intelligence and LTC Dennis P.
McQuirk, U. S. Air Force.

Discussions at the 900 Room presen-
tation centered on nuclear arms and
U. S. involvement in Central America.
Questioned about the feasibility of a civil
defense system, Jackson said although
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency has contingency evacuation
plans, “we really don’t have a civil de-
fense system.”’ Addressing the likelihood
of a nuclear war, McQuirk commented
that, “A nuclear exchange between the
U.S.S.R. and the United States is the
least likely scenario I can think of... .
[However] there is an increasing proba-
bility of some sort of nuclear incident by
a terrorist’ organization.” Muratti
explained that, as a policy writer, the
possible invasion of Nicaragua “was
never one of the options discussed . . . at

least not by the Department of Defense.”

The officers showed during informal
discussions that they were not always in
agreement among themselves with gov-
ernment policy. Muratti argued, for in-
stance, that the U. S. support of the con-
tras in Nicarauga was doing more harm
than good.

Two other frequent points of conten-
tion were the feasibility of the MX mis-
sile system and the conditions of nuclear
arms treaties with the Soviet Union.
There seemed to be a consensus, how-
ever, that a strong military provides the
greatest deterent to war.

Ortmayer laid the groundwork for the
panel’s visit over a year ago, but atwo- to
three-year advance reservation is nor-
mally required because of the high de-
mand for the panel.

He views the army visit “as part of a
continuing dialogue on national security
issues based on as broad a spectrum as
possible.”

' UNITED
CAROLINA

BANK |

b

Davidson
892-7815

I-77 at Hwy 73
Cornelius/Lake

137 N. Main St.

Norman
892-7805

KINGS PRODUCTIONS

CAROWINDS
Midway Music Hall
Sunday, January 27; 12-4 PM

Technician Interviews will be held at North Carolina School of
the Arts in the Workplace—Dance Studio #615 on Saturday,
February 2 from 1-3 PM; and at Carowinds in the Midway
Music Hall on Sunday, February 3 from 1-4 PM.

Singers * Dancers « Instrumentalists
Technicians « Variety Performers «
$190-$270/week

traveling over 250 miles to the park.

Cincinnati, Ohio 45219

One round trip air fare will be paid to hired performers

Contact: Entertainment Department, Carowinds,
PO Box 240516, Charlotte, N.C. 28224

©Copyright 1984, Kings Productions, 1932 Highland Avenue,

KINGS ISLAND « KINGS DOMINION ¢ CANADA'S WONDERLAND ,
CAROWINDS » GREAT AMERICA » HANNA BARBERA LAND

%

BE THERE

Davidson Only Goes Uptown Once A Year

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12

“Uptown with the House of Hunan”
Celebrating The Chinese New Year

VAIL COMMONS

BE THERE

BE THERE

