Friday, February 1, 1985/The Davidsonian 1]

These somewhat prophetic cartoons
appeared The Davidsonian between
the fall of ETC and the fall of F & M.

Could we borrow some Freshmen?

Two Years On The Court Through
The Eyes Of Editorial Cartoonists

" WHERE 1S AMMBSTY FuTeRuAnowAL
Wiss Xx ngeo IT?!”

House Proposal Is Untimely And = Selfish

Peggy Pierotti

A proposal has recently been submitted asking for
the establishment of another all-women’s eating house
on Patterson Court. This proposal is backed by a petition
signed by about 30 freshmen who would be willing to eat
at this house.

The ladies who have presented this proposal recog-
nize that: (1) The popularity of Rusk and Warner Hall is
very great and (2) Rusk and Warner Hall are now and
will continue to be unable to meet the demand for
spaces. They then claim that the formation of another
house will give women a third option and that this option
is the best solution for women and Davidson.

In theory their proposal seems quite appealing. In
light of the Patterson Court’s present situation, however,
this proposal is not only untimely but also selfish. The
reasoning behind’ the decision to form a new house
seems to lack a careful consideration of either the theory
behind the eating-house system or the actual needs of the
entire student body.

The present court is composed of two all-women’s
houses, four all-male fraternities, and three — next term

choose from, but rather four; men have not four choices,
but instead six. The failure for both men and women to
view the court as a whole instead of only as a collection
of frats and pseudo-sororities is at least partially repson-
sible for the decline of the co-ed houses.

The theory behind Davidson’s traditional eating-

house system is one of unity. The structure of Patterson
Court should bring students together; it should never
seek to divide them.

The social set-ups of the all-women’s houses are, of
course, different from those of the co-ed houses. In some
ways, the women’s houses have policies that are more in
keeping with the theory of the court — mix as much as
possible with other houses. These mixers are fundamen-
tally more than just a means of finding a Midwinters
date. Inter-house relations can unite the students in in-
formal, relaxed settings (be they band or wine and
cheese parties). These inter-house mixers can only bene-
fit the students and the College.

The co-ed houses, on the other hand, have much
more internalized social policies. While you may be able
to find your Midwinter’s date from within, the lack of
inter-house mixing is a shame. People at these houses,
like people at the single-sex houses, have a lot that they
could share. .None of the co-ed houses, however, have
any policies against mixing with other houses — and it is
high time they joined the neighborhood.

Yet how does this relate to the present proposal? The
ladies who have signed these petitions have done so, |
assume, because they want to eat together. (One hopes
it’s not because they want to eat alone — that would truly
undermine the court.) These ladies simply need to
realize that the character of each of the houses is set by
the house’s present members, not by members of years
past. Moreover, each house’s present members set all of
the house’s policies — everything from the menus and
decor to the financial and social policies. Davidson stu-
dents, women and men, should realize that all that can be

accomplished with the formation of a new house can be
accomplished on the present court.

Note of the three co-ed houses has a full member-
ship. One of the houses at least, F & M, has actively
tried recruiting from the women’s houses waiting list.
Two houses have already folded and F & M will close at
the end of the term. Neither PAX nor Emanon can ignore
possible future problems. Most of the members of these
houses are open to change. As a member of F & M, |
was far more interested in preserving the house, our
wonderful cooks’ jobs, and our delicious food, than I
was in saving our image. I know that I, and the majority
of my housemates, would have welcomed all of the
women who want to form a new house, and, if it would
have brought increased inter-house socializing, all the
better. [| cannot imagine that the members of PAX or
Emanon would feel differently about their own houses.

New members, of course, would have to be able to
work with old members. But disagreements with present
members should be no more common than disagree-
ments between an equal number of all new members.
Every student should be willing to cooperate to create
the essential unity that the court deserves.

I cannot be sure that merely the formation of a new
house would fatally wound PAX and Emanon. That is,
in fact probably not the case. But at the same time, it
seems so very pointless to jepordize needlessly the pre-
sent houses when everything wanted can easily be at-
tained within the present system.

Pierotti is a junior or philosphy major from Atlanta and
photo editor of The Davidsonian. She eats at F &M.

On The

David Resnik

I sit here lamenting the changes I have seen in
Patterson Court over the last four years, wondering,
“where do we go from here?” I have watched three
co-ed houses fold and more may follow. I have seen
the demand for all women’s houses swell like a
balloon; Warner Hall opened two years ago, Rusk
has too many women, and another women’s house
may open soon. I have felt the hypocrisy of our
deteriorating self-selection system and an
administration that appears to be indifferent to its
problems. Now the CCRL has voted to recommend
letting the SPE’s back on the court as a social
house, setting the precedent for more social houses.

We’ ve come a long way since President
Emeritus Samuel Spencer instigated self-selection
in order to combat the exclusivety that had infected
our campus. Now this disease has returned.
Davidson may well be on the way to a full-fledged
Greek system, regardless of what the college
catalog or our self-selection rules say. The women’s
houses have not yet become sororities, but that
move is only a few short years away.

My initial reaction to the possible re-Greeking

Re-Greeking Of Davidson

of Davidson was a feeling of deep sorrow. I was sad
that Davidson might lose the possibility of co-ed
dining (except at the commons) and that students
might feel undue pressure to join exclusive groups.
But now I have come to accept the changes and
acknowledge my own complacency. What has
happened to Davidson is only part of a conservative
trend that has mesmerized our country. Students

Single-sex dining exacer-
bates the problem of male/

female relationships at
Davidson. It encourages the
attitude of “us” versus
“them”’’.

entering Davidson these days would rather belong to
a fraternity or an all-women’s house than a co-ed
house. There’s not much one can do about this
trend, and some might argue that we ought not to
interfere with the rights of students to choose their
own social system.

But at the same time, the students who do not

want to eat at co-ed houses have no right to interfere
with those who do. If the trend toward single-sex
dining continues, students will lose an important
freedom — the freedom to choose co-ed dining on
Patterson Court. But if that’s what students want,
let them have it. Of course, the administration could
take active steps to prevent the co-ed house from
folding. But what good would this do if there is no
student interest in supporting co-ed houses?

One final observation. Single-sex dining
exacerbates the problem of male/female
relationships at Davidson. It encourages the attitude
that it is “us” versus “them’’. True, we do still see
each other at parties and classes, but single-sex
dining reduces our everyday interactions. If we all
eat at separate houses and live in separate dorms,
we might as well divide up the campus into male
and female sections. I guess one could argue that
people should be allowed to cut themselves off from
“normal” interactions with the opposite sex. This
seclusion may work fine at Davidson, but it hardl
reflects what it's like in the “real” world. Outside of
Davidson men and women must eat, live, and work
together. But at Davidson it's easy for us to hide as
much as we want.

Resnik is a senior philosophy mayor from Chapel
Hill, N.C., and an editor emeritus of The Davidso-
nian.

