Friday, May 3, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEVE MANK

The beauty of The Smith’s new LP,
Meat is Murder, is actually a sort of anti-
beauty. They are successful not in cater-
ing to the whims of the public at large,
but in catering to their own (sometimes
twisted) whims. The fact that they now
top the college charts indicates that
they’ve managed to twist the public’s
whims as well.

Theirs is a music of contrasts, sharp
contrasts. “The Joke Isn’t Funny Any-
more” begins as a perfectly legitimate
folk song with gently strummed guitar
and smoothly crooned vocals, when in
comes an insistent tom-tom roll that
sounds more like the percussionist has
some kind of nervous tick. A low
psychedelic guitar wanders lazily
through various Indian scales while lead
vocalist/lyricist Morrissey’s plea for the
ears of some unknown audience turns
into a frightening sermon—“You should
know times tide will smother you/And |
will too.” And still the accoustic guitar
strums on.

Each musician seems almost oblivi-
ous to the others. The drum may reverb-

erate a thunderous beat, while the bass
pretends it’s a guitar sans rhythm, while
the guitar becomes something different
altogether. All this comes together in a
beautiful combination, where a hideous
clash is expected. The clash does come,
however, with the addition of the vocals.
Sure, Morrissey sings with a beautiful,
lilting voice, but he’s flat—always. In
addition, his lyrics are ominous, mysteri-
ous, and at times even preachy. But his
voice is a sort of safeguard: those who do
not like his singing surely will not be
open to what he is singing.

“What She Said” pounds at the ear-
drums with otherworldly distortion while
Morissey passionately (if droningly)
cries some of the darkest images to hit the
British top ten. Who would ever suspect
that what “she” said was “I smoke ’cos
I'm hoping for an/early death/AND I
NEED TO CLING TO SOMETHING.”

Morrissey’s songs are quite visual.
Considering his past, that’s not at all sur-
prising. In the sixties film director Paul
Morrisey was a member of the under-
ground fold begun by Andy Warhol.
Here he was exposed to the world of drag

queens, heroin, and whores as he had
never seen before. Here also he came into
contact with Lou Reed, creator of rock
and roll’s most depressing album Berlin,
to which Meat is Murder comes not even
close.

At times, Morrissey’s lyrics tend to-
wards the naive or even the pretentious,
but they’re always well-crafted. In “Bar-
barian Begins At Home,” The Smith’s
explanation of the effects of child abuse,
Morrissey uses repetition in ways the
Kingsmen (“Louie, Louie”) would not
even have dreamed of.

The tone of the words is decidedly
prosaic and narrative but for the insertion
of a smattering of unique and unlikely
rhymes every now and again.

At times, The Smiths become hilari-
ously, and embarrassingly shocking. On
‘Nowhere Fast” Morrissey reveals “I'd
like to drop my trousers to the Queen/
every sensible child will know what |
mean.” All the while Morrissey bares
his, ah-soul to the world, the musicians
dabble in funk/heavy metal, rockabilly
and in one song they even sound almost
like a live recording of the Grateful Dead.

Smiths Are Successfully Self- Indulgent

But even when strains of other musical
styles ring through, The Smiths are al-
ways quite Smiths.

As the swell of heavy machinery and
bovine lowing creeps into the threshold
of hearing, the band begins to beat and
thrash their ways through the harrowing,
final, title cut. However confident one is
of the legitimacy of one’s own car-
niverosity, lines like ‘‘and the calf that
you carve with a smile is MURDER,” in-
evitably bring on waves of guilt.

For a band that dedicates the subject
of most every song to death, The Smiths
manage to retain a modicum of joyous-
ness. True, their lyrics are not overly
happy, but such overwhelming sorrow
seems to imply a degree of irony. After
all, why would anyone want to preserve
some of one’s most depressing times of
record if there was no hope for recovery?
If Morrissey is rich at all, it is these sad
times that made him that way.

Besides that, contrasts are such an
important part of The Smiths’ music that
there must surely be an alternative to the
sadness hidden deep within each song.

Two Classy Films Highlight

Weekend Entertainment

By MATT MORRIS

If you're thinking about going to the

beach this weekend, think again—
Chinatown, Roman Polanski’s sly, com-
plex detective thriller and Ingmar
Bergman’s Wild Strawberries will be

shown in Love on Friday and Saturday re-
spectively and the two classy acts should be
enough to seduce any culturally-minded
Davidson student away from the “pleas-
ures” of the south’s modern day Babylon,
Myrtle Beach.
At the same time a spoof and a darned
good mystery Chinatown remains genius/
sexual molester Polanski’s most accessible
film. The plot, an intimate, twisting tale of
“the mysteries of Los Angeles” follows the
efforts of detective Jack Nicholson (doing a
beautiful impersonation of himself imper-
sonating Bogey) as he attempts to solve a
puzzle involving the likes of Faye Dunaway
and big bad John Huston. Alas, dear reader,
to reveal any more of the details would only
spoil (and confuse) your tormented mind.
All that need be said here is that Polanski
brilliantly keeps the story rolling along
(clocking in at over two hours, Chinatown

is never boring) and manages to create a
great sense of film noir in 1975 terms.

On the less jovial (but equally intrigu-
ing) side is Saturday’s presentation of Wild
Strawberries. Anyone interested in an ex-
ample of filmmaking at its finest or just
good entertainment should follow patiently
the abstract, dream-like tale of Dr. Borg
(Victor Sjostnom), a man, who like many
of Bergman’s characters, approaches death
without really knowing what it is to be
alive. Through a series of interminal sub-
jective sequences, Borg’s entire life, from
cold academian to romantic lover, is played
out to him and the result is uplifting—Borg,
before his death manages to come into
touch with basic human feeling, something
his years of teaching science had left out. Of
all Bergman’s movies, Wild Strawberries
comes closest to being a “down-to-earth”
film and it’s a cinematic experience that
anyone can gain from. Through montage
and set-design that recalls the German Ex-
pressionists of the 1920s, Bergman photo-
graphs scenes that will make your jaw drop
and your mind wander. Don’t miss either of
these very special films—the beach was
never so good. ‘

WANTED: RIDING MASTER for summer resident camp, 23
horses and program for 120 campers, 21-plus, must have extensive

<

BUFFET
—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

Sunday
12 Noon
til
9:00 P.M.

~

241 SOUTH BROAD STREE

T—MOORESVILLE

Tues., Wed.
& Thurs.
5 P.M.
til 9 PLM.

663-3030

Meal Includes:

SPAGH ETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESON-- ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL. MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE
DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

PIZZA Still Mooresville's Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI

CAT. SN BACON

ITAL 4°) SAUSAGE

CHCiC! BEEF

FRESH ¥ DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

SOUP OF THE DAY
CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE

CHILI CON CARNE

