Class of 1989 Stuart Scholars Named

Four high school seniors have been selected to receive prestigious Edward
Crosland Stuart Scholarships. Named in honor of a 1954 graduate who died in a
Navy plane crash in 1956, the scholarships are awarded on the basis of Christian
commitment, leadership potential and scholastic achievement. This year’s reci-
pients are: Laurie Ballenger of Spartanburg, S.C.; R. Craig Carlock of Stone
Mountain, Ga.; John R. Coleman Jr. of Atlanta, Ga.; and Patricia A. Fisher of
Raleigh. In addition, Valerie A. Pierson of Greensboro was named an alternate.

International Film Festival To Be Held At UNCC
The Afro-American and African Studies Department and the Afro-Ameri-
can Cultural Center are sponsoring an International Film Festival in March
1985. A discussion session between Afro-American and Africa Studies, Foreign
Languages, English, Business, Sociology-Anthropology and Human Services
Department representatives and the audience will follow each film.

These foreign films are dramatic presentations of contemporary issues in
Third World Countries which provide a glimpse of other producers, artist and di-
rectors (Africans, Afro-Europeans, Carribeans, and Afro-Americans) interpre-
tation and use of this art form.

, Thursday, March 28, 1985
Sugar Cane Alley (Euzhan Palcy, Martinique)
Denny Hall, Room 109, 7:30 p.m.
Friday, March 29, 1985

Baara (Soulemnane Cisse, Mali)

Barom Sarret (Ousmane Sembene, Senegal)

Denny Hall, Room 109, 7:30 p.m.

Saturday, March 30, 1985

Sey Seyeti (Ben Diogaye Beye, Senegal)

Poko (Idrissa Ourdraogo, Upper Volta)

Cone Center, McKnight Lecture Hall

3:00 p.m.

Black Girl (Ousmane Sembene, Senegal)

Illusions (Julie Dash, USA)

McKnight Lecture Hall

7:30 p.m.

Sunday, March 31, 1985

Ashes and Embers (Haile Gerima, USA)
Four Women (Julie Dash, USA)
Charlotte Public Library Auditorium
2:00 p.m. — 5:00 p.m.

Journey Across 3 Continents Film and Lecture Tour is a project of Third
World Newsree! funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities.

Deadline Approaches for Talent Showcase

The deadline for entering the fourth annual American Collegiate Talent
Showcase (ACTS) is rapidly drawing near. Interested students must have their
entries postmarked by April 15, 1985.

ACTS is a national competition for college students who wish to pursue a
career in the entertainment industry. Not only can ACTS provide students with
an important industry contact, but it also gives them the opportunity to compete
for cash and scholarship prizes, showcases, auditions, overseas tours and more.

Categories include contemporary and classical music, drama, dance, vari-
ety, songwriting, comedy writing, plus a special merit award in vided produc-
tion.

Students should submit their entries on an audio or video cassette not more
than 5 minutes in length with a black and white photo. For additional informa-
tion and official entry form contact: ACTS, Box 3ACT, New Mexico State Uni-
versity, Las Cruces, NM 88003, (505)646-4413.

Nominations Requested For Spring Awards

Each year at Spring Convocation an award is made by ODK to a faculty
member nominated by students. The award recognizes outstanding teaching,
concern for students, and service to the community.

The Goodwin-Exxon Award is presented to three students—one from each
of the following classes: sophomore, junior, senior. The recipients are chosen
by a committee of students, faculty, and staff on the basis of their quality of life
in the campue community during the year. The Goodwin-Exxon Award is desig-
ned to recognize qualities other than unusual accomplishments in scholarship,
leadership and sports. The students should represent the highest standards of
character, good sportsmanship, friendliness, consideration for others, high ethi-
cal standards, faithfulness to duty, enthusiasm, tolerance, and concern for the
less fortunate. Nominations are made by members of the studerit body and facul-
ty. Last year’s winners were: Mary Fant (senior), Meg Barron (junior), and Ken
Niebuhr (sophomore).

Please pick up a nomination form for either award from the Dean of Students
Office by April 3 and return it by April 9.

News Summary- ——

No Changes In Budget For Student Loans
RALEIGH, NC—College Foundation Inc. (CFI) Students interested in apply-
ing for student loans should be aware that there have been no changes in the fed-
eral government’s budget for student loans, according to Mary Bland Josey,
communications specialist for College Foundation Inc.

“Congress has taken no action on proposed budget changes,” she said. “We
anticipate having adequate funds from our North Carolina banks to assist all
eligible students who apply for educational loans.”

The final decision on the proposals has not yet been addressed by Congress,
and any changes that are passed will have little effect on the 1985-86 academic
year, she said.

CFI is a private, non-profit corporation which handles educational loan
funding for North Carolina students, and is the central lender in this state for
N.C. Banks, other financial institutions, educational institutions and other or-
ganizations which invest in the N.C. Insured Student Loan (N.C. ISL) Program
and the N.C. PLUS (N.C. PLUS) Loan Program.

For the 1985-86 academic year, a student can quatify for the N.C. ISL ifhe is
aU:S. citizen, a N.C. legal resident and accepted for enrollment in a participat-
ing college or vocational school on at least a half-time basis. The student may at-
tend school in or out of North Carolina. If the adjusted gross family income for
the last tax year was no more than $30,000, the student probably will qualify un-
less he has campus-awarded assistance equal to the total cost of attendance. If
the family income is over $30,000, he may still qualify depending on the number
of dependents in the family and the number in college.

N.C. PLUS Loans have the same residency and college enrollment require-
ments, but are made to parents of dependent students or to independent under-
graduate or graduate students. N.C. PLUS Loans differ from N.C. ISL loans be-
cause they are not dependent on a family’s demonstrating financial need.

Students and/or parents interested in loans for educational purposes should
talk with financial aid adminstrators or contact College Foundation Inc., 1307
Glenwood Avenue, Raleigh, NC 27605.

English Dept. Announces Writing Competitions

The Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing carries a first prize of
$60.00, a second prize of $40.00, and a third prize of $20.00. The judge this
year is the well-known poet, Dabney Stuart, who will be at Davidson for his 25th
Class Reunion. He will present the awards at the Spring Convocation, Friday,
April 26 at 11 a.m.

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award for freshmen carries a first prize of
$40.00 and a second prize of $20.00. Manuscripts will be judged by members of
the Davidson College English Department, and the awards will be presented by
Dabney Stuart at the Spring Convocation, on Friday, April 26.

The rules of the competitions are as follows:

1.The Vereen Bell competition is open to any regularly enrolled Davidson
College student above the freshman class. The Windley Hall competition is lim-
ited to freshmen. Manuscripts should indicate the name of the competition for
which they are submitted.

2 All entries must be the original ‘work of their respective entrants and may
fall in any recognized category of creative writing, such as fiction, drama,
poetry or the essay. -

3.Students may submit as many entries in as many different categories as
they wish. Poems should be submitted as groups rather than as individual en-
tries.

4.All entries must be typed, double spaced and must appear on one side of
the paper only.

5.Name of the writer must be enclosed in an attached envelope bearing the
title of the entry. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

6.All entries must reach some member of the Department of English by 5
p-m. on Wednesday, April 10. Students entering -ither competition must be
present at the Spring Convocation.

Self-Study Committee Refutes Claim That Survey
Results Were Biased

The results of the recent SGA student surveys are not biased, according to
senior Elizabeth Brooks, co-chairman of the SGA self-study committee. The
committee distributed 600 surveys as part of the campus-wide self-study re-
quired of all NC schools once every 10 years, in order to be accredited.

Because an abnormally high percentage of respondents indicated that they
dined in the Commons, there was a possibility that many of the 300 to 400 re-
tured surveys were completed by freshmen.

In responding to the question of uneven class distribution of responses,
Brooks said, “Obviously, 350 answers can't be completely representative of a
student body the size of Davidson’s.” She went on to say, however, that the sur-
vey was objectively constructed and in her opinion the results were fairly evenly
distributed.

The information from the surveys was programmed into a computer and or-
ganized into a 500-page printout which the SGA will distribute to various or-
ganizations such as the Housing Office and the Athletic Committee to use in
their self-studies.

Material contributed by Beth Parker.

Friday, March 29, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN
