Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian 5

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

‘Apollonia

The fine art of air band has come a long way. This
guy at my high school — this was the late seventies,
mind you — could do a mean Jimi Hendrix using
nothing but his vocal chords and a tennis racket.
‘Purple Haze,” indeed. I recalled this guy’s soulful
interpretation last Friday night at the fourth annual Phi
Delt Air Band contest, and I realized that air band ain’t
what it used to be.

The Rolling Stones didn’t win the keg; Bruce
Springsteen didn’t either. Nobody even did Jimi
Hendrix — the purple haze had cleared in favor of a far
more provocative and female purple rain. Apollonia 6
was the group of choice, and it took the keg Friday
night wrong usin a single tennis racket.

For the uninitiated, Apollonia is the young lady
friend of cultural phenomenon and natty dresser Prince
in the movie Purple Rain. Apollonia and her two
buddies comprise the group Apollonia 6 (“Six what?”
you ask). Last Friday we saw three freshmen
transformed into the A6: Mary Lou Hampton, Susan
Boyd, and Colleen Bairas as the Dionysian Apollonia.
“Are those Davidson girls?” was the question in
everyone's mind. Yes, in fact, they are.

I talked with these young women this week to find
out what might inspire them to perform tunes such as
“Sex Shooter” and “Happy Birthday, Mr. Christian” in
front of a particularly enthusiastic group of primarily
male students. “It’s fun!” they told me, which I reckon
is a pretty good reason. Colleen said she has seen

A MORE OR LESS

SPECIAL REPORT

BY ANN MEADOR

Purple Rain several times and “listens to the music
constantly,” according to Mary Lou. The idea to do
Apollonia 6 was Colleen’s, but all three embraced the
idea immediately.

“Davidson girls have this nerdy image,” Colleen
said. “The guys are always bringing in imports, and we
thought we'd show them the other side.”

“Showing them the other side” meant a good deal
of practice and preparation. Many of the group’s
moves Friday night came from the Apollonia 6 “Sex
Shooter” video, which Colleen studied over Christmas
break and came close to perfecting. “We wanted to be
as near to an exact representation as we could,” Mary

Short Courses Provide Wah-ah-wah,

By IDA PHILLIPS

Sunday
Dear Diary,

I’m so excited! Short courses start tomorrow. I've al-
ready tried on five different outfits. I’m going to skip all
my classes tomorrow and sleep all day so I'll have
enough energy for clogging. Good night!

Monday
Dear Diary,

Boy am I steamed. I put on my best overalls and a re-
ally neat plaid shirt and went to clogging. Two people
showed up. So we didn’t have class. I went home and
practiced anyway. I hope more people show up tomor-
row for human rights. I’m going to wear my smiley face
button.

Tuesday
Dear Diary,

Just got back from the human rights short course. A
professor spoke about international rights. He was well
prepared. He had a copy of the United Nations charter in
his pocket.

Three other people showed up. I think they were all
poli-sci majors because when the professor finished,
they all asked smart questions. I felt like I should con-
tribute, so | asked him where I could get my own copy of
the United Nations Charter. He gave me his.

Lou said.

That eye for detail went beyond choreography to
the most remarkable component of their act: the
costumes. Faithful they were — the costumes are
essentially the same as the ones A6 wears. “See? We
even did the makeup like the originals,” Colleen said
as she showed me the album cover.

Were they nervous about performing in this garb?
“Well, when we walked out in the hall and saw our
hallmates’ first reactions, we gota little paranoid,”
Susan said. “It just took some getting used to.”

“We were petrified at first.” Mary Lou said, “but
we were scheduled late, and everyone backstage had
already seen our costumes. When the time came, we
were ready!”

“Yeah.” Colleen added, “after we did ‘Happy
Birthday, Mr. Christian’ as our encore, we were ready
to do ‘Sex Shooter’ again.”

| asked them if their performance was related to

Short courses are great!
Wednesday
Dear Diary,

I never realized how hard it is to play the harmonica.
(Just went to harmonica playing). I learned a lot. Here's
how the opening to “The Promised Land” by “The Boss”
sounds:
Wah-ah-wah/ah-oo0-ah- wah/ah- woo-ah-000/wah- wah-
ah-a-000/vocal.

And here’s “Love Me Do” by “The Fab Four:”
wah/huh/wow/huh-huh-huh-huh/wah-ah/huh-huh/
wow/huh-huh-huh-huh. It really sounds neat on the har-
monica.

Before I went to harmonica playing, I went to mas-
sage class. Only one other guy showed up so I just
watched. I'm glad.

Next Wednesday
Dear Diary,

After a week without short courses, | was really
ready to have some fun. So! went to wine-tasting. Wow!

Here’s what we did:

— We sat down and all had two glasses and a napkin.
A lady talked about wine and we read some neato han-
douts.

Here's what I learned:

— The best wines to serve with elk are Barhera, Zin-

6’ Shows The Other Side

Women’s Week, were they trying to make a statement
through their art? “No, not really,” Susan said. ‘It's
just fun.”

“We haven't heard any bad response,” Colleen
said. “Most people said they were impressed with it
and were glad we did it. Our hall has been especially
supportive.”

The future looks bright for these freshmen. They
split their keg with their freshman hall and the Phi
Delts, Mary Lou said, “because they were so
supportive.’ They don’t know what they will do for
next year’s contest, but “if someone new comes along.
we might do them,” Colleen said. In the meantime.
they plan a reprise of their act in the upcoming
freshman talent show. “Except this time we'll wear
clothes.” Mary Lou said. The spirit of the act will
remain the same, I imagine.

“Actually, you know,” Mary Lou concluded.
“what we wore was more than a bikini. more or less”

Gewurztraminer

fandel, Burgundy, Chianti, and Mountain Red. The
same goes for buffalo except you don't serve Zinfandel
and Mountain Red but you do serve Pinot Noir.

Here's what was ina pamphlet about serving wine in
a restaurant:

— A quote: “Never correct a customer's misprounct-
ation or disagree with their wine selection.”

— a pronunciation guide for every wine from
Gewurztraminer (Geh-WIRTS-trah-meen-err) to Rosé
(Roe-ZAY).

— a true-false quiz which said things like: “When
you have taken a wine order, serve the wine to your cus-
tomer without delay.” (I said false, because | remem
bered that a good appetite is the best sauce. )

—— a bunch of definitions for words like acidity, ap
pearance, body, nose. and residual sugar. (It's neat be
cause all those words can fit in one sentence: She turned
up her nose at the wino who had put too much residual
sugar into his body, which caused acidity in his stomach
and a green tinge to his appearance.)

After the lady talked, she poured wine in our glasses
She used about eight different kinds. They were all from
California. She started out with white and ended up with
red. A lot of people drank it, but I didn't because I hear it
makes you dizzy.

Next week is clogging again. This time | won't wear
my overalls
