14 Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee , Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager
Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Dorm Locks

All of a sudden, someone put locks on Knox. Each night, or so we
understand, a student watch patrols darkened corners of Davidson, de-
terring would-be evildoers. And campus cops buzz about in Cushmen,
our own'old Guard.

Each of these situations suggests that Davidson has finally reached a
state of strong security that students have seen a need for since last year’s
Harding House incident. Taken together, however, they demonstrate
Davidson’s lack of an overall agency for dealing with security matters.

Considering the College, it is amazing that no committee coordi-
nated all these events. However, the fact that no central coordination
exists is quite obvious. For a security program to work, all its elements
must be linked; each department — official or unofficial — must com-
municate with every other department.

No one, it seems, has taken the time to gauge the need for such meas-
ures, much less attempted to determine which methods work in concert
with which others.

The experimental dorm lock system is a good idea, and may even
work due to the reasonable allowances it makes for the convenience of
the Knox residents. Its test will not be, however, whether or not it deters
a mad bomber or some such other fiend. No, indeed, its test will be
whether or not Knox inhabitants remove the doors to avoid being incon-
venienced by the locks.

The Student Patrol is an arguably good idea, as far as it goes. But we
repeat, the College pays professionals to provide security; students ought
not — no, they must not — have to do it themselves. Once they discharge
their obligation to lock their doors, walk in pairs, and take other indi-
vidual precautions, then it is the job of campus security to protect them.
This job involves Cushman patrol and foot patrol. And we will restate the
need for the physical plant at least to consider hiring another officer.

If one College agency handled these matters, students would be as-
sured of an efficient security system. However, the situation now ap-
pears ad hoc. Security officers report to two masters — the Physical
plant, which pays them, and the Town Police, which has jurisdiction
over them. The student patrol is completely student-run.

Farewell

With this issue, we end our term as editors of The Davidsonian. Last
March, when we took over the paper, we inherited a newspaper with a re-
stored credibility, which had eroded in previous years. We credit seniors
Ann Meador and David Resnik, our predecessors, who built up a news-
paper Davidson could trust. We have tried to continue that tradition and
to offer Davidson an informative newspaper focused on campus issues
and happenings.

We have every confidence in our successors, sophomores John Ga-
things and Kevin Horan, and we wish them the best of luck.

And we thank the Davidson community for allowing us to serve it.

Ross Holt, Editor

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the schoo! year by the students of
Davidson College. Address to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions arti-
cles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Roxanna Guil-
ford, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison Wills, Chris Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador,
Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor; Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jill
Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Assistant Production Manager; Pauline Rhodes. Compositors:
Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

FRIENDS » THE CONCERT
COMMITTEE NEEDS YouR
MONEY So THEY CAN BRING
IN BANDS You WANT 70 SEE.

To the Editors:

Last week’s editorial on “Council
Procedure” suggests that students at
Davidson care enough about the Honor
System to give it: careful consideration
and reflection. I am encouraged by the
Davidsonian’s continued support for the
System that is reflected in their call for
revisions. As present chairman of the
Honor Council, I assure the editors that
the Council will discuss their recommen-
dations and will pass them on to the Stu-
dent Conduct Council. Please keep in
mind, however, that changes in the vari-
ous Codes are legislated by the Student
Conduct Council and not by the Honor
Council. Any further recommendations
from the Editors or other students should
be submitted in writing to Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry. Your suggestions are
very welcome and will be considered
carefully.

The editors maintain that Council
members will not discuss recommenda-
tions for change on record. Speaking
only for myself, I must reply that I have
not been asked to discuss such changes
with a member of The Davidsonian staff
on record but will be very willing to do
so. Council members do not try to hide
behind closed doors in chambers of sec-
recy. We are open to suggestions and dis-
cussion of the Honor System and recom-
mend changes whenever we feel that
they are necessary.

During the next exam period, for ex-
ample, students will observe one recent
change in exam procedure initiated by
the Honor Council in recent weeks. En-
closed in every exam envelop will be the
following statement that students are
asked to sign:

I have correctly followed all procedures
for self-scheduled examinations and have
truthfully given information on this envelope
and its accompanying card.

The Honor Council hopes that this state-
ment will reinforce the importance of fol-
lowing exam procedures correctly. Any
questions that students have about this
statement or about exam procedures may
be directed to Council members.

Finally, while students should be
concerned with the particulars of the
Honor System and should suggest revi-
sions when needed, it is important that
we not lose sight of the philosophy of the
Honor System amidst it’sparticulars. The
present Honor Council stresses that the
Honor System is first and foremost a
value system rather than a legal system.
We at Davidson have agreed to live
under the Honor System because we be-
lieve in the value of honor in the indi-
vidual and in the community. I am not
forced to live according to the Honor
System. I choose not to lie, cheat, or
steal. The Honor System is much more
than a set of rules; it is a philosophy of
living according to honor.

Nancy Rosselot
Chairman, Honor Council

Rebuked

To the Editors:

In regard to my article (“Bombing of
Abortion Clinics Not Senseless’’) run
two weeks ago, I would like to clarify a
couple of points.

First of all: I do not and never have
condoned what these men or any others
like them did. They will probably go to
prison for their actions as they should.
All I meant to indicate is that I can under-
stand why they acted as they did, though
I do not approve. My title for the article
was “Choose the Lesser of Two Evils.”

Secondly: What I wished to stress in
the article is my opposition to abortion.
In this I am not alone. I cannot force you
to support my position, but I can ask you
to respect my views.

I oppose abortion and abortion clinic
bombings. These points were apparently
not as clear as I thought, given the re-
sponse. For this I stand rebuked.

Mike Stephens

Somoza

To the Editors:

For years, the United States govern-
ment supported the Somoza government
in Nicaragua. The Somoza regime was a
right-wing dictatorship that exploited
and oppressed its citizens. It used fear
and murder to. keep the country under
