Friday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

"A Modest Proposal’ For Humanity

Stuart Cooper

Recent yéars have witnessed the emancipation of
American women. The social pressure of increasing num-
bers of women in the work force has slowly made wage
scales more equitable. As a result of the court case Roe vs.
Wade, women gained the power to control the destiny of
their own bodies. The shackles of unwanted pregnancy
have been cast off. However, in the movement toward so-
cial justice and self-determination, the voice of one oppres-
sed group has been ignored. Countless children are bur-
dened by the care of infirm, elderly parents. Americans
cannot stand idly by and allow these suffering children to
continue under their oppressive yoke.

Many parent-child relationships are meaningful
throughout the parents’ natural life. Yet cancer, em-
physema, senility, and other debilitating diseases take a se-
vere toll on other elderly adults. Incapacitated, elderly par-
ents can be reduced to a state of pseudo-life. When the par-
ent passes the boundary of meaningful existence and yet
lives on, its offspring suffer the emotional trauma of caring
for the invalid, in addition to considerable expenditures of
money and time. The desperation of this situation is com-
pounded by the fact that many elderly parents live in pov-
erty, and the treatment accorded them is often harsh. If
their children cannot provide for them, the elderly poor
often become a burden to the state.

What equitable solution can be found for this state of af-
fairs—the slow, lingering pseudo-life of an invalid, and the
even greater suffering of the child, who still has a full life

ahead of hirh? I suggest a program of cessation. Under this
program any child who chooses could apply for the cessa-
tion of his progenitative pseudo-life unit. The cessation
would be handled by competent physicians ina sterile envi-
ronment (no more messy cessations in alleys and slums).
The protoplasm could be disposed of easily, utilized to
great advantage in fertilizer and high-protein soup, or in
cases of severe emotional attachment between parent and
child, disposed of by more traditional methods.

Some will mevitably raise objections to this proposal
(especially fundamentalists and their ills), but let me more
fully enumerate its advantages before you, the reader,
make your final judgment. Aside from the emancipation of
countless children, and the release of numerous pseudo-life
units from their pain, this proposal would ease the social
woes exacerbated by the size of the non-productive elderly
population. The Social Security system would be placed on
a sound financial basis. Nursing homes would be relieved
of the problem of overcrowding. We may even witness the
end of backlogs on the crowded shuffleboard courts of
cruise ships and the state of Florida. If adopted by third
world countries, cessation would ease the crisis of over-
population. We will have taken one step further on the path
to total social justice.

You may have further objections to cessation. May |
offer some advice? Unless you are the progeny of a pseudo-
life unit, do not enter the argument. The cross these chil-
dren bear can only be understood by them. Children have
been the slaves of socially institutionalized injustice too
long! Children of America, cast off the yoke of lifeless
flesh, and insure future generations a life of freedom and

self-determination. If we cast down the traditions of social
oppression, America can become a nation where each indi-
vidual is guaranteed his or her Constitutional birthright of

personal freedom.

Tim Brown

While he was playing here on the Davidson campus,
Joseph, a lively three-year-old preschool student. re-
minded me of three valuable lessons. First, Joseph re-
minded me that one is never too old to learn, or in my case.
too old to remember. Second, Joseph reminded me that one
is never too young to teach—or to remind. And third,
Joseph reminded me that I should take the time to smell the
flowers, especially, according to Joseph, the dandelions.

While I was returning from the post office, empty-han-
ded I might add, I met Joseph in front of the Chambers
Building. After we had exchanged introductions, names,
and handshakes, my lessons began. Joseph plucked two
dandelions: one for himself and one for me. With Joseph's
urging, I smelled the flower, and I quickly began to enjoy
it’s beauty; something I had not done for a long time. On
this campus, for you, the reader, there are still many more
flowers, dandelions, to be enjoyed. However, I do not be-
lieve there are any flowers, dandelions, left in front of the
Chambers Building: Joseph, I believe, has plucked them
all.

The Davidsonian Is Looking
For A. Few Good People

We Need Writers

People Interested In News,

Features and Sports

The material gains are few, but the personal

rewards are immeasurable

If this is for you, call now at 892-2000, extensions

148 & 149
