Friday, January 11, 1985/The Davidsonian

3

By ROSS HOLT

Last Saturday, an alumnus and
former Davidson chemistry professor
became North Carolina’s 97th gover-
nor and the state’s second Republican
governor in this century.

And Jim Martin ’57 atrributes part
of his success in the hard-fought
gubernatorial race to strong support
from Davidson alumni.

Martin’s inauguration reflected his
connections to Davidson. College
President John Kuykendall delivered
the invocation during the inaugural
ceremonies, and an ROTC color guard
marched in the inaugural parade.

In an interview Wednesday, the
new governor credited “a very promi-
nent, very notable group of Davidson
alumni who went out of their way to
get involved” with helping him attain
the office. Davidsonians who helped
Martin included not just alumni, but
classmates and former students as
well, he said.

In some counties he had little or no
campaign organization and little
chance at the polls until Davidson
alumni began raising funds and stump-
ing for him. “There were a lot of coun-
ties where early organization de-
pended upon Davidson grads getting
out and making contacts,” he said.

Martin observed that though
Davidson has a much smaller number
of alumni than other colleges and uni-
versities in the state, he found a larger
percentage to be politically active.
“Everywhere I went, I would run into
Davidsonians who would get in-

Jim and Dorothy Martin ride in last Saturday's inaugural parade

volved,” he said. “I ran into that all
across the state.”

Martin attributed the political ac-
tivity he saw among alumni to what he
called “the small college experience.”
Davidson alumni, he said, “feel a great
degree of loyalty not only to the Col-
lege but to other graduates as well.”

Former Governor James _ Hol-
shouser ’56, now a Southern Pines,
NC lawyer and a Davidson trustee,
said Davidson may also instill a desire
for community service in its graduates.
The objective they pursue is “not
necessarily politics per se, but commu-
nity service — politics is perhaps a nat-
ural outgrowth of that,” he said.

Holshouser was North Carolina’s
first Republican governor in this cen-
tury. Both Holshouser and Martin em-
phasized, though, that Davidson

alumni participation in politics is
bipartisan. Martin pointed to five
Davidson graduates in the U.S.
House, four of whom are Democrats.

Martin said his political career
began when, as a Davidson professor,
he sponsored a campus Young Repub-
licans group. Though Republican can-
didates then faired poorly in the area,
he organized students to canvas the
Davidson precinct for the party. As a
result of that strategy, Martin said,
candidates who had been losing by 8-1
margins here began to lose by mere 3-—
I margins.

In 1966, Mecklenburg voters
elected him to the County Commis-
sion, which he later chaired. When the
ninth district congressional seat be-
came vacant in 1972, he “decided it
was time to try that,” he said. He won

Kevin Horan

Jim Martin ’57 Praises Alumni Support

the election and was reelected five
times. While in the house, he became a
senior member of the Ways and Means
committee and served as chairman of
the House Republican Research Com-
mittee.

During his sixth House term, Mar-
tin said he began to look at the gover-
nor’s race. “I knew some of the people
running. The more I looked at it, the
more I was convinced that was what I
wanted to do,” he said.

Despite his lack of statewide
name-recognition, Martin came from
behind to defeat Democratic Attorney
General Rufus Edmisten. Martin said
polls showing Edmisten 60-30 percent
edge in early polls eroding drastically,
while his support climbed steadily. He
defeated Edmisten by 8 percentage
points.

Though Martin will maintain a
campaign organization headed by his
brother Joe (Davidson, class of 63),
he has not yet set his sights beyond the
governorship. “In each of the offices
that I’ve held,” he said, “I've had no
desire to run for another office until
about a year-and-a-half before an elec-
tion.” He expects to run for a second
term as governor, but he said he will
not decide until that election is near.

Martin said the gubernatorial cam-
paign drew him closer to college class-
mates with whom he had not been
close friends at Davidson. But he said
the “affinity grew out of our Davidson
relationship.”

“That’s what really drew us to-

gether,” he added.

Farrell Will Not Return As Head Football Coach

(continued from page !)

talk [on my] previous visits to Davidson.
He had found the recent seasons frustrat-
ing.” He added “it was not a great sur-
prise” Farrell decided not to return. Far-
rell will work until his contract expires in

June.

Though he has no plans for next year,
Farrell said “I feel certain [my job] will
be in athletics, but probably not in foot-
ball. The possibility of getting a good

coaching job after not having success in
the last few years is not good.” He added
that his work will probably be in athletic
administration. “I have had a lot of sup-
port that I did a good job” in that area, he

RAPE Committee To Aid Victims

admit there is a problem,” she said. She
hopes activities planned this month will
increase campus awareness of rape.

The RAPE committee will conduct
dorm meetings in the next few weeks in
conjunction with the SGA Security Com-
mittee and the Davidson Emergency
Rescue Squad concerning a number of

(continued from page !)

security issues, including rape. The com-

mittee will also distribute literature ad-

dressing the definition of rape and the re-
courses open to its victims and has plans

for forums concerning rape-related ques-
tions.

“Anything that can happen at home
can happen here,” McLemore said. “The

Task Force Gathers Opinions

(continued from page!)

Davidson. Strategies include a tutoring
program, special programs for black stu-
dents during freshmen orientation, hiring
of a black assistant dean of students, and
career development of black students.

Much of the discussion at the student
forum centered on the College’s relations
with Davidson's black community. Sev-
eral people said many blacks who live in
Davidson hold a mistrust for the College
due to the actions of Griffith Street Prop-
erties, Inc., a non-profit organization
composed of College alumni. Griffith
Street Properties is not directly as-
sociated with Davidson College and has
sought to acquire property along the
Griffith Street approach to Davidson.
Griffith Street Properties plans to turn
over the property it buys to the “highest
and best use of the College.”

According to a task force member,
there is a “sense within the community of
‘@ pressure on the people to sell at an un-

fair price or before they are ready to
sell.” Since 1981, Griffith Street Proper-
ties has acquired four lots along Griffith
Street.

Another strategy in the task force’s
report would establish a committee rep-
resented by College and town residents
to improve the relations between the Col-
lege and town residents.

Concerning Faculty and the Col-
lege’s academic program, Davidson
would provide stipends for Faculty to
pursue studies to incorporate the black
experience more fully in the courses they
teach. The College would continue ef-
forts to hire tenure-track professors of di-
verse racial/ethnic backgrounds; other
plans would bring visiting black profes-
sors to Davidson from other schools.
About hiring of more black professors,
one task force member said “We want to
get more, but we can’t hold on to the ones
we have.”

thing that bothers me the most is that
people are wrapped in a sense of security
they feel here,” she said. “Davidson is
the real world. People often don’t use the
common sense they would use back
home.”

McLemore said committee members

are available “24 hours a day, seven days
a week,” and all inquiries are strictly
confidential.
said. “I want girls to realize that they
have the right to say no at any time and
have the right to stand by that.” She said
the committee will support any victim
who wishes to file rape charges. The
committee’s major interest, however, “is
making sure the girl is not facing it on her
own.”

Dean of Students Will Terry, whose
office handles reported rape cases on
campus, said he hopes the committee
will “never [be] very highly needed.”
According: to Terry, “No one has re-
ported a rape to me in recent years.”’ He
said more open discussion of rape might
make more women willing to bring crim-
inal charges.

Terry noted the distinction between
violent rape and so-called “date rape,”
and said he sometimes hears of the latter
in “very veiled types of ways.”

McLemore said faculty and student
reaction to the committee has generally
been very positive. “I've had people who
are receptive and people who refuse to

said.

Morris said all the assistant coaches
will serve out their contracts, of which all
but one will expire this June. One assis-
tant coach with another year remaining in
his contract will be allowed to fulfill it.

Morris said “The new coach will
have the chance to make his own deci-
sons” about his assistant coaches. He
will be able to retain the current coaches
or hire others.

The search for a new head coach will
begin immediately. Morris said “In the
next few days I'll be talking to Dr.
Kuykendall about the process. [I] won't
make any decision on the process until
we consult.”

The hiring of ¢# new coach, Kuyken-
dall said, is “an administrative, not pol-
icy decision” and wants to let Morris “do
what's comfortable in selecting a coach.

Morris added, “It makes sense to
consult the College community —- facul-
ty, administrators, alumni and students
— to get input” on how to get the best
man for the job.

Kuykendall said he didn't know if the
goals of the football program will be
changed with the arrival of th: new
coach. “Policy decisions are made by
Trustees.” He said the goals of th: athie-
tic program “have been recently affirmed
by the Trustees when they decided we
would remain in the Southern Confer-
ence” and try to be “competitive in the
football program and successful in bas-
ketball and non-competitive sports.”

“If there is a change” in policy. “the
Trustees will be the ones to make it,”
Kuykendall said.

As for next year, Kuykendall said
“we're facing a prototypical transition
year, we're committed to our schedule
next year and we'll be there.”

