{
By ANDY BARRON

Fifth-year basketball coach Bobby Hussey enters the
1985-86 season with all his players from last year
returning. Though last year’s squad managed only a 10-
20 record, 11 of those losses were by six points or less.
With so much experience returning, optimism runs high
that Davidson can manage to end 11 consecutive losing
seasons.

In an interview with Davidsonian sports editor Andy
§ Barron, coach Hussey discusss the upcoming season, the
future for Davidson basketball and a wide variety of other
| subjects.

Davidsonian: With everyone back from last year, are

y.
TF

"J there high hopes for this year?
4 Hussey: We do have expectations of having a good
+ be
| also it is important we play at the top of our game at alt
times because with our schedule being as difficult as it is,
1 don’t think we are talented enough that we could have a
lot of off nights and have a consistent winner. We are;
going to have to play well every time we come out of the
ate.
' od ° D: It seems that with tough teams like St. John’s of
‘ last year off the schedule, this season would be a little
easier.
H: Last year we had an impossible scheduele. This
A year I think you would look at the schedule and say it is
* . very difficult one. In addition to some very good school
in the Southern Conference, we’ve got Wake Forest,
- ; Duke, who is currently ranked two or three in the
- _ | country, South Carolina, Vanderbilt, lowa State and
- UNCC, who has made drastic improvements in their ~

year. We think that we have the potential to have a good
-* program over the last few months. So I don’t think you

season. It’s realistic to think we can have a good year; but
1 can look on our schedule as being anything other than dif-

+ ficult a ,
" * ke 3 D: I have seen Davidson as being picked to finish
*, ‘ E anywhere from second to fourth or fifth in the Southem

Conference this season. How do you react to that?
H: | think pre-season picks are always interesting. If,
& gives the fans something to get excited about and the
writers something. to write about, but I think the real.
important thing about the polls is where you finish at ¢
end of the season. I have some difficulty with. the pre-

e

|
orts In

bs la
CC @.
ke CAM POE BET an aol &

A pensive moment for coach Bobby Hussey as he watches from the bench.

Cats show potential
for winning season

TTT.

By ANDY BARRON
For Davidson basketball fans 1985-86
-should/could be a very exciting year. Ev-

eryone returns from last year’s 10-20
squad, a team that lost 11 games by six or
fewer points. To make the outlook even
rosier, Davidson’s schedule moves from
last year's torturous journey through the AP
Top 20 to this year’s challenging, but
reasonable, agenda. Yes, Wildcat hoop
fans, this could be the year.

The year for what, you ask.

Anyone vaguely acquainted with
Davidson basketball knows all too well that
Davidson ranked among college basket-
ball’s elite during the 1960's and early
1970's. Yet those same people might not
realize that Davidson has put together ele-
ven consecutive losing seasons! The last
Davidson team, or coach, to have a winning
record was the 1973-74 squad that went 18-
9'in Terry Holland's final year as head
coach. Holland currently coaches at Vir-
ginia, where he has gone to the Final Four
twice. In the meantime a drought has en-
veloped Johnston Gym.

Except for a close loss to WAke Forest,
a game Davidson Coach Bobby Hussey
termed “a lost opportunity,” Davidson
romped through the easy part of their sea-
son. With the warm-up out of the way, the
Wildcats must bear down, concentrate and
come out ready to play every time they hif
the floor as they face one challenging oppo-
nent after another from here until the end of

the season.

The next two games feature Davidson’s
biggest out of conference foes of the year.
Cross county rival UNCC meets Davidson
on saturday in the “Battle of the Hornet’s
Nest.”” UNCC has played much better than
pre-Season forecasters thought they would
and will be ‘a tough opponent, rival or not.
On Wednesday, Dec. 18, Davidson hosts
third-ranked Duke, easily the premier team
Davidson will play this year.

Yet the Southern Conference schedule
that begins here on Jan. 9 against the
Citadel represents the most important part
of the regular season for Davidson. More
than a winning season, Coach Hussey’s
squad wants to win the post-Season South-
ern Conference tournament. This would en-
able Davidson to go to the NCAA tourna-
ment. In order to have the best chance to
win the Souther Conference toumey,
Davidson needs to be in the top half of the
regular Season conference standings.

That task won't be easy. Though Sports
Mlustrated ranks Davidson second in the
conference, most polls feel Davidson falls
somewhere between third and fifth in the
conference. As coach Hussey pointed out,
these polls show that Davidson definitely
has a chance to do well in the conference.

The chief conference foe is the Thun-
dering Herd of Marshall. Everyone with an
opinion feels Marshall is the team to beat in
1985-86. Players like sophomore Skip Hen-
derson, the conference's freshman of the

year with 17.7 points per game, and power
forward Jeff Guthrie (11.8 ppg, 7.3 rpg)
lead Marshall’s talented and deep Herd.
The rest of league seems balanced,
which means any team can beat any team on
any given day. The big story at each school
other than Davidson seems to concern who

is gone rather than who remains. Tennes- - {

see-Chattanooga lost both-their star player
in Gerald Wilkins (now a New York Knick)
and their coach, Southern Conference
legend Murray Amold (now with the
Chicago Bulls). Amold had a six-year re-
cord of 135-6 in the Southern Conference.
Yet the junior college pipeline to UTC con-
tinues to flow and the Mocassins seem
loaded enough to defend their conference
title should Marshall falter.

The conference's balance becomes ap-
parent when The Citadel, a team that lost
their star (two time SC Player of the Year
Regan Truesdale) and their coach and are
picked to finish last despite the fact that ev-
eryone else is back from an 18-11 squad.

Is this the year that Davidson Basketball
fans have waited for? Will the 11 year
streak of losing seasons end? Will Davidson
challenge for the Southern Conference
title? Will Davidson triumph in the confer-
ence tournament and reach the Nirvana of
the NCAA tournament? Tune in on March

-second to find out the answers to these and
all other questions surrounding Davidson's
basketball program.

ry
te

Mex

[
b
'

nn) Y nny
Ken Niebulbr extends for the rebound.

|

Thursday, December 12, 198

«Coach Hussey: *...we

season picks for the Southern Confe

* the fact that you have teams like The

won 21 games last year and has 4 st:
they’re picked to finish ninth. Also,
in Southern Conference tournament
they are picked to finish seventh or ¢
a lot of stock in these things. I think
that we know we have a chance and
we've got a shot. We need to be mo
what happens at the end of the seasa
too excited about pre-season polls.

' _D: What are the things that Davi:
have a successful year?

H: We have to be more consiste1
than last year. I thought there were t
we played very well in some games.
many games last year where we play
40 minutes and we didn’t have many
played four outstanding games in at
thing for us is to develop our overall
good play at both-the offensive and |
think we’ve made some strides in thi
particular things in the team, of cow
strong inside game. That’s an area v
strong last year and we’ ve worked-re
in the pre-season.

D: | talked with you last year ab
change in conference and the void [
program seems to be entering. Have
new about the future for Davidson c
Southern Conference or any other c

H: I really haven’t. It’s our desi
administration (of the Southern Con
hope of myself as a coach and our a

- Davidson) that the Southern Confen

Davidson to maintain its membershi
sports other than football. We do ha
this year in which we will be playin,
Conference because we are going ta
contracts with the Southern Confere
another year. Beyond that, I guess \
proper word. I’m not sure exactly w
going to go. Hopefully, the adminis
Conference schools would realize tl
make'§ nice contribution and would

~ &

