Friday, March 29, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Preventative Acti

Pam Dennis

Many letters have been published in The Davidsonian |

voicing objections to abortion, claiming that abortion is
murder. Maybe it is, maybe it is not. I do not think that the
definition of human life should be the issue. Instead of ar-
guing for or against abortion, why don’t people work to
prevent these unwanted pregnancies? If the pregnancies

Instead , why don’t people work
to prevent these unwanted pre-
gnancies?

never occur, there would be no need for so many abortions.
Granted, no birth control method except abstinence is fool-
proof. However, if people are going to have sexual inter-
course, they should at least be aware of the various methods
by which they can prevent pregnancy. Increased sex educa-
tion in schools and more readily-available information on
contraception would help decrease the number of unwanted

pregnancies. The alternative to abortion is not hope, but
rather preventive action.

My major complaint with the abortion issue is the
hypocrisy of it all. Why is it that so many people are so
adamant in their veiws that abortion is murder and that
every fetus has a right to life yet they do not seem to care
what happens to the child after it is born? A lot of people
who are against abortion are also against increasing taxes
and favor cuts in welfare expenditures. It seems hypocriti-
cal to be concerned about the rights of a fetus yet to allow
24,000 black people to die annually in the U.S. from lack
of adequate medical care, 39,500 American women to die
annually in childbirth from lack of adequate health care,
and 6,000 black babies to die yearly because they do not re-
ceive proper nutritional and health care. According to
Jacob Holdt, “in Chicago 600 black babies died from rat
bites and malnutrition during the year a flag was planted on
the moon” and the number of doctors per capita in black
ghettos in the U.S. is even less than in Central Africa.

If life does indeed offer hope, then perhaps we should
regard the conditions under which many Americans are
forced to live. How much hope can a person have when he
is forced to steal in order to provide shoes for his children?
A re-evaluation of our society is needed. How can we jus-
tify spending billions of dollars on defense when people are

“11

on Is The Alternative

starving to death in our streets? Would an increase in taxes
or a re-adjustment of the budget be so terrible if it improved

It is the needs of humans after they
are born which should be our con-
cer, since it is these needs which
are harder to fulfill.

the living conditions of millions of America’s poor? Would
a fixed minimum income be so horrible if it reduced crime
in our cities?

The need for abortions can be stopped or at least drasti-
cally reduced by increased sex education and increased
awareness and availability of contraceptives. It is the needs
of humans after they are born which should be our concem.,
Since it is these needs which are harder to fulfill.

Dennis is a sophomore from Durham, NC.

Locks Prohibit Congenial Visits

Hayes Woolen

The other night I thought I'd go see a friend in Knox
Dorm. I really did . . . I thought that I would just walk on
down the hill and into Knox dorm to see a friend. Ah, but }
forgot about Davidson’s new anti-intruder digital lock sys-
tem that has so brilliantly been installed in this “experimen-
tal” dorm. I bet it was a funny sight—me standing out in the
cold rain screaming and beating down the door with those
little digital buttons whining away telling me that I'd
punched in a wrong number. I had to laugh! Well, when no-
body came to the door I just gave up the whole attempt. I
thought I’d just write a letter or something instead of the
visit.

I’m not so sure if I like these proposed locks for the

dorms. I understand that they are a dramatic attempt at
stopping burglaries, rapes and all the other weird things
that have been going on around here lately, but I wonder if
this is the best solution. Of course I want to be protected,

If I wanted this feeling of secured
isolation, I would have chosen
Carolina or Duke. One reason I
chose Davidson was because of its
policy of openness.

but having to find out a code number to go see a friend on
the other side of campus is a little ridiculous. Suppose
someone from “the outside” wants to come see me one

night for some strange reason. They get here only to find
out that they can't even get into the dorm because of this
highly sophisticated anti-intruder system. Well, they can
just go next door and use a phone and call me. . . . Sure
they can!, all the phones on campus are locked. If I wanted
this feeling of secured isolation, I would have chosen
Carolina or Duke. One reason I chose Davidson was be-
cause of its policy of openness. Remember all the lines
about how everyone keeps their doors open here and such a
friendly open atmosphere exists on the campus of David-
son? The best phrase of all was that everyone threw their
books down wherever they are to run to the post office.

Well now you have to take your key to the post office and
throw down your books to punch in the secret number to
your dorm. Things are changing around here.

Woollen is a junior pre-med major from Charlotte, NC.

The Davidsonian Is Looking
For A Few Good People

We Need Writers

People Interested In News,

Features and Sports

The material gains are few, but the personal

rewards are immeasurable

—_

If this is for you, call now at 892-2000, extensions
148 & 149

