10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Stephen Mank, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor Tim Brown, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

The ‘Real World’

The end of another academic year is approaching and with it comes
the usual frenzy of papers. This means packed computer terminal areas
all day and night, desperately-needed reserve readings that are a week
overdue,, and days that stretch from 7 a.m. to 3 a.m. For the graduating
seniors, this is the last time this ritual will be enacted at Davidson.
Graduation releases them {rom the problems in the secure environment
of Davidson and turns them loose on the ‘real world.” With the “real
world” so close on the heels of the seniors, it is an appropriate time to rec-
ognize the “real world” across the street from us.

This past February the town of Davidson made an official statement
calling for the elimination “of all federal subsidies of every kind and na-
ture from the federal budget.” If the Reagan administration does cut out
these funds, the Davidson Community Center will be forced to request
$33,850 from local funds in order to operate at the Capacity at which it
has previously. The statement is not a rejection of available federal
funds. It is simply a statement of support for the President’s efforts to cut
the federal budget deficit.

Nevertheless, the town’s statement localizes the ramifications of the
possible cut and should spark active response from the campus commu-
nity.

Mayor Russell Knox appointed members to the Davidson Communi-
ty Facilities Committee to make recommendations to the town concern-
ing the community center. In addition to various town represetatives, the
College is also represented on this committee. It is important for student
opinion to be a part of this representation of the College. Unless students
become concerned about the situation and get involved, their valuable
opinions will be absent from the decision-making process.

Involvement in the representative body, as well as involvement in the
community center’s programs, is a worthwhile experience. By working
with members of the town, students have the opportunity to effect
change with “real” results. The community center provides hot meals for
senior citizens, cultural opportunities for young people, and a meeting
place for everyone. If Federal Revenue Sharing Funds are lost, these pro-
grams are potentially endangered. Consequently a lot of people will be
affected. Student input could make a difference while there is still time to
save the programs and the aims of the community center from the threat
of a loss of funds. The first step would be to schedule a piece of time out
of that hectic work schedule to attend the town council meeting on Tues-
day.

Friday, May 10, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hoy ‘Bout catcH
THE 2IPPER
FOR A

To the Editors:

Especially against that vast military
machine in Costa Rica. whose militia and
police together total about 3000 men.

And imagine those silly “contras” being
indignant over the Sandinistas’ forming the
infamous “block committees,” and banning

I, too, believe there is a lack of under-
standing in the world.

For example, Nicaraguan amphibious
forays onto Costa Rican beaches and the as-
sassination of an opposition leader on Costa
Rican embassy premises in Managua is all
right. I mean, really, the Americans are
going to invade any day, right? Those poor

free trade unions—as well as tightly con-
trolling the food supply. Why, they don’t
have a leg to stand on!

I think I am beginning to understand a
little better now. Thanks, Davidson, you've
taught me a lot about “open-mindedness”
this year.

Sandinistas have to keep their guard up.

Thank you for your time.
Russell Booker

The Davidsonian welcomes
letter from its readers. We try to
print all letters of general inter-
est, but we adhere to these four
guidelines:

1)We require that letters be
in our hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be
neatly typed.

3)We require that letters be
signed and include the author’s

Letters Policy

you have a compelling reason
for us to withhold your name,
explain your situation to the
editors.

4)We reserve the right not to
print letter that a)function as ad-
vertisements; b)contain _ in-
nuendo, off-color slurs, or in-
side jokes; c)represent a view-
point very similar to other letters
printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-

« pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich,
Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Stephen Mank, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison
Wills

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Matt
Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad
Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von
Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes, David Soud. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lam-
bert, Lisa Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

The Davidsonian’s “Opinions” sec-
tion is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent issues.
We will print opinions articles on any
subject of general interest we receive
from the campus community.

We adhere to these guidelines:

1) We require that all articles be in
our hands at 7 p.m. Monday.

2) We accept typed articles and those
written legibly, double-spaced.

3) We require that opinions be
signed. We will print unsigned articles
only if compelling reason exists for with-

holding the author’s name, and the author
is known to either the editor or executive
editor.

4) We will not edit opinions for style
or content but we reserve the right to edit
for rules of common English. We will in-
form the author of substantial changes.

5) Since space for Opinions articles is
limited, we reserve the right to select arti-
cles from those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print any article
we withhold from publication the next
week.

With this issue The Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1984-85
school year. The paper will resume publication in September. .

