Opinions

Doomsdayers, Sunshiners send false message

Robert Maydole

Some people believe that nuclear war is inevitable.
They are your doomsdayers. Others believe that a nuclear
war will not occur. Let’s refer to them as “sunshiners.”
Both are dangerously fatalistic. Doomsdayers scare us into
believing that there is nothing that can be done to prevent
nuclear war. Sunshiners lull us into believing that there is

_ nothing we have to do to prevent it, because it won’t occur
| anyway. The doomsdayers spread false despair, while the
sunshiners create false hope. Both generate apathy.

The logic of the doomsdayers and sunshiners is com-
monly flawed. They both reason fallaciously from what has
been to what will be. Doomsdayers point out that weapons
deployed have been weapons used; and from this they infer
that the deployment of nuclear weapons guarantees their
use. Sunshiners believe that the absence of nuclear war to
date insures its absence forever.

Neither the doomsdayers nor the sunshiners know what
they are talking about. No one knows what the future has in
store. What we can know, however, is that there is signifi-
cant risk of nuclear war, and that this risk has been growing
steadily in recent years.

¢ Experts have predicted that
by the year 2000, twenty or so
nations will possess or be capa-
ble of possessing nuclear
weapons. 3

The convocation speaker of last week, Dean Rusk,
bathed us in sunshine. He assured us that nuclear war is not
in the cards, and that the human race is “going to make it.”
He said, “I do not see a single situation in the real world that
is pointing toward nuclear war.”

Rusk presented two arguments for his view. The first
ran like this: We have had nuclear weapons for forty years
now without having had a nuclear war; so we won’t have
one in the future. Logic students will recognize this as a
classic example of the post hoc fallacy.

Rusk’s second argument was more substantial, but
equally flawed. He argued that we won’t have a nuclear
war because everyone, including the Russians, knows just
how horrible and catastrophic such a war would be. The
usual name for this argument is MAD, mutual assured des-
truction, the strategy embraced by the administrations
Rusk served as Secretary of State twenty years ago.

There are two main problems with MAD, and Rusk
dealt with neither in his speech. First, MAD presupposes
that rational agents always act in their rational self interest,
even when acting rationally. This is false on both the indi-

vidual and national level. Rational agents sometimes make
mistakes in judgment. Moreover, rational agents some-
times fall prey to weakness of will, and then fail to act ra-
tionally, even when they think rationally. Worse, we some-
times have reason to question the full rationality of our
leaders.

The second problem with MAD and Rusk’s argument is
that they ignore the recent developments in nuclear
weapons technology. Nuclear weapons are now being built
for the purpose of being able to fight so-called limited wars.
Such words as “counterforce,” “damage limitation,” “esca-
lation control,” and “flexible response” are commonplace
in the vocabulary of strategists and certain military person-
nel. Few strategists today think of nuclear war as an all or
nothing proposition, at least not in the beginning. Whether
or not a limited nuclear war could remain limited (and even
a limited nuclear war would be horrible) is something that
requires careful scrutiny, however gruesome the task. Suf-
fice it to say that there is a significant risk that a limited nu-
clear conflict would quickly escalate to a total nuclear
holocaust. The upshot is, the risk of total nuclear war not-
withstanding, weapons technology has made it possible to
think of nuclear weapons as usable. MAD, therefore, is a
relic of the past.

Aware, perhaps, that the logic of his position was
shaky, Rusk tried one more tact to persuade his audience
that nuclear war is impossible. He appealed to faith. But
Rusk’s faith in our ability to avoid nuclear war was not of
the religious sort; at least it didn’t appear that way. He
made no appeal to scripture or revelation, and never did
presume to maintain that God will prevent nuclear war
from occurring. No, Rusk’s faith was of the secular sort,
and indistinguishable as such from mere opinion.

That there is significant risk of nuclear war is evident

for the following reasons. First, there are more than fifty .

thousand nuclear warheads in the world. Many of these
warheads are already targeted and are poised to be fired ina
moment’s notice. Once fired they cannot be recalled. There
is a risk, even if small, that one or a few of these warheads
will be fired either intentionally or accidentally. And once
fired there is some risk, perhaps a bit larger, that additional
warheads will be fired. There is even a small risk that most
of the twenty or so thousand strategic warheads will be
fired, escalation control measures notwithstanding. Sec-
ond, the vertical and horizontal proliferation of nuclear
weapons makes the risk of nuclear war real. Experts have
predicted that by the year 2000, twenty or so nations will
possess or be capable of possessing nuclear weapons.
Imagine the risk of catastrophe if non-superpower adver-
saries in the middle east possessed nuclear weapons during
a hot crisis! Third, global tensions in the nuclear context
make the risk real that nuclear weapons will be used to re-
solve the conflict. The U.S. used nuclear weapons on
Japan, and has threatened to use them on Berlin, Korea,
and Vietnam. Moreover, the U.S. maintains a policy of a
first use of tactical nuclear weapons. In other words, we
will use nuclear weapons against Soviet conventional

forces if we have to avoid defeat in a conventional war.
Fourth, recent developments in nuclear technology, such
as increased missile accuracy, miniaturization of warheads
and missiles, and stealth technology have caused a tighten-
ing of the trip wire, and have occasioned nuclear powers to
consider both launch on warning and “use ‘em or lose ’em”
Strategies. This has certainly caused a dramatic increase in
the risk of nuclear war.

Fifth, nuclear technology and weapons systems have
How then should we as citi-
zens of the earth act in the face of
the risk of nuclear war? Should
we ignore the risk and embrace

the fatalism of the doomsdayers
and sunshiners?

become exceedingly complex, and there seems to be a di-
rect relationship between technological complexity and the
risk of system failure. The larger the computer program,
the more likely it is that it will have bugs. Yet oddly enough
the increased complexity of nuclear weapons systems has
resulted in an even greater dependency on computers. How
soon will it be when the decision to use or not use nuclear
weapons will be all but left to computers? Will a U.S. presi-
dent or a Soviet premier really be knowledgeable enough to
challenge the recommendation of the computers, espe-
cially in a situation where a decision must be made within a
few minutes? The complexity of nuclear technology has in-
creased the risk of nuclear war significantly. Sixth, human
beings themselves are far from being infallible. Human
miscalculation is always a possibility. Moreover, there is
always arisk that a deranged leader, a Hitler type, will have
his finger on the button. That risk in particular seems to be
growing, especially in light of the T.V. demagoguery of
our time.

We can see then that there are many things in the real
world that point in the direction of nuclear war. So we
ought to be thankful to Dean Rusk for calling our attention
to the nuclear predicament, even if he is overly sanguine
about it.

How then should we as citizens of the earth act in the
face of the risk of nuclear war? Should we ignore the risk
and embrace the fatalism of the doomsdayers and sunshin-
ers? Or should we learn as much as we can about the nucle-
ar predicament and then work to diminish and eliminate the
risk of nuclear war? The Dean Rusk Program is surely pre-
dicated on an affirmative answer to the last question.

Maydole is an associate professor of philosophy.

Just Words

Tim Brown

Do you know? have you heard? that President
Reagan recently sent Senator Paul Laxalt to the Philip-
pines, to express his strong warning to President Marcos
that Mr. Marcos better get his --- a-moving towards es-
tablishing a democracy, or else. Or else what, Mr.
Reagan. Or else we’ll leave you guys and give you over
to the communist insurgents! give you no more loans!

. . and give up Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air
Base? It makes good sense, you see, to hand over the
Philippines to communist insurgents, 3,000 of whose
members demonstrated outside the U.S. embassy in
Manilla just a fortnight ago, with placards denouncing
the United States, reminiscent of those we encountered
in Iran, just a few years back. And it makes just as good
sense to give up Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air
Base — even if they would be phenomenally expensive

Lto replace.

Democratic elections in the Philippines: not likely

As he does now Mr. Marcos shall have his hands
full. Full of problems such as a Philippine economy sap-
ped by debt crisis, official corruption which weakens
credibility, rioting growing more vehement, and com-
munist insurgents. He let martial law stand for 10 years,
had it lifted, and now uses broad “emergency” powers
instead, every bit as constraining as martial law. Mem-
bers of the opposition parties have been imprisoned, tor-
tured, and killed — political opposition such as Benigno
Aquino, killed in cold blood by the Philippine military
as he walked across a tarmac after returning home from
exile —all of this before the TV and world press. And
communist insurgents — who, just a few years ago, had
not enough partisans to fill a school bus — now have
25,000 members and control of 20 percent of the coun-
tryside. If the Philippines’ socioeconomic problems in-
crease as they suspect, U.S. ‘officials estimate the gueril-
las’ strength will also: to 25,000 members with a growth
rate of 20 to 50 percent a year.

But what about President Marcos’ agreement with
our Senator Laxalt, that democratic elections should be

held in 1987? Come on now mon, do you really think
Marcos will allow elections if he knows he will lose?
Can we keep him from cheating if such an election were
to be allowed? Can we keep him from threatening the
voter? These questions suggest chances we might have
to take.

If the United States is gradually to separate from
Marcos, and thereby cleanse its hands, it should invest
its resources (such as its minds, which are not infallible)
in moderate political opposition. Unlike the communist
guerillas, the moderates are not eager to seek industrial
and agricultural collectivism, an end to U.S. access to
Philippine military bases, and support from outside rev
olutionaries. Such as? The Soviet Union and Vietnam
And an election date of 1987 would suit these moderates
fine, giving them time to overcome their two greatest
weaknesses: leadership deeply divided and lack of an
“organized” national constituency.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, N.C. and is opin-
ions editor of The Davidsonian.

