4 Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonian

Is Self-Selection Caught In A Paradox?

(continued from page I)

par ties and other group events.

Still, the prolonged rush period, now
extending into winter term, helped avoid
the old problems caused by selectivity.
Other options became available, as well,
with the opening of non-selective eating
houses and with the advent of coeduca-
tion. With the blend of quasi-selective
fraternities, non-selective co-ed eating
houses, and eventually single-sex houses
and the Commons, the Court has de-
veloped the compromise system still in
effecttoday.

The Art Of Negotiation

Terry said “the bottom line” is still
the individual's right to self-select. Cit-
ing the necessity for freshmen to show
interest in the houses they may wish to
join, he said, selectivity becomes a prob-
lem when people are rejected. “This is
where the shoe will pinch,” he said.

In spite of this, he said, the present
system provides the “opportunity for
negotiation with houses.”

Terry noted that many unencouraged
students negotiated into fraternities had
succeeded in the organization and had
been accepted. He also said most frater-
nity “shotgunners” he had talked to who
were neither encouraged nor welcomed
at first were generally happy with their
social life after four years.

Terry said the social life section of
the College Catalog may give a “false ex-
pectation” to incoming freshmen. He has
taken it upon himself to modify the Self-
selection description in next year’s
catalog, he said.

Current Policy

Currently, the social system operates
under guidelines set up in 1975 by the
Council on Campus and Religious Life
(CCRL), modified by recommendations
Terry made to Spencer during Spencer’s

last month in office.

In 1978, the CCRL report said the
Davidson social system was based on the
premises of small-group dining and that
“the final decision about joining a par-
ticular group is the student’s.” “[{T]he
Principle of Self-selection is fundamen-
tal,” the report added.

The CCRL noted, however, that
freshmen should show interest in the
houses they want to join. “Freshman par-
ticipation cannot be encouraged too
strongly, because that participation will
encourage a warm welcome for him at
the house into which he self-selects ,” the
report said.

The CCRL also approved all houses’
use of encouragement, though it barred
active discouragement. Encouragement,
it said, would establish “a strong recip-
rocal relationship between the freshman
and the house.” But it said encourage-
ment “is neither a necessary or sufficient
condition” for house membership.”

It also gave freshmen who believed
they had been discouraged the right to
appeal to the Patterson Court Council
(PCC) subcommittee, which was to gov-

ern Self-selection.

During his last month in office,
Spencer requested Terry’s recommenda-
tions on social system policy. Terry told
Spencer he based his suggestions on per-

ceptions he had gained during his 12
years as Dean and in “the past year of stu-
dent discussions.” Terry’s recommenda-
tions included:

— the philosophy of Self-selection
sholud be maintained so that the right of
the individual to make the final decision
is preserved; ;

— all houses should be allowed to en-
courage freshmen, but no house be al-
lowed to discourage anyone actively;

— orientationto the Court should be
in depth, emphasizing the freshman’s
right to self-select but also emphasizing
the necessity for showing active interest
in a house; and

—acommittee be formed to organize
and monitor Self-selection. The final
recommenadion set up the current Self-
selection committee, proscribed _ its
makeup, and delineated its powers.

Terry prefaced his recommendations
with “observations made over the past 12
years and information based on the past
year of students discussions.” They in-
cluded:

— fraternities have “developed a bet-
ter quality of fellowship, friendship, and
group loyalty than have coeducational
eating clubs”;

— fraternities “make a significantly
more valuable contribution” to social life
than do co-ed houses;

— “the number of students being hurt
by rejection by fraternities has increased
dramatically over the past three years and
markedly this past year (82-83]”;

— most studhets do not want a total
bid system, neither do they want strict
enforcement of Self-selection, and a
two-tier system would not be popular;
and

— any social system must “command
the loyalty of a great majority of students
or it cannot be enforced.”

Underlying Questions

Surrounding. the discussion of the
practical Self-selection issues are more
theoretical questions conceming David-
son’s social life. What should the social
system here do, and how should it
achieve its purpose? Should the Admin-
istration attempt to design it, or to regu-
late it? Or should the will of the students
guide this system?

Kuykendall said the College has two
areas of interest in the social system.
Whatever system frames it, he said,
should be “constructive of community”
and not destructive of the unity of the
College.

The system should also allow stu-
dents ‘“‘self-expression, ‘fun,’ social in-
teraction with people they want to be
around, and some they don't want to be
around,” he said.

He said the system should be some-
thing in which no student should have to
be involved, but also something which
each student should have a right to.

Kuykendall said the administration
should not impose a certain policy on stu-
dents, but neither should the students say
“this is what we're going to do.’”

Terry noted that “too much direct in-
terference is going to raise all sorts of
hackles that defeat the very thing you’re
trying to do.” He said he would like to
see “some grassroots direction.” “I don’t
see the social system as an opportunity
for social engineering,” he said.

Flexibility is the key to the isste, he
said. “You want a social system respon-
sive to student desires, without it costing
an arm and a leg every time you try to
change it.”

Kuykendall said the theory behind
the current system is “representative of
some pretty significant principles.” The
system will work different ways during
different years, but, he said, “the test of
the final validity for any system is that it
can maintain the basic principles” which
undergird it.

Any system should reflect the nature
of the College, Kuykendall said. “Any
policy ought to have certain principles,
premises, that bespeak the values of the
institution.”

SCC To Consider Changes In Council Procedure

(continued from page !)

Dean of Students Will Terry said fac-
ulty members have voiced concern over
students not following self-scheduled
exam rules. Professors are not required
to give self-scheduled exams and have
the option of giving scheduled exams.

SCC To Discuss Council Procedure

The Student Conduct Council (SCC),
which determines policy for the Honor
Council, will meet Thursday, March 14,
to consider changes in the way the Honor
Council carries out trials and complaints
of honor violations, according to Terry.

Though no agenda has been set,
Terry and Honor Council members this
week discussed with The Davidsonian is-
sues the SCC will likely cover.

Most agreed the amount of time al-
lowed between a complaint of a violation
and the trial, if one follows, needs con-
densing. Presently, 10 days are permit-
ted between a complaint of a violation
and the issuing of a charge against a stu-
dent. The Dean may extend this period,
however. Most favor a 30-day limit be-
tween a complaint and for any resulting
trial to begin. But Terry said a new 30-
day limit may interfere with Davidson’s
Christmas holiday, which sometimes
lasts for three weeks.

One Council member suggested that
the limit be set at 35 days to accomodate
the instance of a report of an alleged vio-
lation before a three-week Christmas
holiday.

Others have considered changing the
elections of Student Solicitors and De-
fense Advisors so that both offices would
always have experienced members.
Terry said he may recommend having

more than one team of solicitors and de-
fense advisors in order to alleviate heavy
work loads both offices have had in the
past.

“One year,” Terry said, “a solicitor
had to finish three of his courses over the
summer,” because of the number of trials
the Council held that year. One Council
member said staggering the elections of
solicitors and defense advisors would
hinder students running for the offices on
one ticket.

Another issue concerns the order in
which the defense advisors and solicitors

present their closing arguments in a trial.
Under present procedure, the solicitors
deliver their closing arguments last. One
Council member said allowing the de-
fense advisors to give their closing argu-
ments after the solicitors would be more
fair to a student charged with a violation.

The SCC may address the question of
whether trials should always be open to
the public. Now, trials are open unless
the accused party requests that their trial
be closed. In the past four years, the
Coucil has held two open trials. The most
recent one occurred last fall; the Honor

Council found sophomore Jeff Kusch in-
nocent of a plagiarism charge, which
originated from a complaint by sociology
Professor Peter Venturelli.

Many here at Davdison fee! that the
community has a right to know the busi-
ness carried out by the Honor Council.
Others, however, place a higher priority
on the privacy of accused students.

One Council member said the Coun-
cil and the Dean have been “relatively
unwilling to discuss changes. . . . They
don’t want to be the ones challenging the
system.”

Knox To Get Locks

or mechanical efforts to solve all the
problems. But that doesn’t mean you
don’t want to do all you can.”

Meetze said “any security measure
supported by the college family is good.
But we must have support.” He said stu-
dents “can’t break the lock system and
give out information” for the system to
work. However, “if properly adminis-
tered, it could be positive.”

Terry agreed with Meetze that stu-
dents must still use common sense and
take safety precautions, even with the
new lock system. He said, “We can have
a cop on every corner, a lock on every
door, and a telephone on every fence
post, and if people want to be stupid
about their own personal security, it
won't do any good.”

Though Knox residents have yet to
test the new system, opinions vary about
its future effectiveness and convenience.

(continued from page !)
Steve Condon said “it’s ridiculous. I see
no need for it. If people lock their doors,
there would be no problem.”

Condon added, “It’s like any issue
here at Davdison — it gets blown out of
proportion.”

Todd Beddard said “it’s a good idea,
after all the problems we’ve had out
here.” Living far off the main campus
warrants installing a lock, he said.

Katherine Prillaman said “1 like the
fact that there will be some system but I
don’t like the way they’re doing it, be-
cause the combination will get out; but I
can’t really propose [a better] solution
because keys and cards can be copied and
have to be given to a lot of different
people on campus” such as maintenance
workers, students, and the administra-
tion.

Prillaman added that the lock system
“is not destroying what Davidson Col-

lege is. We're just accepting reality. The
lock system will make Davidson a better
place.”

Emilie Sebesta expressed the senti-
ment of many residents, saying “it’s a
good idea but after a week almost every-
one on campus will know the combina-
tion.” She said she thought “as rape goes,
most of it involves people who know
you, and they will know the lock combi-
nation.”

Resident Advisor Mary Edwards said
“My general impression is that I’m in
favor of the system. Recent awareness of
the lack of security has [demonstrated] a
need for this kind of system. She said it’s
“secure and convenient enough to be a
good system for the campus.” She said.
problems may come “with the irresponsi-
ble use and indiscriminate giving out of
the number by students.”
