8

Friday, April 19, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who's On First ?

Barron: Why did you take the job at
Davidson?

Gatto: Well, it’s a chance for me to move °
up to a Division I-AA school. Sometimes
jobs like this one, that in the face proba-
bly don’t look that good, can be the best
situations. It’s an opportunity to get into a
place where things have been struggling.
If you can turn things around it helps you.
Barron: Is there anything that made
Davidson special?

Gatto: There are a couple of other advan-
tages for me. One, it’s a geographic
change. I like that because it’s a good op-
portunity to move out of New England
and get another experience by moving to
the South. So I’m happy about that.
Barron: Let’s cover where you’ ve been.
Tell me about your experiences at Tufts
and Bates and anything else you think is
important.

Gatto: A lot of the reporting I imagine
the students here have seen has em-
phasized different parts of my _ back-
ground. I was at Tufts seven years and
had a real good record over those seven
years. We had more wins in those seven
years than in any other seven years in
Tufts’ history. I’m used to a much bigger
school than this; Tufts is a school of about
4,000 and also has a lot of graduate pro-
grams and so I’m used to a bigger bureau-
cracy. But obviously football is bigger
here; so there’s a real contrast and an in-
teresting contrast I think, going from one
of the bigger Division III schools in the
country to the smallest I-AA football
team in the country. That's a plus be-
cause in dealing with faculty, students,
and alumni in the course of my job, I’m
used to frankly a much bigger setting and
more people and a lot more bureaucratic
problems. Here a sense of community is
much more apparent.

At Tufts we did well and we did well
throwing the football. Before that |
coached at Bates College for five years
and before that I played at Yale. That’s
basically my background, basically New
England oriented; but I’m looking for-
ward to this change of setting.

Barron: What have you done so far in the
short time you’ ve been head coach?

Gatto: I’ ve done a number of things to try
and get our program moving. One, and
the most important, was to talk to every
player. I still have more to see; but I have
each one of the players in for a half hour
to try to let them get to know me a little
better, get their observations and give
them a chance to talk at me and give their
ideas on what direction the program
should take. That’s been very produc-
tive. We don’t have the numbers I’m
used to; I’m used to having a squad size
of about 90 to 95. I hope with some good
recruiting in the next couple years we can

Davidson football program.

get ourselves a little bit larger size. I’m
not sure we want to have that big a squad
here at Davidson but I'd like to be around
60. Next year we’re looking at 45 to SO
which makes it a little bit tough.

I’m in the process of hiring a staff.
There are tons of applicants. I’m going to
keep three staff members. Jim Sypult,
who has done a great job on defense, is
going to stay. Bob Guarini is the wrestl-
ing coach and has another year left on his
contract. In addition, I really like him and
he’s going to be working with the of-
fense. Gerald Carr, I don’t know what his
assignment will be, either quarterbacks
or defensive backs, will return. He’s a
local guy and I feel he has had a positive
effect on the team. I’m keeping those
three guys and will hire two more full
time people.

Barron: What can the fans expect to see
on the field offensively?

Gatto: We’re going to throw the football
in the neighborhood of 40 to 45 times a
game. I think it’s the answer for us in
terms of getting ourselves some success
early. One answer is to recruit and get
good players. As we start down that road
we don’t want to let everything go until
we get good players with which we can
compete. We’ re going to use a lot of mul-
tiple formations and shifting and motion
and trying to get the ball moving through
the air. Teams are doing that a lot nation-
ally, though not in the Southern Confer-
ence. It will be similar to what people
have seen on television.

Barron: Do you think it will be difficult
to recruit players to Davidson?

Gatto: Not at all. It may be hard getting
some of the players admitted to David-
son, but getting players interested in

: # 4
. sks
# %

New head football Coach Vic Gatto talks about his hopes for the

Davidson won’t be any problem. The
academic standards are ever on the rise;
the SAT levels have gone up again in this
year’s freshman class. That makes for
more of a challenge for football. Not hav-
ing scholarships and being in the South-
ern Conference puts us behind our rivals.
Barron: What is your view of Davidson,
not athletically, but the students, faculty,
etc., in the short time you’ ve been here?
Gatto: I like the sense of community at
Davidson. I’ve béen hete four times and!
the feeling of community really jumps
out at you. It’s a good thing, something I
think you miss in a city school. I enjoyed
it at Bates and I’m looking forward to it
here at Davidson. Knowing a good
number of the faculty and the student
body will be nice for me. We’re trying to
make the community feel that the football
team represents them in the sense that
football players are Davidson students
and are committed to being good students
and good athletes; they’re not tremend-
ously different from other students ex-
cept for having a different extracurricular
activity. Obviously they have a real
group loyalty and a commitment to their
extracurricular activity as other people
have to their’s. There’s a real good feel-
ing about the program and it’s my goal to
get that feeling across to the students,
faculty and team.

Barron: What are your short and long

term goals for Davidson football?
Gatto: The short term goals, depending

on how short you mean, are to hire a good
staff and have a strong spring practice.
That’s really all I’m looking at right now.
From a long range point of view, I don’t
think the College has made a definitive
plan for where it wants to be in terms of

Gatto To Tackle Wildcat Football

Peggy Pierotti

Program

its football schedule. Thus, it’s hard to
speculate about what my long range plans
would be. Clearly, from a recruiting
standpoint and from a play standpoint we
want to get ourselves competitive in the
Southern Conference as quickly as possi-
ble. If that changes, and who knows what
is going to happen, then we can adjust.
But right now our goal over the next two
years is to recruit two good classes and
get competitive in the Southern Confer-
ence so that we can go into games feeling
that we’ve got a solid chance to compete:
Barron: Do you have preference in re-
gard to the many long term options
Davidson is considering?

Gatto: I have preference to stay in the
Southern Conference because | think it’s
a great league and if we could compete,
and made a commitment to compete, that
would be great. It’s geographically con-
venient for us, has a lot of traditional ri-
vals; I like that idea. It doesn’t seem that
we want to go that route. We want to get
into a league where the schools match up
a little better in their philosophy toward
athletics. In that light, the Colonial
League is a good option. There’s no
sense that the Colonial League is a defi-
nite thing. I’m a Southern Conference
coach and that’s what I’m thinking about.
I don’t think the Division III option is a
viable option for Davidson College given
its tradition. I think we should make
every effort to succeed at Division I-AA
and be a model I-AA school.

Barron: At the press conference where
Kit Morris introduced you, he spoke of

» . David vs. Goliath inireference to David-

son. What are your feelings about being a
David?

Gatto: We are from a_ pure size
standpoint and always will be since we’ re
the smallest I-AA team. But really it’s
deceptive since if we get a good quarter-
back with our attack all of a sudden we’ re
not going to look so Davidesque. I really
believe we can get beyond that notion.
Right now we can take tha underdog
mentality and make it work for us. But I
don’t want to stay there forever. I think
with some good recruiting classes we
don’t have to stay there.

Barron: What difference is Vic Gatto
going to make in Davidson football?
Gatto: Without the history that you are
familiar with that’s not an easy question
for me to answer. What I’m picking up as
I talk to players is that I want to reinject a
sense of fun for the’players into football.
When they walk off the field, especially
for this year’s coming seniors, I want
them to feel that it has been a great ex-
perience. Obviously we want to win
some games, too; but regardless of that, I
want the seniors to walk off and say we
had one geat year of football here and we
really feel positive about that. That’s my
goal for this year.

Womens Tennis Continues To Prepare For NCAA Playoffs

By PATRICIA HAHN

The Davidson women’s tennis
team has played its last full week
of matches. April 8 they defeated
Presbyterian College 5-4, a re-
venge match since the Lady Cats
lost 6-3 last year. Two days later
Davidson beat Pfeiffer College 7-
2.

The following match, on April
11, “was our best performance
against Appalachian State Univer-

Tricia Ives. Playing in Boone, the
Davidson women soundly de-
feated ASU 8-1..

This past Tuesday Guilford
College beat Davidson 7-2. The
Davidson vs. Guilford match was
plagued by bad weather which
forced many of the players to
move from outdoors to indoors
r. id-match. Also remarkable was
the marathon match at number one
singles. Coach Caroline Brown

reports that the match could have

gone either way. Unfortunately
Wildcat freshman Amy McNelis
battled three and a half hours to
lose 7-5, 7-6.

The Lady Cats are now wind-
ing down the season. The team
traveled to Rock Hill, SC to play
Winthrop College last Wednes-
day. They-now have a two-week
break before playing their last
match of the season against Peace
Junior College at Davidson on
April 30 at 2 p.m.

Although the team has yet to
receive an Official bid to the
NCAA Division III Nationals, the
defending champions are more
than likely to receive such a bid.
The team is ranked number one in
the most recently published
NCAA Divison III standing.
Also, their record stands at an im-
pressive 16-4. Upon receipt of the
invitation to nationals the follow-
ing players will prepare to fly to

Haverford, PA and participate in

the national competition: number
one junior Caroline Barclay,
lumber two McNelis, number
three junior Lolly Johnson,
number four sophomore Debbie
Podolin, number five Ives, and
number six sophomore Libby.
Sanders. Until then, the women’s
tennis tearn remains on the courts
practicing, practicing, practicing.
