10 Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager

Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor .
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Ross Holt, Editor

Watch Raises Questions

The Davidson Student Watch has already swung into action. Each
night, two students will patrol various parts of the campus in an attempt
to deter evildoers and protect the Unaccompanied.

Though superficially a good idea, the Student Watch concept raises
some serious questions, and, more importantly, begs others. The ques-
tions it raises concern the obligations of the watchers to the student body;
the questions it begs concern why the community needs students to deter
crime and make it safe when the College pays a security force to do the
same things.

Though the concept for the Watchers is fairly concrete, and the
RAPE committee has clearly promulgated instructions to the watchers,
no code, so far as we know, governs the technical aspects of the watch-
ers’ interaction with students.

| No watcher can patrol alone, those on duty must wear reflective
armbands, and a detailed log will be kept at Student Watch headquarters.

What happens, however, when the Student Watch volunteers come
upon for instance, a student walking alone? Will they suggest that the
student not walk alone? Will they warn the student not to walk alone?
Will they offer an escort? Will each watcher follow the same procedures
in most cases, or will the course of action be for the individual teams pat-
rolling to decide? Will they offer the same service to both men and
women or just to women?

If the program is to succeed, procedure will need to be codified and
the student volunteers well versed in that procedure.

But the initiation of the watch program begs the larger question of
why a student watch is necessary at all. The College pays, no doubt with
money from students’ tuitions, a security force for the campus. Given the
right resources, and more importantly the right orders, campus security
could achieve the Student Watch’s purpose with a much higher profile.

We have suggested before that the administration consider hiring
another officer, and that it rework security shifts so that two officers
would always be on duty. To this we now add a request that each shift in-
clude an officer on foot patrol as well as one in the Cushman.

It is not the College’s option to offer students adequate security; it is
the College’s duty. When it does not, it betrays its students. The Student
Watch is a good idea as far as it goes, but it goes to fill a need students
ought not need to fill themselves.

—— Correction

On page one of last week’s issue, we printed a photograph of Dwayne E. Wright
with a story written by Dwayne D. Wright. The pictures were mixed up in the
football brochure published by the College, which was our source. We are sorry
for any inconvenience this mix-up may have caused.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions arti-
cles do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $12 per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor; Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich, Chris Fisher,
Roxanna Guilford, Tom Schilling, Chandon Sinlia, Lee White, Allison Wills, Wilson, Chris
Hughes, Jill Boyette

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen Mank, Ann Meador,
Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams

Sports Staff: Andy Barron, Assistant Sports Editor, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley

Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, assistant photography editor, Brad Brechtelsbauer, Jil!
Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Kevin Horan, Warriner Inge, Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von Stein

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanncke Brentjens, Todd Wiebusch, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Brooke Knight, Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Anne Lambert, Lisa Lano,
Martha Yeide,

Cys SAUNA —

thins LASSI

Letters

R.A. s

To the Editors:

Behind the memo board with the
single cryptic message, “Everything in
the dorm is broken — fix it!”, beyond
numerous requests to fetch light bulbs
and give out the pass key (again?), be-
tween the orderly policy of the adminis-
tration and the somewhat chaotic life of
the student, beneath many bemusing job
descriptions — there dwells a Resident
Advisor.

Several years ago Dr. Bill Bolding
(alias Bob Building) began a Resident
Advisor program on the behalf of David-
son students. This program has evolved
into a lively force on campus which in-
volves active students and concerned ad-
ministrators.

Far from being only bedraggled little
creatures who constantly chase after lost
pass keys, the Resident Advisors of
today belong to a strong program which
seeks first of all to benefit the student
body. Residents Advisors counsel stu-
dents and refer them to many resources
on campus. They also are responsible for
the general maintenance of the dorm,
(the highlight of the R.A. experience!).
Furthermore, they plan and implement
many social activities for the dorms such
as Clothes Swapping parties, Super
Bowl Pizza Bashes, and doughnuts for
the testing times.

The second aspect of the Resident
Advisor program involves the develop-
ment of the R.A. group as a support and
resource for its members. Training in-
cludes challegging and exciting retreats
at the end of each school year and the
week before school starts. During these
times Resident Advisors learn about
problems which the
dorms and develop skills for dealing with
them. They also build support for each
other in group activities. The group be-
comes close as they meet trials such as
cooking in the rain or trying to sleep
twelve people in the College van (to learn
more about this enthralling enigma, ask

will face in the

any R.A.).

During the year Resident Advisors
continue their training in weekly meet-
ings which they present for each other.
They further develop their skills in work-
ing with problems related to rape, room-
mate concerns, academic problems, etc.
Other programs are self-help oriented.
Topics here include investment ideas,
tax help, mediation, and even ice cream
tasting.

The third and possibly most far
reaching aspect of the Resident Advisor
program seeks to nurture personal
growth. Each R. A works with a mentor
from the administration to set career,
physical, and personal goals. The men-
tors support and challenge students as
they work towards these goals. Benefits
gained from these efforts enable the R.
A.s to become stronger individuals and
better resources for those around them.

Finally, at this point you are asking,
“How can I, a Davidson sophomore or
junior, take advantage of this unique, ex-
citing program?” Well, we’re going to
tell you. Applications are now available
in the Housing Office, that bastion of
chaos located in the center of First Belk.
They are due by the end of this term. In-
terviews will be held the beginning of
Spring Term.

After two years in this program, we
highly recommend becoming part of a
unique team at Davidson. It has made our
experience here much more meaningful.

Sarah Speed & Greg Murphy
Resident Advisors

Tickets

To the Editors:

I want the campus cops to get off the
students’ backs with these $10 parking
tickets! Very often the only open spots
are in some forsaken back lot whose only
purpose should be to store old relics.
These days people are using their cars to
get around campus and not just to get to
and from campus. The police need to
