Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

9

OPINIONS

Davidson Makes Sexism Institutional

Anne Lambert

The first time it happened, it was by accident. I
hadn’t meant to change my life that day, but in less
than 45 minutes that hot Tuesday afternoon in the
middle of last summer, I became a different person
— I understood what it means to be a woman. What
happened to me that day could happen to you. You,
too, could find yourself in a Washington, D.C.,
bookstore during your lunch hour engrossed in
Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions. And it
could just change your life.

It’s a book, by the way, written by Gloria
Steinem. That summer I had heard about it from
housemates in-the-know who raved enthusiastically
about Steinem’s new book (her first book, actually),
a compilation of the author’s best essays and
articles, many published in the last twenty years in
Ms. and other prominent magazines. The
paperback, its purple cover adorned with a smiling
picture of the author, is hard to miss in the
bookstore window. That day I picked it up merely
out of curiosity; at the time I knew little about
Gloria Steinem. I had an image of her, as many of
us do, as a man-hating and embittered radical.

But the words I read that day in the bookstore
were neither bitter nor hateful. They were clever
and compassionate, full of courage and optimism.
Steinem writes in her introduction, “I hope that you
will find a rescuing moment or fact or idea within
the pages of this book.”’ And, indeed, the words that
I read that day in that Washington bookstore were
for me a very personal revelation. They literally
changed my life.-That day in the middle of the isle
of that Washington bookstore I discovered that I
was a feminist.

In her book Outrageous Acts and Everyday
Rebellions, Steinem articulates with clarity and
compassion ideas and feelings that I, that many
women have often thought about or felt. From the

wonderfully witty essay “I Was A Playboy Bunny”, .

which launched her career, to the fascinating
sociological examination of “Men and Women
Talking”; from the celebration of shared bonds in
“Sisterhood” to the painful and abhorrent
revelations concerning “The International Crisis of
Genital Mutilation,” I can say with absolute
certainty that all Davidson women and most
Davidson men will find within Steinem’s book if
not a rescuing moment, fact or idea, certainly a
compelling one.

But this is not a book review, nor is it a
testimonial — it is a case for the necessity of
education at Davidson College. This college — its
students, faculty, administration, and Trustees —
has a responsibility to educate itself in the issues
(=

This sexist ideology... can
also be heard from. . . the ad-
ministrators and trustees
who . . . continue to oppose the
unrestricted admission of women
to the school.

(==
which in our history we have chosen to ignore,
specifically women’s concerns and the women’s
movement. Until that day in Washington when I
picked up Steinem’s book, I was ignorant of the
implications of the women’s movement. Melissa
Jones discussed in the Jan. 11 issue of The
Davidsonian that “Davidson Students Ignore
Women’s Concerns.” Her stipulation is valid. The
Davidson educational process is deficient, not
regarding intellectual pursuits but rather concerning
our ideology as an institution.

As excellent as our Davidson education is, the

Davidson experience continues to perpetuate an
ideology based on male superiority and double
standards, and frought with discrimination,
degradation, and subjugation. Davidson graduates
men and women who are intelligent, self-confident
and socially concerned and yet distressingly
ignorant regarding women and their role in society.
This ignorance is an institutionalized problem: “A
Davidson man needs no introduction.” What are we
educated in but what we are taught?

During my first term as a freshman at Davidson,
I went to my professor’s office in order to discuss a
paper. I was very upset because I felt that the grade
should have been higher, and I told him so. In the
middle of the conversation he dismissed me by
telling very bluntly that although in high school I
had been able to get good grades because I was
pretty and I was a woman, college was not like that
and my crying would have no effect. I was so
dumbfounded I cried even harder. And not
recognizing sexism for what it was, I left.

Discrimination against women at Davidson
manifests itself in many much more subtle ways.
How many women have posed a point in discussion
or in conversation and been passed over only to
have a male repeat the same point five minutes later
to agreement and praise? How many women have
been patronized by professors in class, or slandered
by male students in fraternity houses? How many
women have participated in a college sport that had
insufficient economic and institutional support?
How many women have been in need of the
resources that would be provided by a sexual
counselling network or a gynecological clinic on
this campus? How many women have been raped in
their own beds by men they knew and trusted and
then had the administration decline to take any
official action? All of these incidents are examples
of sexual discrimination.

During my recent campaign for office, | was
humiliated to discover one of my own posters
advertising the election scrawled with obscene
drawings and grafitti and taped to a door in Belk. I
did not know the Davidson gentlemen responsible
for the art and I acknowledged later that what was to
me very personal and distressing was to them an
unconscious expression of an inherent sexist
mentality, a mentality which has been
institutionalized at Davidson.

This sexist ideology which voices itself on a
very crude level can also be heard from respected
and educated minds, the administrators and trustees
who, even after more than ten years of
desegregation continue to oppose the unrestricted
admission of women to the school.

Recently history Professor emeritus Chalmers
Davidson, a member of the Class of '28, wrote an
article which was published in the Charlotte News.
Dr. Davidson chronicled the changes that had taken
place at Davidson during the last 60 years that he
felt were most significant. “Perhaps the most
sensational [change],” he wrote, “(and it tingles all
the senses) has been the admission of females
seeking degrees. . . . It began slowly, like many
devious disasters, with a period of trail ‘ex changes’
with women’s colleges. The experiment worked so
well, in the opinion of those already determined to
make the change, that in the fall of 1971, the first
female degree candidate was enrolled.”

As much respect and appreciation as I have for
Davidson College, for its heritage, and for the men
who upheld its standards of excellence throughout
its history, I do not take kindly to being called what
Dr. Davidson begrudgingly deems later in his article
as a “necessary evil.”

Many of us, without being aware of it, are being
subjected to and influenced by the sexist ideology
which Davidson subliminally maintains, the
mentality that women are fundamentally less worthy
and less capable than men. It had been the
contention of our society (and subsequently this
College) throughout history that while men are
valued not only for what they do but also for what

they are, women, because we have no inherent
worth, must have value impressed upon us by
external forces either by our achievements or by our
association with a man. This social mentality is
founded in traditional mores but is perpetuated by
ignorance. It is this ignorance that society, that
Davidson must educate itself against, allowing
women to realize their individual internal worth and
recognizing that people are human beings first, and

Many of us, without being aware
of it, are being subjected to and
influenced by the sexist ideology
which Davidson — subliminally
maintains.

men and women second.

Because Davidson is such a small college,
because its sexist ideology is so innate as to be often
imperceptible, and because of the unique
conservative nature of the student body, women’s
concerns are easily ignored and often not even
recognized. Yet they exist; their validity must be
acknowledged and answered. Our goal at Davidson
College is education, not only of the intellectual but
also of the social conscience.

Davidson College, particularly its students but
primarily its women, needs to educate itself to the
special concerns of women on this campus — the
issues currenlty being addressed by the RAPE
Committee, the addition of more academic courses
aimed at women’s studies (feminist literature,
theology and women, etc.), the secondary nature of
female sports at Davidson, and the social,
psychological, and sexual concerns of women on
this campus (eating disorders, contraception, abor-
tion).

The best way to educate ourselves to the specific
concerns of Davidson women is to find out more
about the role of women in today's society, the
women's movement and feminism. Gloria
Steinem’s essay “Sisterhood” in Outrageous Acts
and Everyday Rebellions, one woman's
compassionate redefinition of a personal ideology,
is a good place to start; the book sits on my shelf
waiting for someone to borrow it. Or the Student
Store will order it for you if you ask. There is also a
copy in the school library, as well as an entire shelf
of books and literature on women's studies on the
second floor.

This week many of us attended speakers,
performers, discussions and films sponsored during
Women’s Week by the Davidson Women's Conerns
Committee. The Women’s Concerns Committee
bulletin board outside the Alumni office in
Chambers features national and campus news and
information regarding the women's movement and
women involved in change. Next year political
science Professor Mary Thornberry plans to teach a
course in Feminist Philosophy. Any and all of these
resources will provide an opportunity for students to
raise their awareness, to educate themselves in
women’s issues and in the course of Davidson
women.

As a student I believe that as an institution of
higher learning, Davidson is without rival in the
South. The love and appreciation I have for this
place is as fierce and as loyal as that of any student,
any administrator, any alumni. But with Robert
Kennedy-esque optimism I will not look at things
and say “Why?” but instead, I imagine things that
have never been and say “Why not?” Why not
educate ourselves completely, supplementing our
intellectual knowledge with a compassionate social
awareness that will enable us to put our knowledge
into action for social change? Why not liberate our
liberal arts education? Why not Davidson?

Lambert is a junior English major from Atlanta, Ga

