Friday, January 25, 1985/The Davidsonian 3

Professors And Trustee Respond To Apartheid

By TED WILSON

Through petitions and campus
forums, four professors and one Trustee
have sought to inspire reaction against
apartheid in South Africa and America’s
policy toward the South African govern-
ment. Thelma Adair, a Davidson Trustee
and a member of the United Presbyterian
Church USA, related her feelings about
South Africa at the Open Luncheon
Wednesday. Last night, political science
Professor Harris Proctor, economics
Professor Clark Ross, Ambassador
Lafayette Diggs, and French Professor
Lauren Yoder addressed the history,
economics, politics, and moral issues of
apartheid.

Proctor explained the rigid class sys-
tem in South Africa, by which “everyone
is classified by race.” Seventeen percent
of the population is white; coloreds
(mixed-blooded people) comprise nine
and one-half percent; Africans make up
70 percent, with the rest of the popula-
tion consisting of Asians, who are des-
cendents of India. Proctor said the rigid
system “determines every aspect one’s
life. No black is a citizen; [they] can’t run
for office or vote.”

He added “the blacks, 70 percent of
the population, live in 13 percent of the
land [area] of South Africa. The land is
the “poorest, driest land of the country
[where there is] no industry, and little ur-
banization.”

Proctor said there are 10 Bantustans
for principle tribes to live on which “in
theory are to become independent.” He
added, four have supposedly gained in-
dependence but “no state in the world,
except for South Africa has recognized
their independence.”

-“Sixty percent of the blacks live in
urban areas, in segregated dormitories
distant from factories.”” Many blacks,
living away from their homeland, seek
employment from whites in the urban
areas. But, to live there, a black “must
have a job and carry a pass to indicate
employment. If he has no job, he can’t
remain there.” Hence, the blacks are
only “temporarily employed,” as the loss
of a job means a voyage back to the rural
homeland.

There is “rigid segregation when
blacks and whites are together. Africans
are confined to grim homelands,” and in-
ferior economic and social positions,
Proctor said. For those who challenge the
system, there is a ‘‘repressive legislature”
and measures are taken such as imprison-
ment, exile, and death.

Historically, the United States’ pol-
icy toward apartheid in South Africa has
been “extremely cautious, and ambiva-
lent, according to Proctor. “There is a
gap between rhetoric and reality. [There
have been] expressions of abhorence for
apartheid” resulting in “little more than
wishful thinking.”

President Reagan, Proctor said, has

treated the South African government
softly. He supports “constructive en-
gagement and gentle diplomacy,” ac-
cording to Proctor. During Reagan’s ad-
ministration, the United States has sus-
tained a resolution condemning apar-
theid. Since the recent election, there has
been “growing pressure from a variety of
people.” Congressmen voicing their pro-
tests outside the South African embassy
in Washington is one example of people
“urging the President to speak out more”
against the South African government,
Proctor said.

Ross spoke about the economic as-
pect of American-South African rela-
tions. He began, “No reasonable person
can come to the defense of apartheid in
South Africa,” agreeing with Proctor that
“this is the time for change in U. S. pol-
icy.” He added, “reasonable people can
disagree on what would be the best U. S.
policy change in respect to apartheid.”

He said the economic policy becomes
complicated “because blacks cannot be
insulated from economic changes in
South Africa whether the changes are for
the better or worse,” because the blacks
comprise 70 percent of the population.

Ross said — in contrast to the United
States where blacks were granted civil
rights but have lagged behind whites
economically — in South Africa, “civil
liberties are not [granted] because that
threatens the whites’ position.”

Blacks, Ross said, are needed
economically in South Africa. “If you
deny economic rights to blacks, who do
you sell to?”

“From a purely economic prospec-
tive, there are problems with disinvest-
ment and trade embargos.” He said disin-
vestment will reduce the rate of
economic growth, and it is difficult to de-
termine what to do with a large corpora-
tion’s plant if it is abandoned by the
American owner.

Cutting off trade also has complica-
tions, Ross said. “Trade is intended to be
mutually beneficial for both countries”
because it allows people to “buy goods
cheaper than you can produce them.”
Trade restrictions would prevent the Af-
ricans from benefitting from the lowest
price.

Ross also said embargos could hurt
neighboring countries as South Africa “is
a major exporter of food” and “a conduit
of trade from outside countries.”

Judging from the situation, Ross
said, the only way to succeed is to take
positive steps “to show that all South Af-
ricans have an economical interest in
moving away from apartheid.” He said
some white businessmen oppose apar-
theid because it’s ‘“‘bad for business and
blacks are a big economical force.”

Ross suggested several ways Ameri-
ca could make better use of its economic
involvement in South Africa. He said the
U.S. could: pass legislation requiring

Thelma Adair

firms investing in South Africa to follow
proper conduct and take positive steps to
argue for political changes and the de-
velopment of black trade unions, “the
most serious threat to apartheid,” insist
that Americans invest in education and
hospitals, and monitor __ firms in South
Africa to ensure they are operating fairly.

Next, Ambassador Lafayette Diggs
spoke on the political aspect of apar-
theid. he said the African states “have all
been colonized and exploited. The emo-
tional response of South Africans is not
understood by Europeans and Americans
because they haven't had that experi-
ence.”

Diggs said “racial discrimination is
written into the consitution, which shows
the inequality of the South African re-
gime,” and the government has “violated
principles of justice.”

Diggs said the Africans “look to the
U. S. because the U. S. created a demo-
cratic political system’ and economic
system, as we abolished slavery which
was a result of colonization.

The problem, he said, is very compli-
cated and doesn’t lend itself to easy solu-
tions. He said “the African formula is to
give the impression of change without
change.” He said, as an alternative to
violence, the West must get involved “to
raise and uplift the blacks” to better con-
ditions.

Yoder, reading poetry and relating
anecdotes about his own experiences in
Africa, presented the emotional aspect of
apartheid . “Apartheid degrades
South Africans (and to some extent
Asians and Coloreds).”” The work passes
require families to be separated. “A fam-
ily may see the breadwinner one month
out of a year.”

Yoder related a talk he had with a
South African named Steve. Yoder said
he was a strong opponent of violence, at
which time Steve told him about workers
who had been flogged for not having
work passes, and police dragging off the
editor of a small local paper. Steve's re-
sponse to the violence was “I must fight.

I don’t want the 12-year-olds to live in
fear forever.”

Yoder said “Many Africans are no
longer claiming the United States as a
democratic leader,” because of their pol-
icy on apartheid and dealings with South
Africa.

He said changes were occurring in
two areas: sports are now partially inte-
grated, and black trade unions have been
allowed since 1979, though some leaders
are still being imprisoned.”

Yoder said “pressures could be
beared, short of disinvestment.” He
Suggested that movements in Congress
could be made to decide upon economic
sanctions, cultural exchanges between
the Western world and Africa, and man-
dating the Sullivan principles. Yoder en-
couraged everyone to sign the petitions
condemning apartheid circulating
around campus, adding, ‘Perhaps Amer-
ican policy might change” with pressure
from citizens.

Thelma Adair, spoke Wednesday at
the Open Luncheon on her experiences
with and feelings about South Africa.
“I'm not going to offer solutions to pass
out to the government of South Africa,
but I'm going to give my own response
through Africa as a continent [about] my
own feelings toward South Africa” in re-
lation to the Presbyterian Church, USA,
she said. .

She said Africa is “continually
hau.ted by the phenomenon of weather
and n. ‘ure and is facing perhaps the loss
of one fourth of its population because of
droughts, lack of markets, governemnts
that have toppled,” and technology that
has cursed instead of blessed the coun:
tries.

She said the rules are so strictly en-
forced and the conditions so bad, “death
at times seemed better” for those who are
not members of the white population.

Adair said the blacks in South Africa
suffer from “low wages, separation, and
being denied opportunities for jobs and
advancements.” They are denied the
equality of life and there is hostility in
elementary schools where people “pro-
test the crushing of the human spirit.”

Adair has worked wtih the United
Presbyterian Church, USA, which sup-
ports the South African Reform Pre-
sbyterian Church, The Evangelical Pre-
sbyterian Church and the Presbyterian
Church of Africa. She said there is a need
to “develop educational opportunities,”
and to train lay people and clergy.

Through community organizations,
they need to bear witness to and deal with
“thousands [who are] in prison, home-
less, suffering from malnutrition” and
who are living in a world of uncertainty.

Adair said there was constant civil
disobedience by those fighting for rights.
“The people are not silent; they are wik
ling to take the results of speaking out,”
she said.

Athletic Dept. Looks For Head Football Coach

By DAVID VAN PELT

The Athletic Department will name a
new head football coach March | at the
earliest, according to athletic director Kit
Morris.

“We have an obligation to be as
thorough as possible,” Morris said. “We
want to proceed in a way which demon-
strates our awareness of the importance
“ of the job.” He said a target date of
March | “may be unrealistic.”

According to Morris, the Athletic de-
partment has advertised the position

nationwide in NCAA News and has re-
ceived applicants “from coast to coast.”
Davidson is seeking a head football
coach to replace Ed Farrell, who earlier
this month did not choose to renew his
contract. Morris would not estimate the
number of applications the College has
received, but said “they come in the
morning and evening mail every day.”
Morris said he will stop taking appli-
cations Feb. 7 and will then begin screen-
ing applicants. He will narrow the field
to approximately six or eight applicants,
he said, and invite them here for personal

interviews.

Though Morris will make the final
decision concerning the new coach, he
said he plans to enlist Davidson students,
faculty, and staff to observe interviews
with the candidates and advise him on the
decision.

“I will consult with people at David-
son, with our alumni, and certainly our
President,” Morris said.

According to Morris, “We're looking
for someone with integrity, character, an
imaginative approach to football and
someone with the leadership and organi-

zation skills needed to head up our pro-
gram.” He added that the College seeks
applicants “able to embrace with its val-
ues and philosophy.” Morris said he is
also seeking a candidate able to handle a
football program whose course is largely
uncertain beyond the 1985 season.

Though Davidson will compete in the
Division I Southern Conference with
three games against Southern Confer-
ence opponents and three more. to be
counted on their conference record, Mor-
ris said the schedule is not decided
beyond next season.
