10 Friday, February 8, 1985/The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

David McGee, Executive Editor

Kevin Horan, Business Manager
John Gathings, Production Manager

Lisa Thomas, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Steve Byers, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor Will Thomason, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Circulation Manager

Council Procedure

Last fall, as a result of an open Honor Council hearing, many at
Davidson felt that the Council’s procedure needed revision. It is now
four months hence, and precious little has happened regarding these
changes. The Student Conduct Council (SCC), the body that sets proce-
dure for the Council, has not even discussed these changes yet.

Solicitors, defense advisors, and other Council members were sup-
posed to meet on the Tuesday following the open hearing. Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry was planning to submit student suggestions to the SCC
and the Honor Council. Somehow, these initiatives for change faded
away after the hearing.

Council members, however, are now supposedly formulating rec-
ommendations for change on several issues, but apparently due to the
politics of the situation, they will not discuss these changes on the re-
cord.

The Council must not avoid change by retreating behind its wall of
secrecy. Do Council members and the SCC have the courage to reflect on
and evaluate the way trials are carried out, or will it take another open
hearing to bring these issues to the front burner?

We urge Council members and the SCC to weigh the following sug-
gestions for change in a spirit of constructive criticism.

Truly, our honor system is unique and worthwhile; its procedure,
though, is due for revision.

The amount of time allowed between complaints of an honor viola-
tion and the actual trial needs condensing. A maximum period of 30 days

should be allowed without exception to complete a trial after a complaint
of a violation. Presently, 10 days are permitted for the solicitors to issue a
charge against a student after a complaint, but the Dean may extend this
period over school breaks or vacations, if necessary. The open trial last
fall occurred four months after a complaint of a violation was made. In
all fairness, the accused deserves a prompt trial.

The SCC also needs to define more precisely the guidelines for hear-
say evidence (the presentation in a trial of what someone else has said as
evidence). Hearsay evidence cannot be cross-examined. Ideally, it
should be eliminated altogether, but it may, in a few cases, add signifi-
cant information in a trial. However, there remains great potential for
abuse. It is possible, though not probable, that the solicitors or defense
advisors could base a case solely on hearsay evidence.

Another question involves professor testimony. Why aren’t profes-
sors required to testify before the Honor Council? The Honor Code de-
pends on professors as much as it does on students, who, if called, must
testify before the Council.

A problem that manifested itself during the fall term hearing was in-
experience. The Council retains experienced members, but new sol-
icitors and defense advisors are elected every year. Perhaps if solicitors
and defense advisors served two-year terms, with new ones elected each
year, the Council would benefit by always having experienced solicitors
and defense advisors.

The fall term case also brought to light admittedly minor ir-
regularities, but irregularities nonetheless, in the way the accused was
treated before the hearing. The rights of the accused should always re-
main paramount. An accused student should be allowed to have his or
her defense advisors present whenever he or she is questioned by the
Dean, the solicitors, or Council members..Moreover, when the Council
hears final arguments, the solicitors now speak last; this clearly con-
tradicts presumed innocence of the accused.

Finally, the Council should consider opening the process entirely.
We need not repeat the arguments for an open system here, but they are
strong indeed. Opening up all procedures from now on would ensure the
credibility essential to the strength of the Honor Code.

Certainly, other reforms are on students’ and professors’ minds. We
encourage everyone to voice their concerns to Dean Terry, Council
members, and the SCC.

Davidson can only achieve a more perfect system of justice on cam-
pus if it aspires to one.

Ross Holt, Editor

Letters

Selfishness

To the Editors:

In response to Peggy Pierotti’s edito-
rial in the Feb. | Davidsonian entitled
“House Proposal Is Untimely and Self-
ish,” we would like to disagree.

We are two freshmen, who, as un-
biased observers, have noticed the recent
developments concerning Patterson
Court. We believe that the new all-
women’s eating house idea is indeed
timely. Peggy herself says that “the
popularity of Rusk and Warner Hall is
very great and [they] are now and will
continue to be unable to meet the demand
for spaces.” This is obviously true and
therefore we are unable to understand
why she maintains that the proposal is
“untimely.” ;

Secondly, Peggy contends that the
proposal is also selfish, because the pre-
sent co-ed houses are in need of mem-
bers. She believes that the present situa-
tion is adequate and that the women on
the waiting lists at Rusk and Warner Hall
could join one of the other houses. It is
evident, however, that the women have
little desire to join a co-ed house or to be
placed on waiting lists. Would Peggy
selfishly deprive the women from form-
ing anew women’s eating house in order
to save F & M?

In conclusion, there is definitely a
need for another all-women’s eating
house in order to meet present demands.
Peggy presents no valid argument why
these women should not start their house.
Patterson Court should reflect the change
in atttitudes among the students. If the
trend has swayed from co-ed to single
sex houses, what right does anyone have
to try to stop it?

Rob Sitton
Richard Tankard

Poppycock

To the Editors:

In reference to recent suggestions
that the establishment of a new women’s
eating house is a selfish move because of
utilitarian concepts, I would like to say
poppycock. It has not been demonstrated
that a new women’s eating house would
hurt the whole of the court, so it is not
reasonable to assume that Spencer, as it
will be called, will damage the college
community. The question, more to the
point, is whether or not eighty or so
women should form an eating house,
despite whatever consequences that ac-
tion brings. I applaude them and their
right to establish their own social setting,
and I hope it succeeds.

90 percent of the women in
Richardson voted in favor of creating
their own, unisex eating house. Who,
then, is to tell them they should not fol-
low that which they have determined to
be their desire? I have been flattered by
and accepted invitations to meals and
events at PAX and Emanon, two excel-
lent houses and. the ones perceived. as
threatened by another women’s cating
house. At the risk of sounding cold, isn’t
it true that if these houses do have to
leave the court it is due to the fact that
they don’t offer the situation that people
want? You simply can’t deny people the
right to decide their lifestyle on the
grounds that, for some unknown reason,
change just shouldn’t exist. I sincerely
hope that PAX and Emanon remain as
strong as they now are; their dissolution
would be a great loss to the campus. But
if they should experience difficulties,

perhaps one can view that as the result of
the evolution of the eating house system
instead of selfishness and ruthlessness on
the part of many women who desire
single-sex eating arrangements but face
the prospect of not getting into over-
crowded houses.

Wishing to avoid the loneliness of
waiting lists, meals in the commons and
separation from friends is very under-
standable and is, in no sense, selfish. As
it was once said, by Sir Francis Bacon, I
believe, the only immutable thing is
change.

Sayres S. Rudy

Thanks

To the Editors:

The Un-Fellowship would like to
thank everyone who contributed to our
recent fund-raising project. Half the pro-
ceeds from the doughnut sale have
helped to buy a heater and a supply of
kerosene for a family in Statesville. Spe-
cial thanks go to APO, which donated
$100. The Charlotte Area Fund provided
a roll of carpet as well. The recipient of
the heater writes:

Greetings in the name of Jesus.

Thank you very much for the heater

and carpet. I really appreciated ev-

erything you did to raise the money to

purchase the heater. I have been very

warm this week. Thank you so much

and may God richly bless you for
being such a blessing to me.

Sincerely

Geraldine Wagner

Thanks for your support!
The Un-Fellowship

Answers

To the Editors:

Because my criticism of the Raised
Awareness and Protection for Everyone
(RAPE) Committee (The Davidsonian,
Jan. 25) went unheard, I am again forced
to ask the RAPE Committee to educate
Davidson students, not scare them. In
my initial letter | made the claim that at
least 95 percent of all rapes on our cam-
pus are “date” rapes. Melissa McLemore
in her response (Feb. 1) did not challenge
my figure, so I continue to believe it to be
accurate. ,

Melissa, with my figure in mind,
please respond to my next question: Why
do we need the student patrols? I share
the concern of the Davidsonian, which
asked in its Jan. 25 edition, “why a stu-
dent watch is necessary at all. The Col-
lege pays .. . a security force for the
campus.” Apparently our female stu-
dents do not feel threatened when walk-
ing about on our campus: the escort ser-
vice from the library was recently cancel-
led. If the women here do not feel insec-
ure, let me ask again, why do we need the
patrols? I believe the mere existence of
the patrols and the fact that they will ask
girls not to walk alone will only promote
unjust fear among Davidson. women.

I was pleased to see that Melissa ag-
rees with me in saying “that attitudes of
the students are the causes” of rapes on
campus. Unfortunately the watches will
not change students’ attitudes in a way
that will be beneficial to our school.

Davidson’s Director of Public Safety
Jakcie Hughes says that he sees “no
need” for the patrols because there has
not been an assault on campus “in a long
time.” Although he will go along with
the RAPE Committee’s desire for the
patrols, he is fearful that “someone (in
