Features

The Bat provides suspense

Forrest Williams and Clara Broniec in-a scane from The Bat.. .

Norton styles: a Davidson tradition

By NELLE McCORKLE

Nortonize— Verb — To cut hair, al-
ways accompanied by friendly conversa-
tion [derivation — Kenneth Watson Nor-
ton, owner of Norton’s Barber Shop,
Davidson, N.C. ]

For forty-three years, Kenneth Norton’s
style of barbering has been part of the
Davidson idiom. Since 1942, Norton has
operated his barber shop; before that year,
Norton’s father and brother ran the shop,
beginning in 1910. About 1927, they
moved the shop to its present location on
Main Street.

Norton (“Most of the students call me
Norton; lots of the townspeople call me
Ken.”) began his barbering career as a
shoeshine boy in his father’s shop. After
graduating from Woods Morgan Barber
College and Carver College, a forerunner of
the University of North Carolina at Char-
lotte, Norton served in the Army at Fort
Bragg in a military police battalion from
1935-55. Possibly as a “throwback to Army
days,” Norton can occasionally be seen rid-
ing to work on a motorcycle, although he
said, “Since purchasing a new truck last
year, I’ve been driving more.” Despite liv-
ing twenty miles away in Rowan County,
Norton also bicycles to work. He admitted,
“My wife calls me her ‘teenaged husband.’

Although known for short, classic cuts,
Norton maintains that he has no preference
as to hair length, but simply cuts “until the
customer tells me to stop.”

As an example he cited mohawks he cut
for members of the Davidson football de-
fensive team before a 1980 Bucknell game:
“_. . I stopped by the M & M to pick up
lunch. Someone told me several people
were waiting for me in the shop. Several
members of the Davidson defensive team
wanted mohawks with their numbers cut in
back.”

Norton said he cut team members’ hair
until they had to leave for practice that after-
noon; he then stayed open late to finish: “I
cut mohawks that night until seven o’clock!

“IT told them they were going to look
awful dadblamed silly if they cut those
mohawks and then went out and got beat.”
Although losing at halftime, the Davidson
team won the game. Norton later learned,
“The captain had told them at halftime, ‘Re-
member what Norton said!’ ”

Other unorthodox haircut requests don’t
faze Norton, unless ‘‘a minor comes in.” He
said, “I told one little boy [who requested an
outlandish cut], ‘You bring your mother
down.’ ”

This concern for his customers extends
to five generations of one Davidson family
whose members’ hair Norton has cut. Dur-
ing the late twenties, Norton’s father cut the
hair of Dean Rusk ’31 when Rusk was a stu-
dent. In the shop, Norton keeps the letter
Rusk sent Norton’s mother on her hus-
band’s death in 1969, saying, “It’s the proof
of a big person who remembers little
people.”

Besides barbering, Norton is an active
Scoutmaster for Boy Scout Troop 373 at
Sandy Ridge A M E Zion Church. A 1978
recipient of the Silver Beaver Award, Nor-
ton’s involvement in Scouting began when
he was a twelve-year-old member of the
troop at Ada Jenkins School, then adminis-
tered by students in the College Y-M-€:A.

Norton’s other activities include water-
color and acrylic painting, charcoal draw-
ing, woodcarving, stained glassmaking and
gardening. Often he combines these pro-
jects, as in a small, vivid watercolor of
irises from his garden. Norton keeps an ac-
rylic portrait of his wife, a teacher at China
Grove Elementary School, in the shop. The
entire back room and front window are de-

voted to Norton’s plants: when com-

Bill Hartman

By BILL BUGG

The Bat — what is it. .
it... WHEREIS IT?

If one is still wondering by the final
close of the curtain, then The Bat, a play by
Mary Roberts Rinehart and Avery Hop-
wood, successfully employs its suspense. If
one is left to doubt the Bat’s identity, he or
she is somehow convinced — and yet comi-
cally unconvinced, in the twists and turn of
the play’s final act — of the Bat’s unex-
pected nature.

The Bat opened Thursday night with the
mystery of a thriller and the comedy of a
cast of eccentric characters, a new and re-
freshing effort for the Davidson Theater
Department. A psychic killer — intelligent,
crafty, mischievous — lurks in the dark cor-
ners of the countryside, dropping forebod-
ing messages, murdering at will, and leav-
ing signs of his ominousness in the form of
the Bat.

An isolated mansion, typical of the
1920s mysteries but comically exagger-
ated, complete with an array of stock char-
acters — crafty dame and ethnic butler,
wealthy banker and screeching maid, guilty
(?) doctor and romantic gardener, and a
beautiful maiden of twenty-five — lies vul-
nerable in a thunderstorm.

A bank folds mysteriously; its assets
disappear, and there is reason to believe the
money may be hidden in the house. A de-
tective is hired; an intruder is murdered, and
the Bat leaves his ~~ sign.

. who is

= i H i
Norton faces a real challenge.
plimented on the /mpatiens in the window,
he insists that his mother cares for that
plant.

Norton’s mother, aged ninety, lives in
Davidson, for years a local seamstress, she
“still sews a little.” Norton’s connections to
Davidson extend to his grandfather, who
farmed land which now is the college
baseball field; Norton himself learned to
plow at age nine.

The Nortons have two children: a son
who is a Navy flight technician stationed in
Bermuda and a daughter who teaches at
Rowan Primary School in Spencer, NC.

Currently operating four barber chairs

_ day,

and comedy

What... who. . . WHERE is the Bat?
He turns up in an unlikely place — too un-
likely a place, but unbelievability is the
play’s greatest asset.

Davidson's production staff amusingly
interprets an old genre of the 1920s Sher-
lock Holmes School in a wonderfully
exaggerated manner. The production crew
built an elaborate 19th century mansion, but
the cast moves about in the dark of the
house with not only candles but also mod-
em flashlights. Motions and words are
taken to extremes; believable actions are
changed into preposterous ones. The thril-
ler of a murder turns into a comparison of
the 20s and the 80s, a comedy of two di-
mer.sions.

Two casts alternate performances over
seven nights. Jennifer Poole and Anne
Lambert alternately play the lead role of
Cormelia. Jackie Daughtry and Mary Hill
take turns playing Lizzie, and the part of
Miss Dale Ogden is filled by Clara Broniec
and Maxine Curry. The rest of the cast in-
cludes Billy Sutton, Forrest Williams, Dan
Michaelis, Lee Eichelburger, Wayne Mag-
ruder, Richard Sheridan, and Michael
Gross. The play is directed by Rupert
Barber and the set is designed by Joseph
Gardner.

Performances will continue tonight.

There will be four more productions Thars-
October 31st through Saturday ,

November 2nd.

alone during the week, Norton rents a chair
to barber Joseph McClain on Saturdays.
“At the highest peak of our business,” Nor-
ton’s father managed four other barbers, in-
cluding Norton.

Norton noted, “Hairstyles seem to be
getting shorter. When I started, people
wore flattops . . . .”” He insisted that he has
no favorite haircut, but described his bar-
bering philosophy, “'I try to please.”

Although women’s haircuts were “one-
fifth of our trade during World War II,”
Norton said, haircuts now include “about
five percent ladies.’ ”
