Friday, October 4, 1985. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Who’s On First ?

College football: the good, the bad and the ugly

By ANDY BARRON

Confusion dominates the world of
college football. The last off season
failed to clear the congested air surround-
ing Brigham Young’s controversial na-
tional championship. No dominant team
has surfaced during this young season, no
favorites for the Heisman Trophy have
broken away from the pack and NCAA
violations seem to have become a brand
of legitimacy to would-be contenders.

Before writing this column, I took a
random poll to see how many people
could name the number one team in col-
lege football. I conducted this rigorous,
scientific poll over a period of about fif-
teen minutes, asking a broad cross-sec-
tion of the people I recognized on my way
to the library. Less than one third of the
people interrogated knew the lowa Haw-
keyes are this week’s king of the college
football mountain.

Iowa has a fine coach in Hayden Fry
and as rabid a bunch of fans anywhere in
the nation. However, I want to know who
would want to play football at [owa?

Apparently some pretty talented
players wanted to go to Iowa City to play
ball because the Hawkeyes have been
POUNDING some teams. Quarterback
Long is currently the nation’s fourth lead-
ing passer and a definite Heisman Trophy
candidate.

As in any young season, any offen-
sive player with greater than marginal tal-

ent is considered a Heisman trophy can-

didate. Though the list has been pared
considerably, a dozen legitimate conten-
ders continue to present their case. Au-
burn running back Bo Jackson leads the
Heisman parade with his 190-plus yards a
game rushing. Brigham Young quarter-
back Robbie Bosco’s air assault on the
nation’s defensive backfields makes him
Jackson’s leading competitor. Though
Jackson and Bosco are not the only legiti-
mate candidates, I would be surprised to
see anyone else succeed Doug Flutie as
the nation’s premier college football
player.

Unfortunately, in today’s world of
college football any program that moves
from the cellar to the top of the rankings
gets questions concerning its integrity.
So many teafns are on probation or about
to go on probation that any team posses-
sing the courage to run xclean program
might win the national championship by
being the only team ELIGIBLE for the
national championship.

The latest scandal concerns “boos-
ters” paying players weekly “allow-
ances” in exchange for the players attend-
ing the “boosters’ ” school. Texas Chris-
tian recently joined Southwestern Con-
ference rivals Southern Methodist, Texas
and Texas A & M on the NCAA's
blacklist. Southern Methodist, the na-
tion’s third-ranked team, recently went
on probation again (SMU has spent ele-
ven of the last fourteen years on proba-
tion!) and the others also appear ready to

sit out the post-season festivities.

TCU should get a pat on the back for
their handling of their recent ethical slip-
up. Coach Jim Wacker, who vowed to
run a program “clean enough to eat off”
when he took the head coaching position
two years ago, revealed the violations
(six players receiving money to play) as
soon as he found out about them. By
cleaning their own house, TCU should
receive a mild penalty, if any, from the
NCAA. SMU should take notice.

The rankings controversy of last year
and the rampant cheating are deeply in-
terwoven. The pressure on coaches to
achieve high rankings make cheating so
tempting. Brigham Young, deemed an
unworthy national champion for playing
a weak schedule, got the national cham-
pionship when their chief competition,
and probably the nation’s real number
one team, Florida, went on probation for
massive rules violations.

As baseball is under siege for its drug
use, college football faces a serious prob-
lem in rampant cheating. The two main
problems, illegal payoffs in recruiting by
fans and tragic academic violations, need
to be addressed quickly. A radical idea to
end “booster” payoffs would be for Con-
gress to make such practices illegal.
Right now, only the players who take
money and the schools these players play
for are punished. Making “booster” pay-
ments illegal would punish the real crimi-
nals. Don’t look for Congress to take this

step soon, however, and expect the
cheating to go on.

The real tragedy in college football is
the hundreds of athletes who fail to re-
ceive an education for any of a dozen pos-
sible reasons. Some athletes shouldn't be
in college, some might do better in school
if the demands associated with playing
major college football, in terms of both
time and pressure, weren't so great and
some are encouraged not to worry about
school and therefore don’t. The point is,
too many “student-athletes” aren't
graduating.

No proposal or rule will make every
football player graduate. What the
NCAA needs to do is establish education
as the most important part of college ath-
letics. Rules that cut the time involved in
playing football or tied scholarships
levels for a school to that school’s
graduation rate of football players
would be good first steps.

College football has plenty of prob-
lems; but the fan shouldn't despair. The
broad base of good teams has made col-
lege football more competitive and more
exciting than ever. Iowa, Oklahoma
State and Air Force are in the top twenty
while former juggernauts such as South-
ern California and Notre Dame are ab-
sent. With more coaches like TCU's

Wacker, there's hope the game will get
cleaned up and that across the nation the
term “student-athlete” wont't be a con-
tridiction.

|-77 at Hwy 73

Field hockey sees progress

By EDWIN PAGE

This week the Davidson
women’s field hockey team man-
aged to get their game back on
track and continue the improve-
ment that has marked most of the
season. Yet once again the Cat’s
have nothing to show for their ef-
forts in the win column.

Against their toughest compe-
tition to date, the Cats fell 6-2 to
High Point on Monday and
dropped a 2-1 nailbiter at Wake
Forest on Wednesday.

Davidson spotted High Point
an unsurmountable 3-0 lead in the
first 10 minutes of the game. All
three goals came on corners. After
the rocky start, the Cats fought
back on goals by freshman Margo
Mims and junior co-captain
Heather McKee, who scored on a

penalty stroke.

High Point added another goal
and the game remained 4-2 until
High Point added two cheapies at
the end of the game to make the
final margin an ugly 6-2, a score
not indicative of the actual close-
ness of the game.

On Wednesday, the Cats went
up against a talented Wake Forest
team and came home with their
finest effort of the season.

In the rain at Wake Forest an
early goal put the Cats in the hole
again 1-0. Later in the half, junior
Margy Oliver, playing what coach
Patty Daley called her best game,
knotted the score at one apiece.

In the second half, the game
stayed in front of the Davidson
goal for most of the 35 minutes,
but the defense, led by McKee,

juniors Pam Harmann and goalie
Nana Lay, stalled the Wake Forest
attack until late in the game when
the Deacons went ahead for good.

Despite the loss the Cats came
home optimistic. According to
Daley, “We put a lot together and
we played outstanding defense.”

The Cats need to build on last
week’s good play because the
schedule doesn’t get any easier for
awhile. On Tuesday at 4:30, the
Cats play Duke at home in only
the second contest at Davidson
this year. Then on Thursday they
travel to play a very talented Rad-
ford team.

These two games mark the
toughest part of the schedule. But
with the kind of play they exhi-
bited at Wake Forest, the Cats
might make things interesting.

Pizza Delivery
892-8686

Cornelius
Lake Norman
892-7805

ge ar
' UNITED *

CAROLINA
S ANK Bo
na b

137 N. Main St.

Davidson
892-7815

