Features

Former college physician closes private practice

By NELLE McCORKLE

College Physician Emeritus Dr. James
B. Woods, Jr. ’18 closed his office last
week after forty-three years of practice in
Davidson.

A general practitioner, Woods served as
College Physician from 1942-69.

Woods grew up in China, where his
father was a medical missionary. After at-
tending boarding school in Shanghai, he
came to America to attend Davidson.

Woods said that his father, a University
of Virginia graduate, chose Davidson for
Woods and his three brothers because he
feared that “straight from China, we might
not be ready for the problems of the Univer-
sity.”

In 1924, he returned to China as a medi-
cal missionary. After six months of inten-
sive language school in Peking, Woods
began a fifteen-year term of duty at a hospi-
tal in Chin Kiang.

Because he was practicing in the years
before antibiotics, Woods was forced to'do
many “opening-up operations and_ hot
soaks,” during his years in China. “I learn-
ed surgery the hard way,” having done only
minor operations before arriving in Chin
Kiang, Woods said.

During his years as a missionary,
Woods attended a tropical diseases course
in London. This course prepared him for a
recent diagnosis of malaria in economics
Professor Clark Ross, who contracted the
disease while in West Africa. Woods recog-
nized the disease when many physicians
limited to domestic experience could not
identify it.

In 1935, Woods married Elizabeth
Blain, who was then teaching French at an

American school in Shanghai. Also the
child of missionaries, Mrs. Woods
graduated from Randolph-Macon

Women’s College, but met her future hus-

band when she was a young girl in China.
Fifty years after their wedding in Hang
Chow, the Woodses celebrated their golden
anniversary here earlier this year.

The Woodses had to leave China in
1937, but they returned in 1938 despite
Japanese occupation, a situation Woods
describes as “difficult but not impossible.”
In 1940, the Woodses “came home on
leave.” Recognizing the imminence of war,
Woods chose not to take his family back
into China the following summer but in
1941 served at a hospital in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia.

He accepted then-President John Cun-
ningham’s offer of Davidson College Phy-
sician in 1942, beginning years of “going
pretty steadily seven days a week.”

Woods’ duties included attending foot-
ball and basketball practice as well as home
games, and caring for ill or injured stu-
dents. In his private practice, Woods deli-
vered babies, maintained office hours, and
made house calls.

Called to serve in the Army in 1943,
Woods joined a military government unit in
the Philippines as its doctor. The Army
needed American doctors who spoke
Chinese, Woods said, but did not call him
earlier because of a rule that not all doctors
in a town be drafted.

Returning to Davidson in 1944, Woods
resumed his College duties and reestab-
lished his private practice. Of those years
and subsequent ones, Woods said, “I was
going pretty steadily seven days a week.
My wife was very patient.”

Of current medical technology and his
insistence on careful diagnoses, Woods
said, “I think all these new ideas for equip-
ment are wonderful. We did have a little x-
ray, only used for fractures. You had to
diagnose by examination, and couldn’t use
tests to confirm diagnoses.” As a long-time

patient and friend, Economics professor
Charles Ratliff maintains, “Some people
have concluded that Dr. Woods can walk
into a sick room and smell a disease.”

During his years of private practice,
Woods has delivered babies, maintained of-
fice hours, and continued to make house
calls. He has even received patients at his
home: granddaughter Elizabeth Dick, a
Davidson sophomore, said, “I remember
stopping Parcheesi games and clearing out
of the den so a patient could come in.”

In forty-three years of practice in
Davidson, Woods said, “Very few times
was I called out of church.” Instead, for “re-
laxation,” he sang in the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church choir, and “figured
anyone could wait until after church if he
needed me.”

Treating patients in the early days of
Medicaid, Woods maintains that “volumin-
ous papers” caused him to decide not to
send bills to Medicaid patients. Woods
said, “I just figured the best thing to do was
forget the whole thing.” He insists, how-
ever, that this arrangement did not arise
from “just complete unselfishness,” but that
it was “partly the simplest financially.”

Of Davidson, Woods said, “Everybody
knows you, and you know everybody else.”
His wife calls the town “a fun place to live.”
Elizabeth Dick spoke of her grandparents’
years of participation in and involvement
with the College and community. Of her
grandfather, she said, “‘He’s always a phy-
sician — not just a nine-to-five person.”

Upon arrival at Davidson in 1942,
Woods appointed an informal five-member
committee to tell him when to retire. Rat-
liff, one member of this committee, once
babysat for the Woods children while a
Davidson student. This week, Ratliff said,
“Dr. Woods is one of the best diagnosti-
cians in the medical profession.” Of the

Peggy Pierotti

Dr. Woods singing.

committee, Woods said, “I told them, ‘y'all
are just going to be the ones that have to tell
me,’ but none of them has told me to retire.”’

Woods received his M.D. from the
Medical College of Virginia in 1922, inter-
ned in Richmond, and served his residency
at Bellevue Hospital in New York City.

International students express differing views

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Fifteen men and women from
nine different countries have
joined the Davidson Community
as international students this year.

Representing cultures as di-
verse as France and the People’s
Republic of China, each of these
students. brings to Davidson a
unique perspective on life in a dif-
ferent part of the world.

By now, each international
student has spent at least a month
in a new academic environment
and has had a chance to compare
and contrast life at Davidson with
life in his or her native land. Some
have expressed surprise that

American lifestyles and culture pipes me

are quite different from what they
had originally expected.

“I came prepared to see a
much more shocking culture,” ob-
served Piyush Mubayi of New
Delhi, India. “I think this place is

ae 45 - >
International students: first row (I-r): Kerstin Malborg, Johanna Erlandson, Maria Car-
men Triguero de Juan, Laure Lichere.
second row: Eric Lam, Deepak Talwar, Uday Lohani, Wen Shan Xie, Sunil Batra.
third row: Piyush Mubayi, Gijsbert Patyn, Sebastian Koch, Thomas Gebauer.

students seem to have experienced
the most significant changes in en-

vironment. According to Uday
Lohani of Kathmandu, Nepal, the
United States 1s “so far away from
home. There is no way of know-
ing what's going on back home.”
Lohani ts amazed about the lack of
international awareness at David-
son. “Many Americans don’t
know their own population or the
name of their own Secretary of

State. [Americans] seem to be
overly scared with Communist
takeover outside the United

States.”

Overall, the international stu-
dents seem to be enjoying their ex-
periences in America. ‘The time
is too short,” said Thomas
Gebauer of Marburg, West Ger-
many. “I have had a lot of experi-
ences so far. And I really haven't
had culture-shock.”

Likewise, Patijn commented

a lot more conservative.”

Sunil Batra, also of New
Delhi, found that “there is much
more rigidity in various aspects of
American society as opposed to
what I thought Americans had,
especially in man-wife relation-
ships and the educational sys-
tem.”

Kerstin Malmborg of Stoc-

kholm, Sweden, commented, “I
thought you were more pre-
judiced, but I think Davidson is an
exception. People here are more
open-minded.”

Similarly, Wen Xan Xie of the
People’s Republic of China, said
Davidson “‘is a very good place. I
was surprised to find the place so
peaceful. Here there is a good at-

mosphere for study, and every-
thing is convenient for students.”

Other students have noted sig-
nificant differences between
America and their native country.
Gijs Patijn of Doesburg, Holland,
noted that “in America, every-
thing — cars and streets — is big-
ger and more spread out compared
to Holland. Also, people here are

easier to make contact with.”

Johanna Erlandson of
Kungsbacka, Sweden, said: “In
Europe, the countries are so
small. The United States is so big.
Sweden could fit into South
Carolina, North Carolina, and
Virginia.”

Having travelled halfway
around the world, the South Asian

that the people he has met have
been “very hospitable. That's
what Americans are.”

Other international students
include Sebastian Koch, Ranjit
Rawley, and Deepak Talwar of
New Delhi, India; Eric Lam of
Hong Kong; and Florence Carmen
Triguero de Juan of Madrid,
Spain.
