-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Kevin Horan, Executive Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
David Van Pelt, News Editor Ida Phillips, Arts and Entertainment Editor
Andy Barron, Sports Editor Mike Stephens, Opinions Editor
Peggy Pierotti, Photography Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

THE ELECTRON

|

Honor C Council

On Tuesday we will, once again, ., elect new members of the Honor
Council. Holding the most powerful positions on campus, these leaders
will be elected without any campaigning, face-to-face contact, or verbal
discussion. Is this an effective way to select our most powerful leaders?
We feel it is not.

The SGA Elections Council implemented the rule prohibiting cam-
paigning last year. Though the rule was designed to strengthen the Coun-
cil’s integrity, it instead weakens it if we do not take voting seriously.
Their decision de-politicizes the process, but it sacrifices the personal as-
pect necessary to make an informed decision. Without the right of candi-
dates to campaign or even discuss issues with students we must rely on
personal recommendations, knowledge of personalities and gut reac-
tions to decide which candidates are the most qualified. This threatens to
make the Honor Council elections nothing more than a popularity con-
test. Do the candidates elected possess the integrity demanded of them,
or are they merely the most public campus figures?

FeaCleubl- @

MICROSCOPE? ... OH,
WE SOLD THAT SOWE
COULD PAY FOR THIS
LOVELY MONUMENT,.,

Friday, March 29, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ae

ovte

Letters

The restrictions placed on Honor Council elections put an extra bur-
den of responsibility on the voter. Student access to the candidates is se-
verely limited, therefore the informed voter is left to research each candi- —
date on his own, if he can first discover who the candidates are. To whe Editors: t there will be much discus.
sion of Karl Lorenz’s opinions on abortion
as published in The Davidsonian on March
22, 1985. Without joining the argument, I
would like to point out that use of the terms
“mongoloid” and “mongolian idiot” to des-
cribe persons with trisomy-21, or Down’s

Seek Answers

Before elections start on Tuesday we implore you to take them very
seriously .. The Honor Council is responsible for upholding and defend-
ing the backbone of Davidson College—its Honor Code. Without a
strong and reliable Honor Council, the strength of our Code is
threatened. We seek only to remind you that this should not be a popular-
ity contest, but rather a decision on the integrity of individuals. Because
of the campaigning rules for these offices, this election requires more
work on the part of the voters than any other, Because of the nature of the
office, this election also requires more careful deliberation on the part of
voters, as officers serve concurrent terms until graduation. Get out and

find out who is running for these offices. Do some research on the candi-

dates and make the best possible choice, not only for yourself, but also
for the good of your college.

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2)We require that letters’ be neatly

typed.

3)We require that letters be signed
O e e

The Davidsonian “Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest
we receive from the campus
community.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-

dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,

Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Devidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

We
guidelines:

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accept typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be signed. We will print un-

adhere to _ these

News Staff: Ted Wilson, Assistant News Editor, Richard Cloudt, Andrea Diedrich,
Roxanna Guilford, Nelle McCorkle, Tom Schilling, Lee White, Allison Wills

Arts and Entertainment Staff: Bill Bugg, Craig Detweiler, Thurston Hatcher, Stephen
Mank, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott, Treeby Williams, Allison Wills

Sports Staff: Patricia Hahn, Scott Huie, Hunter Gourley, Perry Mathewes, Edwin Page
Photography Staff: Christian Harberts, Assistant Photography Editor; Brad
Brechtelsbauer, Jill Boyette, Phillip Dennis, Warriner Inge, * Rocky Kmiecik, Bruce von
Stein. ..

Staff Artists: Richard Glouat, Wilson Lowrey

Advertising Staff: Joanneke Brentjens, David Van Pelt

Production Staff: Pauline Rhodes. Compositors: Lisa Thomas, Anne Lambert, Lisa
Lano, Martha Yeide, Frank Roberts

Letters Policy

Definition Refined

Syndrome, is at best terribly insensitive and
at worst a racial slur and should be avoided.

As for the other side of the coin, in
Mongolia individuals with trisomy-21 are
known as “Caucasoid idiots.”

John H. Williamson
Chairman Biology Department

and include the author’s phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements;
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

Policy

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author’s name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-
serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in-
form the author of substantial
changes.

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication for space reasons
the next week.
