2

~ News

Red Cross And ROTC Sponsor Blood Drive

The Red Cross Blood Drive, in conjunction with the ROTC and the Scab-
bard and Blade society will take place Wednesday and Thursday from !0.a.m. to
3:30 p.m. in the Union.

According to ROTC organizer, sophomore Dean Williams, volunteers from
the Red Cross, ROTC department, and Davidson community will aim at a goal
of 300 pints which has eluded them the last several times the biannual drive took
place.

He said a problem of “coordination” has reduced the blood drive total, which
was 206 pints last fall and even lower a year ago. He said many students sell
blood for fraternity blood drives too close to the Red Cross drive. Fifty-six days
must pass between blood donations, he said.

Williams said in addition to Red Cross and ROTC volunteers, the blood
dirve receives help from campus EMTs and the Davidson Service Club.

P.E. Failures To Appear On Transcripts

- The Faculty Executive Committee on Wednesday approved a decision to in-
clude P.E. failures on student transcripts. SGA President Beadsie Woo said the
measure will not be retroactive, but will take effect in the fall.

To compensate for this change, Woo said that the add/drop procedure for
P.E. classes will be changed. The students will have the opportunity to attend
the P.E. class once with the option to drop it afterwards, Woo said. In this way
“students can see how their lab schedules and other things will fit,” she added.

Although the SGA had sent a resolution protesting the proposed change,
now that it has been approved Woo anticipates no further SGA action on the mat-
ter.

Public College Supports Proposed Aid Cut

(CPS)—Officials at least momentarily have kept one struggling campus open by
convincing state legislators their college will soon be booming if Congress ap-
proves President Reagan’s proposed cuts in federal student aid.

The Conneticut state legislature wanted to close the University of Con-
neticut’s Torrington campus, which this year has an enrollment of fewer than
200 students, because there just aren’t enough students to attend class there.

But Torrington boosters have convinced some state officials the aid cuts will
hurt private college students so much that those students will have to transfer to
cheaper public campuses like Torrington.

“We're about as cheap a college as you can get,” says Torrignton campus di-
rector Robert Glover, who predicts Torrington may get up to 20 percent more
students if the Reagan cuts are adopted.

“We will be among the biggest short-term gainers,” Glover said.

Glover, nevertheless, opposes the proposed federal aid cuts, saying that in
the long run, with fewer students able to afford college, all schools will lose.

But now Torrington's backers have swayed Gov. William O’ Neill, and a
legislative panel! has voted to keep all five U Conn campuses open.

The Connecticut lobbying campaign is the first instance of higher education
lobbyists publicly expecting to gain if Congress approves the proposed cuts.

And some Federal lobbyists are unhappy that the issue of student migration
from private to public schools has been raised at all.

“We've been careful not to predict anything specific on that,” says Charles
Saunders of the American Council on Education, which is coordinating opposi-
tion to the proposed financial aid cuts.

Summary

“We can't Come up with any figures on what the enrollment shift would be,

and it doesn’t make any sense to make seat—of—the—pants guesses” he says.

Others acknowledge, however, that the lack of reliable figures is not the only

reason higher education officials won’t discuss the shift.

The prospect of private college students transferring to enrollment—starved

public colleges, they point out, could lessen public college opposition to the cuts

and jeopardiize the unity the higher education community has affected in oppos-
ing them.

“People are usually playing several games at once and one of the games is

unity,” says Chester Finn, director of the Center for Education and Human De-
velopment at Vanderbuilt University.

“The higher education constituency groups are working hard to avoid frat-

ricide,” he says. 7

PiKA Announces Fifth Annual “Kenya Jam”

Pi Kappa Alpha will be sponsoring a benefit disco on Wednesday, April 24,
to support the Davidson Kenya program. For the past 10 years, Davidson
graduates have been volunteering as primary and secondary school teachers in
Kenya. All funds raised at the disco will be directly forwarded to these alumni to
help meet the cost of education. The party will begin at 9 p.m. featuring Warren
Gould and John Marks in their farewell disco to Davidson. Donations of $2 per
person will be accepted at the door.

Friday, April 19, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CPR Course Offered On Campus

A CPR course is being offered on Friday May 3 from 2 to 6 p.m. and Satur-
day, May 4 from 10 a.m. to2 p.m. All College personnel (students, faculty and
staff) may register.

Enrollment will be limited to 30 and a slight registration fee will be charged.
P.E. credit will be awarded upon completion of the two-day instruction. For
more information, call Olivier at 892-6052.

Spring Convocation To Be Held Friday, April 26

Spring Awards Convocation will honor outstanding members of the David-
son community in Love Auditorium on Friday, Apri! 26, at 11 a.m.

Following a Coffee and Cokes at 10.a.m. in front of Chambers, Convocation
will begin with musical selections from Francois Joseph Gossec and the David-
son College Wind Ensemble and opening remarks by Y-Student Service Corps
Vice President C. Lynn Michie, SGA President Beadsie Woo and President
Kuykendall.

Poet and professor of English at Washington and Lee University W. Dabney
Stuart will present the R. Windley Hall and the Vereen Bell creative writing
awards. Vice-president for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty T.C.
Price Zimmermann will then present department and special awards and an-
nounce graduate scholarships and fellowship recipients.

Dean of Admissions John V. Griffith will announce newly established
scholarship funds and Davidson faculty and staff members will present general
awards. Convocation will close with remarks by Dean Terry, a benediction by
Chaplain Charles A. Summers, and a processional by Gossec.

Priday

Outdoor Concert w/

adwareness
art Ensembie

Free Beverages & Snacks

Frisbee Golf Tournament
10 am- Sign Up at Union Desk |

Flight 108
1-3:30 Free Bevs & Pizza
Ice Cream
Commons-Patterson Court
. ¢ Union Cafe Carnival FUN. Games Caricatures
3-5 PM

900 Room Open

POWER PLAY Dance 9:30-1 am
Vail Commons

Breakfast & Bobby 12:30 am

All This, and More ! 900 Room

