10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor Brooke Knight, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager Ann Roddey, Production Editor
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor John Elster, Advertising Manager
Amy Harrell, Circulation Manager

Y

Typos

Two consecutive banner headline errors in The Davidsonian have
prompted biting sarcasm from some members of the College faculty.
While we appreciate “constuctive (sic.) criticism” and can laugh at our
foolish errors as well as anyone else, there is a danger in this when sar-
casm is carried too far. And it is being carried too far when typos com-
pletely overshadow the hard work and dedication of a student staff whose
efforts go largely unrecognized.

The staff of The Davidsonian, particularly the editorial staff, makes
significant sacrifices to put out the weekly newspaper. This responsibili-
ty is compounded by the many other demands on time felt by all David-
son students. Few people on campus realize the amount of work it takes
to put together an issue. In order to be at least somewhat topical,
Wednesday night deadlines demand that twelve, typewritten, 10” x 16”
pages of text be edited, proofread and rewritten in the space of an eve-
ning and an afternoon. We have, on the average, 15 minutes to first cor-
rect obvious errors and then to rewrite weak sections.

This is not to say that we are blameless in the situation. An adage
states “Show me results, don’t talk of excuses” and we respect the truth
in this statement. We, the staff of The Davidsonian, have pledged ourse-
Ives to put out the best possible paper we can — period. We ask our
readership to be patient and look at what is right with the paper. Though
there have been typographical errors, The Davidsonian still holds to re-
sponsible journalism.

One professor lauded a former editor who banished typos from the
paper. In making a contrast, this professor told a class that The Davidso-
nian is now a “laughing stock.” Most students unquestioningly accept
what a professor says. What he failed to tell the class was that the
aforementioned editor was forced to resign for publishing A Guide to
Courses at Davidson, which libeled almost every member of the faculty.
People in positions to influence the thinking of others should behave
more responsibly and reveal all the facts.

Yes, we’ve made mistakes and we are conscientiously working to
correct them. So let’s stop beating a dead horse. Let’s not sink in the mire
of our mistakes, but instead, pledge to learn from them and build a repu-
tation of reliability and credibility.

SY NO REALLY —

SS: 5 swear I THOUGHT

SSS SSS

“<S

SS
SSO ns

es

RSE
SS =e SISSON

NS X&* SS
NS RNS

SN
SAS

7 SS SW SS
~ SSS
SA

~- - SSS SS
Swan. SS rege SSS ~
: SSSSSESSSVQ

Ss SSN

Sys

NTS
\s

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, -
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, Richard Cloudt, Jim Dillon, Keith
Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams
Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Bill Bugg, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris, Samuel Scott

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Rand Hartsell

Photography Staff: Komy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick . John Reuter

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles .
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kim Crabtree, Beth Drummond, Kristin Galloway,

Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim
Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough.

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dier-
donck

Vandalism

To the Editor:

On Tuesday night, three lamp posts
were destroyed and a tree limb thrown
through a window in Emanon House. This
vandalism was probably the spillover from
a party that was being held at a party on the
court. It is worse than that, however, for it
is the continuation of a trend that has been
going on all year.

Since school started, ten lamps have
been destroyed which amount to more than
$6,000; that is 60 percent of a year’s tuition
and fees for one student. It is a wanton des-
truction of property and more than likely a
result of alcohol abuse. Further, the des-
truction of these lights, many of which have
been installed to provide security, makes all
students more vulnerable to injury and
worse.

Aside from the money involved, the
fact that some students witness these acts of
vandalism and feel no responsibility to re-
port them can be described in one word —
gutlessness.

We have a beautiful campus, one that is
reasonably safe, and a majority of students
who know how to conduct themselves. That
majority by its apathy or gutlessness is al-
lowing an infinitesimal minority to increase
student fees, increase security problems
and erode reasonable standards of behavior,
hence undermining the Code of Responsi-
bility.

This is first and last a student problem to
be solved by students. I wonder if student
leadership on the Court, in the SGA, in the
judicial system will rise to the occasion and
whether students generally will stand-up for

. The Davidsonian welcomes letters
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

_ 1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.

2)We require that letters be neatly
typed.

3)We require that letters be signed

their own rights and the high quality of life

they have come to take for granted from
each other and this community.

The ball is in your court. I hope it will

not have to be taken away.

Sincerely,

Will H. Terry

Dean of Students

Criticism

To the Editor:

The September 20, 1985 issue of your
paper has just come into my hands via
friends who recently visited your campus. |
am concerned about the image they may
have received of Davidson college as a re-
sult of reading your paper in view of the
twenty-one errors I encountered in this one
issue. (And I didn’t even read pages 6,7 and
8). Since the same issue claims in one of its
letters that Davidson “is an institution of
high standards and exceptional quality,” a
reputation it has gained through many av-
enues and based upon which I myself sent
my daughter to Davidson, I feel that this de-
fect in your paper creates a poor reflection
of the college.

I am not a journalist so I do not know
whether these errors are mechanical in na-
ture (typos, kind of word processor used),
financial (lack of funds), or due to in-
adequate staff. Maybe no one else reads the
paper as closely as I have read this issue, but
after noticing about a half dozen misspel-
lings I felt obliged to document just how
many there were.

Publications do represent an institution.
I am hopeful that Davidson’s public image
in this area can be improved.

Elsie B. Oerter

and include the author's phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertisements:
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

