Friday, October 18, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Observing rules of the road makes bicycling safer

Ray Thrower

Over the past few weeks, The David-
son College Police Department has seen
an increase in the number of bicycles
being stolen from the campus. Not one of
the bicycles stolen had a locking device
in use. The Davidson College Police De-
partment is especially concerned about
the outer perimeter housing. It only takes
a few seconds for someone to walk up
and ride off with your bicycle.

This year we have a record number of
bicycles registered on campus. In order
to reduce the chances of your bicycle
being stolen, we suggest that you follow
these precautions:

Always lock your bicycle. Use a lock
with a 7/16” case-hardened shackle and a
3/8” thick alloy chain.

Permanently engrave your drivers’
license number on the frame of your bicy-
cle. You can obtain an engraver at the
Campus Police Department Office and
the officer on duty will show you how to
use the engraver and where to put your
drivers license number on the frame of
the bicycle.

Make sure that your bicycle is regis-
tered with the Davidson College Police
Department. When you register your

Holiday selects Cornelius

By ANDREA DIEDRICH

A Holiday Inn will be built at the Cor-
nelius exit off I-77 next year. According to
Bob Currie, Davidson’s Business Manager,
the College is excited about the prospect of
having hotel accomodations closer to
Davidson. At the same time he expressed
disappointment that the College was unable
to persuade the developers to lease the five
acre site the College owns at the northwest
quadrant of the intersection of Griffith
Street and I-77.

Currie feels they chose the Cormelius
exit rather than the Davidson exit because
North Carolina Highway 73 crosses I-77 at
Comelius whereas Griffith Street ends at
Lake Norman. He hopes that once one hotel
is built in Comelius, others will follow and
then the College’s land will become even
more desirable for for leasing.

According to a recent article in the
Charlotte Observer the Holiday Inn will be
built by Norman Associates, DMC Proper-
ties, and CLT Development Corporation.
Currie said they hope to complete planning
by December 1985 and complete construc-

You can find a wealth of
information from the Federal Government
at Depository Libraries. Contact your
local library.

2)

Ubrary Prepren?

The Federal

bicycle, make sure that you record your
serial number and then place it in a safe
place. "

Check your bicycle frequently to
make sure that it is where you last put it.

Do not leave your bicycle in remote
areas at night.

Report any suspicious persons or ac-
tivity to the campus police department at
892-5131. If your bicycle is stolen, re-
port it immediately. The longer you wait
to report your bicycle stolen, the less
chance there is that it will be recovered.

Look for the following card. If you
should receive one, remember that next
time there might not be anything to put it

GO

PLEASE
secure your
property

PUBLIC SAFETY : 692-5131

Bicycle safety is the second major con-
cem of the campus police department.
Bicycle riding was once considered a

tion by August 1986. The hotel will be built
on the northeast quadrant of the intersection
near Quincy’s Restaurant.

According to the Observer the hotel will
cost approximately $4.5 million. It will
have 120 rooms, a restaurant, lounge and
meeting rooms.

Urban Growth

The decision to build a Holiday Inn at
the Cornelius exit reflects not only the
needs of Davidson College, but also the
Steady growth and urbanization of North
Mecklenburg County. This growth was the
subject of the Open Luncheon held last
Wednesday in the 900 Room.

Velva Woolen, Charlotte City Council
Member, Dave Howard, planning manager
for Charlotte, and Al Stewart, Chairman of
the Geography Department at UNCC ad-
dressed the question, “Will Charlotte de-
vour Davidson and when . . .?”

According to Stewart, a Steady growth
in the number of jobs and a growth in the
economy are causing an increase in the ur-
banization of Charlotte and Mecklenburg
County. He claimed that Charlotte is be-

“Knowledge is of two kinds.
We know a subject
ourselves, or we know
where we can find
information upon it.”

Boswell, Life ef febasom (1773)

healthy form of recreation. Now it is also
an important means of transportation.
Because bicycles are considered vehicles
in North Carolina, bicycle riders must
obey the same traffic laws as motor vehi-
cle drivers do. Like drivers, they must
ride on the right side of the road, stopping
at all stop signs and red lights, and they
must also give hand signals. Bicycles are
legally entitled to use most roads in North
Carolina as long as they obey the same
tules of the road as a motor vehicle.
Davidson Police Chief Jack Warlick
stated, “Bicyclists are in violation of
Davidson town ordinances when they
ride their bicycles on the sidewalks on the
building side of the downtown area.”
Violators are subject to a fine.

The following is a list of the ten basic
bicycle rules of the road:

No. 1. Obey traffic laws. Know your
local and state traffic laws and obey
them. Obey all signs, signals and mark-
ings.

No. 2. Stay to the right. Keep to the
right of the road. Do not weave in and out
of traffic.

No. 3. Ride single file. Always ride
single file with plenty of space between
bikes.

No. 4. Walk it across. At busy inter-

sections, get off your bike and walk it
across. Never dart across traffic.

No. 5. Use your light at night. Don’t
ride at night without a white light on the
front and a red reflector or lamp on the
rear of your wheel.

No. 6. Use a carrier. Do not try to
carry books or other items in your arms
when trying to ride your bike. Use a bas-
ket or carrier.

No. 7. One to a bike. Carrying some-
one as a passenger can make your handl-
ing and control of the bike very difficult.

No. 8. Don’t be a showoff. Fancy
bike riding could prove fatal.

No. 9. Use hand signals. Use hand
signals to indicate turning or stopping.
The more you can let the person in front
of you or behind you know of your inten-
tions, the safer it will be for you. Re-
member that you have no protection ona
bike if you have an accident.

No. 10. Drive a safe bike. Make sure
that your bike is in good mechanical con-
dition each time you ride it.

Many accidents happen because driv-
ers do not see cyclists soon enough. Most
fatal accidents occur on open country
roads. Obey the rules; remember com-
mon sense counts on bicycles just as it
does anywhere else.

as Site for new Inn

coming a regional center in the south rather
than just a center for the Carolinas.

Stewart said North Mecklenburg will
grow faster than the rest of the county and
predicted radical increases in the population
density over the next twenty years. Accord-
ing to statistics, the total number of house-
holds in North Mecklenburg will increase
from approximately 5,000 in 1980 to
13,000 in 2005. These figures indicate that
the need for housing will increase dramati-
cally as well.

Stewart predicted that most of the de-
velopment in the Davidson-Cornelius area
will occur west of I-77 on Lake Norman. “It
seems to me Davidson will sit on the edge of
this development and not be the center of
it,” he said.“‘The lake shore will be the most
developed and Davidson will be bypassed
rather than overwhelmed by future develop-
ment.”

Howard predicted Mecklenburg will be
a completely urbanized county some time in
the more distant future.

Copying policy changed

By KEITH FINCH

The photo-duplication center in the
basement of Chambers has instituted a new
policy prohibiting the general public from
using the machines. Instead, individuals
and organizations must submit work orders
along with the items they wish duplicated.

The new system was adopted because of
faculty complaints about long waiting lines
at copiers and the inordinate amount of
mechanical difficulty which the service ex-
perienced, according to Director of Person-
nel and Administrative Services Robert
Stephenson.

Central Services secretary Jane
Biggerstaff said most students using the
copiers in the past did not know how to op-
erate the machines and often made mistakes
resulting in significant down-time. She said
the copy room staff can duplicate material
faster than inexperienced students, there-
fore copying is more efficient.

She added that because less time is
wasted, students and faculty members can
expect to get their work done fairly soon —
usually by a little later the same day.

Stephenson explained that more than
half a million copies were made on the copy
room’s two machines during the first three
and a half weeks of classes, and that “if we
had not been closed, there would have been

no way that volume could have been
accommodated.”

The new policy will also help the col-
lege save money. Biggerstaff stated that last
year the copy room lost between $5,000 and
$10,000 as a result of wasted paper and the
failure of people to properly report their
copying so that they could be billed. Collec-
tion of funds has been simplified under the
new systeni; all duplication must carry a
form with the name of the organization or
individual to be billed.

The new policy will very probably con-
tinue in the future. With regard to the length
of any trial period, Stephenson said that
“we didn’t set any time limit.” He added
that although the final decision to imple-
ment the policy was ultimately his, he dis-
cussed the question with many other people
before finally arriving at a conclusion.

Since the beginning of the fall term,
anything to be duplicated has been required
to be accompanied by a form specifying the
number of copies required, the name of the
organization or person paying for the dupli-
cation, and other special information re-
garding such things as color, reduction or
enlargement. Students and faculty may no
longer operate the machines themselves,
but must submit their material to the dupli-
cation room staff for copying.
