2.

Student Elections Announced

Elections for SGA president and vice president will be held March 26, 1985,
from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Chambers Lobby and the Conversation Pit. Sign-
ups for Quips and Cranks editor, Hobart Park editor, class senators, Honor
Council, Student Conduct Council, CCRL, Review Board, Defense Advisor,
and Student Solicitor are being held in the Dean of Students’ Office from March
19 to March 26.

Essay Contest Offers Scholarship

A national essay contest offering a $10,000 scholarship and three $2,500
honorable mentions has been announced by the Institute of Financial Education.

The contest, based on the theme “You Can Save Your Country,” is open to
all full-time students at four-year colleges. Essays are limited to 1,500 words.
They will be judged on the basis of documentation, originality, clarity, logic and
pursuusiveness in their presentation of how federal deficit spending affects the
country’s and the writer's future. Entry deadline is Tuesday, April 23, 1985.

IFE President Dale Bottom said the Institute is conducting the essay. contest
“to help alert our young people to the problems they will face because the federal
government is building up the national debt-——and to generate some thinking that
could help lead to possible solutions.”

Bottom noted that the federal government has amassed $1.6 trillion in debt
and currently spends $4.00 for every $3.00 it collects from taxes and other reve-
nues.

“We must tell our elected officials in Washington, D.C., that we don’t want
to saddle ourselves and future generations with a crushing debt burden,” said
Bottom in a letter to college presidents.

Essays entered in the IFE contest will be forwarded to Congress.

Essays should be sent to “You Can Save Your Country” national essay con-
test, Institute of Financial Education, 111 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL
60601. The essays must be typed, double-spaced on plain white letter-size (8-1/
2x11) paper and include the home address and home telephone number of the
contestant—plus the name and address of the school. The writer’s name must
appear on each page of the essay.

Entries must be postmarked no later than April 23, 1985 and received no
later than the close of business April 29, 1985.

Students Arrive For SGA Weekend

This weekend the Admissions Office hosts 112 of Davidson's strongest high
school applicants for SGA Weekend, according to Admissions Counselor Steve
Soud.

This year’s group is “the most we’ ve ever had,” according to Soud. He said
the event offers applicants the chance to become acquainted with Davidson Col-
lege through a series of speeches, panel discussions, and informal meetings with
Davidson students and faculty.

Last night prospective students heard an overview of Davidson life from stu-

Study abroad at the

ITHACA COLLEGE
LONDON CENTER

m SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
@ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
w BRITISH FACULTY

COURSES — British and European studies
are offered in literature, history, art history,
drama, music, sociology, education,
psychology, communications, and politics.
Special program oftered in Drama. Intern-
chips available to qualified students in
International Business, Social Services,
Communications, Political Science, and
Economics.

Visits to the theatre,
museums, galleries,
schools, social and
political institutions are
an integral part of the
curriculum.

For further information
write:
Internationat Programs

P

Ithaca College
Ithaca, New York 14850

=.

| UNITED l-77 at Hwy 73

eye! Cornelius/Lake
; aw Norman

137 N.Main St. 992-7805
Davidson
892-7815

News Summary:

riday, March 22, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

dents who spoke on the social, athletic, and academic aspects of Davidson. The
Admissions Office sponsored a coffee and cokes reception this morning, fol-
lowed by a seminar entitled Life A.D. (After Davidson), in which Davidson
alumni and professors will assess the value of a liberal arts education. A faculty
reception will follow this afternoon and a banquet will be held tonight.

Spencer Elects New Officers

Spencer House is now firmly established as a member of Patterson Court.
Having fulfilled the College’s requirement of a minimum of 60 women commit-
ted to a new house’s contract, members elected officers: Connie Clark, presi-
dent; Laura Annunziata, vice-president; Corliss Carter, secretary; Elizabeth
Crook, treasurer; Kate Brewer and Sian Hunter, house managers; and Holly
Carlton, social chairman.

Another stipulation for the development of the new house was that Fannie
Brandon and Mable Torrence, formerly cooks at F & M, be hired. According to
Annunciata, “We hear they’re great!”

The house will soon start a fundraiser for famine in Africa through the Red
Cross. Other projects include formation of IMAC teams for softball, volleyball
and racquetball.

Though the house currently accomodates 60 women, Annunciata said “We
will take as many as we can get.”

Trustees Approve New Budget

The Board of Trustees approved a tuition increase for the 1985-86 academic
year and a proposal to allocate money for the recruitment of minorities at its Feb-
ruary meeting.

In a letter to parents, President Kuykendall explained the proposed increase
in tuition costs included in the budget. The comprehensive fee schedule for
1985-86 remains just below the $10,000 mark at $9,995. Kuykendall called
upon parents to keep in mind Davidson’s fees as compared to most institutions of
similar standing which charge a great deal more than $10,000.

According to Comptroller Bob Davidson, the total expenditures for 1985-86
equal $16,449,458. These expenditures do not include the auxilliary enterprises
such as the Commons food services, the student store, and the laundry which are
generally self-sustaining. The revenue forthe ex2enditures is generated through
tuition, gifts, trusts, and the endowment as well as profit-making auxilliary en-
terprises which generate about $400,000. The tuition covers a little more than
half of expenditures.

Material contributed by Andrea Diedrich.

THE FHEULOUS

\Pla ets
POWELL

=' ¢ d/ LONG TAILED

STUY ttre

LAAY ENGINEERING WARD
SUEDEN AND ENGLAND

WHE MUWULAN GE SrOve

ming STREET

Trissy Lomax, owner
128 S. Main St. Davidson, N.C.
28036
892-7521

Welcome to Spring Wine Spectal—
$3.60 750ml
$5.60 1.5L Magnum
Imported From France

