Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonian 7

1933 Alumnus Journies To The Soviet Union

Editor’ s note: The author is a member of the Davidson
Class of '33. A retired Presbyterian minister from Lake
Norman, he spent last summer travelling in Russia.
Here he reports on the adventure.

By DUNCAN MacBRYDE

This article might be titled “From Russia with
Lurches: or, The Big Red Train Ride.” The most un-
forgettable thing about spending time in Siberia is get-
ting there on the Trans-Siberian Railroad.

This rail system, the world’s longest line, is, like
me, over 70 years old and shows it. Although in many
respects modern (it is electrified), its capacity for torture
is, well, somewhat Byzantine.

Moving along on an ancient roadbed, life in one of
the four-bunk compartments brings to mind the sensa-
tion of a large home laundry machine filled with stones
and set on “spin dry” — with you in the middle of the
load. Yet sleep is eventually possible as you find your-
self “rocked” in this cradle with a rhythm of remarkable
variations. Sleeping is helped if you are suffering from
jet-lag after a trans-Atlantic flight.

There are further complications that can add to the
novelty of this form of travel. At first my problem
seemed relatively simple. I happened to be assigned to
the last compartment allotted to us members of a world
“Peace and Friendship” tour of Russia and China. I had a
six-foot bunk, a blanket and a long thin piece of material
which I took for a sheet, plus a shapeless mass resembl-
ing a pillow.

But it turned out that bunk space was needed for out
Russian tour guide, Tanya. So she moved in, too. And,
as we were pulling out of the Moscow station, another
Russian lady, the Intourist guide for a German tour
group in the next couch, also appeared and took over an
upper berth.

For a while I stood in the narrow corridor watching
the departure of another train on the other side of the
platform. Its destination signboard read “Archangel.”

Meanwhile, I was weighing problems presented by
limited spaces. Prominent among them was coping with
this unexpected serving of Russian dressing — and un-
dressing. And inspiration (archangel?) came to me. I had
stayed in my clothes overnight on the plane from New
York. Prudence (or was it prudishness?) suggested the
same “sleepware” might well be used again.

Partly shielded by the gathering darkness, and in the
temporary absence of my cabin mates, I removed a mini-
mum of outer clothing and slid under the blanket. ~

So far so good. But a couple of problems remained.
The window of our little compartment, at our heads, was
jammed in a partly open position, causing a downdraft
on my thinly thatched head. So I tugged the narrow table
cloth a bit from the nearby window shelf, to deflect the
draft. But this resulted in my lying there looking — be-
neath the little window-table — directly into the face of
Tanya, a scarce three feet away. Facing this situation,
discretion suggested turning the other direction, with
only part of my head exposed to the draft.

This would not have been too bad, except that a large
Siberian mosquito became intrigued with my foreign
physiognomy. Thus it became necessary to retreat en-
tirely under the blanket. But breathing became some-

Duncan MacBryde and “The Big Red Train”

what labored, and by now the blanket-plus-trousers were
getting too warm. Finally I managed to remove the
trousers and wrapped my head in the table cloth.

This worked fine until the time came to visit the next-
door “bathroom,” which necessitated a reversal of my
“undercover” contortionist feat, replacing my trousers.

Days and nights of adjustment soon led to increased
efficiency, and freedom to study the vast world outside
our tiny cocoon. Names filled with strange excitement
came and went.

The crossing of the Volga. Zagorsk with its golden
onion-domed cathedral. Historic Yaroslavl. Storied
Kirov, where the ballet company must have gotten its
name. Sverdlovsk with its tragic memories of
bloadshed. Tyumen, shrouded in mist. Short stops;
quick visits in search of local sights and pastry de-
licacies. Racing back to reboard the already-moving
train. Sunset across the vast swampls and birch forests
and fields of the Siberian plain. Rickety-rack; rickety-
rack. A struggle between mist and morning sun as we
reach the city of Omsk, on the river Om.

We are deep in Asia, ’tater country and Tatarskara.
Finally the huge sprawling city of Novosibirsk, its in-
dustry hiding the fact that in the surrounding region
bears outnumber people!

At long last comes Irkutsk, the “Paris” of central east
Asia, 3,000 miles beyond Moscow, yet only the mid-
point of this incredibly vast country. A visit by motor-
coach to fabled Lake Baikal, larger than all of our Great
Lakes combined, with 20 percent of the world’s fresh
water. Side trips by boat on the river Ob. Asking bright-
eyed children “Kak teba zavoot?” (What's your name”).
Seeing vast new industrial development in this very old
but fast-growing and proud frontier land, now an impor-
tant crossroads between Russia and China and between
Japan and India.

Yet it is an area uncertain of its place in the world. A
part of a gigantic nation sprawled across two continents,
struggling to lift itself out of great poverty and Tsarist
oppression. A nation whose memory is filled with waves
of hostile invasions and the slaughter of millions of its

people.

Paranoid? Yes, but not without reason. I wondered
how many of my own countrymen were taught in our
schools that our own American forces, along with our
western allies and Japan, invaded their country in my
lifetime, and tried by force of arms to keep this struggl-
ing nation from working out its own change of govern-
ment from feudal slavery.

Is it great wonder that they are deeply suspicious? |
was quite upset when, in passing through customs at the
Moscow airport, an official snatched several photostat
pages from my baggage and confiscated them on the
spot. They were pages from Peter Ustinov’s book My
Russia. | tried to explain that the book shows great un-
derstanding of Russia, but the terse reply was “Not
good.” He insisted I sign an acknowledgement that I had
tried to import this material into the country.

Why must they be so suspicious?

I can only grope at the complex reasons rooted in his-
tory. How do we deal with fear? Again, full answers are
beyond me. But answers must surely be found if peace
and understanding and friendship are ever to be arrived
at among us passengers of spaceship Earth.

One thing I do know: I agree with Sidney Harris that
harshness only makes a potential adversary get tougher
and more paranoid. ‘“‘Harshness breeds harshness, just as
violence breeds violence,” Harris wrote, “until the
hatred escalates into full-scale war.”

Surely trillions budgeted by the Pentagon for more
matches to protect ourselves from the other guy and his
matches, when we're all standing knee-deep in gasoline,
is not the answer.

I remembered at another time a little girl on this
“other side” of the world asked me: “Do the trees there
have green leaves like ours?” I recalled telling her yes,
then wondering how long that answer would hold.

That last night in the Trans-Siberian vastness, |
pulled the blanket over me again, and wondered again

This article first appeared in The Mooresville Tribune
and is reprinted with permission.

Get Out Of The Way Takes College-Bowl Crown

By TIM WAPLES

The fresh-taced messenger scurried
into the Green Room. The columnist was
slumped face-down on the desk behind a
full ash tray and an empty bottle of red-
eye.

“The Boss wants to see you!”

The columnist staggered down the
corridor and into the smoky editor’s of-
fice. The editor glared from behind his
stogie:

“College Bowl! Where’s the College
Bowl article? And get those Picnic
people off my back!”

Without a word, the columnist
staggered back to the Green Room,
where his manual typewriter waited to
crank out some athletic prose:

It wasn’t all that long ago that the four
best intramural College Bowl teams on

campus met for this year’s champion-
ship. The Skeetshooters were the first
team to fall, at the hands of Wrong Stuff.
However, fourth place was still the best
freshman finish since Thi placed second
back in ’81—’82. The top three teams this
year upheld the concept of senior
superiority: between the three teams,
only two underclassmen could be found.

Experience really did make the dif-
ference when it came down to the final
three. Joe Park led a balanced Buzz Al-
drins attack which eclipsed The Wrong
Stuff in a hard-fought contest.

The final showdown occurred be-
tween Buzz and Get Out of the Way.
Buzz promised revenge for the thrashing
that had dropped them into the losers’
bracket, while Get Out of the Way mum-
bled that it was finally time for some real
College Bowl.

Real College Bowl it was, in a tense
neck-and-neck race. The score was tied
at 170 with less than two minutes to go,
but Get picked up the last two toss-ups
and enough bonus points to clinch the
championship by a 210—180 score. Con-
gratulations, however, must go to the
members of both teams: for Buzz, Craig
Detweiler, Jeff McEwen, Dan Murrey,
and Joe Park; for the champions Get Out
of the Way, Anne Lambert, Tim
McGaughey, Ann Meador, and John
Munson.

Intramural always end surprisingly
suddenly for the addicts who complain
about byes or missed Monday nights.
Seniors have been unusually uncom-
municative about how they will restruc-
ture their schedules without College
Bowl, but Munson seemed to have it all
in perspective: “Maybe I'll go get a

date.”

Intramurals ended surprisingly long
ago for this year’s Boyshot award winner
Relentless Picnic, at the end of the regu
lar season. (The Amoebi win the tourna-
ment award.) In fact, the regular season
was so long ago that I kind of forgot
about the Picnic. Sorry guys, maybe next
year.

With intramurals completed, the Col-
lege Bowl focus shifts to the Varsity
team. Tryouts will start at the beginning
of next term for the most promising pros-
pects from intramurals. And this year's
varsity team goes on the road_ this
weekend to East Tennessee State, to play
in the regional tournament with hopes of
earning a national bid.

There will be more news from the
Green Room in the Spring
