6 Friday, February 15, 1985/The Davidsonitan

ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT

Enchanted Evening, Laundry And Bourbon End Workshops

By SCOTT McKINNEY

When you mention a play to someone, they usually
picture an auditorium with actors performing high above
the audience on the standard proscenium arch stage. Of
course, this is all right. The arena stage concept (where
the audience surrounds the stage on four sides) is un-
familiar to most people even though it has been around
since the beginning of theatre.

If you’ve never seen an arena stage production, En-
chanted Evening and Laundry and Bourbon as presented
by the Davidson College Theatre Workshop is a great in-
troduction. The feeling of “being there” that the arena
stage affords is almost eerie as you look into the hotel
room of two aimless businessmen on an “Enchanted
Evening” and as you sit on the back porch of a house in
small town Texas in Laundry and Bourbon.

In the opening play, by Shawomir Mrozek, two
businessmen who we know only as Old Man (Allen
Mast) and Old Boy (Scot Myers) enter a hotel room
while in town for a convention of some sort. It soon be-
comes apparent that Old Man is the chronic complainer
who can give orders better than he can take them. Old
Boy seems to be used to Old Man, complying with his
wishes with a minimum of complaint. The plot thickens
when Old Boy begins to dream, or is it Old Man who is
dreaming? In any event, they are both in a dream, along
with a dream girl (Catherine Norton). Although we have
a hint as to the personalities of the men from the con-
scious world, when they begin to dream we see their real
make up. Myers brings a common sense to Old Boy; a
warm human compassion, while Mast develops Old
Man into the stereotypical know-it-all, who is so intoler-
able the audience can hardly bear him.

Myers handles Old Boy well. His lines and actions
come easily and naturally as if he were Old Boy in real
life. Mast, on the other hand, seems shaky and insecure
at points, almost uncomfortable. By the same token, Old
Man is the shaky insecure type, unsure of himself as
well. In the role of Dream Girl, Catherine Norton is
exactly that; dreamy, with a mysticism that makes us
wonder what significance she has in both men’s lives.

Enchanted Evening leaves one with an empty feel-
ing, but it’s not a bad feeling. Director John Marks

Peggy Pierotti

John Marks gives Allen Mast and Catherine Norton a few pointers

makes you wonder, like the two men, if you exist at all.
And if you don’t, how important is your existence in the
first place?

In the second play, a comedy-drama by James
McClure, Laundry and Bourbon, the arena approach is
even more meaningful, as you sit on a back porch in
Texas on a hot summer evening and listen to three differ-
ent women try, in one way or another, to tell what their
“man” means to them. For Elizabeth (Jennifer Poole) her
husband Roy represents the excitement, the challenge
that is still left in her life. Roy is gone, running around
with another woman and Elizabeth wonders if he will
come back. And if he does how will he react to her news
that she is pregnant.

Hattie (Atondra Williams) is the black housewife
with three kids who has a perfect mixture of sass and
common sense. She admits her husband Vernon is “not
worth kickin’ off the porch,” but he does make a decent
living and support his family. —

But what is a discussion on a holy subject like love

without a Baptist viewpoint. Amy Lee (Valerie Hinton)
supplies this, when she comes to visit Elizabeth to tell
her that her husband is cheating on her and to sell her
tickets to the First Baptist Church pancake supper. Amy
Lee admits she married her husband Cleetus for the
money, but she is a member of the country club now.

The wonderful thing about Laundry and Bourbon is
that all three women are real. Williams’ sass is genuine,
her wit is real. When you laugh at something she says,
you laugh as if she were a friend and not a character in a
play. With Hinton’s airs and hypocrisy, you laugh be-
cause you know so many like her.

And finally Poole as Elizabeth — she has too many
serious things to think about to be very funny. Poole dis-
plays this seriousness without being over-dramatic. As
she talks about hanging on to the adventure in the form of
Roy, you feel sympathy and even sadness for her.
Heather Jameson runs a tight, well-controlled Laundry
and Bourbon. We see real women talking about real
things. That is drama at it’s best.

Taming The Ege Salad: How To Eat A Special

Every time I eat a Special at the M & M,
something strange happens. It’s the egg salad; I have
finally figured it out. I think it has a life of its own,
because every time I go in for a bite it jumps out of the
Special and heads for the teeny, round paper plate.
Usually it misses it.

Maybe a diagram would help explain the problem.
Here’s a Special (the only place you can get one is the
M & M — that’s why it’s. . . well, you know what it
is):

toast
lettuce
tomato

EGG
SALAD

toast
ham
ham

American
cheese

toast

FIG. |

(I'm not really complaining about egg salad, mind you
— I'm explaining the problem, because I think I have
found a pretty good solution.)

In any tri-bread sandwich you must confront
certain problems of structure. A classic, for example,
is the middle section slide-out which happens when
you get to those last few bites. Go in for the kill, and
the thing falls apart.

In the case of the Special this structure problem is
even trickier due to one certain, special ingredient:
tasty egg salad. It’s right near the middle of a Special,
it’s slippery, it’s yellow. And if there’s nothing to
contain it, it’s everywhere. Three slices of toasted

MORE OR LESS

BY
ANN MEADOR

———— aes

white bread keep the egg salad under control only until
the Special reaches your table. Once you take custody,
egg salad mayhem ensues.

I tired quickly of this chaos, and I sought ways to
control this ingredient. Toothpicks were pointless — I
kept sticking myself with them and dropping the
Special in agony. $1.75 down the drain every time.

I tried wrapping the Special in Saran Wrap, but
petroleum aftertaste undercut any egg salad I actually
ate.

Glue was a disaster.

The technological imperative having failed me, I
turned to strategy. I felt a little silly at first trying to
outsmart egg salad, but then, somebody spent time
thinking up the Slinky, right?

In arriving at this solution I took into consideration
advantages I have over egg salad. 1) I am bigger than it
is (unless it is a vat of egg salad, which is gross and
unlikely). 2) It may have a life of its own, but it has no
eyes. 3) It can’t even hit a paper plate when it jumps
from the Special, so it must be stupid. I feel pretty
confident that / could hit a paper plate from twelve in-
ches.

My strategy: outmaneuver it. Small, blind, stupid
egg salad has nothing on me. The way to outdo it is to
eat with logic. After experimentation I found that four
carefully placed bites solve the whole problem.

Start at the corner, bite with resolve, and the prize is
yours (Fig. 2).

Le

Eating across the front catches all the egg

salad that might sneak out the back, and it sets up a
pattern that prevents you from eating haphazardly.
Once egg salad knows you’re not paying attention, it
will take complete advantage of you.

This may be a lot of words about a little problem,
but the solution I present here works like a charm.
Now anyone can enter the M & M Soda Shop, look
that egg salad right in the — well, look right at that egg
salad and say, “You won’t make a fool of me ever
again.”

FIG, 2

A Bientét
I'll be in France spring term looking at big, old
churches and paintings by nearsighted Impressionists
(if they had just worn glasses . . .). I hope to:send back
a few impressions about la vie en France, and I’1l be
sure to let you know if I ever find out what a bidet is
for. Thanks for reading!
