16

By ANDY BARRON

December overflows with sports eve-
nts to be watched, enjoyed and discussed
by sports fans of a variety of tastes. Foot-
ball season reaches its climax just as bas-
ketball and hockey are getting into full
swing. The tremendous amount of cover-
age given to sports, especially college
basketball, makes winter term (generally
a drippy, cold and gloomy experience) a
difficult time to ignore that nearby televi-
sion showing your favorite team, be it
North Carolina, N.C. State, Duke, Geo-
rgetown or Louisville.

Yet before I explore the treacheries
involved in balancing school and college
basketball, I’d like to recognize several
outstanding performances by Davidson
athletes. Fall term sports at Davidson
provided many memorable moments,
most notably the soccer team’s 1-0 upset
of lordly Duke. Yet the dedication and
determination exhibited by all of David-
son’s fall sport’ yielded efforts worthy of
recognition and congratulations.

Although the soccer team failed to
win the Southern Conference crown,
wins over Duke, Appalachian State and
Georgia State highlighted a successful
season. Seniors Tony Cabrales and Wal-
lis Goodman lead the Davidson post-sea-
son honors parade by both making their
third consecutive appearance on the All-
Southern Conference team. Joining Cab-
rales and Goodman on the All-Confer-
ence team are junior goalie Jim Kelly,
making his second appearance, and
sophomore defender Mike Spear. finally,

—— Who's On First ?

Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

coach Charlie Slagle joined his players in
receiving post-season recognition as he
was chosen as Southern Conference
Coach of the Year.

Football coach Vic Gatto and team
had a difficult season, but never gave up
despite facing opponents that were al-
ways bigger, faster and better funded.
Leading the Wildcats were seniors Lou
Krempel and Tony Smith, who were
voted by their teammates as team most
valuable players. Freshmen David
Trontz received honors as the most valu-
able freshmen, while seniors Chuck Goff
and Russ West received recognition as
the hardest working and most dedicated
players.

In the conference, Davidson's foot-
ball team was represented by senior
Micah Downing and sophomore Mike
Poulos who both made All-Academic for
Southern Conference. Kremple and
junior Gary Stewart were Honorable
Mention in this same category.

The field hockey team played well
down the stretch to have a successful
year. Junior sweeper Heather McKee and
Junior goalie Nana Lay made the All-
Deep South team, an honor allowing
them to progress toward All-American
Status.

Finally, junior Greg Foreman, senior
Judy Dalton and sophomore Kappa
Peddy all qualified for NAIA national
cross country meet. Only Dalton elected
to go, however, as travel expenses had to
be paid in part by the runners themselves
and the meet took place close to exams.

Fall sports: the ups and the downs

Senior captain Frank Hague led David-
son’s men team all year, though he just
missed reaching nationals. As a side
note, Hague and Foreman ran in the At-
lanta Marathon over Thanksgiving break
and qualified for the Boston Marathon,
America’s most prestigious marathon.

Now, on to college basketball and the
winter blahs. First of all, if your favorite
team appears on TV the same night you
need to study for a test and you really
want to watch the game, study in the af-
ternoon and feel free to watch the game.
If you don’t get any study-time in that af-
ternoon, watch the game anyway since
you'll only be distracted by it while you
try to study.

Second, if you are a die-hard college
basketball fan, try to live on a hall where
nobody has a television in their room.

After all, no matter how much you may
hate Al McGuire, Billy Packer or Dick
Vitale, no hoops fan can resist the call of
these television harpies who draw the
would be student to the tube and the game
in progress.

Finally, never go to the Union during
prime basketball hours (weekend after-
noons and nights, as well as week nights)
if you have studying to do. All fans must
follow this rule because ESPN always
shows good games from the Big East or
Big Ten.

Most importantly, anytime the
Davidson Wildcats play in Johnston gym
or Charlotte, attend the game! This
should be an exciting year for Davidson
basketball and the team needs everyone’s

support.

BUFFET

—ALL YOU CAN EAT—
Mooresville’s First And Finest Italian Restaurant

KING Of PIZZA

SPAGH ETTI 100% Durham Wheat
OUR FAMOUS MEAT SAUCE
FRESH BAKED GARLIC BREAD
PARMESON— ROMANO CHEESE

SALAD BAR 45 Items
FRESH GREEN VEGETABLES
DELICIOUS FRUITS
FLAVORFUL MEATS
RICH DRESSINGS
TASTY CHEESES
WINE CHEDDAR CHEESE SAUCE

CHILI CON CARNE

ALL FOR

DESSERT-TEMPTING HAWAIIAN SALAD

$435

ALL RATES PER PERSON
SPECIAL RATES
FOR CHILDREN UNDER 12—25¢ PER YEAR

BUFFET BUFFET
Su Tues., Wed.
12 mo & Thurs.

"ell 5 P.M.
9:30 P.M. til 9:30 P.M.
241 SOUTH BROAD STREET—MOORESVILLE—663-3030
—— | —

Lunch Buffet—Mon.-$at., 11 AM-2:30 PM $3.39

Meal Includes:

PIZZA Still Mooresvilie’s Finest
SPICY PEPPERONI
CANADIAN BACON
ITALIAN SAUSAGE
CHOICE BEEF
FRESHLY DICED GREEN PEPPERS
SWEET ONIONS

™ SOUP OF THE DAY

CREAM OF POTATO
VEGETABLE BEEF STOCK
CHICKEN NOODLE
CREAM OF MUSHROOM
MINESTRONE

CLAM CHOWDER

PER
PERSON

Top 20 poll features

Wolverines,

By ANDY BARRON

In order to clutter the world of college
basketball with more opinions, The David-
sonian sports staff will have its very own
Top 20 basketball poll this season. This poll
exists due to the fanaticism toward college
basketball, both here at Davidson and
across the nation, on the part of the poll’s
participants. Anyone wishing to participate
in this poll should contact the sports editor
tor information.

And now, the first ever Davidsonian
Top 20.

(1) - Michigan - With everyone and more
back from last year’s 26-4 Big Ten champs,
including Mr. Everything, 6°10” senior
center Roy Tarpley, Michigan looks like
the team to beat. Michigan topped pre-sea-
son favorite Georgia Tech 49-44 with good,
physical defense. The Wolverines are
loaded.

(2) - North Carolina - Coach Dean Smith
has all the tools to bring Tar Heel fans
another national title. With four players
standing 6°10” or taller, led by Brad
Daugherty, no team in the nation has depth
underneath that which North Carolina pos-
sesses. UNC needs freshman Jeff Lebo to
live up to his press clippings and provide
some outside scoring to complement all that
power inside.

(3) - Georgia Tech - A loss to Michigan
dropped the Rambling Wreck from the top
spot, but Tech could be back on top before
long. In addition to a hoard of upperclass
talent, watch freshman star Tom Ham-
monds try to become Tech’s fourth straight
newcomer of the year in the ACC.

(4 tie) - Georgetown - Even without Patrick
Ewing the Hoyas are one of the nation’s
best teams. Coach John Thompson has
plenty of talent to throw at unsuspecting op-
ponents.

(4 tie) - Kansas - Powered by the inside
game of 611” Danny Manning and 7’1”
Greg Dreiling and the long-range bombs of
Ron Kellogg, Kansas ranks as the best team
west of the Mississippi River.

(6) - Duke - No one questions Duke’ talent,
which ranks among the nation’s best.
Whether or not Duke can win important
games is another question. Duke silenced a
lot of critics by winning the Big Apple NIT
already this year.

(7) - Syracuse - Dwayne (The Pearl)
Washington runs a talented Syracuse team
which is actually led by the nation’s least
recognized superstar, Raphael Addison.

(8 tie) - Memphis State - If Coach Dana

Tar Heels

Kirk and the Tigers aren’t locked away in
the dungeon of NCAA probation, look for
this squad to go far this season. Seven-foot
junior William Bedford ranks among the
nation’s best centers.

(8 tie) - Kentucky - Kenny (Sky) Walker is
the nation’s best player. New coach Eddie
Sutton has a good backcourt to help
Walker, but needs some more big bodies to
challenge the teams ahead of Kentucky.
(10) - Louisiana State - Coach Dale Brown
finds his team engulfed in controversy sur-
rounding possible improprieties concerning
Tito Hartford, a prize recruit no longer with
LSU. Still, Brown has plenty of talent, led
by 69” sophomore John Williams, and the
Tigers will battle Kentucky for the SEC
crown.

(11) - Oklahoma - With Indiana Pacer
Wayman Tisdale staying in Norman for his
senior year, the Sooners would be a Final
Four team. Even without him the run-and-
gun, scoring machine that is Oklahoma will
challenge Kansas in the fight for bragging
honors in the Big Eight and the West.

(12) - IHinois - This team has a reputation
for being chokers, but returns five starters
from last season’s 26-9 team.

(13) - Louisville - The Cardinals are young
and always have a torturous schedule. By
the end of the season, don’t be surprised if
Louisville ends up in the Final Four.

(14) - St. John’s - The way junior Walter
Berry plays, Redman fans might be saying
Chris Who? by the end of the year.

(15) - Navy - Dave Robinson grew to 6’ 11”
after entering Annapolis, a height that nor-
mally would prevent his being accepted.,
The Midshipman are happy he grew as he
has blossemed into one of the country’s best
centers.

(16) - Notre Dame - Another team that re-
turns five starters. Point guard Dave Rivers
is one of the nation’s best.

(17 tie) - Nevada-Las Vegas - The Running
Rebels scared North Carolina in Alaska and
should beat some more folks before the sea-
son ends.

(17 tie) - Alabama-Birmingham - Guard
Steve Mitchell leads three other returning
Starters from last year’s 25-9 team.

(19) - Auburn - Everybody, including All-
American Chuck Person, returns for last
year’s SEC tournament champs.

(20) - Maryland and North Carolina State -
Polls often produce ties (this week’s has
three). ACC player of the Year Len Bias
leads Maryland while sophomore Chris
Washburn must carry a young, but talented,
Wolfpack.
