Friday, January(| 1, 1985/The Davidsonian 5

Vaughn And Evans Run For Union President

Edwin Evans

The possibility of my being elected
Union President excites me tremend-
ously. The decision to run for a Union of-
fice has been an idea that I’ve flirted with
since freshman year. Unfortunately my
decision during sophomore year (two
years ago) to take a year off from school,
made it impossible for me to take an ac-
tive role as a Union committee chairman.
However, I’m back now and there’s no
reason why I should keep from focusing
my energy and excitement any longer.

I strongly believe that I have a firm
understanding of the role which the
Union President must play. I also feel
that I have the background, the ability
and the enthusiasm to fulfill that role. I
feel that if I am elected the Union could
continue to provide a wide variety of
quality social and co-curricular activities
for the Davidson community.

The role of the President is threefold.
Most importantly, the President is re-
sponsible for overseeing. and providing
initiative and energy to the various ac-
tivities and committees assuring that
each is fulfilling its role in the communi-
ty.

Secondly, the President, in conjunc-
tion with the vice-presidents, selects the
chairpeople which head the Union com-
mittees and serve as voting members of
the Union Board.

Finally, the Union President serves,
in an administrative capacity as head of
the Union Board and on the Union Policy
Committee, both of which determine the
overall direction of the Union.

My qualifications for this position are
very well suited to the criteria involved.
Probably the. most important qualifica-
tion that I have is my great enthusiasm to
do the job and do it well. Although I do
have good organizational skills, I feel
that a more important qualification
which I have is my ability to work well
with others. For instance, my travel ex-
periences last year in New Zealand and

Vaughn
Australia taught me the value of good lis-
tening skills in addition to requiring me
to work and live with many types of
people.

Through my experiences, I feel that I
have learned to put these skills to work to
motivate and encourage others when it is
necessary. Moreover, I feel verycomfort-
able and familiar within the Union
through my efforts with the Artist Series,
Games Committee, videos and numer-
ous other activities.

If I am elected I hope to continue the
excellent programs and format which the
Union has provided this year. However,
this coming year will be very different in
that almost the entire present Union
Board will be graduating this spring.
This will require a rekindling of leader-
ship, enthusiasm and motivation for new
committee chairpeople. In addition, I
would like to see more and more people
take advantage of opportunities which
the union has to offer.

The Union is a great place. It pro-
vides for the community socially and in-
tellectually and is primarily run by stu-
dents. I feel that with my leadership and
ability to incorporate enthusiasm and
good listening skills, you can insure that
you get a good Union.

Rob Vaughn

Last fall, the 900 Room just about
died. No pitchers, no freshmen — people
just didn’t go to the campus bar that
often. Revenues fell sharply. I thought

Evans
the room could be more attractive — like
a regular bar — and I thought of about a

jillion projects and programs. Some were
possible, and some weren't. Finally,

without any budget, I put some programs °

together that have been a lot of fun: Fri-
day Afternoon Club, Cinema and Draft,
Monday night football with wonderdogs,
and other evenings sure to offer more
than beer and darkness.

Why did I do this? Because — and I
say this without any self-congratulation
intended — I like to see good things
come to their potential. Of course, multi-
tudes are not flocking to the 900 Room,
but it’s much better. Someone had to put
his foot down to improve the atmos-
phere, and that foot was me.

For the Union Board to reach its po-
tential, it must be led by students, it must
be led by students who are both inter-
ested in the College’s betterment and
knowledgeable about how to attain it.
The interest proves most important —
fresh ideas flow from a true desire for
better social and extra-curricular envi-
ronment. I have proven my interest in the
college and enthusiasm for its improve-
ment through my work with R.A.C.E.,
the Nuclear Awareness Committee, the

PiKA fraternity, and the Union.

The interest bears ideas, but without
knowledge to implement my plans, ini-
tial enthusiasm quickly turns to frustra-
tion. My experience with the Union has
shown me some promising oppor-
tunities, and unfortunate restrictions —
now I’m more informed and still en-
thusiastic.

I rank what can be expected ftom the
Union Board on three tiers. The first that
I would expect next year, is that pro-
grams equal those of the current bbard.
Perhaps the new board can improve upon
what has been done before, and this con-
stitutes the second tier — duing things
bigger, better and more successfully.
Getting the fine points down quickly,
and moving on. I look for bigger speak-
ers, higher quality and more extensive
publicity, great bands, better food in the
café, more heavily attended big
weekends, and excellent films.

More generally, near perfect com-
munication with Patterson Court must
exist. Competition with the Court, espe-
cially in some areas, will result in failure.
To achieve these improvements, the
board must consist of talented and dedi-
cated people. Through my involvement
in other organizations, I can recognize
these people, and I would choose
talented and dedicated chairpersons. But
they must have a leader who doesn’t
allow stagnation, who insists on im-
provement, and whose satisfaction lies in
constant innovation.

With this leadership, the board could
realize its full potential, a potential that is
tier three. Tier three encompasses the
second tier — improving what the Union
Board has done before. But I would like
to see the initial interest that board mem-
bers show for the College maintained,
not only by programming for the Union,
but showing an_ interest in other campus
concerns and a desire to act on them.
Through their knowledge and positions,
board members could act as a sort of
militia ready to provide forums, speak-

ers, and support for campus concerns as
they arise. To keep motivation high, dy-
namic leadership is essential.

I offer this leadership for the board,
the ideas which fund its progress, the
breadth of interest to wider its appeal,
and the experience to make this work. I
see the great potential for the Union
Board, and I’m very excited about it.

Stout, Hobart Vie For Social Vice President

Frank Hobart

The job of Union social vice-presi-
dent will require someone who works
well with other people. Someone who is
a motivator can entice others to get in-
volved and contribute their time to make
the Union a representative organization
of the students. With the proper input the
Union can do an amazing amount of
things for Davidson College.

Throughout my _ two-and-one-half
years at Davidson I have participated in a
variety of activities. As a freshman hall
counselor I have learned the true mean-
ing of responsibility, but at the same time
I have gained the experience of planning
and coordinating social activities. My in-
volvement in SGA for the past two years
has given me insight into how students
and the administration get along to-
gether. And as an active member of SAE
fraternity and former house manager I
know what it means to get your hands
“dirty” if ithe job requires it.

Other activities include membership
with Students for Jim Hunt, College
Democrats, Trustee Contact Committee,
Self-Study Committee, Flickerball and
Le Team.

“Tf elected as Union social vice-presi-
dent I (1) hope to continue the fine job
that the ohters before me have done. This
year’s president and vice president have
brought the Union very close to the stu-

dent body and will no doubt be a hard act
to follow. (2) I hope to incorporate all
dorms and eating houses into the Union
activities with minimal scheduling con-
flicts. And (3) last but not least, I hope to
be able to inject my own creative think-
ing, however bizarre, into the total
Union program.

The role of Union social vice-presi-
dent is important but allows for a lot of
freedom. Social vice president is respon-
sible for selection of six committee
chairs: Concert Comm., Dance Comm.,
Intimate Performances, Pop films,
Davidson Outdoors, and Games Comm.
Membership to the Union board, Poly
Comm. and Coordinator of Big
Weekends are responsibilities as well. A
great deal of what the Union social vice-
president does is up to the individual who
holds the office. With my enthusiasm
and motivation I feel that I will do a more
than sufficient job.

The Union provides an excellent
place for students to cultivate numerous
interests outside of academics. As social
vice-president it will be my job to pro-
vide as many of these interests as possi-
ble. Your support is appreciated. Vote
Frank Hobart for Union social vice-pres-
ident on Jan. 15.

David Stout

On Tuesday, Jan. 15, there will be a
number of campus-wide elections held,

among these the post of Union Board
vice-president. The vice-president must
be diligent and responsible, aware of
campus needs, and above all, willing to
make a commitment to the school. This
commitment arises from a genuine need
to involve members of the campus in
those activities which reside outside the
curricular realm.

I believe I have the experience and

‘desire necessary to accomplish these

goals. For the past year I have acted as
social chairman for the Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity. Within this capacity I have
had to arrange, schedule and set up eve-
nts, and otherwise assume responsibility
for the many parties, bands and other so-
cial activities which have been deemed
necessary toward the promulgation and
continuation of fun.

I see my work for the fraternity as a
microcosm of what my job will consist of
should I be elected on Tuesday. The role
of the vice-president as I see it is twofold:
to work with the president in successfully
appointing chairpersons for the various
Union committees, and to work with
these committees and to coordinate with
Patterson Court in order to set up events
for the entire student body.

The only way to insure a successful
Union Board is to insure wider campus
involvement. Many of the people I have
talked to were not aware that there is a
Union Board; many did not know what it
does. The Union Board is responsible for
nearly all of the campus events which

occur outside of Patterson Court, from
fine films to campus dances, from speak-
ers, plays and musicals to the 900 Room.
Step one: recruitment and motivation of
people | feel would do a good job in the
various positions available.

As evidenced in the past, there is a
need for increased student awareness and
participation within the student power
structure. In getting more people inter-
ested in the many facets of the Union and
what it does for the campus, a successful
Union and thus a successful series of
campus events for the upcoming year
will also be insured. With an eager and
competent group of people working to-
gether, the Union can and will accom-
plish and unlimited array of campus eve-
nts, services and functions.

One of my primary objectives is to
preserve the status quo, that is to con-
tinue the excellent job which the Union
has done in the past. Yet there is also
great room for change and improvement.
With the proper allocation of people,
money, and consideration, coupled with
a desire to provide excellent campus eve-
nts for the students, the Union can im-
prove campus participation and
awarenesss, while at the same time pro-
vide anecessary, valuable campus ser-
vice.

I urge everyone to vote on Tuesday,
Jan. 15, in an effort to place the entire
campus’ choice in a position which re-
quires responsiblity, desire and commit-
ment. Thank you.
