10

Friday, November 1, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kevin Horan, Associate Editor

Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor

Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Richard Tankard, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Statement of Purpose

The recent visit of Dr. Roger Woods to Davidson has prompted ques-
tions concerning the College’s Statement of Purpose. Woods is a Pre-
sbyterian church official studying the relationships between Presbyterian
colleges and the church itself.

The Statement of Purpose is, in writing, the ideals of the College:
what it ought to be and the goals for which it should strive. Woods had
some problems with the statement and so do we. His main contentions
concern the wording of the statement. He said the biggest problem was
“with clarity.” He said there were “‘a lot of things mixed up together all in
the same paragraph.” Our problems with it are on a deeper level.

Upon reading the statement, questions arise in one’s mind: Is David-
son following its Statement of Purpose? Should the Statement be
changed so that it is current enough for the College to follow it?

The answer to the first question is no; the answer to the second is yes.

For Davidson to follow the statement, all members of the community
(trustees, faculty, administration, friends, and students) must follow it.
It reads: “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a col-
lege committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the
central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole
life.” A little over twenty years ago, the trustees tried to follow these sen-
tences exactly, A news release dated October 16, 1964 states: “Davidson
College trustees amended the by-laws of the College to require all its fac-
ulty to indicate belief in Evangelical Christianity in writing.” This
amendment met with very strong opposition and was never enacted. If
the same thing were tried today, it would be laughed at.

IF it is impossible to follow the Statement of Purpose exactly, then it
should not stand as an ideological goal which can never be achieved.
Realizing that a goal cannot be accomplished induces a defeatist attitude,
hence nullifying the purpose of the Statement.

We demonstrated above that the Statement should be changed. Some
may ask in what ways the Statement should be changed. If the Statement
is watered down to the point where it does not mention the Church or God
at all, then it is essentially breaking ties with the Church, and in doing so,
losing a part of its history. It might be sufficient for the statement to say
that the College has strong ties to the Church through its history, admin-
istration, faculty, and students.

Certain parts of the Statement, however, are very useful. Some sec-
tions of the Statement contain worthwhile goals which the College is
close to realizing: “In implementing its purpose to promote higher learn-
ing, Davidson has chosen to be a college, to maintain itself as a small
community of learners, to emphasize the teaching responsibility of all
professors, and to ensure the opportunity for personal! relationships be-
tween students and teachers.” .

We agree with Woods in his comment that Davidson is a “healthy in-
stitution.” A clear, concise and realistic-Statement of purpose would
make the college an even healthier institution.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
, pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $12
per year, or $23 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
’ able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Balf, Laura Batten, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea
Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, David Williams
Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris
Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Rand Hartsell
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, David Petranick, John Reuter, Sarah Smith
Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Kim Nikles
Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen
Keely, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben
Yarborough.

.. Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan, Laure Van Dier-
donck

Letters

Task Force

To the Editor:

In Dr. Kuykendall’s first few weeks as
the new President of Davidson College, he
set in motion a process which will have
great significance in the future of this in-
stitution. Following up on faculty, adminis-
trative, and student initiative of the previ-
ous year, Dr. Kuykendall put together the
Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns. The
Task Force was comprised of five students,
four faculty members, four administrators,
four trustees, and four alumni, and chaired
by Dr. John Griffith (Vice President for De-
velopment) and Dr. Bruce Jackson of the
math department. The purpose of the Task
Force was to study Davidson College’s his-
tory with respect to minority students, fac-
ulty, staff, etc., and to recommend strate-
gies which might help the school become
more responsive to the needs of minorities
in higher education. While the discussion
focused in particular on the black presence
at Davidson, it was fully acknowledged that
any suggestions could be applicable to other
minorities as well.

After several months of deliberations,
the Task Force published an 80-page report
of its findings and conclusions. The results
were sometimes discouraging, sometimes
gratifying, and sometimes promising. It
was discovered thaf, in the face of ever-in-
creasing competition at the national level,
Davidson College is not very likely to at-
tract minority students and professors.
Davidson is a small rural town and perhaps
does not have the type of social and cultural
diversity for which these sought individuals
would be looking. It was also discovered
that Davidson is not doing so poorly in com-
parison with other liberal arts colleges of
our caliber. In fact, we are doing better than
most; this is the encouraging aspect. The
promising part of the report was the discov-

‘ ery that Davidson College has many re-

sources at its disposal which have not yet
been tapped.

The Board of Trustees accepted the
Task Force’s report, adopting a policy
statement which outlines a new positive di-
rection for the future of Davidson College.
The Board allocated money and granted au-
thority to the Administration to follow
through on the proposed strategies. Re-
sponsibility now lies with Dr. Kuykendall,
the Admissions Office, the Dean’s Office,
the faculty, and the student body to ensure
that progress is made toward a new David-
son, a Davidson which is racially diverse
and racially aware.

This coming Wednesday, November
6th, we will have a valuable opportunity to
find out exactly the steps that have already
been taken, as well as the steps that are still
being planned, to implement the very pro-
gressive strategies proposed by the Task
Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns. Wednes-
day night in the 900 Room at 7:30, the
RACE (Racial Attitudes Concerning Ev-
eryone) Committee will sponsor a panel
discussion to address these issues. Panel
members will be: President John Kuyken-
dall, Vice President for Development John
Griffith, Acting Dean of Admissions Gard-
ner Roller Ligo, and Assistant Dean of Ad-
missions Paula Moore Miller.

These individuals will describe briefly
what they or their offices are doing and will
be prepared to answer any questions which
you may have. For those who have not seen
or do not remember what the Task Force
proposed, and would like to see and/or to
remember, copies of the Task Force report
are on reserve in the library and will be
available at the front desk of the Union. Stu-
dents, professors, staff, and administrators,
take advantage of this opportunity to find
out about the future of Davidson College.
Thank You,

Andrew Yon
