Sports Preview

Friday, September 13, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cross Country Team Runs Toward Nationals

By ANDY BARRON

To most Davidson students the town of Kenosha, Wis-
consin has little or no significance. But to the men’s and
women’s cross country teams, Kenosha represents the ulti-
mate goal: the NAIA National Championship for cross
country.

“We want to get the whole team qualified for nationals
this year,” said men’s captain senior Frank Hague. “Last
year several individuals qualified. This year we want ev-
eryone there.”

The men have a strong nucleus of upperclassmen and a
talented bunch of freshmen with which to reach Kenosha.
In addition to Hague, Rob Watkins and Taylor Simpson,
both seniors, and juniors Greg Foreman and Emil Cekada
should all have great years. Hague and Foreman went to
Nationals last year and intend to return. All of the above re-
turned in good shape and are ready torun.

A large number of freshmen have shown up for prac-
tices and several should make important contributions to
the team.

“I think four or five of the freshmen should help us,’

Hague commented. “If we can keep a lot of people inter-
ested in running cross country, we may form a junior var-

' sity squad to enable more people to run in meets.”

“We are very happy so many freshmen, both men and
women, have shown interest in the team,” coach Sterling
Martin said. “Our task now is keep those people interested.
We need patience to allow the freshmen to develope.”

The women’s team should once again have a strong
year. Unlike previous years when Martin handled both the
men’s and women’s teams, this season the women will be
guided by Sarah Patterson, who graduated last spring after
a fine cross country career at Davidson. Senior captain
Judy Dalton will provide additional leadership for what
will be a young, but talented team...’

“We have good people running with us this year,” Pat-
terson said. ‘‘We don’f have the experience that the men
have, but'evéryone is working hard and we should be fine.”

Dalton will be aided by a strong contingent of sopho-
mores. Kappa Peddy, Laura Fannin, Debbie Niles, Sarah
Longley, and Morrow Reaves all have a valuable year of
experience to aid them this season. Peddy and Fannin

joined Dalton in the women’s trip to Kenosha last year.
Longley transferred to Davidson this year after spending
last year at Baylor and is expected to be a big help.

- “Starting a week later than usual has hurt us some-
what,” Dalton said. “An extra week would allow us to be in
better shape and better prepared for our first meet.”

~ Davidson will run all its meets’ away from home this
season. This will make team selection more difficult since
fewer people will have a chance to run in meets.

“Team selection is difficult when we can’t give people
several chances to show what they can do,” Martin said.
“We hope to take a lot of people to our first meet and have
some sort of a time trial.”

“T think away meets bring out the best in people,” Pat-
terson said. “It keeps people hungry when they know they
have. to perform to keep their spot on the varsity.”

The varsity spots go up for grabs this Saturday at
Winston-Salem as Davidson opens both the men’s and
women’s seasons against Duke, Wake Forest, and DePaul.

NewFaces And Youth Dominate Held Hockey Team

By EDWIN PAGE.

If you watched a lot of Davidson field hockey last year,
you may be in for a bit of a surprise at the September 20
home opener because even t most dedicated of fans will
probably have to keep a roster handy to figure out exactly
who all of these people are in Davidson uniforms.

Only six of last year’s players return for this year’s edi-
tion of Wildcat field hockey and many of these familiar
faces will be in new positions. Although the team is a
young one, on the whole it boasts more experience than last
year’s 3-15 squad.

That team had a very experienced defense, but was
hampered by a very young offensive unit. This year the
situation has changed drastically. With the exception of
outstanding junior sweeper co-captain Heather McKee the
defense lacks experience. Junior Pam Harmon shifts from
forward to occupy the center halfback position and junior
Nana Lay trades in her skirt for the goalie gear. Freshmen

and new faces comprise the rest of the defense.

Despite this youth, coach Patty Daley expects good
play from the group. “They have the potential to be very
solid, but it may take a few games for them to develop.”
Lay has played well at her new position and Daley feels the
defense is improving constantly.

Up front the Cats have what should be a much improved
attack. Newcomer sophomore Susan Roarke will hold
down the left link (halfback) while Janet Bitter, and the
teams other captain Suzy Klineman will split their time be-
tween forward and right link. Freshman Margot Mims will
also help hold down the right link. Bitter and Klineman will
anchor the attack and new faces Margy Oliver and Katy
White will add much needed speed and depth tot the front
line.

Coach Daley called this “the best preseason I’ve ever
been through. The team’s conditioning and skills have im-
proved rapidly. They are putting more into it than ever be-

fore.”

Early in the preseason, the Cats saw their only action
thus far in a scrimmage with the fighting croutons of Pfeif-
fer. In the first half the young defense was riddled for 5
goals, but steadied and allowed only two more.

The Cats will be underdogs for much of the year, but
it’s a role Daley likes. With the greater intensity exhibited
by this squad and the continuing improvement she expects
during the season, she feels Davidson may well surprise
some people. If the defense solidifies quickly and the team
can avoid the injuries that decimated last year’s squad,
these underdogs just might turn vicious.

Klineman is optimistic about the team. “The new
players have a lot of talent. It’s only a matter of learning to
play as a team.”

The Cats open their season today at the University of
the South. Their first appearance at home is against the af-
formentioned Thousand Islanders of Pfeiffer.

The Variables And Constants Of Davidson Sports

By ANDY BARRON

If you are wondering why The David-
sonian published only a sports section this
week, ask Charlie Slagle. He had the
foresight (and the schedules) to let me know
that Davidson sports would begin well be-
fore school started and suggested a special
all-sports Davidsonian.

I said I would and here it is.

The strange thing about this particular
fall at Davidson with regard to sports is that
so many things are changing. Davidson
graduates of as recently as two years ago
wouldn't recognize the old place. The ath-
letic department has undergone a substan-
tial overhaul in the past year in the areas of
personnel, facilities and, most importantly,
conference.

Probably the most important change of
the last year has been the resignations of Ed
Farrell from first his position as athletic di-
rector and then as head football coach. Kit
Morris became the new athletic director last
January. One of Morris’ first tasks was to
find a new football coach. Vic Gatto eve-
ntually filled the last gap left by Farrell's
departure.

In the short time that they have been at
Davidson, both Morris and Gatto have
made their presence felt. Morris has been

Ofe the prime movers in Davidson’s deci-.

sion to join the new Colonial League for

football starting in the fall of 1987. This
move means Davidson will have to leave
the Southern Conference in all varsity
sports. This is a rather drastic move since
Davidson has been in the Southern Confer-
ence for about 50 years. Yet Morris feels
strongly about finding a conference where
strong academic standards are the rule
rather than the exception.

Gatto has only coached one football
game at Davidson, but if one game ever
made a difference to a school, Gatto’s debut
did just that. The apathy and pessimism that
surrounded the football team’s last two sea-
sons seemed to have disappeared last Satur-
day. Instead, hope and excitement made a
long-looked- for appearance at Richardson
Field. Gatto would be the first to say that
one game, especially a loss, doesn’t make a
season. Nevertheless, Davidson football fi-
nally seems ready to find the light at the end
of what has been a long, dark tunnel, if not
this year, than soon.

Two new facilities will make their debut
this year. Tomorrow the soccer team plays
on their new field for the first time. The
men’s and women’s tennis teams also have
a beautiful new indoor tennis building in
which to sharpen their skills during the
winter. The athletic department and the
board of trustees continue to discuss a pos-
sible new gym for the basketball team, but

4063.

College rep wanted
to work at this campus. Good income. For in-
‘formation and application write to: Allen
Lowrance, Director, 251 Glenwood Drive,
Mooresville, NC 28115 of call: (704) 664-

even if a new auditorium is given final ap-
proval, it will be several years before the
basketball teams leave cosy Johnston Gym.

Despite the many upheavals and seem-
ingly constant change, Davidson sports
faris will not feel a complete sense of aliena-
tion.

In addition to varsity football, soccer,
men’s and women’s cross country and
women’s field hockey, fall term means that
hallowed Davidson tradition, flickerball.
Long the cause of great confusion to
freshmen and the pride of the few who grasp
the sport’s many intracacies, flickerball is
still Davidson’s lone fall intramural sport.
I’ve always wondered why there wasn’t a
second IMAC sport in the fall. I guess flic-
kerball stands alone to force freshmen halls
to ban together and to give the up-

perclassmen a sure fire way to display their
superiority. Good luck freshmen and re-
member, if you don’t win this year, next
year YOU can beat some poor freshmen
hall.

There is still a wide variety of club
sports. Students interested in rugby, foot-
ball, soccer, volleyball and water skiing
should seek the appropriate club and start
playing.

Though the varsity and administrative
levels of Davidson athletics are going
through a major transition, some things will
probably never change. There is certainly
plenty of sports to keep the avid sports fan
and participant content.

By the way, if you thought this sports
extra was helpful in any way, be sure to tell
coach Slagle what a great idea he had.

wees VOOR

Davidson Students
Win A Giant Bear!

Register Every Time
You Visit In September

“3 THE VILLAGE STORE

= Everything To Make Your Room A Home!

ae i® |

teen oa a SAS

