Friday, February 1, 1985/The Davidsonian 3

College To Experiment With Locks On Dorm Doors

By TED WILSON

The Physical Plant may test several
dorm lock systems to determine the one
best suited for the College’s needs. In ad-
dition, SGA president John Laughlin
spoke last week with President John
Kuykendall concerning campus security.

Kuykendall said Davidson has been
contacting other colleges concerning
their dorm lock systems, and one or more
of the new dorms may be used to test dif-
ferent ones in the near future. Laughlin
said the locks would be installed “on an
experimental basis to see if they’re effec-
tive or if a different [system] should be
used” and to determine how many and
which dorms should have them.

Director of Facilities Planning
Grover Meetze said “if the decision is
made by the Dean of Students that this be
done we can look into the cost, fire code
requirements,” and other regulations. He
stressed that hall counselors and resident
advisors should make sure the locks on
individual doors work properly.

Meetze said an electronic-type lock-
ing system on adorma few years ago was
ripped off and destroyed by students,
who objected to it. He said as the dorm
visiting hours became “more flexible,
locked doors provided a problem.”

In other steps to increase security, the
Raised Awareness and Protection for Ev-
eryone (RAPE) Committee has or-
ganized a student group to “patrol the
campus and act as a deterrent and to re-
mind students about the constant need to
use common sense,” according to RAPE
chairperson Melissa McLemore.

The main functions of the organiza-
tion are to patrol dimly lit areas,
women’s eating houses, back dorms, the
gym area, and the campus perimeter; to
remind women walking alone to walk in

P.E. Grades

To Appear
On Transcripts

By RICHARD CLOUDT

A proposal could be approved that
would require grades from physical edu-
cation classes to be included on student
transcripts. According to Sterling Mar-
tin, Director of Physical Education, there
is now more room on transcripts to in-
clude extra information about the fulfill-
ment of P. E. requirements.

In the past, only a statement indicat-
ing whether or not P. E. requirements
had been completed was included on
transcripts. According to Martin, “Right
now your transcript only says whether or
not you’ve completed badminton. In the
future, it might state how you passed or
failed and how many classes you skip-
ped.”

Physical Education grades are in-
cluded on grade reports now and are re-
corded but are not included on the sheet
received by prospective employers.

The Faculty, Martin said, has not yet
commented on the issue. In the past,
however, faculty members have gener-
ally supported the proposal. “I can’t
speak for the faculty at this point in time
but they have been completely suppor-
tive of the proposal in the past,” Martin
said.

Another proposal recently made by
Dean of Students Will Terry, has met
disapproval in the science departments.
The proposal by Terry to start classes at
8:20 a.m. “may put an unfair burden on
approximately one-third of the student

pairs and to ask if they would like to be
escorted home; and to have the patrollers
and other students notify Bill Warner,
Kirk Gavel, or McLemore if they see any
suspicious individuals or events. McLe-
more said if the patrollers see a woman
walking alone, she will “simply be nicely
reminded that she should walk in pairs.”

The patrollers must stay in twos at all
times and are to call the city police (892-
5131) if they run into trouble, instead of
taking matters into their own hands. The
guidelines require that patrollers wear
identical arm bands, and anyone who
sees a patroller alone or two students
wearing different bands should call secu-
rity.

The patrols, which began last Mon-
day, send out student patrollers from 10
p.m. until 1:30 a.m. every night.

The SGA recently began a Student
Escort Service, in which student volun-
teers escort women from the library to
their dorms at night. However, accord-
ing to McLemore, the SGA is temporar-
ily discontinuing the service due to lack
of interest among women. “The escorts
aren’t being utilized,” she said, “so the
SGA is holding it [the Escort Service] off
this week, and if there is no bad reaction
to it stopping, it may not start again.”

McLemore said she’s proposing
other methods to improve security on
campus. “We're trying to set up escorts
for parties,” she said, as we have “major
problems happening after parties.” She
said the benefit is that “if a girl has been
drinking, she doesn’t have to rely on a
student who is drunk” to escort her
home. “If there is a problem, we know
who the escort is.” She said she had faith
that each fraternity would delegate two
guys to remain sober at each party to
serve as escorts; each brother would only

Professor John Williamson

body,” biology Professor John William-
son said. The proposal would, in part,
move many early and mid-morning
classes to the afternoon. According to
Williamson, this would create a domino
effect that would leave no time for early
afternoon labs. For science majors, the
proposal could mean having 4 or possi-
bly 6 p.m. laboratory sessions.

A ‘bug’ in the system the proposal
would eliminate is the 8 a.m. class. Wil-
liamson said not everyone wants an 8
a.m. class every term, but not many
would want a 4 p.m. class or lab. “We
need to define the norm and go with it,”
Williamson said, and added, “I think the
real world starts at 8 a.m. anyway.” He
said people are more coherent in the
morning than in the afternoon, and that it
is more preferable for many students to
get things out of the way early rather than
having to worry about them when the day
is almost over.

There has not been any action on the
part of faculty members concerning the
proposal so far.

Grover Meetze

have to volunteer about once a year.

McLemore said “we could have a
great improvement if we use what we
have more effectively.” She suggested
having security officers patrolling more,
going to the back dorms more often and
“being seen” by students. She also rec-
ommended increasing the brightness of
campus lights and adding more lights.

McLemore met Wednesday with the
Presidential Executive | Committee
whose members include Kuykendall,
and Dean of Students Will Terry. The
meeting “went wonderfully,” she said.
“They wanted to know how they could
help us” achieve our goals, “and were en-
couraging.”

Meetze said the administration “is
not resisting change. We want sugges-
tions as far as lighted areas and locks
go.” He said “we just put one light be-
hind the library to better light that area”
where the all-night study room is.
“We're looking at all areas,” he added.

Meetze said security is of utmost im-

portance to the campus. He added “there
is no evidence of any need to increase the
[security] staff.”’ He said “inadequate se-
curity doesn’t seem to be the problem.

We have adequate coverage. Additional
forces aren’t necessary at this time.”

Meetze recommended that the secu-
rity officers go into all the dorm lounges
regularly. A policy change adopted “by
the Dean of Students and the students,”
will be necessary to allow officers to go
into dorms without specifically being
called.

He emphasized the SGA is part of the
campus security force. The responsibili-
ty for security is two-prong: one is the
Dean of Students, [the other] the Phys-
ical Plant.”

He said if the College wanted to have
security to escort people, “we'd have to
determine how many we'd need, and
start a whole new department.” Hence,
he commends the work of the Student
Patrol for their work and “the SGA and
Students for their awareness. We're en-
thusiastic about their attitude — getting
out fliers and talking about it — that's
great.”

Meetze said ‘more students should
get involved in security. The most im-
portant involvement [of the] administra-
tion for students is with security.” He
said the best way to have direct contact
between the administration and students
concerning security is through the SGA
Security Committee. “they could explore
the situation [of security], look at the past
program and make recommendations to
the Administration.

Meetze said four guidelines will help
the security situation and help protect
students: (1) concentrate on patrolling by
Security in areas of student activity; (2)
take steps to reduce debilitating influ-

ence of alcohol or other drugs at social
activities; (3) lock doors; and (4) call the
police at 892-5131 immediately when
aware of suspicious situations.

Tom Wolfe Returns Here In

By JOHN GATHINGS

Noted author Tom Wolfe will return
to Davidson April 9 as the 1984-85
Reynolds Lecturer. Wolfe travelled here
five years ago to judge the Vereen Bell
writing awards and to speak at Spring
Convocation.

Gaining notoreity in the 1960s for his
satirical essays, Wolfe continues to focus
on the unusual aspects of topical sub-
jects. His books concern acid druggies,
the “well-known American Writer” X
and astronauts. His latest work is a serial
currently running in Rolling Stone
magazine entitled The Bonfire of the
Vanities. In the style of Charles Dickens
Wolfe is having his story published in
multi-chapter installments, spread out
over a year.

Not one to stick with traditional ap-
proaches, Wolfe is largely responsible
for popularizing New Journalism. In-
stead of reporting straight facts Wolfe in-
tersperses his reports with monologues
and scenes. English professor Cynthia
Lewis, chairperson of the Speaker's
Committee, said that Wolfe “has revived
journalistic writing from flat documen-
tary, stale style into energetic, contem-
porary, tense and exciting style.”

His personal style is as offbeat as his
literary style. Once popularly known as
“the man in the white suit,” Wolfe is
Selective with his wardrobe. Senior
Thomas Evans, a nephew of Wolfe, said
the author once wrote to his mother and
asked for a black shirt to distinguish him-
self from fraternity brothers dressed in
white shirts and ties.

Spring As Reynolds Lecturer

Underneath his controversial public
image, Evans said Wolfe is relatively
conservative, and agrees with many of
President Ronald Reagan's ideas. But
mostly, Wolfe's personal thoughts are
secret. Evans said, “I knew him, but I
never knew him that well. I'm just as fas-
cinated by him as everyone else is.”

Wolfe's career got off to a slow start.
After his undergraduate work at
Washington and Lee and graduate work
at Yale, Wolfe got only one job offer out
of 200 resumés sent to newspapers. The
next two decades were spent working on
essays, books, and his less-known art.
Wolfe draws caricatures. Evans said
Wolfe has a surprisingly good watercolor
he painted at age six.

The 53-year-old author 1s mamied
and has one daughter.
