14

There is more to Amadeus than music, sets

By LAURIE BALLENGER

Amadeus. A four-hour presen-
tation of classical music and
eighteenth century costumes. A
boring fine arts film. A movie of
poor acting and antiquated plot.
WRONG! Amadeus is the defini-
tion of A MOTION PICTURE.
What makes Amadeus fascinating
is its complex characters.

The story concerns the | 780s
rivalry between Salieri, court
composer of Emperor Joseph II of
Austria, and Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart, one of the most talented
musicians in history.

The story opens as Salieri sits
alone, old and neglected in an
asylum. He _ looks back to
memories of the past, to events
leading to Mozart’s death in 1791.
He cannot grasp the fact that he, a
pious religious soul is, in his own
words “the patron samt of medioc-
rity” while “God speaks through
that infantile creature.” Even
more ironic is that it is Salieri, not
Mozart, who achieves fame and
fortune. But the court composer

realizes Amadeus’s genius and
knows that Mozart’s “voice of
God” will endure much longer
than his own fleeting fame in the
feeble court of Vienna. Overcome
by jealousy the sly Salieri sets out
to destroy the young genius.
What makes Amadeus a film
to see? Not the sets, even though
there are magnificent Czechos-
lovakian palaces. Not the cos-
tumes, even though the wigs are
hysterically funny and the tapes-
tries and brocades beautiful. It is
the realistic characters and, of
course, the complex plot itself.
Salieri (F. Murray Abraham)
appears to be crafty, sly, unattrac-
tive, unethical — well, basically,
a slime. But as the story unfolds
we can understand his utter frust-
ration more easily. He is doomed
to listen to beautiful music which
he can appreciate but not produce,
and he lives long enough to see his
own short-lived fame eclipsed by
his rival. Mozart (Tom Hulce) can
be arrogant, infantile, smutty, and
he possesses a giggle of incompar-

able obnoxiousness. But we can
also understand his faults. He is
simply so brilliant that he cannot
help his arrogance; in fact, he
doesn’t even realize when he’s
being insulting.

Mozart’s wife Constanza also
deserves recognition. While she
can also be childlike, her plucky
practicality and devotion to her
husband make her a memorable
character.

Before Milos Forman made
the motion picture, Amadeus was
a hit Broadway play. The film is
more elaborate (this is expected
— after all, you can do a lot more
in a movie), and Salieri inspires a
bit more sympathy.

See it! Laugh at Mozart’s gig-
gle, commiserate with Constanza,
watch Salieri plot and listen to the
music of one of the great masters.
But above all, you will have seen
A MOTION PICTURE.

Amadeus will be shown Dec.
13 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium
and Dec. 14 at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.

in Love Auditorium. ie
Tom Hulce as Mozart.

Thursday, December 12, 1985 THE DAVIDSONIAN-

Depository Libraries...

Your Source
0
Government

Information

Information from the Federal Government — on subjects
ranging from agriculture to zoology—is available at more

The Federal Depository Library Program.

than 1,380 Depository Libraries throughout the United States.

After you're done with }
school, you face one of
the hardest lessons in life:

Call 800-257-1200* ext. 806 —
or mail the coupon — and start your
a subscription to The Wall Street

Without experience, Journal at student savings of up
it’s tough to get a job. And to $44 off the regular subscrip-
without a job, it’s tough to : tion price.
get experience. t's a pretty generous offer.

At The Wall Street Especially when you consider
Journal, we recognize that expe what it actually represents.
rience is something you don't ‘ Tuition for the real world.
start earning until graduation.

But while you're waiting, we Can ie
give you a head start by providing ‘Tosubscribe,call 800-25+1200; |
some of the same competitive | ext. 806 toll-free. |
advantages that experience brings.

7 gr mail to. The Wall Street Journal, 200 Bumett Road.
| hucopee. MA U1021
CO Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $65 —a
saving uf SA off the regular subscription price
O Send me 15 weeks for $26 C Payment enclosed |

For instance, our wide-ranging
news coverage gives you a clearer
understanding of the whole complex

© Bill me later
world of business. Name |
Our tightly focused feature re- Student |.D # Grad. Montly Ye

porting pre you for your more | ~ |
s ambitions — ye whether | in Ry Address

management, it, accounting, finance, g | cv ——— Stare —_— Zip |
technology, marketing or small School Mavor —

DUSIESS hana Tap ue |

our in-dep ysis helps
you formulate your ideas na | The Wall Street Journal. |

sharper and more persuasive way.

“in Pennay tania call BOU 227 3380 ext 806 C1985 Dow Jones & Company. Inc

camp thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in theit physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr., Direc-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Shalom
Bike & Hike

HIKING OR BIKING IN THE HOLY LAND

Christian camping trips in Israel. Easter thru October

1986. 11-21 days. $1485-2115 includes RT air and
meals. Shalom Bike & Hike, 8689 16-Mile Rd, Cedar

Springs, MI 49319. (616)696-3487.

