2

-News Summary-

Planning report forthcoming

A planning report will be released within the next month by the
Strategic Planning Task Force. The report will outline the strengths
and weaknesses of Davidson and the task force’s plan for the college
over the next 10 to 15 years. -

The board of trustees requested the report. College President
John Kuykendall established the task force.

The task force worked first to identify strengths and weaknesses
of the college and later identified potential threats to the school, ac-
cording to junior Mark Sandy, a student representative on the task
force. Finally, the task force developed strategies to deal with the
threats.

The task force examines issues from every aspect of the school,
according to Sandy.

“The impact the report will have is really up to the trustees. We
will present the report to them which will be about 40 pages long,
and it’s for them to act upon. They may not necessarily agree with it,
but they'll determine what happens as a result,” Sandy said.

The task force includes one trustee, two alumni, five faculty
members, six members of the administration, including Kuyken-
dall, two student representatives and one strategic planning consul-
tant.

Sandy said he expects the report to come out within two weeks.
The task force plans to announce a campus-wide forum on the find-
ings of the report after the report is published.

Elections council revises bylaws

The elections council recently revised the SGA bylaws concern-
ing student elections for the first time since 1974, according to elec-
tions council chairman Mickey McDonald. The council formally
eliminated offices which no longer exist and changed the responsi-
bility of attending the candidates’ meeting from the elections coun-
cil to the student candidate.

In addition to the bylaws revisions, the elections council stres-
sed particular guidelines during this year’s election because of eve-
nts occurring in last year’s election. McDonald said the primary
problem with last year’s elections was an incident in which a car
parked in front of Chambers was used as a campaign tactic. Though
the candidate had the permission of Davidson Public Safety Director
Jackie Hughes and promptly removed the car when asked, the five-
member council wanted to prevent further incidents in which cam-
pus regulations may be violated.

McDonald said he has difficulty clearly presenting the ground
rules to candidates without being overbearing. At Davidson, in par-
ticular, because of its commitment to the honor code, it is important
that nothing occur which is “against the spirit of the rules or of
Davidson.”

The election revisions included in the revisions were recently
approved by both the Senate and the Davidson student body and
now await approval from the trustees and president. The elections
revisions are in section six of the SGA bylaws and can be found in
the SGA offices of the Student Union.

Information from the
Federal Government on
subjects ranging from
agriculture to zoology is

Depository collection
without charge.
To find one in your
area, contact your local

available at Depository _library or write to the

Libraries across the Federal Depository

nation. Library Program, Office
You can visit these of the Public Printer,

libraries and use the Washington, DC 20401.

8)

Federal Depository
Library Program

Friday, January 24,

1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students see Tutu speak

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Nearly thirty Davidson stu-
dents traveled to Durham Sunday
to hear Bishop Desmond Tutu
speak at Duke University Chapel
concerning his opposition to apar-
theid in South Africa. Tutu is pre-
sently touring the United States in
a campaign to raise funds for the
nonviolent efforts of the South Af-
rican Council of Churches at
abolishing apartheid.

After standing in line for
nearly two hours before the Duke
Chapel doors were opened to the
public, students found they would
have to wait another hour and
forty minutes inside the Chapel
before Tutu arrived at Duke after
debarking from a previous speak-
ing engagement at Ebenezer
Church in Atlanta, where Martin
Luther King was pastor.

Students were rewarded by
their wait when the overflow

crowd of 2000 gave Tutu, reci-
pient of the 1984 Nobel Peace
Prize, a five-minute-long standing
ovation as he marched down the
aisle while the organ trumpeted
“How Firm a Foundation.”

Tutu focused his 20-minute
speech to North Carolinians on the
power of the Church in abolishing
apartheid in South Africa and in-
justice everywhere. He said: “I
come to say ‘thank-you’ for your
wonderful love, caring and sup-
port. I use words that are utterly
inadequate to express my thanks,
but I know that I do speak on be-
half of millions when I come ex-
pressing their thanks for your
prayers, your love and your up-
holding of them.”

Tutu emphasized that the
Church in the United States has
provided much hope to the op-
pressed black South Africans:

“You and I know what it means to
belong to the Church of God and
to know that you have brothers
and sisters. We have known what
it means to be surrounded by a
wall of fire.”

The bishop expressed his hope
that “the ugliness of this world, its
pain and anguish” can soon be
transfigured. “There cannot be
freedom for anyone, until all are
free,” he said. “We have been to
the mountaintop and have seen the
promised land — that God has
given us — anew South Africa, so
that all of us, black and white, can
say, ‘Free at last! free at last!’

Tutu has been at odds with the
white South African government
and with American opponents of
economic sanctions against South
Africa because of his views.

College Chaplain Charlie
Summers sponsored the trip.

Adair speaks on peacemaking

By ANDY BALL
“Drink deep of past history to
see the folly and results of war.

See the points of intervention and -

see how the course of history
could have been changed.”

Dr. Thelma Adair delivered
this message in Wednesday’s
Open Luncheon. She said that her
speech, titled “The Strategies of
Peacemaking,” drew upon her
own personal experiences and ob-
servations in order to address is-
sues such as racial and sexual dis-
crimination and the growing em-
phasis on military development
throughout the world. Rather than
treat these subjects separately, she
asked the audience to consider
them in the same light. .

“People need to see the inter-
relatedness between racism,
sexism, materialism and
militarism,” Adair said. The solu-
tion to these problems, she added,
lies both within the individual and
within the gtoup. She emphasized
the need for effective coalitions of
individuals all united toward a
certain goal, citing the civil rights
movement of thé 60s, led by the
late Martin Luther King Jr., as a

prime example. A recent visit to a
classroom of small schoolchil-
dren, both black and whites, con-
vinced her of the success of such
coalitions. “I have seen ‘the
dream’ visible,” she said.
Concerning world peace,
Adair said mankind must
“". . try to become sensitive to
the ultimate terror we face from
the possibility of a nuclear war, so
sensitive that we are willing to
find out ways of speaking out

Dr. Thelma Adair speaks in the 900 Room.

against such.” She added, “AlI-
though we must maintain secu-
rity, we must also find a voice to
say ‘no!’”

Adair urged the audience to
exercise their right to vote as an
effective voice for peace: “The
power of your vote is there. It is
the gift of America and your most
priceless possession.” She said,
‘People need to contrive to say
that fragile planet earth does not
deserve to be destroyed.”

by

%

New campus emergency phone at police hut. To use the phone, lift the receiver and wait
for the dispatcher to answer. Tell the dispatcher where you are and what you need. This
phone can be used anytime a Davidson police officer is needed. ;

= aetna at
a &

ia ah or ‘ge j
Cod

Robert Nesbit

Robert Nesbit

