8
Who's on first?

Some more awards for college bowl games

By ANDY BARRON

This holiday season allowed college
football junkies a seemingly endless sup-
ply of their favorite pastime. Though Ok-
lahoma won the Paul “Bear” Bryant
trophy as the national champions on New
Year’s Day by beating Penn State in the
Orange Bowl, the Sooners were the
achievers of note over the holidays’
bowl-game marathon. In recognition of
some truly memorable and forgettable
accomplishments, here are some awards
you won’t see anywhere else.

The Much More Exciting Game
than Anticipated Award — The All-
American Bowl which saw Georgia Tech
drive for a touchdown with only a minute
to go to beat Michigan State 17-10.Tech
won despite the fact that starting quarter-
back John Dewberry and two first-string
receivers had been suspended from play-
ing. Honorable Mention — Army’s 31-
29 win over Illinois in the Peach Bowl.

The Sominex Substitute Snooze-
Bowl Award — Alabama’s penalty-rid-
den 24-3 Aloha Bowl win over 6-6
Southern California.

The Lack of Sportsmanship Award

camp thunderbird

— Texas A & M coach Jackie Sherrill for
scoring on the last play of the Cotton
Bowl despite the fact that the Aggies
were already beating Aubum 29-16.

The New Year’s Day Goat Award
— Towa State running back Ronnie Har-
mon cost his team any chance of winning
the Rose Bowl by fumbling four times
and dropping a pass in,the end zone.
UCLA beat Iowa 45-28.

The John Cappaletti Overachiever
Award — Air Force, a team with no
players recruited actively by other
schools, finished 12-1 after beating
Texas 24-16 in the Bluebonnet Bowl.

The Can’t Win All the Time Award
— Penn State quarterback John Schaffer
saw his 54-game streak of winning every
game he started since seventh grade come
to an end in Penn State’s 25-10 Orange
Bowl loss to Oklahoma.

The Big Choke Award — Arizona.

field goal kicker Max Zendejas, who had
been a hero many times before, missed a
39-yard field goal that would have won
the Sun Bowl for Arizona. Instead,
Arizona tied Georgia 13-13. Honorable
Mention — The Miami Hurricanes.

The Rather Be Inside Watching It
On TV Award — To Illinois and Army
for their Peach Bowl battle in the mud,
rain and cold in Atlanta. Though the
teams toughed it out and played, most of
the fans stayed home, thereby baring ap-
proximately the same number of seats as
the Atlanta Braves left empty last Sep-
tember.

‘The Waste of Time and Money

Award — To the Orange Bowl halftime .

show which lasted about 45 minutes and
must have cost a fortune. The only good
thing about this extravaganza was that
fans watching the game on TV got some
time to watch the Sugar Bowl on another
channel.

The Barcardi Bowl Memorial Un-
necessary Game Award — In honor of
the above bowl game that saw only one
playing in Puerto Rico, this award could
actually go to about a half-dozen games.
The winner is the Holiday Bow! with the
Rose Bow! as honorable mention.

The Conference Domination
Award — The Big Ten has now won 11
of the last 12 and 15 of the last 17 Rose

To Everyone Who Contributed to
The First Ever

Union/ Davidsonian
Canned Food Drive

We Raised Over $200 and Collected
70 Cans Of Food For Crisis Assistance

4

Bowls over the Pac-10 despite the fact
that 11 times in the 17 years the Big Ten
has had the higher ranked team. This year
13th-ranked UCLA destroyed fourth-
ranked Iowa 45-28.

The Good As His Older Brother
Award — Michigan’s Jamie Morris,
brother of the New York Giant’s
superstar running back Joe Morris,
rushed for 156 yards on 27 carries to aid
the Wolverines’ 27-23 win over Neb-
raska in the Fiesta Bowl.

The Barry Switzer Blow Your Own
Horn Award — Miami coach Jimmy
Johnson spent so much effort saying how
his team should win the national cham-
pionship if Penn State lost, that he failed
to lead his team to victory in the Sugar
Bowl. Tennessee humbled Miami 35-7,
clearing any controversy over who
should be the national champion.
Switzer, who mouthed his way to an
Orange Bow] loss to Washington last
year, kept quiet and won the national
championship this season. Better luck
next year Jimmy.

Friday, January 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

=—k.

4 2 42 40 4 42 49 49 49) 49 49 42 4 4 4

. Buy ONE Sandwich

Sub or Sandwich Roll

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr. , Direc-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, $.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

\ Get SECOND at HALF PRICE

(Second must be same or lesser price.)
yor’ coupon per order Coupon expires Jan. 18, 1986 \
Located between
1-77 & Cashion’s
\ In Cornelius

. RMichaels |

\ ELS \

yMon.Thurs. 10-8 p.m... Fri. & Sat. 10-8: oem
ee ee aa

892-4033Carryou

