8
Sports Page

Friday, October 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Covington National offers golfing fun for all

By EDWIN PAGE

Covington National Golf Links. Stirs
the imagination doesn’t it. Yes, we at
Davidson have in our own back yard a
veritable championship caliber, albeit
three hole, golf course. And yet, it seems
that the general population of the student

body is ignorant of this wonderful re-
source.

Ever since school cranked up, it has

. been almost a daily ritual for my friends
and me to visit CNGL after nearly every

| meal. What could be more relaxing to the
digestive tract after a meal than a quick
three out in the fresh air.

Although I hesitate to point out the
fun available on Covington National for
fear that it may become overcrowded, |
feel it to be almost a civic duty. There-
fore, I have decided to provide a sort of
guide to Covington for those who have
yet to discover its subtleties.

Covington National can be found just
off Patterson Court, up the gravel road
leading to the baseball field. It is a conve-
nient walk from any dorm and.a short

b drive for the lazy members of the golfing
crowd.

A sign identifies the course as the
“Covington Golf Facility.” This is a mis-
print and should not cause undue confu-
sion. The course you see is indeed
Covington National.

Before teeing off, as is the case at any
fine course, there are a few rules of pro-
tocol that should be observed. The first is
the dress code. Weather permitting,
males are expected to wear nothing be-
sides shorts. Shirts and shoes are frowned
on by the discriminating player. For
females, these rules are altered slightly,
but the spizit is the same.

Secondly, it is looked on as a serious
breach of etiquette to carry a golf bag. No
more than four clubs and a putter are nor-
mally used, but this is not a firm number.

These two basic rules should suffice
for the beginner until he or she acquires a
feel for the aura of the course.

Now for a brief outline of the course:

Number One: The shortest hole on
the course, but a good starting hole. It is
120 yards downhill, and usually requires '
an eight iron. Don’t be fooled by the sim-
ple appearance of this hole, because

danger lurks at every turn. A small patch
of trees shades the left side of.the green
and trees line the right side waiting to de-
vour any shank. A bunker guards the
front of the green and greenskeepers and
cushmans are always an_ obstacle.
Perhaps the most dangerous hazard is not
to be detected from the tee. Many a seem-
ingly perfect shot has disappeared when
the ball burrowed into the soft green
never to be seen again.

Number Two: The only par four on
the course, this hole can, however, be
reached ,with a solid wood shot. This is
also the most dangerous hole on the
course. Any tee shot that fades even
slightly will find its way into the road or
beyond. An errant second shot may find
its way into the WDAV studio. This is an
89.9 stroke penalty and tends to ruin even
the best round. Any shot over the green
will bring shouts of “What day is it?
Arbor Day!” from your playing partners.
Failure to cross the road in one shot
brings a penalty worse than any number
of strokes, but decorum prevents elabora-
tion.

Flickerball season comes to a close

Number Three: The most dangerous ~
hole on the course for the members of the
baseball team. Trees line the right side
and the-really bad shot will end up as a
deep fly to right field. One of the most
serious hazards here is the potential law-
suits that might result from the families of
any deceased right fielders. The same
group of trees that guard number one
come into play again. The two-tiered
green is the most treacherous. on
Covington.

On a very empty day, this hole can be
turned into a long par four by hiking to
the back of the soccer practice field to tee
off. Unless the course is completely |
empty, this variation is ‘not recom-
mended.

Covington National provides a great
outlet for those afternoon study breaks as
well as a challenging layout for the seri-
ous golfer. Get out and play before word
gets around. Pretty soon you may have to
call for tee times or buy tickets to watch
the pros play.

I wonder if Augusta National started
like this.

By JILL BOYETTE season play this week. Finally, the baseball team will require that each team pick a tion women’s game (hopefully
Men’s flickerball ends this. Basketball ‘season will offi- not be officiating IMAC basket- member to be aref during the sea-  about’3:15). Bring your parents to
Sunday. Tournament brackets cially ‘begin with. three-on-three ball this year. There is a possibil- son (there will.be a space on the the stadium so they can finally see

will be posted Sunday night in
Chambers and in the gym, tourna-
ment play begins Monday.

The top 16 men’s teams will
play single elimination for the first
round. The final eight teams will
play double elimination beginning
Sunday, Nov. 9.

The top eight woman’s teams

* will begin round one on Nov. 9
after they conclude their regular

games after Thanksgiving. Ros-
ters will be available on Wednes-
day, Nov. 3, and they are due in
the IMAC office at 4 p.m. on Fri-
day, Nov. 14.

There are several changes in
IMAC basketball this year. First
of all, a minimum of ten players is
required for each team roster. Sec-
ondly, the $10 entry fee is non-re-
fundable.

loses to Furman

By MIKE ADAMS

The Davidson women’s vol-
leyball team split a pair of matches
this week, winning at Queens Col-
lege and losing at Furman.

The Lady Cats wrapped up the
win at Queens on Saturday in
three games: 15-10, 15-13 and 15-
7. Coach Sue Hayes said, “We
played better than the last time we
played them.”

“Davidson used a different of-

served 12 consecutive points in
the second game.

Against Furman on Tuesday,
the Lady Cats had what Hayes
galled an “off night” in falling 15-

| 15-6 and 15-0. Davidson was
hurt by the absence of two
players,.senior Ellen Harding and
junior Julia Cardwell.

“Furman is a very good team,”
said Hayes. She added that the
Lady Cats had difficulty picking

ity that some of the-assistant foot-
ball coaches may ref, but thay
cannot start until mid-January.

IMAC needs all students, fac-
ulty and staff members who are
capable and interested in officiat-
ing for intramural basketball to re-
port to the IMAC office and sign
up for the referee clinic. There
will be a small salary for officiat-

ing. As a precaution, IMAC will |

Volleyball beats Queens,

Announcing... —

roster for the designated referee).
If there is a lack of referees, then
we will pool these team refs and
choose them randomly to officiate
games.

KA meets PiKA this Saturday
at 2:00 on the football field for an
exhibition flickerball game and
they will be followed by a Crabs-
Rusk game. Club football will
play immediately after the exhibi-

The Re-Opening Of |
HAIR DESIGNERS ——_
STUDIO

Now taking appointments
Mon.-Sat. 9-5

what Davidson flickerbal! is all
about.

Rankings:

Women: 1)Rusk Insatiables
2)Warner Hall 3)The Glubbies
4)Cream of the Crop 5)Deja Vus.

Men: 1)Between_Your Buns
2)KA Gold 3)Drop & Give 4)Der-
bydar 5)Stob Session 6)Not off
the top of my Head 7)Ragin’ Tra-
jins 8)The Gods 9)Booze Brothers
10)The Buschmen

fensive set than early in the sea-

—Opening November 10th--

. . up the hit out of the middle.
son. Senior Bonnie Bolton
___switched from hitter to setter and
—> sophomore Maria Douglas moved Elder and freshman Sarah

from setter to hitter.

Junior Beth Elder, whom
Hayes calls a much improved
player, played well on both the
front line and as a server. She

-Johnson served well and scored all
of the Davidson points in the sec-
ond game. Senior Michele Miller

played very well as a hitter and led ©

the Cats stronger effort in the sec-
ond game.

Call 892-8894

Corner of Hwy. 115 and Faith Rd.

