14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
David Williams, Associate Editor
Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor Will Thomason, Business Manager
Heidi Hooker, News Editor Bill Bugg, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager
Will Mitchell, Dan Rikard, Circulation Manager
Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Vandalism

The recent rash of vandalism on campus has made us wonder why
anyone would want to wreak such unnecessary havoc. There is no reason
to vandalize. It ruins communal property, mars the school’s reputation as
a place of honor and it really ticks people off. Lately vandalism on cam-
pus has gone well beyond the bounds of “harmless fun,” if vandalism can
ever be called such. The list of casualties includes lampposts, vending
machines, the beloved Chambermaids, and a $40,000 sculpture. It’s
about time this senseless destruction came to an end.

The damage done to the sculpture is the most disturbing of these inci-
dents. This work of art, created by George Rickey and entitled Four
Open Rectangles Diagonal Jointed II, was “redone” by someone who
disliked it as originally presented. The college must take the responsibili-
ty for this irresponsible action. Damage was estimated as $20,000,
which the college’s insurance will pay. The insurance premium will be
raised, and hence our tuition in all likelihood will be raised. Whoever
damaged the sculpture must have felt that we were not paying enough
tuition. You, the vandal, may just (actually should) receive a bill for two
years’ worth of tuition.

“Yeah, but I was drunk” may be your response. Do us all a favor and
quit drinking: you will save some money for both yourself (no liquor
costs when you’re sober) and the other students, if indeed you are a‘stu-
dent. Whether you like it or not, the sculpture was a work of art — if you
did not admire it, you could have voiced your opinion in many other
ways (maybe even in The Davidsonian’s opinions section. )

People who have taken enough time to look up at the so-called
‘““Chambermaids” may have noticed that they have grown facial hair. Ha
ha, very funny. Since you (the person who did it) were agile enough to
climb up there and blacken the stone faces, why don’t take another trip
up to those lofty heights and clean them off? They too, believe it or not,
are works of art.

This anonymous vandal seems to be awfully hungry, also. For the
third time this year, acandy machine has had its glass shattered and all of
its candy stolen. So you had the “munchies” but not 40 cents. Certainly
you could have borrowed the money. Kick the glass in a few more times
and maybe the machines will be removed. Those of you who gleaned the
remaining candy and shoved your pockets full are just as guilty.

Our point is clear and has been made many times. Chances are stu-
dents performed most, if not all, of these acts of vandalism. If so, consid-
er how these actions violate not only the Code of Responsibility, but also
the rights of your fellow students to have sculptures, lampposts, and
candy machines on campus without someone destroying them.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith Finch, Andrea Gross, Jeff
Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Margot Mims

Features Staff: Andy Ball, assistant features editor, Laura Ballenger, Mark Chen, Lee
Kichelberger, Trey Jammes, Martha Johnson, Jenny Livingston

Sports Staff: Darryl Bego, Emil Cekada, Pam Harmann, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee, David Pet-
ranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Kim Crabtree, Clisby Hall, Holly Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kris Kost,
Kim Robertson, Margaret White, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Laure Van Dierdonck

Wednesday, March 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AND PERFECT AND
LOVE THE HOWOR
Cope AND MY

TEAM \S NUMBER

one AND DAVID-
SON \S THE
BEST SCHOOL IN

THE WORLD AND...

N
\\ W AY

SE ME, MR.
DAVOSON StuoENT! '¢
youre STANDING = ,/)
ONY FOOTIE 1//)

Letters

Tennis

To the Editor:

During the spring term, we once again
want to invite the Davidson family to use
the Knobloch Tennis Center. The hours for
spring term are 7 — 10 p.m. each night of
the week. On rainy days the Center will
probably be open in the afternoon also. °

To reserve a court, simply call 892-
2000, extension 438, any evening between
7 and 10 p.m. Again I would like to urge ev-
eryone to take advantage of this great facili-
ty and opportunity.

Thank you.

Jeff Frank, Director of Tennis

League(?)

To the Editors:

Editors note: this letter was originally sent
to College President John Kuykendall and
was submitted for publication by the au-
thor,

If you are anything like me, you are still
floating on that cloud that arose from the
Asheville Civic Center when Gerry Born hit
his 23-foot jump shot to win the Southern

Conference Championship for the David- *

son College basketball team. Truly, it had
to be one of the greatest moments in sports
history for Davidson College. I don’t think I
will ever forget it. Finally, after 16 long
years, we are back in the NCAA where we
belong.

However, my enthusiasm and excite-
ment has been short-lived when I came to
the realization that although we committed
ourselves to play football in the Colonial
League, beginning in the fall of 1987, the
college still has made no commitment to
any other league for all other sports. I have
talked to many alumni, both during the
tournament festivities and after, and every-

one is extremely upset that we are losing our
affiliation with the Southern Conference. |
know we are competitive in the Southern
Conference in basketball, tennis, golf, soc-
cer and other sports; football is the only los-
ing proposition. With these alumni I have
discussed the possibility of scholarships for
football. I sincerely believe that if Davidson
remained in the Southern Conference and
competed for the football crown, it could
use the money it will expend in traveling to
all of the “away” games in the Colonial
League to give 10 to 15 scholarships based
on athletic ability in football, which should
be enough to make us competitive in the
Southern Conference. For instance, look at
how well the football team did against Fur-
man a few years ago in what was a wild-
scoring affair.

With the ambitious plans Davidson has
for a new basketball arena, I cannot foresee
success in such an arena if we take the road
of dropping to Division II status in basket-
ball, or becoming an NAIA school. A
strong conference affiliation in Division I
basketball is a must! Without that, I do not
see how Davidson can expect an increase in
fund giving from alumni to make possible
the building of the.new basketball arena; to
make a basketball program successful at
Davidson; and to keep the calibre of coach
that we now have. In my opinion, Coach
Hussey coached the best three games I have
ever seen him coach when he coached those
at the Southern Conference Tournament
this year. We don’t want to lose him now! If
he has another good year in the Southern
Conference and possibly wins the tourna-
ment again, and Davidson does not have a
strong conference affiliation or has decided
to step down in its level of basketball, I can
see the handwriting on the wall; Coach Hus-
sey would be an extremely valuable com-
modity at a Division I school, and, quite
frankly, | would not blame him at all for
stepping on to such a position if such an op-
portunity arose after next year.

It has to be a detriment to recruiting for
basketball, or for any other Sport as far as

