Shel Robinson and John McNeill

Edwin Page’ S quote “What, were they (the trustees)
thinking? Maybe they weren’t,”” may be the quote of 1986:
Now Davidson’s athletic administration has decided to re-
duce presently competitive minor sports like soccer, ten-
nis, basketball and baseball to oblivion. The thrill of win-
ning the Southem Conference basketball tournament and
playing in the NCAA’s or beating Duke in soccer will now
be replaced by exhilarating victories against the Campbell
Camels or Winthrop Eagles. Our football team will face
overbearing competition in the Colonial League while in-
curring enormous travel expenses. On the social scene the
North Carolina Legislature has decided to raise the drink-
ing age to 21 thereby effectively achieving increaséd drunk
driving situations for the Davidson community. The Self-
Selection Committee and CCRL have proposed a new Pat-
terson Court policy that reduces freshmen to pre-adolescent
status and contributes to inter-class separation. The campus
is pushing toward the Perimeter Houses for social release as
a reaction to short sighted planning thereby jeopardizing
the existence of off campus houses and increasing poor re-
‘lations with the town. Go Davidson!

More specifically the community has been presented
with a Hall Counselor. viewpoint of the new PC policy as
well as another rendition of a Don Quixotish charge for the
abolition of fraternities. As former hall-counselors, mem-
bers of the honor council, and Davidsonophiles we have
decided that now is the time to think about where we are
going.

Steve Soud’s reprinted article, “A call for the abolition
of fraternities” is mixed with good and bad. On the positive
side there were no spelling mistakes while the multi-col-
ored print highlighted key quotes nicely. Bob Boyd and Jim
Earle erroneously have led us to believe that Hall Coun-
selors as a group support the 1986 P.C. policies and that
freshmen halls have miraculously risen like the Phoenix
into. paragons of virtue, comraderie and scholarship. It’s
time to place these issues into perspective and to hear from
another side.

The abolition of fraternities on the basis of coercive
selectivity defies logic. Selectivity is not an inherently evil

6

-3

Without selectivity I could be our
starting’ quarterback or could take
Ace’s position at center . . .

-9

word, but rather a term that helps to define natural relation-
ships. Without selectivity I could be our starting quarter-

Opinions
Has anyone been thinking?

must remember that it is a fallacy of composition to altolv
us to believe that these are rules rather than exceptions. In
fact most members of fraternities, seniors included, will
tell you that their fraternity experience has been a valuable
and enriching area of their college life. The national
houses’ inner strength allows their members to pursue indi-
vidual pursuits and ideas while they retain the comfort of
the trusts of many friendships. Furthermore there is an in-
frastructure that requires young members to mature as they
approach positions of leadership and responsibility. With-
out fraternities many campus leaders would never have de-
veloped the leadership skills that have made them so suc-
cessful within the Davidson community and beyond.

6

Fraternities as a rule and Statement of
Purpose tend to strive for the better-
ment of the individual within the sup-
port of a group

Of course the natural antithesis to these remarks lies in
the notion that these same attributes exist in all small group
scenarios. Unfortunately the issues of credence and degree
prove these assertations false. Fraternities as a rule and
statement of purpose tend to strive for the betterment of the
individual within the support of a group. Secondly, I found
while talking with several conscientious and friendly mem-
bers of Rusk and Warner Hall that they do not know even
the names of several of their members. These two houses as
well as others have a plethora of benefits to offer their
members, but it remains that there is a clear difference in
their approach. Fraternities chose. to base their program
upon friendships, not_conformity, in order to achieve the
greatest possible success for their members as individuals
and brothers. Although it is a shame that there are two or
three freshmen each year who are hurt by the system we
must-be practical and realize that there are over 300 who
benefit immensely from fraternities. The purpose here is
not to propose that fraternal organizations are the only via-
ble source of socialization, but rather to illustrate how
fraternities create a valuable addition to the Davidson com-
munity along with other eating arrangements that also offer
important choices. The key is to remember that a liberated
mind is capable of making adult decisions.

The New Court System fundamentally contradicts the
goals of liberal arts. If we are to believe that a liberated
mind and conscience lead to constructive thinking then we
should also believe that Davidson students should be al-

The Davidsonian
Friday, October 3, 1986-

the perimeter houses in dire straits and has brought more al-
cohol into Belk than on the Court. The highly popular off
campus houses have come to exist in a precarious position
because of town zoning. Social pressure to move off cam-
pus for activities may ultimately jeopardize the future exis-
tence of this unique asset of Davidson.

The notion that fraternities are the chief fault for poor
freshmen academic performance is absurd. There are more
freshmen who perform at poor levels because they choose
to play ball on the hall, or listen to music than do those who
feel pressure to attend every rush event. As former hal!
counselors and freshmen we cannot oyeremphasize the
truth in this claim. Even ‘if this belief about poor perfor-
mance was true we would only be hurting our freshmen by
forcing them to rush doubly hard during the most important
part of the academic term.

Furthermore, 1986 is not the first year that hall unity
and functions have existed at “meaningful” levels. Gener-
ally the freshmen hall comraderie always takes preference
over all other freshmen social outlets. We have had in these

first three weeks of school over a half dozen request from

our 1985-86 freshmen hall to have numerous reunions.
From our experience in Belk and from our knowledge of
the present year we strongly believe that the new social
agenda adds no significant contribution to freshmen hal!
success. What it does bring is more alcohol and noise into
closer proximity with a living and studying environment.

6

Furthermore, 1986 is not the first year
that hall unity and function have
existed at “meaningful” levels.

9

Our final complaint concerns the apparent conspiracy
with which our new policy was created. The Self Selection
Committee. was created with no student input or attempts to
achieve fair representation. Peter Baay was the only pro-
fraternity voice. One representative from a fraternity could
not attend since he was not at Davidson while another rep-
resentative repeatedly supported measures that the house
had voted unanimously against. None of the alumni repre-
sentatives had any fraternity background. All selections
were made by the Dean of Students’ Office. Then the com-
mittee pursued concerns not specifically within their stated
set of design. They incorporated problems with the Dean’s
Outbasket and the new drinking age in creating an all-en-
cumbering plan while no one was aware of their true direc-

back or could take Ace’s position at center for basketball
(this could be a sad and ugly reality with the new athletic
proposal). Phi Beta Kappa would have no basis for exis-
tence and grades would not be recorded. Anyone could be
accepted to Davidson. Society’s direction would be like the
decisions that one million marbles make after being
dropped down the Grand Canyon. Of course there is some-
thing to be said for pure randomness.

Fraternities should be yiewed for what they have to
offer. They provide a unique position of strength, confi-
dence, and trust to their individual members. Although it is

easy to point out disappointing fraternity experiences we

Battle of the buzars rages on

°

Tom Moore

—“Yes, they're juvenile, but . . ,” or “Sometimes the
professors do drag on a bit long, but . . ,”. seem to be the
average opinions regarding the venerated institution of
buzzers marking the beginning and end of classes. The Of-
fice of Academic Affairs has decided to abolish the remin-
ders for October as an experiment.

This bold step in higher education has been met with a
tidal wave of apathy from staff and students alike. The two
sides of this burning issue break down into one argyment
apiece:

all the students

lowed to think like adults. The new policy promotes
adolescence and resists adulthood. Queens freshmen and
prospective students can enter Patterson Court while our
own freshmen cannot! They are‘ necessarily told-that they
are incapable of making. decisions and are therefore
coerced into following a more centralized schedule of so-
cial activities. These regimented activities thus ludicrously
contribute to conformity even more than a pure selection
system. The Union and the freshmen hall have become ver-
itably the only social outlet; not to mention a trip into Char-
lotte with a drunk ride back.

Secondly, the new Patterson Court system has placed

PRO BUZZERS: The buzzers serve as useful temin-
ders to occasionally (or chronically) long-winded profes-

————Sors. without-each class-having to rudely interrupt the dis-

course. -

CON: The buzzers’ are immature throwbacks to high
school. They provide artificial éndings to each class, with
s perfectly conditioned into shutting their
books at its sound.

Both positions have integrated an essential “But, re-
ally, so what?” attitude. Don’t be on the lookout for
candlelight vigils and “Bring Back Buzzers” buttons show-
ing up around campus. While they may be leaning toward
one side or another, many faculty and students simply feel

tion. Every proposal was a shock. For icing on the cake we
cannot forget that a closed door atmosphere was stressed by
the committee of non-representative members that created
Davidson’s most blatant. mistake in 10 years.

We hope that in the future the Davidson administration
will be more aware of the ramifications of their idealistic -
actions. Improvement can only occur through a more open
and democratic system rather than through a rushed decep-
tive body. Secondly, it is time that we give up the limited
ignorant attacks against selective eating lest we damage a
valuable addition to the Davidson community. Maybe none
of us has been thinking. Go Davidson.

that it isn’t going to make a big difference in their lives.

And they're right. Though a few classes may have to
elect a martyr every day to acquaint their professors with
real-time, the majority will find that the lecture will end
soon enough for student and teacher to get to the next class
on time. The buzzers are by and large unimportant and ba-
sically rude to the professors via the assumption that they
are all long-winded and unaware of time's passing. The
month-long experiment should go smoothly and should be
extended.

Moore is a fréshman from Potomac, MD.
