Opinions

A call for the abolition of fraternities

Steve Soud

It is inevitable that institutions resort to compromise to
appease their constituents. It is lamentable, however, that
an institution of higher learning such as Davidson should so
easily sacrifice its lofty goals, ideals, and values for the
sake of political compromise. Thus it was with regret that I
read two weeks ago the proposal that a system of social exc-
lusion be allowed to return to Patterson Court. I hereby call
for the abolition of fraternities at Davidson.

Now, it may seem odd that an Admissions Counselor,
whose very job is to decide “exclusion,” should make this
call. I therefore preface my remarks with the following
points: admissions decisions are based on an objective
study of four-year performance and are in the student’s best
interest, and that our job is to create a well-rounded com-
munity of 1400 students. I also submit that as someone
beyond the fracas of Patterson Court social pressures, |

have a clearer perspective of the role of fraternities and the
College.

Davidson's mission is twofold: to develop humane, lib-
erally educated persons and to develop in them a value sys-
tem consistent with the Christian tradition. Fraternities, by

their nature and their practices, are incompatible with this
mission.

By nature, fraternities are coercive and
squelch individualism

By nature, fraternities are coercive and squelch indi-
vidualism. In order for fraternities to survive, they must set
themselves up as crucial to the social fabric of the College.
To the freshman, they infer, if not state outright, that “with-
out us you will be an outcast with no life outside the library.
We are your road to fun and college good times.” The aver-
age freshman, misled and unsure of himself, acquiesces to
this subtle pressure. (Sometimes the pressure 1s not so sub-
tle. I once asked a freshman — who is now a senior — if he
intended to be an independent. He said, “Soud, I wish I had
enough guts to be an independent.” Is this type of reaction
in the best interests of the College?) So that the freshman
may be accepted by the brethren, he sacrifices a substantial
portion of his individuality to ensure his acceptance. This
subtle conformity robs not only the individual, but also the
entire college community of the benefit of his full personal-
ity and therefore detracts from the overall quality of the lib-
eral arts education.

As the fraternities compete with each other to survive,
they place increased pressure upon the potential pledge.
The fraternity, in order to entice the “best” prospects, in-
creases the number of parties and social events, thereby
placing a greater burden upon the student to win accep-
tance. Forced to be at the bulk of these parties, the prospect
forgoes developing friendships outside the fraternity, not to
mention valuable time for personal and intellectual growth.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, but all play and
no work makes Jack immature.

A great testimony to the coercive and immoral power of
the fraternity is the hazing/pledging process of road trips
and games. In my six years here, Davidson fraternity
pledges have

— drowned a dog with beer through a “beer bong” and
then thrown its body about in the mud as one would a toy;

— set fire to the carcass of another dog (a road kill) in
front of another fraternity’s house, presumably as a joke;

— been arrested and jailed overnight for theft of public
Property,

— nearly set fire to Knox Dormitory with fireworks;
and

— (most recently) walked naxed through Patterson

Court houses during mealtime.
Clearly these acts are immoral, inconsistent with the Col-
lege’s mission, and fomented by the coercive power of
fraternities. All of these incidents are easily documentable
(see The Davidsonian) except for the arrest. (I was privy to
that information because one of the arrested is a close
friend.) I imagine that my knowledge represents only the
tip of the iceberg.

The most immoral, unjust aspect of the fraternity sys-

tem, however, is its exclusivism. How can Davidson,
founded upon a system of Christian ethics, tolerate a bid
system fraught with elitism and rejection? (John Kuyken-
dall, in his inagural address, stated that he recoils at the
thought of elitism at Davidson.) How can Davidson allow
the least of its children to be stigmatized with fraternity re-
jection? Are they to be declared pariahs at whim? Are we to
dismiss such fundamental Christian dictums as “thy
brother’s keeper” and “love thy neighbor as thyself” so
readily? No! I say, “Judge not lest ye be judged!” The basic
premises of an exclusive fraternity bid system seem
diametrically opposed to the principles and purpose of the
College.

It seems to me that the job of the Christian is to break
down the barriers created by human society, and that the
job of the liberal arts education is to create the freest indi-
vidual possible. Fraternities force us to see each other as
SAEs or KAs or Fijis, and not as fellow human beings.
Thus barriers are thrust up and growth limited in ways in-
consistent with the liberal arts ideal. I recently asked a
freshman who values his individuality if he were not losing
it by pledging a fraternity. “No,” he said, “I’m giving it to
the guys in the house.” He misunderstands the point of his
admission to Davidson. He was asked here to give that indi-
viduality which we all prize in him not to sixty people, but
to 1400. Ultimately the fraternity, by its very nature,
thwarts individual expression and erects barriers.

Now it is inevitable that several arguments will be
raised in favor of the fraternity system. I rebutt several of
the most popular fallacies.

Fallacy no. 1: Rejection is a fact of the real world;
fraternities therefore prepare one for life. Davidson Col-

lege is not trying to create a real-world atmosphere. Rather,
it endeavors to create an atmosphere ideal for learning and
free from real-world problems. Witness the Honor Code.
The Honor Code is hardly “real world.” Who says rejection
(or acceptance, for that matter) really prepares one for re-
jection in later life anyway?

G

I recently asked a freshman who values
his individuality if he were not losing it
by pledging a fraternity. ‘““No,” he said,
“T’m giving it to the guys in the house.”
He misunderstands the point of his ad-
mission to Davidson

?

Fallacy no. 2: Cliques are going to form anyway, so
what's the difference? Indeed, cliques are going to form.
But what reason is this for formalizing and “putting the
College seal of approval” on them? By inference, the Col-
lege approves the rejection of individuals based on nebul-
ous “personal qualities” (perhaps one blackball) and also
approves the accompanying stigma.

Fallacy no. 3: Fraternities are not coercive. Wrong.
All groups are coercive to some extent. (Read Reinhold
Niebuhr’s Moral Man and Immoral Society if you don't be-
lieve me.) But fraternities are vastly more coercive than
non-exclusive clubs because of the fraternities’ national af-
filiations and overly strong self-identity. Poll a group of
freshmen and if they’re candid most will tell you of the
pressure, overt and covert, they've felt during the pledge
and rush process.

Fallacy no. 4: Fraternities are the source of
camaraderie. Fraternities may be a source of camaraderie,
but is it a healthy type? Ask many senior fraternity mem-
bers how they feel about “the house” and you will find that
their interest has waned by the senior year. Many complain
of missed friendships and social opportunities forfeited to
fraternity membership. And the folks in women’s and coed
eating houses seem to get enough camaraderie to get them
through the year.

Fallacy no. 5: But fraternities do such wonderful ser-
vice projects! Good point. But the Y -Student Service Corps

is an equally viable outlet for service projects, more outlets
can be formed, and individuals can organize bike-a-thons,
canoe trips, etc. on their own equally well.

Fallacy no. 6: We'd have no social life without frater-
nities. This was true until about twelve years ago. But now
Davidson is coed, the College Union is strong and getting
stronger, and there's an interstate to Charlotte. Also, give
yourselves credit for being creative and spontaneous par-
tiers. Moreover, the women’s and coed eating houses have
fine parties, and events such as the Solidarity Celebration
show that we can have at least a modicum of fun without
beer. Self-Selection eating houses have the potential to do
anything as well or better than the fraternities without the ill
side-effects of exclusivism. It all depends on how much
energy you put into it.

All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy, but all play and no work makes
Jack immature 9

I do not mean to say that fraternities are fraught with
evil or entirely inappropriate. At large universities, frater-
nities offer a small-group social outlet amidst the teeming
masses. I do mean to say, however, that at Davidson it is
stupid to subdivide our already-small student body along
lines so rigid as those of fraternities. To do so is detrimental
to the social and overall well-being of the College.

This is not the first time this issue has been raised at
Davidson. In 1960-61 there was debate over the role of
fraternities at Davidson. In 1964-65 a Fraternity Evaluation
Committee (commisssioned by the administration) recom-
mended the abolition of fraternities. (Then Inter-Fraternity
Council chairman Rick von Unwerth even resigned under
the weight of the evidence for abolition, calling the frater-
nity system a “tyranny over the social structure of Davidson
College.”) Finally, in 1970-71, President Samuel R.
Spencer, Jr. declared a system of complete self-selection.

Clearly a system of total self-selection is the most com-
patible and consistent with Davidson's educational mis
sion. That was decided in 1970. Fraternities have had fif
teen years to prove that they can abide by a system of self-
selection whereby no persons are rejected or denied access
to social membership. Unfortunately, fraternities have
shown little or no inclination to comply with this, it ts
against their nature.

I realize that the popular opinion ts that “since bids are
going on anyway we might as well legalize them.” By the
same reasoning, since murders are going on anyway we
might as well legalize them. In other words, why should we
sacrifice a fully realizable ideal to lax governance of self
selection? Davidson is an instituion which purports ttself
to be of the finest quality and dedicated to the highest moral
ideals. The kind of sorry, apathetic compromise proposed
for Patterson Court has no place in a community with
Davidson's stated goals and values.

6

Self-Selection eating houses have the
potential to do anything as well or better
than the fraternities without the ill side-
effects of exclusion

y)

In closing, I quote the March 26, 1965 editorial which
marked The Davidsonian's turning point on the fraternity
issue:

“To the men [and women] involved in this vital deci-
sion, the question is one of commitment: commitment to
the educational aspirations of the college, commitment to
the unrestricted growth of the mind.

“If we must face the music, then let us examine the
composition and not the orchestra. If we admit that a prob-
lem exists, we cannot then dismiss the problem on the
grounds of political expediency. A compromise would in-
deed be expedient. But aside from satisfying no one, a
quasi-progressive solution will again relegate Davidson to
the rear ranks of educational followership.”

Soud is an admissions counselor
