Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

15

Will Main Street ever be the same?

John Engel

I am writing in response to the newly formed gay sup-
port group, a group comprising a very small percentage of
the Davidson community and its sympathizers. These
people have been oppressed and mocked for too long.
Come out of the closet; we welcome and support your or-
ganization. Will you support ours?

I am writing on behalf of an equally oppressed and sec-
ret group. Like the homosexuals we have refuge under the
law. Like the homosexuals we must remain in hiding under
white sheets to protect our identitites. While it is true that,
like the homosexuals, we may not practice what we preach.
We too, would like to be recognized in the Davidson
catalogue as a viable group supported by the administration
and campus at large. We, along with other groups dedi-
cated to social concerns, would like to petition the Ac-
tivities Tax Council for an annual budget. The Gay Support
Group will undoubtably ask for money to inform the com-

munity and address issues which face the contemporary
gay. In the past few years the gay community has enjoyed a
newfound wave of sympathy from the non-gay majority.
This is not to say that the majority of this or any other nation
condones their practices, but that for the first time since the
Golden Age of Greece, the gays can come out of the closet,
enjoy the same rights as the heterosexuals, march and trum-
pet their cause, and publicly petition the community lead-
ers for support. My group is presently not in vogue, al-
though thirty years ago we could boast of membership na-
tionally in the millions. Yesterday, we were in vogue.
Today, the gays in New York City or San Fransisco are in
vogue. Tomorrow, it may be vogue to be gay at Davidson
College.

Some have argued the case for the gays on the grounds
that it is immoral. Well, my group's activities have been
knocked by the same criticism. This is not the issue. The
Gay Support Group may form under legal auspices and
may gain the administration’s support. In time they may
show just cause for financial support for the community at
large. However, I can envision the same scenario with re-

gards to any number of activists groups once the gays pave
the way. The Neo-Nazi party, seeing a receptive Davidson
attitude toward activism, may send their people. Should the
KKK not respond to the shanties on the lawn with some
good cross-burning ceremony in Patterson Court? Maybe
in a few years the Gays will march down Main Street in all
of the surrounding towns. The neighboring communities
will almost certainly lock their doors and, perhaps, show
support for traditional moral values in a Solidarity Party.

“Wait a minute. That’s not the same thing. The KKK is
a hate group. The Gay Support Group advocates only
love,” you may respond.

This is not the issue. As a small Christian community
dedicated to Christian morals and ideals which include a
social conscience, we must put in perspective the popular
activism of our day. Gay Support is a nice idea, but when
put into practice its implications may chip away at even the
most basic tenets of society. They will march. Others will
march. Main Street won't be safe anymore.

Engel is a freshman from New Canaan, CT

Give Davidson the publications it deserves (erin

Continued from page 11

such as with Hobart Park. Basically I was told not to
worry, there wasn’t anything I could (or he would) do about
the problems of lack of money or support.

Dr. Kuykendall’s responses are unsatisfacory for sev-
eral reasons. I do not propose to use money — salaries — in
order to buy help. (No one would edit a yearbook just for
the money.) But when the yearbook conflicts with other ac-
tivites, work-study (where you are being paid) or partying
(where you're having fun), the yearbook always loses.
Having acash incentive for work done simply makes work-
ing for a publication a more attractive alternative. Having a
paid staff can also improve the yearbook. photographers,
for instance, are notorious for spending money on camera
equipment — thereby becoming better and more verstile
photographers. The yearbook in turn, then benefits from
having a better and more interested photo staff. This logic
clearly holds for all publications, not just the yearbook.
Having a paid staff also gives the editors the ability to de-
mand quality work — currently the editors of all of the pub-
lications have to be thankful for whatever they can get —
even if it is not the best effort that the staff could give.
Money seems not only an appropriate incentive, it seems to
be the only incentive. (Perhaps this is why neither I nor our
yearbook publishing representative, Wayne Wolfe, could
think of a school other than Davidson whose staffs were not
paid. Wolfe is familiar with over 60 schools of varying
sizes.) Many schools not only offer money to staffers but

also have courses in journalism so the students can receive
both money and credit for newspaper or yearbook work.

The quality of the publications, moreover, should not
vary so much. Money would enable the publications to
maintain a larger, more dedicated staff, and that staff
would help to stabilize the quality from year to year. More
people would be able to be involved, and the publications
would be much more representative. I think that the student
body feels that the yearbook is necessary, and do I think
that the students would like to see the quality of both the
yearbook and the newspaper enhanced.

Next year’s book does concern me — and (despite what
Dr. Kuykendall and other’s have implied) I think it should
concern me. Quality publications speak well of an institu-
tion, and I wnat to have graduated from the best school pos-
sible. Quality publications can affect admissions, recruit-
ment, and giving. What do people look at in the admissions
office? They look at last year’s yearbook and last week's
paper. The trustees and other donors also see the publica-
tions and judge the school as a whole by them. We should
all be concerned with each and every publication tht bears
this school’s name.

As I have explained already, the prospects for next
year’s book being worthy of the Davidson name are slim.
The school shoul instead take next year to reflect on the im-
portance of publications and to decide to support them to
the extent that they deserve — both financially and mor-
ally. The $26,000 that has been allocated to the yearbook

should be spent as follows: $10,000 should be put towards
a publications darkroom — for both the yearbook and the
newspaper in the Union basement. The darkroom should
have: two top quality enlargers, a negative drying cabinet,
eight stainless steel trays (11 x 14), print drying racks, new
reels and tanks for film processing, and both film and print
washers — at least. The other $16,000 should be distri-
buted to The Davidsonian staff for salaries in order to set an
appropriate monetary incentive for all publications. Money
from this pool might also be used to pay an advisor for pub-
lications — someone on the faculty or in College Relations
with a background in journalism might be willing to do this
part time. Having an administrative advisor woud give the
publications access to the administation so that their con-
cerns would be noted. Students involved with publications
would also have access to the advisor if they had a problem
that they could not handle. These solutions — especially
using the money for the establishment of a darkroom
may preclude an ‘87 yearbook. But if these types of drastic
measures are not taken immediately, there may not be a
yearbook fora very long time — and there centainly won't
be a good one.

These are but a few solutions to the problems. that
Davidson student publications face, but attention given to
these problems can only serve to make the publications bet
ter, thereby enhancing the reputation of the college as a
whole. Isn't this what Davidson really deserves”

Pierotti is a senior philosophy major from Atlanta, GA

Letters

above) to represent the opinions of its grow-
ing number of members. This is not to say
that the calls for divestment which many
have seen should not be considered. We
feel that the Board of Trustees should
realize all the possible courses of action —
and their possible consequences — and,
with the ideals of this college in mind,
choose appropriately. It has been seven
years since the board's policies were offi-
cially adopted. It’s time to examine them
again.

In regard to Rob’s lukewarm generali-
zations about the South African system
(‘Maybe apartheid isn’t fair . . . ,” “blacks
in South Africa are much better off than
their counterparts in say Mozambique, An-
gola, or Zimbabwe.”) I urge him to think
over the conditions of life for blacks, “col-
oreds” and Indians in such a white-prosper-
ous area of the world. The black miners he
mentioned make about $300 a month to
their white counterparts $1,200. And this
example represents only the few blacks who
can get jobs. I urge everyone to examine the
apartheid folder in the library and to add to
it any arguments found, whether they be for
Or against divestment.

Which brings me to my final point:

Rob, try not to grow so weary of your fel-
low students’ exercising of freedom of
speech. You must realize that no matter
what the cause, we all have a right to pub-
licize our opinions. They may bore you,
anger you, or deeply offend you, but their
very existence is a manifestation of this
country’s most fundamental founding prin-
ciples, as in your right to rebut them.
Chuck Crews
Students Against Apartheid

Farewell

With this issue, The Davidsonian
ceases publication until September.
Though we realize this will put a severe
dent in the Thursday night social plans of
our staff and deprive our loyal readers of
their favorite source of information about
what’s hot and what's not at Davidson,
summer vacation beckons and demands that
the presses halt. See you in the fall.

Preparing for that
INTERVIEW?

We would be happy to
assist you in
enhancing that first
impression.

Downtown Mooresville

Jain Mack 8 Gor

Quality and Fashion Apparel
for Men and Women

