Friday, January 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN
-——Beyond Davidson

Ships sent near Libya, shuttle Challenger explodes

Headlining the news for the week of Jan-
uary 23-29 —

Middle East News — In an attempt
to demonstrate U.S. resolve against Li-
byan leader Qaddafi, the U.S. has begun
naval exercises in the Mediterranean near
Libya, and sources report that more
“money and manpower” has been or-
dered for the development of a CIA
covert operation against Qaddafi who is
accused by the U.S. of supporting inter-
national terrorism. The Reagan adminis-
tration states that these efforts are in no
way indicative of a planned U.S. military
attack on Libya.

.

» —aweekly
news

summary

JANE AURELL

Continuing his ‘shuttle diplomacy”,
U.S. Mideast envoy Richard Murphy
met in London with Israeli Prime Minis-
ter Shiman Pores to discuss prospects for
a Mideast peace conference.Meanwhile,
in Jordan, PLO leader Yasir Arafat met
with Jordan’s King Hussein to discuss the
possibility of such talks.

Reports indicate that fighting has
subsided in South Yemen with the rebels
reported to have deposed President Nas-
ser Mohammed; the U.S. announced on
Monday that it will not recognize the rad-
ical Marxist rebels who have seized con-
trol of the Red Sea country. Sparked in
part by OPEC’s December decision to
protect its share of the world market by
reducing the prices charged by its mem-

bers, crude oil prices have declined one-
third, to less than $20 for a 42 gallon bar-
rel.

Asian News — In the Philippines,
pre-election accusations continue be-
tween President Ferdinand Marcos and
opposition candidate Corazon Aquino;
the presidential elections will be held
Feb. 7. The U.S. is sending a delegation
to observe the election in hopes that their
presence will ensure a free and fair elec-
tion. The Reagan administration has de-
cided on a policy of “distancing” toward
Marcos’s Philippines saying that the re-
moval of Marcos is essential for a non-
communist future for the Philippines and
the security of U.S. interests.

The U.S. is reportedly planning a
large sale of advanced avionics to China
to be used to protect China’s northern
border with the U.S.S.R.; the upgraded
planes will reportedly pose no new threat
to Taiwan. A Corelan diplomat in China
reports that senior Chinese leader Deng
Xiaoping is ill; the Chinese government
denies the report. India announced that as
of last Sunday, the city of Bombay will
now be called Mumbai.

African News — Five weeks after a
peace treaty was signed between rebels
and Uganda’s military government, rebel
forces invaded and seized the capital of
Kampala; Yoweri Museveni, the rebel
leader, said he would form a non-aligned
government committed to protecting
human rights. Jonas Savimbi, the leader
of the rebels fighting the Marxist govern-
ment of Angola, is in the U.S. hoping to
win support for direct U.S. aid for his
forces; Congress and the Reagan admin-

istration continue to remain divided on,

this issue.
After receiving a pledge and visible
evidence that the new government of

Lesotho will not allow the small kingdom
which is surrounded by South Africa to
be used as an ANC base (the rebels fight-
ing South Africa’s white minority gov-
ernment), South Africa lifted its three-
week blockade of the tiny kingdom.

Meanwhile, in South Africa, tribal
battles between Zulu and Pondo tribes-
men have left 42 dead and thousands
homeless. A South African government
official called Anglican Bishop Desmond
Tutu’s support of the ANC deplorable;
Tutu claims that while he supports the
aims of the ANC, he disapproves of its
methods. Tutu reports that his three-
week American tour raised nearly $1 mil-
lion to aid political prisoners, refugees
and his Anglican church diocese.

On Tuesday, black students in South
Africa ended a two-year school boycott
after an agreement was reached between
parents and the white government.

European News — Britain’s Trade
and Industry Secretary resigned Friday;
this is the second senior man in 15 days to
leave Thatcher's conservative govern-
ment as a result of what has become
known as the “Westland Affair." How-
ever, amid opposition calls for her resig-
nation, Thatcher rallied a 160-vote
majority in a Parliamentary vote of confi-
dence and said that she plans to run for a
third term.

In Northern Ireland, Protestants re-
claimed 14 of 15 seats to a Catholic gain
of one in a special Parliamentary election
called because the Protestants, who had
originally held all 15 seats, had resigned
in protest of the Nov. | Anglo-Irish ac-
cord which gives the Irish Republic a role
in the affairs of Northern Ireland.

Elsewhere in the World — The new
Honduran government has agreed to
loosen its embargo on U.S. shipments of

non-lethal aid being funneled to the
Nicaraguan rebels based in camps along
the Honduran-Nicaraguan border.

National News — In a horrifying
tragedy, the space shuttle Challenger
exploded shortly after Tuesday’s delayed
take-off, killing all seven aboard; teacher
Christa McAuliffe, America’s first civi-
lian in space, was among the casualties.

In Scientific Developments — The
Voyager 2 space probe, launched in
1977, has been sending back spectacular
first-time photographs of the planet
Uranus.

Citing evidence of cancer risks, the
EPA proposed that a total ban be placed
on use of asbestos within the next 10
years. A new study published in the New
England Journal of Medicine reports that
heredity is the leading factor in determin-
ing a person's weight; however, it reports
that no matter what one’s genes, most
people can influence their weight by
proper diet and exercise.

In Economic Developments
Pepsi Co. Inc. bought Seven-Up Co. for
$380 million in cash making Pepsi Co.
almost as big as No. | Coca-Cola Co.

A new report revealed that the U.S.
economy grew 2.3 percent in 1985, the
weakest performance since 1982.

Other News — As aresult of cultural

accords signed at the Geneva Summit,
the Philadelphia Orchestra has been in-
vited by the U.S.S.R. to perform four
concerts. Finally, the Chicago Bears
trounced the New England Patriots 46 to
10 to win Sunday’s Superbowl.
Thought for the Week — “We will never
forget them or the last time we saw them
as they prepared for their journey and
waved goodbye and slipped the surly
bonds of Earth to touch with the face of
God.” President Reagan Jan. 28, 1986.

Task Force summarizes strengths, weaknesses of college

By JIM DILLON

The Task Force on Strategic
Planning released a summary of
its report which examines the
semesters/trimesters question, de-
partmental major requirements
and possible inconsistencies in the
athletic program. A final draft is
soon forthcoming, according to
task force member Gail Gibson,
English professor.

The task force, established by
College President John Kuyken-
dall, has identified the college’s
strengths and weaknesses and out-
lined planning strategies for the
next 10 to 15 years. The finished
report will be presented to the
trustees, who will then evaluate it
and decide what actions to take,
according to task force member
junior Mark Sandy.

The task force discussed the

possibility that Davidson's
trimester system may not be best
for the college. Gibson said dis-
cussion of switching to a semester
system did come up.

“There was divided opinion
on this issue concerning whether
the present academic calendar
system is best with respect to inde-
pendent thinking, faculty  in-
volved in research, and other
things. Some saw this as an issue
that should be settled and others
saw this as a profound problem,”

Gibson said.

‘We just thought it was a good
time to look at that again. Evi-
dently this issue comes up with the
faculty about every other year,”
Woo said.

Some task force members
thought students are often not
challenged enough, especially in
their junior and senior years. Stu-
dent Government Association
President Beadsie Woo, a student
representative to the task force,
said they discussed the possibility
of requiring an independent study
in order to fulfill major require-
ments.

“We felt that many juniors and
seniors in their majors have not
been challenged to gain a full
knowledge of their major,” Woo
said.

“There was really no clear
sense of resolution on this subject.
We had a great sense of the nur-
ture and care given students, but
maybe we're giving too much
support where there is no indepen-
dence of mind, not enough risk or
not enough challenge,” Gibson
said.

The task force also examined
what it saw as “obvious inconsis-
tencies” in the athletic program.
Gibson said much of the discus-
sion concerned women’s club and
intramural athletic programs.

‘We felt that there were obvi-
ous differences between the
women’s and men’s programs in
terms of money, physical and
moral support. There was also the
feeling that club and intramural
sports need more of a piece of the
pie,” Gibson said.

Among strengths the task
force listed the quality of the fac-
ulty, the school’s reputation, its
size, the emphasis on distinctive-
ness in teaching and the student/
faculty relationship, its selectiv-
ity, its commitment to human ser-
vice and personal values, the
school’s diversity and students’
well-roundedness, the emphasis
on a total educational experience,
the school’s tradition of achieve-
ment, the loyalty of its alumni, its
record of leadership, its commit-
ment to international studies, the
physical appearance of the cam-
pus and its opportunities in athle-
tics.

Among weaknesses the task
force cited that the school’s finan-
cial base is unable to support “the
broad program necessary to main-
tain excellence.” Gibson said the
development office will begin a
campaign in 1987.

“We recognized that our
hopes have money as the bottom
line. If we're going to attract more
quality faculty members and do

more recruiting — all of this really
involves money. It is necessary
that we make a major fund-raising
effort in which we tap both old
sources and new sources,” Gibson
said.

The task force also discussed
problems with overall compensa-
tion packages for faculty and
staff. The task force generally felt
that the package will need to be
more attractive if Davidson is to
recruit successfully for quality
faculty in the future.

“We found that Davidson is
not always as strong as it should
be. We are typically, but not al-
ways below those of comparable
institutions, but there have been
improvements. The cost of living
is less here. We're aware of that,
but we need to raise the level of
compensation,” Gibson said.

The task force listed a number
of capital projects which it said
should be looked at in this near fu-
ture. The seven receiving high
priority status were increased of-
fice space for faculty and staff, in-
creased classroom space, renova-
tion of the language laboratory.
renovation of dormitories, fund-
ing for ongoing maintenance and
renovation, increased availability
of computers, and renovation or
relocation of the College Union.

“These are things that should
be done as soon as possible or yes-
terday. They are really pressing
need which should have already
been addressed,” Gibson said.

The formal report will be pub-
lished in February, and two
forums will be held in February
(one for students and the other for
faculty and staff) concerning the
report and its contents. It will be
presented to the Board of Trustees
in February as well.

“There are no real revelations
in the document and no surprises,
but what the board of trustees will
be finding is thoughtful sugges-
tions. We spent a lot of time doing
this. We spent about 45 hours, and
that’s not counting time spent in
sub-committees. The report is an
attempt to organize a lot of think-
ing about where we're going and
where we should be going, and we
hope that the document will be re-
ceived on an annual basis,” Gib-
son stated.

“Some of the things we've
suggested have already been iden-
tified, and in a sense, I guess
we're just stating the obvious, but
what the trustees do with the re-
port will largely depend on the
success of the 87 projects.” Woo
said,
