Wednesday, December 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

— Just Words

Elaborate Christmas gifts spoil

Tim Brown

Adults make Christmas painful for non-adults after
Christmas presents are opened. For purposes of this
writing space, adults are those people who make it a
habit-to tell everyone who will listen or attempt not to-
listen what life was like before the advent of modern
toys. This Christmas the yapping adults were muffled
mercilessly by loud Lazer Tag zappers, Pro-Life Dolls
crooning like Pat Boone, and Baby Talk dolls. After the
allied victories of these modern toys, non-adults don’t
know whether they should thank the Lord and sing His
praises, or jump crying into the trenches and cover their
ears;

Every rich kid would whine to his parents for and
every poor kid would steal, cheat, and beg for: the Lazer
Tag game. ‘Tag, an expensive euphemism for
electronic hide-a' k, includes two loud Lazer zap-
pers and two strap-on chest receptors for $80. Players
shoot infrared-light beayns up to 100 feet to hit other
players’ photo-sensitive chest receptors, which sound
unbearably like dial-page beepers when hit.

The creators of Lazer Tag promise parents the game
inhibits humans from arguing over whether or not one
‘was tagged, zapped. Children are not yet humans. Case

closed. The only thing that is nice about the game is that _.

it makes running your victim down unnecessary. Then

again, if one is playing Lazer Tag with members of the
Opposite sex, one might desire to drop the laser shields
and don some track shoes.

This Christmas, they who oppose abortion trans-
formed ‘their failures in this nation’s highest court into
successes in the commercial jungles where children rule

with iron temper tantrums. The Pro-Life Doll, with its

pretty pink clothing and snow-blonde hair (my Il-year-
old sister, Angie, is going to hate me for saying this),
looks like an androgynous Rick flair. The doll sings
“Jesus loves the little children,” and when squeezed says
things like, “God knew me‘even before I was born.”
And to top off this $39.95 deal, the manufacturer throws
in Pat Boone’s new hit single, “Let me five.” It’s a
heavy, heavy, heavy punch for a child. It’s a heavy,
heavy punch for a non-adult or an adult.

Baby Talk is by far my favorite among the new toys.
Any couple thinking about making a baby should buy
Baby Talk for $69 before making irrevocable plans.
Baby Talk wets, sleeps, awakes screaming cheerfully
for mommy or daddy, nags for food, demands a blanket,
demands a hug, demands to be rolled over, expresses
heart-felt love for anyone with a bottle, belches smiling,
and says “Night, night.” Like a real child, Baby Talk
runs continuously on Evereadys. She never stops unless

the |

you yank out her batteries. Unlike a real child, Baby °

Talk’s batteries are easy to find.

ot

‘dolls that talk, make sounds, and imagine for them. Pr m

joy of childhood!

What might an adult, like myself, inevitably force
everyone to hear with everyone’s best interests in mind?
This. What scares me about the Baby Talk doll is that it
suffocates imagination. With TV’s that read for them,
Lazer Tag zappers that run for them, calculators that add
.and subtract for them, and computers that look up words
and correct spellings for them, children do not need

sorry for getting all worked up.

My Grandpa Scheidler, a gentle and generous man
who never got too worked up over anything, was the
best of us adults. If he were alive today what he’d say,
between puffs on his cigar, could be paraphrased like
this: Children are born and at first are satisfied'to play
with their and other people’s fingers, eyes, ears, lips,
noses, and toes. Then, their imaginations and thinking
caps are stunted by those diabolical, modern gizmos that
their parents give them. What’s funny is, when those
children leap into pubescence, they again become inter-
ested in others’ fingers, eyes, ears, lips, noses, and toes.
Then he would have turned to my mother (his favorite)
and said: Marlene, if I could raise you over again, I
would not have given you any of those toys I gave you,
except, except for maybe the poker cards.

Brown is an avid Lazer Tag player from Mint Hill, NC.

Incidentally, he is Opinions editor of The Davidsonian —

Brevard, North Carolina

Interviews on

Wednesday, January 21
from 11:00 am to 4:00 pm

“

Student Union Lobbv

and be dedicated to helping each

UNITED
CAROLINA
BANK

ucb

Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6
-.Come Bank with Us

Downtown Davidson

Excellent summer counseling
opportunities for men and women —
who are interested in serving boys
and girls ages 8-16, guiding them
in’ their physical, mental and
Spiritual development. One must
have ability to teach in one or
more of our specialized activities

individual child develop his or her
potential. College - students,
teachers and coaches should
apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, °
located 17 miles southeast of
Charlotte, NC, is an ACA accre-
dited camp member, specializing
in water sports (sailing, water ski-
ing, swimming and canoeing), yet
an added emphasis is placed on
the land sports (general athletics,
tennis, golf, archery, riflery and
backpacking). Horseback riding,
white-water canoeing and tripping
are extras in our excellent pro-
gram. For further information
write or call Camp Thunderbird,
One Thunderbird, Clover, SC,
29710, 803-831-2121.

Seasons Greetings

from

FIRST UNION

Main St. Davidson

MERRY CHRISTMAS
Davidsonians!

GIFTS

with the
MAGIC of CHRISTMAS

Quality and Fashion Apparel for Men and Women.

John Mack ® Son

[BB Bm fmm) b> bm > mf b> bb

_.* Downtown Mooresville
Open Friday nights ‘til Christmas

