(PILI LITLE LE LLL LLL TTL EEL ELE TET TA NENO Friday, J anuary 0, 1999 THE DAvuivenonian

Shi charged with plagiarism

History professor David Shi was arrested yesterday on charges
of plagiarism, campus police said. The arrest came after a four
month search (headed by former students) for words he copied from
various other authors to use in his recent book, The Simple Life.

The ex-students, who wished to remain anonymous, said: “We
really wanted to nail him on this one. Sure we're a little bit vindic-
tive. He got us a couple years back. Now its our turn.”

Shi replied, “They are simply wrong. The words ‘a, and, the,
but, or, and however’ do not count in cases of plagiarism.”

“A little word here, a little there add up. We know; we’ ve learn-

ed our lesson — now he has to pay the price for his wrongdoings,”
the former students added.

son chapter

Accuracy in Academia, a Washington-based right-wing watch-
dog organization which monitors the political beliefs of college pro-
fessors, has established a chapter on the Davidson campus.

“We're gonna-find all the pinkos at this school!” said political
science professor Brian J. Shaw, Accuracy In Academia’s new
Davidson coordinator. “We've got no need for vodka-snorting,
war-mongering, atheistic, fat-keistered commies at this institu-
tion!”

He explained that AIA is dedicated to removing all traces of
Marxist, socialist, or liberal bias from America’s college class-
rooms by “making a few lists.” He said, “We’ ve already got positive
proof that there are at least 300 card-carrying communists on the
Davidson faculty, and we're out to find the rest.”

Shaw said that AIA’s tactics involve placing student volunteers
in campus classrooms to monitor suspect professors with tape recor-
ders, microphones, and “‘very, very, very small video cameras.”

Shaw said that Davidson AIA has already submitted a list of
suggested changes in literature titles to Library Director Leland
Park. “We think the titles of some of these books should be Ameri-
canized,” he said. “We’re changing The Red Badge of Courage to
The Red, White, and Blue Badge of Courage; Ivanhoe to Melvinhoe;
The Scarlet Letter to The Muave Letter; and Huckleberry Finn to
Huckleberry Swede.”

He added; “We don’t allow any of our operatives to wear red.
Except when they wear white and blue too, of course.”

Material contributed by J. Birch

“News Summar\-

Accuracy in Academia establishes David-—

Playboy does Davidson

By DEE-DEE BOPPER

Rumor rocked Davidson Col-
lege this week as Playboy
magazine interviewed candidates
for its “Girls of the Southern Con-
ference” issue Monday and Tues-
day in the Shangri-La Room.

The visit was sponsored by the
Careers Office. Ken Woods said,
“I think this is a groovy opportu-
nity for our students to interface
with existential realities.” Young
women in a vast array of skimpy
clothing mobbed the Union in an
attempt to achieve stardom. Over
47 percent of the freshmen women
applied for the spot, the other 53
percent victims of the “freshman
fifteen.”

Always alert, the College Se-
curity evicted two faculty mem-
bers and ten Queens girls posing
as Davidson co-eds. Chief
Hughes said, “We knew they did
not belong, they all had such good
figures and had taken time to dress
fashionably and apply make-up.”

Tuesday afternoon Hugh
Hefner made a surprise appear-
ance in the 900 Room to announce
the winner of the search for the
Davidson bunny , Amidst tense si-
lence, “Hef” introduced Chastity
Belk as the Davidson winner. Ms.
Belk of Boise, Idaho also won an
all-expenses-paid trip in late Feb-
ruary to the Las Vegas Playboy
Mansion. (Belk had to decline the
trip due to a conflicting
Humanities exam. )

In an exclusive interview with
The Davidsonian Belk said that
she posed in a black lace teddy
with a copy of Joyce’s A Portrait
of the Artist as a Young Man. Of
the book she said, “I feel a real
kinship with Stephen Daedalus,
we are both on journeys to find
ourselves.”

When asked why she decided
to pose for Playboy Belk re~
sponded, “I was tired of Davidson
men seeing me as just another bril-

Playboy and playgirl.
liant mind and of them treating me
as just one of the brains. I want
them to see me as a real woman.
Last week I went to a band party
hoping to dance and ended up dis-
cussing Emerson’s subversion of
platonic ideals in his essay on na-
ture with a man from my
Humanities discussion section. I
didn’t even have a date to Mid-
winters and I had to go to the bon-
fire all alone. Now I hope the men
at Davidson will see me as the
simmering sexpot I am.”

Campus response to the
magazine’s appearance was
mixed. There were the typical
cries of “degrading, sexist, por-

nography” from Davidson
- feminists. Sharon Hunsucker,
head of the Manhaters and Emas-

culators Committee said, “I find
the presence of Playboy disgust-

Mascots murdered in insipid plot

By MASK OTT

Davidson's mascots were assassi-
nated last night by an athletics de-
partment hitman, according to Se-
curity Chief Jackie Hughes. He
termed the incident an “execu-
tion.”

Edward Jackman, a hitman by
trade and part-time juggler, was
charged in the deaths of the
Wildcat and the Lady Cat.

Jackman was in the process of
flattening the male into a rug when
D.C. Security Forces, acting on
instinct,

stormed the gym.

Jackman, who has publicly ex-
pressed his hatred for cats, in-
sisted on displaying the murder
weapons and bodies trophy-style
to the press.

Davidphonian news resear-
chers uncovered Jackman’s his-
tory of bad mental health. As a
disturbed child, his main delight
was in torturing his younger
brother with bad jokes. Jackman
was later institutionalized four
years ago after being caught by
authorities balancing his two-
year-old son on his chin.

After escaping from the men-
tal hospital Jackman fled to the
Davidson College campus to seek
asylum. Unsubstantiated rumors
being spread point the finger of
blame at Assistant Director of
Athletics Sterling Martin for en-
listing Jackman’s services. Martin
is currently being sought by the
D.C. Secret Police, which is
headed by Dean of Students Will
Terry. Martin is suspected to have
ordered the executions over con-
tract disputes with the Wildcat
couple.

‘ing. In protest of the ‘girls of the

Southern Conference’ issue we
are planning to hook our bras
across Interstate-77 in show of our
objection. We hope for a sort of
boomerang effect among our sis-
ters in other Southern Conference
schools.” On the other side, Derek
Strong, chairman of the “Rate
’Em on a Scale of | to 10” Club
said, “I am thrilled over this fan-
tastic opportunity for Davidson
women to gain national exposure.
In fact, I am jealous. I have often
thought I would be an excellent
choice for Cosmopolitan’s

Bachelor of the Month.”

The Cornelius 7-11 store has
ordered “triple the regular number
of Playboys” in preparation for the
expected demand for the issue
featuring Girls of the Southern
Conference.

Lady Cat beheaded.

Wildcat rug.

