14

co

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus ‘ Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
‘Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

_ Honor bound

The recent rise in the drinking age has had a deeper effect than most
people think. Everybody realizes that it has caused Davidson students to
change their social habits. Fine: it’s a fact of life that has to be dealt with.

But it has now come out that the judicial system of the college has -

changed because of the alteration in the drinking age.

Our courts have not been altered much, mind you, but it has changed
— and in some significant ways. It now appears that student organiza-
tions can be tried by the Honor Council. This has many ramifications, the
foremost of which being that’ Geesiienpons are now supposed to be hon-
orable.

This is unsound in concept and in reality. First of all, honor can only
apply to individuals. True, every student within that group may be hon-
orable, but to hold an organization responsible for its honor is beyond
comprehension. For example, the second edition of Webster’s New
World Dictionary of the American Language gives the following defini-
tion of honor: “a keen sense of right and wrong; integrity.” An organiza-
tion can not have this “keen sense of right and wrong:” only the people
within that group can have that sense.

Some may argue that we are only speaking:in a theoretical sense: that
our opposition to trying whole organizations has no real impact. Not
true. ae

A corrolary to the statement that only individuals can be honorable is

that only individuals can be dishonorable. Any dishonorable thing done —

by an organization is actually done by persons within that organization,
and those persons should be held accountable, not the whole group. One
person’s misdoings could mean punishment for the whole group. This
punishment of all is unfair, plus it lessens the individual’s responsibility.

Another ramification of the rise in the drinking age is the increased

use of false identification. Fake I:D.’s are prevailent on campus and that
should come as no surprise, given college students’ propensity to drink.
There has been a question raised as to how to handle the Lag I.D. situa-
tion.

We believe that the only time the college wudicines system should be-
come involved with a student’s possession/use of a fake 1.D. is when he/
she tries to use it on campus. Otherwise, the police and the individual are
the only ones involved. Students are citizens first, members of Davidson

College second. Students choose to be here, and it is not the college’s

(through the Dean of Students Office or Honor Council) right to impose
its morality on matters of no direct concern to the college. 5
Also, anyone who tries to use a fake [.D. on campus is stupid. Most
students know each other’s upproximate age, and the risk of having
‘ someone find out that you have used a fake 1.D. far outweighs the bene-
fits of getting a beer. Besides that, peers at parties are not hard to come by
for a person of any age.
We think that the Honor Counci! should take a tok at its role in the

Davidson commmaty 2 and consider where the bounds of honor and en- _

forcement thereof lie.

~ Friday, October 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s View

NOW THAT WE'VE ELIMINATED

EVERY OTHER ORGANIZATION)

ON CAMPUS, WHY NOT ELIMI-
NATE. OURSELVES 9

Rascie Non

THE DAVIPSONIAN

Letters policy

The Davidsonian See
letters from its readers. We
try to print all letters of gen-

eral interest, but we will
adhere to the tone
guidelines:

-The letters must be sub-

mitted by 7 p.m. the Tuesday

before expected publication
date.

-The — letters
neatly typed.

must be.

The letters shoud be
signed. You must have a.
compelling reason if you do
not want your name printed
with the letter.

‘We reserve the right not
to print letters which are ad-
vertisements, contain inside
jokes or off-color slurs, or
represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed
on the same topic.

a

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,

_ Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonia,:. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on‘tequest. Copyright held by the Trustees of Devideon Coleg.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, Andee Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine Laura

. Gabel. :
Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, tee Eichelbérger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Har-
grove, Steve Mank.

Sports Staff: Emil Cokaia, Boyd cue. Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wil- .
kins

Piiogrophy Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Alex Hayden, Ken Jones, Kyong

Salt Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. q _—

Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox, Clisby Hall,
’ Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kim Robertson, Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wil-

kins, Ben Yarborough. — .

Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey”

Opinions policy

The Davidsonian's “Opinions’” sec-
tion is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent issues.
We will print opinions on any subject of
general interest we receive from the cam-
pus community. We adhere to the follow-

_ing guidelines:

‘Any opinion should be in to us by 7:

_p.m. the Monday before publication, un- ~~
less it is typed on IBM 5.25” diskette, in’),

which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.

‘We accept typed ia legibly- written
articles only. '

‘Opinions should be signed. We =n

only print unsigned ones if there is a com-
pelling reason and the author is Known to
us (the editors). | :
‘We will not edit opinions for content.

or style, but for common English ysage

only; We will inform the author of sub-
stantial changes.

‘Because of limited. § space, some-

“= times we are not able to print all opnions
submitted in one issue. We reserve the

right to select articles from those we re-
ceive for publication. We will. attempt to
print any withheld article the following

“week.

fa

ant
A

