OINIONS

The Davidsonian
December 10, 1986

17

Apathy will not aid Amnesty International’s cause

Bilal El-Amine

This article is not intended to offend anyone. Neverthe-
less, I know many readers will object to what I have to say.
What I have chosen to discuss in the following is a some-
what difficult subject. [ have found that there is a strong av-
ersion to stressful subjects here. This is why I chose to
make you aware of the following; not to disturb your deli-
cate peace here in Davidson but rather to have you question
this aversion. I do not argue that painful subjects must be
confronted because they are painful. No, in fact I agree this
is not an essential criteria which determines the degree of
importance an issue carries. However, I simply wish to as-
sert that difficult subjects must not be cast aside simply be-
cause they are difficult. We only choose to confront such
issues when they stand directly in our path. Even in this
scenario, we scurry past, hoping never to encounter them
again:

The “difficult issue” I wish to discuss is one I have been
quite adamant. about ‘this year — Amnesty International.
We had ariother letter-writing session earlier tonight. It was
about two Fathers in South Africa this. time; one was
stripped in front of 100 prisoners and the other was sub-
jected to solitary confinement, I cannot recall the subjects
of the last several sessions but most are of equal severity. I
remember.one girl gasped in disbelief while reading the Ur-
gent Action letter which details the crimes committed. At
that point I wondered why only 15 people were concerned

enough to write a lett&r of protest about such atrocities.

You are probably processing a number of justifications
for your apathy at this moment. There is no need; you are
not required to attend. After all those letters are not read,
neither do they exert any influence in the end. And what
right do I have to infringe on your privacy and stir you with
such disturbing accusations?

Probably the most legitimate excuse is a simple “I don’t
know anything about Amnesty International.” This is my+
concern, for such a statement, in my view, remains insuffi-
cient. The fact that the majority in this College (and proba-
bly most other colleges) know nothing or very little about
Amnesty International is very alarming. Next to the Con-
ference Room, where we held the letter-writing session,
the 900 Room was bustling with football fans who have
been anxiously waiting for Monday Night Football since
last Tuesday morning. Most of these avid sports fans can
unravel the complexities of the NBA, NFL, USFL, NHL,
and MLB. They can even tell you which two football teams
are playing next Thanksgiving night. Al, however, is un-
heard of. Could it be a new league, you know, like the late
USFL?

My point is that there is something fundamentally
wrong. The lack of knowledge about Amnesty is only one
symptom. The problem I speak of is misdirected concern,
meaning that some of the important issues which necessi-
tate, our attention seem to be lost somewhere between
baseball and what to wear to the next formal. I’ve always
wondered how these superficialities have come to domi-

nate our life at. the cost of innumerable important issues.
But the answer is immediately obvious. Most of these “im-
portant” issues are emotionally difficult to wrestle with ev-
eryday; no one wishes to be subjected to such torment. The
complexities of such matters, some argue, are also deter-
rents. Although this is true to some extent, | am reluctant to
agree because they are no worse than any other stibject such
as economics, or the case | used earlier, sports. If sufficient
motivation exists, one can easily grasp the fundamentals (I
am not requesting mastery of these subjects, just practical
knowledge). Difficulty of comprehension i$ usually just
another justification for apathy.

have intentionally avoided discussing these “subjects”
or “issues” definitively. One might infer that | am speaking
of international awareness. Although this would be accu- ~
rate, | do not wish to limit my discussion to politics. There
is an abundance of painful issues to encounter in our rela-
tions with our friends, family and personal environment
(and many more which need not be mentioned). My inten-
tion here is not to order your priorities. It is, rather, to have
you confront the difficult yet crucial issues in your.life. The
results of such a confrontation, you might discover, are en-
lightening and, God forbid, even satisfying. “Sadness lies
at the very core of being. Lay the heart bare of every other
feeling and inevitably you will come upon sadness, ready,
like the quickened seed, to put forth its green leaf.”

El-Amine is a Center major from Saudi Arabia

~ ROTC should redeploy out of Belk dormitory

J. Allen Smith

: ;
Why does ROTC have its headquarters in basement
Belk? The military is a part of “the system” or the “Ameri-
can way.” That’s a fact. The question is how much promi,,
nence should Davidson, a liberal arts college with Christian
foundation, give to it. As a pacifist, I naturally am not in.
favor of any form of militarism.

Aside from that, why does ROTC have a central loca-
tion at Davidson? Probably because when ROTC was put in
basement Belk, the building was at the back of campus,
nearest to the fields where ROTC trains. With the addition
of Patterson.Court, Commons, and the new dorms, base-
ment Belk is no longer at the back of campus, but is a very
central location, one which students might live in quite
comfortably. ROTC’s position on campus should not have
priority over students’ residence. -

Just Words
Reagan a

Tim Brown

-In this season of oozing sap and shedding trees the

‘ Reagan administration’s credibility has dropped gradu-

ally with the multi-colored leaves: the Daniloff debacle,

the summit fiasco, the spread of disinformation con-
cerning Libya, and to top them off, the Iran deal.

‘The Ronald Reagan who spoke at the first press con-
ference concerning the Iran deal was a Reagan never be-
fore seen on national TV. His humor had turned to
strained sarcasm, his easy confidence into defensive-
ness. Tight-lipped, pale, and tense as a stretched rubber
band, Reagan announced that for the last 18 months his
administration has insisted publicly on an arms embargo
for Iran and on no concessions for terrorists, but has de-
livered. secretly military weapons to Tehran. Reagan
strained to explain that his administration supported this
two-sided, fly-by-the-pants foreign policy to secure the
release of Americans kidnapped by Iran’s Lebanese al-
lies, and to restore relations with Iran.

The Reagan administration’s decision to approach
Iran with an eye on the post-Komeini era is defensible.
Iran — with a population of 45 million, a large army of
militiamen and militiachildren, vast deposits of oil, and
an economy of great potential — soon will become a
Middle East superpower. But there is and should be a
lively commotion about the wisdom of trading arms for
hostages. Such a trade agregment would allow Iran to
drive up to the teller’s window and make a withdrawal
from its hostage account t to pay for its military hardware,

Basement Belk should be made into dorms to give stu-
dents a shorter walk to classes and the library. Perhaps
ROTC can construct its headquarters at a more practical lo-
cation, near WDAV and all the fields and jogging paths on
which they train. In any case, ROTC should not have as
central a location on campus as it presently has. Turn base-
ment Belk into dorm rooms for students, and help solve
Davidson’s housing shortage.

Why does ROTC have its headquarters in basement
Belk? Perhaps because we are the ones who will end up
either leading our nation or community into war or seeing
ways to avoid war and work for economic cooperation. The
choices will be difficult. My fear is that Davidson makes
the choice for war too easy. ROTC is in the only freshman
dorm for every entering freshman guy, in front of the only
freshman dorm for every ‘entering freshman girl, not to
mention along the course of a large portion of traffic walk-

ing from Chambers and the Union to Patterson Court and
the Commons. If hall counselors are chosen with such in-
credible care, as they are, why aren't the surroundings for
freshmen given the same consideration?

Discipline is something the army has in common with
the student. It also provides many students with an other-_
wise missing sense of purpose or money to make staying at
Davidson less of an emotional or financial burden. I am
concemed, however, that ROTC is sending a much more
pervasive message of antagonistic sentiment to outsiders
than the warm acceptance of outsiders more common to a
Christian sense of purpose. Move it away from such a do-
minant position on campus and bring a few more sopho-
mores back on campus.

Smith is a junior history major from Durham, NC

“standing tall” trip up in Iran

“an on-going foreign-aid program,” as one U.S. dip-
lomat observes.

The gift-wrapped goodies that the Reagan adminis-
tration reportedly had delivered to Tehran include a cake
in the shape of a key for “opening” new diplomatic. ties
(sickly-sweet symbolism), a Bible inscribed by Ronald
Reagan, Colt pistols with pearl handles for top Iranian
officials who are admirers of Roy Rogers, 2080 anti-
tank missiles, 240 anti-aircraft missiles, and spare parts.
for Iran’s aging fleet of F-4 phantom jets. Never ceasing
to amaze, the Reagan administration argues that the
anti-tank missiles and anti-aircraft missiles “would have
no impact on the progress of the Iran-Iraq war.”

After the first U.S. delivery of military supplies to
Tehran, of which not even Reagan was made aware,
Iran paid no cash and released no hostages. Following
the second delivery, Iran sent its Revolutionary Guards
to secure the release of Rev. Benjamin Weir, a 62-year-

.old Presbyterian minister kidnapped in Beirut 16 months

earlier, from Hezbullah terrorists in the Bekaa Valley.
Several deliveries later, the Rev. Lawrence Jenco, a
Roman Catholic missionary, was released. And most re--
cently David Jacobsen, a hospital administrator was
freed.

Tarnished Brass: Three tarnished military brass
hats of the National Security Council! sold Reagan on the
idea that the U.S. could run military hardware into Iran,
get back hostages, and trust the Iranians (the same Ira-
nians who refer to the U: ‘S. as the Great Satan) to remain
mum. The former National Security Council chief John
Poindexter, who resigned last week, provided the Iack

LO

of brains behind the caper. The former National Security
Council chief Robert McFarlane organized the de-
liveries to Tehran. And Lt. Col. Oliver North, who was
fired from the National Security Council last month,
starred as the mysterious Lone Ranger in negotiating

_ with the Iranians. A senior Reagan official said, “North
would have skated on the edge of his skis to accomplish
the mission.” White House officials jokingly referred to
North as “the Reagan administration’s answer to G.
Gordon Liddy.”

So far, many on Capital Hill have identified Poin- |
dexter, McFarlane, and North as the major causes of the
-Iran deal. They ignored public opinion (which McFar-
lane admits to), the State Department’s warnings that
the Iran deal was a mistake in the making, and similar
warnings from the Secretary of State George Schultz
and from a temporarily enlightened Secretary of De-
fense Casper Weinberger. Moreover, they were so
sneaky-secret that they never informed White House of-
ficials or Congress of their plans.

Regardless of who is responsible for the Iran deal,
the Reagan administration, if its credibility is to survive
the coming winter, must understand that just as one
Should not employ a concert violinist to do brain
surgery, one should not employ brass hats to orchestrate
foreign policy. And the Democrats and Republicans |
should bear in mind these Mark Twain’s words: “By try-
‘ing we can easily learn to endure adversity. Another
man’s, mean.” .

Brown is a junior center major from Mint Hill, NC and
Opinions editor of The Davidsonian.
