Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

t~Beyond Davidson

3

Soviets suffer nuclear reactor meltdown

By JANE AURELL

Headlining the news for the week of
April 23-30:

International news — Saturday, an
accident occured at a Soviet nuclear
power plant located in Chemobyl, 80
miles north of Kiev. The Soviet Union
publicly announced the accident on Mon-
day and has been reserved in its disclo-
sure of details. The U.S.S.R. reports two
deaths due to the accident, but unofficial
estimates are that as many as 2,000 may
have died. To date, a fire emitting radia-
tion is still burning inside of the reactor,
and a radiation “cloud” has reportedly
spread over Eastern Europe and Scan-
dinavia.

Some radiation may reach the U.S.
by the weekend, but experts say no health
hazard is posed. The U.S. has offered the
U.S.S.R. humanitarian and diplomatic
aid; however, there has been no response
so far. This accident is believed by ex-
perts to be the worst in history. United
States radiation experts at the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission believe that
radiation exposure to people living near
the reactor may be 10,000 times greater
than the maximum exposure to people
who lived near the Three Mile Island
plant in 1979.

President Reagan telephoned Filipino
President Corazon Aquino last week of-
fering U.S. assistance in “meeting the
challenges that lie before her govern-
ment.” In the same conversation, Aquino
accepted Reagan’s invitation to visit the
U.S. sometime after this fall’s elections.
In addition, Reagan asked Congress to
give the Philippines $100 million in
economic aid and $50 million in military
aid. Last Thursday, communist rebels
launched an ambush killing 13 soldiers
and two journalists; in retaliation, Philip-
pine forces attacked communist stron-
gholds in the northern Philippines. On
Monday, although accusing each other of
continued violence, the communist re-
bels and the military both offered support
for a cease-fire; in the past week 70
people have been killed in clashes be-
tween the military and the communist in-
surgents.

On Monday, former Philippine Presi-
dent Ferdinand Marcos spoke from

Hawaii, by means of a live telephone
hook-up, to his supporters in the Philip-
pines; calling himself the legitimate pres-
ident of the Philippines, Marcos urged
his supporters to fight against the Aquino
government. During a lay-over in Hawaii
on his way to a seven day economic sum-
mit in Tokyo, President Reagan spoke by
telephone with Marcos and reiterated his
support for the Aquino government.

Over the weekend, Italian judicial
sources reported that investigations into
an aborted year-old plot by Libyans to as-
sassinate the U.S. ambassador to Rome
has yielded evidence linking the Libyan
Peoples Bureau to other terrorist activity
in Western Europe and Egypt. Addition-
ally, by ousting ten Libyan diplomats,
Italy joined eight other European coun-
tries who have recently ousted Libyans.
Belgium expelled seven Libyan dip-
lomats on Monday.

In a related event, landiords of a Dal-
las, Texas apartment highrise asked
Mark Thatcher, the 32 year old son of
British Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher, to vacate his apartment for fear
that the safety of other tenets could be
jeopardized if he were to become the
target of Libyan terrorism. Margaret
Thatcher was the only European leader to
openly assist the U.S. in the April 15 raid
on Libya. Furthermore, in reaction to
Britain's involvement, a British tourist
was killed Monday in Jerusalem; a group
led by palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal has
claimed responsibility.

Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State
George Shultz suggested “disruptive
covert action” against Libya and other
terrorist attacks; however, Shultz com-
mented that he is opposed to assassina-
tion of foreign leaders. The U.S. aircraft
carrier Enterprise has been moved from
its station in the Indian Ocean to join
another U.S. carrier in the Mediterra-
nean; this action is in accordance with a
U.S. pledge to keep two aircraft carriers
in the Mediterranean.

In other developments, the tiny na-
tion of Swaziland, landlocked between
Mozambique and South Africa, crowned
the world’s youngest monarch. The 18-
year-old King Mswate III succeeds his
father who ruled the nation of 600,000

for 60 years, and until his death in 1982
was the world’s longest reigning
monarch. Maureen Reagan, Prince and
Princess Michael of Kent and South Af-
rica’s President P.W. Botha were among
the representatives sent by over 30 na-
tions. Also in Africa, after 17 years of
military rule, the Sudanese Parliament
opened, with its first task being to forma
new government.

In defiance of Chilean President Au-
gosto Pinochet, the National Assembly
of Civilian Society, an assembly repre-
senting nearly all middle-class and white-
collar organizations in Chile, announced
a broad campaign of civil disobedience as
a new effort aimed at ending the coun-
try’s military rule.

An earthquake measuring seven on
the Richter scale rocked Mexico City on
Tuesday, but no serious injuries have
been reported. In India earlier this week,
an earthquake measuring 5.7 on the Rich-
ter scale rumbled near Dharmsaka in the
Himachal Pradesh state; two persons
were killed and 30 were injured.

France conducted an underground
nuclear test in the southern Pacific Ocean
3,000 miles from New Zealand.

Wallis Simpson, the American
woman for whom King Edward VII
gave up the throne to marry, died Thurs-
day at the age of 89.

Japan’s Emperor Hirohito celebrated
his 85th birthday snd 60th anniversary of
his reign on Tuesday.

National News — Before arriving in
Tokyo for the seven day Economic Sum-
mit President Reagan stopped over in
Hawaii, then flew on to Bali where he
met with the Foreign Ministers of the six
member nations of the Association of
South East Asian Nations (ASEAN).

Neal Sher, the Director of the Justice
Department's Office of Special Investi-
gations, recommended that former U.N.
Secretary General Kurt Waldheim be
barred from entering the U.S. on grounds
of being a “suspected war criminal” who
lied about his Nazi ties during WWII.
Sher’s recommendation has not yet been
approved, and Waldheim has dismissed
it as insignificant, while repeating his
position that all accusations will prove
unfounded. To date, surveys indicate that

Waldheim holds a seven point lead in the
campaign for the Austrian presidency;
elections are to be held May 4.

Contained within a classified direc-

tive tentatively calling for the dismantl-
ing of two Poseidon submarines in order
to adhere to the unratified SALT II treaty,
administration sources report that Presi-
dent Reagan ordered a study to investi-
gate the U.S. need to develop a multiple-
warhead missile to either complement
other missiles in the land based arsenal or
be an alternative to the “Midgetman” en-
visioned by the Air Force.

A New York Times combined investi-

gation of federal audits, government
documents and interviews with U.S.
space experts revealed that NASA con-
tractors have wasted billions of dollars on
the space shuttle and other space projects
due to primarily to bad management, ex-
perts say that faulty NASA administra-
tion is “impossible to separate from
safety problems.”
months after the shuttle Challenger ex-
plosion, the remains of the seven as-
tronauts have been positively identified
and returned to their families for burial.

More than _ three

Giving his testimony at the espionage

trial of his “best friend” Jerry Whitworth,
confessed spy John Walker blamed de-
pression stemming from marital prob-
lems for his decision to disclose valuable
U.S. Navy secrets to the U.S.S.R. and
said that he recruited his friend in 1974
after determining that Whitworth had
“larceny in his heart.”

Data gathered by a Texas demog-

rapher at Southern Methodist University

reveals that recent population losses in
Houston, due largely to collapse in the
state’s oil related industries, may cause
Philadelphia to regain its spot as the

fourth largest U.S. city; Philadelphia lost
its position to Houston in 1982.

Astronomers say that new measuring

techniques reveal that the Milky Way is
25 percent smaller than previously be-
lieved.

Thought for the Week: — “The great-

est dangers to liberty lurk in the insidious
encroachment by men of zeal, well
meaning but without understanding.”

Associate Justice Louis Brandeis of the

U.S. Supreme Court

Dean Rusk
conference

Continued from page 2

sion groups which dealt with: the
interface of politics and the
economy, led by political science
professors Brian Shaw and Lou
Ortmayer; the legacy of develop-
ment, led by Wells and economics
professor Louise Nelson; libera-
tion and theology, led by religion
professor David Kaylor and chap-
lin Charlie Summers, and preserv-
ing cultural identities, led by Earle
and Kemp.

Afterwards, an overview of
U.S. policy toward Central Amer-
ica was presented by William M.
Jackson, a senior fellow in the Au-
Ibright Institute at the University
of Arkansas and a former David-
son political science professor.
Reynolds said his presentation
dealt primarily with U.S. policy
toward Nicaragua.

Reynolds said Central Ameri-
ca was chosen as a topic for the

first conference because it is “in
the news” and also something
about which people need to know
more.

“The Central American con-
flict is often thought of in terms of
a U.S.-Nicaraguan conflict, but it
is really much more complex. We
aimed to show that there are dif-
ferent issues at stake in the region.
The conference is not one for ex-
perts but for people who wanted to
get a better understanding of the
region. There’s no way we can
claim that we understand Central
America after a two-day confer-
ence, but now, I think we know
the questions we should be asking
and the things we should be con-
sidering as we form opinions. |
hope that it will perk people’s in-
terest and challenge them to learn
more,”Reynolds said.

Task force formed to study athletics

By MIKE ADAMS

At last Friday's Southern Con-
ference spring meeting, Athletic
Director Christopher Morris with-
drew a proposed amendment that
would have allowed Davidson to
continue its Southem Conference
affiliation while playing football
in the Colonial League. The deci-
sion to withdraw was made late
Thursday night after straw polls
showed little support for the
amendment. On Friday, a task
force was set up to study options
that will allow Davidson to main-
tain its Southern Conference
thembership.

The Southern Conference cur-
rently requires each member in-
stitution to compete for confer-
ence championships in football,
basketball and six other men’s
varsity sports. Davidson's amend-
ment would have allowed institu-
tions that offer only need-based
aid to be excused from champion-
ship competition in football.
These schools would still play
three Southern Conference oppo-

nents in football each season and
would play all of the Southern
Conference teams in a five year
span.

Athletic directors and faculty
representatives from the other
Southern Conference schools op-
posed this amendment because it
left too many unanswered ques-
tions. It did not indicate whether
games played between a Southern
Conference team competing for
the championship and one ex-
cused would count on the confer-
ence record of the former. It did
not state whether a team excused
from championship play would be
allowed to vote on football issues
or share in conference television
revenues from football.

Morris blames the inadequacy
of the proposed amendment on a
lack of communication with other
athletic directors in the conference
about what was acceptable to
them. “The original proposal was
hatched in a vacuum,” he said.

The proposal to set up a task
force to study options to keep

Davidson in the Southern Confer-
ence passed by a 9-0 margin, indi-
cating that while the amendment
was unacceptable, there is still
support for Davidson's cause. The
task force committee is composed
of Morris, Appalachian State Ath-
letic Director Jim Gamer, VMI
Athletic Director Fred Hyman and
East Tennessee State faculty rep-
resentative Charles Clark.

Morris is optimistic about the
committee's chances of finding a
workable solution. Garner has
gone on récord as being opposed
to any exceptions for Davidson
football, and, according to Mor-
ris, he will provide “immediate
feedback about anything put on
the table.” His presence will in-
sure that the task force will not
submit a totally unacceptable pro-

posal.

The task force will meet dur-
ing the spring and summer to pre-
pare a proposal for a special
Southern Conference meeting in
late summer or early fall.
