10

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John sale Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Mark Chen, Features Editor ' Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors -
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager ’ Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Semesters.

The quarter system has to go. Semesters — what most of academia
uses — should be in Davidson’s future. Pedantic measures like having
the same classes all five days of the week reek of (gasp!) high school.
The buzzer has become a memory, hopefully, and 10-week terms soon
only should be mentioned in Sentences that begin with, “Remember
when .:.”

Students are herded and hurried als like cattle to slaughter with the —

current system. The juggernaut term steams headlong and students rush
to catch up withrit. Miss two days due to illness now and you’ re six class-
es behind. You will have missed all of the discussion on Lord Byron in
your English class; you will have missed Picasso in your art survey class;
you will have missed American foreign policy during the 60s in your
political science class. If we had a semester system which worked on a
Monday-Wednesday-Friday / Tuesday-Thursday schedule, you would
have missed only one class period in each of your four subjects.

If we had semesters, professors would have a chance to fully explain
their subjects instead of being hurried by short class periods. Students

would be able to concentrate on fewer subjects for greater periods of -

time. As it stands now, a student ily schedule is set, and it is the same
every day. With semesters, the schedule demands variety, and gives stu-
dents the ability to have larger (albeit fewer) blocks of free time. These
\arger blocks of non-scholastically related time will allow for greater
creativity, as well as a clearer understanding of class work. One is more

inclined to scribble a few lines of poetry if he/she has two hours to work

on it rather than only one.
The school year would start earlier and end earlier and allow for

longer vacations. Instead of the scant two weeks for Christmas allowed

us now, three to four weeks would be possible. The lengthened vacation

’ would most likely be followed by the oh-so-liberal-arts “January term,’
an opportunity for internships, study abroad and classes’ not baually
taken.

Another advantage of semesters comes in the form of transfering
credit, an important topic for transfer students and those with the desire
to get away from Davidson for awhile, such as a semester abroad in the

* junior year. Right now administrative hassles needlessly hinder would
be student-travelers and transfers alike.

- There will be those who will hold on to the tradition of terms, and

claim that it is somewhat noble to keep up with every class every day.

They will claim that it makes Davidson unique amongst very good liberal

arts colleges. Davidson is unique enough without having to rely on high.

school structures such as quarters.
_. Semesters force maturity. Instead of being spoon-fed material every
‘day, the student will have to organize his/her time better. It will allow
one to work ahead, and it will be much easier to catch up.
Davidson needs semesters. They are good for the school, good for
the professors and good for the students. 6

Friday, November 7, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN'

THE SEMESTER DEBATE

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Mark Chen, Wendy Dunn,
Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Ed Matthews, Tom
Moore, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana
Miller.

- Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins.
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun.

. Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Sarah Bayne; Beth Bryson, Amelia Fox, Pete Mangone, Tom Moore,
Ibby Sowell, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

THEY VOTED 1%

Letters

©1956 THE dap SoMAN

4)

The Special

“To the Editors:

When I purchased the M & .M Soda
Shop from Mary Potts last November, |

‘ promised Mary one thing — that I would
use the same recipes she had always used. I

have kept that promise.

The following items are fact:

1) All our food prepared based on Mary
Pott’s original recipes is prepared as Mary
taught me.

2) The most important: thing to mé is

~ that our customers are satisfied. We ask that

question of our customers several hundred
times a day. How we prepare our food
greatly depends on what our customers say.
In regard to our “Special,” the recipe is
exactly as Mary Potts gave it to me. We

_ Shred the lettuce and ham now because our

customers have asked us too — it’s easier to
bite and chew and it’s tastier.
3) Third and lastly, I think it’s very un-

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. We try to print all letters of
general interest, but we will adhere to the
following guidelines:

‘The letters must be submitted by 7
p.m. the Tuesday before expected publi-
cation date.

‘The letters must be neatly typed.

‘The letters should be signed. You
must have a compelling:reason if you do
not want your name printed with the let-
ter. :

‘We reserve the right not to print let-
ters which are advertisements, contain
inside jokes or off-color slurs, or repre-
sent a viewpoint very similar to other let-
ters printed on the same topic.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” sec-
tion is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent issues.
We will print opinions on any subject of

Policies

fortunate that you, the editors; would print
your opinions based, not on allthe facts, but
on your own interpretations.

‘And I also think it’s unfortunate that I,
as a merchant serving the Davidson com-.
munity, would learn of your discontent with
the food I serve, in a published editiorial,
rather than you stepping up and voicing it to
me personally so I could make appropriate
compensation.

Ann C. Overcash

Editors’ note: Upon receiving this letter,
we ventured to the M & M to give the “Spe-
cial” one more chance. We must report that
it was as good as ever. However, we had to

‘eat take-out due to the smell of fried food

and sounds of MTV, not bad things in them-
selves, but improper ambience for the M &
M.

general interest we receive from the cam-
pus community. We adhere to the follow-
ing guidelines:

‘Any opinion should be in to us by 7
p.m. the Monday before publication, un-
less it is typed on IBM 5.25” diskette, in
which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.

_ *We accept typed and legibly-written
articles only.

‘Opinions should be signed. We will
only print unsigned ones if there is acom-
pelling reason and the author is-known to
us (the editors).

“We will not edit opinions for content
or style, but for common English usage
only. We will inform the author of sub--
stantial changes.

“Because of limited space, some-
times we are not able to print all opnions
submitted in one issue. We reserve the
right to select articles from those we re-
ceive for publication. We will attempt to

‘ print any withheld article the following

week.
