6

Friday, January 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Producers is Mel Brooks through and through

By JENNY LIVINGSTON

Mel Brooks is Mel Brooks is Mel
Brooks. His stamp is indelible and abso-
lutely unmistakable. From its camera an-
gles to its casting, The Producers is Mel
Brooks through and through. If you love
Mel Brooks, you'll love the movie; if you
hate him, you'll hate the movie. If you love
Mel Brooks, read on; if you hate him, go
ahead and turn the page.

The Producers is about a Broadway
producer (Zero Mostel) who hasn't had a hit
for years who, with accountant Gene Wil-
der, discovers a way to make a bundle on a
flop. So begins their quest for the worst
play, the worst director and the worst cast.
They choose a lovely little number called
“Springtime for Hitler,” written by a (not
quite) former Nazi. Of course the plan
backfires and the play’s a hit.

That’s about the extent of the plot. I’ve
always hated movie reviewers who tell the
whole story, but in this movie, it doesn’t re-
ally matter. First of all, the whole premise is
set in the first ten minutes; and after that it’s

pretty obvious where it’s going. And any-
way, Brooks uses the plot simply to serve as
a skeleton on which to hang his bizarre
humor. He has little interest (or need of in-
terest, as far as I’m concerned) in exploring
the plot for its own sake.

He takes somewhat of the same ap-
proach with his characters. Initially they
seem fairly stock: the conniving
businessman, the timid accountant, the
wild granny, the flaming homosexual, etc.
But he uses these one-dimensional charac-
ters in a one-dimensional plot to produce to-
tally unpredictable comedy which trans-
cends the bounds he sets out. Transcenden-
tal humor — what a concept.

And the best part is, the whole thing
works beautifully. For although Brooks’
personal style permeates the film, he does
not hold the reins so tightly that the actors
become pawns or robots. It is a precarious
balance, but one he maintains well. Brooks
trusts his actors enough to let them act. And
act they do. Gene Wilder is hysterically

funny in his neuroses as the accountant.
And Zero Mostel is a perfect foil as the pro-
ducer. Their timing is impeccable and their
chemistry dynamic.

I suppose this is all awfully cerebral for
such a light movie. The bottom line is that-
it’s good. That is, if you like Mel
Brooks... .

Scottish band reconciles Christianity and pop

By LEE EICHELBERGER

On the boundaries of pop (Glasgow,
Scotland, that is) live Lloyd Cole and the
Commotions who refine and reinvent pop
cliches as do no other group today. While
their style can be traced to Lou Reed, the
Cars, Elvis Costello, and the best mid-six-
ties English pop, Cole and his band invigo-
rate the pop style with a dash of humility
and Christian optimism, yet without bow-
ing to sentimentality.

Their first effort, Rattlesnakes, estab-
lished the band as a group with a new vision
of what pop is and can be. Ultimately, that
happiness, despair, love, friendship and
Christianity are all reconcilable in the con-
fines of pop themes. On their latest disc, 2
Easy Pieces, Cole and the Commotions ex-
pand lyrically on the theme of reconcilia-

tion while retreating from the ambitious
musical structure that marked Rattlesnakes.

The album begins with “Rich” which is
very much in the style of the Cars, except a
horn section replaced hard-edged guitars.
Lyrically, the style here is (again like the
Cars) eclectic, ““and money is for taking yes
and rich is what to be forsaken grey and giv-
ing it away,” even adding an emphatically
deadpan Ocasek, “Hey!”. But after “Rich”
such direct comparisons aren't valid, which
is fortunate.

“Why I love Country Music” is a un-
iquely novel song. It begins, “Jane is fine
always fine/ She tells lies most of the time.”
The theme is your standard bittersweet not-
quite-broken relationship, but it asks dis-
turbingly, “We're killing time and we feel

Congratulations

The ROTC Department along with the Red Cross spon-

fine well what’s the crime?”. All this
against an easy-going melody establishes
an engaging paradox. “Grace” has Cole
helping out a former lover who has fallen on
bad times, (“Once you were an angel”).
Propelled by a bouncy Beatlesque tune,
Cole resolves sunnily, “Out in the summer
rain we will begin again”. But “Cut Me
Down” ends the side disappointingly.
Cole’s mournful “I’ve been aching just to
fall/ Cut me down” just isn’t believable and
doesn’t suit his aloof candor.

“Brand New Friend”, the album’s best
track, is highlighted by Lou Reed style voc-
als and a thoroughly new sound. Cole be-
gins, “Walking in the pouring rain/ Walk-
ing with Jesus and Jane” and ends “I don’t
know when I'll be content but I do know I
need a brand new friend.” It is siraple, sub-

tle, and gently uplifting. Except for “Lost
Weekend” and “Perfect Blue”, the rest of
the record is burdened by lyrical excesses
which eclipse the talent and precision of the
Commotions. Producers Clive Langer and
Alan Winstanley are largely to blame for
bringing Cole’s vocals to the forefront of
the mix when the Commotion’s playing
should balance them.

Still, while 2 Easy Pieces does not live
up to the promise of Rattlesnakes, it does
not greatly diminish it. This is a record of
richness and subtle power, and Cole and the
Commotions are a group with real poten-
tial. This record deserves to be heard simply
because there is little comparable to Lloyd

Cole and the Commotions in pop music
today.

x
¢

sored a blood drive held on Monday, Jan. 10. Congratula-
tions go to Davidson College and the Davidson Communi-
ty for a successful blood drive. We collected 200 pints of
blood that will be used to help those in need. The more
than helpful businesses of the local Davidson area were
kind enough to give gifts for door prizes that were drawn
for Jan. 12. The winners and the businesses were the fol-
lowing:

First Union National Bank

P.O. Box 39

Winners:

Carolina Cones — one-half gallon each — Nick Lowther
and Susie Beckham

Giorgio’s — one small two topping pizza — Tina Ramsaur
The Needlecraft Center — stitchables — Arlene Bach
Davidson Drygoods — $10 gift certificate — Laura Johnson
Buttery and Beanery — $5 gift certificate — Leddy Hurt
Natural Resources — $5 gift certificate — Whitney
Montgomery

Copeland House — Poster — Steve Baggerly

The Village Store — two $5 gift certificates — David Snider
and John Wightman

Peregrine House — 16” pizza one topping — John McNeill
M&M Soda Shop — $5 gift certificate — Jane Price °
Norton's Barber Shop — two bottles of shampoo — Robert

Davidson

Huntersville Cornelius

