Lady Cats take first home victory, p.7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXV, Number 14

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 31, 1986

Patterson Court

Return of Kappa Sigma proposed

By KEITH FINCH

A number of freshmen are
seeking to re-form the Davidson
chapter of the Kappa Sigma frater-
nity, a national organization
which left the Davidson campus in
1971 when self-selection was in-
stituted. The group hopes to oc-
cupy the only remaining empty
house on Patterson Court, the old
ATO house.

Henry Nichols, Kappa Sigma
District Grand Master, affirmed
the fact that there is an interest in
Kappa Sigma at Davidson. He
said, “We've had some interest
over the years, since 1971 when
the chapter at Davidson disbanded
— there have been people who
have contacted Kappa Sigma off
and on who have expressed inter-
est in reforming the chapter.”

He said, “It’s not something
you can just do overnight, it’s a
progressive series of steps — so of

course it depends upon whether
the college will allow us to come
in. So [ think it would be a little bit
premature to predict how we’ll do
— I think we’ ll have to wait until a
little bit later in the spring before
we can really say anything.”

Nichols added, “All we've
been through at this point is just a
first stage to see if there’s much
interest — we've only had one
meeting so.far, so I'd say we've
got a hell of a lot of work left to
do. There were, of course, a fair
number of young men at the meet-
ing.”

He said, “It may be as late as
the fall before things get put to-
gether.”

Todd Young, a freshman in-
volved in the movement to create
a Kappa Sigma chapter, said: “We
did meet with the national repre-
sentative last Thursday [Jan. 23]
to discuss our [potential] status as

a colony — which is the stage you
pass through before you become a
Kappa Sigma chapter. There has
to be at least a 90-day waiting
period before you can become a
fraternity chapter.”

He estimated that there were
53 people at the meeting.

He added that the college has
not yet taken a position with re-
spect to Kappa Sigma: “The col-
lege has not given the go-ahead
for us to move back on campus.
The official OK has to come from
the president. If we were to come
back, though, then we would have
the old ATO house.”

Young said it was conceivable
that Kappa Sigma could come
back this year. “They [the national
representatives] said that they'd
definitely like to see it started by
fall of next year. If everything's
going through OK, then-we can

(continued un page 2)

Senior Gerry Born fights his way up to the hoop Monday
night. For more on the game, see page 7.

Inter- Varsity seeks Christian unity on campus

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Since the “death” and “funeral” of the
Davidson Christian Fellowship (DCF) two
years ago, Davidson has undergone a trans-
ition period in its quest for a new campus-
wide Christian fellowship. Today, the
Davidson chapter of Inter- Varsity Christian
Fellowship is striving to achieve what DCF
failed to accomplish in providing a genuine
atmosphere for Christians at Davidson to
worship and grow in Christ.

According to Inter-Varsity coordinator
Ted Wolfe, “DCF was not meeting the

needs of Christians and was an exclusive.

kind of fellowship where people didn’t care
anything about the whole group.” As a re-
sult, the leaders of DCF
News decided to dissolve the
Analysis organization during the
spring of 1984 and held a
public “funeral” to emphasize its “death.”
In the fall of 1984, former members of
DCF decided to create a new campus fel-
lowship. The Unknown Fellowship (TUF),
as the group was eventually named, “was
supposed to pick up where DCF left off,”
Wolfe said. “Its purpose was to get rid of
the stereotype of being close-minded and
exclusive.” TUF was the mainstay of Chris-
tian fellowship at Davidson for the full
1984-85 school year.
However, ‘‘as time went on, the leaders
of TUF felt they had the opportunity to join

with a major national organization, which
would give us more stability, continuity,
and the assistance we needed,” Wolfe said.
“There were many who wanted to join a na-
tional organization. It ended up, as an entire
fellowship, that we would join Inter-Var-
sity.” The Unknown fellowship was dissol-
ved, and its leaders formed a new Davidson
chapter of Inter-Varsity in the spring of
1985.

Senior coordinator Karl Lorenz said:
“Inter-Varsity, as an organization, has
goals that we wanted to identify with. Out
of the knowledge that the person of Christ is
revealed in scripture, Inter- Varsity came up
with other goals, such as encouraging each
other to grow in obedience to God. Part of
that growth is responsibility to the world.”

The Davidson chapter of Inter-Varsity
still coordinates many of the functions of
DCF and TUF, such as large group fellow-
ship on Friday night and small group meet-
ings throughout the week. The chapter ac-
tivities are still almost completely planned
and carried out by six student coordinators
elected by the entire fellowship.

Yet several important aspects of the fel-
lowship have changed dramatically. Roger
Edwards, a Charlotte staff member of the
national Inter-Varsity organization, now
advises the coordinators and meets regu-
larly with individual students. Second,
“The fellowship has a constitution and a

whole set-up for doing things, so that from
year to year the coordinators don’t have to
make up a new scheme,” Wolfe said. Fi-
nally, according to Lorenz, Inter-Varsity
has a new goal as a Davidson fellowship:
“To foster unity among Christians on cam-
pus and out of that to reach out to others on
campus.”

Inter-Varsity also strives to serve the
community through its ongoing urban
ministry and its sponsorship of awareness
days in the fall and spring. “As part of the
urban ministry, some people have gone into
Charlotte to work with groups such as the
Crisis Assistance Ministry,” Lorenz said.
Inter-Varsity also sends volunteers to the
inner city of Charlotte through the Step Pro-
gram and the Day Shelter. Lorenz added:
“Awareness Day, which will be Feb. 8 this
year, provides a grasp on our responsibili-
ties as disciples of Jesus to the rest of the
world and to the local poor.”

Wolfe emphasized the accessibility of
Inter-Varsity to all students on campus:
“Inter- Varsity is such an open thing. This is
an image we would like to get across. We
are a Christian fellowship, but everyone is
welcome. It’s the type of thing where
people don't have to feel part of the group.
They can leave early and come late.”

Commenting on the success of Inter-
Varsity at Davidson in its first year, junior

member Lisa Majoros said: ‘‘Inter- Varsity
has been much more ecumenical. Many stu-
dents were burned out on DCF, seeing
Inter- Varsity as something more comforta-
ble.” She added: “Inter-Varsity has been
more of a Christian fellowship than before
It offers more cohesiveness and a more sta-
ble framework. Yet there is always room to
grow, and Inter-Varsity is always open to
criticism.”

Wolfe echoed these sentiments: “I think
and hope that we are perceived differently
It seems like we have more people coming
than before. I don't think of success in
terms of numbers, but in being able to focus
our eyes on God, rather than meeting some
image.” He added: “We want to reach out to
campus as friends and really love people
That's one of the things we decided last
spring.”

Lorenz added: “I have been really en-
couraged by what has happened this year
Sure, there are things that disappoint me,
but I have been encouraged by a lot -— by
the growth in individual people's lives, by
seeing people challenged to follow Christ,
and by the amount of unity I see on campus
among Christians in general.”

The Davidson chapter of Inter- Varsity
holds its large group meetings at 7 p.m
evety Friday in the Big Screen Room of the
Grey Student Union.

