Friday, October 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Grandparents in town enjoyable for students

By NELLE MCCORKLE

ling to wait on me and runerrands _ grandinother's house each day for

Five current Davidson stu- for me. He’s just a fine fel- lunch. “She cooks a lot for me,

- dents -arrived with a constant— low ~ .~ He’s very attentive.”

chocolate-chip cookie source, a
backyard full of leaves waiting to
be raked and a fond familiar ad-
visor, all within blocks of the
campus. These students attend
college in the town where their
grandparents live.

Having grandmother’s pre-
~ sence here helped attract senior
- Whitney Montgomery to the col-

lege. “When I was a little kid, it
used to be great to come down to
Davidson and play on the campus.
I was here a lot when I was little,
and now it’s neat to be able to
come down here and ga to school
and visit Grandma,” Montgomery
said.

Unlike other Davidson grand-
children, Montgomery lives with
his grandmother Mrs. H.E.
Fulcher. She said of the arrange-
ment, “It’s mighty nice — I’m
getting on in years. he’s so wil-

Montgomery, who refers to
his grandmother as Rosie, said,
“She’s a wonderful lady — al-
ways a lot of fun. She gives me a
lot of grief about my
clothes... Even my mother
doesn’t do that! Senior Edwin
Douglass, who everybody knows
is a crispy big fellow, came over
here one time in khakis. 1 came
down the stairs in jeans. Rosie
turned to Edwin and asked him if I
was dressed appropriately for the
occasion — we quickly de-
parted.”

Earlier this week, Montgom-
ery came in wearing tattered blue
jeans late at night after working on
a paper. The next morning, he
found that his grandmother had
his pants folded on the stairs, re-
paired. \l

Montgomery returns to his

‘and a lot of my friends like to
come over, for which I don’t
blame ‘em, ‘cause it’s good
food,” he said.

According to retired religion
professor George Abernethy,
grandfather of sophomore Tim
Poston, “Success in getting along
with your grandson is not to see
too much of him.” Abernethy
said, ‘The hope of a grandparent
in the college is that he won’t em-
barrass his grandson — the- re-
verse may be true too.”

Remembering an early en-
counter of Poston’s with the set-
ting he later ehose for college
Abernathy said, “When he was
about seven years of age, he visi-
ted us in Davidson. He and I
walked together to the post office.
It so happened that everyone ‘we
passed that particular day called
me by name. Even some people

waved to me from cars. He said to
‘me, ‘Grandpa, do you know ev-
,eryone in this town?’ I assured
him I didn’t-know everybody. It’s
useful for anyone at Davidson, not
just grandchildren, to talk to
people in the post office.”

Another Davidson grandpa-
sent, Mrs. James B. Woods Jr.,
said of having a granddaughter in
the student body, “It’s wonderful.
It gives me a very personal lift to
have her dropping in... Itkeeps
me in touch with the students and
brings me new friends, her
friends.”

“I remember when Tony
[Dick ’85] first came it made me
realize my age — I couldn’t be-
lieve I was the grandmother to
Davidson students when for so
many years I’d been the mom.”
Woods spoke of the “joy of com-
panionship of a family member”
provided by her granddaughter’s
closeness. She also said, “It gives

me the opportunity to meet more
wonderful Davidson students.”

Several grandchildren em-
phasized the advantages of im-
mediate proximity to home cook-
ing. Sophomore Elizabeth Dick,
Woods’ granddaughter, said, “Let
me just say that it is wonderful to
get homemade brownies that can
spoil one’s dinner.”

“You can always go home for
a home-cooked meal,” sopho-
more Bob Davidson said. Grand-
son of Dr. and Mrs. Chalmers
Davidson, he noted, “You can al-
ways look to them if you’re in
trouble.”

Senior Andy Clark mentioned
another advantage. of attending
college in his grandmother’s
town. He said of Marjorie
McCutchan, “Instead of seeing
her twice a year, I’ve gotten to see
her much more regularly. We’ve
gotten to know each other a lot
better.”

Nohow and contrariwise -

Fame and fortune on Bucks Aplenty

Ottoman: That’s great! Do you know the
rules?

Champion: I sure do!

Ottoman: Then let’s play! Now let’s meet
our challenger!

Our Challenger: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Do you know the rules?

O. Challenger: I sure do! Party?

Ottoman: Then let’s play! But first, the Champion: Um . . .

incredibly suave Wren Fiskerbeater, will——Contestant:- Now Pinch--do -you mean
tell you what you could win! what was the Boston Tea Party?

Ottoman: Hello, Bambi!

Squid: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Contestants, our first question
is this: What was the Boston Tea Party?
Champion: Um...

Contestant: Can you repeat that, Pinch?
Ottoman:. What was the Boston Tea

Contestant: 1 . . . damn!

Ottoman: I’m sorry that is incorrect!
Let’s meet our next guest!

Next Guest: Hello, Pinch!

Ottoman: Hello! Why don’t you tell us a
little about yourself!

N. Guest: Pinch, I’m an earnest colum-
nist for a small but noble college newspa-
per and I really couldn’t come up with an
idea for an article this week! _—_
Ottoman: Well maybe this show will give

By STEVE MANK

(Merry, jumpy, more-money-than-
you-can-imagine music blurts out of the
tiny speaker as the frenzied audience
cheers for fame and fortune)
The Incredibly Suave Wren Fiskerbeater:
(off screen) You want cars? We got ’em!
You want furs? We: got "em! You want
boats, homes, fabulous vacations and di-
nette sets? We got ’°em! You want fame
and fortune? We got ’em! And more! Be-

ar Fiskerbeater: Pinch, today on Bucks Ap- Champion: Um ... . fi ood ideas!

' ' you a few good ideas! ,
cause this is Bucks Aplenty! The show! —_teney we're giving away fame and fortune Contestant: Was it maybe a ride at Dis- Guest: That's funny, Pinch! Ha Ha Ha!
Where‘you! Win! And if you got us, we . ' 9 y
got EM! and a dinette set! neyland? Ottoman: Before we go any further, how

Ottoman: Then let’s play! The first ques-
tion is when did the

Champion: _1776!__

Ottoman: Right! NOW for our next ques-
tion: Where did the

Challenger: Williamsburg, Virginia!
Ottoman: Weeell, we have a new Cham-
pion! Tell us a bit about yourself.

New Champion: Pinch, I’m an insurance
salesman!

Ottoman: I’m sorry! The question goes to *bout if our champion tells us what she’s
our champion. What was the Boston Tea won so far!
Party:?)________________--__—€hampion; Nothing; Pincht
Champion: Um sae Ottoman: Well that’s too bad, but you
Ottoman: Five seconds luck might change because now it’s time
Champion: Um... a. for our win-a-heapa-dough round! Okay
Ottoman: I’m sorry,. your time is up! —_contestants, here’s your question: What .
Now for our exciting tie-breaker round! Guest: Mohorovic discontinuity!
Are you ready contestants? Ottoman: That’s right!
Champion: I sure am, Pinch! ‘Guest: Neato! ee
T.W.S.P. Ottoman: Bambi, are you Ottoman: Well, I'm not home! _ Contestant: That goes double for me, Champion: Heck!

4 . i N. Champion: That’s funny, Pinch! Ha _— Pinch! Ottoman: Now we’ll have the incredibly ©
ready to give away fame and fortune? ' ’ ’ y
Squid:-I-sure-am!-—______-_Hla Ha! ===, Ottoman:_ Then _let’s_play!_You"ll_have ——smooth-Wren Fiskerbeater telt-you-wh

° -*% 9 . . i] . . > :
Ottoman: Then let’s play! Now let's meet Ottoman: Now let’s meet our next con thirty seconds. GO! Champion: Sponge. you’ve won.
our returning champion testant! Contestant: Volvo. Fiskerbeater: You’ve won a house on the
ee . : . Next Contestant: Hello, Pinch! . Champion: Marlon Brando ivi ‘i i
Returning Champion: Hello, Pinch! Oe eet ’ in > Pp. . French Riviera, Louis XVI furniture to.
Ottoman: Good evening! Why don’t you oman: Hello! Do you know the rules?. Contestant: Bombay. fill your house, a Boeing 747, $20 billion
; N. Contestant: I sure do! Champion: prehensil tail. in cash, and a dinette set!

tell us what you’ ve won! Ottoman: Then let’s play! But first let’ Contestant: Ki ' ette set!
Champion: Pinch, I’ve won a certificate ne ihen let's play: Gut tirst let s ontestant: Kleenex. Guest: Wow!

for a free tooth extraction from Donald check in with the loquacious Miss Bambi Champion: Lawn care products.

. : Squid! Contestant: What?
Steinburger (D.D.S.), an all expense . a. «ae . .
paid trip to Tacoma, and a dinette set! Squid: Hello, Pinch! Champion: Lawn care products.

The Wonderfully Smooth Pinch Otto-
man: Good evening and welcome to
Bucks Aplenty, the game show where in
one night you can win fame and fortune!
Now let’s meet the loquacious Miss
Bambi Squid!

The Loquacious Miss Bambi Squid:
Good evening, Pinch! T.W.S:P. Otto-
man: Good evening, Bambi! T.L.M.B.
Squid: Good evening, Pinch!

And then I woke up. °

Depository Libraries...

Your Source

Information from the Federal Government—on

available at more than 1,380 Depository Libraries
throughout the United States.

