Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

US bombs Libya; Pope visits synagogue

JANE AURELL Headlining the news
for the week of April 9-16

International news —

In an overt effort to “preempt and dis-
courage” Libyan terrorism, U.S. military
planes conducted an air strike against
Libya on Monday night, bombing targets
around Tripoli and Berghazi described by
U.S. officials as “command and control
centers and training facilities” used by
terrorists; one U.S. plane is reported mis-
sing. In relatiation, Libya fired ona U.S.
Coast Guard station in the Mediterranean
but no damage was reported.

The Reagan administration states that
U.S. action was taken in the face of “di-
rect, precise and irrefutable evidence
linking Libya to past and future planned
terrorist activities directed against the
U.S.” European reaction has been
mixed, but the U.S. Congress has issued
general support for President Reagan's
decision.

In Khartoum, Sudan, a U.S. embassy
employee shot and seriously
wounded at an anti-American protest
sparked by the U.S. air strike on Libya;
responsibility for the assault has not been
pinpointed. To protest the U.S. attack on
Libya, the U.S.S.R. has canceled a sum-
mit planning meeting between Soviet for-
eign Minister Edward Shevardnadze and
Secretary of State George Shultz slated
for next month.

In the Philipines, President Corazon
Aquino said that she will call for a re-
ferendum to decide whether the U.S.
should be allowed to keep its two largest
foreign military bases located in the
Philipines after the 1991 contract expira-
tion date. Throughout the week,

was

thousands have gathered in Manila to de-
nounce the Aquino government and call
for the return of former President Fer-
dinand Marcos. Meanwhile, the chief
prosecutor at last year’s trial for the as-
sassination of Benigno Aquino said that
the ‘entire court proceedings were
“staged” by Marcos to ensure the acquital
of former military chief Fabian Ver.

In China, a U.S. Navy delegation re-
sumed talks in Peking regarding the sale
of sophisticated technology to the
Chinese Navy. Japanese prime Minister
Yasuhiro Nakasone met with President
Reagan earlier this week to discuss trade
differences; Nakasone pledged to cut
Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. but
urged Reagan to do a better job in pro-
moting U.S. exports to Japan.

In response to a nuclear weapons test
conducted by the U.S. last week in
Nevada, the U.S.S.R. ended its eigth-
month moritorium on its testing of nucle-
ar weapons. U.S. government experts re-
ported Tuesday that the U.S.S.R. con-
ducted a failed test of its largest new land-
based missile. Meanwhile, 52 members
of a bi-partison Senate committee urged
President Reagan to maintain the
guidelines of the unratified SALT II tre-
aty, claiming that not doing so would en-
danger the U.S. and NATO members by
allowing the Soviets to add
warheads to their arsenals.

Svetlana Alliluyva, daughter of Josef
Stalin, said that she and her daughter,
Olga Peters, has received permission
from the Soviet government to leave the
country; Peters arrived in Britain on
Tuesday, but Alliluyeva did not accom-
pany her.

new

Kurt Waldheim, former UN Secret-
ary-General and current candidate for the
Austrian presidency, has been accused of
“complicity” in Nazi war crimes; the alle-
gations are under investigation.

In Ireland, after holding her for eight
days, kidnappers released Jennifer Guin-
ness, the wife of a wealthy banker related
to the Guinness-Stout brewery family.

Michel Brian, the French teacher kid-
napped last week in Beirut, was rescued
earlier this week.

In an historic gesture to end discord,
Pope John Paul II became the first Pope
to visit a Jewish synagogue; the Pope
condemned persecution and displays of
anti-semitism “at anytime and by any-
one.”

U.S. officials and contra leaders said
Sunday that despite a ban on military aid,
the CIA has secretly given the Nicara-
guan contras more than $1.5 million for
political operations since August.

In Haiti, eight months after the ouster
of the Duvalier regime, U.S. diplomats
and foreign experts suggest that the gov-
ernment of Gen. Henery Vamphy is “just
not governing” and that vital decisions
are not being made.

In Pakistan, thousands staged the
largest protest in nine years colling for
the ouster of president Zia.

In Israel this week, to end the eight
day crisis facing its coalition govern-
ment, Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai
and Justice Minister Moshe Nissin
“swapped” jobs; this action is reported to
be a major victory for Prime Minister
Shimon Peres and the Labor Party.

On Monday, Nobel Prize laureate
and anti-apartheid advocate Bishop Des-

mond Tutu was elected Anglican ar-
chbishop of southern Africa; Tutu will
head the two million Anglicans in South
Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, South West
Africa and most of Mozambique.

National news —

Last week the House voted 292-130
for a bill easing restrictions on gun
owners and dealers; however, they
voted to retain the ban on interstate
handgun sales. The Senate approved a
similar bill last year and is expected to
pass this one.

A Brown University senior and a
Rhode Island insurance agent were in-
dicted and charged with operating a
prostitution ring that involved several
Brown Univerity students.

Florida became the first state to allow
pharmacists to prescribe drugs for minor
ailments. A California biotechnology
firm announced that it has developed the
first “virus specific” diagnostic test for
detection of the AIDS virus; if approved
by the FDA, it could be on the market
within a year. The FDA announced Fri-

day that daily estrogen tablets taken by
women after menopause are an effective
way of slowing and preventing the bone
deterioration disease called osteoporosis.

The Southland Corp., owner of 7-11
stores throughout the country, an-
nounced that the stores will no longer sell
pornographic magazines; the decision
was made in light of evidence linking
pornographic material to sexually related
crimes.

Thought for the Week — “Practice

yourself what you preach.”

Titus Maccius Plautus (254-184 B.C.)

Housing Office considers new housing privilages

By AARON LEVINE

The Davidson College Hous-
ing Office is considering whether
rising sophomores should be
guaranteed housing. The idea has
gained some student support, yet
many others, especially up-
perclassmen, are opposed to the
idea for it would hurt their lottery
rights in regards to seniority. If
rising sophomores are guaranteed
housing under the proposed sys-

tem, they would exchange places
with the rising juniors in the lot-
tery sequence and would pick
right after the rising seniors. In
other words, while under the pre-
sent system, rising sophomores
would be forced off campus, with
a roommate if they have a poor
lottery number, the proposed sys-
tem would put rising juniors in the
situation.

However, the possibility of

‘Terry speaks
on brotherhood
in Vietnam War

Continued from page |
own country.

Terry said that he was led to
write about the black experience
in Vietnam partly because of a
young soldier who had joined the
armed forces to earn money to
send to his mother. The soldier
was only sixteen, but he had lied
to the recruiting officers because
his mother needed the money so
badly. He died after only six
weeks in Vietnam. His death
urged Terry to write “for the

young people.”

Terry donated a volume of
Bloods to E.H. Little Library in
honor of Halyburton’s courage
and brotherhood

Born in New York City, Terry
was educated at Brown, Chicago,
and Harvard universities, and fol-
lowed the same program leading
to seminary as President John
Kuykendall did. In the 1960's
Terry wrote for the Washington
Post and Time magazine, cover-
ing the civil rights movement.
From 1967 to 1969 he was station-
ed in Time's Saigon bureau.

being forced off campus for rising
juniors should not be a problem.
As Housing Director Tom Jen-
nings states, “Juniors and seniors
are more mature and would bene-
fit from an off-campus experi-
ence... . the lifestyle is the bene-
fit.”

In defending the proposal to
guarantee housing to rising sopho-
mores Jennings goes on to say, “In

Fred Cherry

terms of student's growth, the ef-
fect of housing is greatest in the
freshmen and sophomore years.”
According to Jennings, many un-
derclassmen are not mature
enough to handle living off cam-
pus. The gap between their
freshman year when they would
be given an inordinate amount of
attention and a sophomore year
where they might be pushed off
campus could be too great for

Porter Halyburton

complete readjustment. Off-cam-
pus housing could be easier for
rising juniors and seniors because
they would generally have more
community contact) and know
more professors

If this proposal 1s approved, tt
would go into effect beginning
next year, giving rising jumiors
who were forced off campus this
year the choice to come back on

campus.

Robert Nesbit
