Liner Notes

By JEFFERY BROWN
Milton Nascimento
Encontros E Despedidas (Meetings and
Farewell)
Polydor Records

Milton Nascimento is virtually un-
known to most Americans, enjoying only
a modest following in this country. In his
native Brazil, however, his stature as a
composer and singer is enormous. His
popularity there is comparable to, if not
greater than, that enjoyed by Stevie Won-
der in America. His rare international
tours always spark excitement among his
enduring fans.

In 1975, Nascimento joined forces
with saxophonist Wayne Shorter to pro-
duce the now-classic Native Dancer.
Shortly thereafter, he released two solo
albums aimed at domestic audiences,
Milton and Journey to Dawn. These ef-
forts brought Nascimento closer to the
American public eye, but the artist unfor-
tunately resorted to singing some songs
in English on Milton and Journey. His
English performances aren't bad (he
seems incapable of singing poorly), they
simply lack the fluency and sensuality of
his efforts in Portuguese.

His latest release, Encontros E Des-
pedidas, finds Nascimento singing
beautifully on a set of uplifting, provoca-
tive songs, all in Portuguese. The album

highlights Nascimento in a variety of set-
tings, ranging from lush, sensual ballads
to native folk songs to soaring, wordless
jazz excursions. His voice is the most
beautiful, the most moving of instru-
ments. With it he can arouse the most dis-
tant lover, incite the most passionate
longings. inspire the most jaded of souls.

Portal Da Cor (Threshold of Colors),
a medium-tempo evocation to nature
moves forward with an air of Brazilian
coolness and an infectiously dancible
beat.

Caso de Amor (Love Affair), a lush,
fully orchestrated ballad, finds Nas-
cimento flowing as smoothly as oil over
water. The sense of urgency that his sing-
ing evokes is highlighted by a haunting.
sexy alto saxophone accompaniment.
One needn't understand Portuguese to
appreciate the emotional content present
here.

Noites Do Sertao (Country Nights)
returns the artist to his native origins.
Therein he reflects on the unique qual-
ities of acountry night in a distinctly folk-
like setting. The simplicity of the music
belies the meaningfulness of the lyrics.
The singer recites, “Don’t be surprised,
my friend/ With the nights in the country/
There's more danger there than poetry/
And in games of the mind/ It can torment/
And create tales . . . ” (translation from

Nascimento sings uplifting, provocative songs

album insert).

Mar Do Nosso Amor (Sea of Our

Love), a jazzy, up-tempo number, is not
nearly as trite as the title suggests. Nas-
cimento sings wonderfully, and the lyrics
are intelligent, if not profound.
Laguina Do Sul (Southern Tear) is dedi-
cated to the South African heroine, Win-
nie Mandela. The song reveals an ap-
preciation not only for a single person's
suffering, but for the suffering of an en-
tire people. “Africa, homeland of my
forefathers/ 1 hear the voice of your la-
ment/ Of a crowd/ Chains and slavery.”
The album’s only concession to social
consciousness, Lagrima Do Sul both in-
Spires and uplifts.

Side one ends with Raca (Race), Nas-
cimento’s evocation to the restless force
of youth and will. First performed on
Milton, the song receives a funkier read-
ing this time, aided by a swinging alto sax
solo.

Encontros E Despedidas (Meetings
and Farewells) begins with a haunting
solo by flutist Hubert Lows, followed by
a moving description of the pains as-
sociated with all of our ‘meetings and
farewells’ by Nascimento. The singer
tums in the standout performance of the
album here, delving deep into his seem-
ingly limitless wellspring of emotions
and aural colors. Superb.

Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Quem Perguntou Por Mim (Who
Asked For Me), another ballad, one that
recalls the songs for which Frank Sinatra
and Sarah Vaughn are so famous. Nas-
cimento soars over the rich orchestration
in a totally romantic fashion.

A Primeira Estrela (The Morning
Star) is another standout, featuring Nas-
cimento in a duet with Clara Sandroni.
Inspirational in tone (almost religious),
the song improves with repeated listen-
ing. The word here is understatement,
even with the introduction of a 14-part
chorus singing in unison.

Vidro E Corte (Glass and Cut) teams
Nascimento with guitarist Pat Metheny.
Wordless singing (like chanting) grace-
fully combines with haunting jazz impro-
visations by Metheny to create a rich tex-
ture of dark, introspective sounds.

The album ends with Radio Ex-
periencia (Radio Experience), an enjoy-
able if not important addition to a superb
effort.

For nearly twenty years Nascimento
has created wonderful music for the
world. His voice, a thing of magic and
beauty, is a universal translator of emo-
tions and tenderness. His latest release
reveals an artist of exceptional ability and
maturity, a univesal musician: in the
truest sense.

Faster’s genius shines on Let's Active latest

By STEPHEN MANK
Mitch Easter is not a boy
genius: It's not that he couldn't be;
it's just that as ingenious as pop
music is, brilliance seldom really
surfaces. But, Easter’s successes
are small and brutally delightful.
Changes have occurred in his
band Let's Active. Prone to fre-
quent personnel changes — the
tally is three members lost and
four gained since the last album —
Easter has wisely pared his studio
combo down to the bare mini-
mum. Alone in his little garage
studio he produces and records his
creations calling in other musi-
cians only when necessary.

Looking solitary and wistful
on the cover of Big Plans For Ev-
erybody, he makes it quite clear
whom the biggest plans are for.

The LP begins carefully, en-
ticing the listener with a morse

code piano. Pausing for an instant
Easter gathers his strength only to
explode into the at once sparce
and lush “In Little Ways.” While
the bass sounds orchestral the
naive piano. covorts happily
throughout the mix.

Later an eerie backmasked
guitar plays hide and seek with an
electric guitar in “Writing the
Book of Last Pages.” Somehow,
Easter seems like the only musi-

cian these days who can use such
trappings of psychedelia without
sounding like a musical resurrec-
tionist.

Just as that song’s innocuous
message on the workings of the
universe and why everyone
should be happy fade away, “Last
Chance Town” comes screeching
around the corner. “The party al-
ways leaves me the mess/ Life is
bout Over and out,” Easter
growls as well as his innocent
voice will allow. If his voice isn’t
all that abrasive, his lyrics make
the message clear: “It’s along way
down here to last chance town.”

It is this kind of music that of-

fers the most promise in Easter’s
new repetoire. Not that he’s got-
ten tougher — heavy metal’s still
invisible at this distance — he’s
just exploring the uncharted.
“Badger” is meditative, “Whis-
pered News” frenetic, and “Re-
flecting Pool” streamlined in ways
Let’s Active’s songs never had
been.

On “Still Dark Out,” Easter al-
lows Beethoven’s Fifth Sym-
phony to go awry and finally to
become barely decipherable in
ways tht would make the Electric
Light Orchestra «.inge. Only a
masterful songsmith like Easter

could make a cut like this one
sound so tenuous as it does with
the tenacious musicianship that it
has.

The record closes with “Route
67” a no-holds-barred slide guitar
instrumental that grooves with the
best southern boogie. If there be
any question in anyone's mind as
to whether the kid’s expanded, he
puts it firmly and quietly to rest.

Pop may not be the best
medium to demonstrate intelli-
gence but Easter’s music fulfills
all of rocks promise and that’s cer-
tainly something.

You may find it surprising that up to

60% of all cancers can be prevented. By
avoiding excessive exposure to sunlight,
by not smoking cigarettes, by not overeat-
ing and by following a diet high in fiber
and low in fat.

OW

_The battle isn’t over but we are win-
ning.
Please support the American Cancer
Society.

a

