Friday, May 9, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Leaders meet for economic summit

By DAVID WILLIAMS
Headlining the events of May 2-8:
Internationally —

President Reagan, along with the
leaders of Japan, Great Britain, West
Germany, France, Italy, and Canada met
last week in Tokyo to engage in an
economic summit. The heads of state
agreed to “make maximum efforts”
against terrorism and singled out Libya as
the prime offender. The leaders also
agreed to work toward closer coordina-
tion of economic policies to assure that
their currencies are fairly valued. Reagan
headed home on Wednesday and called
the summit the “triumph of Tokyo” that
will lead to concerted action against ter-
rorism.

Soviet television broadcast its first
film footage of the Chernobyl! nuclear ac-
cident site Sunday, showing one reactor
building damaged but surrounding struc-
tures unaffected. Soviet officials blamed
local experts for misjudging the severity
of the nuclear accident and reported that
mass evacuations did not occur until 36
hours after the incident. The Soviet gov-
emment reported that radiation levels
outside the Chernoby! disaster area were
“somewhat higher” than normal, but had
substantially decreased since the disaster
occurred last month. U.S. experts said
the Soviet Union faces a massive, expen-
sive cleanup of the accident and might
have to declare some areas off-limits in-
definitely.

Soviet commanders moved hundreds
of military forces into Kabul, Afghanis-
tan and encircled the city while disarming
Afghan army units before Afghan leader
Barbrak Karmal was replaced by Najbul-
lah as the general secretary of Afghanis-
tan’s Communist party.

Former U.N. Secretary-General Kurt

Waldheim won the most votes in the Au-
strian presidential election but fell just
short of a majority. He will face a runoff
election in June.

The U.S. Senate voted 73-22 against
President Reagan’s proposed $354 mil-
lion arms sale to Saudi Arabia. The
House went along with the Senate, voting
356-62 to kill the sale. Lawmakers said
they voted against the sale to show sup-
port for Israel.

Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak
Rabin said that Syrian security and intel-
ligence officials were responsible for last
month’s unsuccessful attempt to smuggle
a bomb aboard and Israeli airliner in Lon-
don. A Jordanian arrested in connection
with the bombing of the West Berlin dis-
cotheque last month confessed to another
terrorist bombing in the city on March 29
and said the Syrian embassy in East Ber-
lin had organized the attacks. Mean-
while, Abul Abbas, who undertook the
hijacking of the Achille Lauro last Oc-
tober, said that his group will begin
launching terrorist attacks within the
United States.

To heighten economic pressure
against Qaddafi, the Reagan administra-
tion has set a June 30 deadline for U.S.
oil companies to leave Libya. Special
exemptions granted to several companies
in Libya will not be renewed after that
date.

Iraqi warplanes bombed an oil refin-
ery near Teheran, Iran, and Iran claimed
that Iraq also bombed civilian areas of
three northwestern Iranian towns.

Secretary of State George Schultz
met with opposition leaders in South
Korea and urged them to turn away from
violent confrontation with the military re-
gime of President Chun Doo Hwan. An
attorney for ousted Philippine President

Ferdinand Marcos said Marcos would re-
turn home immediately if the Philippine
government restored his passport. Riot
troops in Manila had to chase nearly
3,000 supporters of Marcos across Man-
ila’s busiest park and onto a main street
before they dispersed them with a water
hose.

About 1.5 million black South Afri-
can workers stayed away from their jobs
last Thursday, marking the largest dem-
onstration yet of their power to cripple
the country’s economy. Business spokes-
men said the strike was 70 to 100 percent
effective in most urban areas.

Finally, four Arctic adventurers com-
pleted a 56-day, 500-mile dogsled trek to
the North Pole, following in the footsteps
of Robert Peary, who made the same trek
in 1909. They returned to the U.S. and
were given a hero’s welcome in St. Paul,
Minn.

Nationally —

In a third setback to NASA’s space
program, an unmanned Delta rocket car-
rying an important weather satellite
exploded 71 seconds into the launch.
NASA named an eight-member panel to
find out why the rocket had blown up.
The payload of the satellite was worth
$57 million. NASA officials acknowl-
edged the nation’s ability to put satellites
into space is crippled, at least for the near
future. Figures released Wednesday
show that NASA has reduced the number
of people who monitor the quality of
work and equipment by 70 percent over
the last 15 years.

The Senate Finance Committee ap-
proved a tax-code revision that would tax
income at only the two rates of 15 percent
and 27 percent but would take away sev-
eral widely-used deductions. Senate
leaders promised swift action on the bill,

which drew support ranging from liberal
Sen. Edward Kennedy to conservative
Sen. Jack Kemp. The Senate also passed
and sent to the president Tuesday a bill
easing gun control restrictions for owners
and dealers of firearms, marking a legis-
lative victory for the National Rifle As-
sociation.

Energy Department officials testified
that they considered it “virtually impossi-
ble” for a graphite fire to occur in the
U.S. reactor that is most like the Soviet
Union’s crippled Chernoby! nuclear
reactor. According to a Nuclear Regulat-
ory Commission spokesman, the U.S.
nuclear industry last year scored the
worst safety record since the Three Mile
Island accident of
1979,

CIA Director William Casey said that
the Reagan administration is considering
criminal prosecution of three newspapers
and two magazines for publishing infor-
mation about U.S. intelligence-gathering
operations.

The Supreme Court ruled that people
unalterably opposed to the death penalty
can be barred from juries that decide guilt
or innocence in capital cases.

A giant earthquake shook the Aleu-
tian islands off Alaska Wednesday, pro-
ducing waves that struck the island chain
and prompting officials along the West
Coast and Hawaii to urge evacuations.

A new study of cancer mortality rates
showed that the odds of dying from the
disease have increased in the past three
decades.

Finally, Alan Shepard on Monday
joined other Mercury astronauts to cele-
brate the 25th anniversary of his 15-mi-
nute suborbital flight through space on
May 5, 1961.

visiting philosopher speaks on artificial intelligence

By Heidi Hooker

Dr. John Haugeland from the
Philosophy Department of the
University of Pittsburgh spoke
last Tuesday night in the Morrison
Room on “Artificial Intelligence
and the Western Mind.” His pre-
sentation was based on a book he
wrote concerning the topic of arti-
ficially or scientically created in-
telligence titled Artificial Intelli-
gence: The Very Idea.

Haugeland asserted that the
study of artificial intelligence is
Significant in providing a new
means of studying the individual’s
mind and the basis of one’s intelli-
gence. He investigated how much
intelligence simply involves the
manipulation of meaningful sym-
bols according to rational rules
and thus how much the mind is
like a complex computer.

Haugeland introduced the
study of artificial intelligence by
discussing the theories of Hobbes,
the “grandfather of artificial intel-
ligence.” Hobbes compared
rationalization to a computation
process or a symbolic operation
involving thought particles. The
basic question which Hobbes’
study evokes is how thought parti-
cles can mean anything, Hauge-
land asked, if the meaning of
words depends on one's thoughts,
from what do thoughts derive?

The first basic question
Haugeland dealt with conceming
the derivaton intelligence was
what he named the “mystery of
original meaning.” He explored
this question of where meaning
originates in the mind, acknowl-
edging that not all meanings can
be derivative of other meanings.

Haugeland asserted that one
can not just describe thoughts as
internal words or speech. Where
as words are derivative of
thought, thoughts themselves
must have original meaning.
Haugeland explained two types of
thoughts. The most basic is a
primitive sort of meaning in which
thoughts are derived from one's
sensory state and thus from what
first caused them. on the other
hand, there are “nonperceptual
thoughts” which must be derived
from some cause within the mind.

In examining the mental pro-
cesses of intelligence, Haugeland
highlighted some mathematical
discoveries relevant to the study
of the mind, emphasizing Des-
cartes’ role, as the father of mod-
ern mathematical, in actually “in-
venting the mind.” The translation
of notation to thought in modern
math creates according to Hauge-
land, the foundation of the “repre-
sentational theory of mind.” Des-
cartes analytic geometry in itself

created a “systematic translation
that preserves original relation-
ships,” comparable to the com-
plex internal processes of thought.

The second basic question
Haugeland discussed was the
“paradox of mechanical reason,”
which Haugeland asserts is the
foundation of artificial intelli-
gence. This paradox states that ifa
thought process is mechanical, it
is not rational. If it is rational, it
cannot be mechanical.

Haugeland believes that the
theory of thought manipulation as
simply a mechanical process pre-
supposes the existence of a man-
ipulator, the hypothetical
“humunculous.” This “humuncul-
ous” refers to a section of the brain
which manipulates meaningful
symbols.

Haugeland discussed how the
mechanical process of thought can
be compared to types of games,
especially formal or digital
games, in which tokens are man-
ipulated according to rules and
goals. In the context of formal
games, Haugeland explained that
computer states could be related to
mental states.

Haugeland continues to inves-
tigate how certain interpretations
get attached to certain situations,
in relation to the mystery of origi-
nal meaning. If tokens or thought

particles of formal systems get
their meaning from the interpre-
tor, their meanings must “depend
on the outside.”

Tokens in computers or books
are semantically inert since the to-
kens do not mean anything to the
computer or book but are only
meaningful to their interpretor.
Tokens in the mind in contrast are

semantically active and interact in
ways to create meaning. The sys-
tem in the mind seems to under-
stand its own semantics while the
system in a computer or book does
not.

Haugeland concluded his talk
claiming that “artificial intelli-
gence is the most exciting mistake
since transcendental idealism.”

M&M SODA
SHOP

Serving Davidson Since 1951

Good Luck GRADUATES!

102 S.

Main St.

Davidson, NC.

