10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

Course revisions

The Task Force on Strategic Planning reviewed Davidson’s strengths
and weaknesses. Their final report, which will be released soon, counts
the quality of the faculty, the school’s emphasis on distinctiveness in
teaching and the diversity of the students among Davidson’s strengths.
The school needs a curriculum which amplifies these resources and, for
the most part, it has that.

However, the task force also brought up the idea that students are not
challenged enough under the present curriculum, particularly in their
junior and senior years. One member of the group suggested that the cur-
rent system does not encourage enough independent thought. A pro-
posed solution was to require majors to take an independent study.

Rather than limit students to working by themselves, why not make
the classes themselves more productive? If certain upper level classes in
the English, philosophy, political science, religion, sociology and an-
thropology departments were limited to junior and senior majors, stu-
dents could focus more on the material and less on waiting for others to
catch up.

Currently, anyone, except freshmen in some cases, can take any of
the upper-level courses in these fields. It’s true that seminars, indepen-
dent studies, etc. are restricted, but students benefit from bouncing ideas
off of each other in larger groups. Some ideas discussed in this setting
might never occur to the student working alone.

Also, if some classes were limited to juniors and seniors of the re-
spective major, the ability levels would be more equally distributed.
Take, for example, the average major in one of these fields. He or she
spends most of the four years in class with some freshmen and usually a
mixture of sophomores, juniors and seniors. In order to provide the same
base of knowledge for all students in the class, the professor is forced to
explain concepts, theories and histories with which the juniors and
seniors are already well acquainted. The fact that someone from another
major can take any of these classes insures that there will always be stu-
dents who are totally unfamiliar with the concepts being discussed.

These classes would be more beneficial if the student could go into
certain classes from the first day knowing that those classes would build
upon past knowledge. Rather than spend time reviewing concepts, they
could launch directly into discussion. The material studied could by
examined in further depth, and class discussions would then be more
productive. Often, discussions do not reach the in-depth stage until the
last three weeks of class.

The senior session provides the only opportunity of this kind in En-
glish, sociology and political science. These one-term courses provide
an oppotunity to pull together what has been learned during the previous
three years. However, these sessions provide only a last-minute opportu-

nity before graduation to see the field from an all-encompassing perspec-
tive.

Seminars offer an opportunity for intensive study of a particular sub-
field. But these classes are limited to an average of 10 students each.
With the student diversity which the task force pointed out beneficial to
have a class of 20 or more students to provide more input. Though stu-
dents seeing the material from the perspective of another major add di-
versity, there should be classes where students can bring up ideas with-
out having to discuss the remedial concepts behind the ideas.

The task force also pointed out Davidson’s high-caliber faculty dedi-
cated to quality teaching. With some classes restricted, they too could as-
sume a base level of knowledge and forge ahead into more advanced
theories.

ye MAN
WY

Friday, January 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

OF THE
‘805

Letters

Basketball
Support

To the Editor:

This is to thank all of the students at
Davidson College who have vigorously
supported our basketball team during the
current season. Your participation has been
a part of any success that we have achieved.
Peer support and encouragement is a valu-

able asset. We pledge every effort on the
court to be deserving of that support.

The staff and team really appreciated
that tremendous student following to the
Appalachian game on the road. Your en-
thusiasm made the ASU student newspa-
per. We look foward to seeing you at the re-
maining home games (VMI on Feb. 1, Mar-
shall Feb. 3, Appalachian State Feb. 15 and
East Tennessee State Feb. 17). Don’t forget
Febuary is a big month for our team and you
can provide the “edge” that we need. Pep
band and cheerleaders — great job. Keep it
up!

Bobby Hussey

The Davidsonian “Opin-
ions” section is the only forum
on campus for extended com-
mentary on pertinent issues. We
will print opinions articles on
any subject of general interest
we receive from the campus
community.

We adhere to
guidelines:

1) We require that all arti-
cles be in our hands at 7 p.m.
Monday.

2) We accept typed articles
and those written legibly, dou-
ble-spaced.

3) We require that opinions
be signed. We will print un-

Opinions Policy

these

signed articles only if compel-
ling reason exists for withhold-
ing the author's name, and the
author is known to either the
editor or executive editor.

4) We will not edit opinions
for style or content but we re-
serve the right to edit for rules of
common English. We will in-
form the aothor of substantial
changes.

5) Since space for Opinions
articles is limited, we reserve
the right to select artilces from
those we receive for publica-
tion. We will attempt to print
any article we withhold from
publication the next week.

