2

News Shorts

~ General visits ROTC

Parking regulations enforced

Warning tickets issued to owners of cars parked around Patterson Court ad-
vise students that those cars will be towed Monday unless the cars are moved,
Public Safety Chief Jackie Hughes said yesterday.

The newly increased size of the parking lot adjacent to Irwin dorm led
Hughes to enforce existing policy, he said. The Irwin lot extension provides
lighted gravel parking area for an additional 135 cars. The addition brings the
lot’s capacity to 235 cars.

Hughes noted that the Irwin lot extension increases the number of student
parking spaces to 750; 650 students drive cars registered with the security de-
partment. “That number of parking spaces gives us more than enough for the
cars that are registered,” Hughes said.

Towed cars will be.taken to the Irwin lot.

Nelle McCorkle contributed to this article

New SGA senators
Freshman Class: Thad Stidham, President Chip Allen, Wendy Dunn, BoydM Mil-
ler, Bill Scouten, Joe Thomas.

Brigadier General Peter W. Lash, commander of the first ROTC region,
chose to begin his tour of all east coast ROTC institutions, from Maine to Puerto
Rico, with Davidson..

Lash has had a successful career, including a tour as the Deputy Comman-
dant of Cadets and one as an instructor at Ranger school. He was awarded the
Legion of Merit award, the Meritorious Service Medal and the Bronze Star.
Senior Cadet Colonel John McNeill commented, “The General is.an extremely
intelligent and influential man, and left me with many words of wisdom. It was
certainly an honor for me to meet a person of that caliber.”

Material contributed by Aimee Gonder

Library changes

According to Library Director Leland Park, changes in the library for the
1986-87 school year were made for the students based on a questionnaire from
spring term 1985.

The questionnarie quizzed students on operating hours, hours that reference
help is needed, and copy machines.

Park said the library staff is working hard to make the library more condu-
cive to the students’ needs, but its success rate depends upon the students them-

Friday, October 3, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Independents: Ken Bogert, Becky Castleman, Ranjit. Rawlley.

Pika: Sam Cutting

SPE: Chris Westlake
WH: Mary Erwin
Spenser: Colleen Bairas
Phi Delt: Rod Cate
SAE: Whitney Montgomery
PAX: Ken Jones
Emanon: Doug Robelin
BSC: Karin Douglas
KA: Mark Piehl

Fiji:- Ted Davis

Rusk: Caryn Coppedge

Continued from page |

be to bow down to popular myth
rather than to follow common
sense.”

Sophomore David Host
~ suggested that those who support
divestment reflect “an abundance
of good intention but a lack of
foresight.” He added that divest-
ment would halt practices by com-
panies like IBM whose “equal pay
for equal work” policies are help-
ing blacks in South Africa.

Sophomore Sonja Miller said
that she felt guilty for the suffering
going on in South AfFrica. “It is

;

my hope,” she said, “that the col-
lege I chose to attend would have
the guts to stand up for something
more.”

Freshman John . Eckbert
suggested that divestiture is inef-
fectual and “serves only to ap-
pease our guilt and frustration.”
Eckbert argued that Davidson’s
sale of stocks if it occurred would
not be significant enough to “ef-
fect the company, nor does it
bring about divestiture, much less
the énd of apartheid.”

Leslie Hill-Davidson, a lec-
turer in politics at the Center. for

selves.

Among the changes are the quiet areas for serious studiers in the basement
and second floor. The first floor remains less than solemn (and more social).

Sophomore Melissa Dilettuso considers this alteration effective: “My carrel
is in the basement and it’s a lot quieter than last year.”

Friday night reference service has been replace hy Sunday reference service
from 7 p.m. until 10 p.m. Also, the library opens at | p.m. on Sunday instead of
2 p.m: for the three last weeks of the term, the library will stay opén until mid-
night on Saturdays.

Two bonuses were also added: a five day grace period on fines and four li-
brary personal computers. In regard to the fines sophomore Sheri Reynolds said,
“I’m glad I won’t have to worry about those nickel and dime fines anymore.”

} Material contributed by Laura Gabel

Special Studies, cited American
investment in South Africa for
over 100 years, and she noted that
during that time racism has been
“enshrined in the constitution” of
the nation. She said that she
thought divestiture is the “last
hope to avoid a bloodbath.”
Junior Jimmy Lewis said the
push for divestment on the David-
son campus is led by a “small and

. noisy minority.” He reflected the

sentiment that divestiture would
not move toward a solution in the
South African dilemma.
Economics professor C.
Louise Nelson stated that David-

son need not “slavishly follow”
practices of divestiture made by
other schools. She indicated that
Davidson should not be held “cap-
tive to any political movement,”
noting statements from the presi-
dents of Harvard, Yale and Stan-
ford who indicated similar beliefs.

Economics professor Charles
Ratliff stated that he did not think
any of the alternatives posed
would significantly combat the

-system of apartheid in South Af-

rica, but Ratliff advocated divesti-
ture because “it is a statement.”
Ratliff said such a move would be
consistent with the college’s

Christian commitment, advocat-
ing that “we give these people our
moral support.” Ratliff further
noted divestiture is probably in the
college’s self-interest because “It
is not prudent to have investments
in such a’ politically unstable
economy,” noting Proctor and
Gamble’s pull-out of its South.Af-

rican assets. w
4

The forum was interrupted by
the announcement that the U.S
Senate had overridden President
Reagan’s veto in support of
economic sanctions against South |
Africa.

HOW CAN THE BUDGET-CONSCIOUS
COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY?

a) Save over 50% off AT&T's weekday rates on

out-of-state calls during nights and weekends.
b) Don’t buy textbooks when “Monarch Notes” will do

just fine.

c) Save 40% off AT&I's weekday rate on out-of-state

calls during evenings.

meee et

to8 am,

d) Count on AT&I for exceptional value and high quality

4
' ~ $Orvice.

e) Hang around with the richest kids in school; let them

pick up the tab whenever possible.

a
ih.

After

weekends

rv

If you're like most college students in the western hemisphere,
you try to make your money go a long way. That’s why you should
know that AT&T Long Distance Service is the right choice for you.

AT&T offers so many terrific values. For example, you __
can save over 50% off AT&T's day rate on calls during

until 5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm
Sunday through Friday.
Call between 5 pm and 11 pm,

Sunday through Friday, and you'll save 40%

off our day rate.

Ever dial a wrong number? AT&T gives you

.if you'do. And of course, you can count on
- ATOT for clear long distance connections any place ‘you call.

To find out more about how AT&T can help save you mon
give us a call. With a little luck, you won’t have to hang around with

the rich kids. Call toll-free today, at 800 22
The right choice.

Me”
