News Shorts

Martin awarded honorary degree at Fall
Convoca tion

North Carolina governor James G. Martin will be awarded an honorary doc-
tor of laws degree by Davidson, his alma mater, in a fall convocation ceremony
Saturday, Nov. 1.

President John W. Kuykendall will award the degree to honor Martin’s pub-
lic service as governor since 1985, as 9th District Congressman 1972-1984, and
as Mecklenburg County commissioner, later commission chairman, 1966-
1972. Martin served as a professor of chemistry at here from 1960 to 1972. He
graduated in 1957 with a bachelor’s degree in chemistry, and holds a doctorate
in chemistry from Princeton. ~

Martin will speak at the convocation, scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. in Love
Auditorium.

The convocation ceremonially begins the 1986-1987 academic year. Stv- .

dent awards to be given at the ceremony include three Goodwin-Exxon Awards
for character, sportsmanship and consideration of others; three ROTC Superior
Cadet Awards; and two alumni awards for freshmen with the highest academic
averages. Membership is Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership honorary ,
and Who’s Who Among American Colleges and Universities will also be recog-
nized.

Chamber ensemble to perform in Artist’s Series

The baroque chamber ensemble Musica Antique Koin will perform 17th and
18th century German, French and Italian music in the second performance of the
Artists Series Tuesday, Nov. 11. The performance begins at 8:15 p.m. in Love
Auditorium.

Musica Antiqua Koln was founded in 1973 and has become a leading
baroque chamber group. It has performed in London’s Queen Elizabeth Hall,
Paris, the Far East, Canada and in cities throughout the United States.

The group of six musicians performs music on priceless old instruments in-
cluding a 1665 Jacobus Stainer violin, a 1750 Klotz cello, a transverse flute, and
a cembalo. Musica Antiqua Koln has made several recordings on the Archiv

WDAV begins radiothon

Organizers of WDAV’s eighth annual radiothon hope to make $130,000
from this year’s fundraising effort.

According to John Clark, the station’s general manager, the money will be’
used “to emphasize quality programming.” WDAV was the first Charlotte radio
station to broadcast regularly using compact discs, and some of the money raised
will go towards expanding the station's compact disc library. In addition, the
station hopes to computerize its entire music library catalog. Remaining funds
will help to purchase this spring satellite earth station programming which will
provide higher fidelity in concert reception; Clark even predicts that eventually
WDAYV will broadcast concerts live from Europe.

The radiothon, which has featured performances by guests such as Leo
Driehuys, conductor of the Charlotte Symphony, Mark Nichols of Spirit Square
and Vivian Nivens of Charlotte: Afro-American Cultural Center, will continue
through Sunday. Persons wishing to make a pledge should call 892-7777.

Material contributed by Betsey Bryan

Alexander exhibition in Chambers Gallery

Ohio artist Greg Alexander will exhibit 34 ink, graphite and colored pencil
drawings Oct. 21 — Nov. 17 in the art gallery.

Alexander, of Tallmadge, Ohio, draws in a style known as magic realism.
He combines the identifiable with images particular to his vision to produce
crisp, natural settings that shimmer with fantasy. Titles to some of his works in-
cluded in the exhibition are: “Harvest II — pumpkins,” “First Field,” “Cactus,”
“Pods,” and “Mourning — Beaver Creek.” Most works are for sale.

Since 1978, Alexander’s work has been exhibited over 27 times throughout
the United States, including the Cleveland May Show of 1979-80; a one-man
show at the Westminster College School of Art, New Wilmington, PA; the 27th
Annual Chautaugua National Exhibition of American Art in Chautaugua, NY;
and the Apple Gallery of Boardman, Ohio, in 1986. His work stands on perma-
nent display at Westminster College; the Portsmouth Museum, Portsmouth,
VA; and in private collections.

Alexander, who studied at the Cleveland Institute of Art, has been awarded

label and-is the recipient of prestigious awards such as the Deutsche Schaliplat- —————_ +

tenpreise Award, the Critic’s Choice and the French Grand Prix. The group av-
erages 100 concerts and three to four recordings per year.

numerous honors. These include selection for the Smithsonian “Sites” tour of

1983-84, Portfolio Scholarships at the Cleveland Institute of Art and a Purchase

Friday, October 31, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Award at the Portsmouth Community Arts Center.

Wicker-

Continued from page |
factor in this election is that
Ronald Reagan cannot run again.
The Republicans do not have a
worthy successor,” he said, one
who could pick up-and maintain
the public approval that Reagan
has kept over the last six years.
However, Wicker continued,
“If that’s the way a Democrat gets
elected in 1988, he would serve

only one term. I think that the Re-
publicans would then come back
four years from then with a real
vengeance and perhaps really
achieve the party alignment that
they like to think they have al-
ready achieved.”

In addition to political prog-
nostication, Wicker offered -some
opinions about the power of the
-American_press.— Quoting - Presi-
dent Woodrow Wilson, Wicker
said, “The press in this country
when used, creates the ‘atmos-
phere of events.’ The press

The Clay Cat

doesn't cause things to happen so
much as it causes them to be re-
ceived and perceived in a Particu-
lar way.”

When asked why he thought
an estimated 80 percent of jour-
nalists: voted Democratic, and
whether he thought that indicated
a tilt to the left of the press,
Wicker replied, “There are sev-
eral reasons for that. I think that
the very nature of a reporter is
quite different from that of a
politician. Innately, journalists
tend to be skeptics, to put it more
bluntly, journalists tend to be ‘no-
sayers,’ they say, ‘No, I don’t be-
lieve it, prove it, make me believe

it,’ whereas political figures are
optimists and believers and ‘yes-
sayers,’ they say, ‘Yes, we can.’
“But thé ‘Party of Govern-
ment,’ as I described the e Republi-
cans to be, is more of an affirma-
tive party, more of a ‘yes-saying’
party, even though the yessaying

may be naive or foolish. I think
that reporters tend to be more
skeptical of a party (like the Re-
publicans) than the Democrats,
who are divided and in many ways
warring and chaotic and seem to
represent what reporters see,
rather than the unified and op-
timistic world (of the Republi-
cans),” he said:

“The influence of the press is
certainly there.” Referring to the
1984 matchup between Mondale
and Reagan, he said, “Eighty per-
cent of the poll (of the press) voted
Democratic, they certainly didn’t

influence the election much. [I

don’t think that the impact of the
press is measurable, but I am con-
tent to say that it is considerable,
and often misplaced.”

Wicker touched several times
on the Iceland minisummit and the
current debate over the “disinfor-
mation” campaign from the
Reagan Administration. While

admitting that “he was not pre-
cisely clear as to what happened,”
he said that if the allegations of
“disinformation” were indeed
true, * “that is working quite
wrongly to influence the press.”

He stated that Reagan got in
over his head in the Iceland
negotiations: “I don’t mean over
Ronald Reagan’s head, I mean

over the President’s head, because -

almost any President is not going
to be in the position of being in
command of every nuance of de-
tail in a subject as complex as
arms control, which is why we
have teams of professional expert
negotiators.”

One thing that did come out of
the summit, he said, was one new
indelible phrase to the political
lexicon: “A sweeping potential
agreement.”

“I don’t know whether it was

~more sweeping or more potential;

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity —
would like to thank all of the area businesses

The Frame Shop

First Union

| who helped make the |
1986 KENYA JAM benefit possible.

Exxon

The Village Store

in any case, it was not an agree-
ment,” he noted.

In a panel discussion Thurs-
day moming, when asked if the

press was to biame for the decline
in the faith of the American people
in the federal government, Wicker
said, “The whole question of faith
in the government rests in the per-
formance of the government. Had _

there been no Vietnam to report
on,:there would have been no re-
ports on Vietnam.”

Wicker recalled his memories
of Davidson College during his
years growing up in North
Carolina and at the University of
North Carolina. “I can remember
when Davidson was considered
one of the ‘Big Five’ in football
with North Carolina and Duke,
Wake forest and N.C. State, and |
indeed occasionally won games
from one of those schools.”

Hair World

United

Carolina Bank

