18 : — — Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN
, : 98
——Cloudt’s View

US? UPSET? NAW!

AS AMATTER OF FACT,
WE‘R ALREADY SHARP-
ENING THOSE STUDENT
ALUMNI OFFICE RE-

LATIONS YOU GuyY’s
WERE TALKING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

; Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Thomas Nicholson, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager

Jim Dillion, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors
Andy Ball, Features Editor
Mike Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
, Karen Bockus, Tony Griffin, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda.Korfmann, Production Editor

Perimeter

Over the course of the last several weeks Davidson College’s main
architectural feature, Chambers Building ; has undergone a change in in-
frastructure. In keeping with President Kuykendall’s long range plan to
establish Chambers as a domain of learning, many administrative offices
have moved to perimeter houses, thereby allowing classrooms and facul-

ty offices to return to the-first floor of our beloved main building.
1

As with all changes, this alteration has both pros and cons.

We applaud President Kuykendall’s plan to make Chambers a build-
ing for only academics. The additional classrooms and faculty office
space will ease shortages in those areas. As Davidson’s centerpiece,
Chambers should host the college’s main attraction: academics.

Yet the administrators must be housed somewhere and unfortunately . —
that somewhere is in what were until last year perimeter houses for sti- ~ Lok Ogaing St - gm
dents. Despite warnings from the Residence Life Office that perimeter
house living has many drawbacks (broken showers, for example), stu-_
dents have long considered living in a perimeter house a luxury. The
Competition among seniors to get perimeter housing is almost as fierce as

” that among sophomores to get a room on campus.

— : a ~y

qe team hasn’t conie together in an organized

. , . Sailing effort to race, practice, or have a good time

Although the Residence Life Office claims that there has been no net together. We had the boats, but the team be-
loss in the number of spaces for students, we are a little leery of the situa- came virtually defunct. This year the sailing
tion. Some doubles have become triples, and some singles have become _To the Editors: team is practicing on Wednesdays and Fri-
doubles. The former singles now resemble sardine cans, and every per- The sailing program here at Davidson . days and plans to race in two regattas next

. . College hasn’t looked so promising in month, in Charleston and in Clemson. In
pane taken Sociology 101 knows that groups of three are the least years. The sailing class is filled to capacity the meantime there will be some ‘racing

Broup types. this fall, and the team hasn’t seem such in- _classes for those who want to race but have
terest in years. How come? Is the class not done so before. In the.spring Davidson
What happens is that the existing rooms have to hold a greater _— filled because its the easiest PE credit hopes to host a regatta on Lake Norman for

number of students. If you will excuse the somewhat inappropriate anal- around? After all you don’t sweat, don’t the Dougas Memorial trophy, and plans to
ogy, it is somewhat like prison overcrowding. Removing perimeter have to the your-hands dirty, and can work attend at least tt more regattas.
housing once available to students is therefore akin to taking away half- See vee dhe che ata ate pha trvibeaherriatiberesdupth

naon. Maybe the class is filled andtheteam —_you should look into this. Most of those on

way houses designed to prepare the criminal (in this case Student) forreal —_in good shape because sailing is a lifetime the team have very little experience any-

society.The rooms are “overcrowded” and alternative (and beneficial) _sport that does not cater to athletes only. . way, so you'll be getting in on the ground
housing possibilities have been removed. What could be more of a lifetime sport floor. If you think you might want to be sail-
than one you can. continue ‘till you’re ing in the spring and have no time now, let

As Davidson gradually expands its faculty, student and administra- ninety. I am one of those rare few, itseems, us know and we’ll keep you informed as to

: ‘ = . eas saeue . ; that does not have the mindset for dragging — what’s going on. There will be no big re-
of comstrecting eet tn Sitional facilities dtuil likely. Instead myself out of bed to trudge around the block _cruiting blitz in the spring, but we will con-

. ; ne ’ should build a new admin- at six in the morning. It pains me to think tact everyone on our “list,” so get on the ~
istrative building. That way students would have their perimeter houses, that at forty I will not run as fast nor ski as “list.” Call John Engel at -8865, or Stérling
faculty would have Chambers and the administration would have its own well as I do now, no matter how much I Martin in the athletic depaftment to sign up.
buildings. . practice. Old people I left back up in Con-

necticut love to get out on the water for fish- John Engel
ing, sailing, (a cocktail party), or putting

” around on the motorboat. ;
The athletic department here at David- Morals
ina son obviously sees a value in sailing and ‘

. . water sports. Otherwise they wouldn't sup- To the Editors:
dents of Devideon College, Address eorretn deren to Tee peas tt port a fleet of 420’s for thexsailing team, a One very good lesson we must learn
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28636. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 end 1 Ae. OF. __ fleet of Scorpions for the class, afew pow- from Eastern religious traditions is the im-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex- erboats to teach the classes, and the Ski- _ portance they place on the soul. They claim
pressed in letters to the edito’ or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect Nautique. for the ski club and ski class. that we, in the West, .have neglected our

_ the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 - That's a rather significant investment for a-—soul in-favor of our intellects. The two must ~
per year, or $25 per yeer for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail- school that just dropped women’s basket- _ never be divorced. It is false to assume that
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College. ball, and won't beef up the football program —_ we can advance solely through the nuturing

, with scholarship athletes. Whether you of the intellect. We forget th i

staff: . ; ae . get that the intellect.
vo Laura Ballenger, Andrea Diedrich, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Laura agree with those decisions or not, I think i s, morally speal ing, baseless. A person
Features Staff: Jay Barron, Mark Chen, Lee Eichelberger, Scott Goodwin, Chris Har- they certainly reflect the attitude of this with a dark soul and a Vast intellect is avery
grove, Steve Mank. _ . -]| school toward what can be thought of as dangerous person, for he is capable of jus-
Sports Staff: Emil Cekada, Boyd Coggins, Pam Harmann, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wil- “the standard approach” to college athle- _ tifying his bad intentions through cunning
kins — - — —-tics. Instead, Davidson has just renovated___(cunning is one of the negative as ts of —
Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Bill Hartman, Alex Hayden, Ken Jones, Kyong . 8 ee

two of the 420-class boats this pastsummer the intellect; it is selective logic — hence,

Staif Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. and one fast the lnk " meeting with “ve. Ir the larger the variety the more convincing
Production Staff: Sarah Bayne, Beth Bryson, Kim Crabtree, Amelia Fox,-Clisby Hall, __ Wy fo restore the lake campus tonew. New the selection). ;

Pete Mangone, Tom Moore, Kitii Robertson, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yar- signs went up this week. New docks are I was at a soccer game a week ago where
borough. . . being built. Another 420 will be fixed next —_I, unfortunately, witnessed manifestations .
Compositors: Doug Kim, Ann Roddey summer... . ; of the above contention. At one point inthe _
= The athletic department’s efforts not- game, one of Davidson’s players fell just ~
withstanding, for the past few years the Costinued on page 19 _

Lee. —_-———~~ __

