Wednesday, December 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Bleacher Seat

Escape the Dark Ages through IMAC ©

By MIKE ADAMS

Only two more days to Christmas va-
cation — and then two weeks of luxuri-
ous freedom. Ah, but there’s a price to
pay. When we return to Davidson with
our new clothes, new skis, new cars and
so on, we will begin the real winter term.
The three week trial period will be over.
The Dark Ages will commence.

The Dark Ages. Seven weeks of
classes, reviews and papers; seven weeks
of rain without snow; seven weeks of un-
mitigated drudgery. It is enough to send a
vulnerable mind over the brink, to snap
that slender thread between genius and
insanity.

There is one sure-fire escape from the
mind-numbing tediousness of winter
term — sports. Of course, it is imposible
for us all to play on the varsity teams, and
some of us just don’t have the jump shot
or the corner kick to play IMAC basket-

ball or indoor soccer. No, some athletic
pursuits are more arcane. Fortunately,
Davidson students’ have proven quite
adept in the past at creating wintertime
sports.

The all-time winter favorite a
spring, summer and fall favorite as well
— is the Beer Run. This is a basic sport
involving running about your dorm to
find someone: with a car —and some-
times someone with cash — to take you
to the Pantry, nee 7-11. New rules
changes have made a 21-year-old team
member a necessity.

Another favorite is Post Office Cross
Country. This involves a cold, windy
trek to the P.O. and is usually concluded
with vigorous cursing. and stamping

when the box is discovered to be empty. —

P.O.X.C. is closely akin to another clas-
sic winter-time sport: the Dorm Dash.
The Dorm Dash usually occurs on a day
when you go to class in just a sweater be-

f

7

cause it’s “so pretty” outside. While you
are in class, the temperature drops 57 de-
grees and a driving rainstorm begins.
Hence, the sprint back to the humble
domicile.

A game that many students play, al-
though few admit to actually liking it, is
Sidewalk Skating or its tricky variation,
Step Skating. It will rain all day on Mon-

* day and on Tuesday morning you’ll run

outside with a smile on your face because
it’s so sunny only to discover that it is
also very cold, that everything is frozen
and that it is impossible for your feet to

‘maintain contact, with the ground.

The Davidson Pentathalon continues
to be a favorite in the winter. This five-
stage competition involves first, receiv-
ing a paper topic; second, rushing to the
library to check out all the books on your
subject before anyone else can get them;
third, scurrying through the periodical

~ Stacks; fourth, rushing across campus to |

be the first to get a PC to write your paper;
fifth, sprinting madly to Chambers to
turn it in before the 5 p.m. deadline.

No discussion of winter-time sports
would be complete without a mention of
the campus-wide juggling festival. Every
student on campus will be juggling some-
thing in the last weeks of February. Stu-
dents will be trying to keep two papers
going while studying for a major review.
Others will be trying to prepare for senior
comps without completely forgetting that
they have other classes. When exam time
rolls around, juggling is definitely
Davidson’s sport of choice.

Naismith invented basketball to keep
his charges from going stark raving mad
in the Massachusetts winter. Davidson
students, while perhaps not creating
something with . basketball’s staying
power, have been able to keep their heads
above water with their own version of the
“Sporting Life.”

London School of Economics
and Political Science

A chance to study and live in London

Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, One-
Year Master’s Degrees and Research Opportunities in

the Social Sciences.

The wide range of subjects includes:-

Accounting and Finance @ Actuarial Science @ Busi-
ness Studies @ Economics e Econometrics e
Economic History e European Studies ¢ Geography e
Government @ Health Planning @ Housing @ Industrial
Relations @ International History © International Rela-
tions @ Law @ Management Science e Operational
Research @ Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method e
Population Studies e Politics Regional and Urban
Planning @ Sea-Use Policy @ Social Administration e
Social Anthropology © Social Planning in Deve.oping

. Countries @ Social Work ® Sociology @ Social Psychol-
ogy @ Statistical and Mathematical Sciences e

Systems Analysis @

Application forms from: :
Admissions Registrar, Room 10, L.S.E.,
Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England,

stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate.

WE SPEAK TECHNOLOGY.
DO YOU?

If youre a science or engineering major. you’!

want to be part of

today's Air Force. We're deveiopirig ‘asers and satellites that naxe °
science fiction seem dated. Air Force ROTC is one way to be par: of

this fast-paced technology

_ Air Force ROTC has 2- through 4-year schoiarship programs that
can help defray some of the coilege costs. plus you'll receive $100 per

academic month for living expenses

After graduation. you'll be an Air Force officer. and wiil join those who
are leading us into space-age technology
Take a close !ook at Air Force ROTC now. Dont let technology pass

you by. Be a part of it.

For more information Contact: —
Captain Wood Air Force ROTC 547-4537
or 547-2711 UNCC Campus Kennedy 133
3 AiR FORCE

LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCE STARTS HERE

SEASON’S GREETINGS

Friday evening entertainment
on our backporch
- Health 'y_ Snacks and. Sandwiches!

Imported BEER

anid WINE

ail

Downtown Davison

ITALIAN
RESTAURANT
& LOUNGE

Sadler Square-next to Food Lion

STUDENTS: 10% all meals with student ID
Sun-Thurs. only

MON & WED: Pitchers of Beer $3.25
plus $1.00 off pizza
Come watch your favorite sports
on our wide screen T. an
ABC license

