Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ken Mobley

The Davidson Experience. Here we are at one of the
finest liberal arts colleges in America — exploring the re-
cesses of human knowledge, satisfying our needs of social
survival, and preparing for the awful onslaught of the “real
world.” So what exactly is the Davidson Experience and is
it all that it is reputed to be? Without a doubt, my experi-
ence thus far at Davidson has been superlative, and at
times, even extraordinary. But at the same time, there are
certain restrictions of this college that I think are worth
mentioning.

A day at Davidson consists mainly with the process of
juxtaposing the routine of college work with the creative
ability of college students to waste time. The latter being
the most inspiring, I'l] begin there. To waste time at David-
son consists mainly of socializing in the library, sleeping,
or the willful destruction of a massive quantity of brain
cells at campus parties. Once again, the latter being the
most interesting, I'll address that issue first. There is the
growing concern among Davidson’s faculty, administra-
tion, and even students that the school is too concerned
with creatively wasting time (i.e. partying). And now, in
order to cope with this tendency, it seems as if the college is
by bestowing upon the student body a wondrous array of

tules and regulations designed to nip this dilemma in the
bud. I feel that the root of the problem exists in the other
half of the juxtaposition that I mentioned in the first line of
this paragraph. Davidson is a routine.

I would assert that the problem of partying at Davidson
is not so much a result of a lack of respect for the ideals of
this institution, but rather a natural outgrowth of the struc-
ture of the school. Davidson is small, Southern, traditional.
Classes meet every day, with reviews scheduled at almost
always the same time — during the dreaded midterm week
and at the end of the term. The average day is rather predict-
able: classes in the moming, studying or relaxing in the af-
ternoon, and studying or relaxing at night (depending on
the amount of either one accomplished in the afternoon, of
cours¢). The next morning you scrape yourself from your
loft and pour yourself into a desk for a lecture and begin
again. The intensity of the workload also serves to magnify
this routine. With the amount of brain cells used on the
academics at Davidson, one should fee! justified wasting
some here and there. The outlet of such a routine results not
only in a viable social life on Patterson Court, but also
serves to fuel such organizations as the YSSC, SGA, and
the Student Union. The outlet at parties just isn’t as neatly
channelled at times.

The routine of Davidson has other consequences be-
sides the outgrowth of partying. In an institution where life
has become mechanical, creativity often becomes stifled.
Davidson is heading in that direction. One can argue that
there are opportunities such as Hobart park or music
groups, but I think one would be surprised at the number of

17

tion of the Davidson experience

people who have stopped practicing the piano or stopped
writing plays and poetry since arriving. The opportunities
are available but most of these organizations are domina-
nated by the same groups and don't gain much support from
the rest of the campus. The same people who appear in the
plays also are in the dance troupe, choral groups and write
for creative journals. Academics at Davidson don't readily
promote creativity either. One can only be so creative on a
Humes paper that is due the day after a biology review and
two days before a history midterm. The mind that is tuned
at Davidson is the analytical mind: one that is adept at add-
ing equations and analyzing historical data.

Naturally, these problems are not items that can be
miraculously cured over the course of the summer, but are
long-term concerns that Davidson might address. The in-
tent of this article is not to point any fingers or to offer any
great solutions. These are just my own personal observa-
tions on some of the facets of the Davidson Experience.
Our college is a fantastic institution, but it is not perfect. In
answering such problems as the social life at Davidson, |
really don’t think the solutions will come through regula-
tions as much as it will come from looking at the structure
of the school. Everyone agrees that there is a problem, but
too many restrictions on the social life may only serve to
stifle the students. We do not need any more rituals. In this
sense, I hope that the ritual of Davidson does not ruin the
Davidson Experience.

Mobley is a sophomore from Winston Salem, NC

Imagine the shoe on the other foot

Lee Bock

In response to Grant Morain’s article on the gay support
group being formed here at Davidson, I would like to
examine some of the points addressed in that editonal and
present a different point of view. Many people are con-
cerned that a fine reputable educational institution such as
Davidson College could be sponsoring a group which is
supporting homosexuality. homosexuality being (a) illegal
(or the act thereof) and (b) immoral. On the contrary, I
think an institution which truly cares about its students
could only take the route of supporting such a group.

First of all, the act of homosexuality is illegal in North
Carolina. That is true. Of course, sex in any position other
than the missionary position, oral sex, and spitting in the
street are also illegal in most states. However, bringing
them these things into light does not negate the point that
Grant has made: it simply makes the charge a little less seri-
ous. Still, homosexuality is on the books as a crime and
there is a Davidson group which is giving support to those
who are inclined to engage in such activity. 1 am not going
to evade the issue by saying that just because the support
group gives support to homosexuals does not mean that the
homosexuals actually practice homosexuality — this is ab-
surd. The question is: should a group, using the name of
Davidson College, be supporting people that might inten-
tionally go out and do something illegal?

In answer to that question, I would like to inquire as to

HAVE A GOOD SUMMER -
BUT BEFORE YOU GO,

PLEASE REMEMBER

TO RETURN
YOUR LIBRARY BOOKS!!

the purpose of gathering a supposedly intellectually gifted
group of people (such as that at Davidson College) if it is
not to reevaluate society and seek reform where it is
needed? Perhaps the Davidson Gay Support Group is
suggesting that the act of homosexuality should not be il-
legal. perhaps what goes on in one’s own home, just as long
as it does not infringe upon the rights of others, is one’s
own business, However, Grant himself said that the sup-
port group is not implicitly in itself doing anything illegal.
Being gay is not against the law, the homosexual act is. The
support group is not directly encouraging any illegal act. So
anyone who is worried about the group’s breaking the law
and using Davidson's name can rest easily.

As far as homosexuality’s being immoral is concerned,
I can not argue with anyone who has chosen to interpret
things from the biblically literal standpoint, as Grant has. ]
can only put things into perspective. Retaining close ties
with the Presbyterian Church, as Davidson has resolved to
do, can be a very tricky thing. For example, Paul says that
women should not speak in church. I question any alum-
nus, trustee, or student who would tell a female that she
may not speak at DCPC because Davidson College is at-
tempting to maintain ties with the Presbyterian Church. I
can cite further examples. Patterson Court operates under
the auspices of Davidson College. yet it certainly allows
many activities which could be interpreted as immoral from
the conservatively religious point of view. Intentionally
harming one’s body is a sin, Shall we remove the cigarette
machine from the upstairs of the Union? If we are going to
interpret everything literally, there is going to have to be a
major overhaul around here. But why is it that we only
seem to interpret things literally when it is convenient for

us?

In closing I would like to leave Davidson with some
things to consider. Being gay is not a choice that someone
makes; as a matter of fact, experts are becoming more and
more convinced that it may be biological. At any rate
people are not gay with the intention of being rebellious. It
can be hell for them. that is why you do not know who they
are. That is why there is a need for support groups. If they
could be “normal,” and not have to suffer the persecution
that they do, I’m sure they would. Gay people are gay be-
cause it is to them a natural inclination. It is the only way
they can live and be happy. it is not a sickness; that is, it
cannot be cured. Try to imagine if the shoe were on the
other foot — if heterosexuals were in the minority — if you
were denied the right to love members of the opposite sex.

People who think that Davidson should be void of
homosexuals make me curious, People who say to gays,
and those who support them, “you should have never come
here in the first place.” seem to have an interesting idea of
what Davidson should be. I've always thought that the pur-
pose of a liberal arts education was to learn to deal with
people different from ourselves -— to gain many different
perspectives. At least that is what 1 wrote in my essay on
my application to Davidson. To think that spending four
years in a homogenous environment is going to prepare you
for the outside world is a little faulty. Because they are out
there: gays and straights, blacks and whites, men and
women. You might as well learn about them and try to learn
to live with them while you are here.

Bock is a sophomore from Candor, NC

MURDER-

