Opinions

“the Davidsonian
~ Friday, April 4, 1986

Some problems with on campus living

Mike Stephens

After three years of reasonably successful and even en-
joyable co-existence, my roommate and I will be parting
ways at the start of the 1986-87 school year. For the last two
years we have shared a comfortable and pleasant room on
Fourth Watts as a part of a fairly close-knit cluster, and
have managed to keep out of each other’s way enough to
stay friendly but impose upon one another enough to stay
friends. This, however, is not an article extolling the vir-
tues of prolonged roommate relationships or grieving over
the all-too-common tragedy of roommate divorce. I will be
living in the Emanon apartment next fall. Bill wants to live
on Grey Road, or something like that. The reason? Bill
wants to get as far away as possible from the noise of the
Davidson campus.

I can’t say that I blame him. Though I tend to keep late
hours and rise promptly for my 11 a.m. class in Chambers
— 100 yards from my dorm building — far too many nights
in the past two years have been spent laying in my loft, star-
ing at the ceiling fifteen inches away from my nose and
thinking about what I would say to the drunken females sh-
outing at one another outside my window, were I so dis-
posed to address them. (I rarely shout out my window,
though every now and then a “Shut the Hell up!!” comes
from someone down the hall.) Occasionally, they will
bring music with them, just for the sake of variety. The
sounds of Hank Williams, Jr., Steve Perry, and the Talking
Heads have serenaded me after hours more times than I care
to remember. Just to be fair, I cannot pass off all the blame
to the drunken females. If in no other area of campus life,
irresponsibility and lack of consideration totally transcend
the barriers of sex here at Davidson.

I, my roommate, and whoever keeps yelling “Shut the
Hell up!!” are not the only ones affected, however. Last
year, Dr. Karl Plank wrote an article for The Davidsonian
concerning the noise leaking off campus and filling his
Main Street residence. I realize a certain amount of noise
can be expected, and even an unreasonable amount of noise
is forgivable once in a while, but Thursday night with the
Top Forty has got to stop. The increasing noise level on
campus, however, is merely a symptom of the general ir-
responsibility of the Davidson student body.

We all know the other symptoms — the recent rash of
vandalism; the excessive parties which prompted the latest

Outbasket; the growing concern with controlling the use of
alcohol on campus. No ivory tower is without its dragons,
but there is no excuse for such intelligent people to act so
mindlessly.

While I don’t want to point any fingers, for eventually,
to be sure, they will point back at me, I believe there are
several culprits at work. Naturally, as college students, we
know that these may be our last few years of freedom from
a great deal of personal accountability. Note here the differ-
ence between accountability and responsibility. We are
still responsible for our actions, but as a general rule, even
if we do get caught, we are treated with a leniency which
we cannot expect to find after graduation. As an example, a
few weeks ago, someone entered Emanon through an un-
locked kitchen window and removed approximately
$400.00 worth of stuff. While both the house members and
the police knew that it was a part of someone’s scavenger
hunt or something of that nature, the act itself was a felony.

We got most of our stuff back — All but a set of stereo
cables which we replaced at a cost of $8.00 and a couple of
chess pieces that belong to one of our freshmen. So what if
John can’t use the board without them. A member of cam-
pus security assured us that we can get revenge sometime.
Maybe take some of their stuff. Maybe commit another
felony. I have removed my bicycle from the front yards of
two Patterson Court fraternity houses this year — once
from the front porch. Just a joy ride. So what if I need it to
get to work. Campus security advised me to look there.
“That’s where we usually find them,” he said. I need not
say you don’t get that treatment in the “real world,” but
Davidson graduates don’t steal bicycles, paintings, stereo
cables and chess pieces. Only Davidson students.

As well, a certain arrogance abounds on our campus.
Not only will Davidson graduates not steal bicycles, they
will probably never collect beer bottles and plastic cups
from their Saturday morning grass and clean vomit from
the floors of their Sunday morning bathrooms. “She got
sick; serves her right for getting so drunk. She’ ll be alright
once she sleeps it off, poor thing.” As one student phrased
it, “How would you like to be paid to wipe someone else's
bottom.” Here on campus we pay people to do that for us,
and they do it well. They probably do it grudgingly, how-
ever, for they never finish. I came to campus in the middle
of the summer, six weeks after graduation. The bushes be-
side the dorm that I often inadvertently refer to as “home”
still had Miller Lite cans in them.

Irony, also, flourishes at Davidson. Where else would
it make sense to complain about a poorly lit campus and
then push down the lampposts? Who can complain about an

overbearing workload over a quart of Budweiser? What
makes us think that a student who would break into a candy
machine or destroy a borrowed sculpture would not cheat
on an exam? What makes us abhor the cheater more than
the vandal? I really liked that silly sculpture. I was hoping
we'd get to keep it. Darn it! Half the drivers on this campus
cannot even put their cars between the lines of the Davidson
parking lots. Don’t complain about having too few spaces,
if you are going to use two of them to park your Subaru.

Next year in North Carolina, only persons 21 years of
age and over will be able to legally consume alcohol.
Though, as Davidson students, we are honor bound not to
cheat, steal, and lie, no doubt we will be able to break this
law with impunity. As a member of the PCC, I know that
Patterson Court will be totally responsible for creating and
maintaining an alcohol policy next year. Any problems
concerning the illegal use of alcohol on the court will be a
“student problem,” as I am told vandalism is now. While |
may be naive and perhaps pessimistic to believe this, I re-
ally think that an unenforced law will be, for the most part,
ignored. I don’t think we are going to stop people from ste-
aling our bicycles and chess pieces, knocking over our
lampposts, and regurgitating in our bathrooms until we at
least point out to them the negative consequences of their
actions. (Like a steadily rising tuition and a yet poorly lit
campus. )

If we get really feisty, perhaps we'll punish them —
and I know they occasionally get caught. Last year, some-
one took my bicycle from inside Watts and a campus of-
ficer caught him riding it. The version I heard from the se-
curity people was that the officer knew the student. The re-
port failed to give the student’s name. I reported it to Dean
Terry, but I never heard anything else. Maybe the student
graduated. Maybe he was one of the people who took my
bicycle again this year. Whoever he was, he has a good
story to tell, and no reason not to do it again.

I will probably miss Bill next year, and at times I will
wish I had moved off with him. I just heard a few people sh-
outing outside my window. I think they're headed some-
where on the court. It’s early yet, so they aren't drunk —
but I expect them back around 2 a.m. Maybe they'll still be
playing the Rolling Stones. I like “Sympathy for the Devil”
a lot more than “Burning Down the House,” anyway.

Stephens is a junior religion major from Media, Pa.

| Just Words

Tim Brown

Reagan charges Qadaffi with committing armed ag-
gression against the U.S. by his support of the Palestinian
terrorists who mowed down fifteen travelers, five of whom
were Americans, at the Rome and Vienna airports. And
Reagan uses, to back his accusation, two Tunisian
passports from guest workers in Libya found on the Palesti-
nian gunmen, who claim they were never trained by Libya.
Along with this accusation, the President calls Qadaffi a
madman and a flake, and implies that he is a schizophrenic.
I suppose Qadaffi can get away with his split personalities
because he has no formal job in the state; he’s simply The
Leader. Former CIA Director Richard Helmes describes
Qadaffi as a militant whose moves always have strategical
and tactical motives behind them, while others define him
as a teenage-like-hotrodder who gets a thrill from joy-rid-
ing in his tractor across the Sahari, asking harems if they'd
care for a lift.

The response of the U.S. to Qadaffi is two parts action
and one part threat, a threat which could turn out risky and
unnecesary.

The first action was placing an ineffective trade em-
bargo on Libya, ineffective because Europeans, who view
this embargo the way Reagan viewed Carter's grain em-
bargo in 1980, continue to trade with Libya. And Saudia
Arabia and Sudan have approached Libya to offer their sup-

Caution best tactic against Qadaffi

port.

The second action came in the form of an order, that all
Americans working in Libya get out of there. Qadaffi took
advantage of this opportunity by encouraging Europeans to
stay on his side and to help him fill all the job vacancies
created by the exodus.

The U.S. threatens to take military action against Libya
and to employ a hit squad of her own to knock off Qadaffi.
But such talk is risky because one thing’s for sure: Qadaffi

6

The response of the U.S. to Qadaffi is two
parts action and one part threat, a threat
which could turn out risky and unneces-

sary

?

plans to go out kicking. He’s already trained suicide squads
to attack the U.S. And he comes closer and closer to using
them the more and more he suspects a U.S. pre-emptive at-
tack (a timely concen). Though the smoking pistol linking
Libya to terrorism may be missing in Rome and Vienna, it
certainly can be found elsewhere.

Libyan exiles are gunned down in Africa and Europe by
hit squads trained in Libya, one of which tried to kill a
former Libyan prime minister now working in Egypt.
Egyptian officials embarassed Qadaffi after waiting unti.
he had announced the prime minister's death to tell the pub-
lic that the assassination attempt had been found out and
aborted.

Closer to home, a Libyan exile was wounded by a hired
assassin in Colorado in 1981. Last May a Libyan diplomat
to the United Nations was expelled in connection with a
plot to locate and kill Libyan exiles in four American states.

Besides being risky, the U.S. threat might be unneces-
sary because the U.S. might benefit from being ridded of
Qadaffi without exterminating him herself.

Gasoline prices are sliding way down, so Libya's na-
tional income is too. Surveys and reports have that 95 per
cent of Libyans are discontented with Qadaffi and that sev-
eral attempts have been made, and will be made again and
again, on his life. As proof of this, Qadaffi recently had his
cousin done in because the cousin was about to do him in.

As for the time being, America should keep her eyes
peeled, should be patient, and should wait and see if some
shepherd with a good aim doesn’t make good on the oppor-
tunity provided by Qadaffi's tractor: it has no bulletproof
glass.

Brown is a sophomore from Mint Hill, NC and is Opinions
editor of The Davidsonian

