Friday, January 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

eek of Prayer
e ° OF e
‘hristian Unity

During the eight days from Friday, January 17 to Friday, January 24, Christians
all over the world will be praying for peace and unity. On the Davidson campus, we will
join with them, as various groups come together to sponsor a variety of programs, op-
portunities to learn about the Church beyond our community, and worship activities.
Suggested meditations for the week will be available in the Union, Chambers Lobby, the
Library, and the Commons. Following is a schedule of events open to all.

Sun., Jan. 19

1la.m. Dr. Thelma Adair will preach at the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church. Her sermon will be “The
Journey of a Peacemaker.”

3 p.m. Rides will leave for Duke Chapel in Durham to hear
Bishop Desmond Tutu speak. Contact the

Mon., Jan. 20 Chaplain fora ride.

7 p.m. Memorial Service in honor of Dr. Martin L. King Jr.
Sponsored by the Black Student Coalition and
the Chapel Committee, this service in Lingle
Chapel will feature gospel singers and a talk by

Tues., Jan. 21 Dr. Thelma Adair: “I Remember Martin.”
4p.m. Third World Theologies — Shi ites and Liberation
Theology — Two guest speakers will talk aboui
trends in the Third World. They are sponsored
by the Rusk Program and will speak at the
Wed., Jan. 22 Carolina Inn.

1 p.m. “Strategies for Peacemaking” — Dr. Adair will
speak at the Open Luncheon in the 900 Room.

10a.m.-4 p.m. A representative from Volunteers in Mission will
meet with interested students in the
Union Lobby.

7p.m. 24-Hour Prayer Vigil will begin in Lingle Chapel.
People may sign up for the vigil at the table on
first Chambers, or just come by Lingle Chapel.

Thurs., Jan. 23
7 p.m. Ecumenical Worship Service — The campus

Christian Fellowship groups (FCA, IV, Chapel
Committee, Catholic Campus Ministries,
Sunday Night Fellowship Group) will lead this
worship time. Ms. Brenda Tapia will preach and
the sacrament of baptism will be given toa
Davidson student. Lingle Chapel.

kof he,

SPONSORED BY:

Catholic Campus Ministries
Chapel Committee
Fellowship of Christian Athletes
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship
Sunday Night Fellowship

tn Faith

