14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

John Gathings, Editor Brooke Knight, Executive Editor
Kim Crabtree, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Andrea Diedrich, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Bill Bugg, Features Editor Andy Barron, Sports Editor
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
John Elster, Advertising Manager David Maynard, Circulation Manager

Ann Roddey, Production Editor

; Algliawe: ISG ie YW)

Friday, February 7, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

YU pith
Mn,

y Wi 4
LO jg “

y ALL 11 os fy,
Aa Fp erfi;
5 ‘f Ara

ie

j Mt

, w A \
fe qa ni Ao mining
«Atl . \ | Miri

Face the Face

The calendar has rolled around again to self-selection time. Hun-
dreds of freshmen will cast their individual ballot for their individual fu-
ture. The houses they choose, however, will also be affected. Sigma Phi
Epsilon joined the court this year, and it will be no doubt interested in
what the computer says about who picked which house. The two remain-
ing coed houses will be looking to see if they remain a viable alternative
to the single-sex houses, in light of three coed house closings in three
years. Spencer will also see if it will be successful enough to carry on its
second year of existence. This time of year means a lot to many people.

It seems that it means so much to one group or individual that it
caused they, he or she to distribute flyers and signs in Belk dorm telling
freshmen to be wary of a “misguided hopeless idea.”

The idea the flyers directly refer to is the possibility of a Kappa
Sigma fraternity chapter returning to campus. It claims that not self-
selecting this year in hopes of joining Kappa Sig limits the freshman’s
options. Not so.

For a long time of Davidson’s recent history, 12 fraternities existed
on campus, and a couple more now wouldn’t hurt the system. The suc-
cess of Kappa Sig will indeed mean more options for the freshmen — and
that is, after all, what self-selection is all about — options.

The authors of the pamphlet are obviously scared that the prescence
of anew fraternity will change the face of the court. If to change the court
is what people want, then so be it. The authors are hiding behind the veil
of anonymity — if they are truly fearful of what will happen to the court
on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room is the way for them to ex-
press their fears, not through pamphlets which cause rumors and undue
concern amongst the freshman class.

Congratulations

This paper marks the last regular issue of The Davidsonian for this
term. Andy Barron and Brooke Knight will take over as editors in the
spring. Good luck!

Letters

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $13
per year, or $24 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avall-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jane Aurell, Andy Ball, Laura Batten, David Bearce, Jim Dillon, Keith
- Finch, Andrea Gross, Heidi Hooker, Jeff Lesesne, Aaron Levine, Thomas Nicholson,

David Williams

Features Staff: Laura Ballenger, Martha Johnson, Matt Morris,

Sports Staff: Edwin Page, assistant sports editor;Mike Adams, Keith Finch

Photography Staff: Romy Cawood, Beth Drummond, Bill Hartman, Ken Jones, Kyong

Lee, David Petranick

Staff Artist: Richard Cloudt

Production Staff: Braden Bledsoe, Jim Dillon, Kristin Galloway, Clisby Hall, Holly

Hayes, Eileen Keeley, Kara Kooken, Kris Kost, Beth Parker, Kim Robertson, Margaret

White, David Williams, Ben Yarborough

Compositors: Doug Kim, Lynda Korfmann, Ann Roddey, David Soud, Sara Strachan,

Laure Van Dierdonck

WDAV

To the Editor:

With regard to Keith Finch’s article on
WDAYV in the Jan. 24 Davidsonian, | did
not say, nor did I mean to imply, that the
station’s move to new studios away from
the main campus is “an unfortunate con-
tinuation of de-emphasis upon student in-
volvement in WDAV.” The two have noth-
ing to do with one another.

The de-emphasis on student involve-
ment in WDAV bothers me and my father,
Hooper Alexander, and to that extent we
were both quoted correctly. However, as I
beleive I told your reporter, I have known
since my own employment at WDAV that
the station needed roomier facilities, and I
did not know of any place on the main cam-
pus that would have been suitable.

And a point of clarification: I was iden-
tified as a disc-jockey for Z100. I am, but
on a part-time basis only.

Lex Alexander ’82

Kappa Sig

To the Editor:

In an effort to clear up any misun-
derstanding that may result from Keith
Finch’s presentation of my remarks in last
week’s Davidsonian (“Return of Kappa
Sigma Proposed”), I would like the oppor-
tunity to explain a few issues.

While I am president of PAX and my
house is my primary concern, I wish to dis-
pel any thoughts and rumors that I am
grossly pro-PAX and violently opposed to
anything else. First of all, I am chancellor
of the Patterson Court Council and I
strongly support all of the court’s houses
because they offer an alternative to the
Commons with their small group dining and
social activities. This, is a very important
part of Davidson College. Secondly, I have
a personal interest in coed houses as a
whole. I am grateful that Davidson had an

-alternative to.both the Commons and the

single-sex houses that was coed and that of-
fered small group dining.

The main problem hindering a fair inter-
pretation of my comments is that a few of
my most important views were excluded. I

would like to stress that I view the trend to-
ward single-sex dining as a potential threat
to coed dining. My greatest fear is that a
third single-sex house coming to the court
in two years could cause a coed house to
fold. The remaining coed house, rather than
grow stronger in\ts uniqueness, could suf-
fer in it oddness. The incoming freshmen
classes would not know that days when
coed dining was common and “normal” and
would view that coed house as the black
sheep of the court. Put simply, there is
safety in numbers; I like seeing two coed
houses on the court.

Another comment I made that never
made its way to the article was my feeling
that the eating and social options are there
on the court to serve the Davidson student
body — and I readily admit that this student
body is constantly changing. Patterson
Court does not exist solely to serve the in-
terests of the established houses; it also
exists for the interests of the students and
hence it must be able to change if student in-
terest does, either in the form of a different
personality entering a house with a new
class or in the form of letting new houses on
the court.

I am not opposed to Kappa Sigma; I
admit that I am concerned about its return.
However, I can honestly state that I have
not done anything nor will I do anything to
undermine that formation of Kappa Sigma.
I worry about its effects on the established
houses of the court and about its future. I
also wonder about the availability of
straightforward information for the inter-
ested freshmen. Unfortunately, the only
printed information that I know of is the
fliers that were distributed on the halls of
Belk Monday night. The information on
these fliers was negatively biased as well as
inaccurate. It is regretful that something
like this had to happen now, while self-
selection is underway and while changes in
both Patterson Court and the self-selection
system are being considered. In this ten-
sion-filled week of self-selection, I would
like to see respect shown for the freshmen
who are making their decisions and for Pat-
terson Court as a whole. As every institu-
tion does, it may have its difficulties, but
we at Davidson are lucky to have it with all
the options it offers us.

Janice Evans PAX president
