Friday, September 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN .

Just Words

| Cuomo runs by-standing still

Tim Brown

Oedipus, a pimp from Pennsylvania, is about to strut
_on over to New York when he is stopped by the sphinx
that regulates the Pennsylvania-New York border. The
sphinx tells Oedipus that he can enter the state of New
York only if he can answer this riddle: Who has the eyes
of a mortician, the hands of a gorilla, the rhetorical skills
of Jesse Jackson, the ancestry of Sylvester Stallone, and
a good chance of being nominated the Democratic presi-
dential candidate in 1988? Quickly and assuredly
Oedipus answers, “New York’s Governor Mario
Cuomo!” Deeply angered by the correct answer, the
sphinx lets Oedipus enter New York and then jumps

from the roof of a brothel-+to her death.

Currently, at 53, Mario Cuomo is willing to run for
president by not running. He has made no official plans
to run for president. When reporters press him about the
1988 presidential election, he dodges their questions
and exuberantly claims that.he is having too much fun
being governor of New York in 1986 to worry about
1988. Rubbish! Cuomo’s political friends, such as New
York’s Mayor Ed Koch and. Senator Joseph Beden of
| Delaware, convincingly claim that Cuomo has his mor-
tician’s eyes fixed on the 1988 presidential election and

-t that he intends to use his character, his rhetorical
razzmatazz, and his political record as governor of New
York to attain the Democreatic presidential nomination.

An Appealing Chracter: Mario Cuomo’s c aracter_
is appealing to many voters for the same reasops Mark
Twain’s style is appealing to many readers.
readers can not help but like a man who loyés his family
members, who shows strong ethnic pride, and who dis-
plays a crackling wit.

Cuomo says of his father, his role model: “‘T talk and
talk and talk, and J haven’t taught people in 50 years of
life what my father taught by example in one week.” At
a conference of police-union officers earlier this year,
Cuomo got into a boiling-hot discussing about the death
penalty, which he passionately opposes. The policemen
opened up their steam valves and fervently voiced ven-
geful opinions in support of the death penalty. Slowly
and carefully, Cuomo revealed that he understood their
feelings: “Look, my father-in-law was paralyzed re-
cently by a mugger’s attack.” He then raised his voice
and said that he and his mother-in-law also want re-

venge, but that they would rather see the mugger get life
in prison without parole. Cuomo’s story and sincerity
received “high-tide” waves of applause from the police-
men. Later that day, at the governor’s mansion, Cuomo
called his mother-in-law to tell her about his discussion
with the policemen: “Momma, I’ve been talking about
you again.” After the phone conversation, Cuomo went
outside to play a serious, aggressive game of basketball
with his son Andrew, who is also his chief political ad-
visor.

Cuomo’s ethnic pride is strong and sincere. And by
no means is he reluctant to‘express the feelings he has for
his ancestry, old neighborhood and old friends to win
voters over to his side. A TV commercial continues to
play an important role in Cuomo’s reelection campaign
for governor because it softly tugs at the viewer’s heart-
strings. The commercial pictures Cuomo sitting in the
Grand Hall at Ellis Island, contemplating some of the in-
numberable and everlasting contributions that immig-
rants, such as his Italian friends and Italian parents, have
given to America. After one of Cuomo’s political oppo-
nents praised his combativeness and cool debating tech-
niques, Cuomo modestly admitted that he got his com-
bativeness on the playing fields of his native Queens,
N.Y; and that he picked up some “arguing skills as an
arbitratot of neighborhood disputes.”

Many ears and many minds have been delighted by
the snap, crackle, and pop of Cuomo’s wit. Cuomo, a
Roman Catholic, was asked how a Christian could ever
be involved in the sordid business of politics. Cuomo re-
sponded that good Christians and good politicians care .
for all people, stress love rather than prohibition, and
stress compassion rather than exclusion. Last March
Cuomo took his gubernatorial campaign and his wit to
the rough neighborhoods of New York. The news
cameras were rolling and the news microphones weke on
as Anthony Aubert from.Puetto Rico asked Cuomo why.
the state wasn’t spending more money on the subways.
Cuomo anseered Mr. Auberts’ question with a detailed.
and crowd-pleasing quiz on the mambo dance. ~

Rhetorical Razzmatazz: Cuomo jokes that cam-
paigning is the “poetry of politics, while governing is
merely the prose.” His repertoire of razzmatazz includes
hyperbole, sarcasm, rhythm, parables, allusions,
analogies, symbolism, irony, humor, and the art of in-
vigoration. Cuomo’s invigorating speech temporarily

19

saved the delegates who were at the Democratic Na-
tional Convention in 1984 from Walter Mondale, whose
thetoric is as invigorating as a bottle of Sominex. Also,
Cuomo has the ability to think while he is speaking. This
ability of his comes in handy wheri Cuomo wishes to
personalize a generic speech, say, for an audience filled
with the likes of Mr. Anthony Aubert.

- ae
Cuomo’s Record: Though musical trends and polit-
ical trends seems unpredictable, many Democrats be-
lieve that Cuomo’s record as governor could be a
number-one hit: among the voters in 1988. New York
faced a $1.8 billion‘deficit when Cuomo took office in
1982. Now, New York enjoys an estimated $600 mil-..
lion surplus. Republicans know that the surplus is due in
part to the nations overall prosperity; but the Democrats
grin and realize that Cuomo gets the credit. Cuomo also
receives credit for reducing New Yorkers’ taxes by $3.2
billion, the biggest tax cut in New York’s history. He
has pushed hard for fundamental changes in transporta-
tion, education, and welfare. The results? New York's
highways have been renovated. New York’s teachers’
salaries have been beefed up substantially: And New
York’s welfare program is supposed soon to institute a
“workfare program.” The workfare program would re-
quire that all able-bodied welfare recipients, excluding
mothers with dependent children, do work to ear their
welfare checks. On top of these things, Cuomo led a
crew of Democreats who, along with many: Republican
mutineers, torpedoed Ronald Reagan’s tax-reform bill
that would have eliminated the federal income-tax de-
duction allowed for state and local tax paymerits. ‘\

Getting Familiar: Statistics present desirable and
undesirable facts in black and white>Americans’ famil-
iarity with Cuomo is highest in the Northeast. Eighty-
one percent of Northeasterners know who Cuomo is,
and seventy+one percent of those who know him‘ view
him favorably. However, Cuomo’s familiarity rating is
just 26 percent in the South, 34 percent in the West and
35 percent in the Midwest. True, Cuomo does have a lit-
tle more time to decide whether he wants to run for presi-
dent. But he’d better plan on giving folks in the South,
West, and Midwest lots of time to get familiar with his
character, rhetoric, and political record.

Loss of conference not all bad

Bob Cornish ]

Ever since ‘my arrival at Davidson last year, I have been
constantly perplexed about the paradoxes which abound on
this campus. The school itself is one, being the only small,
liberal-arts college in the region with a national reputation.
A person is supposedly allowed to “self-select” a fraternity;
a definite contradiction of the term. Now that Davidson is
being removed from the Southern Conference, I am con-
fused yet again..

If I were able to vote to keep Davidson in the Southern
Conference, from the standpoint of academic ‘integrity I
would have voted to let Davidson stay. East Tennessee
State, Marshall, or Western Carolina do not have the na-
tional recognition in scholarship that Davidson does. Cer-
tainly, a school such as ours gives the Southern Conference
the aura of being a conference for the quintessential stu-
dent-athlete,

But are the other Southern Conference schools in the

“same position as us? Of course fiot. These schools are Divi- ference, which has such schools as East Carolina,

sion I schools, for the sole purpose of increasing college rev-
enue. The quality of their athletic programs is sadly tied to
how people enroll in classes and apply for admission. Such
schools cannot afford to be selective on an academic basis.

However, almost every school in the Southern Conference
‘has a comprehensive recruiting program for potential
athletes. One special recruit for such a school could mean
more applications and-‘more money:
Davidson has a comprehensive recruiting program. I

_ continued from page 18

beyond one of the members of the opposing
team (number 12; I'll never forget his
number). Number 12, a college student
from a fairly respectable school, intention-
ally stepped on the Davidson player while"
‘the referee was looking elsewhere.

was struck on the head with the ball. The re-

é

was shocked when I was informed that there were David-
son coaches looking for athletes near my home. Of course,
all the coaches look at athletic talent. But unlike Marshall
or VMI, their coaches don’t have to ask, “are you in the top
20 percent of your class and have a score of 1200 on the
Boards?”

The Colonial League teams are in similar situations
when looking for football players. Though Colgate, Holy
Cross, and Lafayette were once schools whose academic
records made any school look good in comparison, they too
have realized academic standards. In the future, Davidson
will be a respectable and competitive team in the Colonial
League. The opportunity for success is increased solely be-
cause the other schools will be operating by the rules which
have dictated the Davidson athletic program for years.

- Unfortunately, there is no “Southern Ivy League” of
which Davidson could be a member. Many have mentioned
the possibility of competing in the Colonial Athletic Con-

& Mafy, and Richmond. The commissioner of this confer-
ence expressed reluctance about our desired admission.

Why would such a conference desire a school such as
Davidson? Would the conference be strengthened by our
presence? Is Navy’s David Robinson trmebling with fear
for his teammates at the mere mention of the Wildcats? Are
William & Mary’s cross-country runners worried about

____._..-= some Davidson guy running the first mile, of the race in

4:30?

"A Davidson student would never do __feree immediately fell to the ground; how-
such a thing,” you might argue. You're _ ever, this did not quiet the yelps of satisfac-
right. A Davidson student does worse.
Shortly before number 12 trampled our fel-.
low student, the: Davidson. crowd viewing pressed. I was convinced at that point that-
_the game stood up to cheer when the referee despite our advanced intellect (in which we
take so much pride) we are. far from

tion coming from the Davidson stands. ,
After ‘the game I was thoroughly de-

The ambitions of the football team have been toned
down, yet on the basis of short-term success; the rest of the-—

athletic program wants to move up. Does this make any
sense? Three teams posted twenty-win seasons last year.
What about the others? Are the women’s teams conpeti-
tive? Do we have enough women to have teams? Davidson
is being forced to deal with its own reality. All of a sudden,
the athletic program which derives pleaStre from occas-
sional upsets and taking on schools ten times its size is too
good to play in a conference with Radford and Winthrop.
We could still play Duke and Wake Forest as we do now,
some of our old foes from the Southern Conference, and
maybe be a force in our new conference in all sports. There -
is always a chance for an “at-large” bid for basketball, as
well as the National Invitational Tournament. Cleveland
State plays in a conference without an automatic bid. Need
I remind basketball fans of the Vikings’ heroics in last
year’s NCAA tournament?

William — Could the “Davidson arid Goliath” idiom be traded in~

on giving credibility to a new conference and some sense of
stability in the athletic program? Could we handle David-
son actually being a stabilizing. force in a conference?
Davidson has adapted to the new drinking age, new profes-
sors, and new students. Could Davidson adapt to winning
on a regular basis?

Cornish is a sophomore from Nutley, New Jersey

“civilized.” Let us not decieve ourselves —
technological and intellectual progress have
little to do with moral progress. We must be

“aware of this so that we can stop asserting
this illusion of civilization and i initiate some
soul refinement.

Bilal El-Amine
