Opinions

. ai

The Davidsonian
Friday, April 18, 1986

Qaddafi’s actions reflect North-South conflict

J. Allen Smith

Libya lies in rubble this moming, but what does it really
matter? An F-11] may have been shot down, but so too
may have Qaddafi’s daughter. All in all, this military ac-
tion makes sense since Qaddafi is obviously a madman. Hi-
tler was a madman. He had to be stopped. So too must Qad-
dafi. Good man. Bad man. Batman.

Everything cannot be as simple as it seems. Vietnam
was not as simple as it seemed, and neither was World War
II for that matter. As Dr. Shaw noted in a recent Humes lec-
ture, “The United States was one of six or seven of the
world's greatest powers before World War II. After the war
it was the single greatest power.” How could a nation that
was hardly involved in a conflict so fierce come out victor?
Hardly involved, yes. Our cities were not destroyed.

So what does this have to do with Libya or Vietnam? Is
not some‘oversimplified notion on the horizon of this arti-
cle? I hope not. I cannot be sure to condemn the United
States for its action against the Libyans as have some

among our European “allies” since as an American citizen |
am somewhat intimidated and even a bit outraged by Qad-
dafi’s anti-American anything sentiments. Yet. Qaddafi

eats food and uses the bathroom just the same as I. Calling
him a madman and going into Libyatown like Yosemite
Sam being the “hootenest, shootenest, dad blasted gun in
town” is hardly a sane approach. Nor is the response, “the
world is just insane sometimes, and you have to act accord-
ingly,” anything more than a way of evading the issue.

There are reasons men like Qaddafi and even Hitler rise
to the forefront of their nation’s politics, reasons not wholly
separate from the shared sense of responsibility of man-
kind. How are nations that realize the depths of poverty
their nations encompass supposed to react if they are to
change anything. How? The first step is outrage. Outrage
that the world could allow them to be so poor, and willing-
ness to combat poverty, to stand up on one’s own feet, no-
body else’s, and do something about it.

Qaddafi gives his people the outrage and independence
necessary for action. Yet, his action threatens the lives of
people. Namely us, the ones in control, the wealthier na-
tions who have long since railed against the world in out-
rage and in acry for independence. We are now the ones in
control. How are we to deal with these upstart children like
Qaddafi?

It is frightening, isn't it, even nations grow old. Really,
how am I supposed to believe this great nation of mine with

“amber waves of grain” and “purple mounted majesties”’

will one day fall the way so many other great nations have.
Yet, think a moment more, as Dr. Henry observed in my

religion class, we have been in control of our nation for less
time than the Moors controlled Spain. Perhaps our place in
history is not as great as we would like to believe.

The Soviet Union calls our action against the Libyans
as that of an imperialist nation, yet really I can see little dif-
ference between our “defensive aggression” to their “de-
fensive invasion” into Afghanistan.

How are Third World nations to rise on their own when
the United States, Soviet Union, and perhaps China some-
what as well, control the world? The superpowers scramble
for the Earth’s various pieces, perhaps they shall destroy
themselves in the shuffle. The United States was hardly the
major power before World War II, yet rose to superiority
because it was the least involved, had the fewest scars.

It is Qaddafi’s lack of involvement in world affairs that
makes his presence frightening, for he — the underdog —
has everything to gain and nothing to lose. It is this power
that Qaddafi would like to exploit, the power of the under-
dog. Qaddafi (and others to take his place should he now be
dead) would like to see a world where the Third World
could rise, a world without the North. Perhaps, he must be
thinking subconsciously, they will destroy themselves yet.

Perhaps we shall.

J, Allen Smith is a sophomore history major from Durham,
N.C.

Putting the feminist mess to rest

Kenneth Bogert

Dead subject? No. Why now and not earlier this year
when everyone was talking about feminism? I forgot about
it for a while. So get on with it! Okay.

If you read one article on feminism this year, read this
one! My aim is to put this mess about feminism to rest.
However, I am aware that my article may do the opposite. !
am the typical male. I am probably infected with grave mis-
conceptions regarding feminism. If I offend anyone, I
won't apologize , because I won't change my opinion.

Equal rights between men and women. I am completely
pro-equal rights. I am certainly not afraid of women earm-

Just Words

Tim Brown

About two months ago Sergey Rogov, first secretary
of the Soviet embassy in Washington, arrived in Char-
lotte to speak on U.S.-Soviet relations and shared with
us some lies and some other thoughts worth remember-
ing. What lies and what truths?

Here is his pair of lies. (1) According to Sergey
Rogov there is no genocide occurring in Afghanistan.
So upon hearing of this one is set back and desires to ask
Rogov: What do you call it if not genocide, when ball-
point pens which explode when they're played with are
dropped from airplanes into villages for children to play
with? What do you call it when townspeople have their
fingernails removed? A manicure? When elders in the
community are killed and made into public spectacles?
Euthanasia? Is there some truth, then, to the recent
rumors that discrepancies in diction plague U.S.-Soviet
relations.

(2) Sergey Rogov says that Soviet troops are in Af-
ghanistan because the Afghani want them there. But
here he is really persuading us to accept the statements
of despots — with powers gotten from motherRussia —
as statements from those who have no voice. The chil-
dren and elders. -

And upon finding out that Sergey Rogov has lived

ing the same wage for the same job. Women are not the
“same” as men, but they are certainly not inferior to men. I
will benefit by equal rights: we all will. Eventually all
women will gain these rights.

Now that I have stated my pro-equal rights feelings, I
will comment on feminism. It has been written that
feminism is a movement striving for equal rights. Why it is
called feminism? Call it “The Movement for Equal
Rights.” Now for my misconception: feminism is not the
struggle for equal rights. It is an attempt by some women to
gain desirable rights and retain feminine privileges. When
women gain equal rights they must remember the responsi-
bility that those rights bring. These rights include the right

Lies separate superpowers

and studied in our country for 20 years, one approaches
with pessimism Reagan’s reasoning that the two Super-
powers should exchange students, that in so doing ripe,
young Soviet minds might be made fertile ground for
free speech, capitalism and so on — in less than a year’s
time.

6

‘Human rights’ in the Soviet Union
means everyone has a job and everyone
has a place to live. Freedom of speech,
freedom of assembly and freedom of the
press . . . don’t enter into the picture

?

Sergey Rogov shared some thoughts, too. (1) He
spoke in regard to Reagan's joke about blowing up the
Soviet empire in five minutes: “When you act irrespon-
sibly, you produce a reaction, you produce suspicion.

Even if you retract, people are not going to forget such
jokes.

to be drafted, the right to pay alimony, the right to hold the
door open for men, etc. If equal nghts are demanded,
LET’S GO ALL THE WAY. Enjoy your new rights,
women, but remember the responsibility of those rights.
After you have eared the same high wage, be prepared to
pay your ex-husband the child support he needs to raise the
kids.

If I have put women’s concerns back a decade, then I
cannot see how. I am only looking to a future of equality.
When terms like feminism are forgotten and equal rights
are pursued. Only then will progress be made.

Kenneth Bogert is a sophomore from Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jer-
sey.

(2) He mentioned that “human rights” in the Soviet
Union means everyone has a job and everyone has a
place to live. Freedom of speech, freedom of assembly
and freedom of the press, he said, don’t enter into the
Soviet’s picture.

(3) Americans don’t know all that much about the
world in which they live outside, say, local affairs and
maybe some state and national policies they’re inter-
ested in. What goes on in other countries is almost un-
known. The size of his audience served as evidence, but
at least a few attended and brought with them the initia-
tive to learn. And we owe them, as beneficiaries, our
thanks.

(4) He concludes: America’s idea that it is number
one reaches chauvinistic proportions, which is advan-
tageous in some instances, e.g. the Olympic games, and
which is disadvantageous in other instances. A coun-
try’s ability to approach and to deal with international
problems is lessened when she overestimates her own
virtues.

So what might the optimist dream tonight? That
someday Americans might have increased desire to
learn about the world in which they live. That they might
attend, and in greater numbers, the lectures afforded
them by Soviet and American diplomats. And that they
might escape the ignorance that denies them ability to
distinguish a fact from a lie.

Brown is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian
