~ Opinions

Wayne Williams

The system of apartheid is a deplorable and detrimental
institution. Onc might say that apartheid is detrimental only
to the masses of poor, starving and enslaved black people
of South Africa. However, in actuality, the system of apar-
theid is just as detrimental to the minority of the rich, well
fed, and free white people in South Africa. For wherever
there exist oppressed and oppressor, both are in a constant
state of kiJling each other. On the part of the oppressed, you
have the suffering and pain in body; whereas, on the part of
the oppressor, you have the suffering and pain in the mind.
When the system of apartheid is viewed in this way, ] know
that onc can not but agree that the system of apartheid is-a
dangerous and debumanizing institution which must be
eliminated at any cost just as the systems of British rule
over America and enslavement of the black race in America
were eliminated,

I now ask that with patience you lend me your cars for a
few minutes. Let me start by recollecting an interesting
point which the Rev. Jesse Jackson brought up in his
speech on Sept. 14, 1986 at Owens Anditorium. Rev. Jesse
Jackson told the audience that if the situation in South
America had been exactly the opposite, a black. minority
exploiting a white majority, then there wouldn’t have been
any need of planning and debating on the next step of ac-
tion; the United States would have taken immediate action,
not only with economic sanctions but also with military in-
volvement, to eliminate the problem. The reason for this
immediate action would have been that the system of apar-
theid is adeplorable and detrimental system which must be
eliminated at any cost. Now, Lask, isn't that the same sittra-

tion which is now in existence in South Africa? When is im-
mediate action to eliminate this deplorable and detrimental
system of apartheid on the part of the people of the United
States going to be taken’? Does it have to be an oppressed
white people for action to be taken? The time has past for
talking and planning: it is time for ACTION.

1 now tur my attention to those people who say that di-
Vesting will only worsen the situstion of apartheid. | ask
these people to tell me about how boycotts in America wor-
sened the practice of segéegation of black people in Ameri-
ea in the early sixtics, Let me attempt to set up an analogy at
this point. These people who cry, “don't divest," say that
divesting will only worsen the economic situation in South
Africa. Now, 1 ask, doesn’t a boycott also worsen an
economic situation? Yet, a divestment helps te draw atten-
tion to a problem and in some cases also becomes an indi-
rect solution to the problem, $o the question here is where

are our minds directed, at the economic situation of South.

Africa or the system of apartheid. Those who answer apar-
theid will accordingly stand up for divesting; on the other
hand, those who answer the economic situation of South
Africa will accordingly cry out not to divest. Forme the an-
swer is apastheid and thus divestment is the way of drawing
attention to the problem and thus in the process of drawing
attention might become an indirect solution to the problem
at hand.

Let me now hasten to finish my say before your endur-
anice of my article comes to an end, In finishing, | will take
time to write down a thought in the form of a poem. It cap-
tures the picture that comes to my mind when [ think about
the horrible injustice going on in South Africa today.

Where beyond the darken shadows will

the happy day come,

When the world will wake up and

The Davidsonian

Friday, Ootober 24, 1986

15

Divestment needed to draw attention to apartheid

realize that the day of the Lord has come,

When men of different races will

come together for peace,

When no men will be judged by color

So that all people might truly be at peace,

Where are the helpers of freedons,

Where are Jesus's hands and feet,

His the same.people who were helped to freedom,

Now forgotten how tong they got on their fect,

Did George Washington or Jahn Hancock tam their
backs

on the freedom of Amicrica

Did Frederick Douglas or Martin Luther King eurn their.
backs

on the freedom of blacks in America

Well, | wait in faith

that these who were helped will help

the world to come to peace

To follow the Golden Rule

To feel the peace of mind that comes.

with the (Gold Age) Rule

Reach out, my friends, reach out

We together can become as one
. Wecan break through the bonds of hate, race, and re-
ligious denominations

to come to the day whcn the person can say

| AM FREE FREE AT LAST PREE AT LAST

THANK GOD I AM PREE AT LAST

TO WALK WITH MY BROTHER IN PEACE AND
HARMONY

Williams is a senior from Fayetteville, NC — - '

Just Words — —

Adam West forever haunted by Batman role.

Tim Brown

In the afternoon the school belt rings and signats
elementary schoo! stadents their freedom to tumble in
the leaves and to soak up the warmth and color of the aué
tumn suf. Many young students, however, forsake the
thulti-colored leaves and the glowing sun and race home.
to watch the derring-dos of Batman ans! Boy Wonder.
By the time the youngsters make it home and switch on
their televisions. the Batman rerun has already begun.

A typical Bat episode. begins: Bruce Wayne (alias
Batman) and Dick Grayson (alias Robin, the Boy Won-
der) are in Brice’s study at the Wayne Manor, The study
is filled with shelves of books, expensive-looking an-
Hique furniture, enormous antique rugs, and caphies
from Brice’s expluits. One such trophy is an African
spear with 3 spearhead that is make of tin and ia covered
with some tyr: of poison. Brace, wearing a smoking
jacket and a silk: ascot, nonchalantly sips a glass of to-
mato juice and discusses some philosophical point with

Alfred, th: butler. Meanwhile, Dick, home on break
from Andover, prances back and forth across the room
and grows irritated because he can not speak French
well. Bruce stops conversing with Alfred and is about to
help Robin with his pronunciation when, suddenty, the
Bat phone rings and the yellowish Bat symbol cuts
through the evening sky, Bruce and Dick slide down the
Bat poles and arrive in the Gal cave.as Barman and the
Boy Wonder, decked out in their utility belts, silk capes,
polyestes tights, and masks. Rabin Mipsa coin to decide
whether they chall drive downtown in the Batmobile or
fly downtown sn the Bat plane. A couple ot seconds later
they slip into the sleck, comfortable Batinobile and roar
off to Commisstoner Gordon's office in order to find aut
whnt demented juilbird ix plaguing Gotham City. “Colly
geewillickees! exolaims Rebin after learning that the
laughing Joker, the witty Riddler, the waddling Pen-

guin, the sexy Cat Woruan and the cool Mister Freeze
have all busted our of jail and are all out to unmask Bat-
man. Of course, they do not succeed to unmask Bauman.
The young viewers, nevertheless, will stay glued to the
same Bat channel day after day after day.

The Joker Triumphs: In his short story “The Joker's.
Greatest Triumph” Donald Barthelme brings the ele-
vated characteristics of Batman and the Boy Wonder
down (o sea level. Bruce Wayne adds vodka to his to-
mato juice, Dick is not on break; he ts home tn explain to
Bruce that he is failing French and might be ejected from
Andover soon. The Gat phone rings, Bruce answers it
and confidently says, “We shall see you in a couple of
minutes, Commissioner.” Quickly Bruce and Dick
change into Batman and Boy Wonder, and speed down-
tewn in the Batmobile, Batman presses 2 button on the
dashboard and presio: a panel on the dashbuard slides
back to reveal a little bar “with ice, glasses, water, soda,
quinine, vodka, lernuns, limes” and a pack of Viceroys.

Angtily Batman pounds hit fists together because fhe for-
Bot to pick up some more quinine water at the liquor
store the previous night, He decides he should not drink
and drive anyhow and seitles for a cigarette. Batman
parks the Batmobile illegally, and he and Boy Wonder
sun into Commissioner Gordon’s office. No sooner does
Commissioner Gorden explain to them that the Jokes ts
on the loose than they are “wheeling the Batmobile ex-
pertly through the dark streets of Gotham City ," looking
for the Jokes in his purple suit and listening for. his

unique laugh. Finally, they spot the Joker in ar) acmuced
car and fhey foil his diabolical plans. But this time the
Joket has the last laoph. He crashes his armored car into
a brick building, some flying bricks knock Batman un-
conscious aud the Joker unmasks him, Boy Wonder re-
vives Broce Wayne with some cight-dollar brandy.
Then they drive dejectedly back to Wayne Manor,
whore they sit in Bruce's study and sulk,

: ‘
West's Career: From 15966 to 1968 the actor Adam
West played the TV role af Batman, which role became

his stereotype and make West a household name. When

the T'V show evaporated in 1968, so did West's acing
career, “It was impossible," explains Adam West, “for
me to get a role. If tt got down to the wire for the part of
leading man, ihe director would say. ‘Hey. what are you
guys doing? You can’t put Batman in bed with Faye
Dunaway."

Over the last 18 years Adam West has purchased to-
mato juice, vodka, jogging suits, elaborate exercive
equipment, a Pacific Palisades home and Reebok high- -
tops — which help make life complet: — with the
money he eurns from Batman appearances and Batman
reerchandise and insignificant rales in insignificant
movies. Also with this money, he bas supported three
gorgeous wives, only one of whom he is now fond of,
and four handsame and well-mannered children. As

-open and honest as his fans might expect, Adam West
says, “When people get preientious, and talk about their
great body of work, I think, ‘What the hell am I going to
say?’ But then I look around and realize I've not done
too badly fer a farm boy from Walla Walla
Washington.”

This season Adam West might lose his stereotype,
hut tot as eugily as Bruce Wayne lost lus mask in “The
Joker's Greatest Triamph.” In NBC’s ‘The Last Pre-
oinscet” Adam West ussumes the role of Captain Rob
Wright, an ideal cop except that his partnets keep wind-
ing up dead. Stephen Cannell, executive producer of

“The Last Precinct,” guarantees that West's “great com-
edy timing aod bumorous delivery” will give him a new
TV identity, But it will be difficult for Baunan fans to
watch West in his new series without subconsciously
hearing “Ooops, Banumm, Smmack” and the Butman
theme ng, “da da Da Dada da Da Da Batman!"

Brown és Opinions editor of The Davidsouinn.

