Friday, October 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bleacher Seat

Lamentations of a deprived baseball fan

By MIKE ADAMS

The Major League baseball play-offs
have started and I’m not able to watch
them! For those of you — only a few, I’m
sure —who do not know what’s going
on, the Houston Astros and the New
York Mets are playing for the. National
League pennant while the Boston Red
Sox and the California Angels battle it
out for the American League crown.
Forget Libya, the Sariford-Broyhill sen-
ate race, the Presidential summit (and for
heaven’s sake forget NASCAR); this is
the most important event in the world
today. And I’m missing it!

Now what, you might ask, could pos-
sibly be preventing me from observing
this history-making episode of American
life? Work, I tell you. plain old, basic
studying.

I’m sure you, as fellow students,

share my outrage. How can the Davidson
administration and faculty schedule
classes and give homework — yes,
homework! ~—— when the fate of the free
world rests on the arms of, Dwight
Gooden and Roger Clemens? This treat-
ment must be in Violation of our Constitu-
tional rights. Perhaps it’s covered under
cruel and unusual punishment.

The faculty will not even consider
amending this atrocity. They claim it is
traditional and unavoidable to hold class-
es during the weeks of the play-offs and
the World Series.

I believe the faculty has not searched
hard enough for alternatives. I have two
proposals to change the current system
employed by Davidson that should be
easy the implement without radically
¢hanging the nature of the school.

My first’ proposal involves doing

away with the fall term altogether. If, as
the professors insist, it is impossible to
avoid holding classes during the baseball

post-season without interfering with the.

quality of the term, then let’s escape this
dilemma by not having a term with which
to interfere. Such a move would necessi-
tate a six-year schooling process, but as I
see it that is no major problem. Who’s in
any rush to get into the real world?

The second proposal would involve
making observation of the play-offs and
the World Series a course itself. This
course would have no ceiling; any and all
baseball fans would be allowed to take it.
As I see it, this course would fall under
the jurisdiction of the Center for Special
Studies and would apply to any of of several
social science curriculums. ~~~

Despite the obvious rationality and
just plain good sense of these proposals,

11

it is my belief that they will be unnaccept-
able to a tradition-bound faculty. It is
highly probable that unless students take.
decisive action, this situation may remain
as it is.

By the words “decisive action.” I am
not advocating violence. There are forms
of non-violent protest that may prove just
as efective as burning Chambers. It is
probably to late to do anything about this
year’s games. I must resign myself to
catching an occasional inning and seeing
the highlights. on the eleven o’clock
news. But now is the time for you
freshmen, sophomores and juniors to
Start agitating for reforms in the next
academic year. True fans should meet
now and begin planning strategies. Read
Ghandi, read Martin Luther King, Jr.;
and prepare yourselves to fight this un-
wanted and unwarranted workload...

Field hockey beats Sewanee for first win

By EDWIN PAGE

The Davidson field hockey
team broke into the “W” column
for the first time this season an
Saturday when they defeated the
University of the South 5-1 at
Suwanee. On Monday, however
the Lady Cats were brought back
to earth when the Fighting
Croutons of Pfeiffer defeated
them by an identical 5-1 score at
Pfeiffer.

On Saturday, the Cats jumped
out to a 2-0 lead in the first half,
but emerged from intermission on
a somewhat shaky note. Suwanee—
scored ten minutes into the second
stanza, and it appeared that
Davidson might be in trouble.
Coach..Betsy Pryor. said, “We
were showing some confusion on

the field, but after the goal, we re-.

ally got back together.” _

Davidson shut out SUwanee
for the rest of the ‘way, and with
five minutes to go, the score was
still 2-1. All of a sudden the Cats
erupted, pushing three more goals
across before games end to ice
their first victory of 1986.

Senior sweeper Heather
McKee led the way for the Cats
with two goals. She was joined in
the scoring assault by sophomore
Suzanne Mauze, and freshmen
Christy Sloan and Katherine Mal-
lory who added one each. Mal-
lory’s goal was a particularly
pleasant surprise. The goal illus-
trated what Pryor called the

Mallory has shown during her first

season of organized hockey.

‘On Monday, however, the
Cats lost came out sluggish and
Pfeiffer made them pay for it. At
1:30 into the first half, the
Croutons put one in the net to
jump out to an early 1-0 lead. The
Cats, rudely awkened, stiffened
and held Pfeiffer scoreless for the
remainder of the first half.

Pfeiffer added another goal
early in the second half, but
Davidson freshman Marta
Bukowski, seemingly completely
recovered from a stick to the face
earlier in the season, answered for
the Cats 11 minutes into the half to
make the score 2-1. McKee took a
penalty hit into the circle, and

to deflect it past the helpless

goalie for the goal.

That was, however all the at-
tack that Davidson could muster.
They let down for the final 15 mi-
nutes, allowing Pfeiffer to tally
three more before the end of the
contest.

Despite the score, Pryor saw
some good things on the field. “T
was disappointed with the goals
against us, but our play was much
better than it was in the first Pfeif-
fer game.” She felt that the goals
were results of let-downs in the
circle, but that the play at midfield
and on the offensive end showed
considerable improvement.

The Suwanee and Pfeiffer
games marked the third and fourth

—“amazing —improvement~—that.- Bukowski was in perfect position— straight games in which the Cats -

have scored after being shut out in

their first four.games of the year.
The offensive improvement is a
result of a couple of factors. The
team has started to take advantage
of their opportunities on free hits
and comers, scoring several of
their goals on set plays. Equally
important has been the stabiliza-
tion of the lineup. The University
of the South and Pfeiffer games
marked the first time that the Cats
have fielded the same team for
two straight games.

Davidson has three games re-
maining before the Deep South
tournament and Pryor feels ‘that
the team has a legitimate chance in
all three. The Cats’ next game is
tentatively scheduled for next
Thursday, Oct. 16 at home at 4
p.m. against Catawba.

Cross. country team suffers disappointing meet

By EDWIN PAGE

Last Saturday the Davidson finished sixth out of twelve teams .

_.-Men’s-and-women’s-cross coun he women’s team came in __ While the team

teams ran ‘in the UNCC Invita-
tional in Charlotte. In their previ-
ous meet, both teams had been
“outstanding” according to coach
Gary Andrew, so it was a disap-
pointment' when their perfor-
mances dropped off somewhat on

Saturday. The men’s: team

fourth in a field of nine.

Andréw said of the meet, “It
wasn’t our best effort. We’re hop-
ing that this will be our one off
meet and that we can comé back
strong the rest of the season.

We’ ve talked it over and everyone
is ready to bounce back.”

left something to-be desired, there
were several strong individual ef-
forts. Junior Chris Fischer paced
the men’s team. for the second
time this season. Both Fishcer and
sophomore Bill Hartman ran well

times in every race this year.
Freshman Missy Willis

women and came in seventh over-
all. Other outstanding efforts
came from freshman Lisa Cul-
bertsan and sophomore Sara
Roberts who also continued to
lower their times.

Saturday and have lowered their Thursday, the team travels to

FROZEN YOGURT

_ Downtown Davidson

- Duke to run in the North Carolina

Intercollegiate meet. This is an in-

rformances finished first. among_Davidson’s_vitational_meet_to_which_every—

college team in the state is invited:
ACC teams Duke, N.C. State,

and Wake Forest will be repre-

sented. Andrew says, “It willbe .
fun for the team to see how they

can do against that kind of compe-

tition.”

