Wednesday, March 26, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sayers Rudy

Editors’ note: This article contains language which
some readers may find offensive. This language was left in
the article because we felt it was an important part of the
story.

This past Christmas my friend Jon jumped over the El!
Al counter of the Leonardo DaVinci Airport in Rome. Jon
has never been much of an athlete, but I suppose he made a
pretty good jump. At the time of the jump bullets were
crashing into the walls, and into people — people who did
not jump fast enough. Somehow, though, Jon survived.
Which is a miracle Jon's friends hadn't planned to spend
Christmas break thanking God for. But we did. Jamie,
Peter, Doug, and I. We all gathered around my television to
see Jon describe his jump, and the Palestinians who encour-
aged him. Jon got to be on ail the big news programs. He
said tourists were standing around, looking at their tickets
and their luggage and their kids, when shots like a string of
fire-crackers cracked the quiet.

Jon looked pale on television and his voice sounded
hollow, like the voice of someone who needs to swallow
but can't. Behind the counter, safe from the machine-gun
fire, he had huddled with the other somewhat athletic
tourists. When I repeated Jon's description to Richie,
Richie said “They huddled behind the counter? Did they
call a play?” And I laughed at that, out loud. Everybody's
so funny. My friends are hilarious about almost anything.
But when we were watching Jon on television, and looking
at the bodies that didn’t make it over the counter, none of us
made jokes. Jamie only had one thing to say: “F-ckin’
Arabs.”

I think my patience was in the next room, so I politely
excused myself to go get it. Peter followed me. He told me
not to declare war on Jamie, who knows nothing about the
Middle East except his opinions. Opinions about the Is-
raeli-F-ckin’-Arab conflict dominate political discussion in
Scarsdale, New York, where I grew up. Most of the people
there are Jewish. The Jews hate the Arabs. I remember
thinking, even when I was young and possibly precocious
for thinking such a thing, that a Jewish prejudice against an
entire people was ironic. That prejudice was inspiring me
to charge in and confront Jamie. Peter told me to forget it.
Peter was right. I could tell Jamie all about Abu Nidal, the
Palestinian group that killed so many people in Rome and
Vienna, and almost killed our friend. I could say Abu Nidal
consists of about 500 radical Palestinians. I could mention
how many Arabs are out there. More than 500. But I
couldn’t change Jamie’s bigotry. The f-ckin’s Arabs tried
to kill his friend.

My best friend is an Arab. Bilal El-Amine, from South-
erm Lebanon. He studies here at Davidson College, in
somewhat conservative North Carolina. North Carolinians
don’t like Arabs much. Bilal has travelled all over the
United States. He says Americans don’t like Arabs much.
It’s understandable, really. All we hear about Arabs is they

Dr. Douglas Houchens

When I began work for Davidson College in 1953,
teaching art was tough: little money, little space, little
equipment, little interest. Exhibits were relegated to the
lobby of Chambers Building and it was with trepidation
that I installed anything that might be sexually definitive.
Some Renaissance prints were modified by students’ pens
and pencils, emphasizing anatomical parts. These old en-
gravings were covered by plastic but the striae could not be
removed from the fragile papers. The then Dean of Stu-
dents counseled me, saying that the only way he knew of
correcting such tendencies was to scrap exhibitions. Back
then students wore crew cuts and tight ties and managed
hard-Drinking fraternity parties off-campus. A strictly
masculine image was cultivated everywhere and art could
be suspect. Later, art began to be fashionable and attitudes
changed. Everywhere college and university art depart-
ments expanded, and studio and history courses became an
important part of the curricula. This was true of Davidson.
It became coeducational. Races and sexes intermingled.
Openness and mutual regard now characterize the campus.
So it would seem that Davidson was ready to embrace a

My friends

are chauvinistic, violent, hateful, faithful to a strange reli-
gion, and usually found on camels. Bilal tells me the thing
about camels is absurd. He hasn't ridden camel in weeks.

Bilal is researching ahimsa, the Hindu ideal of non-vio-
lence. I’ve never seen Bilal lose his temper, even when we
Americans bare our prejudiced souls. Bilal is non-violent.
And hilarious. And compassionate. Like Jamie, Peter,
Doug, and Richie. He and Jamie have spent time together.
They get along beautifully. We celebrated my birthday last
March, almost a year ago. My best friends and I.

We didn’t discuss the Middle East. I guess the tempta-
tion just wasn't there. But I know what they would have
said. “Bilal, the Holocaust wasn’t exactly pleasant, ya‘
know. So the Jews got a homeland and the Arabs attack
them for it. The Israelis defend themselves against the
Arabs and everybody attacks the Jews for that, too.” “No.
Jamie, it’s not defense to annex Arab territories, to kick
palestinians off their land and then deny them political
rights.”

And if they had said alt that, I would be somewhere be-
tween them, rubbing my neck. It frustrates me. I know both
arguments, and they're reasonable. But everybody's argu-
ing and not getting anything resolved. The one simple truth
we in the United States usually ignore is this: the Arabs and
Israelis are at war.

Americans act shocked when some Arabs use violence
to change the policies of the United States. We have no
right to be shocked. We have joined the war. On the side of
Israel, of course, and with little or no debate in the U.S. We
have always supported Israel, and we always will. We sup-
ply Israelis with the military and economic aid they need to
continue their occupation of the Golan Heights and the
West Bank, including Jerusalem. Israel's occupation of
these areas has forced millions of Palestinians off their land
and into refugee camps. And Israel refuses to discuss any-
thing with the Palestinians. So the Palestinians fight for
their rights, for their land. That's how most Arabs see it.
We Americans may not see it that way, but we must under-
stand the Arab view if we want to avoid being contributors
to and victims of the war in the Middle East. F-ckin’ war,
Jamie.

Two months ago, just before Christmas break, rumors
were floating around that William Buckley, a hostage in
Beirut, had been killed. When the radio confirmed Buck-
ley’s murder, I was eating dinner at the fraternity house
with six friends, some of whom had heard about Buckley.
None of them heard the radio, so I said, “Buckley's dead.”
Dave feigned concer and said, “Dead? I didn’t even know
he was sick!” I laughed and laughed. I still laugh over that
comment, even though I hate it. It’s like those jokes about
gays or blacks or exploding shuttles or AIDS — jokes like
that are nasty and vicious and hilarious simply because they
are so clever. We're all so funny all the time. But we're too
funny. I guess solemnity requires too much energy.

I was dating a girl whose parents disapproved of me be-
cause of my Jewish upbringing. They liked me, but not my
upbringing. Amazing distinction. Amazing logic, too. ]
wasn't raised Jewish, I don’t speak Hebrew, and I didn’t

Vandals

moving work of art by George Rickey, the greatest liking
kinetic sculptor.

Davidson's Horticultural Symposium COmmittee had
approached Mr. Rickey and had been granted a recent piece
which was placed underneath a barebranched sugar maple
outside the Student Union and acted as a logo for the sym-
posium on March fifth. This work, Four Open Rectangles
Diagonal Jointed II, was spare and elegant and its finely
adjusted geometric shapes moved as unpredictably as the
wind. Professors in the Martin Chemical Laboratory across
the way neglected their work to watch its gyral motion.

George Rickey’s sculptures are in major museums in
this country and abroad. Like Calder’s, they enhance stair-
wells and plazas. They are expensive. Mr. Rickey agreed
to the loan because he had pleasant memories of a visit to
Davidson in the late thirties. I had informed him that the
College ranked fifth in Rhodes Scholarships and ninth
among the nation’s liberal arts colleges. His work would be
appreciated for a few weeks by the students who returned
from their spring break on March tenth. Security was
alerted. An effort was made to direct publicity to the stu-
dent body so that it would know the sculpture’s source and
worth. Most students loved it and both they and their pro-
fessors wondered if Davidson might acquire it for perma-

13

have a Bar Mitzvah. Yet my father’s family is Jewish, so
mere acquaintances feel comfortable disapproving of me.
Discrimination hurts. Discrimination causes a heat, a pain
in the stomach. An anger that can be violent. When a per-
son feels discrimination, ahimsa — Hindu non-violence —
becomes challenging. Bilal teaches me patience. I don’t
know how he learned it. Maybe by realizing he couldn't
stop Israeli planes from flying over his village, couldn't
stop the U.S. New Jersey battleship from lobbing bombs
into Beirut. Anti-Semitism, the American bombs,
Lebanese fifth-graders carrying Lebanese first-graders to
shelter under the sonic boom of Israeli jets, Reminds me of
a joke I once heard.

Actually, I like jokes. My friends are all very funny. |
love funny people and people who like laughing. Some-
times we laugh at sick things, because they would upset us
too much otherwise. That's okay. I'suppose. Three weeks
ago I had an interview for a fellowship to study in the Mid-
dle East, and the interviewer said each of the hundreds of
bombs the U.S. New Jersey launched into Beirut cost as
much as a Cadillac. She asked why, given the problems of
the American automobile industry, the U.S, government
didn't just buy up the surplus of Cadillacs and lob them into
Beirut. It was a funny question, to which | added they
should first take the wheels off to really annoy those f-ckin’
Arabs. Then, after all those Cadillaes come crashing down
on Beirut, the Arabs will blow the American Embassy to
pieces, killing hundreds of Americans. And we will act
shocked.

Of course, terrorism against innocent tourists differs
from the destruction of an embassy. The woman who inter-
viewed me for that fellowship told me some maniae from a
Steel plant in Seattle slaughtered her best friend and his en-
tire family on Christmas Eve. The killer thought he was kil-
ling a Jewish Communist and his family. The victim was
neither Jewish nor a Communist. His twelve year old son
died last week. He had been in a coma for a month and a
half. F-ckin’ steelworkers.

The woman who told me this story did not share my fear
of the Middle East. “Don't worry that we won't send you
because the Middle East is violent. I'm not gonna’ tell you
not to go to the Middle East. What can I tell you? Don't go
to Seattle?”

All the jokes about all the people, all the peoples. Since
Jon's run-in with the Palestinians, my friends and I haven't
gotten together. Jon's in Israel now. Jamie, Peter, Doug
and Richie are back at school. It was a weird Christmas
break. Strange — I know when we do get together, we'll
joke about Rome. Meanwhile, Bilal and I keep studying the
Middle East, hoping to meet on the opposite sides of a
negotiating table someday to work the damn thing out. |
hope to go to the Middle East next year to live with Palesti-
nians and Israelis. Bilal has taught me to say “the Arab is
my friend.” Maybe they will believe me. I hope Jamie can
teach me to say something like that to the Israelis. It doesn't
matter if he can't, though. Jon can always tell me.

Rudy is a senior international relations major from
Scarsdale, New York.

nent installation. They leamed that the price was $40,000
and that it was slated for the American Embassy in China in
April.

It will not arrive. During the early moming of March
fourteenth, one or more vandals, students or otherwise,
broke and bent and prized its beautiful, lean appendages.
Today we return the crafted carcass to the Rickey Work-
shop in East Chatham, N.Y.

It is my guess that most of the liberal arts colleges,
among which Davidson ranks ninth, have sculptures per-
manently installed on their campuses. Last year, Queens
College hosted the Tri-State Sculptors’ Guild Exhibition
and placed dozens of sculptures around the campus. David-
son authorities must choose whether to follow the precept
of that long-ago Dean of Students who would sacrifice art
to the threat of vandalism or, like other fine institutions,
face this hard problem and solve it. Davidson College
should resist and render impotent the benighted who say,
“It moves, it's lovely, it’s fragile. Kill it.”

Houchens is a professor emeritus of art
