4—— <

Beyond Davidson —

United States and Russia fight ‘diplomatic war |

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the news for the week
Oct, 17-23:

Around the World — The Soviet
Union ordered the expulsion. of five
American diploniats in Mascow four en-
gaging in “impermissible activities,” the
diplomatic term for espionage. The
United States_retaliated_by ordering the
expulsion of 55 Soviet diplomats in
Washington. The Sovief government
called the U.S. expulsion “another step
aimed at worsening Soviel American re-
lations” and ordered five more Ameri-
cans at the U.S. embassy in Moscow to
leave the country.

Chanceltor Helmut Kohl of Germany
met with Presiden Reagan in
Washington to discuss the arms negotia-
tions conducted at Iceland earlier this
month. Kohl and NATO defense minis-
ters both said their support for reductions
in medjum-sange nuclear missiles pro-
posed in Iceland hinged on further steps
to insure a balance in conventional forces
between NATO and the Warsaw Pact.

President Samora Machel of Mozam-
bique was kiJled Sunday in a plane crash
in South Africa which also took the lives
of 25 others. Machel’s death prompted
Tioting by hundreds of youth in Harare,
Zimbabwe, who claimed South Africa
was involved in the crash. The South Af-

mcan government appointed a Supreme:

Court judge to head the investigation into

> Imported BEER and WINE

subscribetothe davidsoniarbecauseitsthebestnews

paperindavidsonbecauseitstheonlynewspaperdavid

the crash.

. The General Motors Corporation on
Monday announced it would pull out of
South Africa by selling its assets there to
a group of investors led by local G.M.
managers. On Tuesday the 1.B.M. Cor-
poration said it would also sell its opera-
tions in South Africa but would continue
supplying 1.B.M, products and services,

Yitzhak Shamir. the conservative
Likud blac’s leader, was sworn in as the
new Prime Minister of Israel, replacing
Shimon Peres, the Labor Party leader,
An Israeli fighter aircraft was shot down
by ground fire in large-scale attacks by
Isracli forces on Palestiman guerilla:
bases in southern Lebanon.

A Lebanese underground group said
it had kidnapped an American intelli-
gence agent, Edward Austin Tracy.
Lebanese Professor Nabil Matar was re-
leased by his captors in Beirut Tuesday
night after being held hostage for more
than five months.

A Reagan administration official said
classified information had allayed the
suspicions of most members of Congress
about direct government involvement in
the flight of the plane downed two weeks
ago in Nicaragua, At least six civilians
were killed and 30 wounded when their
transport truck ran over a powerful land
mine north of Jinotega, Nicaragua,

’ A newly released State Department

report said.the production of marijuana in
Mexico bas increased by more than 25
percent, while the production of opium
poppy has increased by one third.

American economist Jatues Bucha-
nan won the Nobel Prize in economics for
his development of methods for analyz
ing economic and political decision-mak-
ing. Nigerian playwright and poet Wole
Soyinka was awarded the Nobel Prize in
Literature.

Across the Nation — Congress
gave final approval to the $576 billion ap-
propriations bill, which includes legisla-
tion that eliminates mandatory retirement
for workers over age 70 and prepares for
changes in Social Security and Medicare
benefits to help beneficianes. Congress
also gave final approval te the anti-drug
bill and the overhaul of U.S. immigration
law :

President Reagan signed into law the
historic tax revision bill Congress passed
two weeks ago. Reagan called the bill
“less a reform than a revolution” and said
it was “the best anti-poverty bill, the best
pro-family measure and the best job-cre-
ation program ever to come out of the
Congress of the United States.” Reagan-
also signed the $9 billion “superfund” bill
to clean up’ toxic-waste dumps and
another bil! requiring schools to protect
children from health hazards posed by as-
bestos.

Friday, October 24, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

- —

Rudolph Penner, director of the Con-
gressional Budget Office. announced he
would resign his office in early January
when his term expires.

In Business News — OPEC minis-
ters finally reached agreement after 16
days to continue production controls
aimed at strengthening oil prices. How-

“ever, American oil specialists said the

disarray in which the meeting ended
could result ina new price war by late De-
cember, which would drive oil prices
down.

The Commerce Department said that
during the third quarter the nation’s
economy grew at an annual rate of 2,4
percent, while the nation's. annual infla-
tion rate climbed to 2.5 percent.

The Reagan administration imposed
a 15 percent tariff on imported lumber to
protect domestic lumber companies from
Canadian competition that the Adminis-
tration said is government-subsidized. At
the nation’s factories, mines, and
utilities, production in September rose
0.1 percent, while the operating rate re-
mained frozen at 79.2 percent of capac-
ity. Business sales climbed 0.4 percent in

August, while inventory held steady.’

Construction of new homes and apart-
ments dropped 7.6 percent in September.

Finally, a new report predicts the na-
tion's deficit in high-technology trade
will exceed $2 billion this year.

Friday evening entertainment on our backporch

Healthy, Snacks and Sandwiches!

oy

Downtown Davidson

sonhasitsgreatitsterrificitsunnnnnnnnbeleiv

ableitsireeitsyoursourceofinformation

a

at,
&

