Friday, May 2, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

19

Parents share memories of their son

Ted and Ruby Wen

Dear Faculty and Students:

We have thought of you often since the time of our
son's memorial service at Davidson College. We were re-
ally touched about your feelings toward our son Tim. It
would be so good if we can hear from you and get to know
you. This means a great deal to us. Perhaps, in this way our
memory of Tim will be a living one.

We would like to include here some portions from two
letters that he wrote to his friend Ron Zeir which led to his
decision to attend Davidson. The first letter is dated Dec.
23, 1983.

“As you know I acquired this bothersome chemical
hypersensitivity. It is an unbelievably frustrating ailment.
There seems to be no rhyme or reason behind it. Every time
I seemed to get better I would have a fresh turn to the Lord,
but then I would get worse again. Gradually all the ele-
ments of the church life seemed to slip away. When I had to
tell the brothers I could no longer serve on children’s meet-
ing my heart nearly broke. Then this past May I found out
that meeting halls themselves were ‘verboten.’ (By the
way, I’m glad you decided to stop complaining to the Lord
about me. I gave already done too much myself. I also
found out just to realize my situation was in His hands was
not sufficient, at least for me. It just made me bitter toward
Him. I found out the secret is to thank Him! It really

Letters

(p. 44). With the best of intentions, the

Some guidelines may necessarily limit

works!) Then on the other side, my education was going
nowhere. When I Was" feeling good I would do very well at
Harvey Mudd, yet I couldn't keep it up. When I dropped
out last March I know I had to:do something. I couldn’t go
to school, I couldn’t hold a job, I couldn't have a normal
church life — I was really cornered. However, I found out I
could get better if I went to a clean environment. Then
hopefully my body’s tolerance could be recovered. Until |
arrived at Newport, I felt like a ball being bounced around.
Do you know that since last March I have stayed in 13 dif-
ferent places.

“, . . Many times I literally lost my will to live. Yet
every time when the psychological pressure became un-
bearable, the Lord would come and say, ‘Do you love Me?’
and every time my heart would melt. The Lord is too real.
The four months I have been here, my health has slowly,
ever so slowly, improved. This is the most encouraging
sign...

“About a month ago, I began to experience a real
change in my relationship with the Lord. A lot of small ex-
periences I was having began to add up. The bitterness I
had was swallowed up. Spiritually, I am coming out of a
hibernation. I think the Lord’s economy is clearer to me
now than it has ever been. There is no fixed way to experi-
ence the Lord. We all are experiencing the dispensation of
God, yet in each of our lives our experience of the Lord is
unique. My desire is to take care of the Lord at each mo-
ment. Even when | am writing right now I need to take care
of the Lord. That is all that He requires of me. I feel there
are so many other requirements I need to meet such as how
to become self-sufficient. Yet the Lord just wants me to

love Him and to live Him. That's all. As Paul said in Philip-
pians, the Lord has gained us so that we might gain Him.
Nothing more. Lord Jesus, grow in us.

“Most likely I will be leaving here in March, I will
probably be attending a college in North Carolina . . .”

The second letter is not dated.

“I just finished my first term at Davidson. I don't know
if T ever told you how I came here. It was like most changes
that have occurred in my life. It just sort of worked out that
way. I had made a list of feasible colleges to go to in terms
of environment and costs. Davidson was the only place
where I had the peace to apply. It was really strange. I just
couldn't get myself to fill out any more applications. So, in
early March, I arrived at Davidson. I had no idea what to
expect. I just landed in a southern college immersed into
the culture of the South.

“Now that I look back, all I can truly say is that this
move was in God’s hand. . .”

We would like to inform you that Roger and Elsa Fiero
with whom Timmy has found a real home away from
home, are now residing in Davidson. We do hope that you
would get to know them also.

We are also in the process of moving to Raleigh, North
Carolina, If the Lord's willing, we will visit Davidson from
time to time. Hope we can be in contact with each other.

Ve would like to thank you all so much for coming to
Tim's Memorial service and for sharing with us your ex-
periences with him. We appreciated your cares, concerns
and sympathy.

Ted and Ruby Wen

~ ae en

Committee attempts to create harmonious
relationships among the court and campus.
Drunkenness and hounding by anxious
fraternities may be results of the ‘“\democra-
tic system,” but seven weeks of repression
are not a justified solution. Davidson Col-
lege should not turn to unnecessary restric-
tions in its efforts to protect the freshman
from social pressure.

The fast pace of Fall term overwhelms
many students. By lessening the shock of
college life, the Selection Committee wants
to help the freshmen adjust. The “Option
System” attempts to reduce pressure to
party and allow freshmen more time to
grasp Davidson academics. Alienation,
though, hinders adjustment. For an indi-
vidual to grow he or she must face choices.
Progress results from crises such as critical
times of the freshman year. If Davidson
succeeds in “choosing students of charac-
ter, of general as well as academic ability,
[and] of loyalty to the ideals of the college,”
then the freshmen will survive their new in-
dependence (Davidson College Catalogue,
45).

The “home on the hall” plays an impor-
tant role in the transition to college life. The
Committee wisely considers the unity of
friends ‘and counselors; however, confine-
ment negates free growth of friendship.
One week of freshmen mixers is enough to
acquaint 360 ex-high school kids. They
want to be members of the college. Other
students sometimes view freshmen as out-
siders, and under the new system up-
perclassmen must do so unwillingly. As
pressured as parties can be, they are a
chance to integrate and meet people. Cam-
pus-wide parties do provide a neutral place
for independents and court members to
socialize. Unfortunately, houses may pres-
sure covert “rushing” at these few occa-
sions. Squeezing “rush” into a six- week
period after seven weeks of “no trespas-
sing” will force freshmen and houses to
make their choice by reputation, rather than
familiarity. Freshmen should be allowed to
freely experiment with their social life.
They should retain their “liberty” to “fre-
quent a place” and their “right to do and
think according to choice” (Random House

Dictionary).

students’ freedom, but the proposed “Op-
tion System” oversteps its right to interfere.
Spencer House does not support any restric-
tions from parties, but a revision in the
calendar would be more acceptable. Three
weeks of “no parties” for freshmen would
alleviate enough academic pressure and aid
adjustment to campus life. With some sort
of compromise and awareness of student
opinion the Patterson Court Selection Com-
mittee can devise a fair system. As the
Davidson College Statement of Purposes
closes, “Only with divine guidance and
through ceaseless effort can Davidson at-
tain its goals and be what it ought to be” —
an institution of learning and liberty.

The Women of Spencer House

Large Assortment of 14 kt. Gold:
chains,charms, bracelets ,rings,& earrings

Exit 28 off I-77
Rt. 2, Hwy 73W

Norman Landing
Shopping Plaza

SPRING GOLD SALE
Friday and Saturday May 2 &3 ONLY!!!
Just in Time for Mother’s Day and Graduation!

Presentation of this coupon worth
30% OFF!!! = Mother’s Day Special!!!

All purchases of colored stone, diamond,& pearl items
thru Saturday, May 10, 1986

UNITED @

CAROLINA
. BANK,

uch

892-7805
Lake Norman

Gz

Fine Jewelry &
Jewelry Repair

STUDENTS: 20% discount cards are available
(Discount not applicable during sales)

-6278 |
Cornelius, N.C. 892 |

Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 10 a.m.- 7 p.m.
Sat.: 10 a.m.- 6p.m.
