Features

Liner Notes

Fusion excursion highly recommended

By JEFFERY M. BROWN
Kip Hanrahan
Vertical’ s Currency
American Clave -1010

Kip Hanrahan is a breath of fresh air
in a musical world inundated with Top 40
dross. As producer and percussicnist he
has taken up the weighty task of shatter-
ing the cultural barriers that resist any at-
tempt to successfully fuse jazz. rock,
salsa,-and funk. His solution takes the
form of the proverbial ‘melting pot,’ a
union of ethnically diverse musicians
committed to promoting a unique world
music.

Hanrahan’s latest excursion into the
currents of cross-cultural “fusion” picks
up thematically where the intoxicating
Desire Develops An Edge left off.
Therein the artist examined in depth the
themes of sexual tension and interper-
sonal conflict. Vertical's Currency ad-
dresses similar themes, but does so in a
more consistent fashion. Specifically,
Hanrahan now utilizes a more permanent
body of musicians, eschewing the ever-

changing ethnic roster that performed on
Desire. Essentially, the present ensemble
consists of vocalist/bassist Jack Bruce of
Cream fame, tenor saxophonist David
Murray, percussionists Ignacio Berroa
and Milton Cardona (as well ad Hanra-
han), and guitarist Arto Lindsay.

Vertical’s Currency is a dark, intros-
pective work that reveals a thematic con-
sistency and coherence. Hanrahan has a
story to tell, a story that evolves around
the search for emotional and sexual satis-
faction in the midst a relationship quickly
decaying into ruin. The quest is provoca-
tive and often disturbing, but always en-
gaging and beautiful.

Jack Bruce sings brilliantly on the
album, evoking a keen sense of pathos
and emotional longing. His rendition of
Steve Swallow and Kip Hanrahan’s “A
Small Map of Heaven” is haunting,
spiritually moving, heartfelt. He sings,

.. and, just for that moment, he
thought he saw an image of stillness
somewhere in her eyes, a reflection of
something so far in her, a light from a

place he could never afford to reach.”
David Murray’s stirring saxophone solo
takes us out on a torrent of emotional
fury.

From out of nowhere arises the blis-
tering “Shadow Song” (Mario's In), a
salsa number replete with orchestra and
Bruce’s intense vocals. The most rhyth-
mically powerful song on the album,
‘Shadow Song” stands as one of the most
scorching performances of the year.
Notice Bruce’s breathy anticipation, the
furious horn lines, and Murray’s razor-
like saxophone. Hot!

“Smiles and Grins” features Bruce
singing at a blinding tempo to delightful
lyrics. “So don’t regret the cars that rust,
everything must turn to dust/ Cultivate
and dig your craft: nights are hard when
you’re gone soft.”

“Two-Heartedly” epitomizes the
album's central themes, emotional and
sexual discontent. The lyrics speak for
themselves. He fells her too closely. He
loves her two fistedly . . . He hurts her
to consciously . . . He kissed her too

fraternally. He eased her too cheaply.
“She goes.”

The decay of the relationship, the
search for love and purpose amid no-
thingness, characterizes the remainder of
the album. The search for love and sex on
“Make Love”: “Every day drive my mind
through the madness, I want to make love
to you. . . Every day when I’m chasing
the hours, I want to make love to you.”
The nature of deception and shattered
communications in “One Casual Song
(After Another)”. “Contradicting every
enclosed space, you might tell me a story
that proves that I’ve never known you.”
The quality of desire and resentment in
“Intimate” distances: “You resent me for
the way I displace you, but you need me
for the darkness you'll find in me.”

Hanrahan’s music is not for every-
one. Accessibility is not his overriding
concern. His efforts do, however, offer
the adventurous listener an oasis of swift
latin rhythms, jazz flurries, marvelous
singing, and above all, intelligence.
Highly recommended.

Husker Du retains raw sound; soundtrack strong

By LEE EICHELBERGER

dusker Du
Candy Apple Grey
Warner Bros. 25385- |

Husker Du? To those who
ave not heard of this group, you
ight think the name sounds like a
we german dish. Actually that's
ot too far off the mark, for this
finnesota trio is a real delicacy.
or the past few years, they made
veir mark on the American club
cene and last year they finally
roke through onto a major label.
“andy Apple Grey is that album; a
ough edged, broad revision of
ost-punk hardcore music.

The album opens conserva-
ively with “Crystal,” a typical
\ardcore romp in the mold of early
<. But by “Sorrow Somehow’ it
s clear that Husker Du's inten-
ions have changed from their last

release. The songs following are
based not only in sixties garage
punk but in the pop from that same
era. In addition, hints of R&B
ooze in behind the blazing guitar
overdrive. But they don’t stop
here, for the band goes on to em-
brace styles that one would not as-
sociate with hardcore. “Too Far
Down” and “Hardly Getting Over
It’ employ acoustic guitars,
melancholy melodies and
Dylanesque lyrics. Most surpris-
ing though is “No Promise Have I
Made,” a haunting piece that uses
blended voices accompanied by
piano.

The success of the album may
be partially attributed to the lack
of interfering production by band
members Bob Mould and Grant
Hart. The mix retains the raw
energy of live performance plus

light studio refinements. The final
result is that Husker Du have set
their sights past the bars which
have housed them for years and
expanded their sound into the
realm of greater accessibility.
That is not to say that Husker Du
have sold out to pop. This album
is by no means in the music
mainstream. However by embrac-
ing various styles this band has
managed to expand their style and
enrich it at the same time.

Pretty In Pink Original Movie
Soundtrack

Ever since the success of the
Flashdance and Footloose al-
bums, movie soundtracks have
been the hippest thing since MTV.
Unfortunately, this flood of
soundtracks have typically been
fractured allusions to the movies
that spawned them. I saw Pretty In

Pink and was not notably im-
pressed; however since movies

. are not my department, I will

leave it at that.

Unlike the movie, the sound-
track stands strongly on its own as
a broad collection of some excep-
tional contemporary pop. John
Hughes has succeeded in assembI-
ing numerous artists ranging in
styles from Jesse Johnson’s funky
rock to Suzanne Vega’s neo-folk
to New Order’s electronic jungle
on a single disc. Of course, in a
collection so varied little unity
would be expected, yet the sur-
prise here is that this collection
creates the excited, tense atmos-
phere that the movie only hinted
at. Vega’s “Left Of Center” pulls
you into her swirling intensity,
and Johnson’s “Get To Know Ya”
throws you back out and onto the
dance floor. OMD’s “If You

Leave” soothing melody decieves
with its unsettling lyric. Other
good tracks include; newcomer
Danny H. Hitter’s “Wouldn’t It
Be Good,” Echo and the Bunny-
men’s “Bring On the Dancing
Horses,” and the chilling “Please,
Please, Please Let Me Get What I
Want” by the Smiths.

The only real disappointment
is the remix of the title track by the
Psychedelic Furs which seems flat
and contrived in comparison to the
original. Throughout the record,
recurring themes of tense frustra-
tion and uncertainty unify the
album. It is encouraging to see an
example of a successful and
thoughtfully assembled sound-
track. It is, however, rare to find
one that surpasses in depth and
satisfaction the movie that it was
made to support.

Dining Adventures

The Korner Pub: A Davidson classic

By TREY JAMMES and TORREY
HYATT

It is 3 p.m. and you are cruising to-
wards Mooresville when you notice a
parking lot with a BMW, a white Camaro
and a tow truck. An inquisitive soul, you
venture in. As the gravel comes to a
slower crunch beneath your tires you ad-
mire the exquisite plywood facade front-
ing the cinder block roadhouse. You have
second thoughts. But, adventurous diner
that you are, you cautiously open your
door and approach the mouth of this in-
nocuous monster. Your trembling hand
slowly swings back the screen door and
you take one tentative step into the beast.

Immediately you are obliged to sides-
tep the random thrust of a broom wielded
by the fabled folk here of greater David-
son, NC. He is, of course ;Flapjack.
Having parried his skillful attack, you are

drawn to the bar; mesmerized by the sub-
tle beauty of Alice, the proprietress of
this establishment, a strong but gentle
lady of the Carolinas. But halfway to
your stool, you are apprehended by the
mighty jaws of Champ The Watchpuppy
clamped stubbornly to your shoelaces.
Trying to look graceful, you proceed to
the bar, dragging the little killer behind
you. “get ya’ somethin’,” she queries.
Recovering your confidence, you reply,
“A Bud longneck . . . and four quar-
ters.” Downing your King of Beers in a
gulp, you take your change and swagger
over to the pool table, ready to take on all
comers. But a sudden silence falls over
the room, necessitating a deposit in the
jukebox where your quarter purchases a
round of REM and The Judds. As Ver-
non, the co-proprietor taps his foot in ap-
proval, you resume your position at the

billards table.

After a quick defeat at the unerring
hands of the local shark, you drown your
sorrows in three more Buds and catsup-
soaked fries. Feeling your body's need
for more than these serrated Idaho won-
ders, you order one of the specially pre-
pared Alice-burgers and a hotdog all the
way minus the slaw. Nothing satisfies the
indiscriminate munchies of the wayward
Davidson student better than these down-
home cuisinary master greases. Speeding
along the digestion with another couple
of Buds, you decide to take on the Birdie
King. Coach Slagle and Dr. Kazee join
you on this winner take all cut-throat
video tournament. But your mind-altered
thoughts wander back to the pool game
going on beside you. So clean, so per-
fect, the sharks duel in a skilled exhibi-
tion of green felt wizardry. The pure

physics of it all — eight ball in the corner
— it’s almost musical! Oh hell, get a grip
on yourself. Your Humes-adulterated
mind is running away with you. Maybe
it’s time to get back to the old loft to sleep
it off.

As you reluctantly depart your new-
found Xanadu, you must remember to
pay your bill and grab your jacket. After
these tedious details are taken care of,
you head back to reality, Davidson Col-
lege. But remember, don’t call him a
cowboy until you've seen him ride.

If the above appeals to you, check out
the Korner Pub. It is located one mile
north of Davidson on the right. Although
you might want to avoid Pika and SAE
nights, it is open every day from 3 p.m. to
1 a.m. Spend a day at this Davidson tradi-
tion, it is well worth your time.

