Friday, January 17, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11

Student government is not necessarily obvious

This opinion was submitted and endorsed by the follow-
ing: Beadsie Woo, Karen Kemerait, Edward Hay, Libby
Sanders, Christie Johnson, Ted Davis, Merry Be Haas and
Braden Bledsoe.

It is important to remember that we are all students at
Davidson College, that we involve ourselves in different
activities because they interest us and because we feel we
can make some positive contribution to them and to the col-
lege. It is easy to entrench our perspectives deeply in what-
ever activities we choose, and it is hard and humbling to be
reminded of our shortcomings. This is true for all organiza-
tions, and it is certainly true for the Student Government
and those of us who are members of the Senate.

Constructive criticisim is just that — both helpful in
pointing out faults and in suggesting remedies. Jokes are
never intended to hurt others, rather they are designed to
add humor. It is true that the official record of the Student

Government is not an appropriate vehicle for that humor —
especially selective humor which is not appreciated nor un-
derstood by all who read it (although some would argue that
the humor in the Jan. 7 minutes was not appreciated by all,
either). Too, the activities of elected Senators and SGA
committees are not always in the forefront of college hap-
penings, but because they are not obvious does not mean
they are nonexistent.

Some points of clarification:

‘The Sophomore Class Project, the Summer Job Sur-
vey, was designed to poll student employment for refer-
ence as to types of jobs, jobs relating to interests and loca-
tions, and opportunities. The survey was not designed to
insure employment for other students bat merely to make
them aware of jobs. And what the Careers Office has to
offer.

‘The SGA Parking and Security Committee is currently

working on both the parking and vandalism issues. Refer to
the_ inutes of Nov. 5, 1985, in which extensive
coverage pte discussion in the SGA Meeting is found.

)

‘The Council on Campus and Religious life has dis-
cussed, at two separate meetings, vandalism and the appar-
ent lack of students’ responsibility and respect for college
property and neighbors. This issue, too, has been discussed
in SGA Meetings.

Criticism is useful if it is well-thought out and if it is
coupled with constructive suggestions for improvement.
All SGA Meetings are open to all students. We meet each
Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Union Conference Room. Any
student who is interested in finding out what the Senate
does or who wants to bring an issue or policy to his repre-
sentatives is welcome.

Letters
SGA

When people elect other people to rep-
resent them, they are indicating that they
trust those elected to carry forth the wishes
of the many who did the voting, and usually
those who will do the voting next time
around. People do not necessarily elect
people so that those elected can run around
Creating projects and the general appear-
ance that everything's okay, they're doing
something.

Let’s face it. The SGA doesn’t have a
helluvalot to do. They do what they have to,
really, and say goodnight. Your annual
lambasting of the SGA — which, miracul-
ously enough, was more illogical and in-
coherent than all the rest I’ ve seen — seems
to suggest that the SGA do more than the
students want it to do. I agree, that once
those elections are over the SGA becomes
an anonymous Tuesday night social club
that writes mind-bogglingly dumb jokes
into minutes that no one reads. But I tell
you, as a former member of the SGA, that’s
all the students want. In short, they don’t
care because stuff here at school seems
okay. Okay? So lay off, if not for any other
reason, at least to make your editorials
mildly interesting.

MS
Shoot-Out

The Davidson-UNCC basketball game
on Dec. 14 represented a double victory for
Davidson College. Not only was the basket-
ball team victorious, but the school as a

Sayers S. Rudy

DD MD Me MS a A a a a a ee ee

whole also won an honor. The Multiple
Sclerosis Society of Charlotte coordinated a
fund-raising competition, the MS Basket-
ball Shoot-Out, between UNCC and David-
son. This contest culminated at halftime of
the basketball game when a team of shoot-
ers from Davidson defeated one from
UNCC. These teams won the privilege of
competing by hitting more shots than any
other team at their respective schools. Sev-
eral teams of Davidson students competed
here on Friday, Dec. 13 and raised over
$1600 in pledges for the MS.Society. The
teams at UNCC raised just over $500. We
would like to thank all those who partici-
pated in the Shoot-Out and ail the people
who pledged their support (please do not
forget to mail the collection envelopes with
your pledges to the MS Society). Thank you
for making this event such a success!
Jamie Kiser
Alex Maultsby
Joe Simpson
SAE Service

Tennis
Center

To the Editor:

With the start of spring practice for both
the men’s and women’s tennis teams we are
revising hours for open use of the Knobloch
Tennis Center. The new hours for operation
will be:

Monday: 6-9 p.m.

Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurs-
day: 2-4 p.m. and 6-7 p.m.

Friday: 6-9 p.m.

Saturday: 12:01-6 p.m.

Sunday: 12:01-5 p.m.

Reservations can be made on the day
you wish to play, by calling the Center dur-

ay

Buy ONE Sandwich \

\ Sub or Sandwich Roll \

\ Get SECOND at HALF PRICE \

(Second must be same or lesser price.) \

One coupon per order

\

Located between
I-77 & Cashion’s
\ In Cornelius

\
Mon.-Thurs. 10-8 p.m.
4 2 4 47

Coupon expires Jan. 24, 1986

892-0129 Carryout N

RESTAURANT
Mon.-Sat 10 a.m.-8 p.m

. \
Michaels’ \

v

ing houts of operation, at extension 438.
The fee for Davidson students, faculty and
staff, and their spouses and children will re-
main $1 per person per hour. We will begin
dllowing alumni and others to use the facili-
ty also, but at a substantially higher rate.

If you haven't already taken advantage
of this great new facility, why not sign up
for an hour of play? Never again will you be
able to play indoor tennis so inexpensively.
And it is a great way to get good exercise in
the winter.

Jeff Frank
Director of Tennis

Bylaws
Referendum

On Jan. 21, next Tuesday, areferendum
will be held so that the student body can
vote on whether or not to accept the recently
revised SGA Bylaws. The Charters and

Bylaws Committee has spent the last sev-
eral months revising the Bylaws of the SGA
in order to eliminate inconsistencies and up-
date antiquated information. The Bylaws
contain all of the regulations of the SGA; in-
cluding specific information about election
procedures, powers and duties of elected
officials and boards and committees that
exist under the supervision of the SGA.
These Bylaws have already been approved
by the SGA Senate and, pending the ap-
proval of the student body, will be pre-
sented to the Trustees of the College for
their ratification. Much work has been put
into the revisions of these Bylaws, and |
hope to see the SGA operating under new
regulations by the end of February. Copies
of the revised Bylaws have been placed on
reserve in the library for the student body.
Once again, the referendum will be next
Tuesday. Please vote.

Ken Mobley
Chairman of the Charters and Bylaws Com-
mittee

Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letter
from its readers. We try to print all letters
of general interest, but we adhere to these
four guidelines:

1)We require that letters be in our
hands by 7 p.m. Tuesday.
2)We require that letters be neatly

typed.
3)We require that letters be signed

camp thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canocing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr., Direc-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

and include the author's phone number
and address. If you have a compelling
reason for us to withhold your name, ex-
plain your situation to the editors.

4)We reserve the right not to print let-
ter that a)function as advertise ments;
b)contain innuendo, off-color slurs. or
inside jokes; c)represent a viewpoint very
similar to other letters printed on the
same topic.

