ba
=> ~~ cot—.
ROMY Peter Savernise

Of Sundays Gone, Of Sundays to Come . .
(for Jerrilyn W.)

the sound of the church bells in the distant,

of Sundays gone,

of Sundays to come, and

of. _ the things that transpired in between,
echoed that beauty which exists everywhere.

the uniqueness which flowered

all of a sudden, spontaneously, ~
amidst MTVs, sport magazines and snatched conversations
makes one wonder whether

it is real;

but then it is.

such a lot has been said,
yet so much held back
like the falling leaf which disengaged itself
sometime back
-but froze in the mid-air.
and while the butterflies flitted around

_ and the rock stood still,
the green plant in the room inspired poetry
and the photographs on the board
reminded us _ , f
of Sundays gone,

of Sundays to come, and
of the intense immensity in between,

the diary which recorded the present,
and the clock which recorded ‘time’
Strengthened the very basis; of
sincerity and honesty, of
truth and permanence,
and

__ love.

of Sundays gone; of Sundays to come, and. . .!

— - —Sunday September 21, 1986
- Sudeep Sen
International Student

—— India—

ae

Sudeep Sen

Intensity:

The intensity of my race propels me through a dimensionless tunnel.
Sight, sound, pain, and reality fade together around me. I must strive.

I must reach out. I must find strength from deep within the oneness of
my being. I stretch toward my goal, to conquer my lifelessness, to re-
store my senses.

I empty my mind, yet the numbness is short-lived. Each individual
musgle, every movement, and all thoughts are centered upon the reali-
zation and self-actualization of the finish. Yet there is a valley of pain I
must run through, and the terrain is rough to my mountainous victory
path. Here, doubt, fear, and lack of preparation make this journey dif-
ficult. Still, onward I run, ever onward. My trance-like state pushes me
along the path to oblivion, that which is guided by an intense, painful
awareness now manifested in each step. This motion is fact and furiously
insane, yet seems to be grinding backwards through a slow-moving ex-
tension of-time itself. I am poised expectantly in this absurd reality,
weary in flight, yet belief in the possible sustains me . . .

I must question my capacity for achievement, my ability to be better
than myself. My desire is to utilize all strength and energy I possess,’
shedding the excess baggage of my weaknesses, challenging the phys-
ical limitations placed upon me. I want to have nothing left, to test the
limits which bind me, to break free, to push beyond, to fall to my knees
in the joyous agony of enduring the journey to the end and back,

At long last, my race has ended. I gulp in air that is sweet refreshment
to my gasping, thirsty lungs. My head pounds loudly, emphasizing, with
each new rush of bloed, the completion of another trial. The intensity
of battle is far removed now, and only the contented afterglow of my
race through the tunnel remains.

Wendy Dunn ’90_ .

Editor’s Box

Inside Art is here! Finally a forum for Davidson’s creative edge! Pub-

lished bi-weekly as a four page insert in The Davidsonian, Inside Art de-
pends on the submissions of the student community for its very survival.
In other words, we need your poems, short stories, creative essays,

| photographs, drawings or anything serious, humorous, or pedestrian that

you feel reflects your-own-creativityThis three page-preview-gives you |--
the sense of our publication. We seek to represent, not exclude, the liter-
ary and visual art of the campus in an exciting, immediate format. Leave .
your submissions in the ART Box at the Union desk, at The Davidsonian
office, or contact me at -0662. We need and expect your continued sup-
port and input. a
Lee Eichelberger
_ ________Inside Art Editor {-

«
