10

Wednesday, December 10, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN
aT

Hussey discusses upcomin:

By MIKE ADAMS

— Sixth-year “basketball —coath~ Bobby
Hussey enters the 1986-87 season on a
strong note. Last year's squad won the
Southern Conference Tournament and
made Davidson's first appearance in the
NCAA since 1970, winning 20 games along
the way.

Inan interview with Davidsonian sports
editor Mike Adams, Hussey talks about the
upcoming season.

Davidsonian: Who are the tough teams
in the Southern Conference?
Hussey: In the pre-season pick by the
, coaches and athletic directors, Marshall's
been picked number*one and UTC two.
Western Carolina was picked third and
Davidson was picked fourth. I think that,
however, in this particular situation, that’s
just people’s opinions because there are so
many teams in the conference that have so
many returning players. For example,
Western Carolina has everybody back and
they have very good talent and good size.
The Citadel has everybody back. I think it’s
really going to be a dog fight in the confer-
ence. I could envision the conference win-
ner losing maybe four to five conference
games and still finishing in first place.
D: What about your non-conference
schedule, how tough is that?
Hussey: It’s very tough. When you have
a Duke and a Wake Forest and a South
Carolina, that in itself says an awful lot be-
cause those teams are traditionally very
good. UNCC is always a big battle. We go
to Princeton and to Bowling Green. Prince-

' tonis picked to win the Ivy League. We also

have Holy Cross in Charlotte. Overall, I
think our schedule this year is probably a lit-
tle tougher than last year.

team?

Hussey: Well, we would think that our
strengths would be experience in four posi-
tions: the positions of Derek Rucker, Chris
Heineman, Anthony Tanner and Jeff
Himes. Another strength is knowing how to
win. That’s something that is awfully hard
to bring into a program that has not been a
winner. This team learned how to win last
year and I think that’s extremely important.
Hopefully, that’s going to carry in to this
season.

D: What about weaknesses?

Hussey: We don’t have the experience
in big-men positions. In our Post positions
we're a totally inexperienced team. We
have a junior in Mike Gynn and‘a sopho-
more in Bill Sellers, but neither has really
accumulated minutes playing. And from
there we go to the freshmen.

D: What kind of offensive schemes will
you use this year?

Hussey: We’ll probably. use pretty
much the same offensive philosophy that
we've always used and that starts with
being a team. The strength of our program
really should be the team itself. Our style of
play will be to take fast break opportunities
and we’ll try to make intelligent decisions
with these and get it up-tempo if it’s there.
If its not there, we'll play our usual half-
court motion game.

D: Do you think this year’s team will
use the transition game more than last
year’s squad?

Hussey: It’s possible. that we could. At
this point in time we’ve done a good job
with that, but we’ ve appeared to lack offen-
Sive patience. Actually, we play a little bet-
ter when we. get it up-tempo, but there’s a

—= +

Mike Hood

D: What are the strengths of this year’s

real fine line between getting up-tempo and
getting out of control. _

D: Are you going to play predominantly
man-to-man or zone defense?

Hussey: Actually, we played more
man-to-man defense than zone last year.
We were a better team in our man-to-man
and we surprized a lot of people because we
were the aggressor on defense. We’ll do
even more of that this year.

D: What kind of defenses will other
teams play against the Cats?

Hussey: I think we may mainly see a lot
of zone because of our offense. We have a
lot of continuity in our offense and it’s is
pretty hard to guard sometimes.

D: What will Derek Rucker’s role be on
this team?

Hussey: Exactly as always: to be a point
guard, to be able to direct our offense.
Derek is a unique point guard in that he’s
not just a ball handler who passes the ball
off to other people and then stands around
and doesn’t do anything offensively. He
can get you points or he can play without
getting you points and it doesn’t bother his
psyche. He’s going to be the same whether
he gets you 20, or he gets you 10 or he gets
you 15. He may be more of a penetrating
guard than the perimeter jump shooter he’s
been in the past. Derek’s body is bigger and

he’s more durable and he’s leamed to play a.

little more physical game. His defense is
considerably better than when he came to
Davidson.

D: What is Chris Heineman’s role?

Hussey: His role will be the same as al-
ways, to be a tough defender. He will usu-
ally guard the best offensive player on the
perimeter. Hé will also play point guard
when teams try to take Derek out of the

By BETH DRUMMOND
Jay Schmitt

Schmitt comes to Davidson
from Montgomery Bell High
School in Nashville, Tenn. where
he was first team All-District and
Regional All-Tournament his
senior year. He averaged 21
points and 12. rebounds per game
his senior year.

At 6-8, 220 pounds, Schmitt
offers exciting potential for this
year’s team. So far he has prac-
ticed at forward.

As coach Bobby Hussey com-
mented, “Jay has a fine under-
standing of the game. He is a very
dedicated player and extremely
physical on the court; with con-
tinued development, he should be
an outstanding player at David-
son.”

Schmitt feels his game has im-
proved considerably this year;
with plans to major in engineer-
ing, he will definitely be an asset
both academically and athleti-
‘cally.

Edward “Magic” Gaines

After leading the Rikard High
School team in nearly every cate-
gory his senior season, this 6-4,
198 pound Florida native lives up
to his: nickname “Magic”. Both a

game. He will be expected to give us a little |
more offense than he did last year. He’s a
good shooter and he’s the aggressor who
gets everybody going sometimes.

D: What is Jeff Himes’ role?

Hussey: Jeff is Jeff. He’s bigger. He’s a
little stronger and he’s quicker and he plays
within himself about as well as any guy
we've ever seen. He does things that he can
do; things he can’t do he doesn’t try to.
Probably the major difference in our expec-
tations for Jeff this year will be more re-
bounding simply because, .as a team, we
lost a lot of rebounds. He’s going to have to
play defense inside versus playing on the
perimeter where he played last year and
we’ re also going to look to him for more of-
fense on the inside.

D: What role will Ace Tanner play?

Hussey: Anthony will be a catalyst.
We’re going to expect more rebounding out
of him than he’s giveri us in the past. He’s
working hard to improve his overall de-
fense. We’re trying to get Ace a little more
offense inside simply because he has such
good leaping ability and he can really create
a lot of mismatches with people playing his
position. He’ll always please the crowd.

D: What about the centers, Mike Gynn
and Bill Sellers?

Hussey: The center position is an un-
tested area and it’s one we’re stilt experi-
menting with. If they just play defense and
get rebounds and score some when it’s
given to them, then they’ve done what we
need from them.

Mike is a player who is very team
oriented. He knows the offense well and he
knows the defense well. He’s strong inside.
His rebounding must improve. He’s a guy
who has the tendencey to make players

Introducing «

quick mover and a sound perime-
ter player, Gaines has an impres-
sive list of-high school accom-
plishments including: academic
All-American, All-State, All Big-
Bend, team MVP and a first team
member in the Governor’s Cup
Christian Tournament.

An extremely versitile player,
Gaines plays both shooting guard
and small forward. His 34-inch
veritcle jump is an example of his
natural talent as well.

Of his time spent playing for
the Wildcats, Gaines said that
“this has been a learning year.” He
feels he has picked up a great dealt——
about the fundamentals of the
game and how it is played.

“You can be sure,” he said,
“these are great things to come!”
Alan Hunter

Hunter is a 5-10, 170 pound
point guard expected to spend this
season as a back-up to Derek
Rucker.

In his senior season at Walker
High School in Houston, Texas.
Hunter had his team in a 23-6 sea-
son before being named All-Re-
gion, first team All-District and
MVP in District 4A. In his senior

Season he scored 22 points and
had five assists per game.

vues evoun
