Friday, February 7, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

| Beyond Davidson

Headlining the news for the week of
Jan. 30-Feb. 5:

Middle East News — Libya reported
that it sent arms and supplies to Uganda’s
new president, Yoweri Musevini, to help
his guerilla forces topple the government |
of Milton Obote. Haider Abu Bakr Atlas,
the new provisional president of South
Yemen, said last week that he will seek to
improve relations with the “more conser-
vative” Arab states of N. Yemen and the
Gulf Cooperation Council comprised of
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar,
Oman and the United Arab Emirates.

— a weekly

news
summary

JANE AURELL

The Reagan administration is delay-
ing a proposed $1.5 billion arms sale to
Jordan; administration sources report that
“reviving” the arms sale seems unlikely
unless there is dramatic movement to-
ward peace talks between Jordan and Is-
rael.

To counter a growing drug problem,
the Egyptian government is making the
death penalty the mandatory sentence for
convicted drug dealers. Following the

break up of an inconclusive OPEC meet-
ing, oil prices fell to near $15 a barrel;
this is the lowest level since the late
1970s.

African News — The Reagan admin- _
istration told Congress that it plans to
give up to $15 million in covert CIA aid
to Jonas Savimbi’s guerilla forces who
are fighting the Marxist government of
Angola; currently Savimbi receives most
of his aid from South Africa. In a speech
opening the annual session of the South
African Parliament, President Botha of-
fered to release black nationalist leader
Nelson Mandela in exchange for the re-
lease of Andrei Sakharov, Anatoly
Shcharansky and a South African com-
mando captured by Angola; an uniden-
tified senior official .reported Monday
that Mandela may be released before Eas-
ter. Following his speech, Botha took out
a two-page ad committing himself to
power sharing also saying that the “wheel
of reform is turing”; among the pledges
made were equal education, the abolition
of the “pass laws” by July 1, and acall for
blacks to sit on a “national statutory
council” under Botha’s chairmanship.

In Other International News — A
prisoner exchange is being negotiated be-
tween the governments of the U.S. and
U.S.S.R. for the exchange of spies being
held by both sides; Anatoly Shcharansky
is among the agents being considered in
this exchange. Poland’s communist gov-

Arms sale proposal delayed, aid to go to guerrillas

ernment is becoming increasingly con-
cerned with the rise of a new unofficial
peace movement protesting against the
Polish army; Poland does not recognize
conscientious objectors to the draft. Last
weekend France expelled four Soviet
diplomats; the U.S.S.R. retaliated with
the expulsion of four french envoys.

U.S. State Department officials re-
port that the U.S. has decided to reduce
aid to the government of Haiti because of
reported human rights abuses; food and
humanitarian aid to the Haitian people
will continue. Earlier this week in Haiti,
in reaction to increasing political vio-
lence, president-for-life Jean-Claude
Duvalier declared a state of seige.

Also earlier this week 31 House
democrats signed a letter urging Presi-
dent Reagan to delay his expected request
for military aid to the Nicaraguan “‘con-
tras” and to “unequivocally” support
Central American peace talks. On Sun-
day, Costa Rica elected Oscar Arias as its
new president. Pope John Paul II is on a
10-day trip to India; so far he has met
with the Dalai Lama and Mother Teresa.

Last week the largest fossil find ever
made in North America was uncovered in
Nova Scotia; the 100,000 pieces of fos-
silized rock date back to “the emergence
of the modern world of animals.” Fi-
nally, Sunday marks the beginning of a
new 12-year cycle inaugurating the
Chinese Year of the Tiger.

National News — NASA inves-
tigators believe that a malfunction in one
of the solid rocket boosters was responsi-
ble for last week’s shuttle explosion.
President Reagan has appointed a presi-
dential commission to investigate last
Tuesday’s explosion which killed seven
astronauts.

On Friday, because of costs stem-
ming from lawsuits the Searle Company
withdrew from the market the TATUM-T
and the CU7 (Copper 7), the intrauterine
birth-control devices most often pre-
scribed in the U.S. On Monday, the
House passed a bill calling for warnings
to be placed on all smokeless tobacco
products; the Senate passed a similar bill
last week.

In his State of the Union address on
Tuesday, President Reagan urged the
American people to “race for the future
and reach for the stars.” Eldridge
Cleaver, former leader of the Black
Panther party, announced that he will
seek the Republican nomination for the
California U.S. Senate seat currently
held by Alan Cranston. Clint Eastwood is
running for mayor of Carmel, California.
President Reagan celebrated his 75th
birthday on Thursday.

Thought for the Week — “Our life is
frittered away by detail . . . Simplify,
simplify.”

— Henry David Thoreau

SGA grants dance troupe charter

By THOMAS NICHOLSON

The three-year-old Davidson Dance
Troupe will be getting an SGA charter this
term. Given by SGA Charter and Bylaws
committee, the charter will make the dance
troupe an officially established organiza-
tion on campus.

The Davidson Dance Troupe was estab-
lished by junior Paulette Kurani to provide
students opportunities to keep up their
dancing skills and provide Davidson “with
another form of art and culture, one that has
been neglected in the past.” It is a non-profit
organization currently with 25 members.

The troupe will begin receiving money
from the college to use on costumes and,
equipment. Kurani said, “The funds will
give us opportunities to have more elabo-
rate performances.” The money may also
expand the troupe’s horizons: “We might be
able to travel to other communities,” said
Kurani, as well as other colleges.

The troupe has expressed the need for
more room. “We have been using the rac-
quetball courts for practice, and they don’t
do so well,” said Kurani. She hopes the
troupe will find some dancing space in the

proposed new athletic complex, to be built
next to the Knobloch Tennis Center. Athle-
tic Director Kit Morris said, ‘““We hope to
eliminate this sort of problem with the new
facilities.” Morris said the new facilities are
scheduled for completion by Sept. 1988.
There are many organizations on campus
that would like to use the new facilities.
“We want to be able to respond affirma-
tively to requests for space and equipment,”
said Morris, “and the building won’t fully
serve the community if we don’t have space
for dance.” Even though he would like to
see mirrors and bars installed for the dan-
cers, he said, “There won’t be any large
open spaces dedicated to dancing only.”

This year the Dance Troupe has danced
in Davidson for Amnesty International, the
town of Davidson, CROP and the literary
arts society. There will be a full-length pro-
duction of their whole repertoit March 20,
at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Kurani, who has been dancing for 16
years, started the troupe in order to keep up
her skills. “Many of the students used to be
quite active in dancing before they came
here. Some were even in dancing com-

panies, so it was a big let down when they
got here and found no dance organization.
That’s why I started the troupe.” Kurani
stresses that there is no experience neces-
sary to join the troupe. “We have people

who have danced for 17 years, and begin-
ners. Because we do our own choreography
and choose our own numbers, we can do
whatever we want to, and we dance every-
thing from ballet to jazz and rock and roll.”

let

smoke

“Good friends
good _ friends

AMERICAN
CANCER
SOCIETY*

don't

cigarettes.’

Larry Hagman

camp thunderbird

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are inter-
ested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16. guiding them in their physical, mental and
spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted ef-
forts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One mus!
have ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students,
teachers and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD. located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member. specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery. riflery and back-
backing). Horseback riding. white-water canoeing and tripping are extras in our ex-
cellent program. For further information writer or call G. William Climer, Jr.. Dus *-
tor, Camp Thunderbird, Route 7, Box 50, Clover. S.C... 29710 (803-831-2121).

UNITED

CAROLINA
BANK

cb

Main St.

[Davidson

892-7815

892-7805
Lake Norman

I-77 at Hwy 73

