The Davidsonian

Friday, October 3, 1986

New international fest comes to Union

By MUADI MUKENGE

The first International/Inter-
cultural Festival will be held to-
morrow on Chambers lawn from
noon until 4 p.m.

The festival will include edu-
cational and recreational displays,
entertainment, and foods from
different parts of the world.

The purpose of the festival is
to give international students the
opportunity to share aspects of
their culture with the school, said
Assistant Dean of Students Paula
Moore Miller, advisor to interna-
tional students. It also broadens
the scope of American students,
she added.

The festival is being spon-
sored by the International Com-
mittee of the College Union.
‘Comprised of approximately 30
students, it is headed by Bilal El-
Amine, a senior mideastern
studies major from Beirut, Leba-
non. Davidson currently has 55

international students from coun-
tries such as Sri Lanka, West Ger-
many, Zambia, Pakistan, China,
Mexico, Greece, and Lebanun.

The entertainment groups will
begin performing at noon. Among
them are the Happy Wanderers, a
duet made up of an accordion
player and a tuba player who play
German music. The Culture Béar-
ers,- an African dance/drama
group will perform and also stilt-
walk.

A steel band from Charlotte
will appear and a Davidson stu-
dent will do an Indian dance.

“We are lucky to have the per-
formers,” stated El- Amine. “Most
of them are professionals and
they’re doing this for very little or
nothing.”

The Union patio will be
fashioned as an outdoor French
cafe. Booths from each country
will be set up on Chambers lawn.
Two such booths will’ depict a

Nohow and Contrariwise

‘sold at a price of $:50 each. Re-

forum on South Africa and one on
the Indian sub-continent.

Games are planned for chil-
dren. There will be a costume
booth where they may dress in in-
ternational attire.

International dishes such as
Chinese stir fry, apple strudel,
Polish — sausage,--_ Baklava,
Philadelphia pepper steak, and
French vanilla ice cream will be:

freshments will be served free.

El-Amine hopes that the festi-
val will have a large impact on the
Davidson community, most of
whom have never been exposed
directly to international culture.

In the past the -festival was
held in the 900 Room for two
hours. The large crowd who re-
sponded influenced organizers to
have it outside in the future.

“We’re more ambitious about
it this year,”-said El-Amine. “I’m
generally confident that it will be a
success.”

—im

A juggler from the Roberts Brothers

Circus

Miami is not all flash and trash

By STEVE MANK
I live in Miami. Saying that is
roughly equivalent to the often repeated
“I am an alcoholic” one hears at an AA.
meeting. If for no other reason because
being from Miami seems to imply some
sort of chemical addiction. But there are
‘J othersimilarities between Miami and an
‘Alcoholics Anonymous meeting: 1.
People from both come from all races,
classes, and economic groups. 2. People
from both care about their futures. 3.
People from both want to help others. 4.
People from both usually want the best
for.their families. 5. People from both are
répresented on TV by people not even of
their respective. groups.

_ Which cunningly brings me to the
delicate issue of “Miami Vice”. Contrary
to popular belief, not all people from
Miami dress like that. A lot do but not
quite all. No one, in fact, dressed like that

__[ before some fashion designer (I like to _

~ [think he’s from California. anc says
“baby” quite a bit) decided that that was
how we dressed. It was with a great deal
of sadistic joy that I read that the styles of
“Miami Vice” would be changing this
fall and thereby sweeping last year’s
threads into a maelstrom of obsolesence.
Also, Don Johnson is not cool. Not at

Out and About

all — not even a little bit? He makes a
dumb rock star. He’s a bad actor. He
looks greasy. He’s egotistical. He’s
stupid. He worships Satan in ugly orgies
of blood and flame. Of course, all this is
only Don Johnson as I perceive him.

But Miami Vice is cool. If you’ve
never seen the show, it’s about these two
tough street-wise cops that battle crime in
the glamorous whirlwind of money and
fame that is Miami. Street-wise, as best as
I can tell, means their dialogue is sprink-
led with “man” and “dude” and “honey”
and various euphemisms like “jerk” for
the vernacular we all know and love:
Crockett and Tubbs, as they are called,
are basically nice guys despite their bra-
zen exteriors and mean talk. In a typical
show, you might hear them say some-
thing like this:

Crockett: So, what do you think of
Gomez?

Tubbs: The Argentinian or the Cuban?

-Crockett: Neither,the-Panamani
Tubbs: He’s trash. When I see a guy like

him do what he does to kids like Pedro, I
just wanna throw up.

Crockett: I just wanna waste ‘em.
Tubbs: Yeah, well that too.

4
Which bring me to another important
issue of “Miami Vice” and Miami life —
Wa

namely hispanics. For the former they
represent evil incarnate who stand for lit-
tle more than a subversive element bent
on the destruction of life as we know it.
For the latter, at least as far as the rest-of
the world is concerned, they represent
pretty much the same. Frequently,
people walk up to me and say, “Oh,
you’re from Miami; they have Cubans
there.” They say it in much the same way
one would say “Oh you’re from Miami;
they have the bubonic plague there.”

Actually, Cubans are really neat,
mostly because they speak another lan-
guage. It’s a lot of fun to have someone
from out of town visit and not be able to
communicate with anything short of sign
language and shouting. Even people that
‘speak Spanish have trouble.

Oftentimes, Spanish speakers in
Miami cruelly exploit the communica-
tion gap by insulting you in their own
tongue. Once, a vicious bunch of ne’er-
__do-wells shouted “maricon,” the Spanish

Americans. Like, for instance, the Sea-
quarium where the original Flipper dar-

Robert Nesbit

ingly rescues some bikini clad beauty ©

from the rising flames of a burning house
every day of the year except Christmas.

There are also air boat rides (these are -

little flat bottom boats driven by, if you
can believe it, airplane prop engines —
wow). The way they work is you pay for
the initial ride with a genuine Seminole
Indian and then pay extra for stuff like a
visit to a genuine Seminole village or to
watch-someone wrestle a genuine 12-foot
alligator.

But the best thing about Miami is
when occasionally, just occasionally,
you see a Maseratti tear down Biscayne
Boulevard while a Ferarri with a blue
blinking light follows close behind. The
guys in the first car shoot across the me-
dian and crash into building on the other
side. The gilys jump out and fire at the
Ferrari with Browning automatic rifles.

equiv ent of “faggot, * at me.I, mistak- The other guys return the: fire with Uzis;

ing their obscenity for a mispronuncia-
tion of American, replied (to myself)
“That’s right, and damned proud of it.”
The truth, when I finally discovered it,
was crippling.

There is, however, more to Miami
than glamour and crime and hispanic

eventually killing the ' guys in the
Maserati. This never happened to me, but
it might.

Another way Miami is like an AA
meeting is that everyone seems. like

they’re happy to be there but it’s kind of a *

drag.

Spirit Square -hosts-‘magnificent Mike €

By JESSICA FISHER and DIANA
MILLER
If the midterm crunch has, actuated

your escapist tendencies, take the oppor-

night at Davidson, Mik Cross has be-

come a familiar name ardund campus.
His energetic storytelling and musi-

cal performances have endeared him to a

tunity to get away from Chambers to --- broad spectrum oflisteners. Be sure not

enjoy a pleasant weekend in Charlotte.

Spirit Square is celebrating its tenth’
anniversary with a varied array of music,
food, and foun. The highlight of the
weekend will be “Spirit Square. Satur-
day”, which will include a performance
by Mike Cross. After performing last

to miss this unbeatable opportunity to see
him in Charlotte. The event will take
place from 10 a.m. to3 p.m. and will in-
clude performances by the Green Grass
Cloggers and the Loonis McGlohon Trio.

Also featured will be exhibits and
demonstrations including ' printmaking,
sidewalk chalk art,! photography, life

.

drawing and painting, and weaving. The |

food will be catered by Jonathan's and
will feature beef kabobs, eggrolls, finger
burritos, soft pretzels, beer, and alterna-
tives. Admission, always a considera-
tion, is free.

Other events in the festival include a
jazz deli lunch featuring the Seventh
Street Band today from 11:30 a.m. to
2:00 p.m. This luncheon will be held at
the outdoor tent located on the corer of
College and Seventh Street and the cost
will be $5. On Sunday “Munch With

Mozart”, which includes a brunch ca-

tered by Jonathan’s Uptown and features.

a Mozart program presented by the Char-
lotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra, will
be held from. 12:30 to 2 p.m. in the out-
door tent. The cost will be $12 at the
door, $11 in advance. Spirit Square is lo-
cated at 110 East Seventh Street in down-
own Charlotte. ;

Look for the “Out and About” calen-
dar of events in next Friday’s issue of The
Davidsonian.
