Friday, April 18, 1986 THE DAVIDSONIAN

15

Rusk conference to focus on Central America

David Williams

As last week's “Opinions” articles on Nicaragua indi-
cate, Central America has become a predominant area of
concem for Americans who care about the implications of
our foreign policy. The front pages of the nation’s newspa-
pers continue to report on current developments in coun-
tries such as Nicaragua and El Salvador and on the resulting
foreign policy initiatives whict the President and Congress
have undertaken.

Yet many of us, while expressing growing concer for
our foreign policy, have not been provided a clear under-
standing of the background behind the problems contempo-
rary Central America faces. Who, after all, are the people
of Central America, and what domestic problems do they
face? What role do Indian and Colonial heritages play?
What are the causes of the continuous conflicts which we
witness daily, and how can these problems be resolved, so
that peace may return to the area? Finally, how do we as
students of the Liberal Arts form an educated and com-
prehensive view of the current situation?

The Dean Rusk Program will provide the Davidson
community a unique opportunity next week to focus on
some of these underlying issues in its first annual confer-
ence, entitled “Understanding Central America: The Roots
of Conflict.” On Friday, April 25 and Saturday, April 26,
the conference will feature speakers and discussion con-
cerning the historical and human backgrounds of Central
America, as well as women’s issues, cultural issues, libera-
tion theology, the interface of politics and economics and
the future of development in the area.

Dee Reynolds, who has undertaken a major part in get-

ting the program underway, said he hopes that the confer-
ence will “provide an introduction to understanding the re-
gion.” He said, “We're not arguing a thesis with the confer-
ence. Instead, we feel that we need to have a background
before we can make intelligent decisions about contempo-
rary issues. We hope the conference will pose the questions
and challenge people to form ideas about Central Ameri-
ca.”

The conference will begin next Friday, April 25, with
registration from 5 to 5:30 p.m. in the Gallery of Cham-
bers. At 5:45, Professor Allen Wells will speak on “The
Historical Background.” Wells is a specialist in Modem
and Colonial Latin American History at Appalachian State
University, and has studied extensively the economic de-
velopment of the Yucatan, plantations and haciendas of the
Americas, and revolutionary movements.

At 7 p.m., the Dean Rusk Program will provide a free
dinner to conference participants at Vail Commons. Then
at 8:15 Professor Duncan Earle will present “The Human
Background” of Central American issues. Earle currently
teaches anthropology at Dartmouth College and has done
extensive field work among the Highland Maya of
Guatemala and Mexico. He has organized cooperatives in
both these countries and utilized his fluent knowledge of
Quiche Maya while apprenticing himself to a Maya “shan-
nun.”

On Saturday at 10 a.m., Davidson faculty members and
the conference speakers will lead small-group discussions
on topics of more specialized concem, such as “The Le-
gacy for Development” and “Preserving Cultural Identity,”
along with several others. In these, students and faculty
will have a chance to interact and contribute their reactions
and ideas.

Lunch will be served free to participants from 12 noon
to 12:45, and then at 1 p.m. Professor William E. Jackson
will close the conference by presenting an overview of the

current Central American situation. Jackson is a Senior
Fellow at the University of Arkansas’ Fulbright Institute of
International Relations and is also a former Davidson pro-
fessor of political science.

The Dean Rusk Program invites and encourages every-
one in the Davidson community, including students and
faculty, to attend the conference, which is free to all the
participants. The Program needs to know how many people
to expect for the conference, and has asked that everyone
participating in the conference take two minutes to fill out
the registration blank on the back of the conference bro-
chure and retum it to the Dean Rusk Program offices in the
Carolina Inn or to the Program's box in the faculty mail
toom. If you have, by chance, lost the brochure that came
under your door last week, you may pick up another one in
the Union, the library, or on the Conference bulletin board
in Chambers.

We hope that as many Davidson students and faculty as
possible will attend the conference, which is the feature
event for the Dean Rusk Program in its first year. While
participating in the Conference will cost you part of Friday
evening and Saturday morning, you will still have a free
Friday afternoon, plenty of time to socialize after the con-
ference recesses Friday night at 9 p.m., and a full Saturday
afternoon and evening to do whatever you wish. In addi-
tion, you can even sleep late Saturday morning and still get
to the conference on time. And of course, who can beat a
freé lunch and dinner?

Central America continues to trouble us. Yet do we re-
ally know what this troubled region of the world is really all
about? How shall we deal with this important area of our
own hemisphere? Find out at the first Dean Rusk Confer-
ence. You don't want to miss it! Register now!

Williams is a junior political science major from Memphis,
Tennessee and is Associate Editor of The Davidsonian.

Letters

Forces, Ranger, or Airborne school? I
have. Has he ever participated in Special
Ops exercise? I have. Does he have
friends who were in Iran or Grenada? I
have, and I believe that I am in a position
to dispute his findings.

Mr. Brown points to the tragedy in
Iran as proof of Special Ops failings. In
fact, the failure in Iran began years before
when the administration in Washington
began to dilute the potency of our Uncon-
ventional Warfare organization. Without
the proper equipment (gadgets he calls it)
and the funds for proper training, it is
ludicrous to expect a mission the scope of
that in Iran to take place at the drop of a
hat. Only recently have we started to rec-
ognize the importance of Special Ops and
started on the road back to true Uncon-
ventional Warfare readiness. Brown
says, “Training is still often unplanned
and unorganized.” How does he know?
In fact, Special Operations training is ex-
tremely well planned and organized. It
has to be; real lives are at risk. Yes, there
are helicopter fatalities, no one is more
aware of that then the Special Ops sol-
dier. However, a dangerous mission re-
quires dangerous training and Special
Ops volunteers understand the hazards.

Considering the significant amount of
high-risk training conducted, literally
hundreds, of parachute jumps a day, the
safety record for Special Ops is far better
than Brown would have us believe. Tim
Brown believes that our Special Ops
troops tum to the movies and TV for
training tips. He must be incredibly gulli-
ble. In fact, most Special Ops soldiers
hold such farces as Rambo in very low re-
gard. They understand the complexity
and hazards of real Unconventional War-
fare. Real soldiers don’t take their train-
ing from the media and real editors don't
write about subjects which they don't un-
derstand.
Donald Kropp
Asst. Prof. of Military Science

Respect

To the Editors:

While I realize that the recent abun-
dance of articles complaining about the
“quality of life” on the Davidson campus
may seem like overkill, I am interested in
finding out exactly what my detractors
think the “quality of life’ on our campus
should reflect about the quality of the in-
stitution itself.

I do not believe that as students we
should suffer under such an (I'll use the
proper word this time) overwhelming work
load that we cannot enjoy the years we
spend here at Davidson, but we must under-
stand that the overall environment of the
campus should be one which is conducive
to education. The natural companion of
education is, of course, study.

The intent of my article was not to blow
off steam about my personal gripes with the
campus atmosphere. | merely wanted to
point out that Davidson students often act
irresponsibly, and they do so at the expense
of other students.

I listen to a great deal of music. Tlisten
to a great deal of loud music. The Beatles’
“Revolution” is one of my favorite songs. I
spend a lot of time as far away from my
studies as possible — perhaps, too much, if
my grammar (or was it my innate stupidity)
is any indication. I cannot, however, under-
stand the spirit which compels someone to
disrupt the campus — be it by noise or by
other means — at the expense of others.

I listen to music in my car, in my room
or at my eating house; there is no reason
why constant noise from the area between
Watts and Little should keep me awake
night after night. Not to diminish Jimmy
Lewis’ article, but at three in the morning,
the lake campus is usually quiet. At three in
the morning I am not reading. | am usually
trying to sleep.

If 1 stepped on anyone's toes. !

apologize. I do not, however, retract my
statement. (1 also do not think that two
grammatical errors constitute a “grossly
flawed opinion.” That grammatical errors
in my article can flaw my opinion is a non
sequitur.)

I will, however, make the following
concession. I cannot be sure that the loud,
obnoxious females were in fact intoxicated.
After three years of campus life I have be-
come cynical enough to believe that anyone
creating a disturbance after 2 a.m. while
holding a plastic cup is drunk. Please for-
give my bias.

Mr. Lewis is right. Lighten up! Have a
little fun! Do not, however, expect me to re-
spect your right to have fun if you cannot re-
spect my right to some degree of freedom
from your fun.

Michael C. Stephens

The court

To the Editors:

Upon hearing the proposal by the Self-
Selection Committee, we were amused. For
the unenlightened, this proposal involves a
seven week period during which freshmen
will not be allowed on Patterson Court,
after which there will be a three week inten-
sive “dry rush” for those houses on the bid
system. Supposedly, this will increase hall
unity, decrease social pressures, and cut
down on alcohol consumption. The
freshmen will thus be able to adjust to col-
lege life and acclimate themselves to
Davidson. We laughed. Ha.

Point one: increasing hall unity. Is
seven weeks really necessary to become in-
timately acquainted with thirty two or
fewer members of your hall? We feel that
seven weeks of forced exposure to the same
people is more likely to have an opposite ef-
fect. Let's face it, if you don’t like someone
after being with them for one or two weeks,
chances are you'll like them even less after
seven. We also feel that this policy pro-
motes segregation of the freshman and will

have an adverse effect on their social de-
velopment, as Patterson Court parties are a
major way to get to know the entire student
body. Segregation of the freshmen could
also increase the formation of cliques.

Point 2: decreasing social pressures.
Granted, there will be little or no pressure to
party during the seven weeks, but the com-
mittee doesn't seem to realize that there will
undoubtedly be ten weeks of partying cram.
med into the last three weeks of the term
(you know, those insignificant three wecks
before finals). And professors think there
are too many parties now! Instead of easing
the freshmen into the Davidson social sys
tem, the freshmen will be, in a sense, con-
fined for seven weeks and let loose for
three. More than likely, they will then run
rampant through the court. They will party
harder than they ever have before. while
being “rushed” from all sides by eager cat-
ing houses. The fraternities and cating
houses will have also been restricted from
“rushing” for those seven weeks. Any vio-
lations of this will be subject to a fine. What
constitutes rushing? Must we revamp our
entire wardrobes so that there will be no
chance of us engaging in a conversation
with a freshman while wearing suggestive
court propaganda (otherwise known as
house t-shirts). Who determines the fine
line between friendliness and “rushing?”

Point three: decreasing alcohol con-
sumption. This issue is basically irrelevant.
We trust that the Alcohol Policy Committee
will define an adequate alcohol policy at a
later time In addition, the new requirement
for party registration should also cut down
on the weekday parties and consumption of
alcoholic beverages.

Finally, we believe the proposed policy
will be detrimental to the social and mental
development of the freshmen. Part of the
maturation process is developing the ability
lo set priorities and budget one's time. The
freshmen should not be denied this opportu.
nity.

Christina Ramsaur
Melinda Smith
Wynn Bowman
