THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy ation: Brooke Knight, Editors
John Gathings, Editor Emeritus Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
Will Thomason, Business Manager
Jim Dillon, Nelle McCorkle, News Editors

Friday, February 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

Cloudt’s

Mark Chen, Features Editor Lee Eichelberger, Inside Art Editor
Mike.Adams, Edwin Page, Sports Editors
Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Karen Bockus, Susan Wilkins, Advertising Managers
Lisa Ceely, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Self-Selection

Next Friday, ironically the 13th, one of the most haunting experi-

ences some people ever face at Davidson will take place: Self-Selection.

For most, this is a day of fun and celebration as the year-long pressure of ~’

: AlsteubTensr

court parties, invitations’ and recruiting leads to a ‘happy choice. For
some, however, Self-Selection fails to open a spot in the house of choice:
For thé freshman and the veteran alike, here are our thoughts on the un-
iquely Davidson event. -

First of all, we feel having Self-Selection on a Friday is a good idea.
Universally recognized as the party-night to end all party-nights, a friday
Self-Selection celebration will give a full weekend of recovery. We feel
the faculty is glad to see this extravaganza moved out of its traditional
mid-week slot.

Second, we understand male hall counselors have been instructed to
encourage their freshmen to sign up for the house of their choice whether
or not they received an oral encouragement (read “bid”).

Any freshman determined to select a house under such conditions has

our good wishes, but should also be forewarned of the difficulties ahead:

fraternity members do not look kindly on shotgunners lacking oral en-
couragements. The adverse reaction. faced by such a would-be pledge
ranges from discomfort whenever entering the house to open hostility
from the fraternity of choice.

Gaining acceptance from house members under such conditions is, at
best, difficult. Such an amelioration has occurred in past history, but the
list of casualties is much longer than that of successes." :

Freshmen is such a situation should consider the-benefits of indepen-
dence. A growing number of students have chosen to be independents
and decided they like it. The tremendous pressure placed on freshmen to
join court houses makes independence look bad; but for many it is the
right choice. :

Another alternative is to choose independence or coed dining for a
year and participate in a sophomore rush to join a Fraternity. Sophomore
pledges are also. becoming more numerous.

_ We hope every freshman finds the right social standing for next year;
we just wanted everyone to know their options.

Farewell

With the publication of this issue, our term as editors comes to an
end. We would like to thank all the members of the staff for their efforts;
you all made our lives easier with your help. We hope you, the reader,

have enjoyed our issues and continue to support The Davidsonian with

comments and opinions.
We wish the new editors, Mark Chen and Keith Finch, the best of
luck in their upcoming year in office.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year giby the stu-
dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148. and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsy Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy
Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, Aaron Levine, Sarah Longely, Ed
Matthews, Tom Moore, Ray Thornton, David ‘Van Pelt, David Williams, Ted Wilson.
Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin, Chris Hargrove, Steve °
Mank, Diana Miller. «

__ Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Makewes. Susan Wilkins
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda eed Perielope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong
Lee, Matt Yaun.

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill.

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Bok, Gates Grainger, Robert
Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kethegn Strick-
_land, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

Circulation Staff: Lucia Kendall.

TRE Arie Aly

Zengel

To the Editors:

Dear Diane Zengel: Perhaps you should
try Club Med instead of Davidson; it’s a lot
cheaper.

Tripp Norris

[D's
To the Editors:

The Alcohol Advisory Committee has
determined that in the future students who
use false “IDs” in obtaining alcohol at
Davidson social functions may forfiet their
privilege to attend social functions on cam-

pus.
Dean Will Terry

W.A.AR.

To the Editors:

As a concerned female student at
Davidson College, I am growing increas-
ingly worried about a rising new organiza-
tion: W.A.A.R., or Women Against Ant
Rape. This organization has mysteriously
crawled out of the woodwork like the pésts
it so vehemently despises.

My concern with the development of
W.A.A.R. is its ignorance of women’s
feelings and the issue of rape. Rape
traumatizes its victims. Paranoia, night-
mare, and general fear that the crime’s per-
petrator lurks around the next corner are all
characteristics of the rape victim. Ants
CANNOT violate a person's body and in no
way elicit such fears. W.A.A.R., wake up
and smell the coffee; ants are not a problem.

» Wanda Alice Richman, ’89

Letters-

view |

-RAPE-THING”
1S A REAL...

PROBLEM :
_NOb-A-DANS

~ ANYBODY Y
HAVE A |

SHOVEL?! 2 |

PIKA

To the Editors:

I’ve been told by some people not to
write this letter. I’ ve been told by others that
if I didn’t they would, so, after returning
from my wiener roast/advertising seminar,
I decided to address this matter which has
gotten completely blown out of proportion.
I will make this brief and to the point.
Maybe.

Point 1. Our “subtle” Poteehcs to the
rape ‘crisis meeting attended by Rusk and
Pika was not used for the reason mentioned °
in Kim William’s article. Granted, it did
stay in my mind, why else would I even
mention. it? No, it did not “stimulate
thoughtfulness and concern over the issue
of acquaintance rape” anymore than any of
the other meetings I’ ve attended concerning
date rape. I feel awareness of the problem is
the best first step to take on the issue, and
that has been done-to the dullest degree. I
used the rape crisis meeting in our advertis-
ing because the meeting that began with
very good intentions ended up with Rusk
and Pika staring at each other saying the
same things that we’ ve heard for two yéars:
“It's the guy’s fault!” “No way, it’s the
girl’s fault!” If it hadn’t been for Eileen
Keeley the meeting would have dragged on
in the same direction for another 20 mi-
nutes. The point is, I used the rape crisis
meeting in the poster because it was funny,
not to criticize it. I would gladly participate
in it again, as long as the same nonsense
isn’t thrown. back and forth, ’

Point 2. Who said anything about hav-
‘ing trouble forming intimate relationships
with members of the opposite sex? Who
SayS we want an intimate relationship with

Continued to page 15
