The Davidsonian
Friday, April 24, 1987.

4}

The Seldom Scene, one of"
the nation’s top progressive
bluegrass bands, performs
Saturday at 2:30 p.m. on Cham-
bers’ front lawn. Not pictured
above is founding member John
Starling ’62, who leads their
reunion tour with his return to the
group.

Starling, a physician, formed _.

- the band in 1971 with four others,
and withdrew in 1977 to pursue
medicine full time. He came back
to organize their sold-out 15th an-.
niversary show at the Kennedy

ey

: The Seldom oy

Center in Washington in 1980,
and is producing an album from
the concert. He is the producer of
the recently released Trio album
featuring Linda Ronstadt, Em-
mylou Harris and Dolly Parton.
Talents such as Ricky Skaggs

and Linda’ Ronstadt’ were

launched after playing at festivals
and on albums with the Seldom

_ Scene. The band was so named

due to its members’ belief early on
that their busy professional
schedules would not let them per-

“Progressive” bluegrass is
characterized by its move away |
from bluegrass’ traditional coun-
try musicorientation and more to-
ward folk music. The movement is
based largely in the. Washington,
D.C. area, the Seldom Scene’s
home.

Warming up for the Seldom
Scene will be senior Bobby Houck
and a bluegrass group made up of
sophomore Molly Cochran,
sophomore Valerie Graves,
junior Darek Newby and senior
Jay Wilkins.

form often.

JYA Report: French TV and the everpresent libido

By KEITH FINCH

It was early November, and we'd just
begun to discover the wonders of French
television with our little black-and-white
set. So | wasn’t too surprised when my
roommate called out, “Hey, come look at
this!” even though it was well past one
o'cleck in the morning. | got up and w
dered slowly into Mike’s room, mutter-
ing to myself.

~ But I wasn’t ready for what I saw

there. The television was tuned to “Canal
plus,” the French pay TV channel.
Scrambled. during most of the day (in
non-subscribing households), “Canal
Plus” usually broadcasts sporting events
and second-run American films. But to-
night you could see exactly what was
happening on the screen, in lurid detail
and in dreadiul close-up, despite all ap-
parent “efforts” at scrambling. And
Mike’s face was glued to the set. We both
sat in silence, watching.

“Gee,” | said.

“Gosh,” said Mike.

Silence. :

“How does she do atl I asked.

Silence.

“You know,” Mike said, “it’s a good

thing that they only show these sorts of
films late at night, when all the ‘sae
have gone to sleep.”

The regular broadcasting of fi jas
erotiques on French television is just one
aspect of a society which seems, at first
glance (and perhaps at the second, third,
or hundredth glance as well), to be obses-
sed with sex. The French media regulaly

yanks and claws at the male libido, ex-:

posing it to endless visual stimulation
until one’s senses of shock and indigna-
tion are finally numbed into submission.
Sex sells cheese, champagne, soap, bed-
sheets, pasta, laundry detergents, horse

racing, mineral water, coffee, frozen din-

ners, jeans, lowfat milk, washing
machines, crackers, and the national lot-
tery.

Our household’s favorite French
music video is entittled “Bascule Avec
Moi” (“Come Bounce Around With
Me”) which features a female singer
doing just that — bouncing around —
while completely unencumbered by so-
cial niceties like clothes or undergar-
ments. This sort of stuff comes on TV at
around 7:00 every evening, right around
dinner time. Bare bosoms loom out of

shop windows, dominating posters for
magazines, films, Shakespearean drama,
and on-line computere modem convers-
taion services. (My roommate sometimes
hangs out outside bars on Monday eve-
nings, hoping to “snag” one of the better
posters when the workman comes by to
change them.)

For an American raised on Puritan
values and “Star Trek,” where Captain
Kirk’s kissing of the weekly alien
bombshell represented the height of pas-
sion, French attitudes towards sex can
lead to some embarrassing moments.
Reactions to this embarrassment are var-
ied. Girls from Davidson, for example,
tend to show their indignation and disgust
for the French media by leaving the room
when males start watching TV commer-
cials. Also, during trips to nearby

_ beaches at Palavas and Carnon, they reg-
ularly refuse when urged to “dress
French” (practically all French beaches
are topless, and some are bottomless as

_well). Daviedson males, on the other
hand, often take full advantage of the
bountiful offerings of French popular
culture. In our apartment, for example,
the cry of “cleavage!” can bring people

running to the television to see the latest
ad for bridal gowns or the yellow pages.
And newly-arrived American males visi-
ting beaches are often criticized for let-
ting their tongues drag in the sand.

The French don’t act like this,
though, and that’s why an American’s in-
itial impressions about French attitudes
towards sex are almost universally
wrong. The French aren’t sex-crazed;
they simply just don’t seem to care. If
there are pornographic films on televis-
ion, that’s fine, and if songs, films and
magazines all just fly by unresponsive
French eyes and ears; sex for them has
lost almost all its shock value. Perhaps
that’s why advertisers seem to be increas-
ing their exploitation of sex in an escalat-
ing war for the consumer’s mind, where
arsenals, are comprised of long-legged
models and sexual innuendo. Yet after a
while, it seems, even Davidson fraternity
men just seem bored by the whole thing:

“Hey, Mike, is there any American
football on the tube tonight?”

“Dunno. Lemme check . . Nope, -
just a flick: Prends-moi comme un bete.

“Shoot. Well, g -_ then.”

“G' night.”
