Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN=

__ Students’ voices need_to be heard

Elizabeth Newell Keenan

It’s been a long year even for those of us who've only
been here for spring term. The impact of this year’s
changes has been felt by all. Davidson is changing, and in
the eyes of many of the students, it’s changing for the
worse. The charisma of Davidson used to be the student’s
love of their school. There couldn’t be a better image for a
school, yet this image is slipping.

As of late Davidson has become less loved by its stu-
dents perhaps because they feel that it is no longer their
school. Rather, because of the past few “rash” decisions
made by the administration, it appears that Davidson is

forgetting that the school is here for the students. At this .

stage in our lives decisions that affect us should be made by
us or with some of our input. Some of the most recently
made new policies, such as the moving of some of the
freshmen males to Little dorm, the absurd practice of lock-
ing the Chambers classrooms, and the’newly created noise

Tim

Brown

Oh, ’tis spring! Geese return from vacationing in the
South to fill the skies with delightful ritual song. Flow-
ers decorate the ground that winter twice blanketed with
snow. Gracefully, children rise up off their calloused
bottoms to parade with others in warm pollen-filled
winds. The smell of freshly-cut grass, cut by grumbling
parents, tickles pleasantly the sensitivity of every pas-
ser-by. White clouds gently fall from blue skies to rest
on the shoulders of green trees. Cat and dog frolic to-
gether, allowing one to think. analogously of lion and
lamb. What better time’is there to pray as Robert Frost
prayed: “Oh, give us pleasure in the flowers today/ And
give us not to think so far away/ As the uncertain har-
vest; keep us here/ All simply in the springtime of the
year.”

Unfortunately, springtime is deflowered ritually by
young adults who — ignorant of Emerson’s conviction
that the body exists to support the mind — believe that
their bodies exist to support their sex glands- ~~

As American society ages ungracefully, parents rely
more and more on public schools and television to pro-
vide sex education for their children. Children grow in-
creasingly reluctant to take the consequences of their ac-
tions. A wise health official overestimates the sensitiv-
ity of the American citizenry by stating that the these so-
cial problems work in tandem to provide “health statis-
’ tics that will burden people’s hearts and fester people’s
minds.” The health statistics to which he alludes con-
cern the actions of promiscuous teenagers and the conse-
quences of their actions.

Over 50 percent of teenagers have had intercourse
by the time they are 17. A third of those sexually active
use contraceptives. Every week in Chicago more than
130 teenage girls, many of whom are as young as 12, re-
ceive birth-control pills from Chicago’s three health
clinics that cater to the desires of adolescents, In Boston
in 1983, thirteen percent of all births were to teenagers.
Americans happy after hearing that their nation’s teen-
| age-pregnancy rate has remained steady dver the last
few years (108 out of 1000 teenage females become pre-

gnant) become sober after. learning that their nation’s

~~ 50/50

I read with interest the articles by the
Davids Williams and Petranick-in the April
15 issue of The Davidsonian. Both dis-
cussed the issue of the male/female ratio at
Davidson and some possible reasons for re-
taining or changing it.

Dean Williams, in his interview with,
David Williams, states that he is against

quotas such as‘the 60/40 male/female ratio. jhe women a

imposed by Davidson’s Board-of Trustees.
‘Petranick, in his article, points out that the
ratio essentially matches the ratio of male to
female applicants Davidson has each year.
The question I'd like answered is this: Is
the male applicant pool as well-qualified for
admission as the female applicant pool is? I
have a sneaking suspicion that though there
are fewer women applicants, they are gen-
erally better qualified than the male applic-
ants. Thus, the male/female ratio could be
made 50/50 simply by accepting more of

committee and its noise “marshals”, have not been brought
to the student body. However, even when such proposi-
tions are brought to the students (usually to the SGA) the
opinions of the students still don’t carry any weight. It is
one thing to ask for someone's opinion and it is another to
listen. The administration needs to make an honest effort to
seek the student body’s opinion and to listen to us. And
please don’t approach us when yau've already made the de-
cision. Remember — this is our school.

Due to the recent policy changes student morale has de-
clined. There have been no “morale boosters” to counter-
balance the seemingly negative changes. This change in
feeling toward the school can only harm the school’s
image. My suggestion is that the administration and faculty
open the doors to their offices and take a good look around.
Can you see what your changes are indirectly doing? Has
anyone in the administration noticed the great increase in
the number of people who go JY A? Of course part of that is
for the individual and the experience, but there is also a
great need to get away from Davidson. Have you noticed
that many people are simply packing up and leaving mid-

Teenage ignorance causes teenage pregnancies

teenage-pregnancy rate is the highest in the Western
world. Teenage mothers figure significantly in Ameri-
ca’s infant-mortality rate: 10.8 births out of every 1000
live births. By the time she is 20, one out of every three
teenage mothers will have delivered another child, or
will have aborted what some pro-abortionists would call
“another meaningless life.” One-third of all abortions
performed annually are performed on teenagers.

Health journals distance the receivers of statistics
from the creators of statistics. However, for many re-
ceivers of statistics, this distance becomes uncomforta-
bly short when health officials explain that discussing
sexuality with teenage males is a rude introduction to the
“me generation.” Clive McKay, an eighteen-year-old,
emphasizes the importance of spontaneity in life,
humor, sex. Surprisingly, many ofzhis friends laugh as
he explains that the teenage female asks too much uf the
teenage male when she asks him to interrupt the spon-
taneity of sex to put on a condom. “Besides,” he says
sourly, “condoms aren’t comfy.” Another teenage male
exhibits the same philosophical bent when he recites toa
health official what he recites to each of his girlfriends,
each of whom he calls his client: “You take the Pill, you
take the risk. If you don’t want to have a baby, you have
an abortion.” At a Teen Fathers Program in Chicago,
Charles Ballard asked 15 teenage males participating in
the program to raise theirs hands if they were fathers.
Ballard counted two hands. Then, Ballard asked the 15
teenage males to raise their hands if they had babies. —
those dispensable critters equipped with built-in noise
makers. He counted fifteen hands.

Many health officials reveal that speaking with téen-
age females about sexuality is a lesson in unconven-
tional birth-control techniques. (The reader might want
to relax in a recliner before he reads on. What I am about
to convey is true.) Teenage females have conveyed to
health officials such ideas as these: A woman can not be-
come pregnant after having intercourse for the first time;
a woman can not become pregnant if she has intercourse
standing up; and a woman can not become pregnant if
she kisses her partner during intercourse. A young
female atténding Clintondale High School in Michigan
claims a woman will “never become pregnant as long as
she wears high-heeled shoes’ during intercourse. This
has led some folks to speculate that maybe platform
shoes — fashionable ‘among teenagers.in the 1970s,
fashionably taboo among teenagers in the 1980s —
have had something to do with the high rate of teenage
pregnancy in this decade. ce .

Parents of students in public schools must realize
that sex-education teachers, no matter how dedicated,

ver of the men who apply _ our _highl

Ao red pepper is fasting. He mentioned that he and

Sincerely »
Frank S. Albinder

Queen

I am writing in defense of my Queen
(God save the Queeh) and other members of
esteemed Royal Family, La ane x

term? Has anyone noticed the vast problem of eating disor-
ders? This is an extremely serious problem at Davidson, yet
the administration willingly chooses to ignore it for fear
that the acknowledgement of the problem might hurt the
school's image. I am in no way claiming that the adminis-
tration is directly responsible for these problems, yet by not
doing anything about them they are making themselves in-
directly responsible. For many of us college represents the
last phase of our lives during which we can have some con-
trol over the environment we live in. We do have some con-
trol and it should be utilized. Our tuition entitles us to more
than just time in the classroom. It entitles us to an educa-
tion, and our campus life is part of that education. Since the
students are the ones who are most often affected by the ad-
ministration’s decisions, then isn’t it logical that the stu-
dents would know best what needs to be done. I am not ad-
vocating that the students take over the running of the
school. Rather, I am simply asking that you come to us w'th
decisions that ultimately affect us. Try treating us like
adults —— we may surprise you.

Elizabeth Keenan is a junior from Haddonfield, NJ

cannot serve sufficiently as surrogate parents for classes
whose average enrollment is 25 students. Sex-education
teachers have their own children to worry about.
Recently, a sex-education teacher in a high school in
Washington, D-C., was asked what message he and his
colleagues strive to get across to teenage students. He
replied, “We tell the kids the best kind of safe inter-
course is abstinence.” That’s like saying “the best kind

is colleagues promote the pamphlet “Make Life Better
for Yourself,” whose authors list 10 reasons why teena-
gers should wait until they are married to enjoy inter-
course. I mention the four reasons. that caught my atten-
tion and provide what I believe might be the average —
teenage couple’s responses to these four reasons.

Reason one: “You really don’t want to have inter-
course.”

Teenage couple: Oh yes we do!

Reason two: “You're not ready.”

Teenage couple: That’s not what our rumbling
bodies tell us.

Reason three: “You want to, wait until you're in love
or married.”

Teenage couple: Heck, we are in love now. We do
not need to be married to be in love.

Reason four: “You’re not using contraceptives.”

Teenage female: Oooops. But, I was wearing high-
heeled shoes, and we were kissing.

Teenage male: It’s her problem.

The authors of “Make a Life for Yourself” subst tute
shaky proclamations for lessons regarding the virtues
that help hold a society together: self-control, ethnicity,
concern for community, and responsibility. Such les-
sons, | woefully admit, would be less interesting than
valuable for teenagers whose attention spans last as long
as Pepsi commercials.

Parents also must realize that most television net-
works are profit-seeking corporations that recklessly ex-
ploit, among other things, human ‘sexuality. Many ac-
tors in TV sitcoms approach sex with chilly casualness.
Fay Wattleton, president of the Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, reports, “They [actors] glid_it_
20,000 times on television last year. Nobody got pre-
gnant.” She asks: When J.R. and Mandy appeared as
rolling rabbits “in the barnyard, which one had the con-
dom?”

Starting this spring, ‘parents ought to devote less —
time to leisure and more time to applying their sen-
sibilities to the vital virtues of today’s child and the fu-
ture American society — the latter being only as strong
as the former:

for admission to Davidson. This would give week I was distracted from my scholarly
the college a better balanced and more qual- pursuits by a libelous, scandalous, nay even
ified group of students, and there would be scurrillous advertisement, abusing the
general rejoicing all around.

name of Her Majesty (God save the Queen)
and her consorts in a futile attempt to sell
sausages. I fear I.must request, no, demand
a written retraction of this slanderous docu-
ment — and a free year’s supply of -Pike
Dogs personally delivered by the Captain to
soothe my wounded pride.

Yours in outrage,
