THE DAVIDSONIAN

e Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors _
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor Eric Lam, Associate Editor

David Williams, Associate Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors

Tom Moore, Features Editor Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Teachers

This Sesquicentennial Year we have been busy looking at the past.
We have concentrated on the traditions and heritage of Davidson as we
recall the past 150 years. Yet the important issues of today are not in the
past, but in the future. That future is shaping itself daily, taking form
even as we pause to remember our history. Unless we look forward, we
ourselves will become part of the past, made irrelevant by the changes
taking place.

When I first came to Davidson, I came to a small, liberal arts college.
That description drew me here. Davidson offered a close, intimate envi-
ronment where I could learn at my own pace with both students and fac-
ulty. But more important was the chance to meet my teachers and talk
with them as equals and as friends. I listened as many at Davidson spoke
of the College Family, and the name did not seem inappropriate.

But the impression of a small, liberal arts college has begun to fade.
Increasingly, I see signs of that “national reputation” which Dean Zim-
mermann so exultingly proclaimed as our goal, I see people around me
who speak of “national recognition” without a doubt as to its value. Col-
lege Relations has come out with a new, high-quality magazine. The TV
news crews have become a fixture on the campus.

But I will not remember these things when I leave Davidson. I can’t
‘recall statistics and figures, and I tend to forget the names and and titles
of important people. But what I do remember and recall are the faces.
The faces of people. The faces of those who have given me their time and

their friendship. These are personal memories and take precedence\over
all else.

One of those faces will be that of Dr. John Engell. The denial of ten-

ure to Dr.-Engell has caused an uproar among students and faculty. With °

that denial, Dr. Engell will have to leave this school for which he has .de-
dicated himself for the last six years. On this issue, I don’t have much ob-
jectivity or knowledge. I only know Dr. Engell from a class I had with
him and the times we spoke outside of class. He taught his classes with
rare skill and passion, taking an interest in his students which went
_ beyond the creation of office hours.

That is one of the special features of Davidson. There has not been
much of a need to emphasize ‘teaching among our faculty. They often

take it upon themselves without further thought. That dedication may be ~

imperfectly realized at our school, but Dr. Engell was one who fulfilled it
to perfection. And thus I, along with many other students, assumed that
this qualification was the most important in the tenure process. There
may be other criteria involved, but that is all that I, or any student, can
use to judge:our teachers and friends.

I will be leaving Davidson soon. When I leave, the Alumni Office
will be sure to contact me and ask for monetary support. When I receive
that plea, I may or may not give to the endowment. If I do, I shall give in
memory of the people I have known here. The name of “Davidson” has
no meaning, no importance for me without them.

Of course, the Alumni Office may have no need of any paltry sum I
could offer. They may deal with a larger and more prestigious clientele
—by-then;-on 2 ambitious anc for Davidse re moleted on

Li pits JUS DV

Ss

‘

V;

gus N

. \.

NS
“WHO CARES IF IT CAN'T

Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

“Coudt’s View

TEACH? IT PUBLISHES

LOTS OF SCHOLARLY WORK AND DOESN’T
WASTE. TIME. WITH ANYTHING CREATIVE!”

Tenure

Dean Williams:

I am writing you in regards to the deci-
sion made on Dr. John Engell’s tenure.
While the steps taken by the committee are
not totally clear to me, I feel compelled to
tell you how I, other English majors} pro-
fessors and non-English majors feel about
Dr: Engell.
~ .He is a man of indisputable character,
intelligence and is invaluable to this college
and community. Dr. Engell’s courses have
been the most constructive and well
thought-out of those I have taken. As a
scholar his theories are fresh and brilliant to
say. the least. This fall he delivered an ad-

.dress on- Barry Lyndon, novel and film,

which was later received at the Florida State
Convention on Film and Literature. Like
other-students in his film course, I agree that
this was the best lecture I have ever at-
tended. Dr. Engell’s handling of English
495, our conmprehensive exam course, was
professional, well organized and the high-
light of my studies at Davidson. It is usually

_ taken with a grain of salt — with Dr. En-

gell it was a pleasure as well as enlighten-
ing.
As a member of the faculty, Dr. Engell
serves On numerous committees and is al-
ways helpful in furthering-and ‘maintaining
Davidson as an institution of the highest
caliber. On a more personal level dr: Engell

_ is warm-hearted and always willing to-give

assistance.

I can talk at length on his accomplish- .

ments and value to Davidson if you grant
me the hours it would take. However, Dean
Williams, I think the Statement on page five

—Letters

of the 1986-1987 College Catalogue sums
up Dr. Engell’s importance to Davidson:
The educational program at Davidson Col-
lege is a liberal arts program dedicated to in-
tellectual and personal growth of students.
Affirming the intrinsic worth of a broad ex-
posure to human intellectual and artistic
achievement, it strives to nurture students’
capacities for knowledge, understanding, |
judgment, and compassion. For the faculty
in its teaching, research, and service func-
tions, teaching is the primary activity and
responsibility.

To learn from someone like Dr. Engell
who is at the top of his profession as well‘as
being an excellent example of what David-
son strives to produce is the number one_
reason students come to this school. If we
lose professors like Dr. Engell then we lose
the mission of Davidson College.

Sincerely,

Stephen Davis ’87

Engel

The Administrative decision to deny
Dr. John Engell tenure sets a dangerous pre-
cedent for the growth of Davidson College.
Apparently, the administration, in its effort
to find national recognition for our efforts
here, has decided to pass over an individual
who is an important part of the Davidson
community. In his capacities as professor,
scholar and friend, he epitomizes the things
that are most valued here. We respectfully
request that the responsible administrators
admit their own fallibility as humanris and re-
consider their decision.

. More importantly, we request that they
: ‘Continued to page 21

doubt that, given average luck, the administration will succeed in mak-

ing Davidson a “national institution.” They are people of great ability
and dedication to the name of Davidson College. However, the question
is of no interest to me. Outsiders would not praise or even notice what I
have cherished.

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian for the year, and the last one.
for me. Keith Finch will take over in the fall: For all the regrets Ihave had ©

about sleepless nights and vicious ulcers, I would never have come to

the generosity of the people on my staff. rea nee

es more to them than to anybody else.

my

News Staff: Laura Ballenger,

Matt Yaun.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson
College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC'28036.

, ext. rs
dent ‘Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not neces-
sarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15

per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available request
Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College. 3 m :

David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy Dunn
‘Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, ppt Laviee Sarah
Longely, Ed Matthews, Nelle McCorkle, Susan Pearsall, David Petranick.
Features Staff: Jennifer Hoffman, Michele Miller, Florence Snively. .
Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Matt Newsom, Bruce Sarkisian.

“Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong Lee,

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Michael Schill, -
Production Staff: Pete Mangone, Tom Moore.
Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta

on the top floor of the Grey Stu-

.s

