Saturday, October 10, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ees meet, plan

new campai en

ByEDPATTE

Last week, the Davidson College
Trustees met and discussed strate-
gic planning for thenew financial
campaign.

‘This financial campaign is part of
a five-year strategic planning proc-
ess. The purpose of the process is to
review and quantify the financial
implications of managing the col-
lege, taking into consideration
costs such as professors’ salaries
and facilities expenses. According
to Julius W. Melton Jr., Director of

Development, this year’s figure

lies somewhere between $150 mil-
lion and $160 million. Once this
figure has been attained a strategic
and systematic plan is developed
looking at different SORE for
fundraising.

This feasibility study for fund
raising consists of focus group
meetings and thei input of an inde-
_ pendent fund raising council. Dur-
ing these focus group meetings,
President Kuykendall and at least
one key trustee meet with small
groups of possible contributors

representative of key geographical
areas such at Richmond, VA, New
York, NY, and San Francisco.

They inform them of Davidson .

College’. s needs and aspirations for
the future.

The fund raising council works
independently of the college, inter-
viewing people to assess reactions
to the college’s fund raising efforts.

Melton rine Shes “ia u

such as the sports complex, the

Dean Rusk program in Interna-
tional Studies, the fine arts facili-
ties, and the revising of the com-

puter system will be incorporated —

into this financial campaign once it

is under way sometime after fall

1988.

While this firianiad campaign is
projected in a five year plan, the
strategic campaign process is:im-
plemented on a rolling basis with a
new five year plan being developed
each year. This allows the college
to continue its long-range planning
with a rolling target, while still

. concentrating on its year-by-year

management.

YOU'VE SPENT A

SMALL FORTUNE IN COLLEGE.

INVEST ANOTE

Career Conferences of America,

ER $45.

-Seniors/
Grad Students:

Get into the job market now,
not six months from now! Career
Network USA is a national recruit-
ment firm s pecans | in matching
Fortune 5000 companies with grad-
uating seniors. For $45.—(the cost
of most ‘resume services’’) here’ $
what you receive:

C) Immediate entry into our com-
puterized database, GradTrak,
available to 7,500 firms.

C] Your resume is expertly formatted,
ave Dr printed, and up-dated free. of
Cc

x | Yorke issued a Career Network

USA Membership Card. We’ll
help you with career opportuni-
ties for life!
O Toll Free Hot Line to answer any.
work-related questions. :
© Quarterly Newsletter with cur-
rent job market details. ;

Price tag: $45. —for life! Fill in our
coupon, send your resume with a
check or money order by December
15! (If mailed before October 21,
we'll reduce it to $38. —!)

Name:

College or University:

Send to:

Career Conferences

of America Inc.

P.O. Box 1852

New Haven, CT 06508

CareerNetwork USA

P.O. ©. Box 1852 New Haven, CT 0550

_ KRIEG, from 1 page 1

President.” Krieg believes that a previous lack of supervision
led to the secrecy and clandestine operations that have marked
the last few years inthe White House. —

“He who controls the paper controls the ability of the Presi- -
dent to make a decision,” Krieg said. “They (the NSC staff) went
completely outside the system on Iran.”

Later, in response to a question, Krieg offered insights i into
why Howard Baker, who had been considered a strong possible

aa Republican Presidential candidate. for 1988, had joined the _

White House staff as Chief of Staff.
|, He offered three reasons (which were purely conjecture;

-’~ “Howard’s never sat down and discussed it with me,” Krieg

laughed): Baker did not ever really want to run for the Presi-
dency again. “He tried it once, and personally, he hated it”; that

- Bakersaw Ronald Reagan and the Presidency itself in serious
trouble. “He saw that the people around the President were
giving him bad advice and saw that he could do a better job”; and
asiaeipen ind " greatnayetiy to public servis and the Rega
lican Party.”

Krieg challenged stodinise icine time in the public sector.
“The money is terrible, but you get a perspective of what the
country stands for,” he said. “Your ability to affect change is
real, if you want to work hard enough.” .
