Monday, September 21, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

—_———News Shorts

my

The annual Davidson CROP Walk will begin Sunday, September 27, at 2
p.m. on the Davidson town green, across the street from DCPC. The walk will
cover 10 km (6 miles) through the scenic Davidson community. Donations col-
lected by the participants will be used to fight hunger in Davidson and abroad.
Twenty-five per cent of the money raised will be donated to the Davidson Hot
Lunch program. CROP is the hunger fighting division of Church World Service.
Through its programs in 70 nations, CROP seeks to alleviate hunger by stressing
self-help, local participation and long term solutions. Following the walk, the
freshmen men’s and women’s halls with the most participation will be given an
ice cream mixer. There will also be a competition between eating houses. Any-
one interested in walking or running in the CROP walk or in sponsoring some-
one should contact Linda Tatsapaugh at 892-5695. Registration begins at 1 p.m.
and the walk starts at 2 p.m.

Dr. Gail Gibson, Associate Professor of English and Humanites, recently
was named 1987 North Carolina Professor of the Year by the Council for Ad-
vancement and Support of Education (CASE). In selecting Gibson over 13 other
candidates, CASE considered factors such as scholarship and student achieve-
ment, but relied primarily on the impact she had on the lives of her students. Gib-
son specializes in medeval literature and taught at Princeton University for eight
years before coming to Davidson in 1983. She is now eligible for national hon-
ors awarded to the top 36 professors chosen from more than 400 nominess in the
United States and Canada.

Material contributed by John Wightman

Twenty-nine black students from Charlotte-Mecklenburg high schools re-
cently spent four weeks of their summer vacations at Davidson particpating in
the new Love of Learning Program. The program seeks to identify promising
young minority students and encourage them to pursue a college education. Ac-
tivities of the four weeks included english and math classes, an S.A.T. preperat-
ory course, library study, physical education and leadership workshops. De-
veloped by the college in cooperation with the Charlotte-Mecklenburg schools,
the program received its funding from a $144,000 grant provided by the Jessie
Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational fund. Additional support
was obtained by grants from GTE corporation and the Mary Norris Preyer Fund.

Only time stands between Cannon dorm and air conditioning. Over the sum-
mer, Davidson spent approximately $48,000 to install air conditioning in the
eighty-year-old women’s dorm. Unfortunately Davidson maintenance crews
have been just too busy to complete the last steps of the installation process. Ac-
cording to Residence Life Director Tom Jennings, Cannon was chosen to re-
ceive air conditioning because it “makes a good summer facility.” He said that

Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia directed the program.

The Mail
To the WDAV Station Mamager:

Just a note in support of the
new music programming on your
station . . . [have recently moved
to Charlotte. Having previously
‘lived in Greensboro and Chapel
Hill, public radio has become my
only choice for the airwaves. Lis-
tening to the programming from
the UNC, Guilford College,
UNC-G, and Duke stations has
given me great enjoyment. It was
good to find some new music in_
this area also.

Classical public stations are a
dime a dozen, appealing to an
older, more financially stable au-
dience they are easier to finance;
‘the art value of their music is
firmly established and requires
less courage to air than the néw
wave of aural art.

It is good to see courage in the
Charlotte area. The south has been
a leader in new music, and _it is
‘only fitting that one of the largest
cities in the south should have
proper support for this music.

Music on your “Flipsides”

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from

letters dealing with-subjects of general in-
terest to the campus community, but they
must adhere to the following guidelines:

All letters must be submitted by 7
p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected
publication date.

Letters must be neatly typed or legi-
bly hand-written. The editors will also
accept letters submitted on 5.25” disket-
tes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS
(MS.-_DOS) text file format.

‘All letters should be signed. Writers

its readers. The editors will try to print all .

program is, on a given night, of .
the same caliber as that of award:
winning station WXYC-FM in
Chapel Hill. Congratulations. It’s
a shame this quality programming
isn’t scheduled twenty-four hours
a day.

Sincerely yours,

Max Lloyd:

Charlotte

Food

To the Editors,

Well, after a week at David-
son, I’ve found that the food in the
Commons is undeniably good.
Yet sometimes you have to won-
der. For instance, on the first day
we had fried chicken. At the next
meal it was barbeque chicken, fol-
lowed by chicken tetrazeine and
chicken soup. See a pattern? As
the chicken gets older, more is -
done to disguise it.

When you're finished eating
you place your tray on a conveyor-
belt and it’s quickly carried out of
sight. What happens to the lef-
tover food on that tray? What re-
ally happens behind closed doors?

Bradford Fisher

bt

reasons if they do not wish their names to

’ be printed with their letters.

‘The editors reserve the right not to
print letters which contain inside jokes,
off-color slurs, or advertisements, or

-which represent a viewpoint very similar.

to other letters printed dealing with the
same topic.

‘Writers should include an address
and a phone number with their submis-
sions. ce

‘Writers should address their letters
“To the Editors.”

s

must present the editors with compelling

other dorms will be air conditioned in the near future.

The Rev. Dr. Albert C. Winn, former head of the Presbyterian Church
(U.S.A.), will discusss “Facing the Biblical Ambiguity About War and Peace”
on September 28th and 29th in the Davidson College Union as part of the Staley
Christian Scholar Lecture Series. His two lectures are entitled “Jesus’ Teaching
About War and Peace” and “What About the Old Testament.” Both Lectures are
at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. Winn has served as President of Louisville Semi-
nary, as a college and seminary professor, and as a parish minister.

LIFE IN HELL cwnt on 5)
WORK IS HELL (tm on Rea)

“LSWEART DION'T D0 IT
e BONGO (Ot on Wnt) (8th on Wiet)

P™m Each ’

AIL. CHECK OR Money ongER we:

LIFE IN HELL

