The Davidsonian

Friday, September 25, 1987

Bison stop Davidson; Wildcats challenge record against Tigers

By STEWART RAWSON

The Cats failed to win their
third matchup of the year, the sec-
ond for Davidson as a member of
.the Colonial League. The
Wildcats took their 0-2 record
onto Richardson Field for the
home opener against. the Bison
from Bucknell, but a timid first
half spelt disaster for the struggl-
ing Cats. The offense was able to
move the ball on occassion led by
quarterback Peter Hughes and.
strong running from freshman
Bryn Robinson, but the big plays
just were not there. The Bison
moved the ball well and amassed
four touchdowns in the first two
periods to raise the tally to 28-0 at

- intermission. The defense showed
glimmers of hope with strong
leadership from sophomore

linebacker Kenny Nazemetz, but
could not subdue the methodical
running game Bucknell threw at
them.

Though the Davidson offense
controlled the ball for the majority
of the game, each drive seemingly
ended with a turnover or a loss of
possession on downs in Bison ter-
ritory. Short passes from Hughes
to his receivers provided most of
the impetus behind Davidson’s of-
fensive success. However, the
sole score of the game for the Cats
was a second-half field goal. The
final score was Bucknell 34,
Davidson 3. Davidson has man-
aged only 10 points in three out--
ings, but the offense seems to
have solved some of its earlier
problems. Comments: a major
highlight of the game was the

marching splendor of the West
Iredell County high school “fight-
ing comanche” band at half time.
The young warriors rallied. and
danced to a strong drum corps, bit
were outclassed by the antics of
the Davidson Wildcat in the flag
line. The Wildcat (A.K.A. Wally
of Wally and the juicemasters)

provided a much needed dose of .

comic relief. . . it was good to
see the freshman, guys exhibit
such boisterous fan support, let’s
keep it up . . . everyone needs to
head on down to Charlotte’s
Memorial Stadium on Saturday
for the much-publicized “brain
bowl” as the Cats take on the
Princeton Tigers. The kickoff is at
2:00 so put on your tailgatin’
bests, pack up the fried chicken
and cheer Davidson to victory!

Soocer maintains pressure -

By WHIT WILKS

The Cats entered a tough
stretch of their 1987 schedule this
week, and although both matches
resulted in losses, the team still
has high hopes for the remaider of
the season. The team played
Florida International last Friday
on a sun-drenched field in a
matchup of the 7th (F.1.U.) and
9th (D.C.) ranked teams in the
South. The squads matched up
evenly, and the game remainea
scoreless until late in the first half
when F.I.U. struck for two quick
goals to take a 2-0 lead into the
break. The second half saw a re-
turn to balanced play, as the teams
each had their share of oppor-

tunities. Davidson came closest to
scoring on a tremendous blast of
the foot of Tracy Hankins that hit
the crossbar before being cleared
by the defense. The Cats could not
put one behind the goalie how-
ever, and fell 2-0.

Wednesday the team headed
south to Columbia to face the na-
tionally ranked Gamecocks at the

‘Graveyard. The Cats paid no heed

to-the polls and played U.S.C.
evenly for the first forty minutes
before giving up an on-goal just
before the half. The team was not
discouraged, and “again played
well in the first portion of the sec-
ond half. Neither unit could mus-
ter a serious threat until Carolina

did get a second goal with thirty
minutes remaining in the contest.
Trailing 2-0, the Cats did not fold;
rather they maintained the high
level of pressure on the ball which
they displayed all game. How-
ever, U.S.C. was not to be held
down on this day \and registered
two additional scores before the
conclusion of the match. The
score was somewhat deceiving, as
the Cats clearly were on the same
level as their highly regarded op-
ponents.

The Cats play the alumni this
afternoon before hitting the road
to take on the Demon Deacons in
Winston-Salem on Wednesday.

Volleyball team claws

By KATHRYN MITCHEM

The Volleyball team, al-
though they lost to Marshall
Tuesday night, fought hard and
played well. They are no longer
a team to be ignored, as Mar-
shall found out early. Accord-
ing to coach Hawkins, the lady
Wildcats “took them by suprise,
grabbing the lead for a while in
the first game.”

Marshall was not allowed to
claim their victory without a
good fight. In the first game
there were several long rallies
and many series of side-outs

without points scored. In the
next two games, “we dug a hole
for ourselves, letting Marshal!
get a big lead,” said Hawkins,
“but-instead of completely fold-
ing, we came back, scoring a
few points yet many side-outs.”

Ellen Ott had a great match
hitting and passing, and Peggy
Tietgen did an equally super job
of blocking. In addition, coach
Hawkins commended. the play
of Molly Graver, saying
“Molly . . . contributed great-
ly coming off the bench in all
three games.”

_ _Areview of the 1987 NFL season -

By ANTHONY MCCARRON
Now that the NFL walkout is
official, what are we pro football
fans going to do except rant and
rave about the strike and be angry
at everyone including our favorite
team? I’m not sure, so forgive me
if indulge myself in a little rant-
ing. I know, I know, the players
have to make their money while
they can; they are involved in a

stead of silly seeded “playoff

games.” __
With most hard-core fans al-

ready experiencing withdrawal, a

New York Giants are in rough
shape. Perhaps they wrote too
many books in the off-season.
Simms to McConkey, LT, and a

performance by Redskins backup
quarterback, Doug Williams. The
Falcons pulled quite a switch from
week one, when they were

little lingering on the action the book by Coach Parcells, are justa crushed by Tampa Bay, 48-10.

°87 football has already given us

few among many. It seems the

New starting quarterback Scott

might help sagging spirits. Look- boys in blue were too busy pump- Campbell looked impressive in

ing at the first two weeks of the
campaign, one sadly notes that

ing typewriter keys to pump any
iron. “The off-season distractions

his debut vs. the Redskins, and if
the Falcons continue that brand of

this strike could fob the fans of an won't bother us,” they said. Sure, ball, they could make it tough on

extremely exciting season. After

but after looking like a troop of

bruising and dangerous line of two games, there are only four _ girl scouts in pads for the past two

work. According to the Charlotte
Observer, though, the average
NFL salary is 230,000 dollars per
year. Obviously, with that much
green, the players can’t be too bad
off. The ones who are bad off, un-
fortunately, are the fans. No mat-
ter how you slice it, whoever wins
— -Or loses, the fans are the ultimate
victims of a strike such as this.
Please end this fiasco of a walkout
soon and spare us loyal fans
another ludicrous Super Bowl
tournament, and let us be involved
in fierce inter-division rivalries in-

L.A. and S.F. in the west.
The Bears again look awe-

stomped New England, 43-24.
The offense that failed the Jets

. during the last 5 weeks of °86 is

back, led by Ken O’Brien. The
Jets have racked up 74 points thus
far, tops in the league. O’Brien
shredded the Patriots with a 19 of
26 for 313 yards performance
Monday night and showed doub-
ters that his spectacular first 11
weeks of ’86 was no fluke. In-
deed, if the Jets continue in this

teanis that are 2 and 0. The Bears, _ weeks, the defending champs are__some._They are well. -coached, fashion, -it is proof that the Paul—
Raiders, Vikings, and Jets have one of only five winless teams. their sans-McMahon quarterback McGuire jinx has run its course.

all gone through the first two Sun-

They were hapless against the

problem seems solved by the

If the strike continues, fans

days unscathed. The Broncos are Bears on Monday night, and leta emergence of Mike Tomczak, and - will miss out on such potentially
mediocre Dallas team stop them their defense absolutely swarms. great games as Denver-Cleveland

undefeated, too, but have one tie.
Every divisional race is wide open
and from the looks of things, are
going to stay that way. Week one

last Sunday.

Luckily for the Giants, the

They buried the Giants with 8
sacks and cooled off the Bucs’ 5-
TD man Steve Deberg in the first

Super Bowl champs have fallen the Atlanta Falcons, took the pow- Bears look so good that if the own-

on hard times, which makes it

erful Redskins 21-20 in week two.

ers decide to opt for scab teams

seem like Pete Rozelle’s idea of A 2 and 0 start by the "Skins could during the strike, the Bears scab

parity throughout the league is
here to stay.

have buried the Giants. The Fal-
cons looked great against

team would cruise to a title.
In what could have been the

the Super Bowl champion ~ Washington, and thwarted a good last game of the year, the Jets

in week 3, Chicago-Denver in
week 10, any Giant-Redskin
game, not to mention other heated

—~upsetters have been -upset and. — Jekyll and Hyde team of the NFL, — two weeks of the season. The ~inter-divisional rivalries. To lose

these exciting matchups, regard-
less of the issue, is a crime. The
1987 NFL season has already pro-
vided us with many thrills and
chills and the best is yet to come.
Here’s to a quick end to the strike.
