Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

m has to go on faith, even if he is not so sure of
it go for it. Again, this is what Art is all about, and
netaphors for each other. This works both ways as
‘es, whether based on conscious, learned (formal)
mposition, tone, color theory in visual art, or on
ate, intuitive levels, impulses, etcetera. One takes
or of producing something worse than what one
narket, but a prime example of the combination of
vels of choice. Here, however, the gain or loss is
ioney. In Art, the gain, there is no loss, is self-
setter understanding of the nature of ‘what is’ for
ho that person is, and what that ae world is,
her world.
tis only one facet of Art. Visual art can teach one
3s of choice, risk, and gain which is so fundamen-
perience. With out choice, nothing would happen,
accordance with our ways of understanding. But
us about this process. Obviously, theater, music,
reative writing are good candidates for the role,
plines as well. Yet one needs to see that anything
if understood corectly. Soccer for me was an artis-
e act of making choices, risking, and witnessing
re learning and growing from the experience.
: same purpose, although here it is confrontation
ral envivonment. Or cycling, anything. The art of
reat example. Interaction with people on a verbal
2riencing the gains possible when one risks. What
ming, risking not knowing something, or being
yout that which you do not know, about that which
it goes on in all classrooms?) By questioning in a
on, or activity, you can gain new knowledge and
phenomenological world, and of who you are (and
lance to the choices you make. Know why you are
Again, know why you are who and why you are.
with reason, or at least confidence about the
ction. The more one engages oneself or interacts
at hand, whether books, people, a forest, or a
ims, ultimately about who and what they are, and

‘volution of our being, ends at death, in our under-
if death is indeed an end. We can be lulled into ig-

norance, and stunt our growth process, however, if we allow ourselves to
be subsumed to the comforts and luxury of our modern, contemporary
society. Though it would take monumental effort and energy to be com-
pletely attentive to the potential of every moment of experience, we can

at least remind ourselves periodically of the importance of this kind of at- -

tention to possibility of choice, lest we be lulled to sleep, become like
robots, forgotten to the nature of humanity. Routines are easier, and re-
quire less energy. Therefore do people submit to them so easily and read-
ily. Routines do have their function, but they are only tools for greater
ends. So, the breakup of routine is important in keeping awake. In keep-
ing awake we are open tu make gains toward self-knowledge, and thus
fullfillment. Call it egocentric if you will, but also disregard the fact that
as you interact, questioning and risking, you will act as a catalyst-for
others — “others who have eyes to see, and ears to hear” — others who
are open, or on the edge to being open to growth as well. So, one may
think it egocentric, but the fact that interaction and education involves
others, and affects others’ knowledge and understanding, is undeniable.
Only in the'case of the ascetic is this untrue. For me (at the present), as I
alluded to earlier, people are invaluable and indeed, because we are a
species and inextricably connected, necessary in the process of experi-

ence and fullfillment, and therefore are essential to my life. In my world,
the divine — or God if you wish to call it that — is all that is around me,

people and beings which partake in what we call life, and the places
which those things inhabit. I respect these things and places. Thus, is in-
teraction with all of these things necessary for my search for fullfillment,

and again the sharing is fundamental to the process. Travel, interaction _
with those of the “past” (i.e. reading, looking at art objects and other re-

cords of experience), and interaction with nature is all part, and neces-
sary for my search and experience, my life, through the question/choice
process.

Obvoiusly, a lifetime relationship can bie one of the most significant
and intimate experiences to fuel this process of growth, with each person

reflecting the other, both sharing the process or experience of life. It is an

ultimate challenge, to take the risks involved in such intimate interper-
ponal relationship, and one need not accept the challenge. But danger
lies in not choosing to meet the challenges and risks of the question/
choice process inherent in any interaction, therefore denying growth,

and accepting the death of one’s humanity. What is life to you?

(I encourage any constructive criticism, or welcome any discussion
or reaction to what is printed above, as an inherent part of the process
described. )

Michael Jarmon

Black

You cover

the mourners

collecting their tears

turning blcak

as they drip,
forming —

tar
which smothers
the body with feathers
turning black
as they stick,
forming

buzzards
which shriek
seeking death in my eyes
turning black
as | stare,
forming

‘shapes

in my room

to tease

and to haunt —
the fears

of a girl

come to life

in her mind

turning

black.
Ann Cartledge

Michael Jarmon
