Monday, March 30, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Whos on First

Who will win the NCAA Championships?

ANDY

BARRON

When Indiana and Syracuse hit the
floor of the New Orleans’ Superdome in
tonight’s NCAA. championship’ game,
the most balanced year of college basket-
ball ever will come to a close. This year
felt the absence of one or several domin-
ant teams and thrived on an “anyone can
beat anyone on any night” attitude made
’ possible by the unprecedented power of
parity.

Last Saturday morning, before. the
painful process of whittling the NCAA
basketball tournament’s final eight down
to the glorious Final Four, the powerful
were more prominent than the pitiful as
all four regional number-one seeds —

North Carolina, Georgetown, Indiana
and Nevada-Las Vegas — remained
alive and favored. Then the underdogs

struck as Syracuse and Providence snuck
into. basketball’s nirvana and the holy
trinity of upsets, Cinderella and Dean
Smith team’s choking was ‘miraculously
preserved.

Even before the final eight, this
year’s battle-royal provided enough up- |’
sets to drive would-be prophets crazy in
their NCAA betting pools. Glass slipper
supplies ran short as Austin Peay, South-
west Missouri State, Xavier (of Ohio),
Wyoming, LSU and Providence all got

' sized for the scarce footwear. Among the

ugly stepsisters who didn’t get to dance
with the prince were Clemson, Georgia
Tech, Virginia, North Carolina State,
Kentucky and Illinois, who all departed
without winning a game.

AS the final eight came into exis-
tence, however, only two real underdogs
remained: Providence and Louisiana
State. The Friars did not look much like
an underdog in their annihilation of fero-
cious Georgetown; rather they appeared

like the good team they have been all sea-

son finally hitting on all cylinders at

crunch time. yee.

LSU remained an underdog, just as
they were last year when they crashed the
Final Four much to the dismay of Georgia
Tech and Kentucky. This year’s victims
were Temple and DePaul and almost In-

., diana. Brown and his charges led the
‘Hoosiers by one with 20 seconds remain-

ing in the game. Unfortunately, midnight
struck in the form of the Hoosiers’ Rick
Calloway, and Brown was out of wishes
as Cinderella II turned into a pumpkin.
As LSU left, two questions remained un- _
answered: Is'the “Freak” defense real and
if so, why doesn’t it work during the reg-
ular season?

Saturday’s Final Four continued the
theme of parity as Indiana beat Nevada-
Las Vegas, the closest thing to a dominat-
ing team NCAA ‘87 had. After their
miraculous recovery against lowa |
thought the Runnin’ Rebels were a lock
to win it all this year: Jerry Tarkanian’s
bunch looked lifeless in the second half,
however, and never played like they even
wanted to rally against Indiana, except
for Armon “The Hammer” Gilliam who

will be playing pro ball for a longtime to

come. Guess the guys from Vegas were
concerned about some big test this wéek -
in Gambling Management.

Syracuse won the right to play in the
championship game by beating a stone-
cold Providence team that looked like the
squad that almost lost to Austin Peay

_ father than the desperados who whipped

Alabama and Georgetown. My only
comment on the Syracuse-Providence
game is that it showed the main drawback
to any major sporting event: it can be ex-
tremely boring.

So who will win tonight's chavnavian:
ship game? Beats me. Indiana seems the
clear favorite and the better team. In ad-

dition, it seems impossible to believe that

Syracuse could be the national champi-
on. Still, no one believed in Villanova in
1985, a team very much like Syracuse
this year.

Whether they win or not, I'll be root-
ing for Syracuse simply because Brent
Musberger and Billy Packer will be root-.
ing for Indiana. In this year of parity, that
seems a8 good a reason as any to pick one
team over another.

Deliveng to oe Onllege- FREE! After 9 pm SPECIAL Monday- Thursday —

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!"’

12 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25

Mon. - Thurs.
Fri. and Sat.

16 in. with 3 toppings- $7.75

11:00 a.m. - 10:00 pm

“11:00 am. - 11:00 p.m.

Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 pm.

892- 9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS

PICTURE YOUR WORK

In The 1988
Davidson College Wall Calendar

C

O
iN
oI]

S

.

RULES

JUDGES
PRIZES

CASH + PRIZES FOR SLIDES OF DAVIDSON SCENES SELECTED
FOR THE 1988 DAVIDSON COLLEGE WALL CALENDAR!!

_ ELIGIBILI TY Any student enrolled this year, faculty or staff member employed.
full- or part-time by Davidson may-enter.

Entries must be 35 mm slides that relate in some way to David-
son College or the Town of Davidson. Slides may have been
taken at any time, including before announcement of the con-
- test. All entries should be submitted to Jerry Stockdale, direc-
tor of college relations, before June 1, 1987. Winners will be
announced by August 1.

‘Cotten Alston '67, professional Shotoarapher Errol C. Gibson,
graphic designer; Jerry S. Stockdale, director of college relations.

All slides selected will be published in the 1988 Davidson Col-
lege wall calendar. Additionally, there will be a First Prize of $100,

Second Prize of $75 and Third Prize of $50.

FIRST UNION
Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6

Main St. Davidson

‘Shorts Galore!
Solids, Prints, Stripes
Walkers

Tennis Shorts
Bermudas

our Great Selections -
Downtown Mooresville
9 am til 5:30 pm
664-4711

collegiate apparel for Men and Women

