Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports Page

Can Davidson basketball repeat?

v By EDWIN PAGE

Repeating is not an easy task these
days. Witness the floundering Louisville
Cardinals and the already hibernating
Chicago Bears if you doubt this. Even the
Boston Celtics, recently believed to be
one of the finest teams to lace up sneak-
ers, have begun to show cracks.

With this in mind, the Davidson
Wildcats record of 5-6 does not look too
bad: The Cats opened defense of their
Southern Conference tournament title
Wednesday with a two point loss at UT-
C, a game which provided a good look
into exactly what the Cats have going for
them and what they need at this juncture

in the season.

Davidson’s returning four starters
give the Cats instant credibility in the
conference, but at this point in the sea-
son, al! four of them must perform well if
the Cats are to beat a quality team. Junior
guard Derek Rucker had a spectacular
game and seniors Chris Heineman and
Ace Tanner provided solid support, but a
rare off-day from junior~forward Jeff
Himes hurt the Cats. Tanner, although
playing well, was saddled with foul
trouble, a condition Davidson simply
cannot afford yet in the season.

Right now there is a lot of weight
being carried by these four players.

Being asked to never have a bad nightis a
difficult burden to bear, but with an inex-
perienced supporting cast all of these
guys must perform.

This is not tosay Davidson has no tal-
ent after these four. The talent is there but
the experience isn’t. No one has yet to
step up and take over the fifth starting
position for good, although there are four
players who could potentially do so. The
bench has had practically io game ex-
perience prior to this season, but by the
end of the year that will have changed.
Juniors Todd Scott and Dean Keener
should be making significant contrib-
utions along with several others.

The UT-C game, although a loss,
gives the Davidson faithful a reason to
look forward to the rest of the season.
Even though the season is still young and
many of the players who will be impor-
tant to the Cats’ hopes come crunch time
are just beginning to get their feet wet,
the Cats took one of the tougher teams in
the conference to the wire in a hostile
gym. OO

Right now the Cats need one or two
more pieces to falt into place in order to
contend, but the Cats should go nowhere
but up as more players get the experience
they need. It’s a long season and that’s
good news for Davidson.

Our three-yearand
o-year scho

hips wont

make college easier.

Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn't start college onascholarship, you = ——

could finish on one. Army

ROTC Scholarships

yay for full tuition and allowances for educational
fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALI. YOU CAN BFE.

See Capt. David Strong Ext. 170 in the basement of Belk Dorm

