Richard
Busby

How many people know the hours in which the Vail
Commons is open? The meal I specifically am referring to
is the dinner hour. I work in the Commons two of those din-
ner shifts per week and I considermyself to be fairly obser-
vant’ The hours for the Commons are printed in our
Freshman Handbook and become habit for those eating in
the Commons. The hours shown in the handbook say the
Commons is open from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The workers fi-
nally pull the food off at 6:45, or a few minutes earlier if no
one wants second helpings. The reference I made earlier to
my powers of observation is for a specific reason. I have

ous to me that requires the football team, or any other or-
ganization to conduct practice through the dinner hours and
have special hours arranged specifically for their dining

_Ppleasure. I know of no other group at Davidson which can’t
= —find the time to practice ‘or meet at any other time than dur-

ing dinner hours. An hour and a half is very flexible for
mealtime. Most people finish their meal within fifteen mi-
nutes and talk with friends the rest of the mealtime.

True, the football team represents the school and I’m all
for that ol’ school spirit which Davidson needs more of, but
there are other clubs which also represent our school in
competition. What if the College Bowl team practiced until
6:30 one night, hit the showers, and dressed arriving at 6:50
p:m. or as late as 7:00 p.m: even? Would they receive the
same treatment as our football team? Certainly not! Why
then does the football team get this privilege?

noticed in the four and one half terms that I have worked in
the Commons that these hours are not the same for the foot-
ball team.

I know these coaches and players sacrifice their time
and energies for the sake of representing the student body. I
know that most of you reading this are not affected very
much by the football team eating later than you. In fact, if
you eat at five o’clock, you may not know what I’m talking
about. What I’m trying to say is that there is no reason obvi-

My gripe is that the workers are usually finished clean-
ing up and are clocked out by 7:00 every night. However,
when we have to wait for the football team to finish prac-
tice, shower up, and get themselves down to the Commons,
we usually don’t get out for another twenty or thirty mi-
nutes. I see no reason why my co-workers and I should

have to sacrifice part of our evenings at the convenience of
the football team.

Inconsiderate behavior hurts

Ken
Bogert

Take a walk around campus on any given day and you
will discover the evidence of inconsiderate behavior. It de-
tracts from the beauty of our campus and from the integrity
of our student body. It is completely unforgivable. We, as
students of Davidson, ought to live up to our reputation as
upright, considerate human beings; we should neither com-
mit nor accept this sort of behavior.

What sort of behavior am I talking about? Let me cite
some examples. I have seen hundreds of broken windows
-around campus this year. Some destructive people des-
troyed the entire window frame on Second Belk during
winter term. There have been several vending machines
vandalized. The lights marking the path behind the Com-

mons have been torn down. In the past two weeks the pay out

phone in Little was ripped off the wall; the TV in Watts
Lounge was destroyed — some brilliant person decided to
tear out its insides.

This sort of behavior is more destructive than inconsid-
erate, but it impacts upon the entire campus. Nobody can
use the broken vending machine, the destroyed pay phone,
the wrecked TV. Employees of the college must think of
students as rich, inconsiderate, spoiled kids. What kind of
impressions do the faculty, administration, and trustees
draw from these acts? Maybe their impressions are correct.

I realize that only a small percentage of the students are

responsible for these violent actions, but I would venture to
say that the majority of students participate in inconsiderate
behavior in some way, including myself. In fact, it was an
inconsiderate action of my own that inspired me to bring
the subject out into the open. What are the inconsiderate ac-
tions that everyone commits? You probably wouldn’t even
think of them while you were committing them. Have you
ever made a mess of your hall, trashed your lounge, not
cleaned up after yourself in the bathroom, thrown some-
body’s clothes indiscriminantly around the laundry room,
left a mess in Chambers after late night studying, used an
unlocked bike without permission, etc.? These are incon-
siderate actions that the majority are guilty of.

“BIG DEAL,” you might say. The truth is that these ac-
tions may be worse than the more destructive crimes. The
environment at Davidson even helps us get away with such
actions; there is always someone who will clean up your
mess. “Anyway,” you might say, “the janitors aren’t
human — they get paid to clean up all that we can. dish
.” The janitors and repair staff are human beings
though. Just because their job is maintanence does not
mean the students can rightly create maintenance work.
Obviously, some people treat them as if they weren’t
human — as if they were not worth that much. To those
who treat them in such fashion I say, “I think they’re worth
a hell of a lot more than you!”.

What are the causes of such inconsiderate behavior? As
students at a rigorous school, we all need the opportunity to
escape our disciplined academic life, but some obviously
go about it in the wrong way. We become thoughtless,
drunk, and wild at times. But while in these crazed or even

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, April 15, 1987

Wi

If any of you haven't noticed the football field recently,

, they have had a lighting system installed which works quite

well and practice is now conducted under the lights some
nights. What need do o they have for the Commons to stay
open later if they are going to practice under the lights
which can be used at the coaches’ whim? The_coaching
staff can schedule practice any time they damn well please.
I’m not blaming the football players for my gripe; it is the.
coaching staff’s responsibility.

You should know that many of my co-workers also
share this gripe. Is there some unknown agreement be-
tween the coaching staff and the Commons administrators
that is a big secret? I’m not sure about this “secret,” but I do
know that before working in the Commons, no one told me
that we would have to stay open later on nights the football
team practiced. If someone had told me such, I'd find out
what nights practices were going to be held so I'd be sure to
work on other nights!

I would hope that those concerned with this problem
can see my point and do not take offense to this opinion. If
they do take offense, they ought to know that my co-work-
ers and I take offense every night we are put out for the pre-
cious football team which is not considerate enough to ob-
serve the hours.which the commons is open. I hope I’ve
opened a few eyes by my comments.

everyone

depressed states, we must always control ourselves at least
a little. Why don’t you take cut your mindless behavior on
yourselves, not on others. Trash your room and then see
how it feels to clean it up the next day. Then you will know
how the custodial staff feels every day. No wonder they
don’t go out of their way to leave our dorms “Spic and
Span.”

An ancient proverb sums up how the problem of the less
destructive, inconsiderate behavior can be resolved. “If
you sprinkle when you tinkle, please be neat and wipe the
seat.” Every small effort of yours will save another the ef-
fort of cleaning up after all the messes. Then you will des-
erve more respect than I am giving you now. To those who
destroy physical property, just restrain yourselves and
know what you are doing. If Davidson is a problem for you,
provoking you to destroy our campus, be aware that the
truth is you’ve got a problem, not Davidson.

One recent problem I'd like to highlight is the closing of
Chambers every night at midnight. Sue Ross, our registrar,
has indicated that this has been done because students were
leaving the roms in a mess. When the janitors came in to
clean, they were unable to clean all the rooms before class
started. The rooms were closed solely because students did
not pick up after themselves. Please see Sue Ross and
pledge that you will not mess up the rooms any more; she
might re-open them.

Inconsiderate behavior mars our campus. It is a dis-
grace to our good name and our history of honor and integ-
rity. Please join me in an attempt to end this sort of be-
havior; it will certainly result in a better atmosphere to live
and study in.

—_—_—_ etters policy

cation date.

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” sec-
tion is the only forum on campus for ex-
tended commentary on pertinent issues.
We will print opinions on any subject of
general interest we receive from the cam-
pus community. We adhere to the follow-
ing guidelines:

‘Any opinion should be in to us by 7
p.m. the Monday before publication, un-
less it is typed on IBM 5:25” diskette, in
which case it is due 5 p.m. Tuesday.

‘We accept first those opinions on

IBM 5.25” diskette. Typed and legibly-
written articles will.be considered later.

-Opinions should be signed. We will
only print unsigned ones if there is acom-
pelling reason and the author is known to
us (the editors).

-We will not edit opinions for content
or style, but for common English usage
only. We will inform the author of sub-
stantial changes.

‘Because of limited space, some-
times we are not able to print all opnions

submitted in one issue. We reserve the
right to select articles from those we re-
ceive for publication. First priority will
go to those articles received on IBM
5.25” diskette. We will attempt to print
any withheld article the following week.
The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. We try to print all letters of
_#general interest, but we will adhere to the
following guidelines:

-The letters must be submitted by 7
p.m. the Tuesday before expected publi-

‘The letters must be neatly typed or
on IBM 5.25” diskette.

The letters should be signed. You
must have a compelling reason if you do
not want your name printed with the let-
ter.

‘We reserve the right not to print let-
ters which are advertisements, contain
inside jokes or off-color slurs, or repre-
sent a viewpoint very similar to other let-
ters printes on the same topic.

