’

Sports

Baseball looks forward to promising year

By KEN BOGERT

Although the weather might
lead you to believe that spring has
not arrived yet, it is only one day
away. Spring means many things
to many people, but to sport fans it
means baseball. While the majors
are still in spring training, the
Davidson baseball team is already

in full swing. Their regular season —

began back in February. The team
so far has accomplished a mark of
10 and 2. Their conference record
is a perfect 3 and 0 thanks to a
‘sweep of the Citadel Bulldogs last
weekend. This season’s outlook,
therefore, is one of hope and con-
fidence in the team’s ability to
continue winning.

The Davidson squad certainly
has all the ingredients necessary to
be successful — hitting, fielding,
and pitching. The team is acombi-
nation of proven juniors and
seniors and a suprising number of

‘talented freshmen and _ sopho-
mores. If experience and youth
blend, the Cats can be the best
team in the Southern Conference.

Offensively, the Cats are pow-

erful. Their ability to hit for aver-
‘age and power is excellent. Last
year the team hit fifty-nine home
runs in only forty-two games
while maintaining a .328 team
batting average. Most of the best

hitters are back this year. Seniors

David Turgeon, Dave DePaul,
Dan Simonds, Mark Thompson,
and juniors Billy “Nasty” Masse
and Alan Lewis provided a major-
ity of the offense last year. To-
gether, they hit .331, drove in 189
runs, had 41 home runs, scored
214 runs, and had 109 extra base
hits. Juniors Chris Stuart and Rob
Zimmerman also contributed of-
fensively with a combined 26 hits
in 96 at-bats for a solid .270 aver-
age and 18 runs batted in. All
these players are back ‘and
stronger than last year; an off-sea-
son program of weight-lifting and
conditioning will help them hit
even better this year.

. In the field, the Cats are very
good. In the outfield, DePaul and
Masse have switched positions.
DePaul moves to center and
Masse to right. This move should
help both players; Masse posses-
ses a strong arm and DePaul can
cover the ground in centerfield.

In the infield, Lewis and Tur-
geon will play shortstop and third
base ..respectively. This will be
their third year together on the left
side of the infield. Lewis has ex-

cellent range; Turgeon has very
good hands — and both have
powerful, accurate arms. Behind
the plate, “Dano” Simonds is the
best in the conference. He posses-

ses a major league arm and blocks _
. long season.

would-be wild pitches extremely
well. The other positions are still
in question, but with experienced
players like Chris “Stuie” Stuart,
Mark “the dancing bear”
Thompson, and Ollie “O-train”
Wagner, second base, first base,
and left field will not be weaknes-
ses.

For the Cats, the problem in

the past has been pitching. This
year, the pitching looks very
good. Returning are past starters
Steven Condon, David
Fitzgerald, and Billy “Tug”

* Waitsman. Condon, a senior, was

9 and 3 last year with a 3.30
earned run average. Junior Dave
Fitzgerald, in limited appearances
at the start of the season, was 3
and 1 with an E.R.A. of 1.67.
Waitsman, a senior, was | and 3.
This year, barring injury, the staff
has improved depth. Charlie
“Chaz” Winborne, a junior, and
sophomore Jeff Loser appear

more than ready to contribute. In

fact, Loser is already 4 and 0 and
Winborn is the one of the team’s
top relievers. Here, in the bullpen,
more than anywhere else, is where
the team needed help. Two
freshmen, Greg Wilcox and Jay
Harris round out Davidson’s im-

Depth becomes important in a
With over forty
games on the schedule, the David-
son baseball season is the longest
of any sport. The team plays about
five games a week. With that kind
of demand, the team needs many
players to come off the bench and
give starters a periodic rest. If the
team has no depth, it will lose.

Davidson’s depth this year is:

“better than it has ever been in my
opinion.
and many excellent freshmen re-
cruits are mainly responsible for
the improvement. George Halter,
Ron Krnacik (Kinarsik), and Ollie
Wagner will compete for the left
field spot. Together, they will
bring speed and power to the
lineup. Rob “Zim-butta-Zam”
Zimmerman and Harrison Murray
will help Dan Simonds to take off
the tools of ignorance occasion-
ally. An abundance of infielders is
something the Cats will enjoy. .
Kevin Bums, Joe “the Hoov”
Hoover, and Mikio Aoki, will fill
any voids at second, third, or
shortstop. First base backups in-
clude Brian “the Eel” Moure and
the slick-fielding Steve “Liver”
Livesey. Doug Hicks will add
depth to the outfield.

Now for some analysis. This
team is an offensive weapon.

Davidson can be content to wait

Talented sophoniores "

Tournament.

for the big hit. They need not steal
bases or use trick plays on offense
to win. But using the hit and run,
the suicide squeeze and the de-
layed'steal can make a difference.
It can give a team.a mental edge
against its opponent — the “eye
of the tiger” kind of thing.
Defensively, the Cats are
strong except on the right side of
the infield where inexperience and
lack of range will hurt the Cats

somewhat this season. The right

side does, however, have very
surehanded players and this will
compensate for their Jack of
range. The pitching staff is
stronger than in the past, but it still
needs to be used wisely. Last
year, Steve Condon was relied
upon too much and faded towards-
the end of the season — he was
tired from being overworked. If
the Cats can use as many of their
pitchers as possible, they will all
throw better towards the end of the
season and in the Conference
The Cats have
the best talent in the league, but
talent is not enough. The success-
ful execution of that talent is a
must. No team ever won anything
by knowing they were the best
team in the league; they had to
prove it on the field. I feel confi-
dent that the Cats will do it this
season.

proved staff.

Heinemans have heart

By HAP BRYANT
Chris Heineman and his brother Mike
are a rare breed in college -basketball.
They are twins, which makes them dif-
ferent, but the rarity exceeds. their
lineage. These guys give their all, their
hearts and souls, every time they play a
game. They may lack the talent of a Skip
Henderson or a Steve Alford, but they
overcome talent deficiencies with a tena-
"cious spirit, a sense of drive and a wil-
lingness to sacrifice their bodies for the

team.
Most casual sports fans fail to under-

stand the significance when a player
dives for a loose ball, runs into a wall try-
ing to keep the ball in play for a team-
mate, or receives an elbow from a burly
power forward. Having had experience
in body sacrifice, I understand and ap-
preciate the nature and pain resulting
from these actions. It hurts to bang
against,a hard floor and*not just at that
moment; it hurts for days, sometimes
weeks.

Those who say basketball is not a
contact sport have only seen Dr. Nais-
mith’s ideal. They miss the ideal in prac-
tice. Chris Heineman probably has gotten
hit as many times in his collegiate career
as Steve Bradley. Granted, Heineman
has probably played more games, but

basketball is supposed to be a non-con-
tact sport. Tell that to Tom Sheehey, 6-7
forward/center at Virginia.

The oft-maligned Sheehey has been
both the donor and the target of many a
punch during his career. In the Cavaliers’
first-round NCAA tournament loss to

Wyoming, blood dripped from Sheehey °

before 5 minutes had elapsed. Someone
inadvertently popped him in the mouth
under the Wyoming basket. The referee,
in one of his few legitimate calls of the
night, stopped play to allow the Virginia
trainer to assist Sheehey. He walked off
the court, holding his mouth. The occa-

_sion reminds me of the bell ending the

first round of a boxing match. A non-con-
tact sport — yeah, right.

Players like. the Heinemans,
Sheehey, and North Carolina’s Joe Wolf
deserve admiration. They perform day

in, day out with maladies that would put |

lesser men in the orthopedic ward.
Maybe they are responding to the call to
the Washington Senators in Damn Yan-
kees: “Ya gotta have heart!” Regardless
of their inspiration, these selfless, self-
sacrificing gladiators in an allegedly gen-

tle sport have epitomized the term “intes- _

tinal fortitude” for many college basket-
ball fans across the nation.

‘SPORTS SHORTS
By WHIT WILKS

mances:

A few Wildcats deserve special recognition for recent outstanding perfor-

Derek Rucker. The junior guard was rebel a named second team Academic
All-American. This, after already being named first team all-Southern Confer-
ence and MVP of the Southern Conference Tournament.

Sherb Sentell. The sophomore, who wrestles at 167 pounds, placed third in

_ the Southern Conference Tournament. This is the first time a vere wrestler
~ has placed at this meet in several years.
Jim Thompson. The junior’s play over the winter earned him the eighteenth
_ ranking in'the USTA’s under-21 bracket for amateurs.

Cats start 10-2

By HAP BRYANT & WHIT WILKS

The Wilcats are off to a superb 10-2
start after a split in games against Bradley
and Connecticut this week. Against
Bradley, freshman Greg Wilcox gave
Coach George Greer a “quality” start be-
fore being lifted in the seventh inning.
Unfortunately, relief pitcher Dave
Fitzgerald, hampered by a tendon prob-
lem, was unable to silence the Braves’
loud bats, as they rolled to an 11-5 vic-
tory. The Cats’ bats were silenced, as
Davidson stranded fourteen men on base,
including two bases-loaded opportunities
in the first two innings.

On Wednesday, the Cats revived
their bats in a 9-5 whipping of the Hus-
kies. Bill Masse hit a grand slam, and Jeff
Loser pitched splendidly in earning his

fourth victory against no losses. The
game was called in the seventh inning
due to an injury to the sole umpire.

Last weekend, Davidson started the
homestand promisingly in a three-game
sweep of The Citadel. In running their
conference record to 3-0, the Wildcats
were led by Dave DePaul (5 hits, 2H.R.,
and 5 R.B.I.) and Dave Turgeon (2
G.W.R.B.I.). Bill Waitsman and Steve
Condon (3-0) both gave excellent starting
efforts in the sweep. Brian Moure deli-
vered key hits in the Saturday twin-bill,
including a game-tying home run.

The Wildcats will taste road confer-
ence action for the first time Friday and
Saturday in a three game set with Furman

_- before returning home Sunday to play

Youngstown.

Tennis performs well at start

of season

By WHIT WILKS :

The men’s tennis team has started its
1987 season, and coach Jeff Frank has
been encouraged by their performance.
The Wildcats (5-5) have victories over
James Madison and Slippery Rock, as
well as an ‘impressive 5-4 victory over
Wiliam and Mary. Well-balanced play
from both singles and doubles was the
key in the defeat of the Tribe. The team
has suffered losses to Flagler, the defend-
ing NAIA national champs, Duke, and
Wake Forest. These losses were to be ex-
pected, given the strength (and scholar-
ships) of these programs. A loss to
Washington and Lee has been the only

true disappointment, as Frank noted “We
failed to play up to our potential.”

Individually, Bill Young is off to the
best start on the team. Young, playing
number 2 singles, carried an impressive
7-1 record through the W & L match. The -
remaining seeds are all around the .500
mark. Turning to doubles, Rick Hodge
and Michael Meyer, the number 3 team,
have been the most impressive. Frank
feels that better consistency from the
singles players is needed to insure
another successful year for the Cats.

The Cats host Wooster on Friday, be-
fore hitting the road to play Colgate in At- .
lanta this weekend.
