Opinions

_Ananalysis of southern Africa by a Zambian

Ismat

Husain ~

a

Americans realty know. little about southern Africa and.
are further blinded by South Africa’s ban on foreign media.

It is for these ‘reasons that I decided to give you an insight to
all the countries involved in the apartheid saga.

Angola gained its independence from Portugal in-1975.
Its 8 million people voted the Marxist Popular Movement
for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) into power after the
independence struggle. The ‘other two deféated parties
were the National Union for the Total Independence of An-
gola (UNITA) and the National Front for the Liberation of
Angola (FNLA).

After the Portuguese granted independence, fighting
broke out between the three parties over power control.
MPLA began receiving Soviet aid. In August, 1975,
America began supplying arms to FNLA (led by Holden
Roberto) and UNITA (led by Jonas Savimbi). By October
1975, South African forces helped FNLA and UNITA oc-
cupy southern Angola and they began moving towards
Luanda, the capital. At this stage MPLA requested Cuban
aid, which it readily received. US assistance ceased in De-
cember 1975 by Congressional vote by the House and by
March, 1976, the MPLA were in control. UNITA retreated
to southern Angola where they set up terrorist camps and
made frequent raids on northern Angola and neighboring
Zambia. Last year, Jonas Savimbi of UNITA visited Amer-

“ica; received not only red carpet treatment but also a $250
million aid package from President Reagan. This aid pack-
age has once again triggered off terrorist raids by UNITA.
Roads, oil pipelines, railways and other communication
lines have either been sabotaged or destroyed altogether.

Zambia (formerly called Northern Rhodesia) has a

population of 6 million including 700,000 British and
3,000 Asians. Zambia got its independence from great Bri-

tain after a bloody struggle in October, 1964. The President
of Zambia, Dr. Kenneth Kaunda, is one of the only surviv-
ing “old timers” and highly respected in both Africa and the
world. In 1979, he headed the Commonwealth and the non-

aligned organizations. He also headed the Organization of _

African Unity (OAU) and is currently the head of the
frontline states. President Kaunda is also one of the world’s
leading anti-apartheid campaigners and met twice with
South African leaders. He met President P.W. Botha in
1979 in a fruitless meeting on the border between Botswana
and South Africa. He also heads the EPG group of the

. Commonwealth that resolved ‘that economic sanctions
‘were the only answer to apartheid.

‘ Asa result of Zambia’s strong anti-apartheid stand, it
has suffered a great deal. Last May, it had a refugee camp
in the capital, Lusaka, bombed by South Africa. Because
of Zambia’s 60 percent economic dependency on South Af-
rica, Zambia recently underwent a series of economic sanc-
tions slammed on it by the racist regime. After Zambia’s
economy came close to a complete collapse last year, it is
now going under a revival program which will hopefully
put Zambia back on its feet.

Malawi is the only southern African country that has
diplomatic ties with South Africa and is considered a ch ce
by southern Africans.

Mozambique gained its independence from Portugal in
1975. Mozambique, like Angola, is pro-Soviet and its
main political party is the Front for Liberation of Mozam-
bique (FRELIMO). The current president, Alberto Chis-
sano, was the former foreign minister under Samora
Machel.

Since 1980, South Africa has povided military aid to”

MNR (a terrorist organization with Mozambique). MNR,
like UNITA, has destroyed several bridges, railways,

pipelines and roads in both Mozambique and neighboring

Zimbabwe. Seeking a peaceful solution, President Machel

in 1984 signed the N’komati Accord with South Africa in

which the latter agreed to stop arming MNR. South Africa
has on several occasions violated the Accord and Mozam-
bique has incurred over $100 million in damages from ter-
rorist attacks since. President Machel began taking a
stronger stand, and on his way back from a frontline-states
meeting in Zambia last October his plane was brutally shot
by South Africa. The President died instantly.

As is the case with other southern African countries,
Mozambique’s economy is dependent on South Africa. A

good Jproportion of ‘its work tine travels to the mines in
South Africa every day. Frequent MNR attacks on
economic targets have hindered economic development i in
Mozambique. f

Zimbabwe (formerly Southern Rhodesia) gained its in-
dependence from Great Britain in April, 1981. The head of

“the government’ is Prime Minister Robért Mugabe and he
‘leads ‘the: Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU).

Fifty percent of its economy depends on South Africa al-
though it has a strong srscnerpaborss “— and agricultural
program.

Zimbabwe, like. Zante: is a. strong anti-apartheid
campaigner. It too has paid the consequences. It had its
capital, Harare, bombed by South Africa last May and the
latter shut its borders. Goods stopped flowing in or out, and
as a result the-economy suffered immensely. | -

Botswana has gained its independence from Great Bri-
tain in 1965. It has 2 million people as most of the country
is the Kalahari Desert. Eighty percent. of Botswana’ s
economy is directly dependent on South Africa and it too
was bombed last May. ‘

 Byaluating the backgrounds of all of these ‘countries,

one can notice a pattern: colonization, struggle for indepen-
dence, independence, trying to. grow and develop but
‘stopped by South Africa, thus making the southern African
states more dependent on South Africa. In response, these
states have formed ‘three organizations; one political
(frontline states) and two economic (PTA and SADCC) to
help each other. They have agreed that apartheid is a living
Satan that has to be wiped away from the face of the earth.
They have called on the world to impose economic sanc-
tions on South Africa knowing very well that this will hurt
them too. But they have agreed to bear the consequences if
it will mean the liberty of over 80 million people.
These countries have paid great prices for a peaceful
cause. They have had their capitals bombed, their govern-
ments toppled (Lesotho), one of'their presidents killed and
thousands of their people terrorised by South African-back-
ed UNITA and MNR rebels.

President Kaunda invited President Reagan to southern
Africa last September to come, see and talk with its leaders

_ and to get an insight. He was turned down. Now you have

an insight to what is going on, maybe you can do something
-about it. ;

Ismat Husain is a freshman from Zambia.

Just Words

Tim Brown

On springtime eicabtay afsmncons: downtown Char-
lotte is a noisy electric popcorn popper, filled with cars and
buses and businessmen and shoppers popping in every di-
rection. With touches of sun on their faces and new springs
in their steps, few businessmen and few shoppers concern
themselves with the homeless, mentally-ill persons who
struggle to survive in the downtown alleys and streets.

Psychiatrists ‘offer dismal reports that appear out of

the Rutgers Medical School in New Jersey reports that 35
percent of the homeless people in America suffer from
schizophrenia and that 10 percent suffer from severe depre-

viewing homeless people in community shelters, state that
85 percent of the homeless in Boston and Philadelphia are
mentally ill. Similarly, psychiatrists in Los Angeles esti-
mate that one-third of the city’s homeless are mentally ill.
When these psychiatrists are asked why so many mentally
ill persons freely roam the streets, they take a long breath
and angrily pronounce the long word “deinstitutionaliza-
tion.”

In 1963 John Kennedy signed the Community Mental

tion. Deinstitutionalization (take a deep breath and exhale
slowly) refers to the praiseworthy goal of releasing chroni-
cally ill patients from state-run asylums and returning them

dropped from 551,000 in 1955 to 120, 000 i in 1983. Sixty-

place among the bright tidings of spring. Dr. Irwin Perr of .

ssion. Psychiatrists in Boston and Philadelphia, after inter-—

Health Centers Act, initiating America’s 24-year-old love |
affair with the seductive optimism of deinstitutionaliza-—

to. communities. The number of patients in asylums has.

five percent of the patients liberated have adapted success-
fully to life outside the asylum. But 35 percent of those lib-
‘erated have not adapted and have received very little com-
munity-based psychiatric help. For them, the high hope of
deinstitutionalization has proven a failure.

If deinstitutionalization has failed, its failure can be
blamed partially on the government’s providing insuffi-
cient community-based mental-health care, and partially
on the legal system’s insistence that no one — not a psy-
chiatrist, not a family member, not a police officer — may
limit a mentally ill person’s right to freedom.

In 1963, two-thousand centers were promised. Only
700 centers were built. Most of these centers are understaf-
fed and do not have enough beds to help the mentally ill

who seek their help. “The centers,” says Gloria Harrell, a_

mental-health coordinator, “leave it up to the patients to-
keep up with their medication and psychiatric care. A few

* get help, but the majority won’t.”

A study by the American Psychiatric’ Association

states, “Psychiatrists believe it is better that 10 persons be

hospitalized unnecessarily than one person suffer serious
harm unnecessarily. The judiciary believes, however, that
it is better for 10 people to go free than for one innocent per-
son to be confined.” Currently, 25 states have laws stipulat-
ing that in order for the state to give a mentally ill person
treatment against his will, he must be a demonstrable

-danger to himself or to others.

So far the psychiatrists’ volley of arguments has had lit-
tle effect on the bulletproof views ofthe judiciary. Recent
murder cases, however, might give the psychiatrists’ argu-
ments Teflon coatings.

The mentally-ill have been made homeless

Last fall, Daniel Thorton, after his psychiatrist told him
that he would no longer see him, stabbed to death a 76-
year-old woman. Thorton told the police that it was the
only way he knew to get the psychiatric care he needed.
Last winter, Lois Lang, a paranoid schizophrenic, saun-
tered into the offices of a leading currency broker and killed
him and his receptionist. Last spring, Sylvia Seegrist shot
10 peoplein a shopping mall, killing three of them. Seeg-
rist’s mother had been trying for months to have her daugh-
ter committed to a community psychiatric-health center.
And during the Liberty Weekend harbor festival, a
freewheeling Juan Gonzalez killed an elderly couple and
wounded nine others only a few days after psychiatrists had
determined that Gonzalez had a psychotic paranoid disor-
der and had released him from the community Psychiatric-

“health center, oS ne

In each of these cases, the system failed to protect the
public from the mentally ill. Soon, however, the system
might have to concern itself with protecting the mentally ill
from a public that allows its fears of the memaly ill to
frighten it into acts of barbarism. :

Last winter in n Greenwich Village, some citizens placed
barbed wire around the hot-air gates to keep the homeless

-from sleeping in their neighborhoods. Some citizens of

downtown San Diego burned to the ground a shelter for the
homeless. The city commissioner. of Fort Lauderdale ad-
vertised the vacancies in his mind and heart by suggesting
that rat poison be used as a topping for local garbage. =.
This spring, such catastrophic acts as these might prove
tragic’ by awakening Americans’ sensibilities to the —
needs of the homeless inca ill.

