____ But there’s another matter to consider._Are_Davidson_students-sti

14

————\JHE DAVIDSONIAN————
CK ith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors.
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
John Barrow, News Editor
Tom Moore, Features Editor Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor
. Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager

Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

; e
e
WDAYV: Asad history
The last edition of “Flipsides” was broadcast last week. It’s disap-
pointing. But there was really no way around it. Decisions made almost a

decade ago left the current administration with no choice. “Flipsides”
just didn’t belong at WDAV.

In 1978 the college administration and the Board of Trustees, in the
face of considerable student protest, hired a professional staff to run
WDAV and to change the station’s format to include mostly classical
music. Student participation in WDAV persisted for a while, involving
mostly those who had worked for the station before the format change,
but eventually student involvement acquired the character it has today:
most of the students who work at WDAV do so because their work-study
jobs require them to. There are, of course, a few students who have be-
come active in the operation of the station and who have gained great ex-
perience thereby. But WDAV is by no means a “student” station; indeed,
its connections with daily life on this campus are tenuous at best.

It was WDAV’s history, then, that dictated the Administration’s de-
cision to cancel “Flipsides.”, Nine years have passed since the Board of
Trustees decided it needed a professionally-run, classical station to en-
hance its image in the Charlotte area. It was this Board, not the current
administration, which chose to transform WDAV from a lively, noncon-
formist student station into a sophisticated operation printing slick bro-
chures to attract wealthy sponsors. “Flipsides” had to be cancelled,
sooner or later, because it could never be a part of the role WDAV was
required to fill. In the midst of all the smooth, professional programming
it presented the wrong image to the station’s audience: it made Davidson
seem too much like a college. And for that, it had to go. Students may be
tempted to blame members of-the current college administration, but that
would be unfair. Their hands are tied by the past. And of course the pro-
fessional staff of WDAV is entirely blameless. Its members were hired to
do their jobs, and they’ ve done them well.

But what of the students? Now that WDAV has eliminated all ves-
tiges of its old rock format, the only possible outlet for student creativity
in that direction would be a new student station. Could it be done? Of
course. Carrier-current is dirt cheap. Unfortunately it sounds cheap, too.
A more appealing option would be a new 100-watt FM station. It
wouldn’t cost much — perhaps $5,000 to $7,000 — while the several
hundred disks in the “Flipsidés” record library would allow any new sta-
tion to begin broadcasting as soon as it received FCC approval. And the
money is there. WDAV currently receives over $60,000 a year from
Davidson College (in addition to all the money it earns elsewhere). It
would only take about ten percent of that to put together a student station.
And WDAV isn’t poor. The opulence of WDAV’s spacious, carpeted fa-
cilities makes the offices of the typical hole-in-the-wall college station
look like a rats’ nest. The McMillan building is filled with expensive,
spanking-new radio and recording equipment. Surely the college could
spare just a few bucks to let the students try broadcasting on their own,
once again. After all, with such a small station they could only spoil
Davidson’s “image” within a three to five mile radius.

interested in having their own station to run? “I’m not really worried,” a
female student recently said about the “Flipsides” cancellation. “It
doesn’t concern me.” Her mind was closed to the matter. Are any stu-
dents outside the “Flipsides” staff bothered by the program’s cancella-
tion? If not, then we are currently witnessing the worst of the effects of

the 1978 “take-over”: the destruction of students’ creativity and the clos-——

ing of their minds. That’s inexcusable at an institution which devotes it-
self to diversity and to open thought. The essence of education lies in
opening up opportunities for the student, not in closing them off.

The present Administration may not be responsible for the sad his-
tory of student participation in WDAV. But it must bear the burden of
solving today’s problems and injustices. We urge it to make amends and
to solve the problems which history has left behind.

John Wightman, Business Manager

ve Ka . +
A\ , S A ye -
, ‘4 La
—a " ‘& »

f { S 1a NP °
| i 2 i a as . <
| INS 2 ’

1& ; ie 7, .
1 a 4 ™
‘ “ oy, G es <
! TRS SSS.
>

(469 - (987

—_, whew cx CPW MEF ALK SNPS NAY A.

Ea

Monday, September 21, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

RNS ALI Mh
ano (Sf ow
4 Yet DP.

ADA

ANoTHER Victim oF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT:

In Our Pages... .

15 Years Ago .

ONLY 57 WOMEN HERE — Coedu-
cation has finally come to Davidson with
the introduction of 57 women to the cam-
pus, but only 29 of these are degree candi-
dates. The other women come to Davidson
through the Eight College Exchange Pro-
gram, and they will attend Davidson for
only one year.

The number of women on campus this
fall is far less than the 100 coeds called for
in the coeducation plan adopted by the
Board of Trustees last May, and dissatisfac-
tion has been voiced at this development.

SGA President Ralph A. Peeples says
that one of the main reasons so few women:
are at Davidson as transfer students is be-
cause of a “no raid” agreement made with
the women’s colleges in the Eight College
Exchange Program. This agreement made.
in May with all-female schools Mary
Baldwin, Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, Sweet Briar, and Hollins stipulated
that Davidson would not accept any transfer
students from these colleges.

GRIDDERS WIN — For the first time
in several years, Dave Fagg, head coach of
the Davidson Wildcats, is a happy man.

With a 1-1 season record, and a 1-0 con-
ference standing, the Cats are presently tied
for the lead in the conference, a distinction
Davidson has not held since 1970.

College. Except today. Address

Student Union. Opinions

quest.

Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.
Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.
Circulation Staff: Ingrid Love.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson

20036. Phone (704) 692-2088, ext. 149. Offices located on the top fleer of the Grey
expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not
necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$15 por year, er $25 por year for firet class postal rates. Advertising rates avaliable on re-
Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Jon Boles, Margeret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa
LeNard, Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan.
Pearsall, Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Toby Truog. OO
Features Staff: Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffmann, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill
Scouten, Lee Eichelberger, and the Booze Brothers.

Sports Staff: Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Anthony McCarron, Kathryn |
Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation,

5 Years Ago
SUMMER THEFTS — $6,627 worth .

of stored goods were reported stolen from
the Davidson campus in the this summer,
and many more stolen goods have gone un-
reported. “I’ve never seen a summer where
we’ve had so much stealing before,” said
Housing Office Director Bill Bolding.

When Bolding arrived at Belk dorm this
summer, contractors who were renovating
the building had taken every door off its
hinges, and the thefts had begun. Bolding
says he “picked up the stuff that was valu-
able” and stored it in his office, but the ste-
aling continued. Bolding says that the
thieves broke into his office three times this

_summer and have broken in once since

school began.

NEW HOUSE — Warner Hall, the
new all-women’s eating house, began oper-
ations the 14th of September after a six-day_
construction delay. The building, formerly
the Bailey freshman eating house, was
moved to its present location between the
Fannie & Mable and ETC houses to make
room for the Commons.

On the Sth of February 1982, College
President Samuel Spencer approved the
Warmer Hall proposal that was submitted to
the Council on Campus and Religious Life
in November of 1981. The new eating
house is named after former Trustee chair-
man Wamer Hall.

to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,

