2

Careers Symposium to be held

The 1987 SGA Careers Symposium will be held Tuesday, Jan. 20 through
Thursday, Jan. 22. The symposium provides Davidson students of all classes an
opportunity to meet and talk with professionals from a variety of career fields.

Seniors looking for an edge in finding a job and all students interested in in-
vestigating a potential career are urged to take advantage of the Careers Sym-
posium and attend the various presentations, open luncheons, and free wine and
cheese parties offered during the three days.

The professionals coming to Davidson represent a broad cross- section of
local, regional and national leaders in fields as diverse as banking and ministry,
politics and sports administration and marketing and social services. A complete
schedule may be found below. Presentations and discussions will be held in

posted rooms on Chambers, with open luncheons in the 900 Room. Additional

information will be posted and delivered the week of the symposium, and an in-
formation desk will be located in the Chambers lobby the 20th to 22nd.
Tuesday, Jan. 20:

12:30 p.m.: Open Luncheon: A mock interview conducted by First Union's
Manager of College Recruiting, Shannon McFayden.

4:30 p.m.: International Law: E. Thomas Watson, Parker, Poe, Bernstein et al.,
Charlotte —
Psychology/Counseling: Tom Plott, Ballard and Wheeler, Charlotte.
Educational Adm./Teaching: Bill Strong and Jimmy Poole, Alexander Jr. High,
Huntersville.

Public Relations: Warren Steen, Director of P.R. for City of Winston-Salem.
Social Services: Jerry Allen, Planned parenthood, Charlotte.

7:30 p.m.: Advertising: Robert Neal, Media Manager, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco,
Winston-Salem.

Corporate Law: Adrian Wilson, Smith, Helms, Mulliss, and Moore, Charlotte.
_ Ministry: Richard Banks, Christ the King Center, Charlotte.

~ T.V-/Media: Jimmy Rayburn, Jefferson-Pilot Teleproductions, Charlotte. —

Surgery: Dr. Charles Marshall, Charlotte.

“News Shorts

Thursday, Jan. 22:

12:30 p.m.: Open Luncheon: Will Terry will moderate. panel talking on advan-
tages of taking a year off during or after school before embarking on a career.
4:30 p.m.: Entrepreneurship: Tom Cox, Cox-Little and Company, Computers,
Charlotte.

Hospital Administration: Sarah Williamson, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital

—_—,

Authority.
Court System: Peter Gilchrist, District Attorney, Mecklenburg County.
Hotel Management: Connie Kyle, Guest Quarters; Charlotte.
Arts Administration: Steve Musgrove, Mint Museum of Charlotte.

Wine and cheese social hours will be held all three days after the afternoon
presentations.

Salsbury speaks on U.S. foreign policy

Dr. William Salsbury, a professor of political science at the University of
South Carolina, spoke on U.S. foreign policy regarding Central America and the
Presbyterian viewpoint on that issue.

Salsbury showed a film made by the Presbyterian church. Wyche Fowler, a
Davidson alumnus, was present to speak as well. 7

Fowler proposed the U.S. cease military support for the contras and promote
negotiations between the disputing parties.

Salsbury said the U.S. should seek accord with “friendly regimes. ” He

" suggested that it is “not possible to resolve the issues of poverty in the immediate

political time frame.” He suggested that Mexico is a potential problem sitice it is
“extremely instable.” He suggested that the political strife in many. areas of Cen-
tral America could soon spread to Mexico.

Both, agreeing with a number of faculty and staff present, said that opinions
are widely varied and no one agrees on all- issues involved in Central America.

Friday, January 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wednesday, Jan. 21;

4:30 p.m.: Personnel Management: David McClintock, First Union, Charlotte...
Politics: D.G. Martin, Kennedy, Covington et al. , Charlotte.

Sports Administration: H.A. Wheeler, Charlotte Motor Speedway.

Foreign Service: Ambassador James Leonard.

International Banking: Ingeborg Hégenbart, president of Southern International

Corp.

7:30 p.m.: Medicine: Dr. Rob Beamon, Davidson Clinic.

Marketing: Kenny Wilson, Proctor and Gamble, Charlotte.

Investments: Eric Nichols, Interstate Securities, Charlotte.

Banking: Ross Sloan °86 and Sam Sloan, First Union Management Trainee and

City Executive for NCNB, respectively, Asheville and Charlotte.

Beyond Davidson .

Material contributed by Jody Hart

Mills to speak on marriage and literature

Visiting lecturer in English Elizabeth Mills will discuss “Marriage in Litera-

ture and Life” Jan. 19.

Mills’ talk will focus on Charlotte Perkins Gilman’s story “The Yellow

Wallpaper.”

The program is sponsored by the Women’s Concerns Committee and will
begin at 5 p.m. in the Union. There is no admission charge, and a free supper
will follow the discussion. For more information, call 892-2000, ext. 140.

Soviets call for arms talks, Iran renews attack

By DAVID WILLIAMS
Headlining the news for the week Jan. 9-
1S:

Around the World —

The Soviet Union catled for a one-on-
one meeting between ‘the heads of the
U.S. and Soviet arms-control delega-
tions, which began talks Thursday in
Geneva. Soviet K.G.B. head Viktor
Chebrikov said a number of K.G.B. offi-
cials hadBeen punished for the illegal ar-
rest of a Soviet reporter last year who ex-
posed government corruption in a coal
mining area of the Ukraine.

President Reagan asked the Senate to
ratify two long-pending nuclear test-ban
treaties and said the treaties should not
take effect until the Soviets accept on-site
verification procedures.

Secretary of State George Shultz, on
a six-nation tour of sub-Saharan Africa,
met with Nigerian officials to discuss
ways of curbing “a considerable flow” of
heroin from Nigeria to the U.S.

Members of the South African United
Democratic front (UDF), an anti-apar-
“theid group, said South African au-
thorities detained without charge the
leader of. the group. Two newspaper
groups said they would launch legal chal-
lenges against the South African govern-
ment’s new bans on press reporting.

Iran attacked the Iraqi capital of
Baghdad and the port city of Basra. Iraq
said its troops repulsed the assaults. Ang-
lican envoy Terry Waite said “good prog-

fn a er a

tess” is being made in efforts to free the

American and French hostages being
held in Lebanon. Gunmen in Beirut kid-
napped a French reporter covering
Waite’s mission.

Philippine President Corazon Aquino
announced that local elections will be
held Aug. 24. About 30,000 ‘protesters

‘burned copies of her proposed new con-

stitution, which they charged is “pro-im-
perialist.” Moslem rebels blew up
bridges and knocked down power lines in
four southern provinces of the Philip-
pines.

The State Department said it has

begun a damage-assessment investiga-

tion following the arrest of a Marine
guard last month in Vienna at the U.S.
embassy. The marine is suspected of al-
lowing Soviet spies into embassies in the
Soviet Union and Austria.

China expelled from the Communist
party Shanghai writer Hu Yaobang for
his “bourgeois liberal” views and for his
handling of recent pro-Democracy stu-
dent demonstrations. Chinese leader
Deng Xiaoping said anti-socialist ideas
posed a greater threat to Chinese society
than thousands of protesting students. .

Federal and congressional inves-
tigators revealed data showing that the
CIA’s role in recruiting, training, and
arming the Nicaraguan rebels was greater
than the CIA or White House had previ-
ously acknowledged.

Across the Nation — A secret Sen-

~

ate Intelligence Committee report ob-

tained by"NBC said former National se- .

curity Advisor John Poindexter had
played a larger role in the Iranamok affair
than was previously suspected. The re-
port said Poindexter condoned the appar-
ently illegal diversion of Iran arms profits
to the Nicaraguari rebels because, “I felt
sorry for the Contras.”

Federal authorities in Puerto Rico
charged a hotel maintenance worker and
Teamsters union member with 96 counts
of murder in the Dupont Plaza hotel fire.

Federal rail officials said the engineer
and brakeman on a Conrail locomotive
that collided with an Amtrak train both
tested positive for marijuana. Officials
said the train was exceeding speed re-
strictions by 23 mph, but have not deter-
mined whether either of these factors
contributed to the fatal crash of Jan. 4.

The Supreme Court ruled 6-3 that
states may require employers to give
women disability leave for pregnancy
and childbirth. A Federal judge imposed
$115,000 in penalties on the Veterans
Administration for the unlawful destruc-
tion of thousands of documents the
agency had been ordered to produce in a
lawsuit.

NASA engineers said they are con-
tinuing plans to equip the space shuttle
discovery with an escape system for the

astronauts. Officials said a pre-flight test”

firing of Discovery’s.rockets will proba-
bly be needed. The launch is scheduled

—

for Feb. 18, 1988.

Members of Congress told Defense
Secretary Caspar Weinberger that Demo-
crats will seek ways to cut the Pentagon’s
$312 billion request for fiscal 1988. Sen-
ators also told Education Secretary Wil-
liam Bennett that Congress will reject his
plan to cut education spending by thirty
percent.

In Economic Headlines — The na-
tion’s jobless rate fell to 6.7 percent in
December, the lowest level since March
1980. Producer prices were unchanged,
resulting in a 2.5 percent drop for the year

1986, the. first annual producer price de-
cline since 1963.

Nations of the European Common
Market negotiated a realignment of the
European monetary system and agreed to
boost the German mark’s value by three
percent against the French franc. U.S.
and British officials said the two coun-
tries have signed a pioneering regulatory
agreement that will impose on banks of
Britain and the United States almost iden-

tical standards for levels of capital they:

must maintain.

The Dow Jones industrial average,
which measures thirty blue-chip stocks,
surpassed the 2,000 mark last Friday for
the first time ever. The indicator soared
to arecord close of 2035.01 Wednesday.
The Supreme Court decided 8-0 that

banks may operate discount brokerage

offices around the country. Five major

-

banks showed earnings gains of 4.9 per- -

cent to 30 percent for the fourth quarter.
