—

IN THE BEGINNING

By LAETA KALOGRIDIS '87

Conclusion from last issue

“Emma, you haven't said three words during the whole dinner.
What’s the matter tonight? Did something go wrong at work?”

“NO.” It was terse.

“Then why aren't you talking? Don't you feel like talking to me? No
relationship survives without communication.”

Silence. “I don’t feel like I have much to say tonight.” He was like a
magpie, sitting in the branches, watching in alarmas the leaves fluttered

in a futile dance to thé cold ground. And the ground grows colder every.

day, every hour, every minute. Chatter, chatter, chatter.

~~“ — He looks at me earnestly. “Will you come home with me tonight?”

“Yes.” Silence.

This was not the first time he had asked me to go home with him. And
I'd said yes many times before, and we'd slept together. But I felt noth-
ing, now. I said yes. I could have said no. I could have said nothing. 1
simply answered.

He let me into the house, holding the door for me. He had a reasona-
bly nice house. He was a reasonably nice man. I think he must have be-
lieved that my mood was a result of needing love. So he had decided to
love me, to try to drive any loneliness I might feel physically away. To
touch me with his body where he could not reach me with his mind.

He kissed me. Slowly, but there was no way to mistake his purpose.
He started to guide me, in a gently pursuasive way, into the bedroom.

Numb. Silence. The snow, falling. Somewhere outside, the snow fal-
ling on barren branches, waiting far the morning.

He didn't seem to notice that I had nothing to say. He didn't stop. He
kept touching me, and talking to me. He picked me up.

At that moment, swept off the floor in one smooth movement, my feel-
ing returned. My nerves awoke with frightening surety. And I had only
one sensation: | was falling. In his arms, in the air, | knew I was falling
from the side of the cliff that I had looked down so often. The sea
screamed. | remembered, hysterically, a description I had read of a
heroine in a novel, taken by the “delicious sense of falling” into her

lover’s arms. Mine was the sense of tumbling, beyond control, into an
abyss deeper than I could understand. Crying, falling, without thought
or comprehension or hope of any kind. I broke away from him. I ran out-
side, into the cold, throwing myself into the bite and sting of the wird. I
ran from him as fast as I could, into the night.

Minutes flew by me as I stumbled and rushed down the streets, inand
out of the cones of light. A few cars streaked by me, blaring their horns in
irritation. I caught myself by the side of the road, finally, gasping under
a streetlight.

There is a girl standing beside the road, on the corner, thin and cold.
Her clothes are tight. She has the taut look that only a woman working
her body can have. she stands, ready to sell herself, leg askew from her
body in an attempt to be alluring. She looks at me coolly. lam gasping
and gulping for air, fighting to keep my knees from collapsing beneath
me. Her eyes are ice. woe

Then, slowly, she lights a cigarette. The flame washes her face in sis-
terhood. Like a prophet she stands under the shower of the red stoplight,
waiting for an offer she dares not refuse. The cigarette glows in her
hand,as we stare.

What is she getting paid for, | wonder to myself. What is the currency
of security? Why do we look so much alike, she and I, standing on the
corner and wandering through the shopping malls, selling ourselves.
Cold alleys and company dinners. Pimps and junior partners. Tricks and
Peter.

Tricks. Laura taught me what the word meant. Before I met her |
thought that tricks were something magicians did. She thought that was
funny, my naive vocabulary.

Layout and-Graphic Design by SUDEEP SEN

Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

EDITORIAL :

Somewhere along the line there is a strange correlation
between psychological tension and creative output. I am not only basing
this on my personal experience but also judging by the enormous amount
of submissions I have received from the readers lately, despite the
academic stress increasing as the term enters its final phase.

This time we have the concluding part of the short story “In The Be-
ginning” which was published in the last issue. In the next couple of is-
sues we'll have the winning entries of the Vereen Bell, Charles Lloyd and
Windley fall writing contests this year.

Again, eagerly looking forward to your submissions for the coming

issues !
Yours truly,

SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

Ink and Pencil, 1986 . | “Sarah”

RICHARD \

I remember that night often. What a liar | am; I'm obsessed by that
night, by Laura's voice telling me something that 1 couldn't accept.
There were candles everywhere. That is something that | have never
been able to forget, allthese years later, something that I think will prob-
ably stay with me my whole life. Candles everywhere. The light was eerie
and shifting, and the shadows were constantly dancing around me. The
shadows were the spirits of the things that had died, or could never live.
A coat hanging on the wall has a strange and struggling life, a trapped
animation that can only be lived out in brief and hidden moments. When
the candle burns, the shadow tears itself from the coat and runs to the

wall, twisting with joy at the freedom. The coat hangs, paralyzed, on the
door.

Other things dance in thei
things I was seeing, the thin,
memory. Whirling around me
at the shells they had left beh
some sort of freedom that I d
I’m not sure right now why it\
firm conviction that I could
where. Away, intensely separ

Now I light candles mosti
remember best, because the)
whole. Laura was beautiful. .

