Opinions.

The Davidsonian

Friday, May 1,1987

_Students Against Apartheid urge divestment

—Kim Williams & Gordon Watkins—

Having studied the draft of the proposed revision of the
Statement of Davidson Trustee Endowment Investment
Policy, a group of students concerned about this investment
policy asks that you consider the following points. We are
opposed to the adoption of this draft because of the reasons
delineated below.

1. The Sullivan Principles no longer function as appro-
priate criteria for judging the effectiveness of U.S. corpora-
tions engaged in South Africa.

a. Rev. Leon Sullivan, the author of the principles, in-
tends to abandon them on May 31, 1987 because of their
___failure_to_bring about_any_significant degree of positive
change or improvement in the lives of the majority of the

———Marc Wennberg——

‘During the last few days I’ve been contemplating how
to write a letter to a world which is separated by more than
space. Should I appeat to emotions? Should I use rationale?
How could I bridge the gap of the experience which sepa-
rates us? At this point, I am still uncertain which direction |
should take. Perhaps honesty will guide me.

Four weeks ago I arrived in Managua, Nicaragua, a city,
which continues to reflect the destruction left by the earth-
quake of 1973 and the subsequent insurrection of 1979. My
initial experiences of travel, hostels, and restaurants al-
lowed me to perceive the natural beauty of the country. The
peaceful sunsets, the volcanic islands and the $1.50 steak
and beer at the corner restaurant obscured the reality of the
daily life of the Nicaraguans. It was only after I settled in
Managua did my own perspective begin to be challenged
by the harsh interactions with the people. The 45 minute
wait for an overcrowded bus lost it’s novelty: The com-
plaints of food shortages and rising prices confronted my
experiences of “cheap,” plentiful meals. The shack neigh-
borhoods stood in direct contradiction to the beauty which

(Just: Words

Tim

Brown

It’s early morning in America. A young fellow rolls
yawning out of bed, slides into his favorite torn Levis
and Bruce Springsteen T-Shirt, stretches to absorb the
sun glowing through his bedroom window, and decides
it’s a grand day to go looking for a job. Scratching his
two-day beard, he reads in the morning paper that
Honda’s hiring. He glances at a clock; it reads 7:00 a.m.
He grins thinking that he’ll have a job with Honda by
noon. By noontime, he has returned from Honda, job-
less. He rationalizes that the Japanese job interviewers
would have hired him if he had worn his Sunday best:
untorn Levis and an ironed Bruce Springsteen T-shirt.

This young fellow might have been hired by Honda
(chimpanzees someday “might” write Shakespearean
sonnets) if he had known what the reader is about to
learn: How to impress Japanese job interviewers.

One should not shake hands with the Japanese job
interviewers as if they were weestling coaches with
kung-fu grips. The Japanese are not enthusiastic han-
dshakers, thereby endearing themselves to Mrs. Man-
ners. However, one should not misinterpret the fine
manners of the Japanese to mean that they lack personal
warmth:

~ As soon as possible, the Japanese interviewers des-
ire to get beyond the applicant’s resume and into the
applicant’s character. They are impressed especially

African workers in the country.

b. The Sullivan Principles have not been implemented.

For example, the Fifth Principle of the code calls for
“increasing the number of Blacks, Coloureds and Asians in
management and supervisory positions.” Eight and a half
years after the introduction of the code (1986), 95-percent
of all managers in signatory corporations were white, while
only 2 percent were African. .

The Fourth Principle of the code calls for the develop-
ment of training programs to prepare non-whites for super-
visory, administrative, clerical and technical jobs. Today,
79 percent of the workers being trained for such positions
aré white. The proportion of non-white’ employees in-
volved in these programs has dropped by more than 50 per-
cent since 1984.

2. Several of the signatories of the Sullivan Code help

surrounded them. The reports of the war broke the peace-
fulness which was so easily experienced earlier. It was a
clash of two different perspectives which often left me
exhausted and emotionally drained. I began to see
Nicaragua through their eyes.

It’s from within this different perspective that I look to-
ward my own country, my home. Often I feel anguish and

guilt for the suffering which we have needlessly caused.

Our own ignorance, our lack of outside perspective is push-
ing Nicaragua towards more hunger and blood-letting.
Yes, the policy of our government is working; the war of
low intensity has served it’s purpose well.

“They Want To Demoralize Us” read today’s headline
in the independent newspaper, Nuevo Diario. That is what
is occurring here in.Managua, a demoralization. The sense
of common determination is being lost in the face of in-
creased scarcity. They no longer think in unity but rather in
finding food for their-family, even if it involves working
the black market. So yes, our policy is working. We are
winning and they are losing.

Monday I went to a birthday gathering in barrio Bello
Horizonte, a middle-class neighborhood in Managua. We
were sitting in a circle; Nicataguans, a few Cubans, and
myself; discussing the crisis of the economy and uncon-

when the applicant volunteers to speak sincerely and in
depth about his personality and his family. Japanese in-
terviewers enjoy hearing about an applicant’s big fam-
ily — the bigger the better — which they believe indi-
cates invaluable team spirit.

Many an American has waltzed through a job inter-
view without being asked specific questions about his
professional knowledge. Compared to such a waltz, an
interview with the Japanese is an aerobics class. Fred
Seitz expected to waltz a familiar pattern at a familiar
tempo in an interview with Japanese engineers at a new
Canon plant. Mr. Seitz turned up his internal metro-
nome when he was asked to take apart and to put back to-
gether a cigarette-packing machine while the Japanese
engineers waited with patience and encouragement.

The applicant must do what he thinks is humanly im-
possible: resist bringing up the topics of wages and op-
tions for upward mobility in the company. Although the
Japanese interviewers eventually bring up these topics,
they receive noticeably more pleasure from hearing
about the applicant’s child and grandmother than they
do from hearing about his financial goals and career as-
pirations. Japanese interviewers think about discussing
wages and upward mobility the way most Americans
think about preserving forests and beaches: What’s the
rush? The Japanese interviewers expect, perhaps un-
realistically in the American industrial setting, that after
an applicant receives a job from their company he will
desire’ to work with their company for as long as he is
physically and spiritually able.

Even if the second half of the interview goes into
double overtime, the applicant should keep his impa-
tient eyes off his watch. The Japanese interviewers will
assume, quite reasonably, that if one watches his
timepiece during an interview then he occasionally will
stop to watch his timepiece when on the job. The

a ans

to maintain the apartheid system,through sale of equipment
to South Africa’s military and security police.

Although they have supposedly “pulled-out” of the
country, IBM and General Electric continue to supply,
through South African license holders, computers and
other equipment that are used by the security police to im-
plement pass laws and other elements of influx control.

General Electric has also aided South Africa in the de-
velopment of its nuciear industry, even though the govern-
ment has refused to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty and is
suspected of having its own nuclear arsenal.

Despite its 1986 announcement that it would no longer
sell cars and trucks to the South African military and
police, General Motors similarly continues to supply the
repressive-apparatus of apartheid through an “independent”

Continued to page 12

| perspective on Nicaragua

sciously listening to the Hagler-Ceonard fight. One of the
Nicaraguans was criticizing the manner in which the San-
dinistas have handled the economy. His words were angry
and hard. Finally, he concluded his criticism by saying:
“However, the fact that a congress of a people can get to-
gether and vote for whether another people shall live or die
is absurd.” ue TT _

I have not raised the issues of freedom of press, reli-
gion, etc. for a reason. These are structures which are inhe-
rently understood within a closed perspective. Nor have I
raised the issue of proletarian exploitation, private prop-
erty, etc., for these too are structures of a closed perspec-
tive. At issue is not one ideology or another but rather the
rights of a people to live.

Finally, in comparison to the reality of the Nicara-
guans, my experience here is easy. I have sacrificed little
and in five months I too shall return to Davidson to finish
my studies. However, this experience has violently ex-
posed how closed our perspective is. Only after we accept
that other realities exist shall we begin to truly respect life. I.
urge you to consider this and if at all possible, come here
and experience it for yourself.

Marc Wennberg is a sophomore writing from Man-
agua, Nicaragua. .

How to get a job froma Japanese boss

Toyota-GM plant has no clocks and requires that its em-
ployees not wear timepieces.

Japanese job interviewers are impressed by an
applicant who is alert and gleaming with kinetic energy.
A stoic need not apply. Jim Ballengee, an employee of
NEC America, explains, “It helps to be a busybody ina
Japanese factory.” Japanese employers rarely have
trouble finding significant tasks for busybodies to com-
plete.

The Japanese routinely rotate workers through dif-
ferent jobs in order to steal workers away from boredom
and to encourage workers to assume more responsibili-
ties. If the Japanese interviewers take a liking to an
applicant, they ask him whether he would be willing, if
hired, to change job assignments and to take part in ap-
propriate training programs. The applicant is hited only
if he replies with an affirmative “yes.” Ira Perlman, vice
president at Matsushita Electric Corporation of Ameri-
ca, explains that. Japanese interviewers understand
“yes” to mean “maybe” and “maybe” to mean “the
applicant needs to look elsewhere for a job.”

The Japanese associate quality with cleanliness. At
the Honda plant in Marysville, Ohio, Japanese super-
visors devote the last fifteen minutes of every work shift
to “housekeeping.” In evaluating a prospective long-
term investment in human capital, the Japanese job in-
terviewers often assume that the quality of the applic-
ant’s workmanship is directly proportional to the clean-
liness of his appearance and language. So, the applicant
would do well to lather his body and his vernacular.

To jobless Americans who insist on wearing torn
Levis and Bruce Springsteen T-shirts to job interviews
with Japanese corporations, I offer as encouragement
these words of Emma Jackson, a spirited black woman
who has been making history in Charlotte for 103 years:
“It doesn’t matter what you wear. Just so it’s clean.”

_
