Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Superpower leaders

Headlining the news
November 27-December 10:
By KATHERINE PRICE

Around the World--U.S. President
Reagan and Soviet leader_Gorbachev
signed an INF (Intermediate Nuclear
Forces) treaty eliminating medium and
shorter range nuclear weapons. The agree-
ment, signed at the superpower summit
meeting in Washington, is the world’s first
treaty featuring nuclear weapons reduc-
tion. American opponents of the reduction
agreement fear that elimination of the
weapons will leave Europe (where the
majority of the weapons are based) vulner-
able to Soviet attack. Problems of verifica-
tion and the Soviet advantage in conven-
tional military forces are also chief con-
cerns. The summit agenda included discus-
sions involving human rights and emigra-

tion, the-Soviet presence in Afghanistan, _

and the Iran/Iraq conflict in the Persian
Gulf. No breakthroughs were made at the
summit meeting on these issues, but leaders
of both superpowers spoke of hope for.
future progress.

In Haiti, the first presidential elections in
thirty years were cancelled last Sunday,
amid violence which led to the deaths of 34

Photo essay:

The Fifth Annual North
Mecklenburg Christmas

Parade

Photos by Robert Nesbit

people. The ruling military junta, led by Lt.
Gen. Henri Namphy, dissolved the election
council and has announced that a new
council will be chosen and sworn in on

. Saturday. Opposition leaders denounced

actions of the military government and
demanded its resignation. The ruling mili-
tary junta stated that new election rules
would be published December 15. Opposi-
tion groups have vowed to boycott the
elections.

In the Philippines, government soldiers
captured Col. Gregorio “Gringo” Honasan,
an opposition leader who led an August
uprising that almost overthrew President
Corazon Aquino’s administration. As a
result of Honasan’scoupattemptin August,
53 people were killed. Honasan is consid-
ered one of Aquino’s strongest opponents.

The ruling Nicaragua Sandinistas sent
negotiators to meet with the opposition
Contra leadership in the Dominican Re-
public. The talks, which are part of the
Central American peace plan of August 7,
were mediated by Cardinal Obando. The
Sandinista government continues to insist
that U.S./Nicaraguan negotiations afe nec-
essary to end the conflict. The U.S. sup-
ports the Contras.

Oe wm ee

In a related matter, the Sandinista gov-
ernment is holding under arrest American
pilot James Jordan Denby, who they claim

‘has links to the CIA and contra leader
Calero. Denby’s plane was shot down in

southem Nicaragua, near the Costa Rican
border. Denby may be tried in Nicaragua,
as was American citizen Eugene Hasenfus
last year.

South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan
blamed North Korean communists for at-
tempting to undermine the 1988 Olympics
by causing the disappearance of a Korean
Air jetliner last Sunday. South Koreans
believe the plane crashed, killing 115
people, because North Korean terrorists
planted a bomb.

Conflict continues in the Persian Gulf
between Iran and Iraq, who have been at
war’ since 1980. Iran has stated, in UN-
sponsored negotiations, that it will not
agree to a cease-fire unless the UN recog-
nizes Iraq as the aggressor.

Across the Nation--Inmates in an Atlanta,
Ga. penitentiary reached an agreement last
Thursday night, after a twelve-day upris-
ing. Inmates had held 89 people hostage in
the prison while protesting U.S. treatment

sion INF treaty; prison crisis resolved

of Cubans. Cuban-born Roman Catholic
Bishop Agustin Roman pleaded with in-
mates to sign a pact ending the conflict.
Agustin Roman had recently helped solve a
similar crisis in Oakdale, La. _ —

The Senate Finance Committee voted
unanimously for a two-year $23 billion tax
increase which primarily would affect cor-
porations. The tax hike is likely to meet
opposition from Reagan and congressional
Democrats. The Senate offered the pro-
posal as part of the $76 billion deficit-
reduction agreement. Meanwhile, the
House of Representatives approved a $587
billion spending bill. A temporary exten-
sion for a spending bill expires Dec. 16.

Chicago Mayor Harold Washington died
last week of aheart attack. Eugene Sawyer
was chosen to replace Washington, a deci-
sion -which angered many Washington
supporters. Opponents fear Sawyer will not
adequately represent black and minority
interests.

James Burnley of North Carolina was
sworn in as the new Secretary of Transpor-
tation. Burnley replaces Elizabeth Dole,
who resigned to devote herself to cam-
paigning for her husband’s Republican
presidential nomination.
