Friday, March 20, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baseball Photo Preview

Pitcher, Bill Waitsman, (above) -fol-
lows through after a fastball.

AIENIART ARTS. -

Bn Nesbit Sui

Teammates congratulate Dave De-
Paul (No. 10, above right) after a

home run.

Dan Simonds (right) watches the op-
posing pitcher's curvebalb bite the

dust.

“gmelige wi

Chaucer on spring training in Florida

By ANDY BARRON

Not many people know that Geoffrey
Chaucer was not only the first major writ-
er of the English language, but also a
great baseball fan. Sure he could not hit a
curve, had a poor arm and had stopped
playing organized ball well before high
school. As this passage indicates, how-
ever, it was he who first came up with the
idea for spring training.
’  'Whan that April with his showres
soote

The droughte of March hath perced to
| the roote, _ ee
So priketh hem Nature in hir corages -

Thanne longen folk to goon on pil-
gramages °

This Middle English quote comes
_ from the “General Prologue” to The Can-
terBury Tales. For those who do not un-
derstand this demanding tongue, here.is a
modern translation.

When April with its showers sweet

The drought of March has made re-
treat,

Anyone with sense and courage

Does spring training as a pilgrimage.

Unfortunately for Geoff “Worm
Burner” Chaucer, spring training was im-

possible to implement in fourteenth cen-
tury England. First of all, the Normans
controlled the country and everyone
knows how the French cannot grasp
baseball. Secondly, there were no minor
league affiliates in southern England.
Most importantly, Florida had not been
discovered. Luckily for the twentieth
century fan, Florida and all its tacky
glory stands ready every March for the
invasion of players, coaches and fans
who flock to the Sunshine State to pre-
pare the annual installment of our na-
tional pastime.

The first official spring training took
place in 1886 when Harry Wright took
the Phillies to Charleston and Cap Anson.
took a dozen of his Chicago Cubs to Hot
Springs, Arkansas. Since Arkansas
hardly qualifies as paradise in March,
later teams have tried other locations.
The 1911 Yankees, for example, trained
in Bermuda. Sounds like a solid, distrac-
tion-free place to concentrate on the up-
coming season.

Today's teams practice either in
Florida, Arizona or California. For about
six weeks centering on March the big
leaguers slowly work themselves into
shape for the upcoming season. While

the workouts may be low-key, fan reac-
tion is not. The main reason major league
teams willingly lose so much money sup-
porting this spring ritual is the tremend-
ous publicity spring training generates.

And the fans do love it. To a baseball
fan, spring training means winter will in
fact end, the sun will shine, box scores
will appear in the daily paper and life
soon will return to normal. In March, a
nice day demands that the glove be don-
ned to play catch in anticipation of the
string of warm days baseball season
brings. No other activity will do.
Whether the fan actually goes to watch or
merely sees pictures or reads reports in
the paper of the goings on down south,
spring training creates all of ‘the above
emotions.

Over spring break I achieved a
lifelong goal of visiting Fort Myers,
Florida, winter home -of my favorite
team, the-Kansas City Royals. During
my visit I hoped to talk to such luminaries
as Bo Jackson, George Brett, ‘Bret
Saberhagen and, of course, baseball’s
premier groundskeeper George Toma.
Unfortunately, when my friends and I ar-
rived in the middle of the aftemoon, ev-
eryone had already gone home.

While I did get to see the field and get
my picture taken in front of the
clubhouse, I must admit the trip was
somewhat of a disappointment. Here was
the shrine of my pilgrimage empty of its
priests. The finely cut outfield, the sun-
shine and watching the groundsmen at
work did console me somewhat.

As we prepared to leave I saw the
great groundskeeper himself, George
Toma. I walked over to talk to him, but
before I could get his attention he went
into his office. Patiently I waited for his
retum and finally he came out. Then I

9.

Robert Nesbitl

asked my question: Do you think [|

Chaucer would approve of how spring
training is practiced?

Toma considered the question for -

sometime. His response is as follows:

“Andy, to be perfectly honest, I don’t
like Chaucer as much as the Romantics.
For me the biggest ball fan was Shelley,
and I know if he were alive today he’d
come every year for camp. After all, in
“Ode to the West Wind” he says ‘If
Spring Training comes, can Opening
Day be far behind?’”

I thanked him for his time and his
wisdom, knowing I was better for having
come to camp in 1987.

