Opinions

The Davidsonian
January 16, 1987

Sayres Rudy philosophis« es on fun and war

Sayres Rudy

About five billion two hundred million years ago, dur-
ing the Archeozoic Era, the earth’s crust formed and un-
icellular organisms came into being. A few days later a
huge creation named Adam suddenly existed. Lonely and
without a phone, he ran into Eve, married a gorilla and
that’s how we got where we are now. It is for this reason
that any argument between “evolutionists” and
“creationists” is silly. Both groups are right and ought to
get along better at parties.

Later, about 440 million years ago, long after all the
conodouts, ostracods, algae, primitive ammonites, and so
on had popped up, earth entered the Mesazoic Era. Geo-
logists, Talmudic scholars, and archelogists have un-
earthed evidence indicating that the Mesazoic Era was a lot
of fun. Although the descendants of Adam and Even did
not mix confortably with the likes of the Tyrannosaurus
Rex, the volcanic activity and development of dinosaurs
and conifers provided hours of excitement. But suddenly,
by the end of the Cretaceuos Sub-era, the huge creatures

were wiped out, and the planet earth had to start again with

the advent of modem insects and flowering plants. The
huge beings, some of which even had two brains, were sim-
ply obliterated. That was the end of fun for a while. It was
also the end of all the fighting and struggle that had been
going on.

The explanation for the temporary obliteration of Fun
and War so long ago remains unknown. Theories, as usual,
abound. Twentieth-century scientist Gary Larson
suggested that the dinosaurs became extinct because they
did drugs. Larson, of course, also showed us that during the
much-later glacial epoch a man asked his neighbor, “Say,
Thag, Wall of ice is closer today?” Clearly, accoring to
Larson, the large beings saw what was happining, “they
know what they were getting into,” but they let disaster
strike anyway. Later, when we discuss the twentieth cen-
tury, we'll see how this same phenomenon occurred again,
to brighter beings. Hm . . . The other theory about the end
of the Cretacious period states that a huge meteor bashed
into the side of planet earth, raising enough dust and dirt
and dinosaur chips to block the sun and halt Photosyn-
thesis. Perhaps that was when the dinosaurs and everybody
else started doing drugs. Of course, if a meteor were re-
sponsible, the beings on earth would be absolved of Blame.
After all, who would intentionally halt Photosynthesis?

Well, Humanity, Blame, and Photosynthesis proved to
be resilient characters, and they survived. It would be a
long time before > Humanity understood Photosynthesis, but
Humanity did understand Blame. Blame, of course, was
created when Eve bit into an apple, which God had forbade
because He knew apples made Eve gaseous.: It was impor-
tant, He felt, that Adam be attracted to Eve. Anyway, Hu-
manity understood Blame, and used it effectively. Humans
used Blame to organize their Thinking and their Societies.
Through Blame Humans enabled themselves to decide
which people and ideas were right and which were wrong.
This decision-making process came to be called Morality.
Morality was the tool with which Humanity set its collec-
tive mind at ease. Societies could rest assured, knowing
who was good and superior and, of course, who was bad
and inferior. Humanity, you see, devised Morality based
on Blame because without agreement on good and bad,
constant Thinking had to go on. And constant Thinking,
Humans quickly learned, was insufferable. This is also
why sports and sex were created on earth. The latter items,
called Fun, were more enjoyable than Morality; therefore,
Humanity divided itself into those who had Fun and those
who made Morality. Those who made Morality were called
Leaders, and those who had Fun were called Public, or
sometimes Masses. They did not call themselves Followers
because that would not have been fun. Honesty was not al-
ways Fun.

Thus did Life go on, in apparent harmony and under-
standing, until Humanity. saw a strange thing happen to
Morality. It appeared to be shooting itself in the foot. It
seemed to go-too far. Morality became the reason to en-
Slave, torture, and kill. But these acts did not seem Moral.
Finally, Morality became the reason for Immorality. That
caused confusion, rather than peace of mind. Even Reli-
gion did not seem to help Morality. A man named Jonathan
Swift said that people had just enough Religion to Hate, but
not enough to Love other people. A man named Khalil Gib-

ran said, “Was unto a nation, where religious groups are
numerous, but Religion is absent.” Others, named Buddha,
Lao Tzu, Jesus, and others tried but not enough Humans
listened. So others named Nietzsche and Dostoyevski and
Hesse and Camus and Vonnegut and others tried again.
They asked whether Humanity should accept the decisions
of Leaders about what Morality is. They suggested that in-
dividual little Humans rethink and question Morality, and
‘that Compassion and Concern and Thinking by all people
could make Humanity improved and Happier. It might
even be Fun. But Thinking had made Humans unhappy in
the first place. This presented a conflict. Oooh. What could
resolve this conflict? Hmm, .

The Twentieth Century, that’s what. Early in that cen-
tury a Great War started, in which Humans were ordered to
stand up and charge into machine-gun fire in the Name of
Morality: And they did it. The Leaders had decided. Fi-
nally it stopped. The 1920’s were more Fun. The 1930's
were not. People were poor and hungry. Then another war
started, largely because people were poor and hungry. In
this war, people could fight from farther away, often not
seeing the enemy, because of Improvement in Military
Technology. This was sustenance for Morality. Horrible
acts could be justified, because pain unseen was okay. But
Morality’s demise still séemed certain. A Leader named
Hitler ordered his followers to murder every Jew, gay,
gypsy, and others they could find, in the Name of Morality.
And they did it. The Leader had decided. Finally that
stopped. Then a Leader named Truman ordered his Follow-
ers to drop Atomic Bombs on Japanese civilians, in the
Name‘ of Morality. And they did it. The leader, you see,
had decided. Finally it stopped. Birds were heard chirping
again.

As you can see, the-forces that had brought Humanity to
that point — Blame and Morality and‘ War and Thinking
and Fun and Leaders and Followers and, of course, Photo-
synthesis, thought it still: went unnoticed — were battling
for Huamnity’s attention. Like buoys floating free on the
wary ocean during a storm, rising and falling. But Morality
had taken the most serious blows. There on its death bed, it
revived itself by becoming Anti-Communism and, natur-
ally, Anti-Capitalism. Too bad, too, because if Morality
had learned the right lesson from the horror of the first half
of the century Morality might have survived longer, and
maybe even had a house in the suburbs. It had only to learn
to live without Blame. But then of course Morality isn’t re-
sponsible for itself, Humans are responsible. Hm... .

Nothing had stopped really. They was Korea and Viet-
nam, Eastern Europe, and Afghanistan. All in the Name of
Morality. How many spirits, poets, tovers, babes killed in
War. Not seen again. Neven to laugh or have Fun. Good-
bye.

So you see, by the twentieth century, things on earth
were strange. The latest records we have from that century
— some newspapers and an essay or two — indicate that by
1986 there was little hope. While the 1950’s had mostly
been fun, the 1960’s had not. Especially in the place called
United States of America, the only country of its size old
enough and decent enough to be a Democracy. Unfortu-
nately democracy equated itself with Morality and Blame.
And so did everybody else. By the time it all ended, Hu-
manity was spending $1.7 million a minute on military
goods, while in the same minute dozens of children died of

hunger and sickness that could habe been cured with inex-

pensive food and vaccinations. The United Nations
couldn’t afford to enjoy ice water anymore. And one new-
paper article said that, “A tiny Azores island which boasts
only two cars, a dozen tractors, and one road has had its
first traffic accident.” Simply put, the World was going to
Hell. ~

The problem in America, of course, was that the Lead-
ers and Followers had become so separated and distin-
guishable that each operated in its own realm, and tried to
keep out of the other’s way. Followers stopped voting and
Leaders protected themselves by establishing Morality as
their declared goal and self-description, and by establish-
ing peculiar requirements for entrance into its sacred fold.
Each candidate for Leadership had to be Moral and had to
be a former soldier, astronaut, football player, actor or
graduate from an exclusive and expensive series of
schools. These requirements were not much Fun, and some
‘were damn dangerous, and most Followers shied away.
And something sad happened.

The Followers finally felt alientated from the Leaders.
Morality, you see, was dying, which agitated the Thinking

of Followers. And the Leaders had to cheat, lie, and steal to
pretend politics could be Moral. But the Followers found
out about some of the secrets being kept from them by their
Leaders, and the Followers got angry. They got angry be-
cause Congress, a part of the Leadership, gave them per-
mission to get angry. Congress, you see, got angry too. It
didn’t like what the President and his Advisors were doing
in Vietnam, a faraway place. What they were doing was
this: they were secretly bombing Laos and Cambodia, also
faraway places, and killing innocent people. This was not a
secret to the Humans in Laos and Cambodia. When the -
Leadership divided and many American Humans got
angry, a funny thing happened. The Followers became the
Leaders and the Leaders became the Followers. The Presi-
dent resigned. True story. Maybe Morality was back.

A Leader named Ronald Reagan — one of the very last—
presidents before it all came to an end — believed Morality
was back. Boy did he believe. In Anti-Communism, good
versus evil, us against them. Yep, the whole bit. And the
people believed. Easy answers. Sigh of Relief. No more
Thinking. And most important, lots more Fun. The two
realms could go back to avoiding each other again. Leaders
would “reduce” Government and Followers would smile
and go about their business. Objection was unacceptable
because the Leaders said so; Congress and the President
were Friends again. And together they, too, had Fun. They -
illegally mined Nicaragua's borders, invaded a place called
Grenada under a media blackout; created artificial arms
talks in order to build MX missiles that the Followers didn’t
want, distributed assassination instructions to nasty people
called Contras, attempted an illegal assagsination plot
against the nasty leader of a sovereign state, incidentally
slaughtering dozens of citizens, and then disinformed (lied
to). the--press to prepare the next plot. Nasty. Yuchy.
Whether it was right or wrong, all that ichy stuff was secret.
till it was too late. Guess what. Right. No one objected.
The Leaders had not said it was okay to object. Ho-hum. -
Business as usual.

But in late 1986 a new Congress said unto the follow-
ers, “Uh, it’s okay, you can come out now.” Right! Just
like when Glenda the Good Witch told the Munchkins they
could come out, in the Wizard of Oz, a twentieth century
movie. The Munchkins danced and sung and told the story
about how the Witch of the East was killed. One Munchkin
started with the famous twister and continued, “And oh,
what happened then was rich.” And that’s what the Follow- -
ers said as they sung about the death of Reagan Leadership,
also killed by a House, and something called the Iran Scan-
dal. Oooh. It was soon called Irangate, a distortion of
sematics and facts that reflected a lurking desire in the
minds of the press and Followers to stand twenty paces
from their Leaders and point the accusing finger of, Yayo!,
Blame!

But why did it give the Followers such satisfaction and
amusement to watch their leaders squirm under the pres-
sure of Inquisition? Why. did they look on with the same
cynicism that guided them to loathe highway patrols and
everybody else out there to serve them? Was the Iran Scan-
dal worse than what had gone on before? Was it more dis-
honest and sleazy? It was stupid, and it was dishonest and
sleazy, and it could only work against America’s own polit-
ical and economic interests. True enough. But was it Mor-
ality worse than what had gone on for six years without a
peep from the Followers? Who could say?

Morality was finally dead. Like the Wicked Witch, and
the Reagan Presidency, the second to last Presidency in the
History of what they all called the United States of Ameri-
ca.

And how did that happen? How did it all come to an
end.

Well, for those answers I turn to one of those essays I
mentioned earlier, that we in the field have used to gather
our history of earth as it was two hundred million years ago.
The essay which inspired me and.served as the backbone of
my presentation here today, was found in a metal box far
down beneath the le of what was then known‘as Jor-
dan, a counta-th ihe so-called Near East. Careful tests date
the contents of the box to 1987, a date confirmed by some
‘of the newspaper articles and writings. The material was
damaged slightly, but it appears that the person who left us
this information was named Sayers Rudy. I am indebted to
him or her, and I don’t mean to make fun when I say that it’s
interesting to know that as late as 1987 there were still

ople who thought writing essays would make a differ-

Continued on page 11
