THE DAVIDSONIAN

_. Mark Chen, Keith Finch, Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor

David Williams, Associate Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors

Tom Moore, Features Editor Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor
Hap Bi, ant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers
Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager’ Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

- Tradition

There has been a lot to criticize about the Davidsonian these past.few
weeks. Many groups complain about the lack of coverage for newswor-
thy events. I have to agree with most of their complaints, Many events
get missed which should receive space in the Davidsonian.

However, this is not a plot on the part of our staff..Often we cannot
find reporters to cover a story. We have to make hard choices about the
most important stories, and try. to cover other events as best we can.
Sometimes we fail to learn about all the events on campus or else forget
them in the rush to handle a paper along with our academic loads.
Perhaps those who participate in Davidson sports can sympathize.

These are not excuses, but they are explanations. Until we have a
larger and more experienced staff, Davidson will have to put up with
these mistakes and omissions. I would like to offer more than apologies
and pleas, but I can’t.

I have been meaning to write about the Davidson tradition since last

week, but I discovered one problem. What is this tradition? Our anonym- |

ous writer of the last issue offered one definition, but the recent past has
offered another. Last Saturday, vandals went through Little and Watts,
breaking televisions and tearing out phones. Any number of windows
have been broken this year. The lightpost on Patterson Court got at-
tacked. Every few weeks, it seems that another part of Davidson has
been broken or destroyed.

Has vandalism become a Davidson tradition? Some people shrug and
Say it is inevitable when people get drunk. BUt there is a difference be-
tween drunk and going berzerk. If Davidson does mean trust and the
Honor Code, then we should control ourselves or control others who are
getting out of hand. Instead, the guilty go free while we pay for their
damage. Will we keep quiet even when it is against our self-interest?

Another tradition has come up with the issue of vandalism. We have
a habit of blaming someone, anyone, for whatever is wrong with David-
son. The administration blames the students, students blame security,
faculty blame the fraternities. We get into this dreary cycle of accusation
and countercharge, not really listening to each other.

In any case, few attitudes are changed by preaching (sorry, President

Kuykendall). Perhaps students have become moral degenerates over the

_ years, but that does not take away anyone’s responsibility. Arguments

between generations do not reveal very much. The need of the moment is

for solutions. We must do what we can to prevent vandalism, not wait for
students to become perfect Davidson gentlemen and ladies.

This past weekend has shown the utter failure of one solution. The
rationale behind the changes in housing has been that upperclassmen will
be a moderating influence on freshmen. The latest damage has happened
in upperclassmen dorms. Even if locks had been on all of the dorms, they
would not have stopped davidson students. Better ideas must exist some-
where for preventing vandalism.

Hl

There is one obvious way to reduce vandalism. I have noticed that
nearly all female floors are clean and free of broken glass. Richardson
has not suffered like Belk. For whatever reasons, women do not get that

destructive. Maybe if we admitted more women, we could raise the

moral fiber of our school? Perhaps the trustees could respond to this sug-

gestion?
ais

RULeUbT ons:

THE DAMDSONIAN

Bespin

Was: >aP--

-Wednesday, April 15, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

—Cloudt’s

Re we ae

“BEFORE WE GARRY OUT SENTEWCE> AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL WANTS To GIVE You A WARM FUZZY.

Apartheid —

To the Editors:

I hate the “anti-apartheid” posters dis-
played on Chambers steps.

_ Racism and oppression are two of the
worst evils that our society has to deal with.
Since they are such a serious problem, it’s
absolutely imperative that we deal with
them intelligently and effectively.

The reason I hate the “anti-apartheid
protests”, as you called them in last week’s
paper, is because they are not anti-apar-
theid; they are pro-divestment. They assert
that the only solution to South Africa’s
problem is to sell all of Davidson’s invest-
ments. Sell them to whom? White South
African businesses. Maybe that would
“make a statement” to the companies, but it

Letters

also puts all the power in their hands.

Can we influence the*system in South
Africa by surrendering our control to ra-
cists? Of course not. We need to assert our
influence in South Africa as much as possi-
ble by the non-discriminatory hiring poli-

cies of American companies right there in

the country. Standing on this side of the
world’ shaking our heads in disapproval
isn’t going to do the victims any good.

One of the Rusk scholars brings up the
example of a British bank with offices in
South Africa. The bank ran schools for the
blacks in the area. When protests like the
ones we’ve seen forced them to get out of
South Africa, the schools closéd.

I am ashamed of some of my fellow stu- ~
dents tendency to look for the simplest, not
the best solution to a very complex prob-
lem. I am relieved that Davidson’s trustees
have more sense.

Lucia Kendall ’90

dents of Davidson College. Address

Lee, Matt Yaun. -

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-
correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 882-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates.
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy
Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, Aaron Levine,
Sarah Longely, Ed Matthews, Ray Thornton, David Van Pelt, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Priscilla Fauce
Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller, ;
Sports Staff: Rick Case, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mathewes, Susan Wilkins
Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie, Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong ;!

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. -

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger,
Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibb
Strickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.
Circulation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta

rates avail-

tte, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin,

'y Sowell, Kathryn

