Wednesday, April 15, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Sarah Longley at 892-6167.

News Shorts

Phi Beta Kappa Members For Davidson Announced

Cheerleading squad holding tryouts
Tryouts for the 1987-88 Cheerleading squad begin April 20, 7-9 p.m. in
Johnston Gym. Anyone needing further information or details should contact

Material contributed by Sarah Longely

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Solidarity Day II canceled due to bad weather
. Solidarity Day Il, originally scheduled for April 4, was cancelled due to in-
clement weather. According to Senior Marc Gosnell, there was not another open
date on the calendar to reschedule the event for this year. He hopes that another
Solidarity Day will be scheduled early next fall. Last year’s Solidarity Day was
held in response to a Ku Klux Klan march on Main Street in Davidson.

graduate Juried Show in Chapel Hill.

Davidson artist wins UNC undergraduate competition
A lithograph titled The Great Curve by Mike Jarmon, a junior art major at
Davidson College, won the “best in show” award at the North Carolina Under-

Material contributed by College Relations

‘College Relations

Mike Jarmon and prize-winning artwork (left)

The following students were elected to the membership of Phi Beta Kappa

on ats 6, 1987:

John Miles Abernathy III
Sheryl Lynn Aikman
Frances Lanier Sykes Alexander
Steve Ragsdale Baskin
Laura Taylor Batten

Dawn Renuka Bhasin
Elizabeth Anne Lee Bowers
Christine DeVore Bretscher
Elizabeth Howard Carlton
Mary Moir Chapman
Mark Hsin-Tzu Chen
‘Boyd Wayne Coggins, Jr.
Diane Lynn Duvall

Reubie Holliday Gaston
Ellen Anne Harding

John Kirk Harper

Michael McElwee Holt
Cristopher Nicolas Jones
Laeta Elizabeth Kalogridis
Jennifer Susan Link
Michael Andrew McDonald
Christine Marie Mcguire
Kathleen Mary Micham
Anne Christine Montrem
Howard Bromley Moyes
Daniel Beasley Murrey
Edwin Leonard Page
Katherine Ellen Prillamen
Sheley Rene Revis
Douglas Brewster Robelen
Mark Steven Sandy

Scott Christopher Saye
Joseph Paul Simpson
Michael Charles Stephens
Whitney Lynne Stevens
Deborah Jo Stiehr

‘Mary Malin Van Antwerp
George Oliver Wagner V
Basil Gordon Watkins III
David Joyce Whité III _
Edward Croft Wilson, Jr.
Julian Hugh Wright, Jr.

Beyond Davidson

By KATHERINE PRICE
Headlining the news for April 3-14:
Around the World — The Soviet

Union announced the expulsion of six
Frenchmen on Sun., April 5. The expul-

. sions came in retaliation of France’s ex-
pulsion of six Soviets for espionage three
days earlier.

Soviet espionage at the new U.S.em- |
bassy in Moscow has created a perceived
security threat for the U.S. The embassy
incidents preceded the three-day arms -
control meeting between U.S. Sec. of
State Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister
Shevardnadze that began on Mon. The
U.S. is considering providing a special
communications trailer for private con-
versations between Shultz and
Washington. Prior to his trip, Shultz des-
cribed the U.S. administration as
“damned upset” about the Soviet actions.
The U.S.S.R. responded by claiming
that they were the victims of U.S. SapiOn-
age efforts.

SOviet leader Gorbachev postponed
a trip to Prague, Czechoslovakia for sev-
eral days, due to a slight cold. :

U.S. Pres. Reagan met in Ottawa
with Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney last week for talks which fo-
cused on problems of acid rain. Mul-
roney insisted that the Reagan Adminis-
tration’s recent $2.5 billion research pro-
posal on acid rain was not enough,
Reagan responded by agreeing to consid-

er Mulroney’s proposal of negotiations
for a bilateral accord on the matter.

The U.S. and Japan have failed to
agree on trade i issues, making the imposi-
tion of U.S. tariffs on Japanese electronic
imports almost certain.

Japanese opposition parties claimed
significant victories in nationwide local
elections. Prime Minister Nakasone,
who had proposed an unpopular sales
tax, now faces difficulties in enacting his
economic programs.

_Northern Ireland experienced: mob
violence amid funeral délays for slain
Irish Republican Army guerrilla, Lawr-
ence Marley. As police fought the angry
crowds, eleven people were hurt.

Chadian Pres. Hissene Habre, exul-
tant after recent Chadian military vic-
tories against Libya, announced his wil-

_lingness to discuss peace with Libyan

leader Qaddafi. On Sat., however, Libya
bombed an Chadian air base they had
deserted.

Qaddafi recently announced his des-
ire for “rapprochement” with the U.S.,

_ Stating that he believed U.S./Libyan rela-.

tions could i improve following the 1988
U.S. elections.
‘Pope John Paul II observed violence

~ in Chile as anti-government demonstra-

tors rioted during his mass. The Pope
ended his two-week South American tour

’ in Argentina.

In China,- - officials ordered the clo-

Soviet/French expulsions, security issues ‘for the U: ‘

sure of 39 popular magazines. Such

-measures follow a three-month-old gov-

ernment crackdown on Western influ-
ences. _

_ Across the Nation — U.S. officials
reacted to last week’s arrest of three
Marine embassy guards with great alarm.

As mentioned previously, the adminis- |’

tration feared U.S. security had been se-
verely compromised by the incident in
Moscow, in which Soviets were allowed
access into the U.S. Embassy. The new
U.S: Embassy, constructed with prefzb-
ricated materials from the U.S.S.R., re-
portedly had been bugged by the Soviets.

. Pres. Reagan responded by barring the

Soviets from moving into their new em-
bassy. in Washington until assurances are
made that the U. S. dpi cad in Moscow
18: SCCULE, =>

Pres. Reagan lost. an important legis-
lative battle last Fri., when N.C. Senator
Terry Sanford switched his vote in favor

_of overriding Reagan’s veto of a $87.5

billion highway bill.

FBI Director
whose confirmation hearings for the pos-
ition of CIA Director began on Wed.,
promised to inform Congress on covert
operations if confirmed:

New York Rep. Jack Kemp an-
nounced his candidacy for the Republi-
can presidential nomination. He joined

‘ex-Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont and ex-

Sec. of State Alexander Haig as Republi-

‘Babbitt,

reinstated by the N.J. Supreme Court.

William Webster,

cans who have officially announced can-
didacy.

Ex-Colorado Sen. Gary Hart joined
the list of Democratic candidates who
have made official announcements — a
group including ex-Arizona Gov. Bruce
Missouri Rep. Richard
Gephardt, and political extremist Lyndon
LaRouche. Tenn. Sen. Albert Gore and
Illinois Sen. Paul Simon stated that they
also will seek the Democratic presiden-
tial nomination.

' Surrogate
Whitehead

mother
had

Mary” Beth
visitation _ rights

She will be allowed to visit her hag
two hours weekly.

A PTL lawyer has reported the sus-
pension of monthly payments to Jessica
Hahn, the woman involved in a 1980 sex-
ual encounter with ex-PLT Pres. Jim
Bakker.

In Economic News — Texaco, Inc.
became the largest U.S. company to file
for bankruptcy protection on Sun.
Texaco filed Chapter 11, delaying a $11
billion judgment to Pennzoil Co. Repor-
tedly, the daily operations of Texaco, the
country’s third biggest oil company, will
not be affected. The stock market value
for both Texaco and Pennzoil fell Mon.
by acollective $1.5 billion.

The U.S. dollar fell to a record low
against the Japanese yen on Fri. — down
2.90 yen fo 142.50. a

