Wednesday, January 28, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN=

11

—Avr- international view of Davidson |

Diane Zengel

When I came to Davidson I did not share the anti-Amer-
_ ican attitudes that a lot of Germans hold today; my attitudes
had yet to be formed. I was determined to adapt as well as
possible and to tolerate even the less pleasant aspects of this
coyntry in general and of Davidson in particular. I wanted
my stay abroad to.be not only an academic experience, but.
also a cultural and a personal one. The first letters I had re-
ceived from the College suggested that I would be able to
study in an “atmosphere of trust and responsibility” and to
take an active part in the “promotion of German-American
relations.” ;

- During the first months I discovered both positive and
negative aspects of my new environment, but I always
managed to integrate the positive as well as the negative ex-
periences into the one global picture of a great enrichment
of my life.

.I criticized the often unreasonable amount of work-

trips and activities. Yes, it’s true: ] was and Iam unwilling
to walk up to people and to ask them for the favor to offer
me something which they obviously are not able or inter-
ested enough to offer themselves. I saw and I see myself as
a guest in a foreign country and I am still waiting for my
hosts to make me feel comfortable in this country by shar-
ing its beauty and its ugliness with me. My own efforts
mainly consisted of talking to people (but mostly didn’t
change much), of inviting people (but they didn’t show up
or were “just stopping by”), of taking part in on-campus ac-
tivities (which are, of course, nice butcan hardly satisfy the
need for a comprehensive cultural experience). I tried to
plan interesting trips for my holidays and gladly accepted
help and support from the exceptions among the people |
met. By now, my efforts are almost limited to the self-per-
suasion that the pure academic enrichment is justification

. enough for this year abroad. Such a justification is neces-

sary considering the sacrifices you make, when thankfully
accepting the scholarship: You give up your home for a

long time, you risk friendships and, maybe, a serious:

liaison; you usually. cannot transfer you grades, thus losing
one year for your studies at home.

load, but also appreciated the high academic standard of the —

College.

I enjoyed the friendliness of the Americans I met and
experienced it as a pleasant contrast to German sulkiness.

1 wrote enthusiastic letters home describing the beauty
of the College and of the landscape surrounding it.

My friends, in turn, sent letters which expressed as-
tonishment or even anger about my already being totally
“Americanized.”

Talking to me now you will soon notice that this posi-
tive state must have gone under a major change. My present
attitudes towards Davidson, America and Americans are
— as I freely admit — not only extremely negative, but rep-
resent also a certainly distorted point of view.

What brought about this change?

I want to give a description of some of the disappoint-
ments I experienced which are, at least in part, an answer to
this question. I am neither able nor do I intend to be fair and
objective; my intention is to give a subjective picture of my
feelings and of what I think to be their reason. It should be
needless to point out that I still appreciate the friendship,
help, and character of the few truly interested individuals I
found.

The “few truly interested individuals” are those who
don’t suffer from what was to become the major shock for
me: indifference.

It’s an indifference that hides itself behind the prover-
bial American friendliness. Not without reason, the ques-
tion “How are you?” is an empty phrase, practically with-
out any meaning. The indifference shows up when action is
required.

I hardly met any American who did not attentively lis-
ten to my problems and did not make some understanding
remarks. When-I complained about feelings of imprison-
ment and about my wish to escape this prison by making
some trips into the nearer environment, everybody nodded
and everybody understood. A lot of people even felt the
same way — but their friendly smiles never brought me to
the Cherokee reservation in the Smokies or to Charlotte or
to Winston Salem.

Meanwhile I have been accused of “rotten attitudes”
and of an unwillingness to bring about changes by making
proposals and by asking people directly to organize certain

\
:

Call for Apt.
Sat 8-1 Mon-Fri 9-5

SCA Wort System With
Nuvalanium Lights
Wott

SYS

T & R TANNING SALON
202 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
MILDRED WATTS

Spring Break. 19.95

ALA A IS SLA DLA DAS AD ALLS DA AMSD DPD SD SOD PSD SD ADS te

BUS: (704) 892-3907

It's also enhanced by the system of the Honor Code
which undermines the development of the self-responsibil-
ity and of own standards of value. Thus, it can happen that -
students simply close their ears when somebody is about to
tell them an Honor Code violation; or that the mere ex-
change of ideas is prevented by a blind fear to violate the
rules which are imposed from above. Here we may also
find part of the reason for the uniformity and lack of indi-
viduality which strongly contradicts the American’s favor-
ite idea of their country as a “melting pot” of many cultures.
Just whatever this melting pot contains — it melted pretty
well!

There are differences from individual to individual,
from north to south, from east to west. The overall appear-
ance, however, of Americans, their way of life, and of the
environment they create is astonishingly uniform — not
only at first sight. When I claim that America is a land with-
out culture, then this statement is not based on its number of
old churches and castles which naturally must be overall.
This statement is based on a careful look at the indifference
which characterizes the way Americans live in and with
their environment. America’s culture is smothered for the

A lot of international students will have a hard time
being satisfied with an academic enrichment (which, by the
way, also isn’t the rule: I myself was extremely lucky with
both my courses and instructors). Thus, it’s simply not
enough to point at a high academic standard and to declare
that, unfortunately, the town of Davidson is not as over-

whelming for a European as Wurzburg, for instance, might.

be for an American. 7
It’s not the College’s fault that Davidson is neither an
interesting nor, at least, a centrally located pldce. But then,

it should be the College’s goal and task to actively help the:

international students in making their stay more thrilling
(not only academically exhausting).

Offering short weekend trips would be the first step to
do this; it would also be a nice gesture to start such action
before anh international student faint-heartedly makes a pro-
posal or, at least, before some more radical person starts
writing an article for The Davidsonian.

Maybe indifference or other serious reasons will hinder
the College from improving its international program.
Then, so my suggestion, the College should try to give all
future international students an absolutely realistic preview
of what they have to expect.

Should I realize that Davidson College does not intend
to change its international policy then I would see myself
forced to inform at least the students in my own home. uni-
versity of what they have to expect from Davidson — and
not from most of the students here.

The latter point is important, because the few students
who don’t suffer from the indifference disease will never be
able to make up for the rest of the students who are about to
pass away from it. Anyway, the indifference will always be

a-part of the American experience and it has a lot of faces.
Indifference is not only a major reason for the described
passiveness, yet underlies many phenomena which foreig-
ners often regard as “typically American.” Orie of these
phenomena certainly is a (political and cultural) ignorance’
which sometimes reaches incredible dimensions, for in-
stance when somebody, without even blushing, admits his
not knowing of what the Contras in Nicaragua are. This
(political and cultural) ignorance is enhanced by an
academic workload which doesn’t leave the time for re-
flecting and thinking about the, learned material.

l

FIRST UNION

Zengel is an exchange student from West Germany

sake of a very doubtful “progress.” Culture gets lost in a
country where a town is nothing but a straight line of
McDonald’s, motels, and gas stations; where even wine is
served in plastic glasses; where the roadside closely resem-
bles trash deposits as soon as you leave the clean National
Park; where people go to several parties on one evening,
unable to spend more than one or two hours together with
close friends; where the waiter brings the bill while you're
just swallowing you last bite.

American's, however, tend to interpret this lack or des-
truction of culture as a mixture of many. I’m tempted to
diagnose that the minority — complex behind this strategy
must be a big one — at least, this is my personal explana- -
tion for an ultra-nationalism which is often based on such a
hypocritical veiling of the true facts. Accordingly, educa-
tional centers such as the Kennedy Space Center or Disney
World (yes! This is not only an amusement park, but also a
center for education!) wipe out the dark spots of Ameri-
can’s past and present and prophesize a glorious future.

The exaggerated feeling of national pride is enhanced
by all means; the flags which are waving at every comer are
certainly the most harmless ones. Then it’s particularly bit-
ter to see the poverty of so many people in the States or to_
take a look at the reservations of the American Indians.

Davidson as an elité college is also part of this county’s
educational system: It should fight indifference but, in fact,
promotes it by creating an atmosphere of academic pres-
sure and restriction. Unfortunately, education and open-
mindedness don’t increase with the amount of workload
and rules.

My own experiences as well as conversations with
Davidson students suggest that the College climate often
forces people into a passiveness towards everything that
isn’t connected with their studies. No wonder then,. that a
lot of students regard themselves as victims of the system.
Victims, usually, feel too powerless to change anything!
Today someone told me to make my time here a more valu-
able .experience and to bring about change by offering
something to Davidson, thus receiving by giving.

This was what I have to offer Davidson: my opinion.

Mon-Thurs. 9-5
Fri. 9-6

Main St. Davidson

