Friday, May 1, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cheap Seat Comments

{

sa

phuagisnetit

fos Seegae esate:

te . ‘f or

Ligis Shs RR At: Sa ee

7

The Designated Hitter is an unnecessary player

Baseball needs the DH. How else

could old, fat, slow, poor fielding slobs «

like Greg Luzinski play for as long they
do. Also, look at the strategy the DH
creates. The manager must decide which
old fatso might hit one out today. He is
not bothered with those silly decisions
that have no right to be a part of baseball,
for example, the sacrifice bunt, the hit-
and-nin, the steal. Seriously, the DH is
the one of the worst things to happen to
baseball; it ranks up there with Astroturf
and indoor stadiums. It simply ruins the
game.

Now for a closer look at the DH and

how it affects the game of baseball. The

DH does have two benefits. 1. It provides
the fans with a chance to see their favorite
heroes become old and incompetent. 2. It
also brings an incredible increase in run
production. Last year, games played with
the DH averaged about one run more than
games in the National League — that’s
right, a whole run more.

But even the benefits of the DH can
be considered liabilities. It allows old
players to hang around until the fans stop
cheering for them and start booing. Look
at Reggie Jackson — he once received
standing ovations from the Angels’ fans,
but they started booing him after he
stopped hitting HR’s and started striking
out once or twice a game. His skills had

slipped to an all-time low by the end of .

last season. There were probably a few
minor leaguers who didn’t get the chance
they deserved just because Reggie still
drew fans into the ball park. Yes, he did
bring the fans in, didn’t he? They came to
see a once proud man degrade himself as
he swung at nothing but air.

The 1987 season has started and Re-
ggie is now playing for the Oakland A’s.
It is not enough that he led the team to two
consecutive world championships in ’72
and ’73 (back then he played right field).
The A’s want to keep this old guy around
as a DH and bring in fans with his house-
hold name. The A’s do not need him on

Whos On Fist

the team; there are probably several
minor leaguers who could do the job bet-
ter plus play in the field, but the A’s man-
agement is abusing the DH rule to bring
in fans. Essentially, the owners are sac-
rificing better baseball for more fans.
They do not realize that winning games
will eventually attract more fans than a 40
year-old freak show at bat.

Without the DH, the American
League teams could not abuse the game
so brutally, as in the case of Reggie
Jackson. In the National League, as soon
as a player can’t field a position, he is a
liability to the team. The NL team cannot
afford to keep a player who is one dimen-
sional, only a hitter. The result is that
more young, good talent surfaces in the
NL than in the AL. There are still plenty
of NL veterans who are perennially top
performers (Dale Murphy, Gary Carter,
Mike Schmidt), but they are complete
ball players compared to the one dimen-
sional, veteran designated hitters in the
AL. Take Don Baylor in the outfield
against Dave Parker for example. Who
would you rather have on your team? The

answer is obvious for NL clubs —

Parker, the more complete player, is the
only choice. What a joke to see Baylor try
and throw someone out at the plate from
right field; the man could not hose my
grandmother.

So far I have mentioned how the DH
rule compromises the quality of baseball
by keeping older, less capable players
around after their prime. I have also said
that this was a source of disgrace to both
the game and the players themselves. But
these objections are not my only gripe
against “that horrible mle.” The DH, I
believe, takes out all the strategy that
makes baseball different, quietly excit-
ing, and suspenseful.

Scoring strategy in the American
League is simple — wait for the home
run. The DH perpetuates this philosophy
by removing the pitcher from-the lineup.
What would be the eighth batter before
the pitcher in the National League be-
comes the ninth. What would be the
seventh batter in the NL becomes the
eighth, etc. In effect, every spot in the
lineup improves and creates a powerful
hitting attack. The AL managers, im-

pressed by the lineup, forget everything
they ever knew about the hit-and-run, the
steal, the sacrifice, and the suicide
squeeze. The waiting game begins —
Who's gonna hit the HR’s next?

Not only do AL managers forget all
they knew about offensive strategy, they
forget how to deal with pitching. Facing
more powerful lineups. pitchers inevita-
bly give up more runs in the AL. The AL
managers realize this fact and let teams
pile up many runs against one pitcher be-
fore making a change. Their hope in stay-
ing with one pitcher is that their own club’
will be able to pound the other team’s
hurler as well. The result is that pitchers
are left in longer, throw more pitches ina
year, and consequently wind up retired
with arm trouble more often than in the
NL. This is exactly what manager Billy
Martin did to Mike Norris of the A's a
few years back. Norris pitched complete
games in almost every start he got; even
when he was letting up five runs a game
or more. He pitched somany innings that
his arm never recovered. Jack Morris and
Dave Stieb may be the next victims of the
DH management style. Pitchers are
abused in this fashion more often in the
Al than in the NL.

The result is quite obvious —- more
good pitchers last longer in the National
League. And the American League is a
revolving door for junkballers who are
constantly hurting their arms.

Many ignorant fans claim, “But the
DH provides more excitement because it
enhances the offense.” My response to
them is that it does not “enhance” the of-
fense, but detract from it. I mentioned
that AL managers wait for the home run.
The impact of the DH keeps teams from
credting offense since they wait for of-
fense to happen. In this sense, AL
baseball is passively. offensive and NL

baseball is actively offensive. The NL ac-.

tively makes offense, for example, by the
sacrifice bunt — the creativity of the Na-
tional League enhances the offense.

In comparing all the possibilities that
can take place with the DH up or with the
pitcher up in a sacrifice situation, many
more things can happen with the pitcher
up. He could hit away and get a hit, he
could bunt and perhaps beat it out, he

could bunt poorly and be forced to run the
bases himself, he could be pinch hit for
which would bring a new pitcher and hit-
ter into the game.

On the other hand, the DH just
swings away, never does anything differ-
ent or creative with the bat — “Ho..
Hum... I'm bored already.” The DH
just swings for the fences as usual; he’ll
probably strike out or pop to third —

“Yawn.” Maybe he’ll hit a homer, but
that's not surprising; he’s supposed to hit
one. The DH knows nothing about the
element of surprise or creative offense,
he just does the same ol’ thing.

Bunting is not the only example —

What about the hit-and-run, the stolen
base, the suicide squeeze, the double
switch. These baseball strategies have al-
most been lost in the AL since the dH has
been in effect. Maybe the most obvious
way to tell How the NL continues to use
the strategy of baseball, and how the AL
has abandoned it, is to look at the number
of players a typical game includes. A typ-
ical game for an American League club
includes ten or eleven players. where the
National League teams typically get
more players involved. It is not unusual
for a NL club to use every player on the
bench in a game. Pinch hitters, runners.
the bull pen hurlers, defensive replace-
ments are all used tothe utmost in the
NL, but ignored in the AL. Look in the
box scores and see for yourself how many
players each league usés. Using more
players allows for more variety and more
strange, interesting, exciting twists in the
game — like when a defensive replace-
ment makes an error in the field allowing
the other team to tie the score. Then he
comes back to get the game winning hit in —
extra innings. Or how about the excite-
ment involved with a pitcher helping his
own cause with an unexpected, two RBI
rope into the gap.

You DH fans bore me! You can take

_ your Luzinskis and your Jacksons and

your Baylors. You can have ‘your beer
guzzling, pizza chomping, lazy swinging
old guys. Give me the up and coming ,
players of the NL any day, the guys hun-
gry to earn a spot, the good athletes, the
guys that can do it all — hit, field, and
run.

Rorron looks at Davidson sports history

As my time at Davidson comes to an
end, I’ve been thinking about the many
events that stick out in my mind from the
last four years. Since a great deal of my
time during this time has been spent at-
tending the various and sundry sporting
events at Davidson, I felt now was an ap-
propriate time examine the best and most
influential events Davidson sports has to
offer from the archives of the last four
years. I present to you the half dozen
biggest sports stories witnessed by the
Class of 1987.

1) Winning the Southern Conference
Basketball Tournament (1986) — No
surprise here. Gerry Born’s miracle shot
against Tennessee-Chattanooga set off a
chain reaction of enthusiasm and excite-

‘Ment. unmatched during my time at

Davidson. Culminating in Davidson’s

trip to the NCAA tournament, the South-
ern Conference Tournament title breath-
ed new life into what had been a sagging
basketball program. despite getting
whipped by Kentucky in the first round of
the NCAA, Davidson fans had one week
of daydreams full of “What if we win the
national championship?”

2) Women’s Tennis Team Winning
Division TIT National Championship
(1984) — Coach Caroline Brown’s
squad grabbed the only national cham-
pionship in the history of the school by a
one-point margin, an achievement that is
unfortunately overlooked by.many at
Davidson (many underclassmen may not
even be aware of this achievement). The
women’s tennis team came in second
place nationally the next year and would
continue to be a national power were it
not for Event Number Three.

3) Christopher B. “Kit” Morris Strug-
gles With Just How Big a School David-
son Should Be (1985-7) — Under this all
encompassing title I include such deba-
cles as joining the Colonial League in
football (at the cost of conference affilia-

tion for all other sports) and the foul-up
that cost the women’s tennis team a shot
at the national title in 1986. Although this
is clearly the most important event in the
history of Davidson sports, I put it third
on my list due to frustration this move
causes me. While the football team needs
a healthy alternative to the weekly
humiliation playing in the Southern Con-
ference provided. I feel the sacrificing of
a conference for all other sports ranks as
among the most short-sighted decisions
I've had the misfortune of being aware
of. Good Luck in the upcoming years,
Kit, I think you’re going to need it.
4) Beating Duke in Soccer (1986) —
Alt you seniors who went JYA probably
caught some. fine soccer in Europe, but
you missed Charlie Slagle’s band’s finest
hour. Tony Cabrales scored the game’s
only goal early in the first half. Davidson
then weathered a.non-stop barrage that
somehow failed to net Duke a single
goal. This game sticks out not only be-
cause the evil Blue Devils fell, but be-
cause of the tremendous feeling of ten-

sion caused by Duke’s constant offensive .

pressure and the great relief the eventual
victory brought to team and fans alike.

5) Davidson Baseball Team Sweeps
Western Carolina To Win Division
(1985) — Davidson had to win all three
games of a weekend series to win the di-
vision and managed to come out on top in
three barnbumers. Alan Lewis had .a
bases-loaded base hit to secure one come-
from-behind-victory and Dave DePaul
robbed Western of a home run with a
spectacular catch to help Steve Condon
nail down the final game shutout.

6) Davidson Beats Marshall in Regu-
lar Season Game (1986) —'This game
served as a prelude to the eventual NCAA
bash, but was the finest game played in
Johnston Gym in the last four years. Both
teams converted on an astronomically
high percentage of their shots. Davidson
broke open a close game at the end to
send the student body into a frenzy and
the Thundering Herd home in peaceful
defeat.

That concludes my list. I hope-all the
athletes had as much fun performing as I
had spectating at these events.
