Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN -|

WINDLEY HALL AWARD WINNERS 1987 for Freshmen Creative , TRIADS
Writing - it's along night, when
it’s...
First Prize: KATHARINET. ARMSTRONG __ Richmond, VA. irs time to listen
Second Prize : WENDY DUNN Sarasota, FL. and you pick up the pencil
and paper, but.
some flies buzz around you,
some of them drop in the cup of tea.
some biscuits had been left unfinished;
CHARLES LLOYD AWARD WINNERS 1987 for Essay Writing but a gust of wind blew in.
but some one was waiting.

but the moon was shining.

SHERI REYNOLDS °89. = Conway, SC.

knock at the door was surreptitious,
sone fi long finished,
| the risen and had been shining outside.

. vam egg fell ftom the shelf and burst,
| --- an anpwas.splashed with the yolk, .
<. an event had taken place.

h
YYYYYIIYYYYY pa"
87 FOR CREATIVE WRITING 2 follow tunnels
Y, butfrwas dark, and no one.
Y 88 Swarthmore, PA. Y but her. was staying;
New Delhi, INDIA. ut the clock had stopped in the last century.
Columbia, SC.

THE LOVERS AND THE MOON

that approached them from the sky.

some lovers, obscure lovers a mirage they thought,
sat in a lonely park on almost frighteningly familiar sight --
on a secluded old bench c marble bench
made of marble solitary
where the moon. made love but glowing in a milky luminescence.
with this white stone suddenly
flooded it with milky luminescence the storm stopped :
until it grew hard and cold, all was dead still,
yet beautiful and serene, nothing moved,
clear it was cold.
so clear that it reflected the moon off its surface on the same bench
so when the obscure lovers sat, now appeared
sat in the lonely park a fresh green sapling,
on the secluded bench its roots emerging
made of marble, from the lifeless stone.
they knew they weren't alone.
they knew they weren't alone. a reversion of order —
a large myth was looming all around, calnt after a storm,
an universe with an equilibrium, life from an inanimate womb.
a neutral totality, when this new voice
screamed aloud
a whole. amidst
the still environment,
it echoed and created
the lovers were engaged an earth-shaking resonance.
some years later —
@ moonstone ring. its force disengaged
; two leaves froma tree
they lived. just above the bench
they never spoke throughout their lives. which had been weakened
even as they loved each other in. the recent storm.
they were aware of the spherical orb they flew, glided —
that reflected the intense, queer radiance and fluttered
that bound them together, downwards
that brought them to where they were now. in this still atmosphere.
the lovers
some years later the father and mother of the child
they had a child. died
it was a full moon night near the marble-benched grave
though was a tombstone
just before its conception made of moonstone,
there was a great tempest, and a tree above it.
the sky was overcast, as a last offering
obscured by. clouds. was placed :
two leaves, the moonstone ring, . . .
amidst all this tempestuous clamour ..+.,and
and cloudy diffusion, an epitaph
the lovers perceived a strange containing the lyrics of the whole song.
but familiar sight,
an apparition

ry
a * = - a 1 . _ '
pes Sc SAS SSS SSS 1

Pen sdakadiher on her way here, and

Conds very heavily that night.

it never dPted; she was wet.

P hate sil Buddha statue kept on the table's edge.
like in a dream two days later,I saw it topple over and fall
like a feather it slowly glided down.

what happened to it I don’t know ?
what pushed it over was not understood;
what I saw was —, ‘Nirvana’ was attained!

that was the.end, .
that was also the beginning.
that happened sometime while

the dead fly from the tea cup flew away,
the pencil lead broke, and
the alarm in the unwound clock rang.

I woke up suddenly with the ringing.
I had to sit for an examination, but
I thought I had woken up too early;

so I went off to sleep and dreamt,
so that when the time came, I wondered if it was
so, but then, I d forgotten.

something had to be done,
something like flying to the moon,
something to be realised.

moon was high, and it was full
moon, but it disappeared as soon as it. ed. the
moon had a long night to go.

and I'd picked up the wrong pencil
and that too the broken one
and could’ t write when I wanted to.

it occured all too-soon,
it was when the water boiled in the kettle, and
it was time put in the tea-leaves.

but they had already turned green from brown,
but that wasn’t the problem.
but when you do not have tea early in the morning,

seeing things becomes difficult.
seeing the moon and cutting a slice of it, and then
seeing and visualising that section

makes things a lot clearer,
makes the tea strong and. :
makes the egg more fertile.

the sun, the moon, and the earth,
the moon which couples the triplet, forms
the triad ! — all allusions, metaphysics, truths inclusive.

SUDEEP SEN
