Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

DISORDERS, 7 p.1

being perfect which extends t into their perception of their
body.

Fulton adds, “The person that generally might develop
an eating disorder is a perfectionist and achievement-
oriented. Lots of students (here at Davidson) fit that
profile... that’s how they got in here.”

Judy (not her real name), the daughter of a doctor,
attended an all-female boarding school where she was
involved in many extra-curricular activities. She was dis-
tinguished as being extremely smart: “a model kid of the
best and the brightest.” However secure on the outside,
Judy had a serious problem to deal with. From age 17-19,
she was anorexic; from 19-20 she was bulimic. She has
been hospitalized for combinations of anorexia and bu-
limia three times.

Judy now realizes that her life consisted of pleasing her
teachers, family and friends rather than herself. With the
added strain of applying to colleges and for scholarships
during her senior year in high school (at the onset of her
problem), the pressure to excel was too much for her. Judy
stated that her decision to control her body extended from
her inability to control other aspects of her life.

“My mother encouraged me to be thin and have a nice
figure,” she adds. Judy was already a svelte 5”5' and 104
pounds. A comment from her. boyfriend, “(He) said I
needed to lose five pounds,” triggered her anorexic ten-
dency.

For three to four hours a day, Judy exercised. Meals
consisted of a breakfast of an apple, a lunch of lettuce or
broccoli stems and a dinner of coffee and diet drinks.

Her family didn’t notice her eating habits nor her weight
loss. “We never ate meals together.”

Judy’s weight loss was finally noticed by the dean of the
school, who then forced her to go see a counselor. It was at
this point thather father was told of the problem; her mother
was not told because it was feared that she would become
overly upset.

When Judy reached 85 pounds, she was diagnosed as
anorexic and admittéd to a hospital for five weeks. After
being released, she had several recoveries and relapses as
she tried toresume her life and was thus exposed to the same
stresses as before. When she went to college, the self-
starvation resumed. She also became bulimic, often taking
as many as 60 laxatives per night.

The dangers of such patterns of controlling and reducing
one’s weightare detrimental healthwise. A woman may not
be able to get pregnant, said Dockery (Judy’s periods
stopped for a year). Further documentation states that the
anorexic wears more clothes to compensate for her loss of
fat in addition to growing a downy layer of hair, her trachea
becomes irritated due to the passage of stomach acids as
one vomits and her teeth turn yellow for the same reason.

In Fulton’s opinion, the anorexic and bulimic enjoys the
“power of being able to lose weight. What happens is the
opposite. Losing weight controls them.” Judy agrees in
saying that she controlled her body as measure against thé
pressures over which she had no power.

It is interesting to note that all cultures do not have such
a pronounced problem with eating disorders as the United
States does. In fact, Spanish, Caribbean and Afro-Ameri-
can cultures celebrate the full-figured woman.

In speaking with male Davidson students about their
ideal woman, blacks stated that they liked women with “a
little meat on her,” emphasizing that they are excluding
thin models such as Christie Brinkley. Timothy Poston, a
white malé, stated that in talking with peers of both races
about women, white friends preferred thinner women than
blacks.

Michelle Serrano echoes his sentiments. She adds that
today looks are notas importantas they used to be. Because

the stereotype in the media (tall, slim, blond and blue-eyed)

is so different from herself (short, brunette and brown-
eyed) she knows that she can never fit the stereotype. She
therefore doesn’t fall into the trap of striving for unattain-
able “perfection” as defined by society into which some
girls tend to fall. “Skinny does not necessarily mean
healthy,” she said.

Another Davidson student tells the story of a female:

friend who eats a lot less food than normal at the Union
when there is a male companion present because she is
overly afraid of what they think of her. Her obsession is

further made obvious when she makes the comment that .
she will not join PAX (a co-ed eating house) because there,

are boys there. A preoccupation with eating may come
from outside input. One mother chided her daughter by
saying “‘at your age I was so and so pounds.” The next day
the girl was scolded for not eating enough. Why are women
seeking to please others?

“Skinny people worry about it more (their weight)...
regular people worry about health. There’s a difference

between doing it for yourself and doing it for others,” says

one student.

Sophomore Tom Moore remarked that when asked
whether he like a certain type of girl, i.e., blondes or thin
girls, he immediately asks, “whatis she like?” (asa person).

Judy credits Davidson as being “caring” through the
counseling center. _

Fulton echoes her sentiments. “Lots of faculty members
are concerned with the student’s weiare,. (they’re) very
perceptive and want to help.”

Davidson is helping its students deal with eating disor-
ders through a support group headed by Georgia Ringle,
who also teaches a course entitled Issues in Personal

Health: Ringle earned a master’s degree in public health

and taught health education at Tulane University before
coming to Davidson this fall.

Before the support group was formed, Fulton met with
students inher office. She says that she wished to give them
more privacy and professional help; thus, a proposal to
Dean Will Terry was made to hire a full-time staff member.

According to Ringle, the group has had a maximum
attendance of five persons, despite the fact that several
times that number visit the counseling center to discuss
eating problems. Ringle states that anorexics feel that they

_ are the only Ohés in the world with their problem, so they ;
* keep-quiet in their personal shame.

Judy echoes Ringle’s sentiments. “The anorexic and
bulimic feels there is nowhere to go, that she will be
laughed or scoffed at. It’s hard to comprehend.”

Admitting the problem and doing something about it are
different things, according to Ringle. She says that the
anorexic or bulimic has to believe that “nothing is wrong
with you, but that it is right that you want to take the step
to self-improvement.” All information is keptconfidential.

Ringle disclosed that “food is an obvious symbol of
comfort and conflict... yet safer than other substances (i.e.,
drugs and alcohol).” She adds that Davidson is a tough
environment and there is pressure to achieve and be
popular. As far as progress through the Davidson support
group is concerned, she adds that ag are highs and lows
in the girls’ cases.

In general, she stresses, society is not sensitive to the
problem; rather society is critical and deems the activities
of the anorexic or bulimic “freakish.”

According to Judy, the group is a supportive environ-
ment where discussion covers all aspects of the girls’ lives;
food is not the only thing discussed. Having recovered from
her ownanorexic-bulimiccondition, she tries to help others
because “I’ll never forget the people who helped me.

“Georgia’s (Ringle’s) presence benefits because she is a
health educator and is able to provide resources.” As part
of the support program, doctors are invited to lecture on

health and proper nutrition habits and films are viewed.
Ringle stated fervently that more women are welcome to
the discussion group; it is an opportunity not many females
are taking advantage of.

Dockery stated that psychologists at the counseling

‘center are only. able to talk to students; clinical diagnosis

and treatment is left up to professionals in Charlotte to
whom the students are referred.

Judy is now at 125 pounds and preparing to graduate from
college. Through extensive therapy which also involved
rap sessions with her family, past contributing factors to her
condition were discussed (stress in school and desire to
please others), whereas before the root of her problem was
neglected.

“I’ve learned that it’s okay to have dessert, not to be
bone-thin, it’s okay to gain five pounds. What’s inside is

‘most important, not the outside.”

COMPLEX, from p.1

taking any action against the project. “What the college did
was within its legal rights,” he explains, “and I have been
assured that the area will be landscaped.” Knox is in favor
of the lot because “‘it will free up parking spaces in the town
for the visiting public” that are now being used by conve’
staff, faculty and students.

Hogan and others remain unconsoled. “I stood in my
backyard and watched hundreds of birds and squirrels
fleeing the destruction of what was once a woodsy haven.
The college feels like it has a divine right to do whatever
they want on the campus,” Hogan said.

UNIVERSITY OF

A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY

> ee
FOR

Graduate degree programs
(MA, PhD) in International
Affairs-with a policy emphasis.

Special fields: International
business, development, eco-
nomics, strategic studies.

Area concentrations: Latin
America, Soviet Studies and
the Middle East,

Dual degree programs in in-
ternational business (MBA-
MA) and urban and regional
planning (MURP-MA).

Fellowships and other finan-
cial aid available Apply by
February 1. -

GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL STUDIES .

UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI
PO. BOX 248123C
CORAL GABLES, FL 3312
(305) 284- 4303,

' e
My

4 ght?
aver

Airline
¢eAmtrak
eCruises

for you. - It will save you time and money.

- 704/892-9020

South Main St. Davidson (Behind Frame Gallery)

VILLAGE TRAVEL

Reservations For:

¢Tours
¢Hotels
¢Car Rentals

Make your Travel Arrangements conveniently without paying any Agency Commission

Let your local Village Travel Agent find the best routes and the cheapest rates

cn

