BIRD OF PREY

Bird of prey

Drifting beneath the blaze above

With wings extended,

Gilstening,

Forming shadows on things below . .
Things not of air but of smoke.

She wipes his forehead,

He feels the air.

Tired, so tired.

They sleep, they sleep, so tired .
Dreams so slick and cool . .

She appears in grace,

Creature, succubus, climbs the thorn,
Punctures the dripping flesh,

Devours the free-born spirit-

Catalyzing death . . . _
Freedom bonded on chains on rocky cliffs where
The blaze shines in solar streams-

He wakes in chilling sweat, liver intact.
He wipes his own brow.

He goes to build, to build and build.

DAVID ROBINETTE ’88

: EDITORIAL :

An Asylum

It's a madhouse in here this
slow swirl of people this
weary mat of shapes shifting

against dark-paned color walls.

Dabs faces fleck the smear,

@ queer churning of heads raincoats purses,
the paints of humanity stroking grand

museum circles °

though they don't know it.

Some speak in tongues others
just speak. Within themselves a few

mutter softly, their eyes
capacious pockets pooled

in colors. Lop-eared Van Gogh

feels right at home, framed
black white gold.

He might have said it

is a madhouse in here.

I like the peace.

AARON ELKIN TAYLOR °88

There was a lot of excitement last week among the creative

writers and artists who were trying to make the last minute changes before they
submitted their work for the three writing awards offered by Davidson College
every year. There were 19 entries for the Vereen Bell creative writing award and
8 for the Charles Lloyd essay award for. the upperclassmen, and 13 for the
Windley Hall writing award for the freshmen. The judge for the prestigious Ver-
een Bell Creative Writing Contest is Sam Ragan, a poet laureate of North
Carolina. The awards will be presented on April 23 at a special function in the

900 Room of the Colle'ge Union.

The faculty has responded very positively to this section: In the last issue we
had Prof. Abbott's poem and this time Prof. Sabaratnam’s poetry features here.
I’m looking forward to next week's contributions.

Yours truly,

SUDEEP SEN
Inside Art Editor

LAYOUT AND GRAPHIC DESIGN BY SUDEEP SEN

Photograph by JOHN MARK WRIGHT ’87
