—

=

———— David Host —_—_——_

Recent criticism of the Reagan. Administration’s policy
of aid to the “Contras” fighting the Sandinista government
of Nicaragua has turned to an exoneration of that govern-
ment. Groups have returned from Nicaragua claiming that
the Sandinistas are a peace-loving, democratically based
government. They also have claimed that the Sandinistas
pose no threat to the security of the United States. Such cri-
tics conclude that American aid to a force fighting such a
government is “immoral,” threatening the lives of Nicara-
guans and Americans who may be called to fight in the re-
gion. The peaceful and life preserving intents behind such
an analysis are commendable. The facts of the crisis in
Nicaragua and Central America, however, show that such a
position threatens those goals. The Sandinista government,
in its efforts to consolidate its Marxist-Leninist revolution,
has continually tyrannized over Nicaraguans. In the Castro
tradition, it threatens to spread its revolution over the entire
region. The Contras stand as one of the few forces left in
Central America which can prevent such a catastrophe
without the aid of American troops.

Witness for Peace stated that it found no evidence of re-
ligious persecution by the Sandinista government. It said it
found “‘no harassment of priests, ministers or religious
workers”, “no destruction of church property”, and “no in-
terruption of religious services.” In fact, the Sandinistas

Opinions

have persecuted the religious leaders who have refused to
submit to their ideology. Humberto Belli, who edited the
opposition newspaper La Prensa, a newspaper recently
censored by the Sandinistas, has stated that “Commander
Tomas Borge . . . said there would be religious freedom
for those who were with the revolution, but for those who
were deceiving people and preaching negative attitudes
their days were numbered.” In addition to censorship of
sermons, Sandinistas have disturbed masses with political
demonstrations, including a mass by the Pope. They have
also destroyed churches. Other evidence of Sandinista op-
pression abounds. Alvaro Baldizon Aviles, a former San-
dinista official, reports the actions of “Sandinista death
squads,” covered up by the government. One report in-
volves an attack upon Miskito Indians by “Sandinista sol-
diers who locked all the men in the church and then raped
and beat the women, sacked most of the houses and
slaughtered most of the cattle.” Baldizon has implicated
high Sandinista officials in such actions, who are involved
in “systematic deception of foreign visitors” in relation to
them. Opposition to such a regime is critical to the future
freedom of all Nicaraguans.

The Sandinistas also threaten the freedom of the re-
mainder of Central America, and, eventually, American

security. The United States, for example, presently sup-.

ports a progressive, freely elected Salvadoran leader in
Jose Napoleon Duarte. Duarte has attempted to draw El

The Davidsonian
Friday, May 8, 1987

19

Soviet and Sandinista threat deserves attention

ted that their war depends upon the aid that they get from
Nicaragua. Sandinista official Humberto Ortega has stated
that “of course we are not ashamed to be helping El Sal-
vador. We would like to help all revolutions.” In response
to President Reagan’s claim that the Sandinistas wish to
subvert Central America and eventually Mexico, Tomas
Borge stated that “that is one historical prophecy of Ronald
Reagan’s that is absolutely true.” The Soviet-Cuban influ-
ence is obvious. In addition to the massive amounts of
Soviet aid to Nicaragua, 10,000 Cuban advisors were in
Nicaragua in 1984.

The immediate threat to the United States is economic.
Vital trade routes pass through the Caribbean which are en-
dangered by an increasing Soviet presence. The existence
of an independent Panama will become increasingly criti-
cal when that country takes ownership of the PAnama
Canal. Inteference with this ‘trade could place the United
States in severe economic and strategic danger.

The Contra forces are a viable means for checking San-
dinista aggression, and eventually freeing the Nicaraguan

people. They are composed of several participants in the

‘Sandinista revolution. The crisis shows no signs of resolu-
tion through American disengagement. The United States
has attempted to work with the Sandinistas. The United
States once offered $100 million in aid to the Sandinista
government. They have turned their backs upon past Amer-
ican overtures. Without aid to Nicaraguans fighting their

Salvador away from the influence of right-wing “Géath” oppression, American troops will become necessary. Such

squads, and has introduced land reform as a means of end-
ing economic injustice. The Sandinistas, however, wish to
overthrow this government. Salvadoran rebels have admit-

a consequence is unnecessary and unacceptable. The
United States must have the foresight to prevent it. Aid to
the Contras is the only available option.

US appears weak in Afghan freedom struggle

Senator Gordon J. Humphrey—

In its seven years of bloody warfare in Afghanistan, the
Soviet army has inflicted over one million casualties,
mostly among non-combatants — women, children and
the elderly — and produced five million Afghan refugees.

Apply the numbers to our country: Proportionately,
they translate into 16 million Americans killed and

wounded, and 80 million more living as refugees in Canada -

and Mexico. What this means is that many would be mis-
sing from your family and circle of friends.

Tragically, the Soviets have largely succeeded in hid-
ing their grisly crimes from the world. As catalogued by a
number of human rights groups, these include burning civi-
lians alive, bayonetting pregnant women, flinging the el-
derly from helicopters, and bombing and shelling villages

indiscriminately, among other atrocities. The scale is so.

vast that a United Nations report warns that the war will
“lead inevitably to a situation approaching genocide.”

In spite of these atrocities, for most nations, ours in-
cluded, it’s “business as usual” with the Soviets and their

puppets in Kabul.

Incredibly, Afghan puppet diplomats are still recog-
nized as the legitimate representatives of the Afghan people
at the United Nations. The Afghan seat at the U.N. is held
by traitors who maintain that Soviet forces were “invited”
into Afghanistan to help maintain order. The New York
Times has rightly called for the expulsion of these impost-
ers but its call has gone unheeded by the U.S. and other
governments.

While we encourage and assist the Afghan resistance in
its struggle to liberate Afghanistan, we confer legitimacy
on a regime which is cooperating with the Soviets in the
genocide of the Afghan people.

By sending these mixed signals, the United States ap-
pears weak in its support of the Afghan freedom struggle.
Unfortunately, the American people, generally unin-
formed as to the extent of the carnage in Afghanistan, ask
few hard questions of our government.

Americans deserve better than a half-hearted policy in
Afghanistan. You can play a role by letting your represen-
tatives in Washington know how you feel about the U.S.
maintaining diplomatic, relations with a government that
has overseen the murder of a million of its own citizens.

Brown student protests use of SATs in

——————Michael Spalter-———__

’ Greetings from Brown University. We are a group of
concerned students who would like to share with your un-
dergraduates a referendum which we are sponsoring at
Brown.

Our purpose in having the Brown student body vote on

vantages can account for? How substantive can the test be.if
some coaching companies regularly improve scores more
than 150 points? How genuine are the scores if so many
people are known to cheat on such poorly proctored exams?
How can Educational Testing Services (ETS), which

‘makes the SAT, be trusted to monitor its own performance
when this, their most profitable test, accounts for much of
their revenue?

College students can also assist the Afghan freedom
fight in other ways. Students can organize letter-writing
campaigns, fund-raising drives, class donations of food
and clothing, and demonstrating in support of the resis-
tance. Student groups can show various films depicting the
fight in Afghanistan, to raise the awareness of their peers.

Students can also become active by sponsoring Afghan
patients for medical treatment in the United States.
Wounded freedom fighters and refugees arrive in the
United States every month, and need sponsors to arrange
hospital care and other assistance. My office and the con-
gressional task force of Afghanistan will be happy to assist
you in this effort.

You can also lawfully confront Soviet visitors to your
campus. Don’t let them get away with their propaganda. If
you want a list of tough question to ask, contact my office.

These are tangible ways you can help the Afghan
people — a people who need your help desperately. Their
struggle for freedom is our struggle, and their sacrifice an _
example of how even the smallest of nations can resist
dominance and oppression by a communist power. They
can’t do it alone, though. Let’s do all we can to help the Af-
ghans regain their counitry and live in peace again.

competitive colleges —

that most colleges need not require their students to take the
SAT, because most colleges no longer admit selectively. If
they are going to let everyone in anyway, why should they
require their applicants to spend time and money on a test
they don’t need?

This means that Brown, and your school, as well as a
few other colleges who do have competitive admissions,
are the only one s who benefit from the program at all. If we

—the-reselution—““Fhe-College-Admission. office should-no———The Scholastic_Aptitude-Test is not objective: itis not-a—getlittle-use-out-of the SAT; why should -we worry-about—

longer require prospective Brown students to submit SAT
scores” is to determine whether this was a pressing issue
within the Brown community. We believe from the initial
response of our undergraduates this is indeed a timely
Issue.

Your school (as you know) is considered a “selective”
college. The SAT according to many is an important factor
only at selective colleges. We disagree that it is an impor-
tant factor anywhere.

Many questions can be raised about the SAT. We be-
lieve the time has come when high school seniors across
this country should stop having to pay to take a test which
indicates the socio-economic position of the student's par-
ents rather than the student’s ability to work. Why do

minorities do worse on the test than their educational disad- .

valid or reliable standard. Great as it might be to have such
a touchstone, this test is not it. As David Owen writes in his
devastating book, None of the Above, “There is nothing
genuinely objective about a test like the SAT: it is written,
compiled, keyed, and interpreted by highly subjective
human beings. The principle difference between it and a
test that can’t be graded by a machine is that it leaves no
room for more than one correct answer.” ETS does not
have a monopoly on knowledge, though we are measured
by its researcher’s judgments. Needless to say, many who
think creatively or split hairs do not do well on such a test,
though they do well in school.

The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching, which helped the College Board create ETS, has
brought to public attention in a report soon to be published

jeopardizing its place in the testing-market? When the inf-
luential Carnegie FOundation’s report convinces many col-
leges who don’t need it to actually drop it, the cost of the
test will climb, and we will more urgently ask “Why not us
too?”

As students at Brown we are concerned about the SAT
being used on our campus. Questions of bias, inaccuracy
and practicality lead us to push for a reevaluation of the
SAT on:our campus. The time has arrived for we, the un-
dergraduates of “selective” colleges to question the entire |
testing industry in the country. Perhaps, this is an issue
which members of your campus would like to raise and
question.

- Michael Spalter is a senior at Brown University and a
founder of Students Against Testing
