why? must there always be a revolution
poem for south africa

like so many old hens .
clucking around around the nest of an offspring
the voice sounds pathetic —
yet,
- there is a strength about it that can not be disputed
suddenly it drops toa deep murmur. . .
as she remembers days gone by . -

days when things were not quite as HARD
as they arenow ,
days when there was a brotherhood
between people with the same color skin
days when distrust did not
rule the land
days when a stranger’s
or one’s next door neigbor’s name
was always inthe pot
days when tears shed for those
one did not know
. personally
Days when fatherless children
BELONGED
TO
EVERYONE
and motherless children never realized it.

days when LIFE was sweet

~butnow ...
sweet revenge belongs to the people
and they mean to have it
red is the color of Revenge.
revenge is the color of Blood.

sweet revenge belongs to the people »
and they mean to have it

the fight is for freedom
democracy civil rights
and the land :
— the many colored land of their ancestors
- an inherent part of their intended heritage
now the colors have turned sour
and curdled like milk
the land holds the past and the future
blood long ago dried up
fragments of bones
in desecrated ©
and fragmented graves
hope and despair
dreams and nightmares
success and failure Z
most of all it holds

chance
_— something they have heretofore

been denied
in their own country —

sweet revenge belongs to the people
_and they shall have it

Jackie Daughtery

oe ee ewe

Friday, January 9, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Among Other Things — A meditation on what it means to be alive.
What is life but experience, a mirage of moments, blips that we sub-
ject to the dimensions of time and space, cause and effect relationships
we determine to be good or bad, etcetera, which are filtered through the
“senses.” And what is our environment, whether one thinks it one’s own
projection, or autonomous, outside of one’s own existence, but a stage in
which to create, find, or have those experiences? Furthermore, let me
say that through interaction, education takes place — interaction with
materials, media, and of utmost importance to this writer, with other
people and the natural environment. Through other things and other be-

_ ings we reflect ourselves, learn about who we are and what life means for

us, and come to know how we wish to experience what there is to experi-
ence. Can we choose what to experience? Good question. Most cer-
tainly, and at any level. We are all responsible for the choices we make as
functioning beings, and we choose to do everything we do, and who we
are. Some things seem to come up by chance, yet there is a reason, a

choice we make which allows for that particular thing to happen. This is ©

where the dynamic nature of interaction, and thus education, begins to

-reveal itself, where intuition plays a role, or subconscious impulse, or

possibly things which lie beyond our superficial reasoning or awareness,

_and thus we call it chance. Be it chance or otherwise is really irrelavant.

The truth is that things do happen, opportunities arise for us to take,
taste, deny, or continue to explore, and we, initiating these opportunities
or otherwise, choose how to respond. This is what Art is all about, facing
a situation, and choosing how we as individuals wish to respond ; risking

- abad experience in order to gain. Now this brings up the notion and ques-

tion of the possibility of “bad” experience. To me, though an experience
may not be positive in certain conventional terms, it may not make you
happy (if that is what you want, to be “happy”), all experience has a point
to make, a meaning or lesson if you will, which allows for learning, or a
better understanding of who we are and thus how we perceive the world
around us, and therefore can be taken for benefit. Vise versa? Another
good question, rather like- which came first the chicken or the egg? Right
now I will say that it goes both ways.

I am about to embark on an experience, a trip to Scotland, which
“sacrifices” money among other things, and one in which I risk a great
deal in relation to my emotional, psychological being, and thus stability.
Why? 1 am doing it for the possibility of acting out one of the greatest cre-
ations I can imagine, the development of an intimate life-relationship

with a special other in my life. Of course, what is money in comparison

to the potential gain (not to sound so capitalistic at all) of establishing a
love-relationship of such magnitude with someone so special, not to dis-
regard the wealth of experience available when one travels and interacts
with the peoples and places, and therefore “realities,” of other cultures.
For me this aspect of interaction is a key element to what life is all about.
Perhaps this will be my art, the sharing of such experience, who knows.
In any case, interaction with other realities is essential to education and
growth. Though vulnerable, I can only gain from my journey, in what-
ever way it turns out, and have a better understanding of myself and my
world, or what I make my world to be. Going back to choice, we need to
know why we are making the choices we make, and not just go around
blindly doing, lost in the routines of our society. By blind I mean uncon-
scious of the choices we make. I believe that some part of our conscious-
ness always knows why we make a choice, we are just asleep sometimes
to that knowledge. This will be discussed later more directly. An exam-
ple, we do not just brush our teeth, we do it in order to enjoy the longevity
of our teeth. Of course, the person who deems that that is not important,
and that is perfectly alright, lets his/her teeth rot, and gets new false ones
if he/she thinks teeth necessary at all, and continues on. Yet this person
knows why he/she.made the choice, and sticks to the choice responsibly.
I take time off from school because intuition (what ever that is) tells me
that I do not need to be learning from books, etc., and I go learn from
other experiences (i.e. travel, etc.). I know why I maké the choice, I do
not just do it. This is not to say that one need necessarily be fully con-
scious of the reasons why a choice is made, and this is where in my case

and words, intuition can play its part. However, regardiess of whether or.

not a person can actually verbalize the reasons why a choice is made, he/
she has to be confident in his/her assessment of the situation, and there-
fore in the choice made. |

Sometimes a perso
himself. One has to jus
where Art and life are r
well. One makes choic
knowledge such as co)
unconscious, more inn,
a risk at being wrong,
had. Whatis the stock 1
these two aspects or le
merely material, or m
knowledge, and thus t
that individual, both w
what comprises his or |

_ Of course visual ar
about the whole proces
tal to our existance, ex
and therefore exist, in
any activity can teach
dance, and certainly c
and other fine art disci
can serve this purpose |
tic endeavor, a creativ
the outcome, therefo:
Snowskiing serves the
with the snow and natu
conversation is also ag
level is perfect for expe
are the risks? Questio
wrong. Questioning ab
you are unclear. (Wha
conversation, discussit
understanding of your
why you are) in accord
who and why you are.
Support your choices
strength of your convi
with the subject matte
train, the more one lea
what their world is.

Education, or the e
standing of existence, |

