Friday, January 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

11.

Pornography, subliminal or not, degrades women

Sharon Spong

I have found it distressing this year to learn from several
sources, including current FBI statistics, than an estimated
one third of all women in our society will be raped in their
lifetimes. This fact means fifty out of 150 of our freshman
women will probably have their lives shattered by being
forced to have intercourse against their wills. This statistic
also implies that very few people reading this article will’
not be personally affected by rape. (Perhaps “distressing”
is not the word.)

Only by changing society can these figures be reduced.
But to achieve this change we must begin by promoting
awareness among the more sensitive members of society,
such as the students of Davidson College. If we can recog-
nize attitudes which contribute to a higher incidence of
rape, we can start to change those attitudes within ourselves
and in our “mini-universe” of Davidson.

In recent years, there has been an increasing awareness
of pornography and its effects on our society. In my New
World Dictionary, pornography is defined as “writings,
pictures, etc. intended primarily to arouse sexual desire.”
But in modern America, this word has come to represent a
whole range of images, including bestiality, nudity,
graphic sexual imagery and especially violence against
women. We tend to think, “So what? Only freaks watch or

do that kind of stuff!” The truth is that we have become so
accustomed to seeing and experiencing pornography and
violence that we are hardly aware of its existence or effects
on us. We complain bitterly about. pornography laws which
take away our “right to free expression.”

Our society’s apathy toward pornography is apparent
even on the comparatively enlightened campus of David-

son College. One example of pornography which we .

tended to overlook was the poster advertising Sigma Phi
Epsilon’s “Nuclear Meltdown” party last week. There was
one woman pictured on this poster, and a missile was
drawn entering her skull, with the catchy phrase beside it:
“Fry your Brain!” The men pictured on the poster look
frightened, but do not appear to be suffering any violent at-
tacks. Obviously, the person who designed the poster was
making a joke and not consciously intending harmon any
woman. But the subliminal message is still present in the
subconscious of anyone who glanced at that poster: “IT IS
OKAY TO VIOLENTLY DESTROY A WOMAN'S
BODY !!” In this particular picture, there is also the phallic
image of the missile violently penetrating the woman’s
body. On one level, this is an eye-catching advertisement,
but what is the individual’s subconscious doing with the
message it receives?

In Shakespeare’s “Othello, the evil character Iago in-
cites Othello’s anger by using words to paint pornographic
images of Othello’s wife being sexually dominated by

Spong is a Junior from Greensboro, NC.

another man. Othello responds to these images by violently
murdering his innocent wife. Pornography elicits a similar
response in all of us by showing the domination of one~
being by another, usually of a woman by one or more men.
And a woman whose brain has been fried by a missile or
drugs or “mushroom cloud punch” is very easily domi-
nated.

There is a tendency for women to feel helpless in the
face of pornographic attitudes. The domination of women
is such an institutional part of our society that it seems use-
less to resist. Subtle messages like the one in the fraternity
poster give men cultural permission to rape and otherwise

~abuse women, and it tells women that they are wrong to
fight against it. Posters and tee shirts on which women are
shown bound or in some other way submitting to men are
furthering this ideal of the strong male and the weak female
who “wants” to be dominated. This attitude reduces both
men and women to beings who face overwhelming statis-
tics as they try to express their humanity, or have fun at a ,
party. Let us become more aware together and reduce the

_ potential for rape in the lives of our mothers, sisters,

friends, and ourselves.

—_ To, ry

Brannon’ S point is inaccurate and inappropiate —

John Engel and Julie Lehman

Last week The Davidsonian was graced with a reprint
of Paula Brannon’s article which appeared in Mecklenberg
Neighbors. The article is a reaction to the poor behavior of
Davidson’s fans at the Charlotte Coliseum for the UNCC
game. As students of Davidson who attended the game we
would like to point out that while the behavior of some stu-
dents was inappropriate, so was her article.

First, she writes she has seen “this trash throwing hap-
pen at many basketball games.” This is the first we have
heard of this scandal. Having been to all of our home games
this season and last, we were very much surprised by the
behavior exhibited by a loud but small minority and consid-
ex it the exception rather than the rule here at the College.

Second, we take exception. to tagging Davidson stu--

dents with names like “rude pigs” or “spoiled rich brats.”
Ms. Brannon writes that she can take the insult-trading in
stride. That’s fine, although I hope she would refrain from
publishing them in the future. “Spoiled, rich brats” and
“rude pigs,” although colorful and cutting, is the most
sweeping generalization she could have made about stu-
dents representing forty states and twenty foreign coun-
tries, of whom two thirds receive financial aid.

Third, the accusation that these actions stem from the
fact that we are poor losers is entirely inaccurate. If we
were a school concerned only with winning at the expense
of sportsmanship and scholarship, then we would soak
every suffering athletic program. with money, buy some
athletes, and achieve national headlines. Boston College
gets the headlines for point shaving scandals. At least

we’ve only been tagged’ ‘rude pigs.” Poor losers we are not;
our basketball team had been losing gracefully for years be-
fore their recent success.

Davidson. is a highly-competitive-plus college filled
with highly-competitive-plus students who vent their drive
to succeed in everything they touch. We are not surprised at
the exuberance and enthusiasm this school shows for its —
basketball team and would hardly expect an end to “our
childish behavior” be effected by her recommendation of
blackballing those fans. We are surprised with the editorial
staff of The Davidsonian who supported Ms. Brannon’s in-
dictment in their editorial rather than seeing it for what it
was.

Engel is a sophomore from New Canaan, CT. Lehman is a
junior from Atlanta, GA.

Continued from page 9
ence. I’d like to conclude with final words of Rudy’s essay:
Now Ill answer your question. You’ ve been wondering
all along. Well I’1! tell you what has happened to Photosyn-
thesis. People have ignored it for a long time because of all
the crap like this Iran Scandal that’s going on. But can’t you
see what’s happening? Humanity sees Photosynthesis as a
process but not as a need. The Amazon Forests give us half
our oxygen, yet every day we wipe out 5000 square acres.
It’s “one of our lungs” and we're willfully killing it, Hu-
mans have come to approach the Nuclear Winter theory
with the same distrustful curiosity with which Cain’s wife
— the gorilla — might approach a, wind-up metal toy that
walks. The other day I saw an article entitled “US Conducts
First Nuclear Winter Test.” The first sentence says, “A
helicopter spewed flaming gasoline on a brush-covered
hillside in San Siman, California, igniting a 600-acre fire to

test whether atomic war nay threaten the extinction of hu-
mans.” I swear I read that.

You see where we’ve come? If we bash those nuclear
weapons into the side of the earth they would raise enough
dust and dirt and cow chips to block the sun and halt Photo-
synthesis. Only modern insects and some flowering plants
will be left. Understand yet? I thought you might. We’ve
arrived again at the end of the Cretaceous Sub-ear. The

conditions are the same, except we’ re brighter now.

Maybe it’s too late. Maybe I should just bury this essay
in the ground in a metal box, right here in Jordan. But NO!
There must bea way out.

To survive we must reconcile the forces ‘that have
moved us so far. Democracy is beautiful. USE IT. You’d
be proud to hear other people talk about America. Every-
one shoud Lead. I’m not advocatirig revolution. I’m ad-

vocating the resurrection of Morality through Democracy,
active and alive. So Here!

Cheers to Fun! Cheers to Love! Cheers to the great
Peace Marchers who just walked across our beautiful Land!
Cheers to Peace!

Cheers to Morality without Blame. Because that is
what Morality is.

Perhaps if we work at it, we can walk out of this second
Cretaceous Era unscathed. Photosynthesis intact. Because
if all goes as, as is planned, we may as well ask ourselves,
“Say, Selves. Wall of ice closer today?”

Rudy is a member of the Class of 1986 and is currently
studying as a Watson Fellow in Jordan

submitted to The Davidsonian, many in the

son must respond to and cope with his/her__ homosexual. students face lies in unfamil-——

Support

To the Editors:

The Gay Support Group was created
last year by some members of the student
body, the faculty, the administration (the
Dean’s office, the Residential Life office,
the Chaplain’s office) and the Union to re-
spond to the needs and concerns of
homosexuals at Davidson. The Support
Group does not receive any money from
student fees. The Gay Support Group is a
result of the combined interests of individu-
als from various areas of the college com-
munity.

When the Gay Support Group began to
make itself known last year by way of i items

college community felt the need to respond

with letters to the editors protesting
homosexuality in general and denouncing
the existence of a suppert group for
homosexuals at Davidsen. This article has
not been written to advocate a particular
viewpoint on homosexuality nor to initiate a
battle of beliefs on the editorial page.
Rather, the purpose of this article is simply
to make the Gay Support Group’s existence
and something of its nature known to inter-
ested students. ;

The Support Group has been founded
on the assumption that homosexual students
may have specific needs and concerns best
addressed in a confidential and private man-
ner. The range of problems faced by
homosexual students is broad and each per-

— 7)

sexuality individually. However, homosex-

ual students face certain common problems

with which the Gay Support Group may
help.
One problem encountered by homosex-

ual students involves being unable to com-

municate freely with others about.the issue
as it affects their lives. Homosexual feel-
ings often incur guilt, self-doubt, anxiety,
frustration and re-examination of conven-
tional norms and values. Trying to discuss
these struggles with even one’s closest
friends may generate misunderstanding and
mistrust. The Support Group offers
homosexual students—a chance to discuss
their séxuality and rélated concerns with
another student or a group of students who
share similar experiences. Another problem

iarity with written material which can guide
and inform them as they think and make de-
cisions. The Gay Support Group can give
interested students access to psychological,
religious and other types of literature upon
request.

‘If you are interested in talking with
other homosexual students in a one-on-one
or in a group setting or if you would just like
more detailed information about the Gay
Support Group please write to the address
below. Do not hestitate to contact us be-
cause you are afraid of exposing or embar-
rassing yourself. Confidentiality is assured
to anyone who contacts us.

Gay Support Group
P.O. Box 135
Davidson, N:C. 28036
