Friday, October 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

\
THE DAVIDSONIAN —__.
Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor John Wightman, Business Manager

Tom Moore, Jon Boles, Associate Editors
Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor

John Barrow, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors 7
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

An able administrator

——. What can you say about a college administrator who leaps in to solvé
problems before they even arise? .

Because that’s just the sort of thing that Carleton Pritchard, Director
of Auxiliary Services, is doing by creating a new. grocery store in the
Union Cafe. Realizing that the closing of the .Davidson Food Lion
threatens to pose a terrible inconvenience to most students (especially
those without automobiles), Mr. Pritchard has set out to do something
about it. He’s arranged a survey to gauge student opinion. He’s re-
‘searched the possibility of constructing a grocery store in the Student
Union. Now, two weeks before the Food Lion is scheduled to close, the
plans are laid and the problem is virtually solved. Within six weeks,
Davidson College will have its own grocery store. No hassling, no fus-
sing. It’s done. °

This is the way Carleton Pritchard works, and his distinctive signa-
ture of efficiency and concern is evident across the campus. His manage-
ment of the Vail Commons has helped it to attract more and more stu-
dents every year. They may complain about the food, but if students
think twice they’ll realize that they’re eating some of the best institu-
tional cuisine in the country. Furthermore, Dining Service catering has
become a major operation, providing dozens of students with valuable
work opportunities. Pritchard’s management of the College Laundry
deserves some commendation, too: no longer is the College required to
support the Laundry as a money-losing operation. The-cleaning opera-

tion will break even this year, taking the first step along a road to lower -

costs and higher-quality service.

Most of all, Carleton Pritchard is accessible: If you see -him around
and ask him a question, he’s more than happy to have-a word or two with
you. He makes a point of carefully considering student opinions and
needs. That’s why he’s building the grocery store.

Put simply, he’s one of those “great things” about Davidson that
we’re always trying to identify. We congratulate him on his successes.

———Letters Policy _

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. The editors will try to print all
letters dealing with subjects of general in-
terest to the campus community, but they
must adhere to the.following guidelines:

‘All letters must be submitted by 7
p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected
publication date.

‘Letters must be neatly typed or legi-
bly hand-written. The editors will also
accept letters submitted on.5.25” disket-
tes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS
(MS-DOS) text file format.

‘All letters should be signed. Writers
must present the editors.with compelling
reasons if they do not wish their names to

be printed with their letters.

Due to the constraints of space, the
editors reserve .the right to edit and/or
condense any letter over 300 words in

‘length.

‘The editors reserve the right not to
print letters which contain inside jokes,
off-color slurs, or advertisements, or
which represent a viewpoint very similar
to other letters printed dealing with the
same topic.

‘Writers should include an address
and a phone number with their submis-

sions. . —

‘Writers should address their letters
“To the Editors.”

The, Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson Col-
lege. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone
(704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opin-
ions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of
the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for

first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees
of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margeret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard,
Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone,.Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall,
Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Ash Ashannudin, Russel! Booker, Suzanne Craymer, Michael Dean, Glenn
Fogle, Jennifer Hoffmann, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi Mukenge, Bill Scouten, Andy
Thompson, ,

thony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen
Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Bill Carrell, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid Love.
Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, An-

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, ,

THE SACCO Ane

BY

OF THE (9BO%s

7

VANzaeTTl

e
v can re:

Letters

Kating

To the Editor:

In the last issue of The Davidsonian, the
writers of the “MacLads” article suggested
alternate activities for people without
homecoming dates.

One of these suggestions for women
was to join the confidential eating disorders
group. Although we assume this was in-
tended as a joke, it implies that fat girls
don’t get dates to homecoming.

Some women are trying to lose weight
to feel better about themselves. A few of
these women feel forced, for one reason or
another, to go to extremes which have led to
serious psychological and physiological
problems.

The confidential eating disorders group

was formed to help these women overcome:

their problems; making fun of that group in
a public forum doesn’t help a serious situa-
tion improve. In fact, it can make it much
worse.
—- --How secure do you expect these women
feel now?

Sincerely,

Sarah Bayne and Sarah Johnson

Roses

To the Editors:

costs for Davidson’s elderly.. Again, thanks
to all of you who bought roses, and special
thanks to the great people who helped wrap
and deliver them Saturday morning.

Lara Glenn
Ginny White

Grocery.

Dear Editors:

It seems to me that the decision to put a
grocery store into the Union Cafe may have
been made a bit hastily. As was mentioned
in the article on the downtown revitalization
plan in last week's issue, attracting new
businesses to the area is a key aspect of
planned growth for the community. While I
don’t think that having a small store in the
Cafe would necessarily threaten away any -
potential occupants of Food Lion’s old fa-
cilities, I expect that the arrival of a new
supermarket would cut considerably into
grocery sales in the Cafe.

I think it’s great that we're finally going
to have a place on campus where we can
make small purchases on the spur of the mo-

“ment. Inevitably, however, students are
going to go the extra distance down the road
in order.to buy some necessities which
won't be available in the cafe-store (beer,
for one). If a new supermarket does move
into the space occupied by the Food Lion,
students are most likely going to pick up
other items while shopping for these essen-
tials, especially if prices in the Cafe aren’t

As co-chairmen of PAX’s Homecom-__ competitive or if there isn’t much of a vari-

ing Rose Sale this year, we would like to ex-
press our appreciation to all the people who
put in time and effort to make it a success.
We made a profit of $966.50 which will go
toward Home Missions in Davidson. The
money is used mainly to help pay heating

ety to choose from. Will the costs incurred
by altering the Cafe be borne gut if some-
thing like this happens, and is it all going to
be worth it anyway?
/
Jon Boles
