10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mark Chen, Keith Finch Editors
Andy Barron, Brooke Knight, John Gathings, Editors Emeriti
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor
David Williams, Associate Editor | John Wightman, Business Manager

oa

John Barrow, Jim Dillon, News Editors \

Tom Moore, Features Editor Sudeep Sen, Inside Art Editor

_ Hap Bryant, Whit Wilkes; Sports Editors

Tim Brown, Opinions Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Jeff Loser, Brian Moure, Advertising Managers

Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor

Student apathy

The first editorial is a nerve-wracking experience. The new editor is
caught between the immense responsibility of printing whatever he says,
and the awesome freedom to damn the torpedos ahead. On this maiden
voyage, my hand will be the only one on the tiller. Keith Finch, my co-
editor, is studying in France. He is still “euphoric” over becoming editor,
but won’t enjoy hands-on experience until next fall. Until that time, ev-
erything on these pages will be to the credit (or blame) of yours truly. ~

The first subject of my editorials will be the most powerful yet quiet

-interest group-on -campus——-the-student-bedy.—Nationally-Davidson-i
gaining a reputation as a school for highly-motivated and smart people,
yet locally we have gradually let many student interests wither away.
Many student organizations are either strapped for people, or else they
seem increasingly irrelevant.

The most visible sign of this neglect has been the decline of our stu-
dent publications. I have not seen an issue of the Davidson Miscellany
since the first half of my freshman year. This journal used to publish lit-.
erature from students and contributers nationally. From what I have
heard, there will be no issue until a student, any student, steps forward
and does the work for its publication. It is ironic that Hobart Park, a stu-
dent journal which was started as an alternative to the Miscellany, is also
defunct.

Unfortunately, the worst signs of this neglect do not all disappear.
We will possess a part of this legacy forever so long as we keep our

Davidson yearbooks. And of course, the Davidsonian has come in for
some abuse. Many people have complained to me about the quality of the
paper. Though I agree with many of their points, I also know that we
have a hard-working and responsible staff. If more students became in-
volved, the paper and other publications would have more time to watch
out for mistakes and offer more to students. Jane Campbell was asked to
take over Quips & Cranks since no one had come forward, while I ran
unopposed for the editorship. | Without greater student involvement,
students will probably be forgetten by the faculty and administration.
Myron, our visitor from off-campus, alarmed some people but has not
meant any real debate about campus security. Rather than address the
issue, the trustees wish to hear further “recommendations” about divest-
ment. After quiet debate, the administration and faculty have planned
semester change with little student input. These issues, the ones closest
to our own self-interest, may be decided without our further involve-
ment.

Many people will disagree with these views and know better than I
do. I would be happy to hear your comments and criticisms. However
you may react to this editorial, please write to us. I would rather be
wrong and suffer the abuse of the school, than be right and not have a
single reply.

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the stu-

dents of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
~~ Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Of-
_|___fices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opinions ex-
pressed intetters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect ——_
the views of the editorial board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15
per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates avail-
able on request. Copyright held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

News Staff: Laura. Ballenger, David Bearce, Betsey Bryan, Maria Douglas, Wendy

Dunn, Laura Gabel, Penelope Hughes, Lucia Kendall, George Kurani, Aaron Levine, .

Sarah Langely , Ed Matthews, Ray Thorton, David Van Pelt, Ted Wilson.

Features Staff: Lee Eichelberger, Priscilla Faucette, Jessica Fisher, Scott Goodwin,

Chris Hargrove, Steve Mank, Diana Miller:

Sports Staff: Rick Casé, Boyd Coggins, Perry Mafhewes, Susan Wilkins

Photography Staff: Alex Hayden, Linda Higbie/Penelope Hughes, Ken Jones, Kyong

Lee, Matt Yaun. : .

Staff Artists: Richard Cloudt, Mike Schill. .

Production Staff: Beth Bryson, Kim Craig, Amelia Fox, Lara Glenn, Gates Grainger,

Robert Grzeszczak, Pete Mangone, Jamie McAden, Tom Moore, Ibby Sowell, Kathryn
trickland, Sarah Whitesell, Susan Wilkins, Ben Yarbrough.

irculation Staff: Laura Dodenhoff, Emilie Sebesta

Friday, March 20, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cloudt’s view

SADT

THE PAVIDSONIAN

ANTS HELL!
YOUVE GOT
-MYRONS !!

—_—Letters

I'd like to encourage anyone that feels
e they have a specific problem or concer not
to hesitate to come in and talk about it or
Crime bring it to our attention.
Rick Moore
Crime Prevention Officer

W.A.A.LR.

In response to the letter concerning
W.A.A.R. (Women Against Ant Rape), we
are concerned as students at Davidson Col-
lege about a misunderstanding that should
never have been an issue at all. Rape that is
the past. These problems almost always in- sexual is a serious matter, and we take it as
volve someone that’s had too much to such. Ant rape is not sexual. The
drink. Another area of concern ‘is public — W.A.A.R. signs are funny. They are not an
consumption. Please make sure you know _ issue. They have no hidden meanings other
what areas are designated as drinking areas ‘than humorous messages about ants. As far
and stay within those areas while drinking.
The college alcohol policy is, I believe, one
we can all live with. Let’s not abuse it to the
point we wind up with. a much stricter pol-
icy.

Some of you may have noticed that the
wanted-person poster has been taken down.
I am glad to report that this individual has
been arrested and turned over to the Iredell
Co. Sheriff’s Dept. .

With Spring Term comes increasing ac-
tivities such as Spring Frolics, etc. There is
some concern that alcohol consumption is .
excessive. We have had far more problems
with disorderly incidents at parties than in

art: we have picked them out of our under-
wear drawers many times. We are sorry that
some students have missed the point of the
signs. They were never meant offensively.
cenies has fallen, but are still occurring. smell the coffee: you may inhale an ant.
Please remember to secure your property,
even if you're only going to be away ashort Sheri A. Reynolds ’89 Barbera L. Matheny
period of time. 89
ee
We apologize for any inconvenience
that may have been caused by the publi-
cation of a photograph which falsely in-

sinuated a more than professional re- =

lationship between the Director and As-
sistant Director of Residence Life. The
movie publicity photograph vaguely re-
sembled these two and was used in a pur-
ely facetious manner. Again, we—
apologize

as violation goes, ants have mastered the '

So far this-month the number of-lar-——So don’t-take such deep breaths-when_you—
