Opinions

The Davidsonian
Saturday, October 10, 1987

Il

Film reviewers should show competence

Alan Singerman

Viewing cinema classics is not a favorite pastime of
Davidson students, as the sparsely attended projections
regularly bear witness. This is due to many reasons, not
the least being a cultural orientation toward mindless
entertainment for which the students bear no responsi-

- bility. Be that as it may, it strikes me as unseemly for
The Davidsonian to discourage students from attending
foreign films, or any other film classics, simply because
they do not exhibit the easy entertainment quotient to
which this generation, as so many before it, has become
accustomed.

I enjoyed reading the witty review of Jean-Luc
Godard’s Masculin-Feminin written by Mssrs. Dean
and Thompson in the October 2 issue’ of The
Davidsonian. AndI understand their keen disappoint-
ment at being deprived of the spectacle of bare “hoot-
ers” in a French film. After all, how can you call it
French if it isn’t filled with bare hooters? Dean and

Thompson were obviously cheated of the titillation
they were led toexpect, precipitating a sarcastic; nega-
tive review of the film. (The gentlemen would be well
advised, however, to watcha few films of Jean Renoir,
Marcel Carne, Jean Cocteau, Max Ophuls, Alain Res-
nais, Francois Truffaut and Bertrand Tavernier, to
name a few; the absence of bare “hooters” in fine
French films is conspicuous.)

Itis true that Masculin-Feminin is not an easy film to

understand. It has no familiar story line for the spectator _

to snuggle down into; itrefuses to createa comfortable
fictional world for the ctator to immerse him or
herself in for two hours; the form itself is unfamiliar and
disturbing because it does not correspond tocinematic
norms. In short, the film is iconoclastic, like Godard
himself, which forces the audience to reflect for two
hours, not only about the type of society which is béing
described (that is the point, fellas), but also about what
type of filmmaking is being rejected by the New Wave
in France (that’s the other point, guys).

It is diffidult for the uninitiated to “enjoy” or even
I

appreciate a film of this sort. If it is shown here,
however, it is precisely so that Davidson students can
become initiated into the history and subtleties of the
“seventh art.” If they are discouraged from going to see
it for themselves, the battle is lost before it begins. I
have no objections to reviewers giving informed opin-
ions on the films to be shown at Davidson; it is their
right. I do object to “movie reviews” written by people
with no apparent competence in the field, and who
nonetheless presume to advise students -- negatively -
= on the interest of the film. In the case of films the
reviewers do not understand, it would be far better just
toannounce the film, evoke the general content, and let
the students make up their own mind.

Of the dozen students who attended the projection of
Masculin-Feminin last Saturday night, half stayed
around for a discussion of the film’s form and content.
They seemed to feel it was worthwhile.

Alan J. Singerman is an Associate Professor of French.

Today's Lab: The Presidential primary

J. Allen Smith

Today’s lab is the presidential primary. You are all
required to attend. One cut and you will have failed to
help choose the next president of the United States.

The primary date for North.Carolina is SuperTues-
day, early March. March 12, believe. You arerespon-
sible for bringing your own ballots, and will be respon-
sible for filling them out in front of a notary public. You
are also responsible for finding out whether March 12th
is, in fact, Super Tuesday and if Super Tuesday is the
day on which you are assigned to vote. People from
other states may find this is not So.

There will be assigned reading in this course. How-
ever, there will be no lectures. The assigned reading
deals with issues, and since this is a science course, we

will try to stick more with the scientific theories sur- -

rounding these issues than mere speculation surround-
ing them.

Newspapers will be our main textbook. They are 25
cents weekdays, though newspapers with color pic-

Letters

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. The editors will try to print all
letters dealing with subjects of general in-
terest to the campus community, but they
must adhere to the following guidelines:

-All letters must be submitted by 7
p.m, on the Tuesday before the expected
publication date.

-Letters must be neatly typed or legi-
bly hand-written. The editors will also
accept letters submitted on 5.25” disket-
tes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS |
(MS-DOS) text file format.
-All letters should be si

tures, such as USA Today, might run alittle higher. In
the past I have received complaints that Sunday edi-
tions run higher in price, as much as 50 cents toa dollar.
While I understand these complaints, I would like to
remind you that our library carries these newspapers
free.

I expect the reading material to be read before com-
ing into lab. Ihave found in the past that cramming the
night before the presidential primary has often led to
poor choices from both parties concerned. Blurry-eyed
from having studied the newspapers: all night, some

. students have even fallen asleep in the voting booth. I

would therefore encourage you to keep up with your
daily reading assignments. I am using video this term as
well.

All are encouraged to watch the MacNeil/Lehrer
Newshour. It has been brought to my attention that
weekly news magazines and afew weekly newspapers.
havecome to summarize the daily changes in the presi-
dential primary.

While you might find such summaries helpful as an.
outline for your reading, I would once again like to
stress to you the importance of doing the assigned
reading. When you come to lab, be prepared to choose

Policy.

must present the editors with compelling
reasons if they do not wish their names to
be printed with'their letters.

‘The editors reserve the right not to
print letters which contain inside jokes,
off-color slurs, or advertisements, or
which represent a viewpoint very similar —
to other letters printed dealing with the
same topic.

’ ‘Writers should include an address
and a phone number with their submis-
sions.

“Writers should address their letters

”

only one candidate and explain why.

Since pis is a science course, I expect you all to take
an interest in the candidate who will raise funds for
better science buildings and better informed labs for the
future. Bumper stickers and pins I have found useful
mnemonics for remembering the candidates’ names.

i)

I encourage you, however, to read over this lab
before you come to class on SuperTuesday, so that you _
know what issues their names are composed of. Iftheir
views clash too much with those of people from our
own country or‘seem incongruous and confusing to
people of other nations, we might end up with some-
thing short of an explosion. I don’t want any explo-
sions. I’d much rather hear slogans. Remember: Pick
a candidate that will help us build a better lab.

Anyone who skips this lab fails the course. I think that
goes without saying. Again, I would like to stress how
important it is for you not to miss this lab.

J. Allen Smith is a senior history major from Durham,
NC.

With this issue, The Davidsonian has entered the brave
new world of desktop publishing. Yah. This issue was
made possible by Niccolo Stockdale (above), other
kind but simple folk at College Relations, the CSC,
and the CTW (with the help of the letters “I,” “Q,” “X,”
‘and the number 6). Sorry it was late, but hey: technol-

ogy isn't pretty.

