Saturday, October 10, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

IMAC update:
flickerball hits stride

By STEPHEN W. BELL

Once again the coming of Fall has
brought the flickerball faithful back to
Davidson in droves, and this year’s teams
shouldn’t disappoint them. The hard grind
and sweat of preseason camps are over, and
the resulting improvement in play has made
all the squads good. The Big Three- SAE,
PIKA, and KA - are again the favorites head-
ing into the campaign, but it is too early to
count anyone outat this stage.

The only clash of the Titans to this point

occurred in the exhibition game between
SAE and KA, won by KA in the closing
seconds. In regular season play, neither has
yet to be tested, and PIKA has breezed as
well. Many wonder if these teams will finish
out the year though, because rumor has it that
the Atlanta Falcons are trying to recruit the
players for their scab team. But this insider is

confident they will stay here due to the pres-

tige associated with the IMAC title.
Looking at the rest of the men’s league,
the freshmen halls are slowly comprehend-
ing the game, with Third East and Second
Little paving the way in offensive innova-

tion. Alec Macallister tends to downplay his
team’s offensive threat, insisting that “our
defense is the backbone of this club. Not
since the days of Pittsburgh’s ‘Steel Curtain’
has the game seen such a dominating defen-
sive force.” Freshmen are still learning the
finer points of the game however - a fact that
upperclass teams such as Butt Pirates and
Damned Comanches undoubtedly relish -
and will probably wind up on the short end of
many a drubbing early in the season.

In the women’s league, Insatiables again
looks like the team to beat, as Leslie Urban

and crew run an offense only slightly less in-_

tricate than Miami’s. The Fighting Fourth of
Richardson appears to have caught -on
quickly, as evidenced by the'21-0 whipping
of Third Rich. Other teams, meanwhile, must
understand that no one has ever been killed
by a thrown football and that broken nails are
not the end of the world.

Will SAE successfully defend their title?
Will some upstarts come out of nowhere to
take it all? No one can be certain at this point,
but whatever happens it -will certainly prove
entertaining to the avid fan.

Sophomore Jim Walker cai

a goalie in mid-flight.

4

Hilarious scab action and the baseball playoffs

By ANTHONY MCCARRON
In this week’s column, I’d like to
split time between the first week of
scab action in the NFL and a pre-
view of the baseball playoffs.
Highlighting some of the action in
the initial week of scab play was
excitement on every kicking play.
Granted, the replacement players
had only limited time to prepare for
their first game, but the special
teams plays werehilarious. Every
punt had as many thrills as a new
Indiana Jones movie. Missed
snaps, blocked punts, all kinds of
fumbles, and 18-yard punts were
all the order of the day. There were
at least three blocked punts re-
turned for touchdowns, which
myst have prompted coaches
across the nation to turn away on
fourth-and-no-chance.
TV commentors spent most of

Sunday and Monday reminding us
that we were all seeing a serious
decrease in the quality of league
play. What they don’t realize is
that many starved pro football fans
loved the action anyway. Plus,
there were some outstanding indi-
vidual efforts. Fans say they miss

* thie Stars of the NFL like Payton,” '

Taylor, Elway, and Montana, but
how about the play of Redskin WR
Anthony Allen, Saint QB John
Fourcade, and Oiler QB Brent
Pease?. Allen had 7 catches for 255
yards (a Redskin record) and
scored 3 touchdowns. Fourcade
threw for 222 yards and 3. touch-
downs, while Pease threw for 260
yards and a touchdown, and rushed
for another. The scab teams defi-
nitely provided some entertain-
ment over this football weekend,
whether it was the 49ers’ use of the

wishbone on Monday night, or.the
interest that picket-line crossing
players such as Gary Hogeboom,
Mark Gastineau, and Randy White
stirred up. Hopefully, with reports
that player demands are lessening,
coming from wherever it is that
Gene Upshaw and Jack Donlan are
meeting, we’ll see a quick end to
this foolishness. Until then, more
power to the scabs and the players
who are crossing the picket lines.
Many players don’t have the time
left in their careers to. waste throw-
ing jelly doughnuts at strike break-

_ ers, so kudos to them when they

come to their senses and cross over
the ridiculous picket line. Until the
strike ends, though, I am rooting
for the scab players all the way.
Now, let’s talk about the Major
League playoffs. At this writing,
the Cardinals are up 1-0 in games

by virtue of a fine performance on
the mound and at the plate by St.
Louis starter Greg Mathews.
Mathews tossed 7 and 1/3 innings
of 4-hit ball and chipped in with a

_2-runsingle. Obviously, this loss

hurts the Giants, but for more rea-
sons than just the fact that they are
down 1-0. The Giants pitched their
ace, Rick Reuschel, in hopes of
striking quickly with a win in St.

‘Louis. Reuschel, however, exited

after getting tagged for 5 runs in6

‘innings. This puts the Giants at a

disadvantage. They have tocome
back with less than their best to
even the series. The Cards, on the

other hand, don’t have that prob-:

lem. Mathews was informed only 4
hours before the first pitch of game
1 that he was to be the starter.
Danny Cox, originally slated to
start the game, had to be scratched

College Credit

. First Union loan has a lot of

. ways to give you credit —
while pursuing a college degree.

NewBanking Power For You.

.

DAVIDSON
892-8861

First Union National Bank

_of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide Member FDIC
©1987 First Union National Bank of North Carolina

because of a stiff neck. The Cards,
then, got away with a win without
their number one on the mound.
This gives them the opportunity to
come back with John Tudor or
Danny Cox in Game 2. If, in fact,
the Cards do take the first two,
they’II have a stranglehold on the
pennant. It’s awfully difficult to
come back from’such a deficit,
especially against a team that
seemingly can always find a way to
beat you, like the Cardinals. It
makes any prognosticator’s job
easier when he has a game in hand,
but you have to like the Cardinals’
chances to bethe NL entrant in the
Fall Classic.
‘Over in the junior circuit, the

' Twins and Tigers are set to square

off for Game One Wednesday
night ir. Minnesota. The Twins
have a great advantage in that there
are4 games in the Metrodome and
they have the best home record in
baseball. However, the Tigers do
have the best road record in the AL,
and they are coming off an emo-
tional, momentum-building 3-
game sweep over thesecond place
Toronto Blue Jays. In a true
hookup of aces, Frank Viola goes
for the Twins against Doyle Alex-
ander for the Tigers. Viola was 17-
10 with a 2.90 ERA, while Alexan-_
der fashioned a 9-0 won-lost record
for Detroit. The Twins are laden
with young talent in the form of
Kirby Puckett, Kent Hrbek, Gary
Gaetti, and Viola, but the Tigers
have the chemistry. Evérything
had to fall into place for the Tigers
to beat the powerful Blue Jays for

~ the AL East flag. Now, they have

everything together. Solid pitch-

‘ing, Clutch performers, and a red-

hot MVP ¢andidate Alan Tram-
mell, point t towards.a Detroit vic-
top in this series. Watch for Viola,

‘though, he has the tools fo check in’

with a Mike Scott-like perform-

_ ance (remember last year’s play-

offs?) and give the young Twins a
lift into the series. However, if he
stays human, the Tigers will pre-
vail, setting up a rematch of the
1968 Series.
