LEANING AGAINST THE LAMP-POST
(one day) lighting up time : 6.38 pm

leaning against the lamp-post

beneath the street lamp _ .
‘a haggard skeleton another day ) lighting up time : 6:42 pm
whose synovial fluid dry .
cracked and crackled with time. its dark.
illuminati fused bulbs,
“howed clectrical genius of a spurious industry
a
silhouette a catapult’s bulls-eye hits.
with Dota

in
the lamp shade.

feathered chatterers the lights fade into brightness after
perched on a matrix and darkness thereafter
of twigs and electrical wires, into a hallowed halo.

pecked at the
claustrophobia of the argonised confinement.

; ; remains

night-time destitutes devoured

breathe finish

paroxysmSof heavy air. by scavengers.

moths but the palpitating heart
flutter throbs silently.

around .

spotting interludes

their blemished wings of

Sweep occupancy
down _ leaning against the lamp-post.
describing
an SUDEEP SEN ’87
” unquestioned International Student, INDIA.

; | 3 It's with immense pleasure that I take up this assign-
Sune ses to. a new dawn. < ment, having being asked to serve as the new ‘Inside Art
the misty rays | = Editor’. 1 am réally excited at this prospect and hope to re-
clears its base 5 vitalize this section of the Davidsonian newspaper.

for the new occupant. ~ I, as a literary and arts editor strongly feel that only
the day sees rs materials which has the basic ‘publishable’ standards in
trade, business brawls, | ty terms of quality of work ought to be printed. This simply
love, deceit - i | ** means that will mor bring on an issue a inside Art just be-
; | ~~ cause it is due that particular week. If there is a lack of
all for the sacrarium beneath. ‘quality’ material, then the issue would be deffered until I |
theintermittent receive enough submissions that are worthy of publication.
vacant respite I personally believe that it is extremely important to main-
fills the child’ s fair play. tain a strict level of standard.
the lamp-post — the cricket stumps. Another editorial policy change regarding this section
a square cut cork is that now Inside Art is open to anyone and everyone who
speeding down the street lanes, wishes to be creative. This section is open to all members of
just enough space between the wickets, the Davidson community — faculty, students, administra-
until t hey are bowled. tors and the townspeople. It is NOT just limited to students.
concretised post has no vacancy ! Contributions are preferred ondiskettes which are compat-
ible on the IBM PC with one print-out copy of the written
evening, work. All sorts of contributions are accepted — poems, §
night again. | short stories, photographs, drawings, sketches, designs,
witness to the harlot’ s swaying breasts, graphics: ork: ooh bout anyiing as or 8 as they are your
, ; original work which you.consider good!
Fear eatinal auton, In this issue we feature the four Davidson students who
all diffused in the murky glow of the neon were the finalists at the Hollins College 27th Literary Festi-
, val at Roanoke, Virginia. Out of the 12 finalists for the
Poetry Prize, four were Davidsonians; and out of the 6 Fic-
suddenty the filament tion prize finalisis, one was from Davidson. Jim Dillon, a
‘oa ackened darkness. oh the categerics! major, won the runners-up prize for §
whispering shrieks, Please feel free to contact me anytime (Sentelle 103,
clamorous silence. 7 Tel : 704/892-6248). You can either post your submissions
__ vs a to P.O.Box 4071, Davidson College, Davidson, NC
—_—— 7 ~ 28036. ; or leave it under the door of my room; or leave it in
the ‘Inside Art Box’ at the College Union desk. Anyone who
DRIVING HOME wants to work with me is most welcome. I thank Alex §
When my father was in college Hayden for printing the photographs. I am looking foward
Frank Pitts killed his his four daughters to your contributions.
and then killed himself, a double-barrelled shotgun
held under his chin, Yours truly, ~~
the trigger pulled with his thumb. i.
My grandfather always said SUDEEP SEN
that his brains were Inside Art Editor
“splattered all over the ceiling.” Some years ago OS
| believed him in the way | whoever had owned the land
that only small children can believe. on which the oak tree stood
sold it to Champion.

When | was ten or eleven

some nights my father would drive me
past the oak tree on the dirt road

that marked where his house once stood.

He would turn off the car lights

and tell me about Frank Pitts, the crazy one.
I'd cry, and he'd laugh

and we'd driveon,

with me jumping and starting

at every sudden sound. _

( yet another day ) lighting up time : 6:53 pm f

the skeleton rib-cage

The land is clear-cut now, ugly
bare earth and the bones of trees
red mud and dead limbs

and paper the logging crew left.
Today, driving home down that same dirty road I
that I used to fear so intensely,
I realised that 1 no longer know
where Frank Pitts’ house once stood.

prom fl WILL HOLLOWAY 87.

DAD
There are tubes coming out of dad
at Richland Memorial Hospital,
you told me on the phone,
your voice a little shaky and out of breath.
When I was three, T' d wake up at 6 a.m.
so Dad and I, the men of the family,
could shave together, me using
a razor with no blade,
you asleep and very pregnant.
At eight, I had to play basketball
since Dad was always good
but never tall enough
and me his lanky son.
Every time I fouled up on court,
I could hear his breaths get deeper
and sense the vein on his forehead
about to burst with a spray of blood,
Eventually, the game would end
and we would come home.
I would scream I hate basketball,
and please don’t make me go back.
Dad would say try harder.
At thirteen, I tried out for plays
and began taking piano.
Dad would just laugh
and call them artsy-fartsy things.
Then he’ d dodge over to the piano
and play Chopsticks,
explaining that he could play the piano too.
At fifteen, I gave a speech.
that made everyone cry,
and they gave me a standing ovation,
all rushing up and hugging me afterwards.
Dad sat there with the tape recorder.
Later, he would play it back to neighbors,
imitating the moans and groans of my friends.
And you, on the phone,
you want me to say I'm upset,
that I’m sorry, that I hope he gets better,
You want me to come home.
You want me to cry.
You want me to drive Angela and Amy
home from the hospital
and then come pick you up
when you're ready to go.
You want me to scream at the doctors
when they won’t tell you what the hell is going on
because you’ re always quiet and polite.
You want me to hug you
when I look up from a copy of People Magazine
to see you crying in the waiting room,
and just sit and hug you
because you need a hug,
and I want to hug you,
and I hate to hurt you.
But Mom, I can’t come home to Dad
to see that man lying in a bed,

watching machines make him breathe
and nurses check on him
and doctors do God knows what with his body.
T can’t.
Because I want so much
to be three and shaving
with no blade and no whiskers,
and Dad at the sink,
| just grinning
at me,
his son.
| JIM DILLON '89

SWEET APPLES

Sweet apples, rich and round, don’t rot before
you eat them with your pink and tender lips
and silky tongue and polished teeth that pour
your salivations as your stomach sips

the apple from its core into a new

and larger core whose limbs grow far and wide
apart to reach into the liquid blue,

clear sky that washes orchards that supplied

the peel, so crisply wet and thin and red,

in yellow bile now mixed until the blue

veins pick the orchards’ apples grown to thread
across the human orchard centuries grew.

Sweet friend, tend your ground, don’t rot before
you're swallowed, threaded through a fertile floor.

J. ALLEN SMITH ‘88.
