Vv.
Friday, December 11, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

hy

What has a great memory
and comes with a

real handy trunk?

' If you buy an IBM Personal System/2™ Model 25 by

the end of this year, you'll not only get a substantial —————

student discount, we'll throw in a nifty extra.
A sturdy, metal footlocker with brass trim,

16”x 16" x20"

The computer is a great way to keep on top of
your class work. It'll store lots of stuff you need to

remember. And the trunk is real handy for holding

most everything else.

It’s a neat idea that’s yours for peanuts.

To take advantage of this special deal, contact
your on-campus IBM Education Product
Coordinator. But don’t wait too long. This special
offer expires December 31st.

The IBM Education Product Coordinator

Computer Services Center
(704) 892-2000

| [fre
‘nl
itty

Offer limited to qualified students, faculty and staff who purchase an [BM Personal Systém/2 Model 25 through their IBM Education Product Coordinator on or before December 31,
1987. Offer applies to the [BM Personal System/2 Models 8525-001, 8525-004, 8525-C02, and 8525-C05. Trunk quantities are limited. IBM reserves the right to substitute a unit of
comparable valuc. Allow 6 to 8 weeks for wunk delivery. Personal System/2 is a trademark of [BM Corporation.

STEWART, from p. 13

become stagnant and unmotivated. Itis individuals which
enrich and change an organization. This is true in any
selective organization such as a law firm, a corporation, a
varsity athletic team, or even a small liberal arts college.

Selectivity is a part of life with which we all must cope. I
hope people as intelligent as Davidson students can realize
that.

Thave left out many things that a fraternity is. I have just
hit the high points. If you want to hear more, just ask a
fraternity member, active or alumni-- After all, a fraternity

is for life. In conclusion, let me ask just gne thing: please
do not refer to a fraternity as a “frat.” Itisn’t. “

Grier Stewart is a senior Biology/Pre-med major from
Birmingham, Alabama, and is Rush Chairman of Phi Delta
Theta. Te -

