Radio is Big Business

Kevin Dunn '

Last Thursday, John Griffith decided that it would be in
the best interest of WDAV to end the FLIPSIDES radio
show. After discussing the issue with the station’s profes-
sional staff, Griffith felt that WDAV was losing a signifi-

. cant portion of its listening audience during the 11:00 p.m.
to 1 a.m. shift that was FLIPSIDES. The solution he de-
cided upon was to cancel FLIPSIDES. A sound and just de-
cision? Right. .

_ Wrong. in order for the issue to be understood, it needs
to be put in the proper perspective. Let us begin by examin-
ing what WDAV was and what happened to it. The station
was born in 1969, when a group of students began broad-
casting on a Cafrier-current system from the basement of
the Union. (“Carrier-current” meaning that it could only be
received on radios that were plugged into the college’s
electrical system.) The group was given the status of a stu-
dent organization and was run entirely by students. In sep-
tember 1973, as a result of the students’ work, they were
able to begin broadcasting with a 10-watt transmitter on the
frequency of 89.9 FM and with the call letters WDAV.

Until 1977, the radio station was completely run by stu-
dents who played a variety of programs ranging from clas-
sical and jazz music to alternative rock, thereby sufficiently
catering to the majority of listeners’ tastes. However, from
1977 through 1978, the administration of President Samuel
Spencer began forcing the students to comply with college
intervention. The administration demanded that the format
be changed so that 50 percent of all air-time be devoted sol-
ely to classical music, despite the fact that classical music
was already taking up the largest section of air-time. Col-
lege intervention went so far as to include what can only be

Lee. Fichelberger

I think the first time I visited Davidson was in the spring
of 1978. I was twelve years old at the time and my sister
Julia (’81) gave the whole family a tour.of the campus and
all its facilities. The campus was green and breezy. I com-

plained that we had to walk a lot. I recall that my father told

me that I should do my best to enjoy the visit or he would in-
sure the opposite. Other than that I carry few memories of
that trip with me. One thing that I clearly remember,
though, were the cramped rooms of the Union basement

Opinions
The administration

called a hijacking of WDAV’s post office box. Finally, in
October 1978, the Board of Trustees gave control of the
station to President Spencer and his administration, and the
entire student staff was replaced by hired professionals.

It is interesting to note that, at the same time, the Trus-
tees gave Spencer the authority to set up a radio station to be
run solely by students. But that is exactly what WDAV
was. What the trustees basically did was to take away the

- Students’ station and tell them that if they wanted to build.

another one they could go right ahead. Why would the
Trustees do that? Because they realized that a radio station
could be profitable for public relations and it would be
easiest to simply take control of one that was already in
existence, i:e. WDAV. As the recently appointed (at that
time) director Don Lovell stated, “It has always been the
College’s station...the thing I think that all {of the actions
by the college] implies is that I think we are just béginning
to realize that this is big business.” To put it in overtly blunt
language, what was said to the students about their radio
station was, “to hell with the students, money is involved.”
Fortunately, the students did not take it lying down. Unfor-
tunately, there wasn’t much they could do. The college de-
vised an agreement, which was basically a forced com-
promise, that allowed the students to control the now de-
funct FLIPSIDES show Monday through Friday.

The whole episode ten years ago reminds mé of the
plight of the American Indians. The white man came and
stole their land and kindly gave them a reservation for their
trouble. They came in and stole our station and kindly gave
us a late night show for our trouble. Well Tonto, now they
want that too. When the white man realized he could make
a profit from the land he gave the Indians, he took it right
back. John Griffith says that WDAV can increase its reve-
nue by playing classical music until 1 a.m. We all know the
rest of the story.

Now let us examine the reasons John Griffith gave for

a te

sional station meant accepting responsibilities and commit-
ments that were beyond the capacities of the students. So

‘that held the libraries and studio of WDAV. The idea of stu-

dents like my sister being able to play whatever jazz, rock,
or classical music they wanted to intrigued me. My sister
told me that it was not easy to obtain a position and that
WDAV was the only organization that had students on a
waiting list. What really excited the students, she told me,
was what they had been pushing for for many years; a sig-
nal boost to reach Charlotte that would be implemented
later that year. I had no further contact with the station until
seven and a half years later when I enrolled.

I’m not going to go into the history of the station. If it .

interests you there is a fine summary to be found elsewhere
in this paper. However, I eventually became a part of what
remained of student programming at DAV. I was to be the
director of “Flipsides” this year. I spent all of the summer
_Working in Chariotte_and_living in Davidson_so I could
work with “Flipsides.” I helped organize efforts to write
letters and sign petitions to save the program. But I am
neither shocked nor embittered by the final decision to can-
cel “Flipsides.” I had the whole summer to deal with the
death of the show. It is clear that “Flipsides” had no place in
WDAV’s future. All of us who worked on the show always

felt_an uneasy relationship with the ‘professional_staff. I_

searched for a reason that the show had failed, for I knew
that for something as vital as student radio to die at David-
son, there had to be a Wetter explanation than a format
change,at DAV. The administration seems to be the most
guilty. Well, the administration,.the Trustees, all of the dis-
tant, faceless folk who wield the levers of power are easy
targets for our scorn. After all, we don’t know them and
they don’t seem to react to the blame we lay at their feet.

They must be guilty. I'will concede that the administration--|--————_---

the students got the upgrade and lost the station because of ~
their thoughtless desire for signal power. If the students

could have been happy with a ten-watt station, WDAV
might still be in the Union basement today.
My point is that the single most powerful force at

Davidson is the will of student body. No other element

within the college carries so much unchecked power. Yet,
no other element is as neglectful of its power. Students

made WDAV into a Frankenstein. We can blame no one
else for what happened. Something is rotten in David-
son — students.

“Davidson used to be such an exciting place,” an ad-

The Davidsonian's “Opinions” section is the only
forum on campus for extended commentary on pertinent is-
sues. The editors will try to print all opinions dealing with
subjects of general interest to the campus community, but
they must adhere to the following guidelines:

‘The opinions must be neatly typed. The editors will
also accept articles submitted on 5.25” diskettes in SST
WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS text file format.

‘Opinions must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Monday
before the expected publication date, except for opinions
submitted on diskettes, which are due at 5 p.m. on Tues-
day.

ae

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian
Monday, September 21, 1987

15

giveth and it later taketh away

the cancellation of FLIPSIDES. /. The professional staff
that runs WDAV is not trained to supervise an alternative
rock format. True, they are classical-oriented, but FLIP-
SIDES has had student supervisors from the beginning.
That was part of the forced compromise. 2. WDAV was los- |
ing a significant portion of its audience during that time
frame. This ignores the more than 1,500 signatures by
Charlotte listeners on the petition that was circulated over
the summer supporting FLIPSIDES. The fact that over
1,500 listeners tune into an 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. show is as-
tounding when you consider its unusual format. It should
also be remembered that the following for FLIPSIDES is
quite important since it is the only alternative music show
in the broadcasting area. For that reason alone, it makes.
good P.R. sense to continue FLIPSIDES. 3. FLIPSIDES is
inconsistent with the Trustees’ programming mission,
which is to make the station the best classical station inthe
area. That mission is the one that the Trustees created after
the station was taken from the students and, for that reason,
is not even worthy of argument.

The decision to cancel Flipsides was one motivated
primarily by monetary interest. In thiat regard, the decision
could be profitable for the’ station. But let us not lose our
perspective and get caught in an illusionary mind-frame.
WDAV is a student-created station. Created, built, and run
solely by students. If I may be blunt again, the station was
stolen from them in order to save the college the trouble of
creating its own. A compromise was rammed down the stu-
dents’ throats in order to pacify them somewhat. This com-
promise was FLIPSIDES. Now the college has decided to
renege on that promise and to take it away from us .com-
pletely. As fout-year residents at this 150-year-old insti-
tute, students are powerless against the forces that be. Once
again the attitude is “to hell with the students” and with any
promises that were made, and once again, they will get
away with it.

Something is rotten here at Davidson

was to blame regarding the DAV takeover in 1978, but the
decision to cancel “Flipsides” was a minor action and the
parties involved may have the same titles, but they are not
the same people. The administration merely cut away the
whithered remajns of what had once been a healthy appen-
dage. WDAV became a professional station because what
the students wanted was a signal boost upgrade. I don’t
think that any of the students realized just how much bag-
gage that upgrade would bring with it. Essentially it meant
becoming a professional station and becoming a profes-

ministration official told me, “so many organizations and.
activities doing good work. They made a lot more trouble
then but I didn’t mind that. Now they just want to do their
work and party. They don’t seem to dispute what the ad-
ministration tells them. They're only involved in them-

selves.”
To me, “Flipsides” and most other student organiza-

tions have been dead a long time. Today they merely exist.
There is no life in them. We get mad about “Flipsides” only
because the administration made its death official. Student
organizations are at a low. Last year, almost all of the posi-
tions at the College Union ran unopposed. The coveted
positions as editors of student publications are filled by re-
cruitment. The SGA is seen as something to put on one’s
resume.°(Can you name your class president and all your
class senators?) What happened to those thrilling days of
yesteryear? Excuses abound. most are like this, “Students
then just had more time. The workload now is much more.”
Ask any student of the period or tenured professor. They
will tell you that the workload is no different. Where do stu-
dents spend their time? The best way to find the life of the
campus is to find new organizations, growth, and waiting
lists. Once that was the Union, now it's Patterson Court’s
See ROTTEN, p. 16

‘All opinions should be signed. Writers must present,
the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish thei
names to be printed with their articles. _

‘The staff will not edit opinions for content or style, but
for common English usage only. The editors will info
the authors of any substantial changes.

“Because of limited space, it is sometimes impossible
to print ail opinions submitted. The editors reserve the righ
to select articles for publication from among those re
ceived.

‘Writers should include information about their homed
city and state, their graduating class, or their professic
(where applicable),

