2

U.S fires at Iranian ship; Joe Biden quits race

By KATHERINE PRICE
Headlining events for Sept. 17-
24:

Around the world — The
U.S. fired shots on an Iranian ship
on Monday near the coast of Bah-
rain, adding to conflict in the trou-
bled Middle East. U.S. officials
stated that the Iranian ship ap-
peared to be laying mines. On
Tuesday, the American naval ship
USS Jarrett fired additional shots
at another Iranian ship, in warn-
ing. U.S. President Reagan says
he has no intention of creating
conflict, and that the actions were
justified under international law.
Iranian President Ali Khamenei
addressed the United Nations on
Tuesday, following the attacks.

Nicaragua announced a unilat-

eral ceasefire on Tuesday, just
hours after a meeting in
Washington between U.S. Presi-
dent Reagan and Costa Rican

‘President Arias. Arias was seek-

ing to win Reagan’s support of a
Central American peace plan. The
peace plan calls for simultaneous
ceasefires in central American
guerrilla warfare, cessation of for-
eign military aid, and progress to-
ward democratic reforms by
November 7.

trick.” The Reagan administration

believes that the unilateral cease- .

fire represents an attempt by
Nic President Ortega to
discourage the U.S. Congress

from appropriating additional:

Contra aid. Reagan has said that
he wili seek $270 million in Con-
tra aid after September.

In the Phillipines, President
Corazon Aquino responded to last
week’s coup attempt by reshuffl-
ing the duties of 21 officers within

Reagan has firmly opposed her administration. The Philip-

the Central American plan be-
cause he feels it is too lenient on
the pro-marxist Sandinista leader-
ship of Nicaragua. The Reagan
administration quickly dubbed the
Nicaraguan-ceasefire “a publicity

pines saw continued violence this
week as a popular leftist leader,
Lean Alejandro of the New Patrio-
tic Alliance, was assassinated.
His death sparked large public
demonstrations.

Across the nation — Prési-
dential candidate Sen. Joseph
Biden of Delaware became the
second Democrat, following Gary
Hart, to end his campaign. Biden
withdrew from the race on
Wednesday amid accusations of
plagiarism in his law school days
and in his campaign speeches.
Biden admitted that he had made
mistakes, and was “angry at him-
self.” Biden’s aides think his
withdrawal will be most benefi-
cial to Massechusetts Gov.
Michael Dukakis, also a Democ-
ratic presidential candidate.

The senate Judiciary Commit-
tee continues to debate the nomi-
nation of Robert Bork for Su-
preme Court Justice. Bork

September 25,

1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

\

finished his personal testimony in
a record five days of hearings.
Three key members of the
Judiciary Committee — Sen.
Arlen Specter (R-Pennsylvania),
Sen. Howell Heflin (D-Alabama),
and Sen. Dennis Deconcini (D-
Arizoina) — remain uncommit-
ted.

Jessica Hahn, who was in-
volved in a sex scandal with ex-
PTL leader Jim Bakker, testified
for two days this week to a federal
panel about the episode. Hahn
also made headlines this week by |

appearing semi-nude in Playboy
magazine. Reportedly, Hahn was
paid over $1 million by the
magazine for the pictures.and for -
her account of the PTL affair.

Lert 0.8

Booze Bros.

To the Editors,

OUTRAGE is the only word I can think
of in relation to the article published by the
Davidsonian this last issue. According to

[E BOOZE BROTHERS, the fraternity
which I am the president of is a group of ra-
ist, white supremists who affiliate them-
selves with the KKK. SLANDER, is the
next word that comes to mind when I think
about this predicament. As a member of the
ow defunct RACE committee, and as an
assistant organizer for the original “Solidar-
ity Day” event (which sought to positively
counteract the effects of the KKK march on
Davidson) I am astonished at the ignorance
required to publish an article which so
foolishly labels a group of individuals as ra-

cists. Furniny, but I on’t seem to remember

the editors of the Davidsonian at any of the .

RACE committee meetings I attended, nor
do I recall them helping canvas the area to
create a “ghost town” for those poor misin-
formed souls who believe they are superior
to others because of the color of their skin.
Yet, now I must defend my fraternity from a
similar ignorance, one that arises from a
failure to look at the true facts.

Yes, I freely admit that Kappa Alpha
Order is a fraternity system which is predo-
minantly southern in composition, and
which considers its spiritual founder to be
Robert E. Lee, the general in charge of the
confederate forces. However, I challenge
the Davidsonian staff to free themselves of
their ignorance and to investigate the mate-
rial available on Robert E. Lee. I believe,
then, they will better understand why a
fraternity system seeks to emulate his char-
acter. Furthermore, I suggest to the editors
of the Davidsonian to look at Sigma Chap-
ter of Davidson College, Kappa Alpha
Order, on its own merits. Each member of

Recess: 20 days

Courses end: 5 p.m. Tuesday, May 2
Reading day: Wednesday, May 3

Commencement: Sunday, May 14

Below is the proposed semester calendar for the 1988-89 school year. Stu-
_dents wishing to make comments on the calendar ur change should consult their ,

Fall Semester 1988-89
Orientation begins: Saturday, August 20 a
Orientation ends: Tuesday, August 23 ;
Courses begin: 8 a.m. Wednesday, August 24:
Holiday begins: 5 p.m. Friday, October?“ “
Holiday ends: 8 a.m. Wednesday, October 12 Jf
Thanksgiving holiday begins: 5 p.m. Tuesday, November 22

-Thanksgiving holiday ends: 8 a.m. Monday, November 28_
Courses end: 5 p.m. Tuesday, December 13 -_
Reading day: Wednesday, December 14
Exams begin: 9 a.m. Thursday, December 15
Exams end: 5 p.m. Wednesday, December 21

Spring Semester 1988-89
Courses begin: 8 a.m. Wednesday, January 11
Holiday begins: 5 p.m. Friday, March 17
Holiday ends: 8 a.m. Monday, March 27

Exams begin: 9 a.m. Thursday, May 4
Exams end: 12 noon Wednesday, May 10

our group of men joined our ranks because
of the individuals present at our fraternity,
here at Davidsdn College. National reputa-
tions mean little when one finds oneself in
the company of men, which I daresay, are
of excellent character.

Finally, I would just like to question the
integrity of a journalistic staff which feels
compelled to make humor of such sensitive
issues as racism and homosexuality. The
first amendment of our constitution guaran-
tees the right of freedom of speech. How-
ever, I do not believe our founding fathers
had in mind feedom to slander and defame
others when they drew up these amend-
ments. A responsible press is an important
part of our constitutional guarantees. Yet,
abuse of our first amendment rights is as
dangerous as suppression of them. Too
much power in any single group’s hand is a
frightening proposition. Hopefully, our
Davidsonian editors will mature and under-
stand the responsibility they have to report
accurately and fairly. Otherwise, infrac-
tions, such as the injustice which occurred
to my fraternity and others, will continue.

In addition, please have the courage in
the future to acknowledge the authors of ar-
ticles of this nature. Hiding behind.a veil of

- secrecy is common not: only to THE

BOOZE BROTHERS, but also the KKK.
Cowards find it easy to be unfair when their

identity is unknown.

Peter D. Wright.
President, KA

7KKKA’

To the Editors,

In many regards it was comforting to re-
‘turn to Davidson after a year abroad and
find the place relatively unchanged. On the
other hand, I have been rather appalléd at
how some things remain the same. For ex-
ample, when one browses through the
pages of the September, 21, edition of the] -
Davidsonian it becomes painfully obvious
that the editorial staff continues to wallow
in a pool of ignorance and virtueless selec-
tion of the satire columnists. For to allow an}
article to be printed such as the one written
by the gutless Booze Brothers, one must as-
sume that these editors are no more intelli-
gent than the Booze Brothers themselves.
God help us all!

Such “mindless cuts” upon the campus
enviroment can at times be entertaining, but
when these.attempts at hamor border upon
slander then something must be done. Any
Davidsonian editor who allows any staff
member to unjustly stereotype an organiza-
tion as racist and prejudiced deserves no
title of editor for any publication that I know],

of. It is inexcusable to permit such a gross
defamation of character to take place in a
publication that is read by so many people
both in and outside of the college communi-
ty. Not even a front page apology by the
editors and the authors would come close to|_
abdicating this wrongdoing, but then again, |
that might be good place to start.

Daniel Rikard

Letters

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from
its readers. The editors will try to print all
letters dealing with subjects of general in-
terest to the campus community, but they
must adhere to the following guidelines:

‘All letters must be submitted by 7
p.m. on the Tuesday before the expected
publication date.

‘Letters must be neatly typed or legi-
bly hand-written. The editors will also
accept letters submitted on 5.25” disket-
tes in SSI WordPerfect or IBM PC-DOS
(MS-DOS) text file format.

“All letters should be signed. Writers ,

Policy

must present the editors with compelling
reasons if they do not wish their names to
be printed with their letters.

‘The editors reserve the Tight not to——|—
print letters which contain inside jokes,
off-color slurs, or advertisements, or
which represent a viewpoint very, similar:
to other letters printed dealing with the
same topic.

‘Writers should include an address
and a phone number with their submis-
sions.

‘Writers should address their letters
“To the Editors.”

