The.day the snow came to the house.

It came within a sorcery of wishes,

And I saw the woman dance from the apothecary’s gate
Anticipating the delicious'scent within the chamber

She came in through the door the day the snow fell
And I remember how the man walked out of it:
Within the house, the blankets slept while I

The day the snow came to the house

_ Studied through the window how he left

And came and whispered of a sleeping time

To the woman, I- listened in the hush

Of sweeping and cloaking to his footfalls

Since he would not sleep for cold the day

The snow seduced the chambers, or

He would not turn to see the peace of
Resting, coats and blankets beckened

On the day I saw the clouds dust snow
And smelled the cold rain smell within
The barricaded chamber and. the coat

--Stan rmmistese 80

From down home

In the deep, deep South there
exists asmall town called-Ozark,
Alabama. In Ozark people with
names like the Muns, Jewell Wells,
Ruth Poe, Carthell Ard, and the
Reverend Asa Boozer live or have
lived, along with Meama, my
grandmother.

Meama is a member of the “Wid-
ows’ Club” which meets monthly
in order to celebrate the members’

. birthdays for the month. Each

The last time that Meama had the
“Widows’ Club” at her house,:she
told me of the trouble that she had

in telling one friend, Flouride, So I said, ‘No Flouride, it’s
when the party was going to be” Friday night at my house at five
held. - o’clock. Bring two cahds.” We
Meama began the story, “Well, - chatted, and then said goodbye.
you know that Flouride has had Well Mahgaret, she called the next

some trouble lately rememb’rin’
things. Anyway I called her on
Munday before the pahty on Friday
and told her, ~The pahty is at my

Of the man, I shivered, thinking

He can move. And she can sleep

--Douglas Gibson ’9]

night?’ I said, “Flouride honey, is
what tonight?’ ~The party for the
“Widows’ Club,” she replied.

day (Thursday) and said, “Mahry,
this is Flouride. Is it tonight? Is
the pahty tonight?’ I said, ‘No
Flouride. Get a pencil and pahper

she was havin’ comp’ ny that night
and had forgotten that too. I just
said, ‘Fine, Flouride. We’ll miss
you though.’ I hope I didn’t hurt
her feelin’s by being snappy with
her, but she’s really pitiful about
rememb’rin’ things. ‘That's what
old age can do to ya.”

The town of Ozark has many
strange stories, people, and places
like “Thrill Hill,” “Mosquito ~
Ridge,” and the “Old House.” And,

month the party is held at a differ- house, Friday night at five o’clock. and write it down! It’s Friday if you ask Meama, she can tell you
ent member’s house who acts as Bring two cahds, two birthday night at five o’clock atmy house, about almost anybody, all of their
hostess, fixing a main dish and cahds,’ Well she said that she and you need to bring two cahds! relatives, and everything that they
asking others to bring items. Each would be: here, and I didn’t hear Goodbye.’ have ever done.
person also brings birthday cards from her fer a couple of days. Well, as it turns out she didn’t ;
for each person who has a birthday Then she lied on Wednesday and evencome. She called me back on --Mar. garet Carroll ’91
- that month. via me is it tonight? Is itto- the day of the pahty to tell me that
: fe Crevass Wreckage
3 “ i ~ Crevass wreckage from Eden cast _ From fecal perch of self-crafted

There exist only one place where we can dance
- from orange columbine cups, suckled

1

And so they came on wet scarlet skies--

bird in your palm.
Stilled, sauntering, he felt air across his inner. thigh.
I wait with baited breath for your retum-- ,
Deadly, black and dying, they left.

--B. J.T. R. Tanguy ’89

to taste the gin and tonic of thy tongue. i aa me

it was like feeling the desperate hearbeat of a newbom a3

y,

l
: if :

2

Canters scepter in cloven clasp _ Stool,
With bedworth bride. Youth squatts
- Pausing sorely in fleshy fetters,. Contemplating his boom...
Dripping beard releases the matter beac
And fortune finds. “In feces found, from feces rise,

» leat,
‘Jeurces forth Newbom The Wise bask mighty
Towards Eden's seat. In mystery's bright glare.

From littered limbs and parental

by mystery led, in mystery die.” .

In canyon seam and sun's hot stare,

oe --Stan Armistead *89

