Freshman suspended for plagiarism, p.2

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXIX, Number 3

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, April 4, 1988

Students barred
from housing lottery

‘New housing policy excludes some JYAers

By JIM DILLON

Sophomores planning to go on junior year
abroad programs are at odds with residence
life director Tom Jennings regarding a hous-
ing policy which would bar some of those
students from participating in this year’s
housing lottery.

The policy affects only those students
planning to spend one semester away next
year. Those students who will not be at
Davidson in the fall of next year will not be
allowed under the policy to reserve a room
through the lottery process.

Jennings argues that the residence life
office must first commit rooms to students
who plan on being at Davidson for the full
year and then deal with those who will be on.
campus for part of the year.

Sophomore Carey Pickard, who plans to
spend the fall semester of next year in Lon-
don, disagrees with the policy.

“Basically, I feel-that the proposed policy.
discriminates against people going abroad
for partof the year,” Pickard said. “While the
school is encouraging people to take advan-
tage of: the opportunity of going JY A (junior
year abroad), they’ ve set up:this major road

y /
\

Residence Life Director Tom Jennings.
Photo by Lucy Siler
block.”

Sophomore Chip Allen, who will spend
next fall semester in Vienna, said the lottery
is set up to give lottery numbers in order of
seniority, but when students return from JYA
programs, they may only take spaces not
already reserved by seniors, juniors, sopho-
mores and transfer students.

with whom they are incompatible, despite
the fact that, as juniors, they should have
some seniority.

In the past, such students were able to
reserve rooms in the lottery and room selec-
tion process but simply gave up the room for
the semester during which they attended the
JYA program. Upon returning to Davidson,
they received the space for which they
signed up, and the people occupying the
spaces were forced to move elsewhere,
Such constant room changing, says Jen-
nings, is the main reason that the new policy
was created.

“The purpose of the policy is not to dis-
place students who are going to be here for
the whole year—people. who are going to
move intorooms and stay in,” Jennings said.
“In the past, we’ve put people in rooms the
JYA people have reserved, but when they

came back, they had to move. So during the
last three weeks of the term, we’ ve had to. do

all sorts of arranging to find them a space,
while the students are trying to take exams,
They often had to give up part of their spring
break for moving in. I think sophomores and
transfers really need to havea sense of place.
They need control over where they live.”
Jennings adapted the policy somewhat
after meeting with anumber of students who
were concerned about getting a room after
returning from fall JY A programs. Since no
rooms at Davidson will be mandatory triples
next year, Jennings says students may vol-
unteer for triples, adding a fall semesterJYA
student as the third roommate to secure a
place for that student when he or she returns.
The student may receive another room,

but if he is unhappy with the alternatives, he ,

may resort to the triple. Jennings suggests
that students considering spring term JYA
programs might be considered as a possible
roommate so that only two roommates of the
three will live in the room at any one time.

Allen argues that the policy will nonethe-
less discourage students from going on JYA
programs which last for one semester only.
Jennings said he hopes the policy will not
deter students from going abroad,

“T don’t know if it'll have that effect. I
think if someone really wants to go JYA,
they’ II base their decision on how important
that experience is to them, not on h
important housing is when they get back.
Basically, we’re balancing two evils. It’s
not a perfect answer, but it’s a better answer
than what is happening now,” Jennings said.

Jennings said he expects that, due to the

Weeks today. See story, page 6.

Senior Charles Tambiah and his friend Ryan the
hawk are kicking off Davidson Environmental

ties

College Relations

PCC reviews alcohol policy
Kuykendall, Terry urge consideration of dry rush

By PETER G. MANGONE

The Patterson Court Council held its
first meeting with the newly elected offi-
cers of the Patterson Court houses on
March 23, and in so doing also began their
annual review of the Patterson Court alco-
hol policy. This year’s PCC members are
faced with making major decisions con-
cerning highly controversial issues on
Patterson Court, suchas dry rush and legal
liability.

Although actual discussion of the alco-
hol policy did not occur at the meeting on
the 23rd, the PCC askedCollege President
John Kuykendall and Dean of Students
Will Terry to present their thoughts on
Patterson Court and its present policies.

Speaking first, Kuykendall stated sev-
eral personal concerns about Patterson

Patterson Court house officers should
understand that if the Patterson Court alco-
hol policy is not sound, they, much more
than the school, will be in dire legal straits
should something go awry.

Finally, Kuykendall cited the recent suc-
cess of dry rush across the country (ap-
proximately one-half of all nationally af-
filiated fraternities and sororities use it
today) as well as its success at Davidson
this year (by Kappa Sigma). Although he
emphatically stated he is not demanding,
the establishment of a dry rush, he does be-
lieve that the PCC should contemplate the
possibility of a dry rush period for the
future.

Following Kuykendall, Terry voiced
several of his own apprehensions about

Allen insisted itis very likely he and others See HOUSING, page 3 Court’s alcohol policy. After relating See PCC, page 3
. might end up on halls and with roommates ,_ these to the PCC, he also emphasized that ;
. ; ae SS ee bes
Oo News: My gis Teateti: eres) : F natn sev athi aats
Oo - Union Board reponds si ccibblelh -Envoys from ee isle: - Men’s tennis led by cee:
re Tp) of selection policy — “meet the Rusk sugar Young, Koch
Cc Page 4 Page 5 Page 12 Reed

