Chocoholics rejoice!

A “chocolate fantasy” will take place at the Guest Quarters Suite Hotel in Charlotte on
Sunday, April 24 from 1:00 pm to 5:00 pm. Thousands of chocolate samples will be
available, and jazz will be performed by The Faction. Advance tickets cost $7.50.for
adults and $5.00 for children ages 3 to 12, and are available at all Ticketron outlets and
through Teletron at 1-800-233-4050. They may also be purchased by phone from the
Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders Association (ADRDA) at 704-377-2206.
Tickets at the door will cost $10.00 for adults and $7.50 for children. Children under
3 attend free. All proceeds will benefit the N.C. Southern Piedmont Chapter of the

ADRDA.

Womble receives Marshall award

Davidson College Cadet Lt. Colonel Kathy Womble of the North Carolina Foothills
Battalion has been awarded the prestigious George C. Marshall award. She is the first
female cadet from the Davidson Army R.O.T.C. group to win the award.

The George C. Marshall award is presented annually to the most outstanding senior

News Shorts

Wednesday, April 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

cadet in the region. As a result of winning the award Womble will attend the annual
George C. Marshall R.O.T.C. Award Seminar this week in Lexington, Virginia with

active duty in October.

the three hundred finest.cadets in the country. Womble won the award based upon an
exemplary performance at R.O.T.C. Advanced Camp last summer, her successful
completion of Army Airbome Ranger school in the summer following her sophomore
year, and Cadet Troop Leadership Training (CTLT) in a Combat Engineer Battalion
at Fort Benning, Georgia last summer. She is scheduled to graduate from Davidson
.College with a B.A. in Economics this June as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Military
Intelligence Branch of the U.S. Army. She will report to Fort Huachuca, Arizona on

Barrow, Hall engaged

Over Easter break, former Davidsonian News Editor John Barrow took Clisby Hall

87 on a “special” Easter egg hunt. Inside one of the Easter eggs she found was an
engagementring. Of course, Hall could not refuse such acreative proposal. The couple
will be married in August. They are both natives of Macon, Georgia and have been
dating since high school. We knew this would happen, John. Congratulations!

Students question Jennings at open forum on housing

New dorms, single perimeter house and semester abroad discussed

By DAVID SCOTT

Due to the many questions students have raised about the
college’s housing policy for the upcoming academic year,
an open forum discussion, sponsored by the Campus
Forum Committee, was held Tuesday, April 5 with Tom
Jennings, head of the Residence Life Office.

Topics discussed were the completion date of the new
dorms, the status of students studying abroad fall semester
and the availability of off-campus housing.

Students expressed considerable concern over the new
policy prohibiting students who plan to be abroad fall
semester from participating in the housing lottery. Many
were worried about the added “hassle” of being put on a
waiting list for aroom with'an unknown roomate. Such a
proposition, they argued, discourages a student from going
abroad and contradicts the accepted policy of seniority in
room assignments.

Jennings, however, is committed to providing on-cam-
pus housing for students who plan to study at Davidson for

the full year: He assures those going abroad fall semester
that there should be minimal “hassle” involved in obtaining
rooms and that the policy will stand.

Jennings stated that the changes in the housing policy are
a product of the additional spaces provided by. the new
senior apartments. All students desiring on-campus hous-
ing should have no trouble attaining it.

In response to inquiries into the status of the new
dormitories (scheduled for completion by the end of
August), Jennings said that the new rooms will be available
for use by August 20 provided that no unforeseen difficul-
ties arise. Excessive summer rains or other problems in
construction could forestall the completion of the dorms for
two or three weeks. In this case, those without a room
would be housed in faculty/staff housing, temporary
triples, perimeter houses or whatever other spaces might be
available until the dorms werecompleted. Jennings wished
to stress, however, that such a situation would be very
temporary and would probably not occur at all.

Jennings also informed students of the structure and
location of the new buildings, which will be of red brick
with white columns. Each of the three buildings, (currently
designated A, B, and C), will consist of three floors with
four units per floor. Each unit will be provided with a
carpeted and furnished common living area and a kitchen
with a refrigerator and a small stove. Four 9' by 10°
bedrooms will connect with the common living area.

The new dorms will be located next to the golf course
between the baseball and soccer fields. Limited parking
spaces will be available.

Only one perimeter house, Martin Manor, will be used
for student housing next year. The others will be used for
office space. The old college apartments will also beclosed
for eventual conversion into a new infirmary.

The Residence Life Office has also decided that
Richardson is too small to house all the freshmen women.
Fourth Cannon will therefore become a freshmen hall with
basement Richardson set aside for emergency use.

Speaker discusses private and public abuses of environment

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Davidson College’s first Envi-
ronmental Week, April 4-8, edu-
cated the community through lec-
tures, discussions and activities.
The keynote address, given Mon-
day by Dr. Karen Lind Eckert,
focused upon the misuse of the
commons--that is, public areas--
as well as environmental areas
such as rain forests and oceans.

Eckert identified pollution’s
cause as the “privileges-but-aot-
obligations” approach to the
commons. Nations have habitu-
ally taken for granted the theory
which states that since the individ-
ual is the best judge of his own
welfare, the interactions of many
individuals produce the best
communal welfare. The abuse of
such a large area as the commons,
however, offers individual gain
without “immediate negative
feedback.” Thus, individuals,

looking toward their own welfare,
more or less consciously contrib-
ute to communal ruin.

Calling for increased govern-
ment regulation, Eckert gave sev-
eral examples of individual and
national abuse. Individual abuse
centers upon the extended use of
automobiles, crowding in na-
tional parks, and use of aerosol
spray cans--small problems

which cause indirect detrimental ©

consequences. National abuses
which pollute the air and water
include taking. fish from the

oceans and strip-mining for min-~

erals.

One of the most tragic examples
of national abuse of the commons
concerns the ruin of the rain for-
ests. According to Eckert, rain
forests cover 7 percent of the
planet’s surface, but house 80
percent of humans and animal
species. Their destruction, at the

rate of 240 square miles a day,
results in the loss of many species
necessary to the ecological sys-
tem, the extermination of native
cultures and the significant altera-
tion of regional climates. For
example, the decay of the ozone
layer called the “greenhouse ef-
fect” is already raising the tem-
perature of the seas and atmos-
phere, causing changes in rainfall
patterns.

Eckert proposed two possible
means of conservation to contain
the ruin of the commons. One of
these means is governmental
cooperation and control.

The United Nations spear-
headed the attempt for global
environmental control by estab-
lishing the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources (IUCN) in
1948. However, the programs
prepared by the IUCN provide

SEMESTERS, from page 1

requirements will continue as
under the trimester system.
However, the major requirements
for next years juniors will vary
within each department. The
status of each member of the class
of ’90as regards his/her major will
be reviewed with the student re-
ceiving first priority. As Registrar
Sue Ross explained, “each student
will be given the benefit of the
doubt.”

As the class of ’91 will have

completed only their freshman
year before the inception of se-
mesters, they will have the biggest
transition to make. The language
requirement of three courses lead-
ing to the intermediate level will
remain the same with one small
variation. Students will no longer
have the possibility of completing
their language requirement in
three consecutive trimesters but
will instead have an extended
timeline of three consecutive
semesters over a year and a half.
The class of ’91 will also have the
choice between the old area re-

quirements--twelve courses di-
vided equally between four differ-
ent areas--and the new area re-
quirements, which consist of ten
courses over six different areas.

Registrar Sue Ross feels that
this semester system will give the
student much more flexibility of
choice and a more relaxed pace to
follow their academic pursuits.
Ross also notes that this change to
asemester system gives Davidson
College the chance to “fine tune”
its liberal arts curriculum and to
“try to make the academic experi-
ence exciting”.

little real incentive to cooperate.
Says Eckert, “states control and
administer only what they have to
control and administer--funds are
limited and regulations are expen-
sive.” The belief that what is good
for the individual state is also
good for the whole prevails.

The other possible mean for
conservation are international
organizations which “rely on the
participation of non-governmen-
tal entities” such as scientists,
local organizations and citizens’

‘groups. Eckert spoke of WIDE-

CAST, the group with which she is
affiliated, commissioned to “ex-
plore the possibility of formaliz-
ing the recommendations of citi-
zens and scientists in the drafting
of management and conservation
of governments.”

SGA, from page 1

Eckert says that groups such as
WIDECAST often achieve better
results because they are not bound
by political shackles. Therefore,
citizens are able to “communi-
cate, share information, and share
funding.”

Eckert closed her presentation
by advocating involvement in
groups such as WIDECAST and
stressing the need for constriction
and control of the commons.

Following Eckert’s presenta-
tion, the college Recycling Com-
mittee adopted Eckert’s challenge
for individual responsibility to-
ward the commons by proposing a
recycling plan for Davidson Col-
lege. Recyling bins were placed
on all levels of the union and a
recycling drive was organized for
Patterson Court April 4-11.

Murray expressed the desire to increase minority involvement
in the college and to possibly create a position for an international

senator on the SGA.

The new SGA president is enthusiastic about the coming year
and the SGA’s responsibility in meeting the students’ needs. He
stressed, however, that “the SGA does-not function without the
students, Too many times people are unaware [of SGA activities]
and do not understand its function.”

Murray hopes to get more students involved in SGA commit-
tees and to generate more interaction between the senators and
their classes. A suggestion box will be placed in a visible spot on

campus.

Murray and Winn have already sorted through old files, com-
pleted administrative work and met with student and administra-
tive leaders to discuss the priority issues.

