Restaurant reviews! page 3

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 6

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, October 7, 1988

Rankings . How they ranked
e hed bed ; National liberal arts colleges, according to the 1988
avidson 20th in nation USNews & Wert Repose
, ' 9 Rank School State
. 1 Swarthmore College Pennsylvania
says U.S. News survey 2 agen Galece eae
3 Williams College Massachusetts
By TRIPP HELMS country by the Carnegie Founda- grams offered, andenrollment. | 4 . Wellesley College Massachusetts
Davidson Collegerankstwenti- tion for the Advancement of In 1987, Davidson was ranked 5 Poniona Collese California
eth in the category of Na- fifteenth among the nation’s | 6 Wesl d U 8 . C .
tional Liberal Arts Col- -_ liberal arts colleges. _ Wesleyan University onnecticut
leges, according to the ——— The best na- | 7 Smith College Massachusetts
1988 U.S. News and World S. New AIC Ss tional university inthecoun- | 8 Grinnell College Iowa
Report guide to “Amer- » try is Yale, according tothe | 9 Bowdoin College Maine
ica’s Best Colleges.” oo | guide. It is followed by Prin- .
Swarthmore College in y _.  ceton, California Institute of 10 Haverford College Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania is at the top of | Technology, Harvard, and 11 Oberlin College Ohio
the list, with Amherst, Wil- Massach Institute of | 12 Carleton College Minnesota
liams and Wellesley, all in BESI CO) | k GES Technology. Stanford Uni- 13 Bryn Mawr College Pennsylvania
Massachusetts, in the next Exc). LUSIVE RATINGS © THE 125: TOP SCHOOLS versity dro from its | 44 Middlebury College Vermont
three places. The only other ‘ number one ranking in 1987 15 Vassar College New York
southern school ranked is to number six in this year’s ;
Washington and Lee of report. 16 Colgate University New York
Virginia, which is in Wake Forest | 17 Mount Holyoke College Massachusetts
twenty-third place. University was ranked first | 18 | Claremont McKenna College California
In addition to objective in the category of Compre- 19 Barnard College \ New York
statistical data, college hensive Colleges and Uni- ~ ae
presidents, academic versities, a category which 20 DAVIDSON COLLEGE North Carolina
deans, and admissions di- the Carnegie endowment . 21 Bates College Maine
rectors were surveyed in defines as schools enrolling | 22 Colby College - ‘Maine
order to prepare the rank- ih eae | nai than sap —— 23 + Washington and Lee U. Virginia
ings. eaching. The Foundation classi- and awarding more oO 24 Hamilton Coll Vink
The 141 schools in this cate- fies schools on the basis of the their bachelor's degrees intwoor | 5. Cold ae pe ie
gory are considered the most se- level- of academic degrees of- more occupational or eaten: crisracgn ege 4 * 2
lective liberal arts colleges in the _ fered, the kinds of academic pro- — sional disciplines. rar ee ei an mart

Storm damages college’s lake campus boat house

$25 ,000 insurance deductible leaves college, boats uncovered

By DAVID BEARCE
The huge boathouse on Lake Norman at
the Davidson College Lake Campus blew

As aresult the boathouse was loose from

bank.

Fortunately, the boathouse survived _ first $25,000 of damage, and the insurance from the insurance policy. .
lout boats were “reasonably well-cov-

“reasonably well” in Martin’s opinion. company covers the rest,

ance adjustors looked at the damage.”

"This means that Davidson must pay the damage to the boathouse without any help

off its pilings on Saturday, September 24. Some shingles were torn off, but the ei ered” by a
. It had been a “rainy weekend,” according “basic structure was undamaged.” = _ . $100 ‘de-
to Assistant Athletic Director Sterling © However, the fate of the boatsinand ~ — — “ate ductible in-
Martin, when “a horrendous storm” rose. around the boathouse is less clear. The es ee ee surance pol-
up. boats that were inside the boathouse Ty icy, said
Martin estimated that the waves were _ stayed in and floated to the shore with ai Martin.
“about five feet high,” accompanied by _ the house. ——— Mar-
“lightning and wind.” He also guessed But a Glasstron boat did sink during = e tin eX-
that there could have been a “small tor- the storm. It has since been recovered, Seeman: pressed
nado” due to “the pattern of the damage.” and the engine is now running. Martin re Tee Reade -some .con-
The boathouse was built in 1963 and was pronounced it “salvageable.” a Mw ——e| . cern that the
privately owned until it was acquired by The 420s that had been on the dock aS ae Eo ae piling had
Davidson College “a couple of years around the boathouse “were blown -.| == ————a not been |
ago.” Martin described it as an “ex- off.” There was “some damage to all = oe EE laid deep
tremely well-built structure.” these boats.” But Martin described it as aM - ; Sep = enough.
The boathouse was heldinplace byeight “relatively minor.” There was some ae They had
pilings on either side. The wind and the “hull damage" and “two masts were 4 been moved
waves probably worked together to lift it lost.”. ~ bite Seni st “by a previ-
off of the brackets on one side. Unfortunately, there may be some The s Sallege’s boat house on Lake N Norman gus storm.
Then “the force of the wind” broke the problems in getting the damage re- Photo by Ben Yarbrough Martin
pilings on either side, according to Martin. paired. Martin reported that “the insur- stated that

But the damage is “probably less than
$25,000,” according to Martin. Thus
Davidson. may have to pay for all of the

“little extra concern” had been taken
when the boathouse was brought. to
Davidson to safeguard it against storms. .

all of its pilings and then floated toward the
shore where it came to rest against the

Davidson College has a $25,000 deduct-
ible insurance policy on the boathouse.

“ ® Non-Profit Organization
O. : U.S. Postage Paid
came | Permit #1 —
YM) |} Davidson, North Carolina
C: : 28036
So

