10

Wednesday, February 10, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

United States should keep its nose out of Latin America

Viviana Martinez Lacabe

My name is Viviana Martinez Lacabe, and I am from
Argentina. Iam visiting a good friend at Davidson for just
a week. I was reading the Davidsonian the other day and
noticed the article written by. Marc Wennberg, “Let the
Nicaraguan people decide their own fate.” I agreed with
many things written in the article and would like to
elaborate on the issue that was brought up. As a Latin
American, I want to thank Marc for having gone to
Nicaragua, for understanding and learning and for having
written the article that I hope opened many people’s eyes.

Every time a Latin American country advocates eco-.

nomic nationalism for itself or it searches for social reforms
to benefit its people, the U.S. government puts its hands in.
The Americans fear that the: businesses that they have
established in these foreign countries are being antago-
nized by the reforms. Americans tend to label any country
with socialist tendencies as being Communist and thus, in

order to insure the stability of their businesses in these
foreign countries, interfere in the government’s position.
American intervention does not take into account its effects
on the people in these foreign countries because.its interests
lie only in the United States.

From 1976 until 1983, Argentina suffered under a mili-

tary dictatorship. During that time over 50,000 people
disappeared, were killed, or tortured. American govern-
ment officers went to Argentina at that time to demand
respect for human rights, yet at the same time they were
supplying weapons to the military and training it for
combat. The excuse that the United States supplied to
defend its actions is that they were protecting the Western
Hemisphere from Communism. In my country, 48% of the
population, especially the working class, belongs to the
Peronista party (whose ideasare far from Communist). The

‘harm that the military did to Argentina was terrible and

unforgettable. Things would not have been that awful if the
United States had kept its nose out of the situation. I think
that American presidents have been lacking in knowledge
of Latin’American government and culture and therefore
have been persuaded to act by the men who have businesses

in those foreign countries. The United States cannot claim
that they fully understand what is going on in these
countries, nor can they be qualified to interfere in those
foreign governments because they have not lived in these
countries’ shoes.

Argentina, Nicaragua, and any other country in the world
has a culture that is completely different from that of the
U.S. We speak a different language; we share our feelings
in different ways; we struggle (and I mean that we do
struggle) to make ends meet and we are passionate about
different things; how can the United States think that they
have the right to interfere? Americans are intervening in
Chile, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Paraguay just to men-
tion a few places.

Americans have been free to choose, free to run their
lives, and free to make their own decisions for years: This
freedom has enabled the U.S. to become a beautiful and
powerful country; why don’t they let other countries grow
and be free in the same manner?

Viviana Martinez Lacabe studies medicine in Rosario,
Argentina.

Davidson must improve its awareness of the black experience

Muadi Mukenge

The month of February is upon us. “So?”, you may ask.
Besides papers and preparation for exams, there is some-
thing else of a larger scale taking place. For the black
community of the United States, it not just another cold
month. Rather, we are celebrating our black heritage—the
survival and progress of our people and its culture despite
the adversity which they face. One month is not enough
time to recognize the ideas, inventions, music, contribu-
tions, and history of a race of people. February is set aside
as black history month because the traditional U.S. itiner-
ary does not allow everyone the opportunity to reflect upon
contributions of the black community to our multi-faceted
society. Secondary textbooks omit black history with the
exception a few paragraphs. One hears more about the
problems in the black community rather than the causes

_,whichlead to them and the efforts being made to ameliorate
those problems.

Ithink it befitting to focus on Davidson Collegeasa study
site of black history. Let me pose a question first—does
Davidson College have a black history? You may answer
“of course,” thinking “in 1963, the first black was admitted,
today we have x# of blacks on campus, there are programs
designed to attract minority students to Davidson, there are
even three full-time black professors, etc.” Unfortu-
nately,even though thisapproach revealsa change from the
all-white campus which Davidson once was, if we think in
terms of progressive black history at Davidson, the answer
to this question leans more towards the negative. It is “no”
because despite the initial move to admit black students
into its classrooms 25 years ago, there is still work to be
done to increase that number beyond the usual 45-55 range

which has become the norm each year. It is “no” because:

full-time black faculty and professionals represent only
three percent of the total staff. Finally, it is “no” because the

college does not provide a wide enough program in black
studies. Why, Iask, is this'so and why i is itimportant to face
this issue?

These concerns are relevant if one takes into considera-
tion the 1984 Davidson College Task Force Report. Many
current students do not know what this document is nor for
what purpose it was drawn up.

The Task Force on Racial/Ethnic Concerns was formed
in 1984 to address the concerns of the black population on
campus. A committee of students, faculty, administrators,
and alumni was formed to make recommendations to the
trustees on the best ways to provide a supportive and
rewarding environment to its black students. According to
the Task Force, the “report would bea catalyst for actions,”
each of which had certain target dates of completion.

The Task. Force concerns included the following: 1)
Davidson’s standing on minority affairs compared to
similar colleges; 2) the recruitment of black students; 3) the
relationship between blacks on campus and the “historic
separation of the black and white communities within the
town...”; 4) and of the curriculum—”opportunities for
exploration of blacks’ racial heritage through the academic
program...are limited.”

Are the concerns of 1984 on the agenda in 1988? The
concern I have in particular is the importance of studying
black history at all. Why should a predominantly white

_ school concern itself with including ablack sain compo-

nent in its curriculum?

The reasons are many and important. First, traditional
United States education omits black contributions to the
shaping of present society from its secondary school text-
books. Besides the one paragraph on Crispus Attucks, and
the other paragraph about the slave trade, there is very little
done to sincerely study black history and culture. As a
whole, high school graduates do not have an enlightened
concept of the Black Power movement, the goals and
history of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, black music, nor the impetus behind the
race riots which followed Martin Luther King Jr.’s death.
The reasons behind the resurgence of racism in the late 80s

need to be studied.

Secondly, because most students have not been exposed
to black history and its role in the development of the
United States, there is a need to fill that gap of ignorance.
With Davidson’s commitmentto providing a well-rounded
education to all its students, this priority is relevant. That
which the college offers--that is, approximately six courses
spread among the disciplines which deal entirely with
aspects of the black experience—is not enough. The his-
tory of black Americanscannot be studied fully inoneterm.
British and American history courses here are taught over
several terms, making for more in-depth study. In-depth
study is also needed for black history,

Thirdly, blacks desire to study their history. I look
forward to classes which deal with a perspective I can
identify with and find out more about. Studying ethnic
culture is a factor black students consider when making the
decision of where toattend college. Why come to Davidson
(which does nothave a black studies department) when one
may attend Oberlin, Swarthmore, or UCLA, which do?
Other reasons must override this factor.

As we recognize black history month, I would like the
college to ask itself how well it has worked to improve its
own black history. The task is complex, I agree, and some
developments have occurred, but to what degree are goals
being worked toward with sincere efforts? Even more
important, the campus community needs to realize that the
task cannot be done by the administration alone nor the
black students alone and that everyone will benefit in the
long run.

The challenge for Davidson College today is to not allow
itself to slip behind in its goals for the minority population.
As wecommitourselves to the issues of tenure, divestment,
and service, let us not forget that we must provide a well-
rounded environment for all students. Let us not forget the
reasons behind Black History Month as soon as March
begins.

Muadi Mukenge is a sophomore political science major
from East Point, Georgia.

Williams, not faculty, guilty of “evading responsibility”

C. Sloan Alday
and
Kevin Dunn

In last week’s issue, Trip Helms’ article, “Dean Williams
pushes for change in tenure policy,” raised several points
which we felt merited further discussion. We would like to
begin this letter by stating how much we can appreciate

-Dean Williams’ position. He came to a school that he had
never attended, was asked to make tenure decisions under
a policy that he did not create, and now is solely bearing the
backlash caused by his decisions. It would be enough to
make someone want to quit his job. |

We applaud Dean Williams for his assertion that teach-
ing ability is the most important aspect of a professor’s job.

He probably feels like it is due time that he got to refute the
publish-or-perish myth (if it is truly a myth). In addition,

we are glad it was brought into the open that the faculty has
turned down a chance to participate in tenure decisions in
the past. However, as one professor has pointed out, the last
proposed change was thoroughly “unacceptable” to the

faculty because the administration would, in effect, control _

the decision making process while avoiding all responsibil-
ity for its decisions. It is only fair that all should be aware
of the facts pertaining to this dispute.

If the faculty has not voted in five years, how can they
be held responsible for the current policy? Not all of the
current faculty was even here five years ago. There was a
completely different Dean of Faculty, and Dr. Kuykendall
only came into office during the summer of 1984. Perhaps
itis time for another vote. If Dean Williams “is strongly in
favor of establishing an elected faculty committee that
would review candidates for tenure and make arecommen-

dation to him,” as is stated in Mr. Helms’ article, then why
have measures not been taken to establish such a commit-
tee? As Dean of Faculty he has the power to take such
action, but he has not. Perhaps he should be more careful
with who he charges with “evading responsibility.”

In closing we would like to voice our concern over the
judgement Dean Williams exercised in stating, “we have
seen evidence that could ruin someone’s career.” That
certainly does not seem in keeping with the ‘confidentiality
rule that he so strongly supports in the previous paragraph.
Such a statement was unprofessional, uncalled for, and
bordering on libelous. We can sympathize with the posi-
tion Dean Williams is in, but we do not approve of the
actions he has taken.

C. Sloan Alday isa Junior Biology major from Gainesville,
Georgia. Kevin Dunn is her bleeding-heart boyfriend. .
