Dr. Christian on salaries, page 11

Volume LXXIX, Number 4

The Davidsonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, April 13, 1988

Class of ’92 to
be larger, increase
number of women

__. By MARIA DOUGLAS

The Trustee Committee on
Admissions and Financial Aid has
adopted a proposed class size of
375 students for the class of 1992,
anincrease of 15 students over last
year’s class of 360.

. The male-female ratio, 60% to
40% in recent years, has been
changed to 57% to 43% for the
new class. The class of 1992 will
have two fewer men students than
the class of 1991, while the num-
ber of women students will in-
crease by 17.

“ For the last five yeas, the appli-
cant pool has reflected the 57-43
ratio that the college is now trying
to achieve, according to Robert
Gardner, Dean of Admissions and
Financial Aid.

Gardner says that the commit-
tee has made the policy on a tem-
porary basis to accomodate the
needs of various programs on
campus, like the music, art and
athletic programs.

“It didn’t appear possible to
Stay within that range (60-40 ra-
tio) and address the needs of
[these] programs;” says Gardner.
“We’re trying to make a diverse
student body that supports the
programs that makes this a great
place.”

Gardner hopes thata 50-50Oratio
may someday be achieved. “This
[50-50 ratio] is ideal for a campus
this size,” he says.

Tom Jennings, Director of
Residence Life, sees the increase
in acceptances, especially for
women, another way. Applicants
who are minorities, international

students, R.O.T.C. candidates,

athletes, and children of alumni
sometimes receive special con-
sideration to provide diversity and
Strengthen various programs.

Jennings explained that stu-
dents from one of these groups
may be admitted even if they are
not as qualified as the majority of
the applicant pool. In order to
balance the class more highly
qualified students must be admit-
ted. In general, said Jennings,
these are women.

“What Davidson is trying to do
is stay among the most highly
selective colleges,” says Jen-
nings. “To stay, we must have
admission requirements that are
very high.”

“We’re also trying to have an
athletic program, a diverse stu-
dent body and a smart student
body. Sometimes these things
conflict.”

Gardner finds little difference
between the men and women
applicants. He said men’s SAT
scores tend to be higher, but
women rank higher in their class.
“Tt all balances out,” he said.

The new policy is supposed to
bereviewed every year but has not
been. The committee will meet
again in May to determine the size
and composition for the class of
1993.

To accomodate the increase in
freshman women, an extra hall of.
freshman women will be housed
on the fourth floor of Cannon
dorm. Sophomores Betsey Bryan
and Sarah Whitesell were selected
as hall counselors for the hall.

‘wi

on sea turtles, among other things.

*

t - fw» ‘Gam. lm -
The week of April 11 to April 16 continues Davidson’s emphasis on the Environment—with a focus

Faculty makes final revisions
of 1988-89 semester curriculum

By ED PATTE

On Tuesday March 29 the faculty reviewed and
passed the revised curriculum for the newly formu-
lated semester system for the upcoming 1988-1989
school year.

The new semester system follows to a large extent
the recommendations of the Educational Policy Com-
mittee. Each semester will last fifteen weeks. Classes
will meet for a total of three hours a week, either for
one hour on’Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, or
for one hour and a half on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
The only exception to this schedule areclasses with lab
periods.

Students may take four or five courses per semester.
Those desiring to take three or six courses a semester
will have to obtain special permission from the Reg-
istrar.

The area requirements under the new semester sys-
tem have been revised to include six core areas. The
requirements are as follows: Literature (English, Clas-
sics, French, Spanish, or German)-one class credit;
Fine Arts (Art, Music, Theater)-one class credit; His-
tory-one class credit; Religion and Philosophy-two
class credits, one of which must be religion; Natural
Sciences (Math, Chemistry, Physics, and Biology)-

three class credits; Math and a Science with a lab--
at least one credit each; and Social Sciences (Politi-
cal Science, Psychology, Anthropology, and Sociol-
ogy) two class credits.

As the classes of ’89, 90, and ’91 have already
started with the trimester system, the Office of the
Registrar has created “transition codes” to help with
their entrance into the semester system.

The only major change for the class of ’89 under
these “transition codes” will be the number of grade
points (70) and class credits (35) necessary to gradu-
ate. With at least 27 class credits and 54 grade points
already behind them, each senior will have to obtain
eight class credits and sixteen grade points to obtain
the minimum qualifications for graduation. Major
requirements, language requirements, physical
education requirements, and area requirements for
the class of ’89 will remain the same as they were
during the trimester system.

The class of ’90 will also have to meet the mini-
mum requirements of 70 grade points and 35 class
credits for graduation. Area, P.E., and language

See SEMESTERS, page 2

N

Pres. Harrison Murray seeks “high visibility” for SGA

By MARGARET CARROLL
When asked if his life has changed since

ministration.

According to Murray, the

and animosity which has
occured on the Court, and

Court, although nothing definite has been
proposed or decided upon.

feel that alcohol plays too
important of a role in estab-
lishing relationships on the
Court. The SGA has been
commissioned to sincerely
attempt to alleviate some of
the problems by working

college’s major issue areas
for the upcoming year are
Patterson Court, academics
and athletics, all of which
will experience changes.
Patterson Court is a ma-
jor concern of the admini-

Realizing the need to maintain the bal-
ance between good athletics and high aca-
demic standards, Murray hopes that the.
SGA will be able to present student opin-'
ions and concerns regarding athletics to
President Kuykendall and Athletic Direc-
tor Kit Morris. Murray also hopes tliat the

becoming SGA president, junior Harrison
Murray replies, “Yes, it’s radically
changed, but I love it!” Both president
Murray and vice-president Charlie Winn
are enthusiastic about the coming year and
have begun to explore programs for the
‘upcoming year.

>

The motto forthe new SGAis“HV--high stration. Both President ry with the Patterson Court SGA will be instrumental in expanding
visibility.” Murray feels that the SGA has Kuykendall and Dean Will fs Council. Murray plans to women’s sports.
been too remote in the past and needs to Terry have expressed grow- = meet with individual house

ing concern about the in- leaders to discuss possible

. See SGA, page 2
creased vandalism, fighting SGA Pres. Harrison Murray action concerning the

establish new lines of communication be-
tween student organizations and the ad-

Editorial:

Let Court houses make their own
dry rush decisions

Page 10

Features:
How a premed student became
and award-winning artist

Sports:

Athletes can be scholars,though
some schools may not realize it
Page 9

News:

Students question Tom Jennings
on housing

Page 2

Page 4

Inside
