‘i

Hall beefs up versatility in Johnny Be Good

By BRUCE PLOURDE
Michael J. Fox’s latest movie, Bright
Lights, Big City seems more like a continu-
ation of another movie than anything origi-
nal, Perhaps it should have. been subtitled
The Secret of my Success, Part II: The
Secret of my Failure. Or maybe director

James Bridges meant Bright Lights, Big

Cityas the family version of Less than Zero.

momasencnssti

peetiaet

ae Puta little

Whatever the intention, the resulting movie
delivers a heavy message which tries to
evoke sympathy for the central character
but ends up causing tears shed out of bore-
dom.

Fox plays Jaimie Conway, a research
editor for Gotham magazine. This periodi-
cal prides itself on, of all things, a factual
accuracy which even Dr. Nelson might

ying so. Bi Solas Hevea
everyone at all of the Union events this weekend, so come:
and Frolic with us! Aquickrun-down of ourentire busy sch
mote! in your spring and enjoy yourselves!

appreciate. As a result, the research depart-
ment at Gotham carries much importance
as well as much responsibility. The job
requires time and concentration, two of the
things that Jaimie’s evening and weekend
habits drain from him. His secretary covers
for him often, making excuses to the head of
the research department, Clara Tilling-
shast. Well, her name says it all. As tough
a nag as she is, even she gives the young
apprentice a lot of leeway.

Everybody, it would seem, covers for
cute, friendly Jaimie. Like the coma baby
that the New York Post reports on daily, he
enwraps himself in their assistance and

frequent snorts of coke, refusing to come

out of his self-secreted shell to face reality.
Either arrogantly or correctly, he believes
he has some talent as a writer but neglects
both writing and his job under the pressures
of grim family memories, an absentee wife
(Amanda) and his need for chemical en-
lightenment.

Fox also apparently has talent but can +
break away from the pompous Alex Keaton
of Family Ties. In fact, he has kept the same
ties throughout his three movie efforts, not
only his favorite neckties and blazers but
also his same smug and flippant replies.

C’mon Michael, chuck the blazer, drop
the razor and find another role, willya?
Once a week on TV and twice on the big
screen is enough. Get another role which
doesn’t imply that “money is poetry these
days.”

Keifer Sutherland as Jaimie’s whoring
buddy Tad Allagash also performs as his
audience has come to expect. In short, this
movie doesn’t have a great deal of fresh
innovation or redeeming value. The plot is

‘withered and sere, the acting rote, the dia-

logue vaguely familiar. And Michael is still

wearing those family ties.

Not every young actor knits himself into
a comfortable little niche. Anthony Mi-
chael Hall, who until recently has played
the high school geek, has beefed up his
limbs and deepened his voice to play a very

Wednesday, April 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fox can’t break old ties in Bright Lights, Big City

believable high school quarterback in
Johnny Be Good. Hall is Johnny Walker, a
miracle football player who finds himself
surrounded by well-wishers who want to do
favors for him. Old Tex, UCC and every
other college in the U.S. with a football
program offer him the world if only he will
come to play for them. His friend Leo
(Robert Downey, Jr.) and he enjoy the
attention and rely upon the crowd ot recruit-
ers as a source of fun and ego boosting.

The film’s message is not terribly pro-
found. It examines the corruption inherent
in college recruitment and the effects of the
flatteries upon an impressionable mind.
But Johnny Be Good takes the task at hand
in such a way that the audience is only
subtly aware of such a theme. Instead, the
film is a vehicle for the antics of Johnny and
Leo, and a medium for prime silliness of a
superior grade. As jocks they like horseplay
of the roughest kind, but they also have
brains enough to whip out insults and plan
revenge.

The recruitment, however, begins to take
its toll on the all-American boy. Promises
of lucrative deals turn him from considera-
tions of a good education with his friends to
prospects of cars, cash and kittens. Not only
the recruiters but also his coach and friends
work on him, trying to steer him toward a
college which promises the most for both
Johnny and themselves. He recognizes that,
decided wrong, this onechoice could result
in losing everything he holds dear: his
friends, his bodacious true love, Georgia
(Uma Thurman), and even his career as a
football player.

But even Shakespeare didn’t let his
comedies end in sorrow. In the end every-
body gets their just desserts. The cavalier
tone throughout makes Johnny Be Good

‘pleasurable, but also seeing Anthony Mi-

chael Hall taking off the braces and freckles
and donning a mouthguard and shoulder
pads, and wearing them comfortably, adds
a sense of satisfaction in knowing his versa-
tility.

Mike Jarmon finds his Mesgutive outlet’? — and excels °

How a Davidson Biology major learned to express himself through award-winning artwork

By LISA GERRARD

Senior art major Mike Jarmon says that
despite certain drawbacks in the school’s
attitude, Davidson College is a good place
to be an artist.

Having transferred as a sophomore from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill, Jarmon bases his opinions on three
years of study here, through which he not
only discovered visual art to be an effective
medium of expression for him, but also
came to excel in it. His work has won
several awards and has been the focus of

Senior Michael Jarmon

two campus shows.
Most recently Jarmon has won the draw-
ing category in a state-wide undergraduate

competition sponsored by UNC-Chapel
Hill; last year he won the printcategory. His
senior presentation, a retrospective show-
ing of his work at Davidson, is currently on
display in the gallery of Cunningham Fine

' Arts Building.

“For someone like me who needed to get
away from the noise and motion, Davidson
isa good place. It’s self-contained and quiet

_and allows you to concentrate,” he said.

There are also drawbacks, however.
Small town life admittedly affords com-
paratively fewer resources and cultural
events. But more debilitating than location,
said Jarmon, is the school’s emphasis on
academic workload at the expense of crea-

" tivity.

“Most people, because of pressure, end
up feeling like they don’t have the time or
energy....People are convinced that they
don’t have creative outlets,” he said. “The
school is a bit hypocritical in their claim to
liberal arts when they do not draw more
balance for creative outlets.”

Although the college’s approach to the

arts in general may draw Jarmon’s fire, he —

is quick to toast the excellence of the art
department, which he deems small but
potent. Offering possibilities and challenge
for creative thinkers, the art department is
an important part of Davidson fine arts and
the school in general, he said.

The personal interest the faculty takes in
the students has impressed him as well, In
fact, he credits Art Professor Herb Jackson
with his becoming interested in art at

Davidson.

When he transferred here, Jarmon rented
a house from Jackson instead of living on
campus. Jackson and his wife Laura occa-
sionally invited him to their home for din-
ner, anda lasting friendship was begun. The
art professor encouraged Jarmon, who was

then a biology major, to enroll in a basic

painting class. Although he hadn’t painted
since fifth grade, he took the class because
he was ready to try a different way of

a Ang 5 Si
cig >
Er Coop ie

learning within the liberal arts environ-
ment.

The change proved valuable, beginning a
transitional period through which Jarmon’s
career plans have changed from medicine
to the fine arts. “I was more interested in
self-expression,” he said, “and was looking
for the right medium.”

See JARMON, next page

“The Monk and I’ (4/88, 55" 246"),a sere work on display at Cemmideshanrs Fine Arts
Center as a part of Jarmon’s senior presentation, “Me: A Retrospective.”
