Features

mas Davidsonian.

Thnscpday, Sopiemioes 15, 1988

The official guide to Davidson’s new faculty

real, especially at Davidson.
Nusrat Khan

William Bodiford, religion

Born in Tennessee, William

living in L.A. for the last two years. Since
completing his T.A. at Yale, Bodiford has
been writing on “the growth of the Soto
Zen tradition in medieval Japan.” His
specialty is East-Asian Buddhism.
Bodiford has moved to Davidson
with his wife, Bong Nae, a junior high
math teacher. He feels that a strong sense
of community welfare prevails at
Davidson. “The students have a positively
supportive attitude towards each other,
which breeds healthy competition.
Bodiford feels southern hospitality is very

Bodiford grew up in Chicago, and has been

“Being active in

research makes you
active in class,” said
Dyer, who is very
enthusiastic about her
students here. “It’s a two-
way thing, though. For
me, interacting with my
class keeps me excited
when I work in the
laboratory.”

In the lab Dyer will be
studying her ducklings to
find out what degree of
social stimulation is
necessary for them to
learn to deal with certain

- Julie Gibert, history

Julie Gibert knows Davidson from the perspective of a student and a professor. After
graduating from Davidson, she went to Chapel Hill for her PhD. Her area of specialty includes
British history and humanities. Gibert did her research in London, and will be going back this

summer with the Cambridge Program.

Gibert‘s very interested in theater and has acted in a play here at Davidson. She was also on
the College Bow] team. She loves cooking, and is fascinated with history and the eating habits
of different regions. She believes in good television, especially historical dramas.

Coming from a family of “history buffs,” Gibert says history comes naturally to her.
Returning to Davidson provides the perfect job.opportunity, for she loves the personal touch of

a small college.
Anjali Sharma

LL

Antoinette Dyer, psychology

Assistant psychology professor Antoinette Dyer’s specialty in animal
learning and behavior complements Davidson's research-oriented psychology
‘department. She brings an interdisciplinary perspective to the department, as

- she has worked with biologists, animal scientists and geneticists while
teaching at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro and VPI in
Blacksburg, Va. Her current research project involves ducklings and the
extent to which they learn from one another through observation.

problems in their environment. The first problem these ducklings came

across, however, was not of Dyer’s own intentional devising. When they
came in a week ago she did not secure their cages as well as she thought she

had before leaving, and the next morning
13 ducklings who figured out how-to climb
out of boxes -- no problem! -- were
strolling freely about the lab. “I didn’t
realize they could climb as well as they.
"> ean!” she said.

Lisa Gerrard

Cinema Classics

East of Eden: An American classic

By FRANK LORD

The archetype of misunderstood American
youth strikes back at us all the way from the
fifties. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, James Dean
lives.

I donot think that anyone knows exactly what
makes a good cult figure, but James Dean had
the some of the things that most of them tend to
have in common. His good looks and boyish
charm probably had something to do with his
cult figure status, but, like Marilyn Monroe, I
think that his all too early, all too tragic death
probably pushed him over the boundary that
separates mere mortals from gods.

East of Eden, based on the John Steinbeck
novel of the samename, is the story of the Trask
family: Cal (James Dean), the youngest son;
Aron (Richard Davalos), the elder son; Abra
(Julie Harris), Aron’s fiancee; Adam (Raymond
Massey), Cal and Aron’s father;.and Kate (Jo
Van Fleet), Cal and Aron’s mother. The film
begins with Cal’s attempt to find his mother
who, according to his father, has been dead for
some time. After hearing otherwise, Cal goes in
search of her in a neighboring town.

The life of the Trask family is, for Cal, very
difficult. Cal believes that his father loves Aron
more than he loves Cal. Feeling at a loss to
reverse this order of things, Cal first reacts in
violent disrespect for his father which only
worsens the situation. After this approach leads
to a dead end, Cal tries many different ways of
worming his way into his father’s affections.
His myriad approaches always seem to fail, for
some reason or another, and his frustration with
his father’s apparent rejection of him grows.

During the course of the film, Cal and Abra
become increasingly closer. This adds to the
turbulence of the already unstable relationships
within the Trask family. Finally, the combina-
tion of the conflict between father and son as
well as the conflict between the two brothers
builds the film to its climax.

Director Elia Kazan a veteran of Broadway as
well as such films as A Streetcar Named Desire
and On The Waterfront manages to pull brilliant
performances from all of the members of his
cast. Dean’s performance is an especially ful-

Pop Films

filling portrayal of teenage angst and Julie’

Harris’ meee wet 4 Abra eceprernanes him
well..
Often, it seems to me, when a stage director

moves on to-directing, films, he develops an-

infatuation with the techniques for visual ma-
nipulation that are available on the screen and
impossible on the stage. (Mike Nichols’ workin
The Graduate and Who's Afraid of Virginia
Woolf are good examples, of this as is Orson
Welles’ Citizen Kane.) In Kazan’s case, where
the more typical Hollywood director of the fif-

ties would avoid uses of the camera that might
jar the audience or seem at all self-conscious,
Kazan deliberately exploits these Possibilities
for narrative or symbolic affect. ;
- The best of examples of this in East of Eden,
are, I think, the scenes between Cal and his
father that take place in the family home, Dur-
ing their confrontations at home, Kazan deliber-
ately keeps the camera at about 45 degrees off

‘See EAST, Page 8

The Untouchables touches greatness

By SCOT MYERS

The Untouchables stands as unequivocal
testimony that, even though nothing good re-
sulted from Prohibition, it did inspire a damn
good movie. Taking place in 1930’s gangland
Chicago, this sensationalized version of the
Treasury Department's (that’s G-men to you
and me) attempts at nailing Alfons Capone to
the cross is a tour de force of drama, action, and
violence,

The Untouchables is a film of simplistic, yet
startling, contrasts. The amount of violence is
frightening, the beauty uncompromising. The
brutality of Capone is unrelenting, the vulnera-
bility of Ness\inspiring. Set up in a simple back
and forth montage of good guy/bad guy scenes,
the film amazingly captures every nuance of
every character involved. This is even more

movie's two leads are s0 hopelessly flat.
The excellent character of Elliot Ness is so
numbingly played by Kevin Costner that ‘it

_ amazes me that this is the film that “made him

astar.” Hereacts like aclaymation figure,never
able to show more than one emotion at a time
and always returning to his “neutral” face be-

tween every sentence. Thank God, for Ennio —
emotion-stirring background ©

Morricone’s
music, or we'd never know just what Costner
was feeling. While this may have been a
deliberate machismo depiction (i.c. “real” men
don’t show their emotions), I tend to doubt it.

Sharing the opposite side of the coin with
Costner, is method actor extraordinaire Robert
DeNiro. His interpretation of AlCapone makes
for an excellent rehash of every Al Capone or
miscellaneous gang boss ever captured on cel-
luloid. And while it’s acted for all it’s worth by

~ De Niro, I still feel like I'm watching De Niro.

impersonating Al Capone doing his impersona-
tion of Archie Bunker, Makes me feel sorry that
De Niro bothered to put on all of the extra

_ tonnage for the role.

How can it be then, that with these two
headlining the movie and providing the focus
for the action, the motion picture still achieves
such greatness? Actually, there are three rea-
sons: in order; Connery, , Mamet, and De Palma.

Sean Connery puts in an Academy Award-
-winning performance: as the veteran cop-on-
the-beat who becomes Ness’ mentor and fellow
“untouchable.” It is this role upon which the
film hangs. The fullness of Connery’s character
and the quality and depth with which he plays it

_ See UNTOUCH, Page 8

