and dark,
ps life in our rain forest. fe
src che with red

son, : as
inted by the ermine. moths.

the bulldozers are wearing blin 1 cae
or closely. Even blinder are the eyes. ha pee
iving plus blindfold!

eyed, others cockeyed, others —

this year’s Bambi Award?

's over. Isn’t there a leash

ildozers?

ice is a grove of space-holding trees.
| tiny escapees sail away beneath

S.

Ice was a grove of space-holding

TC Guano
Poet Caudate

hey Johnny why don’t you

come out for me, lets

go see what the rocks look like in
the shadows, i’ll show you the
shiny black stones.

come

on Johnny you know

you know the paths, the

rusted squeal the screen door
made as it closed, its panels
checkered patterns interwoven ee
the shaping of a lie.

through the wing door

gate, the rough ground padded
bare feet. smooth worn earth
broken ahead by the wheat field
shifting with the wind (the coils
of the snake the man told us) the
burned pews of the older church
we crawled into through shards of
a brittle glass lining the blank
windows

i wanted to climb up to see
the half twilight moon reflected in
the shiny surface of the church bell

but you took my hand in yours and

led me away from the tarnished bellpull,
away through the near darkness from the ladder
i was sure you would bear me up but not

the weight of your memories

> Dead of Winter

nd snow fall white, the same on a winter’s night,”

trying to set that poem to music for over an hour

0 make the piano sound like falling snow, but his

returning to an older song, a song from a year ago.

idow over his right shoulder when he turned he

: snow falling sideways, the wind in the snow, the

of forms, twisting, moving, dancing, in the first
the new year, and he alone, looking at the key-

acks and whites, the scales and arbitrary patterns

ids which justified themselves, filling up empti-

:is sound in time. Filling up emptiness and time,
npose in the empty college choir room, but he had
»ry and not note memory, he played best with his
and his fingers kept returning to the older song of
nd he letitcome, asong less like sorrow and falling
ore like the wind in the snow.

d into the piece and felt arms encircling him
m behind, kept right on playing as he felt her warm
ed tightly against his back. He didn’t even have to
rwho it was. He smelled her hair as she pressed her
: against his cold ear.

: said leaning back in her arms, still playing.

le said caressing that word with her mouth as she

| you know I was here?” .
ird you playing, and I knew it was thatboy.” Happy
iat word in her mouth.
‘ecognize it?” playing softer now,” I wrote it during
wiall. I mean, do you think its pretty?

” she said, “It sounds much better. Oh and you
lay on the black keys, too.”

“Yes. And I did it just for you, Dorma,” he said. “Do you re-
member the first time I played for you? You cried that night.”

“Yeah, I did,” she said, “but not for you Wesley-boy.”

“Are you sure?” he said. She hugged him tighter as he sounded
the last chords of the piece. The silver field shone through the
window. It had stopped snowing.

“‘Want to walk in the snow?” he said.

Away from the Fine Arts building, out under the snow-hung
trees, they stopped, in the pale light of sparse lamps. She put her
arm in his.

“T remember our first walk,” he said. Late summer a year ago,
she had grabbed his hand like a bolt of sunlight and led him
skittering through the few early autumn leaves.

“You're just like sunshine, Dorma,” he had said to her in the

dappling shadows of branches, just like one of these trees,
reaching for the sunshine,”
“Yeah,” she said, “I’m just like a tree, just like one of those
syrup trees,” with laughing eyes, “You have to stick this thing in
‘em to get the sweet stuff to come out!” she said, squeezing his
hand.

“You have to stick this thing in ‘em to get the sweet stuff to
come out!” He had repeated her laughing out loud, And he felt
he had just the thing, too. He could safely say he’s never met a
girl like this.

“Look at all these trees,” he said, tilting his head toward hers
and pointing with his arm, “all in lace and white.”

“Yeah, like wedding dresses,” she said.

“They're courting the spring, I guess,” he said, thinking of the
long winter ahead, and last year’s long winter past. The winter
after they had parted. Promise me two things, his mother had said.
Please if you are a homosexual, don’tever come out of the closet,
I don’t want to know, and the other thing is please don’t marry a

Curt Perkins ‘91

Washington Avenue, Houston, 1987

“Rachel Nation

‘

a short story by Bill Madden 88

Yankee wife, but she had said, with greatemphasis, I’drather .

you be a homosexual than to marry a Yankee wife.

Was that what he would have done? Their last night
together, how she had come tohim in his upperroom, how they
had labored together, mostly clothed, forms in a passion of
friction, sweating, stinging in the late September upper room
heat. Her salty lips. But, bare-breasted Liberty was not their
vanguard, looking down his mind into that Delacroix painting,
its burnt oranges and reds and blacks, like the summer sky
under which they’d come to that room, and Dorma’s breast
which he had in the end not allowed himself to touch, and
which he imagined, looking out again, as white and fine as the
snow which lay all around. And when they had finishing
miming love, and she had curled onto him, her arm on his
chest, her leg across his thigh, he had waited until she was
asleep, and got up and laid on the floor and listened to the
scathing wind as it bore down on his corner room, unable to
sleep, listening to the wind dashing dead limbs against the
impassive earth. |

Waking to a school morning of oversleeping and leaves
falling and her flying barefoot over winter streets and lawns
too cold for long good-byes.

He pulled her now as close as their winter clothes would
allow, his nose in her hair.

“You fit right up under my arm,” he said. He smelled her
hair, and it was like that day after they’d parted when he had
caught that overpowering smell of those bushes on the little
path by the church playground, that overpowering smell of
blossoms in still air already tinged with the smell of winter.
That smell had hurt him, made his lungs ache, but he had stood
by those trees in the failing daylightand breathed in again and
again.

The snow had begun to fall again.

“It’s amazing, isn’t it,” he said. “All these snowflakes and
not a single one alike. A snowflake for everybody on earth.”

“A snowflake, “ she said, poking her bottom lip out a little
sadly, “for everyone that ever died.”

“You're morbid, Dorma,” he said. “It’s deeper than last
year. It seems to snow more every year.”

“That’s just because you’re from Georgia.”

“One snowflake for each person that ever died,” he chee
her. “Maybe it didn’t snow when the world was young, but
snows more each. year now, as the sum of the dead is
increased.”

“That’s very good for a college student. You must be an
anglish major,” she said. “And on the first snow of the year,
he snow falls for the newly d

They had reached the churchyard, and the squinching of feet
tad ceased. The snow was falling gently and straight now,
‘mpty of those dancing forms. In the silence of the falling

snow, the steeple shone white as did the tops of the scattered
gravestones, some old, some new. Wesley let his arm fall to /

his side, ee ye .

“Equilibrists lie here, tread light,” he said, too softly for her’
to hear. The snow was falling faster now, in large feather
flakes. The falling snow and Dorma in the falling snow. He
looked up and in the light of the single yardlamp saw one big
intricate flake, like the Lily of the Valley Christmas tree
ornament, hand-carved in olivewood, that he had bought in
Bethlehem of Israel, falling just in front of his head. He
jumped forward and caught this large flake on his tongue and
felt it become a couple of drops on the back of his dry hot
throat. They tasted briefly whiter than and fuller could wash.
Wesley tured to tell Dorma all of this, but she was gone.
