Martin memorial service

_ A service will be held in memory of Diane Martin this Friday at2 p.m. inthe Davidson _

College Presbyterian Church.

Diane, wife of David Martin, assistant professor of economics, was killed on Friday,
February 5 in acar accident on Poplar Tent Road on her way to her job as an economics
lecturer at UNCC. She was 28.

Memorial gifts should be sent to the Charlotte Humane Society, 537 Rountree Rd.,
Charlotte, NC 28210.

Taiwanese Presbyterians

The Dean Rusk program and the President’s Office will be hosting a presentation
entitled “Taiwan: Church and Society in the Midstof Change” on Wednesday, February
17 at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. A delegation of Taiwanese Presbyterians will discuss
issues such as democratization in Taiwan, the influence of the church in national affairs,
relations with the People’s Republic of China, the economic development and welfare
of workers, the role of women in church and society, and the relationship of Christianity
to folk religions.

Seniors to be honored

Davidson Wildcat basketball seniors Derek Rucker, Jeff Himes, Dean Keener, Mike
Gynn and Dave Fitzgerald will be honored in special ceremonies prior to the February
18th game with Furman at Johnston Gym. The event will begin at 7:15 p.m. and the

News Shorts

presentations will be made by college president John Kuykendall and athletic director
Kit Morris.

Faculty needed for Love of Learning

Love of Learning is a holistic educational program aimed at promising black
secondary school students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system. The
program’s recruitment drive for staff and participants begins this month, and its
coordinators hope that Davidson faculty will be interested in learning more about the
program and perhaps even in teaching in it.

Since the program’s curriculum is also being developed during this period, anyone
who would like to know more about the program or who would like to communicate
any ideas should call or leave a message for Clara Alexander, academic consultant for
Love of Learning, at ext. 452.

Jones to speak

Former NBA great Bobby Jones will speak on the “Presbyterian Man” on March 18,
1988, at a rally in the Forest Hill Presbyterian Church, 7224 Park Road, Charlotte.

Jones, a basketball standout at South Mecklenburg, an All-American and the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will highlight a workshop beginning
Friday evening at 7:30. The program will continue on Saturday morning with a series
of workshops and sharing ideas for men’s work in the Presbyterian Church. The
meeting will be open to the public. For reservations call Don Wilson at 568-2106.

Wednesday, February 10, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

Dole wins Iowa; Sov

By KATHERINE PRICE
Headlining the news February 1-
9:

Across the Nation--Bob Dole won
decisively in the lowa Republican
caucuses, while Pat Robertson
edged out George Bush for second
place. Iowa is the first important
contest of the 1988 presidential

race. The victory for Robertson is °

viewed by many as a defeat for
Bush, who now faces increased
pressure to perform well in New
Hampshire,.the next big contest.
The Democratic results were

much closer, with. Richard
Gephardt taking the lead, fol-
lowed by Paul Simon in second
place and Michael Dukakis in
third place.

The House of Representatives
voted narrowly against President
Reagan’s contra aid package on
February 3. Although already-
approved aid to the Nicaraguan
rebels will last through most of
February, the fate of the contra
forces remains uncertain. The

-House vote was seen a defeat for.

the Reagan administration, ©
The Arizona House of Repre-

peach Governor Evan Mecham.
Mecham has been accused of
mishandling campaign funds.
The Arizona Senate will vote on
conviction on February 22. In the
meantime, Secretary of State
Rose Mofford will assume
Mecham’s duties as governor.

Around the Worid--Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev announced a
timetable for the withdrawal of
Soviet troops from. Afghanistan,
Soviet troops will begin leaving
on May 15, if a settlement can be

agreed upon on March 15 in Ge-

-neva. Gorbachev emphasized that.

Soviet withdrawal of troops was
dependent on acessation of West-
em aid to the Afghan rebel forces.
Inresponse to the U.S. House of
Representatives vote against fur-
ther contra aid, the rebel leader-
ship of Nicaragua has organized a
fund for private U.S. donations.
Peace talks set up between the
contras and the Nicaraguan
Sandinista government have been
posiponed. |
, Panamanian military chief
Noriega was publicly accused in

iet troops to leave Afghanistan

sentatives voted 46 to 14 to im--

two federal indictments in Florida
on Friday. Noriega, accused of
helping drug trafficking from
Panama into the U.S., has denied
allcharges. The U.S. ispressuring
Panama for Noriega’s resigna-
tion.

Hostilities continue to worsen
in the Israeli-occupied territories.
Two more Palestinians were shot,
bringing the total of those killed to
48 since December 8.

Massive flooding and mud
slides have left over 130 people
dead and 6000 more homeless in
Brazil;

Committee presents Sesquicentennial gift

Student donations lower than hoped

By MARGARET CARROLL

The Sesquicentennial Gift Committee,
composed of sixteen members representing
the college campus community, presented
its gift of the Sesquicentennial Garden to
the college at last Friday’s convocation.

After receiving various suggestions from
the campus, the committee decided to make
the project the restoration of the water
fountain at the Old Well to working order
and to create a sitting area surrounded by
flowers and shrubbery. _

Money for the gift was collected from all
sectors of the college community. Al-

expected, employee response was almost
85%. Dr. Rupert Barber, Sesquicentennial
Celebration Coordinator, feels that the stu-
dents did not fully realize that the purpose
of the gift is to be a fitting and lasting
reminder of the celebration. that would be

‘visible to all members of the campus com-

munity and its visitors. The garden can be
used both now and for many years to come.
The renovation process has actually begun.
Grover Meetze, Jr.‘55, Director of the
Physical Plant and Facilities Planning,”
designed the plans, and the project is ex-
pected to be completed by Commencement"

come up with the appropriate gift, the gar-
den will provide a much-needed outdoor
sitting area.

Barber feels that because the committee
chose to collect funds through personal
initiative, rather than solicit people and ask
for money, many students did not fully
understand the purpose of-the project.
However, the students who responded did
so generously. The gift will be more special
for those who understood that they were
giving tothe college community asa whole.
Overall the committee was pleased at the
response that it received, and anticipates

Sesquicentennial Coordinator

though student response was less than of this year. Although it was difficult to the completion of the garden. Rupert Barber. College Relations
@0as asteas @eaa oseeas e k k S e h r
SENIOR | ruvsicaL THERAPISTS Winokur SpeakS On oviet churches
CUNCAL
PRE-MED PSYCHOLOGISTS By MARGARET CARROLL and an area of 339 square miles,hasonly are active Russian Orthodox churches
STUDENTS. PHARMACISTS On Wednesday, February 1, the 51 active churches. New Yorkhas 2,000 and seven of which are of other de-
| Could you use a CLINCAL Dean Rusk program hosted Marshall people per church, while Moscow has nominations: Jewish, Moslem, Ro-
scholarship for med- SOCIAL WORKERS Winokur, Associate Professor of Rus- 166,666 people per church. man Catholic, and Armenian Apos-
ical schoo! why not The Air Force sian at the University of Alabama, who Since 1917, when there were approxi- _tolic. The secularizéd churches are
Armed Forces Health can make you an spoke to a large group of students and = mately 700 churches in Moscow, the used as showcases, museums, or are
Professions Scholar- attractive offer —

faculty members about the crisis of
disappearing churches in Moscow.

outstanding com- Soviets have razed, secularized, aban-

remodeled for secular use, and the
pensation plus

abandoned churches are left un-

ship Program, with

sponsorship by the doned, or rendered inactive many

us. A force, Cur. oretessional devel- With an interesting slide show, churchesasaresultoftheSoviet Union’s restored and vandalized in many
cal students-of opment. You con Winokur compared past church sites Marxist ideology, which seeks to eradi- cases. Urban renewal programs will
medicine or osteopo- have a challenging with modern-day buildi inM st ligi A viol i-religi

thy may now com- practice and time fo I y buildingsinMoscow. cate religion. violent anti-religion probably only destroy more churches.
pete for be Force pete ye your tom- Winokur explained that this year campaignin the 1920s ledtomasschurch = Winokur concluded that we can
wont fo help you your country. Find marks the millennium of Holy Russia, closings all over the city. Also mass only hope for restoration and reopen-
continue your educa- out wna ine an whose faith has withstood many inva- urban growth and an attempt to break ing of the many abandoned and secu-
tion, Contact your to- rset WH i. sions and other obstacles. To beginhis away from adecadent pastresulted inthe _larized Moscow churches.

professions repre- Jon ear sen0 talk, Winokur compared Moscow to government’s confiscating church prop- The Russian Orthodox faith, which

sentotive for details. New York City. New York, which has

a population of 7.2 million and.an area.
of 300 square miles, has 3525 active
churches and synagogues. Moscow,
which has a population of 8.5 million

tation to Station Collect

ae

erty and destroying many churches.

In 1917 there were 25 active monaster-
ies in Moscow, and now there is only one
functioning monastery. Also today there
are 303 religious structures, 51 of which

has survived for 1000 years now, is on
the verge of disappearance, and
Moscow’s disappearing churches pro-
vide a only a reminder of the majesty
that was once “Holy Russia.”

TSgt WH Wilburn
704 - 637 ~5610
Station to Station Collect

