12

Friday, September 30, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SAIL INTO OUR
NEW DAVIDSON OFFICE
- ANDJOIN

First Charter National Bank, headquartéred in Concord, N.C.,
is having a Grand Opening to celebrate its arrival in

Davidson and the Lake Norman area. And you're invited
to join.

Do Plan To Join Us — ‘And Bank |
The Way You Prefer.

Through opening an office in Davidson, First Charter
takes another step in demonstrating a com mitment
to offer you an alternative in

financial services. For you in

the Davidson/Lake Norman
area, it means you
now have a strong, y
well-managed.

We'll start celebrating with aribbon-cutting /:
at 8:45 a.m. on Monday, September
26. We'll be serving doughnuts, saus-

age biscuits, juice, and coffee — and
we'd love for you to come. If you
can’t make the ribbon-cutting, ~

simply drop in any time during the

Grand Opening (regular banking

independent bank.
Ki} / - hours); we'll be serving coffee, punch, We're “local folks” . ts,
ot Nie: and cookies. Plus, while our supply . dedicated to help- ean \
Som Nace lasts, we'll have colorful balloons ing you bank the way you a
Co pa 2% for the young folks accompanied

prefer. Lawrence Kim-
brough, President of First
Charter, was born in sate
Davidson, graduated from Davidson College, and
resides in Davidson. Mike Mittelman, Branch
Manager for our new Davidson office, is also a
resident of Davidson. He has over | | years of
banking experience in
Davidson where towns-
people and students alike |
- have’Counted upon Mike,
for sound financial coun-
sel. Lawrence, Mike, and
all their associates at
First Charter look forward .
to seeing you during our Mike Mittelman and
Grand Opening and to Lawrence Kimbrough . Qe,
- serving you for.many years to come.

“aes by-an adult.

Free Gifts For New Accounts.
Banking’s a Beach at

First Charter. .

Throughout our Grand Opening, wé'll be offering ye you
your choice (while supplies last) of any one of three great
gifts — a deluxe custom beach towel, or a no-slip porcelain
boat mug, or a roomy, rayon/canvas boat tote — when

==, yOu open a First Charter personal-check-
F ing or savings account with $500 or more.
Towels, mugs, and totes will be on display
“#4 in our lobby during the Grand Opening
& to help you with your decision.

= Enter To WinASpo
Zuma Sailboat! You're Head

. : : Davidson Office
for Smooth Sailing with
~ First Charter. | Grand Opening ©

Atos a aE 124 South Main Street
Our Davidson Grand Opening will culminate with a Grand BO Bea aca across from the Village Green
Prize Drawing to be held Friday, October 14,

a September 26 through October 14, 1988
at 6 p.m. The prize? A fabulous, 2-seater During Regular Banking Hours
Zuma sailboat. Get all the exciting details

CHARTER Gifts for New Accounts beac
atthe bank. . ‘aa & - | _ ~~ Grand Prize: Zuma 2-person sailboat
, ; NATIONAL Drawing: October 14, at 6 p.m. :

we

Member FDIC
