Get Nortonized! page 4

~~

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036 Friday, November 18, 1988

Scales calls for
social change

Former Communist Party member claims
U.S.’ ideals are “bent and twisted”

By GARY WHEELER

Former Communist Party member
Junius Scales, author of Cause at Heart and
the only American ever to have been im-
prisoned for his political beliefs, spoke:on
the importance of history on his election
day visit to Davidson. Scales says it is time
for the U.S. to look at history, to learn from
its mistakes, and “to chart a course for the
future.”

Scales points to the Declaration of Inde-
pendence as representative of American
ideals which have been “bent and twisted.”
Our nation’s leaders claimed “that ‘all men
are created equal,’ yet we have left the
Indians a degraded relic of the past,” kept
women from voting for two-thirds of our
-» +history, and.caused blacks to suffer through
“the institution of slavery. © = =

Disgust over the bending and twisting of
ideals is what drove Scales to join, and,
ironically, leave, the Communist Party.

4

On Tuesday, November 15 at 3:00
a.m., senior Michael Makonnen of
_ Atlanta, Ga., died of cancer and com-

Senior Michael Makonnen
dies of cancer

_ plications from

Tadiation treat-.

ment. ae
The funeral
‘was held today
in Atlanta. A
ee eT ’ memorial serv-
ceil ee sa ey aia ice will be con-
Senior Lavetta Dawkins (center) puts one up and over against UNCG. Teammates from left ducted at
are sophomore Ellen Ott and freshman Holt Hathaway. The Wildcats concluded their season Davidson: Cok
with a victory, bringing their final record to 27 and 14. Photo by Bill Hartman - ies “Pied:
4. d d rian Church on
ESSX phone system updated J wena":
z .m.

By MARGARET CARROLL calls toa phone card, students should dial 9, : Makonnen
As of Monday, November 14, several _ wait for a dial tone, then dial 0, the area has battled can-
improvements have been made to the codeand number. At the sound of the tone, cer ever. since
Southernet ESSX telephone system. These _ enter the phone calling card number. Stu- he was diag-
improvements include operator services, dents using Visa, Mastercard, or American nosed in Octo-
automatic callback, and additional long Express should wait for an operator. ber 1987. In

distance lines. >
The addition of operator services allows

students to make credit card calls with ©

-phone company calling cards. To charge

nsi

With the automatic callback feature,

: students can program their phones to keep

November

1987, doctors
told Michael

Scales was attracted by the party’s ideas of
equality, brotherhood, and peace. The
Communist Party, however, had “a moral
center about as substantial as jello,” and
ScalesJeft the party when it began to under-
cut the progress that it had made:

Scales said that the U.S. has made some
progress in civil rights but that ending real
discrimination is “very much unfinished
business.” Scales cited Jesse Jackson’s
successful campaign as one that addressed
“real issues . . . and provided a positive ray
of light for the future.”

Scales feels that too much emphasis is
placed on defense, a “euphemism for
arms,” and not enough attention is given to
-domestic issues. He claims that we need to
take Martin Luther King’s -advice to stop
policing the world and “get our own house

See SCALES, page 2

that he had four to six months to live.
His fight to stay alive and to remain
active and to give of himself, became a
symbol of cour-
age and deter-
mination to the
wide variety of
people. whose
lives he
touched.

His disease
caused him a
great deal of
pain, and re-
quired that he
undergo radia-
tion therapy and
several painful
operations.

In spite of
his pain and
weakness, Mi-

“

