Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

As I See It

‘He who lives by the jumpshot...”’

By WHIT WILKS
I have a collection of thoughts, ideas,
and observations to share this week:

If opposing conference coaches want to
stop the Cats, it appears the way to do it is
by shutting off the inside game (i.e. Jeff
Himes)

Davidson had outstanding play from the
perimeter Monday night, yet came up short
because the Paladins refused to let Himes
touch the ball during crunch time. Once this
occurs, the adage of “He who lives by the

Davidson team well.

Davidson is going to have a tough time
winning the conference crown as long as it
continues to play road games. For some
reason, the Cats pull a Jekyll and Hyde
routine every time they play away from
Johnston Gym. In games played at App and
Furman in front of quiet crowds, the team
lost a pair of contests which were there for
the taking.

This brings me to a topic which has been
discussed before but deserves repeating
after watching the game Monday night. The

Greenville Auditorium had 3300 people in
it, yet it resembled a tomb until the last 50
seconds. In other words, Furman had little
home court advantage due to the large size
of the arena. When the Cats’ new home is
completed, I believe they will be met with
a very similar situation.

The parity in college basketball is great
for the game. Due to the wealth of talent
nationwide, any one of about 30 or 40

schools can be thinking they havea fair shot

to win it all in Kansas City. Kentucky,
U.N.C. and the like are always going to be

tough, but every year more and more
schools move up the ladder and the condi-
tion of the game improves.

Anyone who thinks life as a°basketball
independent is fun and games need only
look to Marquette to know that you are
wrong. The once-proud Warriors are abso-
lutely horrible because no one wants to go
to a school without a conference unless its
initials are N.D.

Nothing too earth-shattering, I know,
but some of these willeffect Davidson more
than one might think’

jumpshot dies by the jumpshot” fits this

——e

ALUMNI, from p. 8

scoring with 26 points.

As the score indicates, there was hardly any defense. The white team, who led the
entire game by about ten points, did not come away without a fight. With eleven
minutes remaining, Ken Niebuhr fed Frank Johnson for adunk thatcut the white lead
to 72-66. Soon after, the white team went on a 9-4 run coming off baskets by Jamie
Hall and a 3-pointer by Pat Riazzi.

Towards the end, the game got really intense as Pepper Bego nailed two consecu-
tive 3-pointers with 1:34 remaining tocut the lead to 111-107. Gerry Born then stole
the inbounds pass and gota lay-up to make it 111-109, Thered team, however, would
get no closer. Kenny Wilson slammed the ball through for the game-ending dunk
with seconds to go. ,

After the game, as players shook hands and conversed with students and alumni,
arelieved “coach” John Kuykendall of the white team said sarcastically that he knew
the game “would-be adefensive struggle” and the win was the result of “good coach-
ing.” John Griffith, coach of the red team, could not be reached for comment.

Overall, it seemed that the game was a very positive experience for the players but
less important than friendship. Ace Tanner said, “It feels great just seeing the guys.
The best part about Davidson [for me] was the friends I made. It was a fun
experience.”

Kenny Wilson’s thoughts were similar, “I liked seeing everybody again,” he said.

Athalftime of the Davidson-Citadel game, each of the 12 players participating in
the alumni game was recognized and presented with a plaque commemorating the
game and coach Hussey’s 19 seniors, all of whom received their degrees on time.

It was a special reunion for a special group of guys.

omy

Camp Thunderbird

Excellent Summer counseling opportunities for men and women

] who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 8-16, guiding
them in their physical, mental and spiritual development. One
must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized
activities and be dedicated to helping each individual child
develop his or her potential. College students, teachers and
coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD located 17 miles
southeast of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member,
specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming and*
canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports |
(general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking).
Horseback riding, white water canoeing and tripping are extras in
our excellent program. For further information write or call Camp
Thunderbird, One Thunderbird Lane Clover, S.C., 29710, (803)
831-2121.

Dave Maynard 88 strides forward at last weekend’s Vir- Larry Ray

ginia Tech Bud Lite Invitational in Blacksburg, Virginia.

An eating disorders support group will be
meeting every week until the end of winter term.
If you wouldlike more information, please call
Georgia Ringle at 892-8748 before 8 p.m.

Confidentiality will be respected.

First Union National Bank
of North Carolina
Banking Offices Statewide Member FDIC

First Union loan has alot of} | ser
ways to give you credit : We have four- and two-year programs that lead to an Air
while pursuing a college degree. = Force commission. You may also apply for a scholarship that
> . pays some college expenses, plus tax free per academ-
NewBankingPowerForYou. ic month. Contact: |
i Capt Carl Wilson
3 704-547-4537
FIRGON DAVIDSON F
892-8861 S
| :
5
e

