Monday, November 7,.1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The football issue from a player’ S perspective

Kearns Davis

Since I arrived on the Davidson campus some
fifteen months ago, it has been clear that the
football program, its implications on_ the
Davidson athletic program, and the players in-
volved are not well understood by the college
community. Yet not until the recent editorial in
The Davidsonian did I realize that the epidemic
of mistaken facts extended to those responsible
for keeping the student body informed. I speak of
three specific examples in the editor’s article.

He claims that “we sacrificed the interests of all
other sports to send football over to the Colonial
League.” This is partly true, but falls far short of
adequately explaining the situation. What actu-
ally happened was that the Southern Conference
gave us an ultimatum: either we increase the
number of conference games per year from three
or four to a full schedule of eight, or we drop out
of the league altogether, in all sports. We did not
have the choice of maintaining the arrangement
we had at the time, nor of dropping out of the
conference only in football. It was all or nothing.
Put simply, our options Were these:

1) Play eight of our ten oreleven games per year
against Southern Conference teams with rosters
of full scholarship players, while remaining our-

selves on a need-based scholarship program.

2) Renew the policy, discontinued in the early
seventies, of a scholarship football program.

3) Leave the Southern Conference in all sports.

It seems that the author of the editorial under-
stands that the first option was unreasonable,
because he says that, “...a school with limited
manpower such as ours cannot hope to keep up.”
The second was simply unfeasible, as it would
have cost the college in excess of $500,000 per
year in scholarship money. By default, the last
option was the only acceptable one. The trustees
did not choose the unfortunate shakeup in the
athletic department which followed, it was forced
upon them by the Southern Conference”

The second case of misinformation is the edi-
tor’s assertion that “Even Division III opponents
such as Fordham are beating us decisively.” I find
it difficult to understand how a 9-3 game in which
we amassed nearly sixty more yards of total
offense than our opponent can be called a “deci-
sive” loss. It might also be noted that Fordham
finished 10-2 in Division III play last year and
will soon be joining the Colonial League.

The last and simplest, but possibly most impor-
tant of the editor’s misunderstandings is found in
his statement that “There is a physical and psy-
chological toll to being so completely outmuscled
each week, and our fellow Davidsonians don’t
deserve it.” We appreciate the editor’s concern,

but we would appreciate it more if our feelings
were not used without license to supportthe thesis -
of someone else.

We do not deriy that there is a problem in the

- football program we are not winning. Yet all the

thetoric and verbal volleyball in the world will
not solve it. In a speech given on April 10, 1899,
Theodore Roosevelt said,

“It is not the critic who counts, not the man who
points out how the strong man stumbled or where
the doer. of deeds could have done them better.
The credit belongs to the man who is actually in
the arena; whose faceis marred by dust and sweat
and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs and
comes up Short again and again; who knows the
great enthusiasms, the great devotions, and
spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best
knows in the end the triumph of high achieve-
ments; and who at the worst, if he fails, at least
fails while daring greatly; so that his place shall
never be with those cold and timid souls who know
neither defeat nor victory.”

There are nearly seventy players, nine coaches,
and several mandgets and trainers working very
hard. to bring success to the Davidson football
program. Please, we do not need your criticism,
we need your support.

Kearns Davis is a sophomore from Winston-
Salem, NC .

Football team needs your support, not criticism

Harry Schiavi and
Andy Tysz

The following was addressed specifically to the
Editor.

We are sorry to hear about your obvious dissat-
isfaction with our football team, and would like to
invite you out to one of our practices to help us in
our endeavor to-win. We are also sorry to hear that
you don’t feel that we are physically able to play
with the other teams in the Colonial League. It is

apparent that we are football players and we are -

very upset about the editorial about our team.

We are writing this. letter to question your
knowledge, or lack thereof, of football. The so
called decisive victory of . Fordham over
Davidson was a 9-3 struggle with a team that was
in the playoffs last year and will join us in the
Colonial League next year. Not to mention that
had you seen the stats you would realize that they
were dominated in every aspect of the game.
Despite the fact that some powers in the league
still have a great number of scholarship players
(e.g. Holy Cross), it may interest you to know that

the Davidson College defense has been the num-

ber one ranked defense in the league for more than
half the season. How’s that for an “all-time low?”

We wish we could have the luxury to proceed,

but since we are not editors and do not have the
whole back page of the Davidsonian to express
our first-hand knowledge -of the game, we realize
that if we go on, our opinions will not see print.
And we would like to thank the people who really
do go to see the games for their support,.and
promise them nothing less than one hundred per-
cent all of the time, because that is how the.game
is played.

Harry Schiavi and Andy Tysz are. two disgusted
football players from Wilmington, DE and New
Port Richey, FL.

From BUSH, page 12

all parties involved, Dukakis’ plan to move the
U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem would
touch off a new. round of violence -- especially
against America.

Dukakis’ rhetoric about the “dangers” of for-
eign investment in the U.S. add yet another ele-
ment to Democratic. protectionist sentiment,
highlighting another of his foreign policy short-
comings. To borrow a line from Will Rogers,
protectionism is like Communism; it may sound

‘like a good idea, but it just doesn’t work. We live

in an interdependent world, and George Bush
recognizes the importance of free trade in that
world. While it is true that some other countries
take advantage of our open markets, sheer re-
tributive revenge is no way to deal with them. I
would compare using protectionism to prescrib-
ing death as a cure for disease. Protectionism
didn’t work during the Depression, and it won’t
work now. |

Granted, by many standards, few Americans
are happy with their choices in this year’s Presi-

dential election. As a recent “Shoe” comic strip
put it, the two main questions of the campaign are

“who is the best man for the job?” and “Why isn’t
he running?” Nevertheless, either George Bush or
Michael Dukakis will be sworn into the nation’s ©
highest office on January 20, 1989. As far as the
President’s roles as commander-in-chief and
chief author of foreign policy are concerned, let
us hope that George Bush will take the oath.

Warren Cooksey is a freshman from Raleigh, NC

From CANDIDATE, page 13

at the most sensitive period of the American --
Chinese rapprochement in the mid 1970s. He
served as a voice of integrity as Chairman of the
Republican National Committee during Water-

difficulty. Concerning the charge that Bush “was
born on third base and thinks he hit a triple,” one

‘must remember that Bush left the comforts of his
_upbringing twice; once to become the youngest

American fighter pilot in World War II, and a
second time to%pursue his own record of hard

gate, when such integrity was in short supply.
Bush re-established the credibility of the CIA as
its director when such credibility had been se-

verely questioned. Certainly, Bush did not serve —

as a voice of grand innovation or personal boister-
ousness during his tenure in these posts. In each
“case, however, he asserted competent, behind-
the-scenes leadership i in circumstances of great

work and achievement in the Texas oil business.

The Presidential term beginning in 1989 will
present difficult problems to the winner of the
election on November 8. It will not be a time
suited for a man who believes in his own self
promotion, or who believes that he has all of the
answers to the nation’s problems. America needs
a man having the personal strength and compe-

tence to pursue solutions to its problems, while
preserving the progress of the last eight years. I -
urge all voters in the upcoming election to look
beyond the charges of “wimp” and “lapdog” that
have surfaced in the past election to see the true
character, commitment, and ability of George

~ Bush’ to lead as President. These traits are repre-—
‘sented in the record beyond the media 1 images of

the last eight years.

history major from

David L. Host is a s Oph
pinions editor of The

Lexington, KY, and is
Davidsonian.
