The Davidsonian

Wednesday, February 3, 1988

Furman knocks Davidson basketball from S.C. first place

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

Despite the emergence of sophomore
Alan Hunter as a budding star, the Cats fell
from first place in the Southern Conference
in a week which was mixed with both highs
and lows. Last Saturday, Citadel came to
play the Cats in the friendly confines of
Johnson Gym. The old “gym” magic was
working, as Davidson slowly built a 15
point lead at one time, before going into to
halftime ahead 38-27. Davidson attained
its largest lead at 62-37 with 9:39 left in the
game on a basket by Dick Seidel, and held
a 20 point margin until the starters left the
game with about 2 minutes left.

With the Davidson reserves playing,
Citadel cut the deficit in half before finally
falling 79-67. Davidson shot 58% from the
field and held the Citadel to only 41%.
Derek Rucker paced the way with 24 points
(including 4 three-pointers), Jeff Himes
had 16, Maurice Gray 12, and Hunter added
11. Additionally,Himes had a game-high
11 rebounds and Rucker contributed 7 as-
sists. The defense was exceptional, as
Rucker, Hunter, and Himes all had 2 steals.

The Cats hit the road Monday night for
a key S.C. matchup with Furman. Furman
scored the first five points before Davidson
got hot and built its largest lead of the game
at 21-11 with 8:58 left in the first half ona
layup by Magic Gaines. Furman got back in

Player profiles

the game on the three-point shooting of
David Brown and Shawn Reid to drawclose
near the end of the half. Brown hit a des-
peration fifty footer as the hom sounded to
bring the Paladins to within one (38-37) at
the break, and give them considerable
momentum heading into the second half.

Davidson’s inability to leave at halftime
with a big lead was critical to the outcome
of the game. Davidson shot a sparkling
63% from the field in the first half, but was
beaten by the three-pointer, as the Paladins
buried 5 from long distance.

The first sign of serious trouble occurred
at the 13:05 mark when the bench was
charged with a technical foul, and the Pala-
dins pulled out to a 56-52 lead. Davidson

regained the lead 59-58 on a jumper by
Gaines ‘with 10:41 in the game. Then 6-7
freshman forward Tom O’ Donnell rose to
the occasion and hit 4 points during an 11-
2 Furman streak which made the score 69-

61._ The Wildcats battled their way back

into the game and were only behind 73-72
after a Rucker three pointer with 5 minutes
left in the game.

Then the youth of the Davidson players
started to show, as tumovers occurred on
the next four possessions. The fatal wound
was a desperation three-point shot from 25
feet by Reid which barely beat the shot
clock and gave Furman an 80-72 lead.
Flawless foul shooting by Furman pre-
vented a Davidson comeback in the closing

minutes, and the Paladins prevailed 90-80.
Vital statistics that led to the Furman win
were 88% foul shooting, a 9-4 edge in three
pointers, and 17 turnovers by Davidson.

For Furman Brown scored 26 points on
5 three-pointers, Reid had 16 on 3 three-
pointers, Joey Brooks had 16, and Gary
Churchill 10. John Castile played a fine all-
around game, scoring 9 points, grabbing 7
rebounds, dishing out 6 assists, and getting
2 steals.

For Davidson Rucker scored 30 points,
Himes 17 points snatching a game-high of
13 rebounds, Hunter a career-high 18, and
Gaines scored 11 off the bench. Davidson’s
next game is Thursday, February 4, at
Western Carolina.

Wildcats of the ’80s play alumni game

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

There was a touch of nostalgia in ‘the
Johnston Gym Saturday as twelve of Bobby
Hussey’s nineteen basketball graduates
came back to Davidson for a “Cats of the
*80s” reunion.

It was a special game for former players
who not only were basketball standouts for
Davidson but also have gone on to succeed
in their respective careers.

Representing the red team were Frank
Johnson ’84, Ken Niebuhr, Gerry Bom,

Pepper Bego 86, plus Chris Hineman and
the spectacular Ace Tanner of the class of
87.

The white team consisted of Jamie Hall
82, Tom Franz, Kenny Wilson ’84, Pat
Razzi, Ted Wolfe ’86, and Todd Scott ’87.

Before the game even started, the white
team had an advantage. It had Kenny
Wilson. Wilson, who scored over 1500
points in his Davidson career, picked up
right where he left off as he scored 46 points
to lead his team to a 119-112 victory.

Most of the spectators, however, proba-
bly turned out to watch Anthony “Ace”
Tanner in action. Ace was known at
Davidson for sparking the Wildcats in
games with a nice, quick assist, or an earth-
shattering dunk whenever a little momen-
tum was needed. Tanner, who is currently
playing in England, led the red team not
only in the slam department, but also in

See ALUMNI, p. 9

Sophomores Hunter, Gaines, Seidel contribute to Cats’ wins

By BILL SMITH

The basketball team has hit the
middle of the Conference game
schedule with a six and two record
and a second place position.
Derek Rucker and Jeff Himes, two
players covered earlier, continue
to carry the team with their scor-
ing, leadership, and overall atti-
tude. As the season has unfolded,
the play of the sophomores on the
team has become more and more
important. They have gained
more experience and are working

toward the potential of play that
Coach Hussey indicated in pre-
season.

One sophomore who has “made
his presense felt,” said Coach
Hussey, is guard Alan Hunter.
Since the Wake Forest game when
he displayed his inexperience,
Alan has gotten better and better
in his overall play on the court as
indicated in his acquisition of a
Starting position. Alan has
learned how to complement
Derek at the second guard slot as
well as how to improve the team’s
play. At the start of the season,
Coach Hussey was looking for a
defensive stopper to shut down the

| 7 i

Alan Hunter
opposing teams’ scoring threats.
Alan Hunter is coming very close
to taking that title for the guard
spot, a title that Chris Heineman

. effectively held for’ a couple

years.

Right now, Alan, at 5'-10" and
170 pounds, is playing well by
penetrating into the defenses and
creating opportunities for his
teammates. According to Coach
Hussey, he should add to this
aspect of his game by looking
more for his jump shot, including
shots from the three-point range.

Magic Gaines

As Alan develops in these areas
and continues to gain experience
from the starting role and from
playing alongside Derek, he will
be a good team leader.

Two sophomores who have
provided quality playing time as
well as needed sparks coming off
the bench are Magic Gaines and
Dick Seidel. Davidson picked up
a valuable road victory at East
Tennessee because of the clutch
play of these two players. Magic,
a 6'-4", 195-pound switch player,
had his best game of the season at
East Tennessee. Coach Hussey
indicated that Magic played intel-
ligently, made good decisions and
basically played hard.

Magic’s consistency is a slight
problem but the East Tennessee
game helped greatly. Coach
Hussey comments that Magic’s
strengths are that he has a lot of
physical ability and a good jump
shot. With more experience and

consistency, Magic will be a key
player on this basketball team.
Dick Seidel also had his best
game at East Tennessee. His
numbers were good and he espe-
cially had great timing, according
toCoach Hussey. Dickrebounded
well and scored in clutch situ-
ations at the free throw line and

_ from the field. As the season has

progressed, Dick has become

VGN

Dick Seidel

Wrestlers discouraged by losses at Bowling
Springs, Carson-Newman

more influential to the team.
Since rebounding is a key area on
this basketball team, Dick’s con-
tributions there have been very
helpful.

Coach Hussey indicated that
Dick can be an excellent reboun-
der as well as scorer with more
experience and time. Being the
“blue-collar worker” inside—re-
bounding off the boards, shovel-
ing the passes, and scraping after
the loose balls—is the style Dick
enjoys. Scoring, Dick pointed
Out, is not important; playing
within the team conceptand living
up to his expectations are impor-
tant. Dick will be greater asset to
the team through continual im-
provement in rebounding, de-
fense, and scoring.

These three sophomores have
contributed greatly to several
wins thus far and will be needed
more as the Conference season
heats up.

By HOLME OLTROGGE

After a fantastic weekend at the W&L
tournament, the Davidson wrestling team
met a frustrating loss against Gardner-
Webb. The Wildcats travelled to Bowling
Springs last Wednesday nightonly toreturn
empty-handed. ;

The main reason for the four-point loss
was forfeiture. The Cats forfeited five
weightclasses giving up a total of 30 points.
Even if just one of the empty weight classes
had been filled, the team would have re-
turned victorious.

Of the ten weight classes in the line up,
only four matches were wrestled. At 142
freshman Joe Binns took a forfeit but also
won an exhibition match. Junior co-captain

Sherb Sentell handily beat his opponent 13-
1. Sentell came close to pinning his man a
couple of times, but ended up winning by a

‘major decision instead.

On the other hand, Tim Heinze (176
pounds) had a difficult time against his
opponent. After séven tough minutes,
Heinze barely won 4-3 by earning points
due-to riding time. At heavyweight, How-
ard Humphries fell to a worse fate as he lost
to Gardner-Webb.

Again last Saturday the Wildcat team
road-tripped to the Mid-South Tournament
at Carson-Newman, TN, where the twelve-
team competition proved overwhelming
for the small Cats.

Generally, performances were frustrat-

ing and disappointing. The only consola-
tion came from Senior Tim Heinze who, |
like always, performed commendably well.
The co-captain finished fourth overall inhis
weight class, ~”

For the rest of the season, the team hoped
toretrieve some of its injured wrestlets who
had been out of the line up. Holt Foster
should return to wrestle against Winston
Salem State tonight. Dylan Glenn is ex-
pected to be ready for Saturday’s matchup
against-Georgia Tech,

For now the wrestlers are concentrating
on Wednesday night’s 7 o'clock match
against Winston Salem State here at
Johnston Gym.
