Basketball ends season, p. 6

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXIX, Number 1

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, March 11, 1988

Although a self-described meres, junior: Andy Nilsson managed to sport the bandanna
of the Sandinista Youth group at its headquarters in Leon, Nicaragua. Nilsson and ten other
students traveled throughout the region with Religion Professor David Kaylor and Assistant
Professor of Political Science Brian Shaw. See story, page 3.

Photo courtesy of Kathy Womble
Back from the USSR:

redicting Super
uesday results

Professors Haskell, Kazee miss Bush landslide,
correctly judge Democratic race

By TOBY TRUOG

Super Tuesday primary projections were
discussed by Davidson political science
professors John Haskell and Tom Kazee in
a panel discussion Monday night in the 900
Room.

Kazee and Haskell correctly predicted
that no Democratic candidate would re-

‘ceive a great majority of delegates, citing
that Massachusetts governor Michael.

Dukakis, Tennessee senator Albert Gore
and Missouri representative Richard
Gephardt are very close in the polls and
have such a varied appeal.

“Jesse Jackson will do wellin many states
as a result of the white vote being split
between Dukakis, Gephardt and Gore,”
speculated Haskell. Out of these four candi-
dates, Haskell and Kazee predicted that
Dukakis would lead.

As it turned out, Gore, Dukakis and
Jackson received 340, 337 and 322 dele-
gates, respectively. Gephardt fared disas-
trously with only 120,

Gephardt did notcampaign heavily inthe _

southern states, and has been concentrating
with success in the mid-western states.
Gore, according to Haskell and Kazee, took
a risky step by concentrating on the South
exclusively, but his victory proved its ef-
fectiveness.

Bush’s landslide victory was not pre-
dicted. The Vice President led the Republi-
cans with 571 delegates, more than 50

percent of the total number. Dole received
approximately eight percent and Robertson
and Kemp each received less than one
percent. __

Discussing the Republican frontrunners,
Kazee noted that “Dole is the candidate
without the organization and Bush is the
organization without the candidate.”

The candidates’ positions on domestic
and foreign policy are indiscernible, he
continued. Personality, leadership, and
other “indefinable” terms will be the char-

acteristics considered by the American

public.

Dole’s monetary instability, his organ-
izational problems and his “mean streak”
are seen as his major problems by Kazee as
well as many others. Bush, on the other
hand, is very well-financed and organized

‘and possesses vital political experience. .

Robertson and Kemp were dismissed by
Kazee as interesting but without much fu-
ture in the race.

Primaries were held in 20 states--14 of
them in the South. Democrats gained 1,307
delegates while Republican gained 803
delegates.

Kazee, associate professor of political
science, is presently on year-long sabbati-
cal in the U.S. Congress as a policy analyst
for the House Sub-committee on Telecom-
munication and Finance, Haskell is a visit- :
ing lecturer.

Davidsonians find fun in the Russian sun for break

S udents take pride in evading Soviet customs authorities

By MARGARET CARROLL —
During Spring Break nine
Davidson students joined a tour
group from Charlotte on a ten day
trip to the Soviet Union. They
visited Moscow, Leningrad, and
Tallin, the capital of Estonia.
Associate Professor of French
Lauren Yoder accompanied the
students on the trip.
While in the USSR, the group
visited Red Square, the ol

Inside

Isaac’s Cathedral, Pushkin (Cath-
erine the Great’s summer palace),
and a school in Tallinn.

The group spent three days in
Moscow, three days in Tallinn and
three days in Leningrad. They
took two overnight train trips and
flew through Helsinki on their
way in to and out of the USSR.

Yoder described the people as
“very open and friendly.” He
talked to Estonians in Tallin who —

freely voiced abnbeltion to the
Soviet government. Estonia was
once an independent country, and

its people are proud of their na-

tional heritage.

Senior Brooke Knight talked to ~

one youth who wants to come to
the United States. The first ques-
tion that he asked Knight was, “In
the U.S. can you buy anything that

you want?” He told Knight that in

“the USSR, even if someone “sag

enough money, one has very little
choice in what he can buy.
Soviet youth asked freshman
Kim Short what she described as
“typical” questions about the U.S.
Some of their questions con-
cerned the high cost of education,
the drug problem, the scarcity of
jobs and the distraction that dorm
life presents to students in the U.S.

_ The group encountered a thriv-
ing black market whose traders

were familiar with Western brand
names like Land’s End, Reebok,
and Levi’s. Although Knight met
black market traders who worried
about the KGB, some members of
the group ended up passing
through customs with “illegal”
souvenirs obtained through these
sources such as Russian flags,
military uniforms, a_ glasnost

‘sweatshirt, and Soviet posters, but
none reported serious troubles in

crossing the border.

