sports

Football

By BRUCE NEWSOME

There was good news and bad
news for Davidson in last Satur-

day’s game against Fordham.
* The good news was that the de-
fense played well the whole game
and kept the game close. This was
the first game this season that the
Wildcats have had an opportunity
to win in the fourth quarter.

The bad news was _ that
_ Davidson should have won the
game easily. The Cats had over
80 yards total offense more than
the Rams.

The Cats had ‘5 turnovers in-
cluding a fumble at the Fordham
10 yard line with the scored tied 3-
3. Trailing late in the game,
Davidson was driving until
Fordham intercepted a pass to

secure a Ram victory. Whenever
it appeared that Davidson might
take control of the game, the of-
fense self-destructed.

It seems that at- Friday after-
noon’s practice at Giants Stadium
in the Meadowlands brought the
team the same bad luck that the
New York Giants had last year.

Davidson opened the scoring
with a Brian Jacob field goal in
the first quarter. Fordham came
back with a field goal in the first
half and 2 in the second half to
round out the scoring. »

The defense, led by Mike Ro-
gers, did an excellent job by hold-
ing the Rams to less than 100
yards rushing and only 130 pass-
ing. Rogers, despite missing part
of the game with injuries, had 10

Cats fall in disappointing loss, 9-3

unassisted tackles and 2 sacks.

This game did show though that
the Cats might have at least one
opponent in the Colonial League
that they can beat since in 1990
Fordham moves up to Division I-
AA from Division III and will join
the Colonial League.

Coach Vic Gatto said after the
game: “We just didn’t get it done
on offense. It’s discouraging with
number of opportunities we had
on offense.”

In addition to the game, the
Cats also lost Rogers for an unde-
termined length of time to a knee
injury.

Davidson will try to reverse its
losing trend Saturday at home
against the Big Green of Dart-
mouth.

Golf’s coach gone, team carries on

Freshman Rob Yukrop moves the ball last week in soccer action
against the University of South Carolina. The Wildcats lost, 1-0.
Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Soccer

Team loses county
bragging rights

By WHIT WILKS

On Saturday night the Cats took
on UNCC in the battle for brag-
ging rights of Mecklenburg
County. In front of a large. noisy
crowd, the 49ers earned a 3-0
victory.

UNCC opened the scoring only
11 minutes into the contest on a
goal following a free kick deep in
Davidson’s defensive end.

UNCC took advantage of an-
other indirect kick 9 minutes
before the half to amet the score
2-0.

In the opening minutes of the
second half, the 49ers were called

In Good Health

Fitness tips of. the

By MARK PUCKETT

for a foul inside their 18 and the
Cats were awarded a penalty kick.
Mike Friedlander took the kick,
but the goalie stopped it just in-
side his left post.

Instead of being disheartened
Davidson found renewed confi-
dence and nearly scored moments
later. A hard shot bounced off a
defender right in front of the line,
and the Cats remained scoreless.

UNCC had several chances of
their own in the second half, as
two balls hit the.crossbar..

See JIM WALKER, page 10

Christopher B. “Kit” Morris takes the reins

By ROBERT GRUBB
and CHARLES MARSHALL

The Davidson golf team is playing with a new
handicap. The sudden resignation of golf Coach
Tim Tallent, on Sept. 20 has left the position vacant
during a full fall season for the Wildcats.

Athletic Director Christopher B. “Kit” Morris
has begun the search for a new full time coach.
“Hopefully, I will find a replacement by the spring
season,” said Morris. The team plays the bulk of
their matches in’the spring.

In the meantime Morris has the responsibility of
filling in as coach. This has given him the oppor-
tunity to get a closer look at the Wildcat golf
program, which hopefully will aid him in selecting
a.new coach.

Sports Information Assistant Rob:Zimmerman
has also shared the coaching responsibilities. He-
has travelled to tournaments with the team the past
two weekends.

The absence of a full-time coach does not hurt
the golf team as badly as the loss of a coach in
another sport. “It’s not terrible. We’ ve been losing
instruction more than anything else, “ said Craig
Leonard.

Any possible effects of the coaching situation

were unapparent this weekend, Sept. 24 and 25.
The Wildcats travelled.to the Shannon Green Golf
Resort in Fredricksburg, Virginia, to take play in
the Georgetown Invitational.

Davidson turned in an excellent performance,
finishing fourth in a field of 14 teams. The Wild-
cats’ team total of 633 over two rounds placed
them one stroke out of second place.

Delaware and George Mason finished tied for
second and Delaware won the tiebreaker, because
of a lower second round score. The College of
Charleston won the tournament with a score of
609;

‘ Leonard was not disappointed with the Wild-
cats’ performance. “We’ve been holding our own
against bigger schools that give golf scholar-
ships,” he said.

Charleston’s Blair Leburn won the individual
tournament with a score of 150. Scott Prince was

_ the medalist for the Wildcats. His two-round

score of 157 was good enough for ninth place
overall. Prince tied Georgetown’s Hank Andries.
Prince was helped by teammates Craig Carlock

See GOLF, page 10

Week: protein miyths and fiber

can lower your cholesterol rate. Fruits and

1. Remember that you should exercis
aerobically at least three times a week fe
20 to 30 minutes ata time. Your!
Fitness says you will be able to “int
your cardiovascular endurance, ok
and flexibility.” Be sure to warm-up for 5.
minutes before your workout and cool-
down for 5 minutes afterwards.

2. The goal of your workout is to reach

your target heart rate--the whole idea be- -

hind aerobic exercise. This rate can be
calculated by subtracting your age from
220. 65% to 85% of this number is your
target heart rate. For instance, if you are 20
years old: 220 -20= 200. 65% of 200 is
130. The idea is to achieve your target
heart rate but not exceed it.

3. It is important to know what fiber is
_ and what it does for you. There are two

types:. soluble and insoluble. Insoluble ©

“fiber is found in most high-fiber cereals.
According to Nutrition Action it helps pre-

vent constipation and possibjy colon can-
cer. Soluble Gheris fiuad oatmeal and

pac

les are thé best sources of fiber.
nd the following cereals be-
y have adequate fiber and they are
lew sugar: Cheerios, Grape Nuts, and
NutriGrain Wheat. Other cereals with
adequate fiber that are sweetened are Rai-
sin Bran, Bran Flakes, Mueslix Bran.and
Five Grain, and Frosted Mini-Wheats.
These are served in the Commons.
Recommended vegetables: broccoli,

carrots, cauliflower, green peas, cabbage,

_ peppers, green beans, celery,.and many

more.

Recommended _ fruits: cantaloupe,
honeydew, bananas, apples, -peaches,
grapes, kiwi, pineapple, pears, etc.

4. There is a myth about how much

protein your body needs. Fit for Life says,

“If you eat any fruits, vegetables, nuts,

seeds, or sprouts on a regular basis, you are
receiving all amino acids for

‘your body to build the protein it needs . . .

The fact is you couldn’t have a protein

deficiency unless you worked hard at hav-

ing one. .Do you know anybody with a
protein deficiency?”

5. After a workout your body needs car-
bohydrate replacement in order to increase
your glycogen level. In American Health
Dr. John Ivy offers “The 300-Calorie Solu-
tion” which gives certain foods that replen-
ish glycogen after an intense workout: -

¢ A heaping plate of spaghetti (4 oz.)

¢ 4 apples

¢ 10 tablespoons of raisins

¢ 2 12-0z. soft drinks

e 2 baked potatoes

¢ A large plate of rice (12 0z.)

Each of these foods has 300 calories. Do
not feel you must eat four apples or a plate
of spaghetti every time after you exercise.

Decide how intensely you are working out —

and decide how much glycogen replace-
ment you need. I usually eat an apple and
a banana after workouts. Remember that
the main reason for restoring glycogen is to
ready your body for your next workout.

6. Many will get colds in the fall and
winter months. Nutrition Action advises,

“Try taking extra vitamin C when you geta
cold. By the time you have the cold it may
be too late, but then again it may not.” You
may take a vitamin supplement or eat fruits
and vegetables high in vitamin C.

1. Fit for Life also tells us, ““ALL DAIRY
PRODUCTS EXCEPT BUTTER ARE
EXTREMELY ACID FORMING ... The
calcium in cow’s milk is much coarser than
in human milk, and is tied up with casein.
This prevents the calcium from being ab-
sorbable . . . Most milk-drinkers and
cheese-eaters consume pasteurized, ho-
mogenized, or otherwise processed prod- .
ucts. This processing degrades the cal-
cium, making it very difficult to utilize. _

“All-green leafy vegetables contain cal- —
cium. All raw nuts contain calcium. And
Taw sesame seeds contain more calcium
than any other food on earth. Also most. ~
fruit contains ample calcium. If you’re
eating fruits and vegetables daily and some
raw nuts even ocamenslly, you can’t have
a calcium deficiency.”
