Friday, September 9, 1°88. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pop Films

Cinematic Smut?

_ By SCOT MYERS

They.had to call it Dirty Dancing just to
catch your eye. But what you’re presented
with on screen is a whole different story.
Rather than the frustrated sexual gyrations
of just post-pubescent youths that you’d
expect from the misleading title, you get a
sensitive (though simplistic) “coming of
age” story about a girl in the late sixties.

Baby (played by Jennifer Grey) wants to
save the world (through joining the Peace

Corp), yet she can’t even save herself from -

what amounts to little more than a crush on
a summer resort’s dance instructor (played
by Patrick Swayze). A series of melodra-
matic, though titillating events, allows
both Baby (yes, that’s really her name!)
and the viewer to get swept up into this
film.

All Baby wants to do is help; and for the
best reasons. She’s neither naive nor guilt-
ridden. She is genuinely interested in ev-
eryone around her. That Patrick Swayze

becomes the focus of that attention is due to-

his real on-screen need and off-screen bill-
ing. What’s more, through her interaction
with both Swayze and his on-screen dance
partner (played by Cynthia Flashdance,
Staying Alive, “I can’t believe your leg can
go that high!” Rhodes), Grey’s.character

grows beyond just a concemed girl into a

strong, self-sacrificing woman.

The film may seem a bit too shallow for
intellectual filmgoers, but for those inter-
ested in entertainment, this movie’s got it!

Kenny Ortega’s fab choreography serves

only to highlight this “not really a dance
movie” dance movie. And, unlike most
dance vehicle films (see the aforemen-
tioned Cynthia Rhodes movies), Dirty
Dancing actually goes to the trouble to give
us a legitimate story.

Wonderfully and convincingly played
by Jennifer Grey, Baby’s experience be-
comes an experience that we also have
shared. Sometimes sad, sometimes humor-
ous, it’s always genuine. And while
Swayze may be a little plastic in his acting,
the on-screen fire between these two is
palpable. With the addition of good script-
ing on Eleanor Bergstein’s part and stun-
ning camera work on the part of Dirty

‘Dancing director Emile Ardolino,

Vestron’s first major motion picture is just
that: major.

Despite the mewlings of the intelligent-
sia, this is not a film to be missed. A few
moments of pure magic is worth all of the
melodrama a ninety minute movie can dish
out!

CAL_ASKS:

I'M SoRRY SiR, ALL LINES
ARE BUSY, WILL You PLEASE
TRY YouR CALL AGAIN LAT

RUSK, from page 4

free. People hers ‘ionetinns have difficulty under- .
standing them. “You have just about the cutestaccent
I’ve ever heard, but would you mind repeating what
you just said, slowly?!” It's even worse at restaurants
where the waitress hunts for a menu rather than tak-
ing down a verbal order. Then there’s the problem of

stand football!)

the heat, humidity and rain. (Not to mention that
these Rusk scholars don’t like grits and don’t under-

But their most serious stumbling block must be the
local slang and colloquial terminology. “Shag” in the
‘U.S. is simply a dance; in England, it’ s slang for for-
nication. The term “fag” in England refers to a
cigarette, not ahomosexual, “bashes” are just parties,
—. are...hold your breath.. ——-

DEA MAN : Douce

CAL ‘nN SNAKE;S

Arts Bits

SHOWS!

The Charlotte Repertory Theatre presents The
‘Nerd this week (Sept. 6-10) in Hodson Hall. Don’t
miss this brilliant comedy written by Larry Shue,

author of the hit The Foreigner!
Call 333-TKTS (-8587) for ticket
info and show times. Student
special: only $5,00!

What can you do for free these
days? Check out this cheap date
in the 900 Room Friday. West
Side Heat, a rhythm ‘n’ blues/
rock ‘n’ roll band from Chicago
will be performing around
10:00p.m. Don’t forget your D.C.
ID.

” EXHIBITS!
Walk over to the Davidson Art

| ‘Gallery in Chambers between

10a.m. & Sp.m. to view selec-
tions from the permanent collec-
tion of the college. These works
will be‘on display from Sept. 6 -

~ Oct. 6, and the exhibit is free--yet

another suggestion for those with
small budgets! The 2343. piece
show includes works by Rem-
brandt, Miro, Picasso and Roger
Brown. Russ Warren, associate,
professor of art will be the curator

for the September show.

CONTESTS!
Music, music, music! Are you
a song writer? Enter the 9th an-

Davidson

Davidson, Cornelius
and Huntersville.

New! |.

892-4644

nual Music City Song Festival in
any of the five divisions (Ama-
teur Song, Professional Song,
Vocal, Lyric and Lyric Poem).
Except for Lyric Poem, each divi-
sion is further broken down into
six musical categories encom-

_ passing almost all types of popu-

lar music. Over $60,000 in cash
& prizes will be awarded. Dead-
lines are Sept. 30 for Song &
Vocal and Oct. 15 for Lyric and

Lyrical Poetry. Write to MCSF,
P.O. Box 17999-S, Nashville, 'I'N

37217 or call (615) 834-0027 for
more info & an official entry
form. Also, you can write to this
address to requesta free subscrip-
tion to MCSF’s magazine Sound-
Makers.

Playboy is looking for college
students! No, not centerfolds--
fiction writers. Entries-are now
being accepted for Playboy's
1989 College Fiction’ Contest
open to all registered under-
graduate, graduate, & part-time
students. This year’s winners are
featured in the October issue, as
well as a complete list of contest
rules. For more info (if you don’t
plan to buy the magazine), write
to Bill Paige, Playboy Enter-
prises, Inc., College Fiction Con-
test, 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chi-
cago, IL 60611. 8

Location

