Commentaries

Patterson Court must end alcohol policy charade

David Ethridge

After four years of watching Davidson change, I am
finally to the point of writing. an article questioning one
aspect of Davidson life. I would like to begin by clarifying
my personal outlook and feelings concerning the college.
I can not imagine a greater number of positive influences
affecting my life at any other college. The experiences of
the Union, my fraternity, an independent roommate, SGA,
hall counseling, and community service have helped me
gain a fairly extensive perspective. Moreover, Davidson
has clarified what my strengths and weaknesses are and
how I might better myself as a person. I want to return the
favor now by pointing out some problems concerning the
alcohol policy of the Patterson Court Council (PCC) which
Thope will be promptly improved upon. Although much of
Davidson makes me extremely happy, this policy has

bothered me from the beginning and has me fairly i irate at

this point.

To answer your question of why Iam perturbed, I will go
over the facts surrounding an incident in which I was
recently involved at a party. I arrived at a party in my
fraternity house at midnight on Saturday. After some
conversation I went to get a beer. Of course, the monitor
asked for my identification--that is, my Davidson I.D.--and

I began to search through the myriad of notes and cards in
my wallet. The state driver’s license was there but my D.C.
I.D. was not. I was naturally upset because I have never lost
my I.D. in four years, and after a few seconds of thought I
realized I had made a mistake by leaving it in the Housing
office (sorry; Residence Life office). Simple mistake,
right? I thought so and provided the monitor with my state
driver’s license (N.C.), proving I am twenty-two years of
age. Following some hesitation on the monitor’s part, I got
my stamp and my beer.

: The problem is that my admittance to the drinking area
was a violation of a PCC rule. Rule number three reads:
“To enter the designated service area, the individual must
present a Davidson College I.D. card to the designated
entrance monitor for age verification. If the individual is
nota Davidson student, valid identification must be shown,
such as a driver’s license or a passport. This policy applies
to and includes invited guests and entertainers. The
entrance monitor will stamp the individual’s hand with a
distinctive rubber stamp ... . ““ Some individual turned in
the violation, and my fraternity as well as the monitor’s
eating house were formally charged with violations. Now,
all of this really begins to get funny. The monitor was from
a women’s eating house and working in compliance with
an arrangement between the two houses on monitoring

time schedules. Under the rules of the PCC, the monitor is _

solely responsible for people entering the downstairs with
a stamp of approval. Not only is this clear in the rules of

the PCC, but any confusion should have been settled by a
previous case involving the same violation where the PCC
decided only the monitoring party was guilty of a violation
in such an incident and not the fraternity or eating house
hosting the party. Thus, I was baffled by the reasoning
behind charging my fraternity and causing the waste of our
time and efforts.

At the meeting in which our case was considered, I
received a hint as to a possible reason for this seemingly
frivolous action. A fraternity member had been sitting next
to the monitor when I was carded. I said earlier the monitor
hesitated in allowing me passage to the drinking area, and
it was obvious that this was due to an awareness of the PCC
policy. During the moment of suspense, the monitor
looked at the fraternity member who said, “His license says
he’s twenty-two.” This is not exactly a statement of coer-
cion but merely an observation of fact. I know after
speaking with the monitor in the PCC meeting that she had
an idea of the spirit of the PCC rules buthad no recollection
of the letter of the law. Knowing I.am a senior, I believe
the monitor acted in good faith by accepting the state
licenseas verification of age. The monitor understands that
the idea of the PCC and its rules is to divorce the college and
eating houses from responsibility for minors who drink.
She did not see a problem because I am nota minor, and no

See CHARADE, p.11

Push for “professional attainments” hurts teaching

Greta Ratliff

Davidson is a tough school; we all know that. And
nobody knows it more intimately than our professors.
Lucia Kendall contributed an article last week about the
shortage of classes offered at Davidson and suggested that
the only reasonable alternative is to hire more professors.
I agree with her views, though I have been one of the lucky
ones with consistently good numbers for course selection.
I would like to expand upon the topic raised by Lucia last
week and examine the condition of being a Davidson
professor.

The College’s Statement of Purpose records that the
college has chosen “to emphasize the teaching responsibil-
ity of all professors, and to ensure the opportunity for
personal relationships between students and teachers. It is
vital that all students, freshmen as well as upperclassmen,
know and study under mature and scholarly teachers who
are able and eager to provide for each of them stimulus,
instruction, and guidance.”

I see some discrepancy between this and the application
of the current Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures,
which outlines the criteria for faculty evaluation as “(1)
excellence in teaching, (2) demonstration of superior pro-
fessional attainments in research, scholarship, and curricu-
lum design, and (3) exemplification of the intellectual and
moral values for which the college stands.” The elaborated
demands are rigorous; that is why our faculty is generally
so good.

Yet I believe that too much emphasis is put on the formal
scholarly accomplishments of professors which can be
easily listed. Professors sense the growing need to “publish
or perish,” a sentiment that certainly does not belong at
Davidson College. Time is then squeezed from their al-
ready busy schedules, including many college duties be-
sides teaching: advising students, serving on administra-
tive committees, and maintaining a healthy home life,
among others. They devote their out-of-class hours to
publishing books and articles and to private research that
the students rarely hear about.

I question the absolute value of the resultant articles and
even books as beneficial to the overall education of
Davidson students. I have never,been aware of a

professor’s scholarship directly benefiting my education.
The research and the thought have, but the actual published

-. paper often has nothing to do with it. I get much more from °

just talking to professors, to find out what they’re working
on and what interests them. Every once in a while I go up
to the Davidsoniana room to see all the wonderful things
my professors do that I miss out on. The time spent in

preparing an article or a formal paper or a book would be
worth much more to Davidson as a whole if it had more to
do with the students. If we knew about a particular idea or
project, we might even be able to contribute something to
the endeavor. Exchange of ideas goes both ways.

Iam aware that this push for “professional,attainments”
has affected my education in a negative way. More and
more often I feel uncomfortable about coming to see a
professor and sitting down to stay and talk a while--they
seem so busy and distracted. Worse, they too often aren’t
even in their offices so Ican ask them quick questions about
an assignment. Or worst of all, the office door will be open
and the light on, but no professor in sight. I have literally
wasted hours looking and waiting for professors. Time
spent in this way certainly does not contribute to my
education. There’s no way to tell where they are--depart-
mental meeting, committee meeting, in conference with
someone from the college administration, or off some-
where else so they can get some work done.

My professors are busy, and for good reasons; I cannot
blame them for that. Our professors have a lot of demands
on their time, and they can’t do everyhting they would like,
including research and talking to students. Sometimes it
gets to be too much. And they can’t come begging to their
students for an extension on the next lecture, so it turns out
to be justare-hash of an old lecture, or one poorly prepared.
It has happened to almost all of them at one time or another,
and it seems to me, at least, to be happening more and more
often. And that’s a big loss to the college as a whole. After
all, Davidson is for the students. If it weren’t for us, there
would be no college.

The Statement of Purpose also reports the aim of the
college “‘to teach students to think clearly and accurately,
to make relevant .and valid judgments, to discriminate

among values, and tocommunicate freely with others in the
realm of ideas.” This is a truly monumental ambition,

' especially if one imagines trying to accomplish it through

only lecture, reviews, and research papers. The best way
to make people think is to challenge the ideas they really
care about--and this is more easily done outside the class-
room. For example, I could very well wind up in a class I
am really not interested in because of the problems Lucia
Kendall outlined. Although the class material would not
mean a lotto me after the exam was over, I could easily slip
into a conversation with the professor on a subject that has
more relevance to my life. I can learn a lot more about the
things that are important to me in less formal conversations
that I can use once I am in the “real world.” If this professor
is concerned about publishing and other “professional
attainments,” he will most likely not have the time to talk
with me about anything as irrelevant to his current work as

’ archaeology.

I call for a re-evaluation of the values of Davidson
College. Why are we here? I am here to learn, The
Davidson faculty is excellent, and their academic expertise
is outstanding. Along with their classroom abilities, one of
their most important skills is the ability to teach outside of
the classroom. Thatis why Ichose Davidson: the professors
can teach me what! like to learn. The approaching extreme
frightens me: what are we trying to build, an accomplished
but cloistered faculty or a mature, thinking student body?
Why are we developing the school and the campus, for the
students or to look good on brochures?

There is a lot more that I would like to deal with in this
article, but I have a paper to write.

Greta Ratliff is a junior Center major from Richmond,
Indiana.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

+ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.

The editors will also accept work submitted:on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskéttes (and, truth be told, we're partial to
them).

+ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before
the expected publication date.

¢ Allcommentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Monday
before the expected publication date, except for those on disk-

ette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Tuesday.

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

Opinions Policy”

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish their names
printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for Style, °
but for the rules of English grammar only.

* Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter,

* The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to oer
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

¢ All submissions should include the author's address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or
profession).

