Features

Pizza may be the Platonic form of

where’s the best place to buy it?

A review of our three pizza-delivery establishments

By SHANNON O’SHIELDS

Pizza, What a concept. The govern-
ment has 230 regulations on the making
of pizza. But somewhere between the
pepperoni and the extracheese, there is an
ideology, a philosophy, a theory that is
pizza.

Eric Bone (’91) says that pizza is a
“college staple” and that it is “a substitute
for any kind of responsibility.” He also
comments on the social aspect of pizza.
““Youcan share a pizza with your hall, you
can’t share a hamburger.”

Rich Ruotolo, from WDAV, comments
on the technical side of pizza. “It’s good
if it’s crispy. It needs semolina on the
bottom.” (Semolina is a powdery sub-
stance that becomes crispy after it is
cooked.)

An anonymous sophomore says that
“Pizza is the almost perfect food. It needs
really crunchy veggies.”

Assistant professor of religion Trent
Foley says that his favorite part is the
cheese, except when it sticks to the roof of
his mouth and heends up with “stalactites
of cheese.”

Freshman Nusrat Khan, Pakistani
Pizza Nut, reflects that “Before I came to
the USA, I thought it was.a land of ham-
burgers and Mickey Mouse. Now I know
it is a land of pizza and Mickey Mouse.”
- One senior history major was heard to'
’ say, ““Itmakes me fart.” Butperhaps Brett
Bakke (’89) stated the philosophy of
pizza best: “First, Pizza is the Platonic

form of food. Secondly, it is what

Aristotle spoke of in the Nichomach-

edn Ethics as “the Good.”
However you Slice it, pizza is

‘more than just some crust and

cheese. But the most important
thing about the pizza is who makes
it. Those poor students who can’t
drive out to Mooresville to get a

Pizza Hut treat have to settle for the __

pizzadelivery services around town.

This amounts to three establish- .

ments: Pizzas Trek and Connection,
and Peregrine’s. I tried all three.
Each pizza I ordered was a small
pepperoni pizza with extra cheese.
I tested them on flavor of cheese,
amount of cheese, crust, overall
quality, speed of delivery, and “‘in-
tangibles.” The results:

Cheese: Pizza Trek and Pizza

Connection were more generous in
their allotment than Peregrines, but
the Trek’s cheese had much better
flavor. :

Crust: Those who prefer a thicker
crust would probably prefer the
Connection, although I found ita bit
toorubbery. If you prefer thin crusts,
Pizza Trek is the one. For those who
are ambivalent, Peregrine’s will
suffice.

Quality: Pizza is greasy. If you
truly despise eating greasy foods,
you probably won’t eat pizza at all.
The one complaint heard about the

Trek was that its pizza was too
greasy. I don’tthink so. If you
prefer a less greasy pizza,
Peregrine’s is the one for you.

Delivery: Fastest: Pizza
Trek. Slowest: Pizza Connec-

“tion. Most desirous of a tip:

Pizza Connection.
Intangibles: The two-for-

one special at Pizza Trek can’t

be beat for a big crowd. Three

drinks are free with a large.

pizza.”
Most of the people I spoke

food, but

with preferred Pizza Connec-
tion. No one preferred
Peregrine’s (Eric Bone says
their ground beefis like “rabbit
pellets”). The envelope,
please? The reviewer’s per-
sonal favorite is Pizza Trek.

The Mei Duo, consisting of pianist Hao Huang and violinist Rachel Vetter Huang, will play the 900

Room 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Jan. 27.

Workshop theatre off and running in new season

By GRANT MORAIN

The workshop theatre season is upon us
again, and if the first session is any indica-
tion of what is to come, the season will be
a fruitful one indeed. Christopher Durang
wrote both plays, and directors Bill Sutton
and Jim Dillon have brought them to life
successfully.

The Actor’s Nightmare focuses on
George Spelvin, an accountant trapped ona
stage in his underwear. He is forced to
perform without any knowledge of line,
characters or even the name of the play.
Playwright Durang jumps brilliantly from
scene to scene and line to line, and along the
way he invokes such disparate sources as
Waiting for Godot, Hamlet and Murder in
the Cathedral.

Brian Kosanovich plays Spelvin as an
itchy and nervous wimp who slides further
and further into the theatrical melange.

_ Kosanovich, who began his private re-
hearsals two weeks prior to auditions, lacks
the energy and creativity in this role which
he brought to last year’s Brighton Beach
Memoirs. His Spelvin never gets angry or
desperate as he should, but Kosanovich’s
understanding of the lines is indisputable.
This understanding and the actor’s natural
talent (along with a radiant script) makes
the role work.

Another theatrical veteran, Maxine
Curry, shines in her numerous female leads.
She is appropriately over-dramatic when
called for but never loses sight of her ob-
stacles. Cecily Craighill is excellent as
Meg, the stage- sometimes-maid.

She accurately displays the nervous energy —

of acrew member on the night of aperform-

ance.

Keely Schneider and Russ Matthews

submit fine performances in the numerous
roles; Schneider is especially good deliver-
ing Beckett’s lines (Waiting for Godot)
from the garbage can, while Matthews’
executioner is his strongest performance.
Director Bill Sutton uses the small work-
shop stage well, and his cast members work
as a team to create an outstanding produc-
tion.

The second work is Sister Mary Ignatius
Explains It All for You. The play is a scath-
ing and offensive--albeit hilarious--com-
mentary on the Catholic Church. Dillon
creates a classroom in which the Sister
speaks directly to the audience about such
issues as heaven, hell and purgatory (where
you can spend “anywhere from 300 to 700
billion years”), premarital sex, and why
there is suffering in the world.

Sarah Thomas is superb in the title role. .

Her delivery and timing are right on, and
she develops an agreeable rapport with her
“pupils.” She is so believable and funny, in
fact, that she threatens to steal the show.
Fortunately, the rest of the cast is up for the
challenge.

Most notably, Alyssa Kendall is wonder-
ful in her portrayal of the angry and venge-
ful ex-student. Her character’s psychotic
tendencies silence the audience’s laughter
and bring Durang’s lesson home. Though it
would be easy for Kendall to slip into
melodrama, she remains within the
boundaries of her character and comes off
with flying colors.

Peter Testa is the robot-like Thomas,
Sister Mary’s student who is rewarded for

correct answers with cookies (much like the
dolphins at Sea World). The brain-washed
boy is appropriately stilted and naive.
The other ex-students, played by Richard
Sheridan, Erika Augthun and Carey Pick-

_ard, succeed as well. Sheridan avoids the

stereotype in his portrayal of a homosexual
and comes off as comfortable yet unsure in
a well-acted role. Augthun is nonchalant
and strong and most importantly her char-
acter works. Pickard tackles a difficult role
competently and proves comical without

overacting.
Though the script makes the play easy to

perform, Dillon’s group takes advantage of

the opportunity and hits the high notes. The
director brings a talented cast together and
creates a chemistry which extends into the
audience. :

The pair of Durang plays are well-staged
and provide for a truly entertaining eve-
ning. In this reviewer’s estimation, the di-
rectors-- and the casts as well-- all deserve
A’s for an hilarious night of theatre.

Confidential Health
Why so many

Dear Confidential Health,

Ihave had 6 sore throats this year. Each
time I visited the infirmary, I was told that
I had a virus. Two throat cultures were
taken and were negative for Strep. Why
am I getting so many sore throats? Why
can’t I get antibiotics each time I get a

-sore throat?
—P.LN.

Dear P.I.N.,

Sore throats may be caused by viral
agents, postnasal drainage, irritants
(cigarettes, marijuana smoke), and by
bacterial agents, principally Strep. In
scientific studies involving college stu-
dents, the incidence of Streptococcal sore
throat has been found to be no more than
16-20% of all sore throats. In other

sore throats?

words, most sore throats are due to viral
agents and donotrequire antibiotic treat-
ment. Unnecessary antibiotic treatment
should be avoided.

Persons with a sore throat accompa-
nied by fever, enlarged lymph nodes, or
exudate may warrant a throat culture.
This can be done at the infirmary.

When large numbers of people are to-
gether in a fairly compact setting (e.g.
Davidson College), numerous viral
agents tend to be passed around.

It is not unusual in such a setting for
individuals to have several episodes of
viral pharyngitis. Also, postnasal drip
and irritants to postnasal drainage will
sometimes be helped by antihistamine-
decongestants.

--Dr. Steven K. Mange

