Commentaries

The Davidsonian 1 1

Friday, March 11,1988

Southern Conference departure sacrifices other sports

John F. Cutchin

Davidson College has experienced a great degree of
success in its various sports programs, except for football,
during the last few years. Such has been a great joy for
students, alumni and friends of the college. However, that
time of success could very well take a downward swing in
future years, due to lack of a conference affgliation for all
sports.

All other sports at the college have been sacrificed forthe
sake of football. An extremely unwise decision was made
to get out of the Southern Conference for the sake for
football in another conference. I am not necessarily dis-
agreeing with the decision to leave the Southern Confer-
ence, due to the requirements the Southern Conference was
putting on our athletic programs for participation; what I
am disagreeing with is the unwise decision to affiliate the
football program with another conference when the proper
authorities at Davidson did not have conference affiliation
for all other sports at the same time.

I have been patiently waiting for the last four years for
Davidson College to announce a conference affiliation for
all other sports. In talking with friends and alumni of the
college, the first concern is always about the status of
conference affiliation. Any person can realistically see that
Davidson College cannot make it as an independent in all
of these sports while football enjoys the conference affili-
ation with the Colonial League. It is a shame that we are
building an arena for basketball to seat 6,500, when the

_ practical reality is that it very rarely will be even half-filled,

due.to the fact that we are going to be an independent. Do
you think Davidson College can really make it as an
independent? Just ask South Carolina how tough it was for
their basketball program to make it 4s an independent, and
see where they are now. If they could not make it as an
independent with their resources and their facilities, then
how can Davidson?

Basketball is going to be further hurt by the fact that we
have no conference affiliation. Can you imagine how hard
it is to recruit a player, telling him that he will just have the
joy of getting an excellent education, and playing forateam
that is an independent and may never get an NCAA bid, or
does not have an automatic bid to the NCAA if it would win
a conference tournament? To say that we have handi-

capped our coaches in all other sports other than football at
Davidson is to make a severe understatement.

The lack of direction in the athletic department is devas-
tating to the sports program at Davidson College. I am
writing this letter to ask students, alumni and friends of the
college to write the Board of Trustees, the Athletic Board
of Trustees, the Director of Athletics, and the President of
Davidson College to express your concern over the situ-
ation, and your feelings on the matter. I am asking you to
write these letters, regardless of whether or not you agree
with me.

Now is the time to come forward and express your
opinion. Davidson College has too proud a sports heritage
to allow the athletic department at Davidson College to
succumb to the inaction or lack of direction on the part of ~
a few.

In closing, I make a plea to those who are in power at
Davidson College to contact me if I can personally do
anything to help attain conference affiliation. I urge all
students, alumni and friends of the college to do likewise
when expressing their opinion.

John F. Cutchin’72 is an attorney in Charlotte.

Union officers fail to answer criticisms

Matt Mathews

I have followed with interest the problems involving
Union Board selections, first voiced by Erin Lyman and
Martha Myrick, and then answered by the Union’s officers,
Sarah Whitesides, Frank Whitaker and Trina Janiec. What
concerns me is the officers’ justification of their actions
and their failure to answer the primary question.

The officers’ intention was to explain “not only our
actions butalso of the application process in general.” They
then justify their decision from the bylaws of the Union,
which give them the responsibility of selecting committee
chairpersons. I agree that the officers should be expected to
appoint the best chairperson possible. The Union is a great
fixture of Davidson College. To what length do these
officers’ powers extend though?

The officers also failed torespond to the complaint which
prompted Ms. Lyman and Ms. Myrick to call for a re-
examination of the Union election procedures. The point of
Ms. Lyman’s and Ms. Myrick’s complaint was that a
mutual friend, who followed the common procedure and
interviewed fora committee chair opening, was rejected in
favor of a person who did not even sign up for an interview.
Did this person really want to lead this committee, and
simply lost track of the interview sign-up deadline? If this
was the case, the officers should have asked the other
interviewees if it would be alright to interview a late signee.
Usually, the other competitors reply “sure, go ahead.” But
if, as Ms. Lyman and Ms. Myrick say, the officers went

straight to this person and gave him the position, without
even asking the other competitors if they could include him
in the first place,.then this is wrong.

The officers refer to This system as a “fair method of
selection.” If what Ms. Lyman and Ms. Myrick say is true,
then the procedure is far from fair. The officers have every
right to create adynamic student Union, but they cannot go
outside the rules to appoint a person (friend?) who has not
gone through the procedure. At the very least they need the
approval of the other competing students. If the officers do
have the autocratic power to ignore all interviewees for a
position, if they know someone else who they think could
do a better job, then they should tell all the students of this
beforehand.

Finally, a little ethics lesson. Good intentions do not
necessarily justify actions. I am sure that Oliver North
thought he had the best intentions when.he helped relay

money to the contras. Also, a person’s intégrity is not

judged by his or her intentions, but by their judgement.

I apologize if I have come across a bit strong, but I feel
the Union officers did not answer Ms. Lyman’s and Ms.
Myrick’s complaint. They simply hid behind their inten-
tions. Come on officers, what is the story of this
chairperson’s appointment? If someone has been treated
unfairly then perhaps the Union’s rules do need to be
changed. But first the truth has to be heard from both sides.

Senior Matt Mathews is from Richmond, Va.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its

readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
- adhere to the following guidelines:

¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the

campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.

The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to
them), cone

¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish their names
printed with their work.

+ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

« Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

+ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

¢ All submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or
profession).

The Davidsonian

is in search of an advertising manager.

Healthy commission paid.
Call Jeff Loser at -6250.

