12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
John Barrow, News Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
Ray Thornton, Opinions Editor . Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
ys _ » Hap Bryant, Whit bias Sports Editors
‘Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor ‘Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
J Loser, ae ae Manager Lynda Korfman, Production Editor
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

“We haven’t seen
the plans...”

The college is hoping to build three new dormitories before the beginning
of next year. It’s taken the administration a long time to decide exactly what
they’re supposed to look like and where they’re supposed to be. For a while
the dorms were going to be built in the Belk parking lot. Last November it
was finally decided to construct them near the Covington golf facility, but
it was announced that the plans would need some minor revisions before
work could begin.

It’s been more than two months since then, and there are no signs that the.

plans are anywhere nearcompletion. Indeed, the contractors have told us that
they “haven’teven'seen the plans” yet. Since they won’teven be able to begin
clearing and grading the site until three or four weeks after they receive the
finished plans, it’s becoming less and less likely that the new dorms will be
finished by next September. If the contractors received the plans tomorrow,
we couldn’t expect construction to begin until the middle of February.

It’s notinconceivable that the dorms could be completed by the time school
starts next year. After all, Akers dorm was thrown up very rapidly during the
summer of 1984, and-it provided rooms for more than fifty students who
might otherwise have had to live off campus. Unfortunately, its flimsy
construction, lack-of insulation, poor ventilation, and vulnerability to theft
have led many of its residents to complain. Students claim that even the most
delicate sounds pass easily through the cinder-block walls, and the absence
of proper ventilation in the bathrooms has led to the accumulation of mildew
and mold on-the walls. If the new dorms are in fact completed on time, we
must hope that they are not erected as nary and with such little care as was
Akers.

Because: the College is taking so long to bepia building the isis: we
probably won’t know until July or August (at the earliest) whether to expect
them to be finished in time. This uncertainty might soon bring considerable
disruption to the campus and ruin many of the benefits the new dorms were

‘supposed to provide.

Consider the status of the five perimeter houses, bee example. One of the
reasons why the new dorms are needed is because the perimeter houses are
soon to be turned from student residences into office buildings. The college’s
personnel must be told very soon if they are to be expected to move their
offices to the perimeter houses. Time will be needed to make the extensive
renovations necessary to turn the houses into offices.

If college offices were to move into the perimeter houses before the new
dorms were completed, classes might resume in September with both the
dorms and the houses unavailable for student residence. As many as two
hundred students might be forced to seek off-campus housing. Unfortu-
nately, there’s no way the town of Davidson could support such a sudden and
enormous influx of students. The ps would have a housing disaster on
its hands.

Even if the new dorms are finished, the uncertainty surrounding their
eventual completion date could force many students to seek off-campus
housing before leaving school in May. If the dorms were completed on time,
these students would have to choose between living on campus and losing
the deposits on their off-campus rooms. Many students lost their deposits
this way.in 1984, when they didn’ tknow if they had on-campus housing une
the day they returned from summer vacation.

In short, the uncertainty surrounding the new dorms could spark a chain

reaction leading toconfusion, displacement, and misery. It would bea shame |

if all this came to pass simply because the college was too indecisive and
disorganized to get its act together.

Wie.
We

)

Lg

Friday, January 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

LY

In the summer of Drithe
dynamic duo receive an urgent
call from the DL: housing ) ot fice ce.

needs Qnew dorrr
‘by September 416 |

Thats tomorrow Robin! Theres not wuch time!
Call Com missioner Gordon and fell i'm
the Toker will have te wait.—

Bat-Maby'le.’

Mees) epee and lofts
Batman! The Bat Anti-
Housing Shortage Pump
1S Wor King ove

PAS. Cloud ‘T4

No time to lose Boy cree
Theves the Bat Signa
over the Athletic abies

Letters

Property lines

To the Editors:

This is the first time in over twenty-five
years at Davidson College that I have writ-
ten a letter to the editor. Issues rise and fall,
and time takes the edge off most of them.
However, the misrepresentation of the facts
by Professor Ligo in The Davidsonian last
week needs some adjustment.

Professor Ligo stated that I did not give

the town committee plans indicating prop-.

erty lines; quote: “Ligo said that none of the
committee members were aware of the
proximity of the new parking lot to the
property lines of the adjacent homeowners,
and he acknowledges that they should have
requested this information specifically.
But, Ligo adds, Meetze did not offer this
information.” Unquote.
Since I was sure that the material the
architect and I sent to the town for review
did show property lines, I went by the town
hall this morning and found the material in
file #42. Two sheets among the material left
with them clearly nidicate boundaries of

f.259 bed 2 OE Sh

property owners adjacent to the parking lot
at a scale 1"=40'. We did [provide the infor-
mation. ;

\& Gover Meetze
* Director of Facilities Planning -

Sex life

To the Editors,

‘In last week’s “spoof” article my roman-
tic life was described as “spectacularly un-
successful” by Mr. Bill Scouten and those
who hide behind the aegis of “Editorship.”
Iconsider this a personal affront and protest
the use of those terms in reference to my re-
lations with women both here at Davidson
and beyond. Perhaps Mr. Scouten should
check his facts.

In the future, if and when you allude to
my romantic life, I would prefer that you
use the more accurate phrase “insur-
mountably dismal.” Perhaps you would
benefit from the reading of my book, Why
Nice Guys Finish Last.

Come on, get on the ball.

John P. Hutchinson

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson
College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone

, ext. 149. Our spacious offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
on by and see us some time, the door’s always open and we’re sure that the rooms
are all bugged, so we've got nothing to hide. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates, Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

(704) 892-20)
Union—come

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard, Aaron
Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Katherine
Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Muadi
Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Florrie Snively.

Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Holme
Otrogge, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation, Holme

Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.
Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Laura Dodenhoff, Callie Hammond,Tim Jacks, Ingrid

Love, Linda Tatsapaugh.
Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

