Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Monday, December 5, 1988

ESS

A letter on the state of Davidson athletics

Mikio Aoki

In recent weeks I have been reading The Davidsonian’s
editorials concerning the state of the football team -
whether it should be reduced to a Division III program,
upgraded to scholarship level. or be all together scrapped.
I am interested in expanding this discussion to include all
of the athletic programs at Davidson. I sense’that many of
the people here - faculty and students - view the athletic
programs ina less than favorable light and I, as an athlete
and as a student, resent that outlook. I do not wish to deny
that athletics can interfere with the foundation of this
institution, academics; however, I vehemently believe that

sports provide a greater good than they do an evil. And’

furthermore I believe that any problem that they cause are
ones which can be adequately dealt with for the good of all
parties concerned.

One of the primary arguments used against athletics in
the financial burden that is put on the school. I donot know
what kind of a strain the school must shoulder to field the
athletic team that it has so I will not quote facts and figures
on the matter, because quite simply, I don’t have them. In
spite of this shortcoming I can say that all of the athletes at
Davidson - save the basketball team - must pay for their
education unless they prove that they are in need of
financial aid. Icanalso say that the pleasure that is derived
from competing for each athlete cannot be justly weighed
in dollar signs. A counter argument may state that the same
pleasure can be derived from IMAC of Division III. For
some athletes this may be true but for most it is not. The
teams at Davidson play very competitive schedules against
the best athletic programs in the area, and for many this
was part of the allure of the school. Why should the
athletes that feel this way be punished for accepting the
challenge of being a student-athlete at a school which is

competitive on both realms? And for the cynic, yes the
athletes on losing programs do gain pleasure from compet-
ing. One needs to look no further that the editorials in de-
fense of the football program in this paper - they are willing
to defend and fight for their program. These players are
writing and visiting people in order to keep their program
in tact. Dedication like this should be applauded not
harassed. —

problem but so can a variety of other school activities. Do
we eliminate those as well? A school with the Honor Code
that Davidson has provides the flexibility to allow for ex-
tensions or take-home tests. Why don’t we take advantage
of such flexibility and freedom?

I have. heard that accepting athletes into the school
lowers the mean SAT score and general GPA. Such
charges are ludi-

The main argument
condemning sports is the
notion that athletics can
negatively affect aca-
demic work. I agree that
athletics can put addi-
tional stress on the athlete

FOCUS

crous. The average
scores of the fresh-
man basketball play-
ers in 1230. I know
that the baseball
team does not recruit
any prospective un-

but they are pressures than
can be handled. Athletics
by their very nature aid
athletes in the quest to deal
with the strain. In order to
become a good at a given

Football at
Davidson

less it is felt that the
student can perform
the work here. To
make such a sweep-
ing generality is to
succumb to the stere-

sport one must have ac-
quired the discipline to

otype of the “dumb
jock” which is just as

work at it. I’m sure the women’s tennis team’s “Breakfast
Club” can tell you about the discipline it takes to go docon-
ditioning at seven in the moming - as can the baseball
team. The same kind of discipline is needed to allow time
to do two or three term papers in a week. Sports also pro-
vide a healthy outlet for the student to vent the frustrations
of having that many papers in a week. There are other
activities at Davidson that can put additional strain on a
student. members of any theatre production must feel the
crunch between work and the production, the editorial staff
of The Davidsonian must feel the pressure of academics
and printing as issue, and a hall counselor or resident
advisor must experience the strains of studying and the re-
sponsibilities of the dorms. Granted, athletics can create a

A proud parent comments on Davidson

Thomas Furrer

Asa proud parent of a freshman, who lettered in his first
year at Davidson, I feel compelled to comment on the
article “Football” as it appeared in the October 27, 1988
issue of The Davidsonian. | found this article to be poorly
timed, illogical in its conclusions, devoid or ignorant of
pertinent facts, and totally disloyal to its function within
the school community.

The article was obviously timed to coincide with par-
ent’s weekend and was aimed to inflict maximum damage
on the football program by appealing to those parents who
are not directly involved with football. Why else would
such a printing occur when the football team was playing
an “excellent” and highly competitive game on that very
weekend at Lewisburg, PA vs. the Bucknell Bisons? Why
indeed, would the Davidson administration plant a par-
ent’s weekend when the football team was travelling in the
Northeast and when this team represents approximately

&% of the total student body at Davidson. It seems more
than coincidental that both the article’s timing and an
administrative blunder occurred simultaneously. Besides,
a school newspaper should, at the very least, have waited
until the end of the season to make such divisive com-
ments.

The article stresses that Davidson football is not com-
petitive: “Even Division III opponent such as Fordham are
beating us decisively” and , “Completely outmuscled each
week,” are just two examples from this article. It seems
obvious that the unknown author of this article doesn’t
understand football and/or has probably never attended a
Davidson football game this season. As a former football

coach and one who has attended several Davidson football -

games this year, the following can be stated about the
football program: Davidson has a highly competitive and
talented young team which is on the threshold of winning
and dominating the Colonial League.

Davidson is a young team which has played several vet-
eran teams well enough to win but because of its youthful-
ness, made critical errors at critical times and instead

inane as accepting all the other erroneous and unjust labels
in our society: Jews are miserly, Blacks are lazy, or women
are incompetent and weak. I thought that Davidson was
looking for a diverse student body. In order to have one I
think that athletes are necessary just as the musician, the
artist, and the computer person are.

Another complaint often brought up regarding athletics
is the issue of class absences. Athletes are sometimes re-
quired to miss aclass in order to travel or play. This I think
is not the norm but rather the exception. Football players
misses three and a half days of classes this past season. The

See ATHLETICS, page 12

football

found ways to lose.. They were physically a match for
every opponent but now need to learn how to win the close
contests. This, of course, something that they will natu-
rally progress to as they mature over the next few years. I
believe that Coach Gatto and his staff are almost there and
if allowed to continue without the influence of those who
know nothing about the game, will bring glory and prestige
back to Davidson Football.

The article further stresses that in order to be competi-
tive, admission guidelines would need to be bent and that
these athletes would then have problems academically at
Davidson, Again I seriously question the information
gathered by this article, however, both points are indeed
ludicrous. Has the author ever heard of the “Ivy League”?
This is a group of schools which we are committed to play
several games with the future years. These school all have
rigorous recruitment programs designed to search smart
and talented student athletes, many of whom have ended

See PARENT, page 12

Davidson cannot afford to lose its football program

Sanford Trontz

As a parent of one of the our senior football players to
graduate this year, I feel very strongly about expressing my
thoughts pertaining to Davidson’s athletic policy in foot-
ball. In all my four years of association with the Davidson
football program, I have never meta finer groups of young
men than those student athletes affiliated with the football
team. It is a privilege to attend Davidson College, and I
believe it is a privilege also for Davidson to have students
of this excellent caliber.

The seniors graduating this year did their part to main-
tain Davidson’s fine educational and moral traditions and
will be out of service to their communities in the years to
come, just as previous Davidson football players have
been. I firmly believe that this type of student will be
dearly missed if Davidson football is dropped or moved to
a lower classification.

I am speaking for my son when state that he would not

have attended Davidson College if it were not for the
opportunity to play football at this level and get the best
education possible at the same time. Although there were
many trying times in the past four years, my son, David,
returned each year to continue to play, and he gave his best
effort for the love of football, his teammates, and his
college. Although they won only two games in his four
years, there were few games that he thought Davidson did
not have a chance to win.

Jake Wade, football alumnus and Charlotte attorney
stated that these joys are winners and what they have
learned through hard work will make them better people.
I am sure that many will agree that determination and
motivation help to prepare young people for their futures.

I take pride in myself as a former college football player
and am knowledgeable as a spectator in this sport.
Davidson’s move to the Colonial League for football was
probably the smartest decision the athletic committee
could have made. Davidson’s national exposure in the
competition against Colonial League rivals and certain Ivy

League schools in football gives the school the recognition
it could not attain elsewhere. eee

If the trustees’ concern is whether we can compete at this
level, the answer is yes. As anyone with football knowl-
edge can see, this was evidenced this year, and. particu-
larly, in the last three games which Davidson could have
just as easily won. I am sure that we are close to the time
that football victories will be forthcoming. .

I reiterate that the student athlete football player at
Davidson College is a remarkable person. I am sorry my
son will not be there to physically experience and finally
enjoy the victories to come, but I feel great satisfaction in
the knowledge that he kept the tradition going by not
giving up. I do not think Davidson can afford to lose
students of this nature without destroying their fine tradi-

tion,

Ss

Sanford Trontz is the father of David Trontz, a senior
economics major from West Palm Beach, FL.
