Commentaries

QS Sete peas

Religious freedom: What does it really mean?

Margaret Carroll

After spending two and one half weeks in Poland this
past summer I learned to appreciate religious freedom as
we know and experience it in the United States. Among
other rights, United States’ citizens have religious free-
dom.

I went to Poland with four other people from my church
ona mission trip that was organized by achurch in Atlanta.
While in Gizycko, Poland, five hours northeast of Warsaw,
we participated in worship services in a Catholic, an
Evangelical and a Baptist church.

Poland is country of intense contrasts. Ninety-eight
percent of the Poles are baptized into the Catholic faith,
and five percent of the country belong to the communist
party. The tall, modern-looking buildings of Warsaw

contrast with he small cottages of Gizycko; the piles of
coal and garbage left unattended for weeks contrast with
the beautiful flowers in gardens of Gizycko; the depart-
ment stores contrast with the empty, unsanitary markets;
and the appearance of religious toleration contrasts with
the tall cross statue outside of the Catholic Church, a statue
honoring Father Popieluszko, a Polish priest who was
murdered by the secret police in 1984 for his attempts to
renew religious fervor among the Catholics on Poland.

The government of Poland and the Catholic Church are
closely interrelated, and the government removes priests
who have strong and dynamic parishes into tiny villages
that contain only a few hundred inhabitants. In return, the
government replaces the formerly strong parishes with its
clones.

When we went to the Catholic Church, the aisles were
filled with people standing along the walls and all of the
way outside the door. The service was formal. The priest

The big deal about recycling

Jay Barron

“These damn cans!” I happened to overhear someone
say last week in the 900 room. He was referring to the big
blue recycling cans in the Union. “I mean, why the big deal
about recycling NOW??!” he said. YYYeeesssss, (using
your best Ed McMahon voice) it’s time to play
SORT...your TRASH!!, that FABULOUS new activity
that gives glass and plastic bottles, aluminum cans, and
newspapers a second (at least) chance at leading a healthy,
productive life...AND lessens the environmental impact of
all these apparently harmless objects (otherwise known as
“the big deal’). ~

Recycling has opened to mixed reviews on campus this
fall, but advocates of the process are optimistic that it will
enjoy an extended engagement at Davidson. The recycling
committee, revived last year under the expert and ex-
tremely devoted tutelage of Davids Martin and Grant, Tom
Jennings, Ruth Pittard and an unruly mob of anxious
students, has been meeting faithfully every week (this year
on alternate Wednesdays and Thursdays) to report on the
progress of recycling and to decipher student/faculty/staff
reaction.

The committee currently oversees the collection of
recyclables ( #1) from the Union and a few dorms. They
have a shed where sorting and loading is done, and there is
a dedicated, albeit TINY, band of drivers that takes mate-
rials to recycling depots in Charlotte, Statesville, and

asked us not to say what denomination church we belonged
to and placed us at the very front of the church, far from the
congregation. Outside of the Catholic Church stands the
monument to Father Popieluszko, and everyone who
walks by the tall cross kneels and kisses it.

In contrast, the tiny Baptist Church which sits directly
across the street from a military installation, contained a
small crowd. I looked out into the congregation and saw an
elderly woman, her head draped in a dark-colored scarf,
whose eyes filled with tears as the entire congregation sang
with us in Polish as we sang inEnglish. I could not believe
the enthusiasm and love that lives in that church.

_ I was also amazed at the strong religious fervor among
the youth of Poland. One of our translators, Marius, who
had been found and questioned by the secret police after
translating on the same mission project last summer, told

See RELIGION, page 16

Huntersville. They also have a lot of work to do, because
even though the process is, on paper, as smooth as the
proverbial (and recycled) glass, it takes a lot of time in
reality.

This intrepid reporter recently infiltrated the volunteers
to join them in transporting “the stuff”, as it often called.
Our rendezvous was the legendary “shed” at 7 am on an
oh-so-chilly October morning. Five men spent about 1/2
hour separating bags of bottles from bags o’cans, cans
from glass, glass from plastic, green glass from white
glass, very glass from very glass, etc. Then we weighed it,
loaded it all into pickup trucks, and got lost. Then we
found the place and dumped all the bottles arid cans into

See RECYCLING, page 16

Junior Year Abroad: Don't miss this unique experience!

Kris Rengel

As one of Davidson’s JY Aers (Junior Year Abroad), I
naturally am not in tune with the problems and issues that
are taking place in and around Davidson. I am aware
though of a growimg problem that could greatly affect the
future of some fine Davidson programs.

The problem is an apparent lack of interest -in
Davidson’s two Junior Year Abroad programs in Montpe-
lier, France and Wiirzburg, West Germany. This year
there are only six students participating in each program.
Last year there were sixteen students in Wiirzburg alone.

I too am very concerned about the fate of a very fine
Davidson tradition. There are a number of reasons that
may be causing this decline in numbers. The first may be
financial. The tuition for JYA is actually less expensive
than remaining at Davidson. Of course, traveling costs
more, but as a student in Europe, one can take advantage

of numerous discounts. Students tend tobe more respected ~

in Europe than in the States. Another advantage of
participating in the Davidson programs is that practically
all financial aid - scholarship, grants, and loans - applies to
the tuition in Germany. Another financial factor may be
the poor state of the dollar. There is nota whole lot thatcan
be done about that. You could wait until the dollar
becomes stable, but perhaps by that time you will be
married and have three children. Personally , though, the
state of the dollar has not posed any hindrances.

Another issue usually raise by parents desperate not to

let their child go is safety and the threat of terrorism. I
suppose the possibility is there, but a student in a German
(or French) university is rarely if ever put in any dangerous
Situation. It probably is more dangerous here than in
America. Of course, as in America, if you are hazardous
or look for trouble, you are bound to find it.

A major factor in the decline in numbers may be the
switch to semesters. Now Davidson students can take
advantage of so many semester abroad programs. Maybe
it its possible for a person to become fluent in a foreign
language in only one semester, but the beauty of the SYA
programs is that you have enough time to learn more than
just the language. You have more time to get to know the
R people and the culture. In Germany, the participants spend

the first month living with German families. That makes
possible the chance not only to learn practical German
from native speakers, but also to learn how a German
family works. Another advantage of spending a.year in
Europe is the break in between semesters. In Wurzburg we
have all of March and April free, providing a great time to
travel.

Then of course there are the emotional concerns that
hold people back from going JY A. As for the family, you
probably won’t live with your parents for the rest of your
life. Thanksgiving and Christmas will be tough for both
parties, but your parents were twenty once too and had to
do their own things.

Then (gulp!) comes that other emotional problem - rela-
tionships. That has to be looked at objectively, an almost
impossible task. You have to think, “If I don’t go JY A and
the relationship doesn’t last, will I regret not going?” On
the other hand, if the relationship is strong enough nothing
should break it, not even a ten month separation.

As for friends, it really is tough being separated from

them. But you have to have faiththat the friendships are
strong enough to withstand distance and time; only the
ones worth keeping:do. But right now you have to be
selfish. This is the one time in your life when you have the
fewestresponsibilities. As Dr. Stott once remarked, “How
many times will you be twenty and in Europe?”

- I suppose this is especially directed to the sophomores
and freshmen. I hope you realize the opportunity that you
have. Davidson isa very difficult place to leave. (After all,
where else can you play flickerball?!) Butas Jimmy Lewis
told me (as I was in the throes of indecision), “Davidson

,. isn’t going anywhere. It will still be here when you get

back.”

Think about it. Ask the returning JY Aers. Talk to the
Study Abroad office and the german professors. The op-
portunity is there. Seize it, because it truly is once ina
lifetime.

Kris Rengel is a junior history major from Winter Park,
Fla:

A personal open letter to Davidson

Bryan Kirtley

Well, winter is well-nigh upon us here at this, the
twentieth ranked small liberal arts school in the nation. Is
it my imagination, or are we falling every year? Davidson
is now amere three places of Washington and Lee. Now,
I have nothing against Washington and Lee, but I know
some people who go there and they really aren’t very
bright. Call it snobbishness if you must, but I’ve really
always thought of myself as attending a much better school
than these people do. Oh well, pride’s supposed to be asin,
so I wouldn’t want any of it anyway.

“ All ofthat being pretty much irrelevant, I'll go on. (“Oh,
please do, Bryan, tell us more.”) Hmmm, self-directed
sarcasm and I haven’t even made my point yet. I guess now

is as good a time as any to mention that the motivation for
this article is the fact that winter at Davidson is an anesthe-

tizing experience. During the winter months a general

gloom descends (ascends?) onto and about this well mani-
cured campus, and people become increasingly uptight.
Maybe the cold weather makes us subconsciously wish
that we went to Williams or Amherst. Then notonly would
we be studying at a top-rated institution, but we could be
cold all the time and have Mike Dukakis as our governor
to boot. :

Why is Davidson so boring in the winter? Why do folks
worry about things which wouldn’t bother them in the:
spring? Maybe it’s a universal kind of thing. Maybe it just
takes too much energy to have fun when you're cold. Or
maybe I’m wrong. Maybe everyone here thoroughly
enjoys the winter and I’ve just never noticed. Why yes,
that’s probably it. Maybe Dan Quayle would make a fine
President. And maybe no one at this school is uptight about
his grades. My apologies to the Humanities staff and
whomever else I may offend by not saying “his or her,” but

See LETTER, page 16

