Dawn

Walking naked through the wildly-greening fields
Wielding ripe peyote wings, a young chief kneels,
Pondering a morning trip to paradise:

Fire flowers burst into bloom behind dark eyes.

Whirling, worldly knowledge giving way to dream

Sanctuaries brightly-lit in candle gleam;
Aching fragments long to kiss the greater soul:

Basking in that permanence (which reason stole).

Wake up, little one...
Your dawn has come.

Taylor Mayo ‘89

Our Kind

carrion in the halls of the educational institution
carrion on fire in the educational institution

fire at the educational institute
fire ringing in the yuletide again

carillons of burning carrion

seething carrion licks the last oxygen
until it dies dies dies in fire-lice

the lucked have escaped
but the guilty have too too too
several

BH aay wernt

Just say no

the lake campus is blazing among the boats

trucks from the Port City VFD lean the dead general’s
ladders up to the burning crown of lake lobollies
hook & ladders riding onto the burming mar!
helmets saluted behind sheets of red and yellow
a column of cloud rising off the lake campus
while back in the halls of the educational institute with its alumni files

jingle bells and joy to the world, the last time a new order will arise
but only beetles in their burning shells sparkle in the halls
as the host assembles under bells in smell

T.C. Guano
Poet Caudate

Rachel Nation

INside Art

Our Escapades

Smooth rhythms, smooth contour
between that squirrel and the brown limb
runs like water

in and out, light and dark,

a rope which loops life in our rain forest.
Cardinals tip the space-holding tree with red
in the advent season.

Evenings are haunted by the ermine moths.

The operators of the bulldozers are wearing blindfolds.
We untie and peer closely. Even blinder are the eyes
beneath, blind driving plus blindfold!

Others say crosseyed, others cockeyed, others pie-eyed.
May we present this year’s Bambi Award?

Hey, Halloween’s over. Isn’t there a leash

law against pitbulldozers?

Just say confidence is a grove of space-holding trees.
Aeolus puffs and tiny escapees sail away beneath
golden parachutes.

Just say confidence was a grove of space-holding
trees.

hey Johnny why don’t you

come out for me, lets

go see what the rocks look like in
the shadows, i’ll show you the
shiny black stones.

come

on Johnny you know

you know the paths, the

rusted squeal the screen door
made as it closed, its panels
checkered patterns interwoven like
the shaping of a lie.

through the wing door

gate, the rough ground padded
bare feet. smooth worn earth
broken ahead by the wheat field
shifting with the wind (the coils
of the snake the man told us) the
burned pews of the older church
we crawled into through shards of
a brittle glass lining the blank

T.C. Guano
Poet Caudate

windows

i wanted to climb up to see

the half twilight moon reflected in

the shiny surface of the church bell

but you took my hand in yours and

led me away from the tarnished bellpull.
away through the near darkness from the
i was sure you would bear me up but not
the weight of your memories

The Dead of Winter

“Sorrow and snow fall white, the same on a winter’s night,”
he had been trying to set that poem to music for over an hour
now, trying to make the piano sound like falling snow, but his
fingers kept returning to an older song, a song from a year ago.

In the window over his right shoulder when he turned he
could see the snow falling sideways, the wind in the snow, the
impression of forms, twisting, moving, dancing, in the first
snowball of the new year, and he alone, looking at the key-
board, the blacks and whites, the scales and arbitrary patterns
and the sounds which justified themselves, filling up empti-
ness. Music is sound in time. Filling up emptiness and time,
trying to compose in the empty college choir room, but he had
finger memory and not note memory, he played best with his
eyes closed, and his fingers kept returning to the older song of
a year ago, and he letitcome, asong less like sorrow and falling
snow and more like the wind in the snow.

He leaned into the piece and felt arms encircling him
suddenly from behind, kept right on playing as he felt her warm
breast pressed tightly against his back. He didn’t even have to

“Yes. And I did it just for you, Dorma,” he said. “Do you re-
member the first time I played for you? You cried that night.”

“Yeah, I did,” she said, “but not for you Wesley-boy.”

“Are you sure?” he said. She hugged him tighter as he sounded
the last chords of the piece. The silver field shone through the
window. It had stopped snowing.

“Want to walk in the snow?” he said.

Away from the Fine Arts building, out under the snow-hung
trees, they stopped, in the pale light of sparse lamps. She put her
arm in his. 7

“I remember our first walk,” he said. Late summer a year ago,
she had grabbed his hand like a bolt of sunlight and led him
skittering through the few early autumn leaves.

“You're just like sunshine, Dorma,” he had said to her in the
dappling shadows of branches, just like one of these trees,
reaching for the sunshine.”

“Yeah,” she said, “I’m just like a tree, just like one of those
syrup trees,” with laughing eyes, “You have to stick this thing in
‘em to get the sweet stuff to come out!” she said, squeezing his
hand.

turn to know who it was. He smelled her hairas she pressed her __““You have to stick this thing in ‘em to get the sweet stuff to

warm cheek against his cold ear.
“Girl,” he said leaning back in her arms, still playing.

come out!” He had repeated her. laughing out loud. And he felt
he had just the thing, too. He could safely say he’s never met a

“Boy,” she said caressing that word with her mouth as she girl like this.

always had.
“How did you know I was here?”

“Oh, [heard you playing, and I knew it was thatboy.” Happy

just to be that word in her mouth.

“Look at all these trees,” he said, tilting his head toward hers

and pointing with his arm, “all in lace and white.”

“Yeah, like wedding dresses,” she said.
“They're courting the spring, I guess,” he said, thinking of the

“Do you recognize it?” playing softer now,” I wrote. it during long winter ahead, and last year’s long winter past. The winter

the last snowfall. I mean, do you think its.pretty?

after they had parted. Promise me two things, his mother had said.

“Oh yes,” she said, “It sounds much better. Oh and you Pileaseif you are a homosexual, don’t ever come outof the closet,

learned to play on the black keys, too.”

I don’t want to know, and the other thing is please don’t marry a
