2:

News Shorts

Let’s talk trash

The Biology Society will be sponsoring a recycling drive during Environmental
Week, April 4 to April 11. The Society would like to encourage the entire campus

‘to participate in the drive. Members of the college community should save recyclable

materials (aluminum cans, glass bottles, plastic soft drink bottles, and newspapers)
all during the week; on April 11 they will be able to bring their trash to the Union patio
for collection.

Recycling has been an issue of national importance since before the second world
war, but following the war American prosperity led to an extremely wasteful attitude.
Since those times, recycling has been seen as somewhat unnecessary. As a result of
this attitude, Mecklenberg county is now experiencing a trash-disposal crisis. Within
five years there will be no more room in the county’s landfills.

The county has established a goal of recycling thirty percent of its annual waste,
and it is well on its way toward achieving this goal as the result of a county-wide
recycling program. Davidson does not participate in the program, but there are people
in Davidson working to convince others of the need for involvement.

Besides the reduction of trash flow into landfills, other advantages of recycling
include significant energy savings. For example, recycling aluminum saves 95% of
the energy needed to produce metal from virgin ore, while recycling plastic soft drink
bottles saves 97% of the energy used to produce them. Recycling one ton of paper
can save the lives of seventeen trees.

Anyone interested in assisting Davidson’s growing recycling program should
attend the meetings of the Union Recycling Committee on Wednesdays at 12 o’clock
in the 900 Room.

Y-Student Service Corps Coordinators

Davidson Elementary Tutoring: Christy Cook (-6670)

North Meck YMCA: Dan Harris (-7548) and Steve Nuckolls (-6518)

Senior Citizens Program: Reid Chisholm (-6361) and Ameesha Pandya
CROP: Arindam Bhattacharjee (-6462) and Nusrat Ali Khan (-6085)

Current World Issues: Bill Whitfield (-7554)

Davidson Day Care Center: Patricia Fisher (-6178) and Jenny Ingram (-3951)
Big Brothers / Big Sisters: Heather Fitzpatrick (-6269) and Tad Little (-6408)
Florence Crittendon Home: Alice Shuffield (-6169)

Adult Literacy: Reid Chisholm (-6361)

Habitat for Humanity: Tindal Davis (-6734)

Cornelius Elementary Tutoring: Reed Herrero (-6503)

Students interested in working on these programs should call the program coordina-
tors.

Black Student Coalition

plans fundraising dinner

The Black Student Coalition will sponsor Family Night--a dinner Tuesday, March
29 at the Black Student Coalition House to raise funds for the April 9 Afro-American

cream and lemonade. It begins at 5:30 p.m. and will include entertainment by
Kevin Harris, of the Charlotte Contemporary Ensemble, and Davidson College
students. Tickets are $4 adults; $3.50 students; $12 fora family of four; and $2 for
children under 13. Reservation forms are available at the College Union.

Students receive Kulbright Scholarship,
Watson Fellowships; Smithsonian Fellowship

Four Davidson seniors are the recent recipients of prestigious national awards
to study abroad. Jon Boles, of Tampa, Fla., and newly installed General Secreatary
of The Davidsonian, received a Fulbright scholarship. The international relations
major will conduct research on terrorism at the University of Cologne in West
Germany.

Gaulden Reed Herrero of Daytona Beach, Fla. was awarded a Watson Fellow-
ship. The Spanish major will study models of Spanish conquest in Latin America
and Spain. David Ethridge of Newton, N.C., also received a Watson Fellowship.
The economics major will study drought problems in Indonesia, India and Sudan.

Charles Tambiah, a center major from Sri Lanka, has won a Smithsonian
fellowship in Wildlife Conservation and Management in Developing Countries,

Peace Walk for Central America

to begin in Charlotte

The Carolina Interfaith Task Force on Central America will sponsor one of six
pilgrimages to Raleigh Sunday, March 27. The first portion of the walk will begin
at UNCC’s studentparking lot off Mallard Creek road at 1 p.m. and will endinCon-
cord. Interested volunteers should contact Kathy Sparrow at 399-2480.

Minister to Lecture March 29 and 30

Reverend Will Campbell, a Southern Baptist minister, will be the guest lecturer
for the Davidson College Chapel Committee’s Spring Lecture Series March 29 and
30. The minister is also an author and civil rights activist. The lecture begins each
evening at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

Brenda Tapia Ordained as Minister

Acting Chaplain Brenda Tapia was ordained a Presbyterian minister in an
afternoon service at Davidson Presbyterian Church on Sunday March 20. The
Reverend Isaiah Phinnisee, Moderator of Catawba Presbytery, ordained Tapia.
Pastor of DPC Mark Lemax, former Chaplain Charlie Summers and President John
Kuykendall particpated in the service. Tapia is a graduate of Howard University
in Washington, D.C. and Johnson C. Smith Seminary at the Interdenominational
Theological Center of Atlanta, Georgia. She is a native of Davidson. Tapia
remarked on the service: “I was pleased by the diversity of the group that attended
the service-- it was a rainbow of people-- the College and the community came

Friday, March 25, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Festival. The menu consists of fried chicken, potato salad, green beans, rolls, ice

pp a OU i MEE

together.”

Patterson Court houses to adopt international students

BY TRIPP HELMS
The number of international students at
Davidson College has doubled in the past
three years, but the number of international

students that join a Patterson Court house

has remained six or less each year.

For the other 32 international students,
this means separation from the'social sys-
tem the includes 70 percent of the student
body.

Sophomore International Committee
chair Ismat Husain presented two proposals
approved unanimously by the Patterson
Court Council at their March 8 meeting
which he hopes will “create a bridge” be-
tween the international students and Patter-.
son Court.

Husain, representing the Dean Rusk
Program, the Dean of Students Office, and
the International Coiiimittee, proposed that
1) each Patterson Court House “adopt” two
international students, and 2) each house
provide a big brother or big sister for the
adopted students.

The foreign students will be social and
not eating members of the houses. Husain
asked that the houses keep financial expec-
tations low for the international students,
and each house agreed to waive social fees.

The International Advisory Board,
which selects roommates for international
students, will assign participating students

to houses when they arrive at Davidson.
Each adopted student will choose whether
tocontinue as a social member of the house
during Self-Selection.

Husain hopes that through international
Student interaction on a house level as
adopted students and on an individual level

as little brothers and little sisters, some of -

the “apprehension” between “American
students and the international students will
be dissolved.

Homesickness, culture differences, and
language barriers encountered by interna-
tionals when they come to Davidson often
make it difficult to visit the court during the
first part of the year when most of the Self-

Selection process is taking place, Husain

Says, so the court is relatively inaccessible |

to them.

The purpose of the proposals, according _

to Husain, is to increase international
awareness On campus and to “make the
lives of the international students more
comfortable” by integrating them into
‘campus life.

Parties at Davidson are very different
from the social activities in the home coun-
tries of most internationals, Husain says,
because of the emphasis on drinking and
this difference “holds some intemational
students back” from going to Patterson
Court. ~

Other International Committee activities .
include:

The First Annual International Ball will
be held on April.16 at 10:00 p.m. in the 900
room during Spring Frotics Weekend. DJis
Phi Delta Theta senior Jack McCollum.
International breakfast at 2:00 AM after the
ball. It will be open to everyone.

The Second Annual United Nations Cafe
is on March 28 behind Vail Commons.
Hawaiin dancers, the Davidson Dance
Troupe and others will perform.

Around the World in an Evening shed-
uled soon. Students who have been to
Russia and Eastern Europe, Indonesia,
Africa, and a Japanese student will speak.

Car windows smashed in thefts over break

By MUADI MUKENGE

Car break-ins, reckless driving and use of false IDs have been a
problem at Davidson College in the past month.

Three hatchbacks parked at the Copeland House parking lot had
their back windows smashed during spring break. Two Davidson
juveniles have been implicated in the case and are waiting for trial
at juvenile court. A third adult was also implicated on a felony
charge. The police have yet to issue a warrant for his arrest.

The damages were discovered the same day on which they
occured. Davidson College police covered the windows with plastic

to prevent rain from getting in the cars.

According to Chief Jackie Hughes, director of Public Safety at
Davidson College, breakins are not common: “This is the first time

Ce.

it’s happened.”

been recovered.

Taken from the cars were a 19-inch color television, two
portable radios, two sets of speakers and a small stove. All have

The cars belonged to students Tom Allen, ’90; Kimberly
Crabtree, ’89; and Robert Austell, °90. Prior to spring break, on
February 23, the car of George White, '89, was damaged while
parked at Copeland House: A computer which has not been
recovered was taken.

The juveniles were caught as they were attempting to run from

pepe geese ee

See THEFTS, next page

ee eeeeeeSSSSeSSeSsSsS
