Commentaries

Davidson's trustees need to divest in South Africa

Julie Mayfield

The Saturday of Homecoming while most students
were getting ready for the game and alumni were attending
Treceptions, a relatively small group of students, alumni,
and area residents gathered behind the Commons to voice
our solidarity with the black citizens of South Africa who
long to be free from the oppresive system of apartheid. We
also voiced our ongoing demands for the Davidson Trus-
tees to divest our money from companies doing businessi in
South Africa.

- It was a moving gathering. We heard disturbing, first
hand stories of the realities of apartheid - the night several
dozen people were mowed down in Lesotho by South
African police. They were killed because they were
working to free their people. I spent this past summer in
Lesotho and was made keenly aware of this unjust system.
I worked with a South African man my age who came to
live in Lesotho at the age of six because both of his parents
were killed by the South African Security Forces. His
father used to work for the police but quit because he was

forced to be brutal to his own people. He was murdered.

because he was tired of being an agent of repression.

There was also the German girl I met who shared with
me an experience she had while staying in South Africa.
She met a black man who offered to show her Pretoria and
the surrounding ghettos. On his way home from walking
her back to her hotel, he was badly beaten (consequently
hospitalized) by some white men who had seen the two
together. He was brutalized because he had crossed the
color barrier in a gesture of kindness.

These stories are commonplace in not only South
Africa, but Southern Africa as aregion. South Africa is a
powerful country which has all of the surrounding coun-
tries at its mercy. Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia, Angola,
Mozambique are all autonomous countries but are so
economically dependent on South Africa that sometimes
that automony is in name only.

South Africa imposes itself in other ways on the sur-
rounding countries.
supporting rebel movements in Angola and Mozambique
which serve to destabilize those countries, thus keeping
them ¢ even more dependent on the e glans ys abhor. The

892-9873

iy a Deliteful
Lunch at

FAMOUS FROZEN YOGURT

titre

ye ~ ‘ : van * we
1 a =e

:. of Vegetable Pocket Sandwich (served witht oaths trench ,tanch or

. g honey. mustard dressing)

si #Savory Shrimp Salad, Tasty Tuna Salad, a Egg Salad, or
B ~ King Neptune Salad (one of these offered daily)
: e Fresh Fruit Bowl or Fruit Platter on.a French Pastry

prove habit forming

_ Warmmm!

countries of southern Africa are extremely poor (with the
exception of South Africa itself). South Africa encourages
the continuation of this poverty, because keeping these
other countries poor and unstable makes South Africa
more powerful.

You may ask then, if this web of dependence is a fact,
won’tdivestment only make the situation much worse than
itis? Won’t these other countries feel the repercussions of
the withdrawl of billions of dollars? The answer is a
resounding yes. Does this mean divestment is not the
answer? The answer here is a resounding no. There are
many arguments on both sides of the issue, but the bottom
line is that the far reaching power of South Africa must be

_curbed. Equally as important, the brutality that the govern-

ment exerts over the vast majority of its citizens needs to
be stopped. ;

So, again, why divestment? Because divestment is the
solution for which many of the black leaders in South
Africa have called. Steve Biko, Nelson Mandela, and
Bishop Tutu have all asserted that divestment is the way to
isolate South Africa so itmust make changes. Whoare we,
living as far away as we do and being as ignorant as we are,
to challenge the judgement of those respected leaders who

‘lived or still live with the system every day? South Africa

must be isolated, it must see that the world will not tolerate
its policies. The world, however, must be ready to protect
and help the other nations in southern Africa so that they do
not totally collapse.

Divestment is a way to achieve this isolation - it is the
way-many people have chosen to employ. Davidson’s
money (several million):may make little difference in the
global picture, but this institution, which professes to
uphold Christian values, must make the statement that it
will no longer support the cruel, unjust, inhuman, and
certainly un-Christian regime that rules South Africa. But
even beyond the Christian reasoning, we. as students,
faculty, alumni, staff, and trustees have a responsibility as
human beings to help our fellow human who is suffering
under a system that none of us would call just-or would
stand to live under ourselves.

We can help. We can take a firm stand for freedom and
justice by following the advice of those who know the
situation first hand and by following the lead of many other
colleges and universities (e.g. Duke, UNC Chapel Hill).
They would say “Davidson Out of South Africa!” Isn’t it
time we did too?

Julie Mayfield is a senior Religion major from Atlanta,GA

For many years now it has been .

readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them). :
¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m, Sunday.

+ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

Opinions Policy

~but for the rules of English grammar only.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly jibe chit: .

editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their names
printed with their work.
¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors

reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which

contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-

rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

e All-submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or
profession).

NORMAN CROSSING SHOPPING CENTER
I-77 & HWY 73, EXIT 28
LAKE NORMAN/CORNELIUS

LUNCH SERVED D MONDAY-FRIDAY, } tam-2pm

@ Warning: te coe manu items ore made. wih fh ingredients ond may
Try our Home-made soup

(WISC) to recommend

directed by WIS

by senior-level

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER

OXFORD, ENGLAND

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington Intemational Studies Center
Junior status is required, and graduate study is available.
U.S. college in Oxford. jp por ommpeisabairs hy the U.S. Dept.of Education to

accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social
caylee ane ompeted outs cine sears sens apiece Ya RE A.specinl sumuner.egssion. is

government officials,
baliegsamnnents wit 8:2) GPA one ee ee:

For further uyormation, Bees ont write or call;

STUDY IN

Academic

tudy for one part asl sthadt i or ‘Lower
tudents are directly enrolled in their
is NOT a program conducted by a

ied students to study

INTERN IN

WASHING TON: D. c:

ae : _Preprofessional Pro Program
eee ete oral ad can tak aa, Baeciecnt and Youmalisin Courses ae taught

oink nate
ee eer All

ys

usetts Ave., Lani ara Suite 230°

Washington. D.C. 20002 83) 547-3275

EO/ AA

