Friday, September 9, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

pee James Swisher a new father
Talis Michael Friemanis-Swisher was born on September 1 to Rita Prelinhte:

‘PM: COTE alae Wik

Davidson College professor Felix Carroll has received a grant for research that may
lead to the development of a product that tells you when you’ve had too much sun.

Carroll, professor. of chemistry, will work with three students for two years to
develop the fundamentals for an inexpensive, nontoxic actinometer to measure the
cumulative dosage of ultraviolet light. .

The two years of research is being funded with a $43,999 grant from the Department
of Health and Human Services and the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskel-
etal and Skin Diseases.

“If our experimentation develops the basic principles, then it will be a question of
economics, manufacturing feasibility and human psychology as to whether someone
develops .it as a confinercial product,” said Carroll. ;

College entrepreneur contest

1Can’t Believe It’s Yogurt Frozen Yogurt Stores is sponsoring acontest with a grand
prize of $10,000 for all would-be college sy gray Students must submit their

Swisher and Professor James Swisher. “Talis” has blond hair and blue eyes, andatbinh Rp
he weighed 7 pounds and 15 ounces and was 20 1/4 inches long. He was born at 4:43" ;

Chemistry Department does sun bathing research 2

poy dae. — aac research projects

pet a

" Davidson College Paina! Loar 0 sa gen
prevame te popes diate Z A

year.
The Canile ntl Hey Drevin Panis ests be uses ca AE for t

difficulty of attracting new Ph. D. chemists to liberal arts colleges like Davidson,

now choose to teach at large research universities, sl ag ciety scat
The grant will allow Davidson Lager told cred D. ipien

Professor of Chemistry Felix Carroll. ae
In addition to paying the fellow’ s salary, ie gant wil ‘
$5,000 supplementary grant from the Dreyfus Fou ‘be.

mica

oe

Davidson as well as the commu-
nity service area. He or she will
also program campus-wide reli-

CHAPLAIN, from page 1

but instead of eating at the Patter-

SGA elections Wednesday!

gious events and recognize vari-

son Court houses Dean Terry

hopes to have a dinner at the Vail
Commons open to a wider range
of students who will be able to
meet, talk with, and question the
candidate. ,
According to Dean Terry the
chaplain of Davidson needs to be
one who is “dynamic” and who
“can make his or her presence
known” on the Davidson campus.
The chaplain should take an ac-
tive role in the social scene at

ous approaches to personal prob- °

lems.

Dean Terry is convinced that
“the right person will come
along.” Until then, Tapia will
remain in her role.as acting chap-
lain by not only continuing events
carried over from years past but
also by planning new events and
projects and by discovering ways
in which the chaplain can better

serve the College community.

An Experiment in Community
With the new semester comes an opportunity for the cam-
pus community to come together for forums, worship, concerts,
coffee and cokes, speakers, etc. These events will take place during

Vote early and often!
[is (C06 IDS
— VSS store

emma “P°cialty store featuring:
For Women For Men _
@ separates e dress shirts
e dresses esilk neckwear
e suits e casual shirts
@ Sweaters ’ @casual trousers
e jewelry e activewear
e lingerie e sweaters
e fragrance e socks .

_ e@hosiery :

Davidson 892-8156 Mon.-Sat. 10-5

the free hour on Tuesday and Thursday of each week.
The Schedule of events planned thus far is:

Worship, The Reverend Brenda. Tapia:
Vacation Theology: Help for the Over
burdened.

uesday, Sept. 6

hursday, Sept.8 Open Senate Meeting
Tuesday, Sept. 13 Worship, Dr. David Kaylor

Thursday, Sept. 15 Dr. Tom Kazee -- "Is this Any Way to
Run a Country?: Reflections on Life
in Washington, D.C."

All events convene in the Gallery,
First floor Chambers Bldg.

Can We Help?
-relationships
“cross cultural counsel-

-study skills
-time management

ing

-stress management
-sexuality
-family issues

-weight control
-career counseling
-alcohol & drug abuse

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451

Amelia Dockery, PhD.  }
Tom Plott, Ph.D. ;
Viginia Sykes, M.Ed.

Campbell Peery, M.A.
David Staton, Ph.D.
DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

ee Christine Davidson, Secretary

FLURRIES SIGHTED IN DAVIDSON

Norman Crossing Shopping ‘Center:
I-77 & Hwy 73, Exit 28
~ Lake Norman / Cornelius
892-9873 *
Lunch Served Monday through Friday
: 11:00 a.m: t0'2;00 pm:

MA ALLL LLL AE EY ROWE OF OO RRR m4 ~

-- +e er eevee Pe mr ee ae et eee ea EH BOT BED emery
