14

Friday, January 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

After the summit; winners, losers, and candidates

Theodore Bowling

The Roosevelt Center for American Policy Studies asked
each 1988 presidential candidate the following question:
To what single issue or family of issues would your
presidency give the highest priority? The responses
shocked me! “No issue is more important than nuclear
arms control.” “The arms race is most pressing.”

‘Where are these candidates from? I only wish I could
give them a tour of my home state. I want them to explain
to a divorced mother of four in a homeless shelter that, “no
issue is more important than arms control.” These were my

. first reactions. Perhaps I spoke too fast, though. Perhaps
Americans are obsessed with the concept of nuclear arms
control. Maybe these candidates are appealing to the
American soul. Has the American public been brain-
washed into believing that arms control is at the center.of
the “moral high ground,” and that it is the remedy for a
Stressed Detente? I am afraid the answer is, “yes,” and] am
afraid last week’s Washington summit is a perfect illustra-
tion.

I am in agreement with Washington Post Staff Writer
David Hoffman when he points out that, “the summit was
asuccess because both Reagan and Gorbachev wanted it to
succeed.” Gorbachev needed the political success that his
domestic reforms were not achieving. Reagan was eager
to show that his military buildup was. all worthwhile.

‘Indeed how could the initiative have failed? The press
made it quite clear that the INF treaty would be signed, and
who is Ronald Reagan at this sordid point in Republican
history to defy the prophecy of the press?

Indeed though, if we dare to raise ourselves above the
stereotypical criteria that lead us to believe that last week’s
summit was a success we are able to evaluate it from a
somewhat more objcctive perspective. First, we must take

‘note of the U.S. pre-summit agenda. Among the items on
this list were Afghanistan, Central America, ABM Treaty
violations, and human rights. Although these issues were
orbital to INF they were, none the less, very real admini-
stration concerns. They are concerns that either a Demo-
cratic or a Republican President would hold. Gorbachev’s
agenda, with the not surprising exception of SDI, was much
more focused on INF. He knew before he came that he

PROFESSORS, from page 13

would take time away from these other pursuits.

Obviously, the only reasonable solution is to hire more
professors. Yes, it would cost money; but if Davidson is as
committed to academic excellence as its promotions say it
is, the money would be well spent. Afterall, isn’teducation
our number one priority?

Davidson can teach its students better by allowing them
to take the classes they want to take while still fulfilling
area requirements, by making introductory level courses
more available to freshmen and sophomores, and by offer-
ing a more thorough range of courses. Davidson claims to
strive for quality of education, but by not hiring more
professors, it is cheating its students out of the learning
opportunities it promises them.

Lucia Kendall is a sophomore from Piusburgh, Pennsylva-

nia.

CONMESTION
892-9046

would not have to deal with the administration’s previously
mentioned orbital issues. Indeed, he blew off questions
regarding emigration almost as quickly as they were asked.
As George Will so skillfully put it, “the Soviets are getting
Detente on their own terms-for free.”

Perhaps both Reagan and Gorbachev should be con-
gratulated for at least twothings. First, and most important,
is the symbolic nature of the summit and the resulting
agreement on intermediate range nuclear forces. To this
end even ratification is not an issue. The post-war East-
West conflict is obviously cooling when the General
Secretary of the Soviet Union can speak comfortably to the
American public for almost an hour on the same channel
that broadcast Monday night football two nights earlier. I
will never forget Gorbachev asking his driver to stop so he

could step out of his limousine to shake a plethora of.

autstretched American hands. These were touching
moments and ones that, while they lasted made us question
our own attitudes and the attitudes of our leadership.

A second congratulations is in order in respect to the
verification measures established in the agreement. To a
greater degree than ever before both sides will be able to
monitor compliance. If the same verification measures are
enforced and applied in future agreements, then we have
indeed overcome one of the most formidable obstacles to
East-West treaties.

I refuse to issue congratulations on the grounds that last
week’s summit may be a steppingstone to future negotia-
tion. If future negotiations produce similar results I would
prefer that we not participate. I have two reasons, the first
of which I have previously expounded upon. The Soviets
have shown that they will negotiate only on their own
agenda, refusing even to comment on all but the most
salient issues (salient in a Soviet sense, Afghanistan for
example is not). The second reason can be linked to the
misconceptions of the American public.

As I have stated, candidates and voters alike, are infatu-
ated with the issue of nuclear arms control. Just how far we
are willing to go and how much we are willing to sacrifice
may become a very important question. could it be that
even Ronald Reagan, the bulwark of hardline diplomacy is
turing away from his ideology simply for a somewhat
brighter legacy or perhaps a campaign year political strat-
egy. Reagan has stated clearly that arms control would not
be contingent on any improvement in Soviet behavior
anywhere in the world. Certainly this is a, “lame duck, “

Ronald Reagan. I do not find Caspar Weinburger’s com-
ments regarding Reagan at all humorous:

“He is candidate. He’s trying to get votes in a literal sense
of the word. Someone told him, apparently, that he is
running third in lowa—just ahead of ‘none of the above’.” -

Between the President, the press, the public, and the
candidates we seem to be on a crash course for uncondi-
tional nuclear arms reduction. Why is this bad? First of
all, we are faced with the somewhat hushed threat of Soviet
conventional superiority. Just how superior are they? In
Europe alone they outnumber NATO forces three to one.
They are so far numerically superior to NATO forces that
nuclear weapons are not even necessary: in their battle
scenarios. On the other hand, those of us who understand
NATO’ Air-land Battle Doctrine know that nuclear weap-
ons areintegral and that we reserve the right to first use. Be
assured that Soviet military leaders got a good laugh last
week as the Airland strategy began to crumble.

A second reason that we should oppose unconditional
reduction is that nuclear weapons are one of the only
bargaining tools in our negotiations. They are the diplo-
matic key to our future success in regional negotiations,
human rights issues, and other important issues which were
neatly ignored in last week’s summit. If the Soviets will not
attend conditional negotiations, then the stalemate in
Europe resulting from the U.S. nuclear: threat will simply
continue. As dangerous as it may appear to Western eyes,
the nuclear stalemate has rendered the billions of Soviet
dollars spent on the militarization of Eastern Europe
completely useless. We must not allow ourselves to
believe that nuclear disarmament is mutually advanta-
geous.

What can we say about the candidates who center their
campaigns around such unanalyzed ideologies? If they
want some good ideas for issues, have them ‘come to
Alabama an I’ll show them some issues. Perhaps, though,
Mr. Bruce Babbit has hit the nail on the head with his
answer to the question regarding the most important issue
in this campaign: “the welfare of our children.” Keeping
the future’ of our great country in mind along with the
lessons learned at last week’s summit, let us strive to elect
a leader who is unconditional only in his loyalty to the
nation he serves.

Theodore C. Bowling is a senior Political Science major
from Troy, Alabama.

Frozen Yogurt- Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines - Cheeses - Coffees - N.C.
Pottery - Gift Baskets

Oe. oct ae cee ae ae es aD

Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St. 704/892-7521
Opening on Wednesday Nights until 9 p.m.
Live Entertainment

After_9 p.m. SPECIAL Monday---Thursday

12 in. with 3 toppings - $6.50
16 in. with 3 toppings -. $7.75
- not including extra cheese -

Mon. -

Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.

Sun. 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.

Delivering to Davidson College Free

r

