Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON FACULTY,.CONTINUED

Anne Sweetser,

anthropology
Anne Sweetser, from Boston, has
travelled some distance. She has
collected her laurels at Amherst, the

University of Hawaii, Harvard and
Stanford in that order! Her degrees
are comprised of a B.S.C in
zoology, a certificate in East Asian
studies, an A.M. in Anthropology;
and a certificate in language
respectively. -

Sweetser’¢-work has taken her to
Malaysia, Kabul, Pakistan, India
and Europe. Her special areas of
interest are medicine, the position
of women in tribes and the muslims
in West China.

Music in the form of the Basuri
(indian flute) and the westem flute
holds special interest for Sweetser.

Rob Whitton, mathematics

Rob Whitton, a Charlotte native, is one of the latest additions to the
Davidson faculty. But unlike many new members, Whitton is not a stranger
to Davidson. He received his B.A. from the home of the Wildcats before
going on for his M.A. and Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania. In
addition, he has taught at Davidson periodically for five years, starting in
1979. During this visit, Dr. Whitton is teaching Calculus 130 and 131,
which serve as “a basis for study in chemistry, physics, and statistics.”
Whitton is married to Amy Diamond, and they have three children.
When he is not teaching, Whitton spends: his time at a computer graphics
company in Charlotte which he owns and operates.

Trent Stevens

humanities department.

Rosemarie Tong, humanities
All the way from Williams College...it’s Dr. Rosemarie Tong!
Tong is a visiting distinguished professor who is teaching in the

This semester, she is teaching a philosophy course; she will lead a
course entitled “Public Man, Private Woman” next semester.
_ According to Tong, it will be a “look at the different roles and
_ concepts of identity.of men,and women through the ages.”
Not only is Tong an accomplished professor, she is a published
writer as well whose books include Women, Sex, and the Law, and

She is also into camping and
photography, and can shoot a
perfect bullseye with a Beretta .32
pistol!

Anjali Sharma

Ethics and Policy Analysis. Her third book, Foundations of Feminist
Thought, will hit the stands in January.

Tong says she likes the “rhythm of life” here at Davidson.
“Everyone has time for people here.”
Virginia Mischen

As and BS for your parents,
andaCD for yourself

Trya Macintosh today-you Geta Macintosh” computer to

And if that isn’t enough reason So come in and get your hands
may win aSony Discman. help with your homework. to look ata Macintosh today, here's. ona Macintosh. —
Now that a new school year is Then you'll never haveto spend . another: If not for yourself, do it for
under way, we have an idea that'll. another all-nighter retyping a paper Right now, you have three your folks.
make both you and your parents punto detent —_ ee eh ee of NG 4 é |
ing modifiers. You’ eto  Discman™ CD players—including 3 7
ee ene oak S assignments that look as —_ the exciting Sony Pocket Discman, Thepowe beso bet
ao ae though you bribeda friend in art which also plays the new3-inch

~ school, And with an amazingnew _—_— CDs. And even if you miss out on

‘program called HyperCard’—which the CD player, you may still win
just happens to come packaged one of 15 Apple T-shirts. No
-with every Macintosh —you can strings attached—just fill out
easily store, organize, and cross- a registration form at the
reference research notes to your location listed below.
heartscontent. = ° |

p- ;

Enter: September 1st-September 23rd
Computer Services Center
User Services Building

Apple te Ap gn pera, so Maio a eee deals, ad The power oe ow be a trademark, of Apple Computer, Inc. Sony Discman is a trademark of Sony Corporation. No purchase at pend race steno 5 Ee for complete contest details. Prizes may vary from product shown.

$30

Pier Oat Oar er iar eat ee Gar
