New faculty! pages 4-7

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 3

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, September 15, 1988

Numbers, numbers, numbers!

Class of 1992: diverse and bright

By JOANNE MAHERAS

This year’s freshman class is
composed of 376 students, 58% of
which are male and 42% female.
The enrollment ratio closely par-
allels that of most colleges and
universities that were once all-
male institutions.

The geographic distribution of
the freshman class is more diverse
this year. There are more interna-
tional students- a student is here
from Kenya, and Davidson has its
first black South African student.
Nationally, the distribution
among the regional. sections is
more spread out than in previous
years; there are freshmen from as
far away as Maine, Oregon, and
Hawaii. ;

’ Theclass of "92 exemplifies the
high quality of admissions: stan-
dards at Davidson College, ac-
cording to Dean of Admissions
and Financial Aid Robert Gard-
ner. The class consists of more

than 50 valedictorians, the me-—

dian class rank is 5, the average
SAT is 1240, and-class members

have shown a strong commitment —

to service, leadership, the church,
and sports in their pre-college
years.

Gardner feels that this class has

made it evident that more and
more people are getting the mes-
sage that Davidson is a great insti-
tution. Davidson did very well
against the Ivy League; more stu-
dents from this class than those of
previous classes chose Davidson
over an Ivy League school.

Last year, Davidson had the
largest number of applicants ithas
ever had, and it was the first
choice for most.

The freshman class has some
very creative students. Ann Battle
of Charleston, West Virginia,
displayed her creativity when she
submitted slides of porcelain
dolls which she had made as part
of her application.

There are some very good art-
ists in the class. One student’s art
work was bought by his high
school, and is now part of the
permanent collection at _ the

~ school.”

The freshman class is $ strong in
the area of performing arts. Gard-
ner feels that the freshman class
will help “form a nucleus in the
performing area at Davidson.”

The students have participated
in many diverse activities. Bren-
nan Guth, freshman from Mis-
soula, Montana, was a back coun-

try ranger at Great Smokey
Mountain National Park last year,
and he spent his summer teaching
canoeing and kayaking in Swe-
den. Brennan felt that the year he
took off has given him: a better
perspective of what he wants out
of college.

Freshman Buck Reese from
Amarillo, Texas, seems to ex-
press the general consensus
among the freshmen that although
their class is very diverse, “the
class has a closeness that you
could not find at a big school.”

Stephen Wegulo, the freshman

from Kenya, feels that “this year’s
freshman class consists of
friendly, charming, and enthusi-
astic youths who are keen at all
aspects of life at Davidson: aca-
demics, social life, and games.
My impression is that it is a good
freshman class.”

Campus crime remains problem

By PETER MANGONE
Although crime on the Davidson College cam-
pus is down this year compared to the same period
last year, it still remains a serious problem, espe-
cially for the students.
According to Davidson College Public Safety

-Director Jackie Hughes, there have been ten larce-

nies reported in the first three weeks of school as
well as two incidents of auto vandalism.

In almost every larceny case, billfolds and
pocketbooks have been stolen from students’ Gor

“mitory rooms.

However, a gold chain ce alle tahae Docks
Duke dormitory room a few hours before the foot-

ball game last Saturday.

Haghesalsoreporté that inall buta coupleof the

robberies, “there have been two or three black
teenage males, ages 13 to 16, seen in the vicinity
near the time of the crime.”

Although these individuals have dons sighted
several times in the dormitories, Hughes says no

one is calling the police to report them until after
the crime has occurred. Since the campus police
cannot be everywhere at once, he asks students to
please report any suspicious people in the dormi-
tories.

In addition to not reporting strangers, Hughes
points out that students are making themselves
vulnerable to crime by leaving their doors un-
locked and valuables laying out in the open.
These actions only make it easier for those who
wish to steal something.

Hughes urges students, as he does every year,
to lock their doors when they leave the room, es-
pecially on the weekends when most of the gob:
beries have occurred.

He emphasizes that it is the students who can
best prevent crime on campus. Locking the door
and reporting strangers are’ simple’ tasks that
every student can do that will help the campus
police and curb the incidence of crime on the
Davidson campus.

The band-“West Side Heat” from Chicago rocked the 900 Room on September 9.

Photo by Alex Hayden

oO News: fee Features: Sports: Opinions:
O Former English professor John _—‘Film reviews! Field hockey! Party, party, party!
‘jam Engell gets off a parting shot in © Pop Film: The Untouchables ~ Lady Cats slaughter Salem 11-0 The Davidson Disease.
Ww Davidson Update. Cinema Classic: East of Eden Page 9 Page 11

we  Page3 = Page 4

