Thursday, October 27, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

x

Posters stolen

at 1:00 p.m.

>

News on orts

outcome of ~ election.

Last week Dean of Students Will Terry sent a letter out to all Davidson students _
regarding the Theatre Department” s posters that were borrowed tobe useéd as partof the
advertisement for the fall drama production 19/8. The two posters were removed from

_ the bulletin boards in Chambers’ foyer, and one has been returned. ‘Sik

If anyone sees the missing poster please return it and report the person who had it to  Thele

the Dean of Students Office. ee ee ~ Sponsore

Davidson College professors discuss

the 1988 Presidential Election

John Haskell and Tom Kazee ofthe poical science department will hola public
discussion of the 1988 presidential election on Wednesday, November 2. > Societ
The discussion is part of the Open Luncheon series sponsored by the Camnpus Forum Be ts
committee. A $1.50 lunch will be served at 12:30 p.m. with the discussion comes

“The jiscesein ‘ill raiee sich ineuns as ¥otlag behnvior, cunpeigndnsane, bowels
campaign has shaped up, and key events. They will also-make predictions as to the

\
|

mp el

ROTC, from page 1

pants, at least those from
Davidson, got along quite well.
The manufactured hate, the ani-
mosity, and the political ideal that
so drives the superpowers apart
was not present.

Quite frankly, when dealing
with individuals rather than na-
tional symbols, these barriers
hardly seem to exist. However,
soldiers do not fight an individu-
alized enemy.

As Black emphasized, a soldier
fights through reflexive action
brought about by training. In
battle, he is not thinking of high
ideals or national goals. He sim-
ply fights for his own survival and
that of his unit, which is all that
matters to him at that moment.

In such a situation, the enemy is

best seen as impersonal, existing
only in that it desires to destroy
what you love. Black admits that
it is “difficult when the enemy
becomes a face” andan individual
with similar hopes, fears and
motivations.

Before knowing Sasha, most
Americans would see him as one
of the “enemy.” As a fellow stu-
dent, however, Sasha provides a
different perspective on a nation
anda people who, like us, are only
human beings hoping to make it to
tomorrow.

Sasha himself stated that it was
amazing how “similar the Com-
munist and American armies are
in their discipline and training
methods.” They both fight a face-
less enemy.

Though the trip as a whole went
quite smoothly, all involved were
not so accepting of the presence of

Sasha. Cadets from another col-
lege questioned, to John Black,
the values of Davidson as a col-
lege that would allow a “commu-
nist” to take part in official school
business and especially that in-
volving the U.S. Army.

Rather irritated, Black coun-
tered by emphasizing the “great
opportunity to learn about a
people” that we know only from
what we have:been told. Perhaps
by increasing our understanding,
we can decrease the chance of
war, and that, as Black also be-
lieves, should be the ultimate goal
of a soldier or anyone else.

Though smacking of knee-jerk
reactionism, the ideas of these
cadets is understandable consid-
ering their point of view. They
must be trained to trust their reac-
tions and obey unflinchingly in
the heat of battle.

With typical military — flair,
much of this training is accompa-
nied by vicious shrieks demand-
ing the blood and first-born of
various “Commies,” “Chinks,”
and “Reds.”

Interestingly, Sasha said that in
his training in the U.S.S.R., the
soldiers do not use similar nega-
tive language referring to capital-
ist Americans. +

Moreover, movies and televi-
sion are not, according to Sasha,
allowed to portray what he re-
ferred to as extreme “anti-Ameri-
can propaganda” in the style of
Rambo flicks or “Red Dawn.”

When Reagan and Gorbachev
are meeting across the Atlantic
and Glasnost is beginning to make
some progress, the details of
Sasha’s weekend trip with ROTC
are, as he himself describes, “no
big deal.” The symbolism of the

event, however, should be quite
interesting to college students
struggling to understand our
world.

KAHN, from page 1

chaos of the “rapids” into the
peace of the “pools.” “Kahn,
however, feels that “this will take
a long time.”

After his presentation, Kahn
answered questions. ‘The first
question asked was whether or not
Kahn saw divestmentas playing a
role in ending apartheid; Kahn
says that he sees “the threat of
sanctions as being stronger than
actual sanctions.”

He added that divestment is “an
easy concept for here (the U.S.), :
but a difficult concept for there.”

Columnist speaks on values, women’s movement

By MARIA DOUGLAS
Ellen Goodman, syndicated columnist

and associate editor of the Boston Globe, —

describes herself as “an observer of
change. . . I have chronicled it and been a
part of it.” Goodman, the 1988 Reynolds
Lecturer, spoke to a near-capacity crowd
Monday night in Love Auditorium on “A
Matter of Values.”

Goodman said that the women’s move-
ment is a good example of the kind of
change she writes about. She thinks of it as
the “movement of women from traditional
roles to new ones.”

Goodman explained that some people
regard the 80’s as reactionary. The mood in
the country, however, is more ambivalent
and answers-seeking.

She said that we want to change without
tearing ourselves from history. She posed
the following questions: Are men going to
be different? Are women going to be differ-
ent? Is society going to be different?

“In the early 70s, the women’s move-

ment was divided into two camps: the radi-
cal feminists and radical reactionaries.”
There was conflict for women to decide
whether they wanted traditional families
with father-bread winner and mother-
homemaker or no families at all.

The decisions were “neither possible nor

palatable and wefe pretty scary,” Goodman .

said.

In the early 1980’s there cinerged anew
middle ground. Women felt both the neces-
sity to achieve and the desire not to jettison
family life.  ~

“America was trying to change conser-
vatively,” Goodman said.

Women were trying to keep the best of
both roles, female and male with their own
individual security and sense of power, she
said.

Goodman outlined the changing myths
about women. The myth has changed, she
said, from “Super Mom to Super Woman.”
Where Super Mom used to be caring and
nurturing, Super Woman “has to be caring
and nurturing to her 2.3 children while
holding down a $50,000 year creative but
socially useful job and ame a caring
wife.”

Now, she continued, there’s even “Super
Dad,” who must be “open, caring suppor-
tive and leap tall emotional buildings in a
single bound.”

“In both messages, there is a lot of guilt...
guilt if they aren’t fulfilling old roles as
well as new roles.”

The burden of effecting a transition to
new roles for women has been assumed
primarily by women, said Goodman. The

message to each woman has been, “she can °

have it all if shé can do itall, and if she can
do it all-by herself,” without the help of
men.

Change for women so far has been char-
acterized by women forcing their way into
a world structured iguatist to male val-
ues and principles.

“Women have had an easier ‘time getting
into the male world than changing male-
world values.” While the door has been
opened to women, this openness has not

Reynolds Lecturer Ellen Goodman addressed “A Matter of Values” Monday.

been extended to women’s values..

Most women, Goodman said, instead of
being Super Woman are victims of social
change and movement and become “Super

Drudge-- they have it all and got stuck with |
ital.”

She eavourared young men to think

about relationships with women in new

ways and to seek advice from men who are
older; She also encouraged young women
and young men to talk toveach other and
break the “conspiracy of silence.”
Society too must participate in the

‘Photo by Alex Hayden
change. Private lives depend on society.
She said’ that corporate attitudes toward
families have to change. There must be
flexible work hours, child care plans and
other shows of concerg for women and the
family.

“In the 1970's we asked can we have it
all?” Goodman said as she concluded. “In
the 1980's the answer is no, never, but with
some help we can get a | rich sam-
pling.” Then she added, “For those of you
who get discouraged, deep social change is
very slow.”
