Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘‘Davidson faces a very
serious problem with its
present curricular  situ-
ation,’’ the authors of the ad-

A History of Davidson College

By MARY D. BEATY

work in April 1966, not
patching up something old,
but creating a new system

ministrative survey report had
written in 1952. ‘‘It has operated
under the same basic assumptions
and general outline for many

guage, as well as two

changes, though,

courses in mathematics, a

year of history, andeighthoursof percent of the scheduled meetings

a natural science.

of a class. Advanced placement

years.” In- became an ac-
deed it had, twti 66 99 cepted proce-
and _ contin- Sixties call for blue sky dure in 1963.
ued — to. curriculum at Davidson The next year the
Davidson’s ook. . administration
was the core The visiting committee of the Southern began appoint-
curriculum Association of Colleges and Schools was ing department
typical of the di d d at David h chairmen for
period, @ sys- ismayed to find at Davidson such apparent specified peri-
tem of elec- contentment with the status quo. ods, replacing
tive courses So the old system by

for upperclassmen built upon a
base of required courses. Whether
the year was 1932 or 1952 or even
1962 made little difference; every
Davidson student was required to
take two years of English, two of
Bible, and two of a foreign lan-

The early sixties had seen vari-
ous movements toward change in
academic policy. The cut system
and its meticulous record-keep-
ing went out the window in 1962
in favor of unlimited absences toa
point not exceeding twenty-five

which departments had chosen
their own chairmen, often without
notifying the dean at all. The
program of foreign study was a
major innovation, as was the
Humanities Program approved by
the faculty in 1961. Despite these

Davidson’s curriculum in
1965 was still strongly reminis-
cent of 1900. And the middle of
the sixties was no time for remi-
niscing; it was a time for change
in higher education all over the
country, and the visiting commit-
tee of the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools was dis-
mayed to find at Davidson such
apparent contentmefit with the
status quo. Look at some new
horizons, urged the committee,
do some blue skying.

This was the beginning of
Davidson’s Blue Sky Curricu-
lum. A faculty committee under
Dean Johnston’s direction began

_ of course requirements, of
challenge to the particularly able
and mature student. The report of
the Blue Sky Committee was
adopted unanimously by the fac-
ulty on November 14, 1967, and
the trustees approved implemen-
tation of the plan at a meeting in
December. A freshman entering
Davidson in September 1968
would have encountered no spe-
cific course requirements except
in military science, but would
have chosen courses from within
four areas of the curriculum and
could have looked forward to
taking part in independent study,
the Non-Western Program, or the
Honors College which began in
the fall of 1970.

then.... Attached to the animal or not, it is

tails, I would know one from the other.

RATLAB, from page 5

Unfortunately this experiment is not pro-
ceeding as successfully. The current ‘“batch
of rats’’ have yet to learn the task so that
they can participate in the research.

At the end of the maze experiments stu-
dents kill the rats in order to study their
brains. This part of the experiment seems to
be the most difficult for the students.

Ramirez, who is a vegetarian, said, “‘It is
unfortunate that we have-to use animals,

but they do give model performance.”’

Junior biology major Jennifer Payne said
“‘the sacrifice of arat is worth it’’ when you
think about the good the research could do.

Another junior biology major, Chelley
Alexander, said, ‘‘It is difficult to kill any-
thing that is living. First it is running over
your shoulders and sniffing at your ears and

traumatic before, during and after.”’

Mahadevan says that the procedure is
painless because of the anesthesia used.

Brain damage can be caused by stroke,
mental illness, old age, accidents or other
injury to the head or neck, or may be due to
birth defects. Payne stressed the impor-
tance of helping to heal brain damage,
saying, ‘‘It is the brain that makes the per-
son.”

Harshbarger agrees. ‘“Humans are more
important to me than animals, Though if I
had tokill achimpanzee who is so ‘human,’
I don’t think I could do it.’? Like other
students in the class, he plans to go to medi-
cal school to continue studying clinical
neurology.

“*The rats are my buddies,’’ Payne said.
“You wouldn’t believe it, but they have
personalities! Even without a mark on their

There is one who hasa favorite box and will
run across my shoulders and over another
rat to make sure he gets it. I have been
bitten once, but that was by a new rat. He
must have been scared.’” _

Alexander likes the rats, too, and thinks
they are cute. ‘““We take care of them day
after day, working at least eight hours a
week with them. I even have names for
them,’’ she said.

**I will probably doing this for the rest of
my life--I liked it enough to give up my
English major,’’ said Alexander. ‘‘I feel this
[research] is ‘real’ and can be applied. Nor-
mally one does undergraduate school and
then goes for higher:studies ard work and
then does something worthwhile but I am
already doing it! I have a dear, dear friend
who needs medical help for precisely this
kind of problem.”’

EMERGENCY!

call

DE

Davidson
Err ey
Rescue

Service

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization
operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We
are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical

Technicians. No emergency is too big or small

