News

Peace Corps loan forgiveness program

The Peace Corps is offering students the opportunity to eliminate up to 70% of their
college loan debts through 2-4 years of service under the Student Loan Forgiveness
provision of the Higher Education Act of 1986. For each of the first and second years
of Peace Corps service, 15% of a volunteer’s loan, including interest, is cancelled. For
each of the third and fourth years of service, 20% of a volunteer’s loan and interest is
cancelled. Also, payment on many federally funded student loans is deferred for the
duration of Peace Corps service.

This program offers much more than financial assistance. It can be “an opportunity
for career development, as well as a unique chance to help others.” Volunteers live and
work in another country while they put college training and skills to use.

For more information, contact your local Peace Corps office or schedule an interview
with a Peace Corpsrepresentative. For North Carolina, contact Colin Enger,633 Indiana
Ave., NW Room 600, Washington, DC 20004, (800) 424-8580.

Gospel Songfest

The 2nd Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Gospel Songfest sponsored by the Chapel °

Committee and the Black Student Coalition will be held Sunday, January 17, 1988 at
3:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Gospel choirs from Davidson Presbyterian, Reeves
Temple A.MLE. Zion, Gethsemane Baptist, Hunters Chapel United Methodist, Union
Bethel A.M.E. Zion, and Torrence Chapel A.M.E. Zion will perform, Reverand Mark
A.Lomax, pasto of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, will be the guest speaker.

The purpose of the Songfest is to honor and remember Dr. King, but more importantly

Friday, January 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

shorts

to provide the opportunity tocome together as a community and college in fellowhip and
song. There will bea reception immediately follwing the program in the Morrison Room
of the College Union.

Senior class gift

The Senior Class Gift Committee is accepting ideas for Senior Class Giftuntil January
25. Voting will begin later that week. Current suggestions include a teaching stipend,
Chambers desks, handicapped ramps and a student loan fund. Seniors may contact
committee members Mandi Barrett, Barbara Blood, Ginger Broaddus, Conrad Doenges,
David Ethridge, David Maynard, Betsy Rothchild and Julie Walsh, Co-Chairs Allen
Compton and Caryn Coppedge or Class President Dave Cors to contribute their ideas.
All serious suggestions will appear on the first ballot.

Educational loans available

Three educational loan programs for North Carolina residents attending colleges in
oroutof state and for nonresidents attending colleges in North Carolina are still available
through College Foundations, Inc. The Raleigh-based organization offers loans for the
entire 1987-88 school year or for specific terms, quarters, or semesters.

One program is for dependent or independent students, and is based on financial need.
One is for independent self-supporting students and is not based on financial need, The
third is for parents of dependent students and is not based on financial need.

For more information, contact College Foundations, Inc., P.O. Box 12100, Raleigh,
NC 27605, (919) 821-4771.

Rape Crisis changes more than name, expands services

Results of Human Resource survey show that 12% of Davidson women have been raped at some time

By CALLIE HAMMOND

Rape Crisis has changed its
name. This year, the officers of
Rape Crisis decided to expand
their territory to include such
things as pregnancy, birth control,
and other aspects of human sexu-
ality. In keeping with this new
image, Rape Crisis changed its
name to the Human Resources
Committee, and sent out surveys
to all the female students on
campus to see what they want
from the committee.

One-hundred and fourteer sur-
veys were returned to the commit-
tee. Several questions permitted
more than one response, so per-
centages may add up to more than
one-hundred. When a yes-or-no
question was left blank, or an-
swered “maybe”, the answer was
taken to be ano. After many long
hours of hard number-crunching,
here are your responses.

96.1% of the women said that, if
they were raped, they would go to
a friend. 25.5% would go to their
parent or parents, and 22.0% toa
private physician. | However,
when help was needed for a friend
that had been raped, the top three
responses changed. In that in-
stance, 40.7% would go td the
Human Resources Committee,

25.8% to the college Counseling’

Center, and 21.7% to the police.

Since the Committee is chang-
ing its image, several questions
were asked as to what the students
would like the Committee to do.
73.7% answered increasing

awareness, 67.5% said counsel-
~~ing, and 52.6% felt that continu-
ing education was important.
Only 37.7% believed they would
use the Human Resources Com-
mittee for counseling for them-
selves, but 55.3%: thought they
might go there in situations in-
“volving others, and 64.9% said
they would go there to obtain
general information about rape
and other sexual issues. 64.9%
said that they would be interested
in having a representative from
Planned Parenthood come to the
Human Resources office on a
regular basis, such as bi-monthly,

for counseling on such matters as
contraceptives and pregnancy.
On the issue of contraceptives,
46.5% said they would like to see
condom machines in female bath-
rooms, and 54.4% in male bath-
rooms. Said one, “I think it is
appalling that there are no well-
known sources of contraceptive
methods and information on
campus -- there are too many

women here who have unpro-.
tected sex.” Of course, some
women were opposed to the idea,
and said, “It is offensive,” or,
“That would seem to encourage
promiscuity.”

One woman wrote, “I realize
this may be against everything
you stand for, but I would like to
know just how much of a problem
rape is at Davidson.” On the

contrary, questions such as this
one are exactly what the Commit-
tee stands for. In response, 12.3%
of the women polled said that they
have been forced to have sex after
they had said no. If these figures
hold true for all females here at
Davidson, approximately 74 of
our women have been raped.
Rape Crisis has changed its
name, and its image. As one stu-

dent put it, “You should be seen as
a mature, well-adjusted, even ~
gentle group of men and women
whose desire in counseling is to
return things to normalcy; whose
desire in awareness activities is to
approach female and male stu-
dents as equals, as members of the
same age group, as fellow stu-
dents going through the same trau-
mas.”

SGA Update: Educational Policy Committee

meets, dorm schedule unchanged

By ROBERT SMALLEY

In a busy meeting Tuesday
night, the SGA Senateheard re-
ports from Rides Committee
Chair Jim Taylor, Career Sympo-
sium Chair Mary Erwin, and Edu-
cational Policy Committee mem-
ber Pete Mangone.

Taylor explained the changes
he has made in the airport shuttle
service and promised toretum ata
later date with actual figures from
the rides given at Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and Spring Break.

Mary Erwin went over the
schedule for the Career Sympo-
sium which will be held next

WANT TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF
AIR FORCE ROTC?

Not all
sities offer Air Force ROTC. If you

—__ Want the
ROTC and your school doesn’t have the

program, you still may be able to participate.
Ask about the “crosstown’

tant decisions remain to be made.

Tuesday, Wednsday, and Thurs-
day. There will be open luncheons
and other speakers during these
days, and the Senate encourages
students to participate.
The Educational Policy Com-
mittee, chaired by Dean Wil-
liams, is currently trying to imple-
ment the change from trimesters -
to semesters. The Committee is
reviewing proposed curriculum
revisions from each department,
as well as considering possible
changes in area requirements.
Mangone was unable to give spe-
cific details because many impor-

and univer-

of Air Force ~~

program. You may be

able to take Air Force ROTC at another college in your

area.
We have four- and two-year programs that lead to an Air

Force commission. You may also

apply for a scholarship that

some college expenses, plus $100 tax free per academ-
[e month. Contact

Capt Carl Wilson
704-547-4537

Overall, the area requirements do
not seem to be changing very
much. There will still be require-
ments in math/science, religion/
philosophy, history, social sci-
ences, fine arts, and literature.
Although the matter has not yet
been settled, new graduation re-
quirements will probably include
English composition, a language,
and a non-western course. Man-

gone expressed the view that the
E.P.C. will have curriculum
changes finalized in time for
implementation during the 1988-
89 school year. The Senate will be
updated as progress is made.

Finally, SGA President Conrad
Doenges relayed Dr.
Kuykendall’s assurance that the
new dorms are still scheduled to
be completed by August.

SINGERS - DANCERS - INSTRUMENTALISTS
TECHNICIANS - VARIETY PERFORMERS

Kings Productions, the world’s #1 producer of
live entertainment, is holding auditions for the

spectacular 1988 season at CAROWINDS,
Charlotte, North Carolina. ;

Pay is good and jobs are plenty (we'll even
provide one round trip airfare if you're hired to
work at a park over 250 miles from your home).
Make yout audition o show we can't do without! .

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
Sunday, January 24
Carowinds, Midway Music Hall

Singers: 11 AM-1 PM; Dancers & Instrumentalists: 2-3 PM
Specialty Acts, Technicians, Escorts, Hosts, Characters: 11 AM-3 PM.

For additional information:

Corowinds Entertainment Office

Kings Productions . .

704/588-2606
. 800/544-5464

KINGS DOMINION ¢ GAROWINDS @ CANADA'S
WONDERLAND @ KINGS ISLAND © GREAT AMERICA
AUSTRALIA'S WONDERLAND i¢ Kings Productions 1988

