4

_By TRIPP HELMS

The faculty has “evaded responsibility”
by deciding not to participate in tenure
decisions, said Dean of Faculty and Vice
President for Academic Affairs Robert C.
Williams in a meeting with the Student
Government Association Tuesday night.
Under the present system, Williams, Presi-
dent John Kuykendall, and the Board of
Trustees make the decision to grant or to
deny tenure.

Williams is strongly in favor of establish-
ing anelected faculty committee that would
review candidates for tenure and make a
recommendation to him. Davidson is the
only college he knows of that does not have
such a committee.

Such a committee would have to be cre-
ated by the faculty. The proposal has been
turned down before, most recently ina vote
five years ago.

To form the committee would require a
change in the Faculty Bylaws, the Code of
Faculty Evaluation Procediites,) and* the
Constitution of the college. A two-thirds
vote by the faculty and the Board of Trus-
tees is required to make these changes.

Since there is no faculty evaluation
committee, Williams has the primary re-

sponsibilty for evaluating tenure candi-
dates. aur
The criteria for evaluation are: quality of
teaching, professional activity, and service.
Although these criteria are not ranked in
importance in the “Code for Faculty Evalu-
ation Procedures,” Williams personally
considers teaching ability to be the most
important and service the least important.

Some students and faculty have protested
what they consider a “publish or perish”
policy, but this is a misconception, says
Williams. i

He defines “professional activity” as not
only publishing, but also attending confer-
ences, presenting papers, and keeping
abreast of the faculty member’s specialty.
A professor of American “literature, for
instance, should at least be reading current
American literature-- “it is ‘not necessary.
that he or she write Pulitzer-prize-winning
novels,” Williams explains. °

Williams believes that this professional
activity enhances teaching and is essential
toagood college professor. “In high school,
you might have a really good history
teacher--in college, you shouldbe taught by
a historian,” says Williams. *

To assist him in evaluating professors

-the decision.

Williams solicits recommendations from
faculty peers at Davidson and at other insti-
tutions. He also considers student evalu-
ations.

The present policy is that all recommen-
dations remain strictly confidential. Only
the President and the Vice President for
Academic Affairs have access to them.

Confidentiality assures a more accurate
and honest recommendation, according to
Williams, because the writer is not intimi-
dated by the possibility of the candidate
seeing the letter.

This confidentiality also protects the
candidate because possibly damaging in-
formation is never available to future
employers. In one case, “we have seen
evidence that could ruin someone’s ‘Ca-
reer,” Williams recounts.

The problem with complete confidential-
ity, says Williams, is thata professor whois
denied tenure does not know the reason for

the denial. He favors a policy allowing

candidates to request in writing the reasons
for the denial of tenure.

A faculty member who is denied tenure
has the right to request reconsideration of
The president decides
whether to reconsider the case or not--he is

Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dean Williams pushes for change in tenure policy

not obligated by the request.

Williams says that two usual grounds for
reconsideration are: allegations of im-
proper procedure and the appearance of
new evidence. The allegations would be
heard by the Professional Affairs Commit-
tee, while the new evidence would proba-
bly go to Williams for consideration.

Williams raised other concerns about the
tenure system at Davidson.

Seventy-five percent of the faculty are
tenured, and Williams is concerned that a
rise in this percentage would stagnate the
faculty.

Even in the current situation, the faculty
is “graying,” Williams says, and he is
committed to maintaining the vitality that
exists now. He proposes a one year “Senior
Study Leave” program for senior faculty
members. This would give the faculty
members an opportunity to go back to
school and would “rekindle their excite-
ment” in their fields, according to Wil-
liams. ae ee

He proposes a similar program for assis-
tant (not-yet-tenured) professors--a study
leave in the fifth year. As Williams puts it,
“right now we ask them to do research and
then we don’t give them time to do it.”

Careers office hosts Scatliff, speaker on service

By MARGARET CARROLL
On Wednesday, January 27 the
Careers Center hosted Julia Scat-
liff from the Campus Outreach
Opportunity League (COOL).
Scatliff spoke on’ the subject of
community service, and her audi-

ence included students represent-

ing several Patterson Court -

houses and other on-campus serv-
ice organizations.

Scatliff graduated from Carle-
ton College, where she started a
community service organization.
Sheiscurrently aCOOL represen-
tative in North Carolinaand has an
office on the campus of Duke
University. Scatliff came to
Davidson for the day to work with
the service task force and to make
recommendations about how to
expand service at Davidson Col-
lege. :

The students who attended the
afternoon meeting were represen-
tatives from Phi Delta Theta,
Kappa Sigma, Kappa Alpha,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, PAX,
Warner Hall, Rusk, the Y-Student
Service Corps, and the Chapel
Committee.

The group listened to Scatliff’s
ideas and then answered her ques-
tions regarding service on the
Davidson campus.

The students decided that their
fellow students were not involved

with service for many different

reasons, including lack of free
timé, failure to realize the need to
serve, and reliance upon the vari-
ous organizations to fulfill their
service requirements. The stu-
dents discovered several new
ideas for getting others involved
with service.

WANTED:

An experienced waitress for work at the
Empress of.China Restaurant in the
new Cornelius Center near the new Food
Lion. Call Kim at 892-9856 ;

Ry

T&R Tanning Salon |

Don't wait until Spring to get your tan!
Keep your skin tanned and conditioned
throughout the Winter.

Phone: 892-3907

Special for Students: 6 visits for only
ae $19.95
Visits must be used within
one month of purchase date.

The group concluded that the
Davidson community is most in.
need of students whoare willing to
give up a small portion of their
time to establish relationships
with others, whether it be through
the big sister-big brother program,

‘helping prisoners, adopting a

Career Expo

career with Barnett.

4

Matas Barnett Banks, Inc.

An Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action Employer.

We Set The Standard.

grandparent, or some other proj-
ect. Itis also important not only to
give money to various organiza-
tions but also to give time.

There are new and exciting
ways of getting others involved,
and the service task force, along
with concerned students, is trying

Going the extra mile, exceeding our customers’ expectations, that’s what’:
Barnett Banks is all about. We've'never lost sight of our mission: to pro-:

5 vide-the.most comprehensive financial services possible. Consequently,
Barnett’s people are chosen not just for-their.skills.and talent, but for their
special qualities of dedication, pride and enthusiasm as well.

As‘Florida’s largest bank with nearly 500 offices in that state alone, anda
strong presence in the Atlanta market, Barnett is backed by over $23-biilion
in assets and continues to-grow: In fact, our track record shows remark-
able progress in all areas with assets and net income, earnings and ,
market share.on the rise.

If you'd be especially motivated by an aggressive, largely decentralized
organization in which extra effort is recognized and rewarded, consider
a future with Barnett. As we continue to expand our portfolio of services
throughout Florida and in Georgia, we'll need your drive for success.

So be sure to see our representatives, com-
ing to your campus on February 9, 1988, and
discuss our Management Associates :Pro-
gram with them. They will give you the de-
tails that could get you started in an exciting

to develop new programs in con-
junction with the YSSC, the Pat-
terson Courthouses, and individu-
als.

Most importantly, the group
found, students must break barri-
ers of competition and: become
unified when serving others.

hs ten

