Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Let the Nicaraguan people decide their own fate

Marc Wennberg

———————
Editor's note: parts of the following commentary were
first published in The Davidsonian on May 1, ‘1987.

During the last few days I’ve been contemplating how to
write a letter to a world which is separated by more than
space. Should I appeal to emotions? Should I userationale?
How could I bridge the gap of the experience which
separates us? At this point, I am still uncertain which
direction I should take. Perhaps honesty will guide me.

Four weeks ago I arrived in Managua, Nicaragua, a city
which continues to reflect the destruction left by the
earthquake A 1972 and the subsequent insurrection of
1979. My initial experiences of travel, hostels, and restau-
rants allowed me to perceive the natural beauty of the
country. The peaceful sunsets, the volcanic islands and the
$1.50 steak and beer at the corner restaurant obscured the
reality of the daily life of the Nicaraguans. Only after I
settled in Managua did my own perspective begin to be
challenged by the harsh interactions with the people. The
45 minute wait for an overcrowded bus lost its novelty. The
complaints of food shortages and rising prices confronted
my experiences of “cheap,” plentiful meals. The shack
neighborhoods stood in direct contradiction to the beauty
which surrounded them. The reports of the war broke the
peacefulness which was so easily experienced earlier. It
was a Clash of two different perspectives. which often left
me exhausted and emotionally drained. I began to see
Nicaragua through their eyes. ’

It’s from within this different perspective that I look
toward my country, my home. Often I feel anguish and guilt
for the suffering which we have needlessly caused. Our
own ignorance, our lack of outside perspective is pushing
Nicaragua towards more hunger and blood-letting. Yes, the
policy of our government is working; the war of low

intensity has served its purpose well.

“They Want To Demoralize Us” read today’s headline in
the independent newspaper, Nuevo Diario. That is what is
occurring here in Managua, a demoralization. The sense of
common determination is being lost in the face of increased
scarcity. They no longer think of unity but rather of finding
food for their family, even if it involves working the black
market. So yes, our policy is working. We are winning and
they are losing.

Monday I went to a birthday gathering in a barrio Bello
Horizonte, a middle-class neighborhood in Managua. We
were Sitting in a circle, Nicaraguans, a few Cubans, and
myself; discussing the crisis of the economy and uncon-
sciously listening to the Hagler-Leonard fight. One of the
Nicaraguans was criticizing the manner in which the
Sandinistas have handled the economy. His words were

- angry and hard. Finally, he concluded his criticism by

saying: “However, the fact that a congress of.a people can
get together and vote'over whether another people shall live
or die is absurd.”

I have not raised the issues of freedom of press, religion,
etc. for a reason. These are structures which are inherently
understood within a closed perspective. Nor have I raised
the issues of proletarian exploitation, private property,etc.,
for these too are structures of aclosed perspective. Atissue
is not one ideology or another but rather the rights of a
people to live.

Finally, in comparison to the reality of the Nicaraguans,
my experience here is easy. I have sacrificed little and in
five months I too shall return to Davidson to finish my
studies. However, this experience has violently exposed
how closed our perspective is. Only after we accept that
other realities exist shall we begin to truly respect life. I
urge you to consider this and if at all possible, come here
and experience it for yourself.

The above letter was published in The Davidsonian on
May 1, 1987. I asked the Davidsonian editors that it be
republished as my response to the debate which once again
fills our papers, our televisions, and the mouths of our
politicians.

T have no pretensions of grasping the “truth” of the Nica-
raguan situation. I only wish to demythologize the political
rhetoric and lofty idealism to which all of us pretend. In this
debate we all choose a side, we put forth the arguments, and
win or lose we all feel good; we have defended our beliefs.
Behind all the congratulatory back-slapping, however, lies
the people of Nicaragua. Behind the visions of “good” and
“evil” which clutter our public discourse, people die. It’s
that simple, People Die.

Death, however, is absent from our debate, dressed and
masqueraded in caricatures that remove us from responsi-
bility. The Contras, painted-with shades of gold and white,
the romantic lovers of liberty , pursue God and Democracy.
The Sandinistas, hewn in grey, operate as ideological
machines whose controls are smeared with the black
fingerprints of International Communism. On the “other
side” the costumes change actors but the colors remain the
same. In both scenes, whichever one we purchase, our
conscience is absolved. .

And yet people die. Not the theatrical death where after
the lights dim and the music stops the actors get up and walk
off. No, real death; real men, real women and real children.

_ Therefore, let’s assume responsibility. I say, let us
debate in real terms with real pictures, not painted illusions.
Let us realize that the sums and words which pour forth so
easily from our lips, (36.5 million, 100 million, lethal and
humanitarian aid), are masked death, Then..., yes then we
can debate honestly.

I state once again, I do not know what is “right” for the
Nicaraguan people. My travels did show me, however, that
they are tired; tired of struggle, tired of shortages and tired
of death. I say let the Nicaraguan people decide their own
history, whatever it may be. I say let the Nicaraguans forge
their own society without the assistance of our paternalistic
definitions; they need no lessons in “Democracy” and
“Freedom”. As our congress once again engages in the art
of debate, I say no to Death. What say you?

Marc Wennberg is a senior Center major from Waterbury,
Vermont. _

ALBINDER, from page 11

poorly and vice versa. He grades quickly and accurately
and has the rare ability to become close to his students and
at the same time not show favoritism in grading: you get
what you earn... nothing more, nothing less. I have talked
to several people who have had Frank for aclass and did not
getalong with hini as aperson—this is not unusual with any
professor—but they do admit he is a very good teacher.
Another of Frank’s jobs at the College is Instructor of
Voice. I have taken voice from him since freshman year
and have just this term stopped because of lack of money
and time. I know that I am a frustrating student: I do not
have much natural talent, nor do I practice enough. All I
have is a love of singing. However, Frank has had a lot of
patience with me over the years, and I have truly improved.
Notonly has my sound improved, but I have also expanded
my range from an E to an A-flat above middle C. I have
seen Frank improve steadily in this area and I wish more
Students had the opportunity to learn to sing from him.
Probably the most visible of Frank’s jobs to the College

community is that of Director of College Choirs. My -

freshman year was also Frank’ first year here. Iremember
the upperclassmen talking about their previous choir direc-

tor and what choir was like under him. They talked about —

how he had literafly no control over his students, how they
performed second rate music (or at least of a lower caliber
than they were capable), how choir was fun but at the same
time boring. They also talked of how Frank was a signifi-

cant improvement. And that was his first year. He has

“ISSUES IN PERSONAL HEALTH”

A newcourse offered through the physical education department for credit ona pass/
fail basis. Instructor Georgia Ringle discusses topics of interest and importance to
college students such as: mental health, physical fitness, nutrition, alcohol, drugs, |

sexuality and AIDS.

Spring Term: 2 sections
Wednesdays 11:00 - 11:50
or
Thursdays 2:00 - 2:50

Class meets one day a week

learned much and improved since then; I and most of the
4-year choir members can see that, One of the hardest
lessons I think he had to learn in his first couple of years was
that choir was not number one: for students at Davidson,
other things had higher priorities. There are not many
music majors here—certainly not enough to build a choir.
This realization is not an easy one for aman who makes his
living with music. He doesa good job of keeping rehearsals
light and fun while still learning the music.

He has also developed the choir. When he came here, the
choir was divided into the Male Chorus and Women’s
Chorus—a vestige of the mid-70s. Last year though still
divided in name the two groups were first really one unit
doing very little apart. This year he has done something
which I think will be very good for the college in the long
run. Hehasa large College Chorus(92 voices) whichis less
selective and thus can involve more students. From this
group he has chosen a smaller Concert Choir (approxi-
mately 40 voices) to take on tour and to perform at
Commencement. Frankly, involvement equals education:
the more students who sing in the choir, the more students
canlearn about music. This is very important to begin what
should become a growing fine arts area.

One of his most striking abilities concerning the choir is
his ability to select music. He has the uncanny knack to
choose music which is challenging and difficult but pos-
sible for us to do. As a result of this the Concert Choir has
performed great music ranging in styles from Renaissance
to music composed during our lifetime. This ability comes
from not only years of study but also from growing up
listening to this music (As you might guess, this is at least

a rare combination).
irreplaceable.

Perhaps the most valuable respect in which I know Frank
is as a friend. He is always willing to listen, to talk, to
advise, and to take advice. As many of you probably know,
Frank is very politically outspoken. Among other things he
was a strong proponent of semesters and has voted to ban
fraternities. These (you may recall my article on fraterni-
ties) are opposite to my opinions; however, I respect his
viewpoint, and he respects mine. We are both seeking the
same goal: what is best for Davidson students and
Davidson College. Frank is always willing to talk; he likes
discussion, and likes to have his opinions challenged. This
is the result of a good liberal arts education (he graduated
from Pomona). Many people think he is cynical. Well,
perhaps he is, but this too is the product of a liberal arts
education as I am finding out more and more as I complete
my study here. I don’t know exactly why we get along
because wé are quite different, but he is still a good friend,
and J think that is why the decision not to renew his contract
has bothered me. I have seen how it has hurt him.

Last but certainly not least is Frank’s service to the
College Community. Since he has been on the faculty, he
has performed at least two full recitals and been a part of
several others. He has performed as a soloist at DCPC and
other churches (quite a sacrifice considering he is Jewish),
and is a member of the Charlotte Oratorio. He has always
been willing to help The Lamplighters (quartet), of which
Ihave been a member for 3 years. He has both assisted and
performed with the opera workshop here on campus. Frank
présently serves on the CCRL and has been a key figure in
organizing the Artists’ Series. In short, Frank has made
many valuable contributions to the College and the com-
munity in the brief time he has been here.

As you probably can see, I think a terrible mistake has
been made in not renewing Frank’s contract, and I would
like to ask a few things. First, to those who know Frank and
appreciate his ability, I would like to ask that you make a
little noise and let the administration know that you're
upset. Second, to those who don’t know Frank, I request
that you ask around and find out what the stink is about.
Last, to the administration, I ask that you think again. Frank
is valuable to the college and to me. I realize that none of
these decisions has ever been overturned. But, like I said
before:

It’s time for change.

In this aspect, Frank is almost

Grier Stewart is a senior biology major from Birmingham,

. Alabama.

wtargtits
