2

Charlotte Mayor Sets Goals

What is in the future for the rapidly-expanding city of Charlotte? Sue Myrick, the
first female mayor of Charlotte, will discuss the city agenda in an Open Luncheon
Wednesday, April 27th in the 900 Room of the College Union. This is the first time
Myrick has spoken on Davidson’s campus. Lunch begins at 12:30 p-m and costs
$1.50; the lecture is at 1 p-m and is free.

Students Sought for Bike-Aid 88

The Overseas Development Network is sponsoring a bike ride across America to
raise support for “grassroots solutions to global poverty.” Riders'will begin June 14
from five Western and Southern cities and all end in Washington, D.C. on August 18.
Accomodation is provided in churches, community centers and in private homes.
Funds are used for self-help projects in Third World countries and the United States
and to finance fellowship service programs for college students. For more informa-
tion, write as soon as possible to Bike-Aid*88, P.O. Box 2306, Dept. B, Stanford, CA
94309, or call (415) 723-0802.

Novelist to Read and Present Awards

Lee Smith, associate professor of English and writer-in-residence at North Carolina
State University, will present two writing awards and read from a selection of her own
works on Thursday, April 21. Smith will judge entries for Davidson’s Vereen Bell

News Shorts

award in fiction and poetry and the Charles Lloyd award for non-fiction. Smith is the
author of sixnovelsand several short stories. Her mostrecent novels are “Oral History”
in 1983 and “Family Linen” in 1985. Smith is the winner of she North Carolina Award
for Literature in 1984. The presentation of awards begins at 7:30 p-m in the 900 Room
of the College Union. This event is sponsored by the English Department and the
College Union Literary Arts Committee.

College Chorus and String Ensemble

to Perform

The Davidson College Chorus and String Ensemble will present a concert Wednes-
day, April 27th at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program includes
the Schubert Mass in G. It begins at 8:15 p-m and admission is free.

. April 22 Convocation Awards

Students and Faculty

The annual Spring Awards Convocation will be held Friday, April 22 in Love
Auditorium at 10:30 a-m. The ceremony will feature as keynote speaker James B.
McMillan, a U.S. district court judge. Academic, athletic and service awards will be

presented to students; Omicron Delta Kappa selections will be announced as well as

the recipient of the faculty teaching award.

Monday, April 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Does altruism exist at Davidson College?

Service Task Force mem

By MARGARET CARROLL

Atan Open Luncheon Wednes-
day, April 13, Associate Professor
of Psychology Cole Barton spoke
on altruism and its relationship to
service at Davidson.

He began by discussing the psy-
chological factors which lead to
service. According to Barton,
psychologists have analyzed al-
truistic people in an effort to dis-
cover a“helper” type personality,
which they found does not exist.

Then they turned to religious
people, trying to find a link be-
tween religion and service.

The clinical psychologists dis-
covered, however, that people
who were attracted to religion for
security and self-fulfillment were
not usually attracted to service.

But, those who found religion
useful in organizing a culture and
its moral and behavioral laws
were more interested in helping
others. Those who empathized

with the needs of others were also
likely to serve.

Barton pointed out a major
obstacle to altruistic service: help-
ing others incurs a cost that will
not likely bring a reward. He
named four criteria necessary to
service.

First, one must notice that
someone needs help, then one
must determine if the situation is
an emergency. Next, one must
assume the responsibility of help-

CLASS, from page 1

Charlotte area.

ida with 42.

with a total of 67 students from Geor-
gia. Davidson accepted 187 students
from North Carolina; 48 are from the

This year the number of early deci-
sion acceptances increased as well,
rising from 70 in 1987 to 110.

ing, and lastly one must know
what to do’in that situation.
Barton questioned whether the
Davidson community notices
needs in its own environment and
whether it has the resources avail-
able to meet those needs.
Associate Professor of Eco-
nomics Clark Ross, chairman of
the Service Task Force, also con-
tributed to the discussion. He ex-
plained that the service task force
at Davidson is trying to discover

bers speak out.at open luncheon

ways to get students involved with
service without forcing them to do
projects. He feels that instituting a
service requirement would re-
move its altruistic nature.

The task force, Ross said, is not
trying to initiate service involve-
ment, butrather toexpand itand to
increase its visibility, hoping that
students will want to increase
their own service responsibilities
when’ they see professors and
other students more involved.

SHHHHHOSHEHSCHHHHHOOHHOOE

eoleeeeeee ee

Other states with large numbers of
acceptances included Virginia with
56, South Carolina with 53, and Flor-

Submit
to
Inside
Art
(Call
-6722)

Downtown

Davidson

MON.-THURS.

9-5
FRIDAY
9-6

