MAVSEGN AT ABTS

101 BE

o yiiade uth Ms Cas i eS egies S

The Davidsonian —
Tuesday, December 13, 1988

Davidson searches for THE MEANING OF LIFE

For its December issue, Life maga-
zine asked an eclectic group of sci-
entists, theologians, authors, artists,
celebrities and what the editors call
“‘everyday sages’’ to put on paper
their thoughts about the meaning of
life. In the midst of exams and pre-
paring for the Christmas holidays,
members of the Davidson commu-
nity bravely approached the broad
question of why we are here. The
following sampling of their an-
swers, some humorous, others more
serious, offer a taste of the many
different philosophies that comprise
our campus family.

Jeffrey Stockdale, age 10, son of College
Relations director Jerry Stockdale: The
meaning of life is for having peace and
stillness, work and strckture (sic).

Jenny Stockdale, age 7, daughter of
Jerry: I think that love is the meaning of
life. Also God and Jesus are the meaning.

Willie Torrence, custodian for Little

Dorm: I think that we are here to perform

certain tasks, Some tasks are not so pleas-

ant, but someone has to do them. I think

whatever the task we have to do, they areall

necessary to make society work and bring
_ things together for a good cause.

Jack Perry, director of the Dean Rusk

Program for International Studies: ‘‘But
to aimless action is the world in bondage.
Therefore do thou, O Arjuna, consecrate all

thine acts to the realization of God.”’

This verse from the Bhagavad-Gita has
always seemed to me to point to the heart of
the matter. Do we perceive a purpose in
life? Do J perceive a purpose in my life?
And if I am not sure, can I summon up
whatever it takes to act as if] saw a purpose
in life?

Jesus gave two commandments on which
depended all the Law and the Prophets, to

Meaning of Life, December 1, 1988.

love God wholly and to love our neighbor
as ourselves. This tells me, as does the Gita,
that a meaning for life is to be found in
linking our otherwise aimless lives to the
infinite, through a groping for God, andto
show we have made this link by how. we
behave towards our fellow earthlings.
Christmas tells me I must constantly find
a purpose for my Ife by the returning redis-

covery of God.

Michael D. Schill, creator of ‘“Murf’’ car-
toon: Life is like riding a bicycle down the
road to a cliff while wrestling with a giant
octopus with 30 arms. You have to keep
pinning all his arms back while trying to
stay balanced and trying not to get hit by all
the Trailways buses. Then you get to the
cliff and fall off. Yeu should try to hae fun

Photo by Alex Hayden
with the octopus and drink a few beers.

Ed Palmer, chairman of Davidson Col-
lege psychology department: We run but
for a little while-- deeply grateful to. those
who have run before us, ever hopeful for
those who will run beyond. Life challenges
us to appreciate and share our gifts with
those less fortunate and with those whose

young legs and curious minds will take
them forward in their own light of day.
P.S. This exchange with a colleague: ‘‘Life
is either to or from meetings. Living occurs
between meetings.”’

**May you live as well as meet.”’

Mike Van Hecke, desktop designer for
College Relations: God created a world
without, meaning, i.e., ‘‘the sound and the
fury, signifying nothing.’’ As we existona
continuum between Creation and Destruc-
tion, our challenge is to create God as the
meaning.

Carl Van Osdale, sophomore: The mean-
ing of life....Hmmm. That’s by far the
toughesi one. Well, it isn’t because we
deserve to be here enjoying this life. We
certainly don’t belong in the perfect nature
being so imperfect, do we? But now that
we’re here, do we just enjoy it like a bunch
of blind fools thinking that we miracu- -
lously popped up one day? Do we strive for
our own welfare in all we do? I truly doubt
that as well. There exists a much greater
responsibility than this, to pay back the one
who gave us such a gift. There’s the mean->
ing of life, to Praise God! a

Bob the Carrot, cartoon character and
so-called ‘‘final authority on all things
thoughtful’’: LIFE IS A CONTEST TO
SEE WHO CAN COME UP WITH THE
MOST ORIGINAL, WITTY, AND PRE-
TENTIOUS ANSWER TO THE QUES-
TION ‘“WHAT IS THE MEANING OF
LIFE.’? I GUESS I WIN.

These pearls of wisdom were compiled by
Features Editor Lisa Gerrard

Silent Night and candlelight were shared by the Davidson community Monday night in celebration of the holidays.

i

A brass quintet accompanied the huge circle of carolers at the campus-wide celebration.

Photo by Bill Hartman

Photo by Bill Hartman
