5

Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON

FACULTY,CONTINUED

Julia Eichelberger, English

For Julia Eichelberger, a new professor in English department, Davidson
College is not an unfamiliar place. She
eamed her own B.A. in English at Davidson
and, in addition, can boast of seven family
members who are Davidson alumni. An
eighth is currently enrolled as a senior.

After her graduation from Davidson in
1981, Eichelberger taught English at a
private high school for two years. She then
undertook graduate studies at UNC-Chapel
Hill and is currently working towards her
Ph.D. PN

At Chapel Hill, Eichelberger taught
beginning composition to freshmen. “The
classes here are smaller and I sit closer to the
students--so I can see when they fall asleep,”
she said. In all seriousness, she added, “I find
Davidson students more responsive than
UNC students.”

Noting changes that have occurred since
her first Davidson experience, Eichelberger
laughed, “‘Thereé’s a lot more brick on
campus.” She also said, “When I was here,
we used to go out and get ice cream for
thrills.”

iM

Billy Hassell, art

Billy Hassell plans to

spend a year with the Davidson Art
Department while Herb Jackson is on
sabbatical. Originally from Dallas,
Texas, Hassell earned his BFA from
the University of Notre Dame and
his MFA from the University of
Massachusetts.

Hassell has taught art on and

off since college, but decided early
in his career that he wanted to do more than teach. He says the best thing he ever did for
his career was his decision to “quit his job and work full-time” on his art. His choice
paid off. His shows have appeared across the country--most recently in Dallas, El Paso
and New York with a group showing at the Hudson River Museum this fall.

Last year Hassell was extremely busy with four 1-person shows. This year, he

decided to “take.a break from the commercial world...and do something different.”
Hassell enjoys a “balance of teaching and art” and seems to move easily from one to
another.

Next year, Hassell will have 1-person shows in both Houston and New York. For

those who will not be able to attend, there will be a show of Hassell’s works in the
Chambers Gallery in March.

Bethany Deptuch

John Hutchinson

Yvonne Kendall, music
How much do you know about
contemporary flute music
and 16th century dance and
dance music? If you’re
interested in learning more,
consult professor Yvonne
Kendall in the music depart-_ .
ment.

While the above
topics are her specialties,
Kendall’s past experience
covers a wide range. She

Peay State University in
Clarksville, TN; her Masters
of Music -- flute from New
England Conservatory,
Boston; and her Doctor of
Musical Arts -- Early music/
flute from Stanford Univer-
sity.
But Kendall’s
interests are not confined to
music alone. She loves
_ gourmet cooking, mystery
: novels, and...ALF/

Jennifer Hoffman

\
“4

a i IMI

received her B.S. from Austin

- Dale Long, physics
This year could be
your first and last chance
-to take a class at Davidson
from visiting professor
Dale Long. He is on leave
this year from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute _
where he has been, on the
faculty for about 20 years.

physics of everyday experiences for Gihastaeioes and analogies.”

who tremble at the mere mention of the word physics should appreciate Long’s work especially. He has ae
Lb ON programs forthe enhancement of high school physics teaching. Currently, Long has a proposal N —

pending with the National Science Foundation for similar future programs.
Jennifer Hoffman :

’ The Ansel Adam's print, “Examples”, pictures massive boulders in front of a sitientie mountain peak. The stark black and white photograph

" provides a striking contrast to the dorm-like clutter of English professor David Long’s office. A box of Sun Maid raisins rest precariously on the
desktop, while boxes of yet unopened books litter the room. “I’m still getting my act together” Long said somewhat sheepishly,

Long, a new addition to the English faculty, attended Dartmouth College from 1973 to.1977. Afterwards, he taught at several northern schools, He

then spent seven years at Stanford teaching and attending graduate school. “The Californian lifestyle is very attractive, almost dangerously so” com-
mented Long. However, a longing “ to go back East” seized him and after finishing his dissertation this past summer, he “...arrived at Davidson exactly

‘ Long teaches Freshmen Composition 101, and Nineteenth Century American Fiction 381. He has found Davidson students to be “of the caring sort”
and “eager to learn”. Davidson students are “not very different from Stanford (students)” Long observed.
This professor finds the semester system to be extremely profitable. “The pacing gives students time to catch up...we’re not rushed.”
‘And how is Long in class? A student in Long’s freshman composition class describes him as follows: “He is very interested in his students...He
makes sure they understand what he wants. * While Strict on attendance, he dishes out a moderate workload. However, he is flexible concerning
: _ extensions. He is “a humorous guy...he involves the sudents: Bi docsn’t lecture at them.”

Zoran Kuzmanovich,
English
« » Surprises never cease here at
Davidson, and perhaps the most recent
(and pleasant) surprise takes the form
of our new English professor, Zoran
Kuzmanovich. A Yugoslavian native,’
Kuzthanovich comes to us most
recently from Beloit College,
Wisconsin.
From Europe to Davidson, Kuzma- *
novich has made quite a switch, but
he feels that in our town he can settle
down in a pleasant neighborly fashion.
After all, says Kuzmanovich with a
smile, “this is the only place where
my neighbors feel comfortable
walking in and borrowing my
television set, and I feel almost as comfortable ie aeking to borrow their air
conditioner, rototiller, or lawn mower.’
Kuzmanovich’s sense of humor extends into a quite inventive side of the
man. For example, a list of his eccentric hobbies includes a passion for
building adult tricycles, composing chess problems, and building miniature
soccer fields in his back yard. At the same time, Kuzmanovich’s genius
has serious applications. When faced with the inability to type some
Russian words on a computer, Kuzmanovich decided to write his own
2 word processor.
Ready to stay and eager to work, Kuzmanovich is full of plans for his
‘Davidson classes. Coming up spring term, he will be offering a film course
which will look at how fictional narrative becomes a cinematic one, along
with a touch of film history, film making, and directing. A longer look-
involves a possible critical theory class, as well as the integration of audio
visual use and computer instruction in all regular classes. Welcome Zoran!
Jennifer Bean

Long specializes not only in physics, but also in
teaching physics. His book, The Physics Around You, is “a
conceptual level college physics textbook that focuses on the

David Long, English

five minutes before the first orientation meeting”.

Heath Hardage
