Sophomore awarded Truman Scholarship

Donald Joel Snell, a sophomore from Canton, Ga., is the recipient of one of 105
Truman scholarships awarded to rising college across the nation. Nominees must have
a B average, stand in the upper fourth rank of their class and have demonstrated interest
in a career in public service. The awards carry a stipend of $7,000 per year for the last
two years of college and two years of graduate study. The selection process started in
October with 1295 nominees. Winners were chosen by civic, business and academic
leaders. Davidson’s selection process was sponsored by the Political Science depart-
ment.

Charlotte mayor sets goals

What is in the future for the rapidly-expanding city of Charlotte? Sue Myrick, the first
female mayor of Charlotte, will discuss the city agenda in an Open Luncheon
Wednesday, Apri] 27th in the 900 Room of the College Union. This is the first time
Myrick has spoken on Davidson’s campus. Lunch begins at 12:30 p-m and costs $1.50;
the lecture is at '‘l p-m and is free.

Governor to perform with Wind Ensemble

The annual Spring Concert of the college Wind Ensemble may be pleasantly favored
with the participation of North Carolina governor and alumnus of Davidson James B.
Martin. This Sunday, April 24th at 4 p-m, the ensemble will performon the Cunningham
lawn in a free concert. All are invited.

= Friday, April 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

| News Shorts 7

|

Three students named Stuart Scholars

Three high school seniors have been selected to receive prestigious Edward Crosland
Stuart Scholarships to attend Davidson College. Recipients for the 1988-89 academic
year are Marlet Gibson of Tampa, Fla., Jennifer McGrady of Raleigh, N.C. and Phillip
Molner, Jr. of Matthews, N.C. Based solely on merit, each of the scholarships is worth
approximately $50,000 over a four-year period and covers tuition, room, board,
miscellaneous fees and laundry. Named fora 1954 Davidson graduate who died ina Navy
plane crash off the coast of Florida in 1956, the scholarship is supported by the Edward
Crosland Stuart Foundation of Bartow, Fla., and by Stuart’s fellow alumni.

Seniors to present historic slides of Davidson

experience

Slide snapshots are needed for the annual senior slide show to be held Tuesday, April
26. Seniors are to submit slides from their four years at Davidson, labeled, to their
respective houses or to Robert Nesbit (Watts 10, -6297) as soon as possible.

Students capture rodeo title

Seniors Rob Martin and Jeff Jacqmein and junior John “Otis” Wightman won an award
in the Great Southland Stampede Rodeo at the University of Georgia in Athens April 15-
16. The trio won first place in the intercollegiate division of the 14th Annual Pig Tote
Race against teams from Clemson, UGA, and the University of Florida.

Chaplain Search Committee narrows field to two candidates

By EDWARD PATTE

The Davidson College Chaplain Search
Committee, in close conjunction with the
Dean of Students office, has narrowed the
list of potential candidates for the position
of College Chaplain to two individuals.

The search for a new College Chaplain
has been going on since January. Originally
the Chaplain Search Committee examined
four candidates for the position.

No date was given by Dean of Students

Will Terry as to when a decision would be
made, only that it would be “soon.”

The twocandidates that are under consid-
eration have already been through an exten-
sive application process which included: an
essay on what they think the job description
for the Davidson College Chaplain should
be, visits with the Chaplain Search Com-
mittee, the YSSC, and the College faculty
and staff, and dining at two of the eating
houses on Patterson Court.

Whenasked what qualities are needed for
the position. of .College Chaplain, Dean
Terry replies, “it is of first importance that
the Chaplain present a vibrant witness to the
Christian faith on campus through the
Chaplain’s personality and characteristics
themselves.”

Terry also noted, “the characteristics of
the Chaplain should include: an intellec-
tual grasp of the Christian faith, the capac-
ity to deal with a wide variety of students,

energy and forcefulness, the ability torelate
to students socially, the ability to cooperate
with the area churches, the ability to preach
and to be effective as a counselor, a vigor-
ous concern for the ethical issues facing the
community, individuals and society, and
the ability to be a student advocate and to
relate to the faculty and staff as a peer.”
Dean Terry considers these high qualifi-
cations the ideal and will recommend a
candidate that best fits these criteria.

Hunger Conference explores problems of wealth and poverty

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

. This week some of the world’s
leading experts on food produc-
tion and trade, population growth
and nutrition gathered at
Davidson College to examine the
issues and solutions surrounding
the problem of global hunger.

“Hunger in the Midst of Plenty”
was the focus of the first session’s
lecture held Tuesday morning in
Love Auditorium. John Mellor,
director of the International Food
Policy Research Institute and
keynote speaker, linked the exis-
tence of pervasive hunger to
world-wide poverty.

In his opening statement, Char-
les Ratliff, Professor of Econom-
ics, emphasized poverty asacause
of hunger and gave several statis-
tics supporting the connection.

According to Ratliff, although
the world provides enough output
for each man, woman and child to
have an annual per capita income
of $3,000 a year, as 7 percent of
the world’s population is starving,
hot all persons are receiving their
share of the wealth.

Unequal distribution and un-
derdevelopment were the key
reasons offered to explain why
twenty to thirty children die of

hunger per minute. Why is it that
one-fourth of the world’s popula-
tion receives 80 percent of the
world’s wealth?

The governments of these
priveleged countries fail to pro-
vide direct monetary assistance to
the underdeveloped ones. Instead,
Ratliff noted, the world spends 1.8
million on the military per minute.
The majority of these richer coun-
tries also produce more food than
they can consume. Problems in
methods of redistribution cause
the unfortunate to starve.

Mellor stated that the complex
systems of government and soci-
ety in rich countries creates com-
plex problems in “transfering
wealth from one place to an-
other.”

Poor countries find themselves
caught in a snare. Underdevelop-
ment prevents the establishment
of a sufficent agricultural base
while prohibiting the purchase of
food from other countries. As a
result, continued Mellor, absolute
poverty exist.

For instance, 40 percent of
India’s population lacks the finan-
cial ability to provide for food,
shelter and clothing. However,
Mellor notes a source of hope for

such countries as he comments on
the growth which has occured in
former areas of dearth. Japan in’
the 1950s was his example. The
greater powers, mainly the United

States, were skeptical that Japan.

would ever produce anything the
United States would want to buy.
Japan’s wealth and booming in-
dustry today stands as proof that
odds can be overcome.

Mellor and several Davidson
professors gave possible solutions
for the problem of world-wide
hunger, mainly by focusing on its
causes—unequal distribution and
underdevelopment.

In answer to unequal distribu-
tion, Ratliff developed the answer
of a supranational World Devel-
opment Fund. ‘After several years
of research studying agriculture,
economics and education, Ratliff
proposed this hypothesis in Paki-
stan in 1969.

The World Development Fund
operates through the development
of an international public sector
institution endowed with the

ywers to tax citizens and to make
expenditures.

This proposal differs from the
United Nations in that it involves
an obligatory rather than a volun-

tary contribution from all nations.
It would also distribute the mone-
tary balance and provide a perma-
nent solution to world hunger and
poverty, rather than serving as a
temporary emergency action.

Ratliff hypothesized that the
World Development Fund would
give poor countries a sense of
pride, rather than the degrading
“begging bowl” approach to
which many countries currently
resort. The establishment of
world--wide economic equality
would provide a firm base for
world peace.

Mellor offered a solution com-
prised of short-term as well as
long-term redistribution of food.
According to him, involvement
must occur within the private
sector—businesses as well as in-
dividuals, as it is the tendency of
the complex governments of rich
countries to move slowly to
achieve any sort of long-term dis-
tribution.

Suggested as types of long-term
distribution were direct monetary
and developmental action which
would serve to increase incomes.

While governments moved"

slowly to achieve this ultimate
solution, the private sector would

work toward short-term advances
to feed the starving.

Jnhercomments following the
address, Louise Nelson, Professor
of Economics, proposed a system
of world-wide education which
would ease the undeveloped
countries into agricultural inde-
pendence.

She attributes the current fail-
ure of undeveloped countries to
produce their own food not to lack
of land or resources, but to
“clearly discernable failures at the
national level: failures to order
national governmental priorities
appropriately, failures to promote
understanding of and sympathetic
attitudes toward agricultural af-
fairs on the part of the total popu-
lation, and failures to develop the
requisite abilities of sufficient
numbers of people in agriculture-
related occupations.”

In response to these failures
Nelson advocates a system of
national agricultural education
programs. These educational
programs would involve an as-
sessment of current agricultural
education; a complementary pro-
gram would provide the equip-
ment to put the newly acquired
education to use.

Three paintings vandalized at Mike Jarmon’s art exhibit

By LISA. GERRARD
Senior Michael Jarmon, whose art show opened April 9
in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, found his exhibit
vandalized—three of his paintings marked with streaks of
black paint—when he checked it late Wednesday moming,

April 13.

Professor of Art Herb Jackson said the incident came as
ashock because the response to campus art shows is usually

one of respect.

Jarmon has no clue as.to the identity of the vandal, nor
his motive. With a good deal of trouble,-he said, he could

probably correct the works.
The paintings are “Dream of the Bull,” an untitled piece
and a painting of a face. Two other parts of the exhibit, a
drawing board and skull, were marked with black paint.
The person(s) responsible most likely used the paint
brushes and paint mix’ Jarmon had placed next to the
drawing board and easle in his show. The art department
and Jarmon report no leads.
; “T call it aesthetic rape,” said art professor Russ Warren.
“When someone has a show, he puts his whole personality
on the line. It makes him so vulnerable, and for someone to

come look at it and then damage it, it’s just hard to take.”

“A lot of people don’t realize how personal a thing like
this is,” he continued.

Jarmon’s exhibit is entitled “ME: A Retrospective of
Work.” He has placed a notice near the destroyed pieces
which reads—“I am sorry to say that three paintings in this °
room have been vandalized. Truly sorry. I do not under-

stand the predicament, and would appreciate anyone who

happen again....”

can help with my understanding of exactly why this
happpened or would happen. I can only hope it doesn’t
