Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cross country fares well at home

By LEE CANIPE

If anyone can identify with the old saying
that “there’s no place like home,” it is
Davidson cross country coach Gary An-
drew. After a season of ups and downs, the
Wildcats were up at home on October 29
for their final meet of the year before the
NCAA Southeast Regionals.

This homecoming of sorts proved to bé a
shot of confidence for both Davidson teams
as they head toward their November 12
date at Furman with the best teams in this
part of the country.

In the Davidson Invitational, the Wildcat
men placed third out of six teams while the
women took first in what technically ended
up as a dual meet with Lenoir-Rhyne.

~ With top-seeded freshman Chris Otrok
out for the season with a stress fracture, the
big question for Andrew was whether his
place on the team could be filled capably
by the other. team members.

Ted Richardson, another freshman, pro-
vided the answer as he led the Wildcats
over Emory & Henry, J.C. Smith, and
Wofford. Richardson had “a fine race” and
“the other guys:proved that they were able
to pick up the slack” said Andrew.

Although both Brevard and Francis-
Marion bested Davidson, Andrew was not
disappointed. “It was a good, solid per-
formance,” he said. “It wasn’t outstanding,
but it was very solid.”

A pleasant surprise was the running of
senior Bob Comish in the fifth spot. Ham-
pered by a back injury suffered last spring
on the track, Cornish has steadily improved

over the season. “Bob has been able to pick
up some of the slack and run well for us
over the past few meets,” said Andrew.
The Davidson women were sparked by
the return of freshman Kathy Beach to the
lineup in the Parents’ Weekend meet.
Beach, who was sidelined for three weeks
with a stress fracture, finished second on
the team.behind sophomore Katie Rey-
nolds as the women beat Lenoir-Rhyne.
J.C. Smith was also at the meet, but with
only four runners, they did not qualify as a
team, reducing the field to only two squads.
“Kathy came back after two weeks of
just running in the pool and got a better

IMACtion: Flickerball

time on our course (22:18) than she had
before her injury (22:40). I think she sur-
prised herself,” said Andrew.

As the NCAA Regionals approach, the
outlook is bright in the Davidson camp.
“Even without Chris, we’ve still got five
guys that can come out and run if they can
give the effort,” said Cornish. “If we go out
and run aggressively I think that we can do
okay. We’re going to try and take some
teams liké Miami, Ole Miss and Southern
Mississippi that we’ ve been close to the last
few years,” he says.

Beach echoes that sentiment. “We are
going to go out and just try and do the best

13

we can. If we do our best, we can beat some
close teams,” she said. “We haven’t had
our full team at the same meet. since the
beginning of the year, so we really don’t
know how good we can do if we all run
well.”

“T think they’re all ready,” says Andrew.
“With the good practices and times we’ve
been having, I believe we’re set for a big
performance.”

It will take a big performance to do well
at Furman, but Andrew has been fine-tun-
ing his runners all season for this meet and
after the impressive home stand, success
seems definitely within reach.

Freshman tournament goes to Eat Me Once

By JOHN BURNS

force” and took control of the game.

The sun set on Third Little’s hopes of winning the freshman
flickerball tournament when Rami El-Amine scored the winning
touchdown with 28 seconds and very little light remaining to give
Eat Me Once a 26-24 win.

Third Little dominated the entire game, building a seemingly-
comfortable 24-7 lead over an Eat Me Once offense that was only
able to score on a broken play.

When the second half began, the score was 12-7, but the Third
Little Lepers scored two lightning-quick touchdowns on outstand-
ing plays by Cordell Jones to up the lead to seventeen.

However, the Eat Me Once defense buckled down for the rest of
the game and held Little Lepers scoreless. But their own offense
remained inept at best.

With three minutes left, Eat Me Once reached dow and grabbed

Two touchdowns and two minutes later, the game was close
again at 24-20.

After a massive kickoff by Mike Liebdzinski, Third Little took
over on their own nine yard-line with one minute to play.

One play later, the ball was on the thirty-six, and victory seemed
firmly in the grasp of the Lepers.

However, on the next play, Eat Me Once’s Mike Malloy made
a diving interception to keep his team’s hopes alive.

A controversial thirty-yard bomb from John Davis to Thomas
set up the sensational winning play. On this “Tos” play, Davis
crossed to his right and lofted the ball back to his left where El-
Amine made the catch. _,

When the dust had cleared, and Third Little’s valiant final effort
had failed, the ““gentlemen” of Eat Me Once had taken the 1988
Freshman Flickerball title.

what Travis Thomas later described as “some huge inexplicable

When you p
remember f0..

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober-
or youre not sure—

The annual Red and White basketball game was layed last eaturaay, pitting Davidson against
itself. The Red Team won 83-69. ;

Photo by Holt Hathaway

Can We Help?

ecross cultural counseling

Campbell Peery, M.A.
David Staton, Ph.D.

estudy skills erelationships
let someone else do the driving. ‘time — management
estress management eweight control
A message provided by this newspaper “sexuality ecareer counseling
and Beer Drinkers of America ‘family issues . alcohol. & drug abuse
xk Student Counseling Center
ae a 08 Union Basement Ext. 2451
* ve Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.
4 2 Tom Plott, Ph.D.

OF AMERICA

BEER DRINKERS

PARTY *SMART

National H

Beer Drinkers of America supports National Collegiate Alcobol Awareness Week.

“Beer Drinkers of America is a non-profit consumer
organization open only to persons over the age of 21”

Headquarters °
2900-D Bristol St., Suite 201
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

VOI VV VAN UAYD

Viginia Sykes, M.Ed.

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

Christine Davidson, Secretary

Cruise Ships
Now Hiring Men and Women. i
Summer & Career Opportunities (Will Train). Excellent Pay
-Plus World Travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, Etc.
- CALL NOW! 206-736-7000 Ext. 616C

