Album Review

James Taylor's “Never Die Young”

By TIM JACKS

“Never Die Young”, the name of James
Taylor’s newest album and hit single, is
proof that Taylor is still a master of his craft.
He has given his fans the mellow pop/folk
sound that we know and love along with
some new sounds that keep his music fresh.
His popularity stems from his simple yet
interesting instrumental style and his soft
baritone voice which is immediately recog-
nizable, both of which combine into music
that is soothing to listen to.

Changing the producer for this album has
not changed the overall product that much.
Neither has changing most of the musicians
affected his overall style. There are, how-
ever, subtle differences from his previous
album, “That’s Why I’m Here.” Taylor
seems to be experimenting with new instru-
ments like electronic drum machines and
synthesizers which were not heard on ear-
licr albums. But the new instrumentsare not
obtrusive or immediately noticeable be-
cause they blend quite well with Taylor’s
unobtrusive voice and guitar.

The first track, “Never Die Young” is,
withouta doubt, the best song on the album.
The melody, the tight harmonies, the dis-
tinctive acoustic six-string all form a clean
sound that merits a lot of air-play.

My prediction is that “Baby Boom Baby”
will be the next song you hear off the album
on the radio. The sound is similar to “Never
Die Young” but is more of a slow-dance
song. :

._- “T-Bone” is different, emphasizing in-
teresting keyboards. Taylor’s penchant for
syncopation also become evident but never
too heavy. :

pe

“Runaway Boy” goes back to Taylor’s
beginnings in music with its country feet,
especially with the slide guitar which is,
again, used unobtrusively (something I was
surprised to hear used so wellsinceI usually
consider the slide guitar an abomination).

“Valentine’s Day” and “Firstof May” are
more experimental in the area of lyrics and,
vocals. They are interesting to listen to but
will never be hits.

“Sun on the Moon” is a real foot-tapper
with its sophisticated electronic drum beat.
Taylor proves that a steady back beat can be
tastefully used to make a song danceable
without letting the drums overshadow the
music.

“Sweet Potato Pie” reminded me of ear-
lier songs of his, like “Steamroller” and
“Limousine Driver”: syncopated blues,
very clean and sharp.

“Letter in the Mail” is standard JT, but
there is nothing to distinguish it from all the
songs that melted together on the “That’s
Why I’m Here” album.

“Home by Another Way” is about the
closest Taylor will get to putting deep

-meanings in his songs. The lyrics tell how

one should be like the three wise men who
avoided the evil king Herod after visiting
Bethlehem and went home by another way.
The importance of James Taylor’s songs,
however, are not in the lyrics but in the way
the music is presented. His words only
contribute to the way the music sounds--
mild, light and singable.

Overall, Taylor has not really changed
his subtle style of music. It seems that he’ ll
keep cranking out good tunes as long as the
public doesn’t get tired of his songs. And if

Friday, April 29, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

COP, from page 4

than the plot. In stark contrast to the vio-
lence incurred, Robocop’ s portrayal of the
news media, the auto industry, the corpo-
rate world, is swift, sharp and often very
funny social commentary.

“Big is Back!” croaks a TV ad plugging
the 6000 SUX, with 8.3 MPG, as news
anchors cheerily report of a “Star Wars”
weapons test glitch killing hundreds of
people and two ex-Presidents in California.
The report includes footage of CPR futilely
being performed on a figure closely resem-
bling Ronald Reagan.

In some ways, Robocop suffers guilt by
association. Most movies of this type are
terribly written and acted; this film is full of
great dialogue, well sketched characters
(particularly villains) and good acting.
Ronnie Cox, who played the straight and
narrow Lieutenant in the Beverly Hills Cop
movies, is enjoyable as he flips over and
plays OCP’s very evil number two man,
Dick Jones.

Robocop is a hero to really cheer for. In
one scene, vastly outnumbered by heavily

~ armed drug dealers, Robo warns that if they

do not put down their weapons and surren-
der, “trouble” will ensue. Somehow, those
watching the film know that this is some-
thing of an understatement; he means not
just “trouble,” or “trouble,” but
“TROUBLE!” and lots of it. He is what
we in the business call a bad-ass.

Director Peter Werhoesen, in his first
Hollywood venture, manages to avoid the
cliches and obvious plot devices that plague
other movies of the genre. It could be
considered a thinking man’s Rambo; the
plottwists in Robocop are carefully thought
out and intellectually pleasing. He’s part
‘man, part machine, all cop, and a great
movie. Go see it. Yah, we liked it. Be sure
to watch for what one reviewer insists is a
cameo by Eddie Van Halen.

Robocop shows Saturday night in Love
Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Your move, creep.

SHAPE, from page 4

you spend exercising is going to depend on
your own individual level of fitness. It may
only be 15-30 minutes of continuous activ-
ity for beginners, but through regular exer-
cise the time can be gradually increased. It
may be difficult to get started, but once
you’ ve finished it leaves you feeling won-
derfully relaxed and calm.

These are some important benefits to
exercise:

1. It has been linked to improved mental
health and is recommended as an aid for
depression. hie

2. Bone mass is better maintained and
sometimes increased.

In a buyers’ market, the digital revolution is bloodless

3. Exercise is a good method of weight
control. It can raise your metabolism to
burn calories and fat more efficiently.

4. It strengthens you physically with
better muscle tone and a decreased chance
of heart disease.

If youare greatly overweight, it isrecom-
mended that you see a doctor before starting
a program and discuss your exercise plans.

Send your questions and comments to:
Confidential Health

The Davidson College Infirmary
Davidson, NC 28036

Buying CDs can be a joy for student bargain hunters

By LEE EICHELBERGER

Compact Discs: fad or future?
Well when these little silver
things came out several years
back I thought it was a neat idea
that would probably be about as
big a thing as reel to reel. Only
those who could afford the expen-
sive players and wanted toconvert
their music library (even more
expensive) would take a dive on
this supposed music revolution.
But what did I know? I certainly
didn’t know much about CDs. I
learned that they had better sound
quality than albums and much
better than any cassette; they can
hold a maximum of about sev-
enty-five minutes of music;
they’re small and convienient and
can last a long time: I-don’t say
forever because contrary to what I
was Often told, they can be dam-
aged. But in general, CDs last
longer than you do.

I never expected CDs to be as
popular as they have become.
Vinyl,I’msad to say, ison the way
out. Most music outlets make
about 50-60% of their sales from
cassettes, about. 35% from CDs,
and 10-15% from records. This is
a drastic change since only five
years ago did cassette sales
eclipse vinyl. Some smaller
companies no longer offer new
releases on vinyl. And its often
easier to find older albums on CD
than on record. A good deal of CD
sales are catalogue sales. That
means older albums that people
are replacing. So then, is this just
a boom that will fizzle when col-

lections are full? I don’t think so.
The current boom is being fueled
only by the 20% of the population
which has players. As players and
discs continue to fall in price and
the CD catalogue grows, the boom
will boom.

Personally I got hooked when I
would listen to an album on a
friend’s CD and then come home
to my own vinyl rice crispy ver-
sion (i.e. snap, crackle, pop). Plus
there was no hiss. All of us here at
Davidson have some trace of the
perfectionist in us, soI’m sure you
can understand my obsession with
the purity of digital—I mean Dire
Straits or Beethoveen turned way
up. But what really pushed me
over the edge was the idea that
with care CDs never wear out or
lose fidelity. I had already gone
through two vinyl versions of
Peter Gabriel’s Security before I
got the last one I’ll ever buy on
CD.

When I started out with CDs I
already had in excess of 350 rec-
ords so conversion was not easy. I
had seen many friends but a CD
player and maybe one disc (they’d
get a second one about a month
later). Right away I knew this
wasn’t for me. I’d gocrazy listen-
ing to the same disc for days. So
what I did was start my collection
about six months before I even
bought a player. When I did get
my little Toshiba portable, I had
about forty-five discs. You don’t

have to have that many to get

going. But it is nice to already
have your favorite music on disc

when you get a player.

When I started buying I soon
discovered that there where 'sev-
eral kinds of CD stores. Some
stores are just out to make a buck.
These are the big corporate record
stores, the national chains. Al-
though they always have
something on sale for $12.99 it’s
rarely the disc you want. How-
ever, these stores have great prices
on the stuff they’re trying to getrid
of. Camelot, for example, always
has a table of $5.88 CDs and often
has a sale on midline (older cata-
logue) CDs at 9 or 10 dollars each.
These stores sell the rest of their
CD catalogue for 16 to 18 dollars
per disc. This is where they make
their money. The Record Ex-
change in Charlotte, a small re-
gional chain, sells all their CDs at

$12.95. Their selection is not as —

large as at Peaches or Camelot,
but they can order anything you
want at no extra charge and get it
in about two weeks or less. An-
other nice thing about The Record
Exchange is that youcan take your

old albums or cassettes and trade -

them in for credit towards new
discs, The store also carries a
good selection of used CDs ($7-
$10). There are only two prob-
lems with The Record Exchange:
their midline albums are always a
couple of dollars more than those
of the big boys (this is where they
make their money); and their clas-
sical section is pretty poor. Came-
lot on Independence has about the
best classical CD selection in
Charlotte. They always have a

large inexpensive selection of
older (non-digital) and new basic
repetoire in digital (costing $5.88-
$7.99). An older, talkative and
wonderful man by the name of
Charlie is their Classical expert.

He’ll answer any questions and
give helpful advice. They have
everything from Beethoveen’s

See DIGITAL, next page

Making a tough decision is the most enjoyable part of the CD bargain-
hunter’s quest. Here, Mr. Eichelberger chooses the lesser of two evils at
The Record Exchange in Charlotte.
