6=:

,

(4) week

Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Stairwell physicists astound Davidson science staff

By BILL SCOUTEN

The research capability of Davidson’s
sciences has often come into question.
However, recent activity has been Tecog-
nized, suggesting a new direction taken in
the research of the physics department.
Despite the popular belief that Davidson
College is interested only in optical phys-
ics, specifically the use of the laser and its
applications, a recent development has
pointed to the renewed interest in the gravi-
tational force.’

Gravity as we know it today, has evolved
from a rather primitive view to a quite
advanced view. In fact, our knowledge of
gravity comes from the ancient Greeks who
laid the foundation for the work of two great
physicists, Newton and Einstein, in addi-
tion to the revealing study of Galileo.

Galileo, in his alleged “God-less” experi-
: ments, showed that the earth produced a
constant downward acceleration, and that

this acceleration is independentof the bulk

or composition of the falling body. He was

consequently excommunicated and incar-
cerated for such blasphemy.

Newton, ‘working years after Galileo,

’ experienced gravity through the apple. Un-

fortunately ,it is rumored that the apple was.

mealy and thoroughly unpleasing. Never-
theless, Newton’s stomach churned and his

mind gave birth to a veritable plethora of

theories and formulas which pee physics
students of today.

Einstein also found himself inarigued by
the thought of gravity and, ina fit of divina-
tion, formulated what was soon to be called
the theory of relativity. From this point on

in time, gravity has seen little or no atten-

tion due to the overwhelming curi-
osity of physicists, concerning su-
perconductors and black holes.

Presently, however, Davidson is
seeing a revival of interest in the
study of gravitational phenomenon,
especially the fourth force.

“I am amazed,” commented one
physics major, “I didn’t know that
so many were interested in gravity.”

physics majors, though. The entire
Davidson staff is utterly boggled by
the spontaneous research effort.

It seems that a students line up to
test not only far-fetched theories of
a supposed fourth force, but line up
to satisfy their own curiosity, prove
to themselves that F=mg is correct.
Seemingly sparked by the ingenious
lectures and teaching methods of the
physics department, headed by Dr.

p.m.

Jazz, pop, and gospel singer Darylé Ryce will appear
in concert Thursday, Feb. 4 in the 900 Room at 8:30

Wolf, students use weekends to
further their knowledge.

The astonishment doesn’t end with...

It was once thought that the student re-
search teams were using Davidson’s equip-
ment tocarry out the study. However, ithas
been shown that the instrumentation used is
home-made. :

With a whoop, a chair is let fall. A jug of
water is released. Various articles of trash
plummet down. Perhaps a trash can accel-
erates downward. Bicycles, typewriters,
bottles, cans, anything thatcan fall will fall.

Acry signifies the end of the flight of four
stories. Landing with a “squish” or “splat,”
the objects are left for other groups to
observe. This practice has lead, however,
to complaints from students of other re-
search. groups, innocent bystanders, aiid

faculty.

“As muchas I respect tthe research fervor
of these student research teams, the clean-
liness of the public domain must be re-
spected.” The complaints are many, and
with good reason.

The public domain must be kept pass-
able, free of impediments, clutter. Waking
up Saturday morning to the pile of garbage
at the bottom of Belk’s center stairwell is
enough to sicken many. The stench, the

’ slime, the layers of garbage, bed frames,

and articles of clothing are uncalled for.
With respect for other’s safety, health,

two-year scho
make college easier.

Just easier to pay for.

Even if you didn’t start coll

could finish on one. Army

pay y for full tuition and slloveaniocs for eekienal
es and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000

a year. Get all the facts.

wont

on ascholarship, you

OTC Scholarships

See Capt. David Strong in the Basement of Belk Dorm or call him at
(704) 892-2000, EXT. 170 for more information.

and general easy breathing, it is advis-
able that all experiments are cleaned up.
In fact, anew group has been called to-
gether: the SLOBS (Students Lobbying
fOr Belk Sanitation). This group has
been formed with the intent of enforc-
ing the suggested “clean research act.”
In this capacity, member will endeavor
to investigate all violations with prob-
able penal action.

Cleanliness of the dorm is manda-
tory. Dorm life is more enjoyable ina
élean*environment. As for the experi-
ments, do not be misled. Learning is
imperative, and research is a great
addition to knowledge gleaned in the
classroom. However, as one of those

who prizes the luxury of dorm life and
| its general proximity to the college
proper, I suggest that respect be shown
to all.

FOR THAT SPECIAL
VALENTINE

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

§f Davioson

