®

riday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN —

15

LT WILL Nor ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WI
I Witt Nor ASK FOR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I Wi
IW Nor ASK FoR AN EXTENSON AGAIN. T WI
I Witu Nor ASK FoR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. ZT WIL
XH Wir NoT ASK FoR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. T wit

Witt Nor ASK FoR AN EXTENSION AGAIN. I WI
Twi Nor ASK FOR AN EXTEsION AGAID. X wi

(d' NOT ASK FOR AN EXTEASSIon AGAIN. Tw

_ Football

In writing your editorial on the Davidson

football team (October 27) you omitted.

several very important points. First let me
say that I will be very disappointed if the
college elects to drop the football program
entirely because it represents a significant
part of Davidson life. There are countless
football players who.came to Davidson to
play college football in an academic envi-
ronment, and if the program is dropped
they would be left to transfer. Beyond
hurting players, dropping the program
would have a more profound effect on
Davidson than one might think. Football
games create a social venue apart from
Patterson Court, adding much to Saturday
afternoons. Football fames also provide an
opportunity for Davidson alumnae to visit
their school. Most older alumnae would
not feel comfortable walking into a Patter-
son Court party.

The question of whether or not football
players can compete in football and aca-
demics, which you erroneously answered

in your editorial, is not such a definitive.

“no”: In the Colonial League, Davidson
will not need “semi-pro” football jocks to
play and win. In several years when all of

scholarship athletes at schools like Holy
Cross and Lafayette are gone, the Colonial
League will be on more of an even footing.
The Colonial League was established for
schools with high academic standards who

Still want to maintain a football program.

AlLof the football players I know came to
Davidson to have the opportunity to play
football and receive an excellent educa-
tion, which is unique in today’s collegiate
Division I athletics.

What needs to be asked is, does the
college want to give up one it its longest
athletic traditions and a great resource en-

' joyed by many students, faculty, and alum-

nae alike? For me it comes down to this:
the football ream will start winning again
once they realize their potential, because
on paper they are as good as any team they
have played this year. Once Davidson
begins to win again the bad years will be
behind them. Does the college want to give
up the football program and all it repre-
sents? I think not. I believe that if the
Colonial League is allowed to be
Davidson’s football home, in a few years
everyone will be surprised at the results.

Sincerely,
John C. Patton

Opinions Policy

i a chante che sae cians ah descent ua i oo aces The editors will

attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.

A

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor
#

| of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates

Michael Makonnen

Davidson has lost a piece of its heart in the death of Michael Makonnen.
Itis always an especially grim task to bury a classmate; death’s intrusion on
Mike’s youth is an encroachment on ours, too. His long, brave but ultimately
unsuccessful struggle against his cancer serves toremind us all of the fragile
hold this world has on us.

Mike’s work with the Love of Learning program best typifies the impact
he had on the school and community. In the program, which enrolls minority
students in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school area, he served as a Coun-
selor-Mentor. Essays written by students in the program about their dying
friend Michael echo the maturity and strength Michael showed throughout
his ordeal.

When students in Love of Learning worried about what they could do for
Michael, Assistant chaplain Brenda Tapia suggested to those in the program
that they pray on the hour for him, something simple, such as, “God, please
be with Mike.” We who are troubled about this death should take this advice.
God is with Mike now; we need to ask now that He be with Mike’s family
and friends.

More on Football

Apparently the stir that a football editorial in these pages created two
weeks ago was nothing compared to that produced by the lead story in last
Saturday’s Charlotte Observer. The article examined the forces affecting
the continuing of Davidson’s football program, and was headlined “Foot-
ball Is At Stake In Davidson Athletic Struggles.” :

The article came on the morning of Davidson’s last game of the season,
and the day before the football banquet. Demoralizing! said the coaches at
the banquet, and there was suggestion that the placement of the article was
done with the discombobulation of the football team:in mind. Certainly, it
was said, the article was harmful to the college.

Was it a conspiracy? Was it’bad for the college? All of this seems like a
ritual killing of the messenger. The Charlotte Observer did not create
Davidson’s football woes; it merely reported it. In fact, the story was all set
to go to press the week before, but election coverage took precedence, and
the article was pushed back a week. There was no conspiracy.

In any case, The Observer does not have as its main mission the welfare
of Davidson College. Were the facts of the article true? They seem to be;
there is considerable debate on campus over the team’s future, and at the
trustee meeting at the end of this month, football is as likely as not to get the
ax. The Observer merely presented a timely topic with a reasonable degree
of accuracy. That is its job.

Was the article bad timing for the team?, Sure. Did the article bring ill
tidings for the team? Absolutely. The article may not have been in the best
interest of the football program per se, but it may be beyond help.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey S Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries donot necessarily reflect the views

available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

; ¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand- written. The editors will also accept
_ work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we' ’re partial

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.
Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome.

to them). News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond,
* All letters, must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, . Pete Mangone, Ed Powell,
date: Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

* All conimentities must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected
publication date, except for those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
- Allsubmissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons
if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
START Wilt bd coreenentariee for Comieed or Toe aye, but for the rules of English

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret
Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord,

Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount,
Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’ Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens,
David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

grammar only. |. Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John
+ Leters should be under 300 words in length. The editors reserve the right to edit andjor Maheras, ens x ten noes nate Deavpcine. Fel Preacate, Mark Pickers
condense any letter. . Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson, Whit Wilks.

¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors,
advertisements, or objectionable material, ox which represent a viewpoint yery similar to
© All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to
the “Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author's home
‘| -city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or profession).

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen
Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W, Mullis:

Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.
sislp ss Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris, — :

