Friday, April 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fluff, Triteness and Diatribe

Freshmen rush into the valley of Death—carrying eggs

By BILL SCOUTEN

All is quiet. Across the vast meadow, the wind gently
kisses the newly emerged leaves of spring. In the distant
clouds, however, an ominous darkness gathers, The advent
of calamity.

Quiet at first, the wind begins to churn. The sky darkens,
and the sun’s rays are reflected by the black knight’s shield.
A cyclone of yells, a scream of wind...the forces meet on
that frightful afternoon.

Suited in burlap, glasses affixed to their heads, the
freshmen rush into the valley of death. Some are veterans,
others are novice. But, as one they charge on, into the fray
to defend the homeland.

Sounds like the introduction of a Zane Grey novel or
perhaps one of those cheap fantasy novels, doesn’t it?!
King Arthur? perhaps. The Dutch versus the Zulu tribes-
men? perhaps. Davidson inter-fraternity rivalry? exactly!

I’m happy to see pledges and brothers running (for their

lives) after having egged a house. Have you ever watched
such an event? It’s great!

Burlap clad with eye glasses as visors, the pledges and
brothers charge, screaming, down toward the opposing
force, hurling eggs, food, ice, etc. The opposing force,
however, is ready and returns the fire. After exhausting the
supply of ammunition, the pledges flee, pursued rapidly by
the opposing force, who retaliate with ice and bottle rockets
aimed at the closest victim. It’s almost a scene from Monte
Python’s “Search for the Holy Grail’”...."Run away! Run
away!” To be sure, this is not enough. If you’re lucky, you
may see a prisoner or two taken. The consequences some-
times are scary. ;

It’s good to see such atavism at Davidson. What a way
to unwind after a grueling week of five reviews (or “Tests”
Lucia!), six research papers, and a calendar of events that
just won’t stop. The screams, the war-whoops, disrupting

the calm serenity of the campus are quite representative of

Davidson as a whole.

Oh, the facade. The “peaceful serenity” of Davidson is
definitely a caveat. For, underneath all the plaster of old
buildings and the concrete bound steel girders of the new
is a psyche wanting to jump free of that which holds it back.

Underneath the quiescence of the laid back, Davidson
lifestyle is an ulcerating stomach, an uptight student, an
unhappy situation. '

More atavism, that’s just what Davidson needs. Allow
the creativity of the mind to escape from the ball-and-chain
of high pressure situations. Excel! Make the valleys of
Davidson not cesspools of stagnation, of quiescence, of
dull drear. But, spring to life!

Don the burlap sacks and goggles! Be armed with your
own personality and make a noise! Charge onto the battle-
field of Davidson academia yelling, showing your true
colors. Then will Davidson be a truly diverse community.

Create a new lifestyle....throw the egg!

JUICE, from previous page

self prone to the ideals of what he consid-
ers stylish. . Their emaciated, Pre-Ra-
phaelite daughter Lydia (Winona Ryder),
as good Mr. Beetlegeuse puts it, looks like
Edgar Allan Poe’s daughter.

So these two ghosts, who were very
conservative and sensible in life, must
now set about to try and scare this odd lot
of the living from their home. The only

trouble is that the family scares the ghosts
more than the ghosts can ever hope to
frighten the family, who instantly latch on
to the trendy pursuit of supernaturalism.
While all their efforts fail, friendly Bee-
tlegeuse keeps reminding them to simply
call on his name three times, and he will
come into their realm and evict the unwel-
come family. Beetlegeuse has no one
analogue in the history of literature. He is
the Fagan of Purgatory Land; he is the Tony

_ Lumpkin of the Undead; he is Bugs Bunny

with a death wish. Where sideburns once
caressed his face moss and mold grow. His
manners have deteriorated in pace with his
body. He is vulgar, slimy, and opportunis-
tic, yet still knows how to have an offensive
good time. But before long his morbid
pranks and jokes become more of aconcern
to the ghosts than the horribly loathsome
family which has newly taken up residence.

Fast-paced and funny throughout, Bee-
tlejuice causes involuntary nerve reactions
along the smile muscles despite the occa-

sion joke in poor taste. It is a movie all
juvenile delinquents will enjoy. The ro-
mantic-dramatic-horror-comic side of the
film is greatly enhanced by the fantastic
special effects which abound, and the sim-
ply laughable situations in which these
characters find themselves, What’s more,
it ends happily, for the Adam of Bee-
tlejuice found out what the Adam of Para-
dise Lost learned: one must keep Paradise
fresh and alive in the soul, and carry it on
the inside, to make a heaven of hell.

RADIO, from previous page

“Students on campus like to
know of ways to get involved and
this is a way to do something,”
says Smith.

“This station will provide the
amount » of’ participation — that
WDAV-« cannot “provide,” says
Lord. “We wanted a station that
would allow us to do more of what
we wanted to do.”

The students say the radio sta-
tion will be a form of communica-
tion with the student body, and
springs from a broad interest in-
- student involvement with radio.
They dispel any notions that the
station will be started in opposi-
tion or in direct competition with
WDAV.

“We do not have a bad attitude
towards WDAV; they’ve gone out
of their way to be nice to us,”
Smith says, adding that WDAV
gave WALT a collection of rock
and alternative music that covers
about 50 feet of shelf space. “The
way WDAV has grown has given
us room to co-exist with them,”
Dunn says.

The’ college’s media board
approved the three students’ pro-
posal to create a radio station on
Feb. 18. At this point, the radio or-
ganizers must lobby for start-up
money from the Student Activi-
ties Tax counciland other sources.
They estimate that it will take
$2,600 to get the station operat-
ing.

Critics of the student effort say
carrier current stations have been
tried at Davidson before and

AFTER Hours ec TortTuRE At He
HANDS oF His KIPVAPPER, Bess starts

Haccrvcnav ing... He Is

A THIRST FoR

OVERWHELMED By
BEER...

SSSSSS$S.

<—y
lad 2

L
IMIT Gone szelidg sRp

Pa
H S€°G 1p

So —periygwy FreS Y Fe SMOA gHL 19H
9D Cre MMOSH Pay SMoiLepionny
pa fe

THY Sy Gnilvay

Beer | Howl Apolt
A Nice — TALL Mug 2F

failed.

The idea ofa student-run carrier
current station first originated at
Davidson in the 60s, according to
WDAV Station Manager John

Clark. A carrier-current station -

began in 1969 and was later up-
graded to a 10-watt FM station by
the trustees in 1973. In the mid-
1970s, a strong demand for a
Charlotte classical music station
arose, acknowledged by a petition
with 10,000 signatures of Char-
lotte residents. Davidson said it
would help out. ;

“The college saw there was a
need and an opportunity to create
an impact on the area in sponsor-
ing this service,” Clark says. Asa
consequence, students were out of
a completely student-run opera-
tion. It was in June of 1978 that the
once student-run, mainly new

wave alternative carrier-current
station went from 10 watts to
18,500-watt classical WDAV.
Students didn’t take kindly to this.

“Tt was a question of who would
run the station,” says Clark. “The
college wanted to make it profes-
sional. Students stopped operat-
ing the station and walked out--
taking the console with them. The
station was off the air for about six
weeks.”

A second student effort at a
carrier-current station began in
the early 1980s, but died out for
lack of student interest.

How will WALT be different?
Lord, Dunn and Smith believe a
high level of
student interest and support will
make it viable. To “test the wa-
ters” and see if the station isa good
idea, the trio drew up a petition

soliciting student support last fall.
As a result, nearly half of
Davidson’s 1,400 students signed
after just two days, Lord says. He
noted that much of the student en-

- thusiasm surrounding the station

came from freshmen and sopho-
mores, which he sees as a sign
guaranteeing the station’s sur-
vival. ; ;

Dean of Students Will Terry
watched earlier student. efforts
come and go.

“I hope this group of students
can set up an organization to en-
sure the permanence of the station
because it’s just a lot of money,
time and effort for a station to last
just a generation of students,” he:
says. “These three students have
put a lot of work into it, and they
may have the support to make it
successful.”

Go PLEASE.
a. airy

REVOLUTIONARY
COMMUNIST PARTY
SUMMER SCHOOL

Davi Psen's

SOciAu

CONSCIENCE
eeox

= -+SEé THat Bog is

Can't You Peoee

