Student directory inside! see B1-B4

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 1

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, August 29, 1988

“President John Kuykendall and Director of meeence Life Tom Jennings acaiabab that the Comsiraction will be completed by August 20. The Davidsonian, ery 15, 1988.

Photo by Alex Hayden

News

Satins last week, disrupting the towri and colls
water supply for several days. Amid fears of weeks of
repairs, the damage was contained quickly, making
outdoor reading stops for students such as senior Sheri
Reynolds, above, unecessary.

- A water main ruptured underneath I-77 ii! leg

Features

» “In Concert’’: Hand-Colored Photographs by
Susan Page September 1-30 in the Foyer Gallery of
the Chambers Building. Everyone is invited to the
opening September 1 from 5-7 p.m. Page exhibits
twenty hand-colored photographs of musicians at
practice in an cusena to show what music ‘‘looks’’
like.

eh Lewis married Director of Development &
Alumni Programming Jamie May (below). The
small wedding, held in the living room of Lewis’
home, was followed by a campus reception, After-
ward, Dr. and Mr. Lewis drove to Maine for a two-

- On July 9 this summer, English Prof€ssor Cyn-

Sports

- Work proceeds apace on the Baker Sports Com-
plex. Over the summer, construction workers were
able to put up much of the steelwork that will
support the structure. “The scheduled completion
date is fall 1989,

By TRIPP HELMS

Southern Bell has installed a new phone system in
dorms and offices on the entire Davidson campus. All
dorm rooms are now equipped with phone lines on anew
896 exchange, and the cost for local service has been

absorbed by tuition.

Each student can, for a $10 fee, receive a 7 digit
personal access code which allows long distance phone
calling on the new system. This long distance service is

. discounted 10 percent below regular AT&T, rates.

_. Calls within the college campus can be made by
. dialing the last four digits of the desired phone number;
for example, the Union is -2140, and call waiting service

- is also included in the new system.

To make a local call, students must dial 9, wait for
a dial tone, then dial the number. For long distance,
students must dial 8, wait for a tone, then dial their
personal access code and the z area code and telephone
number.

Many complain that to make a long distance call
requires 18 digits. With a few busy signals, it could
take 72 keystrokes to call home. mile. Mom and Dad.
It’s too much trouble.

Soine students miss certain hc services not in-
cluded in the ESSX system that are usually taken for
granted in most Southern Bell systems. For example,
students cannot make credit card calls or collect and
other operator intensive calls on the new system.

