Features

Years of shoes, shears and service

How Norton remembers 40 years of Davidson

By DAVE ROCHFORD
‘“Cutting hair all these years, you must be
quite a philosopher,’’ observes an amiable,
white-headed gentleman from beneath the
clippers. A broad grin animates the bar-
ber’s face. ‘‘Oh,no,’’ he responds withouta
break in his rhythm. ‘‘Ain’t no way about it

but one day at a time.’

Kenneth Watson Norton has been giving
haircuts, one day ata time, for more than 40
years. Counting his shoe-shining days, next
year marks a half-century of service in the
same timeless Main Street shop.

After helping the elderly customer with

Kenneth Norton, Main Street’s barber for over 40 years, gives sophomore Chris Kelly a
Photo by Jonathan Bouwman fondness. Confronting such august oppo-

trim.

(3 oe Rea
Oxfam increases |
hunger awareness

Were you hungry yesterday?
Organizers of Thursday’s cam-
pus-wide fast hope so. An im-
promptu hunger awareness com-
mittee, declared Thursday a day
of fasting in hopes of increasing
interest and involvement among
students, faculty and staff in the
war against hunger.

The group requested the cam-
pus community not to eat on this
day. For those who participated,

a special meal to break the fast _

was served at 5:30 p.m. at the
Commons. The menu included
vegetable soup, combread and
water.

Donations will be given to a
local relief agency called the
Metrolina Food Bank and to
Oxfam America, a nonprofit
international agency.

Oxfam funds self-help devel-
cis in poor comires in Ais, ;

his jacket, Norton gives the pale blue apron
a sharp snap. ‘‘Next please, sir.’’ A tow-
headed boy of perhaps seven deliberately
places an oft-read copy of Captain Amer-
ica’s exploits on a table already laden with
magazines.

With his customer settled in the heavy,
antediluvian barber’s chair, Norton sets to
work against the autumnal backdrop of
crimson and gold framed by a small jungle
of window plants. Noting a reporter’ s gaze,
he nods, ‘‘A pretty super part of God’s
creation--Piedmont, North Carolina.”’ '

In 1939 Norton began shining shoes in
this shop, owned at the time by his father
and uncle. He recalls the periodic cres-
cendo in his workload just before an elite
Davidson fraternity gala. He shined wing-
tip, dancing and even spats-clad formal
shoes that would come in droves from
across the street.

‘In the post-Depression years, Norton
remembers townspeople and students gath-
ering around the potbelly stove in the back
of the shop during the cold winters. ‘‘Stu-
dents and old-timers knew each other bet-
ter in those days,’’ he said.

From time to time basketball notable
Dean Rusk came in to chat with the group,
his dark suit-jacket holding company on
the rack with those of his classmates. Be-
hind a lead and glass razor case, Norton
keeps a yellowed letter addressed to his
mother from the prolific Secretary of State.
Rusk’s sympathetic words extend condo-
lences on the death of his friend Hood,
Norton’s father.

The advent of the 1940s marked the hey-
day of ‘‘anera of pageantry’’ for Davidson.
College football roused pitched enthusi-
asm back then, Norton says with evident

Pop Film

nents as Duke, Wake Forest and Carolina,
the Davidson football team received virtu-
ally unanimous student support in organ-
ized cheers, banners and floats.

The boy under the busy scissors thumps
his mud-caked Keds against the worn iron
foot-rest and fixes on mea baleful stare that
says, ““Go sit down and let the man concen-
trate.’’ The archetypal RCA Victor televi-
sion drones on: As the World Turns. ‘‘I’m
getting out of the penthouse, I’m going
back to the farm, and I’m divorcing you!”’
Norton glances up, grins and returns to the
shrinking head of hair. He knew ‘she was
going to say that.

Called to the Korean conflict, Norton for
a time left the business to his father and
served in the army’s military police. The
prized 1980 Honda Hawk motorcycle he
rides now is reminiscent of his 50s motor-
cade days as an MP. Sometime during this
era the traditional red beanie of the fresh-
man class passed into the memorabilia
closet, but “‘things still stayed pretty for-
mal’’ on campus.

What of the turbulence and malaise of
the sixties? Were there peace marches on
Main Street? ‘“Well, there was nota whole -
lot of protest, but they did stop getting very
many haircuts,’’ he says.

While the fraternal exodus caused by
new self-selection policies had little effect
on business, the introduction of women to
the campus changed Norton’s clientele.
The occasional female customer drops by
even today, but not with the frequency that
characterized the early ’70s. The broad
smile surfaces again: ‘‘I was the only barber
around.”’

See NORTONIZED, page 5

venience store with an unloaded
gun.

Every time H.I. is caught and re-
sentenced, he is photographed and

There are scenes of H.I. water-
ing the dirt, and the couple
watches the sun go down every
night from their lawn chairs.

POPES ESOL ES 46'S 660 E16 COS 06 O'O'S OOS OOOO OTOGOGTIL VOVGUss >

Raising Arizona: a runaway train
By LEE BUSHKELL finger-printed by Ed (Holly Their only wish is for a child to
In Joel Coen’s Raising Arizona, Hunter), a police officer. share their happiness and love.
partners overseas who help to the distortion of the ordinary isthe | Meeting several times dur- Alas, the salad days cannot con-
assess local needs, develop | ryleratherthantheexception. The ing readmission, HI. falls in tinue, for Ed is sterile.
programs and monitor the re- movie is harmlessly bizarre and love with Ed and proposes to Trying.t to adopt a child, the
sults. Oxfam funds self-help | contains a couple runs
Projects in developing coun- | ~° good-hu- ; into problems
tries such as Bolivia, Guate- | =, ore d due to H.I.’s
mala, India and the Philippines view of the criminal _ rec-
and helps provide aid when ridiculous. ord. They are
disaster strikes, as with the The film forced to kid-
famine in Ethiopia. It is one of succeeds _ Nap one of the
only five private U.S. agencies because of *‘Arizona’’
still working inside Kampu- its nature, quintuplets to
chea (Cambodia). and it re- _ shore up Ed’s
Assistance usually takes the sembles a maternal need.
form of literacy training, de- runaway ° The rest of
velopment, reforestation and | train in its the film entails
innovative methods to increase comical their adven-
agricultural output. Closer to antics. tures with their
home, Oxfam is currently at As the new. _baby,
_work in North America distrib- viewer _ is young Nathan
uting educational materials. introduced Jr. .
The name “‘Oxfam” comes | 19 the To describe
from the OxfordCommitteefor | world of Raising Ari-
Famine Relief, founded — m7} HI. and zona is futile,
England in has | £d, one _. for it moves on
“can sense ~so-many~tan=~
the roller gents simulta-
coaster-set in motion. her. The couple’s first days of sie The plot resembles
HI. (Nicholas Cage) isacareer marriage, the “‘salad days,”’ are _H.I.’s hair -- frazzled and messy.
criminal who continuously butun- _ blissful, and Coen rides out all The total chaotic structure of
successfully robs the same con- the glitches with a wry twist. _ the movie succeeds, however, as

does the camera work. The odd

See ARIZONA, right

