The Davidsonidn

Wednesday, April 13, 1988

Women’s tennis dominates Pfeiffer, falls to UNCC

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis
team split their two matches this
week. The team broughtits record
to 12-9 with six remaining
matches. The Lady Cats were
scheduled to play Peace College,
but the match was rained out and
has been rescheduled for Wednes-

Davidson dominated Pfeiffer 7-
2 last Thursday. The team was
clearly superior to Pfeiffer, and
Coach Brown gave some of the
backups an opportunity to gain
playing: experience.

Ruth-Rudert, and DeCou-Carr
teams swept all three doubles
matches.

UNCC avenged a previous 7-2
loss to the Lady Cats by defeating
Davidson this week.: Davidson

Mary Beth Ruth, Marion Stone,\?was devastated by injuries and

Jane Price, and Debby DeCou all
took home wins in the singles

illnesses in this match: Amy
McNelis is still out with an injured

able to play due to illness.
Coach Stubbs was forced to
make substitutions in the lineup as
a result of these problems, and
although the backups played well,
y were unable: to handle the
more experienced ‘and revenge-
hungry UNCC squad. One high-
light came as the team of:Hall and

match in number one doubles.
The teain-has to rebound from
this losgand prepare for the forth-
coming matches, which will be
the most important of the season.
The Lady Cats traveled to Chat-
tanooga April 9-10 to compete
against Marshall, Western Caro-

day, April 13.

Around the Horn

NCAA academics

division, while the Stone-Stubbs,

By HAP BRYANT

On the eve of the Final Four, CBS’ show “48 Hours”
studied the life of college basketball by observing the
campuses of Duke and N.C. State. Theschools’ teams were
preparing to take the court in an A.C.C. contest.

During the show, the CBS crew was particularly inter-
ested in the academic life of the basketball players in
relation to other students. Their findings were both embar-
rassing and amusing, but we at Davidson must feel some
sense of accomplishment after seeing the near-farce educa-
tions that go on at some other places.

Of course, at Duke, basketball players undergo the same
' rigorous academic load as do the other students. CBS
entered the classroom with several of the players, only to
find out that freshman Greg Koubek had failed a test.

Koubek wasobviously disgruntled with the outcome, but
hekepta lighthearted attitude. He dismissed a question that
implied a disparity in his priorities, saying it was nota case
of too much basketball and too little studying.

CBS implied that Koubek’s experience at Duke is the ex-
ception to the rule of dedicated student-athletes. Other
athletes in Koubek’s class did well on the test.

However, there are well-documented cases at Duke of
the student-athlete failing to live up to the academic
requirements.

Mostrecently, Phil Henderson, asophomore guard, was
kept off the basketball team during his freshman year
because he did not achieve the university’s demanding
standards,

It is good to see that some institutions still value learning
above basketball, even a national basketball power.

However, the situation at N.C. State was entirely differ-
ent. Instead of observing a genuine academic class, as they

OXFORD

ic required

tours offered by
session is directed by WISC.

1

Education Department at State.

There they found Wolfpack starters Chris Corchiani and

Charles Shackelford, as well as several other basketball
players, enrolled ina “css” called “Introduction to Lei-
sure.”
' According to the teacher of the course, Introduction to
Leisure instructs students how to best use their leisure time.
Evidently, with classes like that, there is quite a bit of
leisure time at N.C. State.

Even more embarrassing was the reaction of Charles
Shackleford, junior forward for the Wolfpack. Whenasked
why he took “Introduction to Leisure,” Shackleford said
that he had several hard classes and he needed an easy class
to balance out the schedule.

When asked what his other classes were, Shackleford
named “Geometry, Science,
English .. .” Maybe it’s the
cynic in me, but Shakleford
seems to be giving quite a
general outline of his course
load, one that most assuredly
is rather light.

knee, and Alice Stubbs was un- « Price came back to win a three set

lina, and conference-leading
UTC.

are often out of.sync with athlétic

-did at Duke, the CBS crew_members went to the Physical

seriously afterwards. :

Luckily, it seems we have our priorities straight here at
Davidson regarding the academic and athletic perform-
ances of the student-athlete. Although they are given ex-
tensions and special consideration (and rightly so),
Davidson’s athletes must shore up under the same system
that every other student finds taxing.

That makes itall the more satisfying to the institution and
to the athletic department when Derek Rucker gains both
All-Southern Conference honors and Academic All-
American honors to boot.

But Derek Rucker comes only once in a blue moon.
Davidson must constantly assure the nation that athletics
are not preceding academics, and that admissions stan-
dards, while allowing leeway for student-athletes, are not
totally thrown out the door for an exceptional athlete.

Sports Shorts

Corchiani was standing next
to Shackleford when the
CBS reporter interviewed
him.
Shackleford’s response,
Corchiani broke down in
laughter. Somehow, it was
hard (to take “Geometry,
Science, and English” very

WINTER « SPRING « SUMMER « FALL
STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR LESS AT

Several Colleges of Oxford University have
invited WISC to recommend qualifi students
_ |. to study under the tutorial system as Visiting

“ ‘Students or Associate Students for one year or
for one or two terms. Upper Sophomore status
, and graduate study is availab

Integrated student housing, social activities,
ge WISC. re ial summer

By WHIT WILKS

¢ Men’s tennis loses heartbreaker to
Wake. On Tuesday, the Cats (15-7) fell
5-4 to the Deacons in a tough non-con-
ference clash. Wake took 1-3 singles
while the Cats won the 4-6 positions. The
‘teams split the first and third doubles
contests, so the match boiled down to the
second position. The team of Jim Th-
ompson and John Griffith took the Wake
team to the limit before falling 6-3 in the
third set.

Coach Jeff Frank was pleased with the
performance, as Wake has blown out
Davidson in the past. He noted that the
Deacons are loaded with foreign schol-
arship talent, so the close score was
comforting.

The team team traveled to Western

To climax this episode,

Upon hearing

le.

Carolina this weekend to play W.C.U.,
V.MLL, U.T.C., and E.T.S.U. in impor-
tant conference matches,

¢ Soccer team picks up win. On Wed-
nesday, Coach Slagle’s crew played
host to Belmont Abbey, a team which
has had the Cats’ number in recent years.
Davidson executed well on a rain-
soaked pitch and earned a 2-1 victory.
Curtis Ott and Tracy Hankins registered
goals for the winners.

¢ Trivia. The answer to last week’s
question is never, as the Olympics will
be making their Asian debut this sum-
mer in Seoul. Many thanks to the hun-
dreds of you who flooded the office with
your calls and letters.

This week’s stumper- Who has won
the most Masters’ championships?

Frozen Yogurt- Sandwiches To Go - Imported Beer - Wines -
Cheeses - Coffees - N.C. Pottery - Gift Baskets

Past student evaluations available.

INTERN IN
WASHINGTON
SUMMER 1988

Pre-professional program: internships in Congress, the
media, the White House, think tanks, etc. Related
courses in Government or Journalism.

Ws tee
lone
HNRESOWRERS

Open for Lunch 7 Days a week
{ .Check Our Daily Specials
128 N. Main St. 704/892-7521

The Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Six Street SW
* Washington, DC 20024
(202) 337-9378/9379
(BO/AA)

a

