Friday, April 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees plan

to reevaluate

football program in two years

Board seeks to allow Gatto time to firmly establish

his program

By BRUCE NEWSOME

Recently, rumors have circulated about
campus concerning the future of the
Davidson football program. In aninterview
on Monday, April 18, Athletic Director
Christopher B. “Kit” Morris explained the
situation.

The Board of Trustees has decided to
review the program over the next two years.
At the end of these two years, they will
evaluate the program and decide whether

Tiss)

The Davidson Theater Deaprtment presents:

A play with music by C.

Davidson should continue its commitment
to play Division I-AA football in the Colo-
nial League, drop to Division III, or drop the
football program entirely.

The school can drop the football team to
Division III without declassifying its other
sports. Morris pointed out that at present,
the school is dedicated to fulfilling its com-
mitment to upgrading the football program
and competing in the Colonial League.

The Board will look closely at the team’s
performance against league foes over the
next two years. As a result of a lackluster
recruiting effort by former coach Farrell in
his last two years at Davidson and Coach
Vic Gatto’s late start on recruiting when he
arrived in the spring of 1985, the Cats have
played with mostly freshmen and sopho-
mores in the last two years.

However, by the 1989 season, Gatto will
have four recruiting classes, and Davidson
should be evely matched with other Colo-
nial League schools in age and physical
maturity.

Since the Board has set up a two-year
review, Gatto will have had enough time to
firmly establish the program.

After the 1989 season, the Board will
look at Davidson’s performance against
Colonial league competition and decide
what course the Davidson football program
will follow into the 1990's.

Ron Kraacik greets his teammates at the UNCC game.

P. Taylor

Show times:
April 22—8 p.m.
April 23—8 p.m.

April 28—7:30 p.m.
April 29—8 p.m.
April 30—8 p.m.
