R A
The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 7

Trustee Chairman
Ben Craig dies at 55

~ By MICHELE MILLER ~~ p
The flag hangs at half mast today in honor of Ben T. Craig °
*54, chairman of the Board of Trustees at Davidson College,

Tuesday, October 11, 1988

offers for partial aid, Davidson’s was the only full scholarship
offer I received. And I think the offer came not so much
because of my athletic ability as because the Davidson coach

By THOMAS H. MOORE

Davidson’s Board of Trustees voted Fri-
day to modify its standing policy restrict-
ing female admissions. The new plan will
‘take into account a five-year average of the
male-female breakdown of applications.

The 31-1 vote rescinds the 1982 policy,
which has set freshman classes between 60
and 67 percent male. The new plan is
effective immedi-

Charlotte.

1954,

who died Monday morning of brain cancer at his home in

His death came three days after members of the board,
knowing of his terminal cancer, reelected him for a second
term as chairman. Craig, 55, had been a longtime friend and
active supporter of the college ever since his graduation in

_ As ameasure of his love for the college, he directed that
‘he be buried in the Davidson cemetery. Graveside services
were held in Davidson at 3 p.m. today. Classes were can-
celed after 3 p.m. and college offices closed. A memorial
service is scheduled for tomorrow morning, at 11 a.m. at the

First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.
“T really couldn’t have gone to college without a full

Ben T. Craig, Chairman of Davidson College’sBoardof Scholarship,” Craig once said, “and while I received a couple

had a good relationship with my high school coach.” He was

a solid 205-pound tackle for the football team for four years,

serving as captain his senior year.

A self-proclaimed “linthead from Gastonia,” Craig grew
up working alongside his parents, Ben W. Craig and Louis
Sams Craig, who owned a small grocery store there. He listed

his experience in his youth as “common laborer, pipeline

inspector, dry goods sales and loader in trucking terminal.”
He was outstanding at Davidson, earning a B.S. degree in
economics. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity,
Omicron Delta Kappa, Scabbard and Blade and Who’s Who.
Upon graduation, he worked for Wachovia Bank and Trust

See CRAIG, Page 2

‘

Trustees vote to end sexual admissions quotas

New plan to-base gender breakdown on number of applications received

the kind of flexibility that is desirable in
making the best set of choices.”

The change that the committee recom-
mended consists of basing each freshman
class’ gender split on the average of the last

‘five years’ applicant breakdown. A four

percent margin is allowed in either direc-
tion. As applications have run 58 percent
male over the past five years, the class of
1993 will be be-

ately and will be
applied to next
year’s freshman

pertinent part:

The 1982 Trustee policy reads in
“.. Freshmen and transfer students

tween 62 and 54 per-
cent male (see
table).

class. ___ | shall be enrolled in such a manner as to - The five-year

Jim Batten maintain a male/female ratio with the strategy was chosen
chaired the newly | ‘%#¥dent body ranging from 3-2 to 2-1, to reduce as much as
formed Trustee sine etc Romsinney weontttor’ possible large yearly

committee study-.

fluctuations in the

ing the issue. “Our
first assignment was to look at the effec-
" tiveness of the 60 percent floor and make
recommendations as to whether it should
stand,” he said.

“As we worked on the problem, w wecame
as a committee increasingly to the view
that the best interest of the college would be
served by a change in the policy.”

“As we learned more about the workings
'_ of the admissions process at Davidson, it
became more and more clear that the 60
percent floor really does not provide the
admissions office and admissions process

numbers of males
and females. “The ratio of applications has

* been remarkably steady, an extraordinarily

steady phenomenon,” says Batten.

“Our feeling was that we needed to pro-
vide the admissions staff with more flexi-
bility in selecting from the best male and
female applicants,” he said.

“T asked for the decision,” said Director
of ‘Admissions and Financial Aid Rob
Gardner. “We felt that a four to five percent
leeway would be equitable,” he said. “We

‘now have a floating standard with the lee-
way we need.”

‘Psychology professor Ault

“The Trustees and Ruth Ault and John
Kuykendall and I met three times. It was a
joint effort. What we tried to
do was look at all the differ-
ent arguments that had been ‘|
advanced for the current
policy and respond to those
arguments,” said Gardner.

is chair of the faculty com-
mittee examining the mat-
ter.

“We looked at the giving —
records ofvomen and nine
or ten things in all to see if
they were in fact valid argu-
ments,” said Gardner.

AS part of the report, the
committee submitted to the
Trustees a study done on
college donation records.
An argument against a higher percentage
of women at Davidson has been a per-
ceived lower giving level from women.

“The evidence indicates thatit doesn’ thold
water,” Gardner said.

“The available evidence suggests that
Davidson’s women graduates, are firmly
committed to the financial support of the
College,” said the committee’s report (See
table).

One of the committee’s concerns was _

:

legal. Although the college’s counsel has
“advised that restrictions on admissions
policies do
notapply to
private
schools,
officials
| were con-
cerned that
an expen-
sive, em-
barrassing,
if ulti-
mately un-
successful
nuisance
suit might
_Tesult from
current
policies.
: The
Trustee committee decided early on to
modify only slightly the policy. “There was
not within our committee any feeling that
Davidson ought to go to gender-blind
admissions or that we would want to see —
Davidson become a_ predominantly
women’s college,” says Batten.
The University of North Carolina at

See POLICY, Page 3

