Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, November 1, 1989

Moore is uninformed on fraternity issue,
says the Black Student Coalition

Michelle Serrano

In last week’s issue of The Davidsonian, an article
entitled “Here’s how a black fraternity could be a bad
idea” gave reasons as to why Davidson should not
allow a black fraternity on campus. The article has
been read and evaluated. As responsible young men
and women, the Black Student Coalition feels thatitis
our duty to correct some of the false information
which was presented to readers. Let us examine

able is to get them involved in campus social activi-
ties.” If you want black students tobecome involved in
campus social activities you do so by letting them
choose to do so. You cannot expect to make black stu-
dents more comfortable because it is not up to any one
person to decide whether or not another person is
comfortable. If you look at the memberships of the or-
ganizations on campus, it is evident that black stu-
dents do become involved in activities that they arein-
terested in because of personal preference and not
because of skin color.

The third point is that “...black fraternities...[are]
the antithesis of what the Rev. Martin Luther King
worked toward.” Let us not be confused about the
goals of the civil rights movement. Dr. King’s first pri-
ority was the extension of constitutionally guaranteed
rights to Black Americans. Secondary to that was the
desire to be fully integrated, not assimilated, into the
society. Assimilation assumes the loss of cultural
identity. For Dr. King, it was equally, if not more
important, to know from whence you have come and
“to where you are going; to know who you are and

the article point by point.

The first point made was that “a black frater-
nity would segregate the campus.” Now, let us
look at the term “black fraternity.” This is an incor-
‘rect term to describe such fraternities as Kappa
Alpha Psiand Alpha Phi Alpha. Though these fra-
ternities have been historically black they are not
exclusive to Black men, because there are non-
black members. The campus is already divided
into various interest and social groups. This is be-
cause people are going to socialize with others
with whom they feel comfortable and with whom
they share certain ideas and backgrounds.

The second point was that, “One of the best
ways to make black students feel more comfort-

who’s you are. Historically black fraternities and
sororities have been and will continue to be an im-
portant source of this knowledge for past, present
and future generations of young men and women.
We feel that Dr. King would agree and support this
statement as he was a proud brother of ALPHA
PHI ALPHA Fraternity.

The fourth point is in reference to the statement,
“you will probably not work for acompany owned
by a black person,...a black person will probably
not be your boss....Your professors in graduate
school will probably not be black....your closest
friends are probably not black....” Our first ques-

See FRATERNITY, page 10

A black fraternity is not an insidious plot

__ Dagry. Strickland

Upon reading Thomas Moore's article last week
in The Davidsonian, 1 was not only shocked, but an-
gered by many of the ignorant and flawed assump-
tions he contended: Black fraternities were not as
Moorestated, started on Black college campuses butat
predominantly White institutions, Their purpose was
to givea sense of brotherhood, comraderie and fellow-
ship to Black males on these campuses who otherwise
feltisolated and disenfranchised. A black fraternity at
Davidson seeks the same goal.

I resent his assertion that a Black fraternity would
be a separatist entity on Davidson's campus. Implicit
in that statement is a racist asssumption: that there is
something threatening, negative and insidious in
Blacks organizing and coalescing for anything which
isn’t initiated by Whites. I dare say that if the “shoe
were on the other foot,” and you were at a predomi-
nately Black institution in which you. made up 4.9
percent of the student body, and wanted to bring a
historically White fraternity on campus, you would
not deem it to be a separatist entity at all. You would
think it natural for people with similar experiences,
cultures and socioeconomic backgrounds to group

together.
Lalso resented your arrogant admonition to the

| mémbers of the Kappa Alpha Psi.interest group, stat-

ing that we are compromising the teachings of Dr.
Martin Luther King in our attempt to bring a histori-
cally Black fraternity to Davidson. This attitude
shared by many Whites—that if Blacks don’t wish to
integrate, we are separatists—is erroneous. Thisis not
the question at hand; the pertinent issue is assimila-
tion, not integration, which requires the compromis-
ing of cultural identity. If we want tocreatea fraternity
with the stamp of African-American cultural, political
and social identity used to unite interested males at
Davidson, we should be allowed. We should not be
punished or discriminated against because we do not
wish to join the established fraternities at Davidson
but want to start our own, especially if color is the
determining factor.

Inhis call for integration, Moore must discard his
ethnocentric attitude and realize that Blacks are cul-
turally different from Whites and this difference
should be respected by Whites, as Blacks are forced to
respect the cultural differences of Whites. Daily, we

deal with living the dual roles of integration, and we:

don’t hide as he stated. We are Black—we can’t hide!
The onus for integration, hereto, has been the “Black

Man’s Burden.” We have been forced to join, al-
though not explicitly stated, White fraternities: at
Davidson, if we wished to pagticipate in the fraternal
experience. With a Black fraternity on campus,
Whites will bear some of the responsibility “for inte-
gration. If you want to integrate the campus, join us.
His contention that this will foster an “us vs. them”
dichotomy is ignorant of the present “us vs. them”
dichotomy at Davidson, which Blacks are asked to
alleviate by assimilation into White fraternities
where, on the whole, we are not comfortable.

However, out of the many ignorant and unen-
lightened assumptions Moore made, what was most
disturbing about his comments was his patronizing
attitude toward Blacks. He had the panacea for the
racial tensions, integration and education, but then
asked, in effect, “whatelse do you niggers want?, you
do realize that you can achieve only so much, since
you are a minority?” It is pitiful for one person to
thinkin such anachronistic terms in 1989, but if more
Whites feel the same as Tom Moore, they are not only
failing Davidson’s supposed liberal arts education,
but Davidson is failing them.

pa Strickland is a junior history major from Decatur,

A frat is not separate but equal—just different

Melissa Givens

“Anunlearned Saree oe me ;

oncesaid in my hearing: "Thereis very little difference
between one man and a another; but what little there is,
is veryimportant. This distinction seems to me to go to
the root of the matter.”

“William James iS

And soit seems to me. I read Tom Moore’s edito-

rial in last week’s Davidsonian and. was disturbed by:

what hehad written. [was notdisturbed by the subject
of the article, nor was I disturbed by the adversarial

position he took. Such discussion is important to the -

life of any college/town/country.. I was however,
disturbed by the obvious lack of information with
which it was written.

There are many points with which I would like to
take issueand all-of them stem from Moore's apparent
misunderstanding of some basic issues of human
dynamics in general, diversity in particular, and even
more specifically, historically black Greek-letter or-
ganizations.

“Simply put a black fraternity would segregate
the campus.” Davidson's campus is already a victim
of de factosegregation. lamnotsaying this tocondone.
the segregation, only torecognizeit, Thereis very little
black participation in many of the campus activities/
organizations and often there is a good reason for it.

You.cannot “make black students feel more com-

fortable” by “getting them” involved in campus social
activities. We have to want to be involved. The fact
that more of us aren’t should signal to people that for
one reason or another, the activities are not those that
many of us care to participate in. I can assure you that
there is not pressure being put onany black studentat

Davidson by any other black student at Davidson not
to get involved in any other social activity at
Davidson. Itisalwaysa choice made by an individual
black studentat Davidson who hassampled the social
offerings of Davidson and found them wanting.
"Why are they wanting? Sometimes there is no
concrete answer. Many times the atmosphere is just
not very welcoming to anyone who doesn’t fit in. The
reality is that Davidson is a very homogeneous envi-
ronment. Differences are recognized but not cele-

‘brated. If youare different, you havea problemunless

you can‘find others who are different and find some
kind.of affirmation of that difference among them.
This is not separatism. It is adaptation—making the
best of a less than desirable situation.

Unfortunately for Davidson however, such adap-

See NOT SEPARATE, page 10

