4

Stell examines sex
discrimination and the
law of self-defense

Professor of philosophy Lance Stell
opened Women’s History Month at
Davidson by speaking on the topic of “Sex
Discrimination and the Law of Self-De-
fense” at the Open Luncheon on March 1.

Stell first became interested the topic
when he read an article from a journal called
Women’s Rights to Legal Reforms. The ar-
ticle explored the question of whether or not
our laws contained biases which make the
plea of self-defense more difficult for
women to assert. Although the notion of
there being discrimination in the rules of
self-defense scemcd “bizarre and amazing”
to Stell at first, he soon found cases that
made the problem more believable.

A case involving a woman killing her
sleeping husband may seem like an isolated
and “bizarre” event in itself, but Stell says
that women that have been repeatedly bat-
tered by their husbands sometimes kill, and
when they do, it is “typically” when their
husbands are asleep. In these cases women
have traditionally sought the plea of tempo-
rary insanity or diminished.capacity. In the
past, judges would not even consider hear-
ing a case where a woman killed her sleep-
ing spouse as a self-defense case.

Today, some judges will instruct juries to
consider the laws of self-defense, leaving
the possibility open for women to assert that
their use of violence was “reasonable”
under the hostile circumstances which they
had been subjected.

Stell read from a case that showed “how
incredibly brutal some human beings’ lives
are.” Judy Norman lived in a brutal environ-
ment for twenty years before she killed her
alcoholic husband. Her husband beat her so
badly when she was pregnant that she had a
miscarriage the next day. He would beat her
in front of people, make her bark like a dog,
and if she ran away, he would track her down
and beat her again.

Norman shot her husband while he was
asleep, and in the North Carolina court that
tried her, the judge would not advise the jury
toconsider thecase in light of the law of self-
defense. Norman was convicted, but the
North Carolina Court of Appeals reversed
the judge’s ruling, claiming that he made a
mistake in not instructing the jury on the law
of self-defense.

Feminists are concerned that the reason
the original ruling went against the defen-

dant is because the law on self-defense does
not take into account the distinctive circum-
stances women are in. The Court of Ap-
peals, however, did consider Norman’s
special circumstances, claiming that she
was in “imminent danger,” and that her
husband’s sleep was just a “momentary
hiatus in a continuing reign of terror.”

In closing, Stell raised the question of
how we are to view the law, and whether it
needs to be changed to allow women to
more successfully plead self-defense in
these circumstances. The difficulty of the
situation is formulating a law that takes into
account these women’s rights but does not
allow killings of vengeance.

Thursday, March 9, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By MARIA DOUGLAS.
Four seniors presented their plans for

Seniors Mibs Raney, Katherine Mal-
lory, Alida Van Every and Kevin Dunn
are the four finalists representing
Davidson in the Watson Fellows compe-
tition. Watson grants are given annually

schools in the country.

Raney, Mallory, Van Every and Dunn
were selected from a pool of 12 appli-
cants last fall. The Davidson selection
committee interviews all applicants
twice. Four finalists are ‘selected and
they are interviewed by a representative
from the Watson Foundation. Final deci-
sions are made by March 15.

Committee-member and professor of

plans at Open Luncheon ~

juoliventy ae Rieanieeae
the next year in their Watson proposals —
at the Open Luncheon last Tuesday. |

_ with interesting projects they want to

*. college.
to 70 students from 48 participating —

on the basis of experiential importance.
“It is something important to you, not»
necessarily academic.” He said that the
Foundation looks for interesting people

pursue for a year after graduation from :

Thomas J. Watson, the founder and
benefactor of the Watson Foundation
and IBM Corporation, had a similar
experience after his college graduation
and wanted to provide other creative —
graduates the opportunity to experience
the world for a year. Beginning in 1969,
70 graduates of small, usually highly

See WATSONS, page 7

cd.

Southern Minority Leadership Program

takes off at Davidson meeting

By JAY CHAUDHURI

Five southem liberal arts colleges gath-
ered at Davidson College recently to discuss
the newly proposed Southem Minority
Leadership Program, an eight-year project
which would serve “to educate black stu-
dents for future leadership positions in the
South.”

The conference was attended by aca-
demic deans representing Davidson Col-
lege, Furman University, Washington and
Lee University, Rhodes College and the
University of the South (Memphis, TN).
Also in attendance were representatives
from the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school
system, the Love of Learning staff, regional
foundations and corporations.

Davidson College administrators hosted
the conference. They were President John
W. Kuykendall, Vice President for Aca-
demic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty
Robert C. Williams, and Vice President for
Institutional AdvancementJohn V. Griffith.

The proposed program involves a two-
phase effort concentrating on recruitment
and retention of minority students at pre-
dominantly white colleges. In the first
phase, these schools would focus on in-
creasing the number of highly under-repre-
sented black students. The second phase
would concentrate on creating an academic
atmosphere and experience that is more
supportive to minority students than is pres-

Otts Lecture Series to

focus on human nature

Are human beings “little better © Monday, March 13 at 8 p.m. in
than the beasts,” as the biblical Eu Hall, Our Animal Nature on
book of Ecclesiastes proclaims,or | Tuesday, March 14 at 11 a.m. in
are they “little lower than the an- —_ the Chambers Building Art Gal-
gels” as the eighth Psalm indi- _lery, and Our Maturing Nature
cates? Davidson’s 1989 Otts Lec-- — on March 14 at4 p.m. in Eu Hall.
turer, Rev. Sibley Towner, will Towner is the authorof several
speak on The Bible and Our Hu- —_ books, including How God
man Nature on March 13 and 14. Deals With Evil and The Rab-

Towner is the Reverend Archi- _binic Enumeration of Scriptural
bald McFadyen Professor of Bibli- | Examples. His talks at Davidson
cal Interpretation at Union Theo- __ will be partofhiscurrentproject,
logical Seminary in Virginia. Heis a book called Biblical_ Human-

a popular and lively speaker. His
sermon View from a Screened-In
Porch was published in the book

ism.

Best Sermons No. 1 by Harperand __ established in 1893 by The Rev-
Row last year. erend J.M.P. Otts to secure

The three individual lectures speakers in support of Christian
will be Our Worldly Nature on faith.

The Otts Lecture Series was

ently the case.

Phase I involves spreading the Love of
Learning program to the other four colleges
within four years. The program, begun in the
summer of 1987 and created by Davidson
College, is designed to recognize eighth-
grade black students with college potential.
Witha five-year sequential program of sum-
mer and school year activities, Davidson
College acts as a guiding hand for these
students in preparation for college.

The program’s long-term goal is to in-
spire these students to pursue doctorates,
and subsequently, choose careers in teach-
ing.

The Love of Learning program has al-
ready produced results after only two years.
Brenda Tapia, Love of Learning director
and assistant chaplain, states that more than
half of the first class members have been
accepted in early admission decisions at
coll2ges, including two acceptances by
Davidson. Tapia feels the “holistic”
approach that Davidson uses towards these
aspiring black students makes the program
different compared to other schools. The
Love of Learning program involves the
student throughout the school, and engages
the parents and community. The most
important aspect, however, is the emphasis
on professional development.

Because of its overwhelming success,
faculty and staff from the other participating

schools will observe the Love of Learning
program during this summer and the 1989-
90 academic year. They will make appropri-
ate alterations for their respective schools.
By the start of 1990, it is anticipated.that all
five schools can establish a summer. pro-
gram similar to Love of Learning.

Representatives from ‘these five institu-
tions will meet to review the first summer’s
experience during the 1990-91 academic
year, and by the summer of 1992, the proj-
ect expects to have implemented a com-
pletely developed program that will prepare
minority students for college on all five
campuses. Phase II, from 1992-
1996, will provide a supportive environ-
ment by developing a network of support
within the college, among the faculty and in
the student’s curriculum,

Also during this phase it is anticipated
that the five colleges would share their
experiences in order to improve the reten-
tion rate of minority students. Moreover, in
Phase II each campus would create a pro-
gram of faculty recruitment and develop a
curriculum in African and Afro-American
studies. The project also anticipates in-

volvement from the local businesses as fi-
nancial supporters and possible benefac-
tors.

Davidson hopes to have a planning con-
ference in May 1989 in order to discuss this
multi-year project.

