12

J.D. Heuer (#34) scrambles for the red team as Paul Denmond (#4), Sterling
Freeman (#3) and Detlef Musch (#25) fight for position. The Wildcats played
the annual Red- Black game on Saturday in Belk Arena in the Baker Complex.
Photo by Tim Dancy

strict style of Bobby Hussey,
Denmond also registered 20.

formance ina long while.

is December 1st against Virginia.

Davidson 87 - Venezuela Nationals 71

Belk Arena was christened with a victory Monday night as the
Davidson basketball team began the Bob McKillop era with a win over a
more experienced Venezuelan national team, 87-71. The team showcased
a quicker, more running style than last year, a change McKillop says is per-
manent. Senior guard Alan Hunter referred to it as “refreshing.”

Guard Magic Gaines, one of the players who languished under the
scored 20 points in the win. Sophomore Paul

The fans also got a look at 6-11 freshman Detlef Musch, who scored six
points and played well defensively. Musch played in the place of Maurice
Gray, who will be out six to eight weeks because of a stress fracture in his
right foot. Senior Jay Schmitt went five-for-five for 17 points in his best per-

The Wildcats play again Sunday at Cherry Point. The next home game

Top tennis seed Ruth to
play in Nationals

By Don Hastings

Davidson College’s tennis pro-
gram will be represented by three of its
women playersat the qualifying round
of the DuPont National Clay Court
Championships in Hilton Head, South
Carolina.

Davidson’s. number one_ seed,
Mary Beth Ruth, a junior history major,
will return to her hometown as the
Wildcats’ foremost representative.
Two freshmen players, Sarah Melson
and Leslie Goff, were selected as alter-
nates. After two competitors fell ill,
Melson and Goff were chosen to fill
their spots.

We'll be back shortly...

The Davidsonian is taking a publishing break for the Thanksgiving
holidays. Our next issue will Wednesday, Dec. 6.

The qualifying round, which will
involve 64 competitors, is for admission
to the tournament field of 32 players.
The top 28 seeds in the final round are
selected from the top teams in the coun-
try. Davidson’s players will be compet-
ing for the final four slots in this elite
field. The 64 seeded players were se-
lected from an entry group of 150 from
all over the country.

The DuPont Championships are

the fifth leg of the Grand Prix for college
players. The tournament will include
players from Stanford, Miami, Duke,
Texas, Clemson and other top-ranked
university teams.

Friday, November 17, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

(In Good Health

By MARK D. PUCKETT

Aboutone year ago today, I said
to myself, “Now learn what and
how great benefits a temperate diet
will bring along with it. In the first
place you will enjoy good health.” I
find out a year later that some bozo
named Horace said the same thing
20,000 years ago and the reason that
it makes no sense is because the but-
terhead wrote itin LATIN. A Roman
guy writes a couple of poems, earns
alittle fame for his work, and 50,000
years down the road we must say,
“That’srichand beautifuland full of
mellifluous language. It affects me
greatly even though Ican hardly say
it.”

What the hell is the main idea of
the preceding paragraph? I think it
is best summarized in the following
quote by Horace’s sister, Dorace,
who said in Latin: E Pluribus Carpe
Alenda Lux Diem And Dontus
Overeatum Overa Thanksgivin-
gemus Breakus.

A translation may further eluci-

right over’; and never play cards
with a woman who has the same

d

Mary Beth Ruth, the top-seeded player on the women's tennis team, will be compet
ing against other college aces in the upcoming Dupont National Clay Court Tourna-

Fitness tips for the break:
Do not stuff thyself

_ the poison, and. not give the women

date Dorace’s main idea: “Never let
‘em see you sweat; never say ‘I’llbe _ aunt, perhaps (perhaps. a cute first —
cousin). Play backyard football.
Climb a sights pie bs Relax, but

first name as an Eastern bloc coun- d a

enough food to feed a Latin class. You
must confront this food and eat what
you need toeatand remember the fol-
lowing: DO NOT OVEREAT.

Have yourself a generous serving
of white, lean turkey, but take it easy
on the gravy, stuffing, mashed pota-
toes and bread rolls. Load up on vege-
tables: lima beans, corn, green beans,
black-eyed peas, broccoli, etc. Go
right ahead and throw on some cran-
berry sauce. And have adessert, not
seven. Try to stay away fromhamand -
beef, but if you must have it, =e the
portions minimal.

Control snacking. Drink a lot of
water. The key—DO NOT STUFF
THYSELF.

Just like Socrates said, “Nothing
in excess.” Socrates also said, “I think
that I had better bathe before I drink

the trouble of washing my body.”

Set a goal for yourself. You need
not exercise everyday, but attempt
some sort of physical activity at least
once or twice during the holiday.
Take a walk withaloved one—agreat

ment. Ruth is a junior from Hilton Head, S.C.

Photo courtesy of Sports Information
