Thursday, March 2, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

13

The lack of commitment to black student enrollment

M. Anton Bruce’s commentary in the February 20, 1989
edition of The Davidsonian was relevant and beneficial by
showing the frustration that many blacks have come to feel
during their stay at Davidson. Upon reading Mr. Bruce’s
article, one must remember that his purpose was to give a
black perspective of Davidson from the only point of view
which is equipped to do so, that of a black student.
Although some of what Mr. Bruce-wrote about has obvi-
ously rubbed a few people the wrong way, as was shown in
the concurrent editorial “Perspectives,” I as a fellow black
student can relate to his intentions and even more impor-
tantly to his frustrations.

I would therefore like to extract one portion of his _

commentary and give an expanded opinion. I am speaking
of the commitment made by the administration and trus-
tees to increase black enrollment at Davidson. In truth, the
raw data shows that “lack of commitment” would be a
better term to use. The one major document that can be
used to comment on Davidson’s lack of conimitment with
regards to black enrollment is the Report of the Task Force
on Racial/Ethnic Concerns to the Davidson College Com-

__ munity. The task force, appointed by President Kuykendall

in 1984, was composed of 5 students, 4 faculty members,
5 administrators, 3 alumni, 3 trustees, and a recorder.
Some of the more familiar names among the group include
Dean Terry, Dr. Bruce Jackson, Dr. Malcolm Partin, and
our previous Asst. Dean of Student, Paula Moore Miller.
The purpose of the Task Force was to seek ways to move
toward the goals of Project ’87, a set of ideal standards put
forth by a group of black students in 1983 to improve black
life at Davidson, by taking “a critical look at the environ-
ment which the college provides black students and the
experience which that environment affords.” Project ’87
had the following as its goals to be met by 1987: 1) Atleast
100 black students enrolled, 2) At least 10 black American
professors, 3) At least 5 Black Studies courses, 4) A black
Dean of Students, and 5) By 1990 a black student percent-
age reflective of the national percentage of 11-12%.

There are those who would argue that the college was not

given a sufficient amount of time with which to meet these

goals has been met and none of the others have shown any
signs of a progressive trend. For example, in 1984
Davidson College had 52 black students enrolled. We now
have an enrollment of 56 black students. To paraphrase a
line from the recent Racism 101 Forum, at this rate it will
be almost the 2050 before the first goal is ever met. In 1984

Davidson College had 4 black professors. We now have 5
black professors, 3 of whom are visiting and 1 who will be
leaving after this year. In 1884 we had 0 Black Studies
courses and to my knowledge we still do not have any
Black Studies courses. The one goal which has been met
was the placement of a black Dean of Students. I am not
implying, of course, that anyone was actually holding their
breath for these goals to be met in three years, but it seems
that after five years there should be considerably more
evidence of progress.

In conclusion, I feel that until a committed attempt is
made by this institution to increase black enrollment, there
will continue to be frustration, alienation, and even anger
unnecessarily experienced by some of its black students.
Simply having more blacks here will not cure these prob-
lems, but it will definitely be a major step in the right
direction.

If any information found in this commentary is mis-

_ Stated, or if there is any present information which might
goals. However, as of February 23, 1989, only one of these’

iP . . \
counter my assertion, I welcome any form of correction to°
better assess the problem of increasing black enrollment at
Davidson College.

Michael C. Brooks is a sophomore economics major from
Lorton, VA.

RUSH TO DIE from page 12

“YOne such chide! would be to have OPEC oil producing
Arab nations put pressure on the West to bring Rushdie to
apologize or curtail the publishing of the book. What the
Ayatollah’s remarks have done is to further spoil the
reputation of the Arabs in the Western world. As it is, they
are looked upon as terrorists here.’

There was a possibility for the first time in several years
of talks between the PLO and Israel, and a chance for
America to put pressure on Israel for its continued human
rights violations, but the Ayatollah’s decision has painted
the Arabs again as an unpredictable creed of people. In a
Western world where the word “Arab” has become almost
synonymous to being a terrorist, the Ayatollah took a hasty
and:an ‘unnecessarily tadical décision: “°°

eee stands at fault; for he being a Muslim.

_ MEDICAL S

we

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and
fees paid in full—plus earn more than $600 a month while you attend school.

himself knew quite well that the book will not be heralded
by the Muslims anywhere in the world. But his fault is not
grave enough to take him to the grave. Also, there were
better ways of resolving this so called challenge to the
Muslim world. The deaths of rioting Muslims in India,
Pakistan, the storming of the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad,
and now the involvement of the radical Shiite Muslim
faction the Hezbullah [which has taken upon it the task of
eliminating Rushdie], could all have been avoided if the
international Muslim community had taken a more diplo-
matic approach to the matter. Instead, their delayed action
left the issue in the hands of people like the Ayatollah, who

_seems to have taker upon himself the role of being the

“Rambo” of the Islamic world, at a time when we in the
West are getting quite bored of seeing Rambo reruns.

‘Nusrat Khan is a freshman from Pakistan.

6070

VANDALS, from page 1

yard; however, Hassell considers the crime “prank theft”
since more valuable items, like cassette players, were left
alone.

In the advanced painting studios, two students’ finished
paintings were also kicked in and punctured, and thus
totally destroyed.

Hassell contacted both campus security and the county
police since the incident was “a crime.” The police came
and took photographs and fingerprints and have discov-
ered through footprints that three distinct people partici-
pated in the crime.

In the future, Hassell will have Lingle Manor locked
each night and checked regularly by the campus police.
Hassell hopes that since the incidents are “flagrant viola-
tions” of the Honor Code, anyone with any information
about the incidents will report it to the Dean of ‘Students’
office.

and St.

~..Offered.in.cooperation with-Boston University

Literature - History - Politics

OXFORD

MODERN BRITISH STUDIES

Catherine's College, University of Oxford

Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed
Forces Health Professions-Scholarship Program. ~
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the
Army, Navy or Air Force. et ae ie i
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as
a commissioned officer in the Reserves. | :
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical
technology. es pt ;
’ + Sf you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—
and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today.

Modern British Studies. offers upper-level undergraduates a fourteen- ©

week program in Britain's modern literature and culture, social and polit-
ical history, and governmental processes. The program combines
lectures and tutorials that characterize Oxford's 700-year old tradition of
intellectual inquiry.

The program is offered in the fall and spring sessions and includes:
sixteen Boston University semester-hour credits, coursework taught by
faculty from the University of Oxford, centrally located housing, and stu-
dent privileges at St. Catherine's College, one of thirty-five colleges com-
prising the University of Oxford.

Complete the coupon below for detailed information.

better we can respond to your request. (Authority : 10 USC 503). -

Z i ; Name
: @ UB Ser how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program : '
tet YES! ener er aace school expenses. ‘meet the age requirements noted below. City pil State Zip
| di obligation. eda : : College/Uni i
Mil the coupon t to f Armed Fasras, Scholarships, P.0. Box 2865 SE, 14 = - es
: « Huntington Station, NY.11746-2102 i aie A Fall _ Spring 19 i
i Check up to three: C) Army: OO Navy © Alt Force _ i a Bresette pei eae - reid:
‘ ; (18-35 years of age) (21-36 years of age) (18-34 years of age) =~ _.- Send me information about the Boston University Modern British
| gy Please print all information clearly and complete! : ; 2 : Studies Pregram. °° i,
_@.., Es ai. [] Male [Female ~ !
First Middle Initial R:
are. Adress He © Ape ead hie st aes BS,
i +i City. i Hes, State zp EET TI : ; Return wh A
if Phone T_T] [ J at 7] CEETELY soe. sec. No. ET) ae CI Ba Ot 9 romans Bi y ave er ey,
~ * Area Code jum , ‘ —-
: i 725 Commonwealth Avenue B2 :
College Birth ome Cl CT) ; MA 02215 ' 1839 | 1989
| __ Field of Study, Graduation Date co Ci 617/353-9888 SSSR OICKMTSNMIAL,
The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete itis, the z

_An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution

