14

Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

One night last week, I fell asleep reading the lead
article of The Davidsonian. I awoke witha start, and,
in that jumbled state of mind one sometimes
awakes in, I couldn’t remember what school I at-
tended.

All I could remember was what my school’s bas-
ketball ticket policy was:

* 1.Students mustshow up the day before a game
to pick up tickets. If you miss this time, you get no
ticket.

* 2. Faculty and staff are relegated to the strato-
sphere. To get aseatin the same county as the game,
they must shell out for it.

* 3. If my parents want to go to the games, they
must each pay $10.00 or $12.00.

* 4. I can’t easily sit with my parents, my visitors,
or my professors. I have to plan it out far in advance
of the game.

All this information conflicted with what little I
could remember about the college I chose. I vaguely
remembered a sense of community, and I recalled a
perception that students and faculty were impor-
tant, valued members of that community.

But I also remembered that I had class to go to, so
I set about finding out which college I matriculated
at. Since two paragraphs ago I was able to count to
four, Iruled out Clemson and N.C. State. I dimly re-
membered that! went toa small, prestigious school,
so I called Williams College.

The assistant to the athletic director answered my
questions. Yes, they have a brand new athletic facil-
ity, which has cost them about$15 million. Yes, they
were a small liberal arts school. However, she said,
Williams has general admission at its games. Any-
one witha college I.D. is admitted free (faculty, staff,
or student), and those who want to accompany
them must fork over only $3.00.

“Well,” I thought. “This doesn’t sound like the

Carter said. “As long as we have tickets, we give them
to students, even when we are selling them to the
public,” she added. All tickets are $13.00, which is not
a bad price to see a team that perennially has an excel-
lent chance at the NCAA title.

“Whoa! Waita minute!” I thought. “The team at my
school is not that good. They’ re not bad by a long shot,
but saying they’re in the nation’s top ten would be a
wild exaggeration.”

Are the tickets then worth almost as
much as those to a Carolina game? But
there was no time to think about that;
Carolina was clearly not my school.
They obviously havea basketball pro-
gram in the big leagues, with a ticket
policy to match, yet even so, they
seemed to have student interests in
mind more than my own school.

I picked up the phone and ran my
forehead across the Touch-Tone pad.
There wasa ring at the other end. “Duke Uni-
versity,” a voice said. I got in touch with Mike
Cragg, the assistant sports information director. “Do
students need to get their tickets before the games?” I
asked him. No, he said. “They just line up and go in.
Students are along the lower concourse on all four
sides.” Do they have special seats for donors? Yes, he
said. “They have some kind of temporary seating...
folding chairs along the sidelines or something.”
Duke's seating plan works well for the team, too, said
‘Mr. Cragg. “It was started a long time ago and they
keep going... we obviously have a home court advan-
tage when the place gets a little loud”

I said that the arrangements seemed quite attentive
to student concerns. Mr. Cragg seemed surprised.

“Well, they are the ones in school. If it wasn’t for
them, we wouldn’t be doing all this,” he said.

“Well, thank you,” I said. “Obviously, I can rule out

school I go to.” I bumped into a

Duke.”

wall pondering this and sud-
denly remembered that 1 went to
school in North Carolina. “Well,
that certainly narrows it down,”

but it

Money may talk,

Perhaps I had called
the wrong UNC cam-
pus. I rang up Barry

J
doesn’t cheer. Preuphon UNecChae

I said to myself. So I called the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Jane Carter, the assistant ticket manager, an-
swered. She told me that Carolina students have
three opportunities before the game to get tickets.
Each Sunday during the season, they distribute
tickets for two or so games. They are randomly as-
signed, meaning that the first person in line may
only geta mediocre ticket. This keepsstudents from
camping out for weeks to get good tickets. The
tickets are then distributed for two more days be-
fore they are sold to the public. Even then, the
students’ chances fora ticket are not exhausted, Ms.

lotte’s assistant ticket
manager. UNCC plays its home games at the Char-
lotte Coliseum, Mr. Draughon said. Students ‘start
picking up their tickets two daysin advance. They can
get tickets on campus until 3:00 p.m. on game day, at
which point they can pick them up at the Coliseum
itself. A parent or non-student friend can use one of
the eight $2.00 guest passes UNCC issues to each
student. They can then sit in the student section with
their host. Regular tickets are $6.00, $8.00, or $9.00,
said Mr. Draughon.

UNCC has been forced into assigning seats at all by
the powers that be at the Charlotte Coliseum. “We

Yeah, I go to Willi..., ah, Duk..., uh, Chapel Hi..., um....

Welcome to Davidson's brave new world.

would love to have general admission, but the coli-
seum tells us what we can and can’t do,” Mr.
Draughon said. “They have a strict policy of one
person, one seat. If we had a facility on campus,
where we could control it, we would have general
admission.”

I thanked Mr. Draughonand hung up. Suddenly,

the Column-Is-Getting-Too-Long Fairy
swooped in and whispered “Davidson!”
in my ear.

“Davidson! Of course!” I ex-
claimed. A flood of memories
sweptacross my mind, All kinds
of domes swept through, actu-
ally: Chambers’ Dome, Terry’s

Dome, and Kuykendall’s

Dome.

I called Shawn O'Rourke,
Davidson’s ticket manager. He ex-
plained that the rules were needed
in the new Belk Arena since those who

bought season tickets need to sit in the Same
seats every gamein the new gym. Why? Because the
seats were sold to them by the development office
to pay for the complex.

It seems that Davidson is entering a new era with
the Baker Sports Complex, an era in which the
students and faculty are swept aside so the devel-
opment office can lick the toes of wealthy contribu-
tors who mistakenly think they went to Chapel Hill
or Duke.

Itseems that we need a ticket policy worthy of the
Charlotte Hornets to pay the rent on the Arena. We
have to run away from the intimacy and social.at-
mosphere that we have had in the past. Coach Bob
McKillop wants us tosupport the team asif we were
Duke fans, but if all us students are crammed into
one end of thearena, all we’re going to succeed in is_
making everyone deaf in one ear.

. Welcome to Davidson’s brave new world. Sixty
years of basketball teams were inspired toward ex-
cellence by the cheers of their fellow students, butit
seems that what we now need on the sidelines is
empty seats that are kept warm only by corporate
sponsorships or large donations. Money may talk,
but it doesn’t cheer.

The development office has sold the soul of our
basketball program. It’s no longer said about stu-
dents here that: “Well, they are the ones in‘school.
Ifit wasn’t for them, we wouldn’t be doing all this,”
as it is at Duke; instead, we are referred to. as “com-
plimentary tickets,” an annoying line item that will
mess up the books if left unchecked. If all this is
needed to pay for the Baker Sports: Complex, then
this college doesn’t need the Baker Sports Complex.

Do we have to destroy the game to save it?

In as little as One hour.

few of our

20619 Torrence C

Lake
1 hr. Photo Inc.

Cornielius, NC

HOURS: M-F 10-8

PICTURE PERFECT PROCESSING

Portraits, Black &
White, Slides,
Copying Old Prints,
Enlargements are a

We offer a 24 hour
drop box and
welcome commercial

Free Second Prints

fl (Luinit two rolls with this ad)
Only For Davidson Students With Valid Davidson I.D.

Southlake Shopping Center
Between Roses and Harris Teeter

(704) 892-5400

A Little Bit Faster...A Whole Lot Better

6 ‘T
qf

: MEANS
STYLE,
High Quality FASHION
Developing, FLAIR,

QUALITY.
SERVICE.”

services.

accounts.

hapel Rd.

S, Ay OIR—|. ve

28031 = :
Clothiers Spore 8 the Green 1-77/Exit 28
Sat. 10-5 For Cornelius, NC Right at McDonald's o
Women 704.892.9881 Torrence Chapel Riad

