14

Wednesday, December 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Racism: Give Davidson a chance

Ismat Husain

lam writing this article in response to the recent bad
publicity that Davidson has gotten ir both The
Davidsonian and The Charlotte Observer.

Firstly, I am neither black nor white. I have lived in
both the continent of Africa (15 years) where whites
are minority and blacksa majority andin England and
North America (four years) where whites are a major-
ity and blacksarea minority. I have had neighbors and
good friends of both races. The point is that I am
writing this article unbiased and froma neutral zone.

I would first like toaddress the statement of purpose
from the Black Student Coalition delivered to the
school through the Student Government Association.
It demanded more black and Hispanic students and
professors and a curriculum in ethnic studies. It also
stated that in the last 17 years little development has
been made by the school for blacks in sharp contrast to
developments made by the school for international
studies and women.

To begin with, the statement sounded more like a
threatening ultimatum than a statement of purpose.

Secondly, the demand for more black professors and
black students is racist itself. The only reason they are
being asked for (as opposed to others) is their race. I
thinkwhat is needed more than black professors and
black students is open-minded professors and open-
minded students (which includes blacks).

By demanding specifically black professors and
black students, the BSC has made the enormous as-
sumption that just because they are black, they are
going to be open-minded. Both professors and stu-
dents should be accepted regardless of their race. To
my knowledge, Davidson has not violated this rule,
and the BSC has not shown evidence of violations.

Prejudices exist everywhere in every society. Even
in Zambia, Africa, many times non-whites would
have their cars smashed, cameras stolen and houses
robbed by blacks for the only reason that they were not
black (true Zambians).

1 am not condoning racism, only recognizing it as a
consequence of being human.

I speak to all minority students (black, brown, fat,
handicapped) when] say we can’tand should not wait
for the school to meet our needs because we will be
waiting forever. As long as there is room for us to
change and be better people (and there alwaysis since

no one is perfect), that is what we should strive for.
And by doing just this, we will simultaneously be
changing the people around us.

In the same manner, Davidson can change too.
Although the rate and areas in which it is changing
leaves much to be desired, I believe it is changing for
the better. Davidson College was the first in America
to have the unique Love of Learning program, where
black high-school students are paid $200 for the
month of July every summer from ninth grade to
twelfth grade so that they can be better prepared for
not only Davidson but any college. Four black stu-
dents from that program are today freshmen at
Davidson.

Although I have had my share of setbacks,
Davidson College has been a great institution for me.
I have learned not only about the world and other
people but have also gotten to know myself. [have had
a good education, have been allowed to be the first
international student hall counselor and have made
life-long friends at Davidson. For this and more, | am
thankful to Davidson.

Ismat Husain is a senior physics major from Zambia.

Return to English ale: Goodbye Davidson

Adam Smith

Eighteen weeks is hardly long enough to live
amongst those eager 1,400 students who attend
Davidson College. Moveover, those who gave Mina
Fazel, Kate Raworth and I the incredible opportunity
of this “holiday of a lifetime” should not only be
hugged, kissed and blessed, but also shot. Being torn
away from a community that has become my home is
more than just difficult; flying back to England and
leaving the new routine and familiarity of rural
America is going to be as big a nightmare as this beer-
drinking British thug has ever experienced. Some-
thing, though, tells me not to be sad, for all but one or
twoof the memories from Davidson will be fond ones,
and this final article is dedicated to all of you who have
helped me through the greatest time of my life.

Of course, I have been in a distinctly different situ-
ation than most of you: I’m English, you’re American;
I came to party, you came to graduate; I’m leaving,
you're not. But that has made it special for me and
with a little pressure (that only being to avoid com-
plete embarrassment with my grades) on me, I have
had the chance which I have always wanted—to live
life and mesh into the fun of culture strange to my
own. No one would ever welcome me in such a
friendly manner in London, no one would allow me
such freedom in work, no one would know where to
introduce me to Ugandians or Nepalese, and no one
would let me roam and party to the extent that I have
been lucky enough to do here.

The upperclass Internationals were the first to warn
me not to integrate myself purely with non-Ameri-
cans, but instead to find the correct mixture necessary
to make the most of staying in such a unique society.
That is, hope, what I have done, for my time has been
in America and nowhere else. However, meeting the
Germans, Indians, and such has broadened my mind,

and from hanging around Jose my sense of humor has
certainly been altered. Many have much in common
with me, many are slowly becoming Americanized
(Debolina changes to Debbie; Jean Phillipe to JP), and
allare experiencing animmensely enjoyable life in this
warm environment.

And yes, the warmth of the Davidson atmosphere is
provided by y’all. The hospitable South has been very

inviting, and I hope that those that I have. had the -

pleasure of being with befriend the three invading
Brits who are coming in January. Those that are com-
ing to London next term might experience slightly
more of a “culture shock” than I have, for the English
are areservedrace,and the Americans, thankfully, are
not.

You have made me feel part of the college from day
one (and my first introductions to Matt Gantt and
Warner Wells), and I’ve felt that whether intermin-
gling with freshmen or teachers, ithas been unusually
easy. The simplicity, too, of getting involved in the
college television, radio and newspaper, not to men-
tion the indoor FOOTBALL is to be commended. In

fact, it seems to me that those here know when to

work, and when to play—the opportunity for both is
certainly available.

Webb Garrison, Joe Mavis and Ken Lane have
proved invaluable mates, and I fully support their
adventurous and exciting move to resurrect the Phi
Gamma Delta Fraternity. Let’s hope that when I drop
by Davidson, this little group of people will be thriv-
ing on Patterson Court, along with the other fraterni-
ties and eating houses that have been the major partof
my dwelling on campus—thanks especially to the
Kappa Sigs for their comedy hour, the Phi Delts for
getting my mate from England totally wasted at Hal-
loween, and the Pikas for the everflowing beer. First
East Belk housed me for much of the termand no T-C,

our football will always be better than your rubbish!
Fourth Cannon deserves a special mention. But my

heart really goes out to the greatest hall—at the top of
Richardson. Sarah, Bethan, Nethea, Kym, Jenny,
Suzie, and the rest of my pals—I love you all, and will
miss you terribly. Where will I sleep now? Where will
I get my blankets? But to those who doubt that I ever
had anassigned room—I mightinform you I most cer-
tainly do, and if my roommate was not so cool I might
well be tempted not to venture down that terrifyingly
long hill to Akers at 3:30 every morning. Arindam,
you’re the greatest and take care of Maja, but please
stop snoring.

Icommend all of you who are actually trying to get
A’sevenifIdon’tseem to, when going intothelibrary,
merely to find someone tochat with, or todiscoverany
information as to the whereabouts of the nearest
party. Yet I also love alf of who do party hard—and I
apologize toall of themif they canneyer find me sober,
butlet’s face it—I had to enjoy myself. By the time you
read thisarticle, I will probably have made a complete
fool of myself as one fothe Rolling Stones at the Air
Band, but I don’t mind, because I won’t be able to
remember anything anyway! I just hope you'll re-
member me—in whatever way you want to; I have
tried toreturnsome of theentertainment you’ve given
me with my voice, my ansaphone messages and the
case of English ale which was mainly devoured while
partying on Richardson Field with some prospective
called Walter.

However much you want to, you won't be able to
getrid of meand my antics for long though—t hope to
be back ina few months. Prepare the parties, order the
kegs, bring back the band “Noun Rationale,” and
Joe—please prepare the motor toroad-trip to Georgia.
You don’t realize how much I appreciate everything
you’ve done for me—please keep in touch, and take
care. Remember, work hard and party hard; it’sa great
combination.

Adam Smith is a Rusk Scholar from London,
England.

‘its readers. The editors will attempt to rin
that adhere to the following gui elines:

* Allsbmison shoud ‘ with ui

