Friday March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Library of Davidson College

Important News About the Library for
All Davidson Students

| Many changes} in the Library have happened or will happen during the remaining weeks of school.
Highlights are listed below. :
You are responsible for knowing about the changes.
Our goal is to make more of the materials available for you more of the time in an environment
which is apprcpriate for study and research.

Change #1: Amnesty Week - April 3-7—Monday 8 a.m.-Friday 12 p.m.
For this week only, any book which is overdue, regardless of how long it is overdue, may be returned
without any fine being charged. This is the first time in 150 years this has been offered... and probably

! the last. Take advantage of it now.
Change #2: Books from the geiernl collection will be charged-out for

4 weeks rather than 2 weeks. (Starting March 27th)
Change #3: Overdue fines for regular books (as of eeertl 8th) will be
25 cents per day, no maximum.
Change #4: Overdue fines for reserve books (as of April 8th) will be
_ 25 cents per hour, no maximum. 7

Change : #5: Service charge increased to me 00 for any 10U sent to the
| nets ‘Comptroller for eollection. es Se. : >
Change. #6: Soft drink and. frocks manakiries have: béen instatied 3 in the

Smoking Room, 2nd Floor, on a trial basis.

Drinks and food must be purchased/consumed in that room, not brought. into the ibeaee Tf they are
taken out of the room, the machines will be, too! Violators will be reported. Smoking is still allowed in the
Smoking Room, 24 Hour Room, and | Group Study Rooms. No saestdates eapacens is allowed in the Li-

brary anywhere, anytime.
ES pune. #7: Students making noise in the LADEAEY may be asked to leave,

» the building and may be reported. :

~] will be meeting with the SGA and other groups on campus in the wads ahead to woul: on rth problem.
_And make no mistake, itis a problem. I hope that you will want to be part of the solution, not the prob-
lem. We do not want to have to resort to hiring security guards to monitor the building. A solution ase be
found. And we welcome and encourage your perenperon in eee it.

LOS TB OOKS: Picnsé keep an eye out for them on- campus and bring them back to the Library.. abe not
_ checked out, reference books, andbound periodicals. =~ :

a My office # on the main floor (NE corner near tie elevator), there i is a suggestion box

on the reference desk, my phone extension is 1837, and the Library post office box is
eae Let n me nee from you about these matters or any others which affect. zhe

3 Pigiely and its usefulness to hess :

|

| ‘Leland M. Park’63°
_ Library Director

