Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Black History Month

Review.

te

~~ News Shorts

Tutoring available in Dean’s office

The Dean of Students office has devised a way ‘to obtain a tutor in any subject, _
regardless of ability to pay. Seek help now before it’s too late. Contact Stone Bynum — talk
or Mrs. Atcha the Dew s Office for details.

Gates, a on Tuesday, Feb. 7 in the 900. Room. It begins at 7:30 p.m, Sasa ership Is. ] ields i
Professor at Cornell University and the general editor of The Norton Anthology of — Bets
_ Afro-American paste He siey eae ney Asie rae Sesayigains

Th 2 moe aa eS ee

i Re See

AIDS follow-up

Beyond Davidson: International News

Kabul embassy shut; W. Germans vote in former SS officer

By BETH DRUMMOND
and CAROL GATEWOOD

AFGHANISTAN: On Monday the United
States fomally closed its embassy in Kabul,
Afghanistan. Citing fears of a breakdown
in “law and order’ as a result of the with-
drawal of Soviet troops, Secretary of State
James Baker made the final decision to
close the embassy’ Air activity remains
intense although Soviet troop pullout is
scheduled to end by mid-February.

WEST GERMANY: Election results in
West Berlin for the city Parliament

shocked citizens when the far-right Repub-
lican Party won 11 seats in the 144-member
legislative body. This gain means that for
the fist time the extremist party will have
seats in the regional legislature and the
national Parliament in Bonn. The Republi-
can Party is led by a former SS officer.

SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR: In
the past two months terrorist attacks by the
FLMN (The Farabundo Marti National
Liberation Front) have grown, as marked
by the killing of ten provincial mayors and
a car bombing January 21 that killed one
civilian and injured two others. Such ac-

Feb. 23 meeting

New faces include: Ariail, Belk,

Allied Health

tions by the FMLN have led to dissension
between this military rebel group and other
political leftists.

Many leftist politicians returned to El
Salvador a year ago under the aegis of the
Arias Peace Plan and its guarantee of
amnesty. Functioning under the title of the
Democratic Convergence, these leaders
hope to improve political life in El Salva-
dor through the electoral process as op-
posed to violent insurrection.

The convergence has had a difficult alli- ©

ance with the FMLN, and it fears that the
rebel group’s recent violent actions are

~ By GARY WHEELER
"Davidson College will have
_ several new trustees at the Feb-
ruary 23-24 meeting. :
Four of the new trustees have
already been named, a fifth is

in at the at the meeting and
several more at-large members
are expected to be selected.

Ariail, Jr. 64 from Lorton, Va.,

expected to be officially voted

The new trustees are John.

ih eda Willingham

eee

Thomas M. Belk of Charlotte,

cally a budget mecting:”

RUSK, from page 1

ample, as a Rhodes Scholar, he watched the
Reichstag being taken away on buses by
the Nazis.

As Secretary of State in 1961, Rusk
chose the 78th parallel as the dividing line
between North and South Korea. He ad-
vised then president John F. Kennedy dur-
ing several crises, including the Cuban
Missile Crisis.

Twenty years later, Papp believes that
the retired statesman’s political views have
remained solid, yet he remains receptive to
new ideas, The key to Rusk’s outstanding
career is a belief in a high-paced work
ethic, says Papp.

Papp has authored and edited several
books. His articles have been published i in
Current History and Soviet Union. Rusk’s
autobiography book will be published by
W.W. Norton. Papp’s lecture was spon-
sored by a grant from the Ford Motor
Company.

TUX RENTALS

FORMALS BY
Miami Vice © After Six © Raffinati © Bill Blass
Pierre Cardin © Christian Dior © Lord West

Yves Saint Laurent
MANY TUXES ON DISPLAY (ACCESSORIES AVAILABLE)
Also

FORMALS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

Proms © Weddings © Formals
Order Early

Al Occasion Bhop

Town Square, Cornelius

892-9129
Wide Selection © Low Prices
Hometown Service

threatening the diplomatic process and
potential votes in the March 19 presidential
elections. Recent polls indicate that Guill-
ermo Ungo, the Convergence presidential
candidate, is third in a race field of six. If
Ungo maintains this place and the first
round election has no absolute majority,
leftists may win some legitimate power
roles in the Salvadoran government.

Presently the U.S. and the Salvadoran
government and military refuse to fully
accept the “democratic commitment” of
the Convergence until it breaks its ties to
the FMLN.

BECAUSE YOU
DESERVE ITI!

i
|
I
|
|
Professionals
| |
The Air Force can make

former Davidson dean of ad: eS ‘ ; |

cde you an attractive offer — out-
“missions James P. Hendrix, Jr. standing com nsation plus : FREE TANNING SESSION é |
"63 from Raleigh, and Carol C. opportunities for profess | Single Session $4 | Manicure $10 |
Willingham °77 of Raleigh. development. You can have a | Ten Sessions $30 Acrylics $40 © |
Belk and Willingham were challenging practice and time | Unlimited Month $40 Fills $20—s |
both former trustees who have — to spend with your vil deg | M-F 10-6 |
been reactivated. According to you serve your country. Find out | SAT 10-5 |
Sally Robinson, assistant to what the Air Force offers. Call | SUN 1-5 l
: peace pee eras TSGT WILL WILBURN Feserttaceea 10% Discount with student ID |
-. scheduled for Pot this 704-377-1812 | ONE COUPON PER PERSON |

month is expected to be “basi- STATION-TO-STATION COLLECT

COLLEGE GRADUATES
Put your education to work—become a

‘ La ) > 9)
‘The Career for the 90’s
at The National Center for Paralegal Training

© Oldest and largest graduate level ABA-approved
program in the Southeast

¢ Employment assistance—over 1,000 employers in 38

er’s Assistant

states have hired our graduates

¢ 3 month day program with housing available
© 7 month evening program

© Diversified Curriculum—specialize in Litigation;

Corporations, or Real Estate and Probate—including
“Computers in the Practice of Law”

Thursday, March 30, 1:00 - 5:00

Meet with our representative

at the College Placement Office

The National Center for
800-223-2618 In Georgia, cal 404-266-1060

Paralegal Training

3414 Peachtree Rd, NE Atlanta, GA:

Name

Pease seni ie ROO SPU Eater te eee

Address

City
College

State _ Zip
Yr. Grad.

Phone: DAY (__)- Ss EVENING)

22

