Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A ¥,
2

a

PS

45

eA

a

eee
me

a

Sophomore Annissa Patton heads for the finish line.

Track and Field

OMNES

Photo by Alex Hayden

Individuals shine in Davidson-Ridgeview relays

Kirch sets school record with 52.30 meter javelin toss

By MARK D, PUCKETT

Davidson finished eighteenth out of
twenty-four teams in the Davidson-
Ridgeview Relays recently. The team, few
in number and hindered by injury, saw
strong performances from many.

Eric Kirch jettisoned the javelin 52.30
meters in his first collegiate meet placing

On the ro. ad again

third and setting a new school record. An-
issa Patton became the second fastest
woman in Davidson history when she ran
:13.02 in the semis of the 100 meter. She
placed third in the final race.

Other shiners were Jay Clugston and
Chris Otrok. Clugston ran a personal best in
the 4 x 1600 meter relay with a 4:29 mile.

Otrok finished fifth in the 5,000 meter.
“[Otrok] slowly rounded himself back into
shape after mono and astress fracture earlier
in the year,” said Coach Gary Andrew.
Although Maureen Harris didn’t place,
she achieved a seasonal best in the discus
(27.12 m). Kathy Beach motored to a sixth
place finish in the 3,000 meter with 11:03.94

A tale from the club lacrosse team

By BEN TREGOE

To play the University of Tennessee was
the reason for going, which was precisely
the reason for not going for many of the
members of the Davidson club lacrosse
team. However, the 17 of us, 14 players and
three beauteous managers, rolled into Kn-
oxville late last Friday, and discovered that
Knoxville is truly the party center of the
South. Not only was there a bopping sock

BASEBALL, from page 8

deep, opposite field drive that set off loud
celebrations in the Davidson dugout and in
the stands as it cleared the fence with plenty
of room to spare. For the game, Holland and
Isernia led the Cats with two hits apiece.

At Clemson, Davidson jumped out to a 3-
0 lead in the first, but Clemson tied it in the
third and went ahead to stay with a five-run
fourth. Clemsonripped Wildcat pitching for
eighteen hits, including nine for extra bases,
while the Cats managed only six hits, Az-
zolino (2 doubles) and Livesey accounting
for four of them with two apiece.

hobisoasonéd by tie Aniericin Agsiclstlon
of Retired Persons, but the Radisson’s
bar-JD’s—our favorite Knoxville watering
hole, was rocking the night away under the
party wizardry of Ken the bartender.

The short drive to Knoxville was a blurry
spring with frequent stops. The happy-to-
go-lucky managers, Marlo Cobb, Liz
Clarke and the bladderless Courtney
Nichols, set the festive. malted spirit

Davidson then sandwiched a 7-6 victory
over Pfeiffer among three rain outs last
Thursday (April 6). The Wildcats held a 6-
5 lead going into the ninth. Pfeiffer managed
to eke outarun off ace reliever Wanzenberg
on one hit, a walk, and two hit batters to tie
the score.

Holland led off the bottom of the ninth
witha double in the left fieldcomer, starting
a game winning rally as he had done in the
Duke game. Livesey came up with one out

.and was the heroashe lineda shotoff the left

field fence, just missing a home run. But it
was good enough for a double to drive i in
Holland and win the game.

Today the Cats travel to Winston-Salem

quickly. Later that evening a couple of the
managers convinced a couple of players to

turn in early, but the rest of us, were mes-

merized by the fast pace and septuagenarian
antics of JD’s patrons. Seth Force, Dave
Smyth and Robbie Huber capped the night
off by trying to intimidate some of the locals

See LAX, page 12

to take on Wake Forest in a 3 p.m. game.

Davidson then has a big weekend of base-
ball action at Wildcat Park. It begins on
Friday with a2 p.m. game against Wingate
and continues with a doubleheader on Satur-
day with Winthrop which starts atnoon. The
busy weekend concludes with a long trip to
Coastal Carolina on Sunday.

Make plans to bring your friends and
family out to enjoy some fine baseball and
have an overall good time. We appreciate
your support. See you there on Wednesday,
Friday, and Saturday!

NOTES: Azzolino has a seven game hit-
ting streak, while Holland’s streak stands at

six...Livesey, Azzolino, and Aoki lead the .

Andrew said, “Kathy has a good chance of
getting a school record in the 1,500 meter
this year. She set an indoor record in the
3,000 meter at the Virginia Tech meet.”

Andrew also spoke about the steady de-
liverance of Anissa Patton and Jay Clug-
ston. “Anissa has fought pain in her back
from the beginning, but she managed to set
a school record in the 60 meter dash at
Virginia Tech with a time of :07.75. Jay has
set personal best records in several events.”
Clugston’s consistent running prowess has
made him the fourth fastest performer at
Davidson ever.

“It’s been a learning experience.” says
team captain Bob Cornish. “With a small
squad it’s difficult to really have team goals,
but we’ve managed to concentrate on per-
sonal ones.”

The women’s team has a tentatively
scheduled meetin the coming weeks. All the
while, the team plugs on dauntlessly—run-
ning and throwing and jumping.

team in hitting after 22 games. All three are
right around .300... Krnacik is 8-9 in stolen
bases... The Wildcats have outhomered their
opponents, 9-7. Azzolino and Mark Weir
are tied for the team lead at three...Holland
leads the team with nine doubles...The Cats
have outscored their opponents in the first
two innings, 43-26...Five former Wildcats
are now playing in professional ball. Dave
Turgeon and Billy Masse are in the Yan-
kees’ system, Alan Lewis is at Vero Beach
for the Dodgers, Dave Fitzgerald is in the
Brewer organization, and Dan Simondsisat
Frederick (Md.) for the Orioles after spend-
ing spring training on the major rage
forty-man roster,

