sports

The Davidsonian
Thursday, January 26, 1989

By LARRY SLEDGE
~ As the end of the IMAC basketball
regular season approaches, divisional
play has begun to heat up. In the
Women’s Division, all teams qualify
for the tournament, and everyone is
jockeying for better tournament seed-
ings. Brant’s Beauties came away with

topping the Wild, Wild 4th 25-10.
Elizabeth Byne led the Beauties with
11 points. Anya McDonald poured in
14 points in the second half to help the

17. The Insatiables improved their

- record to 4-0 and await a showdown
with he only other undefeated team,
Judy Krenzer’s Old Women, ina battle
for the number one seed and a first
round tournament bye.

Only two games appeared on this
week’s slate in A-league action. The
first match-up pitted KA’s Really Nice
Guys against BSC’s Cool Breeze.
Nice Guys A.J. Morgan (27 points)
and Cal Shay (17 points) proved to be
too much for the undermanned Cool

“bi Lites

Teams move into.
final stretch, look
toward tournaments

their first victory of the season by

Insatiables crush the Wild Things 52-.

‘Simple Columnar Hoops obliterated

Breeze,asKA raced away with 265-34
victory. In the other game, 2nd Little’s
powerhouse N.U.B.Z. narrowly es-
caped Pika’s Teabagger’s, as the fresh-
men got a 50-44 win. Tim Kerns of
N.U.B.Z led all scorers with 24.
B-league basketball has 39 teams
this year. Soon that field will be
trimmed to 16 for the tournament,
making every game crucial. The
B.M.F’s used a balanced scoring at-
tack, led by Steve Niff’s 9 points to
edge the Erectors 35-34, and save their
unblemished record (5-0), with one
game remaining. Two of B.M.F.’s
previous victims also came away with
victories. The Swishing Gerbil Pack
beat the Lewis Mattisons 59-35 behind.
19 points from Mike Maggart, and

Fetal Attraction 74-41. The Gerbils
and Hoops, both 3-1, meet Sunday,
January 29, at 9:00 p.m. in the game of
the week. Jerryés Kids blasted Glad-
heator Once 55-18, behind Steve
Child’s 21 points, rounding out the
week’s action.

In Good Health

Weekend alternatives for
scromping/hookage

By MARK PUCKETT
For the Rampant Midwinter Date :

Perusing the magazine rack at a conven-
ience store recently, I thumbed through a
Playboy. | happened upon a page of data
about scromping.

Apparently, scromping with a person
you know, i.e. someone you are involved
with in a relationship, burns 120 calories.
Scromping with a stranger, i.e. one-night
renegade with somebody you don’t know,
burns over 200 calories.

Although these numbers vary from part-
ner to partner, there is no doubt about the
beneficial aerobic effects of scromping. It
even builds endurance while toning stom-
ach muscles and strengthening your lower

back.

If, however, you practice some unsafe
mode of scromping, you cancel any posi-
tive bodily edification you might have

achieved. You also risk acquiring a series
of debilitating French diseases. Therefore,
applaud (clap) your weekend odyssey of
fornication, but wear a raincoat and rubbers
if you value your existence.

For the Midwinter Safety Date:

This weekend teems with options for the
non-lecherous. Other than the usual Union
activities (movies, SGG&L, midnight

See SCROMP, page 7

Davidson loses “‘revenge
game” against Campbell

By LARRY DAGENHART

It was the same old thing. The stands at
Johnston gym were only half full and
Davidson lost its seventh game out of its
last eight to Campbell University, 63-50.

The Wildcats were seeking to avenge
their loss at Campbell earlier this month. In
that game, the Camels took Davidson's
lead right at the end.

The Cats (5-14) led only one time during
this rematch, 22-20, in the first half.
Davidson lost any momentum it ever had in
the final seconds of the first half as a missed
shot by Campbell was followed by the
Camels’ Brad Childress to give them a 27-
22 lead at halftime.

In the second half, Campbell stretched its

lead to 10, and Davidson would get no
closer than five as Jay Schmitt and Bruce
Elder scored a driving layup and a three-
pointer on consecutive possessions to make
the score 52-47.

The Wildcats, who shot a horrible 38
percent for the game, came up empty on
their next seven possessions thanks to vari-
ous turnovers and missed shots. They
managed only one basket in the last three
and a half minutes-—a desperation 3-
pointer by Elder, who led Davidson scoring
with 14 points. Bill Sellers was the only
other Cat in double figures with 10.

In a late game tonight, the Wildcats play
away at Florida International and will be at
Central Florida this Saturday night.

Senior Bil: Sellers towers over the defense and slams two for the Wildcats against
Campbell.

Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Don't Despair

This year’s isis will produce next year’s victories

By BRUCE NEWSOME Magic Gaines and Dick Seideloff iors Derek Rucker and Jeff Himes team. On Saturday against North-
While players, coaches and _ the bench along with freshmen aloneprovided50%oftheoffense erm Illinois, Gray found the range
fans are no doubt disappointed by Paul Drobnitch and Paul last year. Of this year’s juniors, on his rifle shot and collected 16
this year’s basketball record of 5- Denmond. At one point in Mon- none averaged double figures last points off the bench. Hunter has
14, there is hope for the future. day’s Campbell game, Davidson yeareventhoughSchmitt,Hunter also been hot in several games and
This year’s squad is quite had three freshman and two jun- and Gray all started. Gray led the _can hit the three-pointer.

young and inexperienced. Lately,
Coach Bobby Hussey has been
starting senior Bill Sellers, jun-
iors Jay Schmitt and Alan Hunter
and freshmen Bruce Elder and

Sterling Freeman. Hussey has ~

been bringing juniors Mo Gray, -

iors on the floor together. This
inexperience has been evident in
several close games _ that
Davidson has not been able to
win. <

The juniors did not have to
contribute heavily last year. Sen-

class with an eight point-per-
game average.

The juniors have, however,
proven that they can _ score.
Schmitt played well in the Con-
necticut Mutual Classic and was
named to the all-tournament

However, none of these three
have been able to score well con-
sistently like Rucker and Himes
did last year. Hopefully, these
three along with Seidel and
Gaines, if Coach Hussey would
ever play them more than a few

minutes at a time, will learn to be
dependable scorers.

This year’s freshmen were
highly recruited and have tremen-
dous potential. One recruiting
expert ranked this class as the best
in the Southern Conference. Elder
and Denmond have both shown
that they can score in the college
game, as Elder got 24 points

See HOPE, page 7

