10
If you want good sex...

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Either easy sex isn’t quite so natural as Michael
pretends, or it isn’t as satisfying as his lyrics suggest

John Eckbert

It’s natural; it’s chemical.

It’s logical, habitual.

It’s sensual, but most of all,

Sex is something we should do.

Sex is natural; sex is good.

Not everybody does it,

Not everybody should.

Sex is natural; sex is good.

Sex is best when it’s...one on one.

George Michael isan honest man. I respect him for -

that. He dares to pronounce clearly and succinctly
what many people pursue in practice but couch in
romantic euphemisms when courting prospective
partners. While I value Michael’s bluntness, I funda-
mentally disagree with the implications of his song.
Indeed, his message is internally contradictory. He
asserts that sex is the natural extension of superficial
relationships where there is physical attraction. He
further suggests that such indulgence completes and
enhances the relationship, somehow satisfying both
involved. However obvious this may appear to Mi-
chael, it so eludes the woman he is pursuing that he
feels compelled to write a song to persuade her about
it. Or, perhaps more likely, he simply employs it as a
technique for finding a bed-fellow for the night. Either
easy sex isn’t quite so natural as Michael pretendsit to
be, or it isn’t as satisfying as his lyrics suggest.

Is promiscuity as satisfying as it’s made out to be?
Ofcourse it feels great, but is it fulfilling, really? Think
about it. It seems to me that there can be two motiva-
tions for sleeping around. First, there’s the George
Michael approach of seeking self-gratification, getting
good sex simply for the high. So long as both people
are similarly motivated, this may seem a justifiable
positions! will argue later, however, that this ap-
proach defies the very premise of sex and conse-
quently fails in the pursuit of good sex.

Significantly, it conflicts with the second motiva-
tion for promiscuity: some people seek to affirm their
self-worth by others’ acceptance of them physically.
Insecurities may temporarily subside as physical ac-
ceptance proves one’s worthiness. The doubts of our
weaknesses diminish as the abandon of unconditional
physical acceptance captures the mind. I must be intel-
ligent, beautiful/ handsome, popular, after
all for this to be happening. This approach to sex
encourages promiscuity as each new partner rein-
forces one’s self-worth while previous partners fail to
provide that acceptance as their willingness to have
sex has already been demonstrated. Notice sex is no
longer the focus, it has become a mere means to
affirming self-worth. The very nature of promiscuity
proves that this. self-affirmation cannot be found in
physical relationships. THe temporary relief gives
way to the same doubts that plagued the mind before,
requiring further reinforcement. Physical acceptance,
even by the bestand brightest, cannot deliver a lasting
sense of self-worth. Promiscuity is a search for some-
thing you never find in the places you look.

Sex is the apex of the physical expression of love.
Physically, you cannot give anything more intimate,
more precious, more unique than sex. A mystery
surrounds it, defying expression, explanation, or
analysis. A treasure of incomparable beauty, sex is the
ultimate physical gift human beings can give one
another. Indeed, sex naturally produces one of the
profound mysteries of existence, the creation of new
life. That which expresses complete physical accep-
tance, also proves to be the genesis of offspring. The
pain of giving birth and the joy of a new-born child
begin with sex. Sex, therefore, merits the utmost re-
spect as both the physical expression of love between
two adult partners and the creation of new life.

Relationships may entail a number of different
aspects in varying degrees of intensity. We human
beings have emotional, intellectual, spiritual and
physical needs that we long to have fulfilled. In seek-
ing to satiate these basic needs, we overcome the
initial anxiety of making friends so that.we can both

receive the nourishment of fellowship and give that
gift in return. Each relationship evolves to reflect the
needs of each individual and the ability of the two to
meet those needs. Trust and commitment become
more and more important as the intensity of the
relationship increases.

The physical aspect of a relationship can
strengthen or undermine it. Relationships that re-
volve around the physical aspect fail to satisfy for the
reasons discussed above. In letting another person
know you, fulfilling your emotional, intellectual, and
spiritual needs, you become vulnerable, opening
yourself up to love and acceptance as well as hurt and
rejection. As two people grow closer to one another,
relying on each other to satisfy certain needs, the
physical aspect may progress faster, slower, or simul-
taneously with the rest of the relationship.

There is a beautiful symmetry to the relationship
in which the physical relationship reflects the extent of
emotional, psychological, intellectual and spiritual
commitment. And while the physical aspect can ulti-

mately serve to undermine a relationship in which it
either outpaces or lagsbehind the rest, itaddsa unique
beauty that enhances and enforces a relationship
when pursued in proportion. Sex, the ultimate physi-
cal commitment, represents a similar commitment
and exclusivity in the other aspects of the relationship.
As sex naturally produces children and symbolizes
the greatest physical gift possible, the type of commit-
ment that includes sex assumes the greatest emo-
tional, intellectual, psychological and spiritual com-
mitment possible, that of marriage.

Sex is natural, good, and sensual. But itis somuch
more than that. It is the beautiful expression of the
lifelong commitment a man and a woman make to
become one flesh; to love andcherish, in sickness and
in health, for richer or for poorer, until death. What a
tragedy to devalue so precious a gift.

John Eckbert is a senior political philosophy major form
Winter Park, FL.

FRATERNITY, from page 13

agree and support this statement as he was a proud
brother of ALPHA PHI ALPHA Fraternity.

The fourth point is in reference to the statement,
“you will probably not work for a company owned by
a black person,...a black person will probably not be
your boss.... Your professors in graduate school will
probably not be black....your closest friends are proba-
bly not black....” Our first question is this, why does
one not see a problem with this scenario? Such think-
ing is symptomatic of the problem in this society and
certainly not conducive to a solution. Furthermore,
these are incorrect assumptions. There are black
CEOs. There are many black people in positions of
authority in federal, state and municipal govern-
ments, as wellasin the private sector. There are blacks,
and many of us, who own major corporations. It is
disheartening to find that at the dawn of the 21st
century, educated people do not know about people
such as John H. Johnson and Bill Cosby and their
positions in the financial world. Not to mention the
numerous black people holding PhDs in the arts and
sciences who have made many contributions to their
fields both in practical application as well as in teach-
ing. ;
Our fifth pointis this. The Black Student Coalition
is notin the business of using scare tactics or any other
form of influence or intimidation.to keep other black
students from participating in organizations on cam-
pus, especially those on Patterson Court. There are
more than a few BSC members who are active mem-

bers of social houses and fraternities.on campus. The .

presence of a black fraternity will not impede those

who are so inclined to join or participate in any cam-
pus activities. The allegation that the BSC “actively
discourage[s] black students from joining fraterni-
ties” is erroneous, slanderous and not in the spirit of
building community or opening the lines of commu-
nication, a vital aspect of the achievementof racial har-
mony.

Our last point is very simple and factual. All
historically black fraternities were not founded at
black colleges. Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc. was founded at
Indiana University in 1911. Alpha Phi Alpha was
founded at Cornell University. If these colleges were
ever considered black institutions, it is a very well-
hidden fact.

In conclusion, we, the members of the Davidson
College Black Student Coalition, want-to express Our
dissatisfaction with the tone of the aforementioned
article. We feel that the information given was incor-
rect and misleading to those without a full-under-
standing of the perspective of black students on this
campus, nor of the nature and function of the black
fraternities.

Let it be known that the Black Student Coalition
wishes to work toward productive changes on cam-
pus that will benefit the entire Davidson College com-
munity. Let it also be known that those interested in
the Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity are not separatists, but
young, intelligent men who wish to share common

. goalsand objectives along with theircommon cultural

heritage in an organization which will be beneficial
both to them and to their community.

Michelle Serrano, a senior religion major from Charlotte,
N.C.,wrote this commentary on behalf of the Black Student
Coalition.

NOT SEPARATE, from page 13

tation is looked upon unfavorably in certain circum-
stances, When for instance, a group of musicmajorsor
art majors create their own social environment that
celebrates their common bond, that is expected. No
one questions that choice. No one claims or expects
that those people will exclude others who donot share
that bond, or refuse to associate with anyone whodoes
not share that bond. Why do people make those as-
sumptions when a group of black students wish to
make the same choice?

Whether or not you choose to accept it, being
black is different from being white. Being Irish is
different from being Hindu. All we ask is that we be
allowed to celebrate our difference and our heritage
just like any other cultural entity. ,

Black family life, black church life and black com-
munity life are all wonderful and special things.
Growing upin them, I can tell you that they meana lot

tomost black people. Itis from these traditions thatthe

black colleges were born and through them, the black
Greek letter organizations. ;
. Being ablack Greek means much more than going

to college and having parties and service projects and
wearing a T-shirt that will rarely see the light of day
after you graduate (except of course at Homecoming).
As a young black child I can remember being in
enrichment programs, scholarship programs, cultural
heritage programsand family programsall sponsored
by my mother’s sorority. I had a concrete image of
what it meant to be an AKA (Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority, Inc., est. 1908). In fact, it wasn’t untill wasin
highschool that I even knew ithad a college affiliation
and learned that it was mostly preparatory for an
active adult (post-college) organization, .

You see, the black Greek organizations are an en-
tirely different entity. They are not recruiting arms for
any black militant group, just a group of community-
minded, college-educated black men and women
dedicated to preserving black cultural heritage and
making a better world for future generations of young
black men and women. It has nothing todo with being
uncomfortable in the “white” fraternities and starting
our own. '

Joining a historically black Greek organization

See NOT SEPARATE, page 12.

