Commentaries

Prop 42 is not the answer

Bruce Newsome

Very rarely do I agree with Georgetown head coach John
Thompson about anything. For example, why were Steve
Kerr and Rex Chapman not on the Olympic team? And
why will Thompson not allow his players to become adults
rather than his little kids that need his protection from
everything? However, I do agree with him that Proposition
42 should not be adopted.

Under current NCAA rules, no athlete who has less than
a 700 SAT score can participate in athletics their freshman
year. If they have a 2.0 grade point average coming out of
high school though, they can receive an. athletic scholar-
ship. If they pass their freshman year, they are eligible to
play during their next three years of sehool.

Under Proposition 42, no athlete with less than a 700
SAT score can receive an athletic scholarship whether they
have a 2.0 or not. This athlete would have to pay his own
way to school his freshman year. If he past his classes, he
would be eligible for a scholarship his sophomore year and
would have three years to,play.

Proposition 42 takes away the incentive for those stu-
dents who do not have a 700 SAT to try and graduate with
a 2.0. Since the SAT has been proven to be culturally
biased and not to be a true indicator of one’s motivation,
the NCAA should not just look at the SAT. If a student has
below a 700 but has good grades than he will probably be

No, Prop 42

Charles Marshall

Dear Coach Thompson,

A little over two weeks ago, the entire basketball world
watched as you walked off the court to protest the new
Proposition 42 ruling which would cause freshmen who do
not meet the NCAA’s academic requirement to not only sit
out their freshman year, but also to lose their first year of
financial aid. I will admit, as most critics claim, that the
black athlete is hit the hardest by this new ruling. However,
I think if you look more closely, you will see that the
NCAA is not out to punish the blacks, but rather to finally
push some requirements that will gradually reform college
athletics as a whole. So, Coach Thompson, although I
honor and respect your intentions, I urge you to sit back and
listen to how Prop 42 can benefit athletics as a whole.

All else aside, the controversy on the new ruling focuses
primarily on blacks. Critics argue that underprivileged
young blacks see athletics as their only way out of the
slums. The new ruling, they argue, will deprive many of
them from getting their only chance to make it in the world.
Statistics show that only 51% of the blacks score better
than the required 700 on the SAT.

But who is to blame for these horrendously low scores?
Certainly not the NCAA. Blaming the NCAA would be

able to pass at most schools. Of course I am not saying he
could do the work at Davidson, Duke, Stanford or any
other top school. However, he could do the work at, say,
N.C. State or Oklahoma, Motivation is much more impor-
tant than the results of a test on a Saturday morning.

The NCAA could set up a scale that for each 10 points
that you are below 700, you have to have .10 above a 2.0
grade point average. For example, a6’3" 270 pound guard
who hasa660 SAT score could be eligible fora scholarship
if he hada 2.4 grade point average. This measure would en-

overly helpful alumni.

An alternative to Proposition 42, would be a:rule that
would not allow a school to accept an athlete with low
credentials if the school would not accept a regular appli-
cant with the same credentials. If a school does not take
normal students with SAT scores below 850 unless they
have a grade point average of at least 2.75, then the school

- Should not accept athletes with scores below.850 and 2.75

either. This would keep athletes from getting into schools

courage students to
work hard in school
and reward those that ’
do.

Proposition 42
would bring about
even more cheating
than there already is.

FOCUS

that they have no business being at in the first place.

; Another alternative is
to make all NCAA Divi-
sion I schools have mini-
mum admission require-
ments for their athletes.
Those athletes who do
not meet these require-
ments could not enroll at

Coaches are going to
want the players with
below a 700, and since
amajority of these kids
are from the poor
neighborhoods of the

The NCAA‘s
Proposition 42.

all. Instead, these ath-
letes could go to junior or
community colleges,
Division II and III
schools or NAIA schools
in order to further their

inner-city, they cannot

educational opportuni-

afford to pay the tui-
tion. However, a member of the University of Oklahoma
booster club would be more than happy to pay for the
athlete’s freshman tuition in addition to his new Corvette.
This would be especially true for those private schools
such as S.M.U. that have a high tuition and a history of

like blaming Roosevelt for The Depression. That would
blaming the solution for the problem. The black athlete is
not necessarily at fault either. The cause is undoubtedly the
miserable education received by blacks as compared to
whites. Finally, Prop 42 could be the savior to press reform
measures to get black education up to par. It will give the
black community a reason to pressure for immediate
reforms in their schools, so that their athletes will be given
a fair chance to fulfill their dreams. In order to accomplish
this needed reform, hopefully resulting from Prop 42,
fairly, I think the reform should be given two years to
emerge, so that the immediate victims of the ruling would
be eligible for aid since they are a product of this present
inferior educational system.

Until now, many blacks have used athletics as their only
way in and out of college. Unfortunately, this seemingly
fortuitous incentive usually brings short-lived successes
and long-term frustrations. Of the few that make it into the
college ranks, only a small portion of those even make an
NBA squad. Many of the rest end up like ex-Georgia Tech
basketball star Sandy Drummer, who works as a custodian
at Ball State University.

The complaint of the SAT being culturally biased is a
weak argument that is accounted for in the low minimum
required score of 700. Freshman Brent Leviner remarked,
“T didn’t think you could even get into college with below
an 800.” It is true that some questions on the test may be
culturally biased against blacks, but even answering all of

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

+ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors-will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”

them).

the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, part ao am
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday,

+ All submissions must be ie: Writers must erent the

Opinions Policy —

IBM-formatted diskettes oe truth be told, we’re partial to

of fey

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wiahtheignmnen &
printed with their work. 54
* The staff will not edit commentaries for content or rfor style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length, The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter,
* The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very siciley to oe
letters printed dealing with the same topic. “«
e All submissions should include the author’s piney and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the ‘author’ "s home i

city and state, en ee a8 let OL EE tea

ieee: es

eaux des Bre Meee areas

ties, which is what col-
lege is really for anyway.

Bruce Newsome is The Davidsonian’s crack Assistant
Sports Editor.

Ls the answer

such questions incorrectly would not put anyone’s score
near 700. Furthermore, the validity of the test is a problem
that needs to be addressed to the Educational Testing
Service, not the NCAA.

The NCAA has submitted Prop 42 as simply another way
to make all schools and athletes realize that the classroom
holds the key to the gymnasium. So, Coach Thompson,
instead of finding fault in the NCAA, let us view Prop 42
as a blessing, or an opportunity, to force improvement in
black education and to help create true student athletes.
Though the first few years will be the most difficult, the
possibility of a nation-wide reform of educational oppor-
tunity, especially among blacks, will be an even greater
prize.

Charles Marshall is a crack sportswriter for The
Davidsonian.

been

Don’t let: thys:
space go blank
again!
Form Some Soul
Of Opinion,
write it-out
and send it
an

