Monday, April 24, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a

'. Letters

Bob the Carrot

Dear Editor:

I enjoyed most of your recent cartoon,
but I found offensive the “Note to Indian
and Pakistani Readers.” Ethnic humor can
be funny, when told to an appropriate audi-
ence by appropriate members of the ethnic
group or in the context of poking fun at all
ethnic groups, including one’s own. Your
Davidsonian cartoon doesn’t meet any of

®

these criteria. Rather, it stands as an iso-
lated; unmotivated attack on a numerically

-small ethnic population at Davidson.

Moreover, it undermines our efforts to

- make all international students (and fac-

ulty) feel welcome at Davidson.

Sincerely,
Ruth L. Ault
Assoc. Prof. of Psychology

Bob’s Response c Na

Dear Public:

Two weeks ago, an awful tragedy befell
The Davidsonian. ‘I engaged in an “unmo-
tivated attack on a numerically small eth-
nic population at Davidson.” In other
words, I’ made fun of the Indian and Paki-
stani men for having small endowments.
Like the captain of Exxon’s Valdez, I was

‘drinking at the time I committed this slight,

one

so I guess I can be excused. It was a tragic
human error and I did not mean to belittle
the honorable brown men of the East.

I understand, or rather it has been pointed
out to me, that this little joke “undermines
our efforts to make all international stu-
dents feel welcome at Davidson.” I would

like to apologize to all international stu- -

dents, especially the men from Nepal.
These kind young men were upset that I
failed to mention them in the comic strip. I
would like it to be known that they are just
as equal, or even less so, as the Indian and
Pakistani men. I hope the international
community will forgive me for my little
pun. I would especially like to ask those in
the. administration, faculty, and student
body who were offended by the “ethnic”
joke for forgiveness. Next time I'see any of
you at an international student-sponsored
event, 1 will ask for your forgiveness in
person. ;

Sincerely,

Kevin Dunn

_ The ’Braire

Dear Editor:
phanksto Davidson students, the changes

in the Library have been a great success! ©
It’s really quiet on the 2nd and Ground

Floors; it’s much quieter on the main floor.

“Park on the Prowl” has identified very
few who have not gone along with the spirit

of the changes regarding no-food-bever-

ages-and-chewing-tobacco in the Library
except for the Smoking Room... . Hopefully
those few have been “converted” to the
cause. (It’ s to their distinct advantage to be
converted.)

Hundreds and hundreds of books were ©

returned during Amnesty Week, thusavoid-
ing “humongous” fines, and these books are
Cig a3

}

now available sooner for other to use.
These has been one modification in the
fines: they are calculated at $.05-per-day
until April 7th; $.25-per-day beginning on
the 8th. If anyone paid too much or has an

incorrect IOU, please see the Circulation
_ Supervisor. :

__ The Library is now a better place because
of and for you.... Let’s keep it that way.

Sincerely,
Leland Park ‘63
Library Director

P.S. Remember to keep an eye out for
books left around campus at the close of

school.
a

: - Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Mey boast

-THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Margaret Carroll, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Jay Chaudhuri, Sports Editors
: Chris Kelly, Business Manager
This space for rent, Opinions Editor This one, too, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

CHANGES, CHANGES

Greetings from your new Davidsonian editors--the college’s first
female co-editors. We’re looking forward to the challenge of managing
this newspaper, despite its many seesaws and surprises--but that’s what
makes journalism exciting.

We are one of many changes which have occurred on campus in the
past academic year. Most notably is the switch to the semester system
after a century of quarterly courses. A year’s experience has been enough
to convince some that they would rather retyrn to a 10-week term than
take the same course for 15 weeks. Scjérice majors complain of the
difficulty in scheduling several lab périods, while language students
don’t get the daily instruction which\would make that extra difference in
their performance. The urge to procraStinate tempts some and the end-of-
the-term panic has become an epidemic during the last month. Instead of
two or three term papers students are caught with five and eVen six.

On the other hand, students have the opportunity to study abroad for
the semester without risking the loss of credits and there is less pressure
to prepare daily assignments. Time will be a big factor in determining the

- success of the semester system. In-coming classes will have the benefit

of learning from the start how to plan their schedules, and professors will
gradually learn to redesign. their courses in order to reap the maximum
benefits from the 15-week system.

A sign of changing times and priorities has been the emergence of the

- condom issue. It is commendable that the college community is at least

discussing this issue because, contrary to popular belief, Davidson is not
in its own little world and there are teenagers and young adults partici-
pating in adult behavior. Each individual must take precautions to ensure

_his or her own personal health. Whether Davidson will follow the ex-

ample of other colleges by installing condom machines is yet to be seen.

Next fall will be a time of new traditions as well, namely the Baker
Sports Complex. May each Wildcat return from summer vacation with a
renewed spirit to grow in any aspect possible here at dear Davidson
College.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters tothe editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the responsibility of the
Editors. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyrightis held
by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Copy. Editor: Laura Sizemore.

Assistant News Editor: Suzanne Craymer.

Assistant Features Editor: Trent Stevens.

_ Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page.

_ News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer; Maria
~ Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El- -Amine, Carol Gatewood, Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage,

ut | Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler, Molly Young.
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, _ Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Condi aiargaree
) ee Bethany Deptuch, He ath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord,
ne ooran. Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount,
man , Shannon O' Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Aguali Sharma, Trent kcathor
IpSOT | Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Bums, ‘Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John
-Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett
¢ ard, L ige, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson, Spider Wormuth,
ae preenaty, = pe. aaa Hathaway, Stephen
j ’ 1, Re » Mark S tet
oe Robert Marshal ea - oh

