Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Thursday, October 19, 1989

Let’s be careful to say what we mean
euys—Davidson women are not “girls”

Lucia Kendall

I believe every Davidson woman should be called
by her correct name. I am not suggesting that we all
relive the freshman orientation games consisting of
trying to memorize the first and last names, home-
town and hall of every person with whom we have
ever exchanged a “hi”; rather Iam simply advocating
that women be called women.

This issue comes up because I have recently bro-
ken the habit of calling female college students “girls”
and have received both confused looks and questions
about my word usage. I hope that this article will not
only answer these questions, but more importantly
that it will help other people understand the reasons

At the movies:

Christopher Wright

As soon as you begin to view the world in shades
of grey, something dramatic happens to thrust you
back intoreality. It, whatever it may be, makes you see
that black and white do exist in today’s society. It also
gives you a glimpse into one of the two worlds. For
myself and a group of Davidson College students, we
experienced first hand some of the injustices that go
along with being black.

On October 13, 1989, at the University Place Cin-
ema, being black meant being told, not asked, by the
manager to go to the end of the line. This might not
have been such an injustice if certain factors had not

for changing their own usage.

The most obvious reason for calling women
“women” is that they are women, not girls. Although
some may argue that college students are not yet full
adults, everyone will agree that they are closer to
being adults than they are to being children. Any
nineteen-year-old would recoil at being referred to as
“a child,” so why should a nineteen-year-old female
not have the same reaction to being called “a girl”?

The answer brings us to an important issue—
gender. While female students are repeatedly referred
to as “girls,” male students are never referred to as
“boys.” “Guys,” an informal word used for adults, is
normally used instead. I suspect that the reason for
this difference in usage has originated in a somewhat
unconscious assumption that achieving the qualities
of adulthood, especially independence and responsi-
bility, was not really as important for girls as for boys,

orat least occurred later. Sexism in language goes back
as faras Adam.

I recognize that the people who say “girls” are not
firmly convinced that college-age “guys” are ready to
dash out and take over the presidency of IBM while
the “girls” should sit at home and play with their
Cabbage Patch dolls. And it is for this reason, among
others, that we should be careful tosay what we mean.
I believe that language is a symbol, and I believe that
symbols influence attitudes. Therefore itis a matter of
semantic integrity to try to be aware of the implica-
tions of our words and try to use the word that
expresses our ideas most accurately.

Accuracy should be enough of a reason to quit
calling women “girls.” But there are more reasons.

See WOMEN, page 16

black and white realities

been true: 1) We were the first persons at the movie; 2)
The ticketperson had already torn our tickets; and 3)
The manager treated us witha great degree of disdain.
Even though we knew that our grievances were valid,
we went peacefully to the end of the line. After the
movie ended, I approached the manager and told him
that I disapproved of the manner in which we were
treated. Subsequently, I exited the movie theater. '
Being black that night meant that the aforemen-
tioned injustices would be minimal to the ones that
followed. Within minutes, the Mecklenburg police
arrived. Four police cars came to the scene of a crime
that had not yet occured. The actual crime would be
committed by the police on this particular night. The
police officers paraded the entire group of students
out of the movie theater and the spectacle began.

The officers proceeded to tell me a host of things.
First, Icould be arrested for trespassing. Second, 1 was
never toreturn to the University Place Cinema (if Idid
I would be arrested, as would any other person in the
group if they returned). Finally, if I was arrested, the
judge would take the manager’s word over mine (the
only difference between us was our color).

After harassing us for approximately 30 minutes,
the officers left, I guess, on their way toa real crime. I
would like to reiterate that all of this happened to a
group of students who had committed no crime. This
was a glimpse into the world, my world, of being
black.

Christopher Wright is a sophomore biology major from
Decatur, GA.

What a great country this is! Land of the
free, home of the brave, where the deer and
the journalists play, The United States gov-
ernmentis an unparalleled source ofuseful
and, more importantly,
public information for
the media. Over the
years different de-
partments within
the federal govern-
ment have been re-
sponsible for releas-
ing vast amounts of
data to the public. Sev-
eral of them may or may
not jump to mind as dissemi-
nators of information, but one that almost
certainly .won’t is the Internal Revenue
Service. And that’s just the one thatI’m here
today to talk about. ;

All nonprofit institutions have to file
what's called a 990 form to the LR.S. each

to continue that status the I.R.S. likes tolook
over the books each year. In the past, any-
one wanting access to the documents had to
write away to Washington to get a look at
them. Often, those seeking the information
heard nothing for up to nine months, only
to then get a letter saying the I.R.S. had lost

year. These institutions are tax-exempt, but

I.R.S. reveals financial secrets

So, how much money does Dr.

Kuykendall make?
it.
To simplify affairs and get the public off its

case, the I.R.S. decided recently to make the -

institutions themselves responsible for
handing out the information. The form
Davidson College filed, with its oodles of
interesting numbers, now resides in
Business Manager Bob Davidson’s of-
fice. What does this form have on it?
The fiscal year 1987 (July 1, ‘87-June 30,
’88) form includes:
Investments. It in-

cludes what investment managers the
college uses, what stocks are owned by
the college, etc. Some interesting excerpts:
©$352,000 in Gannett Corporation stocks -
¢$129,623 in Liz Claiborne, Inc.

¢$403,200 in Walt Disney Co. stock (some
have.called us a Mickey Mouse operation)
¢$382,500 in Anheiser-Busch Inc. stock (an
interesting item for a’ Presbyterian school
that has had drinking on canny only re-
cently!) -

Budget breakdown. The budget in 1987-88
totaled $15,789,262 and broke down like this:

Instruction .............. $7,915,459
AURICHCS Si oescccesceseiecie 1,979,896
GOLA ICES ics ciscsiseososdecs 4,704,045

(includes the Union, Dean of Student's office,
financial aid, medical services, registrar,

of the college

chaplhin, etc.)

Library ........eeseseseseees 1,189,862

Basically, for every four dollars spent on

academics, one was spent on athletics.
Salaries and expense accounts. This is

the jewel in the crown. The 990 form has a

Lettermanesque “Top Five” list (salaries on

the left, expense accounts and other allow-

ances on the right):
John W. Kuykendall,

President $82,000 ...$15,020
Robert C. Williams, ‘
V-P for Academic Affairs

and Dean of the Faculfty .............. $74,990 .....$4,223
Robert Sutton, V-P for .

Business and Finance .........ccc0000 $78,516 ....000 $696
Charles Ratliff,
ECONOMICS PLOfESSOF ......ceccsscereeeee $59,600

John Kelton,

psychology professor ..........+e+s-+1+0$63,189 «$1,590

These are interesting names ‘and num-
bers. What's more interesting are the
names not there, especially the absence of ©
anyone from the athletic department. —
They’re encouraging numbers; I like the -
fact that the highest paid employees areall —
academicians. It remains to be seen how
much Terry Holland will Pall ‘down,
though.

The fiscal 1988 rumbers come out No-
vember. 15. Watch this space. And hey,
welcome to my column.

