Friday March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WONDERFUL, from page 4

the village and makes for a lighthearted and
funny two and a half hours.

Wonderful Town is one of the drama de-
partment’s biggest challenges ever, but di-
rector Alex Pinkston is confident he and his
cast will pull off an outstanding perform-

ance. “It is a complicated integration of the’

arts,” says Pinkston, who is collaborating
with the music department but doing the
choreography himself. Organizing the
music, choreography, costumes and sets has
been a big job.

The production requires an ensemble and
an orchestra, both of which will be on stage
with the actors. The scenes of Greenwich
Village require ten scene changes. The show
has 120 costumes for the 30 actors. Most

costumes have been gathered from the area,
but close to a third of them are being made

by Katie Schiee. The ensemble is respon-——

sible for populating the village; most mem-
bers change characters at least four times.

The score is not typical of Bernstein, said
Pinkston, in that it is a variety of styles, not
just jazz. The musical includes a Latin
congo, ballads, traditional love-songs, jazz
and some swing. “The differentiation in the
score,” Pinkston said, “attracts a wider
audience and provides a more interesting
program.”

Nevertheless, Bernstein is always com-
plicated and will be a challenge for the
singers and the orchestra. For most of the
orchestra, comments one member, this is a
first experience with this kind of music.

Pinkston is very pleased with the cast.
Most of the major roles are covered by

experienced performers, but even the nov-
ices have come a long way. Donna Peters,
Trina Janiec and Mac Hardcastle have had
experience on the Davidson stage and adda
sense of professionalism invaluable to col-
lege drama. Sophomore Scott Spies plays
the major male role in his first Davidson
production.

It’s a special acting experience for Di-
pankar Mukherjee, an Indian student at the
college who plays a Greek landlord.
Mukherjee has directed and played in pro-
ductions in India during his college and
graduate years, and has come to the United
States seeking a degrée in communications.

Mukherjee is currently directing an In-
dian play also to play April 24 and 25. He
wants to direct in America. Mukherjee said
his first play here and his first musical
(Wonderful Town) has been “most educa-

Sorry quys, your room
nxt week.

is reservad for n

Ml we Pre
im this area o
country ¢ Weste ; oe

Session I:
Session II:

1989 SUMMER SCHOOL
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA:

AT
CHAPEL HILL
Academic Calender
May 22 - June 27
June 29 - August 4

Tuition and Fees: (NC Resident) Undergraduate 1-5 hrs $157; 6-8 hrs $220

UNC-CH offers, during two 5-1/2 week terms, one of the largest summer programs in the United States. Over 800 courses are
| scheduled in 40 disciplines. A typical course load per term is two classes of three semester hours cach.

Students from any college or university, teachers, rising high school seniors, and others who are not enrolled
at UNC-CH may apply as Visiting Summer Students.

_ State

Zip

Mail to: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, NC 27599.3340. Phone: (919) 962-1009.

(AA/EEO Institution)

Summer School CB # 3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall,

tional.”

Alex Pinkston is a professional actor
with experience in directing in Florida and
California. His first musical was West Side
Story at Lakeland High School in Florida.
He directed She Loves Me and the sym-
phonic drama John Brown’s Body at Flor-
ida’s School of the- Arts. A symphonic
drama includes dance, orchestra, chorus,
acting and reader’s theatre.

Pinkston originally aspired to be an actor,
but he finds that he enjoys directing more.
Wonderful Town is a difficult musical, but
he feels that the work will more than pay off.
“The happy mixture of music and storyline
make this evening one to enjoy,” he said.
“So ‘come along’ as the tour guide requests
at the opening of the show, and experience
life in Greenwich Village, New York, in
1935.”

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS IN
LONDON, EUROPE & ISRAEL

TF 212¢724+0804 or
800+EDU+ BRIT (outside NY)
