17

*&& x THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 751H ANNiversARY ISSUE %& & %& April 1989

The fifties, a decade of sock hops, beanies, poodle.
skirts, leather jackets, rumbles, letter sweaters, unfor- :
gettable music. But what was life really like in the fifties, ¢ or,

more important, what was life like for the Davidson male?

Let's start with the obvious. In the
fifties, Davidson was an all-male insti-
tution. As such, females had to bused
in for all dance functions. This pre-

bug spray and that charming epi-
taph, “Home sweet home,”
hanging on the wall. This
epitaph was accompanied by

sented a problem because most of the
functions lasted all weekend. It was
therefore decided that certain dorms

another: “Be it ever so

. ¢rumple, there’s no place like

Rumple.”

Court of Control

would be emptied so that the girls Davidson men usually joined one of
could live there for the weekend. the twelve fraternities residing at the col- e
Usually Duke Dorm was used for this _ lege. These fraternities were situated on Jackson d omin ate S fre shmen

purpose.
Speaking of dorms, no one should

Court until the late fifties when they were moved to
their present locale on Patterson Court. Each frater-

of the 50’s

wear the freshman cap,

forget infamous Rumple Dorm. nity usually had a sponsor or sweetheart. In 1950, the walked on the grass or
Rumple was a well-loved fixture of brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon chose for their failed to speak to every
the college, but woe to any luckless sponsor a bouncing baby girl. The Court of Control, rela- upperclassman they

sap forced to live there. It was ru- Being a freshman was an entirely different experi- tively forgotten now, wasanin- _ passed in the halls. All of
mored that the only thing holding ence in the fifties. All freshmen had to wear a beanie stitution to be feared by the these were required
Rumple up was the ivy covering the or cap. Depending on how you wore it, your person- freshmen of the 40’s and 50’s. activities and long-held

wall. No Rumple Dorm room was
complete unless it had several cans of

See 1950s, Page 25

The court’s purpose was clearly
outlined by Jim Ballenger in an

traditions.
Sentences included such

October 14,1955 article for | punishments as polishing

ig The Davidsonian when he the football team’s shoes
stated, “The Court has the and running to the laundry
highly responsible job of for an entire hall fora

DON’T READ THIS

How can | make the most
money next year? ‘

Is a business of my own pos-

Answer As Many As You Can...

What have other Davidson
graduates of recent years
done to become successful?

IF...

developing the immature,
uncouth freshmen into the

APRIL 13, 1956

week.
Freshmen could not

; fine Davidson gentlemen escape the wrath of the
YOU ARE A NOSTRADAMUS, SVENGALI, OR that they should be.” Court of Control. Tom
Violations ranged from _—‘ Kernan, in an article on
f “conduct unbecoming a October 3, 1958, related the
Davidson gentleman and story of Charlie Hartug,
disrespect toanupperclass- who pretended he was
...BUT IF YOU WILL BEA man,” asJimmy Hamilton deaf and mute when
; ‘60 was found guilty of,to —_ brought up for not speak-
a “displaying a cocky ing to an upperclassman.
i) aw | d SO rH Col i €ge attitude” of which Henry —_—_—-He was let go, only to be
‘ Ramsey ’60 was convicted. _ tried again and found
Peveeaies . hee penieen i : Most violations occurred BENTH TIA
Graduate when freshmen did eice See COURT, Page 25

Homecoming Cats
whip W&L 54-0

sible? Cait: ne: halts th on What {ll Homecoming—1955. Wildcats threatened to
Be agit. ibe family fo put. earn next year? The massive influx of score five other times in
nee? How’ can a fellow put his ex- Queenies and Salem girls, the first half.
Can | afford a new car next tra money in a new business the arrival of alumni and With these failed oppor-
year? that will grow? A small town or a large one? parents, the dance in the tunities, the score was only
Shall | go to graduate Galea What can a life insurance How can I save money? gym with Art Mooneyand  14-Qat halftime. In the
now or after service? contract do for me? bl Gai ak a Giechca his band, the dedication of - second half, however, the
uld § sell or take the beady , “ inati -
che better for me® "other fot yeaa: seethos? Plus One" with Bosl “Sher- back “Deadly Dick” Belton
PERHAPS YOU KNOW THE ANSWERS .. . IF er . AND YOU WOULD lock Holmes” Rathbone, all and All Southern Confer-
gave the feeling of a special ence receiver Tom McRee
LIKE TO FIND OUT... weekend. proved to be too much for
The Wildcats did not the Generals.
! IR AG ENC ; Yo _ disappoint the crowd of All told, three different
7,000 on hand for Satur- - quarterbacks combined for
day's game. Davidson a 17-of-25 day with 371
501 E. MOREHEAD ST. Bere ae SiN caeehed od an outclassed ccadatngs pails McRee also
Washington and Lee team
54-0 ina game in which the  [RRMsaeamibesneisraicretaeca

“Me

's Deli

The Tonsure

Norman Landing Plaza Davidson Students!!!
Rt. 73 West Save 30% on Shampoo, Cut, and Style!
Cornelius, NC

With Valid Davidson College I.D.

Open Monday thru Saturday 11:00 - 7:00 P.M.

Student Special!
y egular Menu Sandwich and Your Choice.of Now S
ee pecially $11.
Soft Drink siatiten for $3.00 + tax ee a, Women’ s s Shampoo, Cut, and Style Reg. $18 -
Davidson I. D. - N Ss tall $15 oS
- Limited Time Offerttt aed P =: y
Call 892-9603 Call 892-1933

Ask for Stylist Cammi Ferguson

