Thursday, January 26, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN—

Dear Editor:

Now entering a new semester in
Davidson’s new. apartments, I have had
time to reminisce on the demise of one of
our schools unique traditions, perimeter
housing. For a school which takes so
much pride in its tradition it seems we are
not traditional enough to resist the temp-
tations of apparent progress.

Perimeter housing was an aspect of
Davidson that was different, that we
could point to with pride as symbolic of
the closeness of our community and the
individuality of our students. Now, liv-
ing in a new apartment overlooking a
three hold golf course (soon to be joined
by another 18 hole golf course, complete
with 712 “low-density, high quality”

sacrificed character for convenience,
that we have been bought out by a new
couch and arefrigerator. Like our neigh-
bors we have been seduced by the serv-
iceable sterility of an apartment which
has been tellingly described by more
than one student as “like a condomin-
ium.”

Letters

Perimeter Housing

. have become intoxicated by the relative
comforts of these three prefabricated

homes), I begin to think that we have °

It seems many Davidson students

buildings, unaware of what has been
sacrificed. We may soon possess the
luxuries of such progress, the shopping
malls and restaurants which have been
kept - so far - comfortably at a distance,
and wake up one morning to find the
town and college we once knew trans-
formed.

It may be too late to save perimeter
housing. Martin Manor’s days are cer-
tainly numbered. But if we must lose
this unique aspect of Davidson College
for future generations let us hope we
will not surrender the other remains of
our past with such nonchalance. Let us
remember that the luxuries we treasure
cannot be bought withouta price. Inthe
future let us be more dogged in our
stubbornness, less self-indulgent in our
appetites, ‘and ever mindful of the
demands and responsibilities of our
cherished tradition.

Respectfully,
David Lamar Blount

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors @
Stan Armistead, /nside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor

|

against Kentucky. |

So Davidson fans, go out and help'the

HOPE, from page 5

team try to turn it around. The team has 12
more games left and six of them are at
shome. If they can turn it around during
these games, they can build upon this late
season success next year and have a suc-
cessful season.

against Northern Illinois and Denmond had
14 against Duke. Drobnitch and Freeman
have provided good defense and rebound-
ing. Hopefully, with time both Drobnitch
and Freeman will be able to provide consis-
tent offerise to a team that has had trouble
putting points on ihe board.

Although the freshman are playing

against older and more experienced players
most of the time, they are getting good ex-
_ perience for next year. If all five of the
freshman improve during the remainder of
this season and off-season, they will be
ready to contribute a lot next season along
with six seniors and three juniors.

Finally, history is on Davidson’s side. In

the 1984-85 season, the last time the team
only had one senior, the team struggled
through a 10-20 season. The next year,
however, the squad went 20-11 and de-
feated UT-Chattanooga 42-40 in the
Southern Conference Tournament on.
Gerry Born’s last second shot. This victory
led to a NCAA tournament appearance

SCROMP, from page 5

breakfasts, etc.) and Patterson Court social
disappointments, you and your date can
choose fromthe following:

1, There are a number of playgrounds in
the area. Go play in one of them.

2. The weight room has several new
pieces of equipment. Go look at them.

and giggle at the synonyms of dirty words.

The evening might take a somnifacient
turn. If it does, don’t struggle against it. Go
to bed and save some money. And try to
stay in good health over the weekend; it
will be over soon anyway.

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers. The editors will
attempt to print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines:
¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the campus community.
+ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will also accept work
submitted on 5.25” or 3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to them).
° All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before the expected publication date.
+ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Saturday before the expected
publication date, except for those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
. All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons
if they do not wish their names printed with their work.
¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for ays, but for the rules of English ©
grammar only.
_¢ Letters should be under 300 words i in length. The editors reserve the right to edit and/or
condense any letter. :
¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which contain factual errors, adver-
tisements, or objectionable material, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to our
letters printed dealing with the same topic.
+ All submissions should include the author’s address and phone number. Submissions to the
“Commentaries” section should include the following information: the author’s home ay 5;
and state, graduating ep and major field of ees (or Profession).

Se A a oa

3. The library has a new thesaurus. Go -

Pop Films

The January Man

In asomewhat unconstructive attempt to put off dealing with another

- hewspaper deadline, I allowed myself to be persuaded to go see a

movie while articles for this week’s paper trickled in. It was such a
painful experience that I am compelled to take this space to warn the
college community against repeating my mistake. Also, there is no
football news this week to base any sort of opinion on.

I and three of my friends jumped in a car and took off for University
Place before checking to sée what movies were playing there. Since
there are six theaters, we reasoned, there must bea decent film playing.

The movie we selected was The January Man. | dimly remembered
from somewhere that it starred Kevin Kline (Paden in Silverado) and
Susan Sarandon (very hot in Bull Durham). It is a movie about an ex-
New York City policeman turned fireman when he is forced to take the

fall for his brother the police commissioner. He is of course a brilliant

‘sleuth, and is brought back to the force to solve the serial killing of
eleven young women. .

Promising actors, not unpromising plot. The reason for this editorial
is, my friends, that the promise this movie had completely evaporated
within the first few frames and never returned. Five minutes into the
film, remembered with a jolt where I had heard of this movie before:
Rolling Stone, in an unusually vacuous interview with Sarandon that
focused primarily on her breasts.

The January Manisa profoundly bad film of the type that makes you

_walk out of the theater speechless for a long moment, then bursting

with the myriad loose details, awkward scenes and stupid plot twists
the movie contains. Then you’re speechless again, because the flood
of distressing items is so overwhelming that you can’t think of what to
say next; eight or nine things have urgent priority.

-Kline-and Sarandon have played very smart, witty characters in
smart, witty movies in the past. They are only paying the rent with this
film, and that is a very ugly thing to do with moviegoers’ time and

money.

