24

wt

1914, from Page 9

many as three girls per room.

Fraternities were well established at
Davidson by 1914 and were located in
the rooms of Old Chambers. Freshmen
were prohibited from rushing a
fraternity until their second semester.
The fraternities put on school-wide
dances three times a year with the girls:
Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring
Frolics. These were held in Mooresville
or Concord, but never on the religious
grounds of Davidson. A typical
student, according to Dr. Davidson,
would havea hard time keeping up
with his date the men were required to
switch dates for each activity over the
weekend culminating with the formal
dance ending at midnight on Saturday.
Dancing beyond twelve would be
dancing on Sunday which was utterly
forbidden.

Drinking and gambling were the
primary illegal forms of entertainment,
and both were prohibited by the
college in order to promote a moral and
Christian atmosphere. A typical 1914
student would furthermore find
himself in Chapel every day. This was
required and enforced. Athletics were
secondary to education as they are
today. Credit and grade guidelines
restricted eligibility and transfer
student athletes had to study for a
definite time period before they were
permitted to play.

The campus that the typical 1914
student attended was smaller. Most of
the buildings existing in 1914 are gone
with the exception of the library—now
the Carnegie Guest House. Old
Chambers was in its last decade in
1914, for it would burn down froma
seemingly harmless student trick in the
1920's. Dr. Davidson tells a story of
how a piece of paper on fire dropped
from the top of the building bya ~
student, which was a common form of
entertainment practiced by the stu-
dents, caught the building on fire. The
three main, although small, dormitories

LADSPEAK?, from Page 8

democratic form of self-government at
Davidson.” The newspaper and annual
depended on the hearty support and
cooperation of every member of the
student body. “Pep” was a subject of
discussion, and Ulman Alexander brought
ginger into his “short, snappy talk.” To
conclude the reception, “Chief” Mullen in-
troduced the faculty to the new students
“in his usual happy manner,” and Coach

stood on the row where Watts, Little,
Belk, Cannon, and Sentelle now stand:
Georgia, Rumple, and Watts. Watts
later burned and was rebuilt on the
same site.

Modern transportation, of course,
was scarce, if even available in 1914, so
students didn’t have the parking prob-
lems that we do today. Although 182
students were North Carolina natives,
the 1914 student body had 335 students
hailing from such faraway places as
China, Persia and Japan.

The typical 1914 Davidson.student
attended a school similar in principle
yet different in appearance, practice
and social atmosphere than a student
does in 1989. But by glimpsing over
student life, we can see remnants of life
in 1914 that are still present in either
physical or spiritual form today.

By Charles Marshall

Ele APPER, from Page 1 1

mammals. This picture... is being used _
exclusively to present to college men the
problems of life that confront them after
they have completed their education and
are out in the world.”

Freshmen at Davidson in the Twenties
were regarded as “unruly” and were
known to all as “rats.” Hazing was
voluntarily abolished around 1922. A
“Court of Control” was then established to
take on the task of “convincing them that
they are freshmen” (September 17, 1925).

Of course, a large majority of these
“rats” ended up joining fraternities. An
October 10, 1929 editorial expounded
upon the virtues of this sacred society. “It
is a beautiful and inspiring thought that
Jesus himself chose the method of brother-
hood to advance the greatest cause ever
conceived... We believe that the fraternity
which fails to uphold the same ideals of
bodily and spiritual cleanliness is falling
far short of its goal.” It is evident that

Tudor

|
|
|
|

the Campus you'll

“MEN'S

On and off the campus

| CLOTHES

College Clothes for College Men--
Whether on the Campus or off

Clothes are accepted as the-fore-
most style leaders in the field.

BELK BROTHERS CO.

frlalll

find Tudor Hall

STORE”

Apri 4, 1928

April 1989 *&*THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75TH Anniversary Issue

Patterson Court still retains these virtues
of old!_—____—

The workload at t Davidson i in the 1920's, s,
according to the October 16, 1925 editorial,
“Hard Work”, was just as much a concern
to students then as it is now. The prevail-
ing attitude then, to be sure, reflects the
ideals of today’s students, and mirrors
their approach. “Have you a high stan-
dard in life? If not, spend hours alone in
meditation and prayer and get a vision of
your task... matriculate in the University
of Hard Work.”

The administration also adopted this
approach to academics at Davidson in this
era. Therefore, cars were a chief concern at
the time. These vehicles were considered
to be “detrimental to the very purpose for
which the students enroll in the college...
in the possession of the college student... it
would prove a distraction and a form of
dissipation” (April 24, 1926°)

Sports in the twenties at the College
often rated front page news. The fervor
concerning football especially was almost
religious. One of the greatest catastrophes
of the age had occurred when The
Davidsonian ran the headline, “Davidson
Wildcats Lose Feline Mascot by Death.”
This September 18, 1924 article was an
elegy to the symbol of Our Team: “the
‘Red and Black’ mascot, the Davidson
fighting wildcat, passed away last night
and joined the great company of his
forbears that moulder on mountainside...
throughout America’s wide domains.”

Although we are all loyal to our chosen
school, one must admit that all students
throughout the ages have at some time
exclaimed “Gosh, wouldn't it be great if
the school just burned down? Then I
wouldn't have to do my physics lab for to-
morrow!” Davidson students got this wish
granted on November 28, 1921. In the
most important news story of the decade,
the original Chambers building burnt
down, incurring $250,000 worth of
damage. The physics department and lab,
the museum, the old library, five class-
rooms, and dorms for 135 students
(including Woodrow Wilson’s old room)
were all lost in the blaze. The December 2,
1921 issue of The Davidsonian related this
vivid description of the tragedy: “As the
fire was dying down a bugler sounded as-,,
sembly, and the students, coming from all
directions, some clad only in pajamas and
bathrobes, lined up in body. Dr. W. J.
Martin made a ringing address, declar-
ing... that an even greater Davidson would
arise from the ashes of the old Chambers
building.”

By Heath Hardage

still managed to struggle through —

Fetzer received a “continued applause” for _ very personal and amiable they can’t
his foot ball pep-talk. reflect it in their writing. Ladspeak or not 1 anow'some the war years witha fairamount __ victory. August 23 marked the
Such flowery descriptions are rare the 1914 Davidsonian staffer possessed this} nento of grace. Frequent articles on thé —_ third commencement of 1945 and
today—some how it seems to get lost in unique quality to do both. graduate fading Davidson spirit cajoled the last summer session of
our demanding academic life. It’s a shame beforejoining and bludgeoned the students into Davidson College. The following
that although Davidson students are still By Carol Gatewood the service keeping up with traditions. year brought a second semester
and allow March 31, 1945 brought the registration exceeding 450 (120
must look further than winninga them alittle more timeathome. _ lampoonissueannouncing that —_ returning vets), the first postwar
war. Winning the peaceis going The college also expected 250 Davidson would go co-ed. Allof | dance on campus and the return
a pay phone oneach floor of the —_ to be more important.” aviation cadets to arrive in March _ the benches would be removed of spring break. By 1948 a dream
dorms. The following year the college for a five month instruction in and lights placed every tenfeet. of 25 years was in the process of
The Davidsonian of December published plans to speed up the ‘| physics,math, Americanhistory | Number twoon the hit parade coming true with the construc-
11, 1941, reprinted President curriculum in line with the and English. The increase would _ that week was “Quit Beating tion of Johnston Gym and the
Cunningham’sMonday morning defense program. Davidson the student body to a Your Grandmother Over the - senior class finally outnumbers
chapel address in the editorial students practiced blackout pro- crowded total of 800 men. The ae with a Shovel, Wilbur, For the freshmen again.
... Section. It is in part: “I wish to cedures. The basements of Davidson sense of humor yet \ he Might Get the Wrong
express a word of caution today Chambers, the new library, the prevailed, and cheering students a By Katharine Armstrong
against panic and hysteria atthis science building and Rumple welcomed the “Birdmen” event” ~~ Finally, in May of 1945 came ~~
time. It is possible thatsomefew . dormwere. ~~» though mostof- °F ty
students may feel that they are areas. On October 9th a parade them were “Yan- ;
called to turn aside from their | was given to honor the parents kees”) in weather “DRUGS” “SODA”
preparation and hasten into the and wives of Davidson men in “typical of that
military service of the country. the service and toinaugurate the _insipid,drizzlin ; a
My prediction is that there is scrap metal drive. The athletic irrtatingly diag _— a ge — —_—
plenty of time yet for that service. departmentbeganacompulsory _ weather whichis Students’ Supplies
The word whichI wish tostress _ three-hour-a-weekathletic peculiar to the
icularly to you today is that program featuring the “Cretan Davidson sector:
a Be mi engagedina Labyrinth” obstacle course of the otherwise WHITE DRUG. co, Inc.
fundamental defense task. You (which, one reporter joked, sunny earth.” “PRESCRIPTIONS” “SUNDRIES”
must beware that you do not greatly increased the mortuary Though The i
” throw away an opportunity business in the area). Davidsonian staff Ss ‘§ aA)
which has been denied 97 Spring break was canceled for was hit hard by bgt akss
percent of young men—those_ 1943 for a variety of practical the general exodus of students, it January 29,
who do not get to college. We reasons. The week extra would
