sports

The Davidsonian
Monday, February 20, 1989 4 ‘ e

U.S. and Canada to face off at Davidson

Olympic volleyball storms Johnston Gym

Student ticket prices slashed to $3

By HAP BRYANT

Olympic women’s volleyball
teams from the United States and
Canada are competing in
Johnston Gymnasium tonight at
7:30 p.m.

The contest, a brainchild of
Charlotte promoter Howard
Barnhill, comprises part of a four-
match series between the two
teams. According to Davidson
volleyball coach Rebecca Hawk-
ins, Barnhill chose Davidson’s
facility because he was “looking
for a small gym that would not
have a lost of cost.”

Davidson will receive a fee for
the use of its gym, but the profits
of the match will go to Barnhill’s
enterprise and to the teams. As a
result, Davidson does not stand to
lose if the project fails financially.

Thus far, Hawkins said, ticket
sales have been slow. She attrib-
uted the lack of interest to the
price of tickets, ten dollars in
advance for students and adults
and six dollars for children.

Consequently, Barnhill has
agreed to lower prices for
Davidson students to three dol-
lars. Hawkins hopes the lower
price will spark interest among
the student body.

The match has been publicized
in North Carolina, but because the

promoter does not want the added
expense of advertisement, the
publicity has been limited.
Hawkins said that “volleyball
people know about it” across the
state, but knowledge outside the

in the face of the recent negative
publicity about Davidson athlet-
ics.

The United States team,
coached by Terry Liskevych, fin-
ished seventh at the Seoul Olym-

Davidson is basically the same
one that competed in the Olym-
pics. However, several players
have retired, and several new
players have emerged as contend-
ers for spots on the team.

team will host the gold medalists
from the Soviet Union beginning
March 1.

The match at Davidson repre-
sents an attempt to bring high-
quality athletics to the area in

volleyball circles is slight.
Hawkins hopes that the event

will help volleyball at Davidson.

She anticipates an exciting match

that hc will enjoy. “Hope-

pics.

fully, the/crowd will be able to see
the co tition on floor level,”
she said.

She believes that the match will
increase volleyball awareness
and interest on campus. She par-
ticularly mentioned the growing
intramural interest in the sport.
By watching Olympic-calibre
athletes compete, Hawkins be-
lieves that others will realize the
difficulty of the sport.

Also, on the heels of a success-
ful volleyball season, Hawkins
hopes that the occasion will em-
phasize the rising program at
Davidson.

The match will be “very inspi-
rational for current team mem-
bers and supporters” and “will
help in making people aware that
we do have volleyball here,” said
Hawkins.

Hawkins also called the event
“something positive we can do”

The team that will play at

Around the Horn

press?”

clear up some issues.

reality, folks.

In the last several weeks, I have re-
ceived questions like these concerning
my last two articles and my conduct in
general. This column is not intended as a
retraction ora justification; Ij just want to

First, the women’s sports article. It
was not my intention to belittle women’s —
athletics, nor did I try to discourage
-people from attending Davidson.

The comment about my sister (not’
wanting her to attend Davidson) was
meant to illustrate graphically how un-
fair I think the financial contribution to
women’s athletics is. Taken out of con-
text, it could influence a recruit’s deci-

_ one realizes that by now,---
If not, it’s time to come to grips with

Secondly, the Bobby Hussey article.
At this point, the point is probably moot.

The present discontents

By HAP BRYANT However, some people, particularly in

“What are you thinking?” the athletic department, read my —
“Write something positive.” ' thoughts wrongly and assumed I was
“When are we going to get some good attacking Hussey’s character. Believe

me, this was not my intention.

Following the series of matches
with Canada, the United States

Basketball

hopes of inspiring local interest in
an internationally popular sport.

Angela Rock and K. Oden of the U.S. Olympic Volleyball Team go to the net.

Photo courtesy of Sports Information

Wildcats lose to Hofstra

By LARRY DAGENHART
Monday night, Davidson shot 63 percent
from the floor in one of its best perform-
ances of the year but still lost to Hofstra 78-
71. As of Monday the 13th, the Cats have
lost their last 10 of 11 games and are 6-20,

I merely tried to show evidence of mis- tying a record for the most losses ever
takes that Hussey makes during games. amassed by a Bobby Hussey-coached
Granted, game coaching is only a | joam,
small part of the job. Practices, organiza- After being up by five at the half, 33-28,
\ tion, and recruiting alll fit into'the pic- | Hofstra opened up the
ture. Hussey has done rather well in | cocond half with a 23-

coaches.

make mine.

it anyway. :

these areas, particularly in getting top
prospects to Davidson and in delegating
his authority efficiently” to his assistant’

So, you make’ your own judgment; rn

As I told Athletic: ‘Director Kit Morris —
recently, college journalism is a ‘tricky

business. We college journalists are at
once subservient to an administration |

"If you want some good press, then do “
something worth Mentioning. Other-
wise, leave it to me to decide topics for
my column. Nobody’ s making you read

9 run which put the
Wildcats down by
nine.

Despite a. career-
high 19 points from
Magic Gaines, the
Wildcats couldn’t put
the finishing touches
on acomeback which .

pointing season, a meager crowd at
Johnston Gym, no pep band and a score-
board that never showed Davidson in the
lead. Worse, William and Mary was com-
ing into the game at only 5-18,.

After being down 26-12 with 11 minutes

remaining in the first half, Davidson made
its best run of the night as Gray got eight
straight points amidst a 10-2 Wildcat streak
to cut the tribe’s dead at 28-24. It looked
then as if it would be a ball game. William
and Mary led 43-32 at halftime.

In the second half, the Cats kept their
deficit between 13 and 17 points but the
real problem was shooting.

While Davidson missed its layups by
blowing nine of 23
shots in the. paint,
William and.Mary
got hot from 3 point
land and nee :
* eight of 11.7

' “When _
» can’t get the ball to

- go down, it’s hard
- to keep ._momen-

tum,” -said'ycoach

we

i ‘ b 1 Hi 2) ee ;
sion. However, Istill think thatincontext and at the same time invited to have: our pun sigs reside
itis notas harmful as some people bt own opinions, : ute. mark. Mo. Gra

4 y _ players got -after

ently think. If you don’t like my opinion, write a a” was the only other Cat missing - so: ABBNY
' Furthermore, the situation is cchang- letter or a column. We'll be more than | in double figures with easy shots. |

ing. I did not address the future because, happy to print it, for we (the sports s taf) | 4) After a late

after all, the material the present pro- always like to dominate the newspaper, Saturday viohk: the

iB ‘ game ‘with Baptist

vides is much more juicy and. este oS I think that two years experience as | Wildcats ote . Wil- ‘on aes,

provoking. sports editor of this publication erent | liam and Mary 88-69 |< Sia ar Davidson travels to

There is no doubt that women’ s s sports __ ne to express my opinion, even if I) ae | in a game which, for Freshman Bruce Elder moves that ball. Baltimore for a

will receive substantial emphasis in fu- that things are not all hunky-dory in’ | . the most part, typified Photo courtesy of Sports Information rematch with

ture athletic budgets. Hopemally, every- world of Davidson athletics." — | Davidson’s  disap- Maryland-Balti-

more County and is back home on the 22nd
to take on Miamiof Ohio, _.

DON’T MISS-- the final game at cozy.
Johnston gym on Saturday February 25
against Central Florida. Tipoff for all home
games is 7:30. s
