FALCONS
ENROLL!

By FUM BELLS and TERN O. VERS
One of the many sweeping changes planned by Donald Trump is the
revamping of the Davidson football program. Trump called the year-long
debate over the Division ITI decision a “mere squabble” and stated, “I like
thinking big. If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think

big.”

In a recent press conference with Director of Admissions Robert Gardner, Trump
announced his decision to purchase the Atlanta Falcons for the college. Gardner confirmed

the proposal for admitting the
players as freshmen next
year, stating that “with a few
summer school literacy
courses, they can legally be

considered freshmen,”
Falcons Head Coach Marian

Campbell expressed elation over

his new appointment as coach at

Davidson. He alsocommented that
the playersare excited about having
Richie Rich as their new mascot,
stating that “they are quite familiar
with Richie’s escapades, since his
comic books are their main reading
material.” |

Trump noted that the purchase
of the pro team will bring anend to

the Division III debate, because he
plans to start his own division.

According to the tentative fall
game schedule, the new team’s
first opponent wil be North
Mecklenburg High School, which
will make for a suspense-filled
game indeed.

Richie Rich

cloned for
mascot!

By IRONA
Donald Trump revealed his plans to
change the, Davidson mascot from the
Wildcat to Richie Rich yesterday. He said
the Wildcat failed to reflect the college’s new

direction as well as attitude of its students.

“A mascot should reveal a message to the public,”
said Trump. “Dayidson students want to be rich and
want to dress well, not turn into slavering wild animals.
The Wildcat is simply against Trump Univer-sity’s
principles.”

Trump plans to run Richie Rich cartoon shows in 3-D before .
every athletic contest. In addition, he will issue new outfits to the

basketball and football teams
consisting of white booties, a
black dinner jacket, white shirt,
blue shorts and red. The dollar
sign will replace the paw-print.

In a related move, Trump
will appear before teams to give

a pep talk before each game in
orderto induce high scores. The
David's Onion has obtained a
copy of his remarks for the
1989-90 academic year: “If
you’ re going to think, youmight
as well think big.”

