Wednesday, November 1, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters
Response to On the sports front

Dear Editors,

I am totally amazed! In what John
Burns called a response to my latest
article, he argued against things I never
said. I am completely dumbfounded
about how he could have read what I
wrote and think that I said things that
simply are not anywhere in my article.
Maybe he can get away with writing
about something he’s never looked at
for Humes papers, but I would like to

set the record straight as far as the sla

der against my writing is concerned.
This is not a matter of misinterpre-
tation. Anyone who still has a copy of
the issue with my article in it (The
Davidsonian, Oct. 19) is welcome to go
back and look at what I actually said.
For those of you who, like Mr. Burns,
did not read it, I will provide a quick
summary: my subject was that female
college students should be called
“women,” not “girls,” because they are
not children. If Mr. Burns disagrees
with this premise, I can handle that.
Whathesaysis, “Isitreally desirable for
us to have a sexually homogeneous
society?...I would much rather live in a
world where women and men knew
that they were different and treated
each other as such.” Believe me, John, I
know that women and men are differ-
ent, so you don’t have to explain that
little matter tome. I said nothing about
a sexually homogeneous society. I said
nothing about treating womenasif they
were men. I said nothing about calling
women “men.” All I said was that
women should be called “women.”
Later in my article I discussed why
‘calling? adults! boys” ditd “pirls*is*
demeaning. Since this touches on a
sensitive topic, I will have to quote the
entire paragraph from my article, em-
phasizing those parts Mr. Burns seems
to have missed:
My third reason [for calling
women girls] is that women too
often are treated like children.
Most of the time people have no idea
that they are participating in this.
subtle discrimination. Fortunately,
changing the way you use words
isa very simple way of refusing to
participate in it. As an example of
this phenomenon, we can look at

another group that has been (and -

in many cases still is) discrimi-
nated .against—blacks. “Hey,
“boy” used to bea form of address
that whites could use for any
black man, even if he was thirty-
five years old, because it con- '
noted that he was not of the same —
‘status asa white man. Although it
is not used with the same malicious
intention, “girl” has the same effect.

Mr. Burns said he sees no correlation ©
between calling a womana girl and call-
ing a black man a boy because for him,
“the attitude behind the language is —
what is important. The term ‘boy’ re- -
flected a hatred and a warped view of —
bbe bitte deed ah oc sa bb ncaliaabt

“girl” is okay. As I already said in the
above paragraph, I recognize that
people do not say “girl” with the inten-
tion of showing condescension. But
discrimination is discrimination
whether people intend it to be or not,
and some of the most pervasive and
dangerous forms of all kinds of dis-
crimination occur because people are
not aware that they are committing
them.

Out of nowhere he also comes up
with the statement, “I am sorry Lucia,
but ‘gals’ went out with poodle skirts
and sock-hops.” I would never in a
million years write an article on why
women really ought to be called “gals.”
My article did not even mention the
word “gals” anywhere. As a matter of
fact, I think it’s one of the stupidest-
sounding words in our language. I did
not at any point suggest that the term
“girls” should be replaced with “gals”
or “chicks” or “broads” or “babes” or
“psycho-bitches from Hell,” for that
matter. I just said women should be
called “women!” :

Mr. Burns alsoaccuses me of “treat-
ing men as sex objects” and suggests
readers turn to my letteron the opinions
page to see this for themselves. I sin-
cerely hope that they all did, because I
have no doubt that it would be as obvi-
ous to them as it is to me that there is
nothing there that could possibly be
construed as treating menas sex objects.

My letter was a simple clarification
that my article was aimed at
Davidsonian readers of both genders (an
editor had mistakenly suggested in the

™ hadline Re had written for my article

that the it was addressed only tomales).
I only bothered to make this clarifica-
tion in order toavoid being erroneously

labeled as an obnoxiously militant:

feminist. I explained wie’ in the letter

itself: ~
I don’t want readers to think that
I'am blaming the problem [of -
women being called “girls”] only
‘onmen, or think that lam a man-'
hating, hairy-legged, lesbian,
scowling, crew-cutted feminist
armed with a submachine gun to
blast holes through any man who
innocently opens a door for me.
I’m just a feminist. And for the
record, I like men just fine (some
‘men more than others, is Cael

I, am at a loss about | ose to eeplain. B
how Mr. Burns can read “Ilike men just | |
- fine,” and honestly believe it says, “I | |

treat men as sex objects.”

‘If Mr. Burns would like to respond | |

in print to what my article actually said,
I welcome his comments. If he doesn’t

like extreme feminism, I still welcome |
his comments. If he would like to en- 2

gage in a journalistic argument against

imaginary opponents, perhaps Don
Quixotecan direct him towardsa bellig-

erent windmill to. aiteck:
— Kendall

Sports Editor's note: 1. I ne not cheat on term seca! Talk about daniel 2. Theauthor

should not flatter herselfinto thinking that my article was a response to her letter. Herletter |

merely brought up an issue that I wanted to talk about. The column was never meant as a_

point refutation of her opinion piece. 3. Perhaps the words “more in response to |
Luci So nak el > ma ey 4, Ms. Kendallimplied |

that men could be judged like produce when she said she liked some more than others.

, my comment was tongue in cheek and entirely asidelight tomy mainargument. |
Fe pt petit “gals,” but what would she have the female equivalent to the

db |

ane “guys”? The only alternate word to ee is “girls.”

1]

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Baker blues

aker Sports Complex. The name has been ringing prom-

ises of grandeur for a long time, but next week the wait

and the mystery will come to a close. In the midst of the

hoopla is a concern which affects Davidson students and
faculty, especially since it threatens to make our enjoyment of the
complex less than it should be.

As our lead story explains, ticket office managers have con-
trived a policy concerning ticket purchases and seating arange-
ments for the basketball arena. Under this rulé, students will be
required to procure tickets one day before the date of games.
Anyone missing that deadline will be denied the right to attend.

Such denial is a penalty. Penalty is the correct term because
students should be able to attend events at the school to which
they pay tuition fees. Hectic schedules do not always allow the
time to go halfway across campus (since the new ticket office will
be located in the complex) to obtain a ticket for the next day’s
game. .

‘In such a case, those who hold season tickets, namely benefac-
tors and members of the Wildcat Club, will have priority over
Davidson's own. The general public will also have priority. After
all, they are the paying customers.

Secondly, while it may be efficient to divide the basketball
‘arena into seating sections, Davidson faculty and staff are at a
great disadvantage. They have been shoved into corner and back
sections. Why can’t they sit on the lower level in an enlarged
student/faculty section? Even the general audience will have
better seats than they.

Neither will students’ family members be. able to sit with their
sons and daughters in the lower level (players’ families have a
designated area). They must sit in higher-level student seats. That

| avenue is coincidentally cheaper than general seating.

Will the opening of the complex signal a change to please
Davidson’s peripheral community rather than its immediate
constituency? It should not. Neither should it signal the beginning
of a money-making business.

—m.m.

