sylvia thought Pac
she smelled (ss
something burning, | Sool

when she (rise \ Vie TO ies dias a
remembered YO ry Ts , (es a,
tthat she was 8 GS ah 2
living in the 46 Ta i BA
age of C edn bef Tae Bi
tommorow's bay “Bz
\' fashions je ' 1% f , 4

toda e ih 5 ee / Y)

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Wednesday during the school year by the
students of Davidson College. Due to a big MAC attack, however, we have been
publishing when we can. We have been without our SE/30 since the beginning of the
year. Physician Lee Norris has been performing all kinds of miracles, but so far nothing
seems to work for any extended period of time. Please address get well cards and cor-
respondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148
and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Unsigned editorials are the
responsibility of the Editors. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Assistant Features Editor:Trent Stevens.
Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page. ©

Y News Staff: Beth Brown, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Rami El-Amine, Carol
a Gatewood, Lisa Jackson, Delia Johnson, Tom Koonce, George Lafaye, Joanne Maheras,
Pete Mangone, Joe Mavis, Walter Price, Mary Russ, Rafael Sanchez-Aballi, Sharon Lee
Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Taylor Smith, William Urban, Susannah Wellford, Jennifer
Whittington, Clay Wright, Molly Young.
Features Staff: Curt Bickers, Lee Bushkell, David Coarsey, Hilary Coman, Margaret
Carroll, Liz Davidson, John Earles, Matt Goad, Elizabeth Howe, Robert Jones, Nusrat
Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia
Mischen, Ma
Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Anjali Sharma, Adam Smith, David Thompson,
Jessica Thurbee, Luise Weinrich, Jennifer Wittington.
Sports Staff: Bruce Balestier, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, RobertGrubb,
John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Giggy Maxwell, Mary Faith Mount,Tracy-Lynn
Perez, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson,
Spider Wormuth.
Photography Staff: Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Nancy Green, Holt Hathaway,
Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Jane Mount, Bonita Paysour, Lucy
Siler, Mark Steen.
Production Staff: Marc Castellani, Janet Delery, Peter Fisher, Erika Fritz,
Staff Artists; Reese Boyd, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Joy Gray, Moreland Smith, Ginnie White.

Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Phil Prescott, Shannon O’Shields, |.

FAT RIG,
LIVE LONG AND

PROSPER.

‘PART-
PART

At Domino's Pizza®

JOB;
E PAY.

Domino's Pizza® pays some of the
best bucks inthe business. Earn up
to $10.00an hour as a pizza delivery
person. Part-time positions and flexi-
ble hours available. Call 896-8007
and cash in on your driving skills.

Equal Opportunity Employer.
©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

emu. pare

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Opt for optional
S.A.T.

avidson made a philosophical judgement on Scholastic
Aptitude Test scores years ago when it decided to
reduce their importance as part of the application
package. A decision now to make S.A.T. scores op-
tional would be little more than a natural extension of that belief.

Prospectives are told that because Davidson is a school that
seeks well-rounded, diverse students who are willing to go
against convention, S.A.T. or equivalent A.C.T. scores are consid-
ered a minor, though still mandatory, part of the application. The
question now is whether the admissions office believes this phi-
losophy strongly enough to make its own unconventional choice.

The main attraction of S.A.T. scores is that it provides a quick
and dirty statistic for immediate comparison. This appeals to the
school admissions team, as well as to prospectives and their
parents. The extra number on an application helps the school limit
the pool of applicants. Many people also consider S.A.T. scores
when determining a school’s level of competitiveness--just ask
Barron’s. Davidson even publishes median S.A.T. scores in its
brochures profiling the current freshman class.

The message Davidson currently sends out to prospectives is
that, while we say we don’t really care about your S.A.T. scores,
you'd better get a 1270 if you want to be average here. Consider-
ing that most applicants have spent their high school years trying
to stand out from the just average, the pressure to take and retake
the standardized tests is still extremely great.

The college already acknowledges that S.A.T. scores are not a

| good determination of college performance. When you think

about how many standardized tests a student has once he or she
gets to Davidson, it’s no-wonder.

The present proposal before the Advisery Council for Admis-
sions and Financial Aid would not eliminate test scores, but
would instead give Davidson applicants the choice of submitting
Achievement Test scores which usually follow an essay format
rather than S.A.T. scores.

Students who did well on the S.A.T. will continue to submit
their scores. Students who do better on essay-based tests, how-
ever, will not be punished under the new proposal.

The council needs to make a decision quickly: Based on the
desire of the college to attract a wide pool of applicants, the only
fair decision is to give applicants the option of deciding which test
scores they wish to submit. The prospective members of the class
of 1994 should have this option. |

Can We Help? "
estudy skills. erelationships |
etime management ecross cultural counseling
estress management eweight control
esexuality ecareer counseling
efamily issues ealcohol & drug abuse
Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451
Amelia Dockery, Ph.D. Campbell Peery, M.A.
Tom Plott, Ph.D. David Staton, Ph.D.
Viginia Sykes, M.Ed. DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

Christine Davidson, Secretary

