Monday, February 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

: Gearae Temes Faom ExPeRience ‘

) Ad)

Thats wlohe Dawwy;
We caw 90 Fiening ,
Play qo) oon ‘You caw
@vew go +0 fumrals;
fous rem mioge, Suet

cew'r say
avirning !

Letters

The New Logo

Dear Editor:

My first reaction was to chuckle. “How
cute,” I thought to myself. “And,” I
quickly added, “who cares.” That’s proba-
bly how a great many people. quietly re-
sponded to the headline “No more. ‘col-
lege’: we’re just DAVIDSON.”

It took Kevin Dunn’s “‘Bob-the Carrot,”
pardon me, “BOB” cartoon to make me
realize how absurd the whole logo change
was. A five digit figure? Wait a second, I
scored over 750.on my. SAT math.section.
. . that’s over 10,000 dollars?!!!_ Are you
kidding? It’s a joke, right?

A unified image is one thing. It’s classy.
It’s logical. Maybe even sporty. But if, as

, your article seemed to indicate, someone,
somewhere in the administrative offices of
this institution paid someone, somewherea
five figure number of U.S. dollars, then I
assure you that I am not the only person
who chuckled at the: news. No, no. There
is an advertising firm somewhere full of
people chuckling rather loudly.

What genius, right? Drop the “college.”
Harvard did it. Very clever, right? Accen-

tuate the first syllable with a diamond
underneath the “V.” Only professional de-
signers could have-come up with. that.
Absolute brilliance, right? Use the colours
black and red. .How did they know to
choose those? ,

_L implore the administration, the Office
of College Relations, and President
Kuykendall to revert.to.the more. frugal
mentality.of a college student who splurges
once every two weeks by treating himself
and his girlfriend to a small yogurt at
Zack’s. (We usually share.) Run adesign

contest here at school. Have students enter

logos for future needs, such as the “wild-
cat” for the athletic department. Offer 15
dollars as a prize. You’d save the college a
five digit figure, you’d make the winner
very proud, and you’d wind up with a
design equally attractive to what has been
adopted. What’s more, I would sleep more
easily.

Sincerely,

Harry Lee Broome,Jr.

19

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Muadi Mukenge, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports:Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Destructo, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Hey! This one’s going out to Dr. Ralph Levering, who reaffirms our faith this week that the
faculty is indeed literate. The. Davidsonian is painstakingly written out by hand during the
school year by the monks of Davidson Monastery. Address correspondence to: The
Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are

the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The
Davidsonian. Opinions expressed in the editorial are those of the Editor. Subscriptions cost $25

College. This baby’s printed each and every week by the red-hot press gods down at Mullen
Mote Ttotxymeitretatcm Reverse Type! Damn, what this computer will d
Special Projects Editor: Maria Douglas.
Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll.

Assistant Features Editor: Bethany Deptuch.

Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome. .

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer, Maria Douglas,

'
oO! ‘

Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler... bg
Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret
Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks; Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord,
Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount,
_| Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens,
_ David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann. ’ :
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John
Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard,
_ Larry “Deadbeat” Sledge ($21!), Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson. = st
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephen
Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.

located on the'top floor of the Grey Student Union building, Opinions expressed in letters to |’

per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson }. .

Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete’

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.

Perspectives

Black Student Coalition president M. Anton. Bruce raisés some
interesting questions on the opposite page concerning the black experience
at Davidson and the general white attitude toward blacks on this campus.
Mr. Bruce’s own attitudes underlying his questions, however, are as
disturbing as the questions themselves.

° In regard to last week’s article: perhaps the piece was mis-titled. We
hope, however, that the underlying question is not, “Can a non-black write
accurately about the black experience (or history) at Davidson?” The writer
was chosen because he is consistently one our better writers, not because he
was white or black. It would be insulting and racist for the editors of The
Davidsonian to restrict our black reporters to “black assignments,” if such
a thing even exists, and the same goes for white reporters and “white
assignments.” One of the ideals of journalism in this country is that it does
not matter who the author of a piece is—a white, black, Indian, Asian or
Martian should be able to write.equally well on race relations, for example.
° Have many white Davidson students had contact with blacks only in
their roles as “cooks, maids, butlers and chauffeurs’? This is an inflamma-
tory and unsupportable generalization. Mr. Bruce could not have talked to
very many white students to conclude that “many” have been restricted to
such a limited background--or grown up with cooks, maids, butlers and
chauffeurs of any race, for that matter.

¢ Does the receptiveness of white Davidson students toward black
turn to cold, hard unconcern and ignorance? This again is a gross generali-
zation. When walking the campus and intersecting the path of someone you
do not know or someone whose name you’ve forgotten—black or white—
the walls, trees and grass in the surrounding area can become quite
interesting indeed.

If Mr. Bruce feels stripped of his dignity as a human being when he
is not greeted on campus—an¢d if this attitude is held by many black students
here—then something is seriously wrong. White students are not so con-
scious of being “white students” to the extent that this distinction seems to
exist among black students. The brushoffs Mr. Bruce describes say more
about how that individual treats other individuals in general and less about
how he or she treats members of different ethnic groups. People who pass:
without saying “hello” have made a comment about themselves, but
probably not a racially-linked comment.

The hostility and ease with which Mr. Bruce attributes every
problem to racial prejudice is disturbing. Preconceived notions are also a
form of prejudice, and if you assume that you are among the “non-accepted”
and that this is because you are black, then your prophesies will be self-
fulfilling. ae

Is Davidson really as miserable a place for black students as Mr.

Bruce describes it, and if so, why? While Mr, Bruce speaks of “action” and

the need to “stop wishing and start working,” he is short on specifics. The

_ problem seems to lie more in a lack of knowledge as to how to deal with the

situation rather than a lack of interest or concern. .

Mr. Bruce states that “it cannot be said that the administration-and
trustees are the only ones to blame for the uncomfortable minority situation.

P)}

_ Students must share some of the guilt.” He’s right. Students, both black and
white, need to work together at reaching a better solution. .

Admittedly prejudice among students exists, but to what extent is
unclear. As Mr, Bruce points out, most unfair attitudes on campus stem from
ignorance rather than hatred. Such behavior cannot be excused on these

_ grounds, but realizing its origin should help lead to a solution.
