Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters
Criticism for Puckett

Dear Mark Puckett,
In good health reporter:

I am extremely glad that you were
able to find an appropriate medium to
tell the entire campus how cool you are
for running a marathon.

My only question is, do you really
think anyone cares? It is obvious that
you work out not for personal satisfac-
tion but for the attention of others, since
you are so outspokenly arrogant about
youraccomplishments—pride takes on
a touch of humility. Have you ever no-
ticed that you are the only one in the
weight room who never wears a shirt?
All of this is unfortunate, since instead
of everyone saying, “Hey, there’s Mark.
Look what great shape he isin,” people

aresaying, “Hey, there’s Mark. Whatan
#$%@\”

Have you ever been overweight? I
can assure you from experience that
your few words of sarcastic advice,
tainted with the notion of overweight
people’s inferiority, are no substitute
for support and encouragement. Those

‘ who are attempting to lose weight and

those who have lost the weight have
gained a pérsonal satisfaction much
greater than being patted on the back by
the entire campus for running a mara-
thon.

I wish you luck in your search for
attention. It must be lonely at the top.

In shape with no intention of running a
marathon

Puckett draws more punches

Dear Editors:

I have been following with some
amusement over the last several weeks
the continuing saga of fitness writer

Mark Puckett’s battles with the “physi-_

cally complacent” contingency he
seems to find so prevalent among our
classmates. Now he decides it is neces-
sary torunamarathonin order to prove
his point that exercise is essential’ to
one’s physical and mental well-being.
On this pointI cannot disagree with Mr.
Puckett; anyone who can run 26 miles

has mya admiration, for! Icertainly could

not do so. ~

I strongly feel that Mr. Puckett
needs to dramatically alter the course
and ‘content ‘of ‘his ‘column

Health.” Itig clear that hehas sdecidedto

use this forum as a means by which to
bolster his own ego while at the same
time make snide remarks directed to-
ward those who find his column, well,
egotistical. Please don’t get me wrong,
Mr. Puckett, for I feel that some of your

past columns contained some useful —

information. Butit is here that the pres-
ent problem lies. There is a great need
for an informative column about physi-
cal fitness for the general Davidson
community. You donot need to take on
such a condescending attitude toward
your readers; I have found your last
several articles to be insulting, tosay the

very least. 1 L WBE you. to oe bias

Men's s soccer r says thanks

gent’ ‘outnumbered the American oe

Dear Editors,

We (he Bideortecscel erat

Coach Slagle) would like to thank the
campus community for its support
during the fall season. Attendance and
enthusiasm have been great. We got off

to a tough start (losing six one-goal
games, three of those in overtime) post-

ing a 2-7-0 record. We then played Fur- .

man in Greenville, and behind the sup-
port of a group of students who had

of those close We traveled to
Washington during Fall Break. Because
ofalarge group of Davidsonstudentsin
DC. for break anda good turnout for an
alumni function, the Davidson contin-

approach tobe more open to the needs
of those to whom the column is di-
rected—namely, those of us whodesire
to make a conscious effort to improve
their physical and mental well-being
through regular exercise and proper
diet. Just keep in mind that most of us
run three or four miles every couple of
days. Marathons are out of the reach of
most enthusiasts, to be sure.

So, in conclusion, what is needed is

_a genuine attempt by Mr. Puckett to

assume a more modest stance, and

along with his humility he may conse-

quently discover he indeed has some

_ informative advice which he can pass
, on to the reader, Several topics of inter-

n, “In Good’ “est which come to thind includetips on

stretching, warmup, running. form,

cross-training, weight-lifting tech- |.
niques, and so on. Maybe he has some .

healthful recipes? Many of us have real-

_ ized that the only way to eat truly |

healthfully i is to “make it yourself. ce |

have found that moderate exercise and .

a common-sensical approach to eating
work for me. Mr, Puckett needs to real-
ize that what ‘is good for Peter isn’t
necessarily good for Paul. He should
not pass unwarranted judgment on the
Davidson student body, for it may be
more healthy than he might think,

’ Sincerely, .

eS ee ore,

versity fans.

Since being 2-7-0, the team’ 'srecord +
has been 6-3-1 to improve our record to
8-10-1 with just the College of Char- |
leston remaining on Sunday, Novem- ‘|

ber 5th. The support given us by the

- student body has helped the team turn

its fortunes sas ripened yous > ;

Coach Charlie aire and the Davidson GE
: soccer team. a
made the trip, we started winning some ae

ee ae: *

(the letter was ae ee Charlie Slagle,

Lance Long, Steve Ott, Thomas Hertel, |.
Spider Wormuth, Rob Vest, Bruce
‘Nofsinger, Philip Sprinkle and Preston

Yarborough)

More letters on page 16!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor { Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

But what about
the children?

he proposed ticket policy for basketball games at the new
arena has already come under fire for numerous reasons.
But one issue that has not yet been addressed concerns
tickets for children. Many students have younger siblings
who stay with them for a weekend to get an early taste of campus
life. Will these students have to pay $10-12 to buy a full-priced
ticket to bring their brother or sister to the games? Faculty, staff
and other parents will also face the same problem. And then.
there’s the question of where everyone will sit.
_. While much of the new complex still needs to be paid for, we
also need to determine who should pay what and how much is
too much, before letting the policy harden into the conerete final
word.

One instance in which the current ticket policy clearly presents
too high a cost is its effect on students and children involved in
the Big Brother/Little Brother and Big Sister/Little Sister pro-
grams. The key to these programs is forming friendships between
students and less privileged children. Spending time with a child
is the only way.to show him or her that someone cares, and going
to a Davidson basketball game had traditionally been an activity
that involved many children in the community. But the current
ticket policy leaves no room for such “exceptions.”

The ticket policy for the new arena, like any other good policy,
needs to be flexible enough to fit the Davidson community it was
designed to serve. As the Wildcat mascot can certainly confirm,
children make up an important part of the Davidson basketball

‘fan club. Families and students cannot afford to, and should not

have to, pay $10-12 a piece for each child they wish to take a game.

Let's not forget some of our most loyal fans. All children under
12 need to have a special, affordable ticket price. In the case of
children involved in the Big Brother/Little Brother and Big Sister /
Little Sister programs, complimentary game passes in the upper-
level student section should be available to them when they are
accompanied by a student.

Compromising the’service aspect of the college is not an ac-

hie ceptable. option. for dealing with financial constraints. Davidson

— “| life. Let's s not forget to incorporate this aspect of the college into
-jlh

the athletic ara

