Thursday, March 9, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ei

July Experience counselor forms available

Applications to be a July Experience counselor are now available in the
Education Department, Chambers 136. Anyone interested pick up an application now.

the most votes

7 war Ee =
<. 4 < a ee

More celebration of Women’s History Month

On Monday; March 13, Davidson graduate and American Civil Liberties Union
Lawyer Aurie Hall will speak on “The Status of Reproductive Rights For Women” at
4 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

On Tuesday, March 14, Jean O’Barr will present the keynote speech for
Women’s History Month at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. The
lecture is entitled “The Necessity of Women’s Studies in Liberal Arts Education.”

Library summer jobs —

Anyone interested in a summer job at the College Library ria pick up an
ce ee gale ok whine pee bs

SGA Senate elections

Sign-ups to run for SGA class senators winewtbsalfocstay claws 1M terest ee
Tuesday, March 28. Sign up in the Dean of Students office. Cannas ate i

Chambers and the Union from 9 a.m. 10 3 pm. Three senators €

sophomore, junior and senior classes for next year will be elected, and e
shan hie cp here peltveas :

on Tuesday,

a3
| : a; ee
gers ve <a {

= 3 as

Women must not sell themselves

short, says graduate

Elizabeth Kiss, Rhodes Scholar, speaks on feminism

April 1, 1989:

By HEATH HARDAGE
The challenges of women now
venturing into realms previously
reserved for men were discussed
recently by 1983 Davidson gradu-

_ ate Elizabeth Kiss.

®

“A bishop who doesn’t have a
penis... why is that enough to split
the Anglican Church?”

“Why do we find submissive-
ness in women sexy?” ;

“Why do most women want to
marry a man who is taller and
smarter than they are?”

These questions reflect the
broad range covered at the lecture.
Entitled “Redefining Politics: The
Challenge of Feminism,” the
speech was sponsored by the
Alumni Lecture Series and is one
of the events highlighting
Women’s History Month at
Davidson.

Kiss is currently assistant pro-
fessor of political science at Prin-
ceton University and is working
towards her doctorate degree.
While at Davidson, she was a
Stuart Scholar, editor of The
Davidsonian as a sophomore and
founder of the Amnesty Interna-

tional chapter at the college. She
studied at the Sorbonne in Paris,
France as a junior, and in her sen-
ior year, wona Rhodes scholarship
to Oxford University.

Kiss regards the past 15 years of
coeducation at Davidson as “an in-
credibly short time.” She remem-
bers the argument that “coeduca-
tion would overburden the electri-
cal circuits at Davidson,” because
women would be using hairdryers
and curling irons all the time. She
cited the admissions policy during
her enrollment at Davidson as a
major challenge to feminism:
“The: fact that the justifications
offered for this quota were sexist. I
do understand that that’s
changed.”

Kiss went on to reveal that “al-
though I neverexperienced sexism
in the classroom fat Davidson]
there were an awful lot of women
who sold themselves very short in
the classroom by playing dumb.”

Kiss defined feminist theory as
“an attempt to understand and ar-
ticulate women’s experiences...
and how to make it better.” Femi-
nist theory has “‘a rich and diverse

set of approaches,” she said. These .

approaches often contradict each
other, she continued.

“What makes the feminist chal-
lenge so important,” said Kiss, “‘is
that it strikes so close to home. Sex
is inescapable.”

According to Kiss, women have
been silenced and oppressed for
centuries: “It was said that a
woman’s function was reproduc-
tion.”

Because of this belief, women
have often been excluded from all
important public spheres such as
economics and politicsas well,she
said.

“Women who ventured into
politics were treading in danger-
ous territory.” Kiss noted that
even today, “most important so-
cial institutions are overwhelm-
ingly headed by men.” This “bi-
zarre nature of the exclusion of
women from the political sphere”
is partially due to the fact that
women have not articulated their
experience as men have, she com-
mented. Women, as well as men,
said Kiss, “need the opportunity to
be theorists.”

Think 75!

Senior gift announced

Money will go to benefit summer
service project scholarships

ery class since 1983, this year’s
senior class has announced its in-
tention to leave a parting gift with
the college. After much discus-
sion, the class has decided that its
gift will be a service scholarship
designed to provide money for
students to use in summer service
projects.

According to class president
Hap Bryant, the seniors hope to
fund the scholarship with an en-
dowment collected from the sen-
iors over a five-year period. Since

' only the interest generated by the

By PETER BYNUM this year’s gift will keep on giving
: for years to come.
. Following inthe traditionofev- Scheduled to begin after Spring

Break, the fundraising effort will
be overseen by a committee of
twelve headed by Craig Carlock
and Susie Grant. Each committee
member will be in charge of about
five persons who will personally
solicit each man and woman in the
senior class. With a preliminary
goal of around $59,000, the com-
mittee is hoping that every senior
will pledge an average of $50 per
year for the next four years.

The specifics of the scholarship
arestill being finalized and will be
published in a brochure later this
year.

endowment will actually be spent,

PERRY, from page 1

Husein, the President of Iraq, Mr. Mubar-
raq, the President of Egypt, Miss Bhutto of
Pakistan, or any number of other Arab or
Muslim leaders we could name, standing up
before the Parliament or wherever and say-
ing “kill the author.” But I think if you put it
that way it’s possible to say yes, there are
international laws. And there are East and
West, and they transcend religion and eve-
rything else; they are based on international
law. But calling on the death of an author
doesn’t fit.

Davidsonian: So the domestic implications
make Iran’s reaction much more violent as
compared to other Muslim countries?

Ambassador Perry: That's right. I would
agree would that.

Davidsonian: Focusing on the “freedom of
expression.” President. Khamenei of Iran
said that Western governments had made
the mistake of confusing “freedom of ex-
pression with the freedom. to insult one
billion Muslims.” Obviously, the Christian

faith has experienced a similar problem with
The Last Temptation of Christ. What is your
reaction in allowing “freedom of expres-
sion” to criticize various religious faiths?

Ambassador Perry: I think I would say
that you have to consider national cultures
when you talk about “freedom of expres-
sions” because, if we are honest with our-
selves, we will admit not every country has
the same definition. I think it can be guaran-
teed that that book will not published in the
Soviet Union, for example, and in quite a
few. other countries. We, in the United
States, have a very liberal interpretation of
freedom to publish anything.

In fact, even pornography has gone a very
far long way, and a lot of Americans worry
about that. We interpret these things
broadly. A lot of countries are not that

‘broad-minded, and a number things can’t be
published. Now, there is a difference be-
tween some control of what’s published and
actual book-burning, such as the Nazis did.

But I think we have to admit not every-
body publishes just everything. Perhaps a
closer look, a little more discipline by the

editors; would have led to the removal of:

few sentences and so forth, and could have

_Davidsonian:

removed some of the offensive stuff. That
wouldn’t bother me, I don’t think we should
be too absolute that any author can write
anything in the world and get it Published. I
don’t think that should be.

Finally, because of
Khomeini’s threat, 12 members of the Euro-
pean Community have withdrawn their top-
ranking diplomats from Teheran in protest.
The United States has been slow in its reac-
tion; then again, the United States has hadno
diplomats in Iran since 1979. The question,

then, is do you foresee any changes i in U.S. |

foreign policy toward Iran?

Ambassador Perry: Well, youknow I was
serving as the Ambassador to Bulgaria
when they released the hostages. We had a
little meeting of our embassy staff to cele-
brate, and somebody said, “Well, why don’t
you say a few words.” And I said, “This isa
funny thing to say right now, but I think we
should all remember that Iran is a very
important country that we have long ties of
friendship with, and because of this incident
we shouldn’t write them off.” Well, I still

* feel-that, and I think that for too long a time

the revolution in Iran has colored our think-

ing. And I’ll admit that some of the things
they do are not happy things like seizing the
embassy.

But I do think that just from the point of
view of international politics or diplomacy
Iran is a very important country and a very
crucial place. And unfortunately, it is right
next door to the Soviet Union. e

The Soviets have been skillful, it seems to
me, in moving in to a vacuum of power we
are losing. At the same time, I’ll admit we
are caught here. You don’t want to say to the
Ayatollah, “Well, fine. You go ahead and
call for the murder of anybody you want to,
and we'll pat you on the back.” We can’t do

- that.

It is very unfortunate that the Iranian
Revolution, twice now with these two inci-

dents, has put the West and especially the

Americans ina position of having to oppose
Iran.

We are not really opposed to Iran; we are
opposed to some of these acts of their pres-
ent government. And those will eventually
change. So you have to take the long-view,
but I think for the moment that anything we
can do to get past the crisis and move to-
wards normal relations with Iran is in our

