10

By MARK PUCKETT

Spring Frolics is this weekend, and
the fourteen people who are going have
asked In Good Health, “What can I do
with my date that is creative, yet physi-
cally challenging: to my _ stamina,
strength, and ‘aerobic energy?” The
following possibilities come to mind:

1) Dr. Leland “Get That Food Out
of Here or You Die” Park needs several
monitors to capture and interrogate
anyone bringing edibles or beverages
into the library. He guarantees a good
aerobic workout, plus the opportunity
to work with some really state-of-the-
art ballistics. “You’re always moving
around,” Dr. Park says. “If you aren’t
nailing someone in the 24-hour study
room with a cup of coffee, then you’re
looking for fingerprints or cleaning
your Uzi.”

(6 p.m.) or Saturday afternoon.

female—this weekend. “We are think-

Sheik Elites,” said one trusteeee, “but

Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

—In-Goooooood Health!
The cheap, aerobic
Spring Frolics date

Proghisen te irira aed

Those who are interested should - ¢ stic beer cups y
show upatthe library early Friday night stacked in your hand. Iti

ing seriously about the Ribbed-Edge

there also has been much talk about in- choices, They aid y
stalling the Hindu Sensitizer which is _ they don’t cost any

reinforced with steel and poly-urethane .
linkages. Anyway, we need young, ener-
getic people.” (Note: scromping can_
burn 120 to 200 calories.)

Volunteers will meet Saturday morn-
ing and work through thenight, Food will
be provided.

3) Patterson Court will outdo itself
with the standard PARTIES! If you
attend one of thése bashes, you will find
a potpourri of activity oriented toward
your physical betterment: i

a) For Endurance: See how long
you can stand the second-hand smoke in
your eyesand throat. Also, see how many

IMACtion

THE EXTINCTION OF THE
ABSENT MINDED PROFESSOR:

"Tenure decisions are +towmormw

night and T havevrt+ even started
- Tesearching for my book | rm

Team handball, volleyball and softball = —

Friedlander’s Team, California Dreamers. Box Seekers look good

By LARRY SLEDGE

Spring is here; seniors are getting ready to
graduate; and everyone else is making plans
for the summer. Along with all of the char-
acteristics of springtime goes the approach-
ing end of another IMAC season. As the
tournaments begin, the IMAC fields are oc-
cupied by softball enthusiasts and the gym is
‘populated by volleyball and team handball
players. The IMAC Council has produced
its rankings for each of the tournaments, and
all three promise to be thrilling.
Team Handball

The new phenomenon this season for
intramurals has been Team Handball. Thus
far, the inaugural season has gone well, and
slowly the players have learned the rules of
the game. As the tournament opens, there
are four teams whose level of play has
exceeded the rest. The first seed is SAE’s
Friedlander’s Team, who on paper has the
most impressive team. Their starting team
includes two lefthanders, Mike Friedlander
at wing and Greg Jones at shooter, which
gives them added scoring potential from the

right side of the court.

KA’s Put It In is the other undefeated
team ‘at 5-0, and they have an explosive
offense as well, led by shooters A.J. Morgan
and Robby Moore and the league’s top
circle runner, Dave Becker. But their de-
fense has been incredibly porous, having
nearly lost to the Young Guns, who played
short a man.

Sig Ep’s Young Guns enter as the third
seed (4-1) and are led by the offensive
prowess of Chris Sward and the defensive
play of goalie Jim Walker.

KS’s Delta Force (#4) lost only one game
to forfeiture. Wingman Mark Barrow and
shooter Matt Terrell are among this team’s
abundance of talent.

There are other teams with bright spots as
well. The Bottom Line is led by sophomore
Geoff Lewis, who is from Colorado Springs
(home of the U.S. Team Handball Federa-
tion) and has much exposure to the game.
Radio Alarm Clock’s roster includes Sasha
Konukh, a Soviet student with prior experi-
ence in the game. But the top four are far

away superior to the rest of the field. And
among these teams, look for Friedlander’s
Team, certainly the top offensive squad, to
take IMAC’s inaugural handball title.

Volleyball

IMAC volleyball has long been domi-
nated by the faculty team, John Mack &
Son. When was the last time you saw a
student wearing a volleyball championship
t-shirt? Krentz, Kazee and company have
quite a collection of the shirts, for they have
rarely been threatened, until now.

Last year, David Foote put together an
entry of all-stars who were the only team to
take a game from the faculty champs. This
year they have returned with a few new
faces, and have scored at least a moral vic-
tory. They captured the tournament’s #1
seeding, having demolished all of their
opponents to date.

John Mack enters as the third seed, having
an unblemished record as well, but. their
victories have not been as impressive as the
California Dreamers. Some say they lost

Opinions Policy

their concen-
tration when
the USA’s
women’s vol-

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:
¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.
e Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to

- them).
¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date. ©
¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for
those on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
¢ All submissions must be signed. Writers must present the

editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work. ;

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors.
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which

contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other

. letters printed dealing with the same

¢ All submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or
profession).

J

‘leyball team

came totown.

Oh, there
are other
quality teams
as well. KA’s
bee ves,
SAE’s Forces
Team, the In-
ternationals
and the Old
Men have all
played well.
Beat John

—

Mack was also impressive and was re-
warded with the #2 seed. However, Molly,
your team (BJM) as well as the others pose
little threat to the two big guns.

You and I both will be watching from the
sidelines, when the California Dreamers
square off against John Mack & Son in the
finals. Who will win? It should be a close
one, but go Dreamers!

Softball

IMAC’s softball season got off to a slow
start this season due to weather problems;
there was snow on the ground on opening
day. As a result, few teams had more than
three games in the regular season. This
year’s tournament was slated to start on
Moriday.

Four teams entered with an undefeated
record. The first seed is Sig Ep’s Coach’s
Last Stand, who over four games averaged
20 runs per game. The second seed belongs
to SAE’s MasterBatters, who finished off
the season with a 20-2 thrashing of KS’s
Hardballers. The Old Men enter as the third
seed with a 3-0 record. First East’s Glad-
heater Out-fielders round out the unbeaten
teams, with a 3-0 record and the fifth seed.

Fre Semone soe include PiKA’s Box

Seekers (#4, 3-1), whose pitcher, Bruce.
Bacon, threw five innings of no-hit balls,
leading his team toa 12-4 drubbing of KS’s
Tang Poons. KA’s Rough in the Diamonds
are the defending champs, but played only .
one game (2 forfeits). Look for Manager
Hugh Campbell to have his squad ready to
make a run.

The 4th H20 Artillery Division (#6) has
two players, John Wightman and Dan Ri-
kard, from the. 1986 championship. team.

See IMACtion, page 12

