Friday, September 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE BEST PART OF THE
COLLEGE EXPERIENCE IS -
KABLWING THAT ONE PAY
WORLD Wilt BE1W-ouR

SATURDAY MORMING |
Y .. a IPENER™* :

‘Sex, the sexes,

Carleton Vaughn
_ This commentary jwas Sony
written as a respo the survey

used to collect information for last ©
year’s date rape symposium. But the
topic is-still one that should be ad-
dressed bythe entire student body.
Human sexuality, being the most
universal human interaction, is also the
most personal. Rape, being a more or
less sexual act, is a violation of what
~makes us-human;-on both a personal: -
and universal level.
I've never been able to answer ques-
tionnaires very well, and the “date rape
_ survey” was difficult, not only because
it wasa very poorly designed question-
naire (it doesn’t even ask what gender I

am), but also. because the questions —

oni alae

and date rape

Acouple of times I’ve been witha girl
and, though she didn’t want anything
to happen, I would nibble on her ear or
in some other way turn her on to the

15

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors
~—Gary Wheeler, News Editor
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor

Formidable tasks

erry Holland is coming home. Our lead story this week is

confirmation of the prescient story The Davidsonian ran at

the end of last year in its special Onion issue, printed two

months prior to the announcement of Holland’s decision.
Holland now faces the task, or opportunity, to fill many more expec-
tations, including finding solutions to the numerous problems cur-
- rently plaguing Davidson’s sports program.

Revitalizing the athletic program after the beating it took
during last year’s controversies over football divisions, athlete’s
3.A.T. scores, and Coach Bobby Hussey’s resignation is one area that
Holland can assist simply by being Terry Holland: former Davidson
student, player and coach. Holland admits that he was hired for his
mage, in an effort to renew and unite support for Davidson athletics
‘ ‘and the new Baker Sports Complex.

Those who remember Davidson's “Glory Days” and who
anxiously await their return see Holland as a powerful link to those
past successes. And hiring the University of Virginia’s basketball
coach won’t hurt Davidson's recognition any either.

Holland is also able to appease those who share the faculty’s
concern, expressed in a report last year, that sports are being given
too much emphasis within the framework of the college’s philo-
sophical goals. Even those who are not big fans of big sports can —

point that she did. Does that makemea |'draw comfort in the fact that Holland is a Davidson graduate. He

rapist? In ite somewhat bitteratmos-

phere surrounding this topic, it may
seem so. Or was I merely making her
aware of her own desires for me? That
seems like a ‘viable explanation, too.
And if a girlfriend comes into my room
and starts pulling my clothes off, was 1 |
raped if 1 wasn’t in the mood when she
walked in the door?

-Anybody can identify out and out
_Tape, but ambiguous cases are hard to
define. Ifa womansuccumbs toa man’s
advances, or. vice-versa, and_ feels.
guilty afterwards, was the seducer a
rapist and the acquiescent raped? If so,

then, I’ve raped and been raped. .

Something that frightens me very

force gray answers into black and much is that, as a human, and more
whites! fiovint > \ particularly as a male, I have the ability

I choose to respond i in this form for’ to commit the act of rape. There is
those reasons and because I have nothing in me that would ever cause
strong feelings on this issue. A girl | me to realize that potential, but when I
know at Davidson was date-raped.She learn ‘that a rape has happened,
was drunk at a Patterson Court party ‘whether it be forced with a knife in a
and was suckered in by an offer for a__ back alley or with alcohol and plying
“ride back toher dorm.” The piece of s- . -handsinadorm room, I become aware
-- drove her to some remote spot and . that I, I, too, am able to do. that. And it

raped her. I don’t even know if “date- scares ; the hell out of me.
rape” is the appropriate term, since —
they knew little more than each ei ide s
names.
It sai Real chock the goals of many
male-fe tionships is theescala-
tion geitdiony . While the
“why” of this is not within the scope of
i my reson iii dod ina
$0.

‘@'relatively new iets a
 frecuibat ‘One. This pressure ranges
anywhere from sweet talk to seduction
_to outright rape. Although the “first
' time” between a couple is sometimes a
simultaneous and mutual decision, the
idea had to come from somebody to start
with.

Few people who are socal ctive- -

~ | know that I am taking a risk in
affixing my name to this. But if I didn’t,
-I couldn’t express my views. I am
proud of what I believe, but don’t wish
to be misunderstood, either personally
or as. a. Tepresentative | of what I see as
‘truth: My-maleness makes me no more
a rapist than knowing how to fire a
» pistol makes me a murderer... —

_ My appeal is this: don’t ever force
~ yoursel onsomeone else for your own
~ sexual gratification. Sex is a music that
must be played:in harmony. It is beau-
‘tiful when it is sharing. When it isn’t

sharing it’s the sane acton the piel

Carleton baccin is a junior on leave in
Augusta, Georgia, who sayshe’s __cur-
rently majoring in procrastination.

nows what Davidson is all about; he’s one of us, and he is not
“willing to-do whatever it takes to win.

Holland will do a lot for Davidson’s recognition, and his
support can help the program finally secure a spot in a conference,
maybe even the Southern Conference. s

But image is only the beginning of the problems. Complying
with Title IX and recruiting enough athletes who are students first to
support existing sports are among the issues that demand solutions.

' Kit Morris had the misfortune of being athletic director
during the year whenall of these problems suddenly came toa head.

Holland enters the job as a well-respected hero, and as such, he will

also have the power to make the decisions needed to tackle these

issues. The problems are formidable, but perhaps no more formi-
dable than the task of fending Holland must here seemed at one time.
: +h.

