Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, December 6, 1989

13°

“Suicide is the ultimate attempt to be in control of
one’s destiny,” says college psychologist

- Amelia Dockery
with Tripp Helms

The death of David Blalock frustrates us, because we
try so hard and so futilely to apply reason to some-
thing that is completely irrational and in many ways
impossible to understand. We are asking so many
questions for which there are so few real answers.
Nevertheless, it may be of some help to look at the
roots of suicidal behavior and some characteristics of
suicidal people.

Suicide is the ultimate attempt to be in control of
one’s destiny. Depression, feeling deprived of auton-
omy, of asense of wholeness and ofa freedom to make
significant decisions about one’s life-these are the fac-
tors that probably play the most important role in a
person’s decision to commit suicide.

But, with suicide comes a time of obliteration of
consciousness. It is a compelling force, nagging, om-
nipotent, undermining one’s rationale. It breaks into
consciousness.

The lasting, unbearable question among us, the
survivors, is always: what could. I have done to pre-
ventit? The honest answer is: nothing. Unless you are
a skilled professional used to identifying denial, there
isno way youcan positively identify a suicidal person.
The real suicidal person lives in such fear of his or her
death impulses that hisor her only survival technique
is denial. This explains our suprise and frustration
oversomeone’s death by suicide.

Obviously, ‘this excludes suicide attempts or:

threats, that to the contrary are calls for help. If any of
these attempts succeed, then we can be wondering:
why did we not hear the call?

But, people who live life in quiet despair, frequently
offering help to or counseling others, never talking
about their own depression- these people are at high
risk of committing suicide. There is no way to know it
unless a skilled professional intersects their lives.
They will certainly not reach out for help. It is like a

compulsion for them. They see itas their fate-oneday,
one day.... Life goes on tracing the route leading to that
day, that moment when everything seems to be in
order and fate can take place. In the mind of the
suicidal person, there’is no escaping that fate.

We know that depression can be treated and that
suicidal patients can find an uplifting way of healing
the hurt and pain in their lives. Medicine and psyco-
therapy are available ways of treating depression and
its terrible consequences.

College age students are particularly at risk of sui-
cide because of the massive reevaluation of essential
values that takes place during that time of life. All of
a sudden students are empowered to make decisions
for themselves in ways that they have never been able
to before. There is fear of failure and disappointment
and the fear of being inadequate to the task. Our com-
petitive society places so much pressure on us to
succeed in very limited socially acceptable ways.

Healthy resolution of the questions of this time of
life occurs when we can learn to be humble and accept
our limitations and at the same time recognize our
own individual strengths. We each can havea special,
significant place in the world that does not have to be
the same as everybody else’s. The competitive values
our world tries to impose upon us are indeed without
value. There is no real competition, and no real race to
win. There is only the path to wholeness which is dif-
ferent and special for each of us.

Researchers have studied populations in college
settings, and they have found that the bright, aca-
demically driven students like there are at Davidson
and other schools are very susceptible to chemical
imbalances. It is the classic manic depressive picture,
with wide and very dangerous mood swings. These
are something to watch for in a person. Again, only a
professional can truly determine whether there is a
problem or not, and what kind of problem there is.

The question remains: how do we prevent suicide?
Professional intervention in the life of any possibly

ceive depression like we perceive love—intuitively.
We feel it, but are not able to put it into to words. The
great danger arises when we are not able to name the
problem. When itis just there, and we know it, and we
cannot put a finger on it.

More concrete signs to look for in a person include
drastic, abrupt changes in behavior (meticulously
neat people who suddenly become extremely messy,
talkative people who become very quiet) and wide
mood swings.

There are noreal rules. It takesa skilled professional
to diagnose a person in deep depression. Because of
their convincing denial to themselves and others of
their problem, they are very good at fooling them-
selves and other people.

If youare suspiciousofa severe depression problem
in someone you know, you must take control. As
stated before, if the person is depressed and suicidal,
he or she feels out of control of his or her own circum-
stances. You offer that control. Say “I want you to meet
someone I know” and take himor her toa professional
for help. Be strong, for the person could be deeply
rooted in denial. If everything is okay, then you will
have shown that you care and that is an important
gesture to make. However, when our intuitions are
strong enough that we feel it necessary to intervene, it
is likely that we are right in doing so.

How do we deal with David’s death? Openly talk
about your feelings. Share tears. Even if you did not
know him, it is so sad. Why hold on to your own
feelings of sadness? That is what David did. As Chap-
lain Chuck Hasty said in David’s memorial service,
when all else fails, we have each other and we need to
use each other. How else can we cope?

Professionals skilled in treating depression and sui-
cidal people are available at the Student Counseling
Center in the basement of the Union. To make an
appointment, call X 2451 or stop by the SCC office. In
case of after hours emergency, call a staff person from
the Dean of Students Office.

suicidal person isa must. If we haveaslight suspicion |- Amelia Dockery is a clinical psychologist with the

that someone is severely depressed and suicidal, it is"

important to follow up on that suspicicion. We per-

‘college counseling center. Tripp Helms is a senior

religion major from Matthews, N.C.

“Never, never, never, never, never, |
never, never, give up. Never, never, etc.”

John Burns

I recently saw a 20/20 story where a high school
football coach’s pre-season speech was this: Never,
never, never, never, never, never, never give up.
Never, never, never... etc. It went on for about ten min-
utes. If there’s one thing that everyone, even an arm-

‘chair quarterback like myself, can learn from sports it
is that message: don’t give up... ever.

Some recent events here just serve to more perma-
nently engrave that ideal in my mind. It first hit me
two and a half years ago.

Mark wasa friend of mine who had a biting wit, an
incredibly sharp mind, and a love for practical jokes.
He was adopted at a very young age, and his parents
are two of the most genuinely caring individuals I
have ever known.

Mark’s dad was a very sick man. It seemed that
every month another system in his body would shut
down, and he'd have togo to the hospital. The doctors
said they had never seen a man fight so hard for so
long. John wasliving tosee his son graduate from high
school. He never gave up until he had nothing left to
fight with. He died last month.

John ceased to fight also because his reason for

_ fighting was no longer there. Mark had troubles, big

ones they seemed in August, 1987. He failed togetinto
the Naval Academy, a dream since his childhood,
because of his eyesight and his history of asthma. A
very disturbed old girlfriend had been hounding him
for months, never giving him a moment'speace. She
finally had him beaten up in his front yard by five
guys, in full view of his helpless father.

On top of it all, Mark was the kind of guy who held
everythingin, only letting a few of his friends know he
had any troubles at all.

On the night after he was beaten up, all of Mark’s
closest friends were out of town. Mark snapped. He
did what he had tried to do a couple of times before.
He committed suicide in his car at the marina.

Idon’tknow why he did it; I’ll never understand his
reasoning, and I don’t think I want to. The only thing
I understand is that Mark’s decision profoundly al-
tered the lives of those around him. His father was
never the same, though he didn’t cease fighting, he
was only a shell of his former self. The relationships
between those of us who were his close friends
changed forever, in ways we never could have imag-
ined before August 6.

I don’t condemn Mark for what he did. His choice

was one made ata time of what he thought was lonely
desparation. The results only made it clear to me that
none of usis ever alone. If you give upon yourself, you
are also giving up on those who care about you.

I didn’t know David Blalock that well. But anyone
who has been at Davidson for a while can tell that the
mood has been much darker over the last few days
than even our usua] Davidson “Stressember.” People
all over campus wonder “why?” evenif, like me, they
didn’tknow himasanything more thana passing face
in Chambers. His decision was a life-altering one for
more people than just himself.

President Kuykendall’s prayer at Christmas Ves-
pers! guess expressed my point more eloquently than
lever could. He referred to that sense we all feel of the
wallsclosing in, the dark enveloping us. He then made
it clear that there is always something out there to hold
on to, a light piercing the darkness to guide us back.
Kuykendall meant the power of God. But that beacon,
it seems, can be anything you wantit tobe, even if you
don’t wantit to be God. Just realize that thereis always
something or someone to hold on to or for.

Have a safe and happy holiday season.

John Burns is a sophomore political science major
from High Point, N.C.
