Friday, March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

we joo se iS coon Oo)

Student papers presented, to be published

Three Davidson students recently presented papers at the Eighth Annual Emory
Undergraduate Sociology Symposium (EUSS) in Adanta, Ga. Ismat Husain, ’90, Lita
Dwight, 89 and Charles Houck, *89, were part of 30 students from across the nation
whose works were selected from an initial pool of several hundred sociology students.

Husain’s paper, entitled “Black and Asian immigrants in East and Central Africa,”
was written as part of an independent study in sociology. Dwight explored the subject
of “College Females Performing Dumb Roles,” while Houck discussed “Irving
Goffman Meets Animal House: Team Behavior and the College Fratemity.”

In addition to student papers, addresses were delivered by Katrina Johnson of the

School of Public Health and staff member of the Centers for Disease Control.

The papers will be published by EUSS in December and a copy will be made
available in the Davidsoniana Room.

The Department of Sociology/Anthropology annually encourages its majors to
submit papers to the symposium.

Environmental Week: April 5 - 8 |

The Davidson College Recycling Committee will sponsor Environmental Week
Ne

“Environmental Issues in the 90s” will be delivered by a Greenpeace representative ;

National Lung & Blood Institute, and Richard Levinson, faculty member at the Emory
" toreversethe declining black enrollment inthenation’sc

_ awarded annually. All grants must be matched by the recipient colleges.

April 5 - 8. The following events are scheduled: April 5 — A demonstration on
Chambers Lawn and a movie in the 900 Room at 9:45; April 6— The Sierra CLub |
and Duke Power will speak in Chambers Gallery at 11 a.m. and a lecture entitled

in Love Auditorium at 7:30; April 7— “The Emerald Forest” and “Never Cry Wolf” »
will be shown in the 900 Room at 7:15 and 9:45; April 8 — The Environmental
Ee eek pies eae ak eer 9 ene ee es
be biekd Sroe 2 6) Dam a COR ee

Knight Foundation awards $250, 000 to.
ay of Learning poe

47%, Tg Bt

Foundation. The grant ae espe etree ee program!
plemented at a cost of nearly $4 million over eight } Love of Learning

—getting students on a college-bound track and b ) F support it

school, family and community. The funds were awarded tocight. private liberal arts _
colleges through the new Excellence in Undergraduate Education program ‘estab-
lished by the foundation. Ten grants, ranging from $100,000 to $250,000, will be _

Union Carbide physician discusses

Indian chemical disaster

Media overshadowed good intentions of plant, he says

By GARY WHEELER

Bipin Avashia, company physician for Union Car-
bide and professor at the University of West Virginia
Medical School, spoke on the 1984 chemical disaster
in Bhopal, India in his March 28 lecture in the 900
Room.

The disaster involved an explosion of a tank con-
taining MIC (methyl isocyanate carbymylation).
MIC causes swelling of the eyes. The gas also floods
the lungs -- and in severe cases, can choke people to
death.

In Bhopal, a city of about 800,000, at least 390
people were choked to death by the chemical and
20,000 more were injured in the accident.

Avashia was flown into Bhopal shortly after the
disaster occured. He and several other Union Carbide
physicians served as consultants to the doctors in
Bhopal.

Avashia said that the plant in Bhopal was losing

money and planning to shut down. However, while in
operation the plant did not have the necessary safe-
guards that it should have had which would have pre-
vented the accident. Although the plant was a Union
Carbide facility, it was being run solely by Indian
personnel, stated Avashia. To have paid American
technicians would have meant to pay in American
dollars -- a venture far too expensive for an underde-
veloped country like India, he continued.

Although MIC can be deadly, Avashia emphasized

_ that, when reacted properly with other chemicals, it

can be very useful. This particular plant was using
MIC to produce a pesticide, and Avashia disclosed
that using pesticides can increase crop yields “at least
fifty percent.”

Avashia stated that while the chemical business
tries to make chemicals useful to mankind, the media
scares the public by “taking something that is bad and
turning it into something that is much worse.”

Phi Beta Kappa
Elected to Membership February 1989
Ann Louise Allen Edward Tae Kim
Arlene Joy Bach Sebastian Koch
Elizabeth Long Bostik Kyong Shin Lee
Daniel Glenn Bowman - April Dawn Loving
Renier Joseph Brentjens Peter George Mangone
Harry Lee Broome, Jr. Barbara Lynn Matheny
Justin John Gold Broughton Julia Snead McCrorey
Harry Smoak Bryant, Jr. Carolyn Meade Neale
Ronald Craig Carlock, Jr. Susan Martin Park
Allison Anne Chapman Drew George Peel
Philip Earle Clifford Jeffrey Michael Petry
John Robert Coleman, Jr. John Payne Scherer, II
Dixon Courson Cunningham Mary Elisabeth Schwalbe
Christine Helen Curtin Heather Jean Stewart
Samuel Thomas Cutting Lisa Place Stewart -
Elizabeth Ann Dolan Stephanie Ann Thomas
Ann Elizabeth Edwards Frederick George Wenzel, IV
Daniel Stephen Grau Elizabeth Grimes Whitaker
Jeffrey Steele Gregory Sarah Louise Whitesides
Raymond Jackson Harshbarger Benjamin Allen Yarbrough
Caroline Gisela Hoffman Julie Helene Zimmermann
Martha Coleman Johnson

Visiting humanities
professor offered tenure

By MARIA DOUGLAS
Rosemarie Tong, visiting distinguished professor
of humanities at Davidson, has been offered tenure
status effective immediately. The Board of Trustees
approved Tong’s tenure at their February meeting.
Tong, winner of the 1986 CASE award, will hold
the-John Thatcher professor of medical humanities

chair beginning in the fall of 1989.

According to Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, the
chair has been unoccupied for three or four years.

“We had a chair available to give and we had her
here,” said Williams. “We hired her because she is an
absolutely outstanding teacher.”

Tong will be responsible for developing medical

“My major responsibility will be to get a program
going in the next three years,” she said.

“The idea of the program is not to serve just pre-
med students, but to be of interest to people concerned

with dying and getting sick—the large-scale social —
~ and economical impact of medicine,” Tong stated.

Medical humanities is concerned with the prob-
lems of life and death—disease and sickness in biol-

ogy and philosophy, sociology, anthropology, history
and literature, Tong said.

“You get the notion that medical humanities has.a
lot to do with humanizing ithe dosresgni
society,” she continued.

Tong’ a fires conte will doal'withiethical eines i
modern medicine. She hopes the class will reach a
wide range of students from different disciplines.
Topics discussed will include health care‘delivery,
patient confidentiality, euthanasia, abortion and: Te-
productive and genetic technology. ~

“T’m not fully happy just doing disciplinary work,
nor am I fully happy doing interdisciplinary work,”
Tong said. Medical humanities offer a “balance,”
which she prefers.

Tong, who holds a doctorate in viilioonsy; will
teach other philosophy courses in addition tohumani-
ties. She taught at Williams College for ten yee
before coming to Davidson.

“This is a wonderful thing for Davideou College; ug
said Williams. “We hope she will have an impact on
the college in the areas of medical humanities,
women’s issues and ethics.”

Visiting professor Rosemary Tong, winner of the 1986 CASE Teacher of the Year Award, will become a

permanent part of Davidson’s faculty next year.

Photo courtesy of College Relations
