— Wednesday, September 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Committee hoping to recycle response

By BETH BOWEN

Davidson has had a functional recy-
cling program for the past 15 years.
Last year alone the campus was re-
sponsible for recycling three and a half
tons of office paper, a half ton of both
glass and newspaper each week, a half
ton of aluminum each month and 12 to
15 bags of plastics each week.

This year the recycling committee is
expanding its efforts by overseeing a
pilot curbside program in all freshmen
dorms and several sophomore dorms.
All first-year students have a pink recy-
cling bucket in their rooms and stu-
dents in Know, Irwin and Acres have
the option to have a bucket.

Glass, plastic, and aluminum should
be deposited in these buckets and taken
to the curb at the designated pick-up

times: Thursdays 9:30 - 11 a.m. in front
of Knox, Acres and Irwin, and Fridays
9:15 - 11:30 in front of Richardson.

The programisrunentirely by volun-
teers on the recycling committee who
are working at capacity picking up the
buckets, sorting glass, plastic and alu-
minum and making runs to the recy-
cling centers in Charlotte and
Statesville.

There are 45 students on the commit-
tee, which is led by student coordinator
Dave Murray, and Gerald Hutchinson,
director of the Davidson Outdoors Pro-
gram.

Although these volunteers are in-
strumental in making the program fea-
sible, the cooperation of all students is
vital to make it a success. Caroline
Craig, Service Coordinator, urges ev-

eryone to be an integral part of campus
recycling. She said, “The idea is that
everyone is responsible for their own
environment and therefore responsible
for their own trash.”

All students have the opportunity to
recycle in the Union, and students who
do not have buckets should devise a
system with their hallmates and resi-
dent advisors.

Craig would like to see the program
accelerated within the next four years
so that every student would have the

option to have a bucket in his or her

room, but the program needs active in-
stitutional support and better facilities
to reach-this level.

Freshmen, hall counselors and resi-
dent advisors play key roles this year in
determining the outcome of the new

system.

Josh Hickman, hall counselor on sec-
ond West Belk, thinks that the fresh-
men on his hall take a genuine interest
in recycling. He said, “I think it will
work because Davidson students are
concerned about their environment. Of
course, everyone has other worries, but
the buckets are convenient and make
them conscious of what they’re doing
with their trash.”

Taking a few minutes each day to
recycle is no great burden, but the ill
effects of not recycling are significant.

Hutchinson asks Davidson students
“to think of one way to recycle more
effectively and one way to reduce input
into the waste stream. Davidson stu-
dents are leaders, and by choosing to
recycle, they will make a difference.”

(7

Ketan Bulsara
Prem Manjooran
Vashist Warah

Carla Badgett
Joe Cook —

Independent Senators

Freshman Senators

Jared Baxter, class president

S.G.A. election results |
Laura Cunningham — KA—Carter sg 3
Anthony Fox. KS—Doug Jobe
Robb Webb PAX—Doug Hicks
PDT—Tim Harris _
unior: r nci PKA—Jeremy. Head - ae
Representative RUSK—Cecily Craighill we
~ Carl Van Osdall SAE—Tommy Marshall
SPE—Todd Newnam
House Senators SPN—Amanda Bastian ae
BSC—Michelle Serrano cathy Oe

7 DAVIDSON OUTDOORS CENTER

BAHAMA SAILING
ADVENTURE

SUNDAY DEC. 31

to MONDAY JAN. 8

of the Bahama and Bimini Islands.

This is not a “cruise”, but a fun,-learning vacation.
The emphasis will be on sailing and the oceangoing
experience. We will contract a US Coast Guard licensed
Captain who will teach us seamanship skills. You will learn
to set sails, steer a compass course, Cast off , anchor and
moor a "blue water” .sailboat. Everyone will be given an

Join us for a fantastic sailing adventure in the
sunny Bahama Islands over Christmas Recess! We'll
board the 57' Ketch "EVERGREEN" about midnight
Sunday to begin our trip filled with sailing lessons,
snorkeling, beachcombing and exploring the villages

COST:

g

$420.00, includes all costs associ-:
ated with the charter (boat, captain,

food, fuel, dockage and other incident-
al expenses), travel between Davidson

and Miami, and equipment rental and
camping fees for our return trip on
Sunday, Jan. 7.

ADDITIONAL EXPENSES are up to
the individual; $50.00 pocket money

should be more than enough to cover

equal share of duty, so there will also be plenty of time
for relaxing and soaking up the warm, rejuvenating air of
the sub-tropics.

We will prepare our own meals (either in the
boat's galley, or on a cookout on the beach) from the
lockers stocked by-our charter agent. In addition, you'll
have the option to eat at a restaurant on one or two nights
when we'll be in port.

_ meals in port, modest shopping, as well
as three meals on the road.

GROUP SIZE: 14 people maximum.

TRIP LEADER: Gerald Hutchinson,

Director, DOC

Snorkeling and fishing gear are included with the
sailboat, so we can supplement our diet, as well as explore
sunken shipwrecks and coral reefs. This is a great OPP OT
tunity for those interested in marine biology.

All considered, this will be an action-packed week
of “experiential” education and wholesome fun! And it's a
GREAT DEAL! Most Bahamas sailing trips cost $600. to
$1000.! Save money by going with D.O.C....

DEPOSIT OF $50.00 BY SEPT. 25
. RESERVES YOUR SPOT (non-refundable).

, $150.00 DUE BY OCT. 31
BALANCE DUEBY NOV. 30.

To promote and facillitate healthy group recreation and
- experiential learning, Davidson Outdoors Center Trips

discourages the use of druqs, alcohol and tobacco products.

SIGN UP AT THE UNION DESK!
DEADLINE IS MONDAY, SEPT. 25

