Women’s soccer goes varsity! p. 10°

The Davids

nian

Volume LXXX, Number 19

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, March 2, 1989

Trustees announce
$150 million campaign

Despite Davidson’s size, amount is largest ever
attempted by a liberal arts college

By THOMAS H. MOORE

Davidson’s board of trustees announced —

Wednesday an ambitious campaign to raise
$150 million for the college by the end of
1994. The amount marks the largest ever
attempted by a liberal arts college.

In the press release announcing the
campaign, Craig Wall Jr., chairman of the
board of trustees, said, “The campaign
marks a significant point in the history of

Davidson College. It is essential to

Davidson’s ability to retain its position as
one of the premier liberal arts college in the
country and to implement the college’s
longterm strategic plan.”

John Griffith, Davidson’s vice-president
for institutional advancement, estimated
that 75% of the money raised will come
from alumni. “What you’ll see is that most
of the gifts will come from. alumni,,.but
foundations across the country. will do a
great deal, as will corporations, primarily
in the South. Also, parents of students and
friends of private higher education will
make significant syogsapicss. he ex-
plained.

Although there will be an n effort made to
secure donations of all shapes and sizes,

Griffith said, “A campaign this size will
depend on a small number of very large
gifts.”

The trustees in May 1986 were given a
“strategic plan” that discussed the priori-
ties of the college for “the foreseeable

. future.” “My area, institutional advance-

ment, was asked to undertake the process of
analyzing the plan to come up with cost
estimates,” Griffith said.

“The priority in this campaign to raise
endowment funds,” Griffith said, “is an
effort to secure the position of Davidson as
one of the top handful of American liberal
arts colleges, From that standpoint it is part
of the strategic plan.”

Smith College, a women’s institution in

Massachussetts, boasts what is currently

the largest liberal arts college effort, $125

-million. Jacquie Suitor, associate director}:

of development at Smith, said they are on
track to finish by the end of 1989. “We’re at
$118 million, and we foresee no problem at
getting $125 million by the end of the
year.”

See CAMPAIGN, page 2

Vandals destroy artwork

By MARGARET CARROLL

Five large canvasses and two finished
paintings were destroyed this weekend in
Lingle Manor, a college owned building
which houses the art studio of visiting art
professor Billy Hassell and three advanced
painting studios which are shared by six of
his students. ©

Two incidents occurred during the week-
end: on Friday night graffiti was painted all
over the building, and on Saturday night
the canvasses along with furniture and
windows were destroyed.

The graffiti was discovered Saturday
afternoon inside the studios and all around
the building. The building itself and the
student~studios had not been locked,
though Hassell’s studio was locked as usual
with a dead bolt lock. The vandals used
acrylic paint and brushes from the student
Studios, ruining several students’ brushes
and squeezing out much of the paint.

Because Hassell thought that the inci-

dent was an isolated one, he did not take
measures to lock Lingle Manor after the
incident on Friday night. On Saturday

Inside

night, however, more culprits entered
Lingle Manor and kicked and punched in
canvasses. This damage was discovered on
Sunday afternoon.

' Although Hassell’s studio was locked
with a dead bolt lock, the culprits knocked
the studio door down and tore off one of the
door panels. Inside the studio they de-
stroyed five canvasses that were ready for
painting, one of which was the beginning of
a painting.

Muddy footprints ad handprints were
found on the vandalized items. Hassell
estimates the damage to his studio to be
around $300, for which the college is reim-
bursing him.

A mirror was also stolen from Hassell’s
studio, and paint was squirted all over the
walls and windows. The criminals broke a
bathroom window, destroyed furniture and

- threw it onto the front porch, and broke

several rungs in the porch as well. Other
items were taken and dropped in the front

’ See VANDALS, page 13

Be ;

ATDS po a Cataiition |
proposes campus measures

By SUSANNAH WELLFORD

The AIDS Action Committee is peti-
tioning to install condom machines in all
dormitory bathrooms as a protective
measure against AIDS. Petitions have
been placed throughout the college
campus asking support fora health meas-
ure which has: received much contro-

»versy, yet has’ already been adopted at

some campuses. At Davidson, student
support may determine the success or
defeat of the proposition.

The college administration, as may ms
expected, does not embrace the idea with
-open arms. President John Kuykendall
and Dean of Students Will Terry are both
uncomfortable with the proposition.

“This is an extremely complicated is-
sue that cannot possibly be decided with-
out much consideration,” said Terry. On
the other hand, he stipulates that “the
proposition is nota frivolous one. We are
dealing with a life or death issue and
something must be done.”
~ 'Ferry’s greatest concern is to find a
way to.address the problem without of-
fending some of the more morally con-
servative factions in the Davidson Col-

_ legecommunity. Kuykendall agrees, and

says that a more “creative solution”

‘dom machines, he said, but it would also

the solution.

_ culty of the condom machine idea is that _

One of the solutions suggested by
Kuykendall is the placement of first aid
boxes containing condoms on the dor-
mitory floors. This would not only
eliminate the public nature of the con-

help to emphasize the health aspect of

Terry and Kuykendall agree that the
most important step the college can take
sad Sac gagsaci gear, AIDS is edu-
cation.

“You can put a condom machine in
every room,” said Terry, “but it is not
going to do any good unless you teach
the students the’ importance of using
them.”

Kuykendall believes that the diffi-

it will be hard for the college to accept
this proposal without appearing to en-
courage sexual activity or to adopt a
laissez-faire attitude. Neither Terry or
Kuykendall are going to offer any tan-
gible support to the proposition, but
both appear to realize a need for some
form of action.

Tom Jennings, Director of Residence

See CONDOMS, page 2

ought to be considered.

