4%
ad

Commentaries

The Davidsonian

“Gruesome nightmare on Bhopal streets

Pankaj Talwar

It was THE night of 23 December, The year; 1984. For
800,000 people in Bhopal, the capital of Madhya Pradesh,
it was a Black Monday witha difference; instead of a stock
market crash where fortunes were lost, it was a disaster
where lives were lost. Around 12:30 a.m., a toxic, danger-
ous, lethal, deadly, poisonous, villainous and extremely
hazardous killer gas, methyl isocyanate (MIC), leaked out
of the plant and descended on the the unsuspecting city of
Bhopal, converting the city into

this world against the callous “cost cutting practices” and
the “profit at any cost” attitude of the multinationals in the
third world. It was a practice played on an innocent govern-
ment which was largely unaware of the dangers hovering
over several production processes, leading to the ugliest and
most obvious human touch chemical disaster in the world.

The most damaging and clearly visible evidence against
the owners of UCC in the United States was the negligence
on the part of the multinational in not installing the same
computerized safety system it had ata similar UCC plant in
West Virginia. Also, there was no information available on
the adherence and strictness of similar regulations in the

As Dr.Avashia said on the 28th of March, “there were no
after affects of the gas leak; so many people die in India
every day, what difference does it make if some hundreds
more die.” But, “Onan average, one gas victim succumbs to
his injuries every day - pushing up the toll to 3,289 now.
MIC has ravaged the vitals of human as well as ecological
systems, increasing the incidence of various
diseases.”...(India Today, Dec. 1988). He also said,that that
a similar kind of disaster could not take place in the United
States’s identical UCC plant because people here live in air
tight houses, do notsleep outside and are literate, with which
I agree but I would like to mention another reason which
altogether rules out the remote

a huge gas chamber. It was a
scenario directly out of any dis-
aster movie; the difference
being the reality of scenes in-
stead. Most of the people were
sleeping outside their homes,
while the others in their homes
with the windows open as the
night was very pleasant. Lapses
in safety and maintainence pro-
cedures at the plant resulted in
water and chemicals secping
into the MIC storage tank. The
resulting reaction saw the tem-
perature in the tanks and. the
pressure in the valves rise

matically. The valves gave way
and the MIC seeped out of the
underground storage. Wanton

possibility of a disaster—the
presence of a computerized
safety system and a four-stage
alarm system instead of only
one manual back-up alarm
system in BhopakSuch acal-
lous appraisal cannot, under
any circumstances be con-
doned. No criticism can be too
mild; no condemnation can be
too harsh..

Looking at the reputa-
tion of UCC and the working of
the plants, which according to

_ Dr.Avashia was impeccable.
UCC has one of the worst rec-
ords as acompany. Among all

_ the U.S. companies, UCC was
called as the environment’s

negligence was responsible; the prime enemy in the late 60’s
company fully,culpable. and early 70’s. UCC’s Iron-
Almosta fourth of the popula- THE FAIL-SAFE FAILURE alloy plant at W.Va. was rated
‘tion was affected; nearly 2,500 1, MIC Storage Tanks. Pressure in tank 610 builds up alarmingly because of an extremely violent chemical the Smokiest factory in the
people died in the first week. reaction and MIC vapour escapes rupturing a safety disc and popping the safety vlave. Tank 619-was — but world and the authorities had
The nightmare began with eyes nobody opened the valves between the two tanks to relieve pressure in 610. to pack a statue of St.Anthony
watering, soon the victims could 2. bed bie un Scrubber is supposed to spray caustic soda on escaping vapours to neutralise them. The sceublice in thatarea in plastic in order to
hardly breathe. The people be- was shut down for maintenance. save it from being fully black-
gan running for the hills, they ; ve eene vermont an: Le IC ol Lee the top . the 33 meter high vent line. ened. Fortune nap ba de-
were blin de d as they they ran; a “. Re leh ystem keeps cool but was out of commission and tank 610 ‘could not be cooled to scribed UCC as “a reactionary
with little children in their arms 5. The Water Curtain which could have neutralised the MIC was designed to reach a height'of 12 to 15 meters, on peace with ‘profits,’
they stumbled in the dark. Those but the MIC vapour was gusshing out 33 meters above the ground. Anyway, the Bhopal plant was

who didn’t run, woke up to find
their children beside them
dying, or already dead. An offi-
cial who was asked about re-

6. The Flare Tower could not be used because a length of piping was corroded and had not been Teplaced.
Information based on drawing in India Today, December 31, 1984:

the most vulnerable and leak
prone of all the UCC’s MIC
plants. “UCC has endured six

moving thé rotting carcasses of cattle snapped: “You are
asking about cattle, but we are having difficulty handling all
the human bodies.”..(Times, Dec.’84). “Most of the moth-
ers didn’t know that children had died, children didn’tknow
mothers had died and men didn’t know their families had
died.”....(The London Times).

The five elaborate fail-safe systems which had been
designed to prevent precisely such an occurrence had failed
just at the most appropriate and needy time. It wasn’t as
though the management of the UCC
(Union Carbide Corporation) was un-
aware that some of the systems were under
repair, and indeed, had been so for quite a
while. According to some officials, the
management of UCC had no authority to
operate the MIC unit without having at
least two preventive measures in perfect
working order. The UCC, holds 50.9% of
the Indian unit’s equity, therefore it had
the majority in making decisions and also
possessed veto power over the policies
and practices in Bhopal. Decision making
was very much centralized in UCC.

The systems that failed were: (on the
picture). 5

1..Vent gas scrubber,

2..The flare tower,

3..The water curtain,

4..The refrigeration system,

5..The spare tank. ......... (India Today,
Dec.1984).

It’s an irony that the occurrence of the
Bhopal tragedy has been another outcry in

Indian UCC plantas it was in the United States’s UCC plant.
Hence, the UCC in Bhopal did not follow the more rigid
safety standards laid down at factories producing MIC
anywhere else in the world. In away, “the multinationals are
increasingly moving the production of lethal chemicals
from their base countries to their far flung outposts in the
third world, where safety standards are low and public lia-
bility legislation almost absent.” (Illustrated weekly of

India).

Many were treated for stinging, swollen eyes. A number of survivors would never see again.
Photo reprinted from Time, December 17, 1984.

accidents in six years before
this devastating one in Bhopal only, In all one worker had
been killed, forty seven injured and $620,000 worth of prop-
erty destroyed” (Time, Dec.1984).

UCC’s liability is obvious in the light of the following:

1, If there is a design deficiency then the Holding (Parent)
company is to be blamed.

2. There appears to be no early warning system.

3. In the light of an earlier case against Shriram Chemi-
cals in New Delhi where a toxic gas leak took place but on

; a smaller scale, the Supreme Court of

India held the owner ofa hazardous unit
automatically liable if, “harm results to
anyone on account of an accident,”:
even if it was no fault of the owner’s.

- 4, UCC cannot escape its re-
sponsibility, as it owns more than 50%
of the equity.

“Reminders of the world’s
worst Industrial disaster are caught ina
vice between a compliant government
and a company whose sole pursuit has
largely been: profit at ANY COST.
Whose life is it
anyway?”’...(I.W.I.,Dec,’84).

Humanity pays the price for the
blessings of progress, which instead of
becoming a boon become a bane and
the world just gasps and sighs and gets
back to normal!

Pankaj Talwar is an international stu-
dent from New Delhi, India
