Wednesday, October 25, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Too Clever” plays
at Hodson Hall

By JENNIFER SIECK

The questions of “who,” “where” and

“when” accentuate the crucial question
of “what” in Alexander Ostrovsky’s
“Too Clever by Half,” or “The Diary of
a Scoundrel.” ‘The who, where and
when, however, introduce the audience
to a variety of people in places as far
away as Moscow and as close to home
as Washington, D.C. The actionstarts in
1868 and continues through 1984.

The main character who both con-
ducts and follows the rest of the cast is
Egor Glomov/George Glumier/Gior-
gio Glumonini/George Glumerson/
George Glumer played by Brian Kosa-
novich. He is assisted by his mother,
Glafira Glumova/Jeanie Glumier/
Glynis Glumerson played by “Molly”
Gettys Bass and their servant Styopka/
Stopperman played by Joseph Maris.

The action begins a few weeks after
the death of Egor’s father (Glafira’s hus-
band). (“God rest his soul.”) Egor
decides to use his multitudinous and
diverse talents to regain a place in soci-
ety for himself and his mother, to landa
prestigious job and to marry the “well-
endowried” niece of the wealthy
widow, Madame. Sofya Turusina/
Madame Turusine/Signora Sofia
Turuso/Lady Sophie Torrison/ Sophie
Turro, played by Alyssa Kendall. The
niece, Mashenka/Marciella/Marcel/
Marsha, played by Erika Augthun.

The characters whom Egor encoun-
ters on his journey to success are found
in one guise or another wherever he
goes. His skills and virtues are soon
noti¢ed and praised by all. His chal-

lenge and enjoyment is to juggle rela-
tionships with every character while
interacting with them.

As he progresses on his “project,”
Egor candidly records his dealings with
the other characters in his diary.

The audience and characters are con-
ducted from place to place and from
time to time by means of different cos-
tumes and interior decor. Music of
appropriate culture and time between
scenes also reveals where and when the
audience should imagine being next.
All of the characters, despite other
changes they might make, wear wigs
throughout this comedy, and, with the
exception of Mashenka, have transpar-
ent masks which cover the top part of
their faces. One must make additional
observations about the function of their
masks while watching the play.

This play is visibly a result of dilligent

.and caring work by the many people in-

volved, both actors and the essential
people who work behind the scenes.
“Too Clever by Half” is fun to seeand be
a part of. The players, having per-
formed before different sizes of audi-
ences, prefer larger ones. The players
seem to be having fun themselves,
while sincerely presenting their charac-
ters and the more serious theme of the
play with proficiency and grace. Per-
formances will begin again this Thurs-
day the 26th, continuing through Satur-
day the 28th.

Be wise and come and enjoy this clev-
erness! You can decide who or what, a
anything or anyone, turns out tobe “t
clever a half.”

Seniors Sarah Powell and Brian Kosanovich, leads in the theatre department's
2 Proganyae of “Too Clever by Half,” Rave ing fitet perronnanice during Parent's

~-Weekend: Photo By Frank Gibbes

—————

thank ; Zoran

ly dev ‘i Aovich, assistant
idience n't fathom any pakaebe of English, with
icter’ vation without whom I regularly discuss
ion te oe e.

nd, I. would like to
wholeheartedly. ‘recom-
mend the Southpark Cin-
ema to anyone who is
choosing: between thea-
ters. The place is spacious,

I thought it and the screens are large.
Tt made me examine — It well describes what1en-
> vision all theaters should

be) _ ‘Check

itout, ee:

ij

The YSSC wants you to help them make other people's lives better and happier.

Davidson Elementary Tutoring will have a Halloween party Thursday, Oct. 26 at
Davidson Presbyterian Church. It starts at 2:30 p.m.and continues until 5 p.m.

‘There will be a Pumpkin Carving Party

Senior Citizens' Center. Call Julie Earles --6621.

Habitat for Humanity needs 8 volunteers on Saturday. Call Julia Boyd, -6602
CROP will have an informational meeting for the Hunger Awareness Fast

- Thursday, Oct. 26 at 9:30 p.m. in the Union.

this Thursday, Oct. 26, at 4:30 p.m. at the

SPRING BREAK
SAILING BAHAMAS

45ft Captained Yachts
Groups of Eight
Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas
$455.00 pp. All Accomodations & Meals

SPRING BREAK HOTLINE.
1-800-999-7245
CALL ANYTIME!

PRE RRO REOER BPR ERR RERE REE SG
SerreeeeeCeeeeeeeeue gy |

