Trump throws David's

Onion fo the wolves!

By LYBELL U. MUCHLY

Ina move that shocked students and faculty, Donald Trump announced

immediately after his purchase of Davidson College that he would sell off

the college’s newspaper, The David’s Onion, to pustralian media magnate

Rupert Murdoch.

“My feeling was that the paper simply did not contribute enough to the quarterly earnings
of the college, and had to go,” Trump said from his Manhattan office. “I wouldn’t worry,
though, it’s in good hands with Rupert.”

Murdoch moved in qitickly to the newspaper offices and made minor cosmetic changes to the format. He

said that he hasno plans to dramatically change the newspaper’s style or coverage. “Please be assured,” he said,

“that the Trump Trumpet will still
libel, defame, and otherwise
embarrass and humiliate the school.
We will have a monthly quota of
typographical errors, and each story
will still contain at least one
sweeping and_ inaccurate
generalization. We will get under
the dean of students’ skin and he
will try to get rid of us. Really, no
major change here.”

The name change will be in
effect with the next issue.

Murdoch plans to immediately
take charge of the David’ s Onion-
based Conspiracy to Kill Football
at Davidson. “The previous editor
was only marginally effective in
ridding this campus of that evil
scourge,” said Murdoch. “T will
work:<closely with Trump
administrators, Charlotte Observer

editors, faculty, | Orkin
Exterminating Company and the
Pope; we should see the last of
those Neanderthals by the end of
the month.”

Reporters for the David's
Onion have found that Murdoch
has included in next year’s
Activities Tax Council budget a
large amount devoted to aerial
spraying. He refused to confirm
or deny reports that Trump jets
were planning to buzz the Phi Delt
house next month.

Murdoch also aims to assign
reporters to series of stories
covering issues traditionally left
uncovered by thenewspaper. “Oh,
Idon’tknow,’ he mused. “Things
like gross hazing at the Hod house,

and why the administration does
nothing about it. That stuff is really
interesting. I do have some big
thoughts about this area, don’t you
know. My pal Don always says, ‘I
like thinking big. If you’ re going to
be thinking anyway, you might as
well think big.’”

Former Dean of Students Will
Terry, only partially successful this
year in putting the newspaper under
his thumb, still has plans for total
journalistic domination. “I’m
selling my house and my stock in
Mr. Ray’s Hair Weave, to buy
Murdoch Communications stock,”
said the colorfully costumed
amusement park character. “I
figure that with my-salary, I can
buy a share every six months....”

Public Safety Director
Jackie Hughes expressed
concern over the prospect. “The
day those over-anxious Army
punks get guns is the day I get
the hell out of Dodge,” he said.

ROTC Captain David R.
Strong, however, had full
confidence in his corps. “Weare
the few, the proud, the brave, the
elite, the able, the strong, the
confident, the arrogant, the
supreme, the ...” He
was ignored.

Trump also
announced that all
members of the
football team will be
required .to. join
ROTC, “Let the
Army pay ’em to
come here,” Trump
said.

“Tike thinking
big,” Trump added ~
in reference to the
players’ size. “If
you’re going to be
thinking anyway,
you might as well
think big.”

Three ROTC

ROTC gets security mission!

By KIL M. DEAD

Camouflage is out, three-piece suits and dark sunglasses are in.
Donald Trump decided yesterday to reorganize ROTC’s role on
campus following an attempt made on his life.

Effective immediately, members of ROTC will serve as personal bodyguards for

Trump, working in 12-hour shifts.
ROTC cadetsexpressed excitement atthe news. “We. gettocarrya real gun,” said a wide-eyed David
Taylor, “a real, honest-to-goodness loaded gun.”

cadets will accompany Trump at
all times. Five others will be
stationed at the entrance andon the
roof of Chambers, Trump’s
personal mansion. Campus security
has been moved to the Trump
National tower on Main Street to
handle any problems there. ROTC
members notassigned toa specific
station will still be required to wear
the official uniform, never smile

_and talk into their lapels at

regular intervals.

Trump’ added that all
members will be excused from
class while on duty, receiving
full credit for any assignments
due.

“T’ll_ stand by Trump

anytime,” said Craig T.
Normand, “especially when
those big papers come due.”

Financial aid
disappears!
Students to be
on their own!!

By CASH OVERFLOW
In the wake of Davidson College’s

transformation into Trump University,
Donald Trump announced today that the
Financial Aid Office will be abolished.

The announcement confirms previous speculations
that the office was experiencing a lack of requests from
incoming students.

Says Trump, “It is no longer necessary that this service be
provided as the entire student body is wealthy enough to pay all
college costs.”

Figures from student records reveal the average annual parental
income to be $700,000. Comprehensive costs at Trump total
$250,000 a year.

Gordon Peck, former associate dean of financial aid, said that
he had anticipated twiddling his thumbs next year.

“It’s okay, really, that1’m fired. I’d be frustrated at not having

~ amountain of applications, and I would miss the constant begging
of puppy-eyed freshmen,” he said.

The change includes the abolishment of work-study as well.
Trump stated strongly that students need to concentrate on
maintaining the required 3.9 average rather than spend ten hours a
week answering the phone, making photocopies for department
heads and resting their chins in their hands.

Initial reaction to the changes was vehement. Dean of Faculty
Robert Williams said that department heads-cannot possibly do
their own paperwork. Faculty will also resent that Trump has not
increased the low salaries maintained by the former Davidson
administration, he said.

Sayseconomics professor Clark Ross, “Something will have to
be done about this capitalist venture to pay the proletariat a mere
fraction of the available resources.”

Suddenly, a deep, throaty voice sounded down from the
heavens, saying, “I like thinking big. If you’ re going to be thinking
anyway, you might as well think big.”

“What the hell was that?” yelled Ross.

By JUNE CLEAVER
Donald Trump, in the spirit of the pre- Vatican
II revival being carried on by Pope John Paul II,
announced yesterday that “indulgences” would
be sold to cover Honor Code violations.
‘Indulgences pretty much mirror the real-life
world of free-market capitalism that I cherish so
much,” said Trump. “With enough cash, you can
commit any sin and have your feet licked for
doing it, and that is the spirit I’m trying to instill
here.”
“Sure, it’s a big change. I like thinking big,” he said. “If
you’re going to be thinking
5

THE DAVID’S ONION
May 3, 1989

anyway, you might as well
think big.”
