*&*&& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 751H Anniversary Issue %&& %& April 1989

The forties:

Franklin Roosevelt was president and the aver-
age Davidson student was spending $751.75 a year,
talking of girlfriends, sex, sports and politics (in that
order) and, according to the library’s most-checked-
out book poll, probably reading The Grapes of Wrath
or The Yearling.

Girls populated The Davidsonian’s pages if not the
campus. Every week for a month and a half the
faithful staff kept the girl-starved campus posted on
the progress of the Dream Girl céntest sponsored by
the humor magazine. Scripts and Pranks strove to
choose the “most beautiful girl who has an interest
in Davidson” from the photos owned by their inter-
ests. Midwinters always made headlines, and a list
of the girls attending was published by fraternity.

Nineteen forty was a year of quiet changes. Plans
for the new library encountered only minor concern
about its placement near the fraternity court.
Students still grumbled that a field house should
have been built instead of Duke dorm and wrote
nostalgically of the passing of the old Martin
Science Building to make way for the new. The
April 25th issue proclaims Shaw Smith as the new
head of the Y, and December 5th finds John R.
Cunningham accepting the position of president.

The newspaper pages of early 1940 reflect little
Davidson involvement with the war. “The Question
of the Week” occasionally poses an outward looking
question like “What is your opinion of the draft
bill?” but is more frequently concerned with the
opinions on night football and whether or not

Night football,
Southern Conference
issues and, yes, the draft bill make The Davidsonian -

15

run pieces from other
only to the strength of
to the gradual in-

papers testifies not
the article, but
» crease of war

editorials. The traditional
Thanksgiving piece
would __ be war-
focused _ for several
years to come.
Student election results and
dances were the big headliners for
1941. The amount of space, bold type

and stars devoted to elec- tions seems strange
unless you think about the lack of Xerox machines

ad
the
shortage of
phones. Said
shortage was the subject
of a December 4th satire where
a Davidson man spends over two
hours and $1.25 getting connected to
Converse only to be “hosed.” Another satire
ended by recommending that Davidson try putting

See 1940s, Page 24

Gray Memorial Library opens

Human conveyor belts move 22,000 books in one day

In 1940, an unnamed donor gave $150,000 to the
Davidson Centennial Building Fund to build an
“urgently-needed” library. The Gray Memorial Li-
brary, now the College Union, formally opened the
first Monday of October, 1941.

The Library Committee began the opening
ceremonies by carrying some of the college’s most
valuable books to the new library. President Cun-
ningham led students in prayer.

Directed by Professor Chalmers Davidson,
students and faculty worked together to move the
books from the old library to the new in a method

one day. Using laundry and music department
trucks, paid students and college employees spent
over five days moving the remaining 25,000 books.

The Gray Memorial Library contained the
Davidsoniana Roomfor alumni books, Davidson
publications, and articles about the college. Con-
cerned about the future, the college made sure the
new library had plenty of room. The building’s
100,000 book capacity doubled the number of books
that Davidson owned at the time.

The books gathered no dust before the college
commenced new building projects. Davidson soon

Davidson should stay in the Southern Conference.
(Student opinion ran in favor of the draft and the
Southern Conference, but was more divided on the

question of night football.)

October 31st, an article entitled “I Don’t Want to
Die” was reprinted from the Daily North Western.

borrowed from Yale University. Standing in lines
that stretched between the libraries, students and
faculty passed books from hand to hand for six

ment.”

hours with only two rest periods and a brief lunch

break.

The fact that it was not The Davidsonian’s policy to

Scarlett
and Rhett

A Seone From the Pietere
eont WITS THE Wine~

SF vox posatirer
$1.50 the poued

The joyous custom of giving at Easter
can be expressed so thoughtfully with
‘Nunnally's—"The Candy of the South”
for more than half 4 century.

The College Pharmacy

“Davidson’s Service Drug
Store”

HUGO SAPP, Mgr.
Fepruary 13, 1935

we've a buddy protecting us. Let’s

--acalf-seeking cow.

At Ease

By Aviation Student AL LANG
At Ease became a regular column of The
Davidsonian after the arrival of the aviation
cadets in February of 1943.

Thoughts at random: A Sqiiadron of our
soldiers on a rainy morning, equipped with
our more than ample raincoats, so much re-
sembles an Indian reservation full of

The effect is startlingly real on chilly morn-
ings when upturned collars guide the frosty
breaths up like whisps of smoke .... A kin-
dergarten class, stopping to watch us march
by, looking so wholesome and worth
fighting for, America in the cradle. Their
bright colored little shirts and dresses
looking as buds on a rose bush, and the.
teacher, long and thin in their midst, the
stem from which they grow .... Ours is the
job of learning ina hurry men—a big hurry.

~ For every minute we sit in class pondering

with an idea, toying with it, yet not grasp-
ing it; some soldier, comfortably distant
from us, may be fighting and dying in vain
to keep from us for one precious minute, the

set goals for “a new gymnasium, church, science
building, social center and an increased endow-

By Bethany M. Deptuch

The human conveyor belts moved 22,000 books in

Davidson takes 3rd place
in Southern Conference

Sophomore Tommy Peters scores 22

Davidson moved into third place in
the Southern Conference with a 57-41
win over the Tar Heéls Monday,
February 1, 1943.

Sophomore Tommy Peters led the
Cats with a game-high 22 points.
Although the Tar Heels pulled to
within nine after being down 23
points at the half, the game was never

close.

‘Davidson played virtually flawless
basketball the first half. Penetrating
Carolina’s zone defense, and taking
advantage of fast break opportunities,
the Wildcats left the Central High
gym floor at sr time with a 32-9
lead.

When Tar Heel freshman Nagy
found his set shot in the second half,
North Carolina pulled within nine
points of the Cats. After that run,

however, Davidson steadily in-
creased the gap.

The week’s issue of The
Davidsonian reported that “Jack
Wayman wasall over the floor and
popping through those backhand
flips.” Wayman finished with 11
points, while “Jungle Jim” Lowry
contributed eight points to the cause
with his usual long shots and tip-ins.
John Belk’s inside play gave the Cats
9 “tallies,” and George Peters looked
“as slick as ever,” coming up with 7
points.

Johnny Frederick, Jack Byrd and
Pat Williams, although failing to
score, provided solid play and gave
the startersarestatintervals
throughout the game.

By Gary Wheeler

Jap who would tear the books and ~
pencils from our hands. Remember,

make it worth his while.

We have been given the special
privilege of seeing movies on Sunday,
visiting homes for dinner, and have
even been serenaded by the R.O.T.C.
band playing The Army Air Corps song
as they marched by our barracks. For
this friendly gesture we solemnly
promise to never again wake them early
in the morning with our marching
songs. This should be good news, for
our singing, excellent as it is, ahmn, j
must seem to our awakened neighbors
as discordant as the plaintive mooing of

Hacer &

ASSOCIATES

INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-8054

i=

Congratulations o

on
75 Years

of

Responsible Reporting

