2 Monday, January 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

. fchinacy is Black History » Month — 3 a
Several events are planned to celebrate Davidson's Martin Luther King, Ir Black tae
History Month Cultural Arts Series, which is sponsored by the BSC, the Union, the =

- Academic Affairs Office, the President's Office, Love m Leanaings WDAV — the :

Chaplain’s Office.

On January 22, The Believers musical theater group will eee “Broatway
Strutters” in Hodson Hall at 7:30 p.m. February’s events will be
# ae “ee piecing ain Pere! Eye) in
‘ 4

Duke Endowment announces erat ‘

wcikine GUA iiGes cacraineionpnenOees 6k ampus-wide d
network. Italso includes $150,000 toward the professorship, and another $150 000 for
a “Focus on Students,” an effort to help students make effective moral decisions for
their lives and society. A pilot saves next Sie will involve a bcs bites of
freshmen.

Gibert discusses “The Ambiguity of Victorian Feminism”

Schools were looked upon as factories which turned out “ornamental and marriageable women”

By HEATH HARDAGE
Neither Oprah, nor Phil, nor
even Geraldo would be in the least
tempted to host a group of Victo-
rian “feminists” on their shows.
These women were not espousing
a radical platform of “‘total rejec-

and read a book until your hus-
band comes, honey!” Schools

were generally looked on as fac-

tories which turned out ‘“orma-.

mental and
women.”

Most schooling for women only

marriageable

provided a smattering of “femi-
nine” subjects, such as music,
painting and French. these sub-
jects. were in keeping with the
“Victorian ideal of domesticity,”
Gibert said. English feminists
made progress when Oxford and

.Cambridge founded women’s

colleges in the 1860s and 1870s,

but for many years, no degrees -

could be earned there. .

A popular Victorian argument
for women’s education was that
“university training warded off

tion of the male-dominated
world,” unlike today’s feminists
said Julie Gibert, in her lecture,
“The Ambiguity of Victorian
Feminism,” which she delivered
to the Philanthropic Literary So-
ciety on January 15.

Gibert, a visiting assistant pro-
fessor of history and humanities,
stated that the prevailing attitude
towards women’s education in
the 19th century was “‘sit around

moderate and watch little TV

By JOHN BURNS
Do you use drugs? Is the Patterson Court alcohol
policy enforced well enough? Should the U.S. stop
paying for the defense of Japan? How would you
respond if you were asked these questions?
Many students were given this opportunity last se-

mester when Tom Kazee’ s Political Science 319
class conducted a survey of Davidson students.
The questions were written and decided upon by
the class. 454 students responded to the survey.

Several interesting findings were made by the
students. Some of the more interesting results in-
cluded: ,

Over 51 percent of those surveyed gave their
family annual income as more than $60,000, and
27 percent said their family made over $100, 000
per year.

Davidson College is surprisingly middle-of-
the-road politically: 36.4 percent of the respon-
dents described themselves as at least somewhat
liberal, 28.9 percent said they were moderate,
and 34.7 percent called themselves at least some-
what conservative.

30 percent of the respondents cescjied that they
watch no television, and only 23.8 percent watch
five or more hours a week.

27.4 percent of those surveyed said they drink
alcohol at least several times a week. 50.2 percent

between friends
between jobs

between yesterday and tomorrow

BETWEEN
EXTREMES

e , espe ere sigs See SURVEY, page 3

adequately enforced.
In a finding that Kazee said represented a

a spring term, davidson television pilot

AUDITIONS

for four leading female roles, three .
leading male roles and various extras.
Wednesday, January 26

7-10 pm —
Union Green Room

Survey says: We’re rich, politically

of the respondents feel. the alcohol policy is ©

frivolity.” Headmistresses of ac-
ademies hoped that women would
eventually “leave their books and
plunge into household tasks,” said
Gibert.

Another argument ‘sisppéting
the education movement stated
that as “wives and mothers of
leaders,” women needed the intel-
lectual training “to inspire men.”

A final 19th century argument

which Gibert 6 nee “ht © ut was’ tt e

English .need. to, give <“‘odd””.(un-
married) women something to do
with their lives. The “plight of
women forced out of the marriage
market” could be solved by al-
lowing women to attend universi-
ties, argued feminists.
Nineteenth century suffragettes
approached feminism in a much
less sensational manner than their
20th century counterparts. Ac-
cording to Gibert, “They decided
to concentrate on education first.
It was a way of breaking down the
social system.” These women did

‘not state their beliefs publicly,

and they used “conservative
rhetoric.” Women still, however,
“obtained university education in
a backhanded way,” she said. —
As Gibert pointed out, the “easy
popular belief” that the suffra-
gettes all “agreed on what they
were working for” is not really
valid. She commented that this
view is somewhat of an oversim-
plification, which is encouraged
by “Masterpiece Theater, where
we all ae pant English his-

tory. =

a

