2

The DAVIDSONIAN. April 1, 1914

April 1989 %&&*&THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 751H ANNIVERSARY ISSUE 7%

The Davidsonian

Published every Wednesday of the College Year
by the Stadents of Davidson College.

OFFICE, 19 SOUTH CHAMBERS

Hours: 2:00 to 2:30 and 7:30 to 8:00 P. M.
F. W. Price.......... Editor-in-Chief
J. P. Williams....... Assistant Editor

P. D. Patrick
W. G.

Business Manager
Assistant Manager

Somerville...

STAFF:

Norman Johnson
-L. W. Kluttz

“W. A. McIlwaine

Patton

J. H. Carson

J. E. Faw

G. W. Gignilliat
J.G.

The DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters of suggestion

and comment on all matters of current interest.
Communications must be signed.

Application for entrance as second class matter pending.

SUBSCRIPTION $1.00 PER YEAR

THE DAIVIDSONIAN.

At an enthusiastic meeting on Wednes-
day night, March 18, the Davidson Col-
lege Student Body voted for the estab-
lishment of a weekly newspaper. Later,
an editor and_ business manager were
elected and a staff appointed. ‘he pres:
ent issue is the firstfruits of this action.
“The Davidsonian’” makes its _ initial
bow.

In the inauguration of such a news-
Paper, many questions no doubt arise.
“Why a college weekly? Does it have
a real value? What will it stand for 2”

The newspaper is largely what its
name implies, composed of news. {:
should be in close touch with every
phase of College life and the life of the
community about it. Even in a smal!
college, life become more and more com-
plex, and as the students are broken up
ipto an increasing number of groups,
there is a tendency not to look beyond
the questions and matters in which one
man is directly interested... The college
newspaper should give live information
about every group and department of
college activity, keep them acquainted
with each other, and thus promote a
feeling of mutual interest and encour-
agement. In addition, there are the
things which vitally concern every stu-
dent, and yet which are not well known
or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a college are
not the limits of its campus. In close
contact with it every day is a community
which is certain to influence and be in-
fluenced by the student. The town col-
umn should make every man feel that he
has friends in the town, and their inter-
est in the college should be increased
by the weekly items and topics about it.

The old Davidson spirit which has
held sway at Davidson in: tradition and
fact for years upon years goes with the
graduate that leaves her. He scans the
daily paper for any stray paragraph of
Davidson news, and grips with a loval
clasp the hand of a Davidson man. The
Davidsonian should go to the home of
every alumnus, let him know what is
going on every week at his alma mater,
and unite undergraduate and alumnus,
alumnus and alumnus in one common
purpose—the upbuilding of Davidson. +

But the newspaper should not merely
report events. It should not be content
with gathering news of our teams away
and accounts of matters not generally
known, for the interest of the readers.
This indeed is an important and a large
part, but a tremendous factor in student
life is what is called student opinion.
This must be represented fairly and
truly on all vital matters which confront
the college and concern college welfare.
Yet the paper must not follow blindly.
It should lead, not lag. It should
mould, not. be moulded. by the sway of
campus opinion, It should stand for the
best things: in every line. This may
necessitate occasionally a firm but kind
criticism, which, however, often removes
an obstruction and clears the way for
more concerted and faithful effort.

The Annual is the ‘yearly mirror of
college life as it is, a large edition of
“Life” in student language. The Maga-
zine is the monthly expression of the
literary talent of the college. The

weekly newspaper will not encroach of
either of them; rather it will strive to
advertise and strengthen them. But it
needs exactly what the other publica-
tions must rely upon, the support of te
students and of .the friends of David-
son. With your constant and real help,
it can be made newsy and strong. It
can bring to you all the latest ‘thappen-
ings of interest in the college and town.
It can increase the spirit in athletic, lit-
erary, social and religious life here; it
can be a link between college and com-
munity, alumni and alma mater. The
Davidsonian asks for your earnest co-
operation.

THE TOWN.

The Davidsonian wishes the town to
feel that it has part in the paper, which
is interested in its affairs and growth.
Every week there will be a column of
local happenings, and any notes or sug-
gestions for this will be welcomed. Dav-
idson has had no. town newspaper. Wil!
you not give The Davidsonian the glad
hand?

CRITICISM.

It would be an abnormal newspaper
that did not elicit much comment upon
its first appearance. The Davidsonian
will suffer the same fate. You will talk
about it as soon as you see it, and again
when you have read it. But there i.
criticism and criticism. The criticisin
that is sinister, careless and thoughtless
will injure the paper; the criticism that
is open, helpful and thoughtful will do
more than anything else to build it up.
We ask for your criticism, free, candid
and suggestive. Tell us how we can
make The Davidsonian better. Give
us your constructive, not destructive,
criticism.

THE TEAM.

A team with a pitcher who can hold
his opponents hitless for nine innings,
and with almost errorless fielding
through ten innings, is a team which
will do big ‘things before the season is
over. Now, if ever, the base ball team
deserves the hearty backing, of every
loyal Davidson man. The enthusiasm
at last Thursday’s game was the best
manifested for a long time, but it reach-
ed its climax too late. More organized
cheering should be done, and the best
practice on it for the big games later
will be during this week’s game on the
Hill. With every man solidly behind
the team, in spirit and in truth, it prom-
ises fair to be well started on a glorious

season.

* *

We are grateful for the hearty sup-
port and encouragement of the faculty
in beginning the newspaper.

x *  ®

There are no persons outside of the
college so interested in all its events,
activities and progress as the “home
folks.” Fold your ‘‘Davidsonian” and
slip it in your next letter to them. They
will read it as much as you.

+ *

The office room of The Davidsonian
in 19 South Chambers, has been fur-
nished and arranged, and will be oper
for half an hour after both dinner and
supper. You are always welcome—if
you can bring some news or subscrip-
tions, give some suggestions or help in
any way. ‘

MANY NAMES SUGGESTED
FOR THE NEWSPAPER.

“What is it to be called?”

The Davidson Tornet, Topics, Life,
Forum, News, Red and Black, Mes-
senger, Weekly Observer, Haka-Raka,
Hummer, Electron, Tattler, Echo,
Spirit, Oracle, The Davidsonian—these
and many: other names from serious to
near-frivolous, were suggested, talked of
generally and ‘discussed. The Tran-
script, and The Blue Stocking, were
handed in by two members of the fac-
ultv. The Davidsonian was finally
selected as inclusive of everything at

Davidson, every phase of College activ-

ity, Davidson spirit, and the Davidson
community. It is the name,. moreover,
of every Davidson student and alumnus,

and as namesake should be supported
by all.

The following submitted the name
“The Davidsonian”: W. H. Neal,
F. L. Harkey, W. C.. Rourke, M. A.
Boggs, W. W. McComb, Z. A. Mc-
Coll, A. R. Howland. W. H. Neal
won the free subscription, and the re-
maining men free tickets to the moving
pictures.

MANY ALUMNI EXPECTED
COMMENCEMENT.

A large number of Davidson alumni
are expected at the coming Commence-
ment. Not only will they have the
pleasure of returning to old familiar
scenes and reviving old memories, but
the two upper floors of Georgia Dormi-
tory are to be vacated ‘by the students
for them especially at this time. The

College and town will provide conven-
iences.

for a few days last week. Mr. Rogers
is new in the employ of the John A.
Hartel Book Company and doing well
in his work. While here, he secured
nine Davidson men to act as agents for
his company this next summer.

J. M. Rogers (’13), was on the Hill |

NEWS ABOUT TOWN.

The many friends of Mr. Jackson
will be glad to hear that he has recov-
ered from a severe attack of mumps
which has kept him-from his duties. for
the past two weeks.

The house of Dr. J. M. McConnel
is being rapidly constructed, and in the
course of a few months Dr. A{cConnel
expects to occupy it.

During the past week there has been
a series of services held at the “Presby-
terian church twice a day, which have
been greatly enjoyed by the community.
The services were led by Rev. W. S.
Wilson, of Mooresville.

Miss Alice Mcullas, of Raleigh, is
visiting here for afew days as the guest
of Miss Ann Payne.

Several Ford automobiles have been
sold here recently, the purchasers being
Messrs. A. P. Sweets, John Hovis and
Marshall Potts.

The funeral services of Mr.

Lik.

‘Glasgow were conducted here Monday

by Rev. Mr. Rolston, -pastor of the
First Presbyterian church, of Charlotte.
Mr. Glasgow was pastor of ‘a charge
three miles from here. for .ten, years,
after which he ‘moved to. Davidson while
his sons attended college. Mr. Glasgow
is survived by five -children,, Messrs.
John Glasgow, H. W. Glasgow. B. W.
Glasgow, Mrs. Lloyd Osborne. and
Mrs. Irwin.

F- 999999 0900000000000000000 fe
YOUR ATTENTION; PLEASE!
Wie ore ea Hnciod ‘wits seceil el plone whlch ate: 6 ff
taken in exchange as part payment for the popular tie
Read below the low prices quoted which are sure to move every one of these instruments:
Auto Piano (second hand Self-player) ...........+- $350.00
Stieff Upright (traded for Stieff Grand) ........... $300.00
Shaw Upright (practically NEW )O ova dee ee $300.00
Stieff Upright (traded in. for Stieff player) ........ «$275.00
Ivers & -Pond, upright. ....02...csececccccascceces $250.00
Kohler & Campbell, upright % 0.6.0... d..6 oe. 29) 5822500
Bennett & Bretz 2... :ccce eee ccc cece eee eee ee  P225.00
Kohler & Campbell .............een cee eeeceeeeee $215,090
Emerson... se. ese eee eee eeeee CLAD Sh SAE $200.00
Kingsbury .... 2.2 cece sinccpccccatens ct vine ono HAE $190.00
Kingsbury ... D liesasasasaccsasnsreceenecereer, {185,00
NIvers & Pond ......... cc cece cece cece eect eecaeens $175.00
Williamson . 2. 1... eee cece e eect ete eee eeees $170.00. _ ,
Prince... ........0e 0088 08 ORF a0 Sie 06 Case os 6c ete $170.09
Everett . oo oc cc ger cence oc aety Gite ow eelecdsie ere ove © $170,00- — 4-3 «
Gaylord 2. 5. sbcce tp senhiatsebece tesa onsen sp sigan $160.)
Hinze 2... cs civsacs sneacteacsiscenectecs beeen ee ee  f150.00
Stieff, square piano Silgh wip ob bee (NES. Otiae oe badgte .»$ 90.00
Steinway, square piano ........ 0. cece eee eee ece’ $ 90.09
Knabe & Co., square piano phseccevecgecvedsghomed $ 85.00
Knabe & Co., square piano .......-.0+.eseeeeeeeee $ 80.00
Ivers & Pond, square piano .......+-.+.e-esees sees $ 80.00
Kranich & Baeh, SQUALE PIANO oo... eee eee eee eK 80.08)
Mathusheck, square pianO .........eeeseeeee ee weee -$ 80.00
WE CAN ARRANGE TERMS TO SUIT YOU. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE AND PRICES
ESTABLISHED 1842
219 S. Tryon St. Ss | I E F F poe N.C
Je $0000 004
“4:0000000000000000000000000:) | |-0000000000000000000000000;-
M. W. Cranford & Son ¢ SANITARY GROCERY 3 GROCERY
Derlerecin THE BEST OF

GENERAL MERCHANDISE
& STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES

Next door to the Bank
CALL AND SEE US

+

FRUITS, CANDIES, PEANUTS,

- CIGARS, TOBACCO, CIGAR:
ETTES, COLD DRINKS, TOI-
LET SOAP, STATIONERY
“Polite service to all, and all patronage

Se appreciated = = g =
JOHN H.WERTZ . Puone so

Giada cil bac

EAT AT

SLOAN’S

QUICK LUNCH, CIGARS,
PASTRIES & CANDIES

He Will Treat you Right. Open.
Every Day ’Till 12 P. M.

“Watch the Light”

S-POOOOOOOOOOOO OOO OOOO OOOO,

Buy Hardware

at the

“HARDWARE
STORE

“There's a Reason”

R. D, MOONEY & CO.

$09 9000000000090000000000

ae

of
