Proposition 42? page 10

et

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 16

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

_ Monday, February 6, 1989

Senior Ash Ahsanuddin enjoys a game of Frisbee on Patterson Court. It seemed that spring

had sprung last week; the temperature hit 80 degrees.

By MARIA DOUGLAS

C. Eric Lincoin began: “Consider this:
We live in the world’s greatest democracy.
Weare the world’s most advanced humani-
tarian society; our nation is the world’s
most renowned and effective citadel of
freedom. We are all colors, all creeds, all
races, all nationalities, by descent or deri-
vation. We are Americans, the people of
the dream. This is about that dream and
what we must do to achieve it.”’

Lincoln, professor of religion and culture
at Duke University, was guest speaker at
‘Wednesday’s Open Luncheon in the 900
Room. Lincoln’s speech, entitled “The
Seam of the Dream: Where do we Go From
Here?” is only one of several events that
make up the Martin Luther King, Jr. Black
History Month Cultural Arts Series.

Lincoln addressed the American para-
dox. He said Americans are a proud group
not given to admissions of failure or self-
doubt. “This makes us the victims of a
paradox, for the more loudly we proclaim
our perfection, the more insistent seems to
be the need for corroboration from signifi-
cant others,’’ Lincoln said. ‘

But even when Americans are given
criticism, such criticism is not put to use. It
is at this point that the dilemma arises,
Lincoln said. He said that Gunar Myral, a
Swedish social scientist, said about Amer-
ica:

“America had a dilemma, and the di-

lemma derived from the conflict between

the high-sounding Christian precepts em-
bodied in the American. self-image as
compared to the way Americans really
behave.”’

The dilemma Myral described was not
new nor has it been alleviated. It existed
when the first American settlers exploited
other humans for advancement and itis still

perpetuated today.

Lincoln said that current racism is notall’
that troubles America. According to him,

the dilemma represents “‘a critical cluster
of social and moral problems which, be-
cause of their institutionalization, have
gained an aura of spurious innocence and a
wide spectrum of tacit social approval.”

General acquiescence makes almost fu-
tile the laws which have been used to igs
racism, he said.

Furthermore, Lincoln said that Amer-
ica’s high sense of materialism has resulted
in the disregard of God and society. “Is our
society more concerned with the glitter of
Gucci to sport in the mall than it is with the

thousands of homeless who live in the —

sewers?” he asked.

Lincoln compared America’s promises
of liberty and opportunity to its status as the
world’s largest importer of illegal drugs.
He suggested that the dream has gone sour
as citizens realize America’s “unparalleled
reality.” Prejudice defines the American
dilemma, for it infects every aspect of our

Photo by Alex Hayden

Duke professor compares “The Dream” to

Getting inside
Dean Rusk’s head

Editor of Rusk’s autobiography discusses
the man for his 80th birthday

By SHARON LEE SCHWARTZ

Why did former Secretary of State Dean
Rusk make the decisions he did during his
long diplomatic career? Daniel Papp, edi-
tor of Rusk’s upcoming autobiography,
attempted to answer that question when he
spoke January 26 at Eumenean Hall.

Papp is professor of international affairs
and director of the School of Social Sci-
ence at the Georgia Institute of Technol-
ogy. Rusk, Secretary of State under Ken-

aj nedy and Johnson, is a 1931 graduate of

Davidson.

Papp began his lecture by identifying
the factors which often influence policy-
making. Rusk’s understanding of history
and his personal experiences were espe-
cially noted.

Accontiag to Papp, Rusk’s historical -

towards injustices has also bien ‘Te-
curring racial violence in open contradic-
tion to the American creed and in deroga-
tion of the American Dream.”’

Lincoln said the abuse of power in
American society is felt most painfully by
the poor. President Bush will be more sen-
Sitive to minority issues, he said.

Lincoln is confident that in spite of our

concepts grew out of events related to
World War II. Rusk viewed pacifism, iso-
lationism and public indifference as cul-
prits of the conflict. It is due to these factors
that expansionist states provided the cata:
lyst for the war.

Rusk’s memoirs reveal he is convinced
that collective security, that is, multi=na- |
tional efforts to provide aid to a state at-
tacked by another--a type of check system-
-has successfully deterred a third world
war. Furthermore, this collective security
is the responsibility of Western govern-
ments, said Papp.

Certain events in Rusk’s life left a lasting
impression upon him, says Papp, For ex-

See RUSK, page 2

real America

failings, we still have a dream. “And it is
that the American Dream will come true
for all Americans,” he said.

“The reality of the American Dream for
all Americans is in your hands. The dream
is in your hands. Y ouare the future that has
come. You are the tomorrow that is here.

What will you do?”

