Commentaries

| The Davidsonian
Wednesday, November 8, 1989

13

Memories of Parents’ Weekend, 1989

The class presidents

Memories of Parents Weekend, 1989:

Fun, parties, convocation, plays, presentations, in-
troductions, reunions, and entertainment.

A time for Davidson students to truly shine in their
element.

A time for parents to relax and enjoy their children’s
achievements.

A time for us, as proud Davidson students, to show
our parents just how much this place really means to
us.

However, many of usand our parents were stunned
by the realities of Parents’ Weekend 89, which in-
cluded:

- $5.50 Commons dinners
- $4.75 Commons picnic snacks
- $6.00 football game tickets .

Imagine how pleased our parents must have been to
arrive on campus for “their weekend” only to be
charged to the hilt for each activity they attended.

Is not Parents’ Weekend intended to be a tribute to
the people who are a main source of income for

Davidson College?

Is not Parents’ Weekend a time to recognize the
people who make our experiences here possible?

And most of all, is not Parents’ Weekend simply a
thank you to them?

If so, then let us examine what a fine job the
Davidson College community did of conveying
thanks.

The experience of many parents may have begun
with the “Octoberfest” dinner in the Commons. For
admission to this extravaganza, each person, even
small children, had to pay a fee of $5.50. Many parents
probably thought that eating as their children do
would be fun and economical, yet could have enjoyed
a nice dinner with table service for the same price or
less at nearby restaurants.

Even more outrageous was the official Vail Com-
mons picnic following Convocation on Saturday,
clearly a rip-off. To the dismay of many, the $4.75
lunches consisted of the same four components: a
chicken sandwich, fruit cup, crackers, and either a
granola bar or a cream puff. The choice of a Diet Pepsi
ora Pepsicannotbe overlooked. These same items can
be purchased in the Union Cafe or otHer retail estab-
lishments at a combined price considerably less than
$4.75.

Many parents may have also experienced a trip to
the Davidson College football stadium on Saturday
afternoon to see the Wildcats play. While most par-
ents certainly want to support Davidson athletics, itis
hard to stomach a six dollar entrance fee, per person,
toa Davidson College sporting event. Even harder to
accept is the fact that people without exact change
were charged as much as $10.00 for. admission due to
lack of sufficient change resources. Whatever hap-
pened to good old fashioned fun at a good old fash-
ioned price?

While these are not tremendous burdens to bear for
most Davidson parents, the college does not need to
aggravate parents with ridiculous prices. We believe
that Davidson College has the responsibility to offer a
variety of activities for our parents at little or no cost,
while they are our guests for this one weekend. It is
time that the college pays our parents the tribute they
deserve, rather than turning “their weekend” into a
money-making scheme.

Jared Baxter is the Freshman Class President from Salt Lake
City, Ut.; Jackie Carberry is the Sophomore Class President
from Davidsonville, Md.;-Josh Hickman is the Junior Class
President from Greenville, Nc.; William Brewer is the
Senior Class President Greenville, Nc.

Soccer is football, and football is our life in Britain

_ Adam Smith

To some, Liverpool i is a dull, flat, stale and bunprof-*
itable city in the North West of England, distinct

dingy streets. But to many this s

scheduled for 3:00, the police, oblivious to the fact that
the Liverpool end was already overcrowded, opened
further gates just fifteen minutes before match time,
_ letting unticketed supporters pour into what was fast
“ becoming a quite noticeable death-trap. The referee
started the game but only six minutes were clocked

. ia before. At was halted, due to the immense number of
ment and vast amounts of rubbish strewn ov r the ae - 2

* ‘panic- ‘supporters climbing over the wire-
-mesh barriers to safety. And while the players left the

place is the heart of their lives—the. -mass of ad pitchand: the commentators searched for information,
scarves and. banners, the Scouse songs, the pints of . thousands of fans were being crushed on barriers,
Taddy Porter, the tension, the whistle, the goals, the © fencesandeven their friends and families, as the gates
celebrations and the commiserations over the nif -_ remained ajar from the back and more people entered,
minutes of fast flowing soccer played oft'a Satur ay -without the knowledge that it was they, themselves
afternoon. This is LIVERPOOL FOOTBALL:*~-who were actually causing the huge pressure on the
CLUB-the home of the dedicees and fervent Liver- frontsector of the stand. Withnoescape fromany side,
pool supporters of the most successful English foot: « “the only. “way out was to climb the menacing metal
ball team of all time. ~ | “contraptions that were located at all grounds to pre-
The passion in which the 45,000 fone pack the Liver- vent pitch i invasions, and which on this occasion pre-
pool home, Anfield, every other week is unquestion- vented saving many lives. The ambulances slowly
able. Over half of these people have stood, swayed. came, the casualties mounted, the pitch was in chaos,
and cheered, been pushed and cramped, and been and the game, obviously, abandoned. The “kiss of
held and hugged in an indescribable atmosphere « on _ life” was crucial, because’during the confusion oxy-
“The Kop”, the hill at one end of the ground. Theseare , gen tanks wereempty,and medical supplies were ap-
the loyalists and each one makes his other contribu- _Pallingly ow: Severe injures were ris the
immense roar. British equivalenttoan: mounted. .
ic Scan Bagg the ee when the _ ~The Hillsborough disaster brought the whole of
t 20; in. Nicknames are created,  footballand, indeed England, toacomp lete standstill.
' , especially As we sent bouquets of flowers to co

p , visi oalkeepers, yr
are welcomed, and ee are boosted. Indeed 95 who died, games were cancelled, trib tes werelain,

many would ‘agree | that Liverpool with their army of © -and The Kop was made i ‘intoa shrine | those that

but»
followiees the game witha goal advantage. Thus _ were lost. Nogood cancome from sucl tragedy,
itis with er surprise that I i ae you of the bands _ it was fitting that the F. A. Cup was continued out of

ape and the” “tearful } erseyside final between

land Everton was rightfully won by the team
who had endured so much grief. And while the wire
fences were taken down around the country and
inquiries made into theidiocy of those involved in the

of Liverpudlians and others alike that travelled tothe -
Sheffield Wednesday ground, Hillsborough, on April L
15th of this year to, as they hoped, ensure Liverpool's
swiftmove i ; Football Associaton Cup Final by

nasdotsee : i-final en-
defeating N Forest in this semi-final en maintenance of the Sheffield Wednesday ground, no

“ee ee i: : t to ieike: ‘With the ‘kick-off one could really concentrate on Babee of co

“ lieved that their greatest evermanager ‘todate
Shankly, was not alive to witness this horror.

tion, or of any football played, as only sorrow was
entailed among the entire nation.

One of my best friends was in the horrific stand that
day, and asI tried longand hard tocontact him, Icould
only envisage the worst. Thankfully, Access Execu-
tive, Peter Little is still alive today, thanks to the
specialist attention that was given tohimin The Derby
General Hospital. The whole nightmare, though, and
the scars—both mental and physical—will remain. No
Liverpool, and, indeed no British football supporter
will ever forget the worst day in their sporting history.
I should be thankful that my ticket for the game never —
arrived in the post, and it is times like these when
sportsmen and their watchers must combine together
to beat such a happening. The irony that it was their
own fellow men and friends that crushed to death’
many of the supporters must be forgotten. Angry
accusations as to who to blame, are also really better
omitted. ‘Members of the team naturally attended
funerals, and Manager Kenny Dalglish set up many

I tributes and sent the Liverpool team out with
black armbands for the vonkeiniler of the unimportant
matches.

Hillsborough wilhrenuinaeiter everyone’sheart,
and those that fortunately’ survived tackle on with. -

_ grace and much support. Like those stadiums in

America, England must seek to make all grounds

- seated;whata shame thatsuchatragedy mustbring to._
morate the |

an end the long tradition of standing | that has always
been the main feature and enj tok TheKop. And >,
while Dalglish remembers, ‘Liverpool must be re-
Bill
\deed
it was this tribute to the 95 that most clearly’ stood out
in my ans ed and saddened mind: wie
“In Heaven, Bill Shankly will take care of you. “

God rest their souls, as pel pep fight on.

A i "Smith is a Rusk Scholar join London, UK.

