. Thursday, October 19, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

eS)

BY HEATH HARDAGE
Tatyana Mamonova,
“the Simone de Beauvoir,
the Gloria Steinem of the
Soviet Union,” spoke last
week on the subject of Rus-
sian feminism as part of the
soviet conference. The
speech and panel discussion
was chaired by Bonnie
Marshall, associate profes-
» sor of Russian at Davidson.
The Russian KGB exiled
Mamanova in 1980 for pub-
lishing illegal material and
expressing contrary opin-
ions on women’s rights.
Marshall began the fo-
rum by addressing the re-

‘Soviet women still fi

pression of women in Russia.
Apparently, the “mothering
role” is still women’s most
important job. Soviets “encour-
age women to marry, but this
results in exploitation,” she
said.

Although marriage and
children are high priorities, “it
is not unusual for a woman to
experience 30 to 40 abortions in
her lifetime,” Marshall stated.

Child care is another prob-
lem. Staff and food are in such
short supply that children are
often neglected. It is not un-
common for nurses to “give
children contaminated food”
or leave windows open to en-

courage sickness, she added.

“Family life in many cases
is a living hell,” stated
Marshall.

Mamonova agreed. Sovi-
ets still believe that “a woman’s
social and biological function is
to mother...with such a belief
they participate in theif own
exploitation,” she stated.

_ Careers are often another
source of frustration, added
Marshall. “Women fare no bet-
ter in the workplaces than in
the family...Higher paying
supervising jobs are held by
men,” she said.

Interestingly enough, the
Western idea of a “Super-

ehting for rights

woman”— the perfect career
woman/mother—is held to
some extent in Russia as well.

“Women are still expected
to perform adequately in the
workplace while still juggling
the tasks of wife and mother,”
said Mamonova.
and her society.

Senior Jennifer Bean, astu-
dent in Marshall’s 19th-cen-
tury Russian literature Class,
ended the panel discussion
with her views on Soviet and
American feminism. Accord-
ing to Bean, there is a “female
bonding of sorts,a sisterhood,”
between American and Soviet
women. She remarked on the

“repressive mentality” that
still remains in both coun-
tries.

“The history of woman
has been incompletely told,
here and in Russia,” stated
Bean. To overcome repres-
sion, women must use
“their own unique eroti-
cism.”

Mamonova has just
published Russian Women’s
Studies. She is presently
working on a feminist book
with Gloria Steinem, and is
hoping to return soon to the
Soviet Union to. organize
women in their fight for

equality.

)

No drug policy, no
aid, says Senate bill

By MUADI MUKENGE

The U.S. Senate has passed a bill
making it obligatory that institutions of
higher education adopt specific drug
and alcohol policies to qualify for fed-
eral funds of any kind. The FY 1990
Department of Transportation appro-
priations bill included the change in ac-
cordance with President Bush’s Na-
tional Drug Control Strategy. It must
still pass through the House.

According to the bill, universities will
be required to prove that anti-drug and
alcohol brochures have been distrib-
uted to students and employees. The
following ‘information must be in-

cluded in the brochure: 1) prohibitions
against the possession, distribution or
use of “illicit” drugs and alcohol on
campus; 2) a list of legal sanctions for
those who break the abovementioned
laws;3)a healthadvisory as wellasalist
of available counseling and treatment
programs; 4) and a statement saying
that the college will comply with local,

“state and national laws in the prosecu-

tion of violators.

Universities will be subject to a re-
view every two yearsby the Secretary of
Education, and those failing to meet the
requirements of.the anti-drug strategy

Post-Hugo help, thanks

By MARGARET CARROLL

A Hugo relief campaign spear-
headed by the college Student Govern-
ment Association raised over $400 in
funds for the Mecklenburg area, accord-

- ing to SGA President Tripp Helms. Af-
ter adding an additional $100 from its
budget, the SGA presented a check to
the Mecklenburg Chapter of the Ameri-
can Red Cross.

The two-day fund raising cam-
paign began a week after the hurricane |
crippled the Carolinas. A collection box
manned by SGA senators was set up in
Chambers and donations were col-
lected at the Hugo FAC that Friday af- _
ternoon. iGeaides setts ee

Helms said, “TheSGA thought that
it was important to help our commu-
nity, and we decided that the Red Cross ,
was the best place to send the money.

“Both the fund raiser effortsand the
efforts on the part of all of the students
who contributed to the clean-up effort
showed that Davidson students really
do care—and I hope this did not sur-
prise anyone,” he added.

Also helping with Hugo relief, a
group of students, headed by junior La -
Claire Williams, went to Charleston this.

projects. The group of 11 Davidson stu-
dents stayed at St. Andrews Episcopal
Church in Mount Pleasantand worked all
day Saturday in two areas north of Char-
leston—Copahee and Hamlin Beach. The
group sorted through rubble of collapsed
houses and cleared trees from yards.

Atits Friday, October 13 meeting, the
Davidson College Board of Trustees is-

_ sued a resolution that recognized Duke

Power for its prompt action in restoring
power to the campus after Hurricane
Hugo:

“Whereas Duke Power Company
undertook and carried out prompt and
extraordinary efforts to meet our needs in
this emergency, resulting in swift restora-
tion of electric power and removal of
damaged trees; and whereas this was
accomplished with the combination of
good humor and skill that has typified the
service of Duke Power Company in usual
times, and is all the more treasured in

‘times of emergency; therefore be it re-
solved that the Board of Trustees of

Davidson College, on behalf of the col-
lege, expresses its gratitude to its good
friend and neighbor, Duke Power Com-

any, and its officers and employees, for
their professional, good-hearted response .-

past weekend to undertake clean-up sto our needs in time of crisis.”__
‘

will lose federal funding.

- fees paid in full—plus earn more than $700

| Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits

J | understand am under no obligation. '

College
| Field of Study

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and
a month while you attend school. |

Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.

We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician’s Scholarship from the
Army, Navy or Air Force. ;

If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as
a commissioned officer in the Reserves.

After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected

and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical
technology.

If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—
and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today.

Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program
can help cut my medical school expenses. | meet the age requirements noted below.
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.0. Box 2865
Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9015

Check up to three: C1) Army O Navy O Alr Force

(18-35 years of age) (21-36 years of age) (18-34 years of age) 4
Please print all information clearly and completely. “i 4
Name. aa Oe a on o Male () Female [
Address. ; — Apt: #
City. State.

at Zip] CET] |
phone TT) CLT) CLT soc. see. wo. 11) C1 CO

“EEE

’ : , ; "
The information you voluntarily provi Will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete it is, the
better we can respond ibe race Cucmecer : WUSC 503),

