Monday, February 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Life as.an independent

The search for conference continues

By ROBERT GRUBB

Davidson left the Southern Conference
in 1987, when the College decided that it
could not comply with the conference’s
new rule that Davidson would have to play
a full Southern Conference football sched-
ule. Two years later, all of Davidson’s
varsity teams are competing without a
conference affiliation.

Competing as an independent institution
affects all of the teams (men’s basketball,
soccer, and tennis and women’s tennis), but
most visibly affected is the basketball
team. By not having a conference affili-
ation, the basketball team loses the possi-
bility of an automatic bid to the NCAA

Tournament, the chance to compete in the .

conference tournament, and any shared
revenue of the conference, from TV or
tournament appearances’ by member
schools.

The team also loses many intangible
benefits. Because a conference schedule is
not guaranteed, the team has often traveled
long distances to play unfamiliar teams.

“Many times this year we have traveled
to places like Florida International Univer-
sity (in Miami) and Northern Illinois to
play teams that have good players, but we
really couldn’t relate to who, they were,”
said Head Basketball Coach Bobby
Hussey.

This unfamiliarity can lead to mental
letdowns, and make it harder for the play-
ers-to stay up.

“When you have a young team in some-
what of a down year, like we do this year,

- and you don’t have a post-season tourna-
ment to look forward.o, it makes it hard for
the team during January and February,”
said Hussey. ae

peace,

Junior Maurice Gray agrees = with»

Hussey, “Playing unfamiliar teams adds

Baseball Preview

the factor of uncertainty, but we still try to
go out and win some games.”

Another group hurt by the lack of a
conference affiliation is the fans.

“Fan enthusiasm is off this year, espe-
cially among the alumni,” said Hussey. “A
big part of our success has always been fan
support, and the students have continued to
support us, although there have been rea-
sons not to.”

Unfortunately, getting into an athletic
conference is not an easy task.

“Right now is a good time to be looking
for a conference affiliation,” said Athletic
Director Kit. Morris.

“There is alot of activity. We are looking
at a number of pos-

encompass all of Davidson's current var-

sity sports, except football. This works Out®

nicely, since the football team will-com-
pete in Division III. Morris indicated that
not having a women’s basketball team
might hurt the college’s chances for joining
a conference.

Hussey said that his personal preference
is the Sun Belt Conference.

“We approached the Colonial Athletic
Association first, but it (the CAA) seems to
have become a dead issue,” said Hussey.
“The Sun Belt would be a big step forward.
They are a competitive conference that
usually places one or two teams in the
NCAAs. They also are fairly close geo-

Ms

graphically, and have a good TV package.”

“Joining the Sun Belt would require an
increased commitment -and.. general up-—
grade from the college, according to
Hussey. But he believes that with resulting
increased exposure, and revenue,
Davidson could be competitive.

“T think the higher levels of exposure and
competition would be reflected in better
recruiting,” said Hussey.

The effect of not being in a conference is
of direct concer to recruiting. Since there
is only one senior on the team this year,
being independent was not a problem.
Hussey has already signed someone to fill
the slot.

“Next year will

aaa

sible conferences. y ; : . é i pie be the telling
Any leads we have on J Aitit year,” said
a way to solve this i 9 Hussey. “It will
concer. are prose Aren’ t you afraid of it? beimporantio be
cuted fully.” able to show re-

Among the confer. | ByMARKD.PUCKETT —__Thalassophobis-ear ofthe ocean or wt some
were possibilities in. | Dovtophobia--Fear of Doritos” __ Gephyrophobia-fear of crossing bridges g is being
were possibilities in- Gynophobia--fear of women done about join-
cluded the Sun Belt, isawd Ophidiaphobia--fear of snakes ing aconference.”
the Big South, the The following list of a ety ers Kakorraphiaphobia--fear of failure Morris also rec-

: are cited from Useful pe on sd, ; .

Transamerica and the Phobias in d Pani _Gatophobia--fear of cats ognizes the im-
Colonial Athletic As- pee 3 Agoraphobia--fear of open spaces portance of acting

iati eae Spexmophobia--fear of germs -
sociation. Technophobti =f ear of technol cay o ophobia--lear of g as quickly as pos

These conferences
all have eight or ten
members, which
means that they do
not need to expand. It
also. means _ that
Davidson will likely
need to find another
school to join with, to
keep membership: at
an even “number.
These conferences '
are all Division I and

Cynophobia--fear of dogs’
Sciophobia--fear of shadows -
Ochlophobia--fear of crowds —
Nyctophobia--fear of night
Aerophobia--fear of flying ==>
Decidophobia--fear of making sincanicrts
Blennophobia--fear of slime.
Topophobia--fear of performing —
Katagelophobia--fear of ridicule —
Tropaphobins fess of moving

_ Eremophobia--fear of aloneness

_Astrapophobia--fear of lightning
Musophobia--fear of mice —
Pnigerophobia--fear of smothering

Apiphobia--fear of bees
Scholionophobia--fear of school
‘Gamophobia--fear of marriage

sible on this issue.

“If we identify
a conference that
will accept us, it is
my strong sense
that we will be

’ Odynephobia--fear of pain. prepared to
Keraunophobia--fear of thunder move,” said Mor-
Amathophobia--fear of dust ris. “But it is im-

ox Acrophobia--fear of ee, : portant that the
conference be the
right one for
Davidson.”

Wildcats look for 30 wins this season

By JOE HOOVER >

Just do it! ‘That’s the 1989 Davidson
baseball’ team motto. ‘With the talent re-
turning from last year’s record-setting 28
victories, plus some promising young
freshmen, this year’s team holds the poten-
tial for 30 or more wins. A tough independ-
ent schedule will force the Wildcats to
show what their made-of, as they take on
some of the best teams in the country,
including Clemson, Georgia Tech, and
North Carolina.

Leading the way will be senior captain
Jeff Loser. A pitcher in the starting rota-

tion, Ms t sihieg with juniors Greg ,

Wilcox (11-5) and Jay Harris, and sopho-
more David Williams to form the nucleus
of adeep staff. Freshmen Joe Azzolino and
Derek Twombly will also see some duty as
a starter, with Azzolino also acting as the
designated hitter. Senior Phil Magaldi,

‘sophomore Bruce Koch, and freshman Bill

Stanfill serve as the middle reliévers, with
stopper Brad Wanzenberg (11 saves last
year) to close the door.

The regular lineup has undergone a few
changes due to recent injuries. A hand
injury will force junior third baseman Pete

Hughes (.358, 7HRs) out of action for 6-8
weeks. Junior Steve Livesey will move
from first to third, with freshman Tim
Kerns moving in at first. The doubleplay
combination has also changed this year,
with junior Mikio Aoki (.324, 13HRs)
moving from second to behind the plate,
and senior Mike Holland (,328, 16SBs)
from shortstop to second. Freshman Mike
Liebdzinski will take over for Holland at
short. Freshman John Woodall and senior
Pete Mangone will also see action in the
infield, though Mangone is out for 4 weeks
with a broken toe. Senior Mark Weir and
three freshman

Club lacrosse ready to go

will back up
Aoki at catcher.

By BEN TREGOE |
Like a proverbial mustard seed,

Davidson lacrosse was sown in .

the fertile ground of the campus.
It was carefully nurtured and has
grown into a strong lax bush
coursing with the virile life-blood
of the college’s men.

Coaches Tom Crystal and Dave
Becker have built a strong pro-
gram with over 40 players. Com-
ing off two decisive victories over
Furman in the fall season, the
team is preparing for its 14 game
spring schedule. The opening shot
of this season will be fired here at
Davidson against Pfeiffer on
March 5.

The key to the team’s growth
has been the huge influx of rook-

ies. Dean Vanderwarker and
Robbie Huber provide experience
in the crucial midfield position.

Dave Smyth, John Patton, Lee

Canipe, and Brian Keller are justa
few of the freshmen midfield
corps. Seniors Steve “Sluggo”
Godwin, Mark Piehl, and the
middie of the future, Ed Powell,
provide leadership for the
midfielders..

Two hard hitting warriors Gat
Caperton and Ken Nazemetz add
beef to the already strong defense.
Hardened veterans Seth Force,
Tim Sparks, and John Gary
Maynard have welcomed the re-
cent defensive infusion to this
pack of crazed meat eating dogs.

Should the ceposior some

how get past this hard-hitting
force, sophomore Stevie Bell and
freshman Phil Degnan will stop

“the ball from going in the goal.

The attack, the scorers, will
keep opposing teams busy. with
their explosive scoring potential.

High school All-American Tom

Crystal, penetrating machine
Dave Becker, and the master of
the touch Bryan Butler are an
experienced trio of attackmen.
“The future is now” recently
remarked last year’s captain Ed
Powell. Not quite. Lacrosse at
Davidson has grown, but its fu-
ture, its destiny, is varsity status.

This spring come out in the sun 3

and watch the Davidson lacrosse
team.

The outfield has also been shuffled, with
Junior Ron Kmacik (.298, 17 SBs) moving
to left field and sophomore Ralph Isernia
(.358, 6 HRs, 12 SBs) to center. Senior
George Halter will man right field. Sopho-
mores Dan Cotton and Linn Williams also
expected. to play an important role in the
outfield.

This season’s opener is Friday at 2:00

‘against Radford University here at Wildcat

Park. Radford returns for a doubleheader
on Saturday (12:00), while USC-Spar-
tanburg comes to Davidson on Sunday
(1:00). Come out and enjoy the sun while
supporting the ‘Cats as they start their bid
for a spot in the NCAA Regional playoffs
and another record-breaking season.

Stop
Submitting
To Others
And Start
Submitting

To
Inside
Art.
