Wednesday, October 11, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

President thanks all who helped after
Hugo :

Dear Members of the Davidson College
Community,

While it is certainly not true that it
takes a crisis to bring out the best in the
Davidson community, itis nevertheless
obvious that the events surrounding
Hurricane Hugo provided the opportu-
nity for the free expression of those
characteristics that make this College
such a special place.

All of us owe a debt of gratitude to
those members of the College staff who
responded quickly and efficiently to
difficult and potentially hazardous cir-
cumstances on campus. Their untiring
labors in our behalf throughout the
weekend have made it possible for an
early and relatively normal reopening
of school while most of our neighbor
institutions remain closed. The exper-
tise of our support staff throughout

these past several days has been ©

equaled only by their loyalty and good
humor in the doing of the job.
Aspecial word of thanksisalso due to
the numerous Davidson students who
took the weekend's adversity as an op-
portunity for service rather than an
occasion for dissatisfaction or despair.
While it is obviously impossible to say

thanks individually to each person
who has participated in the clean-up
process, I trust that the gratitude of the
entire community for your services is
felt in a special way.

Much remains tobe done. The sound
of the chain saw will be heard on this
campus for a good many weeks to
come, and the beautiful trees that have
fallen here and there along our regular
paths of life will be missed long after
the debris has been carried away.

Nevertheless, we can all be thankful
for the fact that we have thus far
avoided serious personal injury and
that we are able to resume activities at
the College so quickly. We can be espe-
cially thankful for each other as well for
the ties that have been strengthened
within this community by ourcommon
experience of these past several dais.

Thanks in behalf of the College to
each member of the Davidson family
for what you have done in bringing
about recovery thus far, and what you
will continue to doas we work through
the next several weeks to return the
campus to good order.

Sincerely yours,
John W. Kuykendall

Hugo's saints

Dear Editor,

-Here’s a great big thank you to the

college students who helped us clear

_ our yard of the debris caused by Hurri-
cane Hugo.

I was trying to clean the front yard on

Friday afternoon when three: young

men from the SCA [Editor’s note: Soci-

ety for Creative: Anachronism] ap-

peared and completed the clearing.
They had also helped the Volunteer Fire
Department: in other parts of town.
They would not take any money.

Then on: Wednesday the next week

eightmembersof Pi Kappa Alpha made
arrangements to clean up our back
yard. They worked pleasantly and dili-
gently, finishing the whole job in an
hour. Again, free.

Too often we hear of the noise, hijinks,

and generally adolescent behavior of:

college students. During thiscrisis they
showed how thoughtful they can be.
We appreciated it.

Sincerely,

Mary Fetter Stough
Resident of North Main St.

KAPPA ALPHA PSI, from page 18_

“Won't you just be separating -your-
selves from the rest of thecampus?” The
answer to the first question is, in our
minds, simple. The fraternities pres-
ently at Davidson do not provide the
majority of Black males with thesatisfy-
ing brotherhood and commonality that
we feela chapter of the Kappa AlphaPsi
Fraternity would provide. Many. of us
do not feel comfortable with the sur-
rounding, customs, or traditions of
- these fraternities. However, for those

Blacks who do, we encourage them to_

participate in which ever oreenieshon
makes them feel comfortable.

- The answer to the second question is
an adamant “NO”! We are no more
trying to separate ourselves from the

restof thecampusthanareKA,SAE,Sig _
Ep, Phi Delt, Kappa Sigma or Pika. We-

are simply a group of guys, just like they

“are, who have something in oe a

Vp acae wie.

just like they do, who want to officially
form an organization of brotherhood,

_justlike they did. Although the fact that
we, are composed of Blacks and a

Puerto-Rican may have been a factor in

exposing us tosimilar backgrounds, itis

not the sole reason we want this frater-
nity. Would we be questioned about
separating from thecampusif Everyone

- were colorblind? It’s doubtful.

Therefore, for these stated major rea-
sons and many others, we have chosen

to pursue this cause. There were ques-
‘tions by some about our intentions and

this letter was written to answer those
questions and to officially inform the
student body of our goal. We would
appreciate the support and encourage-
ment of the student body and of anyone
else who might have an interest

The Davidson College Charter
Chapter Interest Group of
Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc.

19

THE DAVIDSONIAN

. Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

The Dober report:
pretty, not practical

fter studying the campus for two years, Dober, Lidsky,
Craig & Associates have drawn up their plan for the col-
lege’s future. President Kuykendall stresses that this plan
represents a philosophy for upcoming development, not a
blueprint demanding strict adherence.
A shortage of funds and possible property battles dictate that not all of
the recommendations put forth by the Dober plan will be followed. But
even judging the plan solely on its underlying philosophy, serious
questions should be raised as to whether Davidson wishes to embrace
the same direction.
One problem with the plan is that it alienates the town of Davidson.
Charles Craig, while presenting the report, acknowledged the need to
preserve the special relationship between the college and town. Yet in
the proposal, the campus envelops Main Street and reroutes town traffic
ona “by-pass.” Most Main Street merchants won’t respond too kindly
to being cut off from the direct flow of traffic.
The by-pass also serves to separate us even more from “the other

" side of the tracks.” If we want to be part of the town, we must work to

incorporate the whole town, not just the quaint store fronts we include
on campus.

Another problem is the question of practicality. Just who is the
college designed to attract and serve? The recent shift to focus beyond
the campus to making a national impression may be moving too far if it
takes attention away from the students who currently make up the
college.

For example, the Dober report wants to permanently block the road
around the campus at Johnston Gym and route all traffic and parking to

the perimeters of campus. Aesthetically, a strictly pedestrian campus

would look nice, but as one student pointed out at the meeting, what
about the safety concerns already associated with current satellite lots
late at night? Craig’s response to this was simply that we need to in-
crease Campus security.

The plan also suggests leveling the current laundry building and
relocating that service somewhere else, perhaps the warehouse on
Delburg Street. That way it would be accessible to Main Street, but how
many students live near Main Street? For students living on-campus,
the laundry is currently in an ideal location.

Craig also mentions the need to move the infirmary since its current
building is “too large.” He suggests the college warehouse again as a
possible temporary site. Ask any infirmary nurse or any student who
has waited two or three hours in line if the present building is too large.
Any money designated for improving the infirmary would be much ©
better spent fixing up the infirmary’s existing home.

Davidson needs to strike a balance between the pretty and the
practical. Davidson College is the students, faculty and staff. The build-
ings and land exist to serve the College. —jlh

Hugo's Lesson

or many people in the Davidson community, Hurricane Hugo
was the first natural disaster ever witnessed, or the most de-
vasting, in some cases. All were violently reminded of the
might of nature and the weakness and ener BUY of human
beings.

Davidson is lucky. The majority of us still have a roof over our heads,
lights and running water. Sure, huge trees are littering the entire cam-
pus, but we are still alive and we have been given a chance to return to
normalcy. That is not the case for many Carolinians.

In my opinion the greatest lesson learned by the storm is that one’s
blessings and entire existence should not be taken for granted. Victims
of the storm are for the first time learning to be resourceful, patient and
frugal. They are learning to do without the luxuries we take for granted
here in the United States but which are unavailable in large parts of the
world. Suffering has built a bond between neighbors who were previ-
ously strangers.

No one will forget Hurricane Hugo. Stories of how one survived it -

will be told and retold. Without doubt Hurricane Hugo was a disaster,

but it was also a character-building experience. --m.m.
