Features

The Davidsonian
_ Wednesday, November 1, 1989

Clear your conscience:
save the pumpkins!

Join the growing number of P.A.P.E. members

By MATT DAVIS

Halloween at Davidson has once
again been marred by the insensitive
and violent acts committed by our stu-
dents and faculty. Sure, Davidson sup-
posedly cares. Yet, why does the smart,
capable and conscientious Davidson
family continue to watch yearly atroci-
ties take place? Are we unaware, or do
we just turn a blind eye?

Unfortunately, many of us who are
aware will hide behind the ever popular
“everyone does it.” That is no excuse.
Wemuststand upand lead by example.
We must do our best to stop the seasonal
massacre and exploitation of pump-
kins!

Those of you who are degrading
yourselves by laughing, ask yourselves
one question: “What other members of
the gourd family have been senselessly
humiliated each Halloween?” The an-
swer is “none.”

Some of you may still defend the
yearly atrocities by saying--”They are
only fruit. Besides, it’s just good fun.” If
you look at it objectively, you can see
exactly how sick “carving the old
pumpkin” is.

First, pumpkins are removed from
their, family;,noots;:Next,: they. are .de-
graded.by being put up forsale in some
rickety road-side stand. Then they are
subjected to tortures conceived of by
young children who know no bounds
when handling produce.

We then take them and cut a hole in
their tops in order to remove their or-
gans. As if these actions are not cruel
enough, we carve silly faces on them
with steak knives. Last, we put candles
inside them that slowly drip hot wax
and display them in public view.

What has the pumpkin done to de-
serve this treatment? The pumpkin’s
only crimeis being inthe wrong place at
the wrong time.

Worse still, even the sanctity of the
Davidson community is notimmune to
this seasonal viciousness. There is no
need to name names, for you Sickies
know whoyouare, and you will have to
live with what you have done.

In keeping with the Davidson spirit,
let us focus on a positive solution. We
should band together and form a politi-
cal action committee. How about
P.A.P.E. (People Against Pumpkin
Exploitation)? Wecan march on Wash-
ington and carve squash on Halloween!

It is our duty to restore the dignity
pumpkins deserve asa pretty darn tasty
holiday food and stop their senseless
persecution. And if we are successful,
let us not forget the years of suffering
the pumpkin has endured.

I, forone, haveshed:many asorrowful
tear when passirig pumpkin farms. We
can never undo what has been done, but
we can at least end the tyranny. Adopt
a pumpkin this year and show it some
long-needed compassion.

{

p

It’s easy to lose track of time when you're reading an issue of The Davidsonian, but

yesterday was Halloween!

Photo by Ed Matthews

You won't find any mystery meat here

By DAVID COARSEY

School cafeterias have always been
the object of merciless attacks. Their
mass-produced food just can‘tcompare
with Grandma’‘s Christmas feast.

While. students’ immediate reaction
to the question “What do you think
about the Commons?” was positive,
interviewees had a few reservations
concerning originality, diversity and
healthfulness of the food.

It was generally agreed that the
lunches are good, offering enough di-
versity to suit every taste. Most com-
plaintsconcerned breakfastand dinner.

The first things to be attacked when
breakfast was mentioned was the qual-
ity of the scrambled eggs and the ab-
sence of orange juice every other morn-
ing. With regard to breakfast asa whole,
the lack of originality was brought up
on several occasions.

Overall, breakfast is a very predict-
able meal. Students havecome toexpect
cereal, wafflesand eggs. Themenu nor-
mally has some french toast, pancakes
or omelets thrown in with them on al-
ternating days. But there are never any
real surprises. It is true that there are
only so many things one can do for

breakfast. However, it would be nice if —

there was something original every so
often.

_ Dinner at the Commons, however,
was the most criticized. Most students
pointed out the lack of diversity and the
health value of the evening meals.

There is almost no diversity in the
menu. Every night includes chicken

consensus was that.some different va-
rieties of entrees should be served ona
more regular basis, and there should be
more fresh fruits and vegetables along
with a larger.salad bar. :

Most of the time the entrees are de-
cent. However, there are nights where
your best bet is a peanut butter and jelly
sandwich or Domino's. There should
always be some simple dish that people
can eat if they are not feeling brave

enough to try some of the more exotic

hi . Commons fare.
and pasta of some kind. The common. °.

: The'subjectof healthy eating was also
brought up. Freshman Jesse Hamner
stated, “itseems like everything is deep
fried, and there are too many starchy
foods.”

Another Commons diner said he
would hate to see what his cholesterol
level was at that moment. It is very

difficult to find any range of low-fat

foods in the Commons.
Compared to other cafeterias, how-
ever, diners agree that the Commons is

quite good. Diner Geoff Bradford said,
“compared to Wofford, the Commons
is nice. The building is comfortable and
anice place to relax. The service is good,
and the food is decent.”

Despite the specific problems men-
tioned, Davidson's food service is very
good.

Itisimportant torealize that the Com-
mons is not a bad place to eat. It only
suffers ftom problems associated with
trying toserve large numbers of people,
and trying to please every single one of
them.

Although students offer complaints and suggestions for the Commons, they usually clean their plates.

Photo by Tim Dancy
