Friday, November 17, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Racism should be left out
of athletics

To the Editors:

Sunday night, November 2, marked
the beginning of the intramural basket-
ball season, The first round of the pre-
season tournament opened this year's
season with a great deal of excitement.
It also marked the return of flaring
tempers and aggressive play inherent
in the IMAC tradition. As usual, the
referees were the brunt of the majority
of the jeers expelled by the crowd and
the fans. However, there was one game
in whichthe referee was the brunt of ri-
diculous accusations and criticism that
should never be allowed on the basket-

- ball floor: racism.

The teams were BSC, which con-
sisted of both white students and black
students, and a group of football affili-
ates, whichalso consisted of blacksand
whites. The referee made a call against
one of the black BSC players, who
proceeded to complain to the referee.
The referee told the player to"shut up."

At this time, another BSC player tried
to defend his teammate by declaring to
the referee, "you can't tell him to shut
up." This declaration was followed by
another BSC player's declaration: "He
thinks he can. He's white."

It was after this remark that one of the
white BSC players, embarrassed and
angered by the situation, left the gym.
This whole situation is ridiculously
childish.

I would hope that any frustrations
concerning black interests that have
arisen during the past few months
would not infect the only sincere form
of competitive athletics that most stu-

_ dents here have.

In my opinion, IMAC players should
take heed to what Terry Holland said in
his remarks at Saturday's Homeoming
festivities and leave racism out of ath-
letics. It doesn't belong anywhere, butit
especially doesn't belong in sports.

Philip J. Brooks, ‘90

Why we read Puckett

Being abroad ina foreign country, the
only connection we have with our
motherlandis our institutional periodi-
cal, the beloved Davidsonian. We await

each enlightening: ,issue with baited .
breath, especially the informed, heart-:

felt tips and anecdotes fromone of your
stellar columnists, M. Damon Puckett. .

Puckett’s articles are not “hooey.”
Mark, contrary to your beliefs, youhave

- “altered the flux of our existence,” and

we thank you, love you, and follow you)
for that. You are our good health guru.
In closing, we would like to applaud
Mr. Puckett for his unfaltering desqua-
mation of the archaic. dinosaurs of

Mr. Puckett has kept us on the straight’: vhealthiignorance. Truly; he is:the' poet

and: narrow path. of health conscious-
ness,' preventing us from . tumbling
headlong into abyss after valde of die-
tarydelusion. _.. "

HAP ange

ignorance, the light of a health heaven.
We, like Mr. Puckett, are trying to
“pump sunshine into [our] ears, in
hopes that it reaches [our] brain[s].”
Unfortunately our endeavors are occa-

wax buildup. ..
It.seems that throngs. of our fellow
indolent, Duckhead-clad Davidsonstu-

dents have reacted negatively to Mr..

Puckett’s “sardonic castigations.” We,

~~in contrast, can sense the true import of —

this man’s mission. Undeniably Mr.

laureate of the health world. Mark feels:
the pulse of Davidson, and is not afraid
to let us know that it’s a little too high.

- Mark, we believe that in the end your
Even as we digest t the first tidbits of.

eacharticle, our eyes openand webegin

tosee, through the parting cloudsof our.

innate-sprightliness: will triumph over
the lassitude of Davidson College.
Hang in there buddy, we're pullin’ for
you. As our mothers used to say, “I

‘believe that in the end your innate
 sprightliness will triumph over the las-

situde of others. Hang in there ati

Tm a foryou.”

sionally thwarted by some sg tobias $i

o Uses
- ticle?”

“Have is read Puckett’s ar-

Them —: “Yes. af
Us— Bein 3 all

Bob, eve and Jantie-
JYA, Wiirzburg

ions and classes—is a respite from Davidson's generally homoge-
| neous population. Discovering what opinions these individuals

| good chance.

15

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors
Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Growing beyond
Davidson

ave you ever had to pay your own housing bill?
-Ever been bewildered while in a foreign airport
where loudspeakers announce directions with a
speed much quicker than your language lab tapes?
Has anyone ever tried to pickpocket you? Ever had to take a taxi
home from an almost deserted train station at 3'a.m.? How about
doing without a car, television, hot water or a hair dryer for sev-
eral months? These things might happen eventually, but will the
majority of Davidson students be able to cope?
JYA. Davidson-in-Washington. The Philadelphia Center.
The Kenya Connection. An internship in an unfamiliar town.
Education beyond the confines of Davidson’s small-town atmos-
phere. These are opportunities to experience the real world, be-
cause believe it or not, Davidson is not it. The real world does not
have an Honor Code or faculty advisors. Nor does everyone smile
and say “hello.”
The main reason we students need to take advantage of off-
campus a peneues is to Practice fending for ourselves and to

test our limits. is

‘The majority of students here come from comfortable
families and perhaps have not had to worry. about obtaining
housing, budgeting, paying bills, making travel arrangements or
protecting themselves in an urban setting such as Washington,
D.C. Now is the time.

Another primary reason for taking a break from Davidson —
is to see the world. More and more students are doing that, as is
evident in the sharp increase in ie cro Are students
seeking an escape?
Maybe, because the chance to live in a new environment
and to study an area of particular interest is appealing. And en-

‘countering a new set of people—of all colors, occupations, relig-

hold on certain issues is even more interesting.
_ Now is the time to make applications. Don’t miss out-on a

—m.m.

=

13 weeks? 12 weeks? 15
weeks? A year?
Start thinking now about how your
favorite leng

for semesters
because... ;

WE WANT TO. KNOW!

— Wait by your -phone for
the official Davidsonian survey —

after Thanksgiving break

