_ Features —

Just can’t wait for
Spring Break

By TOBY TRUOG

Hey! Over here! You’ve found it: the
annual what’s-everybody-doing-for-
Spring-Break article. Every year some bozo
does this thing. We read about where and
think about how much.

All year long we live the definition of
“student.” Most of us anyway. Up all night.
Spend as little as possible. Work hard and
party harder. Why are we'so infatuated with
a week in March? Why spend so much
money and energy in the pursuit of an excit-
ing Spring Break?

Vacations to Florida beaches and other
semi-exotic locale might be a reflection of
our desire to learn—you know, that adven-
turesome spirit that miraculously emerges
as soon as notebooks and ballpoints are
stashed in the desk. After all, everybody’s
got a fascination with the fantastic, the
unbelievable, the amazing, the beautiful.
Where would Geraldo, Sally and Phil be
without such curiosity?

Or maybe it’s just that we have too much
money than we know what to do with.
That’s what sophomore David McKnight
said, but the girl who slugged him one didn’t
think so. McKnight will go home to
Farmville, N.C. over break, to have his
wisdom teeth pulled. —

Sophomore Jenny» McDonald said,
“People might think that this will be their
last chance to really take a good long vaca-

Student artists prepare

’ By KATHERINE MALLORY

Two student artists will display their
senior exhibitions this month in the college
Union Gallery, Margot Mims and Michael
D. Schill, studio art majors, will show etch-
ings, acrylics, watercolors, crayon works
and collage.. Mims’ show will run from
March 5-17, and Schill’s from March 28-
April 14.

Mims will show 15 pieces that she created
this school year. She is looking forward to
the public’s reaction to this, her first show

ever. Some of her work is abstract, some

figurative, and some neither. She is experi-
menting with different types of material
right now, but says she enjoys crayon. ©

“T like the line the crayon gives as op-
posed to something like oil pastels, but I’m
interested mostly in colors and exploring the
relationships between them,” she said.

‘Mims is interested in artists such as

Wassili Kandynski and Arshile Gorky, and
in techniques such as Degas’ pastels and the
energy of line in Matisse. Most significantly
though, she has been influenced by the vari-
ety of line and the color relationships of the
Mannerists.

Mims is pleased with her show and plans

ina year or two to work with a magazine or |

amuseum. Although not sure how she wants
to use her major in the future, she does want
to stay in the art world. :

Senior exhibits are curriculum require-
ments for studio art majors at Davidson.

Mims believes Davidson asks a lot of its _
student artists. “Any liberal arts school is a

hard place to do art because it’ s demanding

in so many other areas, and many people ©

don’t take art that alee she said.

Schill will display no more than ten paint-
ings. All are acrylic, though some combine

_ collage with acrylic. He describes his work
_ as a combination of abstract and loose figu-

tion. They think that vacations don’t happen
regularly in the real world.” McDonald will
travel to Arizona to have a look at the Grand
Canyon and make a tour of the desert.

Fifty percent of the people I spoke with
said that they would be travelling to Florida.
“Tt’s just what we’re expected to do,” said
sophomore Fernando Leyva. “All the mov-
ies like Spring Break led me to believe that’s
what we were supposed to do.” Fernando is
going to New Orleans as the percussionist
for the Davidson Wind Ensemble.

Group trips to the sunshine state are ex-
tremely popular among Davidsonians. Stu-
dents find that Spring Break can be an excel-
lent opportunity to spend time with friends.
Several folks are taking their friends to meet
mom and dad and to do the “hometown
thing.” They plan to pack their time away
from school with movies, parties with high
school friends, lots of sleep, good food and
visits to area attractions.

Freshmen Mary Russ and Jackie Carberry.
are travelling via the Eastern Seaboard from
Charlotte to Washington, D.C., to Hilton
Head, S.C. During their thirty hours’ riding
in the car they will stop to visit family and
friends.

According to the responses I got, rela-
tively few people have really thought about

See BREAK! page 7

rative, using bright colors and large scale
surfaces. His display, which gathers work
from his four years at Davidson, shows
Schill has been creative with his materials as
well as with his brush. He has used un-
Stretched and stretched canvas and has
experimented with a burlap sack, two drop
cloths and two paper bags. “I like using stuff

Sarah Pederson tries her hand with the new dryers in Watts.

Photo by Alex Hayden

College graced with spankin’
new washers and dryers

By DAVID SCOTT

The dying washing machines of basement
Watts have been put to rest. Of the four old
washers, three have been replaced by new
Maytag Commercials, and one new dryer
has been added. One of the old washers re-
mains. An SGA committee headed by
Senior Chuck Crews and Sophomore Ingrid
Love requested the new machines from
head of student services Carleton Pritchard.

Crews stated that the new washers should
be a great improvement over the dinosaurs
that were in use, but he also hopes that more
facilities could be established in the Knox,

Akers and Irwin area or at the senior apart-
ments. He further stated that the best of the
old washers had been removed while the one
that was left was in poor condition.

A survey done in a class of professor of
political science Tom Kazee revealed that
one third of the women on campus wash all
their own clothes. Another third only uses
the campus laundry part of the time. Ten
percent of males were found to wash their
own clothes. Considering such numbers,

See WASHERS, page 7

for senior shows

I find around me,” he said about his innova-
tions.

Schill is interested in the New Imagists of
the 80s, such as Anselem Keiffer and what
he refers to as the “crude style” of Jean
Charles Blais. Two Davidson graduates,
Tory Hyatt and Paul Kosmos, have also
made an impression on him. Schill has

always been interested in art and wants to
“continue to explore visual problems.”
This is Schill’s third show, and all have
been this year. The first included works
completed last year, when he was JYA in
France. The second was “Arnold’s
Erumpant Art Exhibit,” a student-organized

’ exhibition held in the ATO house.

By RICHARD C. JONES

Senior Bill Hartman visited St. Au-
gustine’s historic Spanish fort on a va-
cation in Florida. While touring the
United States’ first fort he overheard
someone question a cluster of hover-
ing sea gulls. His eavesdropping re-
sulted in the title. of his current art
exhibit’s central piece, Jonathan, Is
That You?

Although the structure of the work’s
central shape reminds one of a stan-
dard Jean Arp biomorphic figure, the
texture of this oil pastel is a departure
from Arp. Hartman, like many young
artists, borrows from an established
artist, in this case——Hans Hofmann.

The reference to Arp is intentionally
blatant. Jonathan, Is That You? paro-
dies Arp’s repetition of trite forms in

__ search of a new mythology-like the

overheard tourist who, witha playful

~~ inquiry, searches for the most legen-
dary sea gull.

_. The exhibit’s major. “message”
piece isalso its best, Conestoga Unset-
tling. A combination medium of
acrylic and sakrete, Conestoga Unset-
tling addresses a fundamental aspect
of American consciousness: manifest
destiny, The painted sculpture offers a

Hartman surprises with exhibit

symbolic representation of early American
land destruction in the push to the Pacific.

Hartman constructs a visual metaphor for
the connection between the land and the
body. Just as early settlers stretched the
canvas of their prairie ships at the cry of
“Westward ho!” Hartman’s canvas swells
toexpose a festering underbelly of bloodied
flesh and ripped muscle. The surface of the
work is an inverted, silent landscape with a
trademark tear. The tear resembles skin
peeled from a seething wound.

The piece carries a touch of poetic justice
in the lower, left-hand corner, as the organic
land overcomes the settlers’ barbed wire.
The work is kinetic and void of subtlety.
Conestoga Unsettling’s major negative
point is its escape from varied interpreta-
tion.

The show’s two weakest works. are Un-
titled (1988) and Sprechstimme. Although
Untitled-explores the connection between
landscape and body like Conestoga Unset-
tling, the work is problematic. Hartman’s
landscape for Untitled is influenced by
abstract expressionism and overlaid by cut-
out figures. The foreground blocks the
viewer’s experience with the background. .

The artist’s intent to lend representation
to abstraction in.a three-dimensional way
fails. Although Hartman scores points for

the Cunningham Fine Arts Building

the attempt to combine two concepts in
acreative way, the piece needs to be one
or the other, abstract or representational.

The etching Sprechstimme, aGerman
operatic term for speech-singing, pres-
ents a living room bombarded with sen-
sory information from a television, a
painting and a lamp. The etching’s con-
ventionality is its failure. When con-
fronting the merits of art over mass
media, the juxtaposition of a painting
with a TV is acliché,

The overall impression of Hartman’s
exhibition is an entertaining success.
Hartman pleases with a great deal of
humor—the decision to include a 1972
crayon drawing, the lithograph Where
Are You Rapunzel?, the label “In case of
fire objet trouvé” (found object) next to |
the fire extinguisher, Hartman jabs at
established art and refuses to take him-
self too seriously. Furthermore, his
Strength in several mediums from litho-
graph to acrylic prompts the visitor of
Hartman’ s exhibit to join with the artist
in asking, “Bill, is me you?”

Hartman’ 5 iorkwill ba.cn tianiotis

until Spring Break.

