Friday March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

99 Roundtrip

On Northwest Airlines.

Chicago '. — Seattle

$99 roundtrip $99 ro

Miami

undtrip $99 roundtrip

A special offer for students,

only for American Express Cardmembers.

‘ If you want to go places, it’s time for the American
Express® Card.

% 55 Because now you can take advantage of new travel
privileges on Northwest Airlines only for full-time
students who carry the American Express Card.

Travel privileges that offer:

t\\) Two $99 roundtrip tickets—fly to many of
k the more than 180 cities served by North-
ONT IWES “west in the contiguous 48 United States.
LOOK TO US Only one ticket may be used per six-
month period.
Special Quarterly Northwest Destination Discounts
throughout 1989—up to 25% off most available fares.
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS®
free travel program—where only 20,000 miles gets
you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies
in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada—upon

enrollment through this special student offer.

And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional
benefits and personal service you would expect from
American Express.

The only requirements for privileged travel: you
must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu-
dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines
tickets with the Card.*

Getting the Card is easier than ever because now
you can apply by phone. Just call 1-800-942-AMEX.
We'll take your application and begin to process it
right away. What's more, with our Automatic
you can qualify now
while you're still in
school.

Apply now: Fly later :
—for less. I rss

AMERICAN EXPRES

Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX

*Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours.after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be

made after

TRAVEL

RELATED !
Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details
Oi rmerattee Coe. mail, © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company,Inc.

purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be
cities to which Northwest does not have direct connections or routings. City fuel tax

pl na Sat Lada mgr mdr lan int apeaarepeg
surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00).
, call 1-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the

13
