The Davidsonian
Friday, November 17, 1989

11

3 es ake : wy if _ ye Y ‘ REA EY Sey? ae & hes
Peter Hughes ( #11) attempts to rush the ball past Salisbury State in last weekend's Homecoming match.

Photo by Matt Brentjens

Wildcats end season with long, hard fight

By GIGGY MAXWELL

The locker room was silent after Sat-
urday’s 14-13 losstothe Salisbury State
Seahawks. It wasn’t the silence after ia
defeat. It was the silence of a team that
had fought long and hard this season to
Overcome mountains of adversity and
had just now realized that their journey

together across those mountains was °

over.

They had succeeded in bimbing
many of those mountains, and tripped
and fallen hard over others, but each
week they regrouped to tackle the next
week’schallenge and for that this year’s
Wildcat football team is to be com-
mended.

They are also to be commended for
the way in which they handled adver-
sity off the field with the division
change and subsequent exodus of 20 of
their closest friends. T. Rey rallied

around each other this year, around the’

Wildcat football family and played this
season for themselves.

The bond among the 45 players and
coaching staff was never more appar- .
ent than Saturday as the players filed

into the lockerroom. Playerssaton their
stools looking at the floor, the walls,
avoiding eye-contact, not-wanting tore-
move their uniforms because once
those come off the season is officially
over.

But it was over. Sterling Martin, in-
terim athletic director, and Terry Hol-
land, athletic director-elect, both
stopped by to offer their congratula-
tions for an outstanding season. This
was an incredible event when one con-
siders that recent A.D.s didn’t even
know where the football locker room
was.

The record books will show that the

1989 Wildcats went 2 - 8, but a mere 13
points separated them from a 6 - 4 rec-
ord.

This’: year’s - football. team: accom-
plished a lot more than 2 -8 and Id like
to personally thank the Wildcat football
family for letting me be a part of it. No
matter what the won lost record says,
you guys know you went out on top.

So, if you see a football player walk-
ing around campus, tell him how much
you enjoyed the season. He’d appreci-
ate it.

The game?Oh. The game. The-game
Saturday typified the entire 1989 cam-
paign. The Wildcats played erratically
enough to keep within striking dis-
tance. Down 14-7 they engineered a
perfect 92-yard drive to pull within one.
The 2-point conversion attempt was
missed. Somehow that seems a fitting
end to the 1989 football season.

1989-90 season
awards

W. Lewis McColgan
Most Valuable Players:
Michael Rogers (defensive)

Ralph Isernia (offensive)

G. M. King Academic Award:

Harry Schiavi

Fuller Memorial Award:
Harry Schiavi

Douglas Neil Courage Award:

Lee Wagner

Top Newcomer Award:
John Bodkin

[5
IMACtion
And the flickerball champs are...Just Average Guys!
By QUINN McCUTCHEN while, the SAE team looked they outscoredtheir oppo- In women’s flickerball, Rusk’s the competition is much
In men’s flickerball finals, bumbling and confused, driv- nents456 to 123. Steve Mauney Insatiablescontinued theirper- closer with two teams re-
Sig Ep’s Just Average Guys ing within scoring range just was selected JAG of the year. ennial dominance by blanking maining in the double
suits SAE’s Drop & once, only to Spencer 33-0 elimination tournament.
Give 45-6 Monday after- have the ball in the cham- Kappa Sigma’s Delta
nooH intercepted pionship Force edged the Interna-
Cheered on by over 150 in the end game. tional Team 1-0 to gain the
fans’and over 30.milk jugs, zone by Rob The champi- _ finals and the Internation-
thecsbove: teins appeared Grzeszczak onship_vic- als slipped by Confusion3-
nly matched attheonset who then tory assured 2togetback into the finals.
of Hie baene completed a the Insati- The championship game
Both deve the length of 74- yard ables yet an- was played Thursday .
the field to score on their passto Chris other unde’ The first round of pre-
first possession. From then Sward fora — feated season season basketball is under-
on, however, the Just Aver- Just Average in which they way. The Little Kings van-
age Guys could do no Guys touch- outscored quished Thrice Yea 78-24,
8 det aga down. The their oppo- the All Stars thwarted
ee ff victeey nents 71-0 Prime Times 30-24, the
TheSig Ep team assaulted ended a 16-0 (according to Nice Guys handed DFWB
& Give witha barrage season for IMAC rec- a most bodacious expug-
pei rtho- the Just Av-- Just ‘Average Guys' Chris Sward, left, with ball, looks fora receiver in _ ords). _ Nation 55-49, and Hank
of long bombs and uno fas ~erape Guys the flickerball final match against SAE. The Sig Ep team won.. Inin- Woods' Team forfeited to
dox plays, such as the infa- Bs $34 ach ; ‘ Photo by Ed ‘Matthews daar soccer, Bob.

\. mous sleeper play. Mean-
