LINCOLN MINSTER

Lincoln floats fabled in the clouds
When seen or conceived
From city gates sagged with centuries:

Lindum it was when kings with armies

And jeweled smiles spun yarns

From the blue loom of myth.

Halberds sang praise to the One who smiled
At the crimes of his own children—

Their God: obese Don swathed in seal furs
Drenched in rank millenial ambergris.

Castle bells ring dusk and drown my flesh
In liquid gold.

To reach the cathedral | ride inside

The yellow spheres of sound.

The minster emerges,

And with it the kings and armies and halberds,

And those to whom Christ’s blood flowed like rain from the eaves.
The armies are memories in stone.

But as the hill bends below you, becoming a valley,

Becoming impossible,

Tears of martyrs will soak your shoes:

In May Christ comes heiffer-like

To Perpetua, milk-plump and fresh from childbirth.
She fumbles for a pin to fix her hair, then

Finds the face of God red-limned in the arena dust.

—JMG

_ Marksoar toward the high-dive teeth first and to
- to get reacquainted. Connecticut is an excellent $

Laundry Bag OV

We stop. My back creaks as the aftersho
machine sprints down my spine. Sleep cheap. $
crumpled up. I should be so lucky. I don’t know v
jolts, or the relentless pressure of my cotton-knit
be unbearable, I suspect. This lobster trap alwa
not wash his sleeping bag, or‘is it Mark, whose s
not Justin’s fault. Oh well, let’s not point finge

I almost forgot. It’s time to water the paln
my abdomen surges unexpectedly. Zero minus.
Mark and Justin and countless others hurdle
freedom. My world of darkness spins ellipticall
stars remain. Disorientation complicates my lo
tocks. Snowy liquid from the mine field cascades
paca the seat. belt this time. Seams a and h

squashes the tube underfoot. I go splat agai
swimming pool. No lifeguards. I manage to stre
excess water-weight. Skyscrapers move closer.
Skyscrapers sink back into the ground. I reach:

though, before we fly non-stoptoa gyroscopic t ;
of sweat are sucked off tangentially, and: we diz:
back together again; even if the circumstances 2
room. A horse manure front blows in from the 1
they’ve been trampled, shattered. Mark st
for everybody. Reagan herds us into the corral. It
need them? Justin goes first. He refuses the bling
_ The candlestick maker lowers his arm
Justin emerges looking good as new, 4
Thom is next. Always the journalist, he
_ spins the barrel; the procedure repeats.
gonna be last. Mark asks 2
for a cigarette, but the filter sticks in
lips, puts his thumb over the right nost
Mark is forcibly removed and. told 4
encouraged by Justin and Thom’s sucet
pan, trigger-happy for rejuvenation. T
phone. They didn’t tell me how hot thi
jd melt, then evaporate. My hy
my pours. The axeman slams down th
-have melted into the armrests. He look
‘Thate that ae

a a

