Features

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, December 6, 1989

85 Davidson students fight illiteracy as CIS tutors

By KIM MUNSTERMAN
A time tolearn,a time to laugh, a time
to talk, and a time to be encouraged—
this describes a Cities in Schools (CIS)
tutoring session as experienced by
members of the SAE fraternity last year.
Because of SAE’s success with the pro-

Eighty-five Davidson students have
become reading tutors for these stu-
dents, committing themselves to an
hour each week in tutoring sessions. A
student must undergo six hours of
training in order to become a tutor. The
tutors meet with their 7th through 9th

gram, as graders at
well as , - ie . the — stu-
the ex. 2 Menjoying the program because it agents’
pressed allows me a one-on-one relation- — schools
student — ship with my learner and an oppor- and “he
concern . ° . oO e
with illit. tunity for friendship. So far, I don’t Psble-vi.
eracyand feel like I’m a teacher; I’m learning _sion-spon-
youth at . sored Time
tisk, this J¥St as much as my student. to Read
year —Hilary Coman, ‘92 program—
Davidson a reading
College improve-

has officially associated itself with the
CIS program.

CIS is a nationwide program con-
cerned with identifying students at risk
of dropping out and providing support
and social services to keep them in
school. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg
agency works with students in five jun-
ior high schools and high schools,
bringing community social workers
into the school in order to socially and

ment program that uses popular maga-
zines and a curriculum of skill activity
sheets.

Cynthia Marshall, executive director
of CIS, stresses the importance of role
models for students. “These children
have tremendous potential, but are
having trouble in the school environ-
ment for one reason or another. A stu-
dent tutor can help the children see a
connection between schoolwork and

academically aid those at risk.

what's out there for them in the future.”

Many learners, besides having lower-
than-average reading scores, come
from impoverished or broken homes.
The extra attention provided by the
tutor may be needed both by the child
and by the CIS agency to further deter-
mine the child’s needs. Last yearanSAE
volunteer discovered a serious visual
handicap of his learner and was then
able to call the school’s attention to the
problem. Such extra care can often
mean the difference between failing
and succeeding for at-risk students.

Not only are the tutoring sessions a
time for reading, they are also a time to
discuss problems and build friend-
ships. As Caroline Craig, Davidson’s
service coordinator points out,
Davidson tutors provide more than
specialized academic attention. “Be-
cause of the tutor-learner relationship
and discussions that ensue, the
Davidson student makes connections
with social-problems such as literacy,
poverty, housing and drugs. It is neces-
sary to realize that these can’t be solved
as isolated issues.”

This year’s new tutors seem enthusi-
astic about their work. Says sophomore
Hilary Coman, “I’m enjoying the pro-
gram because it allows mea one-on-one
relationship with my learner and. an

opportunity for friendship. So far, I
don’t feel like I’ma teacher; I’m learning
just as much as my student.”

Sophomore Michelle Carswell adds,
“My learner and I have already devel-
oped an open relationship. I feel that
there is a great potential for Davidson
tutors to positively influence less fortu-
nate students in our area.”

What success has this program seen?
According to Marshall, of the students
in CIS with tutors or mentors, 95 percent
were promoted to the next grade level.
“Our goal is to provide a comprehen-
sive approach to the students and their
surroundings,” she says. “We haven’t
reached that yet, but we’re working
toward it.”

Craig too is optimistic for the pro-
gram’s success at Davidson: “Because
Davidson students have shown a long-
terminterestin tutoring and mentoring,
I expect that this program can be very
successful and well-sustained.”

Junior SAE John Raines recalled last
year, saying, “It all really came together
in theend. Almostall our kids passed so
we took them out to a ballpark and
played softball with them. It was defi-
nitely a memorable experience seeing
all those kids having a blast and cele-
brating what they’d eine alee wd

Early birds learn

taiji at Davidson

By VIRGINIA MISCHEN

On many a frosty morning,
when the sun is barely out of
bed, one may spy asmall group
of strong-hearted souls trudg-
ing their way to the basketball
court by the track.

Their purpose? To learn taiji,
a Chinese exercise regimen
with a 300 year-old history.
According to Professor Wen-
guang Jian, who teaches the
class, the discipline started asa
kind of boxing used for defense
or attack. “Now,” he says, “itis
a way Of keeping fit.”

The routine consists of a se-
ries of flowing, graceful move-
ments, all done with the knees
bent and the back straight.
There is constant circular mo-
tion of the hands and arms and
aconstant shift of body weight
from one leg to the other.

This continuous shifting is

one manifestation in taiji of the

Taoist philosophy of the yin
and the yang, states Jian. The
philosophy, which works on
oppositions, is also present in
the contradiction between ex-
ternal movement and internal
force.

“Outwardly, the movement
is smooth and soft,” Jian com-
ments. “But inwardly, there is
strength.”

The intense concentration
required for taiji helps one to
, Meditate through movement.
“It is no good to think of some-
thing else or look around,” Jian
elaborates. “You must concen-
trateyourattention—you must
always look at your fingers.”

What motivates people to

power. Jian says that it takes

Here's = two who o hold the a now have to say.

from high school to col-

Thinking about appeb eg

take up taiji? As Jian points out, ByPHILLIPPRESCOTT Puckett: Youhavetotakethe _ Little and there is no lounge,
it is good exercise. After a  Thefollowingisaninterview “learn as you go approach” and my room is pretty much -
workout, he is “wet with | was conducted with hall coun- because you never know _ the lounge. I don’t mind it. 1
sweat,” he claims witha smile. selors Mark Puckett (3rd Little) what: will hap - can'tstudy in there, butl’min
He has been doing taiji almost and Dave Williams (4th Little). = ‘Tmean, you may get a hall there. Thost of the time 2
every day for 14 years, and he where) ‘no one. gets along, just way. Se
feels that it has improved his | he Davideoninns Why « did - peo ey ep roa ‘Williams: Like Mark Gr
health. Before learning taiji, he | you want to become a: hall : hall get a hall that’s— ae come ‘people i
had trouble falling asleep at | counselor? Williams: Perfect,loud, arro- - too, which
night, and he had stomach- | Puckett:1 wanted todoit for gant, jerks. Lite. If 1 do hav
aches. Now he fallsasleep very | "the money— Pudeeth <Yeake They aller. usually goto the
quickly, and his stomach prob- Williams: (laughing) Huh! along but they're all differ- 1 Idoneed tostudy in anions
lem has almost disappeared. Puckett: —you make about ent there is a. op diversity _ I ican make itknoy cee Aas
Freshman Craig Bohart,one_ | $150 aterm. No, this is what _ bet ‘who is i oe ‘
of three students who attends | 7 basically said in my inter- which. fraternity, Gnas
the class every day (there were | yjew: I wanted to be in the — pretty gregarious... re
originally 14), cites a different | ‘swingof things and meet the ~ Williams: The interesting |
reason for doing taiji. He feels new freshmen. thing to me Puckett, 46thisis asa hall J
thatithasaided him in “getting I talked to my hall coun- another question justlike the” : tin ae ai ¢
in touch with my body” and | selor and he said if he hadn’t interview for hall” “coun: = oe Be ei
“focusing.” Ss been a hall. counselor he selor—  . Puckett: Williams got
He stated, “My coordination | would have been out of it, — Puckett: Amazing! thisislike ‘obligation to the fr
_and balance have improved.” gotten an apartment, and — "women, to be an
His enthusiasm for taiji is so floated off into menial noth- ‘Williams : The question was ‘shoulder to ; ¥
great that he hopes to make ita ingness. how ree you react to cer- find you reel. Soin
lifetime pursuit. Williams: I did it because I rooms, knockin
Both Bohart and Jian recom- thought I'd be good at it.
mend taiji for those with will- Help out with the transition

time and practice, not just to lege— solidi
learn the movements, but also Puckett: Yeah, me ae
to refine them according to the Williams: —becauseI hada _ intoit with an

requirements of the discipline. -

If you are interested in at-
tending a class, it meets Mon-
day through Thursday at7 a.m.
This semester Jian teaches the
course for P.E. credit; he may
offer the class next semester as
well.

Socome, watch, move, get in
touch with yourself. As Bohart
remarks, “It’sa good way toget
the day going.”

really difficult time as a
freshman and I found out
_ what things you need to do
peo to it, to the col-

The Davidsonian: Did you stu
hayea good idea ofhow you with
peroenibgbate: un

Puckett: You re have to ea pe
open mind. _ pen, I
Williams: Take iteachday as _ Willi;
cg ites will- add

Set

se OE

