tea rem eas

Monday, February 20, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN |

f News Short

Davidson Habitat for Humanity issues annual: report Davidson class of 1952, and his wife, Elizabeth Smith White, have established a

In an annual report issued last week, Habitat board: members claimed success Scholarship for study and internships abroad for needy students at Davidson.
so far in rallying community support for their cause. The White-Smith: scholarship honors several generations of alamni descendants

The 1988 Habitat organized volunteers and raised money to build one single- Of Anthony White, class of 1847, and Samuel W. Smith, class of 1929.
family house and begin construction on another. Those two dwellings are being Over the next few years the endowment for this scholarship will grow to
sold through no-interest loans to families who would otherwise not be able to af- _ 4Pproximately $150,000. The scholarship will be administered by the Dean Rusk
ford homes in Davidson. Program in International Studies.

In 1988 board member Ed White led the Davidson Habitat effort to select three .
families from the 17 who submitted applications. Epilepsy support group

The first home will be occupied soon by Brenda, Orlando and Erica McCain. On Tuesday, February 28 the Epilepsy Association of North Carolina will offer

Carlos and Jill Lasanta and monthly community meet-
their children will occupy the ings for adults with epilepsy.
second home, which is under The meetings will be held the
construction; and Jesse and fourth Tuesday of every
Marilyn Williamson and their monthat the Charlotte office,
children will occupy the third 4801 East Independence
house, which will be built this Blvd., Suite 1000, from 7 to
summer. 8:15 p.m. Persons with epi-

lepsy and their family mem-

White-Smith bers are encouraged to at-
Scholarship established tend.

William Anthony White Jr.,

Sophomores Bob Hornsby and Jamie Slagle work on Habitat’s second house.
Photo courtesy of College Relations
Ne

AIDS, from page 1

appearing on bathroom doors and
in Patterson court houses.

In order to help the campus on
the problem of AIDS, the com-
mittee itself needs to be better
educated. The committee seeks to
learn more about AIDS at an
AIDS Prevention Workshop that
four student representatives will
attend later this month at Tennes-
see State University. This two day
workshop will focus on swapping
information between the various
universities represented, ‘and
teaching the participants how to
better educate others about AIDS.
The Davidson representatives
will hold acampus wide assembly
to discuss what they have learned
when they return from the confer-
ence.

Kimmelalso suggested sending
a group of Davidson students and
faculty to the University of Vir-
ginia this summer to attend a six
week intensive course on how to
talk and teach about AIDS.

Junior Cackie Walters, who is
currently organizing a Rusk

House committee on AIDS, com-
plains that the “campus is danger-
ously ignorant” about AIDS. Stu-
dents need to take the problem
into their own hands and do some-
thing about it.

One suggestion on how to pro-
tect Davidson against the AIDS
virus is to install condom ma-
chines in the bathrooms of the
dormitories. As Kimmel warned:

“The more difficult it is to obtain .

condoms, the less frequently they
will be used. Condoms ought to be
freely available to all students,
because besides education, they
are the only way to stop the AIDS
virus from spreading.”

Davidson Service Coordinator
Caroline Craig urges the students
to take action on this issue. If it is
left for the school to propose,
Craig stated, the idea will have to
travel through many time con-
suming channels before it gets
approved, including the conser-
vative Board of Trustees.

Action needs to be taken right
away; we can’t afford to wait for
years for the school to become
accustom to this radical idea.
Students interested in this prob-

lem should bring the issue to the
attention of the SGA, and work on
raising the awareness of their
peers. Petition sheets will be
posted around campus to gain
extra support. Many other univer-
sities have already adopted this
idea.

These extreme measures are
necessary. Although students will
probably not suffer the effects of
the disease while attending
Davidson, Fulton points out that
soon “people won’t be coming
back to our alumni reunions be-
cause they have died of AIDS.”

While at Davidson, however,
the students will not alter their life
Styles because they don’t have
any symptoms of the disease, and
the majority believe “it won’t
happen to me.” The job of the
AIDS Action Committee is to
convince everyone at Davidson
that Aids is a problem that all
must confront.

Anyone who is interested in

joining the AIDS committee or in _.

learning more about AIDS can
attend the weekly meeting, every

Tuesday at 5 p.m. The location of —

the meeting will be posted.

Seni Tiss Posted; above, lost to Siite-Lam Sunday ba the flesls of ks puatel Union plag-poes toernausiat
Bet ten ened Fee i repreent Devitere 2 ie Tee arene eee ee ee
Photo by Alex Hayden

