14

Thursday, March 2, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Condom machines exacerbate AIDS problem

Boyd Miller.

Lately, Davidson College has posted petitions across
campus bathrooms in search of support for the recent
condom machine proposal. The idea calls for “placing
condom machines in dorm bathrooms and/or other areas.”
Such a proposal stems primarily from the AIDS epidemic,
which rightly concerns students, faculty, and administra-
uon.

Proponents of “condom mania” argue that rubbers are an
effective tool against AIDS and that the goal of saving
lives is an ideal well aligned with the college’s principles.
However, such a notion is actually ungrounded in reality
and statistically non-viable. Progressive sex educators
would have us belicve that condoms and “safe sex” is
Davidson’s salvation from AIDS. As Dr. Kimmel warns us
in The Davidsonian, “Condoms ought to be freely avail-
able to all students, because besides education, they are the
only way to stop the AIDS virus from spreading.” A variety
of studies, however, show that condoms fail to prevent
pregnancy in 10% of couples who rely on that method of
birth control. Yet with AIDS, one also must note that the
virus is many times smaller than human sperm and a
woman is fertile only several days a month, whereas the
AIDS virus is virulent 365 days a year. Thus, condoms not
only fail to stop AIDS, but provide a false sense of security
for those who use them.

School based condom machines not only would fail to
stop AIDS, but would have a detrimental effect of increas-
ing sexual promiscuity on campus. As local writer and
lawyer Barrett Mosbacker notes about school based clin-
cs, “for the past 17 years, the prescribed ‘solution’ to the
tecnage pregnancy problem [and now the AIDS problem]
_, has consisted of sex education programs... and easy access
to contraceptives. Yet despite 17 years of effort and the
expenditure of more than $2 billion, pregnancy and abor-
tiofi rates continue to climb.”

To students (especially incoming, freshmen) ats

Davidson, the installation of condom machines would
send the same message as the school based contraceptive

could use

_ Clinics: “You, like all college students, are expected to en-
gage in sexual intercourse.” This statement will be no sur-

prise to those students who actively engage in promiscuous
sex, nor should it deter those who fervently abstain; how-
ever, as this study shows, Davidson College condom
machines would advertise the “everyone is doing it” no

tion and persuade a large number of uncertain students to
take the risk. Thus, Davidson’s rubber dispensers have the
dual effect of replacing abstinence (100% effective against
AIDS) with a

Finally, the machines promote irresponsibility on the

part of the students and the administration. The dispensers
condescendingly tell students. that we are not mature

_ enough to handle the obligations of our own personal

decisions. The school, instead, feels the need to practically
feed students the condoms. Yes, ultimately the student is
still the one who decides, but along with this freedom, the ,
student incurs the responsibility of walking to the drug
store. Students ought to be insulted by the college’s pro-
posal. If condom machines

less reliable and
more dangerous

condom.
In addition,
condom ma- '

chines take away
a viable excuse

. truly are not degrading to the
maturity of students, then why
not install them in the offices
of single professors?

The installment of
condom machines is not the
needed solution, but rather will

for a woman to
say “No” to sex-

Condom

exacerbate the problem. When
faced with a public concern as

ual intercourse. grave as this fatal plague, the
In the past, ' answer lies Not in simple prag-
women — who aa @| C a | N C5 at matic solutions, but rather
wanted to refrain calls. for moral courage.

from intercourse
the
man’s lack of
protection as a

Davidson

Davidson College is a school
founded upon truthfulptin-
ciples and grounded deeply in
Judeo-Christian values and

valid excuse.

However, thanks to Davidson, the man need nota condom,
just a quarter and your convenient hall bathroom.

However, some proponents of the machines prefer that
the dispensers be “discreet.” Yet, “discreet” is rather a eu-
phemism for “remote” and indicates that the dispensers
ought to be placed in the basements of dorms. Should the
college endorse “discreet” machines, we rightly should
question whether a student in the heat of passion will stop,
run down several flights of stairs, and retrieve his extra-
ribbed or lubricated package. Any more “discreetness”
would lead one to look on an aisle at Cornwell Drug. Thus,
the school. based machines have a dual nature of advertis-
ing and institutionalizing sex, while simultaneously mak-
ing the machines “discreet” enough to deter students from
using them.

heritage. According to our col- A
lege handbook, Davidson “‘was founded... to promote ™
‘knowledge and virtue.’” Yet, this recent proposal. aban-
dons such ideals and asks the college to lower its principles
in the face of a grave social problem. However, principles
by nature are strongest and most meaningful when tested
by adverse circumstances. Is our faith so weak, that we can
not maintain this college’s virtue, while fighting AIDS and
caring for those who suffer from it? I believe Davidson
College cannot uphold its principles while simultaneously
institutionalizing sex in our dorm bathrooms or basements.
Indeed, Davidson’s standards of virtue ought not to be
dictated by unscientific survey sheets in bathroom stalls,
but rather by the principles of this college’s heritage.

i
Boyd Miller.is a junior history major from Dunwoody, Ga.

Condom machines threaten our institutional integrity.

Paul Renner

If the AIDS Action Committee’s controversial new
proposal for placing condom machines in the dormitories
deserves student support, then its sponsors should at least
be willing to consider the arguments against it. Unfortu-
nately, their recent effort “to gauge student support” on the
issue asked for our input only if we liked their idea.
Apparently, there isn’t enough time to consider opposing
views. In the Feb. 20th Davidsonian, the proposal’ sadvo-
cates claimed that the “ emergency’ ’ of the situation does

_ not allow for their agenda “to travel through many time
consuming channels before it gets approved...” (read:
“serious discussion about the propriety of our solution i is
not wanted, thank you.”’)

Yet, the implications of the condom plan are so grave for
our campus that this decision must be thoughtfully consid-
ered, not high-handedly rushed. Only a minute’s thought
reveals that their “emergency” is nothing more than a
tactically contrived crisis, intended to mute debate over
the plan and speed its approval. In fact, condoms are

readily available. From listening to them talk, however,
one might imagine that Davidson is under siege by a group
of militant Jesuits intent on denying any student access to
a condom; a situation that now requires the college to
obtain:condom machines by any means (perhaps a para-
chute drop), in order. to protect the student body from
AIDS. In reality a casual walk or drive to Cornwell Drugs
will enable any of us to purchase boxes and boxes of this
-useful product.

Nevertheless, the issue is not whether sexually active
people should use condoms for protection--everyone
should seek to prevent*risk to themselves. Rather, the
whole issue hinges on two separate questions. (1) Can
Davidson College, which considers itself a Christian insti-
tution, justly facilitate what is clearly contrary to Christian
teaching; and (2) are students ready to sacrifice their
position as responsible adults, who can make necessary
provisions for their own sexual activity, for the conven-

- jence of condom machines?

The appropriate basis for the college’s decision is
straightforward. Our Statement of Purpose tells us that
“Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth,” and

is “committed to the historic Christian faith...” Even the.

loosest interpretation of the Bible cannot yield anything

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand- written.

The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them).

¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

Opinions Policy

e All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the:

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish their names |
printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for aie,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter. |

¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, Bilge wal
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

¢ All.submissions should include the author’s address ite
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or —
profession).

but definitive statements in the Old and. New Testaments
that God designs sex for married couples and considers it
a sin in any other context. If the school. wants. to claim
God’s truth as its foundation, then how can.it involve itself
in something which scorns God’s law? More specifically,
if Davidson supposes its policies to, be consistent with the
Statement of Purpose, how can it logically say that God’s
policy on sex is obsolete, and then adopt a plan that
facilitates what God prohibits? As I see it, the college asan ’
institution has only two alternatives: it may choose to
install the condom machines, and either abrogate.or bla-

tantly disregard its confessed purpose; or it may follow its
: expressed beliefs and refuse, to become an accomplice to
“their violation.

The alternatives for the students are no less clear. Al-

‘though the college must adhere to Christian ethics, it also

acknowledges that college-aged adults should have au-
thority over their own sexual activity. The AIDS Commit-
tee proposal raises a question about this authority: do we

‘deserve it? If we want'to claim sexual privileges, then we

must assume adult duties. As married couples do,
Davidson students should purchase condoms at the local
drug store, using liberal estimates of future need. Making
these public purchases might cause, us embarrassment if

we were young teenagers; but we are adults, Our claims to

maturity, however, will be severely undermined if we
allow the condom proposal to pass. To do so would require
us to concede that our sex drive is more mature then we are;
that we cannot handle the same responsibilities for our
sexual lifestyles which our most-recent. graduates must
assume; in short, we would no longer be able to call
ourselves adults. ;
Our status as students and the stated purpose of our

college will both be compromised if the plan is approved.

If these costs seem too high, we should consider employing
a prophylactic response of our own against the condom

proposal: Let us reject it and prevent the dangerous conse-
quences it would cause for our campus, choosing instead to
reaffirm the moral integrity of the college and our own
personal responsibility.

Paul Renner is a senior history major from Jacksonville,

FL.
