Friday, March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN _

SS > = =15

Amin concerts OVER THE SAFETY oF
AiR T2eVEL, Poeing wtroouces THe 47-400...

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN |

*

Avorriona. Features:

ee hid
Aree supe?

Smoxinay /eores | MON- SMOKING
,

* ExxtanosD UPPER OBLK 1S NON-PREGURIZED FOR A FLIGHT EXPERIENCE
* 2EMINISCENT OF AVIATION'S “Giorr Oers".
* ENGINES ARE HOW MOUNTED wiTH 3, HoT Z, BOLTS, EACH ENGINE
EQUIPPED WITH PARDCHUTE FOR RECOVERY AFTER IT FALLS OFF,
* IN ADDITION TO FLOATING CUSHION, EACH Seat 1S NOW EQUIFPED
WITH PARALHUTE AND AUTOMATIC. RIFLE. \
* OPTONAL"OPEN-AIR” CABIN GREAT FOR TANNING PH CTE.

Letters

Message from the SGA President

Because of the dramatic rise of AIDS
cases among college students, the availa-
bility of condoms on campus has become a
very important health issue to Davidson
students. The suggestion of the installation
of.condom machines or other dispensers:in
dormitories has sparked heated debate
among the student body.

Opponents say that condom machines or
some similar measure will increase sexual
promiscuity and give the College’s en-
dorsement to premarital sexual activity.
They argue that students who feel they are
mature enough to take on the responsibili-
ties that sexual activity involves should be
responsible enough to be prepared in ad-
vance of an encounter.

Those in favor of condom dispensers

argue that health, not morality, is the issue.
While it is important to be prepared to take
responsibility for the consequences of
one’s actions, students are going tod make
mistakes. Proponents of condom availabil-
ity argue that it is College’s duty to try to
make sure that students do not have to pay
for such mistakes with their lives.

Part of the role of the SGA Senate is to
identify issues important to student inter-
ests, gather student opinion on these issues,
and then represent this opinion to the ad-
ministration, faculty and staff of the Col-
lege. The availability of condoms on cam-
pus is such an issue.

To determine the majority view of the

See PRESIDENT, page 16

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
‘Margaret Carroll, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Bill Scouten, Julie Zimmerman, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor

Condoms

Dear Editor, '

By now, all diligent readers know that
condoms are effective (most of the time) in
stopping the spread of AIDS. But what
image would the presence of condom ma-
chines on campus give to the outside world?
Perhaps a fictional scenario can help us to
understand the machines’ impact more
fully.

Imagine, if you will, that you are a pro- ~

spective student visiting Davidson for the

first time. As your tour guide leads through
the corridors of a accom (Belk, per-

haps?) you are presented with quite an
interesting sight--a condom machine.
Unfortunately, your guide does not stop to
allow you time to admire this ingenious
contraption. But this brief sight has un-
questionably made an impact on you.
What would you think? :
Although this situation is purely hypo-
thetical. I had the recent pleasure of chat-
ting with some “SGA Weekenders” about
this very topic. The-students I spoke with
felt that the sight of a condom machine

See CONDOMS, page 16

Admissions —

Dear Editor:

I apologize for taking so long to respond

to the article expressing concern about the

enrollment of minorities on campus. — This
is an incredibly busy time of year for us.
While I am not pleased with the article
because the author did not investigate to

uncover the facts that might not support his
thesis, Tam Pleased to see that students are

Kar ge: noid a

Thank You

sé

Friends, COW: Devin College
Paani

We would like'to take this time to'thank
you for all your kindnesses given to our
family during this trying time of our son
Kevin’s tragic motorcycle accident.

ep ere Sree ees

in The Davidsonian, I aiaply, want to state
that I am really willing to meet with any.

individual or group that would like to look _
into the matter. The record since I have
been here is a good one, and I expect itto

get even better.

Let me also say that we need the assis-
tance of all students in achieving our goals.
Letters to the editor do‘ not help us move
forward, and assertions about the commit-

‘done means to us. You are all very spe-
’ cial!!

Kevin continues to improve daily and
with several more weeks of therapy we will
have him back home with us.

Our love and prayers for you all,

-ment, or lack of commitment, based on.

See ADMISSIONS, page 16 |

Easter Monday

This point can be made quickly: Why, as a Christian school, did
Davidson not give its students Easter Monday as a vacation day this year?
Forcing students to travel on what is the holiest day of the year and a day tra-
ditionally reserved for family is not consistent with Davidson’s spiritual

goals.
Was it the mania of professors refusing to budge an inch on the number

“of hours Davidson students must spend in class? Was it sheer thoughtless-

ness? Has the Grinch shown up to make a move on Easter? Whatever the
reason, the policy should be reconsidered in the future whenever Spring
Break and Easter coincide.

WALT

Student broadcasting has had an interesting history here at Davidson.
WALT promises to be just the latest chapter in the continuing saga. The last

- student broadcasting venture here was the now wildly successful WDAV-
_ FM, “Yourstation for the arts.” DA V was begun years ago much like WALT

is today. A group of interested students took a lot of initiative to get the
station off the ground and were successful with it.

So successful, in fact, that the college stole it for its own use as a public
relations tool. Someone, somewhere decided that the college really needed
a first-class, professionally run classical station rather than a student effort.
So, they took it. Boom. Oh, there were protests, and the whole staff quit, and
the pages of The Davidsonian were filled with anger about the affair, but the
remarkable staying power of the administration and trustees prevailed. The
student body’s memory is at most four years long, and the outrage of the theft
has long since faded on this campus, as was almost certainly planned by the
administration at the time. WDAV-FM is now as much an arm of the college
as Davidson Update is.

We should not let the administration exercise that natural advantage it
has. Students come and go, but Davidson and its administrators remain. The
launching of WALT should serve us as a reminder of the DAV crime and we
should as a whole resolve not to let it happen again. Whatif the college needs
a country & western station next?

