4

Wednesday, November 8, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN:

Art department prepares to grow as plans
for a new visual arts center are announced

Blueprints are ready, but building schedule will depend on how fast the money is raised

By GARY WHEELER

Plans for the new visual arts center
were unveiled at last Wednesday’s
Open Luncheon. Art professor Herb
Jackson said that construction of the $9
million facility is targeted to begin in the
fall of 1991.

The new center will help alleviate the
overcrowded condition of the Cun-
ningham Fine Arts Center, which now
serves asthe home for the art, music and
theatre departments.

Shannon Mullen, a senior art major,
described some of Cunningham's

Plans
by
Graham
Gund

Architects
May 25, 1989

View of the complex from Main Street.

shortcomings. “Several art classes use
the same work space at the same time,”
he said. He also added that size of the
building severely limit storage space
and working time in Cunningham.
The new visual arts center will have
seven private studios for senior art
majors. If there are more than seven
majors, the studios will beassigned ona
“competitive basis,” said Jackson.
According to Jackson, the architec-
tural firm Graham Gund was selected
from a pool of over twenty candidates.
Gund was faced with the task of design-

ing a unified facility that isolated sepa-
rate functions from one another, be-
cause “certain art areas are clean and
certain artareasare dirty,” Jackson said.

The visual arts center is divided into
four main sections: the art history build-
ing, the gallery and printmaking wings
(both connected to the art history build-
ing by a covered walkway), and the
sculpture pavilion which will be built
behind the main building.

Theentire center will be 42,000 square
feet and will be built on the corner of
Main and Griffith Streets.

Starting construction of the project in
the fall of 1991 dependson fund raising.
At least $3.5 million must be raised
before construction can begin.

Jackson hopes that the visual arts
center will meet the needs of the depart-
ment in the future. The center does not
include areas for photography or archi-
tecture, but Jackson says that this re-
flects the difference. between “vision
and reality.”

“We have to acknowledge our posi-
tion as an undergraduate institution
with limited funds,” said Jackson.

