Wednesday, December 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ne

News Shorts : 2

No parties before exams, says Terry

Inanagreement between Dean of Students Will Terry the Council on Campus
and Religious Life, it was decided that the self-selection period will be shorter
than originally planned.

Terry had proposed that the self-selection date be set for early December,
before the exam period. The CCRL reviewed this proposal and decided that it
would not be fair to football and soccer players to have self-selection this early.

The CCRL has scheduled self-selection to begin January 12 but placed a
moratorium on parties for five days before exams. According to Terry, this does
not mean that parties at this time of year can be moved to dorms because no
permissions will be granted to have parties. Exceptions to this are brief parties
that will be held in the College Union.

Terry believes that this policy will work to everyone's advantage. Quoting
a professor, he said, “The semester system is the grinch that stole Christmas.”

SGA Phonathon exceeds goal

The SGA concluded its annual phonathon last Thursday, raising over
$252,000. This year’s total exceeded the $200,000 goal by 25 percent.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon raised the most money with $73,000 in pledges, Kappa
Sigma collected $50,500 and Kappa Alpha raised $38,000.

The scholarship is aimed at atiracting promising studentsinterested in public
service. :

Davidson’ssophomore nominees must compete withiouen
respective states. Only 100 Truman Scholars are named. atio
Winners receive $7,000 annually through the last two years o )
undergraduate school and the first two years of gradua e school. i

Spencer donates collected items sto toneedy Davidson
residents eee 4

Spencer House held a “Food, Clothing g and De
succeeded in raising $40, several k ags of
clothing. The articles were taken to Day aon F
they were distributed to needy peo: )

‘This is the fourth year of the drive. Kathy on, service aan, said,
“I consider the drive very successful and [wanted o thank: yone who con-
tributed. Iespecially wanted ee eto #

Se

Grover Meetze toretire after 30 years. |
Grover Meetze, director of facilities planning, has announced that he

‘will resign effective January 1990. In a letter to the college, Meetze

Truman Scholar nominees selected

Jennifer McGrady, Kristi Mitche and Laura Sizemore have been nominated
froma pool of 14 Davidson candidates to compete for the Truman Scholarship.

indicated that since

plans have been set for the next 30 years, "it is in the

best interest of the college to establish a new administrative authority in
facilities planning to provide the needed: con erenphont this

extended period."

t

Meetze will continue to reside in Davieen..

‘By ARNOLD JAMES .

A loss is always painful, especially when it is
someone’s life that is taken. Recently the college
community experienced such a loss. A natural
response to loss is grief. While grief is a common
human reaction to loss, there are not “hard and
fast” rules to how it will be experienced. Grief will
affect each individual in an ideographic manner.

There are common expressions of grief. Misery
and despair may cause those left behind to see life
as empty and all ambition worthless. Apathy in-
hibits any effort and movements are slow; behav-
ior and expression reveal the sorrow. There may
be fleeting desires to be with the person who has
died, especially if there are reminders of the per-
son. Frequently, grief reaches physical intensity;
the chest tightening, breathing becomes irregular,
eating disturbances and sleeping difficulties may

4

How to deal with grief after death, and how to
help someone you think is at risk

become apparent. Some survivors will find it difficult
to concentrate. The grief reactions are often accompa-
nied by self-doubt, painful self-questioning, shame
and guilt.

It is advised that if you experience any of these
symptoms, not to deny their existence. These are
natural human responses; don’t deny yourself the op-
portunity to mourn. If the grief process is too uncom-
fortable for you to handle alone, seek help (it is a sign
of strength when you recognize assistance will help).
Utilize your support group; friends may be experienc-
ing the same feelings--talk to them, use them as a
forum for self-disclosure. Also, take advantage of the
support services available in the College--the counsel-
ing center, the chaplain’s office, the Dean of Students’
office or your faculty. advisor.

If you think a friend may be considering suicide, be
direct. Talk openly to the person in order to find how
serious the person is about the decision. Listen to the

person, show that you care.-Reassure the person
that you are always willing ‘to talk about things
that may be troubling him or her. Help the person
seek professional help and offer to go with the
person to the source of help.

As the concerned person you do not want to
avoid the issue. Avoid offering “empty” reassur-
ances, such as, “You have it a lot better than most
people.” Instead, assure the person he or she can
be helped. Don’t keep what you may know about
the person a secret. Don’t leave the person alone.
By no means feel responsible for saving the per-
son. You can help the person by showing that you
care and by helping the person get professional.

help. But you cannot control what the’ person
decides to do.

Arnold James is a visiting instructor of
peychrology:

ey

The Union Board Concert Committee
presents .

Indigo Girls

Love Auditorium,
Davidson College

8:00 p.m.

January 26, 1990

Student, faculty and staff tickets will go on sale next
Wed., Dec. 13 from 12-2 p.m. in the Union for $5 ($8
at the door) and students must show their I.D. Gen-
eral admission sales will begin Dec. 20. and will cost

$12 in advance, $15 at the door.

Take 1 notice: the moment is near. Your Air Force
ROTC representative will be on campus. And even
if you’ve never considered Air Force ROTC, take this
moment to consider it now. It’s your opportunity to learn
about career success.

ey | eee

WHEN YOUR AIR FORCE
ROTC REPRESENTATIVE
ARRIVES ON CAMPUS,

Every now and then, a
moment arrives when you have
the opportunity to change your
whole life... to begin a career as a lead-

.to discover a future as big as the sky.

CAPT ERIC SEAY
547-4537

4

Leadership Excellence Starts Here

