Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Wednesday, February 7, 1990

13

Religion: A new place for old dirt

Joe Thomas

I discovered a peculiar thing about human nature
the other day. Strangely enough, I learned it manag-
ing a fraternity house. Let me see if I can explain...

Once or twice a week we all gather together with as
many men, women and freshmen as possible and
celebrate at our fraternity. During the celebrating we
move a lot of dirt around, shake the walls a bit and
generally make quite a mess. Then, the guys usually
go home and go to bed and wait for me to call them
early in the morning. We then gather together again
in smaller numbers, (in much less of a celebratory
mood) and rearrange the dirt so that it’s less notice-
able. It’s really quite tricky, but we have mastered
spending an hour toan hour anda half picking dirt up
fromone placeand gently (due to hangovers), quietly,
moving it to another spot to prepare for our next
celebration. It is really quite ingenious, because for a
minimal effort we can maintain a house and throw as
many parties as we like. Rarely does anyone consider

the house.
I thinkiteven hasa peculiar appeal; after all, people
can return week after week and see the same dirt they
saw the week before, only they have the novelty of
seeing it in a different light, so to speak. Not very
much about it changes.

In the simplest sense, I think that we as people are
very similar to my fraternity house. We spend a great
deal of time in the emotional and spiritual “party” of
this world, never ceasing in our zeal to experience the
thrill of the moment,.the fast pace of pleasure. In the
quiet of our hearts, in odd moments, we become
atutely aware of our shortcomings, the telltale dirt of

our lives. I say in odd moments, because it’s usually
not accompanied by a trumpet blast, or the descend-
ing of a gavel to strike a judge’s bench. Itis something
more akin toa tear in the eyes of a friend we’ve hurt or
failed somehow, or the sudden realization that we’ve
looked out for ourselves first and been alarmingly,
quite “normally” ...selfish. Yet, [believe that each of us
knows we ought not to be that way (however dim or
strong that feeling may be), and thatis why we are so
surprised at ourselves, and often dismayed. At the
end of our “parties,” our heart standsin the aftermath,
confused and dazed, and slightly empty and dirty.
The phenomena bears many cultural names (Darwin
called it “Unsatisfied social instinct”), but the simplest
is guilty conscience.

The dilemma deepens when our agendas and good
intentions fail to allay the weightof it, because they so
often fail. I think each of us can identify with the
feeling of striving and striving to do better the next
time and seeing that nothing has really changed.

That is why we can struggle at Davidson to ease
racial tensions, we can initiate programs, and educate
people (as so many noble efforts do) and still see

persistent hatred, despite all our best intentions. Itis .

why, at Davidson, we encounter the same social ills of
alcoholism, drug use, greed, selfishness and ulti-
mately despair that we doanywhere in the world. We
are at a level of education envied by most of the free
world, butis there a wise manamong us? Itseems that
hearts remain the same.

In the ultimate sense, there isn’t anything new
under the sun, as each generation moves dirt around
and the ills of society recur again and again. It seems
at an individual and. societal level, we need new
hearts.

Thatis the message of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the

man our school calls “the central fact of human his-
tory, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole
life.” For those who are broken-hearted by their own
sin, there is someone who is not under the sun, and
who will bring the newness our hearts long for. As St.
Paul declared to the Corinthians--Therefore, if any
man is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old has gone
the new hascome....we implore you on Christ's behalf:
Be reconciled to God. God made Him who had no sin
to be sin for us, so that in Him we might become the
righteousness of God.

Everything else, alas, is merely moving dirt around,
but as the prophet Isaiah foresaw almost 800 years
before Christ's death:

Surely he took up our infirmities

and carried our sorrows,

yet we considered him stricken by God,

smitten by Him, and afflicted.

But he was pierced for our transgressions

he was crushed for our iniquities.

The punishment which brought us peace was upon
him.

And by his wounds we are healed.

We all, like sheep, have gone astray,

each of us has turned to his own way;

and the Lord has laid on him the

iniquity of us all....(Isaiah 53:4-6).

For that reason, I feel safe in saying God is able and
willing to cleanse the dirt from our lives, and because
of that there is truly hope fora new beginning and the
house we call our lives.

Joe Thomas is a senior biology major from Morristown,
NJ:

We need to “blur” -our sense of racial identity

- Clay Adams. £

“ There i is only one way to end racism, and that is to
end racialisolation and’segregation. Spelled out, this
means that the yellow, white, brownand black people

who share this planet must no longer think that there-

isany ultimate valuein being the member ofa particu- -
lar race, independent of the others. An idealistic,
unreasonable. impossibility, you may accuse me of
having hope in, but I see no alternative. As long as we
see ourselves as of particular races that must cling
together, we will always harbour the constrictive in-
stincts toward segregation and racial insulation, creat-
ing gut-level hostility that will never allow us to
embrace each other. :

I therefore make a call to members of all races to
endeavor in a conscious effort to blur their sense of
racial identity. For example, whites, learn about Afri-

can Jah ‘Aivica Atiovica® ideas and take ia ap-

‘. pealsto you and integrate it in yourlives,andthendo |

the same with every other race. Blacks, do the same. -
Same, Yellow, Brown, et. al.. Some of us will find that

weadopta whole group of ideas thatchange our lives =.

*in ways we had never before considered: If everyone
does this, then pretty. soon (a couple of generations,
maybe) individual racial ideas: will become obsolete
as people incorporate ideas according to their person-
_alities, their interests, in short, according to forces
‘much more constructive and poste than any lim-
ited by racial identity.

Racial discrimination will become the exception. ‘

The real moversand shakers, the cutting edge leaders
and changers will be the ones who find expressions
for their personal identity in a multitude of cultures
and histories. These people will have resources that
will propel them to new heights, new powers based
on theirability tomove beyond the simple fact of their
race.

In the utopic ending to this scenario, there will be so
many interracial marriages and intra-cultural expres-
sions that few people will have a single race’s blood in
their bodies, or a single race’s thoughts in their heads,
but will have a patch-work racial lineage. We will see
characteristics of every race glorified through this
process and the whole.of the human. race become
stronger, more sensitive and more expressive.

At Davidson, we are bléssed ‘with students from
approximately 30 different countries..We have men
and women of many races and racial mixtures. We
also ‘have some fantastic academic coursesthat reach

‘past European influences and white American male

history. As Davidson cements itself in the highest
circles of education, it must cultivate free-thinking
students who embrace the complexity of themselves
and who have “selves” grounded in ideas that are
more substantial than any racial identity.

Clay Adams is a junior English major from Atlanta, Ga.

A counseling job may be just what you need

Flake Sherrill

your Sea Gull /Seafarer experience memorable.
The experience you gain asa counselor at Sea Gull/
Seafarer will augment your resume no matter what

It’s not too early...

It is not too early to start thinking about a summer
job. Some of the best opportunities for rewarding
summer work need not be hard to find. Last year I
found Such a rewarding job that I want to pass it on to
all Davidson students.

I worked as a counselor at Camp Sea Gull. Coun-
selorship offers many opportunities. It is a time to
relax, atime to earn some money and a time to make
numerous friends. However, these opportunities are
not what makes being a counselor at Camps Sea Gull/
Seafarerrewarding. Yourcampersare what will make

career you enter. At Sea Gull/Seafarer you will learn
how to make everyone feel important. You will learn
how to turnabad experience intoa good one. You will
learn how to instill moralsintoan individual. You will
learn how to work with all personality types, shaping
the good and attempting to eliminate the bad.

These are skills that most summer jobs cannot offer.
These are skills much needed in the marketplace to-
day.

These are tools that will help anyone's careers.

On February 14th, 1990 Camps Sea Gull and Sea-
farer will have two people from their administration
on campus. Those individuals are Tim Joyce and

Sharon Payne. If you yearn to havea summer job that
will be one of life’s best experiences, then stop by the
foyer of the student Union anytime between 1 and 4
p-m.onthe 14th. If youcannot meet Tim orSharon but
are interested, then call or stop Flake Sherrill (SNT-
111, 896-6501).

Also, if you want to talk about counselors’ experi-
ences at Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, then just stop and

‘ask the following Davidson students: ’ Robert

Marshall, Bailie Keiter, Steven Summers, Suzanne
Spivey, Max Fisher, Sarah Nall, Gabie Vaughan or
Flake Sherrill. Robert Marshall has worked at both
Camp Sea Gull for boys and Catep Senrarer for girls..

Flake Sherrill is a senior on BENRY major sa Statesville,
N.C.
