Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

More letters

“The BSC is anything but racist”

Dear Editors,

I am writing in response to Marshall
Smith's comments that appeared in last
week’s Davidsonian concerning ra-
cism. I would like to start by saying that,

like Marshall Smith, I have felt uncom-:

fortable a few times, because I felt like I
was being classified as an “oppressor”
because I ama white male, a traditional
power holder. ButI stress that these few
situations were isolated incidentsin one
on one discussions. Sure it happens.
White people can be prejudged just as
black people can be prejudged. But
these instances were not supported by
some “militant” group.

What really disturbs me is Mr.
Smith’s description of the BSC as racist.
I have only attended Davidson for one
semester, but from what I’ve seen of the
BSC so far, itis anything but racist. The

BSC has held forums and discussions’

concerning racism and prejudice. These
forums were eye-openers, and really
made you aware that the end to racial
prejudice is more than just passing
laws. People’s attitudes must change.
People are people.

But that doesn’t mean there aren’t
cultural or ethnic differences. applaud
the BSC’s effort to establish a “black”
fraternity. When thisidea first came up,

there wasan uproar about “separate but
equal” and reverse discrimination. But
when you really think about it, cultural
roots and heritage should be celebrated
by acommon people. The end toracism
and prejudice must come through un-
derstanding and accepting differences
between people, and celebrating those
differences, not through theelimination
of those differences. Ignorance divides
the races. For prejudice to be abolished,
differences between people must not
only be understood and accepted, but
celebrated. What good is unity if indi-
vidual and group characteristics are
wiped out? We must seek unity in di-
versity. What is more beautiful, a gar-
den of only red roses, or a garden filled
beautiful flowers of every shape, scent,
and color?

In conclusion, the actions at the BSC,
whether they-are organizing panel dis-
cussions, pulling for a black fraternity,
or setting up acelebration of Dr. Martin
Luther King,Jr.’s birthday, are simply
not racist. Everything, that I have seen
the BSC do is geared to education,
understanding, and the celebration of
African American history and culture. I
fail tosee why Mr. Smith thinks that that
constitutes racism.

Ben Wiley, ‘93

Media Board « ensures quality of publications

Dear Editors,

Two weeks ago you wrote an edito-
rial supporting thereturn toelectionsas
the means of.selecting editors for stu-
dent publications and other forms of
media run by students (i.e. WALT). As
appointed editors of the 1989-90 year-
book, we strongly disagree with your
editorial. We feel that the system of
electing editors results in publications
of a quality far below what can be
achieved by appointed editors.

We base much of our opinion on the
publications of the past few years, espe-
cially those of the last elected editors of
Quips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, and
The Wildcat Handbook. The last elected
editors for Quips and Cranks were those
for the 1987-88 book. That book was es-
sentially put together. by one person
over a two-week period in the summer.
She was handed a box of pictures and
asked to put together a book. The fact
that she wasn’tone of the elected editors
says a lot.

Recentlettersin The Davidsonian have
criticized some of the material in the
paper, but let’s face it, at least we have
one*to read. That's more than can be
said about the sporadic publication of
the pact two a during which time

the paper was run by elected editors.

Finally, consider The Wildcat Hand- :

book. The Class of 1991 should remem-

ber the last elected editors of this publi-”
cations. Their. handbook came out in

October, two months after it was
needed. Even though it had gone
through two printings, it was of gener-

ally poor quality. No one who has seen |

the lasttwo Handbooks could deny that
not only have they come out on time,
but the quality has greatly improved.
‘If the performance of previous editors
was not. enough to convince you, con-
sider just how fair student elections are
for these positions. Most student publi-
cations come out once or twice a year;
students have little concrete informa-
tion on which to base their decisions,

unlike the election of SGA or Union”

officers. Students don’t know the quali-
fications or experience of the appli-
cants. Theelections thus tend tobecome

popularity contests, and popularity | ,
‘contests don’ toften produce good qual-

ity publications. ~

We have said all this assuming that
students care about these publications.
While we'resure that many do, wehave

See SELECTIONS, page 12

NBA, NBB and N BC need names now |

Dear Editors, :

‘Students moved i in more than a year

ago. Since then, the Baker Sports Com--

plex has been completed and the base-
ball team has gained new locker rooms
and a concession stand. Compared
with these latest contructions, Build-
ings A, B, and C are no longer NEW.

When will the Senior Apartments have _

names? Must Davidson wait until three
benefactors. give enough money to
merit a plaque on the apartment they

6  ghbenes

Iam tired of explaining which of the
three buildings I live in to other
Davidson students, friends, family,and
inexperienced pizza deliverers. “Well,
building A is closest to the baseball
field, B is the southernmost one, and C
is sort of across from the cemetary.”

NBA, NBB, and NBC need names. |

Soon. Got any ‘ideas?
Ed Matthews

~ NBC 304

11

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
uzanne Craymer, News Editor

Heath Hardage, Features Editor Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor. Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor —
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

‘Davidson, let’s not
forget South Africa

he letter from Monroe Gilmour, printed on the opposite

page, is a timely and commendable statement which

addresses the complacency of Davidson’s trustees in

regards to the divestment of funds from companies
doing business with The Republic of South Africa. The argument
that divestment would inhibit rather than provoke positive
change, supported by various individuals as well as governments,
is unresponsive to the problems at hand. As a consequence apart-
heid has persisted longer than it should have. In the wait for the
South African government to accommodate the native black
majority, civilian deaths, detentions, infant deaths due to malnu-
trition, and general suffering have abounded.

Western nations as a whole have expressed extreme excitement
for the recent political, social and economic turmoil in Eastern
Europe and the Soviet Union, which in effect is challenging the
merits of communism. On the other hand, South Africa has re-
mained on the back burner for the majority of consciences. Could
it be that human rights are more important for particular groups
of people than others?

Although the recent release of ANC activist Nelson Mandela
‘marks a pivotal turn in Afrikaaner politics, it is but the least which
‘could be done to bring about change and equal opportunity. Be-
cause of this, for those who did impose sanctions, the time to lift
them is certainly not now. More evidence of the government's
sincerity to eliminate apartheid is needed. The next months will be
revealing ones as the world observes South Africa.

What can Davidson do in the meantime? As we host a confer-
ence on German reunification, let us consider doing the same for
South Africa. One step towards that goal is evident in the upcom-

ing visit of South African Niko Smith of Koinonia, early next

week. However, perhaps a series of forums can also be organized
to allow discussion of this very important issue.

