THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 , 1990 7

D.A. Thompson | Rude Notes & Scribblings
Smoke, and Smoke Heartily!

In the two weeks-since we have re-
turned from our summer holidays, an over-
abundance of advice has been hurled at me
in regard to my penchant for smoking. Some
very kind and loving people have expressed
their concern for my physical well being and
made emotional pleas for me to kick my
tost “icky gross” habit, while others have
offered such pearls of wisdom as “those
things’ll kill you” as they warmheartedly
pat me on the back, and chuckle to them-
selves on their way to the athletic complex
extremely pleased with the insight and wit
of their comment. Iam touched thatsomany
seem to care for the condition of my physi-
ognomy, but I must confess that I have no
plans to cease my taking of tobacco. You
see, smoking is a simply wonderful habit.
As Fran Liebowitz states in The Portable
Curmudgeon, “smoking is the whole point
of being an adult”. Mark Twain, as is also
revealed in The Portable Curmudgeon, lived
by the simple rule of never smoking while
he was asleep, and never refraining while
awake. In my own opinion, smoking is one
of the finest activities in which a human
being can engage.

First, let’s look at smoking from a
philosophical point of view. I would con-
tend that it is the ability we have to smoke
which truly separates humankind as a class
of being higher than any other. Those who
smoke are living breathing (for now, any-
way) examples that humanity is motivated
by something greater than the pain vs. pleas-
ure principle. What creature laughs as loudly
in the face of impending doom than the

smoker. Some may say that we are merely
stupid, so addicted to our little drug that we
are blind to the dangers of its use. No, no,
my all too physically fit friends, that is by no
means the case. We know. what smoking
can do to us, but because we cannot be
frightened by such things as medical reports
and warnings, because our thoughts and
actions cannot be controlled by a Surgeon
General, because we love freedom and are
willing to express our individualism thirty
or forty times a day, we smoke. Every time
I light up, I know I am giving my character
the workout] have notallowed my body. As
Frank Knight Lord IV ’89 put it, “Anyone
can quit smoking, but it takes true inner
strength to face a slow and painful death by
emphysema and lung cancer”; or, put more
succinctly by Peter Tavernise ’90, “Black
lung is beautiful”.

But let’s look a this thing from an-
other point of view, that of the concerned
citizen. In these troubled times it is essential
for the spirit of patriotism to flourish and for
American industry to prosper. What is more
American than the Tobacco industry? What
institution clings more tightly to the time
honored traditions of capitalism? Where
else in the world can you go into any comer
store and purchase a product that induces
pain and death, upsets others, and smells so
good without paying more than a few pen-
nies in taxes?

In closing, | urge all of you who do
notsmoke to begin, and those of you who.do
to continue. Smoke, and smoke heavily,
for you, your freedom, and your country.

9 a.m.-

SGA Elections

For:
House Senators
Independents

Tuesday Sept. 11

Where to Vote:
Chambers

or Union Conversation}

Pit

Sara Carlson

Good Thing Wet T-Shirt
FlyersWere a Joke

(Warning: — the following article was
written by a crusading liberal feminist
Democratic voting woman)

My faith in Davidson is renewed. Fora
while last year it seemed that we were falling
deep into a pit of conservative compla-
cency, rolling into the ‘90’s in a Reagan-
induced haze of confusion and apathy. Ei-
ther that assumption was false or a large
portion of the student body woke up one
moming and decided to vote for Harvey
Gantt. Whatever, the result is marvelous.

Cheer 90 , Davidson’s spirit commis-
sion, decided to advertise a wet t-shirt con-
test as a prelude to the Lunar Luau, a Union
sponsored event held last Friday in the sta-
dium. That this was to be an all-male com-
petition was not mentioned in any of the
flyers put up throughout the Union and
Chambers, and a large portion of the female
population was deeply offended, myself
included. :

Wet t-shirt contests epitomize the bar-
barous objectification of women portrayed
so frequently in our “entertainment” me-
dias. Hollywood and New York seem to see
women as either sitcom bimboes, evil
Demon-possessed seducers, porn queens,
or-multiple-personality homeless welfare-
cheats. Or sex objects. Or-all of the above.

The few positive images of women in
the media are creatures totally computer
generated by graphic artists and magazine
editors, engineered to perfection with alittle
silicon enhancement, and complete with non-
existent pores and “perky” figures. That a
real woman would compare herself to these
pictures and feel insufficient is not difficult
to imagine. And real women are constantly
asked to compare and judge themselves
against such inventions, leading the emo-
tionally balanced liberal arts student to
wonder if maybe she shouldn’t just bag all
the studying and join The Donald’s tabloid
harem.

Cheerleaders, of all people, understand
objectification. Having cheered in high

school, I learned that a tuck jump earns
groans, a walkover enthusiastic yells, and a
back flip wild wolf whistles and, occasion-
ally, adate. Itnever occurred to many of the
spectators that I cheered not because I en-
joyed seeing men pant, but because I truly
held pride in my school and its athletic
department. Davidson cheerleaders are no -
different.

For this reason I assumed the flyers had
to be a joke. I could not imagine what was
planned, and when questioned, acheerleader
told me to come to the rally and see for
myself. What I saw was nothing. Lots of
football, volleyball, soccer, and field hockey
players, but not a single wet t-shirt. Happy
but puzzled, I enjoyed the evening.

Apparently, the cheerleaders themselves
saw the deep irony of the situation. That the
women whoare the backbone of Davidson’s
spirit would degrade themselves by partici-
pating in an event which traditionally capi-
talizes on the feminine breast is beyond
ridiculous.

Many people rationalized that since the
contest would not involve women it was
merely harmless fun and clever advertising.
I find such an attitude misguided at best.
Realistically, when a person sees the words
“wett-shirtcontest,” football players doused
in water is not the first image to leap to mind.
Buxom beauties bouncing in clingy trans-
parent fabric is the likely connotation.

I can not stress how much I commend |
the decision to drop the event from the Luau
agenda, despite the support many of the men
on campus lent to the hypothetical contest.
Such students do not understand or do not
want to understand the emotional impact
such contests have on the feminine person.

_That Davidson does not support offen-
sive objectification of the human body is
one necessary step in alleviating the sexist
tension constant in the fabric of our school.
Hopefully we’re growing intoa more open-_ ,
minded community based on respect, in-

_ stead of tooth and (carefully polished) nail

competition.

-3 p.m.

SSI ISA0

“ SR, ie

COMPLET! TE LINE OF
LINGERIE

Bras -- Panties -- Slips -- Teddys
Gowns -- P.J.s -- Robes -- Slippers

: Hosicry -- Leggings -- Jewelry
Exercise Wear -- Jogging Suits

Also: Hospital Gowns & Bras
' Men's Pajamas

TOUNGEWEAR
OUTLET 3.

ae

A279

* +

Sweat Shirts

DISD

278

Across From

The bein

“First Quality At Outlet Prices”

Mon-Sat 10-6.
20823 N MAIN STREET

%,
Yeo

HERITAGE PLAZA, bed taal

