“

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

To Divest or Not Divest, More
Than Just a Moral Issue

Jeff Revis '93

Just about everyone has heard
about apartheid in South Africa. To
most people, the problem is serious but
removed from daily life. Recently how-
ever, Bishop Desmond Tutu and Nel-
son Mandela have captured American
sympathies and heightened our aware-
ness of this moral travesty. Due to
growing concerns, the calls for eco-
nomic sanctions and divestment from
South Africa have increased greatly.
The U.S. Government and many
American-based private companies
have come under a lot of fire for not
pulling completely out of South Af-
rica. Obviously, something must be
done.. The hot topic now is whether or
not economic pressure should or can
be used to rectify a moral issue.

The arguments for using economic
sanctions and divestment to influence
South Africa are strong and highly
emotional. Themain contentionis that
economic withdrawal will hurt the
controlling white minority to the point
of forcing achange in policy. Although
they make up less than one-fifth of the
population, whites of European de-
scent control both government and
private corporations. South Africa is

highly dependent upon foreign trade.

to pay off the debt it owes.

The U.S. and England are among
South Africa’s largest trading part-
ners. The U.S comprises approximately
ten percent of South A frican trade. The
mainexports upon which South Africa
it wslce wart ee cC enone

ner fel Outs Hoycoring
ae Panett: Se eelly aia
would hurt South Africa greatly. Al-
though othermarkets, such as the Soviet
Union, Africa, and Japanexist for South
African products, the shortage in ex-
ports would cause South Africa todraw
on its gold reserves to pay its debts.
The loss wouldhurtthe entire country,
butit would probably affect the whites
who own the companies the most.
Thecall for divestment from South
Africa dates back to the Sharpeville
shootings of protesters by police in
March of 1960. Since then, many

companies in the Commonwealth
Nations of Europe and in the United
States have divested. According to Nico
Smith, a white South African working
against apartheid, the recent conces-
sions made by President de Klerk were
forced by divestment and sanctions.

Most U.S. companies in South
Africa manufacture high technology
products, like computers, and the
companies employ less than 2% of the
black labor force. Many of the sales of
these computers godirectly to the South
African military and police who en-
force apartheid. High technology is
desperately needed as South Africa
becomes more industrially based.

Most of the employees of these

high-tech companies are white, be-
cause of the level of education needed
to do these jobs. Blacks have been
purposely not educated in South Af-
rica for obvious reasons. Many whites,
who have the power to vote, would
also lose their jobs and possibly influ-
ence the government.

With the concerted effort of sev-
eral countries and private businesses,
the South African economy could vir-
tually crumble. Along. with internal
pressure from multi-racial groups such
as the African National Congress
headed by Nelson Mandela, the white
control could be ended and with it
apartheid. Many feel we are morally
obliged to keep up economic pressure
until the very pillars of white South
African control are shaken.

However, those who are against
economic sanctions and divestment
point out that the harm done to the
South’ ‘Africari blacks by thesé riéas-

and other foreign divestment, sanc-
tions would have an even graver effect
ontheeconomy. _

In 1985, the United States, Den-
mark, and France boycotted South
African coal. Although other foreign
markets were found for the coal, the
country lost approximately three mil-
lion tons in export revenues. As a re-
sult, three thousand workers, mostly
black, were fired. The unemployment
rate is high among blacks even now,
and with divestment it would increase

ar ures would be ine Pe dib ly high: Alé ip?”
ith fie udsitiployiventcauscd by S

markedly.

Another important issue is the
actual result of acrumbled South A fri-
can economy. T.C. Crystal, a fresh-
man here at Davidson who spent time
in South Africa, believes that many
South African whites would simply
liquidate their assets and leave the
country before they would abandon
apartheid. In that case, most of the
corporations would dissolve or leave
also, taking capital and gold with them.

The government has already de-
centralized many of its corporations,
creating white-run private companies
instead. South Africa could go from
being the richest nation in Africa to
one of the poorest as a result. Because
of the ideological divisions among
blacks as tohow the country should be
run, a new Zimbabwe could erupt.
Guerilla warfare, like the- ANC has
threatened upon white South Africa,
would tear the country apart. A poten-
tial bloodbath could develop when and
if the black majority takes over.

Personally, I think that anything,
even poverty, would be better than
apartheid. The blacks in South Africa
would most likely be willing to be poor
if they were freed. They already suffer
incredible poverty and oppression. One
black South African said, “when you
are on the floor, you don’t have very
far to fi

I tend to wonder if sanctions and
divestment are the most feasible ways
to accomplish the goal. It is likely that
atotal U.S. divestment in South Africa
would cause heavy losses for those
companies involved and may even

‘affect ‘the ‘U.S:‘trade market. Many
‘itivestors ate too profit-oriented to care :
about the moral issue involved in’:

supporting South Africa,

However, each American dollar
pulled out of South Africa is a vote
against apartheid. Investors, like the
Trustees of Davidson College, could
alter their investment portfolios to
include equally lucrative investments
outside of South Africa.

. Jeff Revis is a freshmen from
Clinton, Maryland,

Dives

Continued from Page 6
watches television has seen the Israeli
occupational forces levelling Arab
houses to make way for Jewish settle-
ments.

An abbreviated list of other des-
potic governments includes those of
Iran, Turkey, Burundi, Mozambique,
China, Sudan, and Liberia, all of whose
governments are as oppressive or
nearly as oppressive as South Africa’s.
Even in the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe, where democracy is allegedly
burgeoning, blatant cases of racism
and suppression still persist. Bulgaria’s
treatment of ethnic Turks is nothing
less than reprehensible. Over 20,000
have recently been expelled from
Bulgaria, and those remaining have
been forced to “Bulgarianize” their
names. In the Soviet Union, ethnic
minorities such as the Tatars, Ger-
mans, and Meskhetians-- minorities
forcibly deported en masse to Central
Asia by Stalin--have not been allowed
to return to their former homelands in
the Soviet Union. Despite these fla-
grant human “rights violations,
McDonald’s couldn’ t wait to start flip-

ping burgers in Moscow.

So what's so special about South
Africa? Itonly seems fair that we should
call for divestment from these coun-
tries as well. Demanding divestment
only from South Africa is to deny the
existence of racial, religious, ethnic,
and political oppression in the rest of
the world. Are the actions of protesting
students merely implicitly confirming
that blacks oppressed by whites are
more consequential than blacks op-
pressed by blacks, or than any other
combination of racial subjugation that
exists or has existed in past years
(Native American/American, white/
white, Asian/black, Asian/white, to
name afew)? Are their protests merely
a manifestation of their beliefs that
racial oppression is more important
than political or religious oppression?
Where are the protests against U.S.
corporate involvement in China, for
example? Are they intimating that the
blood ofa black South African ismore
important than the blood of a Somalian
or the blood of Guatemalan Indian? I
always learned that blood is red, no
matter whom it comes from.

ment Not Solution

I can only assume that our pro-
testors are unaware of the multifarious
occurrences of human rights violations
around the world. The only other con-
ceivable explanation for this lack of
consistency would be that our demon-
strators are racists, whichis, of course,
absurd.

Although personally donot favor
divestment as a solution to the prob-
lems of Apartheid and human rights
violations, I certainly respect people’s
opinions conceming the issue. Unques-
tionably, any action is better than no
action; however, in all fairness to the
Kurds in Turkey and Iraq, to the Indi-
ans in Guatemala, and to the Palestini-
ans in the West Bank, if members of
thé Davidson community call for di-
vestment from South Africa, they
should also demand that Davidson
divest from a host of other countries if
they intend to quell moral turpitude
around the world,

Charles Scarborough is a senior
economics major from Statesville,
Marlyland.

LUCIA KENDALL

Let's Stop Thinking
of People as Things

Walking into a guy’s room and
being hit with the visual impact of a
life-size bikinied body in a poster on
the wall has always been slightly
unnerving for me. I think some of my
discomfort comes from the strange-
ness of having to carry on a normal
casual conversation with someone
while there’s an almost naked body
right there in front of me. Nobody
wants to stare at it, and yet it’s hard not
to.

But there’s more to it than that. In
these posters a human being is being
reduced to a body, an object. Reducing
a person to a thing seems to be degra-
dation at a very basic level, and yet we
often consider this degradation to be
normal. The vast majority of these
depictions are of women, not men.
What happens to our attitudes when it
becomes acceptable for us to think of
a woman as nothing more than a sex
object?

This is a difficult issue for me
because I believe that if I’m going to
argue that these kinds of posters are
damaging to women, then I should
have some solid evidence that they are
damaging. To be honest, I don’t.

And yet, I’m still suspicious, be-
cause if they are damaging to women
then the effects wouldn’t show up in
the kind of evidence that can cite one-
to-one correlations such as aman tak-
ing one look at a Sports Illustrated
swimsuit calendar then running out of
his room to rape'the next female he

sees, Itdoesn’t work like that; instead,
the effects would be a gradually get-
ting used to viewing a woman as a sex
object, and gradually getting used to
theidea that doing so isnormal. Thése
influences would take place through
long term cumulative exposure. Con-
stant exposure to images of a woman ,
as a sex object, while it will not trans-
form Joe Schmo into a maniac, may
desensitize him to the offensiveness of
seeing areal life woman as a sex ob-
ject.

Because this process is a slow,
gradual erosion of our intangible atti-
tudes it is hard to be aware that it is
happening. Nobody consciously
thinks, “‘well, today that babe in the
Budweiser poster has made me think
of women.as-sex objects more than I
did yesterday” and therefore nobody
thinks “hmm, maybe] should getrid of
the Budweiser poster.”

The industry that does the most
research into how pictures affect be-
havior is the advertising industry.
Advertisers wouldn’tspend billions of
dollars every year using images to
affect our attitudes and thus our behav- *
ior (i.e. our buying patterns) unless
they knew it worked. Ifimages ofsexy
women affect us when we drive by a
billboard or page through a magazine,
therr it doesn’t seem outrageous that
they might affect us just as much when
we put them on our walls.

Some men will argue that the way
they think of some anonymous blonde
taped on their wall has no influence on
their attitudes toward real-life women
they know. I have no irrefutable proof
that it does. I am reminded, however,
‘of one of my friends from an Outward
Bound course who told me that al-
though he used to enjoy going to top- .
less bars fairly often, he has stopped "
going because he had become good
friends with Mary, who admitted that
she had worked in a topless bar once.

- “I kept thinking that one of those girls

could have been Mary,” he said. “And
I felt bad about looking at them the

way I did; it wasn’t fun anymore.”
This guy had vehemently denied that
his interest in topless bars, posters, and
soon had any connection with how he
thought of women he knew.

Many women are disappointed to
find these posters in a guy’s room be-
cause they suggest the he thinks of
women as sex objects. Regardless of
whether he does or not, his putting up
a poster glorifying a sex object looks
suspiciously like an immature guy’s
attempt to prove his masculinity by
demonstrating that all his hormonal
responses are operating properly.

Dorm room posters are obviously
not responsible for every negative
effect of women’s being viewed as sex
objects. But they are damaging be-
cause they reinforce an ingrained pre-
disposition to think of women that
way.

There is a big difference between
a natural tendency to see an attractive
person and recognize that person’s
attractiveness and to depict a woman
as only a body. Having a snapshot of
your girlfriend on your desk is differ-

_ent than having a poster of Natasha

Kinski dressed in a snake.

Anyone familiar with the writings
of Martin Buber will recognize the
dangers of thinking of another person
in terms of an J/it relationship rather
than an J/thou relationship. These
dangers affect the “I” as well as the
person thought of as an “it” and get in
the way of relationships between men
and women.

Another aspect of this problem is
the. effect that it has on women. The
attitude some women adopt, although
they usually do not articulate it, is
“Well, if they’re going to. think of
women as meat, then at least I want to
be primerib, not chopped liver.” These
bodies, airbrushed to perfection, teach
women that in order to be desirable to
men, they mustconform to a particular
concept of beauty: tall, thin (but large-
breasted), white, and ideally propor-
tioned in every part. Thus, even being
beautiful is not enough, because
women are made to feel inferior if their
beauty does not fit this one image.

Some women believe it is normal
for guys to display these kinds of post-
ers in their rooms, and we shouldn’t
make a fuss over it. This belief takes a
prettynegative view of men, however,
if it assumes that treating any woman,
even a model, as a thing rather than a
person is normal for them. Guys de-
serve more credit than that. I wonder
how much of this belief among women
sprouts. from some women’s having
internalized patriarchy’s attitudes, in
this case the attitude that there is noth-
ing wrong with men’s looking at
women as just bodies.

Tamnot arguing a matter of rights.
Aman has asmuch of aright to express
himself by hanging up posters of
models in bikinis as I have to express
myself by writing on why I am con-
cemed about his doing so. Censorship
(either of his walls or my articles) is
not the answer.

If guys are doing something that
makes a significantnumber of women
on ¢ampus slightly uncomfortable,
however, it may be a good idea for

‘them to ask a few of their female

friends whether itmakes them uncom-
fortable, and if so why. I don’t expect
all women to agree with'me, or even
with each other, on these issues, but I
believe it is important for all of us to
make a genuine effort to understand
each others’ viewpoints.
