Commentaries

~The Davidsonian
” Wednesday, February 14, 1990
Retry ee ed

Adams’ racial utopia prevents cultural pride

Lucia Kendall

I was delighted to see evidence in the last issue of The
Davidsonian that there isan exception to Davidsonstu-
dents’ general tendency to be apathetic about issues
that do not directly affect them. Before I explain why
I disagree with Mr. Adams, I would like tosay that I re-
spect his taking the initiative to write about racial
issues in the first place.

The thesis (and the headline) of Clay Adams’s ar-
ticle was, “We need to blur our sense of racial iden-
tity.” He describes a “utopian” society in which no-
body thinks of themselves asa member of any particu-
lar race, and in which there will eventually be no dis-
tinctraces because of all the intermarriages that would
occur.

Although I see the attractiveness of a society in
which race would not cause conflict anymore, I am
deeply disturbed by the implications of the desire for
the type of society Mr. Adams envisions.

Certainly, all of us should make an effort to learn
about and respect the cultures and traditions of mi-
norities. Mr. Adams, however, advocates that instead
of living mainly in the tradition of our own racial
identity, we should incorporate the ideas of of other
racial cultures into our lives. Let’s use Davidson as a
small example of how that would operate. Davidson
has 62 blacks and 1361 whites. Which group do you
think is going to end up making the most compro-
mises and concessions in their racial identity?

Maybe it isn’t fair to criticize a utopian ideal on the
grounds that there is no practical way for it to work.
Nevertheless, the suggestion that blacks should learn
about white culture at the same time that whites learn

,about black culture strikes me as patently ridiculous.
Blacks don’t have to study white culture; they are sur-
rounded by it. For example, many ‘colleges offer

courses in Black History, but no college in the whole
country offers a course in White History. White His-
tory is called “History.”

Inthe same way, [havea hard time in thinking about
what “white culture” is because I have become so ac-
customed to thinking of the culture whites live in as
the norm. I don’t think that a white culture really
exists. When whites talk about races blending to-
gether we seem to have an unrecognized expectation
thatit will mean blending into the norm. In most cases
we are the norm, and people whoare different have to

‘do the blending.

I think a lot of the recent arguments against the pos-
sibility of a fraternity that would contain mostly black
members stems from this unrecognized expectation.
Why do wecalla fraternity that would be mostly black
separatist, but not call a fraternity that is 100 percent
white separatist? Is it because we expect blacks.to fit
into our system instead of expecting ourselves to fit
into theirs?

Because people of all races are entitled to the same
rights and opportunities, black people have been
striving foryears toattain the rights and opportunities
that have been given only to white people. This does
not mean that black people want to be white people.

A Jewish New Yorker should not want to have the
same identity asa Cubanin Miami, or an Idaho potato
farmer of Scandinavian descent, or a Black Georgian.
They may all have different attiutdes about life be-
cause of their different backgrounds, and while re-
specting the differences of others, they should be
proud of who they are. None of them should try to be
somebody else.

Notonly that, none of them could if they wanted to.
No matter how much I may sympathize with the
problems of blacks, because I am white I am always
looking at those problems as an outsider. [have never
had to deal with their struggles. I have never been
mistaken for a janitor because of my race. I am not

related to anyone who wasa slave or who was denied
the right to vote because of being black. So expecting
me to adopt the outlook of a person of another race is
impossible. (Actually, I have a lot of doubts about
whether! have any right tobe writing this article in the
first place because I don’t want to seem tobe speaking
on behalf of anyone besides myself).

Mr. Adams suggests that if we all live according to
his plan “individual racial ideas will become obsolete
as people incorporate ideas according to their person-
alities, their interests, in short, according to forces
much more constructive than any limited by racial
identity.” This statement would be true only for those
of us who have grown up in vacuum chambers. |
didn’t: my personality, my interests, my attitudes, my
beliefs have all-been shaped by my background,
which includes my racial /cultural background.

If I had grown up as a black child within a black
family I would be.a fundamentally different person.
Who Iam has been determined by where I came from.
If Ideny where I came from lamdenying a part of who
Iam. In trying to blend racially and culturally we lose
our racial and cultural identity without gaining any-
thing.

Learning should help us accept and respect each
other’s differences, not try to smother or squelch
them. Wouldn't it be boring if everyone were a cul-
tural carbon copy of everyone else? The reason “diver-
sity” issucha big buzzword for colleges is thatit isour
differences that make us interesting. Can you imag-
ine, for example, the richness that would disappear
from Toni Morrison’s novels if the she had written
with no sense of racial/ cultural identity?

We should never expect blacks or anyone else to
give up or deny their racial or cultural heritage. It is
wonderful that they are exploring and celebrating
these aspects of their identity. If their doing so makes
us feel alittle excluded once ina while, then we should
learn to live with that.

Here's the correct version of my trip to India

Kirk Williams

I am writing because I’m disappointed with the
error-riddled and overly- negative article about my
participation in the Davidson Semester in India. I
accept some of the blame for these problems because
I didn’t express myself clearly enough to Phil in our
interview. However lamespecially mad that thestory
was written in the first person. While the article is
taken from quotes of mine, much of it is composed of
incomplete and jumbled thoughts. Why didn’t you
ask someone in the program to write the article if it
was to be in the first place. :

I'd like to clarify some elements of the story. I went

to India because I wanted to experience a culture .

vastly different from my own and the Davidson pro-
gram isan excellent way to do so. I went expecting to
see poverty and I did. However not all of India is poor
and there are pockets of great wealth, which were
more striking than any poverty I saw. The attitude of
the people towards their situation also lessened the
shock of the poverty as many people told me of how
the cultural wealth eased the monetary poverty. —
It’s true that in India you can only get foreign
products on the black market but this isn’t important.

To go abroad and only want what can be found in a7
- 11 is to miss the point of travelling. Sure I missed
Minute Maid and Dunkin’ Donuts but the puris and
mango juice made up for it. India has so much to offer
of its own that to dwell on the lack of foreign goods is
pointless.

Our program started with two months at Madras
Christian College is southeastern India. The time here
was highlighted by the overwhelming friendliness of
the staff and students of the college. Our classes were
supplemented with trips to temples, museums, and
elsewhere. Of the temples the most stunning was the
Sri Brahadeshwara temple in Tanjore. Its tower rises
200 feet (no, there are no 8000" high temples) from a
large, serene courtyard. Our “Fall Break” trip to the
western Ghats (mountains) included a trip to Ooty
and the Mudumalai Wildlife Sanctuary, where we
went for a dawn elephant ride through one of the last
rain forests in India.

The program ended with a month-long tour of
northern India, including such spots as the Taj Mahal,
Bombay, Delhi, and Rajasthan. In the State of Rajast-
han (No it’s not just an abandoned fort) I was in the
incident partially described in the article in which my
emotions were exaggerated by exhaustion and a
crowd of 30 overly excited, curious children. I felt the
story made it sound like people were trying to rob me

Where’s the money for the we

Reed Finlay

One part of my day Ihave alwayslooked forward to
every between eight and ten has been that of
using the weight room in the Johnston Gym. This has

been the best time for me because the evening is the.

only time which fits into my busy schedule. The
evening hasalso been a good time because the varsity
team “monopoly” is withdrawn after five in the after-
noon and those of us who also want to complement

our academics witha form of athletics are able toenjoy

the facility. I speak for many on these points, I know.

One evening last week, at about eight p.m., I fin-
ished my AT session and went to the weight room
only to find it closed, the new hours being ten a.m. to
four p.m. for “general use,” four p.m. to six p.m. for
“varsity team use,” and six p.m. to eight. p.m. for
“general use.” The new and reduced hours are com-
pletely incompatible with my schedule, and with
others’ too, no doubt. In addition to class and labs
during the day, there are meals to be eaten, work-
study jobs to attend and various other extracurricular

constantly for three months. This definitely was not
the case. Considering the amount of money and valu-
ables Ihad with meitisa testimony to the Indian sense
of honor that never got robbed. My week in Kashmir,
a north Indian state fighting for its independence,
highlighted the northern tour. Though winter was
settling in, the beauty of the valley and the surround-
ing Himalayan peaks was incredible.

Sure, Indian cities are extremely noisy and difficult
torelaxinat times, it was usually only when was tired
that these or the natural curiosity of the people got to
be toomuch. Theconstantstaring was usually fun and
the desire to meet foreign travelers, such as we were,
is very understandable.

Finally, I’d like to thank Dr. and Mrs. Proctor for
everything they did for the group, and everyone else
who went to India for making the trip really special.

As my semester ended with the fantastic sunrise
near Mount Everest in the Nepalese Himalayas I had
mixed emotions.

While I was happly to be going home to my family,
I was sad to be ending the best part of my Davidson
experience and hope to someday return to India,
Nepal, and Kashmir.

Kirk Uywelyn Williams is junior political science major
from Princeton, N. J.

ight room?

activities that take up the morning and afternoon
hours. I believe the hours use to be eight a.m. toeleven
p-m., which allowed much more time in the evening
and relieved some of the afternoon crowding.

A member of the athletic staff told me that this
complication (and others related to it) is the result of a
lack of money. It is difficult to find money to pay
someone to monitor the gym, just like it is difficult to
build a seventeen million dollar sports complex.
Somehow, millions were raised to build Baker, and
somehow it should be possible to find enough money
to keep the weight room open a few extra hours.
