14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 , 1990

Photo courtesy of Davidsonian Photography Staff
Davidson's Peter Cobb demonstrates style and skill with a chest trap

Women's
Soccer Ready
To Score

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson’s first season of women’s
soccer last fall was nothing short of a
phenomenal success. The team played to a
4-7-1 record, amazing for a first year team,
and finished ranked 9th in the NCAA |
South. This year, the Wildcats ought to be
improved, but will also be faced with amore
difficult schedule, including games against
Vanderbilt and Top 20 teams Duke and
William and Mary.

The ‘Cats are blessed with an
experienced group of returning players,
headed by senior co-captain and leading
scorer Lindsey Forsythe. Juniors Maria
Tucker and Liz Clarke and sophomore Ann
Todd provided much of the scoring puncha
year ago. Coach Diane Boettcher also has
brought in “a lot of very promising players”
ina deep recruiting class. Freshman Colleen
Camaione and Carie Stanley are likely
starters at fullback and freshman Courtney
Robertson will handle the chores at goalie.
In the midfield, Jennifer Satterfield,
Davidson’s first woman _ scholarship
recipient, has been as good as advertised,
and will probably hold down the center mid
spot.

According to Boettcher, “Last year our
trademark was very strong attacking for a
first year team; we'll concentrate a little bit
more on defending this year.” And though

Off to a “disappointing” start (a 3-0 loss to

Mercer), excitement and expectations are
high. The team hopes to play itself once
again into the Top 10 in the South.

Good News For
Volleyball

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

After struggling through a difficult, 12-
20 season last fall, the Davidson volleyball
program needed some good news,
Fortunately, during the offseason it came in
large quantities. First came a spring break
team trip to the Bahamas and the chance to
improve in a “pressure-free environment”
against the Bahamas’ National and Junior
National teams and their best club teams.
Next came the news that women athletes
would receive scholarship money. Freshman
Amy Howard of Amarillo, Texas is
Davidson’s May union with the Big South
Conference. Davidson volleyball will
contend for the conference championship
this season.

So, the stage is set for a marked
turnaround. Once again, the Wildcats will
be led by junior co-captains Holt Hathaway,
a setter, and middle hitter Mimi Plauche.
According to coach Rebecca Hawkins,
sophomore middle hitter Jennie Wagner and
junior outside hitter Christy Knight have
been “playing particularly well,” and willbe
counted on to contribute.

Last year’s trying campaign was
characterized by an inability to win the big
point or the crucial game. “This year,” says
Hawkins, “I think we’ll win those games.”
Coastal Carolina is a perenially tough team
and should be the favorite to win the
conference title, but Hawkins considers her
team a“‘contenderright now” for the crown.
“T want to see us make the big play... and
outsmart the other team. If we do that, the
other things will fall in line.”

Young Men's Team Strong

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson soccer comes off an 8-11-1
season, and must fill the holes left by four
graduated starters, among them Academic
All-American Tracy Hankins. As a result,
the youth movement is on. Coach Charlie
Slagle will start five sophomores, and nine
freshmen and sophomores are among his
top fifteen players. Fortunately, though, the
Wildcats are blessed with experienced
upperclassmen at four vital positions. Senior
goalie and co-captain Scott Zucker, senior

Phelps Sprinkle.

This season, Davidson begins Big South
play againsta limited number of conference
teams, and will participate in the Big South
Conference Tournament. The schedule also
includes matchups with several Division I
powers, including Duke, North Carolina
and South Carolina.

Coach Slagle predicted that the team
will “have some ups and downs, but will be
able to play with almost anybody,” and that
prediction has already been fulfilled. The
Wildcats began theseason with an impressive
win at Richmond, but followed it up witha

stopper and co-captain Ross Saldarini, junior
center forward Rob Ukrop and junior
sweeper Lance Long all possess bountiful
experience and talent. The ‘Cats will also be
aided by the fact that many of the sophomores
played a lot last year, notably midfielders
Matt Spear and Lance Kinerk and striker

“lackluster” performance in a loss to
conference foe UNC-Asheville. Without a
doubt, the team will be competitive. Though
Davidson cannot be considered a favorite to
win the conference title, Slagle says, “My
goal is to win itand I’1l be disappointed if we
don’t.”

Men's Cross-Country
Looking to Win

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Davidson cross-country .comes off a
season that could only be termed a success.
And despite the loss to graduation of
frontrunners David Murray and Jay

Clugston, the team is left with a solid pack of .

very good runners, with just one senior
among them. Add tothata quality recruiting

class of impact freshmen, and the potential
for success is overwhelming.

And if Saturday’s Open/Alumni Meet
was any indication, that success could be
immediate. Junior Chris Otrok won the race,
closely followed by sophomore David Kerns,
but the real story was the group that followed.
Six runners finished within the next minute,
aclosely knit pack opposing teams will find
hard to break apart. In the words of coach
Gary Andrew, “the depth of the team is
vastly improved.”

The secret of thatimprovementseems to

be constant, year-round training.

ye

Photo courtesy of Davidsonian Photography Staff
Women's Soccer 's Lindsey Forsythe in action
