Commentaries

Rambling roadside ruminations

David C. Grant

While engaged in routine tasks, related insights
come to mind. Ones that crossed my mind one recent
Saturday morning as some of the Davidson
Environmental Action Committee harvested trash
along mile 18 of I-77 may be worth passing on.

Initial shock dulled to routine picking up of any-
thing that looked evena little out of place and I found
1 was often picking up bits of “white” stuff to putin the
bag for non-recyclable trash only to discover a per-
fectly natural, biodegradable bird’s feather. I felt bet-
ter leaving them to be “recycled” directly by Mother
Nature.

Two trips to this area have shown me that entrance
ramps have a denser “population” of trash species
than a comparable area of interstate roadside and that
“drink container” species also show an interesting
shift in proportions. Along the ramp, beer and liquor
bottles are a higher percentage and are present in
greater absolute numbers than along the highway in
general. A mind not quite intelligent enough to ab-
stain from drinking while driving, may still have
enough wit to try to dispose of the evidence in case of
being stopped on the more patrolled interstate.

Speaking of alcoholic beverage packaging, most
manufacturers are now trying to cover their prover-
bial posteriors by printing government warnings that
operating machinery or driving in conjunction with
use of the contained product may be hazardous to
your health (not tomention that of anyoneelse in your
path.) Some even add the environmentally respon-
sible request to “dispose of the container properly.”
Note that even the moderate use of the product re-
duces the user’s ability to remember the warnings or
care about the possible consequences of ignoring
them.

Another facet of packaging came to mind last Satur-
day. It’sa fact that virtually all fast food chains printon
everything from meal-sized boxes to seasoning and
condiment “portion” packages, a request for proper
disposal and yet these items continue to be very well
represented in the “trash community.” It’s also fact
that if bulk dispensers were provided and individual
packages eliminated, there would be no opportunity
for them to turn up on the roadside. This would mean

I feel we ought to want to
keep all critters and environ-
ments in the best shape pos-
sible whether we need them
now, might need them in the
future or might never need
them.

more cleanup work around dispensing areas or more
varied options in food preparation in kitchen areas
but, if children behave irresponsibly with toys or other
items entrusted to them, most parents remove the
items until the children mature, act responsibly and
have the privilege restored.

The last observation to come from this particular
roadside rumination relates to thatmarvelous insulat-
ing and cushioning material known as styrofoam.
This produced my only real frustration in the two
times I have been out with DEAC members on “our”
stretch of adopted I-77. The frustration came when I
repeatedly found areas where a styrofoam cup, left
too long, had begun to fragment on touch, or a large,

thick carton had blown offa load and shattered. Large

pieces became many smaller ones in my fingers. The

longer I worked, the more small pieces I encountered
or produced. The problem for me was awareness of

work done years ago showing that filter feeding oys-’
ters and clams in coastal areas where crumbled styro-

foam accumulated, would literally starve to death

slowly, while maintaining a full gut. The gut was full

of tiny, indigestible, water-logged styrofoam par-

ticles. We’re a long way from the oceanand noone eats

freshwater mussels much nowadays. Even if some of

these particles do get washed downstream eventually
is it such a big deal? People like the commercial

shrimpers who say “whoneedsturtles?” would likely

say “who needs oysters? or clams?” For that matter

“who needs shrimp? Or shrimpers?”

I feel we ought to want to keep all critters and
environments in the best shape possible whether we
need them now, might need them in the future, or
might never need them. My hopes for DEAC’s stretch
of I-77 are that successive outings will increase the
number of people involved; that more will become
involved and become repeaters; that trips go at least
oncea week until the entire stretch is completely clean
at the same time; and that continuing interest and
commitment will result in running formal cleanup
operations whenever need exists anywhere along the
road. Whoknows, perhaps individuals will become so
attuned to the problem and so “parental” toward,
“their” adopted highway that they stop and pick up
the odd piece of unsightly, environmentally degrad-
ing trash when they see it. If we reach that state of re-
sponsibility, perhaps it will spread to other stretches
of the highway and perhaps rub off on passersby who
in turn, may expand it to other regions, We may, even
see changed attitudes and behavior patterns in that

most sapient of beings, the human species. _,

David C. Grant is a professor in the Biology Department

Some ideas on dead animals, ice cream & lab credit

Lucia Kendall

Personally, I can’t quite understand why some
people would rather spend their afternoons probing
around the insides of dead animals than reading A
Room With A View. That’s why I majored j in English

about the Reformation or writing a paper on Calvin’s
Institutes.

Science majors, however, are also responsible for
work outside of labs. For example, each week Chem-
istry 121 requires two hours doing problem sets, two
hours writing lab reports and studying for tests, in
addition to a three-hour lab.

Unfortunately, when these comparisons are made,
conversations often degenerate into a my-classes-are-

structure of the course requires the student to spend.
The question “How slack can I be and still get
credit?” is not a very appealing way to go about.
discussing this issue. Nevertheless, determining
credit on the minimum amount of time required to
pass seems like the only way to determine whatis fair
to students in all majors. Grades are used to evaluate
achievement above the minimum; credit is used to
recognize a student's having completed only the

instead of Biology.

Nevertheless, it was explained to me asa child that
the reason Baskin Robins offers 31 flavors of ice cream
to choose from instead of just Rocky Road is that
different people have different tastes, and that those
differences should be respected.

So even though I. can’t imagine wanting to be a |

science major, I sympathize with their problem of not
getting credit for the hours they devote to labs, as they
would if Davidson operated on a credit-hour system
instead of a one-credit-for-each-course system.

The standard argument against giving credit for lab
time is that the time a physics major spends in labs is
equivalent tothe timea reli major spends sii

more-grueling-and-torturous-than-yours-are argu-
ment which turns out to be rather unproductive. The
lab time being equivalent to study time is basically a
valid line of reasoning, however, except that it does
not consider the minimum slackness factor.

Theissue hereis not which department hasstudents
who work the hardest. The issue is which classes
require the most as a minimum amount of work. A
philosophy major who is satisfied with doing C-level
workcanspend a lotless time on philosophy, whereas
a chemistry major cannot avoid the amount of time
she must spend in labs.

How much credit a course is worth must be deter-
mined mainly by the minimum amount of time the

minimum required—that’s the way academics works.

This issue also applies to studio art and music
majors who in addition to not receiving credit for the
time they spend, also have to put up with comments

_ about not having “a real major,” often from people

who can‘tdraw stick figuresand whose friends cringe
when they try to sing Happy Birthday.

The idea that Davidson has always done things this
way is not a good enough reason to continue doing
things this way.

Now that we are re-evaluating our switch to the
semester system it seems that we have an excellent
opportunity to. re-evaluate the one-credit-for-one-
course anit as well, -- :

On vacation

The entire Davidsonian staff is

- splitting town this Friday for Spring

Break ane we will then enjoy a
publishing break the following
week (So don’t bug us with Nasty
__-messages!)
We’llsee you
_ Wednesday, March 28!

