Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

~

More letters

Correcting the “corrections”

Dear Editors:

This letter is to “set the record
straight” concerning remarks made by
Anthony Browder in his January 24th
lecture and visit to Davidson. I feel the
need to do this because I, unlike Peter
Krentz, was presentat the lecture and at
the discussions preceding and follow-
ing his talk. Ms. Sieck’s article was
almost entirely correct, despite the fact
thatshe wasunable to gointo the details
of the lecture and the context in which
certain statements were made.

¢ Kemet (or Kmt) is the original name
for what we now call Egypt.

e Kmt indeed means “the black
land.” However, in Kemetian writing,
you have to look at the symbols that
accompany ‘it in order to reference
whether or not it refers to the land, the
town or city or the people. See drawing
below, Asa Hilliard, “Free Your Mind:
Return to the Source.”

e When referencing the people of
Kemet, the Greeks referred to them as
“like Ethiopians.” Ethiopian meaning
“burnt skin or faces.” See Cheik Anta
Diop’s “The Origin of the Ancient
Egyptians’ in Great African Thinkers.

e At notimé in his lecture or discus-
‘sions did Mr. Browder say that there
were only nine pyramids. This was a
Davidsonian mistake. Mr. Browder has
led study toursin Egypt and other parts
of Africa for the past 10 years, and I
think he knows that there are over 70
pyramids.

e In his reference to the age of the
pyramids, Mr. Browder stated that they
were the oldest and largest pure stone
structures in the world. See Peter
Tompkin’s Secret of the Great Pyramids.

¢ Though the later pyramids were
used as tombs, the oldest pyramids
were indeed used as observatories.
Though sarcophagi have been found in
some of the older ones, no substantial
evidence supports the fact that they
were used primarily as tombs. See

urement due to race is totally un-
founded.

This letter is not an attack on Mr.
Krentz personally, but rather on his
method of data gathering before writ-
ing his letter to The Davidsonian. Asa
historian, Mr. Krentz should know bet-
ter. His fallacies are quite evident, be-
cause: 1) he was not presentat the Brow-
der lecture, nor did he ask for the tape of
it; 2) he relied on The Davidsonian, a
publication known for its scholarly,
deep and insightful reporting, as his
only source; 3) he did not contact the
reporter (Jennifer Sieck), Mr. Browder

’ or myself (the sponsoring party), to

check to see if the information was cor-
rect, before writing his letter; and 4)
according to our catalogue, Mr. Krentz’
specialty field is Ancient Greece and
Rome, not Egypt or Kemet.

The Davidson students put a great
deal of faith and trust into what their
professors say and write. Mr. Krentz’s
unnecessary, research-lacking letter
violated that faith and trust. And due to
the insinuations present in the letter, I
am personally offended by its content
and lack of follow-up. Simply put, as a
historian, Mr. Krentz erred. He should
have “returned to the source” before
printing such a letter, and in failing to
do so I, and you as students, should
seriously question him and his meth-
ods. Since it appears that Mr. Krentz has
great interest in the subject, I wish he
would have made the effort to attend
Dr. Asa Hilliard’s presentation on Sun-
day, February 18th, in the 900
which time he would have had
opportunity to “free his mind an
turn to the source.” e)

While I have your attention, let me

add that even though I applaud the

studentsand professors who havecome
to the Browder and Hilliard lectures, I
resent the denial of the information.
Denial that has manifested itself in three
ways, which are: 1) it’s not true because
I’ve never heard or read it before; 2) it’s
true, but it’s not important or relevant;
and 3)it’s true, but! thought everybody
knew it.

This denial is “sad” because they and
I know matter-of-factly that American

UNESCO papers on the 1974 Cairo
Symposium.

° There is no evidence or data that
clearly supports the age of the sphinx.
Mr. Browder’s reference as to the age of
the sphinx was drawn from evidence
presented in John G. Jackson’ sIntroduc-
tory to African Civilizations.

* Napoleon wasaknown racist. After
an interracial marriage within his own
extended family, he forbade interracial
marriages. Also, at the time, he was at
war with Toussaint L’Ouverture in
Haiti and lost. He didn’t stomach well
the fact thatanarmy ofand insurrection
led by Blacks were able to beat his sol-
diers. Therefore, Mr. Krentz’s insinu-
*. ation that Napoleon was above disfig-

students have not been taught Kem- |

etian (Egyptian) or African history.

According to Davidson College and.
most school systems in the US.,-world |

history starts in Greece (see the
Davidson catalogue). Therefore, if ev-
eryone knows that our documented

history of the world begins in Africa,
_ then why is it not taught at Davidson

College and in our school systems? I
suppose we are to gain this information
through osmosis or because it’s genetic.

Inconclusion, I, like Mr. Krentz, hope
that Davidson College will soon havea
qualified faculty member who canoffer
courses in world history, as well as Afri-
can-American history.

Sincerely,
Stone Bynum.

Kemetian symbols .

ae

cy

land

city

people

19

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor

Heath Hardage, Features Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

John Burns, Sports Editor

To the Trustees

o the Trustees of Davidson College:

Historic changes are being made around the world.

Hungary no longer has a Communist party, the Berlin
wall has been torn down, the two Germanies are working to
reunite and Nelson Mandela has been released after 27 years of
captivity under the South African government.

Closer to home, the College is facing serious financial
concerns as the current school year draws to a close. This year has
the very real potential to be the College’s first year to finish with a
deficit.

Given the combination of these events, it might seem inap-
propriate that students, faculty and alumni are once again digging
up the issue of the College divesting funds from South Africa.
After all, the trend lately, especially in England, has been to re-
move imposed sanctions against the government, not apply new
ones.

Yet the argument for action is as strong as ever. Many
scholars and ANC members warn that the progress that has been
made so far is a result of the economic pressure currently exerted
on the South African government. These changes, while hopeful,
only scratch the surface of the problem. If pressure on the govern-
ment is removed before real changes toward equality are made,
moves toward progress may reach a standstill. There must be
incentives for change.

Davidson prides itself on being the kind of liberal arts
college that encourages its students to take classes in the humani-
ties and to ask the hard questions that involve ethics and morality.
Davidson demands that its students delve into the problem of

| what it takes to bea good person, not just a successful one.

Such principles should also affect the decision made by
you, the Davidson Trustees. Several years ago when the issue was
raised, you neglected to divest. To move to divest from South
Africa now would be a particularly hard choice to make given all
of the financial considerations. We hope that as trustees of

| Davidson College, you will face this issue on the moral and ethical

grounds it demands.

We recognize that Davidson tends to be a very conservative
place and changes occur only over a very long period of time. But
as SGA President Tripp Helms commented in reference to
Davidson divesting from South Africa, “It’s never too late to ‘do
the right thing.”

History is being made, with or without Davidson College.
It is the time to take a stand on the side of history that we wish to

support.
—jlh

