Inside art is back! pages 8-9

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXXI, Number 15

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Wednesday, February 7, 1990

Results from the SGA laundry survey

How does the mandatory laundry fee
wash with students?

By JENNIFER SIECK 131 sophomores; 60 freshmen ‘Skirts: 51 males. The most respondents forms include the following:
Some students are already Underwear: 255 came from the class of 92. “I would not mind having
aware of the interest on cam- = How often do you use the Shorts: 230 . Many more people used the my parents pay _ several
pusin thecollege laundry serv- laundry? Towels: 277 laundry service “sometimes” hundred dollars for a laundry
ice because last semester they | Sometimes: 93 Socks: 270 or “always,” than “never” or service thatI do not use if there
filled out orange laundry Always: 183 for “only linen.” The most were adequate washers and
evaluations designed by the _— Never: 31 Do you feel the laundry does popularitemssentto thelaun- dryers provided for those who
SGA. Only linen: 26 satisfactory job? dry were: towels, t-shirts and choose to use them.
The results from that survey Yes: 211 underwear,in that order.And Typically, to do one load of
are as follows: What do you send? No: 74 more people were satisfied laundry requires about three
Dress shirts: 174 Ok: 15 with the laundry than were hours: wait for the washer then
Students surveyed: 339 T-shirts: 257 not. :
(120 male; 219 female) Pants: 202 Almost twice as many fe- | Some people’s comments See WASH & DRY, page 2
Classes: 69 seniors; 72 juniors; Dresses: 44 males responded than did and suggestions from the
é a

Big buy from Knights

Baseball gets new club houses, concession stands

By JULIE BREWER

The -baseball and soccer teams re-
cently purchased several new facilities
from the Charlotte Knights AA baseball
team. Some of the facilites are expected
to be ready for use during the spring
season.

The new facilities consist of two club
houses, two sets of men’s and women’s
resttooms, twoconcession stands anda
set of bleachers which seats 800 people.
The club houses hold 30 people each,
locker rooms, offices and training
rooms. The baseball team will use one
club house for the players and to store
equipment. The other club house will
be used for many different purposes.

Davidson bought the facilites for a
fraction of what it would have cost to
build. “There werea lotof groups inter-
ested. We basically got $300,000 of
merchandise for $45,000,” said Jim
Stoeckel, head baseball coach.

These buildings were originally built

as temporary replacements when the
stadium for the double A Charlotte O’s,
owned by FrancisCrockett, burntdown
five yearsago. After the Knights builta
10,000 seat stadium, President of the
Knights, Roman Gabriel, opened the
sale of the facilites to bidders. Former
Davidson head baseball coach, George
Greer expressed an interest.

The opening of the Baker Sports
Complex hampered Davidson’s ability
to make a considerable bid, but Coach

Stoeckel went to the Wildcat Club and -

the inside donors to see how much they
could offer. He also kept in touch with
Gabriel. “Most of the credit belongs to
Jim Stoeckel and his relationship with

Inside ;

the Knights,” siad Assistant’ Athletic
Director, Bob Price.

After much negotiation, an amount
was agreed upon, and as part of the
deal, the Clarlotte Knights hauled the

_ buildings and equipment to Davidson.

Davidson paid $5,000 down and will
pay $10,000 every July 1 for four years.
“It is really an excellént deal for
Davidson. There is a substantial price
for hooking up the facilites, but that is
nothing compared to what we would
have had to pay to build the facilities,”
said Price, “Right now itlookslikemore
ball park than Davidson needs, but it is
one of those things to take advantage of
when the opportunity arises.”

The first goal is to hook up the sewer
and electricity for. the baseball club
house, and then work on the conces-
sions and rest rooms. One set of rest
rooms will be located by the soccer field.
“They will not be complete for a while,
but weare fairly close. We are trying to
doan awful lot with the little we have,”
said Stoeckel.

Stoeckel mainly wants to make the
baseball-experience more enjoyable for
all the players, but he also sees the pos-
siblity of using these facilities to draw

people to Davidson. “With the Lake -

Norman area expanding, we want to
attract more people to the Davidson

/Sainpes: Wecan do this through athlet-

ics,” said Stoeckel.

Stoeckel also hopestosee the students
and the community become more in-
volved. “Families can come to spend
the day, and thebleachersarein thesun,
solhope toseestudentsoutstudying on
them.”

~ ‘This was no false alarm! _

The Tivideon Fire Department responded Monday night to Cannon Dorm
after a pillow ignited after being left too close to a lamp. The pillow is cur-
rently on display in front of the dorm, just next door to the charred mattress"
outside of Sentelle leftover froma fire last December.

Photo by Ed Matthews

