Commentaries

* The Davidsonian
Wednesday, January 24, 1990

“Reflections” from JYAers on being
members of the Davidson community

Bob Dixon, Jamie Slagle
and Dave McKnight

After having miserable years last year at Davidson,
we had hoped that going abroad would help us to find
ourselves. However, now that we’re here we realize
that we took our find institution for granted. Nostalgia
can be a strange but wonderful thing.

We love Davidson’s strong sense of community. As
we drove into Charlotte one blazing hot Saturday to
pick up the weekly supply of grits for our all-male
eating house, we saw on the side of the road a station
wagon witha flat tire. We immediately pulled over to
ask the lady if she needed help. She told us desperately
that she and her son Bristol were going to be late to his
11 o’clock Little League game and the flavor-ice for
after the game was in danger of melting. We told her
not to worry, changed her tire, checked her oil, cleaned
her windows, showed her a shortcut to the ball park
and taught Bristol to throw the split-finger fast ball.
She was the picture of gratitude and a few tears began
to well up in her eyes. Only then did she see the
Davidson sticker on our car and fully realize how she
could meet such nice boyson her unending errand trip
of life. She offered us $100 each but we couldn’t take
the money, and as we drove away wiping off.a few

tears of our own, we knew, deep down, that we had
done the right thing. Continuing onour way Abraham
and I gradually slipped intoa deep discussion over the
intricacies of auto repair and its relevance to our daily
lives.

We loved the first night down on the court as fresh-
men when Timmy, a Baptist preacher's son, did not
heed his father’s warning and drank more than the
good Lord ever intended a fine young man attending
a church-affiliated, nationally ranked, private college
with less than 1,500 students to drink. Timmy wor-
shipped the porcelain goddess under the warm guid-
ance of his hall counselor. We all offered him Tylenol
or aspirin but he chose my Advil. So began another
lifelong friendship.

We love to eat in the Commons on the weekends.
The Sunday brunch, especially edifying following an
inspirational DCPC sermon, was always my favorite.
I love the way Gerta used to sneak up from behind as
I savored my meal, put her arms tenderly around my
coat and tie, rest her hands softly upon my solar
plexus, and whisper sensuously into my ear as if she
meant it “Oh, macaroni and cheese!”

We love Davidson’s craziness. Once I was studying
quietly in my roomand someone puta honey-covered
watermelon down my shirt. One time someone hit my
friend Archie with a water balloon. One time I was
down at the court and saw Mark Puckett dancing
without his shirt as if he never would again. But he

will!

But more than anything else we love the relation-
ships at Davidson. I remember how Billy and Betty
used to walk hand in hand under the silently wise
Davidson trees as our proud American flag tossed in
the breeze and the sun, a huge pink and orange beach
ball, slowly deflated in the west. As they walked one
could see that because they metata co-ed eating house
their love would last forever. Once I walked along
with them, and, being so captured by the moment,
asked them to give me their hands. Together we
meditated on the beauty, the peace, the love we feltin
and around us. I thanked them just for being them,
and then, asI spoke, little animals came out from their
little homes. Birds sang from above and the special-
ness of the moment overwhelméd the senses. But then
Billy started singing “Zippity Doo Da,” like he always
does, and we fell together into the tall, cool, welcom-
ing grass, laughing with each other until it hurt.

Such are the warm fuzzy memories we keep burn-
ing in the hearths of our minds. Scattered and many,
we treasure them all.

“Oh Davidson you are the best
Old college in the east or west”

Dixon, Slagle and McKnight are Davidson students
abroad in Wurzburg, West Germany.

r
Lucia lets loose

Lucia Kendall

Many times I have considered dropping out of
Davidson and pursuing a rewarding career as a
manicurist. | wouldn’t have to write any more
papers about whether Troilus and Cressida is a
masterpiece or a flop; Icould cancel my GRE scores;
I could sleep seven or even eight hours a night if I
felt like it. It would be a great way to avoid all this
oppressive Davidson stress the entire campus is
grumbling about (and during exams, screaming
about).

The reasons that I have decided to stay here
instead of earning my living by giving customers
three coats of passionate pink nail polish are the
same reasons that I get annoyed when the

ae and the screams isreach the pomtat which

expect less of them.
Being a manicurist is honest, decent

expand my mind, that would present me both with
ideas and with methods of analyzing and evaluating
ideas, that would expose me to some of the world’s
greatest thinkers, leaders and artists. And although I

would be the first toadmit that Davidson hasits faults,

a main reason for my loving it isthat, overall, Tbelieve
it has provided me with the nity, encourage-
ment and sometimes even necessity to e x my

mind. I’m aware that I sound like a horrible snob, but ~
I genuinely believe in the value ug a solid liberal-arts

pp ae

s her esqu “ heavier workload. For examp! , if
them into pulp and therefore vida Should dassher ice ch

i fair to say ‘that I have probably le

there’s nothing wrong with that. But I came to —
Davidson to get a challenging education that would —

that very little of can be absorbed. In : A : i

‘education than many ee sc

thalely twits as ituch chemiiey ae 4 Gare nity |
college student. It’s hard to get away from a dir
correlation between amounttof material taugt ind
amount of material learned. ee

I recognize that there comes a point at w1
student is bombarded with so much in

think there’s some truth in the ca

Prejudice, of all Binds, is ‘silly

Matt Davis

The subject of race relations at Davidson has once
again resurfaced both with the call for a black frater-
nity and the more recent Martin Luther King, Jr.
celebration. Although we as Americans, and specifi-
cally as Davidson College studentsand faculty, repre-
sent a more open and racially equal group than ever
before, we have not completed our journey to com-
plete racial equality. Luckily, our studentsand faculty
are some of the most intelligent men and women
around. Since the root of prejudice is ignorance, we

should have little problem coming together and ap- .

preciating each other’s cultural backgrounds and
needs. ;
Asintelligentand sensitive as we are, however, Isee

little chance of any relief of the species strife that
pervades the campus. Even, the self-selected spokes-
man for abolishing species strife, have made little
progress in draining the gulf between us and them.
Thus, the time has come for us to stop treating
Davidson's squirrels like second-class citizens and
learn to appreciate their needs and fears.

We cannot afford to further alienate our little furry-
tailed friends. Word has it that a squirrel revolt might
be in the works. However, the squirrels have been
pretty tight-lipped, refusing to confirm or deny these
allegations.

Before jumping up to point the finger at known
squirrel-haters, look in the mirror for a minute. ®

* When was the last time you asked a squirrel how
his or her day was going?

* Have you ever made plans for a night on the court
with some friends in the presence of squirrels? If so,

did you ask them to join you?

* Do you catch yourself avoiding eye-contact with
squirrels?

* Have you yelled, “Boo!” at a squirrel to watch it
jump up a tree?

* Have you ever gone squirrel hunting?!?!
Chances are you realized that you are not as innocent
as you thought you were. The time to make amends is
now.

Obviously, the typical Davidson squirrel leads an
extremely stressful life. But what can we do?

If we can successfully help the Davidson squirrel
realize his self-worth and potential, we will in turn
have realized our own, For, at Davidson, I have
learned that itis better to look at someone else’s point

See SQUIRRELS, page 16

