Features

Friends of the Arts:
Culture in our town

BY MATT GOAD

Davidson College could soon become
a beacon of light for the arts in the com-
munity if the Friends of the Arts pro-
gram has its way. Friends of the Arts is
a program designed to involve the
community in the fine arts at Davidson
and to raise additional money for an-
nual events in the music, theater and
visual arts departments.

The program will focus ona different
department each year. This year the
focus is music, and next year it will be
theater. The program will kick off on
March 26 with a concert by the Kalich-
stein-Laredo-Robinson Trio, a world
renowned chamber music group made
up of a pianist, cellist and violinist. A
reception for members will be held after
the concert. Next year, a possible event
is a performance of Shakespeare’s
Romeo and Juliet. Another possibility
for the future isa trip to New York City
to attend several operas and to visit
museums.

Babs McKelway, director of the
Friends of the Arts, got the idea for the
program while at Princeton University

during the winter of 1986 with her hus-
band, professor of religion Alexander
McKelway, who was on academic
leave. She got involved with a program

there called Friends of Music. McKel- .

way had often lamented that sports at

Davidson drew many more people
from the community to the college than
arts-related events, so when she got
back from Princeton, she decided to
start a similar program here. Though
other colleges have similar programs,
the Davidson program is unique in that
it is concerned with all the arts, not just
one area.

Toraise funds, McKelway sent letters
asking for contributions ranging from
$25 to $1000 to the faculty and staff, as
wellas to various homeownersin North
Mecklenburg and South Iredell coun-
ties. Students are encouraged to join,

' too; the student membership fee is $3.

Members are entitled to a ten percent
discount on Artists Series season tick-
ets, advanced notice for arts-related
events, an invitation to a reception for
members each year and preferred seat-
ing at events sponsored by the Friends
program.

According to McKelway, each de-
partment will decide independently
how to use the funds raised. The money
will be used foreverything from buying
new light bulbs to bringing visiting
artists to the campus.

Any studentinterested in becoming a
Friend of the Arts or who would like to
help with the upcoming reception
should contact the Alumni House at
extension -2116.

Sweet Honey: Verses
of injustice and hope

By BETH MITCHELL

ENERGY!!! From the first number to
their colorful encore, Sweet Honey in
the Rock energized their audience in
Love Auditorium Saturday night. This
a cappella group of six women, world
famous for their talent and social cri es,
have been performing for 16 years and
were glad to finally make it to

_Davidson.

tin,” we learn that “sitting on our past,
we watched another decade die.” Fi-
nally, we are given a charge to get in-
volved with “Giving Hands to
Struggle.”

Spirituals signified the way blacks
analyzed the information they were
getting from slave owners, said the
moderator. In the song, you live in one
condition and talk about what will

Their program of songs followed a
journey through major events in the
development of African-American cul-
ture. “This is Black History month; we
haveatleast one month tocelebrate. But
some of us want to do it everyday,”
stated one member. And that’s what
these songs are about--celebrating
black culture,

The talent that these women possess
is remarkable. They threw their whole
bodies into the feel of the music--pro-
duced only by their voices (although
calabashes and the wood block were
used to add rhythm). I don’t think that
there is any sound that these women
could not produce with their voices. We
heard clicks, sirens and bass lines.

Many of their songs contain a mes-
sage to society. In “Wade in the Water”
(a tribute to Harriet Tubman), we are
told that there are difficulties in risk but
we must go on because “God’s gonna
trouble the water.” Their voices
blended together as many streams roll-
ing to the sea; you could picture the
song through their voices. The next
group of songs were about the 1960s,
celebrating the battle of the sit-ins and
the freedom rides. In “Letter to Mar-

come. “I Got Shoes, You Got Shoes,” a
song describing a world committed to
equality, had the audience joining in.

Other songs were more lighthearted,
ranging from love songs (“Soweto, My.
Home”) toprayers. “Danko” isa prayer
from Mali of women who would do
anything to have children; if their
prayer is heard, they must continue the
prayer so that their children will live to
be whole human beings. A different
style song was a rap explaining the ori-
gin of the calabashes--narrated by a
squash on her way to becoming a cala-
bash!

Yet, Sweet Honey in the Rock was
mostexpressive in songs about modern
day oppression. One song talked about
workers in Port-au-Prince earning $3 a
day and all their products being
shipped to the U.S. “Ode to the Interna-
tional Debt” tracked down U.S. military
and government operations in the past
few decades and showed the conse-
quences (i.e., refugees and death
squadsinE] Salvador). Thesong admits
the “good intentions” of the govern-
ment to help. Yet, the “money is sent to
buy changes that will never come.”
There is a debt to be paid.

AU At Tae re
Davidsonian i ed Lu-
le Clifton, former poet laureate of

"Maryland, who will be giving a po-

etry reading Thursday, March 1 at
7:30 p.m. Carta Visiting Distin- —
guished Professor at St. Mary’ 's Col-—
_ lege in Maryland, Clifton is on per-
manent staff as professor of litera-
* ture at the University of California in
Santa Cruz. Two of her books of
poetry, Good Woman and Next, were

_ on The New York Times's Best Book

of the Year List in 1988 and 1989, and
second in running for the Pulitzer

"Prize. Clifton is the recipient of seo-

eg Sai das aga - ;

ulate a publis ¢
__ know aboutany lack writer

ucile Clifton will bai the 900
Room this Thursday at 7:30 p-m.-

