Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Be a real person Mark—
and write a real column

Dear Mark Puckett,

It seems to me, Mark, that in bringing
your body to its present state of near
godlike perfection, you have neglected
tocreatea column befitting an author of
such Adonaisian, breathtaking physi-
cal attractiveness. Mark, you may be in
great shape, but I think your column
could use a little work.

Just because an unidentified . and
undoubtedly beautiful and athletic
female of your acquaintance said that
Davidson women are “homely” does
not mean that all Davidson women are
overweight and out of shape. And let’s
not forget that many people who are in
excellent physical shape are still ex-
tremely unattractive. Look at Larry
Bird, for instance.

Iresent the implication that, although
I am merely a couple of pounds over-
weight, since I am not physically fit, I
am not only “homely,” but I do nothing
but sit around and eat saturated fats all
day. In addition, at the risk of sounding
familiarly Kendallian, I submit ‘that
women have always been judged too
much by their appearances, while men
are generally allowed to be ugly or
overweight and are not often spoken of
as “homely” in college publications.
Let’s try to have a nineties attitude,
Mark. Women have brains, too.

Mark, while others at this school are

doing their homework, going to aero-
bics classes or just sitting around eating
pizza, you are doing chin-ups stark
naked in your hall bathroom. Is it pos-
sible that you’re obsessed with fitness? Is
italso possible that yourcondescending
attitude toward those whose interests
are a bit more academic than athletic is
just another form of discrimination?
Noteveryonecan haveas perfecta body
and fitness routine as you do. Please
tolerate us, Mark.

Why, if the health of others at
Davidsonis really your concern, do you
ridicule women who do aerobics or
who attempt to use the Nautilus ma-
chines? You should encourage everyone
to use those machines. Since you're a
weightroom expert, why don’t use you
use your infinite wisdom and journalis-
tic skills to write a column about the
proper use of the Nautilus equipment?
You could even include the times and
locations of the aerobics classes offered
in the gyms.

Right now, your column is nothing
more than an excuse for a self-aggran-
dizing, narcissistic poser to brag his
way to a padded resume. But it doesn’t
have to be like this. Be a real person,
Mark, and write a real column. At least
once.

Sincerely,
Susan Pearsall

Puckett a Humanitarian?

Weare writing this article in praise of
one, Mark Puckett, a talented and ver-
bose writer of The Davidsonian. In his
latest article, he inspired and jolted us,
along with the rest of the young ladies at
this institution, into realizing what
Davidson is all about: maintaining a
healthy physical “appearance.” As we
were consulting Mark’s weekly article
for the latest on good health and fashion
tips, we were struck with the realization
that we have just stopped caring about
ourselves. We understand that until
now we have devoted entirely toomuch
time to caring for humanity, and if we
don’t do something to change our atti-
tude we might not be engaged by the
time we graduate. Today is the first day

_of our new fitness regime, and despite

the risk of bolstering your ego, we
humbly submit this proposal for physi-
cal self-improvement. If it meets with
your approval, we will lead the cross-
campus crusade (graduate schools also
love alliteration) in the hope of emulat-
ing your shining example. Here is a
copy of our schedule.

5:30.a.m. Rise. Weigh self. Drink a small
glass of prune juice.
5:35. a.m. Don new running apparel and

_curl hair because one never knows who —

might be jogging on the same trail.

5:40 a.m. Run for two hours without
stopping. (Later in the term, length and
pace may be rcreaeett but beginners

Davsleon tales loses adiiones onsaaitaed ores to:
~ Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are ore
pie pansies

should stick to the basics.)

7:45 a.m. Weight self again. Shower.
Shampoo. Shave legs and armpits thor-
oughly. Polish and shape nails. Blow-
dry, mousse, re-curl, and spray hair. Put
on the outfit chosen the night before.
Coordinate shade and tone of make-up
to complement clothing and season of
year. Check reflection in mirror from all
angles.

8:45 a.m. Save at least ten minutes to
read the 150 pages due at nine. (You
wouldn’t want to appear too smart. It
might give the males an inferiority
complex.)

9-12 a.m. Class. Re-apply make-up and
brush hair between classes.

12:00 p.m. Eata light, yet well-balanced
salad and finish with a small cup of
NutriGrain and raisins to ensure a
quick passage. Weigh self again.

12:30 to 1:00 p.m. Beauty rest. Do not
mess up hair.

1:00 p.m. Speed walk to the post office to
get weekly editions of Your Body, Your-
self, American Health, and Shape.

4:00 p.m. Leave aerobics with a light

dew of sweat across the forehead, and ©

realize that it just wasn’tenough. Finish
the afternoon with your choice of swim-
ming, tennis, or biking. Weigh self
again.

6:00 p.m. Eat a dinner of salad and oat
bran. Measure waist.

7:00 p.m. Lift weights. Ask the best-
looking male to assist with the difficult
and sometimes confusing Nautilus

machinery. (Never trust a woman’s
advice in the weight room. Women lack
the critical nautilus-using gene. .

9:00 p.m. Go to bed early for those extra
hours of beauty sleep and dream of one
day looking like a female from another
institution, not like a “smart, but
homely” Davidson girl.

Most of the women at Davidson will
be disappointed to see that we have
allotted no time for service projects,
union or house committees, and leisure
time with friends or boyfriends. We
feel, however, that exercise is the per-
fect panacea for those nasty little prob-
lems like relationships. If allowed, exer-
cise can replace all extraneous triviali-
ties of life.

Thank you, Mark Puckett, for care-
lessly throwing around important is-
sues that you know nothing about.
Fashion tipsand eating disorder should
not be mentioned in the same breath,
especially in an article that has no pur-
pose or direction. Whether you realizeit
or not, you impose an “ideal” image of
women that focuses on physical ap-
pearances and encourages compulsive
behavior. If you want to help others
(and get intoa decent graduate school),
leave the serious and important issues
to the front page. Health articles should
concentrate on health.

Chery] Bauerle ‘91
Suzanne Davis ‘91
Marya Howell ‘91

Throw in the towel

Dear Editors,

-Please, throw in the towel.. One of
your journalists is on his knees swing-
ing blindly, spitting up literary garbage.
This loser’s name is Mark Puckett. Last
week Mark achieved an all time low
(and there have been many this year) by
insulting a large proportion of the stu-
dent body. His self-chosen opponent
being the female population.

‘ It seems that if Mark had his way the.

weight room would be an exclusive
men’s clubor elsea place where people
bowed down and pleaded with him to

_tell them the great secrets of working a

nautilus machine. The lack of knowl-
edge that anyone may have from not
knowing how to properly operate a
nautilus machine and their pride for not
wanting toask Mark the correct manner

will never be surpassed by his own |

ignorant, chauvanistic views and his

pride in displaying such stupidity.
Mark is still the Champ in these two
arenas. ?

In his article, Mark slanders those
who opt not to follow a rigid physical.
regiment and discredits those who do

_make such attempts. So what if people

place academics and social life ahead of
physical fitness?! Davidson students
are mature enough to make these deci-
sions and set their priorities as they
wish. Furthermore, nobody appointed |
Mark to judge our actions. —

Instead of writing articles which mo-
tivate students to lead a healthier life,

_Mark continues to talk-down to those —

who he considers inferior i.e. females,

. Patterson Court members, or anybody.

else that is not Mark Puckett. thought
that this article was written to provide

See PITCH PUCKETT, page 20

‘commentaries from its readers. The edi-
tors willattempttoprintall opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

e All submissions should deal with sub-
jects of interest to the campus commu-
nity.
e Submissions must be neatly typed or
legibly hand-written. The editors will
_ also accept work submitted on 5.25” or
3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth
be told, we're partial to them).
e All submissions must be
signed.Writers must present the editors
with compelling reasons if they do not
wish their names printed with their
work.
¢ Thestaff will notedit commentaries for

Opinions Policy

The_Davidsonian welcomes letters and—-

content or for style, but for the rules of
English grammar only.

° Letters should be under 300 words in
length. The editors reserve the right to
edit and/or condense any letter.

¢ Theeditors reserve therightnotto print _
submissions which contain factual er-_
rors, advertisements, or objectionable
material, or which representa viewpoint
very similar to other letters printed deal-
ing with the same topic.

* All submissions should include the
author’s address and phone number.
Submissions to the “Commentaries” sec- |
tion should include the following infor-
mation: the author’s homecity and state,
graduating class, and major field of
study (or profession).

