Thursday, January 18, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Thieves walk with more than
victory

[This letter was sent to the Duke Chronicle

and is reprinted here along with a response
from a Duke student.]

To the editor:

On December 21, [had the pleasure of
witnessing the great athletic ability of
your university’s basketball team. Their
win over Davidson was quite impres-
sive, and I send them my congratula-
tions and best wishes.

I am not writing, though, to express
my warm feelings about Duke Univer-
sity. Instead, I would like to convey to
your entire community my reaction to
an event that occurred after the game.
As] wasleaving in my car, saw arather
racy-looking blonde with her friendsin
a Camaro. She was gleefully showing

them a sign that they had apparently
stolen from Davidson. It is green and
reads “Baker Sports Complex.”

This incident surprised, disap-
pointed and insulted me. It was not
enough that your basketball team stole
our pride by doubling ourscore89 to 44.
Unfortunately, some of Duke’s stu-
dents had to steal our property as well.
Ihave less respect for that girl than she
apparently has for your honor code or
others’ property. |

Now, this incident may be unimpor-
tant, but we donot tolerate lying, cheat-
ing or stealing here. I felt that I should
indicate to the entire Duke community
with this letter what I indicated to that
girl with my middle finger.

James Carswell

Duke doesn't need holier-than-
thou lectures

Dear Editors,

On January 11, the Duke “University
newspaper published a letter from
James Carswell, a Davidson student,
who claimed that a “racy-looking
‘blonde” had: stolen a Baker Sports

‘Complex signrightafter Dukedefeated
your basketball. team on December vy ee

Now, whether this girl has any real
connections with Duke University,
connections the letter assumed evident,
is unimportant, t although Mr. Carswell
has noway of being suretthat the female
in question has ever been anywhere

near Duke’s “entire community,” as he

put it.

What does “matter is that the letter

overlooked a few points. First of all,

even assuming the thief is from Duke,
Mr. Carswell has decided that she auto-
matically represents all the elements of
the Duke aogier Idon’tremember
any sort of pep rally here celebrating
this act, and I’m sure none of us here at
Duke would think more highly of this
girl if we knew of her actions. In addi-
tion, if Duke officials knew the identity
of the thief, I’m sure her action would
not beabided. The letter seems toimply
that Duke breeds common thieves and

their inherent values, an idea which is
sadly mistaken.

Secondly, we at Duke need no holier-
than-thou lectures from another school.
Mr. Carswell declares that Davidson
College “does not tolerate lying, cheat-
ing or stealing,” an admirable trait to be
sure, butsosuperficial. Can you tell me,
Mr. Carswell, thatno Davidson student
has ever perpetrated a similar sort of

_ crime? Don’t even try. I live in

Davidson, two of my siblings gradu-
ated from Davidson College, and I’ve

.worked for the college, and thanks to

these connections I have heard of worse
instances of behavior by D.C. students

~ than simple sign-stealing.

But do these instances prompt a re-
buke to the entire Davidson commu-
nity, or the “middle finger” Mr.
Carswell has so graciously extended to
the Duke populace? No. Your school is
no purer than ours, Mr. Carswell, and
any insinuationalong thatlineis simply
ludicrous. I hope none of your fellow

- students harbor any similar feelings of

superiority.

Sincerely,
Ken Fishback
Duke University class of “92

Thanks to students who fasted

Dear Friends:

On behalf of the Metrolina Food Bank
Organization, I want to once again
express ‘our deep: gratitude to your
Hunger AwarenessGroup, and all who

participated in the Fast/Post-Fast Din-

ner, for your contribution to our food

distribution program. You have given
most generously with donations total-

ing $500.44. eee (ines ll ee
available — inorder that we may continue to help. | |

All best wishes to each of you for a |,

blessed New Year. i

because each dollar used by Pe se}

Bank provides at least 15 pounds of
food items. The demand for our re-
sources increases during the holiday
period and the winter months when

ere is a greater sense of urgency to-
wards helping those in need. Your

contribution comes therefore at a very |

Our appreciation to your group for
a continuing support of our work is
eeply felt. Food- -banking is successful
only when a caring community re-

sponds to the need for the provision of

food assistance. Thank you for your
confidence in our work and for sharing

Sincerely,
Anne Register
Exeiuye Director

11

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors

Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

We shall overcome...

emust keep marching on, no matter how high the walls and
how big the giants...

The above phrase was proclaimed at the Gospel
Songfest, held last Sunday in commemoration of the legacy of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. The speaker was Reverend Carrie Bolton,
professor of sociology at Livingstone College, pictured on the fourth
page of this issue.

Bolton challenged the audience to persevere, in spite of circum-
stances. Perseverance in overcoming the odds, perseverance in
applying oneself to a vocation even after several falls, perseverance
in proclaiming truths in the midst of epidemic untruths, and perse-
verance in striving for equal rights for all people, not just the well-off.

Twenty-five years ago the “walls” limited African-Americans’
everyday activities—don’t go there at night, you can’t go through
that entry. The giants were police dogs, lynchers, fire hoses, a distant
administration, state laws and staunch racist attitudes. Living now in
comparatively more tolerant times, one wonders if he or she would
have been strong enough to fight those giants. Today there are no fire
hoses or police dogs, but other remnants of the wall still remain.

Giants and walls can be seen in all aspects of society, not just race
relations. As we look around the world today, we wonderif the chaos
will straighten itself out. Walls of misunderstanding exist between
groups, the giants Poverty and Ignorance are in Davidson and

elsewhere, the giants of War, Bloodshed and Drugs are at work, and

the difficulty of climbing walls drives some individuals to take
drastic measures.

“We need to keep dreaming,” said Bolton. I believe that. Maybe life
has been too good to me, but in the midst of all the evil and
misunderstanding, I always see a little light.

Dreaming is not enough, however. Action is necessary to bring
about change. The challenge to Davidson is to be more sensitive of
one another’s needs and to act where justice is not it being practiced.
We must keep marching on.  —

