Wednesday February 7, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Date rape: there is such a thing as caution

Dear Editors,

We read with interest Lucia Ken-
dall’s most recent commentary on date
rape. It was a well-written, well-ar-
gued piece abouta topic of tremendous
importance. As residentadvisors, itisa
problem we are particularly sensitive
to, for all our hall residents are women.

Unfortunately, we feel that this very
serious issue will be belittled in light of
Miss Kendall’s previous commentar-
ies. The irrelevant non-issues of her
former articles have made way for one
that requires much more considera-
tion. We hope that Miss Kendall will
continue tochoose topics of this quality
in the future.

The analogy of theft and rape was a
good chdice, asin both cases something
precious is taken. Imagine, however, a
scene in which a drunken man

stumbles around waving handfuls of
money in the air in a dark alley. Were
someone to take it, the crime would be
equally reprehensible, but sympathy
would be less for the victim who was
behaving in an idiotic manner. There is
such a thing as caution.

- Awareness and prevention are two
things that can greatly lessen the occur-
rence of date rape. Self-defense

courses, assertiveness training and

common sense will provide a woman
with many more options if she gets
involved in a difficult situation. Please
read or re-read the article carefully, and
give the information the merit and at-
tention it deserves.

Sincerely, ‘
Cecily Craighill ‘91
Judi Kemerait ‘91

“KKK” comment off the mark

Dear Editors,

While! perused page nine of your fine
publication this Wednesday past, I

happened upon a distressing and erro-..

neous comment made by Mr. Marshall
Smith. After stating his opinion con-

“reverse discrimination,” he
says that, ”. ..theonly people thatare out
there strictly for white people is the

KKK.. And’ nobody wants to go to’

them... * Helater daims that “The KKK

should’ve been phased out like two.

seconds after they were formed.” Fine.
The KKK is out for nobody except the
racist redneck bigots who insist that
they, amusingly enough, are somehow
superior physically, mentally and eth-
nically to Blacks, Orientals, Hispanics,
Jews, Catholics, Slavs, Indians and
immigrants, to name a few. I hasten to
point out that several of the ethnic
_ groupsinclude members of white races,

I'd also like to point out that “white” .

is a rather nebulous term, especially as

Mr. Smith has used it. “White” isaskin

color, not a single ethnic group. For.

example, I fail to see similarities, ethni-

cally, between Scots and Romanians...

Well, they’re both white.... The term
“race” emobides a culture, a national

_-identity. and a past history, not just a
physical feature. Several ethnic groups

of light-skinned origins, most notably
Jews, Armenians and Irish, have very
powerful political lobbies in our na-
tion’s capitol. In my opinion, organiza-

tions like the NAACP.and NOW are at |

the forefront of political agendas and
media coverage because they consist of
very large voting memberships and
tend to address more controversial and
domestic issues. All white people do
not necessarily share a common or
similar heritage as Afro-Americans do,
or common biological and gender-re-
lated concerns as women do.

The only people the KKK speaks for
are themselves, and that is not saying
much, at all. Thank God.

Sincerely,
‘Chris Kelly, ‘91

not reflect the views of the

Assistant Saskia Editor-Elizabeth Hows

Assistant Opinions Editor: Ingrid Page
News Staff: Beth Brown, Peter

Joe Mavis, Walter Price,
Wright, Molly ¥:

Production Assistant: Peter Fisher

Advertising Staff: Cherry Ryan,

NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the _
Grey Student Union building. Opinions e in letters to the editor or Commentaries do

per year. Aersngraralblcon equ Copyrighisely the Trustees of Davidson
College

Bynum,
Girish Gvalani, Lisa Jackson, DeliaJohnson, Tom Koonce,
Russ, Rafael Sanchez-Aballi, Sharon Lee Schwartz,
Jennifer Sieck, Seyler Seth William Urban, Susannah Wellford, Jennifer Whittington, Clay _

oung —
Features Staff: Curt Bickers, Lee Bushell, David Coarsey, Hilary Coman, Margaret Carroll, Liz
Davidson, John Earles, Matt Goad, Elizabeth Howe, Nusrat Khan, Prem Manjooran, Charles
Suni ie tl Aj Shara, som Sah Da
Shannon Ids, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Jennifer Sieck, Anjali Sharma, Adam Smith, David

; Ciggy Me Mary Faith Mount,Tracy-Lynn Perez, Phil Prescott,
Mark Bosse Chen epee Smith, Todd Stephenson, Spider
Staff:-Matt Brentgens, Tim Dancy, Meg Davis, Frank Gibbes, Nancy Green, Paige
Hull, Tom Koonce, Robbie McKay, Robert Marshall, Jane Mount, Bonita Paysour,
Ted Richardson, Carl Van Osdall, pels von Heaters peinenibair cs ye Vashist Worah

Staff Artists: Reese Boyd, John Morris, J.W. Mullis
Moreland Smith _ ee
Circulation Staff: Nancy Green, Moreland Smith, Ginny White

the school year by the students of
to: The Davidsonian, Box 219,

of The Davidsonian. ms cost $25

Carroll, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood,
George Lafaye, Joanne Maheras, Pete -

Robert Grubb, John
Wormuth.
Beth Pharr,

zeit

15

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors

Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor

Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor

Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager

Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager

Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Where the professors
actually teach

or those of you who worry about where to send your sons and
daughters to college in this era of professors who take pride not
in teaching but in doing research and writing and consulting,
Thomas. Sowell has provided a list of good schools where the
professors actually teach: Swarthmore, Amherst, Oberlin, Davidson,
Franklin & Marshall, and Whitman ...
_ —Charles Peters, The Washington Monthly, January 1990
(emphasis added)

When was the last time you sat back and truly cherished your
Davidson education? Or when did you last say alenda lux ubi orta
libertas with the vigor and sincerity it deserves?

Every Davidson student, however, can recall memories such as
sitting in a class of six or ten or twenty and hotly debating the
underpinnings of democracy or the hidden symbolism of
Shakespeare or the meaning of a ground-breaking experiment that
probed the brains of mice. And we have all made use of office
hours and after office hous to get extra help or to extend such dis-
cussions.

Although ILhave no idea who Thomas Sowell is, Peters’ compli-
ment deserves notice. Sometimes we need someone to remind us
that the things we have come to take for granted such as self-
scheduled exams and faculty with a genuine desire to teach are
not common components of most colleges.

Sometimes it takes a visit to another college to appreciate just
what Peters is talking about. Walking into a classroom of 300,
watching the graduate student strap on his or her microphone and
listening to.a lecture that demands nothing more than rote mem-
ory can be a sobering experience.

You just can’t beat a 12-1 student to faculty ratio. ;

This is not to say that Davidson professors are not concerned
with research and writing—most professors are currently working
on personal research projects, writing journal articles and publish-
ing books (including Pulitzer Prize nominee Tony Abbott). But
these professors stress that they are teachers and students first.
Often faculty members will involve = students in their work
outside of class.

Davidson has recently added many features to attract students

| to the campus, including an incredible new sports complex. But

we should remember that some of the oldest traditions of the
college are still our biggest selling point.

In our pursuit to be “the Princeton of the South,” let us not
forget the characteristics that ecngeeh our college in its own
—jlh

