THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

te

Photo by Ed Matthews

Nina Serebrennikov, professor of art history, discusses next year's
Italian Art course with Chris Jones '93.

Art History to Begin
Program in Italy

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

The Art Department recently an-
nounced that it would probably have
an Art History program in Rome in the
spring of °91 if a proposal they have
submitted to the Educational Policy
Committee and the faculty committee
is accepted.

Sophomores of all majors would
be considered eligible.

The fifteen-week seminar will con-
sist of two art history courses, an Inde-
pendent Study under the tutelage of a
Davidson professor, and an intensive
Italian language session. The students
will be given the opportunity to exam-
ine and appreciate first-hand the treas-
ures of the Renaissance and other
periods of art studied beforehand in

class.

The program is being established
by Professor Nina Serebrennikov, who
along with other members of the art
department, feel students cannot fully
appreciate the artistry of the works
studied through slides.

“T am very excited about the pro-
gram,” said Serebrennikov, “and have
found no parallel to standing beneath
the Sistine ceiling and gazing upon the
mastery of Michelangelo.” The inten-
sive study of Italian will assist the
students in assimilating with their
surroundings and add to the overall
cultural experience.

A meeting for interested students
has been slated for the fall.

Thrower To Direct

Campus Security

Courtesy of College Relations

Raymond H. ThrowerJr.,aperson -

already familiar to the Davidson Col-
lege family from previous employ-
ment here, became director of public
safety effective April,11. Thrower
replaced the retiring Jackie Hughes,
who has worked at the college for
seventeen years.

Thrower worked under Hughes for
about two years before becoming di-
rector of public safety at Queens Col-
lege in September 1986. A Davidson
native, he and his family now live in
Magnolia Estates in Cornelius. “T
always to considered Davidson and
the college as my home, and I wanted
to come back and contribute here,” he
said.

Thrower will preside over a force
of seven full-time campus officers. He
said he sees his major challenges in the
new position to be dealing with cam-
pus parking problems and reducing
the larceny rate. During his time at
Queens, heoversaw implementation
of a card access system, lighting im-
provements, anew key control policy,
establishment of a twenty-four hour

Photo courtesy of College Relations
Thrower is the new college chief.

dispatch service, and conversion of the
campus force to a full police unit.

Thrower has been employed in
law enforcementsince 1978. He gradu-
ated from North Mecklenburg High
School and Sacred Heart College. He
and his wife, Valerie, have twodaugh-
ters, Heather and Nicole. His parents
are Raymond and Doris Thrower of
Shearer Road in Davidson.

Medical Ethics Today

Caplan Says Rationing Health Care "Not A Good Idea"

By TRACY GAINES

Arthur Caplan, Director of the
Center for Bio-Medical Ethics in
Minnesota, spoke last week in the 900
Room about rationinghealth care. He
addressed this issue from a practical
and philosophical point of view, and
according to him it is “not a good
idea."

He said that the problem would
not be corrected by deciding in favor
of one age group Against another, but
by making the health care system more
efficient. This could be done by reduc-
ing expenditures on unnecessary ma-
terials and_ services.

Caplan says that members of the
medical community, economists and
others consider rationing health care a
viable option because “the cost of
healthcare in the United States is $600

billion, which is 11.5% of the gross

national product -- and has increased
130% since 1980”.

He says that these numbers are
deceiving: “we spend the most com-
pared to many countries. But while
they pay for long-term care and offer a
broader array of services, here [the
United States], less is spent on public
health and more on acute care -- rescue
and repair.”

“The segments complaining the
most,” according to Caplan, “are the
federal government and businesses.”
The federal governmentis responsible
for Medicaid and Medicare and the
people who need these services, but
also has “to balance the national
budget” for which it must supply and
allocate funds. Spending cuts ate then
prioritized by proposals to “freeze on
defense first, then save on healthcare.”
So when the government must spend
too much, he notes that itcan make the
budget balance by cutting in the wrong
area which is health care.

Businesses find that they are pay-
ing too much out of the profits made
from their products for employee in-
surance. Caplan quoted Lee Iacocca
who said, “$800 out of every car pays
for healthinsurance.” Caplan adds that
this puts them at a competitive disad-
vantage.

Industry is not satisfied with this
situation because a disproportionate
load of the nation’s health bill falls on

—certainsectors,and-they are unwilling

to cover the costs of the increases
which they are compelled to finance if
they want to keep their employees
satisfied.

Rationing health care by deter-
mining those who can be excluded
from the system as Caplan told the
audience, appears to be an alternative
which is preferable to allowing the
“increasing cost of the proliferation of
new technology. . . the labor of medi-
cal personnel. . . basic medical equip-
ment” to continue to skyrocket above
the price of living, and subsequently,
the resources of most people.

Caplan gave some suggestions
about how rationing could be imple-
mented, saying that it could be accom-
plished in one of four ways: rationing
by age, sin, marginal utility, and
through high technology.

* Rationing by age would occur by
placing a limit on the age someone
must be in order to receive certain
types of health care.

* Rationing by sin would call for
“not paying for people who inflict
damage on themselves: smoking,
drinking, etc.”

* Rationing by marginal utility - a
strategy by which medical decisions
would be made on the basis of eco-
nomic perspective.

* Rationing by slowing down
access tohigh technology and restrict-
ing what those who depend on federal
funds can get.

Caplan stated emphatically that
these methods are all unethical and
that they are a result of what he calls
the damage which economists have
done by limiting the meaning of ra-
tioning to the ‘discussion of any distri-
bution of property”, When ‘in fact, in

“medical discussions, rationing is any

conscious exclusion, based on an allo-
cation bias, from lifesaving health
care”, he says.

Furthermore, Caplan says that al-
though rationings are necessary and
happen all the time, for the system to
come to a decision as to what the
criteria are for arguing it, he listed
several conditions which must be met,
such as the level of the scarcity of
resources, the undesirability of the
service for the general population, and
the efficacious use of the resource
whose demand far exceeds its supply.
These conditions are only met for the
most part in organ transplants, lifeboat
diplomacy-and-battlefield-triage, and-

the current medical situation is chal>-

lenged by only one of these descrip-
tions. Any other options taken are the
resultof bad planning and inefficiency.

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
Arthur Caplan spoke last week
about Medical Ethics.

Caplan suggests that besides
rationing other steps. can be taken
towards the proper allocation of re-
sources and, in his words, “the practi-
cal basis of [medical] practice.” He
says that there could be recertification
every 5 to 10 years for doctors if they
wish to keep their licenses, in order to
start weeding out bad medical profes-
sionals.

Another suggestion is that the
government demedicalize the system
by substituting doctors fornurses who
agree to treat patients in areas which
are not desirable to the doctors.

Another idea would be to putnurs-
ing homes on the housing authority
bill, unless the home will be used
specifically for the care of sick elderly
patients. Otherwise, he continues,
“elders arecompeting with youngsters

* for tiedical care”.

These are all suggestions directed
towards cutting down inefficiency ina
few areas of the practice of medicine.
For more general improvements Cap-
lan suggests that before money is paid,
the financers should ask for basic data
on morbidity, mortality and outpatient
services, and that the government
should move fast to reform malprac-
tice, since it burdens the system with
billions of dollars.

Inhis final remarks, Caplan stated:
“it would be a challenge to take on the
design of the [health care] system of
today .. . it is easy to say that there is
nomoney forthe poor or children who
need bone marrow ...”

To The-kind- of -efficacy-needed-to

“take on the challenge is necessary
because “medicine should not be a
club with which we beat people for
their choices in life.”

Committee

By GIRISH GVALANI

The Rape Awareness committee
hosted a discussion last week on the
film, “‘The Accused” concerning rape
and its psychological, emotional, and
social effects on the victim.

Those present included Sandra
Smith, Heather Bender, Lisa Jadwin,

’ professor of English, Yvonne Ken-

dall, professor of Music, and Peter
Tavernise. Tavernise opened the meet-
ing by commenting on the fact that
most incidents of date-rape seem to
originate from a miscommunication
between the woman and the man.
Commenting on this, Kendall said
that the problem lay not simply in
miscommunication but an attitude that
if a woman acts in a way that seems to.

be provocative to the man, then she is

“asking for it.” This may include

Discusses Rape

wearing a revealing dress, looking
attractive, being friendly, oreven being
in a relatively helpless position, such
as jogging alone at night.

Jadwin remarked that the general
attitude seemed to be that “if you are a
good little girl and do what we tell you
then you will be safe. Otherwise you
will deserve what you get.” She also
said that sadly enough, this was the
attitude not only among men but also
women, especially older women.

Kendall and Smith remarked on
the fact thatsuch an attitude putwomen
into a prison, ostensibly for their own
safety. Such an attitude meant that a
woman could not take a walk at night
withoutan escort, couldnot walk back
to Irwin from the 24-hour room with-
out an escort, and could not even go to
the infirmary at night without an es-
cort.

At this pointKendall humorously,

remarked, “We are not raping any-
body. Why don’tyou putall the menin
jail?”

Smith then said that this feeling of
imprisonment caused deep-seated
feelings of guilt and inferiority in
women, a feeling caused by a false and
cruel preconception about women.
Jadwincalled upon all those present to
bring about achange in this attitude by
taking a stand against all actions that
reinforced it, such as strongly oppos-
ing sexist jokes and treating women
with more dignity and respect.

Tavernise then remarked that the
committee was in the process of start-

‘ing up an educational program to fight
against the attitude. It was also men-
tioned at the meeting that the college
needs to treat rape as a much more
serious offence than it is considered
now, and have the police cover the
campus more securely. :
