2

The Commons is
one of only two
college food serv-
ices being consid-
ered for the annual
award, the other
school being the
culinary college
Johnson & Wales
in Rhode Island.

Previous win-
ners submitted
their nominations
to the magazine
Restaurants and In-
stitutions.

The award re-
sults will be an-
nounced this
month. The maga-
zine will bestow

Ne

the award during the National Res-
taurant Association show to be held

2
Commons draws
national praise

Davidson nominated alongside culinary

colleges for top dining service award

By ARMANDO
SANCHEZ-ABALLI
The VailCommons’ Dining Service
was nominated as one of the top res-
taurants and food services in the
nation for the prestigious Ivy Award.

Carleton Pritchard
Photo courtesy of Collge Relations

in Chicago this May.

The Commons has never before
been nominated for this highly ac-
claimed prize. Yet it annually holds
seminars and training sessions for
the food service industry. The Com-

mons was also re-
cently featured in
the Restaurants and
Institutions.

Carleton
Pritchard, Director
of Auxiliary Serv-
ices, said that the
nomination “cer-
tainly makes us a
leader in quality in
the industry.”

' He also
said that the nomi-
nation was “a rec-
ognition of team
effort.”

The Com-
mons “team” in-
cludes 45 full time
employees and 120

students. Pritchard has led the din-
ing service since it opened in 1981.

>

y,

News shorts.

Computer classroom in Chambers opens

Beyond Davidson

Thursday, January 18, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soviet republics dissent;
China ends martial law

By CAROL GATEWOOD and
CAROLINE WILSON

SOVIET UNION AND EASTERN
EUROPE

Actions against the governments of
the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact na-
tions persisted last week as nationalist
movements continued to work for inde-
pendence and multi-party systems of
government. Within the Soviet Union,
President Mikhail Gorbachev must
now deal with an increasingly unstable
and violent situation in Azerbaijan.

On Monday, Tass, the official Soviet
news agency, reported that 25 to 30
people were killed in the Azerbaijani
capital of Baku. Violence erupted after a
protest when Azerebaijanis attacked
Armenian citizens, shooting some at
point-blank range.

Tensions between these two ethni-
cally and religiously different groups
have grown in the past few months
amidst calls by Moslem Azerbaijanis for
secession from the Soviet Union and a
dispute over rights of possession of Na-
gorno-Karabakh, the Armenian prov-
ince of Azerbaijan. Soviet troops were
sent in after the attacks.

These events followed on the heels of
Gorbachev's visit to Lithuania, a Baltic
state that has already announced its
plans to secede from the Soviet Union
and the Soviet Communist Party. By
visiting, Gorbachev hoped to peace-
fully discuss and resolve the Lithu-
anian’s desire to become an independ-

.-entstate,He held opendiscussionswith
' citizens in the street, encouraging the

Baltic states to retain its membership
with Moscow.

In Romania, the new government is
struggling over the future of its Com-

Their sister party in West Germany has
offered support to their campaign.

On the other end of the political spec-
trum, Franz Schoenhuber, the leader of
theright wing Republicansin West Ger-

“many, announced that his party will

also pursue reunification as a platform
issue. The former Sergeant of Hitler’s
Waffen SS force also hopes to establish
his party in East Germany so thatitmay
participate in the May elections.

CHINA

After seven months of enforced re-
strictions on students, the Chinese gov-
ernment lifted martial law last week.
U.S, President George Bush hailed this
moveas “a very sound step” in Chinese
policy, but many members of Congress
doubt this change indicates that China
will soon move towards a democratic
government.

Representative William Broomfield
of Michigan said that China has “shifted
oppressioifrom the military to the
police.” Bush’s handling of the Tian-
amen Square incident in June, which
has become a bipartisian issue in the
USS., has lead to much criticism from
congressmen and the press.

In China only a few thousand people
have been allowed to walk through
Tiananmen Square and students say
that lifeismorerelaxed, butnothing has
really changed. With the Asian Games
scheduleled to occur in September, the
Chinese government does not want the
poe to break out again.

“Leftist te ;
posal to have Javier Perez de Cuellar,
the Secretary General of the United
Nations, mediate peace talks between
the rebels and the government that

A recent addition of 20 IBM computers has been made to further integrate
computers into the academic life at Davidson. The computers are housed in
Chambers 337. The room will be reserved during the day for specific classes, then
open to the general student body from 5-11 p.m.

The computers will be linked to the campus-wide VAX computer network with
software and printing resources, but the facility’s greatest use comes from the way
faculty members can use the computers to customize their teaching methods.

With the increased access to computers, more faculty members plan to incorpo-
rate them directly intotheir instruction. The new room’s benefits also include
having an increased number of computers closer to the heart of the campus.

munist party. President Ion Iliescu re-
versed a decree made last week that:
outlawed the party, and announced
that a national referendum will be held
January 28 to decide its fate.

In neighboring Bulgaria, 50,000 anti-
Communist protestors filled the capital
streets of Sofia and called for legislative
elections and for the removal of com-
munist power in the army and the
workplace. The ensuing downfall of
communism in Bulgaria may indicate
that uprisings and protests will soon
break out in Albania, the last Stalinist
state in Eastern Europe.

Improved relations between East and
West Germany have brought unique
developments in the domestic political
arena of both countries. The Social
Democrats, now the largest political
opposition group in East Germany,

would begin in 30 days.

After ten years of war in El Salvador,
negotiations were held in late 1989 but
broken off in November. The war has
aggravated social divisions that caused
the war and many people are now tired,
of the bloodshed. :

In response to the November 16, 1989
murdering of six Jesuit priests ona uni-
versity campus in San Salvador, Presi-
dent Cristiani on Saturday ordered the.
arrest of nine military officers. Cristiani
has been hailed for bringing to justice
those believed to have been involved in
the killings and for ending the immu-
nity of the military to prosecution.

With tension rising in the military and
the government, the first rumors of a
coup in Cristiani’s eight and a half
month rule have begun spreading. The
colonel arrested in connection with the

Speaker on agricultural trade policies to visit

How are agricultural policies linked to economic development in Third World
countries? Gretchen Hall, Education Director of the Trade and Development Pro-
gram, plans toaddress this issue, as well as the status of U.S. agriculture, next week
during her visit to Davidson.

Hall will speak Monday at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. The Dean Rusk program
is sponsoring the event, which was funded by a grant from the W. K. Kellogg

Foundation. announced last week thatif they winthe _ priests was trained by the United States,
national elections in May they will but the U.S. denies any knowledge of
immediately open reunification talks. _ his actions. ea

apartments are cable ready, _If cable were installed, it _make recommendations of

CABLE, from page 1 and it they are not, it would would be an added bonus, needed housing improve-

be a huge financial undertak-
passed, cable would be in-_ ing.
stalled in the dorm lounges _He also stated that it was
and the court houses. The decided before he came to
court houses would be ex- Davidson that the apart-
pected to pay the monthly fee. ments would cost the same
Although Geer mentioned rate as other campus hous-
some requests toinstallcableat ing, since the college did not
the senior apartments, Terry want to create any type of
remains hesitant for several financially varied climate for
reasons. Heisnotsure thatthe students.

making the apartments a
more desirable place while
remaining at the same cost.
In addition the Dean of
Students’ office and resi-
dence life office have ex-
pressed a concern that if
cable were provided stu-
dents may tend toward
more asocial behavior..
Terry said that he will

ments such as lighting reno-
vation and “perhaps” air
conditioning in Duke, in
addition to the cable pro-
posal. The final decisions,
however, will be made by
members of the administra-
tion, namely the Vice Presi-
dent for Financial Affairs, the
Dean’s Office and the Comp-
troller.

