baci March 7, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Monday 6-3.

- Freshman Julie Brewer and the entire women’s
tennis team beat UNC-Ashville Sunday 7-2 but lost
aclose meet against Kenyon College (Ohio) last

In Good Health

Sit up straight just like the dinosaurs

By MARK D. PUCKETT

Big-nosed dinosaurs frequented the
planet a thousand trillion years ago,
and nobody quite knew what to think.
Reptiles with little or no cerebellum
went around kicking over trees and
body-slamming turtles. Pretty soon, the
turtles got reeeall sick of Brontoseenus
and his buddies, but they couldn’t do
anything because whenever the dino-
saurs dropped by the turtle commune,
the turtles had to flee, but not before a
Brontoseenus snatched up one of the
little creatures, placed it on an oak tree
stump and yelled, “Fore!” and whap-
ped the poor turtle into the next Stone
Age with his tail.

Pretty soon, this behavior ceased
because of a bunch of ice which came
out of nowhere. “Everything up and
frozed to death,” said an Egyptian
caveperson who later found the dead
big lizards when they unfroze. “I was
totin’ home a mammoth that I'd kilt for
the missus when all of asuddenI saw a
bunch of dead big lizards that looked
like they’d unfrozed after an apocalyp-
tic ice age or something.”

Nowadays, it seems as if we could
learn something from the dinosaurs.
Take a for instance: the Tyrannosaurs

- Rex. This particular dinosaur was an
upright breed of big reptile. All day
long he walked. around upright; up-

IMACtion

Hags, Hams,

By QUINN McCUTCHEN

Three teamsemerged triumphantlast
Wednesday as the IMAC basketball
tournament came toa close. The victors
were the Little Kings (Mike’s Back), the
Sea Hags and the Cousins.

In men’s B-league action, the Cousins
fought their way through the 16-team,
double-elimination draw withonly one
loss. Their opponent in the finals was
2nd West Ham, whichalso has only one
defeat. In the first championship game,
Ham defeated the Cousins 49 to 32,
helped by outstanding performances
from Barry Grow and Sam Adams. But
the Cousins won when it counted, tak-
ing the rematch 45 to 35.

They got off to a quick start, leading

rightness of posture made him fierce.
But, there was a problem. Standing up
straight all the time took energy. In
short, it burned calories, and Rex found
himself eating more because of it.

FACT THAT I STOLE FROM AN
IDEA FARMER:

1. Sitting up straight in class will burn
calories just like it did. for Rex. It will
also help your posture.

OTHER EVERYDAY THINGS
THAT BURN CALORIES THAT I
GOT FROM A BOOK:

Activity Calories/ Hour
1. Making mountains 500
out of molehills
2. Running around 350
in circles
3. Pushing your luck 250
4. Jumping on the 200

bandwagon

5. Jumping to conclusions 100

6. Beating around the bush 75

7. Turning the other cheek 75

8. Swallowing your pride 50

9. Throwing your weight 50-300
around (depending on
your weight)

10. Pouring salt 50

on the wound
Stolen from The Book of Lists II by Irv-

ing Wallace.

The following are everyday calorie
burners for you, the readerfriend of
the college:

1. Don’t drive to class--ride a bike or
walk. In fact, walk or ride a bike wher-
ever you go on campus or places
nearby.

2. Don’t take the elevator in Chambers-
-use the stairs.

3. Sit up straight in class.

4. When studying for a long period,
stand up and stretch every 20 to 30
minutes and get some water.

5. When you snack, especially late at
night,don’teat heavy, greasy foods. Try
graham crackers, vanilla wafers, Fig
Newtons and ginger snaps with some
lowfat milk. (These are the good cook-
ies).

6. Don’t rub your face when you study

- unless you want your complexion to

turn on you. Keep your dirty mitts off
your face.

7. When you carry your book bag, use
both straps. I’ve heard of college stu-
dents whose spines have bent in half
and broke because they carried their
book. bag on the left shoulder all the
‘time.

8. Nothing—needed something to fill
the last part of the column. —

Next week: nothing.

Little Kings win tourney

33 to 20 at the half, and held on in the
second half thanks to good shooting by
Kevin Burns and Bryan Kirtley. Carry
Stewart led Ham with 15 points.

In the women’s league, the Sea Hags
edged the 3rd Rich POs 43 to 39 to take
the championship. The. faculty team
was led to victory by Leslie Urban’s 14
points, most of which came after
halftime.

The contest wasa very close one, with
the Hags leading 19 to 17 at the half.
Carla Davis paced the POs in scoring
with 10 points.

The Little Kings (aka Mike’s Back)
took the men’s A-league crown, defeat-
ing the All Stars 45 to31. The Hods rode
to victory on the strength of their foul

shooting; 19 of their points came from
the line-'Greg Jones contributed a fine
first-half performance to the Kings, and
Brant Oelschlager scored from the line
and from the field to lead the second-
halfattack. Although no one fouled out,
the All Stars were plagued by foul
trouble, and committed 20.

All Star Allan Thompson explained
the defeat: “the SAE team washitting all
their shots, [and] we were unable to get
the ball to our leading scorer (Chris
Wright). Also, our defense diminished
from the onset.”

The All Stars were led in scoring by
Chuck Brooks.

Tunein next week for softball, volley-
ball and team handball scores.

his

opponent. the past.”

“We haven't had any bad
losses this year. We are 8-5, but
all [of the losses] have either
been close matches or have
been teams we have lost to in

In each of these contests, the
outcome was decided before

Men's tennis wins two out
of three in weekend match

. By ROBERT GRUBB

Freshman Dave “Tony Ran-
dall” Tonidandel sealed a big
win for the Wildcats Monday
witha strong three set win over
Kenyon
Tonidandel, playing in the
number six spot, split the first

Insingles, John Beyer wonall
of his matches over the week-
end. Freshman Albie Varosky
(at number two) and junior
Kurtis Zabell have also been
playing well of late.

The weekend of matches pre-
sented an opportunity for

two sets, but came back witha the doubles matches were — Davidson to show its depth;
vengeance to win the decisive. played. ; Tonidandel, Greg Grooms and
final set 6-3. _ Nonetheless, Davidson Elijah Gowan, all normally
The win on Monday closed a played the doubles for practice limited to doubles action, all
successful weekend for against James Madison and gained singles victories over

- Davidson. The ‘Cats beat Ap- Asheville, taking two of three the weekend. _

_ palachian State 6-0 Friday and from the Dukes and sweeping _ The ‘Cats returned to action
UNC-Asheville5-1 onSunday. UNCA.Frank has been pleased against Belmont Abbey today.
Davidson fell to James Madi- with the doubles play; and is They now get a well deserved
son5-1onSaturday, butCoach especially gratefultohavefour spring break and do not return
Jeff Frank was névertheless solid pairings. _- to action until March 21, when
satisfied with the team’s per “Any time we play in prac- they entertain the Demon Dea-

_ Photo by Tim Dancy formance. tice, it’s a toss-up.” cons of Wake Forest.
