Wednesday, January 31, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

Lucia:
Dear Editors,

We have endured the creation of is-
sues from non-issues in the pages of The
Davidsonian for some time now, and it
has always made us wonder why ex-
actly we must provide a forum for the
instigation of debate. It is indeed an
asset to students to have a venue for

exposition of issues which concern -

them, but it is conversely a liability to
have these spaces filled with some of the
‘journalism’ we have witnessed in the
past. Case in point: the recent articles
from Lucia. Finding out about the ins
and outs of life at PAX is not something
which strikes me as particularly impor-
tant. If it was important to me, I would
have investigated PAX during the pre-
self-selection period, as I and everyone
else was free to do. It is apparent that a

- very small portion of Davidson College”

chose this option, and that the self-se-
lection figures published in the issue of
The Davidsonian reflect the lack of inter-
pst of the student body as a whole.

® It is not my intention to make fun of
the members of PAX or their organiza-
tion, and certainly notitsrecent demise.
It is to point out the folly of such ar-
ticles—consider the same sort of article
written on why I love PiKA or Sig Ep or
Warner Hall. People in these organiza-
tions chose them because they know
about them and like what they know.
People who chose not to join these or-
ganizations have- likely found out
enough about them to know thatitis not
the place for them. I am so happy that
Lucia finds PAX so wonderful. I find
SAE wonderful, albeit probably for dif-

fering reasons, but Ihavenointention of .

_ Soliciting half a page in the newspaper
to convince people who are unfamiliar
with our fraternity that itis such a swell
enterprise. Those who think so have
probably joined our house and those
who do not probably have sought their
eating experience elsewhere.

Then we have militant feminism. I
personally have no problems with the

concept of equal treatment of the sexes,

I also realize that perhaps the biggest
problem which feminism faces is not
the treatment of women in interper-
sonal relationships, but discrimination
in the work placeéand society in general.
Itexists, itis real, and itis wrong. lagree.

ButI really feel that theissueofthenoun

which should be assigned to the female

“Militant Feminism”

gender is a trifle insignificant. Perhaps
if Lucia spent her time petitioning for
the rights of women to participate in
combat, or if she wrote her Congress-
man (or woman) and worked toward
establishing a national cut-off age
where one should call girls women she
might feel that she has helped the
women’s movement a bit more.

Now we get a suggestion that the
simple traditional practice of Home-
coming Queen election is destructive to
the rights of women the world over.
Can you PLEASE find a real issue to
complain about?!? Surely there are
women’s rights issues which stir your
female blood more than homecoming
traditions! The election of a homecom-
ing King reminds me of the Brady
Bunch episode in which one of the boys
(men, actually, and I think it was Greg)
runs for Homecoming King—early
seventies humor at its best. As the
homecoming queens of the past three
years indicate, at least to me, beauty has
nothing to do with being crowned
Queen—it is a popularity contest, pure
and simple, and itcould notbe anything
else, for there are no criteria for selection
other than the popular vote. If you think
that the houses of Patterson Court are
furthering the subjugation of women
through an expression of camaraderie
and spirit for three minutes during a
football game, I can only speculate on
the views you hold concerning real is-

" sués in the women’s rights movement.

If you think the Queen election is so
sexist, I suppose you are also vehe-
mently opposed to the sexist practice of
making professional sports teams all-
male, or the clearly unfair male-only
draft perpetuated by our country’s mili-
tary: after all, if your concern is equal
opportunity and treatment of the sexes,
these issues make our homecoming
festivities pale in comparison.

Nowthatyou have your owncolumn
in our journalistic showcase, how about
writing about issues which really have
impact on the Davidson community? I
am fairly sure that we would all, guys
and girls alike, benefit from such a
change.

Sincerely,
Scott W. Goodwin ‘90

Bill Wood ’90
Tim Hagood ’90

Cut Lucia Loose

Dear Editors,

_ Unfortunately again last. week, The
Davidsonian subjected the student body
to another edition of “Lucia Lets
Loose.” Despite my reluctance to re-

spond to her column for reasons of re- ;
spec ting nex fone ot ouneligmy I feel I

must.

Icertainly did not apply and enroll at
Davidson without the knowledge of the
vast amounts of academic work. After
all, who could forget the oft-rumored
USA Today ranking of Davidson as the
nation’s number 2 workload school?

Nevertheless, I believe that the aca-
demic load does at times interfere with
the extracurricular activities which the
school In the late 1970's and
early 80's, Davidson students were not
only involved in their school activities,
but were genuinely concerned with the
well-being and maintenance of their ex-
tracurricular time. Take for instance the

battle students waged over theremoval

of WDAV from student control. Stu-
dent reaction was visible and zealous;
to no avail, one might say, but at least
they could be involved in the decisions
which affect their years at Davidson.

Today, the caring attitude still exists
with respect of extracurriculars, but not
to the same extent. Too often Davidson
students find that their time isso bound
by academics that they cannot partici-
pate in, say, Union board activities with
full devotion, I do not ask that
Davidson’s academic standards be
lowered—God forbid—but extracur-

ticular activities are very important in.
capturing the Davidson experience. To
have their continued success hindered |

by inordinate amounts of academic
work is a shame.
penienen I have paid Lucia’ scolumn

See GOODRUM, page 12

"| ceremony.

1]

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors

Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Bring back
graduation speakers

espite the preponderance of articles in this issue de-

voted to the subject of rape, the editorial will not ad-

dress that particular concern this week, although
strong feelings do exist on the editor’s part. It is hoped that after _
making inquiries of certain sources, a stronger argument may be
presented.

Instead, let us take’a look at the traditional graduation cere-
mony at Davidson. Having attended two, and soon to attend my
own, it fair to say that lam reasonably justified in making a
suggestion. Especially when I i imagine the memories I would like
to have 20 or 30 years from now.

The present ceremony (if I’m not mistaken) consists of a
prayer, a hymn, a very short farewell and statement of good luck
from the president, and the conferring of degrees. The entire
procedure does not take more than 45 minutes—at the most one
hour.

The most memorable part of the ceremony for graduates is
the moment when they march across the stage to receive their
diploma. That experience should never be denied gnyone after
four or five long years of academic rigor.

I dare suggest that an extra 15 minutes be alloted for a guest
speaker. Such was the tradition in high school, but the point of
this argument is not to return to the one’s youth, when it was
believed that all needed to hear words of wisdom. Many colleges
and universities still exercise that tradition, and Davidson should
at least consider it.

The priority of those attending Davidson's graduation cere-
monies is to hurry—receive the diploma, take pictures and get
out of the sun and those uncomfortable clothes. Fifteen minutes.
longer would not make that much more difference.

An inspirational speaker can do a lot for a graduate unsure
about his future, or anyone else for that matter. Davidson needs
to add that particular component—someone who can present a
theme with power, conviction and eloquence, someone who will

| deliver a challenge that would inspire all to act, someone who

will not simply tell anecdotes, but instead address realities that
need to be faced. A speaker of such skill will always be remem-
bered.

Ihave heard such speakers, and it has been well worth the
extra 30 minutes. Surely Davidson can allot 15. Then I am sure to
remember my graduation from college as more than a hurried

—m.m.

