Learning to appreciate those s

By JESSICA THURBEE

Almost everybody at Davidson has
some experience with an A.T. For some
students, it is a pleasant experience.
Other students may consider making
voodoo dolls of their A.T.s. An A.T.,
otherwise known as an assistant or ap-
prentice teacher, conducts sessions
designed to help students develop their
foreign language skills. Depending on
the class, A.T.s meet with students be-
tween one and four times a week.

A.T.s are chosen the weekend before
school starts. Students are told about
auditions either by professors or by let-
ter. The weekend begins with a work-
shop in which the students are given
talks on effective teaching methods, as
well as pointers on how to plan and
conduct a session.

At the end of the workshop, the stu-
dents write down what classes they
would like to be an A.T. for. Then, the
students are separated by language.
They audition by performing a mock

A.T. session-for the professors. The
professors then choose the students
they want for their classes, with best
students usually getting their first
choice for class. A.T.s are paid $4 per
hourand for every hour they teach, they
are paid another two hours for prepara-
tion.

The amount of experience each A.T.
has varies; some started to learn a for-
eign language in college, while others
have been speaking a language for as
long asten years. One need not majorin
a foreign language in order to bean A.T.
The important prerequisites for an A.T.
are good speaking skills, a good accent,
and a firm grasp on the grammar of the
language.

I talked to several A.T.s who gave a
variety of reasons for participating in
the program. David Shields, who
teaches second semester Spanish this
term, feels that, “It’s a good way to
review the language and a great excuse
to get up in front of people and act like

a ham!” He also mentioned that he
thought it would be fun and didn’t
know about the money until after he
had applied.

Katie Morrill is an A.T. for the second
semester of intensive French this term.
She decided to be an A.T. because, “It
seemed like a good way to keep up my
languageskills, have fun,and meetnew
people.” According to Morrill, on the
average, it takes anywhere from thirty
minutes to an hour to prepare for a
lesson. “Sometimes, though, it can take
longer than that; it just depends upon
the lesson that you need to prepare.”

David Thompson received a letter
over the summer inviting him to try out.
Heisan A.T. for German 102 this semes-
ter. Thompson chose to audition be-
cause he thought it would be a good ex-
perience and the extra money would be
nice. Also, he is interested in a teaching
career and this was a good way to get
some practical experience in that area.

Jason Budde isan A.T. for French 201

Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

mart A.I.s

this term. According to Budde, “We
[A.T.s] have a lot of room in regard to
how we conduct our sessions.” A.T.s
know. their professor’s syllabus, and
they are expected to follow the work-
book. However, it is up to the individ-
ual A.T.s to decide the most effective
method for helping their students.

The professors vary on what they tell
the A.T.s to do: some give them details
about what they want done in the ses-
sion, while others just turn the A.T.s
loose. Jason uses situations and scenar-
ios to help his students; he focuses on
conversation. He feels this technique
helps the most because it forces the stu-
dent to utilize tenses, vocabulary and
makes them think in the language.

The most important thing about an
A.T., though, isthathe or she is there for
the students. All the A.T.s interviewed
agreed thatitisa good experience and a
good feeling to know that they are help-
ing others to understand another lan-

guage.

(Black history month continues

Joseph Albright, president of Johnson C. S
speaker at 11th Hour last week. Said Albright, the changing demography of
America necessitates that society accommodate the needs and cultural contri-
bution of ethnic minorities, as it is predicted that by the year 2000 the latter
will comprise over 1/3 of the total U.S. population. Albright also shared some
insights from his trip to South Africa recently.

a]

mith University, was the guest

Photo courtesy of College Relations

J.C.S.U Pres. says colleges must meet new needs of
society; forum discusses “Do the Right Thing”

ea

At the forum “What Is The Right Thing” Monday, discussion about integration
led Charles Brooks ’93 to explain that Davidson's social scene offers limited

opportunities for him. He also expressed his frustration with the campus’ un-
willingness to consider the establishment of a historically black fraternity.

>

Photo by Paige Hall

Students tell of their winter blahs

By KIM MUNSTERMAN and
VIRGINIA MISCHEN
With the winter holidays buta distant
blur in the past, and spring break an
equally evasive event in the remote
future, Davidson students have settled
into perhaps the longest 60 days ever
experienced by college students. On a

chilly January evening in the E.H. Little
Library, we interviewed students about
their winter blahs: —

Tom Tolbert ’90: “I wait a few days
until it gets to be 70 degrees again.”

Jackie Carberry ‘92: “I try to get out
and stay active, or get off campus every
once in a while for dinner or a movie.”

Kearns Davis 91: “I eat a lot.”

David Taylor’91:"1 dofun things like
sitting around. in my room, and if I’m
feeling especially wild, I even come to
the library and study.”

Betsey Bryan ‘90 and Laurie
Crawford ’90: “Plan for spring break!”

Stacy Rooker ’92: “I like to review

a,

and revise my notes from last semester.
I don’t get out much.”

Greg Robinson -’91: “Hot tea, long
underwear and warm fires.”

George Lipscomb 90: “Watch ‘The
Simpsons.”

Lee Canipe’92: “I don’t get the winter
blahs.”
