Wednesday February 7, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN 1]
¢ >
A moving drama written from actual narratives recounts the years of slavery through EMANCIPATION. Take
yourself back to the 1930’s to the Virginia Old Folks Home for the Colored. You will hear the tales and tribulations

of the elderly—spry and sprite. It could be any old folk’s home. . . you will delight in the stories.
NS Y,
Cornelius.
GERMAN BIER, from page 10 On the whole, however, Charlotte’s

In terms of production and market-
ing, there is no German equivalent to
our Budweiser. Instead, there are hun-
dreds of microbreweries across the
country, each brewing its own brand of
beer. Beck’s, described by Fischer as “an
average German beer,” is about as
common in Germany as. Bud is in
America, but no further parallel can be
drawn between the two.

St. Pauli Girl, named after the Ham-
burg Red Light district, is rarely seen in
Germany. Lowenbrau is the type of
beer available at a gas station on Sun-
day.

All of the beers tasted this week can be
purchased at Belk of Southpark and
La’Mart Deli and Wines on Sharon
Amity. Spaten, one of our favorites, is
also’sold locally at Tastefully Yours in

selection of German beer has been low
lately. Southpark Belk’s beer guy attrib-
uted this to “the German debacle.”
Apparently someone associated with
one of Charlotte’s German restaurants
was nabbed for bootlegging large quan-
tities of German beer across multiple
state lines by the ABC officials. As a
direct result, the ABC board has been
monitoring the importation of German
beer very closely. -

Next week Dr. Robin Barnes, Kris
Rengel ‘90 and German student Sonja
Fecher will join me in tasting the bal-
ance of.the German beers currently
available in the Charlotte market. »

This column is written out of the concern -
that in a quest for quantities of beer, people
too often overlook its quality.

Invitations are our
Candelabras specialty.

Accessories

Consignment 892-9129
Gowns » Town Square

Directing & Cornelius
other services

M-F 10-6; Sat. 10-4

