Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

3
Sb cs =) 1
~~) Phi Beta Kappa
a bers listed
New Phi Beta Kappa members were chosen February 12,
nal cures. all, he said. : ine:
He went on to cite an ex- He added that the existing 1990. Congratulations to the following:
ample of current research, the _ healthcare programs need to Andrew John Addison Sarah Kristin S. Johnson
a vite inate that be pak Se to i aramee Brian Henry Asbill Elizabeth Allen Kennedy
ions of dollars spent on _ on the above issues and a Hi
HinisHaesloping sich ” to'cil Gamers bo that Weak Stephen Wesley Bayles Kent Williams Kercher
an implement which would be may be useful to those who Mary Gretchen Beal Krista Lee Kirk
beyond the reach of average need it most. Continuing in | David Wilkinson Bell, IV Habib George Kurani
| man anyway, would be better this vein, Callahaninformed | Mathijs Henri Brentjens Joseph Girard
: es and the audience that the pro | — Eyi7abeth Carey Bryan Louderback, IV
| Paes soy of programs gram was direly short on : y wry Cas
E ring theimportanceof fundsand some very crucial’ Kevin Lee Burns Hasan Ahmed Malik
et pigsicat exercise, the dangers. decisions were being consid- Michael Bain Butcher Kirsten Elisa Morrill
: of cholesterol, pid re nee cr ered, namely that of whether Julie Lynn Earles Patrick Shannon Mullen
na Mrs ae deg John Haden Eckbert William Bruce Newsome
ese basis ‘of ee such that | Stephanie Layne Fannin Ann Fowler Omura
ae e being m Marion Boyd Gillespie Jennifer Lanier Payne
a _valuable to society would be Ajita Grewal Sarah Elizabeth Powell
the oc “re "eee ee dase oe pa ; Therese Marie Gyauch Donald Joel Snell, Jr.
a general qualit ofa better - Benefits were co Virginia Childs Hall Thomas Ross Tolbert
instead of worrying about ex- also ‘sa Warren Tracy Hankins Sarah Elizabeth
_ tending on it Henry Lytle Harrell, II Whitesell
Douglas Alan Hicks Mary Adair Woodall
Katherine Janice Janiec Stephanie E. Wyatt

Plans for the new art complex on drawing board;

ground breaking slated for summer/fall

By KATHERINE COOKE

Plans are underway for the new vis-
ual arts building, and construction will
begin sometime in the late summer or
early fall. As part of the Campaign for
Davidson, this facility will be a major
improvement for the visual arts depart-
ment, whichcurrently occupiesa part of
Cunningham Fine Arts building. -

The present facilities are very inade-
quate. Offices for five professors are
crammed intoa space originally meant

Central American Week

for one professor.

According to art professor Herb
Jackson, offices were created out of coat
and broom closets. “We've. simply
adapted to the space we had,” Jackson
stated.

With the new facility, the only adapt-_

ing tobe done willbe to the change from
occupying 5,000 square feet to occupy-
ing upwards of 40,000.

The structure will not be huge, but it
will house only the visual arts depart-

Forums to address
elections, human rights_

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

In response to the significant devel-
opments in Central America, the Dean
Rusk Program is sponsoring Central
America Week--a symposium aimed at
raising the awareness of the region’s
dynamics. Targeting students, faculty,
and the community, the week long.
exchange of ideas commenced on the 21
of February and features a line up of
- distinguished speakers.

The program intends to explore the
distinguishing aspects of Central
America through a series of lectures,
films and discussions, and coincides
with a momentous event in Nicaragua-
-the upcoming elections on Sunday,
February 25th.

The trio of speakers brings a vast
amount of experience and perspective .
to the podium. Miguel Bernal was ban-

ished from Panama in 1987, founded an
opposition newspaper, wasa Fulbright
Scholar and taughtat Davidson. Wayne
Smith has 25 years of experience with
the State Department and was former

Chief of Missions at the U.S. Interests

Section in Havana, Cuba: And Arturo
Cruz, Jr.’s encounters with both politi-
cal polesin Nicaragua will shed lighton
the elections.

The symposium’s program ranges
from political and religious issues to
social and cultural. Junior Wendy
Dunn, whoischiefly responsible for the
symposium’s conception, believes a
comprehensive approach to Central
America “allows a broader range of
perspective from which to formulate
ideas,” and hopes that some of the
“ignorance in matters taking place in
our own hemisphere,” will dissolve.

ment. This will not only beanexpansion
for that department, but also for the
theater and music departments, who
will move into the vacated space in
Cunningham.

Itisexpected that thisnew facility will
attract more prospective art majors to
Davidson. Jackson cited as an example
Furman University, where the appli-
cant pool doubled asa resultofa new art
facility.

Jackson also believes ‘that the ex-

panded resources will entice more cur-
rent students to enroll in art courses.
Classes currently fill up easily, but with
the expansion in physical size will come
a faculty expansion in the form of one
more professor who will teach sculp-
ture and drawing. Asa result, there will
be. more lower-level courses offered.

Jackson is hopeful thatif construction
begins late next summer or early next
fall, the facility will be available for use
by the first semester of 1991.

SGA Category III
Election Results

SGA President—Doug Jobe
SGA V.P.—Kristi Kessler
CCRL—Ellen Crawford, Anthony Foxx

Student Conduct Council—
Marjorie Havinghurst, Gigi Cooke

Review Board—Doug Long

Sophomore Honor Council—
Erin Lee, Anthony Foxx, Matt Bumstead

Junior Honor Council—
Mimi Plauche, garan Nall, Lee Canipe

Schedule of Events
Mon2/26 . 4:00p.m.900Room _Central American Regugee
; A Human Rights Perspective.
‘8:00 p.m.900Room —__ Dr. Wayne Smith, Former Chief of
MissionU.S. Interests Section in Cuba
Tues 2/27 11 am.900Room Worship: Focus on Central America
7:30 p.m.900Room Mr. Arturo Cruz, Jr. .

Why Elections in Nicaragua?

Wed 2/28 4 pete MorrisonRoom John Eckbert, Wendy Dunn

Slide Presentation of Student Experi
ences in Nicaragua
7:30 p.m. Morrison Rm Panel: Profs. Kaylor, Johnsonand Shaw

Senior Honor eine
Margaret Carroll, LaClaire Williams,

Kearns Davis, Fernando Leyva

