Wednesday, February 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kappa Alpha thanked

Dear Editor, _ _ who was the liason for the Grounds de-
partment and Irvin Brawley who over-
saw the project. Thanks for a job well

done.

The athletic department and the soc-
cer teams would like to thank the
pledge class of the Kappa Alpha frater-
nity for the path that they built from the
Baker Sports Complex to the soccer
field. Additional thanks should be di-
rected to Scott Zucker who headed the
project for the fraternity, Paul Pergiel

Weight room hours still a
problem

Sincerely,

Sterling Martin
Diane Boettcher
Charlie Slagle

Dear Editor,
times when one was actually on duty.
This problem seems only to be getting
worse as the days go by. I understand
weare ina transition stage between the
two sports buildings, yet there must be
something logical that can be done
during this period.

I feel this whole situation is extremely
ironic for a school that appears to be
increasing its health and athletic con-
sciousness. There seems to be acommu-
nication problem between the Union
and the athletic department on exactly
what occurs in Johnston gym. There is
no excuse for this, and I sincerely hope
that someone can find the time to solve

. what is a simple problem compared to

. the many other dilemmas this school
encounters. :

For the past four years, I haveused the
Johnston gym weight-room basically at
any time and on any day of the week.
Unfortunately, however, now that we
have a several million dollar Baker
Sports Complex, not only have the
hours of the Johnston gym weight-
room been drastically reduced, but re-
cently, even those hours which are
specified for student use are not always
available.

Last Sunday afternoon, I waited pa-
tiently for the weight-room to open offi-
cially for student use only to be in-
formed that, without the work study
student on duty (who had neglected to
show up), I could not use the equip-
ment. This was despite the fact that
three track members and their coach
were already using the equipment
(behind’a locked door).

In the past four years, the number of
* times I have lifted without a work study

Sincerely,

Karen S. Marston ’90

“Mark, women "sweat" also
Dear Editor, have you neglected to mention us in an
article?

I do not ask you for praise for taking
care of our bodies Mr. Puckett. I do not
believe it necessitates praise. I do, how-
ever, hope that in the future, when this
campus is depicted as one whose stu-
dents have “ceased to care for them-
selves” physically, the Davidson Com-
munity will be aware that thereare both
women and men who “sweat” -- we are
just not as vocal about it as you, Mr.
Puckett.

Tobe honest, Mr. Puckett, Ihave been
offended by your column, “In Good.
Health.” I realize this is a purpose of
your articles which has been ade-
quately accomplished; however, I am
still compelled to respond.

Your failure to recognize those
Davidson women who take care of their
bodies regularly and “sweat,” as youso
descriptively expressed it, has been a
severe oversight on your part. I am cer-
tain you must catch a glimpse of us in

student present far out number the

15

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor

Heath Hardage, Features Editor Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Administration is
cause of court boycott

ast night an important component of athletics was absent

at the basketball game. For the second week, Davidson’s

cheerleaders boycotted the game. Last week they simply

didn’t cheer at timeouts. This week they didn’t show up
at all.

Their absense is a sad commentary on the kind of support they
are receiving from the college, particularly the athletics depart-
ment. It seems that the promises made last year have only been
half realized and in their frustration the cheerleaders chose to
protest. While they’ve gotten new uniforms, it is about the only
visible change in what the school has done for them. Their at-
tempts at improving the quality and repertoire of the squad have

‘come to nothing, they say. In particular, having to fight to perform
during one’s own halftime demonstrates a lack of consideration
on the part of those who invite outsiders to entertain spectators.
All halftimes were planned in advance without consultation of the
cheerleaders. Whatever ideas the squad may have are being ig-
nored and hours of practice have proven to be futile.

_ Last week some cheefleaders were crying after weeks of frustra-
tion and talks with athletics officials, who seemed to give them the
run around about why they couldn’t perform.

Such a situation is inconsiderate, absurd and uncalled for. It is
ironic that a group which is committed to cheering our teams
when not many others do, is being slighted. Most institutions give
priority to their own squads at athletic events. Ours are not con-
sulted nor supported, While Davidson students have noticed the
improvement in the squad, no respect is being accorded them by
the administration.

’ The basketball season ends Saturday. Most members of the _
squad say that they will not cheer next year. Davidson needs to
shape up or else in the fall it will be wondering again why it’s so
hard to form a cheerleading squad. | —m.m.

roads, in the pool, and emerging from
aerobic classes. | assume you spenda > :
great deal of time in these places. Why Kristi Calhoun ‘90

Someone hold Lucia’ s hand

odious to her. My heart and sympathy
go out to this tormented girl.

I can only hope that when Lucia’s
latestcrisis hits her next week, that there
will be a person there to hold her hand
. .. so that she

paper.

Sincerely, —

Dear Editors,

Pity poor Lucia Kendall. What a ter-
rible existence she must have in this
world, which simply is not much have
in this world, which simply is not good
enough for her. I feel for her. I sit,
fraught with emotion, every timeI read
her plaintive, impassioned cries in The
Davidsonian , hoping that somehow the

world might become something less Thomas W. Grant '91

gym hours, Mark or Lucia _
send your letters to: Box 219 ~

The Davidsonian ;

y,

might not put pen to

“Whether you want to write about)

