6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 , 1990

A New Challenge for

the SGA

Doug Jobe '91 and Lori Rockett '91

Each new year provides anew focus and

challenge for the SGA. This year is no
different. However, this summer has brought
many changes to our campus which the
SGA must consider and work with.
The SGA has already compiled a list of
many of the changes on campus. We feel
the students should understand the changes
and be aware of ideas for future improve-
ments. In the long run, these changes will
benefit us by providing a better environment
in which to live.

Security. Probably the most noticeable
change on campus is the revamped security
office. As most students know, past SGA
administrations worked hard to improve the
police force. Our new police chief, Ray
Thrower, is working diligently to give us the
best security possible. I urge people to
respect the new security laws and be patient
with its ideals.

Ray Thrower is attempting to establish
a uniform pattern to parking that we have
never had before. All cars willbe towed that
are not in legal spots so I strongly suggest
everyone examines the map which shows all
the parking areas. They have been so strict
because they want to set a pattern now that
will eliminate the illegal problem quickly. It
seems to be working quite well. The number
of tows is declining daily as students begin
to understand the new system. The SGA
will be working closely with Chief Thrower
to suggesta few modifications in his system,
such as parking for cooks, along with work-
ing to increase parking spaces and lighting
in these areas.

Several other parking cc concerns include:
the visitor section in the parking lot behind
Lingle Manor, 2 hr. parking on Concord Rd.
(effective in a week or two), and parking
appeals.

In order to address these concerns, the
visitor parking behind Lingle will be moni-
tored to assess the need for it; the town of

Davidson will be contacted to work out a

compromise concerning infirmary parking;
and a Parking Appeals Committee will be
set up by Thrower to be composed of a staff
member, a faculty member, and a student to
discuss appeals on parking tickets. Chief
Thrower wants to hear student feedback

-about-the-police-force-and-its-system—so—

please pass along your opinions.

The escort service is in working order.

The officers are trying to promise a return
time of two to three minutes. Students need
toutilize this new service to its full potential.
It is there for our benefit, so utilize it. Call
892-5131.
Several SGA plans in the future are to in-
crease the campus lighting and to work on
installing more emergency phones through-
out the campus.

Education Policy. Minus grades will be
implemented in the Fall of 91. However,
there will be more time for discussion on its
implementation. There have been sugges-
tions for more forums and to have each
department discuss the implementation
procedures amongst itself with at least one
student who is majoring in that department
to also be included in the discussion.

The semester length will also be discussed
this year so look for some forums on this

issue during the next few months.
Residence Life Although we do not have
cable TV yet, it definitely appears to be on
the horizon. The Environmental Action
Committee is still pushing for the construc-
tion of kiosks and should be successful in
the near future.

Due to the new policy on lofts (3 feet from
ceiling to head) the RLO is looking for new
ways to create space without creating a
hazard. A committee is being formed made
up of 2 freshmen, 2 sophomores, and 2
juniors to discuss and suggest new changes
for the dorms.

If interested in serving on this commit-
tee please sign up in the residence life office
or call Doug Jobe -6635. Many things to be
considered in the future are new dorm loca-
tions and renovations of present dorms.
Student Health Center. This area of campus
has also undergone many changes. Fore-
most, students may now make appointments
to see the nurse practitioner. Also, a doctor
will always be on call at 4 pm each day.
Student confidentiality is now guaranteed.
Plus, Georgia Ringle is now serving as a
health counselor to beaconfidant and source
of information concerning student’s health
concerns.

The Student Health Options Commit-

tee, which is an advisory committee to the
Health Center, needs interested people to
serve on its board. If you are interested
please talk Dean Leslie Marsicano. We are
also looking into obtaining special parking
permits for sick students to be administered
by the nurses in order to avoid towing by the
Davidson police.
Condoms They are now also available, free
of charge, in the First Aid boxes in all
residence halls. The present Davidson
condoms are the same condoms used by
Planned Parenthood. Even though these
condoms have a 2 year expiration, the
administration will be throwing away the
condoms at end of each term in order to
preserve their quality. We strongly urge the
students not to abuse the privilege of having
these condoms.

The SGA Needs Student Involvement
in Committees
The SGA is comprised of committed indi-
viduals who want to represent the views of
their segments on campus. This commit-
ment includes everyone on campus because

the SGA looks to its-constituents-for-ideas,

Cure the Keg: The Real Problems

Benji Ormand ‘91

A slight tremor has been felt recently in
the hallowed hills of Patterson Court, one
which indicates an illness in Davidson’s
finest social outlet. There is a movement
afoot to ban kegs from Patterson Court.
Bring-Your-Own for all Court parties. I
think this is a bad idea.

If you are reading this wondering why
the trustees and the administration would
consider such a drastic and terrible act, let
me fill you in.

Last spring, a group of rambunctious
youths was participating in a pseudo-affili-

ated Patterson Court social event and drank ~

a little too much. Ambulances were neces-
sary, and near death was involved. As you
might imagine, when Davidson alumni
turned on their televisions in Charlotte that
evening and saw a story about a party gone
astray, concern was expressed. They were
displeased. Go figure.

The problem on Patterson Court
is not the availability of alcohol,
even in large quantities, but the
lack of responsible drinking
among Court party participants.

The result: the college administrators
have decided that if Patterson court can not
regulate itself well enough to prevent trag-
edy, then they will address the source of the
problem. Remove the kegs, remove the
problem.

I do not believe that such an action will
ultimately cure the illness they are trying to
remedy. I believe that banning kegs is like
treating the symptom rather than the actual
malady. The problem on Patterson Court is
not the availability of alcohol, even in large
quantities, but rather the lack of responsible
drinking among Court party participants.

There was drinking on campus even
when Davidson was alcohol-free, and there

to Solve on Patterson Court

will always be drinking on this campus, be
itexposed or hidden. Banning will solve the
short range problems like the college’s lia-
bility in the event of an accident and vandal-
ism associated with drunken exploits. But it
will not address what I feel are the more
serious problems associated with drinking
like alcoholism, date-rape, or driving while
impaired.

If common containers are banned on
campus, there will still be no limit to the
amount available to those with an open
pocket. It won’tcurb the amount consumed.
Infact, some of the houses this past weekend
demonstrated this, serving cans of beer in-
stead of cups from a keg. It was simply a dif-
ference in price, not in the quantity pro-
vided.

Furthermore, I would really hate to see
the drinking games moved onto the road-
ways where the police and the telephone
poles are less forgiving. If Patterson Court
dries up, then roadblocks be damned, more
people are going to be driving to get alcohol,
some of whom will not even be in suitable
condition to drink let alone drive. I have
always felt comfortable at a court party
knowing no matter how irresponsible I act
(and I too have succumbed to the siren song
of stupidity), at least I can walk home and
spare others the repercussions of my fool-
ishness.

Admittedly, Patterson Court’s alcohol
policy is not a sure fire defense against
tragedy. Unless we as students decide to
behave responsibly, there isnodefense which
will prevent disaster. Somehow, the very
real drinking problem that existson this
campus needs to be addressed. This childish
obsession with drinking needs to be cor-
rected. The role of alcohol as a social lubri-
cant and source of entertainment needs to be
changed. A ban on kegs, while solving some
problems, would simply replace the loom-
ing specter of liability with the demon of
DWI. The rest of the problems will go un-
touched.

Benjamin Ormand is a senior English
major from i hea N.C .

criticisms, and for support.

So, read the SGA minutes, know what is
happening on campus, and give your opin-
ions on the issues to your SGA representa-
tive: We want to represent you but we need

your support and input to do our job effec--

tively.

One way everyone can get involved is
through the SGA committees. The sign-ups
begin in the Union conversation piton Sept.
6th andend Sept. 14th. The committees are:
Campus Services and Facilities, Campus
Security and Parking, Solidarity Commit-
tee, SGA Phonathon Committee, Charters
and Bylaws, Trustee Contact, Athletics Com-
mittee, Faculty-Student Social, SGA Week-
end Committee, Rides Committee, Leader-
ship Training, Career Symposium Commit-
tee, and the Public Relations Committee,

Doug Jobe is President of the SGA and Lori
Rockett is Chancellor of the SGA.

: Recycle this Davidsonian

