Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Thursday, January 18, 1990

(— .
Lucia lets loose

Lucia Kendall

If anyone can come up with a compelling argu-
ment for Davidson supporting anelectionin which
students compete against each other on the basis of
what they look like instead of what they have
accomplished, Iam more than willing tolisten toit.
The only argument that I have ever heard in favor
of keeping the election of homecoming queens is
tradition. Incontrast tomany people’s stereotypes
of feminists, I am not against everything that has to
do with societal traditions. Graduation, for ex-
ample, isa tradition that I greatly look forward to.

Any election which excludes competitors on the
basis of their gender seems suspicious, however.
For those whobelieve that the annual homecoming,
elections are truly worthy events that Davidson
ought to continue holding, I propose that we in-
clude men also—electing a homecoming king as
wellasa homecoming queen. If itis actually a great
honor, then there must be men out there who have
been secretly longing for the opportunity to smash
down the gender barriers and have a shot at wear-
ing that crown and holding those roses. If we
granted them this opportunity then nobody could
accuse us of discrimination.

On the other hand, there are those who believe
that homecoming elections are a dumb idea in the
first place, and instead of having men participatein
them too, we should probably just scrap the whole
thing.

L The reason they are a dumb idea is that people

are supposed to be rewarded for their achievements,
not for whether they happen to have long eyelashes
and rosy cheeks. Although the precise criteria by
which the homecoming court is chosen have not been
articulated, beauty is normally considered a main
factor.

Now, Idon’thave anything against beauty. Nordo

I think that the women who participated in the home-
coming elections are just a bunch of bubble-headed
campus bunnies who don’t care about anything be-
yond their cellulite on their thighs and whether their
mascara will smudge. On the contrary, I have found
every one of them to be articulate, friendly, talented
and especially intellectually sharp.
- Thatis precisely why I think homecoming elections
are not valuable: these students should be applauded
more for being really cool people than for being pretty
people; they should get more recognition for earning
a 3.8 G.P.A. than having a body with 38-26-38 meas-
urements. If even a place which values learning as
much as Davidson does will not challenge our soci-
ety’s ideas of what is valued in a woman, then we are
only encouraging our women students to become
Vanna Whites instead of rocket scientists.

Other elections held on the campus are held to find
the most capable person to doa job. A homecoming
queen, by contrast, is not elected to do anything. She
standsin front ofa crowd, gets applauded and has her
picture taken. Despite the fact that Brooke Shields has
managed to make a career out of doing that, iti is nota

job.

The issue of valuing appearance does not involve
women’s appearance only. Sure, based onappearance
only, I would much rather spend a romantic evening

Queens here at Davidson College?

in the embrace of Kevin Costner than in the em-
brace of Pee-Wee Herman. Nevertheless,
throughout history it is women who have been
treated as objects whose purpose in life was to
please men.

One of the most obvious ways for them to do
this was to look appealing tomen. Therearemany
examples of this tendency: one Davidson senior
had a grandmother who told her, “Once you get
those braces off your teeth you'll be pretty enough
to marry a doctor.” The implications of trying to
achieve success by being pretty enough to be
wanted by a successful man are clear.

While getting rid of homecoming queen elec-
tions certainly will not get rid of the tendency to
consider women’s value according to the color of
their hair or the shape of their bodies, or the
tendency to treat them as objects rather than
people, it will indicate that the institution of
Davidson College does not support or condone
this degradation.

The practice of electing a homecoming queen as
it now stands has no defenses against being ac-
cused of sexism. Therefore we need to decide
whether we want to (A) keep homecoming elec-
tions as they are and ignore the accusations of
sexism, (B) continue holding these contests and
elect both a queen and a king, or (C) just ditch the
whole election and get on with the football game.

Lucia Kendall is a senior Engitsii) major from Pitts
burgh, PA. Her commentary will appear weekly in the...
opinions section this semester. i

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and
commentaries from its readers. The
editors will attempt to print all opin-

Opinions Policy

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for
content or for style, but for the rules of
English grammar only.

FAT RIGW,
LIVE LONG AND

PROSPER.

ions thatadhere to the following guide-
lines:

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in
length. The editors reserve the right to
edit and/or condense any letter.

_© The editors reserve the right not to

print submissions which contain factual
errors, advertisements, or objectionable
material, or which representa viewpoint
very similar to other letters printed
dealing with the same topic.
e All submissions should include the
author’s address and phone number.
Submissions to the “Commentaries”
section should include the following
information: the author’s home city and
state, graduating class, and major field of
study (or profession).

e All submissions should deal with
subjects of interest to the campus
community.

© Submissions must be neatly typed or
legibly hand-written. The editors will
also accept work submitted on 5.25” or
3.5” IBM-formatted diskettes (and,
truth be told, we’re partial to them).

e All submissions must. be
signed.Writers must present the edi-
tors with compelling reasons if they do
not wish their names printed with their
work.

EATING RIGHT IS HIGHLY LOGICAL.

Recommendations:

Eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits,
vegetables, and whole grain products. Eat fewer
‘high-fat foods. Maintain normal body weight.
And live long and prosper.

CALL THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY -
AT 1-800-ACS-2345 FOR FREE
NUTRITION INFORMATION.

