6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

JAY J. CHAUDHURI, Editor-in-Chief
MARK D. PUCKETT, Executive Editor
a

GIRISH GVALANI, News Editor
DAVIDSCOTT, Opinions Editor
HEATH HARDAGE, Features Editor
DOUG GIBSON, Inside Art Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ED MATTHEWS, Photography Editor
a

The Dabidsontan

MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager

Founded in 1914 BILL SCOUTEN, Advertising Manager

Tearing Down Trees for Tennis

Cutting down the pine trees above the tennis courts seems ironic in that
the removal occurred so close to the celebration of Earth Week. It is some
solace that a “short growing hedge” will replace the trees, though the feeling
of loss cannot be fully assuaged. Should fifteen-year-old trees be replaced
because of the undesirable shading they create for tennis players? What is
undesirable shading anyway?

Perhaps the students should have been informed since it is certain that
some might have objected. Even if no objections were to arise, why couldn’t
the administration let the students know what was happening in any case?
There is much change in the college now, which makes Davidson’s snug mi-
crocosm perpetually less snug. We should, however, ask which changes are
paramount to our benefit. And which are not. The cutting down of trees with
the environment in its present state neither seems necessary, nor prudent.

{

Number Zero

The SGA president does not draw a number in the housing lottery |

because he is given a number: number zero. According to Director Richard
Terry in the Residence Life Office, “It’s always been that way.” The
practice, therefore, is some sort of tradition, a tradition that dictates practice
without reason. Can it be said that the student president’s work entails more
than the job of the Union President or that of the editors of Quips and Cranks
and The Davidsonian?

If being SGA president necessitates high visibility on campus, then the
necessity is understood. But last year’s president used his number for an
apartment as did this year’s. How much ofa “high visibility” living situation
is an apartment which is set off from the normal campus?

However, the president is not at fault, for anyone given such a number
would use the number for the best place to live--in this case, the apartments.
But when the only impetus for a practice is an outdated unknown tradition,
the tradition should necessarily end. -mp.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its readers.- The editors will attempt to
print all opinions that adhere to the following guidelines. All submissions should deal with subjects
of interest to the campus. Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written. The editors will
also accept work submitted on5.25" or 3.5" IBM or Macintosh-formatted diskettes. All submissions
must be signed. Writers must present the editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work. The staff will not edit commmentaries for content or for style, but for
the rules of English grammar only. Letters should be under two hundred in words in length. The
editors reserve the right to edit and/ or condense any letter. The editors reserve the right not to print
submissions which contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable material, or which
represents a viewpoint very similar -to other letters printed dealing with the same topic. All

submissions should include the author's home city and state, graduating class, andmajor fee of study
(or profession).

‘Write for Opinions
We know most students are
Care to write a column next year?
Sign up at Dean's office beginning
next week, April 16 - 20.

Opinions

Swanson Sparks Earth Day

Awareness: Just Do It

Studies are just being done and -

John Swanson '93

I am atroubled person. I’m
angry at myself, and at the rest
of our world. Just today I heard
that 200,000 gallons of crude
oil were spilled in the Allegheny
River, near Pittsburgh, PA.
Residents of this city-on-the-
move now have to find alterna-
tive water supplies in order to
avoid the contamination so
carelessly dumped upon them
by the irresponsible, monolithic
oil companies that have man-
aged to lobby for bills that
benefit their interests at the
expense of those people like us.
Of course, it is all too easy to
pass this incident off with the
rationalization that “There’s
nothing that I can do, and be-
sides, Pittsburghisn’t my back-
yard.”

This defeatist attitude is too
deeply ingrained in the Ameri-
can way of thought. Our “‘throw-
away culture," spawned by such

“technological “advances” as

McDonald’s and frozen food
TV dinners during the 1950’s,
grew exponentially during the
1970's ‘“‘Me-Decade” which so
unfortunately emphasized the
quick-fix mentality that haunts
us today. So here we are on the
brink of a new decade, a year
after the horrible Exxon Valdez

oil spill-irreparably damaged
Alaska’s once pristine wilder- |

ness. As an avid outdoorsman,
I am appalled. As a human
being, Iam sickened that Exxon
has so far gotten off as lightly as
it has. No fine in terms of dol-
lars and cents will ever make
amends for the immense de-
struction caused by this tragic
human error.

More bad news, folks. I am
sure many of you have discov-
ered the unique retreat offered
by the Appalachian mountains

‘innorthwestern North Carolina,

only two hours away fromcozy
Davidson. Mount Mitchell, the
East Coast’s tallest peak, is

gravely threatened byextensive _
deforestation due to acid rain.

the numbers are now rolling in.
It is clear that sulfur precipi-
tates all along the Eastern U.S.
are destroying the trees at higher
elevations which provide: our
planet with vital oxygen. Yet,
thereis relatively inconsequen-
tial federal funding for alterna-
tive energy sources suchas solar
power, due to the powerful pro-
industrial lobbies funded by
large chemical and oil compa-
nies. The splendid retreat of
Mount Mitchell may not be here
in ten years. Again, we ask,
“What can I do?”

I could go on and on with
these alarming facts, but my
purpose is not to list all these
problems. Rather, I want to
emphasize the positive things
we allcan contribute in order to
improve our situation. Many of
you have probably heard that
Sunday, April 22, is EARTH
DAY. This day was first pro-
claimed twenty years ago in
1970 when a frustrated group
of activists wanted to alert the
complacent public that things
had to change if we all wanted
to continue life on this fragile
planet. As a result, the modern
Environmental Movement was
born. Today we are standing on
the edge of an abyss across
which we might transcend, or
into which we might descend,

depending on the choices we

make and the actions we take.
It is never easy to make
radical changes in our lives,
especially as we get older and
more set in our ways. But urge
you to take a stand and do
something tomake adifference.
We are not merely America’s
future. That is too narrow an
outlook for the 21st century.
The problems we face require a
world outlook rather than a
xenophobic (us vs. them) men-

tality which promulgates self- _

ish values. Weneed to return to
simpler, earlier values, because
if we don't it is unforeseeable
that we will still be here,

~cenc 1s Our W

I realize that I have along way

‘to go until I am a truly “kind”

person. But-I ride my bike
around, or walk as much as |
can to cut down my gas con-
sumption. I try nottouse the A/
C. [use less hot water, and try to
recycle as much as I can. But |
know I can do more, and I will
do more as I continue to edu-
cate myself on these vital issues
that stare us in the face. I’m not
preaching; I am begging you as
fellow human beings to con-
tribute in some way. |
EARTH DAY willbe cele-
brated in the Charlotte area at
Freedom Park, beginning at 1
p.m. on Sunday, April 22, 1990.
I will be there as a volunteer for
the Earth Day Coalition. We
stillneed volunteers in all phases
of the operation. If youcan take
the time your effort will be
greatly appreciated. There will
be over 50 local businesses and
organizations in a fair-type set-
ting, along with music, food
and information on how you
can do something to save the
Earth. But please be aware,
EARTH DAY is not a quick-
fix. One day of consciousness-
raising is not enough to change
things as they are. I hope it will
serve to inspire all of us to
implement real changes in our
lives for the benefit of all of us.
Idealistic? Yes. Practical? Only

_ifwe make the effort. Compla-

ge ges ye SY}

orstenemy. Even
if you ‘can’t help | out, I invite
everyone in the college com-
munity to come down to Char-
lotte on April 22. If you want to
volunteer, call the Coalition at
334-1990. If you have any
questions, call me at896-6616.
Ican give you directions, etc.
P.S. If you are interested in
some concrete things you can
do to help the environment, I
recommend the $4.95 paper-
back best-seller, 50 Simple
Things You CanDo to Save the
Earth, published by the Earth-
work’s group. JUST DO IT!

Imyself am justnow taking
a stand on these problems, and

John Swanson is a history
major from Tuscon, Arkansas.

What's So Special About: |
South Africa? |

Charles Scarborough '90

During my several years as
a Davidson student, I have
looked on the student protests
against the trustees’ decision

not to divest from South Africa.

with only tacit interest. As I
have become more liberal due
to my Junior Year Abroad ex-
perience, I recently became
much more interested when the

issue came around again this

year. -

_ However, one thing still irks
me: I cannot for the life of me
see any rational reason why we
should single out South Africa
as the “Intemational Bad Boy.”
South Africa’s government acts
like the Pope in comparison to
the governments of many other
countries. Some examples:

1) Somalia. The govem-
ment’s “scorched-earth policy,”
consisting of “the poisoning of
wells, the destruction of water-
storage tanks, and the killing of
livestock has led to widespread
hunger and disease” (U.S. News
and World Report). The situ-
ation is so bad that thousands
have even fled to

2) Guatemala. The gov-
emment’s genocidal forces have
been using “death squad tac-
tics” for a decade. In the late

1970's and early 80's, govern- °

ment forces massacred more
than 70,000 Indians, and made
40,000 more “disappear.”
Nearly 200,000 have fled to
Mexico, and thousands more
have been forced to participate

in work-for-food labor schemes

by the government, muchas the
Untermenschen were com-

pelled to do by the Nazis.

3) Iraq. The Iraqis have
been indiscriminately killing
Kurds for several years now.
International observers have
confirmed that Iraqi troops have
been using chemical weapons
against these people, and the
U. S. Senate has even accused
Traq of genocide.

4) Israel. Some of the
most blatant human rights vio-
lations of the past ten years have
been committed by Israel in the
West Bank. “For more than a
year and a half the Israeli civil
administration inthe West Bank
closed all Palestinian educa-
tional institutions” (Progres-
sive). Even schooling at home
was prohibited, Everyone who

Continued on Page?
