Wednesday, March 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Letters

The arts at Davidson: Credit where it’s due

Dear Editors,

I would like to make a few comments
concerning an article that appeared ina
recent Davidsonian. The article “Friends
of the Arts: Culture inour Town” begins
“Davidson College could soon become
a beacon of light for the arts in the
community if the Friends of the Arts
program has its way.” There is nothing
particularly wrong with this beginning
except that it misrepresents the truth. In
many ways Davidson is already a bea-
con of light for the community without
the help of the Friends of the Arts pro-
gram. The College Union has brought
many fine artists to this community and
continues to bring them without solicit-
ing for donations, The money comes
fromstudent activity fees and everyone
is encouraged to attend. Perhaps you
remember a few notable or recent per-
formances; Wynton Marsalis, Sweet
Honey in the Rock, Doc Watson,
Shakespeare’s Macbeth, Do-Lord and
Eugene Fodor have all come to
Davidson. There are many more. These
performances are well attended by the
community. They are all produced by
the students, faculty and staff thatmake
up the Union. In fact, the Kalichstein-
Loredo-Robinson trio that kicks off the
Friends of the Arts program is co-pro-
duced by the Union. The Artists Series
that the Friends of the Arts promises ten

percent discounts to is produced solely
by the Union and financed by student
activity fees.

Don’tmisunderstand my intentions. I
have no problem with the Friends of the
Arts program which assists the music,
theater and arts programs. These de-
partments have fine programs that can
be even better with more funds. I ap-
plaud the new effort to find needed
funds for these departments. I am per-
plexed, however, by this development
office program which is not focused on
finding support for the existing per-
forming arts programs and by The
Davidsonian’s failure to recognize the
existence of these already existing stu-
dent run. performing arts programs.
Students have been producing per-
forming arts events for 25 years usually
without the help of the music, theater or
arts departments. In organizing their
program, the Friends of the Arts plan-
ners need to appreciate the past and
present achievements of students. I am
excited about the Friends of the Arts
and lurge them tointegrate their efforts
into thealready established studentrun
programming. I also urge The
Davidsonian to give credit where credit
is due.

Sincerely,

Ward Bradley, ‘90

A new publication to hit dorms

Dear Davidson Students,

Assome of you may know, thecollege
has made a transition in alumni publi-
cations from the old Davidson Update to
the new Davidson Journal, a quarterly
magazine. The first issue should be
delivered to your ig sets hall room
this week.

Yes, that’s right, delivered to your
room! And you don’t even have to tip
the delivery service, fellow students
with work-study jobs in our office.

‘We have changed our distribution
system in an effort to help the college
save money. In the past we mailed
students. That wasmoreconvenientbut
also more expensive as well. And it
resulted in waste, as some copies ended
up in the trash cans at the Post Office.
(Hard to believe, but true!). From now
on we intend to distribute Davidson
Journals internally to all members of the
Davidson community. For students we
are going to try delivering one copy per
room, in the hopes that roommates will

share it. Rest assured, however, that’

extra copies will be available for those
who want them, both for thisand subse-
quent issues. Just call me or drop by
Copeland House if you’re interested.

Although the primary audiences for 4

Davidson Journal are alumni, parents,
and friends of the college, we hope you
"will find it of interest, too. With hard
work and a bit of luck, you will become
loyal alumni some day (we hope). Then

the college will start asking you for.

money. So enjoy it while you can.

Your parents all receive copies of the
Journal, too, and will continue to do so.
So during the summer you'll receive

~—one issue for the entire family at home.

Whata bargain! Inthe meantime, hope
this new system works out here in the
community.

Please let me know if you have ques-
tions.

Sincerely,

Jerry Stockdale
Director of College Relations

Basketball says “thank you”

To the Editor: pie

The basketball team and coaching
staff extend their gratitude to the many —

fans who stuck beside us amidst our

_ trying and frustrating season. The en-
couraging words and the vocal support -

from faculty, staff, administrators and
students remained ever present sources
of inspiration. Even when we found
ourselvés away from Belk Arena, we
had the pleasure of looking into.
stands and seeing the familiar faces of
somany Wildcatfans.

Spee thanks to those’ who organ-

ized the bus trip to the Furman game. :
Our seniors will always cherish the
memory of the fond farewell that they

received at the final home game. The
underclassmen will be seeking to earn
your plaudits as they shoot for their
goal of becoming the team that had the

- greatest turnaround in NCAA Division |
‘Thistory. We all are ever grateful for ’

your support and inspraion,
Most sincerely,

Bob McKillop, the Coaching Staff, aie |
Rael Team

11

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Jay Chaudhuri, Associate Editor
Suzanne Craymer, News Editor

Heath Hardage, Features Editor Bruce Balestier, Sports Editor
Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor . Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor
Moreland Smith, Circulation Manager
Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager
Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor
Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Farewell reminders
his editorial marks the end of a year's worth of inter-  _
viewing people, staying up extremely late and ignoring

the headache like the one that's presently threatening to
express itself. The new editors have all our blessings as

they embark on this journey of being a jack—of-all trades.

There are several concerns which will remain an issue here once
we're gone and hopefully students will continue to remind those
in power that Davidson, in spite of its excellent points, needs to
work on those areas which are less commendable. —

Davidson has yet to improve campus lighting to the degree that:
it is needed. Fears about safety are relevant even in this small
town. Will it take another rape or a mugging for money to be
redirected from athletic priorities to safety? The college has some
responsibility in assuring that all is done to prevent such oc-
curences.

It has been months since the proposal to establish a historically
Black fraternity was first made. Davidson has an unhealthy fear of
the unknown in this regard and the responses to this idea reflect
that attitude. Fear of the unknown is bred from an ignorance that
some have overcome but that the majority refuse to face or correct.
Since some of us are of different backgrounds than the majority, it
would make sense that our upbringing has differed in certain '
respects. That is a given. Cultural tastes are nothing to be feared,
nor denied. Rather, they should be celebrated and shared. The
message that Davidson is giving is that it doesn't want to share in
an African-American tradition because those who partake in it
will be separating themselves from the whole. One may still be a
part of the whole while retaining unique attributes. There is a
contradiction to Davidson'sargument considering that the college
has granted African-American females permission to affiliate with
a historically Black sorority — although a formal chapter will not
exist on campus. How are they separating themselves less than
men? The coming weeks will be revelatory of Davidson's stance

_on a move that can be beneficial to everyone.

Minus grades? Most seniors are worried about minus jobs or
minus workable plans. It's been a good but tough four years.

