Commentaries

The Davidsonian

‘Wednesday, January 31, 1990

Jacks takes to the streets and sidewalks

What is your opinion on rape, sexism and racism?

Tim Jacks

I accosted various individuals this past rainy Mon-
day to ask them about their views on certain current
issues. Some of their responses are veeeery interest-

Ing...

Tracy Gaines, ‘90

How prevalent do you think
date rape is on campus?

As far as being prevalent, I
know a: lot of people try to
create the situation, you know
propositioning girls. I know
that happens a lot. It doesn’t
happen every weekend but I
know that there’s a lot of sex-
ual activity that goes on that
people aren’t really ready for.
Because, I guess, alcohol is so o:

prevalent. If ‘people use that as an excuse to just do
whatever they feel like then they do, you. know,
whatever they feel like.

Do you know anyone that has been a victim of date
rape?

No.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is’

sexist? "

No, I don’t think so.

Can you think of any examples of sexism?

I know that I’ve only had 3 female professors and_I
only had my first female professor spring semester,
junior year. Before that I didn’t haveany. I guess that’s
sexist. Just not having a lot of females as teachers.
Do you think that the campus and/or community is
racist?

Yeah, I guess so.

Can you think of any examples?

The fact that this townis divided physically black and
white. Even if people don’t intentionally do it day to
day, you know, “keep the blacks over on that side,”
there isnoaffordable housing on thisside of the tracks
really. There are not too many blacks in faculty or
administrative positions, sol think that’s racism there.

Less Lincoln, ‘92

How prevalent do you think date rape is on campus?

I wouldn’t know, I haven’t had a date yet. No, umm,

I really don’t know.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is

sexist?

Yes, highlyso. ~

Can you think of any examples?

Without naming names, no, that'd be hard to do.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is

racist?

Yeah, I think there have been a couple of incidents of

racism.

Can you think of any examples?

The movie theater over at University center. I’ve been

— asked more than once to go

to the back of the line. I’ve
been followed around .in
my car by local police offi-

~ cers for noapparentreason.
I guess that’s about it with-

out naming names.

- Brian Healey, ‘91
How prevalent do you
think date rape is on cam-

Extremely high. There isan extremely high amount of

date rapes occurring especially at Patterson Court

parties every weekend. I think weekends are the
worst. Friday and Saturday night. Guys have the girls

get drunk and then take advantage of that situation,
which is the definition of date rape.

Do you know anyone who’s been the victim of date
rape? ‘

Yes, more than one.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is
sexist?

Without naming any names, certain professors are
likely to give higher grades to one sex or the other.
Do you think that the campus and/or community is
racist?

Yes, extremely.

Can you think of any examples?

I know a girl that is friends with a black man and she
was dancing with him ata Court party and somebody
went up to her and said, “Oh.aren’t you doing your
good deed for today, trying not to be racist.”

George Sartiano, ‘92

How prevalent do you think date rape is on campus?
Well, as far asI know, I’ve heard there’ ve been 17 so far
this year.
According to...?

That’s just rumor. In my opinion I think a lot of those
cases you have to look at the circumstances. Person-
ally, I think it’s either rape or it’s not. I don’t like
qualifying rape as anything else. That’s just the way I
perceive that.

~Do you know anyone who’s been a victim of date

rape?

Attempted rape, yeah, a few.

Do you think the campus and/or community is sex-
ist?

Hope so. No, really, yes. -

Can you think of anyexamples? “"St9S rr

Me.

Really?

To a certain degree, yeah. But not so far as people
might like to think. I’m not against women, I’m just
against the feminist movement because, like, I’m
against all these sort of movements that are, like,
trying to enforce their values upon me. I haven’t gone
out of my way to enforce my values on anybody else.
But when somebody just comes up to me and says
“I’m a woman. You have to accept it!” you're like
“Why?! Idon’t have to doanything!” I just don’t agree
with that. If they can come up to me and just talk tome
casually about it and say, you know, this is what we
think, you know, I'll try to persuade you calmly.
Aggressive feminists, racists, whatever, I’m anti that.
I'ma low key sort of dude. You take your CIA sort of
training and stuff, you know. They don’tjustcomeout
and say “We have to get Noriega!” you know. They
work through the media real slow over a period of
about a year and a half and then, you know, we have
aninvasion. You have to work through the underlying
layers of society. One doesn’t just come out and say
“We have to do it this way!” because, like, America is
a conservative place. We're not gonna just go or any-
thing. You have to do it slowly. You can’t expect
anything to happen overnight, except that stock mar-
ket crash. You have to wait and you can’t enforce
anything on anybody, except laws, you know, if
you're the government. And then if you try to do too
much then the people won’t take that.

Do you think the campus and/or community is rac-
ist?

Yes.

Can you think of an example?

Geez, I live in a southern area and if Davidson is ‘
anything like where!l’m from, itis. And just from what *

I’ve heard, rumors again, I just heard about peopie,
like, when they get arrested they just have -to go
through morechannels, or taken to the station, and the
white person is just given a ticket and let go, you
know. I really just don’t know. I mean, I’ve read
everything that’s in The Davidsonian about it, so
that’s about theend of my exposure there. And takeall
the feminist stuff, you know all that, all the sexist stuff

and just change that word to “racist” or “racism” and
it all applies there too.

Marshall Smith, ‘93

How prevalent do you think date rape is on campus?
I don’t think it’s overly prevalent, but it does exist.
Do you know anyone who’s been a victim of date
rape?

No.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is
sexist?

No.

Do you think that the campus and/or community is
racist?

Parts of it.

Can you think of an example?

The BSC. I believe the BSC is extremely racist. And one
of the biggest things that I get upset about is some
people coming down on me because I happen to a
white male. And I can’t help what I am any more than
the black people can help the fact that they’re negro or
that women can help the fact that they’re female. It’s
the way Iam and I should not be judged as that and I
should not be judged as an oppressor just because I’m
a white male. .. ’

So do you think you've been the victim of reverse
discrimination?

Personally I haven’t, but I do know of people who
have. Women havea much higher chance of being able
to get into grad school as the men do if everything else
is equal. And the same goes for the black people
because there’s so many programs out there like the
NAACP and NOW and stuff like that. And the only
people that are out there strictly for white people is the
“KKK? And nobody wants t6 go to them. I Believe that
onceit was necessary to go to that extreme. During the
60’s it was necessary. But the use for those organiza-
tions has largely passed and they should begin phas-
ing out. I believe that the militancy of those groups is
no longer needed and should be dropped. ;
Organizations like...?

Like NAACP and NOW.

Not the KKK, right?

The KKK should've been phased out like 2 seconds
after they were formed. .

Ok, just wanted to clarify that.

Frances Redmond, ‘92

How prevalent do you think
date rape is on campus?

I don’t know.

Do you know anyone who
has been a victim of date
rape?

Yes.

Do you think the campus
and/or community is racist?
Oh, I think there are. some
instances. But] don’t think it’s
as prevalent as everybody -

wants to believe.

Can you think of any examples?

No, not really that I’ve seen, but just what the black
students are talking about, how they’re going to start
their own fraternity. I think part of the tension might
be from, in a way, their kind of trying to separate
themselves away from the campus itself.

William Brown, College Union Director
How prevalent do you think date rape is on campus?
I have no way of measuring that. The question is an
impossible one to answer. My understanding is that
only one has been reported to the Dean of Students
this year. That’s not to say that there are those that
have been unreported.

[The rest of your interview got garbled when my batteries
ran down in my tape recorder. Sorry, William].
