Inside Art

:
4
a
e
4
¢

Alex had gone off on another “what if’. This time he was
considering the possibility of a head-on collision involving an
American car andaBritishone. Since one had the steering wheel
on the left and the other on the right, if they smacked each other
squarely, the respective drivers would fly through their respec- «
tive windshields and their respective craniums would meet in a
massive, fatal head-butt. A head-on collision within a head-on
collision, if you will...

Suddenly Alex was startled out of his violent daydream by the
strident voice of Mrs. Purbore, the trigonometry teacher:
“Aaaaalex!”

Atthat point] put the story down on the coffee table and got up
to get the door. I know before I got there that it was James—mom
had invited him over for dinner. James was my next door
neighbor and the author of the short story I’d just been reading.
His story won second place in our school’s short story contest, so
it got printed in “Winged Words”, our literary magazine. My
English teacher happens to be the “Winged Words “ advisor and
she was handing out extracredit points to anyone who bought the
magazine, so I bought a copy.

“Hey James, how’s it going?” I said. “you know I just started
reading your story. It’s pretty good so far.”

“Oh—well, thanks.” James smiled and grabbed a thin, black
braid of hair, transferring it from in front of his face to its keeping
place behind his ear.

“This guy Alex in the story reminds me a lot of you,” I said as
we walked back into the house, leaving the screen door to slam
by itself. “Is it supposed to be autobiographical at all?”

“Yeah, there might be a little of that in there,” he said: We sat
down on the couch and he retrieved the magazine from the coffee
table where I’d left it opened face down to hisstory::As he began
flipping through it I thought to myself, “of course it’s autobio-
graphical. If anyone has weird, violent fantasies during class, it’s
James.. In fact, he probably wrote the story as a way. to sort of
advance or advertise his nonconformity. Subconsciously, I’m
sure he thinks, “people will read about this weird character Alex '
and connect him with me.”

“Where’s Caroline?” James said without looking up. Caro-
line’s my mom’s name.

“She’s upstairs somewhere—I’ll go yell at her.” I got up and
walked to the double doors which separated the family room from
the foyer type place that our staircase empties into. I opened one:
of these doors, stuck my head through, and hollered, “Mom—
James is here!”

Sometimes I don’t think my mom realizes just how different
James and I are—I mean, we’re two very different people. I’m
normal, he’s not. She know he’s weird—that you can tell by just
looking at him. But] don’t thing she quite grasps the extent of his

Welcome to the former ATO house, artist unknown.
. —Photo by Ed Matthews

Today | saw a bird, no it was a plane. No, it was Superman! Superman, he can’t
fly. If he could he would be an American hero! It all started that day | got an f-
at school in PE. One day | overheard someone saying that whoever got an f- in
PE go their head chopped off! And then Superman came into my life! Well that
thing about your head being chopped off I’m not sure if it’s true. But it’s fun to
say. Then Superman knocks on the door. My mom fainted. | forgot to faint.
Superman was still waiting there. | said hi to him. He said |need you. Why me?
No time to waste on you. We must go now and fight the Soviet Union. When we
got there we started fo fight. | got shot in the arm. But we won. | asked why did
we do this? So | could get a girl friend.

THE
END
—D.M.

YS

weirdness. If she did I doubt she would do things like invite him
over fordinner. She things it’s cute thathe’skind of different, and
she likes to sort of humor him sometimes by being nice to him,
but it seems almost patronizing t mé. Oh, well.

It’s not that I don’t like James—lI like him fine. It’s just that,
will, as I say, we’re different. See, we used to be best friends

_ when we were little. We were both born in the houses we live in

now and we used to play in our backyards everyday—ausually
with the hose in the summertime. Our favorite game was to turn
on the hose and the kink it back on itself a few inches from the
nozzle. When you let go the water would surge out like crazy for

.a few seconds, the gradually die back down to normal. I don’t

know why we thought that was so fun, but we did. Maybe it was
because our dads hated it so much when we did that to the hose.
Sometime between middle school and high school, though
James started moving out into left field. You know, hanging out
more and more with that “alternative crowd,” buying clothes at
the flea market, and listening to a lot of music and all that. I
remember one Monday when we were both Freshmen. Ihadn’t,
seen James in school that day and I figured he hadn’t gotten back
from Georgia yet. One of his friends with a car had gone down
to Athens for the weekend and invited James along. I thing it was
a big party weekend and the guy with the car know some people
who wentto school there or something. Anyway, Athensisabout
four or five hours from here, so I thought they probably just
hadn’t made it back in time for class. But then that evening after

dinner James came over to our house. When J opened the front

door I was stunned—James was totally bald. -
“What in the hell happened to you,” I whispered so my parents

