12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 , 1990

GO TO
MEDICAL SCHOOL

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and
fees paid in full—plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school.
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed

Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.

AND SAV
Z

We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician‘s Scholarship from the

Army, Navy or Air Force.

If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain :
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as

a commissioned officer in the Reserves.

After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical

technology.

If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—
and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today.

— ee A es ae eae) | ee)
YES! Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program

@ can help cut my medical school expenses. | meet the age requirements noted below.

| understand | am under no obligation

Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102

Check up to three: | Army (3 Navy
(21-34 years of age)
Please print all information clearly and completely

Mail this coupon to. Armed Forces Scholarships, P.0. Box 2865

(21-36 years of age)

© Air Force

a |
(18-34 years of age)

(]Male () Female li
Last

Name
First Middie Initial
Address Apt. #
City State Zip| I [ L im H
Phone | LITIJICLLICELI [) soc sec. No (11 JLLJCLIT I
Area Code Number
College Birth pateL_I_] CT] LT]
Mo Oa: Year
(| Field of Study Graduation pateL_L | Cl] i
lo fear
The information you voluntarily provide will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete itis, the

better we can respond to your request (Authority 10 USC 503).

KH

a or youre not sure—
let someone else do the driving.

National Headquarters

Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

* , , .
* ant * Dont get wrecked. If youre not sober— 50 paularino ave. Suite 190

With Apple's introduction of three new
Macintosh® computers, meeting the challenges of college
life just got a whole lot easiei. Because now, everybody
can afford a Macintosh. -

The is our most
affordable model, yet it comes with everything you need—
including a hard disk drive. The
combines color capabilities with affordability. And the
(RMUMESINI is perfect for students who need a
computer with extra power and expandability.

No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll
have a computer that lightens your work load without

©1990 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. SuperDrive and “The power to be your best” are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc Classic isa
MS-DOS isa C OS/2isa of Bi A aC

giving you another tough subject to learn, Every Macintosh
computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And
when you've learned one program, you're well on your
way to learning them all. That's because thousands of avail-
lable programs all work in the same, consistent manner.
You can even share information with someone who uses a
different type of computer—thanks to Apple's versatile
SuperDrive which reads from and writes to Macintosh,
MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple® II floppy disks.

See the new Macintosh computers for yourself,
and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot
easier. :

It’s the
= Monday Night
Football Meal Deal.
Only from Domino's Pizza‘!

CALL Us!
896-8007

DOMINO'S

‘

For further information visit
Computer Services Center
contact Lydia Lorenzin .
at Ext. 2432 :

. + ite 9 .
~

Sart >
OF anes

to Apple C Ine. ; poe

