LO

Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson’s Trustees ignored South Africa

Monroe Gilmour

Over the past five years, Davidson faculty, students,
alumni, and individual Trustees have unsuccessfully

their past intransigence, I will not hold my breath
waiting on the Trustees to do so. But I dothink that the
Trustees should at least consider an apartheid issue
closer to home. A draft resolution...has been submit-
ted by alumni to the Trustees for their consideration.

The resolution resolves that the Trustees “will not
meet in plenary, committee, or individual session for

the purpose of discussing college business or enter-
taining, or socializing or any other reason in country
clubs or other institutions that, in practice, discrimi-
nate by reason of race, religion, or sex.’

The resolution also prohibits logistical or other
support to college or alumni groups which hold func-
tions in such insitutions. .

urged the Davidson

———— sore ater Anyone

Board of Trustees to (“. ! Se ed wees = who read the Sun-
divest college funds i ee EL Bt ek, BE ’ -4 day, February 4,
from companies ; Dr aft Resolution og , 1990 Charlotta Ob-
doing business in ; November 24, 1989 — server article on the
South Africa. Today, For Consideration By Davidson College Trustees continuing  dis-
the unbanning of the peieane crimination by
African National WHEREAS, as we noted in our 3/31/88 resolution, ‘Davidson College has a historic and continuing com- Charlotte and
Congress and other mitment to the causes of justiceand righteousness in human affairs, emphasizing “...thosestudies, _ North Carolina
developments are disciplines, and activities which liberate humankind physically, mentally, spiritually.”’, and country clubs will
credited to the com- ; hopefully concur
bination of effective WHEREAS, we Davidson College Trustees through various resolutions have expressed our abhorrence of the that passing such a
pressure inside South practice of racial separation or apartheid in South Africa, and resolution will en-
Africa and _ interna- ‘ i sure that Davidson
tional sanctions. Had WHEREAS, we recognize the importance similarly of expressing and then acting upon our abhorrence of College lives up to
those sanctions been forms of racial separation or apartheid in our own caren! and local communities, and. its ideals in action
stronger, we would f as well as on paper.
have seen recent de- WHEREAS, The Charlotte Observer has correctly editorialized on April 1 17, 1989 that educational institutions I urge
velopments much should notbe“partnersin prejudice” by memberships orholdingeventsincountry clubsand®ther™ - Davidson students,
sooner. social clubs that, in practice, discriminate by reason of ~~ “re or sex,.and faculty, and staff to

Just as it was slow let President
to move on civil WHEREAS, we recognize the important role Davidaon College plays sting academic and ethibstsianeid : Kuykendall know
rights in the 1960s, in our community, : that we want this
Davidson College as resolution or one to
an institution cannot the same effect
claim to have been NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Davidson College Beare of Trustees as follows: passed at the Feb-
part of the pressure ruary Trustee meet-
today in South Af- 1. That the Davidson College Board of Trustees will not meet in plenary, committee, or individual ‘| ing.
rica. It is not too late session for the purpose of discussing college business or entertaining, or socializing or any other reason i Be:
for the Trustees to act. country clubs or other institutions that, in practice, discriminate et reason erate, nee OE REK: BRA
The black leadership Monroe Gilmour, Jr.
in South Africa con- 2. That Davidson College will not encourage or lend any kind of support to pce or. Sassi 68 — established
tinues to urge sanc- groups that hold functions or meetings nen eo discriminate by reason Davidson Alumni
tions so as to main- of race, religion, or Sex. Against Apartheid
tain pressure on the ; es be SRR EES ae bk Ue and worked : three
wnite-minority gov- 3. Thata review committe he establiehiod si cbettpsioet oe one represcnianue fromthe peagoneeee years managing a
ernment until the faculty, the students, and the alumni to review complaints and recomend action of the Davidson College development project
positive steps seen President who will carry out enforcement, appeal being brought before the Testes for fog es tanion: . for CARE in Lesotho,
this month translate a southern African
into the actual aboli- 4. That this resolution be effective upon itsadoption THIS THE__ country surrounded
tion of apartheid. by South Africa.

Personally, given

NS q

Letters
Correcting Egyptian “little known facts”

Dear Davidsonian Editors:

A few notes regrading some alleged
“little known facts” presented in Jen-
nifer Sieck’s article on Mr. Anthony T.
Browder’s recent lecture (The
Davidsonian, 31 January 1990):

¢ Kmt means “the black land” or the
land fertilized by the Nile river’s annual
floods, as opposed to dsrt, “the red
land” or the desert (for a vivid photo-
graph see A. Rosalie David, The Egyp-
tian Kingdoms [New York: Elsevier,
1975] p.10). Kmt does not mean “the
land of the black [people].”

e Nowhere in its definition of
“Egypt” does Liddell-Scott-Jones, the
standard dictionary of ancient Greek,
say anything about black people.

e Egypt contains more than seventy
pyramids, notnine (Ahmed Fakhry, The
Pyramids, 2nd ed. [Chicago: U of Chi-
cago Press, 1969] p. 1). The pyramidsare
not the world’s first buildings; they are
not even the first buildings in Egypt.

¢ Though robbers long ago removed
the human remains, pyramids were
used for burials, not as observatories.
Their architectural history showsaclear
development from the earlier burial
structures known as mastabas, and
many of them still contain sarcophagi
(stone coffins). See Fakhry.

e The sphinx, part of the pyramid
complex of king Khafre, dates to the
Fourth Dynasty or approximately 2600-
2500 BCE. It is therefore less than 5000
years old, not over 10,000. It is not “the
oldest sculpture on earth”; itisnoteven
the oldest sculpture in Egypt.

e El Makrizi, an Arab historian who
died in 1436, says that one Saim-el-Dahr
disfigured the sphinx’s face, centuries
before Napoleon brought his army (and
a large team of scholars) to Egypt
(Fakhry 159). No doubt Napoleon’s
soldiers had some target practice while
in Egypt, but are we really to believe
that the French general ordered his sol-

diers to engage in massive destruction
in order to conceal the Egyptians’ racial
identity? |

Old-statues frequentlysuffer, tending
particularly to lose their vulnerable
extremities. This observation applies to
statuesin all ancient counties, not justin
Egypt. There remain many intact Egyp-
tian statues, as well as reliefs carved in
stone and paintings on the walls of
tombs, from which one may judge the

Egyptians’ race.

Rescuing and reconstructing African-
American history accurately is impor-
tant. I hope that Davidson College will
soon have a qualified faculty member
who can offer courses in African-
American history.

Sincerely,
Peter Krentz

Clarifying women’s self-defense seminar

To the Editors,

I would like to clarify two points
concerning the. publicity for the
Women’s Security Seminar. First, the
seminar will be held at7 p.m., NOT 7:30
p-m. as printed in the SGA minutes."

Second, the main reason men are not
invited to the seminar is that accordixg
to Officer Frances Taylor, the presence
of men in past seminars, both here at
Davidsonas wellas othercollegesin the
area, has inhibited discussion (not pro-
hibited as printed in the SGA minutes).
Officer Taylor, recently voted “Number
One Employee,” is an experienced po-
lice officer, and 1am certain her request
was not made without reason.

_ Many “women’sissues” are ones that
concern both women and men. How-
ever, this seminar’s primary purpose is
toinform women of what they can do to
prevent rape and what to do should it
happen to them.

Perhaps some men here at Davidson
are considering showing up anyway, if
cxly out of curiosity. My hope is that
they will head Officer Taylor’s request.
She is taking time out of her evening
schedule to present this seminar and I
hope the men here will respect that by
not attending.

Instead, I urge all the men to encour-

See WHY WOMEN, page 12

