Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Thursday, February 22, 1990

a7

Doesn't single-sex eating seem somehow artificial?

Lucia Kendall

I know of very few Davidson students who are
happy with the male/female relations at Davidson
(even those who are happy with their own relation-
ships are often very critical of the general situation).
This makes me wonder whether the demise of co-ed
eating is a symptom of a larger problem. Or maybe
both problems result from the same causes.

I regret PAX’s closing for personal reasons (al-
though to be honest there are several aspects of it that
don’t miss at all). What is most disturbing, however,
are the implications of Davidson students not wanting
to be a member of a house which has members of the
other gender in it.

PAX’s closing would not be a big deal if it were not
partofa larger trend. Many students donot know that
there used to be six co-ed houses on Patterson Court;
one by one they all closed because of lack of member-
ship.

If one house folds because of lack of membership it
seems fair to assume that there is probably something
about that particular house that made it unpopular.
But if we are going to say that this was the case with
PAX, itmustalso have been the case with F&M, ATO,
Emanon, ETC, and Random House. All of those
houses had one thing in common—being co-ed.

Before more of you decide tocall me, anonymously,
in the middle of the night to respond to my writing, I
want to make it clear that I am not condemning
anyone’s self-selection choices. If you’re happy at
Rusk or KA or anywhere else, that’s great. PAX is not
‘the ideal environment for everyone.

Yes, I know that some of your best friends are of the
other gender. That’s why I can’t figure out why men
and women don’t want to eat at the:same houses. Is
there some assumption that although friendships,
even close friendships, with people of the other gen-
der can be great, these friendships cannot extend into
being a member of a house that is made up of half
women and half men?

Obviously, friendships exist in many ways other
than belonging to the same eating house (the term
“eating house” includes fraternities). However, one of
__ the best parts of being a member of a house is the

special bonds that form between members who spend
time together at meals, parties, meetings, social
events, service projects, and soon.1 don’t understand
why students don’t form these particular bonds with
anyone who is not the same gender that they are.

Because Davidson’s Patterson Court system is very
open, and because there are so many friendships
between members of different houses and between
house membersand independents, it would seem that
menand women would find it easier to be members of
the same house.

Many students do choose the other co-ed option, the
Commons. Although the Commons offers a lot of
convenience that houses can’t provide, it does not
foster these kinds of small-group bonds in the same
way that membership in a house does.

I don’t know what to think of such a widespread
refusal to form these kinds of in-house bonds with
both males and females. It is normal at a junior high
dance to have the girls standing on one side of the
room and the boys on the other, but by the time we get
to college we are supposed to have outgrown that
tendency. Why do we choose to isolate ourselves like
this?

People often have more in common with members
of their own gender. Fair enough. But doesn’t it seem
that we should enjoy being with some of the members
of the gender we will probably marry as muchor more
than we enjoy being with members of the gender with
which we share public restrooms?

I’m not saying that everyone who is a member of a
single-sex house is an emotional cretin who can only
sit in a corner alone drooling and thrashing in a fit of
sexual repression, while we enlightened co-ed eaters
dance around the campus in a frenzy of bliss and
emotional fulfillment. But doesn’t single-sex eating
seem sornehow artificial?

Many students claim that they chose their eating
house not on the basis of it’s being single-sex, but
because their friends were planning on joining it, or
they liked the current members, or they liked the
atmosphere, or various other reasons, and those
claims are true. But is it just coincidence that all six of
the houses I have mentioned were co-ed and all of
themclosed? Isit just coincidence that no co-ed houses
are still around?

Of course, men and women who belong to single-

sex houses do interact at parties. Many students go to
parties just to dance, or drink, or try to maintain a
conversation over the loud music. But there are also
some students who go in the hopes of “hooking up”
for the night. Although many party-goers do not
participate in it, the meat-marketelementof Patterson
court parties is present.

So what we have is a system in which men and
women get drunk together, but don’t want to sit
around a table at lunch or dinner and talk with each
other. Doesn’t that strike you as strange? Don’t you
wonder what that implies about our values?

I have a guess about one of the reasons for the
decline of all the co-ed eating houses on campus.
Many of the people who joined co-ed houses did so
because they did not fitinto or did not want to fitinto
the single-sex environment.

Asa result, the co-ed houses, after a while, began to
contain more and more members who were labeled
“different” or “weird.” At Davidson, having toomany
people who do not buy into the status quo means
death. The general attitude among Davidson students
simply will not tolerate people who are different.

I’m not just talking about co-ed eating here, this
tendency showsup ina lotofareas. For instance, many
colleges have organizations for gay and lesbian stu-
dents, but none of our students would dare say in
public that they aren’t heterosexual “like the rest of
us.” Do you know more than a dozen students who
have strange haircuts or wear strange clothes? Do you
know more than a dozen student radicals? More than
a dozen students experimenting with beliefi inEastern
religions?

This tendency not to tolerate anyone who isn’t like
us means that a house which acquiresa reputation for
being differentis doomed. I think that happened in all
five co-ed cases. For a college that is striving for
diversity and especially open-mindedness, I find this
tendency very disturbing.

Thope Davidson students will think about this issue.
Inaddition, I hope thatin the next few years Davidson
men and women will decide that they do want to form
these in-house friendships with each other. If they are
able to do so successfully, it will not only provide a
much needed option for students, but it will also
indicate a fundamental change in the way we view
ourselves and each other.

Student freedom carries reeponeisatiie

Students need to accept job of electing good editors

Gary Wheeler

Although there has been plenty of debate recently
concerning the selection of publication editors, much
of thatdebate has only focused ona small aspect of the
problem. Granted, deciding whether the Media Board
orthe student body isin a better position to choose the
most qualified candidate for an editorship is obvi-
ously an important question, it is not the only ques-
tion. A more basic question that needs to be consid-
ered is who should have the right and the responsibil-
ity to make that decision, whether it be ‘right’ or
‘wrong.’

In trying to designate the best candidate, the Media
Board can review each candidate's qualifications and
experience in detail and conduct interviews. In some
cases the Media Board may prevent an obviously less
qualified candidate from taking the job away froma
more qualified one, and in some instances they may
not need to because the editorships may go uncon-

tested. Ropenilly, however, several qualified and

experienced f people will compete: for the same posi=
tion--in this scenario the Media Board’s decision may
come down to little more than a flip of'a coin.

If properly handled, elections have at least an equal
chance of yielding the ‘best’ candidate. Certain re-
quirementscan be placed on those whowish torun for
editor. The Davidsonian, for example, requires that
candidates have at least one year of experience. This
requirement alone does not guarantee that every
candidate will be truly qualified, but The Davidsonian
staff could endorse the person that they feel will do the
best job. Those running for the editorships could also
submit a statement to The Davidsonian immediately
before the elections speaking of their qualifications
and goals as SGA candidates for President and Vice
President do now.

When it comes right down to it, neither student
body elections nor Media Board selectionsensure that
- the ‘best’ candidate will be chosen. Leaving the task of
assigning editors to a small group like the Media

‘Board, however, would relieve the student body of the

responsibility of having to make an intelligent deci-

— butit would also deny us the freedom of making

~ that choice.— manera :

Even before smetthana prenialens we heard a Jot
about the notion of freedom and responsibility—it is
the basic idea behind our Honor Code. The basic
thrust of the freedom and responsibility concept at

Davidson is, “We give you freedom, because we ex-
pect you to be responsible,” or, “We don’t treat you
like children because we don’t expect you to act like
children.” If Davidson allows the Media Board to
make important decisions for us, decisions that
members of the student body could make witha little
sound judgment, then a small group of appointed
people will be taking on our responsibility. Wecan go
on being apathetic about student publications, be-
cause someone else will take care of it for us. In taking
on. the task of selecting editors, the Media Board
would relieve us of some responsibility, but it would
also strip us of freedom and invite further compla-
cency.

Gary Wheeler is a junior English major peeve eny
ville, Fla., and is a former news editor for The
Davidsonian. eae

t
