THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Photos Caurtaly er ‘College aes
Davidson students, faculty, staff, and members of thecommunity help set up Amber Waves of Grains, aclay
representation of the United State's nuclear arsenal.

Amber Waves of Grain Set Up in
J ohnston Gym, Community Helps

By MISSY MEGAN

Two weekends ago over 200
Davidson students, faculty, staff and
Davidsonresidents helped in the setup
of Amber Waves of Grain, a clay rep-
resentation of the United States’ nu-
clear arsenal. The show consists of
35,000 pieces and took three days to
set up. Amber Waves of Grain is an
example of political art that seeks to
raise le’s awareness about the
United States' nuclear defense policy.

Barbara Donachy, the artist was

-flownin fromher home inColoradoto
direct set-up of the show. Donachy
also gave an informal lecture in which
she discussed the history of political
art and the making of Amber Waves of
Grain. Although the show has been
displayed in New York City, Boston,
on the mall in Washington, D.C. and in
West Berlin, Donachy was particu-
larly pleased about showing her art-
work at Davidson College. “Thisis the
first time that Amber Waves of Grain
has been brought to an area solely
through student effort.”

. The show is currently on display
in Johnston Gym from 10 am-5pm

Monday through Friday and willbe up
until Wednesday, April 18. Volun-
teers are still needed to staff the infor-
mation desk during the day and for
takedown Wednesday, April 18 and
Thursday, April 19. Ifinterested, please
call the Union Desk. The Union Gal-
lery Committee would like to thank all
volunteers who made this show pos-
sible including the Patterson Court
Houses, the SGA, and the Union Board.
The exhibit was funded by the Sloan
Foundation for Technological Stud-
ies, the Davidson College ArtGallery,
the Chaplain’s Office, the Committee
on Public Lectures, and the Union.

Kelley Distinguished Lecturer, Spring Term, 1990.
MIRIAM USHER CHRISMAN
University of Massachusetts, Amherst
"IN PURSUIT OF ORDINARY PEOPLE:
WRITINGS OF THE RICH AND POOR
IN SIXTEENTH-CENTURY GERMANY"
Thursday, April 19 at 7:30 pm

Phi Hall |
~ OPEN TO THE PUBLIC

Mathematical Minds
Meet at Davidson

Professor Bivens Delivers Lecture,
Students Present Papers

By CARLA DAVIS

Mathematical minds in the South-
eastmet at Davidson for the 69th annual
Mathematical Association of America
(MAA) Southeastern Section on Fri-
day and Saturday, April 6-7. About.
300 professors and students, under-
graduate and graduate, from Alabama,
Georgia, North Carolina, South Caro-
lina and Tennessee attended.

The annual meeting gathers those
interested in mathematics, with an
emphasis on teaching at the collegiate
level. It includes workshops, lectures
and short talks by participating profes-
sors and students. The formal and in-
formal meeting times provide a chance
for discussions on areas of common
interest such as curriculum, admini-
stration and MAA business. In addi-
tion, graduate schools host “*T.A rush”
to encourage undergraduate students
to consider graduate work in mathe-
matics with the monetary support of
teaching assistantships.

This year’s meeting included a
special banquet to celebrate the 75th
anniversary of the MAA. The MAA is
the world’s largest organization de-
voted to the interests of collegiate
mathematics. Through its publications
and meetings, the MAA provides its

members with updates on develop-
ments in mathematical education and
research, and information about im-
portant events in the mathematical
world.

Featured speakers for the Davidson
gathering included Gerald L. Alexan-
derson from Santa Clara University in
California, whose topic was “Gauss-
ian Binomial Coefficients,” and Jerald
Dauer, holder of the Provident Life
Insurance Chair of Excellence in ap-
plied mathematics at UT-Chattanooga,
who spoke on “Maximizing Multiple
Objectives--Is This a Mathematical
Question?”

The section lecturer, Irl C. Bivens
of Davidson College, delivered the
lecture entitled “Why 3 Is Not Simply
2+1, and Other Surprising Results
About Dimension.” The section lec-
turer is an annually elected position
and rarely is a person from the host
institution. Bivens is arecentrecipient
of the Merten M. Hasse prize, one of
the most distinguished awards given
by the MAA.

José Lopez Sanchez, Matt
Brentjens, and John Anens from
Davidson also presented papers at the
conference.

Davidson Alumni and Son
Speak to Pre-Med Students

By JOE MARIS

Dr. K.D. Weeks, Sr. and son Dr.
K.D. Weeks, Jr. addressed a small
group of pre-med students on the
changes in expectations of the medical
field since World War il in the 900
room last week. Representing two gen-
erations of expertise in the field of
internal medicine, the father and son
pair presented their opinions on the
rapidly changing field that has grown
from horse and buggy house calls to
extensive laser technology.

Dr. Weeks, Sr., aDavidson gradu-
ate who earned his doctorate at the
Duke Medical Center, presented the
history of medicine from when he
started in World War II to when he
retired in the early eighties. Along
with the obvious changes in technol-
ogy, the changes in thesocio-economic

perspective of medicine has been dra-

matic.

Americans have seen a dramatic
increase in health care since the early
forties and have watched as the gov-
ernment attempted to lighten the bur-
den with numerous health care pro-
grams. Also, increases in malpractice
suits and government regulation of the
medical profession has not only aided
in raising health care costs, but it has
also affected the number of students
applying to medical schools.

According to Dr. Weeks,Sr. medi-
calschool attendance has dropped 25%
in the last couple of years. He also
added that 40% of the doctors inter-
viewed in a recent Gallop Poll indi-
cated that they would not enter the

medical profession if they had to do it
again.

Dr. Weeks, Sr. maintained, how-
ever, that the personal reward one
receives everyday from seeing his
patients is worth the extra pressures
from the outside. In looking back on
his 54 year career, he said thatit was “a
career of great personal satisfaction.”

Dr. Weeks Jr. followed his father
with a brief speech touching on spe-
cific areas of concern in today’s medi-
cal_profession._First, today’s doctors
must deal with a more knowledgeable
patient. The days when patients accept
doctors’ advice without question are
over. Patients today come into the office
with a great deal of consumer know]l-
edge.

The widespread publication of
many consumer medical magazines
has increased the patients’ desire to
know exactly what the doctors are
doing. Secondly, the medical profes-
sion is more than ever a business pro-
fession. Future doctors will have to
take a great deal of business courses
along with their usual medical courses.
Finally, there is a rapidly shifting
change from general practice to spe-
cialist practice. Attracted by better
money and prestige, many post gradu-
ate medical students are continuing -
their education ina specialty.

According to Dr. Weeks, Jr. the
medical profession needs more: gen-
eral practitioners in the smaller towns.
Dr. Weeks then closed the seminar
with a question and answer session.

Read
The Davidsonian
Call x2148 or x2149 for news tips

