16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Six Alumni Committed To Social Resolve

By Mark Damon Puckett

This week The Davidsonian interviewed a
group of six alumni committed to social resolve.
Dave Wiley runs a non-profit housing organiza-
tion in Washington, D.C. Roger Brown is Chief
Executive Officer of the corporate child care
center Bright Horizons. There are 36 centers in
eight states, two inNorth Carolina. Andy Lamas,
Managing Director of PACE, oversees a non-
profit agency that promotes low income commu-
nities in Philadelphia. Bonnie Wright and her
husband founded a credit union, non-profit, for
economic development. Laurie Dunn is a

where there going to be there for a long time.
Andy: You know I actually see it slightly differ-
ently than that--for me. It might be because so
much of what I tried to do hasn’t worked, so I
might be rationalizing. I actually think what
we’re doing is contributing to broad social move-
ments and we’re doing it in a variety of different
ways. We’re not so much focused on doing things
that are going to have a perpetual life, but that we
are trying to make contributions that are helping to
energize particular social movements that exist at
this time--contributing to. movements in which
people are disempowered.

and part of your job is to adapt and try new things.

Davidsonian: What’s the average age of the
group here?
Andy: About thirty-five.

Davidsonian: Most people would want to settle
into a constant life.

Andy: I think we’re all very very comfortable in
our lives. We’ve all found a way to do this work
and be middle class Americans by all normal
criteria. :
Laurie: I don’t think any of us are scared
of being unconventional. The conventional

neo-natologist (for premature offspring), and
Crawford Crenshaw was one of the head
fundraisers for the Harvey Gantt campaign.

I don't think any of us are scared of
being unconventional.

model of having one career forever with the
woman staying home for the most partends
up being a real easy path in a lot of ways.
We have to ask ourselves how the family

Davidsonian: What sortof ultimate goal do
you have? How do want this whole thing to
end? You seem pretty driven, but you seem
pretty honest about your relations with each other
and your differences.

Crawford: All of us will have different answers
on how we’d like this thing to end. Two things:
probably we all would say we expect different
things. However, having said that, I think we all
believe want to leave behind institutions that are
doing things we believe in: the underclass or the
poor or the educational problems, the homeless
problems, the empowerment issues, the racial
issues.

Bonnie and her husband are right now in the
Center for Community Self-Help and the Credit
Union which is a great source of capital for a lot of
these projects. Laurie’s in neo-natology saving
lives every day.

Andy has done similar things with employee

owned businesses that are operating through em- —

ployees who are really controlling their on desti-
nies much more so than ever before. You’re
dealing with housing in Washington, providing
people that wouldn’t have had homes otherwise.
Hopefully these institutions will be here a hundred
years from now. That’s the dream. That’s the
vision.

Roger and his wife started a child care com-
pany that’s really changing the options of the
working families in this country. They’ve got
2,500 kids under their care which gives working
parents very attractive options. That’s a great
organization, and I think they’re at a point now

Like the Gantt campaign. Even though Gantt
lost the election many bridges were built between
white and black citizens of North Carolina that
had never been there before. Many people were
brought into the political process because they
were excited about his candidacy, and what his
candidacy did for the “new South” and for the new
style of politics in North Carolina. And that’s
going to have a life clearly beyond the campaign,
so that there were many victories in that loss.

Davidsonian: Getting into something new all the
time seems unstable. Knowing that you have
failed before and will fail again--

Laurie: Idon’tsee that what’s happened has been
a failure as much as a muddling through life and
helping each other push forward ideas. But there
hasn’t been any big global plan that we’re all
working for.

Another thing is I don’t think we knew how
important our immediate families would be at this
pointin ourlives. That doesn’t keep us from striv-
ing forward with the others. It did slow things
down a lot.

Crawford: I think everything that any of us have
done we’ ve hit barriers and we’ve been created to
jump over, go around, go under, go through.
Andy: Perpetual experimentation.

Bonnie: If you realize you’re doing something
that hasn’t been done before, you have to know

_that some of it’s going to work, some of it’s not,

works in the unconventional model.
Dave: It’s really hard to think of it in terms
of success and failure. Everyday you have
both. And so, on the whole it is fairly stable even
though this project is miserable and this project is
wonderful; it all averages it. ;
Roger: You look at the world-right now at people
who thought they were in secure jobs in major U.
S. corporations. Drexel-Barnham closed in one
day, and thousands of peoplehad no jobs. I don’t
think there are any safe havens where you can feel
like you’re immune to the vicissitudes of life.
Everybody makes a very small incremental im-
pact whether they’re very conventional or very
unconventional.

Dave: If you’re betting your well being on the as-
sumption that there will be no change, you’re run-
ning great risks. Maybe one advantage that we
have is that we are pushing for change.

Davidsonian [to Bonnie]: Talk about your kids
and work. ae

Bonnie: Well it’s really hard. Both of us working
and both of us responsible for the same organiza-
tion, which is a baby in itself. Takes a lot of time,
lot of energy. bie

It’s hard on your conscious in terms of weigh-
ing the contribution you’re trying to make to the
world and the contribution you’re trying to make
to your family,

It’s a constant struggle for me and my hus-
band; it’s nota female struggle anymore. He’s not
here because he’s home with the kids, It’s the kind
of decision you have to remake every single day.

Richard Terry Of Residence Life

Man With A Vision.

