10

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MoNDAY, NOVEMBER 11,1991

Liz Said, Dair Said: Got A Lighter?

Liz said...

I’ll never forget the anti-smok-
ing movies they made us watch in
sixth grade. I think they trauma-
tized me. From that moment on, I
vowed that I would not become a
smoker.

Recently, I’ve learned even
more things about smoking that
should discourage anyone. Here
are a few:

1) Your smoking affects other
people. Second-hand smoke can
cause lung cancer. Children of
smokers are less healthy than chil-
dren of non-smokers.

2) Smoking is bad for your im-
mune system. Thismakes you more

susceptible to disease, especially
sore throats and colds.

3) Have you ever kissed someone
who just finished a pack? The only
thing nastier is kissing someone
who just dipped.

4) You won’t be able to exercise
well if you smoke. Smoking leads
to breathing problems. Chain
smokers have a hard time running
a lap around the track without
shortness of breath. What is more
pathetic than an otherwise healthy
college student who can’t finish a
lap around the track without wheez-
ing?

5) No non-smokers like it when
peoplesmoke. Have youever heard

anyone say, “Oh isn’t that cute?
He’s smoking!” No one likes the
smell, and no one likes to breathe
smoke from your cigarette. More
and more public places are limit-
ing or completely restricting smok-
ing.
6) If you’re still not convinced,
how about this? SMOKING
REDUCES YOUR SEX-DRIVE.
At least, that’s what Dr. Dean
O’ Dell on Channel 9 News says.
I have yet to hear anything
good that smoking does for your
body. Even alcohol (in small
amounts) helps the heart. If you
have any doubts, try renting the
movie I’m Joe’s Lungs. Believe

me, horror movies are tame by
comparison.
Dair says. . /
Studies suggest that about ten
“percent of you are going to smoke
if it means you have to have a
chimney installed in your grave.
Just about everyone I know (ex-
cept Liz, of course) has had a drag
ata party after they’ ve passed that
tolerance threshold. So what should
you smoke if you’re going to any-
way? Should you go for filters?
Lights? Menthol?

Bad news, you guys. Contrary
to previous studies, they’re start-
ing to hypothesize that in many
ways it makes very little differ-
ence what you smoke. Your
chances of having a heart attack
are not reduced by smoking filter
or light cigarettes instead of regu-

lar ones. And don’t forget strokes-
- your chances there aren’ treduced
either.

What does make a huge differ-
ence is the amount you smoke.
Smoking a pack and a half a day of
lights is worse than smoking half a
pack of unfiltered-by-God-
hardcore-straight-tobacco-Reds (at
least where your circulatory sys-
tem is concerned).

Menthol is especially bad. Not
only do you bring inregular smoke,
you’ve got some fiberglass float-
ing around in your lungs too. Sure,
they’re minty, butsomething about
internalizing construction materi-
als doesn’t do a lot for the body.

The bottom line for my half
this week is if you’re going to

See "Dair” on page 12

How American Express
helps you cover more territory —
For less money. |

Become a Student Cardmember today and
get roundtrips on Continental Airlines,
or only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program
exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on
Continental Airlines. And much, much more.

Just look at the map and pick the place-youd like to visit. If
it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use certificate
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross th
Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.

You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—
because there are no blackout dates. But you must. -
make your reservations within 14 days of the day you

Bintcoonsoscices

BIAERICARNMIEX PRE

leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include
a Saturday night.
By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other
benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges” Program.
Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month
for an entire year—absolutely free. And that’s just one example of
how the Card canhelp yousave.
- For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And
it's easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account
number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it’s
easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri- _
tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. —

*Minneapolis/st, Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River,

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 Boies
ment. $3.70 is equal to the Sal for a domestic Migoiore ni oa fl a Compt ets
bility call and appropriate surcharges, You must enroll for this Service by December 31, 1991.

MCI

Membership Has Its Privileges*

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX ee - ee

If you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.

=~ Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your-certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express

10 lability for Continental Aidines’ performance. © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company The,
