4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

Survey

Continued from page 1

cent answered that there was either a minor
or major problem of alcohol abuse among
students. Thirty-seven percent thought there
was a minor problem, while fifty-eight per-
cent perceived a major problem.
Respondents’ answers to seven ques-
tions on the survey borrowed from a Na-
tional Institute of Health questionnaire re-
vealed some specific problems of students
associated with alcohol abuse. Terry found
it disturbing that forty-one percent of the re-
spondents had experienced a blackout.

Also, Patterson Court members showed
significanuy more alcohol or drug-related
problems than nonmembers. The results also
show asignificantcorrelation between lower
GPA and more frequent problems with alco-
hol or drug use. Incidentally, the mean GPA
of those who have never tried alcohol or
drugs was 3.38. Overall, the answers indi-
cated that up to forty-one percentof Davidson
students may havea problem with alcohol or
drug use.

Drug use seems to be much less preva-
lent, according to the survey. Twenty-seven
percent of those polled have used marijuana
while at Davidson, slightly lower than the
percentage of those who used it prior to
Davidson.

The majority (fifty-three percent) of
those who used marijuana before Davidson
decreased their use while here. Surprisingly,
however, the average number of joints
smoked in a week was 2.43. Terry believes
a possible explanation for that high number
is that those who do use marijuana use it
often and use a significant amount of it.

The survey showed a.relatively small
percentage of students using Amphetamines
(less than one pércent), Cocaine or Crack
(three percent), or Hallucinogens (nine per-
cent). Most of those who used these sub-
stances prior to Davidson, decreased their
use while at Davidson. An indication of the
general scarcity of drugs on campus is the
factthat notoneof the 260 applicants strongly
agreed there was a great deal of pressure to
use drugs in order to fitin. Only one percent
agreed.

The problem of alcohol and drug abuse
is often related to the psychological health
of the person involved. With that in mind,
Dean Will Terry voiced some concern over
the negative self-image that many students
hold.

Sixty percent of the respondents blamed
themselves for their weaknesses, forty-one
percent were having a hard time motivating
themselves, and forty-six percent got tired
more easily. The results of a standardized
psychological inventory within the survey
show that twenty-one percentof those polled
could be considered mildly to moderately
depressed. About seventy-seven percent of
the students were judged asymptomatic.

According to Dean Terry, the survey is
unlikely to spur any significant policy
changes regarding alcohol. He will send a
copy to the trustees for them to review, but
he believes the survey generally confirmed
existing ideas aboutalcohol and drug use on
campus.

Although most students start drinking.
before they come to Davidson, a majority of
them increase their consumption once here,
the survey said. Prior to Davidson, eighty-
two percent of those polled had drunk Béet;
seventy-five percent had drunk liquor, and
seventy-nine percent had drunk wine. Still,
most students drink more once at Davidson,
Sixty-five percent said that, once here, their
consumption of beer increased and fifty-
seven percent answered that their liquor
consumption increased.

Letter

Continued from page 1

of some things on the court and I am also concerned with ev-
eryone else.” He said, “It wasn’ta letter to come down on the
student body, but considerations do need to be taken on the
court.” ;

The letter has generated confusion because it was sent Out
on SGA letterhead and appeared to be the work of the SGA
Senate. Covington said that she read the letter to the Senate but
did not putitup fora motion of approval, Therefore, the Senate
did not officially approve of this letter.

“In hindsight it would have been better to leave out the
SGA letterhead," Covington said, “I’m sorry if that was mis-
understood.”

The four students who composed and sent out the letter
also happen to be leaders or key members of certain campus or-
ganizations. The four listed their titles below their signatures
at the bottom of the letter. The question of whether or noteach
organization approved of this letter was raised because of the
organizations (SGA, PCC, Honor Council, and Student Con-

duct Council) being listed.

According to Covington, the students did notattempt to get approval
from the organizations and did not mean to mislead the student body into
thinking that they did so. Covington said, “We put our titles down'to say
that we are student leaders concerned about this. In hindsight it would
have been better to just list our class.”

Freeman said that whether or not he was on the Student Conduct
Council he “would’ve been concerned anyway” and would have defi-
nitely given his input. Covington said, “I would have written it regard-
less of who I was.”

The letter starts out “LUSH, DRUNKARD, LIGHTWEIGHT,
BOOZER, INEBRIATE, SPONGE, GUZZLER...” Covington said it
began this way because the four seniors felt like they needed a way to
catch people’s attention and make them continue reading. She added
that this is a serious issue and they were not willing to spend time and
money to send the letter out if people were just going to throw it away.

Covington also commented on how the SGA is looking into a lot of
issues concerning alcohol. She said that the Dean of Students helped
with the mailing but had no input in the composition of the letter, “We
felt like that as seniors we had a different perspective on things,”
Covington said, “It was appropriate to say this is how we feel and these
are our positions.” The faculty also did not know anything about this
letter.

|
~~
H
The Apple
SHleW nter®
isan ink-jet
printer that
deliver laser
quality pnt
ing (460 dots
perimchs
Its not much
larger than
an average
textbook,
and tt
weighs

only fite
pounds

Here’s the deal: We've paired some of the

most popular Apple® Macintosh® computers
with some of the most popular Apple print-
ers. Buy one of these combinations, and save

big bucks. Got it? Good. Now get going,

Macintosh Classic

Save when you buy
an affordable
Macintosh Classic®
computer with either
an Apple StyleWriter
or an Apple Personal
LaserWriter® LS
printer.*
*) oe

ea

ee

Apple StyleWriter Apple Personal LaserWriter LS Apple StyleWriter

*Offer applies only to a Macintosh Classic with a built-in hard disk
“*Monitor sold separately

AVE
Macintosh —

Macintosh LC

€ \

This offer is available only fora limited time.
See your authorized Apple campus reseller:
today for details. - ee
And discover the power of Macin-
‘tosh. The power to be your best®

Macintosh Isi

Save even more when Save the most when
you buy a Macintosh you buy a high-perfor-
LC computer—our _ mance Macintosh Hsi
most affordable color computer with either
system—with either an an Apple Personal
“Abbie Paste oran LaserWriter LS or an”
Apple Personal Laser- f "
Whiter LS printer.** Vie ae

riter NT printer.**
eh

Apple Personal LaserWriter LS Apple Personal LaserWriter LS Apple Personal LaserWriter NT

For further information visit
Computer Services Center
contact Ellen Morrissey at Ext, 2432.

© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, LaserW'riter, Macintosh, StyleWriter, and “The power to be your best” are registered trad
Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc.

wr

rks of Apple Computer, Inc.

