THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991 7

Is The "No Hats" Rule Just Part of a Territorial Dispute?

By Phillip Atchison

In early September, I wore a
hat into the Davidson Weight
Room. A “no hat” rule had been
instituted in the weightroom at the
beginning of school, maybe ear-
lier, Everyone who happened to
don a cap as they improved their
health, of course, flagrantly broke
this inane rule.

One day I was asked to remove
my hat by Beth Manson, the Assis-
tant Track and Field Coach. I
refused because I thought the rule
was groundless and trifling. She
fetched Sterling Martin, the Assis-
tantAthletic Director, in hopes that
he could produce a reason for the
“no hat” rule.

He politely informed me that
he hoped that his son would know
that wearing a hat indoors is a sign
of poor breeding. I concurred, but
is a weight room to be held in the
same light as your grandmother’s
parlour? I continued my exercise,
head covered.

A short while after this run in
with the law, I received a letter
from Terry Holland, Davidson
Athletic Director. The letter was

- tural analogy.

an attempt on his part to explain, to
justify the “no hat” rule, the rule
originating from him of course.
He sent both the Student Athletic
Committee and President Kuyken-
dall copies of his letter. I feel that
the student body asa wholeshould
beaware of the content of the letter
and what it reveals about our Ath-
letic Director’s attitude.

There were basically three
reasons in this letter which Hol-
land felt justified his rule. The first
was the safety factor. Holland said
that he had witnessed an accident
in another weight room where
“both the spotter and the lifter
received fairly minor bruises.”

He did not elaborate upon this
freak accident, but the dangers of a
“falling cap” are fantasy. Thereis
not an exercise or machine in the
weight room that, by wearing a
hat, one could endanger his life.

Next, he offered a little cul-
Terry Holland
wouldexpect me to remove my hat
in his office, and likewise “a Japa-
nese family living in a home here
at Davidson” would expect me to
remove my shoes in their home.

David Scott: Depth! Relevance!
Just Gimme Something, Anything, PLEASE!

Depth! Relevance! began as a
close knit bunch of kids with a
dream -- oh! if we could only have
a column -- and we acted on that
dream. Scribbling till sunup in half-
lit attics, (dribbling till sundown
like half-cocked_‘spastics), . we
foughtand we clawed forthe turn-
ing of phrase, bleeding for words,
notnumbering days. Till pages and
columns segued from our heads,
(not washing our hair, we sprouted
thick dreads). Nothing else mat-
tered, nothygiene, not passion; till
words poured forth naturally -- sort
of -- at least in our fashion. _

One day we looked up, caught
oureyesin the mirror; ‘people’, we
said (heart thrilling in terror),
‘we’re ready to hit it, hit the big
time; no one might get it, but let’s
try out our rhyme’ -- in the
Davidsonian.

It was quite astep. But through
perseverance, diligence, and a
complete lack of shame, we
plugged along through these num-
berless weeks bringing you, well,
maybe not all of you, but at least
some of you, (though even that
may be an authorial pipe dream),
let’s hopeat leastone or two of you
at the absolute minimum, pleas-
ure,

‘Butournumbersare small. The
strain is beginning to tell on some
of our members, and we needhelp.
That's the subject of our little
vane week. HELP!

We founders. of the Society!
feel certain that we do not have a

monopoly on Deep! and Relevant! 2
thoughts: at Davidson. You people

have them, admit it. And it’s O.K.
Nobody’s gonna’ make fun of you.
More than likely they won't even
notice (case in point, the editors
have yet to receive, after almost a
year of DIR!, any letter, positive
or negative, of any sort inresponse
to this our little passion). —

So strap some on! Jot down
your little earth-numbing musings

and send ‘em in! As we have in-
sisted in the past, the only thing off
limits. in good-solid-collegiate-
journalism is good-solid-journal-
ism, so give it a whirl (and us a
week off).

Embarrassing stories would be
good: Roast:your roommate) flay
your friend, ridicule everyone
again and again! (The preceding
sentence should be chanted to the
tune of your favorite ditty from the

cartoon version of the Hobbit.). Or.

solve the problem of campus mo-
rale, or is it morality? (whichever
one the FightSong’s talking about).
Anybody can make a funny about
that.

' Orjustrave. The verbalequiva-
lent of a fist-pounding, foot-
stompin’, red-faced fit always
makes fora good read. Oreven just
a scrunch-faced, juvenile; pout-
lipped tiff might do. We’ re open to
allen sho ee

Ifpeople really respond, maybe
we’ll start up a new section in the
Davidsonian. News, Sports, Arts,
etc. and D!/R!, News For the Topi-
cally Impaired.

Fortunately, this‘week a kind
soul has offered his services in
relief of *he beleaguered D!/R!
executives. You might call our
guest a sort of ‘peripatetic pontifi-
cator.’ Seeking a playing field on
which to lob his wisdom, he found
us and for this, we thank him. First

_abrief biographical sketch.

Our guest this week, a preco-
cious child; sat up by week 2 and
crawled off at five (a near, near
thyme). A tough tot he was, adeath-
wish some said; always crawling
and falling and hitting his head. At

theage of twomonths, he followed —

aslinky; set throbbing down stairs
by his big brother, Stinky. “Chinka

-Chinka” it went, it slunk and it

flowed; he thought it looked cool,
so down the stairway he goed. Pin-
wheeling path, (the staircase was
spiral); he crashed and he bumed,

“Tts even hard for me to imag-
ine that if I [Holland] visited you at
your dorm room and you asked me
to remove my shoes that I would
notdoso.” Such deductive prow-
ess lead to this logical conclusion:

It would be disrespectful to not
remove my shoes in a Japanese
home, and hence my refusal to
remove my hat in the weight room
is disrespectful to Terry Holland.
It readily became apparent at this
point in the letter that this entire
issue wasabout the respect to which
Terry Holland feels entitled.

Holland wrote: “Have I done
something personally...to deserve
your disrespect? If that is true,
then let’s deal with what we’ve
really done that’s importantenough
to have earned your disrespect
rather that talking about the ‘no
hats policy’ in the weight room.

"If it’s truly just the matter of
the hat, then itcomes down to how
you regard the folks around

here... There are still a number of»

students who regard us as their
servants and-that we should mop
up after them and pick up their
trash and do what they ‘want’ as

but this kid was virile. The slinky,
(quite slower than had been his
plummet); plopped down and
brunged him more joy than astrum-
pet. Good thing it was, for he’d
started to cry; his head hurt a bit,
and he thought he might die, At
last he could grasp it, and it gave
him such giée; that he laughed and
he gummeditlikea way cute baby.
With chain link in mouth, and pride
in his main; off crawled our infant,
a slinky his train.

Our guest has also appeared as
an extra in no less. than twelve
Kenny Rogers movies and once
got himself punched in the nose by
The Gambler himself in that late
night classic, The Coward of the.
County (he played a Gatlin’ Boy).

A part-time adventurer and
stuntman, he freely submitted to
being crushed between two gigan-
tic tractor-trailers for$7.50an hour
plus overtime’ (Smokey & the
Bandit Part 1.3*10/23 (“Hey, it’s
cash,” our guest grunted)). He
revels in the search for Incan ruins
in the Amazonian rain forest, easy
money, and blonds (P.S. if Jo
Burrowsis listening, he wouldlove
to be paid for a date. Any date).

Now, please welcome Mr.
L’ser (luh-sér), a Davidson gradu-
ate and proof positive that there’s
work out there for English majors
if they’re just willing to look.

“Thank you, thank you D!/R!.
The title of my presentation today
is, ‘666, Recollections of The
Davidson Experience.’ 1 began at
Davidson in my eighteenth vs ie

OK. Well. Looks like we’ve
run out of space for Mr. L’ser, but
it’s just as well; you’ll all get to
hear him againat Spring Convoca-
tion. si

But we’re still serious about
guest writers. We Theven wale yout
abio. So..

WRITE FOR DEPTH!
RELEVANCE! PLEASE!

opposed to what ‘they’ need us to
do.

"That’s why this [hat rule] be-
comes anon-negotiable item as far
as Iam concerned, There are a
large number of people in this de-
partment who are working long
hours to accommodate the needs
of students. However, I draw the
line at serving the needless wants
of students...If students do not re-
spect the employees of this build-
ing, then it is just a matter of time
before we will all lose our respect

for the students. That has hap-.

pened before.”
Holland ends this defensive
whine with words that could have

been included in the Versailles:

Treaty: “We cannot satisfy 1,494

- different masters, but that should

not even be what we are expected
to do. If bridges are to be rebuilt,
there must be give and take on both
sides and respect for cultural terri-
tory must be recognized.”

Why does the chosen apparel
of the. Davidson student involve

the Baker staff. Is Holland bitter. -

about the blandness of his new job

sumed with boredom thathe seizes
upon the most trivial matter and
tums it into a territorial battle?

How is my wearing a hat in the
weight room a sign of disrespect
for Davidson’s Athletic Director,
other than the fact that I am break-
ing one of his asinine rules, a rule
that assuages his apparently hun-
gry ego? Finally, couldn’t Mr.
Holland direct his energies toward
more legitimate issues, i.e. wallets
being repeatedly stolen from var-
Sity athletes’ locker rooms?

I was personally insulted by
the tone and content of this letter. I
felt that Mr. Holland depicted
Davidson students as spoiled brats,
treating the employees and the
facilities of the Baker Sport Com-
plex as we wish. He has somehow
envisioned the “no hat” rule as a
means to discipline ‘us, to rees-
tablish his “territory.”

I suggest Holland find other
means by which to assert himself
and his staff, because the “no hat”
tule is ignored and unenforced.

Phillip Atchison is a junior Eng-

here at Davidson? Is he so.con- lish major fromRuston, Louisiana

FLAG

Continued from page 5

ment. Can you hear it? -- “What’s wrong with you? Why wasn’t your
name on the petition?”

To avoid this situation, the editors decided not to print the petition
in the opinions section as FLAG’s first piece of publicity. They sug-
gested instead that FLAG produce a editorial outlining its goals and
strategy and allowing those interested in supporting or helping the group
to sign up in the Union or Chambers. This would have allowed for amore
broadly based effort, one that would exclude no one-(except those who
do not read the Davidsonian) and so not leave those unfamiliar with the
effort open to unfair criticism or judgment.

Well, this suggestion enraged the FLAG organizers. The night the
editor-in-chief told them aboutit, he received several angry and hostile
phone calls. They weren’t quite the kind that anonymous harassers are
known to give homosexuals, but they were hostile nonetheless. One
suggested a visit to the college Media Board to ask it to change the
editors’ decision for him, while another claimed that he was wholly unfit
to be the newspaper's editor, as he was discriminating against a certain
group. He was finally told that “there's a group getting together to make
sure you publish that petition as an opinions piece | whether you like it or
not.”

These people did not realize that they were playing out the very
situation that the editors had feared. Because they perceived that the
editor was not on their side -- the one they felt was the right side -- they
attacked him with vehemence and scorn, Itseems that this organization,
founded to promote understanding, failed in this instance, engaging
“behind the scenes” in threats and strong-arming.

Now, I understand the argument the FLAG people had in favor of

. printing the petition. They felt that Davidson needed a “shock” to make

itaware of the problem. The thought that breeds discrimination, though,
is deep-rooted, anda shock will help not change it. We need instead
exactly what FLAG originally said we need -- education. Regardless of
what the FLAG organizers think and the lengths they will go to to have
it printed, a petition will not serve as a quick way to awaken this A
to better attitudes.

I propose that FLAG rethink its strategy, ait resolve to Wolke fora
less radical change, one that this community can handle better. And
abandoning the “shock tactic” will letthem treat others involved with the

_ Same respect they are trying to promote for gays and lesbians.

Inclosing, let me stress again that] support the ideals behind FLAG.
The whole point of this piece, in fact, is to make suggestions that I feel
will help to ensure the success of the organization. It just seems that these
people need to stop waving the FLAG and start promoting it in a more
even-handed manner. When they do, I will be eine to re-sign. :

"The time is near, the mission Poe it's later than you think..."

This Wed. 8:30, Love Auditorium

Get Your Tickets NOW! He ae
