16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1991

‘THE BACK PAGE INTER VIE

By David Thompson
The suject of this week's interview is Graham Smith,a
professional Charlotte actor who recently played Shylock In
Davidson's production of The Merchant of Venice.

Davidsonian: Tell me how you feel about returning to the
Davidson stage.

Smith: Well, it was a little wierd at first, I mean even the
sound of Hodson Hall is different. There’s a certain empti-
ness to it when there’s no people in there. I remember
clearly as a student going in there by myself sometimes and
going through a particularly strong monologue as the Rag-
picker in The Mad Woman of Shio.

In a way though, after you first get started, you don’t
have time for that sort of sentimental backtracking. There’s
so much work to be done. Since we started that’s all I’ve re-
ally been thinking about. There’s been simply too much to
do.

Davidsonian: What are your favorite productions, and your
favorite kind of part to play?

Smith: When I was here I proba-
bly had the best time in Mad
Woman of Shio. And maybe
that’s just because I was older
and had relaxed more. It was the
first ime I had a sense of whatit
meantto do less." Less is more"
is kind of a theatrical bit of wis-
dom; that was the first time it
had kind of settled in, where I
realized in a mature way that it
wasn’t just about energy. It’s a
certain kind of relaxed focus. In
some ways that was the most
fun.

I did Puck [from A Midsum-
mer Night’ s Dream] as a fresh-
man here, and I was terrified. I
didn’t even know the play be-
fore, but some people said I
should try out for it. I think'l
was probably pretty bad.

Davidsonian: Was that your
first theatrical experience?

Smith: My dad’s an old vaude-
ville magician, so had done alot
of stage stuff, and I had done .
plays before. It was certainly
my first contact with
Shakespeare, and I was scared
to death. I think I went so fast.
I just wanted to make sure that I
just said everything, andI don’t
think I made any sense of it.
Some people were fooled
enough to tell me that I should
continue,

Davidsonian: Have you done a lot of Shakespeare since
then?

Smith: Pretty much in the last four years. I’ve done
Malcolm in The Scottish Play. 1 Played a few clowns and
those kind of roles. One of the Dromeos in A Comedy of
Errors, Guildenstern in Hamlet, one of the grave diggers in
Hamlet, Casca in Julius Caesar, that’s about it.

What’s cool about this production is that this isn’t the
kind of role I’d necessarily get achance to do. In aregular
professional company they’d have somebody that was older,
someone with more weight, maybe a little more ethnically
correct for the part, so this has been a special chance.

Davidsonian: When did you first decide that acting was
what you wanted to do?

Smith: I avoided it for a long time. I certainly never said it
to myself when I was here, because so many people that I

met who were in the theater and said “I am an actor” struck
me ina self congratulatory way. I didn’t like what I thought
their interest in the theater was about. And maybe that’s
because I try to pretend to ignore the ego-gratification part
of it. Icall myself a“studentof the theatre.” I thought it was
more respectful to say I was a student of the theater and that
sometimes I had work in it. When you see truly great theater
and realize and geta feeling for whatitreally is about, I think
itcan make you pretty humble. I guess I want to reflect on
that humility, and least when I think aboutit. It’s a carefully
constructed facade of modesty. You can quote me on that
as long as you say “and then he laughed”.

Davidsonian: How did you break into professional acting?

Smith: I had a job working ina ‘Bus and Truck’ company,
that came here as a matter of fact, in a horrible show,
Cabaret. | wasatruck driver, ajourneyman carpenter, akey
grip, and I had a walk-on. This was my first introduction to
New York actors and New York energy and I just went “I
don’t know”. It was all full of the kind of theatricality that
was about being an actor rather than pursuing the work, or

Graham Smith (center) appears with Brian Kirtley
(left) and Ed Cunningham (right) in The Merchant of
Venice.

trying to find out what things can be about. A lot of self-
awareness.

I taught school for about a year and a half. I burned out
pretty quickly on that, and got a job at Central Piedmont in
their summer theater. I decided not to go back to teaching
and realized that I didn’t have any income. So, I waited
tables for one month. I was working ina wookie suit, I think
that’s what it’s called, a Chewbacca costume in a toy
department. One day.. I was the smallest Chewbacca ever.
I was running around entertaining kids who had come in to
buy toys. Somebody recognized me, a brother of a girl who
wenthere. Hesaid, “Oh, Graham,” and I thought, “No! I’m
exposed, I can’t do this any longer either!”

Luckily, that afternoon, I got a call about a job in a
dinner theater in Montana. A couple days later, I left, and
have been extraordinarily lucky since then.

Davidsonian: You mentioned your role in Blue Velvet the
other day. What was that like?

Smith: It wasa real neat thing to bea partof. Unfortunately,
my part of it ended up on the cutting room floor. But, I was
there the night Isabella Rossalini sang “Blue Velvet.”

[had a little bit of interaction with David Lynch. I had
one line as “the harried waiter”, and my line to Kyle
McLaughlin and Laura Dern, when asked when Dorothy
Valence was supposed to sing, I said, “I don’t know, pretty
soon. What time is it? What? Who knows?” That was my
line.

David Lynch said, “what I want you to do is put it out
there, keep it out there. Know what I mean?” I just said,
“Uh, let me do it once and you tell me.” I did my one line
and he gave mea thumbs up, and I thought that I was in, but
I wasn’t.

It was néat being around it all, though. Dennis Hopper
was in the motor home that I was in, or, rather, I was in the
motor home that Dennis Hopper was in, He and Kyle
McGlaughlin were playing cards in my motor home, and so
all the energy was kind of fun.

Evidently the whole energy of the movie was to turn the
angle on everything they did. Lynch made everything a
little awry. He was always interested in what was alittle off-
center about it, what wasa little
bizarre. Not horribly bizarre,
but just a little bit. I think that’s
what he meant by “put it out
there.”

Davidsonian: The Merchant of
Venice is one of Shakespeare’s
more complex comedies, be-
cause of Shylock. How do you
read him? What’s he like, to
you?

Smith: I think it’s much harder
to talk about that kind of stuff
than it is to do it.

I’drather leave it to other people
to talk about that. I think when
you’re working on something
it’s more about finding out what
itisas you doit. It’s in the doing
of it that you’re informed about
it. I guess you’re accountable
for some perspective, but I find
it easier and more truthful for
me if I can sort of discover it in
the playing of it.

That means, necessarily that
you’re going to be more attuned
tothe people around you. I think
that’s always important in act-
ing. It’s not just my ideas that
are going to be important, but
the fact that I’m going to be
dealing with Ed and Brian and

_Jay and Keely.

I certainly feel pleased about it.
All of it really has been a good
experience, on many levels. It’s °

Photo by Jay Wylie been a theatrical kick, but it’s
also been a kick to have done it
in this context, and to have seen
the way people responded, I’m
talking about the students [ac-

tors].

When it first started, I think we were all kind of tenta-
tive. That’s always the case when you’re taking on some-
thing new. It was Shakespeare, and everybody was trying
to say this stuff that’s hard to say, and doesn’t really make
alot of sense, and it’s hard to make real, and it’s hard to say
it to another person.

But suddenly, after working on it for about three weeks,
it just sort of went away. It sort of dropped in -- people
started saying, “wow man, I know whatthisis, Icandothis!”
The nickel dropped, and the parts belonged to the people,
and it became fun, and it became easy.

That’s always a special point to hit, and ‘you don’t
always do. I thought that we did hit it, and it was really a
pleasure to be out on stage with these people. Ididn’texpect

to have as good a time as I did with my fellow actors, and I
feel pretty rewarded.
