4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief
LEIGH MCKEEVER, Executive Editor
WALTER PRICE, Executive Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Asisstant Editor

. - OMA BLAISE, Copy Editor
The B aupisontan DAVID SMYTH, Copy Editor
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SEICK, Campus Living Editor
MAY MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Manager

JOHN PATTTON, Advertising Manager
2 MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

A.Poor Choice Of Words

5. a. The Council on Minority Affairs consists of a chairperson and two Senators
appointed by the SGA President, approved by the Senate: the SGA President and
Vice President as ex officio members; one representative from each class of the
student body, and two minority students, nominated by the Council Chairperson in
consultation with the SGA President and approved by the Senate. The chairperson
should be appointed by the SGA President at the beginning of his or her term.

The preceding motion was passed at the SGA meeting of April 9, 1991. Its intent
is noble, to create a council for the sole purpose of examining and hopefully
resolving the many problems which minority students experience at Davidson
College. In essence, the creation of the Council is another step towards the ideal of
race-blind judgment of individual merit and indiscriminate treatment of other
people. The motivating notion behind the civil-rights movement in this country has
been that all people are created equal, and that one’s gender, nationality, or skin color
have absolutely nothing to do with one’s ability to perform. If you read thé motion
above carefully, you will find that it contradicts this ideal.

The use of the word “minority” in the fourth line of the motion to describe the
two students who will be appointed to the Council is not just unnecessary, but
inconsistent with the ideal the motion attempts to promote. The Minority Affairs
Council has been created in order to address the problems which minority students
encounter as a result of being treated in a different manner than non-minority
students. The seeming objective of the Council is to promote the equal treatment of
minorities at Davidson. By stating that “two minority students” will be appointed
to the Council, however, the SGA claims that a student is more qualified to be a
member of the Council, because of their race or national descent.

The logic behind keeping the word “minority” in that clause of the motion is that
minority students would be the best informed of minority problems, and thus should
be specifically cited for membership on the council.

This argument is insufficient. The students appointed to the council should be
those who are the most familiar with the problems the council wishes to address,
‘period. If the most qualified student happens to be a minority, which in all likelihood
would be the case, then that student should be appointed to the post. The student
should be appointed on the basis of individual merit rather than skin color or
background.

Racist defeatism works both in the direct manner of degrading people for the sole
reason that they are of another culture or color, and in an indirect manner by
promoting people on those same grounds. The language of the motion to create the
Minority Affairs Council defeats, in the end, the worthy and necessary intent behind
its inception.

Th..th..th..That’s All Folks!

Yes, sadly enough, as our staff has to prepare for end of term papers and exams,
just like normal students, you have before you the last issue of The Davidsonian for
the 1990-91 school year. The editorial board would like to thank all of you who, with
your contributions to the paper, helped to make this year’s Davidsonian, the best in
recent history. Once again, former editors Jay Chaudhuri and Mark Puckett deserve
hearty congratulations for rebuilding the framework of this paper, and saving it from
the possibility of demise. ati

We’ll be coming out again in September, so use your summer wisely, and prepare
that column you’ve always been meaning to write. See you next year!

YOUR CHECKLIST O' EMPLOYMENT, 7:

COA RAISE? YOURE LUCKY I DON'T KILL You!

oO [T'S FOR YOUR OWN GOOD-WHAT WOULD YoU DO © [CJ MONEY ISN'T EVERYTHING.
WITH ALL THAT MONEY ?

(OU WA HAHA HAHA HA HA HAHA HA HA HA HA

(Ol WE'RE STILL RECOVERING FROM TOUGH TIMES.
[01 WE'RE SUFFERING FROM TOUGH TIMES,

O WERE ANTICIPATING TOUGH TIMES.

(0 GEE, KID... WAS JUST STARTING TO LIKE You! [C1] 1 APPREGATE YoUR COURAGE IN

(1 HOH? OH, 1 THOUGHT I HEARD
SOMETHING , BUT I WAS WRONG,

[Od WHEN 1 WAS YOUR AGE...

T'M GIAD YOU BROUGHT THIS
UP — NOW GET OUT.
(1 BUT You GOT A RAISE LAST YEAR!
(Cl IF I'M NICE 10 YOU Now, You'LL
LOSE YOUR MOTIVATION TD WORK,

COMING TO ME LIKE THIS, TELL ME:
WERE YOU BORN STUPID OR DID
You HOM DROP YOU DN YOUR HEAD? 7

Letiers

a

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mailand correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building: Opinions
‘expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not neccessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising
rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College...

. Let's Talk About It

To: The senior English ma-
jor who let off some serious
steam on her/his Student
Budget Survey

We need to talk. If you
and your family (and some
of your friends) are suffer-
ing through the kind of fi-
nancial hardship described
on your survey form, there

must be some way our office
can provide relief. We can
talk about all those other
things that are bugging you,
too. Who knows, by airing
your views we might find
some constructive means of

addressing grievances

shared by other students.
And while we’re talking

maybe I canconvince youo!
the depth of our commit.
ment to need-based aid anc
need-blind admissions
Please give meacall (x2232)
or-come by 106 Chambers.

Sincerely, .
GORDON PECK, Associ-
ate Dean-Financial Aid

Dear Editor:

It has come to our atten-
tion that a few discrepancies
exist in your otherwise fine
paper. The not leastof which
is the continued publication
of articles by your so-called
health editor, Marlo Cobb.
After reading article upon
article extolling the praises
of proper exercise, correct
eating and ahealthy lifestyle,
and bearing in mind the
importance of the honorcode
upon our life here at
Davidson; we find it is time
to set the record straight. To
the detached outside ob-
server, Miss Cobb is the
epitomy of a health freak -
daily exercise, no caffeine,
roller derby queen! We can

assure the good readers of
this paper that this is merely

a well constructed facade. '

Marlo is hiding a dreadful
and potentially embarrass-
ing secret. She is a choco-
holic. Anyone who has vis-
ited NBC304 can confess to
the trail of crinkled candy
wrappers littering the hall
outside her room, the de-
capitated chocolate Easter
Bunnys standing like senti-
nels on the kitchen counter,
and theempty bags of Nestle
cHocolate chips that line the
bottom of the trash can. A
peek ather daily meal planis
revealing. Breakfast may
begin. with a whole grain
cereal (see previousarticle),
but served with chocolate

| The Truth About Miss Cobb

(what else!) milk, followed
by lunchconsisting ofabowl
_ Of soup garnished by four or
"five squares of a chocolate
bar (always Nestle). Din-
ner, however, takes thecake,
so to speak. A typical repast
will probably begin with a
square of chocolate, continue
with a roll of premixed
chocolate chip cookie dough,
followed by the ears of good
old Peter Cottontail for des-
sert. Disgusting. ;
Inthe interestofnotonly
enlightening the readersand
saving the paper from a po-
tentially embarrassing law-
Suit; we also write toserve a
greater cause: Our only

. See "Pig" onpage 7

Comments on Holland -

Dear Editor,

The following remarks
were stimulated by two fac-
tors: (1) an interview with
Mr. Terry Holland you re-
ported in the Davidsonian

4 onMonday, March 18, 1991,

and (2) an oral account tome
of a confrontation between
Mr. Holland and a well-
known and _ respected
Davidson senior regarding

his clothing tastes. These
observations and bits of
advice are mostly my opin-
ions, but I will state them as
facts for purposes of empha-
sisandadvocacy. Thé quotes
are Mr. Holland's words,
The first priority for a
person starting a new job
should be to establish credi-
bility with the people ‘in:
volved therewith. This in-

,

cludes demonstrating com-
petence, forthrightness, fair-
ness, and willingness to in-
teract with all involved in an
atmosphere of good will and
cooperation. Once estab-
lished, this credibility gives
the holder significant power,
not brute heavy-handed

‘; see "Holland" on page 7
