THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991 a

A Man, A Plan, A Reebok Pump

By David D. Smyth
This piece was first written for
Dr. Lewis’s Advanced Composi-
tion class and none of this stuff

ever really happened.

I took a trip to a few schools in
northeast Washington, DC, last
week, on a fact-finding mission as
they say, and was quite pleased.
with what I saw. The innovative
and progressive “Education Presi-
dent” wants me, the incoming
Secretary of Education, to light up
the department and, good golly,
that’s just what I intend todo. Boy,
before I’m through this place will
be high-stylin’ and profilin’. As
we begin our journey through a
little piece of Americana, just
remember that as Andre Agassi
likes to say in his Nike commer-
cials: “Image is everything.”

Iam pleased to report that rela-

tively few drive-by shootings —

marred my week-long glimpse of
our nation’s future. Violence
committed by students in a crack-
induced frenzy is dwindling each
and every day. . Better yet, our
major news networks are growing
increasingly weary of televising
reports of theserandom drug crimes
when real firepower is on display
in the Middle-East. And by now,
the average viewer’s desensitized
eyes accept gang violence in

America’s urban schools as inevi-
table evils in today’s crazy world.
Things are looking up for educa-
tion, boys and girls.

School officials also gave me
the opportunity to talk with a few
teachers in elementary, middle, and
high schools. While the rapport
between them and their students is
essentially non-existent, most of
them limited shouting matches toa
minimum for my benefit--a lovely
gesture, I think. Not all of the
teachers appeared to have a com-
manding grasp of their subject
matter, but all had passed: mini-
mum standards as required by the
District of Columbia Board of
Education, a fine accomplishment
I think you’ ll all agree. Some of
you may ask whether the accom-
plishment belongs to the bureau-
crats who pass them at any cost,
but who are we to judge? The kids
don’tknow the difference, do they?

The facilities at the schools are
in finecondition, most having been
replaced since the Civil War. Still,
many of these schools are legiti-
mate hunting grounds for artifacts
of our education past. Some of our
children are lucky enough to do
their daily work on slate, yes, slate,
just as our forefathers did. Some
annoying naysayers tend to com-
plain that these methods are ar-
chaic and only stand in the way of

Beyond Birkenstock

Well, this is the last Beyond
Birkenstock you'll read before
Sinfest ...er, Springfest’91. In
fact, chances are, some of you
won’t make it back
anyway, so this may

for opinions, rightor wrong. We're

right and you’re wrong. Simple.
3. Doug Robarchek’s column

OutFrontis not the best journalism

the learning process. I’d like for
the students themselves to answer
these absurd claims, and if any of
them could articulate a complete
sentence, they would.
We have a plan for this depart-
ment, yessiree. I like to call the
grand scheme the Reebok Pump/
Education Department Glitzorama.
You'll notice that for the first time
in United States history we’ve

“ chosento go witha corporate spon-

sor for a government program. In
case you are asking why-in-the-
hell-we’d-want-to-do-a-dumb-
thing-like-that, I’ll answer your
witless question with a brilliant
one. nea

Who else could convince the
world to buy a pair of sneakers for
$180 with a budget that’s 90%.
marketing and advertising and 10%
manufacturing?

You see, we think it’s a new
wave in our nation’s educational
future for our young people. We
don’t really need to improve our
students’ basic skills as long as it
looks as though we are.

Because if the old people think
everything is okay with the present
state of affairs, then we’re okay for
the next four years. And that’s the
name of the game in Reebok poli-
tics, kids, Remember, responsible

government lasts only as long asa

presidential term.

News, cable 31. -

9. Birkenstocks (the shoes)
are ugly as sin; whocares if they’re
comfortable. Remember: its bet-
ter to look good than to feel good.

10. Carolina

be the last thing you
read... ever. Its gotta
be good, right? Have
we ever let you down
before? (Rhetorical
Question—Do. Not~
Answer). What, we
thought to ourselves,
could possibly top last
week’s Presbyterian
scandal, and yet be
Suitable for you toread
minutes before your

(Kyle) or Pitt (Seth)
will win the NCAA.
(Now, we know
UNLV is stronger,
but who wants to
cheer for a team that
drags its knuckles
when it walks onto
the court.)
11.
Simpson is. Homer-
Sexual and not the
pinnacle of cultural

fiery, painful death? 5 ie enlightenment.

How about, say, a top J. Kyle Kinner and psd Beane
i nation’s - ° plex
vet golf Seth J ° McLaughlin wos ea damn
course/permanent rest
facilities. Or maybe : 13. We are not

the all-time, top ten best jokes re- columnonthecommentary pages; fascists. _
lating to major natural disasters read them once in a while. 14, Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Liq-
you probably learned in Sunday 4. NASCAR is not that big  vortasisnot the Davidson College
school. (e. g. How come the ani- outside of the Carolinas. motto.

mals couldn’t play cards on the 5.Tie-Dye’s don’t match any- ‘1S. You're lucky to get four-
ark? A: Noah was sittingonthe thing! — teen things! Do you think it’seasy
deck.) Nah, we thought, its been 6. “Killer,” “Cash,” “Daddy,” tocomeup with this level of humor
done too many times before; who and “Sweet,” are-simply foolish week in and week out? Ifwehada
wants cliché? Not to drag out the euphemisms forthe much more di- nickel for every time we had to
suspense any longer, the number _rect.““That is nice.” Those in the _listentoyoupeoplecomplainabout
onecolumn choice forthe weekof “real world” respect the latter— — our column, we'd have a buck!
March 18 is... those at Charlotte Speedway the * Bonus Thing— John Burns
THE TOP FIFTEEN THINGS _ former. : is a hack. Can’t he just sit in.
YOU COULD DO OR LEARN 7. “Ihear you” means justthat:. France, eat Brie, and cheese on
OVER. BREAK TO IMPROVE _It does not mean that one agrees French babes like all the other
AND UPLIFT YOUR LAZY  withanother. Ifthatwerethecase, American fools?

SELVES: ’ one need only say, “Iagree.””

1. Vanilla Ice has no talent.
2. The Davidsonianisa forum

8. CNN is on cable 24 (that’s
one less than ESPN). Headline -

Have a good break, you lazy, apa-

thethic @#$%&. C-ya.

Got A Reaction? Write Opinions clo The Editors

Bart

haps.add tothe fact that women’ s
voices are not heard, that their”
_ opinions are not taken seriously,

