MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
WIRE!
bvauads In Higher Education: with American accounting meth- handful of universities that al-

More Power, Less Money
WASHINGTON (CPS) -- The
number of top women administra-
lors in college has increased dra-
matically in recent years, accord-
ng to data collected by the Office
bf Women in Higher Education of
the American Council on Educa-
Hion; |:

Women now make up 11 per-
rent of all presidents of 3,000

ties in the United States. The data
indicates that 328 women were
perving as chief executive officers
n December 1989, up from 296 in
11987 and 118 in 1975. .

In 1989, 20 women presidents
were African-American, 16 were

accredited colleges and universi-.

ods and terms, Western business-
men in Soviet ventures have com-
plained that they don’t understand
Russian accounting methods.
“Tt’s amazing to think an entire
country will be adopting the meth-

ods set out in our book,” says -

Anderson, who will spend two
weeks instructing Soviet profes-
sors on use of the book in the
spring. “Given a chance for free
enterprise, I think they will be
thirsty for what we have to offer,”
says Anderson. !

A team of Soviet professors is
working on translation of the text,
with completion next fall.

Brouhaha Builds Over

low beer sales in stadiums. Some
others include the University off
Colorado, University of Hawaii|
San Diego State University and
the University of California-
Fullerton.

Video Game Competition
Hits Dozens of Schools
(CPS) -- Goofing off sometimes
has| definite advantages. Ask
Duane Olenius.

‘Olenius, a junior, took
small detour from studying
wound up as Mankato S
University’s winner in the Nin
tendo Campus Challenge that’
currently criss-crossing thecoun
try.

By Catharine McEaddy

At the 58th Biennial Grand
Conclave of the Kappa Sigma
Fraternity, Davidson College’s
own Delta Chapter received the
Founders Award of Chapter Ex-
cellence.

This award, which was pre-
sented in Atlanta, Georgia on July
26, 1991, is to distinguish the top
fourteen chapters of Kappa Sigma
in both the United States and
Canada.

The Founders Award is

Kappa Sigma Receives
Founders Award For
Chapter Excellence

given in recognition of campus
and community participation of
each chapter. When asked about
the distinguished honor, Kappa
Sigma’s secretary, Andrew Spain-
hour, said, “As a house we are
really pleased to have won the
'Founder’s Award. It’s awfully nice
to be recognized by the national
fraternity in such a way.”
Davidson’s Delta chapter,
which was established in ‘1890,
was selected from among the 214
chapters of Kappa Sigma.

Hispanic, two were Asian-Ameri-. Brew Sales At Colorado State Now he’s headed for Disne

tan, and five were Native Ameri- FORT COLLINS, Colo. (CPS) -- World this January Withashot

ran. Seven of the Hispanic women A debate has been brewing over anewcarand scholarship mone Ray Thro wer Urge S
presidents served at Puerto Rico the sale of suds at Colorado State _ ranging from $1,000 to $2,500.

His combined scores 0
Super Mario Bros. 3, Dr. Mario
and Pinbottopped those of 2,
challenge sand won him the tri
to the finais in Orlando, Fla.

In the finals, Olenius had to

s face off against his brother Dave

nstitutions.

Though women have gained
bower, a 1991 publication of the
A ssonia innnf Americ; a Colleges,
reflects that the median salary for
female administrators averages 41
percentless than the same for male

University games. The final deci-
sion: beer will continue to flow in
Hughes Stadium -- just a little less
than before
The question of whether to
discontinue sales in the stadium
“emerged after the school experi-

Bicycle Registration

student's driver’s license numbe
onto the frame of the bike in orde
to facilitate identification. A bi

By David Thompson
Six Bicycles have been reported
as stolen from Davidson College stu-

dministrators. According toone enced problemswithfansdrinking 21, and four other challengers.) dents, Public Safety Director Ray cycle registration drive will tak
have the wage disparity has at football games. Duane beat his big brother and} Throwersaid Saturday. Heconveyed place outside the Union o
ncreased over the past two years. “I think, in perspective, the theotherstowintheoverall guys’ _ that three of the bikes stolen were in Wednesday, September 11, whic.

racks, while the other three were in
other locations about the campus.
Thrower also noted that out of the six
stolen bicycles, only one was locked,
and only one was registered with the

problems have been large in num-
Accounting Classic- ber but small in magnitude,” said
Goes To Russia Keith Miger, vice president for
CHICAGO (CPS) -- Redeyed student affairs.

unting students at U.S. col- Still, in its decision to continue

title. “I’m getting a little mile-
-age out of that,” he says.

That left one challenger, 19-
year-old Kim Sandmeyer, who
won the females’ championship,

will last from 8-11am and 1-Spm
weather permitting. The drive wi.
take place inside the union if nec
essary, Thrower said.

Finally Thrower urged al

eges and universities can take selling beer, the university placed Olenius, 20, and Sandmeyer| Office of Public Safety. students with bicycles to purchas
solace in the fact that they are not some restrictions on sales. The squared off and he squashed hey “Thrower emphasized the neces- _ahigh quality lock. Thieves hav
e only ones to suffer through the | ‘policy statesthatnoalcoholcanbe _ by a few thousand points. sity for all-students with bicycles to mastered thé artof removing cable

eighty “Principals of Account- | brought into the stadium, vendors
ng.” Now the Russians will, too. cannot sell beer in the stands, a
|. The 1,300-page classic, writ- _ person may only buy onebeereach
n by Belverd E. Needles, Jr.,a time he or she is at the concession
professor at DePaul University in | stands, and sales will stop at
Chicagoand HenryR. Anderson,a halftime.
professor at the University of | “We’rereally begingsolssezhis
Central Florida, has been chosen as an all-out campaign for behav-
by a United Nations agency to be jlor, ” Miger said. “Weare trying to

register them with Public Safety as
soon as possible. There is no charge
for bicycle registration. Registration
cna pacludes the engraving of a

and chains, but the titanium lock
are apparently foolproof. Thes
locks are available in the Studen
Store, and are re Being sold at cost.

: No big deal. It’s just that she

“Tom Price at 6370.

try
“Yep,” de dat. Hes os
Olenius admits the win nu

he only beginning general. ac-. work with ourstudentgovernment _ his love life a Jittle, but that’ S
rounting book to be used in the tolaunchaneducationalcampaign part of the price. . ATTENTION
viet Union’s university system... | about drinking.” The challenge toured
to the monumental task’ of In past years, concessionaires puses in the western U;
slating the text, only one book | could sefl two beers to an individ-  Stateslastspring, whilecolleges S OCI AL DIRECTOR
as selected. _ ual who visited their stands, they _ in the eastern part of the count S
With communism crumbling, sold beer throughout the entire are participating this fall. “An
Soviets are being forced to adopt game and people were allowed to student with a valid I.D. fron Try one of Our
Wester business concepts, leav- bring their own alcohol into the _ the college where the C: "

ing.educators scrambling forhelp. stadium.

Challenge is being oo ce
Because there is little familiarity Colorado State is one of only a ope

part,

"ae HOAGIES!

The Best Haircut in Town

Serving Davidson College for mare than 7 years

ss on feet) |
Ideal for social functions and feeding
large groups.

Hair World Call today for all details!

(704) 892-1332

SUITE #3
19900 S. MAIN ST.
CORNELIUS, NC 28031

OWNERISTYLIST
DIANE UMBARGER

Great Location!

South Lake Shopping Center
896-7611

