THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

Il

Spots of Time

In The Prelude, William Wordsworth coined the term "spot of time" for a moment from early childhood which
continues to effect one’s adult life. As an assignment for the senior aolloquium in English, students were asked to
recall their own “spot of time” and relate it in story form. These pieces were read aloud and discussed, creating a
unique atmosphere in the.class. The spots of time can be viewed as texts but the highly personal nature of the
documents leads to a sense of sharing and discovery. In this issue, we have included spots whose memories span the
quirky, frightening, and often painful past. The spots are at once uncomfortably personal but compelling and alive.

Frannie Abernethy

My grandfather’s eyes are baby blue. I hadn’t ever gotten close enough to notice them
before. Last week, we sat rather awkwardly in the lobby of a disinfected, well-waxed wing
on the second floor of the Charlotte Methodist Home. Cloroxed peach walls, pencil lead, and
fluorescent lighting,a combination I thought] had escaped after hometown elementary school,
joined us there. I wasn’t quite prepared.

We were never close friends. One memory constantly re-invades: the day I spied on him
as he scraped a grey hornets’ nest from the wooden rafters of his garage with a garden rake.
His blue oxford button down shirt was dappled with sweat and he cussed as he scraped. Insects
with stingers, lightning, and how to get to the creek without getting poison ivy or burrs were
my mind burdens back then. I hadn’t told anybody, but I guess I had always associated Pop
with those “swaps” on the dark ceiling of the car park at 1832 Pinewood Circle. Both of them
were pretty angry that afternoon. Pop got stung and the “swaps” lost their home, and nobody
was happy. : ;

. Sitting here in the lobby, I was thinking about the English 495 analysis due on Monday
and about my awful weekend. And even though I hated myself for the selfish entitlement I
had for the sunny day outside the peach walls, I couldn’t wait to leave.

Pop sat strapped into a chair working slowly on the Hershey bar with almonds I brought
with me. I thought it might take the edge off the silence. The silence between ys had always
been awkward. It reminded me that he had never taken the time to know his grand-daughter,
and I thought it let on to him how much he intimidated me. But as I sat with him in that peach
lobby of the Alzheimer’s wing, I noticed that he was smiling and I realized that the only thing
in his eyes was the taste of chocolate.

_ Jana Player

We called him “Rags.” He was just a cur, put twice on the frontal line of water
guns and balloons. That little ole’ bunch of faithful fur had offered his life for mine.
Yet, all that he got was bones and bread, or the leaving of dinner crumbs, Buthe’d give
his heart for a pat on the head, or a friendly tickle and rub.

To Rags, our home was his home, but then came the breaking away. Well, whether
they stole him, or whether he went, Iam not prepared to say. We were told to muster
up the courage and forget this stray dog. Some went out to the playground, to the
swings, to the pool, and to the house, but not I. I went back to the road where I first
laid eyes upon my lost friend.

One day I went on a science field trip. They took us budding senior chemists to
one of those institutes where they demonstrated every new disease by means of
dissected brutes. They had one animal tacked, tied, and split like a fully dressed fish,
with his vitals pumping inside as pleasant as one might wish. I stopped to look like
the rest, of course, and the beast’s eyes leveled mine. His short tail thumped with a
feeble force, and he uttered a tender whine.

It was Rags, yes Rags! Who was martyred there, who was quartered and
sacrificed, and he whined that whine which is doggish prayer. Then he licked my hand
- and died.

And I was no better in part nor whole than the gang I was among. His innocent
blood wason the soul which he blessed with his dying tongue. Well! I’ve seen mothers
fight to save their children, men go to courageous death for their country, but only a
dog would spend his breath in akiss forhis murderoushand. By the sight of unjustified
death, I knew this to be a day of renewal, discovery, and pain as I turned completely
away from the learning of the unknown - science.

Carter Payne

The other day I noticed a woman and a little boy?holding hands
walking through a field. I recalled the park only two blocks from our
house in Pittsburgh. My mother took me there one evening when my
father was out of town. While we walked she forced me to hold her hand;
I never liked to hold hands. Then, ata moment's notice, she stopped, and
I felt her grip tighten. We ran across the street, and I began to laugh at
this new “game.” My mother did not say a word; she only continued to
jog, dragging me along beside her. I laughed loudly until she ordered,
“Come on,run!” Her tone startled me, and I looked across the street. For
the first time I noticed a bearded man in a long gray coat staring at us
while we walked. The “game” had ended. Overcome with fright I began
to run with my mother. I looked back again and watched as the man in

, the coat followed.us and started to cross the street. We arrived at our
house, and we stumbled up the stairs to the font door. She pulled me
inside, and I watched as tearsran down her face. I, too, started tocry. She
bolted the doorand then hugged me. Aftera few minutes she and I peered
out the small bathroom window, and I saw the bearded man in the dis-
tance. I watched as he turned the corner and disappeared.

Susan Peppers

Five years old, I sit in the sun and laugh. I know she is not
watching me, so I jump into the just-watered garden bed. Mud
greets my toes and I begin to dance. Grabbing hand fulls, I smear
my body in earth paint. Mud is in my ears, my nose, my every
dimple. I watch a bee leave a flower and wonder what he wanted.
Jealous, I snatch the red globe and stare at its petals. I pause, then
start to eat the blossom petal by petal. I coo in triumph to have
outsmarted the bee. I heara shriek, and she is upon me, tearing the
ruby shreds from my mouth. I struggle, but her fingers part my teeth
and all is lost. She carries me into the house and I weep and weep
and weep.

