20

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Senator Cleo Fields Discusses Cajun Politics

By Jay J. Chaudhuri

InahighJacksonesque Style of delivery
the Honorable Cleo Fields of Louisana
urged black students to continue their
education and get involved in community
service. “Knowledge is power,” said
Fields. “The challenge today for the black
person today is to do your very bestagainst
the odds.” The Senator also advised
Davidson students to become active in
local politics. “There is no reason that a
student from Davidson cannot be mayor of
this town.”

Fields, after completing law school, was
elected to the State Senate at the age of 24.
Today he devotes at least one hour of his
day in giving speeches around the commu-

long in Louisiana politics. DD is being
dealt with. I’m like the Patriot missile and
Duke’s bill is like a Scud. He sends a bill
in the House and the legislature sends me
to shoot it down. He’s able to produce
nothing. We will see that the people of that
district are dealt with fairly.

Politics .
Q. Why did you get involved in politics?
A. I wanted to do politics from an innova-
tive perspective. I want to do something
different. We need more young folks.

Black Educational Institutions
Q. Do you feel education for a black stu-
dent at a traditionally black institution is

folks who have been discriminated but I
say don’t depend on them. I hope I can
wake up one morning and not get up under
the dark cloud of affirmative action.

Racism on Campus .

Q. Could you comment on racism on col-
lege campuses?

A. I introduced a bill that made freshmen
orientations at Louisana colleges include
something on race relations. For some
students, the first time they encounter stu-
dents from other parts of world are on
college campuses. For instance, I remem-
ber being at Southern and sitting next toa
foreign student. I think it’s a good that we

nity. Fields alsoranfor the U.S. Congress
but was defeated. The Senator was invited
as a speaker for Black History Month. This
text contains excerpts from questions asked
by the audience.

Middle East

Q. Your views on the Persian Gulf War?

A. [have alot of constituents in the Middle
East. Before we committeed I was part of
the group calling for economic sanctions
to do everything not to have a war. Once
the war began I supported the soldiers. It’s
best not to be divisive. The troops need
support from America.

David Duke

Q. Could you comment on the U.S. Sena-
torial election between Johnson and David
Duke which gained so much national at-
tention?

A. Senator Johnson is not the Kind of
candidate who could excite a lot of people.
Mr. Duke had more charisma. Duke will
probably run for Governor and loose and
run for the President of the United States
and loose. “DD,” as I call him, will not last

better?

A. Ilook at education as being color blind.
Icanappreciate predominantly black insti-
tutions not just for athletics but academics.
Ihave a problem with a “big dog”’ univer-
sity that accepts a student with low ACT
scores but can put a little round ball in the
hoop or throw a little ball. But if a student
wants to be a doctor with a slightly above
average ACT score, they have to be wel-
comed by black institutions. Too many
people say bad things about black institu-
tions. The problem is when black and

white institutions meet and one figures out -

who is better than the other. Legislation
shouldn’t let one institution receive more
money than another.

Minority Scholarships
Q. Your perspective on those who believe
we should eliminate minority scholarships?
A. There is a need for minority scholor-
ships. First of all, minority is a “code
word.” They look it as Black but it’s not
only Blacks, but Hispanics, Asian Ameri-
cans, women. I think there’s a need for

have this kind of legislation. We will have
less problems socially. When “DD” was
elected it swept across the state: blacks
swearing at whites and whites swearing at
blacks. We had to go on campus and try to
resolve things.

I went to civics class three weeks ago
and the class thought America was the only
country in the world. There was something
wrong with their teacher. This is why we
need to foster social understanding,

Black Politics

Q. What is the future of black Reta, in
this country?

A. More blacks are running a: office and

_ more blacks are winning. People need to

realize that black people did not come ona
different boat. We’re all in the same boat
and that boat is sinking and we’ re all drown-
ing. If America is to survive she needs to
elect candidates who can create commu-
nity, have the ability to serve and under-
stand the issues. She cannot elect candi-
dates according to color.

Photos By Holt Hathaway
