irs aaa — Cam p U S Liv] Nn Q

Who Is Georgia Ringle And What Is A Health Educator?

By Catherine Milligan

You may have seen the man on
the flyers with mouth agape and
hands to cheeks, wearing a wide-
eyedlook ofanxiety. “What would
your father say...?” is the begin-
ning message, but in case you’ve
been preoccupied and unable to
read on, let me explain. The man
represents a state of SHOC, a deep
concern about health issues that
need to be taken seriously at
Davidson. Student Health Op-
tions and Concerns (SHOC) is the
up-and-coming committee that can
and will handle that concern. The
group wants students to have a
solid, reliable source of informa-
tion and advice about health issues
and to know there’s someone to
help you resolve potential prob-
lems. Right now, that someone is
GEORGIA RINGLE.

Georgia is your Health Educa-
tor. She’s warm, knowledgeable,
and interesting; and shecan keep a
secret. If you’re nervous, pan-
icked, or even just a little curious
about sexual problents, contracep-
tion, AIDS testing, alcohol or
drugs, diseases, eating disorders,
stress, medical -exams, oF

whatever...go talk to her. She can
help you answer questions, make
decisions, or just relax,;and she
genuinely wants to help.

‘To top off her love for her
work, Georgia is well-qualified.
She began withaB.A. in Develop-
mental Psychology and a Mas-
ter’s in Public Health from Tulane
Medical School. After getting her
degree, she worked with handi-
capped infants and provided their
parents with counseling and de-
velopmental assessments. When
she accepted.a job in Health Edu-
cation at Tulane, Georgia began
channeling her interests in indi-
vidual development into keeping
college students aware and healthy.
“My Services are very prevention-

oriented,” she says. “I-think col-.

lege students are the most beauti-
ful people in society. You're
young, energetic, and finally on
your Own, so it’s very sad when.
you suddenly have to deal with
something traumatic like alcohol-
ism or diseases. The point is to
create awareness that you are not
immune to these issues. Youneed
to be prepared and think ahead.”

Georgia moved here in 1986

and now works with Davidson’s
Physical Education Department,
Dean of Students, and Health Serv-
ices. She teaches a course called
“Tssues in Personal Health”, (which,
by the way, meets the Lifetime
Sports requirement), and’ works
regular hours in the Student Health
Center. She is equally devoted,
however, to the private counseling
she provides for individual students.

What exactly happens when
you want to see Georgia? Well,
first you either make an appoint-
mentor simply walk into the Health
Center on Tuesday (3:45-5:30) or
Thursday (4:30-6:00).

You may also call her at home
if you have a conflict and need to
make a personal appointment out-
side of those times. After that
there’s no right or wrong way to
approach your Health Educator in
order to get her full attention and
insight about whatever health con-
cerns you have. “In some cases,”
Georgia explains, “couples have
comein together concemed because
they have become sexually active.
They’re there to make a decision
about contraceptives or testing, so
Ihelp them figure out what steps to

take and in what order. Other
cases may be individuals worried
about unsatisfying relationships,
stress, fear of, pregnancy, vaginal
irritation,... any or all of these prob-
lems.” Georgia sometimes acts as
a go-between for students and
medical resources. “Because stu-
dents may be embarrassed or sim-
ply uninformed about which ques-
tions to ask, they are often not as
vocal toadoctor. Ican speak to the
doctor for them or get the informa-
tion myself.”

It would be interesting to get
some feedback from students who
have already benefited from Geor-
gia’s services. You won’ tgettheir
names from her, though, because
her personal counseling sessions
are completely confidential. This,
as well as Georgia’s open-minded
approach, is guaranteed so that
students can feel comfortable and

- secure as they discuss their private

affairs.

She wants to assure the stu-
dents: “I really try to be non-
judgmental, to keep things confi-
dential, and to lead people to good

If you do want some extra

Rock Climbing.Can Roll. Your Blues.Away

By win Baatbora

Halfway up.a climb I am bal-
anced with my feet on a slight
indentation in the rock to figure
out my next move. My forearms
are burning from keeping my body
balanced on the rock by gripping
small finger holds--I must think
quickly. A seemingly good crev-
ice is about 20 inches out of my

In an effort to answer these —

questions, I’ve asked some of
Davidson’s experienced climbers
about the pastime.

The physical challenge to
overcome the rock is climbing’s
attraction for Julian Cochran, A
graduate of NOLS (National Out-
door Leadership School), he feels
that rock climbing has become

come doubt in your ability and to
perform movements which seem
physically impossible.

When climbing, Lee concen-
trates all of his physical and mental
attention to one move and to the
rock itself.

He says that at a certain point,
hisrationality quits and his doubtis
overcome, and he performs above

pracdugie, says thather small hands,
weight, and flexibility have been
advantages for her. Also, she is at-
tracted to the idea of what she isac-
tually doing: scaling a vertical face
of rock.

If you are interested in learning
to climb, Greg Sheppard, the
Davidson Outdoors director, has
some suggestions. A good way to

reach on the left. Realizing that more popular because itisanout- and beyond what he would even _ get started and meet some climb-
won’t be able to support myself door activity that doesn’t require consider doing. Lee describes rs is to sign up for some climbing
like this much longer, Ihave to go _ an overnight stay. climbing as physical in theinvolve- trips offered by Davidson Out-
for it. By posi- ; Like mentbetween doors. Greg
tioning onefoot — Julian, yourself and says these
high and to the i Benjamin ~ the rock, and trips are
left, I stretch for Gilmer, ex- mental in the geared to-
the fist-sized periences involvement ward begin-
crack, using my — physical between you ™ Ners,sonoex-
heel forbalance. challenge and yourself. * perience is
An inch away andrisk. He For many necessary.
from the hold, — finds that people,theim- The
my tense legs climbing is age of a rock new climbing
begin to quiver — an autono- climber is a wall is also
and my right mous sport bulging, bar- available to
grip begins to — requiring rel-chested ; everyone. Re-
slip. strength man. How- gardless of
With the — and endur- ever, the best experience
strength in my ance. climbers are level, just
forearms ex- ~~ Will usually thin,” 3 comedownto
hausted. gravity -Montgom- wiry, and flex- ) Johnson
overcomes my — eryhasseen ible. In my = Gym, in the
ascent, and I fall more soli- training I’ve, old’ racquet-
into the safety of my. harness. : darity ofclimberson campus. Will, been taught that women make the ball courts, and give it a try.
Swinging 60 feetabovethe ground, who started climbing with his fa-_ most controlled climbers because
Julian lowers me down so’ that he ther, has seen a lot of climbers _ of their low point of gravity, and The hours are 3-6 p.m. Mon-
can make an attempt. sharingridesandequipment,mak- generally weaker upper bodies. day thru Friday and 7-9 p.m. Mon-
Recently, talk of rock climb- _ ing trips more accessible. This requires them to depend day thru Thursday.
ing has become much more preva- As most climbers would on using their feet and balance to
lent around campus than in past probably agree, Lee Camp de- manuever. Although strength is im- __ For information about climb-
years. Why is this, and what at- scribes rock climbing as a highly _ portant, good footwork makes the ing locations and the names of
tracts students to this seemingly mental sport. best climbers. otherclimbers, contact Greg Shep-
risky sport? It involves the will to over- May Martin, also a NOLS _ pard at -2623.

PLEASE RECYCLE THIS ISSUE OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

input, talk to someone whoattended
the open question-answer session
Georgia held at Rusk in late Febru-
ary, which focused on sexual is- .
sues and receiveda great response.
The girls wrote questions on index
cards, then Georgia drew them out
of a-hat and led discussions on
topics including pregnancy, or-
gasms, life of sperm and eggs, and
Norplant (a new birth control de-
velopment which can beimplanted
under the arm). Students were able
to voice their interests and get some
solid answers, and as Georgia said,
“T think we could have gone on
forever.”

Health education is vital in to-
day’s growing and threatening
environment. The best way to take
care of yourselves is to ask ques-
tions, get informed, and seek help
if you think you may need it.

Georgia Ringle and SHOC are
available resources, ready to help.
In order to stay informed, watch
for future SHOC-sponsored dis-
cussions, talks, and articles, or go
see your Health Educator.

Georgia’s. additional com-
ments to Davidsonian readers:
“Stay on hold for more informa-
tion on Norplant...Be aware that
springtime often brings higher risk

of rape, pregnancy, drugs, alcohol,

. and other problems...I’m here! I

want people to come see me.”

(Music Review )

The Cure:
"Mixed"
Wrong

By Joe Binns

Here’s a little mystery for
you ratiocinators:

Pete Cobb’s mom called him
to ask him what he wanted for
his birthday. Pete wasn’thome.
I was. Pete’s mom asked me
what Pete wanted for his birth-
day. Now guess what Pete got
for his birthday? —

If your guess was that he got
just what I wanted for my birth-
day but didn’t get, you were
right.

“Yes ma’am,” I said, “Ithink
Pete would really like the new
Cure disk, Mixed Up.” :

Unfortunately I didn’t do
myself especially right. Pete put
up no fight when I wentto usurp
the thing and I knew sietdaeves
had to be wrong.

“Ttsounds like arap album,”
he spat. And upon listening I
have decided that, for once in
his life, Pete was right.

Mixed up is true to the Jules
Renard quote inits cover,”Look
for the ridiculous in everything

See "MIXED" on Page 10

