THE DAVIDSGNIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1991 3

would not

drop. the programs,

ass. (CPS) - While have to be abo

: eeCEe Bo Ri BE Bi tie eames
pegedes pila pln oag a op women a A

ddlesex Supe- dering a proposal to demote its

_ Collegiate Briefs _

which on February 12 he said would a
wi _ versity announced it would freeze

ru pape Bicbched sci Si sbas-
Onlycurrent,potential, orre- _ketball team last fall. Grambling
jected er es-notstudents- Similarly, the ‘University of Disciplines Students Who
) ‘for est hae California at Santa Barbaraispon- Attacked White Speaker

see ae
Northwest Missouri State Uni-

wages and minimize campus
‘scholarships to save money.
- Point Park College in Pitts-
burgh iced it will elimi-
nate majors in i pe. Se
ish and Math

LAFAYETTE, La. (CPS) -

st tenured black pro- FundingProblems
an paid leave of Plague More Student Programs —

t Judge Patric ck Brady ‘intercollegiate football team to a : ‘Grambling State University will
ruary less-expensive club status. discipline two students who as-
. Derrick Bell, the EI al ng Pains al

The Department of English
announces competitions for

The 1991 VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD FOR
CREATIVE WRITING

The 1991 CHARLES LLOYD AWARD FOR WRITING

The 1991 R. WINDLEY HALL WRITING AWARD
FOR FRESHMEN

All manuscripts should be submitted to a member of the Department of English by 4:00 p.m. on Friday,
March 22, 1991. No names should appear on the manuscript itself. Manuscripts should be accompanied
by acover sheet with the title of the work, the author’s name, address, and phone number. The awards will
be presented at the annual Literary Awards Ceremony on Thursday, April 18, 1991, at 8:00 p.m. in the 900
Room of the College Union, All entrants must be present at the Awards mggeree s* The rules and judges
for each competition are listed below.

VEREEN BELL COMPETITION. The Vereen Bell Award is given to the sophomore, junior, or senior who
has done the best work in poetry, fiction, or drama. The award carries a first prize of $100, a second prize
of $75, anda third prize of $50. The judge for the 1991 competition is the distinguished poet and short story
writer, Peter Meinke, who was Davidson’s first McGee Professor of Writing in 1989. Students may enter
in more than one genre. All entries should be typed semble spaced except for poetry which may be single-
spaced with double spacing between stanzas.

CHARLES LLOYD COMPETITION. The CharlesE. Lloyd Writing Awardis See the sophomore,
junior, or senior who submits the best piece of prose non-fiction, Forms may include academic writing,
personal essays, and satire/humor. An outside reader will judge the entries on the basis of prose style,
originality, clarity, structure, and substance. The judge for the 1991 competition is Gordon Ball, Davidson.
Class of 1966, documentary film maker and critic, who teaches in the De} t of English and Fine Arts
at VMI in Lexington, VA. Entries are limited to 25 typewritten double-spac eS, containing no more:

'| than three essays.

R. WINDLEY HALL COMPETITION. The R. Windley Hall Award is presented to the freshman who
submits thebest piece of creative writing. Entriesmay fall in any recognized genre including poetry, fiction,
drama, or the essay. Essays written for English 101 or Humanities 150-151 classes may be critiqued by
faculty members and revised for submission in the competition. Students may submit entries in more than
one genre. All entries should be typed, double-spaced (except for poetry which may be single-spaced with
double-spacing between stanzas). The judge for the 1991 competition will be poet and short story writer,
Joseph Banthanti, visiting writer at Mitchell Community College in Statesville.

YOU MAY CONSULT ANY MEMBER OF THE ENGLISH DEPT. IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS.

Dr. Johnathan Petropoulos answers questions after his lecture on

the Nazi Degenerate Art Exhibit. Photo by Hillary Bridgers

Petropoulos Speaks on Nazi
"Degenerate Art Exhibit"

By Sean Lind

On Thursday, March 14, Dr.
Jonathan Petropoulos spoke on
“Germania And Genocide: The
World View Of The National
Socialist Leaders As Expressed
Through Their Art Collecting.” The
lecture, sponsored by the depart-
ments of German, History, and Art,
and by The Dean Rusk Program
and the Committee on Lectures,
examined the relationship between
Nazi leaders and their art collec-
tions.

Petropoulos, who recently
obtained his Ph.D. in History from
Harvard, is currently a lecturer for
the departments of History and
History & Literature at Harvard.

Petropoulos has spent a good
amount of his time over the last
three years working as a historical
consultant and doing research for
the reconstruction of the famous
Nazi “Degenerate Art Exhibition

. Of 1937.”

The New York Times praises
thecollectionas “nothing less than
a tour-de-force of reconstructive
scholarship. It is also more: a
morality tale that can never be told

, too often and that here unfolds in

one riveting chapterafteranother.”

The collection will be appear-
ing at the Los Angeles County
Museum of Art from Feb. 17 -May
12 and at the Art Institute of Chi-
cago from June 22:- Sept. 8.

The exhibition, formally en-
titled “Degenerate Art: the Fate of
the Avant-Garde in NaziGermany”’
contains “the most complete reas-
sembly of the extant’ works” of
modern and expressionist art col-
lected by the Nazis to be shown
around Germany as examples of
corrupt or degenerate art. The

exhibit is further distinguished in

that it is “the first in America that

- attempts to recreate the historical

context in which the art and the
artists were publicly attack

In his» lecture, ‘Petropoulos
explained the connection between
the exhibit and Nazi ideology.

The exhibit was a part of the
anti-Semitic propagandacampaign
waged by the Nazis before World
War II. For the Nazis, art was to be
classic, straightforward, realistic

and natural. Moder art, with its
abstract formsand challenging con-
tent, was therefore presented by
the Nazis as the product of dis-
eased minds.

Ironically, Hitler and the Nazi
leadership were arguably the most
avid collectors of “acceptable” or
classic art in history. ,

Petropoulos sees this “para-
doxical melange of bestiality and
culture” as “particularly important
and central” to explaining Nazi
goals and mind-sets.

By the end of the war, Hitler
had amassed 6755 paintings, the
largest collection the world “had
ever seen. Hitler’s treasure in-
cluded works by Rembrandt;
Vermeer, and Raphael.

The collection was not only an
indication of Hitler’s megaloma-
nia, but also an attempt to glorify
Germany.

Hitler planned to use the best
of these paintings, as well as many
other classic pieces of art which he
either bought, stole, or received as
gifts, to establish the Fuehrer
Museum in his hometown of Linz,
Austria. Linz was to be the cul-
tural center of Europe, containing
not only the greatest classic works
of art, but also ballets, operas, and
other “high-culture” attractions.

Hitler also attempted to glo-
rify the 19th century German art-
ists, attempting to raise them to the
level (or at least put them in the
same museum) as the great mas-
ters. ’

Petropoulos also showed how
the Nazi's obsession with art ex-
emplified the contradiction be-
tween the leaders as “Volk,” that
is, one of the common people,-and
their overbearing pride and mate-
rialism. Artwasnotonly acultural
tool, but was also an acceptable

’ means of self-aggrandizement. The

Nazi leaders used art to define
themselves as individuals, and as
symbols of rank and importance.
 Petropoulos drew a final les-
son from the Nazi’s attitudes to-
wards art: “‘Art can be, andis, used
to form both public and private -
personas. Inthiscase, the artificial
image was vastly different than the
horrible reality.”
