14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991

Internships
Continued from page 13

been adopted by the College, for
better or worse. Different people
within the administration have
varying views, .but Davidson
presses on with a rather impla-
cable definition of what qualifie
as academic.
She noted: “Davidson held firm
in the sixties when a lot of colleges
were abandoning core require-
ments. It’s nota faculty that yields
to fads. They are a body of aca-

demically trained people deciding
what this degree means.” For Ross
and many others on the faculty, it
means students adhering butt to
chair in the library instead of alaw
firm.

In the same vein, students here
never receive course credit for
extra-curricular activities that re-
quire inordinate amounts of time.
Major theater productions go un-
graded as do service projects and
choir performances.

This last point is a particularly
troublesome spot.
Ross said, ““We’re about the

only school I know of that doesn’t
give academic credit for singing in
the choir.”

Certainly valuable bits of
music theory--harmony, contra-
puntal lines, etc.--are imparted, but
the experience is not an academic
one. Prospective crooners note
well.

“You don’t get paid for every
good deed you do, every time you -
go work on a Habitat house. We
don’t give a Psych credit to hall
counselors even though they proba-
bly learn volumes about adoles-
cent psychology. Credits are like

your salary in another place.”

The debate really goes back to
what we as students are here to do,
and that involves readin’, ritin’,
and ‘rithmetic as well as immers-
ing oneself deeply into the outside
community.

Both facets are vitally impor-
tant, but only one receives recog-
nition on an official College tran-
script.

“I feel very comfortable with
the rigor we have. It’s one of the
reasons our students are well-pre-
pared,” Ross said.

Safety

Continued from page 13

I have dealt with these over-
whelming emotions and am quite
secure now. However the feeling
that I will never get over was the
fact that my privacy was violated
in an extreme measure, not for
sexual reasons, but for violent
reasons. I was assaulted because I
was a woman.

--Sandra Smith (Davidsonian,
February 11, 1991)

How American Express _
helps you cover more territory —
For less money.

Become a Student Cardmember today and
act 3 roundtrips on Continental Airlines,
or only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program
exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on
Continental Airlines. And much, much more.
Just look at the map and pick the place youd like to visit. If

it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the '
Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. .

- You have your pick of more than 150 cities in th
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—
-because there are no blackout dates. But you must
make your reservations within 14 days of the day you

easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may

leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include
a Saturday night. —

By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other
benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges” Program.
Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month
for an SS he. Rt amc free. And that's just one example of
how the Card can help you save.

For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And
it’s easy to apply Ke call us (have your bank address and account
number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it’s

ever be again. . .
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri-
tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

*Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River.

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement for 12 hs +
ment. $3.70 is equal tothe i for a domestic 30-minute night/weekend MCI tarde sao i-
bility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by December hi i

MCI

Membership Has Its Privileges

CALL 1-800-942-AMEX Me

If you're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.

Continental S|

Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will-arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for C

1

1 Airlines’ perf

© 1991 A

ri

Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
