THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991 5

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARS WELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMER Y-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY -Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON -Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

Into The Streets

This week, Reach Out at Davidson (formerly the YSSC) will be
sponsoring a series of service-oriented events in town and on campus.
The week is being billed as a "celebration of community service at
Davidson," and wisely so. The individual activities are designed to
promote student awareness not only of the problems which affect our
community, but the ways in which Davidson students are trying to
solve them. In conjunction wiht the Union, the SGA, the Solidarity
Committee, IVCF, and the Capel Committee, Reach Out has put to-
gether several events which promise to be ie and enjoyable
for those who participate. ;

_ Now, however, the responsibility for the si success of this promotion
lies with the students of Davidson College. We ask you to please
attend a few, if not many, of the socials, luncheons, meetings, and
dinners sponsored by various branches of Reach Out. Each of the
individual events is designed to enlighten the community about the
benefits of service participation in a fun, social atmosphere. No one
wants to attack you for having not been involved before, nor will
anyone give you a guilt trip about how you could have fed an entire
village for seven weeks with the money you spent on that Twinkie.
Reach Out isn't about that kind of persuasion. Instead, they very
wisely emphasize the community-strengthening aspects of service
projects. Help their work pay off by taking part in Into the Streets.

What's Next?

The Davidsonian would like to thank all those students who
participated in last Tuedsay's forum on the subject of honor council
reforms. The questions you asked and the comments you offered

_ promoted an interesting discussion about the honor council. How
pleasant. We wonder now, however, what willbe done next? In order
to gauge the student support for the idea of reforming th honor council,

_ we have placed a simple survey on the bottomright hand corner of this
page. Check one of the boxes, depending upon how you feel about
changes to the honor council. If enough support for the notion is
apparent, the next step would be to determine what kind of changes are

“necessary and how they would be implemented. Unless, students
respond to the survey at the right, however, we won't know if it'seven
worth the bother. The honor council is yours, so let's hear from you.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Cote is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

V ADMINISTRATION
A WANANE NES

>| STEALTH TECHNOLOGY
Se

Zz eee tial

STEALTH HOUSING

ST EALTH EDUCATION

Letters

Cast Responds to Ticket Price Questions

To the Editor:

It has come to our atten-
tion over the past several
weeks that many of you are
upset at the high ticket prices
for Kiss Me, Kate. Why, you
ask, are these tickets somuch
more expensive than those

‘of previous shows? Surely
inflation has not risen so
dramatically in justone year?

Please allow us to ex-
plain the situation. First,
plays are always less expen-
sive to produce than are
musicals. The royalties fora
typical play are $50.00 per
performance, or $350.00 for
the normal seven-show
schedule. The royalties for
Kiss Me, Kate, on the other
hand, total nearly $1900.00
for the same seven-show
schedule.

Second, $6.00 per ticket

seems more expensive be-
cause we are all accustomed
to paying $3.00, and insome
cases only $2.00, for a
Davidson production.
Compare the new ticket price
with the price of an evening
at the movies. Until the new
Cornelius theatre opens, the
nearest movies are at Uni-
versity Place. Therefore, a
trip to see Terminator II will
include not only the $5.50
admission price, but also gas
money for transportation and
an extra $2.00 to $3.00 for
refreshments. In compari-
son, ahigh quality theatrical
production within walking
distance from your room for
only $6.00 begins to look
more and more attractive.
Third, a school produc-
tion needs the support of the
faculty and student body in

order to thrive. Sitting inthe
audience, students and fac-
ulty alike will enjoy watch-
ing familiar faces dancing
and singing to the great
music and lyrics of Cole
Porter.

Inconclusion, we are not
attempting to make excuses
for the high ticket prices.
Rather, we have tried to
explain the reasons why we
must raise the prices in the
hope that you, kind reader,
will give in and will reach
into your billfold or purse.
Buy a ticket! We promise
you a fun evening! Thank
you for your understanding
and support.

Sincerely,
The Cast, Crew, and Staff of
Kiss Me, Kate

More Students Upset About Cartoon

To the Editor:

A recent cartoon in The
Davidsonian depicted
Spencer House as a sinking
ship while a woman on araft
suggested that a new house
be started. This cartoon
contained several underly-
ing assumptions that are
untrue,

The first, and to me the
most disturbing assumption
in thecartoon, is that Spencer
House. has the smallest
number of members of the
three current women’s eat-
ing houses. This does not
mean that we are struggling
to survive. Spencer house

has remained debt free and
is financially sound. We are
anticipating a solid group of
excited freshwomen joining
Spencer House in January.
There is no reason for any-
one at Davidson to believe
that Spencer House is going
to fold anytime in the future.

The second assumption
that I see in this cartoon is
that the new women’s house
is trying to replace Spencer.
House. After meeting with
the organizers of the new
house, I am confident that
this is not their intention.
Everyone involved wants to
see the eating options for

women at Davidson expand.
Inaddition, anew house will
provide more representation
for women on PCC and the
SGA.

It is a concern of the
women of Spencer House
that the campus be correctly
informed about the stability
ofourhouse. Weareexcited
about being a member of
Patterson Courtand remain-
ing here foralong time. Itis
difficult to combat negative
attitudes towards our house
when they are based on false
assumptions.

Sincerely, -
Tammy Winn, et al:

Reader Survey

Do you favor the concept of honor council re-
forms? Please check one of the boxes below and
return this portion of the page to the Union

Desk.

| Yes

No.

