=

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991 9

Davidson

rts

Strong Performances Mark
Kiss Me Kate Production

By Garnett J. Smith

Weeks of hard work, endless
hours of rehearsal, and incessant
publicity finally paid off as thecast
played their opening night
to a near capacity crowd
in Hodson Hall of the
Cunningham Fine Arts
Building. The play within
aplay parallels the lives of
Fred Graham and Lilli
Vanessi with their on-
stage characters. Based
upon Shakespeare’s Tam-
ing of the Shrew, Kate in-
cludes awomanizer (Brad
Griffin), a temperamental
artist (Timisha Barnes), an
easy-to-please show girl
(Allison Wright), and a
love-sick gambler (Reid
French).

Throughout the play
the acting remains strong.
Griffin does an outstanding job in
the dual role of egocentric artist
and womanizing Italian-lover.
Barnes’s shrewness is enough to
make any man turn tail and run.
Especially pleasing is Wright’s
portrayal of the girl who just wants

._tohave fun. It’s fun enough watch-

“Yhg her flit about on the stage with
her sparkling smile. Who would
mind having their heart stolen by

‘Arts Essay:

sucha charming and effervescent
lady? French plays the lover well
as the courting Lucentio, but he is
less convincing as the jealous Bill

Photo Courtesey of College Relations

in the back-stage scenes. He
doesn’t seem pouty enough to jus-
tify the many verses of Wright’s
rationalization of her strayings in
“Always True To You”. Theshow
is stolen however by two buffoon-
ish gangsters (Todd Bowman and
Phil Lisi) who are reminiscent of
Shakespeare’s use of stock charac-
ters. Their weaving in and out of a
Brooklyn accent was somewhat

distracting however. Other fine
performances include Scott Len-
hart (Baptista), Buck Reese (Gre-
mio), Kyle Gamer (Hortensio), and
Andrew Smitherman
(Harrison Howell).

Of particular
importance in amusical is,
of course, the music. It is
here that Barnes shines
brightly as she bursts
through the stratosphere
with acoloratura toend the
first act. A wonderful sur-
prise is found in Wright as
shecoos out her songs with
asmooth and pleasanttone.
Griffin’s range is rather
limited in that the lowest
notes are often lost while
the upper notes don’t al-
ways get up there. Also
the pitch at the ends of
phrases tends to sag.
Whatever technical ability Griffin
lacks is made up for, however, in
the personality he seems to exude
while performing. French master-
fully delivers the corniest song in
the play with an air of innocence
and charm. The chorus’s transfor-
mation from a group of tone-deaf
individuals to a musical ensemble

See "Kiss Me" on page 12.

Ted Richardson on Photography

Davidson Arts presents a se-
ries of articles devoted to artists at
Davidson. In order to understand
how. and why artists spend their
time creating images, music, or
dramatic performances, we have
asked them. We asked these artists
to comment upon the technical
aspects of their work, the “how.”
To understand the “why” , we have
asked the. artists to discuss their
personal motivations and any other
information that comes to bear on
their work.

Over the past six years I’ve
been learning to converse in black
and white. I was introduced to
black and white photography at
Myers Park High School in Char-
lotte. Since then I have kept my
dream alive to become a photo-
journalist. Upon graduation from
high school I received a photogra-
phy scholarship to an art and de-
sign school, I decided to attend
Davidson because I felt that a lib-
eral arts education, in the long run,
would benefit me more as a pho-
tographer than anything else. The
course load at Davidson has all too
often forced me to leave my cam-
era on the shelf and has made it
difficult for me to keep making
photographs. I eased my situation
last semester by taking a course in

Photography and Literature andan
independentstudy in photography.
Nowadays I carry my camera
around with me as much as pos-
sible. Otherwise I’m content to be
developing a mind behind my
photography and will be patient
for the time being with my photo-
graphic eye. All in all, I am con-
vinced that what] lear at Davidson
will translate positively into black
and white.

The people I photograph bring
more life to my work than I can
honestly claim to bring myself. As
a photographer I can separate one
moment from the-rest, but in the
end the human subject sustains the
image. In my first photography as-
signments I avoided people at all
costs. I photographed cars, build-
ings, pets, and anything that would
not notice me there with my cam-
era. I slowly gathered the nerve to
focus on humanity and snuck-in a
few long range glances with a tele-
photolens. With time! camecloser
to the people I photographed and
found my camera to be an invita-
tion into the lives of many people
lotherwise would have never met.
The wide variety of people I have

encountered, mostly through sum- ,

mer travels, I remember through
photographs, Recently I have

*each region.

compiled portfolios of my trips to
Central America, Europe, and
across the U.S. My. portfolios
express the human life unique to
In many ways my
photographs illustrate my experi-
ence and the experiences of those I
meet better than a journal! or other
verbal accountcould. I’d be afraid
with words of muddling things up
and losing the power of these
moments.

Photographers who work in
black and white are often asked
why they do not photograph in
color. Besides not knowing how to
develop in color (and not having
enough money to do so) I have my
own reasons for sticking to black
and white. Our normal way of
seeing the world is in color. Asa
result of continually seeing this
way we. have become lazy with
color vision. In our-everyday vis-
ual perusal of the world we some-
times don’t distinguish that glori-
ous McDonald’ssign from the truly
amazing scenes that surround it.
Blackand white photography saves

-us from this “fast food” way of
- seeing and allows our vision to be

deliberately aesthetic, not just
practical. Through black and white

See" Photography" on page 12.

(Matt Bumstead: Whistlin' Dixie )

Oh, What a Night!
Brooks, Bush, and Gill Do Nashville

~ It was all you could have zon, ashe probably should have.
dreamed. On Wednesday, Octo- Mark O’Conner took the award
_ ber 2nd, the nation’s eye was on for musician. Yes, there was
Nashville, watching withunusual justice.
zeal-andI’llbe if Nashville didn’t Those of you wb watched
look pretty damned good. If you also saw host Reba McEntire
don’t believe me, ask President exude a warmth and sincerity in
Bush, whoenjoyedtheshow from all she said and did. McEntire,

his second row seat and brought
special focus and excitement to
the evening’s events. Evident in
the night’s choices were incon-

who has been country’s leading
lady for years, has often seemed
fake to me, plugging either her
relationship with fans or her new

sistencies (to be expected), some album with every word and ev-
of which displayed justice, while . eryaction. Even hermagnificent
_ Others showed signs of favoritism: stage show, in which she con-
‘or the influence GF mnudie® row’ stantly Stared atthe ‘Camera or
politics. wie. ~~. “reached out to the audience, was
"There was justice. Manalive, » just too much to take. But since
did you see Garth Brookselectri- the Spring, 1991 plane crash that
fying (and yes, perhaps a little took the lives of her band mem-
cheesy) presentation of “Shame- bers (who, as you'can imagine,
less”? The 29-year-old Okie won ~~ were like her family), she has
(deservedly) four CMA’s: video, seemed more vulnerable, more
single, album, and the big one- feeling, and more sincere. She
entertainer. And although he could barely read her cue cards
probably deserved the trophy for. following the Judds farewell
male vocalist, just as one of the speech because of the tears inher
two of his nominated songs de- eyes; and having almostnotmade
served the song trophy, the injus- it through the gripping perform-
tice inherent in depriving him of ance of her new song “For My
these awards was countered by Broken Heart”, in which she
the justice that was served by couldonly be singing of the pain
giving these two awards to Vince _ she felt at the loss of her friends,
Gill, whoalsowonthe vocalevent she gasped and shrugged her
with Mark O’Conner. Iftheyhad —shouldersas she again grew teary,
to lose, all the nominees in the as if surrendering to her feeling
building would have chosen to of helplessness. The crowd shot
lose to Gill, akind, hard-working, that followed showed many of
Fe devoted, and immensely talented those who were in attendance
4 _ wiping their eyes, astheraw emo-
~ tion that weighed heavily in her

ES oes eoneaerien Gls away, dynamite ‘comieback year
eyes ‘fill with tears as he stood — she has had. You might see why
ieee OS er ee ead it so disturbed me to see the
— ne ‘emotional — Tanya

Poa vaca oinbei—

al

ee ‘Bumsiead” on page 2.

