4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON-Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARS WELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY -Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON -Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsontan

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost C ollege
Weekly”

SARAH GA YLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

Time for F.L.A.G.

On Tuesday night the SGA will vote as whether or not F.L.A.G. (Friends
of Lesbians and Gays) will be permitted to establish a chapter of their
national organization at Davidson College. The Davidsonian urges the
student senators to vote in favor of the measure.

Not. surprisingly, several students and parents have expressed their
disapproval of F.L.A.G. as they find homosexual activity to be intolerable.
Some claim that a Christian college should not advocate homosexuality by
allotting F.L.A.G. a budget from student funds. Others suggest that homo-
sexual students should transfer from Davidson if they find its climate
inhospitable to their lifestyles instead of making waves around the school.
The members of one fraternity at Davidson have even voted as a house not
to support the attempts of F.L.A.G. to get started.

The establishment of a F.L.A.G. chapter, will, contrary to the protesta-
tions of many, contribute greatly to the social, ‘intellectual, and moral
development of every member of the college community. First, with an
active organization designed to promote the notion that all people deserve
consideration and respect regardless of how they achieve orgasm, homosex-
ual students will know that there are several at Davidson who do not
castigate individuals on the basis of their sexual orientation. F.L.A.G. will
provide a voice affirming the right of the homosexual student to conduct his
or her private affairs without harrassment. .

No one, of course, expects closet doors to fling open with libertarian glee as
soon as F.L.A.G. gets a charter, but with the presence of a F.L.A.G. chapter
on campus life for homosexual students, faculty, et alia will be less confined.

F.L.A.G. will continue to spark discussion among students about homo-
sexual rights and issues. Simple dismissal of the topic will no longer suffice.
By bringing these issues into the public eye, F.L.A.G. will propel students
to consider homosexuals and homosexuality more thoroughly before pass-
ing judgment. This heightened awareness of homosexuals as people who
need to be judged upon criteria other than their sexuality will, we believe,
prove both intellectually and morally edifying.

The apportionment of a small amount of student funding for F. LE AG.
will not, as some suggest, be contradictory to the college’s orientation. On
the contrary, the official establishment of the organization will fall directly
in line with Davidson’s statement of purpose, which states that the college
“endeavors to teach students to think clearly and accurately, to make
relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values and to commu-
nicate freely with others in the realm of ideas."

While the editors have expressed ardent disapproval of many of the
methods the organizers of F.L.A.G.-have employed in order to gain public-
ity, the notion which they promote is indeed a valid one. We ey the SGA
will vote to grant them a charter TUESRY night.

Editor's Note: We usually do not publish unsigned letters. We have overcome our
contempt for such cowardice this week and printed the letter signed "A Davidson parent"
so that a parental voice, too rarely heard, could have an audience. For future reference,

however; stand behind what-you write, or_you probably won't see it in this paper.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College.
Please address fan mail and to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina
28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or-2149. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor
of the Grey Student Union building. expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year.
Adveutising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Students Criticize F.L.A.G.

To the Editor:

We, as concerned
Davidson students, do not
support or condone a
F.L.A.G. (Friends of Lesbi-
ans and Gays) Chapter at
Davidson College. While it
is one thing to recognize
homosexuals as having the
same civil liberties as any
other individual, it is com-
pletely another to advocate
and fund an organization
suchas F.L.A.G. ata private

college founded on Chris-
tian values.

It is important to note
that only a minority of
Davidson students and fac-
ulty supported F.L.A.G. in
last week’s petition. We
represent what is clearly the
strong majority of students
whose names do not appear
on the petition. Moreover,
many of the individuals who
signed this petition were
misled. They believed that

they were supporting only
the civil liberties of the
homosexuals and have since
been introduced to the fact
that they were also signing
to support and finance this
group. SGA members ex-
plain that the funds to main-
tain this organization will be
drawn from the student ac-
tivity fees. (The student
activity fee is a-mandatory

J
See "Herriott" on page 6

Parent Opposed to F.L.A.G.

To the Editor:

Iam gravely concerned
over a matter that has been
brought to my attention; that
a F.L.AG. chapter is to be
started on campus. As a
christian I see homosexual-
ity as asin which should not
be encouraged! By accept-

ing and supporting such a
group we are condoning it’s
participants.

Some of the reasons for
selecting Davidson for our
child’s furthering education
were it’s christian heritage,
honor code and /ack of such

groups on campus. I feel

disappointed and concerned.
I do not want any part of the
students activity fee that I
pay to go towards support-
ing a group whose behavior
is morally and socially un-
acceptable.

Sincerely,

A Davidson Parent

Former Council Chair Responds

To the Editor:

It didn’t take too much
time out in the “real world”
for me to realize how lucky
I have been. Living and
working in a world seem-
ingly ruled by power and

.| money, itsoon became pain-

fully obvious that the privi-
lege of maturing in a trust-
ing, honestcommunity is the
most unique asset Davidson
College has to offer. The
tradition of honor at
Davidson, guarded by an
effective and firm Honor

System, has left a lasting
impression on who I am and
what I want to be. Unfortu-
nately, I fear that future stu-
dents may not have the op-
portunity toexperience what
I and many other students
have known, for I believe
that the current debate over
the Honor System may be
jeopardizing the future of this
valuable tradition.

As I understand it, there
has been discussion about
replacing the standing Honor
Council with a jury of stu-

dents selected at random for
each individual case. Al-
though this change may
appear to some to be more
“democratic,” I am con-
vinced that it would greatly
diminish the quality and
integrity of the Honor Sys-
tem. '

The firstcasualty would
be consistency. Under the
current system, a freshman
councilperson normally sits
on his orher firstcase along-

See "Honor" on page6 _

Bumstead Urges Positive Thinking

To the Editor:

The following is an
appeal. Certainly it is an
appeal to Jana Player and
Connelia Holloman, butitis
also an appeal to the many of

us who have written critical, .

negative, and often harsh
pieces to The Davidsonian.
I write not only for myself,
but.also on behalf of many
other students at Davidson

__, | who enjoy this newspaper titled to print them. Unfor-

each week. Many of these
' students of whom I speak
are freshmen with whom, as
ahallcounselor,Iam inclose
contact; in their first months

here, these freshman are
confused and bewildered at
the amount of negativity,
cynicism, und criticism that
hasrunrampantin the edito-
rial and opinions sections.
Theirs are sentiments that I
cannot help but echo.

No, I do not make an
appeal for censorship. We
are all entitled to our own
opinions just as we are en-

tunately, I make what will
most likely prove to be an
idealistic appeal. Why must
these sections be used pre-
dominantly as forums for

childish bickering and cruel
insults? Why does there
always have to be a prob-
lem? I for one am proud to
be a part of: the Davidson:
community. Are we all not
here with common pur-
poses? Do we not all share
common loves, goals, and
aspirations? Heck, didn’t’
we all fill out that —
ish application? ;

Creative does not mean we
have to be cynical and an-
gry. No, I do not expect all

See "Rainbows" on page 6

sas
