16 . THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

‘THE BACK PAGE INTERV TE\W

A Diplomat's Viewpont On The Persian Gulf Crisis

By Jay J. Chaudhuri

This week's featured guest for The
Davidsonian's new "Back Page Interview" is
Ambassador Jack R. Perry. Ambassador Perry
currently directs the Dean Rusk Program in Inter-
national stuides and is a retired Foreign Service
Officer who holds a doctorate from Columbia
University. On January 9, Ambassador Perry
spoke with The Davidsonian on the Persian

estimates correct?

A. First of all, Iam not a military expert, but two
things have to be said here. The first thing is that
an attack will come in stages. I think the strategy
for Bush is to frighten Saddam Hussein. If the
15th comes and goes and no agreement is arrived
at, it seems Bush would take certain limited mili-
tary action. We should regard this as more sym-
bolic attack. With a military attack people envi-

must approve ultimately the acts of the leader, but
they also elect:our leaders without referendum.

Q. What are the options left for President Bush
now that the Baker-Aziz talks failed?

A. There is certainly not the possibility of all out
war or nothing. This is an important point to make
as of 1 a.m. January 16. War is politics. There are °
still negogiations even if it looks like all guns. I
think he exercised an option by asking the

Gulf crisis.

There is certainly not the possibility of all out war or
Q. Reading the The New York Times today nothing. This is an important point to make as of 1

Secretary General to do shuttle diplomacy
between Bagdhad and Washington. I don’t
think the President would attack if active

the headline reads “Bush Asks Congress to 4. January 16. War is politics. There are still negotiations are happening. That’s one
Back Use of Force if Iraq Defies Deadline negogiations even if it looks like all guns.

on Kuwait Pullout.” Does war appear inevi-

promising prospect. The military option

table, less than one week from the January.

15 deadline?

A. No, it isn’t inevitable. I think the next period
will be busy diplomatically and a lot of things are
possible. Right now, however, it doesn’t look
promising.

Q. Would applied economic pressure and sanc-
tions work on Iraq?

A. I think sanctions can work if given enough
time, but I’m not sure we can hold a coalition
together and keep the Americans behind it for
sanctions to work.

Q. Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin said to
Congress yesterday that the U.S. has a good chance
of scoring a rapid victory over Iraqi forces. Are his

sion an all out war, but we will see it in stages. If
this happens more negotiations will happen and
Saddam Hussein will be convinced. The second
thing: if an all-out serious land war occurs that
could conceivablely be faster than some people
belief.

Q. Historically the executive branch and State de-
partment have appeared to run the foreign policy
of this country. Yetnow Congress states that it has
the ability to declare war. In your opinion who has
the ability to the declare war?

A. There are no black and white answer to the
Constitutional questions. We’ve been in some
many wars, usually without declaring war. The
fundamental factor in a democracy is that people

-would demonstrate our seriousness by a
symbolic attack. Or we could go in seri-
ously by cutting Kuwait from Iraq and sending
tanks on a ground strike.

Q. Your opinion on linking Iraq’s withdrawal
with the Palestinian issue?

A. This is a point that worries me a great deal. I
like the French position. I understand our posi-
tion, but we need to make a commitment to get
something done on the Palestince issue. A confer-
ence makes sense and Cyrus Vance and the Sovi-
ets favored this conference in the 1970s under
Carter. Vance and Gromokyo publicly said they
were for this, but the Israeli’s backed away from
it. lunderstand linkage rewards Saddam Hussein,

’ but, at the same time, in the long run we have todo

something ultimately.

The Davidsonian

Welcomes Everyone Back to School

