4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER- Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMER Y-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY -Photog raphy Editor
LEE PENNINGTON -Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

ANDREW SPAINHOUR-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS -Aadvertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

wt

A MIND say
TERRIBLE
THING TO
WASTE 7 AX ,
POLARS on!

~s
~

Letters

Finlay Defends Freshman Policy

Welcome to the Jungle

The ume has come. The youthful have endured their mandated period of abstinence and
shall be duly rewarded. Year after year, students await admission to the parties on Patterson
Court with the anticipation usually engendered by advertisements for wrestling matches on
Pay-Per-View. The first night down can often be one of the year’s most fun and exciting,
for the freshmen and upperclassmen alike, but only if everyone is willing to take justa little
bit of care.

Without wanting to sound likea bunch of stiffs, the Davidsonian board urges the student
body to be justa bit more careful than usual this weekend. Davidson students on the whole
are gencrally responsible and smart while still managing to have a ball. The specific
circumstances of first-night-down, however, require us all to be especially alert for trouble,
and always aware of the responsibilitics we have to ourselves and each other.

In order to promote a positive weekend, the Davidsonian board offers a few suggestions
which we find can be rather helpful:

1) Watch out for each other.

Going down to the court in a group of people who have agreed to keep an eye on one
another is one of the best ways to make sure you don’t get too out of hand. Both women
and men should make some arrangements prevent their friends from making stupid
mistakes which could prove extremely damaging.

Upperclassmen, too, need to keep an eye out for freshmen (and some seniors) on the
brink of danger and offer their assistance. Playing “older sibling” can’t hurt. It’s not
condescending to lend a helping hand to someone heaving in a bush, no matter how old they
may be.

2) Eat something.

At press time, the question whether or nota group consisting of Union board members
and various upperclassmen will be serving food on the court Friday afternoon and evening
is still undecided. If we’re there, please come and eat “sponge” food to your heart’scontent.
If the always complex logistics prevent us from offering the food, please be sure to eat a
large, bready lunch before going to the court in the afternoon, and eat the alternative foods
supplied at the parties.

3) Party with a spirit of mutual respect.

Remember to look out for the interests of others while you’re out and about. Although
you may think that how you party affects only your hangover, your hallmates will probably
disagree if you leave the bathroom tainted with the remnants of your dinner. Please, too,
keep in mind that we’re out on the courtto have fun, sodon’t get heated over stupid disputes;
i. e., if some drunk fool says something rude or pushes you out of the way to Be a beer, just
let it slide. It’s not important enough to ruin everyone’s good time.

4) No means no.

Women, especially freshwomen, assert yourselves clearly and adamantly if you find
yourself in a compromising position which makes you uncomfortable. Do not send mixed
signals, and do not be intimidated into doing anything you do not wish to do.

Men, take no for an answer. Not doing so constitutes criminal behavior. Pressuring a
woman.into doing what she does not want to do is rape. Taking advantage of a woman who
is physically unable to refuse is also rape.

The fact that one or both partners may be drunk is no excuse. Think before you act.

5) Carry American Express Traveler’s Checks, and have fun.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

1 am writing in response
to Tom Norwood’s letter in
the September 2, 1991 issue
of the Davidsonian-- whata
harsh indictment of Dean
Terry’s policy from some-
one who has been on this
campus barely four weeks!

After reading Mr. Nor-
wood’s letter one would
think Dean Terry was on a
one-man crusade to keep
freshmen from enjoying
themselves at all. However
much you may rant and rave
though, the Dean’s (and the
Council on Campus and
Religious Life’s) ruling is
indeeda wise one and some-
thing you should think about.

As a transfer student, I
could not help butthink back
to my experience as a fresh-
man ataschool that does not
have a_ policy like
Davidson’s. I spentmy fresh-
man year at Bowdoin Col-
lege, a small liberal arts
college similar to Davidson.
Bowdoin, located in a tiny
coastal town of Maine, has
fraternities, sororities, sen-
ior apartments, and various
local bars. The image I re-
tain of those first weeks is
one of chaos: mainly of we
freshmen trying to outdrink
one another to win “ap-
proval” from upperclass-
men, andof skipping classes.

It was “rush!” from the
minute one first set foot on
the “court.” We freshmen
confronted some very in-
tense social pressures, which
some of us had probably
never encountered in high
school. Every night of that
first week a different frater-
nity would have a “campus-
wide” party.

Although there was no
direct pressure to go to these
parties, there was an indirect
pressure--that of peer pres-
sure--to be seen at as many
of these parties as possible.
After all, you did not want
your classmates to think you
were an anti-social dork or
something. Besides, there
would always be time to
catch up on one’s work,
right?

Wrong! This lifestyle

had a detrimental effect on
my academics, which I ne-
glected during these first few
weeks of freedom. | think I
missed more classes then
than I did the whole rest of
the semester. I naively
thought I would always have
time to make up my work.
So as the term progressed 1

found myself constantly

behind, struggling to catch
up.

As a freshman, I did not
think twice about my situ-
ation. Inretrospect, however,
I wish my former school had
had a policy like we now
have at Davidson. While I
am not saying such a plan
would have prevented my
“getting behind,” I do think
itwould have better prepared
measa freshman, perhaps in
such a way thatI could have
had more significant social
experiences.

Some students have
never been exposed to the
freedom college social life
offers. It would have been
nice if the administration had
in some way taken the em-
phasis off of “going out”
those first few weeks. I am
sure my time at Bowdoin
would have been much more
meaningful if I had spent
that time getting acquainted
with my academic schedule,
becoming involved in the
Union-sponsored activities
that did not emphasize alco-
hol, and meeting my class-
mates in a more sober envi-
ronment.

I do not think Dean
Terry’s sole purpose is to
save the freshmen from “the
dangers of alcohol.” He
knows he cannot control
what a person will and will
not do, as Mr. Norwood has

demonstrated by choosing to ..
drink in his room alone.

Rather, the ruling takes the
emphasis off of alcohol for
the freshmen’s first. few
weeks, allowing them to
become familiar with their
new home and to be able to
concentrate on other aspects
of Davidson. There will be
plenty of time for hanging
out with the upperclassmen
andenjoying Patterson Court
down the road.

The Dean is also de-
creasing the school’s liabil-
ity in case an accident does
occur. It would not fare well
for Patterson Court if in the
first few weeks of school a
freshman had to be taken to
the hospital to have his stom-
ach pumped (which hap-
pened at Bowdoin) after a
party connected with the
school.

The new ruling does not
prevent you from drinking
at the Korner Pub and driv-
ing home. But if on the way
back you happen to forget
there is a dorm on the other
side of thatcurve below Belk
parking lot, at least the re-
sponsibility will be on you
and not on the Patterson
Court houses or the school.

Some freshmen are not
ready for the responsibili-
ties of college life at first,
especially concerning alco-
hol, as Mr. Norwood makes
evident. He states “Fresh-
men drink because . . . they
are perfectly capable of
making their own decisions.”
In the same paragraph
though, he implies that fresh-
men are irresponsible, as
they will be drinking and
driving in spite of the Dean’s
decision: “‘, ..is [Dean Terry]
going to simply pretend that
(drinking and driving are]
not going to happen?” ;

I am not saying that all
freshmen are irresponsible.
Butit certainly does not hurt
to have a policy that lasts
only one month which can
have a beneficial influence
onone’snextfour years here.
Granted, Mr. Norwood, itis
an inconvenience, but in a
few weeks from September
twentieth I think you will
realize. the policy did not

~makea significant difference
. in your meeting people. _

So relax! This weekend

. the “mysteries” of the court

will be revealed--you can
drink to your heart’s content
and attend all the off-cam-
pus upperclassmen parties
you wish. Then we can all
look back and realize the
wisdom of the policy.

Sincerely,
Reed Finlay, ’92
