MONDAY, APRIL 8 , 1991

Sports

13

Baseball Preps For
Big South Tourney

By Alan Rosselot

On the surface, the baseball
team’s trip to Hawaii for the Easter
Rainbow. Classic, in which
Davidson won just two of nine
games, would appear to have been
a disaster.

But considering the level of
talent that the Wildcats faced dur-
ing the Spring Break tournament,
the players and coaches are not
disappointed with their perform-
ance. The Cats played nose to nose
with a field that included several
top 25 teams, among them two top
10 teams, and perennial NAIA
power Lewis-Clark State.

First year head coach Dick
Cooke inherited this trip, a consid-
erable challenge for him and his
team. In retrospect, though, coach
Cooke sees the trip as an excellent
learning experience since
Davidson will enter postseason
play (at the Big South Tourna-
ment) for the first time in three
years.

“This was a very productive
week,” commented Cooke. “We
saw better pitching, better overall
lineupsfrom one tonine than we’ve
seen so far. The tournament really
raised our level of play mentally
and physically.”

Entering the week as the under-
dog, the Cats jumped on Portland
State on the first day for their first
victory. This 4-2 win set the stage
for the rest of the week. Only
against Washington State were the
Cats never really in the game. In
every other game, the decision
came down to the last few innings.

The Wildcats finished sixth in
the eight team field. Tenth-ranked

Wichita State defeated fourth-
ranked University of Hawaii for
thie championship.

Highlights of the week for
Davidson included the wins over
Portland State and Lewisand Clark

_ State. Additionally, the Cats lost a
thriller to Wichita State, 3-2, in
which all the runs were scored in
the ninth inning. After scoring two
runs in the top of the ninth, the Cats
fell when Wichita State was able to
touch pitcher Dave Williams for
four straight hits and three runs.

Despite taking losses against
Wichita State and Sacramento
State, Williams was a strong point
for Davidson. He earned a victory
over Portland State to finish the
tournament with 1-2 record and an
ERA of 3.00.

The strong performances of the
whole pitching staff, in particular
Williams, Brad Wanzenberg and
Andy Paul, was a pleasant surprise
for the Cats. Considered to be a
liability for a long tournament like
this one because of its lack of depth,
the pitching staff turned out to bea
bright spot.

The ‘Cats, however, were rela-
tively tame at the plate, batting
.212 as ateam over the nine games.
Only catcher Brett Boretti, who
played-in just five games, hit over
300.

The Wildcats recovered from
jetlag in time to wallop the Aggies
of N.C. A&T less than 24 hours
after their return from Hawaii.
Davidson scored seven runs in the
first inning inrolling toa 15-3 win.
Jim Stanfill (2-2,5.68 ERA) picked

See "Tourney" on Page 14

Golf Team Wins

will surprise me.”
Davidson followed up their
exploits at Ferrum with a fine

showing at the 20th Annual Ma-
F I ] rine Corps Intercollegiate. They
errum nvitationa finished first in the 2nd division of
By Bruce Balestier -150 led the team and placed him the tournament, turning in the 7th
The Davidson golf team, with . Senior leader Mike Maggartcame lowest score in either division.
its sudden death victory at the ‘through with a 74-79--153 per- After it, Mietz boasted that “we
Ferrum College Spring Invitational formance that ranked him in the are, without a doubt, playing the
March 25-26, claimed itsfirsttour- top five. Coach Gordon Mietz best golf we've played in the past
namenttitle in 23 years. The Wild- Iguded both players and expressed “two years.”
cats’ 1968 Southern Conference epeuiena ieee srapid The “Cats now are collecting
Tournament win marked the end —_ improvement. " themselves for the all-important
of their three-year string of confer- “I can’teven begin toexpress Big South Conference Tourna-
ence championships. -haw pleased we'are,” he beamed. ment, April 14-16 in Buies Creek,
_ The sudden death playoff oc- If you had told me last yéar, as far N.C. In attempting to knock off
curred after Davidson and UNC- down the leader board as we al- defending champs Augusta, the
Greensborocompletedthetwo-day — ways were, that we would be win- Wildcats will take their first crack
tournament with tofalsof621.The ning atouramentone year later, ataconference title since the 1988
four Davidson golfers made paron wouldn’t have believed you. But Southern Conference Tournament.
the first hole, while one Spartan wehaveagreat groupof freshmen Says Mietz, “With a tournament
justastroke from medalisthonors. led by Will Coble, complemented win. and impressive showing at
‘golfermadebogey toliftthe Wild-'” by the senior leadership andexpe- Camp LeJeune, we’re looking to
catstothecrown. © rience of our captain Mike Mag- be extremely competitive at the
__ Freshman Will Coble’s78-72- gart. Nothing thisyear’sgroupdoes _tournament.”

Paso Fino Horse Show
Slated

“, Press Release

The PiedmontPaso Fino Horse
-Association is pleased to announce
the 1991 Paso Fino Horse Show to
be held at Latta Plantation Park on
Saturday, April 13 and Sunday,
April 14. The show will begin at
9AM each day and will conclude

at approximately 4PM each day.

The Paso Fino, although rela-
tively new to the United States, is
one of the oldest and purest breeds
in the New World. The ancestors
of the present Paso Fino came to
the New World on Columbus’
second voyage. Once bred for
Spanish royalty and as the war
horses of the Conquistadors, many
believe the Paso Fino to be the
most exciting and smoothest rid-

See "Paso Fino" on Page 14

John Mack &Son,

Merchant of Fashion and Quality Apparel

for MEN and WOMEN

See this! DAVIDSONIANS!

‘Tis the season for
SHORTS and KNIT ‘TOPS,
and all cotton khakis.
Come see our great se-
lections, by Woolrich,
Berle, Duckhead, and
Tailors' Bench

PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE

=2 25% OFF

ANY SINGLE ITEM

128 North Main St.

OFFER EXPIRES APRIL 15, 1991

Phones 664-4711 or 663-3701

Downtown Mooresville

ke
Hol Hathaway andMiniPlaucheguadthe rot line Photo byTim

ine

Volleyball Team Is
Shooting For The Top

By Bruce Balestier

With a somewhat relaxed
schedule of spring matches de-
signed primarily to provoke con-
tinued improvement, the Davidson
Volleyball team has set out to top
last year’s 31-6 season, the win-
ningest in Davidson history. That
season included a 14-game win-
ning streak, two tournament crowns
and a 2nd place finish at the Big
South Tournament. What’s more,
not a single player graduates from
that suberb team.
Holt Hathaway, both All-Big South
selections a year ago, will lead the
returning juggernaut, while a
number of talented incoming fresh-
men should figure in prominent

positions for the team. A repeat of
last year’s success, though, will
not be easily attained.

Coach Rebecca Hawkins, last
year’s conference Coach of the
Year, “eliminated alot of the fluff”
from last year’s schedule, but
managed toconceivean even more
challenging slate of games for next
fall’s campaign. New opponents
James Madison, Virginia Com-
monwealth, East Tennessee State
and Georgia Tech, in addition to
Big South powers UNC-Asheville
and Radford, should severely test
the Wildcats.

This spring, in trips to tourna-

See "Volleyball" on Page 15

