THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

MADISON, Wis. (CPS) - The
man responsible for2 Live Crew’s
troubles has started another anti-
obscenity crusade, this time
againstthe University of Wiscon-
sin and a Miami teen hotline.

Jack Thompson, head of the
Coral Gables, Fla., group Parents
Opposed to the Propoganda in.
Schools, claims that audio infor-
mation tapes distributed by the
university promote homosexual-
ity, drug use and masturbation
and do not comply with a Florida
obscenity statute.

“We’ve had our own opinions
rendered by a legal staff and they
tell us we are not out of compli-
ance with the law,” said George
McKinner, associate executive
director of The Switchboard of
Miami, the non-profit crisis pre-
vention service that uses the tapes
for its teen hotline.

“This man is after one tape -
the recording of homosexuality -
because he’s highly homopho-
bic,” McKinney said. “What can
you doabout that? It’s amatter of
personal opinion.”

The tapes, distributed by the
University of Wisconsin at Madi-
son, are part of a service the
school’s University Outreach pro-
gram offers.

_ The 875 tapes provide infor-
mation about topics that range
from health care and diagnosis to
social issues such as homosexu-
ality, abortion, drug abuse and
masturbation. Each tape plays
for three to five minutes, and the
subjects are determined by the

- WIRE!

Health Tapes Are Smut, Thompson Says

people who request them.

The tapes are distributed na-
tionally under the name Health-
Line in more than 25 states to
about 70 health and social serv-
ice organizations, secondary
school systems and colleges and
universities,

“The tapes are developed and
written by our faculty and staff
and are periodically reviewed by
faculty and staff for revisions,”
siad program director Ann
Whitaker.

Thompson, unavailable for
comment, earlier told the Asso-
ciated Press that the tapes “men-
tally molest minors...behind par-
ents’ backs.”

The University of Wisconsin’s
response to Thompson’s threat
ofasuit was short: “Weare coop-
erating with the Florida Bar
[Association’s] investigation and
are not commenting any further
on it,” said Chuck Stathas, gen-
eral counsel for the University of
Wisconsin System.

McKinner said over 600,000
teen-agers have used the tapes
via hotline since the hotline
emerged in January 1990.

Thompson] is distorting this
to make it sound like we are pro-
moting smut on the telephone,”
McKinney said. “What we are
promoting is responsible behav-
ior.” aa aes
Last year, Thompson con--
vinced a federal judge that rap
group 2 Live Crew’s album “As
Nasty As They Wanna Be” was
legally obscene.

Klein

Continued from page 1
Klein has also been active at Davidson outside of teaching. He is on

the faculty executive committee and has been elected to a number of

differentcommittces dealing with issues suchas tenure, minority affairs,
and stategic planning. Klein is also involved in the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church as an elder, steward, and a Sunday School teacher.

Klein joins a select group of six other Davidson professors who have

CASE awards in the last seven years. The past winners are Charlie
Ratliff (1985 Gold Medalist), Rosmarie Tong (1986 National Professor
of the Year while at Williams), Cynthia Lewis (1987 Silver Medalist),
Gail Gibson (1987 Silver Medalist and N.C. Professor of the Year), Bob
Manning (1988 Silver Medalist), and Julio Ramirez (1989 Gold Medal-
ist and N.C. Professor of the Year).

SGA

Continued from page 1

bassadors. The SGA representative for this program is Kym Motley and
the Ambassadors representative is Sally Gantt. Bixby and LeNard are

the Admissions Office coordinators.

Bixby said that this new program needs as much student involve-
mentas possible. If you are interested in helping out with this program
please contact any of these people for further information.

Eating

Continued from page 1

sixty students representing all
classes. The Committee for Cam-
pus and Religious Life (CCRL)
must also approve the action.
Financially the new house must
be able to pay forthe kitchen equip-
ment and other expenses. Dean
Marsicano said, “The College has
historically helped in this area, but
Dean Terry has made it clear that
there are no funds available this
year.” She explained that the idea
has not really evolved beyond the

conceptual stages and therefore the .

College does not yet have a posi-
tion on the issue.

If the committee’s plans go as
scheduled, Freshmen will be able
to self-select the new house in
January. The committee considers

the Freshmen to be an important
part of the process because with-
out their support it is unlikely that
there will be the required sixty
members.

In an effort to make it easier for
upperclassmen to switch houses,
the presidents of the currenthouses
have proposed that women be al-
lowed to maintain their member-
ship status in their former house
throughout the spring semester.
They would assume full member-
ship in the new house next fall.
This arrangement would, however,
force women to pay dues at both
houses. The committee empha-
sized that the fee to the new house
would be “minimal.”

Some women feel that the pres-
ence of anew house may endanger
Spencer which is currently much
smaller than the other two houses.
Tammy Winn, Spencer president,
said, “I personally think a fourth

house is a good idea, but I would
like to strengthen what we have.”
Winn said her house has been
working with the Dean of Students
office to find a remedy to the ine-
quality of the houses. Winn also
said that her comments reflected
her personal beliefs, not necessar-
ily the views of her entire house.

Warner Hall president Monica
Lide commented, “I think that it is
important that we stabilize what
we have before starting up a new
house.” Lide also said, “The time
is getting close for a new eating
house.”

The panel clearly indicated that
there reason for leading this effort
was not in any way due to dissatis-
faction with their respective
houses.

Smith Elected to Hall of Fame

By Rachel Dunifon----Courtesy
of College Relations
C. Shaw Smith, former direc-
tor of the Davidson College Un-
ion, was honored recently as an in-
ductee to the Southeastern Asso-
_ ciation of Magicians’ Hall of Fame.
Smith has been a member of the
Association since the early 1950’s,
and is only the sixth member of its
Hall of Fame. He modestly claimed
that the only reason for the award
is that he has “outlived” all of the
other magicians in the association.
However, according to John
Swint, executive director of the
‘association, Smith deserves the
honor. Swint said inductees are
members who have sustained
magic asa performing art, and who
“are like a candle, as radiating and
giving light to others.”
Magic has been an important
part of Smith’s life since he re-
ceived a magic kit for a Christmas

present at age 8. He began per-
forming for church groups, Boy
Scotits, and school events, and
earned some extra spending money
with it as a Davidson College stu-
dent in the mid 1930’s. He said he
is grateful to his Davidson profes-
sors for their appreciation of his
talent and the opportunities they
gave him touse iton campus. This,
Smith said, helped him to put magic
in a proper perspective, and al-
lowed him to enjoy it as a hobby
without letting it take over his life.

Later, Smith and his wife,
Nancy, and their five children
toured the country performing for
ten summers in atravelling variety
show. These self-paid vacations
allowed the family to see a wide
area of the United States, as wellas
Europe.

Smith still does oneman shows
oncollegeand university campuses
and for civic organizations, busi-

nesses, and church groups. He says
that his show has notchanged much
over the years, that he still uses
tricks that are “stolen” from other
magicians, butpresented in hisown
unique way. Smith calls his ap-
proach a “tongue-in-cheek ap-
proach to surprise magic,” claim-
ing. that “when you don’t have
talent,you just have to use gim-
micks-I just have nerve!”

Smith believes that his type of
entertainment is unique in that it
cuts across many lines and appeals
to a wide range of people. Smith’s
goal in performing is to “give a
little lift” to people to make them
happy aboutlife, hopeful about the
future,and looking forward to life’s
surprises. Magic is the perfect
medium for this because, as Smith
said, it “heightens the idea of a
sense of wonder and a sense of
enjoyment” at life’s mysteries.

BORED?
money for you
and just sit on
involved in —
activities at

Shops on ~ 10% Off |
The Green: with .
Exit 28, Davidson | |_
Past ID throug
McDonald's le; September’
and the a
er ACC alma fiat
Inn. clude sale mer-'

Camping Equipment & Clothing

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

and live with British Students

HOW WISC IS DIFFERENT FROM MOST OVERSEAS PROGRAMS:

¢ Accepted students receive admissions letters (and later transcripts) directly
from an Oxford (or Cambridge) college.

+ , Students are directly enrolled as full students of the Oxford college.

¢ Qualified early applicants may share a co-ed Student Residence associated
with St, Catherine's College, Oxford (fully integrated with British students).

¢ Students accepted before November | (for the Winter Term) or before May 1
(for next year) afe guaranteed housing with British students.

¢ Students will NOT be taught in (and receive transcripts from) an American
college operating in Oxford. WISC is one of the few completely integrated
(academically and in housing) overseas programs in the UK.

* Previous studen‘s in your field will speak to you on the phone.

For information, call or write:

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES COUNCIL
214 Massachusetts Avenue N.E., Sulte 450, Washington, DC 20002, (800) 323-WiSG

Students may also Intern and Study in
Washington and London

A representative from Oxtord will be on your campus on
Fr
September 20, for additional information call (800) seawiee:

chandise.)

