20

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER‘18, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Celebrated Mystery Writer and Davidson Alumna, Patricia Cornwell

By Catherine Milligan
Davidsonian: Where does a story start for you? With a
brainstorm about the perfect killer? With ideas for suspects
or alibis? With details of a murder scene?

Cornwell: It begins with a concept; I always’start witha
crime. I don’t necessarily have an idea for a perfect killer,
or even know which characters I would like to use in anew
book, though I know I’m going to use Scarpetta and Loreno
and Benton Wesley. They seem to bee a very good trinity-
-they have a very good balance. I feel best when those three
people are on the scene.

But I start with a concept. It must be a crime that has
some emotional impact on me. I start with something that
is based in reality, because real crimes like this have hap-
pened. I say, “I want Scarpetta to work on this and I want
to see where it goes.”

Davidsonian: Like Agatha Christie novels, most murder
mysteries seem to’ have a pattern of conventions (e.g. a
mysterious hero/heroine-detective, a number of red her-
rings, an eerie setting, a touch of romance, and a final
resolution).

Are you conscious of such standards when you write?
Do you work within a pre-established framework of “musts”
and “‘must nots”?

Cornwell: This is perhaps what makes my type of writing
very different from what most people are doing. No, Idon’t
really work in these conventions, per se, because I believe
I’m writing books that reflect reality, and reality does not
conform to these sorts of convention.

The thing that] am most conscious of when I’m writing
my books is, simply, “Is this the way it would be? Is this
believable? Is this what these characters would say and
do?” The fact is, if you have a situation where you have a
serial killer on the loose, the likelihood of it being the
person who works down the hall from the protagonist, or
“her butler,” or something like that, is just so remote.

I don’t believe that I’m writing formula books. They
strike me as somewhat contrived. Though they are good
entertainment fora lot of people who enjoy them, that’s not
what I’m all about. I’m really trying to show you the world
I see. The world I see does not adhere to convention. It’s
not fair, and it’s often random, and alot of times the person
perpetrating these evil acts is someone you’ ve never met
. before.

-Davidsonian: What do you. think makes your writing
unique and eye-catching?

Cornwell: In addition to the elements I just mentioned, I
think the verisimilitude or the accuracy that you will find in

“ my technical descriptions, medical descriptions, and the
various profiles of the.crimes. I am intimately acquainted
with crime. There isn’t much I haven’t seen, whether it’s
autopsies in the morgue or crime scenes.

That definitely makes my work unique. People read it
and they have a'sense of immediacy--a sense of being there
and walking along with these characters through the rather
sordid and frightening shadow of the city. They see the

; darkerside. I have seen that darker side, and I let you see that
too. “

Davidsonian: Among the authors, family members, co-
workers, and individuals who have been part of your life,
which people have had the greatest impact on your develop-
ment as a person and as a writer?

Cornwell: I would begin by saying it would be my profes-
sors in school. I think we tend to gravitate towards those
things we get-strokes for, and from the earliest time I can
remember, perhaps in the second or third grade, my teachers
were very encouraging about my writing. I can remember
writing a creative story--I think it was in the fourth grade--
and the teacher was so.impressed with it she read it in front
of the whole class. I was extremely thrilled by that, to say
"the least. I felt like I did something that was better than what
most people could do.
_-This became more of a reality--a serious consideration
in terms of my life’s goals when I wasa freshman in college.

An English professor took a great deal of interest in my
writing, and I did a tutorial with him. I wrote short stories
for him forasummer. On and onit went,culminating inmy
experience at Davidson, where I again received a great deal
of encouragement. ‘The first novel I wrote I wrote for my
honors thesis. Nota very good one, I might add, but I did ot
an awful lot of encouragement.

I-can’t say that my family members have been a big
influence on my writing.

“As far as other authors, notreally, but I like to read very
fine_writing, whether it’s F. Scott Fitzgerald, or Mark
Helprin, or Pat Conroy, or even some modern crime novels
that doa pretty good job. I would definitely say that that has
a collective sort of impact on what I.do.

_ The people who give me intellectual inspiration have
had an influence. The Medical Examiners I have worked

with that have taught me so well; the detectives I have
worked with who. have shown me themselves in their
unguarded moments. .

All of these seule have had an influence because they
have antrCeCRT & me to this world and helped me through it.

Davidsonian: Sue Grafton has suggested that, from one
book to the next, especially at the pace of writing one
mystery a year, pressure builds and it is mc :t difficult for a
writer not to repeat herself. Do youagree? What have your
greatest challenges been since your first successful book?

Cornwell: Yes, absolutely, it is very difficult not to repeat
yourself. It’s difficult to do something new and fresh, and
here Iam only working on my fourth book, so I can imagine
that this is going to be a constant challenge.

The pressure increases, especially in my case because
the series has taken off so rapidly and so dramatically. So
much has happened in such an incredibly short amount of

time and the expectations have risen mightily. That could-

put a lot of pressure on me. I try to avoid it and ignore it.
For example, it seems: like I can’t write the books fast
enough, and I’m already receiving pressure about when
number four is going to be done, even though itwon’tbe out
fora year and a half.

I’ve simply refused:to pay much attention to that pres-
sure. It will be done when it’s done. I think you shoot
yourself in the foot by rushing through something. I can’t

say that I’ll always get a book done each year. That would "
‘be nice, butit’s quite possible that it won’tbe one a year, and

there will come. atime when itdefinitely won’t be onea year.

You have certain financial considerations in the begin-.

ning when you’ rereally getting your business going and you

_heed those sales every year to keep yourself afloat. Hope-

fully that will become less of aconsideration as the audience

really builds, and the series becomes increasingly popular.

Davidsonian: Describe, if you can, how it feels to write a
rough draft. Isitexciting? tedious? invigorating? stressful?

Cornwell: That’s a great question. I'll tell you what it is,
itis exhausting! The first draft is a tremendous labor of love
and survival. I do not really like writing a first draft. My
favorite part is revising when it’s all there and I can really
play with it and fine tune it. It is tremendously tiring to
create something out of nothing. In fact, I can only go at it
2-5 hours a day, and then I’ve had it, as a rule.

Sometimes I will have to go take a nap for.10 or 15
minutes--it drains me so much. You’re creating something
out of nothing. I’ve talked to other writers who know
exactly what I’m saying--itis the most exhausting thing you
can do. Ithink I’d rather go outand play tennis all day long,

because I’d probably be less tired than Iam when I sit in that
| study.

Itdoes haveits moments of excitement, though. There’s
areal afterglow to having made a certain turn in the chapter
or the plot, and you know it’s good and it’s really alive, or
you’ve described something in a way that makes you feel
really fine. There’s no question that when my work is going
well, my mood is good. No matter what else is going on in
my life, ifmy writing is not going well; then I’m not feeling

. very good.at all.

Davidsonian: Besidés sexism, you constantly touch on
other controversial issues of discrimination (i.e. homopho-

bia, racism, ethnocentrism, class consciousness). By doing

so, do you intend to alert the reader’s conscience? In
general, how likely are readers to learn from mystery fiction
and take it seriously enough to apply it to their own lives? Is
this an important consideration for you?

Cornwell: I do touch on controversial issues of discrimina-
tion, and I do hope reader will learn something from it and
apply it to their own lives. I’m not trying to preach, because
what I did learn when I studied literature at Davidsonis that
you are not to be didactic as a writer, and I choose not to be
didactic.

Scarpetta would have strong feelings about this, and
Marino serves as a foil because he is so bigoted on so many
fronts. I would not want to have a main character who was
judgmental. The biggest thing that Scarpetta would dis-
criminate againstis cruelty. She’s not going to discriminate
againstrace, gender, or sexual proclivities. She has seen too
much to be small minded. and she has experienced too much
not to understand how people feel: about certain things.
She’s a very open minded individual.

- Again, and I think I point this out in Body of Evidence
it’s more about the way people treat each other.and not so
much the choices they make. She has d very strong sense of
what’s right and what’s wrong. She would not think that
child molestation or homicide is right, no matter what one’s
proclivities are. Those are acts of subjugation and cruelty.
There’ snothing there that’s shared beewecttachilts orfounded.
upon rational judgment.

_. She has felt discriminated against at times in ther life, as
I pointed out with her years in medical school; she’s been
mistreated because people haven’t felt like dealing with a
woman chief. She would be very sensitive to this, as we all
should be.

- Allof us, at some time in our siiek have felt discrimi-
nated against. For me it wasn’t always just because of my
gender. Ican remember being in high school and having the

in” crowd not like me for some reason, and it became very
tee

When I would go in the lunchroom and wonder where
I was going to sit; [can remember going uptoan empty seat
where some of the cheerleaders were, and they would
always tell me that that seat was saved. When I moved from
Miami my first few yéars in school, I often sat with the
Mountain People who were on the free lunch program,
because the other girls did not want to-include me.

_SoIknow whatthat feels like. I willnever forgetas long
as I live the sick feelings in my stomach, and I think it
definitely shows in my work.. I don’ tcare what the basis of
the discrimination is, it’s in inhumane, it’ s depersonalizing,

and it’s wrong.
