12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1991

On Skunk Meat &Women' s Right

Strange things are afoot in the
Davidsonian. After weeks of
heated debate sparked by an unbe-
lievably juvenile letter from some
cretins who claimed to be Queens
students, the opinions from the
populous here seem to be converg-
ing on the notion that men and
women are equal, and that vio-
lenceagainst women (like any other

Bob
Hornsby

type of violence) is a bad, bad
thing. Boy, are we ever on the
cutting edge of social commen-
tary. What will our consensus be
next - that people should come
inside when it starts raining? Or
will that issue be too cloudy (if
you’ ll forgive the pun)?

Debate last week began on an
equally moot issue - whether or not
Davidson’s administration should
applaud the college’s placementin
Buckley’s conservative guide to
liberal arts schools, or guide to
conservative liberal arts schools,
or literary guide to conservative
art schools, or whatever it was.
The point is, we’re in the guide

Davidson’s position at the time it
was written. If the administration
want to avoid placement in the
next such guide, or want to strive
to make it into whatever guide
Oberlin is in, then they should act
accordingly. But placement in
Buckley’s guide is now a matter of
history; and no.matter how_much
we'd like to, we can’t change his-
tory. Wecanonly shape the future.

Ihave taken the time to trivial-
ize these issues because there are
other vastly more important ones

dreaded Auxiliary Services are
obviously up to no good. The
recent surge in theft of short black
skirts from the laundry’s dry-clean-
ing rack and the overpowering
aroma of skunk leaking from the
Sparrow’s Nest are too much of a
coincidence to be overlooked. I
have suspected this sort of thing all
along, but dared not believe until
last week’s “chicken” tacos at the
Commons.

Now it is clear to me what is

Most of us here are innocently ignorant of this
grave danger: the evil Laundry - Commons -

Sparrow's Nest triangle.

to be discussed. The whole com-
munity here.is threatened by a force
possibly more sinister than the
fleshy-headed mutant in Class of
Nuke’Em High. And, like the
foolish students and teachers at
Nuke’Em High, most of us here
are innocently ignorant of this grave
danger: the evil Laundry - Com-
mons - Sparrow’s Nest triangle.

By writing this I intend to
educate, not to frighten. But the
matter is truly frightening. The
stench of evil emanating from the
small plot of land between these
three buildings is permeating the
whole campus, and may overtake
the town if the source is not de-
stroyed.

Please understand that I write
these words at my own peril. The
last crusader that attempted to
expose the evils of the underground
empire that controls Davidson
mysteriously disappeared when he
started to get too close to the truth.

happening. Somewhere beneath
us in the Auxiliary Services labo-
ratories they are conducting ge-
netic research on skunks in an at-
tempt to make skunk meat palat-
able, and in the process they have
created a giant mutant skunk with
a taste for black skirts and other
dry-cleanables. Rumor has it that
the biology department has been
called in‘ to help find and destroy
the escaped mutant. Perhaps we
will survive this time.

While this whole skunk fiasco
is a tragedy in itself, I mustempha-
size that this is only a symptom of
a much greater disease: the un-
bridled activities of the intention-
ally nebulously-titled Auxiliary
Services. It is my hope that we as
students can stop wasting our en-
ergies on such hackneyed issuesas
the rights of women vs. those of
men and the merits of conservativ-
ism vs. those of liberalism, and

Athletics

Continued from Page 6

will.

Do you realize who your col-
umn offends? Players- who not
only practice and play but go to
class as well. Administrators- are
you saying that all of the efforts of
Terry Holland’s athletic depart-
mentare worthless? Families- who
are so proud that their sons or
daughters are Davidson student-
athletes. And, Coaches- who put

in ten to fifteen hour days to make *

their program the best itcan be. Go
ahead, tell the football team,
women’s and men’s soccer teams,
the field hockey team, basketball
team, men’s and women’s cross
country and track teams, woman’s
volleyball team, wrestling team,
baseball team, golf team, men’s

and women’s tennis teams, clu’

teams, and intramurals that to-

the crowd. Ask any player how it
feels to make a key shot and hear
the crowd cheer. It’s an exclama-
tion point, a seal of approval. It is
a statement that my efforts have
paid off and other people-can take
pleasure in them.

There is nothing worse than a
fair weather fan, unless it is an
apathetic one. It is easy to say “I
don’t care” or “I only see them
when they win.” Butitis hard tobe
afan ,to suffer the agonizing losses
and revel in the tremendous wins.
Teams need fans most when times
are tough because ‘everybody loves
a winner”. Support the Davidson
teams and give them a chance
because they are all winners.

By the way, most Davidson
sporting events don’t even require
a ticket. If you need a ticket, here
is an easy solution to your prob-
lem. You can take your coffee,
cigarettes and ID and_walk over to
the Sports Complex, (that’s if it
isn’t too much of a stretch). I’m

There is nothing worse than a fair-weather fan,
unless it is an apathetic one. It is easy to say "I
don't care." But it is hard to be a fan...

body cares about them and all of
their efforts do not matter.

While you’re at it, maybe you
should condemn every extracur-
ricular activity on the Davidson
campus. Maybe you should stop
writing for the tradition-rich
Davidsonian. After all, doing so
would be supporting a“wholesome
expression of college pep.”

I take your comments as a
personal affront. I am a student
and an athlete at Davidson and
have been for four years. I enjoy
competing, playing, and yes, even

sure the people at the ticket win-
dow would be willing to give even
you a ticket. Oh yeah, if you de-
cide to go to the game that night,
please remember that alcoholic
beverages and smoking are pro-
hibited (sorry). If you go into
withdrawal, medical personnel are
on hand to assist you.

If youdon’t want to cheer fora
team, don’t come toa game. Butif
you ‘want to support a team, I’m
sure they would love to have youin
the stands. I know I would.

attackreally pertinentmatterssuch exercising. I enjoy working hard Sincerely,
now and there’snothing wecando But my duty istothe community, as the one raised here. Herein lies and being rewarded formy efforts RALPH ISERNIA'91
about it (assuming we want to). _so here I go. Our opportunity todecisively shape — when competition begins. Captain, Football & Baseball
The guide describes The powers that be in the the future. All the athletes like theroarof February 13, 1991
Beyond Birkenstock ,

Gender Studies In Verse: Not NOW

(Well, the Birkenstock boys have not gone crazy, just alittle
light fun and then back to politics next week. No offense
to those fine gals down at the National Organization for
Women--keep up the good work!)

An good example of the quality found in Gender Studies in
Great Literature: Poetry 101.

Rantin’ and Raven

Once upon a weekend dreary, while] slumbered, weak and weary
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten bore (The
Davidsonian)

While I nodded, brain a’ clanging, suddenly there came a bang-
ing,

As of someone yet haranguing, banging at my chamber door.
“Tis a seller, “ muttered I, “with donuts cheap and bad tie-dyes—
Only this, and nothing more.” -

When out in the hall, there arose such a clatter,

I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
The moon on the breast of the babe on the wall,
gave the luster of mid-day to my intoxicant hall.

Presently my soul grew stronger, hesitating then no longer,
‘| “Sir,” said T, “or Madam, truly your existence I deplore;

But the fact is I was napping, and so rudely you came rapping,
.| And so insistent was your tapping, tapping at my chamber door,
Scarce sure am I that I believe you"—here I opened wide the
door,--

Womyn (gender neutral “y”’) there, and nothing more.

I wasn't sure just what to say; I like babes, though most are bores,

In their silence and defiance blocking at my open door,

I resolved them o’er to question, quoth I, “Note you this my fur-
rowed brow”

Isee your buttons, you’re from NOW--state your purpose, make it
good--

She said “Good cause for those who would,”--Stood I there in
anxious waiting for them something toimplore--forbid their bleed-
ing hearts to pour.

Yet the womyn, standing lonely in the placid dust, spoke only
Those few words, as if her soul in that one phrase she did outpour.
Nothing further then she uttered—not a paper then she fluttered—
Till I could stand no more, and muttered, “What dost thou want
on this bleak night, your organization, known to the right,
Believe me now in what I say, you'll get no money, now GO
AWAY!” .

Quoth the womyn, “Nevermore.”

I’ve never seen a purple duck, nor pig, nor goat, nor cow.
Yet stood before me-I can’t believe it; yet somehow--

at my door, yep,a rep from NOW-I’d never hoped to see one.
But I can tell you anyhow, I'd rather see than be.one.

Back to my room in anger burning, sleep my only lucid yearning
When again I heard that rapping something louder than before.
“Surely,” said I, “this is someone sent to curse me,

quite unlike the one who nursed me”; despite less noble true
intention ;

craven caving to convention I opened up my chamber door.

; Open here I flung the portal, “What, pray femme, is your entreaty?”

(One was thin, the other meaty)
“Prophet!” said I, “thing of evil!--prophet still, if dame or devil!

’ ashore

Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here

Desolate, yet all undaunted, on this desert hall enchanted--
On this Home by horror haunted--tell me truly, I implore--

Is there--is there balm in Gilead?--tell me--tell me, I implore?
quoth the womyn, “Literature.”

And with that word, in full emotion, came their pamphlets in one
motion ;
Fleeting past-my face and through me (I break her arm, she'll
surely sue me)

thrust she her tract at me in earnest, though all the fires in hell’s
dark furnace, could not char them o’er ‘nough for me.

Spoke I thus and thought of lore

“Get thee hence, a nunnery.”

Quoth the womyn, “Nevermore.”

“Be that word our sign of parting, babe or fiend!” I shrieked,
upstarting--
“Get thee back into the tempest and the Night’s Plutonian shore!
Leave no black page as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!
pill my peaceful quiet unbroken--quit thy face from out my
Lacie beak from out my heart, and take thy trash from off my |
oor!” ee ee en ihe F
Quoth the womyn, “Sexist pig.”

a

With special thanks to Wilson “deLovely” Hardcastle and |
equally special apologies to Edgar Allan Poe, Ogden Nash, and
that guy (or gal) that wrote Th re Christmas (and |
everybody else we offended--not that we care, it’s alegal thing). ;

