12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Imside Art

The photograph below was submitted by Oma Blaise, a junior
English major from Santa Fe, New Mexico. The Davidson Arts editors
anxiously await your submissions to Inside Art. We will accept poetry
and prose as well as photography or drawings for consideration.
Please call Jim Carswell, Will Montgomery or David Thompson at

896-0953.

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. You Just Don't Understand, by Deborah Tannen. (Ballantine,
$10.00.) How men and women can understand each other better.

2. Seven thables ot tneevy ENeotve Reeons, b by Steven R. Covey.
(Fireside, $9.95.) Gyide to personal fulfillment.

3. The Burden of Proof, by Scott Turow. _ (Wamer, $5.95)
A lawyer ties to solve the mystery of his wile’s death. _

4. The Revenge of the Baby-Sat, by Bill Watterson.
; __ (Andrews & McMeel, $5.95.) More cartoons,
5. Rend Mettely Road Atiaa: (rend McNealy, $7. $7.95)
1991 edition of a guide to the U.S., Canada and
6. ‘Where the Wild Things are, by Maurice Sendak. (
i BE Iie.ereametste nent aplace whore he becomes king
7. The Joy Lavck City Arr Tan (Wy (Ivy, $5.95.) Destinies of Chinese
bes citi atn Les soi

8. September, by

's Press, $5.99.) _

abe

‘Reroun cf Goce tem allover the word moot a Scots own

9. “The Education of Little Tree, by Forrest Carter. (Univ. of
New Mexico, $10.95.) Growing up with the Cherokee way of life. ;

10. ‘The First Man in Rome, by Colleen

McCullough.
‘ __ (Avon, $6.95.) To ng saga of a a remarkable era.

eames eee
me ~=\New & Recommended
Co-op. Som. CT

Conquest pe ebay tiagual Behe jeg
Se a cheacper Cantus - his time, his exploits, and his “ii

In a German Pension, by Katherine Mansfield. (Bantam, $3.50.
clacton of croton ha vie eM War Erp wi
sharp wit and haunting psychological

The General in his Labyrinth, by by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. (Penguin.
$9.95.) Portrait of the great Simon Bolivar - the liberator, the
orchestrator of political and military intrigue, the fighter capable of

ism, mercy, and ruthlessness.

Crawl

Continued from page 10.

y

the stuffing my mind was tricked
into both the idea of the wearing
the itchy fiberglass and a gross
naugahyde 1976 garage sale rain-
coat. The wires heightened this
nightmarish anxiety and the whole
piece reminded me of the fear of
being locked in a hot attic on a
summer day.

-Thesuccess of her exibit lies in
the way the textures of her clothing
creations relate to the space inside.
Rowles gets it right in her state-
ment saying “the empty space in-
side reminds us of the spiritual

presence of the absent wearer.”
This was especially truthful in
Vapor and several others which
made me physically cringe upon
viewing. Several pieces were
somewhat boring in termsofcolor.
Granted, she relied upon the natu-
ral colors of everyday items like
insulation and dull green plastic
army men. Yet in-her fabric crea-
tions some variety or unexpected
combinations mightenergize a flat
visual experience.

I recommend Ann Rowles’
Threads exhibit and hope that you
see these creations for yourself.
They are both striking and subtle.
While you are in Charlotte, check
out the lobby of the Carillon, anew
office tower on West Trade Street.
Jean Tinguely’s kinetic sculpture
Cascade is the centerpiece of an
intriguing and enjoyable sculpture
exibit.

Kiss
Continued from page 11.

show tunes.”

The musical will open on Octo-
ber 10th at 8 p.m., and then run
from the 11th until the 19th. Tick-
ets go on sale Monday, October
7th, in the Cunningham Fine Arts
Building (892-2340),

