16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Author Margaret Atwood Answers All

By Mark Damon Puckett

Sharp-featured and sharp-witted Mar-
garet Atwood patiently entertained nearly
two hours of query from students Monday
afternoon (2/18) in the 900 Room. The
following questions and answers are ex-
cerpted from that period. The same eve-
ning She spoke and read and answered
questions that ranged from her Canadian

background to “How does it feel to be so

damn famous?” Atwood has written Sur-
facing, The Handmaid’s Tale, and Cat’s
Eye to name but a few of her works.

think of is that Iread The Handmaid’ s Tale
ina Women Writer’s class, and I was one of
three guys in a class of thirty females.
Also, the audience here today is, say, 70%
female. You have to have that in mind
when you write--

Atwood: No, actually, I don’t have it in
mind when I write. I read books by men. I
think it’s a little bit harder for men to read
books by women just as it’s harder for men
to wear skirts. Men don’t want to be seen
in public wearing skirts, but that doesn’t
stop them from doing it in secret. I know
have quite a wide male readership because
I get letters from these guys, and also they

their own lives they can incorporate things
that actually happened to them, but they
can also incorporate stories about their
relatives.

For example, your parents saying,
“You’re like your Uncle Tom,” or “You’re
the spitting image of your grandmother.”
All of these mythologies are given to us
and we are always rearranging those and
choosing. We are choosing what relatives
we want to be like. I think everybody does
this, not just writers.

Audience (female): Is there anything about
you expressed in your characters?

Audience (female): How.

Atwood: In a way it

could youallow yourbook,
The Handmaia’s Tale, to
be made into a movie after
having a bad experience
earlier with movies?
Atwood: I live in hope. I
like movies. I like watch- ©

I write for the reader, and the reader can be..
old person, the reader can be a very young person,
the reader can be male or female, the reader can be
homosexual or heterosexual, the reader can be
any color, the reader can be from any country.

That is the reader.

-AN ~ doesn’t matter. It’s very
nice of you to be inter-
-ested in me, but I don’t
_ think it’s the most impor-
tant thing about a book.
The book is the most im-

portant thing about the

ing movies. I’ll watch any-

book.

thing really. I’m probably the only person
you have ever met who has seen a film
called The Creeping Eye, a B-movie of the
Fifties.
movies, which I know I will never actually
do because it takes to much time and I
would rather write.

Also, the man who was interested in it-
-the producer--was passionately interested
in making it. He devoted a lot of time to it,
then he found a very hard film to actually
make because of the subject matter. You
have to admire the courage of somebody
like that. The Handmaid's Tale was not an
easy book to get off the ground. Holly-
wood was scared to death of it because of
the subject matter.

So I have a secret yen to make

turnup atbook signings where they used to
say always, “Sign this for my wife.” Now,
a lot has changed and these same men are

_ Starting to say, “Sign this for me. My name

is Bob.”

Audience (female):
yourself a realist?

Atwood: No. Realism is a word that
describes a certain kind of writing. If
you’re asking me whether I think I’m a
realist in my life--obviously we all think

Do you consider

we’re realists. But realism in writing was -

a certain kind of writing that tended to
exclude other things. I would not place
myself in that tradition since I include lots
of things in my writing that would not

_ come under the heading of realism, includ-

Audience (female): Do you write for a
particular audience?

Atwood: No, I write for the reader, and the
reader can be anybody. The reader can be
an old person, the reader can be a very
young person, the reader can be male or
female, the reader can be homosexual or
heterosexual, the reader can be any color,
the reader can be from any country. That
is the reader.

3 Awaiones (male): When you say you don’t
write for a particular audience, all I can

ing dreams, premonitions, altered States of
time. .

Audience (female): How much of your
own experience do you include in your
works?

Atwood: Experience, yes. If your family
tells you a story about that something
happened before you were born, you incor-
porate that into your own history. I think
almost everybody does that. Everybody is
constantly constructing a novelistic his-
tory of their lives, and into that history of

Granted, the book isnever separate from
the author, but, of course, when an experi-
ence has gone through my head in some
shape or other (since I wrote it down in the
first place) I had to have thought of it in
some form, but it doesn’t mean it happened
to me personally.

Audience (male): . What projects ‘are you
working on now?

Atwood: I just finished editing a book of
stories that will come out in the fall called

Wilderness Tips--if you want to read the

title story it’s in the current New Yorker, the
one with two cats on it. I finished the
screenplay to Cat’s Eye. I have four lec-
tures to write for Oxford University in
England--that will happen at the end of

April. And Ihave started anovel. Do you

think that will keep me busy?

Audience (minis): How do you keep

yourself from j jumping ahead » when you're

working on a novel?

Atwood: If I need to write a scene that
needs to be written today, then I will write
it and figure out later how it fits in. It may
not fit in at all. If something really presents
itself to me with a lot of clamor, I will not

make the mistake of not writing it right
then. : Nee
