THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTER VIEW

With Kresimir Klenovic & Milica Tomasevic

By Katharina Altpeter and Leigh McKeever
For over two months a war has been raging in Yugoslavia.
Althougha peace agreement between Serbs and Croats was
signed on September 2nd, it is worthwhile to look at this
country and its problems because this ethnic conflict is
certainly not the last the world has to deal with in terms of
ethnic and political disputes.

There are currently four students from three different
Yugos!avian republics enrolled at Davidson. Their pres-
ence gives us the opportunity to obtain a slight insight into
the historical and cultural background of Yugoslavia, and
to acquire an understanding for the problems the Yugoslavs
face in their own country. ;

The following interviews with Kresmir Klenovic from
Croatia and Milica Tomasevic from Serbia revealed numer-
ous facts which are largely unknown, even to Europeans.

Kresimir Klenovic
Davidsonian: Give us a short impression of Yugoslavia.

Klenovic: In Communist times Yugoslavia hasn’t been
under a direct influence of Russia, and then it’s been pretty
much more free than other East European countries like
Poland and Czechoslavakia. We could go out into other
countries, could travel; we wouldn’t be stuck. ;

Davidsonian: Did you have free elections?

Klenovic: Elections were strongly communistic resulting
ina dictatorship rule. We’vefiad some freedom, but in other
ways in the economy, the politics, the communist party had
a big role in creating jobs and everything. It was different if
you were in the communist party than if you were not, and
very often it was important to be in the party. Often some-
thing wouldn’t be free to go in the newspapers if it said
anything against communism.

Davidsonian: Were people allowed to speak their mind,
was there a secret police?

Klenovic: There were secret police. In 1971, for example,
there was amovement in Croatia for independence. In those
years there were more secret police. This was more to
supress that independence movement than anti-commu-
nism.

Davidsonian: Teli us something about Croatia's cultural
uniqueness.

Klenovic: Cultural and historical differences were forming
from back in the past till recent years. I would say that
Croatia is like a Western part of Yugoslavia. A western part
that was more influenced by the Austro-Hungarian empire

_ and the Roman empire. People are mostly Roman Catholic.
lama Roman Catholic. This pretty much influenced culture
also.

Davidsonian: Were you able to practice your religion
openly?

Klenovic: My father was in a responsible place, and every-
body who was in a responsible place had to be in the party.
He didn’t want me to go to church, and be seen by other
people, and then have them say, “Look at him, he is in the
party and his son is going tochurch.” So my father would tell
me, I’ll buy you a bible, whatever you want, you can read-
-that’s nice, and if you really want to you can go to church,
He wouldn’tlose his job if I went tochurch, but he preferred
me to not be actiye in church life.

Davidsonian: \s religion really an important thing now that
you can express your belief?

Klenovic: It’s getting to be more important. For example,
before I came to America I started going to church--I went
like Christmas night and other major holidays. Now people
go to church more often, they express their beliefs more

openly.

Davidsonian: |s there a great difference between the Roman
Catholic and the Orthodox church?

Klenovic: I wouldn’t say it’s a great difference, but it

certainly has influenced the emotions and especially the
politics of the different ethnic groups.

Davidsonian: Do you speak the same language as people
who live in Serbia?

Klenovic: Before the creation of Yugoslavia our languages
were very different. After creating one country, the lan-
guages have merged and gotten more and more similiar.
Still, there is a difference, for example, in vocabulary, but
the sentence structure is fairly similiar.

Davidsonian: Is there an official or a common language?

Klenovic: In the last year and a half the language has
changed pretty much. Many words are being pushed out of
use and other old Croatian words are being reinstalled.

Davidsonian: When asked where you come from, do you
name your country, your republic, or your village?

Klenovic: Croatia and Slovenia still have not been recog-
nized by other countries. So when somebody ask me where
I’m from I say Yugoslavia, sometimes Zagreb/Croatia/
Yugoslavia, because officially Yugoslavia still exists, at
least on paper. However, I deeply feel as a Croatian, and
whenever asked about my nationality or individuality, then
I’m Croatian--there’s no such thing as Yugoslavia.

Davidsonian: Are there Serbians and Croatian living
together where you live?

Klenovic: The structure of Croatia is 79% Croats, 12 %
Serbs, and the rest is others. In some regions people have
lived with other ethnic groups for all their lives. You cannot
make a compact homogenous state.The Serbs have been
there for years, but you can not just cut something and say
it is not Croatia anymore just because there live Serbs and
also Croats. In the partthe Serbian government wants to take
over, the Serbian government pushed out the Croats and
Hungarians with arms and tanks, not political talks. I don’t
claim that the Serbian people are to blame, I think that the
government is the problem. This is what makes living
together before and after different--people who once lived
together are being pushed out.

Davidsonian: Do you think that politics should be based on
ethnic groups?

Klenovic: I don’t think ethnic origin is the most important
thing, but after somebody has been bombing youand killing
almost 300 of your people, it’s really hard to stay one unified
country. The Croatian government has agreed to preserve
Yugoslavia as a country of sovereign states. If we can’t be
good brothers in one country, why can’t we try to be good
neighbors in seperate countries?

Davidsonian: You once wore aCroatia free T-Shirt, how do
you think Milica might feel?

Klenovic: I think about what she feels and I’m not indiffer-
entto her. But, my nation is being attacked, my state is being
bombed by the Serbian army. Because of all this, I really teel
that I can’t afford not to.express my views and wear my T-
Shirt, because I really feel that Croatia needs help. We don’t
have arms, planes, tanks as the Serbian army and Serbian
rebels do. I don’t feel that I can hurt somebody when I say
I supporta group who’ fighting for freedom. I don’t see any
violence in this.

Davidsonian: So this is more a concern about your people
being killed than to express ‘I’m against you’.

Klenovic: I’ve talked to Milica, and I’ve told her that our
political views might be different, but again I’m telling you
Ihave nothing against the Serbian nation. It is not théir fault
that the government doesn’t give them news from the world,
that they censor everything. When you see the lack of
freedom in that press, just imagine what is said about the
Croatian government and nation. It’s the government that
fills you with the same news and with the same hatreds
towards everything that is Croatian; it’s true that you be-
come of like mind.

Milica Tomasevic:
Davidsonian: Give us a short impression of Yugoslavia.
Tomasevic: When this paper comes out Yugoslavia will
probably not be Yugosalvia any more.

During Tito, a communist and president of Yugoslavia,
there were no elections under aone party system--youcould
only elect him. In 1949 when Russia took over and spread
into Eastern Europe, Tito objected. He was the one who
organized so called non-alignments. I think this is the only
positive thing he did. When he died in 1980, nothing was as
strict as it was during his reign. Before people were so
repressed with that communistic regime--if you disagreed
with communism, you would just disappear and nobody
would ever find out about your fate.

Davidsonian: How was the food/commodity situation?

Tomasevic: There were some crises, but it has never been
as severe as the Russian situation where you have to wait in
line for bread. In my opinion, we had everything--there were
imported goods etc.

I think that many people mix up Czechoslovakians, Bul-
garians, Russians and Yugoslavians. Some people say, “Oh
they’re poor, therefore they re stupid.’ You can not equate
those two things--Russia gave Dostoevsky and Tolstoy--
you can’t say these people are stupid.

Davidsonian: After Tito, did the communist system con-
tinue?

Tomasevic: The communist system went on until last year,
but it was very shaky--with every year it became worse and
worse. Actually it failed, and we had free elections in
December 1990. There hasn’t been pure communism in a
long time, it has been more socialism. This socialism/
communism remained in Serbia because that’s where the
communist headquarters were located.

Davidsonian: Could you comment on religion in Serbia.

Tomasevic: In a communist country they try to suppress
religion. Serbs are Eastern Orthodox, I am Eastern Ortho-
dox. But this does not mean that I hate Roman Catholics--
I am completely open for every kind of orientation,

Davidsonian: Are there historical differences between
Croatia and Serbia?

Tomasevic: Before WW I when Yugoslavia was formed,
Serbia was an independent kingdom for centuries, Centu-
ries ago before the U.S. as you know it existed, Serbia was
a wealthy country and very rich with culture.

Davidsonian: Do Serbs and Croatians have different lan-
guages? _

Tomasevic: We call our language Serbo-Croatian, Since
the war started, Croatians say it’s Croatian language, and
Serbs usually say it’s Serbian. But, itis more or less the same
language. This difference is much like the difference be-
tween British and American English. We completely under-
stand each other, it’s just different accents.

Davidsonian: Do you have contact with people other than
Serbs?

Tomasevic: I have many close Croatian friends. Idon’tcare
if you’re Serb or Croatian, you don’t judge a book by its
cover. I’m very pacifistic, and I think that it makes no
difference where you’re from. However, there are people
who put that kind of atmosphere into the conversation, and
at that point if they want to emphasize that we are from
different parts, I back off and don’t really know what to do-
-it makes me feel bad. I think it’s really a shame that we are
fighting like cannibals in the 20th century, that we are
killing each other--I think it’s the most absurd thing that
could happen in this so-called “civilized” time.

Davidsonian: If somebody asks you where you are from,
what do you say?

Tomasevie: I always say I’m from Yugoslavia. If I said,
I'm from Serbia’, it would sound like I’m emphasizing

_ being from only Serbia, being pure Serb, and that I don’t like

anyone else. But don’t wantto say either that I wantto keep
Croatians in communistic Yugoslavia. I’m not communist.
I don’t like what’s going on. I try to smooth things as much
as I can, but it doesn’t always go so well and that makes me

feel bad because I believe in peace.
