THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991 5
DAVID THOMPSON, Editor-in-Chief Vera ake CPS
LEIGH McKEEVER, Executive Editor ic Pigle J ocho
uve Retarded + Spock» Spille -Whitey: Kraut Nigger Kike -Hym os
Sea rCohainy Accotacha Deaf anddumb 7 Eyarex Chee boo. Dyke Ke Coy. Flamer’ 9 Cnet

WILL MONTGOMERY, Associate Editor
MEREDITH HAMMONS, Assistant Editor
CHRIS HASS, Assistant Editor

. < OMA BLAISE, Copy Editor
The Dabidsonian! — Avsmvmi.copy air
SEAN LIND, News Editor
TOM KOONCE, Associate News Editor
DAVID SCOTT, Opinions Editor
JENNIFER SIECK, Campus Living Editor
MAY. MARTIN, Campus Living Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER, Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB, Associate Sports Editor.
CHRIS LEE, Photo Editor
LEE PENNINGTON, Associate Photo Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
* Weekly”

PETER FISHER, Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND, Production Manager
ANDREW SPAINHOUR, Production Mnanger

JOHN PATTON, Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH, Circulation Manager
ANDY COOKE, Business Manager

To PC Or Not To PC?

A vicious scourge of censorship and oppression is running loose in the
halls of academia which threatens the very essence of a democratic society.
In colleges across the nation, people are being persecuted for expressing
their beliefs. Professors and students alike are being monitored by watchful
thugs who threaten and bully those who express their support of ideas which
have been deemed “unacceptable.” An intolerant, frightened, and closed
minded group of sensationalists i is trying to take a strangle hold of. the
. academic world. But you won’t find Jesse Helms and his ilk amongst these
insuffering editors. This new band of McCarthyist tyrants claim to be
liberals.

Brown University is the latest school to fall into the hands of the PC
movement. By expelling a student for the use of racist “fighting words”, the
administration of Brown University has shown that the school is unwilling
to live up to the challenge laid down in the Bill of Rights: to preserve the
freedom of expression of even the most unpopular ideas. Vehement
disapproval of racism is admirable. Prohibiting the articulation of such
concepts, however, is contradictory to the essence of the first amendment.

By forbidding the expression of opposing views on the grounds that they
are “offensive”, the politically “correct” activists use the same tactics em-
ployed by hard line conservatives in their push for an amendment to the
Constitution which would outlaw flag burning. George Bush and his ad-
ministration supported the measure on the grounds that a flag in flames was
just too vile a display to be tolerated in America. Bush was attacked by the
"politically correct" on the grounds that he supported the outlawing of an
idea. They were right. He was. The trouble is that now the PC movement
supports of eradicating ideas which they find too offensive to be expressed.

Davidson College should be praised for. having not become swept away
in the PC reform movement. We need, however, to be wary of those who
would take way our rights to say what we think.

Why Only One?

In the room-lottery process at Davidson College, the president of the
SGA is assigned, automatically, the number 0. The logic behind this is
simple: the president of the student body should live on campus, and the
college should encourage the president to do so with the incentive of a low
lottery number. The president also contributes a great deal to the college,
and thus the low number is a fair reward for doing a difficult job.

What’s unfair about this reward, however, is that it is limited to the SGA
president, The Union president, the Quips and Cranks editor, the editor of
The Davidsonian, and other student leaders receive no such compensation
while they perform tasks as difficult and of equal importance to the college
as the president of the SGA.

The editorships mentioned above are supposed to be elected offices, but
this year there were no elections because there were no candidates. The
positions have been filled by students who wanted to keep the publications
afloat. If there were a greater incentive, like a 0 lottery number for students
willing to dedicate themselves to these projects, the college might not risk
losing its yearbook and newspaper as has happened in the past.

Crippled -
Lootley - Nevo
Wetback- Geter
a ona “Wate:
ickan ty “aie:
Chink Fives >
Spic - Taneli ~<-
Mick - Velox
Jap - Lackey: Me
Dago - Beanyure>
Wop - Cur tec’ -
Lame «Ganges
+ Greas™:
Vek. Rica

he, ese
a

Card Se" is

3 s White: Colo 1 -Codke-

sake

Letters

. Pemt-omar,. Co sila: |

Thanks Davidson!

To the Editor:

Because so many of you
realized the value to ourcom-
munity that the cultural and
scientific organizations sup-
ported by the Arts and Sci-
ence Council offer, and
because so many of you gave
what you could,

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WENT OVER ITS GOAL

FOR THE ARTS AND

SCIENCE __* FUND
DRIVE!!! AND WE
WENT OVER BY A
THOUSAND DOLLARS
PLUS!!!!

The arts and science or-

ganizations who depend on
this drive to offer their var-
ied programs thank you. We
thank you and appreciate
your support.

Sincerely,
RUPERT BARBAER AND
LYNN BRICKELS

Senior Class Gift

The Davidsonianis published weekly on Mondays during the spring term by the students of Davidson College.
Please address fan mail and to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina!
28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the
Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in the letters to the editor or the commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25

peryear. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyrightisheld by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Senior
Class Gift Committee, we
would like to thank all the
seniors who took the time to
vote for our class gift. By a
large majority, the Class of

1991 Love of Learning Fund
was selected to be our gift.
We believe that this is an ex-
cellent opportunity to con-
tribute to the needs of the
community around us. We
look forward to working with

you in the coming months to
make this gift a reality.

Sincerely,
LISA LENARD &
THURSTON COOKE

From the Financial Aid Office

To the Editor:

Many thanks tostudents
who took the time to com-
plete our annual survey of
school year costs. The re-
sults were not surprising; you
spend more for books, sup-
plies, transportation and
personal expenses, on aver-
age, than you did in 1989-

90. As a consequence, the
allowance for personal ex-
penses will be increased as
we determine individual
1991-92 financial aid pack-
ages.

Some of you took ad-
vantage of the comments
section of the survey to
express'concerns about our

policies and procedures. We
are always looking for ways
to improve our services to
you, so please feel free to
call or stop by to give us

your suggestions. Thank
you.

Sincerely,

THE

FINANCIAL AID STAFF

A Message of Reminder

To the Editor:

This past week I received
from the mother and father a
copy of a letter their daugh-
terhad recently written them.
The daughter is a senior,
graduating from Davidson

. this May. It seems to me that

this letter contains a touch-
ing and appropriate message
for the parents of many of
our seniors at Davidson. I
hope our seniors will pay
this tribute to their respec-
tive parents.

Pll appreciate your run-
ning a copy of this letter in
your “Letter to the
Editor’’section of the paper:

Dear Mom and Dad:

I just wanted to write
you a little note to remind
you how’ much I lave you.
Dad,.I love the thoughtful
notes yousendmeto brighten
my day. Mom, I love to hear
your comforting, supportive
voice over the phone. 1 know
how much you both love me,
andI couldn’ t be more thank-
ful. I have really been very
lucky to have you for par-
ents. Your age and your
wisdom has benefitted me
more than you will ever
realize. I wouldn't be the
person that I am today if it
weren't for you. You gave
me the drive to succeed ata

very early age. The daugh-
ter that you are so proud of
is the product of your ef-
forts. I know that you are
very proud of me, butI’ mnot
sure that you reward your-
selves enough for the hand
that you had in making me
whatI am. Perhaps it is not
aparents jobto reward them-
selves for their children’s
efforts, but then that is what
lam here for.To remind you
just how much you have to
be proud of yourselves.

Thank you.

I LOVE YOU,

Maggie XO
Thank you,
JAMES CAUSEY
Professor Emeritus
