16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Richard Terry: A Man With A Vision

By Mark D. Puckett
This week The Davidsonian interviewed Richard Terry,
Director of Residence Life. .

Davidsonian: You mentioned your vision. What is it?
Terry: I guess more than anything I’d like to consider my-
self a realist. I know some people who are in resident life
positions in this country who have kind of a pristine vision:
everything clean, everything right; never any problems--no
incident reports, no police reports and all that. And you can
get that ata really great cost. But, you end up with unhappy
people whoare trying to find ways dodgerules instead of ap-
preciating, understanding why they’re there.

I do care a little bit about what people think of me, but
what’s more important is that people understand what we’ re
trying to do.

Pretty basic standards for me are that people ought to be
able to sleep peacefully and privately when they want

Terry: It’s very different having your office where students
live. It’s painful sometimes to have an office in here because
you hear the showers, you hear people cussing and scream-
ing in the hallways, or you’ ve gota real important interview
going and someone starts hitting a tennis ball off your door.
But we’re also on the pulse.

A lot of students come in and we hear rumors and we
hear stories about little things that happen on halls, and I
would go crazy if] tried to personally step in on all of those.

It’s more important to me that RA’s have a certain
amount of liberty to establish their own style, to establish a
toneon their hall, and also the opportunity to make a mistake
and learn from it.

Davidsonian: Talk about your RA’s.
Terry: I think one of the real misconceptions about the RA
job is that they basically walk around with a whistle in their

It’s not uncommon in any year for RA’s to council
students on their hall who are: self-destructive, depressed,
dealing with family breakups--all the things freshmen deal
with too. They help find students who are suffering from
substance abuse problems--identifying them and getting
them help. They mitigate roommate problems.

Because upper class halls tend to be a lot less unified
than freshman halls, something can happen in one room and
in two rooms away somebody doesn’t realize that the RA
has been involved in that situation.

So I think a lot of people think that all RA’s do is
paperwork and room conditions reports and bust people,
and by no means is that the case. That’s one of the reasons
I’m really glad to have an opportunity to talk about this
because I think people should talk toRA’s and find out what
itis they do. People shouldn’t look at it as narrowly as I’m
afraid they do.

to. They ought to be able to study in the same way.

Davidsonian: What aboutrumors ofa live-in staff?

They ought to be able to use the bathroom in the same
way, and take a shower in the same way.

In conversations I’ve had with students over the
last two years I’ve never found anybody who felt like
they shouldn’t be able to do that. And yet, I don’t
think that’s a standard being met right now. If I

I think one of the real misconceptions
about the RA job is that they basically
walk around witha whistle in their mouth
waiting to call somebody down.

Terry: A lotof schools have RA’s like we have and
they have full-time staff people like me, but they’ ve
got an interim level also. They’ve got people who
have graduated from college, who live in a building;
and their job really is to be there at night.

It would accomplish acouple of things if we did this:

estimate that 98% of the people on campus want to
have it that way, then why isn’tit happening? I think
it’s because we’ve grown accustomed to a lower standard.

Davidsonian: Define lower standard.

Terry: I guess I’m talking about something like broken
beer bottles on the bathroom floor on a Saturday morning.
People cuss and say, “Gosh, Idon’t wanttocutmy feet,” but
there’s kind of tacit acceptance of it as if to say, “Well, this
is college life.”

Or at two in the morning somebody coming up on your
hall screaming at the top of their lungs waking you up, and
people go, “I can’t believe that. I’ve got a big test tomor-
row,” and they roll over--they’re mad about it, but they
won’t say anything.

And I have to be real: I don’t expect all students to be
heroes and jack people up on the wall and say, “You scum,”
but there are some things that can be done, and I’ve said
before, that’s where RA’s serve a role. That’s where our
’ office serves a role.

But I never want to be dictating or imposing these
standards because they won’t last and people won’t learn
anything. And that’s hard to do. It means sitting back
sometimes and letting some things happen that are painful
and difficult, but I believe in the long run there’s more to be
gained byit.

Davidsonian: How so?

mouth waiting tocall somebody down. If that’s what people
think about their RA’s, that’s too bad. Butit is an image that
is out there.

I think of my RA staff really as a great communication
system. They’re notreally snitches; they’re just keeping my
staff aware of what’s going on here.

We’ re dealing with 18to22 year old people. They don’t
magically become adults because they walk out of their
house with their suitcase; so there are a lot of things we

‘aren’t surprised that happen, and we hope that by the time

people are seniors, they'll have decided that certain things
are frivolous and not mature and don’t really contribute
positively to their lives.

There are times when an RA has to confront somebody
where there is clearly somebody using drugs on the hall. It’s
a painful thing to do, but they have to confront the person
and it has to be dealt with.

But! guess what I wish people would understand is that
anytime an RA does certain duties, it’s not for the sake of a
rule that’s sticking ina book. Id like to think that all policies
we have are really just extensions of the Code of Responsi-
bility that are there to protect the community.

I alsobelieve there are times when an individuals needs
come before the community’s needs--not that the commu-
nity should suffer, but that exceptions can be made. And
that’s where the RA again can be a great help.

incidents occur that are pretty serious in nature and
need quick attention, then we’ve got a staff person
who’s right there.

Quite honestly it would lead to greater civility. These
people wouldn’t be looking to bust people, they’d really be
there in case of something like a fire or fight. And also
students should be able to have a friend visit and not be
embarrassed by what goes on.

Often, most students allow people to go beyond what
really should be tolerated. And I think that having some
live-in people Would help deal with that.

Davidsonian: What are the plans for housing?

Terry: Right now, as everybody should be hearing, plans
are to build anew apartment building along the same design
as the present ones. We’re pushing real hard to have it open
in time for Fall which is very ambitious--we’ll probably
need a little cooperation from the weather.

One thing nice about the structure we’ re talking aboutis
that it’ll havea full basement--it’ll actually be a four story
building. The basement will have laundry facilities--very
generous facilities, not just three washers and three dryers,
butsomewhere in the neighborhood of seven or eight. We’ ll
also havea meeting space that will accommodate upto forty
or fifty people, which will also be helpful to have a meeting
place for RA’s. Then there are plans for a fifth building
eventually.

Photos By Chris Lee

