THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992 2

Allison

Continued from page 1

contiguous.” He also believes the
United States will go through a
period of disappointment in terms
of peace while the focus of atten-
tion remains trained on domestic
problems. Meanwhile, Allison
emphasized the United States must
become more assertive and more
demanding of the republics of the
former Soviet Union, especially in
terms of dismantling nuclear weap-
ons.

The foremost problem con-
fronting American and ‘Russian
policy-makers alike is that events
in the Soviet republics are occur-
ring so rapidly and parameters are

evolving so drastically nobody has’

time to understand the repercus-
sions of the changes. Also, the
current Russian government is fac-
ing considerable opposition from
within its ranks in addition to the
dilemma of formulating a reform
policy favorable to Western sup-
port. If Boris Yeltsin remains in
power he favors “burying commu-
nism, he is reserved about the use
of force, and he is eager for good
relations with the United States.”

The tragic declineof economy
of the republics is another problem
facing the Clinton administration,
since Allison feels there will al-

their economy in 1993 which will
prevent implementation of the In-
ternational Monetary Fund pro-
gram. Since the break-up of the
Soviet Union, there has been a
twenty-seven percent decline in
production, a greater decline than
occurred in three years of the
United States’ Great Depression,
according to Allison. Finally, se-
curity will pose many problems to
the United States, especially since
there remains three thousand
nuclear warheads on alert and tar-
geted at the United States in three
of therepublics. Although six thou-
sand tactical nuclear weapons have
been brought back to storage in
Russia since August 1991, there
are even problems arising in this
republic. Allison said that there is
a decreasing chain of command
over these nuclear weapons in
Russia and there is “an increasing
chain of chilling events.” Also,
despite the capacity, the rate of
dismantlement and destruction of
these weapons has not increased
because the United States has not
provided them with incentives, says
Allison.

Allison used four metaphors
to further enhance comprehension
of the existing situation in the re-
publics. He referred to the coup as
a continuing revolution in the tra-
dition of the French Revolution,
paralleling this year to 1793 which

most certainly be a collapse of

tires were valued at $350.

e Offic acne te moan et cre him
of cocaine, The accused was transported to
Jail. He is 21 years of pipes hh 8
On October 18, a Davidson student noticed all four tires of his
automobile slashed. No one has been charged with the crime. The

“Aresidentof NBC 303 reported stolen bicycle. ‘The girls: in
speed Peugeot was unsecured and parked beside the handicap r Y
ee nee Thies wee

precluded six years of “bloodlet-

i aa County

OR EXTRA- THICK CRUST,

PIE IN THE SHY

HAND ROLLED AND TOSSED NEW YorK STYLE

PIZZA

RVE A MEDPIUM- THICK CRUST .
We 4 CRUST, LET US KNOW WHEN “YoU ORDER

PIZZA

IF You PREFER A THIN

WE'LL BE GLAD TO ACCOMODATE You.
yours: | Sandwiches, Beer & More!
WEs.- THURS. FREE DELIVERY
1b Am- 10 four or more .
Fe ame iem 125-2 N. Main St, Mooresville
Sane arin 663-7 1 89 ae

Classifieds

PERFECTION-CONNECTION
OFFICE SERVICES
We Type Resumes,

Theses & Term Papers.

Pick-Up & Delivery

-STUDENT WANTED-
to take care of 2 boys. ages 7 & 10.
Hours: 3:30-6:30, 3 days a week.
Supervising homework & outdoor
activities. Ask for Anna.

892-1744 after 6:30

J Available.
HORSES BOARDED- 30 Years Combined
Excellent facilities Pen naam <
1 stall a udy uu
near lake campus. Full s aad

care. $190 per month.

892-0247 664-9346

Why Aren't You Filling This Space?
The Davidsonlan Classifieds.

ting” before Napoleon even came
to power in 1799. Thecollapse of
empire must also be considered,
said Allison, asacatalyst for prob-
lems not only within the former
empire but also for its neighbors.
Disintegration of authority is an-
other force which can lead either
to an authoritarian regime or civil
wars, says Allison. As Allison
says, there is “growing fatigue
with the long, hard march of re-
form.”

The solution lies in eliminat-
ing the dangers to Western secu-
rity posed by the remaining
nuclear weapons in the republics.
Allison asserts there is “no magi-
callocking device” on these weap-
ons should they end upin terrorist
hands or in international arms
bazaars. The United States, ac-
cording to Allison, needs to act
now while the Russians are still
willing to negotiate. Immediate
action will be difficult for a new
American administration. Find-
ing amethod for holding the Rus-
sians accountable for the destruc-
tion of these weapons will also be
very difficult for Clinton’s ad-
ministration, but itis what Allison
feels. must be done now to assure
these weapons remain in respon-
sible hands.

Spratt

Continued from page 6
won’t feel as if they need their own.

According to Spratt, America needs to remove the threat of nuclear
weapons.He cited as a goal a reduction from 23,000 warheads to 3,500,
and emphasized the importance of taking inventory and keeping a full
account on dismantled weapons.

In the post Cold War era, attention to details and demobilization are
extremely important. History is calling on America to assert its place in
the new world order. Bill Clinton, Spratt feels, came at a good time
because he has a vision for the futurewhich George Bush lacks.. Clinton
will pay attention to details and strengthen America’s role in the world
economy.

Spratt closed hisaddress by emphasizing the importance of America’s
ability to cooperate, with the post-Cold War world and face the dawn of

a new world order.
e
Gift

Continued from page 2

tangible gift where something must be bought, often within a relatively
short period of time.

Last year the committee developed three payment options to reach
the gift goal. The “Graduate Student Plan” suggests a $25 donation by
one year after graduation, with a $10 increase every year for the
remaining four. The “Working Plan” suggests an initial gift of $30, with
around a $15 increase every year for the remaining four. The “Alenda
Plan” suggests a $50 initial gift, with a $25 increase every year for the
remaining four.

f f2 EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

te f f I-77 EXIT28 CORNELIUS
892-3841.
Bram Stoker's 3:30, 7:00, "PURE COUNTRY" (ra)
Recycle Draculaw 9:30 3:05, 5:10, 7:15, 9:25
3:10, 5:20, 3:10, 5:15,
ate PRSMERST aos 9.39 Bh STS @ 7:20.9:25
‘| x "CONSENTING — 3:10, 5:15, The Mighty Ducksec.s
his Rag ADULTS" 7:20, 9:25 3:10, 8:10" 10, 7:10, 9:10
Candyman §Mr. Baseballecay ¥ A River Runs Through Itec
5:15, 9:20 3:05, 7:20 3:30, 7:00, 9:30

RESERVE

: 7
OFFICERS’ TR A TN IN GG € 0 R PS-|

PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're
likely to see in many course requirements.
Then again. Army ROTC is unlike any
other elective. It's hands-on excitement.
ROTC will challenge you mentally and
physically through intense leadership
training. Training that builds character,

self-confidence and decision-making skills.
Again, words other courses seldom use. But
they're the credits you need to succeed in
life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sopho-
mores without obligation and requires
about 4 hours per week. Register this term
for Army ROTC.

MIL 101 "The U.S. Army Today"
Spring Semester Schedule
Thursday 1:00 - 1:50
Preregister Now

