4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

History Professor
McMillen Authors

New Book On
Southern Women

By John Murchison

Associate professor of history
Sally McMillen is the author of a
new American History Series
Textbook titled “Southern Women:
Black and White in the Old South.”

The book, which deals with
the lives of southern women in the
antebellum South, is one of 30
tiles in the American History
Series published by Harlan
Davidson Inc. of Arlington
Heights, Ill. McMillen is the first
female author in the series, whose
editors are John Hope Franklin of
Duke University and Abraham S.
Eiesenstadt of Brooklyn College.

Inthe book, McMillen shatters
the “Gone With the Wind” myth of
plantation belles living lives of
leisure. She found that southern
women lived lives constantly fac-
ing the deaths of loved ones, living
with poor health, enduring physi-
cal discomforts and relishing only
a few moments of joy and leisure.
Although black and white women
led different lives, they shared an
exhausting devotion to family and
work.

McMillen wrote “Southern
Women” because, as a teacher of
southern history and women’ shis-
tory, she could find no textbook
that addressed both subjects in one

volume, nor any book that talked
about white and black women
together. The most fruitful places
for her research were diaries, jour-
nals, and letters found in manu-
script libraries and historical so-
cieties throughout the South. She
emerged from the research with
her own interpretation of life in the
Old South.

“Tt was a good exercise for the
mind and will make me a better
teacher,” McMillen — said.
“Davidson promotes teaching and
research, and putting itall together
for the benefit of the students in the
classroom is what Davidson is all
about.”

McMillen, agraduate of Welle-
sley College, became interested in
southern history, and especially
southern women, while working
on her master’s degree in history at
UNCC. That interest developed
into a study of obstetrics in the
region, which became the topic for
her Ph.D. dissertation at Duke
University. She published a book
in 1989 as an expansion of that
work. She is currently on sabbati-
cal from Davidson classes this year,
and is working on a book about
southern black and white Sunday
schools in the period following the
Civil War.

~ Smoke

Continued from page 2

always say, ‘It’s my right to smoke.

299

The transition to a smoke-free campus is not always smooth.

Tempers flared Mesa State College in Colorado when Gov. Roy
Romer officially declared “no smoking” in state-owned buildings,
ending plans for a new smoking lounge in the college center.

The ban has created controversy surrounding the legality of the
declaration, and many question whether the governor can ban smoking
in a building that has been supported by student fees.

Though Mesa State can apply for an exemption, it has not done so.

According to The Criterion, the school’snewspaper, President Ray Kieft
inquired as to whether the college center was eligible f for an exemption
and was told that it probably wasn’t.

Angry students staged a “smoke-in” in the fall, converging in the
student center and smoking furiously for one hour. Their statement: The

‘Governor has no right to ban smoking in a building paid for with their
money.

“This all started when one student wrote a letter complaining about
smoking to the Governor,” said Richard Reeder, a masscommunications
student at Mesa State.

Smoke-free campuses are not for everyone.

Atthe University of Wisconsin at Green Bay, the student senate said
aloud “‘NO” to a policy that would make the campus smoke-free.

Chancellor David Outcalt devised a smoking phase-out plan last
spring and asked for the student senate’s input by Oct. 1. The Senate sent
a resolution to the chancellor requesting that alternative filtration sys-
tems be researched and that ashtrays be placed outside of buildings.

Still, the trend toward smoke-free campuses continues to grow.

At Southeast Louisiana State University, cigarette vending ma-
chines were hauled away unceremoniously, leaving just a few spots.
where cigarettes can be purchased on campus.

Allsmoking oncampusis banned with theexception of dorm rooms,
and usually smokers are paired up with other smokers by the housing —

office. Smacking any Ponte, Fer: Sach Ree pre eecoms ahd ae

the dorms, is strictly prohibited. ;
The Tobacco Institute, citing an industry-wide policy nottocommu-

_nicate with colle nts, declined to say what was being done by th
re is i pie eh ae

‘Connor

Continued from page 1

officially approved by the CCRL.
The Presidents of Connor House
are Sarah Way and Cotton. Vice
Presidents are Keri Slater and
Katey Hines. Treasurers are Suma
Desai and Carolyn Hanson. Secre-
taries are Angela Capillary and
Jean DeMoss.

The Service Board and House
and Kitchen managers are to be
elected sometime presently. After

Applications
Continued from pagel

plicants. Sutton also mentioned
that Davidson isalso attempting to
draw more applicants from differ-
ent areas of the country and from
foreign countries.

Sutton says that Davidson still
receives the most competition from
other competitive colleges and
institutions in the region such as

these are elected the process of
finding cooks for the house can
begin. Connor has already held
some fundraisers and members are
presently working at the conces-
sion-stands at the Charlotte Coli-
seum to raise money for the new
house.

In other numbers from self-
selection 30 freshmen chose
Warner Hall, 43 chose Rusk and
seven chose Spencer. Despite the
low number received by Spencer
Cotton still believes that Davidson
needs four women’s eating houses.

Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill, and UVa.

‘Sutton says this is noteworthy

because among the competitive
schools in this region Davidson is
completely unique with its small
size and emphasis on the liberal
arts.

Traditionally, Davidson has
always featured more students from
the South than any other region of
the country. Most of these stu-
dents did not consider northern
schools such as Oberlin and Carle-
ton which are actually more like
Davidson than the larger universi-

She said, “We want four strong
eating houses and want to work
with the others to provide that for
the incoming freshmen. Oneof the
major points (of the formation of
Connor) is to have four strong
houses.”

The numbers from fraternity
self-selection are as follows: 18
chose Kappa Alpha, 24 chose
Kappa Sigma, 31 chose Pi Kappa
Alpha, 11 chose Phi Delta Theta,
24 chose Sigma Phi Epsilon, 18
chose Sigma Alpha Epsilon and
six chose Phi Gamma Delta.

ties in the South. Rather, students
have generally considered only
those schools in their immediate
area. Sutton said that research has
shown that the majority of high
school students do not wish to travel
more than 500 miles to college.
Sutton will return next year to
the classroom after the new Dean
is selected sometime this spring.
This arrangement will put him in
the unique position of teaching
those students he helped select.
The new Dean of Admissions is
expected to take over this July.

Write For News
Call Tom Koonce or Tom Price

_ contact:

at Chapel Hill

neurophysiology

molecular endocrinology
cardiovascular and renal physiology

cellular physiology

GRADUATE PROGRAM IN
PHYSIOLOGY

University of North Carolina

molecular biology and biotechnology

The Departnsnt of Physiology offers an
outstanding program for qualified applicants interésted in
doctoral study and research. All admitted students receive
assistantships valued at $12 sears For more information

’

David Millhorn, Director of Graduate Studies
Department of Physiology, CB #7545
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, North Carolina27599 0
Telephone: _ 919-966-5241

