16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEYW

With U.S. Congressman (D-NC 7th District) and Davidson

|
' By Tom Koonce
Davidsonian: How did you begin your career in politics and
what kind of background did Davidson provide for you?

Rose: When I was at Davidson, I graduated in 1961, I was
there obviously during the presidential election of 1960.
Terry Sanford was running for governor and Jack Kennedy
was running for president. I got involved in the Sanford
campaign with the college groups that were supporting San-
ford. After I graduated I went to law school at Chapel Hill.
After law school I went to work in Raleigh for Terry Sanford
for about two years, I then went home to be the district court
prosecutor, ran for Congress in 1970 and lost, ran in 1972 (in
the Seventh District) and won and have been re-elected ever
since.

I think my interests in public service, the notion that I
needed to contribute something to try.and make the world
better, was clearly something that developed at Davidson. I
specifically remember taking a New Testament course with
Max Polley that made quite an impression on my life.

Davidsonian: You were recently elected president of the
North Atlantic Assembly. How did this come about and
what kinds of jobs and duties does it entail?

Rose: I had to run for the office against a U.S. Senator from
Delaware, who also wanted the job and we had a very
unprecedented election. I’ ve been attending meetings of the
North Atlantic Assembly since about 1975. The North
Atlantic Assembly was started as a parliamentary support
group of the NATO Treaty Organization structure. But,
since the Warsaw Pact threat has virtually gone away, the
North Atlantic Assembly has turned its efforts toward
helping the new parliaments in eastern and central European
countries. We’ve made, from the Baltics to Bulgaria and
Romania, the parliamentarians from these countries associ-
ate members of the North Atlantic Assembly to try and help
them learn how to set up their parliaments and especially
how to deal with the military establishment from a civilian
point of view.

Davidsonian: Do you think this has helped congressmen
better understand foreign countries, and how has thischanged
your personal perspective on foreign events?

Rose: I have a much better view of what’s going on in
Europe and what is actually happening in the former Soviet
Union. That helps me as try and influence my colleagues
in Congress as to what we ought to do. I’m clearly better
informed and in a better position to make a judgement to my
colleagues as to what we ought to do.

Davidsonian: You were also recently elected chairman of
the House Administration Committee. Could you talk about
the large responsibilities that this job entails?

Rose: The House Administration Committee is really the
city-manager’s office of Congress. In the past years ithasn’t
included a lot of direct oversight of the post office and the
bank, but because of the recent problems that we’ve had
with the bank and the post office we are about to hire an
administrator to help the committee on House Administra-
tion oversee all of the officers of the House. So, we’re about
to get even busier than we were before. Our main function
in the past has been to administer the accounts of members
‘and committees. The rules under which the money gets
spent are made by my committee and we setthe ruleson how
member offices are run.

Davidsonian: How do you feel about the problems with the
bank and what do you believe should be done?

Rose: [clearly fee! that we ought to reveal the names of the

worst abusers, beyond that I think we should have each.
member of Congress get a letter from the bank telling them
what their own personal situation is and then it should be up
to the member to reveal. I'll tell everything, I don’t have
anything to hide about my relationship with the House bank.

Davidsonian: What are your opinions on campaign re-
forms, such as term limitations and public financing of
campaigns?

Rose: Campaign finance reform is under the House Ad-
ministrationcommittee. We’ ve justrecently passed a rather
far-reaching bill that limits the amount of money that can be
spent on campaigns. Now we’re trying to work out our
differences with the Senate: I hope within the next month or
so to have a bill to pass and then send on to the President.
The main thing our legislation does is that we don’t do away
with political action committees, but we limit to $600,000
the amount of money you can spend on a congressional
Houserace. The senate has their own limits, but I’m not sure
what they are.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about this year’s
elections?

Rose: I think its going to be a pretty rough year for
campaigning. I think the public is very disenchanted with
all of government, mainly because of the conditions in

which they find the economy. They are mad at -their ©

politicians at all levels for not having fixed the economy. Its
going to be a difficult year.

Davidsonian: Whatare your feelings about the future of the
Democratic party?

Rose: I hope the Democratic party finds acandidate thatcan

beat Bush, but I don’t think that’s going to be an easy task.
I have not gotten involved in the presidential campaign at
this point, but I will clearly work for whoever the conven-
tion nominates.

Davidsonian: Have you endorsed a (N.C.) gubernatorial
candidate?

Rose: No, I’m going to wait until that gets started. Jim Hunt
and I went to law school together and I know him well and
I think he’d make a good governor. I don’t know Lacey
Thornburg that well. I think that people need to take a real
close look at Jim Gardner and his background and ask
themselves whether or not they want him to be governor.

Davidsonian: What about the Senate race in North Caro-
lina?

Rose: Sanford’s the incumbent, he doesn’t have a demo-
cratic opponent and I’ll certainly do everything I can to help
him.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about the re-district-
ing process that recently took place in North Carolina? Are
you pleased with the results, given the fact that your dis-
trict’s boundaries have changed?

Rose: I liked them the way they were, but shifts in popula-
tion required-that North Carolina add a congressional seat.
There are two laws at work. One is the law that every
congressman, as near as possible, must represent the same
number of people. This year the magic number is about
552,000 people per congressman. ‘The other law is the
Voting Rights Act and the way the Voting Rights Act is
being interpreted by our Justice Departmentin Washington.
If it is possible to put contiguous areas together and create
a minority district, it must be done. That’s what the N.C.

- legislature did. There’s nothing in the law that saysit should

look nice. If somebody wants to offer a look-nice or pretty
amendment for the future, they probably should. I think its

ridiculous that they wind up being so drawn out, like the I-

85 district. The I-85 district was the brainchild of people in
Charlotte, specifically the NAACP, that thought this made
sense. It meets all the requirements of the law. My role in
this was to tell the legislature that if you can create a second
minority district you better do it.

Alumnus Charles Rose

Davidsonian: Do you think this will have any effecton your
election?

Rose: It will probably cut down on my margin, but I
certainly hope to be re-elected.

Davidsonian: What are your ideas about health care and
national health care reform?

Rose: In November of last year I held a public forum in each
of the five counties of my district where I invited people to
come and talk about specific health care problems in their
county and their ideas as to what we should doat the national
level. There are a tremendous amount of people today who
are not poor enough to get Medicaid but don’t make enough
money to be able to afford an expensive health care pro-
gram. They are falling between the cracks.

In my own district, in Lumberton, the hospital people
came to me recently and told me that a lot of small busi-
nesses in that town that were once paying a part of an
employee’s hospital insurance have quit paying it and are
now giving it to the employees in cash through their pay-
check. They are telling the employees to go out in the
marketplace and buy their own health insurance. People
aren’t doing that, they are using the money to buy anew car
or whatever they particulary need. So, that’s not working,
Places like Hardees and McDonalds don’t pay health insur-
ance for any of their employees. We’ve got to come up with
a system that everybody can agree to, that Congress can
pass, that will provide affordable health care for all Ameri-
cans. That’s not going to be easy task, there’s going to be
a little pain for everybody.

Davidsonian: What attracts you to the southeastern part of
North Carolina?
Rose: When I first came to Washington that part of North
Carolina had never had a congressman on the agriculture
committee. Southeastern North Carolina has about four big
towns in it but it is still predominantly a rural agriculture
area. I got on the Agriculture Committee and I am next in ©
line to be chairman of the Agriculture Committee. When the
current chairman leaves I’ll be chairman of the House
Agriculture Committee. That is sort of a lifelong ambition.
The farmers over in Fayetteville even got the commission-
ers to name the agriculture center, the Charlie Rose Ag-
Expo Center, after me. ss

I think its very important that we keep American agri-
culture on a sound footing, that we enable people tolivein ~
rural Americaand give them the tools they need toraise their
families and havea productive life and makea profit. I think
that’s important for the backbone of the country and the
security of our future. Southeastern North Carolinaisa very
beautiful mixture of all kinds of agriculture: tobacco, soy-
beans, corn, wheat, peanuts, sweet potatoes and specialty
vegetable crops as well as poultry, pork, and beef produc-
tion. Its an interesting place agriculturally,

iden

Davidsonian: Whatkind of advice do you have for aspiring
politicians at Davidson? 2
Rose: Get involved at some level in the local community
and don’t be real choosy as to what the first levels of
involvement are. One thing young people need is experi-.
ence on which they can base later judgments about politics
and that only comes from actually experiencing a political
campaign. Hubert Humphrey said in 1968 that the biggest
mistake of his political life wasnot learning to use television
properly. I would say that today the two things that young
politicians need to understand in great detail is the abilities
of computers and the abilities of television. You need to
master both television and computers today to be a success-

_ ful in seeking government office.
