THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992

DAVID THOMPSON-Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE- Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Managing Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON- Opinions Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY -Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY-Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON-Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation Manager

Self Scheduled Exams
Are Becoming The Stuff of Legends

Admissions officers, brochure compilers and tour guides have a pen-
chant for touting Davidson’s practice of allowing students to schedule their
own exams. Prospective students and their parents are wooed by the notion
khaki-clad and honor-bound young pupils keeping silent the contents of
their finals until the end of the examination period.

Unfortunately, self-scheduled exams are on their way out.

By shortening the period during which students may take theirexams, the
college converts a once cherished asset into a burdensome liability. Some
professors argue that the temptation to talk about exams is greater if there is
more time allotted for taking the tests. Such conjectural academic theoriz-
ing is insulting nonsense. The students of Davidson College can be trusted
to keep their mouths shut for a few days. The urge to cheat will more likely
fester in the high pressure environment a shorter examination period
produces.

Minus Grades Emphasize the
Wrong Aspects of Academia

The Davidsonian has remained uncharacteristically silent regarding the
underhandedly implemented minus grades system. We have reserved
comment until now so that we might thoroughly appreciate the drastically
horrific consequences of the system before commenting.

The scheme is utterly harebrained. This attempt to allow more freedom |

for instructors to accurately rate their students’ performance is an egregious
assault upon the all too fragile principles of the liberal arts education. The
college has hastily abandoned a perfectly operable system (so hastily, in fact,
that our grade report forms still carry the explanation of the old system) so
that a few pedantic professors might have a special new way to say “not
quite.”

Davidson College has forever considered itself an institution of the
higher order. We strive to be a school which not only fills mental vessels
with information but encourages the inherent worthiness of academic
pursuits. By dismantling the old system, Davidson shifts its emphasis away
from the noble promotion of study for its own sake and further inflates the
superficial symbol that is one’s GPA. Rather than work with their students
individually, the proponents of the minus grade system have established a
means of neatly avacing § students into even more depersonalizing numeric
categories.

The editors urge the registrar, the faculty, and the Dean of Students to
abandon this poorly chosen path.

The Davidsonian is publishéd weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

“| P.O, Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our

rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student

Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not

neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by. the

ad of Davidson College.

| home. We’ve left those little

7

To the Young,
the Freshmen & Sophomores,

To Make the Most of Time

loved being'a hall counselor.
I’ve relished the experience
of having a lot of younger
friends. I’ve enjoyed-- yes,
I know it sounds comy--
learning about myself
through the experiences
of others around me.
In all reality, as muchas
. Iwould lovetosee Kenya
or Tibet, I stand by my
decision to be hall coun-
selor. And, of course,
I’m sure my friends who
have been abroad would
swear that they too would
not trade their experi-
ences for anything in the

‘mixers, every comer in the
Dean of Student’s Office,
and another favorite, a fresh-
man yakking on the bath-

A few nights ago, four
friends and I went out ito.
dinner together; three of us
in the group are hall coun-
selors this year, and the
other two had just re-
turned from a semester
abroad. As the dinner
progressed, we who had
remained at Davidson
became increasingly im-
pressed with, and covet-
ous of, the experiences of
the other two. The one
who went to India and
Nepal had, among other
things, ridden on the back
ofan elephant, watcheda

funeral pyre burn near the world.

river Ganges, and learned j Seemingly, the point is
as much as any professor that each person ought to
here knows about the Andrew evaluate exactly what he
Chinese occupation of Ti- : or she expects from their
bet. The other, who had Spainhour college experience, and
studied on a preserve in upon deliberation, be
Kenya, had lived in an happy with that choice.
“Out of Africa” sort of In a perfect world, this
environment, without elec- room floor. wouldalways happen, butin

tricity, without running
water, without any of the
accoutrements Davidson of-
fers,suchas Domino’s Pizza.
As we finished our dinner, I
reminded the hall counsel-
ors in the group that we had
seen a lot too--CrAzyY hall

Ittookmea while to quit
feeling so envious of my
“worldly” friends. But, later,
one of the two reminded me
that I had learned a lot as
well. Andhe wasright. I’ve
been lucky in a decision I
made over a year ago. I’ve

real life, such advice is a
little like drawing rainbows
intheclouds. Tothe Young
Freshmen and Sophomores,
make good use of Davidson,
and if necessary, don’t be

‘ afraid tomakesomechanges.
in the life here.

Rude Notes & Random Scribblings:
Thanks For the New Policies,

You Worthless Pack of Thugs

We’re back. Davidson

taking five classes youhave _ want to harpona subject for
College has returned to its

to take a final every day. a second time: The new
Please, CHANGE THIS _ grade point system blows.
BACK. A new system in- Coseingoinn: me. Underthe
. old system, my GPA

~ would have improved by
three tenths of a point.
I’m pissed. Second of
all, it is very difficult to
explain to your parents

bastions of good food and
strict counseling and re-
turned to our -freedom.
We're at the stepping
stone, which means noth-
ing during these first few
weeks of the semester.

So let me remind you of thata 1.7GPA isaC-,not
‘something that will aD. Finally, thereareun-
| greatly boris ta future, doubtedly three times as -

eventually. many freshman who did
ae ee Me not make grades this year
| will probably make three than last year, Perhaps,

of you throw down the they are simply a dumb

paper in a spontaneous lot, but I doubt it. Those
act of rage followed by a whose GPAs were above
general binge involving 1.7 were most likely
all frivolous pleasure that "4 screwed. (And if you
lead to the demise of your Chris weren’t, i ee
GPA. Still, they are were, you'll look better.
ening. ee Fr ampton me ysis
eir threat has. been in- i i
of David: lege like
tensified. You willeven- bine pee

itforseveral reasons. One

of them is not the work
load. We are not asking for
‘Much when we ask for a
seven day exam period, Of
course, the minus thing is a
little bit more of a request
when you consider some .
faculty members’ intense
interestin this idea, Still, we
pay the money. (Of course,
that’s an entirely ridiculous

tually be allowed only
five days to take your “‘Self-
‘ Scheduled” exams. Why? I
| haven’t the slightest. The
only obvious result of this
‘new development is the
elimination of the benefits
ourexam system creates. Es-
sentially, you no longer can
-take two days for each of.
your four exams, and, God
forbid, if you happen to be

volving pre-scheduled ex-
ams would certainly help us
because their is no way the
administration could figure
Out a schedule that worked
without at least providing
two weeks time for exams.

Why even bother having
“Self-Scheduled” exams if
it only hurts us?

Speaking ofhurtingus,I .

argument. Too bad it’s true.) -
