2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

WIRE!

Two students - Bradley Sel-
vig, 20, and George Yarbrough,
26 - were arrested and charged
with unlawful assembly to dis-

Snowball

Fight turns Aggressive
MOSCOW, Idaho (CPS) - Two
University of Idaho student were

arrested after a five-hour free- _turb the peace.
for-all degenerated into “the
worst snowball fight in several
years,” police said. University
Police officers were called — Rejects Condom Machines
in to break up the melee, which © MURFREESBORO,Tenn. (CPS)
included attacks on two school _- Middle Tennessee. State Uni-

officials - James Bauer, director
of housing, and Bruce Pitman,
dean of Student Advisory Serv-
ices - who were bombarded with
snowballs and thrown to the
ground when they tried to inter-
vene.

“After the fight, we found
snowballs with batteries and

versity administrators have re-
jected a student governmentreso-
lution to install condom machines
in every campus residence hall.
Dr. Robert C. LaLance, vice
president for Student Affairs, de-
cided to nix the resolution ap-
proved by the Student Govern-
ment Association in October

rocks inside of them, and there —_ 199},

was a lot of serious aggression,” “This has nothing to do with
Moscow Police Chief Dave being prudish or backward,” La-
Cameron said. Lance told the studentnewspaper,

The school newspaper, The __ Sidelines.

Argonaut,reported thatthe snow “It was nota disagreement in
began flying about9 p.m. Janu-  —_ subject, but in method to serve
ary 22 on Greek Row, when a _the students on health-related |

few fraternities apparently be- _issues_with health services,” he

gan pelting other houses with said. “There is an appropriate
snowballs and rallying more _ place providing for this need.”
people to join, Within an hour, Theresolution stated thatcon-

scores of people were involved.
Then the mob made its way
tothe university dormitories and

dom machines would provide
protection from unwanted preg-
nancy and sexually transmitted

confronted resident hall advis- —_ diseases.:

ers and the two school officials, “We’re going to try to put it

police said. through again,” said Toby Gilley,
“There wereafewmoments —_ speaker ofthe SGA Senate. “With

early on when the attitudes of AIDS and other sexually trans-

the participants wereverymean- _ mitted diseases, I don’t see how

spirited,” Cameron said. “""" "any measure could be enough.”

FLAG

Continued from page 1

Davidson, and that when he was at Davidson he received no support
from the general population. He said that when he spent time down
on Patterson Court he felt very uncomfortable, and that he always
heard passing critical remarks, although not directed at him, that
ridiculed gays and lesbians.

‘He did say, however, that he never was the victim of any violence
or harassment during his stay at Davidson, and that if he had the
choice to make all over again, he would have enrolled in Davidson
again.

Willard then listed FLAG’s accomplishments since its formation
for the audience. Besides the Forum itself, FLAG has displayed many
AIDS prevention posters in bathrooms all over campus, it has the
library subscribing to The Advocate, a gay and lesbian magazine, it
sponsored the movie Long Time Companion during Solidarity Week, -
and it will send members to a state-wide FLAG meeting in April.
Along with promoting tolerance, Willard said that FLAG will push
for policy changes regarding college material on discrimination of
certain groups.

Professor Scott Denham offered his experience with college
policy by saying that when he went through his application process,
his acceptance and his orientation, the question of homosexuality was
“conspicuously absent” from everything.

Hasty added that FLAG isa very positive necessity for thecollege
because he believes the administration will eventually acknowledge.
the gay community. He also said that the group is important because
supportisneeded for young isolated gays and lesbians, citing that four
out of seven suicides by young adults are related to homosexuality.

Thompson closed his statements with the insistence that students
and people obliterate the three major myths that encompass homo-
sexuality. The myths are, he said, that gays are out to make everyone
gay, that gays are out to hit on everyone, and that gays can’t be teach-
ers because of the vulnerability of children to their influence.

Foxx closed the forum by asking students, in light of this issue
and other issues of intolerance raised in the past few weeks, to focus
on improvement in their own individual actions and attitudes.

Colleges Celebrate Black History

(CPS) - Universities through-
out the United States celebrated
Black History Month by sponsor-
ing speakers, plays, poetry read-
ings, dances and concerts to recog-
nize the achievements and contri-
butions of black Americans.

“We need African-American
History Month because African-
Americans have been omitted from
the written record,” said Melvin
Wade, directory of the Afro-Ameri-
can Cultural Center at Yale Uni-
versity.

Activities at Yale included
presentations of speech, dance,
dramaand film. Ivan Van Sertima,
associate professor of African stud-
ies at Rutgers University, lectured
on “Reinterpreting the Legacy of
Columbus: Africans in Pre-Colum-
bian America.”

“Black History Month is atime

‘which gives all Americans an op-

portunity to gain better understand-
ing of the past heritage and culture
of black people,” Harriet Taylor,
an adviser at Butler County Com-
munity College in Kansas, said in
a letter to the editor of The Lan-
tern.

The celebration, which began
in 1926, “is aimed at furthering
racial understanding, awareness
and appreciation, which hopefully
will brifig about harmony for all,”
Taylor concluded.

Events included visits by jazz
greats Branford Marsalis at the
University of Connecticut and
Roscoe Mitchell at the University
of Chicago, and rap singer Ice Cube
at the University of New Mexico,
where educator Marva Collins also
spoke.

Duquesne University i in Pitts-
burgh sponsored an evening of
celebration thatincluded poetry by

Proposed Sexual
Orientation Clause Causes Stir

By Angie Craig
The Daily Helmsman
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (CPS) - For the
second time in four months, the
Memphis State University student
senate defeated a resolution that
called for the inclusion of the words
“sexual orientation” in a univer-
sity non-discrimination statement.

The resolution was defeated
by one vote in November and by a
16-10 margin earlier this month.
The senate, which has no actual
institutional power to make policy
changes, helped bring attention to
the issue, said Kevin Lee, treasurer
of the Gay and Lesbian Awareness
organization.

GALA, a group of about sixty
students, called for a the change in
university policy in November.
Since then, the issue has ignited
campus and community debate
over homosexuality and discrimi-
nation.

Proponents of the resolution
argue that the words “sexual orien-

tation” include heterosexual,
homosexual and bisexual relation-
ships.

Opponents contend, however,

, that neither the state of Tennessee

nor Memphis State, sitting in the

‘heart of the Bible Belt, is ready to

grant homosexuals a discrimina-
tion clause of any kind. Further-
more, they argue that the legality
of homosexuality and the broad
definition of .sexual orientation
would prevent such a policy addi-
tion. A person could. currently
serve up to 11 months and 29 days
in jail for committing a homosex-
ual act in Tennessee.

“When you talk sexual orien-
tation, what are you talking about?
Pedophilia? Necrophilia? Besti-
ality? You're also including a lot.
of other sexual preferences with
such broad and inclusive terms,”
said Mitchell Wrenn, asenator from
the College of Arts and Sciences.

Michael LaBonte, president of
GALA and author of the resolu-

Langston Hughesand Afro-Carib-
bean dances.

Harvard educator Alvin Pous-
saint, author psychiatrist and so-
cial critic, was invited to speak at
the University of Connecticut on
“The Black Family.”

Meanwhile, students at Miami
University of Ohio launched a
campaign to publicize the story of
Bessie Coleman, the first black to
become a licensed pilotin the U.S.
They are trying to get a postage
stamp issued in her honor.

Coleman, who earned her
flying license in 1921, was the
12th of 13 children. She attended
flight training in France and re-
turned to the United States to open
a flying school to teach other blacks
to fly. A mechanical failure on her
plane caused her death during a
test flight in 1926. She was 33.

tion, said the group is. awaiting
reaction from the university ad-
minstration. ;

“What is being proposed here
is simply protection for students

-and faculty against potential dis-

crimination,” LaBonte said. “This
does not endorse a lifestyle; it is
about protecting people’s rights
and dignity.”

Dr. Lane Rawlins, president of
Memphis State, said the admini-
stration isresearching the proposal
and has not taken a stand on the
resolution.

Meanwhile, as the two sides

‘debate whether the resolution is

dead at MSU, the campus commu-
nity is taking sides in a battle not
likely to be resolved soon.

In a Helmsman poll taken this
month, MSU said they favored
prohibiting discrimination on the
basis of sexual orientation by a65-
27 percent margin.

and salads.

me ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe oe

ae oe ee ee ee ee ee

“NEW LITE gS a

|
|

Featuring the highest quality lean |

meats, closely trimmed of fat. Low in

both calories and cholesterol & highly | |

nutritious; Lite cheeses, ADK

lite mayo, low fat breads &

peewee ee we

$900 OFF

TK.adl aate.
BASKETS

*1°° OFF

NOT pel w/ANY OTHER OLRERS:

EXPIRES 31-94

au rey TRAYS

ee ee Se

Large assortment includes Honey Cured Ham,
Smoked Turkey, Roast Beef, Salads, Relish, Bread
& Desserts. FULL SERVICE CATERING, Delivery
i available, Call for Special Prices . exp 3.319%

1
Y
(

ANY LITE MENU ITEM ' Charlotte-Lake Norman

With Coupon |
Not Good With Any Other Offers.
Expires 3/31/92 :

1-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28)
: Southlake Shopping Center

7 (near t Harris Is Teeter & Rose's)
B Open Mex - Sex, WC Onaw - “Tecrim

soca 892- 9592

