8 _ THE DAVIDPHONIAN

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992

THE BACK END INTERVIEW

Another Conversation with The Dean

By Freelove Upthumpa,
Mountain Dewbie, and Christopher Smart

After reading the legendary article about Dean of Fac-
ulty and self-proclaimed diety Robert C. Williams in the
Davidson Journal, ace ‘Phonian reporters Freelove
Upthumpa, Mountain Dewbie, and Christopher Smart went
to talk with this legend themselves.

What we print below are extracts from a
series of several conversations, each more spell- -
bindingly wonderful than the last. We hope you,
100, will experience the same feelings of warmth,
love, cheer, and harmony to which we were never
priviliged during the time we spent with Dean
Williams, or as we like to call him, Big Boy Bobby
C. Bill.

Davidphonian: Last fall, when the Davidson
Journal dida feature story on you and your family,
you were extremely open with Jerry Stockdale
about a varicty of subjects.

What makes you so--well--indiscreet?

Big Boy: You sce, guys, I really don’t have time
for that feigned modesty crap. T'mean, Iam who
Iam, and as you can sec, that’s really quite some-
thing.

When you takea guy who’s written six books,
and is extremely impressed with the fact that he’s
written six books, you’re gonna be with a man
who doesn’t hold back. You kids should see my
journals. I’ve got8,476 volumes so far, justabout
my days in High School, excuse me.

(Looks in mirror, sighs heavily).

Where were we? Oh, yeah, me.

I guess you could say I’m everything. I’ve
written six books; I play tennis; I sing; I play the
piano; I’ve written six books; I teach; I’m the
Dean of Faculty ata highly prestigious liberal arts
college; I’ve chaired the Select Committee to
Establish Clean Living; and, I almost forgot to
mention, I’ve written.six books. Oh, yeah, I’m
also married and I have three children.

Davidphonian: You mentioned all those things,
repeatedly, in the Journal picce. But it’s great to
hear more.

We really like what you told Mr. Stockdale
about Katherine’s conception! Boy, to give out
details like that for a college publication shows a
willingness to...

Bobby C.: God knows! What a night! Just
between us, I’m still walkin’ funny. Yeah, I told
that Stockdale guy a bit, about Mom sliding me
some cash and letting me take out the car on my
fortieth birthday, but I don’t think I made the
whole thing clear.

Me and Ann: Freelove, baby, us was tanked!

Hell, one minute we’re out shootin’ a few
games at the Korner Pub, next thing I know, I’m
a Dad again. Crazy world, boys!

Davidphonian: Somebody ought to sell tickets.
Bobenator: Hell, I'd buy one!

Davidphonian: Back in September one of the irrespon-
sible Davidsonian editors wrote that opinions piece prat-
tling on about the frequency with which your tenured
professors take off on mini-sabbaticals to do research.
That was pretty insensitive. 1 mean, you can hardly
argue that Peter Ahrensdorf didn't earn his stripes in his

three or four semesters at Davidson before he got that big fat

grant.

Bill: My pointexactly. Thatdamn Smyth obviously doesn't
know his ass from a hole in the ground. His piece reveals a
fundamental misunderstanding of everything that makes
this college work. And you 're looking at him--Big Boy
Bobby C.

In fact, I've got big plans for an extension of the
sabbatical program. J bet you didn't realize that we have a

number of world leaders on our faculty that are now aomg
research at other institutions as we speak: Elie Wiesel,
Mikhail Gorbachev, all the biggies.

Davidphonian: Well, doesn't that get kind of expensive?

We probably have to pay those people a good deal of money,

Have you ever thought it might not be worth it to keep a

bunch of figurchead teachers on the faculty when they aren't

helping out with the educational mission of the college?
Just playing the devil's advocate.

The Bobster: Listen, you punk. I've got a $12 million
budget, and when you've got that kind of money you have
the power to fake some things happen and to stop: some

Thanks for. Reading, Folks!
Good Luck With Exams, and Have a Great Summer!

things from happening. Right now, I'd like to make a big
daddy pizza happen. I mean, I'm a liberal artist and an
athlete and all that, but I can throw down some Domino's if
T have to.

Davidphonian: That's great, Dean Williams, but we’ ve got
alot of ground to cover here. Please put your pants back on,
sir. Would you mind coming down from the light
fixture, Dean Williams; we’re really quite busy.
Thank you, sir,

Now, you recently chaired something
called “The Sclect Committee, “ a group which
wound-up recommending that the college be
immediately converted into a trappist monastery.
You and the gang specifically targeted fraternitics.
as the source of many troubles on campus, and we
were wondering if you might be able...

The Bopper: Yeah ycah, I know what you’re
going to say, and Iet me tell youkid, you’ re missing
the point. I don’t want to get rid of fraternities,
well, except those damn animals over at Kappa
Sigma; I want to get.a piece of the action.

Do you realize what kind of power these
organizations hold? Damn, they run the place. All
I want is a tribute, you know, kinda like the mafia.
All they have to dois give me acut, from the drugs,
bootleg liquor, guns, and chicks, and I’m outa their
hair. Nobody around here has the slightest idea
how to run a damn business--that’s where I come
in: I know how to organize!

As for the thing about the trappist monas-
_ tery,it’ssimplecover, guys. Justputonthe sheep’s
clothing, and youcan help yourself atthe "All You
Can Eat Lamb-O-Rama Food Bar of Crime.”

Trust me, guys, I know what I’m doing.

Davidphonian: Let’s talk students. You stated in
the Journal article, that Davidson students were
“more conformist--intellectual conformists. They
sometimes lack that edge, they lack that intcllec-
tual curiosity, or desire to find out something new”
(Stockdale, Jerry. “A Conversation With The
Dean.” Davidson Journal. Vil (1991), Fall. 16).
Now isn’t that a little unfair? .

Bobolopolis: Irealize that wasa little harsh, but let
meremind you, I’ ve beenall around the intellectual
map, and I’ve got a 10 page C.V. to prove it. But
let’snot talk about the students, they bore me. Let’s
talk about me. I’m into a new project, and I think
you’ ll be fascinated.
Hand me that corkscrew, won’t you?
I’m gonna be working for Hit Parader
magazine starting this summer. Can you believe it,
aguy who’s written six books will be following the
Gunners, that’s Guns ‘N’ Roses for those of your
readers not hangin’ with the pack.
Hey, lemme see that lighter fora minute.
That’s better. Oh yeah, man. Gunners. (A series
un ucavy Sighs.) ,
%
And in this state of impending euphoria, the reporters left
Williams’ office. As we went out the door, we heard him
babbling something about needing his Space-suit and mis-
sion control, but, ina hurry, we ignored it. Later in the day,
we saw Williams again, this time without the benefit of
clothing, skipping gleefully around the gently blooming
dogwoods behind the Chemistry building. We promptly
notified the authorities, and Dean Williams is currently
“finding himself’ at a comfortable hospital in the Shenan-
doah Valley. Our thanks to the drugged-out Dean for his
ime, and ofcourse his outstanding sense of humor. We wish
he s ediest return to mental stability,

O 4b):

CHBAC

03/32 85276

