THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992 . 3

Spike

Continued from page 1

tor Nroman Jewison’s hands with
the claim that a white man cannot
direct a movie about an African-
American. Lee had tocontend with
Warner Brothers about the budget
(which went $5 million over), the
hiring of minorities and the use of
members of the Nation of Islam
for security and in-between shots.
: The United Front to Preserve
the Legacy of Malcolm X, headed
by poet Amir Barakata (also known
as LeRoi Jones), opposed Lee’s
efforts to bring the leader’s life to
the screen. Barakata stated that
Lee would make Malcolm X a
cartoon hero.

Lee, of course, would dis-
agree with the critics on his three
hour and thirty minute masterpiece.

Lee felt so strongly about ex-

posing his representation of
Malcolm X’s life to the public be-
cause he believes Malcolm X’s
maxim: “By any meansnecessary.”

Davidson College itself seems
to be following that maxim in its
approach to combat the racial ten-
sion that erupted last spring on
campus.

Stacy Smith, Program Advi-
sor of the Union, says that “a fire
has been sparked on this campus,
and it is of the utmost importance
to allow it to breathe rather than
smother it.”

In light of the racial tensions,
she and the Public Lectures Com-
mittee wanted to focus not only on
knowledgeable speakers, but also
on big names that would draw the
crowds that need to hear a message
of minority strength.

Joan Miller, Assistant Direc-
tor of Love of Learning, states that
Spike Lee “can open the eyes of

Aa

Campus Briefs —

On October 21, the Davidson College Police Department will hold
aclosed bid bicycle sale. The bicycles will be displayed and available
for bid in the hallway of the campus police departmentin JohnstonGym
between the hours of 9:00 - 11:30 a.m. and-12:30 - 4:00 p.m.

a)

If you lefta bicycle on campus over the summer and cannot find it,
it may be at the campus police department. Thére were eleven bicycles
picked up by the physical plant in order to repair and paint all bicycle
racks on campus. If you think you may own one of these bicycles you
may come by the campus police department Monday - Friday between

S

10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. and pick up your bicycle.

some individuals. He will at least
get some people to think about the
issues we’re facing here on the
campus.”

Brenda Tapia, Director of
Love of Learning, comments on
Lee’s arrival in a similar vein:
“Spike Lee will assist in the effort
torecruitandretain African-Ameri-
can students, faculty and staff by
increasing campus awareness of
Black history and culture.”

Tickets to attend "A Rap Ses-
sion with Spike Lee" will go on
sale for Davidson students, faculty
and staff on Wednesday, October
Tat 2:00 for $3.00 each witha limit
of one ticket per ID. The ticket
office will be open from 2:00 to
6:00 from Wednesday to Friday.
The general public can purchase
tickets from Monday, October 12
to Friday, October 16 from 2:00 to
5:00 for $8.00 a ticket. Cash,
checks, Mastercard or Visa are
acceptable.

Phelps

Continued from page 1

for Phelps’ visit.

On Wednesday, the day be-
fore his official speaking engage-
ment, Phelps spoke to Benedict’s
non-fiction writing class about
being a journalist. He told the
class, ‘““We never thought it [the
Hill/Thomas story] would get as
far as it did.” He acknowledged
thathe was “willing to go to jail”.to

y

protect his sources.

Meeks

Continued from page 1

and genuine humor and heart makes her a favorite to many at Davidson
College. The magnetism of her resourcefulness and compassion created
her following of students, professors, and others. She still receives
phonecalls from former JY Aers (who address her as “Momma Meeks”),
former workstudy students, and numerous community members. As one
student puts it, “I just love to sitand talk with her. I’1l come by the library
specifically to see her.” Dedicated to her work and to those for whom she
worked, Miz Meeks contributed many things to Davidson. é

Known forher culinary skills, amazing acceptance of difference and
individuality, benign sarcasm, and “My life is in TURMOIL” posters,
Miz Meeks leaves her official post at Davidson College; and she will be
greatly missed by all.

Asked what she plans to pursue next, Miz Meeks exclaimed,
“Selling pies on the side of the road!” Perhaps there’s not much credence
in her statement, but one thing is certain: Miz Meeks continues to play
an important role in the life of this community. According to one student,
“I’m going to call or visit her every week if I have to - I don’t want to
suffer too ee ‘Miz Meeks withdrawal’!”

Tuiti
ulvion.
Continued from page 1
ary allotment jumped 17% from the 1991-92 apportionment, the single
largest increase this year.

Tuition increases average 10% for the past four years. The admin-
istration: tries to make even increases rather erractic jumps between
years. In years past the tuition increases would vary between zero and
17% . The purpose behind attaining an average, Sutton explains, is to
prevent surprise changes; people can plan for a predicted increase.

This does not mean tuition will inexplicably rise each year. Like
budgetary considerations, the college closely compares its tuition with
other superior institutions and does not deem revenue as a reason for
increasing it. !

Sutton credits Davidson’s tradition of “squeezing every nickel” for
avoiding substantial budget cuts. The school efficiently manages its
costs and refuses to allow a deficit. Tradition and location assist in the
school’s ability to successfully run, he maintains.

Summarizing Davidson’ s budgetary theory, Sutton comments, “We
want to be a bargain, but don’t want to be a steal.”

ee ee
=

Tees!

Guatemalan Belts: $5.00
Guatemalan Handbags & Accessories
T-Shirts & More

TUDENT

Extra 20% off with this Ad and
2 Student I. D. thru October 17.

Pizza Engineers

3892-9046

Two 12"

Pizzas

$8.99

Lakeshore MarketPlace (next to The Irish Cue)
Highway 73, Cornelius / 892-3990 / M-SAT 10-6

w/ 3 Toppings

Two 16" Pizzas
w/ 3 Toppings

HELP WANTED

Reliable Person to look after infant at Lake
Norman home. Part-time, flexible position.
Experience & Transportation Required.
Call Liz or Adam.

892-7743
7 ae a ERN FEDERAL THEATRES ow
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

MOVIES ATTHE LAKE @igg@Oeesiee se

ALL STEREO SOUND

MR SATURDAY NIGHT om o's”

9:30
A 3:05, 5:05,
Singles = 7:10.9:10
(Po) EMILIOESTEVEZ 3:10, 5:10,
THE MIGHTY DUCKS — 7:10, 9:10
3:25, 7:10,

Hero ec.» bao

$12.99

Two 18" Pizzas

w/ 3 Toppings $15.99

HOMECOMING DEAL!!!

HUSBANDS 3:10, 5:15, 7:20, :
AND WIVES & 9:25

CAPTAIN RON 3:10, 5:15,

ay 7:20, 9:25

Free Delivery

3:25, 7:05,

Mr. Baseball (PG-13) , 9:25

