14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23,1992

Spring December

a

December first is a spring day
the birds who remained cry spring songs
and the trees sweat in anticipation

but the gentleman playing

can only pay in snow.

though his face is warm in the breeze
he can only speak and pay in the snow

bees today who: work

soon see their honey frozen in wax.
he concentrates on the music

quite wasted in the garden

old man winter in the salon
plays before the window.
out comes cold Chopin

By Gil Holland
First Grade
my boy said SH is a sound
a ship makes

and CH a train moving
he was learning sounds and letters

on this gusty autumn day of leaves

and rushing trees

By Gil Holland

agtag=

A

We did weep.

A Boy Remembers Toscanini’s Last Visit to Richmond

After Respighi the encores, and the last:
Dixie in the Mosque! . ©

Oh, we cheered that encore,

when a god stooped to enter our house door

and eat at our table.
My father said he rolled down the Appian Way that night
through all the fountains right into wet Richmond.

The papers reported he stepped down soon after
wandering from the score.

But when he threw that baton and shouted an oath
it sailed like a seabird

all the way to Rome.
He could see all the way

like sunup Over ruins

to march Caesar’s legion once again.
Then Dixie in the Mosque!

to the limousine

He used a little table salt
and we fell like rabbits in a box.

At the backstage exit light we waited

to cheer more. A top hat and a white face
if you stood on your tiptoes,

our tired Maestro headed

moving as through he were on wheels
over the heads of the dark crowd.

By Gil Holland

Madonna

Continued from page 13
and if 1am wrong, than 1 am going
to take a camera to a Patterson
Court Party, take naked pictures,
and publish them under the guise
of art. Probably, before I know it, I
will be getting a lot of free press,
and millions of dollars. .

I know two ways to get rich
very quickly. Make a movie that is
more sexually explicit and violent
than Basic Instinct, and you will be
arich manor woman, or, you could
write a book more deranged and
violent than Bret Easton Ellis’s
American Psycho. Has anyone no-
ticed the steady decline of creativ-
ity towards more shocking andcon-
troversial things in our society?

With the decline in standards of
art, there is the inversely correla-
tional rise of obscenity in many
forms, and this effect does not
solely exist with photography.
Another issue is the degrada-
tion of women. Some women may
think that Madonna is expressing
her true self and has made the
feminist choice to expose herself
and her fantasies. I think that the
book hinders the movement for
women’s rights more than helps it,
however. The reason for this is that

men, in general, are-not thinking

about how Madonna is a market-
ing genius when they read/gawk at
this book. Men see this book as
being stereotypical, and see Ma-
donna as purely a sex toy. More
women should be upset with this
type of stereotypical behavior, be-

cause it is not helping them out at
all.

This book is indicative of the
decline of standards in our society,
and I believe that the trend will

_ continue. Watch over the next year,

and see if things continue on a
downward slope. Madonna sure
made out well (no pun intended)
after Sex’s publication, and I can-
not argue with her brilliant mar-
keting techniques. After looking at
the book, however, I cannot help
but feel like a sucker. A Davidson
Student giving in to mediocrity.
Social messages are important, and
people should watch for the under-
lying themes, because these mes-
sages are the ones that affect the
views of individuals more than the
grandious exterior glitter of trash.

e
Zimmennan
Continued from page 13
Blood on the Tracks (which is a
really excellent disc and you should
buy it; It has great lyrics and chicks
dig it in a romantic and in a ‘hey,
this guy’s deep’ sort of way).
Anyway, this is how I feel about
Dylan; his music movesme. When
I’m down I can listen to his music
and feel good. When I’m up it
keeps me that way. Itis not as true
as much for this album as for some
others, but he expresses emotions
that wwe all share. Hey, this is a
good album and I encourage you to
listen to it, and I do not know of any
‘ other way to express it other than

sitting you down and playing itfor —

you so you can judge it for your-.
self. Ihad to listen to ita few times
to really get a feel for it, but after I
spun it a few times it grew on me.
Give it a chance.

Dracula

Continued from page 13
Lucy. Gary Oldman, Dracula, dida good job in hisrole, though he tended
to be melodramatic and at times was laughable. Oldman is the vampire
for the 90’s, but Bela Lugosi’s face will probably forever be associated
with the name Dracula. The stand out was Anthony Hopkins and his
portrayal of Dr. Van Helsing, the eccentric doctor/vampire hunter who
is called in to help. Aside from the special effects and the cinematogra-
phy, he was the one spark that kept me from falling asleep in my seat
(well, that and the halitosis of the guy sitting next to me). This one
reminded me a lot of “Batman Returns” in that there was a lot of hype
surrounding it, it was visually stunning, and it had at least one knockout-
performance (there, Michelle Pfeiffer), but overall it was just a big let
down. This might end up being one of those movies that you feel that you
have to see “‘cause everybody’s doing it,” but if you decide to go, go to
the matinee. I’d hate to feel like I was responsible for letting this lifeless
flick suck away an extra two dollars as well as wasting your time to boot.

Achy

Continued from page 13
tions. The attention avalanches, and soon you have a big star on your
hands.

Politics, baby, politics.

Well, the system today is reformed somewhat. As I said, the album
charts are much more realistic in their appraisal of the weekly sales
situation; sales are now all that matter. The singles charts, too, are more
in line, tabulated by the number of times daily they are played on radio
Stations.

Radio programmers who like a song and think their listeners will
want to hear it will “add” it to their playlists. From there it goes into a
“rotation” - light, medium, heavy, or hot - depending on how many times
a day they want to play it (from one to five or six). A song moves up in
the charts when stations increase the number of times a day they play the
song. That’s about as simple as I can make it.

But it’s still out there. We may never know it or hear about it, but
it’s there. I told you last year that even the awards shows are sometimes
under suspicion, for several labels are thought to engage in vote-
oe (you vote our way in this category, we’ll vote yours in another
one).

In today’s high-pressure world of entertainment, it seems you’ve
gotta do anything it takes to sell your product.. If that means cheating
another artist out of his or her due while trying io sell your artist’s records
by convincing the public (who are obviously seen as animals not much
more sentient than cattle) that “everyone else likes this song, so you
should, too” . . . well, business is business:

It’s pretty sad. All we want is to hear music. All the artists want is
to make music. The trade ought to be a simple one.

Still, don’t be disheartened. This doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t
pay attention to the chart numbers; heaven knows I do. But you should
take everything - awards and number one’s alike - with a grain of salt.
Chances are the numbers are genuine. But whether someone’s song or
album is number one doesn’t really amount to much more than neat trivia
when you come right down to it. It’s all in the what the music does for
you.

So give Billy Ray Cyrus forty number ones, for all I care. It won’t
improve his voice one lick. I just wish the chart-awed media and the
radio programmers would figure that out, too.

Write for ARTS call Chris -6017

