4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

’ REACH OUT AT DAVIDSON

NEWS

ARE YOU HUNGRY? «. . $0’ are MILLIONS of starving people goon the world. The CROP
Committee sponsors a symbdlic meal of corn bread, beans and rice every Wednesday in the 900 Room
(11:30am-1 pm) to give youan OPPORTUNITY to HELP stop world hunger. Your small $1 to $2 donation

OCT. 25th starting at 2 pm on the Village Green. Sponsor forms will be available in late September inthe
Commons and

TIME CONS
to help stop world hunger! A few dollars can goa long way! Walk afew miles, give a few dollars and give
someone life. For more information call Lisa Sitek (-6532) or Devjani Dev (-6555).

Davidson Day Care

The Day Care Center, located on Gamble Road next to the Ada Jenkins Center, provides quality ay
care to local children from various backgrounds and income levels. The fee is based on the ability ofa family
to pay; therefore, there is a special mixture of 2-4 year olds learning and interacting together. :

The Center is fully staffed with qualified employees who plan parties and daily activities for the
children. Davidson students, who volunteer as many hours as they choose, help by spending one-on-one
time and giving extra attention to the kids. It is always an exciting experience!

We would love for you to volunteer. If you are interested, please call Jennifer McCraw (-646) or
Angela Capillary (-6538).

-NOTE: THERE WAS A MISTAKE IN THE REACH OUT ARTICLE IN THE LAST DAVIDSONIAN,
THE COORDINATORS FOR THE CAROLINAS MEDICAL CENTER CHILDREN PROGRAM ARE

is used to aid the malnourished and starving in third world countries. The CROP Walk will be SUNDAY

bers. The hall with the most participants will be specially honored. IT’S NOT A
G ENDEAVOR so mark you calendars for Oct. 25th and get off your butts and walk"

Russian Foreign
Ministry Official to
Speak at Davidson

Courtesy of College Relations

Sergei V. Lavrov, the deputy
foreign minister of the Russian Fed-
eration, will speak at Davidson
College on Tuesday evening; Oc-
tober 6. His adress on “Russian
Foreign Policy in a Changing
World” is free and open to the
public beginning at 8:00 pm in the
Davidson College Art Gallery in
Chambers Building. It is spon-
sored by Davidson’s Dean Rusk
Program in International Relations.

Lavrov, acareer diplomat, has
been in his current Russian gov-
ernment post since April. He is in
charge of departments and bureaus
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
dealing with United Nations for-

eign policy planning, human rights
and international economic coop-
eration.

Bom in 1950) Lavrov gradu-
ated from the Moscow State Insti-
tute for International Relationsand
has worked for Soviet missions in
Sri Lanka and for the United Na-
tions. In 1990 he was appointed
director of the department of inter-
national organizations in the Min-
istry of Foreign Affairs, then was
promoted to deputy minister for
Foreign Affairs in April.

For more information on this
presentation, call the College
Union at 892-2140 or the Dean
Rusk Program in International
Studies at 892-2440,

ore FELMLEE AND LISA LYONS.

wy

Archives.

Continued from page 2

a party stigma attached and they
usually hold the parties at their
houses, they receive the brunt of

criticism for the alcohol abuses of -

the past years and for the reactions
to new rules and regulations.

The students, and especially
the social organizations of
Patterson Court (including
women’s houses), prove them-
selves unwilling to change for the
betterment of the entire commu-
nity, clinging instead to memories
of wild, free keg parties and search-
ing out ways to recreate last year
off-campus. They can or will not
move to creative party themes that
rest on something other than just
alcohol, cheesy period music, or
what have you. If they did so now
it might ward off the great re-
proaches of the likes of 1971.

Yet, we may well accuse the
administration and faculty for their
continued shortcomings as well.
As during the sixties,.our College
simply heaps continued rules and
regulations, but somehow forgets
the incentives and rewards for bet-
ter and more responsible behavior.
No trophy awaits a Court house for
community service or high schol-

Don't —
Panic!
It's Wide-
spread :

_ Here on q

arship, nor recognition for respon-
sible-risk-management,..creative
alcohol-free events, oralcohol edu-
cation.

Even the man in placed to help
Patterson Court develop the very
pro-active programming that may
well save it, Kurt Holmes, remains
so mired in the tangled alcohol
policy enforcement controversies
that he has no time to think about
anything else. For absolutely too

_long Patterson court had the free-

dom to choose its course, and it
chose irresponsibility; yet those
who point out this fact forget that
the College never gave them the
incentive or direction to choose
anything else.

By looking back upon the try-
ing circumstances of our past, we
of Davidson College may find simi-
larities to our current problems, if
not the very causes of those prob-
lems. In both the ‘self-selection’
controversies and the alcohol
policy unrest we saw reactionary
Students and fraternities, and the
unwillingness of the Davidson
powers-that-be to give them posi-
tive incentives or rewards for pro-

actively rather than re-actively
dealing with the situations.

History, by allowing us the
full view of past circumstances,
reactions, and results, allows us to
examine the mistakes of the past,
and gives us the chance to avoid
those self-same errors.

If the fraternities wish to pre-
serve their institutions, they will
well take heed and examine other
greek campuses and the advice of
their nationals to find new ideas
and focuses. Likewise, if the ad-
ministration wishes to save itself a
lotof grief and another failed policy
like self-selection, it will try a dif-
ferentmethod for inducing change.
If neither wishes to do so, then they
should again look back on history
to foresee the next twenty years of
controversy and wasted energy.
You’ll notice that fraternities now
issue bids, allowed officially since
the mid-eighties, and that all of the
co-ed eating houses arising from
self-selection have died out, and
even the women’s houses periodi-
cally fold. Remember: if not
heeded, our past will prove to be
the window to our future.

CLOSER THAN You THINK...

GOIN US FOR HOME@mING I

— Menu Stlechoas OB PO:
oe eee ON

Nini}

"2. @R | DINNER ENTREE WITH DAVIDGON £..D.
ESAWL OF LESSER VALUE J EXPIRES CLTOOER 31, 1493
_NOH Nor BE USED WITH OTHER CFFERS

iy at

Pizzeria & Ristorante

—

Come Enjoy Our Famous Pizza”
with assorted Toppings.
Also featuring specialty pizza such’as:
© Deep Dish Pan ® Taco ® Veggie
® Stuffed Chicago @ Garlic ¢ White Pizza

Sample Our Hot Italian Dishes

© Baked Lasagna ® Manicotti © Broccoli Stuffed Shells
¢ Fettucini Alfredo © Spaghetti © Ravioli ¢ Meatballs
© Eggplant © Sausage & Peppers © Much, Much More

Here's More
Build Your Own Potato Bar
Super Salad Bar. Our Very Own Pizzert-
and other desserts
Accomodates Private Parties to 50
Mon.-Sat. LUNCHEON BUFFET $3.99 per person
Mon.-Thurs. DINNER BUFFET $4.99 per person
Fri. & Sat. DINNER BUFFET $5.99 per person

241 S. Broad St., Mooresville 663-1191

6 TESS & FRIDAYS:
25% BAN OU WINGS
‘AG, FAT, JUICY ONES | '
@ THURSDAYS:
SHRIMP 3 ter A~
"CHILLED, SPICED, % CRACKED '
@ SXRD:

519° MARGARITAS
$1.19 MEXICAN BEERS

* SALA HoT, CHIPS FREE |’

“ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF PAT BLD. 377-3377

AT TROUEYS END- OPEN FRav IK30AM MON THRU SAT...

GECRGES RED DRAFT j
(12 oz) |.29

(PITCHER) 9.99

TREMONTS SOUTH BLVD

Loa.

a ams
— ——— _

