THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

~ November 2, 1992

Travel/Work Abroad Options. Carolina

4:00 PM - 5:00PM
Inn,
7:00 PM - 8:00 PM Foreign Affairs Forum. Carolina Inn.

| &:15PM- 10:15PM Ballet: Dracula. Love Auditorium,

November 3, 1992
8:30 AM- 11:00AM Coffeehouse, 900 Room.
8:00PM-9:30PM  _KenKelly Speaker: Walter Lafeber. 900
10:30 PM - 11:59 PM : 21 Years Old Nh 900 a
_ November a 1992

11:30 AM - 1:30 PM _- Crop Lunch, 900 Room.

7:30 PM - 9:00 PM ee a SO Room,
9:00PM-11:00PM — Widespread F Gym.
9:30 PM - pee

Novenilier 5, 192
4:15PM-5:30PM —_ Philosophy Department Sikasdied
Speaker. Morrison Room.
9:00 PM - 9:30 PM Bip suis International.
j Union Conference Room.

9:30 PM - 11:30 PM “Marie Howell Concert. 900 Room.

November 6, 1992

Chemistry Guest Speaker: Professor

Lynmarie A. Posey. Thurman Room. —

Movie: Manchurian Candidate. 900
Room.

See Ts ve ———

1 2:30 PM - 4:00 PM

9:00 PM - 11:00 PM

ag anise

8:00PM- 11:59PM Pub Night. Bring 2 IDs. 900 Room.

November 8, 1992

FOURTH NATIONSBANK.
CONFERENCE:

“America’s Place in the New International -

Order.” Chambers Gallery. Love Auditorium, —

-Morrison Room. 900 Room. a

8:00 AM - 11:00 PM

Vote

Continued from page 11

input when I turn onthe radio or the t.v. I wantto sing, and feel, and enjoy
myself. I.want music. I don’t want to hear everyone’s stand on
everything. Right and wrong, good and bad, love and hate. No politics.

And, if you’ll excuse me, I’m going to go get some of that right now.
I’m just not meant for this political commentary stuff. Letthe Birks have
their column; I’ll keep mine.

Have fun voting, and may the best man win. (which, of course,
would be... naah. I’m not going to succumb to the pressures of being
in the media !)

é Quote of the Week: :
"T know they're fine
boys ordinarily, but ©

when they get liquored
up they're animals."

-Mary Stough

Gullan

Continued from page 9
When governmentspends 300,000
dollars to build a Lawrence Welk
museum, it is definitely time to
give some money back to the
people.

When I buy a pack of
Marlboro’s or a case of beer, the
store, the company, and the work-
ers make money. They-all-spend
that money on goods and services
which eventually benefits the en-
tire private sector. When income
increases, so does the amount paid
in taxes, even though the tax rates
mightbe lower. Families who start
little businesses with love, luck,
and acouple of bucks, anda dream
find themselves in a position to
expand and hire more workers.

* Leave the money in the hands of

the people and good things will
happen.

“The Republicans don’ tcare,”
screeches the skinny health food
nut. “Why don’t they help me,”
shrieks the irritating Hollywood
producer. The pointis that govern-
ment should be a safety net for
those who fall of the high wire of
life, not a ceiling to trap those who

Hero

Continued from page 10
kicked butt. Heraward acceptance
scene, her plane crash scene, and
especially her elevator scene with
Andy Garcia were all fantastic.
Whershe and Andy were atthe top
of the stairs making their restau-

rant entrance, everyone in the es- ©

tablishment was eyeing Garcia, but
my stare was stuck on Geena. I'd
see Hero again, just to get another

Harvest

Continued from page 10
things go,” Young says with ac-
ceptance on “One of These Days.”
He has not grown bitter with age.
If anything, he seems to have
achieved a certain degree of ful-
fillment. The song “Harvest
Moon,” one of the best tracks, and
“Such a Woman,” which is a little
on the cheesy, overly sentimental
side, both express Neil’s contin-
ued love for his wife.

The most brilliant moments
on this album come through when
it’s just Neil’s voice and guitar.
“You and Me” showcases the stark-
ness and beautiful simplicity of
Young’s voice and lyrics against
an acoustic guitar.

From the striking cover art to
the laid back folk-rock harmonies,
Harvest Moon evokes images of
autumn. This is an excellent al-
bum. However, I have to say that
I like Harvest better. There was
something poignant and painful
about Harvest that reflected what
young Neil was going through. I
can identify with this more than
the wiser, middle-aged Neil. Ap-
parently, Young has found the
“heart of gold” he was looking for

at 24 and his lyrics reveal a great.

deal of contentment. This is not to
say that the album isn’t incredible.
It is. Neil Young continues to
show his abilities as both a
songwriter and performer, and I
would recommend this album to
anyone.

reach for the stars.

Instead of giving out coffee,
show the disadvantaged how to
build a coffee-maker. This takes
hard work on the part of those who
can, who sadly have become ad-
dicted to the government hand-
outs, the institutional sympathy,
and the lazy way of life. Let’s help
the poor buy their public housing,
get a job, and get off of welfare.
This gets accomplished through
training, incentives for businesses
to invest in poor neighborhoods,
and a sense of renewed vigor and
pride in oneself. The Democrats
have removed the stigma from the
disadvantaged and have said that
the poor are not a burden. Well,
thy are a burden, but we will gladly
bear it if our money helps people
who genuinely need it.

Governor Clinton and his
crowd of Jane Fonda, Jesse Jack-
son, and the rest of the elite persist
in tearing down America. We are
weak, torn and headed for an inevi-
table decline. Senator Gore thinks
the world is going to end.

Well, Americais still the place
everybody wants to come and the
country of freedom and prosper-
ity. We have the entrepreneurs
who build businesses, the parents

look at her. Whew! Why doesn’t
the Charlotte Observer have re-
porters like her?

M: Okay, cheese. But Andy Garcia
was rather pleasant gazing mate-
rial as well. (Not that I’d ever go
see movies just because good look-
ing movie stars were in them.)
W: Yeah, right cheesette. I guess
that when you saw Top Gun you
only watched the flying scenes and
not the skimpily-clad studs in the
volleyball scene, right? Whatever.
M: Ahem. Yeah, flying scenes.

who care, the grandparents who
pass on their wisdom, and every
type of person and every other type
of person imaginable.

Everyone talks about what’s
wrong with us: this is whatis right.
America is still the land of dreams.
America is the place where hard
work will take you to. the top of
your chosen profession; whereeach
community exudes freedom and
togetherness; where a little guts
and determination are all you need.

Abroad, America is respected
and trusted. We are a beacon of
hope as big as the Statue of Liberty
herself because all who come here
have a decent shot at greatness and
fame. So when Clinton and Com-
pany tear us down and talk down to
us don’t let them make it sound
worse than it is. Plus, whocan beat
us in hoops or war?

The Republican Party’s mes-
sage got lost in this year’s cam-
paign for various reasons. This
message is one of freedom, liberty,
and equal rights. We are happy,
proud, and strong, united as a party
and ready to elect George Bush for
four more years. Please join us.

But we digress. Well, Will, what
do you think? Dare they, the noble
viewer, splurge and spend the $4
Union movie fee in their quest for
diversion? I’d have to go with a
yes.

W: Well, then, fellow critic, we
are in accord. Thumbs up for
“Hero.” I’d give it three stars.

M: Okay then, see you at the
movies! No, we’re just kidding.
See you in the next Arts section —
same time, same channel.

Rashomon

Continued from page 10
played by Barclay Cunningham, steps in to speak for her daughter. She,
too, had her own version of truth. But the wife interrupts and presents
herself as one with every good intention who was nevertheless taken
advantage of by both husband and bandit. She takes responsibility for
killing her husband and exits with the pathetic cry: “Am I really that
worthless?”

The priest claims he had spoken to the dead warrior, a ghost who is
played by Jennifer Neale. Green-faced and dressed in the latest voodoo-
child garb, she presents the warrior’s side. In her emotionally distraught
story, she (the warrior) takes her own life in order to preserve the all too
important honor, claiming she had been tricked by the bandit and
deceived by the wife. Only in suicide was this possible.

Then the woodcutter finally admits witnessing the incident from
behindatree. He portrays the characters devoid of their previously self-
asserted virtuosity, and concludes that the death of the warrior was
purely accidental. Following a great slapstick style sword fight in which
basically both the bandit and warrior run in fear of each other, the warrior

- appears from side-stage with the sword in his belly and meekly cries: “I

fell!” Later, the wigmaker points out that the woodcutter stole the
warrior’s silver-handled sword and pawned it off to supposedly feed his
six children. Finally, any real conclusion as to what happened in this
incident becomes inconsequential, as the self-interested motives of the
characters become the core of the play. The cynical wigmaker offers a
little “wisdom:” “Truth is like a firefly: now you see it, now you don’t.
... 1 like to swat them for amusement.”

3 he he he he he ie ok kc a 2:

Be sure to catch Joseph and the Amazing
Technicolor Dreamcoat by Time Rice and An-
drew Lloyd Webber. This production will be
directed and produced by Brad Griffin ‘93 and
Reid Frech ‘93 for an independent study project.
Performance: Nov. 18, 19, 20, 21 at 8:00 p.m. in
Hodson Hall.

