THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1992

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor
TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor

SEAN LIND-News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
.MIKE CRUISE: Alcohol Policy Cartoonist

The Dabidsonian

Founded in 1914

"'The South's Foremost
College Weekly" Wied
HARRISON ROBERTS -Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE-Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager

What Do You Think?

Several organizations on campus have joined together to put upa substantial amount
‘of money to bring controversial filmmaker Spike Lee to the Davidson campus. His visit
to Davidson is intended to help the school as it continues to correct and move beyond the
tension and.divisiveness which characterized last year. We are certain that there are
conflicting opinions as to whether Spike’s visit will aid this effort.

The Davidsonian would like to ask the entire college community how they feel about
this speaker and how they think he willaffect the collegeasa whole? As we began to think
aboutan editorial concerning his visit, the editorial board quickly realized the complexity
of his character, and the necessity to carefully study his stances on many issues before
drawing conclusions. As a result, we have decided to do our homework and research
exactly what he has done and said in the past. Before reaching a decision as to the
appropriateness of the College hiring Lee to speak, we suggest you do the same.

Just the simple fact that he is coming should open up debate and provoke discussion
around campus. The Davidsonian would like to give students the chance to voice these
opinions before he comes and notafter the fact. We will publish some of these ideas about

. SpikeLee innext week’sissue. Itisour hope that his visit, and the inevitable controversy
it will bring, will be ventilated through the pages of this newspaper, and that the result will
be a more aware and enlightened Davidson community. _ ets oath

Problem Beginning to be Solved

Things are actually happening down at Carleton Pritchard’s Auxiliary Service’s
kingdom in the Commons. The general consensus around campus has been that the new
‘Bonus Bucks’ program has probably only generated surplus money for the college and
has left the students relegated to eating almost every meal atthe Commons. But, Pritchard
and the S.G.A.’s Auxiliary Services committee are now beginning to work to find ways
to meet student’s needs. Hopefully, by this time next year the so-called “Bonus Bucks’
program will be history or at the very least will have been drastically modified. Steve
Summers is the head of the $.G.A.’s Auxiliary Services Committee and he is open to any
and all suggestions as to what course the college should take in designing a meal plan
system that best suits students’ needs. Such ideas range from adopting a new 5, 7, or 19
meal plan program with up to $200 in bonus money, to completely overhauling the entire
meal plan system. Basically, anything is possible. Students voiced their complaints at
coming back to find this new ‘Bonus Bucks’ system thrown into. their face without any
student consent and limited student input, and something is béing done. The student body
now needs to contribute ideas and opinions as to what direction Auxiliary Services should
take, so we won’t come back again to find another program that’s not suited to our needs.
So, call Steve Summers or Carleton Pritchard and tell them what should be done because
the future of Davidson dining actually does rest in our hands.

Problem Somewhat Solved

Newsflash: Student complaints result in a change in the Union Cafe’s hours of
operation. The Cafe will now remain open until midnight on Wednesdays and Thursdays
to provide refreshment for conscientious students who are toiling up the hill. We
compelled them to change it this much (up from a closing-time of eleven for the first few
weeks) so us college kids should also tell Mr. Pritchard how they feel about this
compromise. Why shouldn’t the Cafe remain open until one in the morning on these days?
It should. Tell the powers-that-be this and maybe we can get this relatively minor
adjustment changed once again to what we want and not what best fits Pritchard’s
scheduling and budget.

ALEX DANIEL- Production Manager =

writes you
bLee

college,
callene 7

Letters |

Ariail Questions Voting Process

To the Editor:

I am extremely dis-
pleased with the handling of
Homecoming elections this
past Friday October 2. I feel
that the basis behind the
nomination of the Indepen-
dent representative was un-
official. The ballot was done
in haste in order not to
jeapordize the day allotted

for the elections to be held

and therefore the results of
Friday October 2 should be
reconsidered.

According to David
Wright, President of the
Patterson Court Council, the
day for Homecoming elec-
tions was decided weeks ago
in order to give the Patterson
Court houses time to enter

their representative for the
Homecoming Court. The
Independents of Davidson
College are not a house on
the Court and in the course
of events leading to the elec-
tion were not gathered to vote
on their representative for
Homecoming. Granted that
the Independent Senators on
the SGA, who were respon-
sible for Submitting an offi-
cially elected representative,
should have been more effi-
cient in providing an oppor-
tunity for Independents to
vote and the Patterson Court
Council should not have to
delay an election in order to
wait for an official Indepen-
dent vote, the fact remains
that the submission of the

Independent representative
that was present on the bal-
lot is unofficial. Indepen-
dents as a group on campus
did not vote on who was to
represent them; three Inde-
pendent Senators, in their
rush to submit a representa-
tive, chose their own pick
from a list of three names.
Perhaps these SGA Senators
should follow the election
advice of their own Presi-
dent Anthony Foxx from the
Davidsonian on September
21, 1992 when he said “‘in
the future, [the SGA] will
concentrate more on accu-
racy and less on getting the
job done quickly.”

See "Allison" on Page 8

Postmaster Rescinds on Campus Post Office

To the Editor:

The proposal to provide
an on-campus postal facility
for Davidson College stu-
dents has been rescinded.
The Davidson Post Office
willcontinue to provide post
office boxes and retail ser-
vices to the students.

We appreciate the re-
sponse we received on the
student survey cards. I was
surprised to find that more
students responded to the
customer surveys than resi-

ts or rural route custom-
ers. This leads me to believe

that students are very enthu-
siastic and interested in what
is happening in the commu-
nity.

Now that it is decided
that the college and post of-
fice together are essential to
the health of the commu-
nity, I have decided to form
a Davidson College Student
Postal Customer Council.
This council will consist of
approximately 12 members,
students, faculty and my-
self. Our goal is to brain-
storm for ideas and activi-
ties that will enhance the re-

lationship between the stu-
dents, post office, and. the
community. We will meet
about six times during the
school term. Meetings will
not interfere with classes and
will be held ina social atmo-
sphere.

All interested students
or faculty members should
contact the Postmaster by
note or telephone (892-5141)
by October 31, 1992. look
forward to lots of innovative
ideas and fun projects.

Elaine W. Conner

Postmaster

Susan Hooks Pleads for Help With Animals

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the
students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondances to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor,

Bynow, mostof us have
seen pictures of the devasta-
tion that Hurricanes Andrew
and Inikihave left. What we
have’t see—or heard
about—is the plight of pets
left homeless from the
storms.

According to humane
workers, allof whom are vol-
unteers, nearly 160,000 pets
who had homes the night the
storms hit have died or are

dying of starvation and de-

hydration. Many of these
animals were lost in the
storm, and, with all their
scentand sight markers gone,
can no longer find their way
to what was once their
homes. The animal shelters

-in the areas were destroyed,

leaving hundreds of other
animals to run loose. The
zoo in Miami was hit hard;
hundreds of animals who

haveknown noother lifethan
to be fed and cared for are

. nowontheirown. Carcasses

of dead animals line certain
streets in the area; only a few
people have had the time and
compassion to bury them.
According to the Ameri-
can Kennel Club’s Director
of Communications, federal
law prohibits animals of any
kind in the tent cities. More-
Over, not one single penny
of any relief money, from
the goverment, Red Cross,
or other organizations, can,

See "Hooks" on Page7
