THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992 |

Campus Newspaper
Publishes Rape Victims Name

By John Williams

(CPS) Anewspsper’s decision
to report the name and address of a
Tape victim has created a stormy
controversy at Marshall Univer-
sity_in Huntington, WV, and-the
paper’s editor said he will not back
down from printing names in the
future.

The story, which included the
woman’s address and details of the
attack, was published in Septem-
ber. Several campus groups con-
demned the newspaper for violat-
ing the woman’s right to privacy.

It is not illegial in West Vir-
ginia to publish a rape victim’s
name, but several officials ques-
tioned the ethics and reasons for
publishing the woman’sname. She
does not attend Marshall Univer-
sity and the alleged attack occurred
off campus.

The dilemmais multi-faceted,
but boils down to a question of
rights—those of the newspaper vs.
those of the victim. While many
involved in such cases present the
issue in either-or terms, there are

many levels of debate, journalists

and communications faculty say.
Kevin Melrose, editor of The
Parthenon, said the seven-member
student editorial board voted 4-3
to publish the rape victim’s name.
The board consists of six men and
one woman: the woman voted to
publish the name, he said. The

article appeared in the Sept 22 edi-
tion.

Thereasons for publishing the
name were two-fold, Melrose said.
He said that the newspaper had a
“journalistic dedication to fairness”
to present facts and “do whatis fair
and just.” Additionally, he said, by
printing the woman’s name , he
hoped to change the social stigma
attached to rape.

“We felt that in part we are a
vehicle for social change and that
one of our responsibilities was to
move forward to stop treating vic-
tims of sexual assault (so) that they
should be ashamed,” he said. “‘they
have nothing to be ashamed of .
They are victims of a violentattack
and we wanted to treat them like
other cases of violent attack.?

That line of reasoning, how-
ever, fell short for some people on
campus, including Dee Cockrille,
who is director of the school’s
women’s center. Cockrille worked
with the woman after the alleged
attack, and again after her name
and address appeared in the paper.

“My response is that we’re
not talking facts, we’re talking
about people’s lives. When a per-
son decides to tell, that should be
his or her choice,” Cockrille said.

Assistant journalism profes-
sor Debra Belluomini, the paper’s
adviser, said she was against dis-
closing the woman’s name , but

there was nothing she could do to
stop it from being printed. “From
my own experience, I thought it
wasn’t the best thing to do,” she

‘said. “I expected some reaction,

but not the amount that came
about.”

However, some journalism
faculty members from across the
nation are hesitant to draw such
conclusions. Most favor discre-
tion in such cases.

Ralph Izard, director of the
journalism department: at Ohio
University in Athens, Ohio, said
sometimes a victim’s name should
be used, as in a case where there is
a serial rapist.

“Tt must be absolutely bona
fide that you are warning the com-
munity, and can mdkeacase that is
valuable in a public sense to iden-
tify the people and provide the
information to potential victims,”
he said.

Hesaid that by:having a“hard-
core” decision to publish all rape
victim names » Newspapers are prac-
ticing lazy journalism: The deci-
sion has already been made interms
of policy, so there is no newsroom
debate.

“My general predisposition is
to say no, Iwould not identify a
rape victim,” he said. “There are
many reasons that itcan compound
the trauma, and I buy it. Nothing is
absolute in journalism,” °

Pints o' Plenty

ee Drive Exceeds Collection Goal

By Sally Stone
On Monday, October 26
Davidson’s ROTC sponsored its
annual Red Cross blood drive. It
was heldin Chambers Gallery from
11:30 iuntil past five o’clock.
Richard Rivera, ROTC cadet

in charge of organizing the drive,
said he was “very pleased” with
Davidson’s particiaption. The Red
Cross had set the day’s goal at the
collection of 100 units of blood
which was surpassed for a total of
128 units.

The ROTC would like to ex-
tend their thanks to all students,
faculty, and staff who patiently
endured the wait and generously
donated.

Florence Crittenton Services

By Rachel Hornor

In the late 1800’s, a young
unmarried woman became preg-
nant. She could not bear to face
her family and the society that
would condemn her, so she
| crushed and swallowed a glass
bottle. This tragic story sparked
inone self-made businessman the
desire to aid desperate young
women in similar situations. He
established a residence home and
named it after his daughter, Flo-
rence Crittenton. Crittenton’s

project was an amazing success

and has grown immensely in the
subsequent years.

Today, there are over fifty
homes in the Unites States under
the Florence Crittenton services.
They offer help to women in a
variety of ways. There are resi-
dence homes for unwed pregnant
women fully equipped with
schools, social services, career
counseling, and medical facilities.
There are also day cares and tran-
sitional houses providing postna-
talservices. Every Thursday night,
five to ten Davidson volunteers

meet with women residing in the
Florence Crittenton home in
Charlotte to tutor, mentor, giggle,
and gab. These students provide
services to the residents that the
Florence Crittenton Organization
(non-profit) cannot buy, while
helping traumatized women re-
gain self-respect through aca-
demic success, personal encour-
agement, and special activities.
Anyone interested should call
Rachel (-6285) or Liz (-6306).

rsa ; :
Ellis
Continued from page 4

Ellis explained that the best way to begin to understand the Native
American is to“go into your own tradition, whether Chinese, Dutch, etc.,
and learn about your own culture and its wealth.” He encouraged the
audience to “spend time with your elders,” and to “support freedom in
all colors.” Ellis then commented, “You know, none of us are free until
all of us are free.”

Kimbrough

Continued from page 1

lot of blood.”

By that time, there were people outside who had heard the accident, °
and one man drove Kimbrough to the hospital where she had surgery late
that night.

The bullet shattered Kimbrough’s jaw and knocked out several of
her teeth on the right side of her mouth. According to the oral surgeon,
Kimbrough’s teeth saved her life. Had the bullet not initially struck her

“teeth, it would have hit the spinal chord or the carotid artery which would
have caused paralyzation or death.

Because the bullet in the back right side of Kimbrough’s neck is not
lodged ina harmful area, it was not taken out in surgery. It wasexplained
to Kimbrough that it would be more harmful to “go fishing” for the
bullet. It is not likely to dislodge itself, and Kimbrough said that she
cannot tell it is there.

According to Kimbrough, the man did not have to shoot. “He
wasn’t interested in the car. He was obviously interested in cash...I feel
pretty sure it was drug related.”

Two weeks after the incident, the Beaufort police arrested the two
men who attacked Kimbrough and Hillman. One is 18 and the other 20,
and both have police records of drug possession. The twomen confessed
to the charges.

, Because Beaufort is a haven for tourism, the entire town was
horrified that this accident happened to one of their guests. According
to Kimbrough, they made it their priority to make sure she had what she
needed and was well taken care of. After spending a weck in the hospital

in Beaufort, Kimbrough returned home to Davidson.
» Kimbrough described the accidenvas a““bazaar incident.” She said,
“T was in the wrong place at the wrong time. This is always something

~ that happens to other people... We should always be careful.”

According to Kimbrough, she was in a safe, well-lit place. People
were around, and it was not late at night. “‘It was just like it happened in
front of the Soda Shop on Main Street.”

With the help of the splint mending her jaw, the cards, flowers, and
support from family, friends, students, and faculty members, Kimbrough
is “feeling stronger everyday and is doing really well.” “Ihave found out
that I am tougher than I thought,” she stated; “It makes you rearrange
your priorities when you come that close to losing your life...I’ve come
to appreciate things that I didn’t before.”

Kimbrough and Hillman will be returning to Beaufort on Monday,
November 2 to:help the police with their case against the two men.

GRAND OPENING
KOBE

JAPANESE #QUSE OF STEAKS SEAFOOD

UMIDQ IIE IN GN cdisess sccccseeccsccasesessoseesnnerss

(TEPPAN-YAKI Shrimp, Chicken & Steak)
SEGA Be CMGI cs iscscocccesccosveccacccssesesneats $13.95
DIGG Ge Ol idissscossstissccctresenscnsstenssenes -$13.95

= Hours
Wet Bar & & Sushi Bar-Dinner ou

Lunch 11:30am - pel
(No lunch on Saturday )
Dinner Sun. - Thur. 5 - 10pm
Fri - Sat 5-11pm
|-77 Exit 28
_ Next to Movies at the Lake
20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr.
Cornelius, NC
704-896-7778

Highway 73

