THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992 5

Shi

Continued frompage 1
Greenville area. Shi will also be
working with Benny Walker, Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid,
one of his closest friends from his
Furman days for whom he has tre-
mendous respect, thereby creating
a perfect work atmosphere.

Furman’s break from relations
with the Baptist Church during the
search process also enticed Shi for
he sees this as a new era of exciting
possibilities for the university.
Furman hasalso been very flexible
in their negotiations, allowing Shi
to finish the academic year at
Davidson as well as allowing his
contract to stipulate Shi may teach
as much as he desires. Despite
these seemingly ideal conditions,
“it was with great ambivalence that
we made this decision,” said Shi.

Furman is justifiably excited
about Shi’s future position. Dr.
John E. Johns said, “We believe
David Shi will be an excellent vice
president for academic affairs at
Furman. He has very unique quali-
fications as both a scholar and an
administrator, and we feel he is a
person who can provide real lead-
ership for Furman’s academic pro-
gram. Shi is young, creative and
energetic, and, as a Furman gradu-
ate, he is familiar with the univer-
sity and its philosophies. We be-
lieve he can help lead Furman into
the next century, and we are look-
ing forward to having him join the
administrative team.”

Commitment by Shi and his

wife to a small liberal arts atmo-
sphere, and the similarities between
Davidson and Furman will make
easier Shi’s transition from faculty
to adminstration. Although
Furman’s student body is twice as
large as Davidson’s, Shi feels the
quality of Furman’s top 1600 stu-
dents matches the quality of
Davidson’s students, Furman also
became coeducational in 1976, four
years after Davidson. Furman dif-
fers from Davidson in that they
have never allowed drinking on
campus. As a future administra-
tor, Shi is excited that an alcohol
policy will not be an on - campus
distraction.

Shi will transform himself into
a Furman administrator with the
aid of an associate dean. Shi feels
prepared after experiencing the
basic relationship between the fac-
ulty and the administration at
Davidson. He believes Furman
and Davidson have the same genu-
ine commitment to the liberal arts,
small classes, and close student/
faculty relationships. Furman will
be experiencing extensive changes
with its new financial and reli-
gious independence from the Bap-
tist Church and a $24 million gift
to ease this transition. Shi says he
hopes to bring from his background
at Davidson, “insights, policies,
and programs to measure against
what is done [at Furman].”

Davidson’s teacher of the year
in 1982, Shi’s achievements dur-
ing his Davidson career certainly
warrant praise. His. specialty is
American intellectual and cultural
history and he has written four

community and as a college.

books in sixteen years. His first
book received a Pulitzer Prize
nomination and he is racing to fin-
ish his fifth book, a five-year un-
dertaking. After a 1991 -1992
sabatical, Shi is writing the chal-
lenging final chapter of his book
with the objective of finishing by
June: Shi looks forward to his
administrative duties as a break
from the self - imposed pressures
of improving with each book.
Ben Klein, acting Dean of
Faculty, says that Shi “will leave a
big hole in virtually every aspect
of the institution.” Shi has pro-
vided leadership as an instrumen-
tal member of several faculty com-
mittees and as former chair of the
history department. Klein says
Shi’s scholarship is widely recog-
nized and he leaves an irreplace-
able position as a key member of
the history departmentat Davidson.
According to Klein, Shi “is one of
the most respected members of the
faculty asa scholar andasa friend.”
The separation from Davidson
will be very painful for the Shis,
since they have established strong
relationships here’as well as rais-
ing their children in this commu-
nity. The short distance of two
hours ‘separating Davidson and
Greenville is a small consolation
for Shi who feels his new duties
will require him ,to return to
Davidson atleast oncea year. This
community should be honored to
have experienced the Shi legacy
and we can be sure his decision to
move on was made difficult by his
great affection for Davidson as a

The Governor is Unveiled!

Photo by Casey Rogers

North Carolina Governor Jim Martin, a 1957 graduate and
former professor at Davidson, addresses those gathered to
winess the unveiling of his portrait in the Martin Chemistry
Building. The portrait was created by artist Joseph Wallace
King.

Andrew

Contiued from page 6

entire house and was as proud of her home as a new home-owner might
be... and even her “compact car” as she described it could not squelch her
excitement.

During our ten day stay, we investigated over 150 cases of
which we repaired over 85 homes and assisted over 40 others with food,
water, clothing and other items. More importantly, we gave the citizens
of Morgan City and the surrounding areas of St. Mary’s parish arenewed
hope, a feeling that others do care and do want to help, a sense of dignity
and courage during a difficult time. We lifted their spirits, made them
laugh, and gave them a start to the “rebuilding” that must take place. By
reaching out to an unsuspecting community, we provided other organi-
zations with a starting place for future relief efforts, and set a standard of

r

Apple Macintosh PowerBook” 145 4/46

For further inf

Apple Macintosh Classic’ II

or buy a Macintosh that’s already loaded.

Get a great value on your choice of these Apple® Macintosh® computers But hurry,
which include over ‘400 worth of preloaded software: The American
Heritage Dictionary with Roget’s Thesaurus, the Random House
Encyclopedia, Correct Grammar, ResuméWriter and Calendar Creator.

Ps. |

Apple Macintosh LC Il

-help for others to folloss — —

&

Apple Macintosh IIsi

because student aid like this is only available through Oct. 15,
1992 — and only from your authorized Apple campus reseller.

The Macintosh Student Aid Package. @.

ormation visit Computer Services Center
Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a regi
Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText
Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. Resumé Writer is a

istered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of
* developed by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by Language
trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only.

