i THE DAVIDSONIAN __ OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992
Rude Notes
& Elections Snow
Random Continued from page 7 Continued from page 9

Scribblings

Chris
Frampton

The last few editions of “Rude
Notes and Random Scribblings”
have been focused on specific
problems about campus. Itis high
time we return to the bold faced
format of yester-year. Let’s take a
look atsome questions being stirred
about by the wind thatisa Davidson
student's mind. (What?)

Does anybody havea nickel?
Why on Earth do drinks now cost
fifty-fivecents? And another thing,
why don’t they lower the prices of
candy in the library to fourty-five
cents. Iused to puta dollar into the
Coke machine and then use the
change to buy acandy bar, butnow
I put the change in my pocket. It’s
their loss.

Will Coach McKillop ever
impress us? Davidson has his-
torically loved its basketball. The
problem is we don’t win anymore.
We seem to have the players so
why don’t we have. the victories?
(Please, don’ t let the players attack
me. I really do like basketball, I’m
just greedy and want to win more.)

Is it going to snow? No.

Do you want to go to Mid-
winters with me? No.

Did you see how big his
#@!% was? Yes, Iactually heard
two girls talking about this three
days after Self-Selection night.

Are you going to watch
90210? Whoever it is out there
asking this question every Thurs-
day night needs help. This may be
the worst show on television. Why?
Because a pathetic character in this
poorly written farce, Steve, actu-
ally tried to pay fifty dollarsto buy
a six pack of beer.

Does the SGA do anything?
That depends. Do you meanactual
physical work? If you do, then the
answer is no. All they do is make
committees that talk about things.
If you want to see a group on
campus that works, check out the
Union Board.

For whom are you going to
vote? Thisis a good question. The
absence of the SGA on campusisa
problem that needs to be fixed and
the only way is to vote the right

people into office. :

Are there racial problemson
campus? Yes.

Are you going to Backstreet
tonight? Yes. I'm too sexy for this
column.

“You should get involved with the Union. Its a great and wonderful
place!”--I am even more excited about the Union now, than I was then.

Davidsonian: You were fortunate enough to be Historian for the Union
while Catharina Chang was president. How would you do things in com-
parison to her methods?

Willard: I enjoyed being on the Board with Catharina, and I think she
did a really wonderful job as president. I’m not sure how I would do
things differently. I would just have to be a part of it, and see how things
develop.

I would much rather be involved and handle things as they happen.

Davidsonian: Have you had any specific ideas regarding the Union’s
role in conjunction with, or separate from Patterson Court?

Willard: When I first became a part of the Union my freshman year, I
had no idea what the Union was all about. I got involved because
Catharina asked me to. After I became involved, I realized what
opportunities the Union provides.

It provides opportunities to have a good time, and learna lot. Itsa
different atmosphere than Patterson Court, and I’d like to see the Union
remain a vital part of Davidson life. I’d like to see the Union work with
Patterson Court, so there can be a synthesis and people can enjoy both
parts of the campus.

Davidsonian: Could you tell me what you think makes aleader, and how
you think you fulfill those requirements?

Willard: I always see a leader as someone who can listen to what others
are saying, and see what they are doing, and guide as necessary. I don’t
like to tell people what to do, unless they ask for direction.

As a leader I would like to help, listen, and offer whatever help I can.
I think the Union Presidency allows you to do that.

clipped off the distance between him and us as Ted neared the bottom,
where nothing even thought about flattening out until the the 4-Way and
the Big Red Sign.

But Southerners can’t drive on snow (though Ted could fly) and
some frictless Rebel braked too late or too soon or not at all and the long
and short of it is that a car appeared out of nowhere, slid sideways, and
protruded into the intersection like a confused dog on linoleum.

Ted didn’t wobble; he just needed to stop. A lesser force might have
bailed, rolled left or right and right into a tree or mailbox or parked car
and died. But Ted, in his own words describing his logic after the fact,
“., thought I might could just aim at that support wire that comes down
from the telephone pole and just sorta’ slide up. You know, ease myself
to a stop.” Again in his own words, he “musta’ hit a little off center”
because his sled flipped like a pancake you’re pissed at and Ted went
ballistic, an upstart missile, and a lucky one, since he landed in some old
lady’s bush which hadn’t been pruned since the Great Depression.

Somehow in the process though, maybe from arunner or maybe from
the support wire, the index fingeron Ted’s left had got just about severed.
Thedoctors did it up, he gota finger length pin shoved down itand what’s
funny is I remember thinking that pin was kind of cool. I think some
people were even jealous.

But Ted was blessed. Some devil went balls out for glory in his brain
and some angel always padded his landings. Ted moved me; and because
of him, well, not completely because of him, but at least with fond
recollections of him connecting with that sled, I love snow.

Ilove it. And when rumored reports of the fluffy stuff swept campus
this past week, the hair on my neck stiffened again. God, I hope it snows.
You could barely hear his Keds padding on the accumulation until he hit
the sidewalk; then it just sounded like speed.

Write for Opinions
Call Chris Frampton

SGA Minus Grades Forum.
Wednesday, January 29,’
8:30 pm in the Morrison

Room of the Union

FZ

AW

oAL 1042 emus. oe
iol ates se aes
Distributed by Tribune Media Services ; 2

| U5, AUTO

| \ INDUSTRY

