THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, APRIL 27,1992 — = 5
Premedical Society Speaker Calls For Tarazona
Changes In Today's Medical Schools | Continued from page 4

By Jeff Oller

On Wednesday, April 15, the
Davidson Premedical society
hosted Dr. Robert Sabalis, Dean of
Admissions at the University of
South Carolina at Columbia.
Sabalis spoke about “changes in
the medical education of premedi-
cal students and the evaluation of
students.”

| Sabalis started by making clear
the fact that today’s premedical
students are guinea pigs to be used
in the changing educational prac-
tices in medical schools unti} the
medical schools settle upona stan-
dard method and ideology of teach-
ing.

Sabalis spoke at length about
the Flevnure Report and its rele-
vance to contemporary medicine.
The Flevnure Report was written
and published by Abraham
Flevnure, a medical scientist, in
1910 in ‘an evaluation of the medi-
cal schools of thatperiod. Much of
what was said in this report is,
indeed, contemporary, he said. For
instance, one-third of all medical
school were and are inadequate, he
said.

Sabalis asked. the question,

“can the Flevnarian model work
today?”

He pointed out that the advent
of computers and the sheer amount
of fact invoived in medicine pre-
cludes effective fact teaching.
Sabalis said that every doctor in
America will have a computer in
their office. As aresponse, several

medical schools are'taking steps to.
train students in the use of comput-

ers as they apply to medicine.

Sabalis then spoke about the
innovation of teaching clinical
problem solving skills in small
group settings because medicine,
itself, is the practice of clinical
problem solving.

He pointed out that the ad-
vances of medicine have led to a
shift to an emphasis in outpatient
forum. Advancesin medicine have
led to a general decrease in the
time a patient needs to recover.

He spoke of the Association of
American Medical Colleges, and

its 1980’s report on 21st century

physicians. One of the points in
the report, he said, is that “medical
edu¢ation ought to be gencral
education.”

The report identified three
reasons to support this idea. First,
students need to be educated to
understand patients as people. The
second was the fact that 60% of all
patients walk in the door with some
sort of psychological problem like
nervousness, depression, anxiety
or fear. The third reason was the
fact that today’s doctors are defi-
cient in responding to the needs of
thecontinuity of care (the idea that
care stops after the patient is no
longer in the hospital).

Sabalis said that medical stu-
dents need to be broad-based.
“Present Ph.D.s are specialists in
one field,” he said. For example,
he said, a pediatristknows nothing
about back ailments and vice-versa.

He then introduced the idea of

curriculum is one in which the ©

Presidential "Candidate"
To Discuss Strategy At Davidson

By Kevin Miller

On Sunday, May 3, Davidson’s
Hodson Hall will hold one of eight
American Public Radio “Presiden-
tial Choices” programs produced
by Minnesota Public Radio. The
event will present Charles Ogle-
tree, a Harvard University Law
School professor, as a “hypotheti-
cal” midwestern Democratic can-
didate who will ask real-life politi-

cal advisors how he, as a candi-
date, should deal with welfare re-
form. The strategy session will be
completely ad lib, and will attempt
to mirror the political scene,as of
two days before the North Caro-
lina primary.

The 90-minute show will start
at 1 p.m. in Hodson Hall, and, after
an hour of planning between Ogle-
tree and his “henchmen”, audience

Students take some of the same
kind of courses year after year. For
instance, medicalethics, substance
abuse, nutrition and clinical corre-
lations are all examples of a verti-
cal curriculum course-load.

He said, “medical students
have been allowed to become too
passive,” in that, medical schools
have slipped into a mode of mass
learning taught by established
professionals which, subsequently,
inhibits any advancement in think-
ing and reasoning skills.

' Teachers, he said, should chal-
lenge students to answer questions
that require thought and reasoning
as they nurture life-long learning
skills.

Sabalis spoke. about the con-
ceptof using standardized (pseudo)
patients to train students. For
example, an actor will fake an ail-
ment and evaluate the student as
the student conducts the examina-
tion. This allows the standardized
patient to comment upon the stu-
dent’s attitude and consideration
towards the patient.

A method of testing he talked
about was the Objective Structured
Clinical Evaluation. This involved
fifteen minute stops at each of
several stations to testthe student’s
ability to be quick, responsive and

_ correct.

Toconclude, Sabalis said, “the
Flevnarian reportno longer holds,”
in that, medical education and tech-
nology, with the advent of com-

puters, have changed too much to » *
-a-vertical curriculum, “A-vertical, support such.adated éxamination.

members and callers from around
the country can ask their own
questions of the candidate and his
committee.

Tickets are being sold at the
Davidson College Visitors Center
at (704) 892-2447, and the pro-
gram will air live on Charlotte’s

WFAE radio, 90.7 FM, as wellas ~

on 135 APR affiliates.

From the Archives: Towner Blackstock

Self-Selection, 1970: Never Again

My father and his brother in
law were both members of Beta
Theta Pi fraternity back in the six-
_ ties when they were students here.
As a child, I remember seeing the

fraternity magazines in the mail,

and the plaques on the wall, but I
never heard much about it. My
mother, long active in her sorority
as a national officer, constantly
spoke about Phi Mu, but Dad
remained strangely, and sadly, si-
lent. Andalthough I grew toknow
the story, I never really felt the
pain my father and uncle felt until
dad’s twenty-fifth college reun-
ion. In his face I saw, as he stood
in my fraternity house with my
. brothers, a sadness for something
he could never know. “I am very
bitter,” he said,”that I don’t have a
house to come back to.” You see,
a notion called .‘self-selection’

served to close Beta Theta Pi at
Davidson, the organization they
loved so dearly and where their
fondest college memories lay.
After seeing the sadness and even
resentment that remains even
twenty years later for them, I am
pained to hear renewed calls for
the reinstitution of that well-mean-
ing but outdated and ill-conceived
system. Although self selection
may have fit the immediate needs
and desires of the turbulent year

1970, it proved to be a detrimentto

the college in that original form
over time, and certainly does not
meet the needs of the Davidson of
today.
Davidson President Sam
Spencer in 1970 made a speech to.
the student body outlining the state’
of the college, and in particular the
social structure of the then all-

male institution. He described the
divisidn that had developed on the
campus: “at meal times and in the

evenings, the fraternity heads north

from the residence halls to Frater-
nity Court; the independent minor-
ity heads south to the Union (where
the cafeteria was located before
Vail Commons).” Ata university
with a large independent group
and viable social alternatives, Dr,
Spencer pointed out, that would be
of little consequence, but at
Davidson the small size and all-
male structure left the few non-
fraternity men with no social life.
Furthermore, he’ contended, “the
impact which rejection has on an
individual who fails to get a bid...
can be massive.”

_ And so Spencer suggested a
new social structure, organized “‘as

to minimize the chances of rejec-"

pot to niake such an ideology possible, Tarazona said.

The Shining Path; often torturing their victims to death, represents
the most brutal, bloody and cruel of all the world’s terrorist organiza-
tions, she maintains. The Shining Path is comparable to Cambodia’s
Khmer Rouge in that the Khmer worked towards a total remake of
Cambodia’s society through the most violent of means. Indeed, Tara-
zona believes that The Shining Path has gained control of nearly a third
of Peru.

The Shining Path, she reports, is not contained to Peru. There has
been recent evidence of activity in Argentina and off-shots in Bolivia,
where its coca community is particularly vulnerable to the message of
the terrorist group.

Tarazona proposes a broad- based strategy-to be implemented by the
Peruvian government with the cooperation of other nations. The
Peruvian government, she believes, must address the issues at hand
rather than simply try to stomp the insurgency out with brute force.

“Peru is locked in a death struggle between democracy and a brutal
totalitarian system. The outcome of this struggle will effect the political
stability, the development and the popular welfare not just of Peru, but
of a great part of South America. I have grave doubts that Peru can win
the struggle by itself,” she said.

Although she made it clear that she was honored to be considered an
expert in her ficld and to be invited to speak before the House, she was
nervous over her open condemnation of The Shining Path because of its
deeply vindictive nature and the subsequent threat to her life.

Hasty

Continued from page 2

Madison Presbyterian Church in Madison, Georgia, located about an
hour east of Atlanta. He described the 200-member church, founded in
1821, as having “a rich history. I’m looking forward to ministering to
and being involved in the lives of people of all ages,” he said.

During the interview, Hasty received a call from his wife, Sarah
Thomas, a member of the class of ’90, and when he sat down again, he
smiled and added, “I’m not leaving Davidson empty-handed, you know.
I’m taking a graduate with me!”

_ Alcohol.

abal aS Lata » Continued from page I. (RIO CT oy
objectives.

Dean Will Terry said, “It is essential to implement and fund the
things called for in the introduction if the alcohol policy is to be
successful and the social climate is to be improved.” The Trustees agreed
with this idea and gave the administration the authorization it needs to
pursue these actions. Terry also said that it will take the efforts of all
segments of the Davidson community to change the patterns of alcohol
consumption on the Davidson campus. He said, “This cannot be aone
office effort.”

tion.” Recognizing the benefitsof ation. My father’s fraternity choose

small groups (close friendship,

leadership and social opportuni- —

ties, intramural activities, and serv-
ice functions), he proposed a re-
working of the fraternity structure
where students could be assigned
either by random lottery or by their
individual choice to an eating
house. Fraternities and their bid-
ding system would become a thing
of the past. Some students sup-
ported this plan, which. carried
overtones of the social equality
movements of the sixties, and the
trustees. voted to adopt it. The
fraternities, riddled with divisions
of opinion and financial debt, took

. the options they could. Two folded, '

two moved off campus, four fra-

_ ternities remained, and four lost

their charters and became eating
houses devoid of fraternity affili-

the last route.

One cannot say that this plan
had little student support, because
the freedom of the early seventies
almost demanded a open system
like this one. Yet many alumni, the
majority of whom were fraternity
men and the major contributors to
the college, wrote angry lettersand
refused to give any more to the
college, some even writing the
college out of their wills. Regard-
less, one must admit that alumni
may nothave the insight of what is
best forthe campus. They did, per-
haps, have more foresight than the
progressive Dr. Spencer did. Over
the course of the decade and into
the *80s, self selection changed.
Fraternities would simply discour-

See "Selection" on page 6
