THE DAVIDPHONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1992 5
Letters
FREELOVE UPTHUMPA
-Editor in Chief .
CHRISTOPHER SMART Leaders Urge You to Blow it Out!
- Assistant Editor
MOUNTAIN DEWBIE Dear Fellow Students, four years here we have Part of Davidson Col-
The -Associate Editor FISH, STUDY GEEK,  witnessedblatantlyirrespon- lege’s goal is to produce
HEYWOOD J. BLOMIE HOLY ROLLER, DORK, | siblebehavior,suchasfight- students who will fitin in all
“Associate Editor LOSER, BIBLE BEATER, _ ing,thedestructionofschool areas of life. This includes

And the rest of the little peons are too
chicken to even put a psuedonymn, so we'll
take the credit for ourselves.

VEG, OG O LOTTED

0d OAYT, We 50

Actually, screw it, let's rat on em.

THIVK WESPE Those really responsible are:
Joe Cook--Ringleader
TMPETTY XUVTE. Pat Bunch--Demolitions Expert

Glenn Kinken--Sexual Innuendo
Mark Johnson--Double Entendre
Virginia Mischen--Generally Mean Stuff
Sam Adams--Anti-Establishment Blather

A Few Words
From the Editors

Oh, yes indecdy kids, we're back! Last year's Phonian crew is back in the sadd!e to help
outa much harried young 'Sonian editor. That's the kind of guys are; now if only you could
know who we are, that'd be something; but we'll never tell. At least’not out of court.

Putting this little rag sheet together takes me back, back about a year ago, to be precise,
when we unleashed the last 'Phonian for your uncultured sensibilities. If you remember, as,
trust me, we do all too well, the local press had a field day with us just cause a few psuedo-
humanities types hadn't read their Swift. We certainly don't want to dredge up any of that
old mud; but, we're going to request here that you don't work yourselves up into such a
frenzy this year.

We direct this charge especially to the Charlotte Observer, and News 36. Observer,
your article was fair, but that sensational headline was really inapropriate. We know you're
under new management, though, so we're sure that it wouldn't happen again.

Now, with those News 36ers, it's a completely different story. You and your yellow-
, journalist teadre c came up he here that day for the Express Avan yn of making Davison College
‘look like’crap. wh GHEE Aa ‘ a

You got me out of bed at some ungodly hour to pump me for information. I agreed to
talk to you only if you allow me to make a brief statement about the controversy on the air.
"Sure," you said. Had only I known what was to follow, I would have chased you out of
town myself. You wound up taking brief sound bytes from what each student you
interviewed had to say, and strung them together as your Iead story at6:00pm. I use the word
"story" advisedly, for that's just what it was, fiction. You tried to paint Davidson as a haven

for rape, knowing full-well from the people with whom you had already-spoken that such*

was not the case. In fact, when you went to get information about campus rape, you went
down to UNC-C. The story was supposed to be about Davidson, and you're trapsing down
Harris Blvd. lookin’ for dirt.

I tell you, guys, that was grand. Please don't waste your time or ours by coming back
this year, because we won't talk; except to your competitors, the fair and objective team at
Channel 9 led by that fine reporter Jeff Sonier, who will have the full story, both about this
issuc, and your utter ineptitude. We kid about this place, but we love Davidson, and we
won't allow.some penny-ante Edward R. Murrow trash its exalted name.

ButI'm letting my vindictive side take over, andlosing my point. Sure, some of the stuff
on these eight pages is pretty harsh, but it's not devastating. Hell, we're not trashing
reputations here, just poking ata few egos. If you get upset from a mentioning of yourname
in these pages, you're being a little sensitive. If you can't laugh at yourself, you're missing
life's greatest joke. And that, dear reader, is where comedy meets tragedy.

It's time for us to say our goodbyes. Christopher Smart and I won't be around next year
to put out another one of these things, and we'll miss it. The Davidson community is a
swingin’ bunch of cats, and you'll be missed sorely. Take care, yourock. Please don't make
things too rough on ol’ Mountain Dewbie next year; he's got a good heart.

With plans to be spending a good deal of time in the Dean's Office tomorrow inspite of
this avowal of our good intentions, we are,
Your humble servants,
Frea\o V2 Vath. Chug SV east tin.
Christopher Smart, Mountain Dewbie

Freelove Upthumpa,

The Davidphonian is published yearly in the dark of an April night by a few ill-
priveleged students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and firebombs to: The
Davidphonian, P.O, Box 1148, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-
1963. Our rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey
| Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor will be summarily
ridiculed and thrown away as those responsible for this travesty will be long gone in
nineshortdays. Subscriptions cost $27,000 per year. Believe it or not, copyright is still
held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

STRAIGHT-A
STUDENT...Do these words
sound familiar? Do they
apply to someone you know
at Davidson-College? Do
they apply to you?

As seniors we realize
that the alcohol situation at
Davidson has gotten worse.
You underclassmen have us
to thank for that. During our

property, and rudeness at
some parties. Now, as we
approach graduation, we
realize that this behavior has
been totally justified and has
in no way affected our pros-
pects for a viable future in
the workplace. Why the hell
shouldn’t we behave like this
when we’re screwed any-
way?

encouraging a good, old-
fashioned chemical depend-
ency of some kind. With any
luck, this could develop into
an appearance on the Oprah
show, a book deal, national
famé, and a twelve-step re-
covery program in your
name. Doesn’t that sound

See "FISH" on page 3

XAE to Protesters: You'll Get Yours

To Those Who
Should be Very Concerned:

We, the brothers of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, wish
to offer yct another heartfelt
apology. We’re really, re-
ally sorry. We realize that
our actions this semester
have been unacceptable to
the Davidson community,
and: that our. problems run
much deeper than whether
ornot we took a few liberties
with our female party guests.
We did.

We have repeatedly
promised to keep the van-
dalism, threats, outright op-
pression, and drunken de-
bauchcry under the rug, and
an SAE promise is as good
as...gold. Our purpose in

| writing this letter, however,

is not to kiss any more ass,
for we are out of Blistex.
This letter shall serve as fair
warning to all of our detrac-
tors.

To those bandwagon
voters in Rusk, to those
wenches who wrote that
anonymous letter, andtoev-
ery lastone of you whosniv-
eled up to the Select Com-
mittee and denigrated our
beloved chapter, we know

who youare. Your tires will
not be slashed, nor will we
hire swarthy assailants to
grect you in the shadows.
We, at Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon, arc well above such
petty retribution.

We intcnd to ruin your
lives.

Have you snitches
thought about life after
Davidson inaruthless world
where Leslie will not be there
to protect you. Economic
necessity will drive you into
our domain. Just what do
you think the thousands of
Davidson Hoddys have done
upon graduation? Taught
fourth grade? No, they have
stepped into the rich, south-
ern, white, male network that
controls the better half of
America. Banking, law
firms, textiles, South Caro-
lina, the U.S. Senate; you
skirts want to work wherc?

Youinterview foranicc,
cozy job, say, ata bank. You
have a wonderful interview.
President of Rusk, Hall
Counsclor, and PCC repre-
sentative all color your res-
ume. ‘The man or woman
behind the desk (it is a me-
nial job) will forward your

file to “someone” many
floors up; and take a gucssas
to whom that “somconc”
might be.

Imagine the laughs we
will have over a lunch with
the boys who, coinciden-
tally, arcalsoHoddys. We’ ll
drink a couple of Manhat-
tans, slash your credit rat-
ing, and repossess your
worldly goods. A toast to
your sock-washing housc-
wifcry.

Simply put, your lives
will not be fair. Why should
they be? You datcless fish
consider yourselves clever
for dragging us through the
mud. Plcase fasten your
crash helmets, because some
of your more ambitious
pecrs, I think you call them
feminists, will find out the
hard way (pardon the pun)
that the glass cciling is shat-
terproof, and we viciously
vengcful SAE’s plan to-tise
every Icgal...no, available
means to lower it further.
Meanwhile, the crocodile
crics, and the black list grows
longer.

Sincerely,
The Sig Alphs

A Friend Writes

Well Freclove, I decided
to do it. I’ve become a pro-
fessional bull rider. My par-
ents knew it was inmy blood,
my friends knew it, youknew
it, and even I
knew it. I just
couldn’t deny
my true calling
any longer.

I was think-
ing to myself,
“Whatdoesare-
cent’ graduate
with a B.A. in
History do?
Grad school?. .
. No, total cop-
out. Becomethe _
Vice-President of a com-
pany?... Tried it. Getmar-
ried? .. . Right! Then it hit
me!--Pro Bullriding! Noth-
ing else to do, why not?

Sure, it’s not the most.

intellectually stimulating of
sports, but it beats the shit
Out of wearing a suit. What
is it like to ride a ton of
nostril-flaring, ball-break-

ing, shit-stinking beast that
wants to stick his horns in
your rectum? I’m glad you
asked. Well, it’s a lot like
Bar-B-Q’ing chicken. No,

really, it’s like NASCAR
without brakes.

As you can sce in the
picture, I’m now being spon-
sored by NIKE. They’ve
even changed their slogan
because of me. Instead of
“Just do It,” theirnew catch-
phrase is “Shit, why not?”
L. L. Bean is another spon-
sor of mine. Bet you’ve

never scen an Anorak on the
back of a butt-kickin’ mule
on stcroids! Seems that the
Bean people got sick of their
surf-casting, buoy-collect-
ing, Yankee-Pot-
Roast-Eating im-
age. In fact, Mr.
Bean himself was
heard to say . .
.’$*%! this pansy-
ass Fly-Fishing
shit, we’re going
to sponsor us
some bull riders!”
Needless to say
they promptly
called ol’ Jeffer-
son. Yep, things
are lookin’ red bright for this
city kid turned macho bo-
vine rider.

Being a rookie on the
tour ain’t exactly the most
desircable position in Bull-
Riding; but don’t worry, I’m
gonnamakeit! I'll keep you
informed.

--Jeff
