THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 2 , 1992 9

I Am an American:
Reflection on Black History Month

By Lenny Mac Allister
Tam an American.
Icelebrate, believe in, and live
by the colors which make up our
flag. I see the red and remember
the blood shed by our American
fathers to uphold democracy, to
uphold equality and freedom, and

to establish peace. I see the white

and envision the clouds of the great
sky above us; 1 envision the purple
mountains majesty and the amber
waves of grain which make the
land of this country so beautiful. I
see the blue and I feel the brother-
hood between my fellow Ameri-
cans; I see the Dodger Blue, the
blue of our Olympic teams and the
blue of America’s teams. I relish
our tradition and the celebration of

our leaders, our victories, and our |

beliefs through holidays, events,
folklore, and the telling of our his-
tory, like we Americans so often.
do with worthy people and events.

I am an American.

I, like our forefathers, live ina
colony (this colony of Davidson
College), hoping that this originat-
ing colony could become a model
society, full of quality citizens, in
the hopes that these citizens could

expand in number and be influen-

tial to all those around, I, like
Thomas Jefferson, come to a col-
ony, looking for relief from reli-
gious andcultural oppression, look-
ing for the perfect society where
there is freedom of all natures. For
this, Iam on the battlefields, fight-

inga world-wide waragainstigno-

rance, fear, and violation. I am
fighting for a world independent
ofthese enemies, so thatthe knowl-
edge and other good that I have to
offercan be influential to the world

around me. As I do this, I am.

spreading my American colors by
protecting the American ideas and
beliefs; 1am waving my American
flag through expressing all my
cultures and my individuality, part
of the collective individuality

which makes America what it is. I
am an American through being in
tune, knowing that my identity is a
vital ingredient in the United States
melting pot; I realize that my color
adds richness and that my culture
adds spice to the mixture that my
American sisters and brothers stir
together.

I am an American.

It is not that my voice is any

louder or any ruder than any other
American voice; my voice is not
used to beg, or whine, or complain
any more than any other American
voice is. It is only that my voice
may be sharper, for the truth and
contrast of coloris painfully obvi-
ous when there is wrong, but to
accept this pain and realize the
meaning behind itrather than deny
or ignore it is a step of positivity;
there is much pain in childbirth,
but the end result is life.
_ It is not that my walk is any
cooler, or my thoughts any dirtier,
or my presence any scarier, than
any other American’s. So often, I
am the victim when I walk down
the dark alley, when I walk the
pathways at night, as the guns fire,
the comments fire, when the heads
droop and the walking paces
quicken. My nature is not of vio-
lence or trouble; my American
nature is to share and to be confi-
dent, to be proud and to be respect-
ful: My culture is community; my
religion is love.

Iam an African-American.

To say. this is to. say that my
Americati subculture of African-
America is special, that this cul-
ture, full of my people’s experi-
ences as well as my own, is unique
unto all others, yet similar to the
subcultures of other Americans and
people of the world solely in their
individualities. To say this is to
know, to teach, to show, that the
ingredient of my African-Ameri-
can culture is as important to the
melting pot as all the rest; that the
final result of the American mix-

Joe Cook and Blair Harkness:

Residence Hall Noise Spark Call for “Quiet Dorms"

that the noise problem is more

Although no changes have
been made in the current excess
noise policy yet, the following
groups have discussed quiet hours:
the CCRL, the Educational Policy
Committee, the SGA, the faculty
asa whole, and the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee. Recent concern
on behalf of some faculty mem-
bers about noise levels in dorms
and its adverse effect on student’s
academic performance prompted
a survey of Hall Counselors and
Resident Advisors concerning
excess noise. 3 .

Joe Cook presented the com-
pleted report to the SGA on Tues-
day, February 25. The Senate
unanimously approved the recom-
mendations.and voiced consider-
able opposition to the establish-

“mentofa “quiet” dorm at this time.

The SGA hopes this issue will be .
addressed by those more closely _

related to the situation: the student
body, the Dean of Students, and

the Residence Life Office.
The results of the survey show

prevalent in freshmen areas, but
even in these areas an overwhelm-
ing number of Hall Counselors feel
that the current policy is both ade-
quate and appropriate. This data
warrants further éducation about
the current policy for addressing
excess noise while not necessitat-
ing new policies or guidelines.
The current policy’s basic
premise instills a sense of personal
responsibility andrespect for other

‘people. As stated in the ‘91-92
Student Handbook on pages' 9 and

10:

“Tf your rights to sleep or study in
the room are being violated you
should consider these options:

1. Speaking to the person or per-
sons causing the disturbance and
asking them to quiet the noise;

2. Contacting your R.A. or Hall
Counselor, if the above does not

- work; or

3. Contacting Campus Police, if

the noise is still a problem.

4.-If unsatisfied with solution,

_turerelies on this ingredient. To be

of my culture is to know that I must
use my words and my beliefs as
weapons to kill our African-
American and American enemies
of ignorance, prejudice, and_un-
wanted conformity; these evils are
what Thomas Jefferson and Dr.
King fought against, what Mal-
colm X and Patrick Henry died
fighting against in pursuit of free-
dom, and what you and I look eye-
to-eye with today. Toembrace and
to respect the African-American
culture is to see and to know that
my African-American sisters are
as beautiful and as worthy as our
blond-haired and blue-eyed Ameri-
can. sisters, and that my African-
American brothers are as capable
and as intelligent as other Ameri-
can counterparts; that for every
Madonna, there is a Jasmine Guy,
and that for every Thomas Edison,
there is a George Washington
Carver. To be proud of the African
as wellas the American is to know,
to show, and to teach that the lead-
ers from Black America were just
as important, as powerful, and as
influential tothe American society
as others were. It is knowing and
showing that Fred Hampton’s lead-
ership and actions to feed and help
the homeless’ and poor in the late
sixties and early seventies were as
helpful and worthy of praise as
Billy Crystal’s Comic Relief ef-
forts are today; it is to know and
make it understood that Dr. King
and Malcolm X were as vital to the
shaping of America as we know it
as J.F.K. and Franklin Delano
Roosevelt were.

Fellow Americans, to ask, to ~

demand, that my culture, (this

African -American culture), my -

leaders, and our plight be exam-
ined, studied, understood, andcele-
brated, is not for me to be rebel-
lious or radical, separatist or racist;
itis merely for me to be American.

contact the Director of Residence
Life or the Dean’s office during
business hours.”

’ While we recognize the con-
cer expressed by some faculty

_ members, we believe that stricter

enforcement of the current policy
is preferable to any of the drastic
measures recently suggested. The
most extreme suggestion calls for
the establishment ofa “quiet” dorm.
To live in this dorm students will
berequired to signacontractagree-

‘ing tolonger quiet hoursand stricter

penalties for violating quiet hours.
Repeated violations will be handled
under the Code of Responsibility.
Unfortunately as of Tuesday the
2th, the Director of Residence

Life. was urged by the Faculty

Executive Committee. to actively
pursue the implementation of quiet
dorms. Because of faculty pres-
sure, Dean Terry directed the Resi-
dence Life Office to circulate a
survey toevery studentasking him

orher whether ornot he/she would

live in a “quiet” dorm. As fellow

Lilly

Continued from page 7

1- Some women have stated publically that at times they feel uncom-
fortable coming to SAE to monitor and/or bartend. In an effort to quell
these fears the brothers of SAE have established a dual monitor/
bartender system. When a woman ison duty there will be a brother on
duty with her at all times. Likewise, when a brother is ‘on duty then a
woman will accompany him. Allowing two people instead of one to
perform these duties will not only increase communication between
various members of many houses but also make the monitor and
bartending jobs more enjoyable.

2- We also have adopted, from the SAE National Office, a new

method of judicial process within the fraternity. This new system is an
elaboration on a former system that existed in the house. The Execu-
tive Judicial Board has the supreme authority to make all decisions con-
cerning proper sanctions for any brother who has failed to exhibit
gentlemanly behavior. The National Office has been informed of this
and is in full concordance with our decision. The punishments levied
will be disclosed fully tothe entire house and to the Dean of Students.

3- Any brother who exhibits offensive, drunken behavior at a social
function will be approached by one or more members ofa select enforce-
ment committee within S AEconsisting of the President, Vice President,
Social Chairman, and Warden. The person will be informed of his con-
dition and promptly taken from the party. If necessary the offending
brother will besummoned to appear before the Executive Judicial Board.
Visitors to the SAE house are urged to inform the President or Social
Chairman about brothers who are displaying ungentlemanly behavior.

4- In order to avoid confrontations where SAE brothers are anatongized
by outsiders SAE will hire a security guard for all closed date fuctions
held at the SAE house. The security guard will be furnished with a guest
list made by the brothers before the party. Any person not appearing on
this list will not be allowed in the party unless approval is granted by the |
President.

5- [This last option has not been voted on by the house at this time, but
will be on March 3, 1992.] Any visitors from other schools who wish to
attend a social function at the SAE house first must be taken to the
campus police station by amember of SAE (usually the President or Vice
President) where he or she will record all pertinent information relating
to who he or she is visiting, where he or she will be staying, home and
school addresses and telephone numbers, and any other information the |
campus police deem appropiate.

The brpitiers of SAE feel that these are logical and necessary steps
which must be taken to avoid unnecessary and unfortunate events from
occuring which might portray the house or the college ina poorlight. We
urge the other Patterson Court houses to follow our lead and adopt these
or similar policies as well. By taking proactive steps to avoid situations
and confrontations before they start we have the opportunity to restore
Patterson Court to what is was intended to be, a safe place of social gath-
ering for the students and friends of Davidson College.

Steven Lilly
President of SAE

students we urge you to accurately |
andhonestly complete this survey.
This survey willdetermine whether |)
there is any student support for a |
quiet dorm.

' We feel that establishing quiet |
dorms would: be detrimental to
renewing the “spirit of commu-
nity” alluded to by Dr. Kuykendall
in his recent letter to the college
community. Quiet dorms would
create another dividing line to ||
segregate thiscampus. Quietdorms
wouldalso avoid the root problem:
disrespect and intolerance for oth-
ers. As students we hope’that the |
faculty will join usin ourcommon |
goal of creating a more open and |}
responsible community. The re- ||
sults of our SGA approved survey |)
deem further resolutions about |
quiethours/dorms unwarrantedand |)
MTINEC ESSARY at this time. }

We will be happy to discuss

any concerns you may have about |
this issue. Please feel free to call ||
us: Joe Cook, x6191 or Blair Hark-
ness, x6804,

