THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor
TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor

SEAN LIND-News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY -Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

The Dabidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost :
College Weekly" HARRISON ROBERTS-Advertising Manager .
; ANDY COOKE-Business Manager

KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager

Yea! We're 18th . . . So What?

U.S. News & World Report released its sixth annual survey of America’s Best
Colleges today, and Davidson actually moved up three spots to number eighteen, after
dropping eleven spots last year from number ten to number twenty-one.

Whatexactly does all of this mean? Are we aslightly better school than last year, but
still not quite as good as we were two years ago? Will the quality of our applicants increase
because we are now one of the top twenty national liberal arts colleges?

The basic answer to these questions is that the quality of a Davidson education has
changed very little in the past few years. Over the years that U.S. News has conducted this
ridiculous annual survey of trying to statistically rank colleges, Davidson has been ranked
fifteenth, twentieth, tenth, twenty-first, and eighteenth.

" Itis rather disturbing the amountof attention that is given to these rankings across the
country, considering the way in which the magazine analyzes and computes the data. U.S.
News has devised its own system of giving certain weights to specific statistics provided
to them by the colleges in areas such as financial or faculty resources, For example,
the magazine can change the weight placed on certain areas that they have deemed
important for a college or university to emphasize. This year the magazine changed the
way in which they weighted the five main categories used to determine acollege’s overall
score: academic reputation, student selectivity, faculty resources, financial resources, and
student satisfaction.

More weight was given to the category of student satisfaction than in years past and
less weight was given to the faculty resources catégory. Since Davidson had a high
ranking in studentsatisfaction (15) andalow ae in faculty resources (51), this change
helped us to move up three places.

But what if next year the magazine decides to change the way in which they weight
these categories once again and instead of benefitting the college as it did this year it
emphasizes categories where we are weak, and as a result Davidson falls out of the top
twenty-five? We would lose national name recognition not because the quality of a
Davidson education had changed, but simply because this respected national newsmagazine
had decided to change the way in which they analyzed their data on colleges.

The top twenty-five is the list highlighted in the magazine and sent out as a press
release to colleges and universities across the country. UNC-Chapel Hill fell out of the
top twenty-five this year, but only to number twenty-eight. Despite a small drop of only
three places, already media, such as the Charlotte Observer with an article headlined
“UNC off list of top 25 schools” (9/18/92), have begun to highlight this basically
inconsequential fact. Even the senior editor of U.S. News, Robert Morse, admitted to the
Observer that, “The statistical difference betwéen 25, 26, 27 and 28 is insignificant. We
make it significant because those 25 get a higher profile in the magazine.” This kind of
thinking serves to show just how out-of-line this survey is, because it perfectly explains
that U.S. News feels like it has the liberty to affect a cOreee s spun Ly mene an
insignificant statistical difference important,

Quite simply, although we have also given the ranking prominent coverage in this
paper, people should realize that this ranking is essentially meaningless, considering the
latitude that U.S. News has in how it conducts this survey. Davidson should not care
whether we are ranked fifth, fortieth or eighteenth. Slight differences in statistical data or
alterations in how the survey is weighted can and do make a large difference in a college’s
ranking.

This kind of ranking is not fair to any of the colleges involved. Schools cannot be
statistically quantified or ranked in order from best to worst. Therefore, it is the
Davidsonian’s hope that this college and others will refrain from taking this ranking
seriously. U.S. News is not helping out the process of applying to colleges, but instead is
providing a huge disservice to institutions of higher learning across the country.

iti

Distributed by Tribune Media Services

Letters

Sutton Responds to Norwood

To the Editor:

Tom Norwood, in his
column of September 15, as-
serts that Davidson College
practices tokenism concem-
ing the recuritment and ad-
mission of African-Ameri-
can students. He is abso-
lutely wrong.

As Interim Dean of Ad-
mission last year, I witnessed
the tremendous effort on the
part of the Admission staff
to recruit and enroll Afri-
can-American students. We
mailed out applications and
brochures to over 3,000 Af-
rican-American students.

Bob Douthit, Associate
Dean of Admission, trav-
elled to high school fairs tar-
geting African-Americans.

every currently-enrolled Af-
rican-American student at
Davidson and all black
alumni, asking their help in
identifying and recruiting
African-American prospec-
tive students.
Every application that ar-
rived from an African-
American was treated with
great care, including letters
and phone calls to the appli-
cants. Tostate that Davidson
really isn’t interested in Af-
rican-American students is
totally false and demeans the
efforts of every person on
the Admission staff, who are
extremely dedicated to re-
cruiting those students.

As Dean; i'senteatetter"t0""

In spite of, or because
of those efforts, we had about
75 applications from Afri-
can-American students;
most years we have between
60 and 90. We had a total
number of applications of

about 2350.

Therefore, only about
three per cent of our appli-
cants were from African-
Americans, but nearly five
per cent of the class are Af-
rican Americans. To sug-
gest that we keep out black
applicants who should be ad-
mitted so that we may prac-
tice tokenism is ludicrous.

Mr. Norwood also fails
to put our 6% (actually 5%)
of African-American stu-
dents ina perspective related

AO OMNEY TIDCTAY Arts CONCRES!

Oberlin College has 8% Af-
rican-Americans, probably
the highest of any such insti-
tution. Amherst, Williams,
and Swarthmore are between
6 and 7.5 per cent. We are
ahead of many other excel-
lentliberal artscolleges, such
as Carleton, Bates, and
Washington& Lee.

While we certainly want
to have a larger percentage
of African-American stu-
dents here, the percentages
atnearly all other liberal arts
colleges arenotsubstantially
higher. In spite of major
efforts to recruit and enroll
African-American students,
liberal arts colleges have not

been remarkably successful
in substantially increasing
the percentages of African-
American students on their
campuses. For one thing,
the Historically Black Col-
leges have seen increasingly
large numbers of applica-
tions, and larger public in-
Stitutions where tuition is
lower have also experienced
gains. :
Asonecan see, the ques-
tion of recruitment and en-
rollment of African-Ameri-
can students is much more
complex than Mr. Norwood
would have us believe.
Rather than accuse the
administraion of racism or
tokenism, students can sign
up for the Ambassadors _

tive students for an overnight
visit. Rather than cast asper-
sions on our admission ef-
forts, students could go visit .
their high schools and re-
cruit for the college.

Every staff member in
Grey House is vitally com-
mitted to recruiting and en-
rolling qualified African-
American students. Mr.
Norwood’s charge of token-
ism concerning their admis-
sion is false and unjust. °

Homer B. Sutton
Associate Professor of
French
Interim Dean of Admission
1991-92

Bring Back WALT

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the
students of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondances to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.
Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:
Watch out! I am com-
ing out of the woodwork!
After four semesters of si-
lence, Ihave decided to voice
my opinions in “The South’s
Foremost College Weekly”
rather than just bitch about
them on Patterson Court.
Where is WALT? It is
high time that this campus
gotan alternative station, run
by the students, to play mu-
sic that college students lis- ,
ten to. Davidson already
has one station (and a very
good one), that plays a clas-
sical music format. WDAV,
88.9 on your FM dial, has
_enough power to reach Char-
lotte and points beyound.

One of WALT’s problems
was not enough power. Belk
could listen to the music, but
those in Cannon had no
chance of hearing anything
but static.

There needs to be a
source on this campus to hear
music from the concerts that
we are so fortunate to see.
The stationsin Charlotte will
play the Red Hot Chile Pep-
pers, but never Phish,
Allgood, or the Beastie Boys.
WALT wouldalsobea good
place to sample the music

from upcoming concerts,
another news source besides ~
the “The Flyer”, andachance

for students to sample the
music reviewed in “The

South’s Foremost.” DCTV
is a wonderful idea, but the
majority of us never see the
messages Or programs until
the trustees agree to furnish
every dormitory room with
cable TV. Everyone, how-
ever, has a radio.

This issue was brought
to the attention of the Trust-
ees last year and was killed.
Itis time they did something
for the students. The Trust- ,
ees have taken something
away from the students. It is
time they give us something
in return.

Sincerely,
Jim Livingston
