THE DAVIDSONIAN

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor
TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor

SEAN LIND-News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY -Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE. Editorial Cartoonist
ALEX DANIEL- Production Manager

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"
HARRISON ROBERTS-Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE-Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager

Here's Hoping Spike Does the Right Thing

Spike Lee is coming to town and it would appear as if students onthis campus have no opinions
on his visit. We urged people to submit their opinions to us so that they could be vented through this
medium, but the only people to reply to our invitation were a few faculty members. Given this, Spike

- Lee’s visit seems to have evoked almost no reactions among Davidson students. But, ticket sales tell
us otherwise. In only three days over 800 tickets were sold to just students, faculty, and staff. It
therefore seems as if people are excited about Lee’s visit and have definite opinions about his
upcoming appearance on this campus, but they just don’t want to make their views public. That’s
just fine, but that doesn’t mean we have to keep quiet...

Nobody will dispute that Spike Lee is a very accomplished filmmaker who has put out some
excellent movies. (All of his movies are reviewed by various members of the community on p.10.)
He has demonstrated his amazing talent at portraying race relations in our society, often successfully
sparking debate. His upcoming movie, Malcolm X, has already created controversy within the
motion picture industry and around the country, especially as a result of Lee’s complaints about
budgetary and time constraints, which he ignored, being placed on his movie. He said that these
limitations were different and much harsher than those imposed on white directors, which could be
true. Lee has also told people to skip school and take a leave from work the day his movie opens.

Controversy is a word that seems to follow Lee, and he also appears to relish in the turmoil that
he has personally caused. Lee once said, “We know that everytime I do something, it’s going to start
something.” Once Lee has made aclaimhe is unlikely to back down from his statements as he is very
firm in his beliefs and opinions.

Davidson has never been the type of school to solicit a ‘big name” simply for publicity and °

Davidson didn’t hire Lee because of his artistic abilities; he was hired because some people in the
administration believed that he was the sole speaker capable of uniting the Davidson community at
this time. The reasons for the absurdity of this belief is two-fold. First, Lee has been known to be
a less-than-thrilling speaker. In a similar appearance at the University of Virginia, the Richmond

Times described a lethargic Lee who, when he finally spoke, did so only “dutifully.” Second, Lee’s ©

past comments hardly qualify him as someone capable of, or even interested in, unification.

For example, he told this month’s Esquire, “Black South Africans are going to have to kill
people....I went to South Africa, I saw those little kids chanting ‘One bullet, one settler.’ It’s gonna
come to that. I’ll be rejoicing. Who knows? We mightsee the same tactic here some day.” Hardly
the words of a great unifier.

Healthy discussions began last spring at Davidson and such dialogue needs to proceed. But is
Spike Lee the impetus we need? The college is spending a substantial amount of money to get Lee,
money that could probably be better spent on programs and activities designed to increase campus
tolerance and unity.

Nearly everyone stands to be offended by Lee. In the past Lee has criticized African-American
students who did not choose predominately black colleges. Lee does not try to bring various
components of a population together. He instead speaks to a specific segment and tells them what
they should do to bring about a change; while alienating the rest of the audience. The Davidson
College community needs to work together, not against each other to ease tension on campus. People
need to be enlightened in order to learn about each specific race on our campus. We do not need
someone who will create or widen divisions, but somebody who wants to work to help our college
to collectively move forward. Things have to happen, but Lee does not seem to be the person who
can help. ;

Maybe we are not giving Spike Lee a chance, but his past interviews and statements have led
us to such a belief. Maybe he will surprise us and give the kind of address, or rap session, that
Davidson needs. That would definitely be welcome. But somebody who has never visited or talked
with members of our campus and knows our community only through articles sent to him out of this
paper and the Charlotte Observer, does not understand Davidson enough to try and solve our
problems. Once again, we do want the community to realize that there are definitely still problems.
Nobody has said that everything is fine. But, we have moved ahead since last fall, and this has been
a result of the campus working together, sharing ideas, and basically just talking with each other to
generate positive suggestions of what should be done. We do not see how, judging from his past
appearances, Spike Lee will provide positive feedback for our college. But we do hope that we're
wrong and Lee breaks precedent to deliver a healthy session that is beneficial, helpful, and
informative for all members of the community. But, we want students to realize that Lee is not a
savior, as many of his recruiters would have us belief. He will open up debate, but maybe next time
we can do it on our own.

It is likely that Lee will “step on toes” next Wednesday night, and few people will agree with
all of his claims. Still, as acommunity which does need guidance in this area, it is important to bring
home the positive and constructive elements of his speech (assuming they will exist). Go hear Spike
Lee next Wednesday. Listen carefully to his message. Decide for yourself the merits of his words.
Most importantly, do not let offensive elements of his speech prevent you from thinking seriously
about the status of race relations at Davidson College. Although we have expressed our doubts, it
is our sincere hope that Lee will be inspiring in a positive manner. In the long run, however, the most
important thing is that he make us think. In that vein, we must continue the process and not simply
forget about our problems a few days after Lee’s visit. Dialogue must be ongoing and not occur only
when inthe eventof some controversial incident evokes concern. Let’s remember that, so next time
others won’t feel like the college has to resort to shelling out a lot of cash to continue campuswide
debates and discussions.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 1992 7
——$—————
mve [pr
si make |e | fe, sh wr
Aa bo | AT THe | PCs 1| Me | eise's
stares Ort | Mout | PT | run) | rane
ag Twe) | WN) vt
(J f if
f | | . | el
a F ae me aS ~~ /

HOSEA ROS] Faves
Se AOCOw Pattie —

Letters

Wildley, Lee Respond to Gullan

To the Editor,

At the Young Demo-
crats vs. Young Republicans
debate held Wednesday, Oc-
tober 7 in the 900 Room,
Republican debater Bill
Gullan turned whathad been
a productive discussion of
campaign issues into an of-
fensive display when he be-
gan his speech by saying that
he was glad to see all of Bill
Clinton’s mistresses who

had come up from Arkansas
to the debate, This remark,
directed toward women in
_theaudience, offended many
who were present. When
the women demanded an
apology, Mr. Gullan de-
fended himself by saying his
comment was simply made
to lighten the mood. Yet his
tactics backfired. His nega-
tive commentary, which de-
graded women attending the

debate, unfortunately re-
moved the debate’s focus
from important issues such
as the environment, the
economy, and educationtoa
massive negative generali-
zation of the women present.
Mr. Gullan’s observation not
only reflects unfavorably on
the party Mr. Gullan sup-
ports, the Republican party,

See "Wildley” on page 9

Curran Reacts to Lee's Visit

To the Editor,

As a newcomer to the
Davidson College commu-
nity, I was not here last year
to see the “tension and divi-
siveness” on thiscampus last
year. But if there are such
problems here (and
Davidson would not be
unique in being a college

community that needs to
come to terms with racial
prejudice and bigotry), then
itcan only be to good to have
Spike Lee come and engage
with usin adiscussion about
racial problems on this cam-
pus. At my graduate univer-
sity, the University of Mas-
sachusetts at Amherst, a

-race-based attack in 11986

onan African American stu-
dent by a group of white
students led to a week long
student takeover of a build-
ing and a two day morato-
rium onclasses, widely sup-
ported by students and fac-

See "Curran" on page 9

Lee's Appearance is Defended

To the Editor:

As _ representatives of
the Union Speakers Com-
mittee and of the Black Stu-
dent Coalition, we would
like to respond to the request
for opinions on Spike Lee’s
up-coming visit to Davidson
College. As was stated in
last week’s editorial, we too
hope that his “visit, and the
inevitablecontroversy it will
bring, will result in a more
aware and enlightened
Davidson community.” We
are concerned about the
ways in which we relate to
each other. We are con-
cerned about the racial bar-
riers that exist between

people at Davidson and in
the larger community. We
have invited Spike Lee be-
cause we are convinced that
his visit will provide a spe-
cial opportunity for us to ad-
dress these problems. There
are several reasons why we
hope for this result.

First, Spike Lee is a na-
tionally, perhaps intemation-
ally known film director and
producer, a Harvard profes-
sor and an activist. Lee is an
educator. His teaching is
not confined to the class-
room ratherit reachesa large
spectrum of society through
his films. His films make us
uncomfortable. They chal-

lenge us to open our eyes
and our minds to the racial
problems that exist every-
where. Lee does not claim
tohave solutions to all of the
existing tensions; however,
he does challenge others to
search within for their own
personal conslusions and
beliefs.

Lee’s up-coming visit
has already sparked much
debate within the college and
surrounding community.
Some may disagree with his
ideas but we hope that many
will find that this is a great
opportunity to discuss their

See "Spike" on page 9

Benedict's View of Lee's Visit

To the Editor,

Why should opinions be
solicited and the fragile
community’s temperature
taken when faced with the
public appearance of one of
the country’s leading film-
makers? Are the people on
this campus — and at the
Davidsonian — so close-
minded, so afraid of opin-
ions and world views differ-
ent from their own that they
would prefer to ignore every
idea, every artist, every book,
every vision of America that
does not have the Good
Housekeeping Seal of Ap-
proval? Your cover story

about Lee’s career and his
films focusses almost en-
tirely on the controversies
they have created instead of
on Lee’s extraordinary ac-
complishments. What’s
wrong with anartist express-
ing ideas that disturb and
confound and trouble his
audience? If artists don’t
‘ challenge our visions, who
will? Dan Quayle? Jesse
Helms? The Hollywood
moviemakers whose efforts

are aimed entirely atmaking |

money for themselves and
whose films promote the
most senseless violence and
sexism imaginable?

Are there really people
at Davidson who would pre-
fer to close their minds to
serious discussion of racial
division in the country? Are
they the same people who
believe in banned books and
banned movies and Patrick
Buchanan’s hate-filled vi-
sion of America? WE at
Davidson ought to rejoice at
the prospect of Spike Lee’s
visit. The fact that some of
us don’t is a sad commen-
tary indeed.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth Benedict

McGee Visiting Professor of
Writing
