THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23,1992

Davidson to Get Supermarket

Dover's Set to Open at S

adler's Square

Photo by Kennon Gues

Local supermarket chain, Doyer's, prepares for its opening soon after Thanksgiving.
The store's located in Sadler's Square Shopping Center, next to Cornwell Drugs

By Sally Stone

The town of Davidson awaits
its newest addition. Dover Super-
market plans to open its third gro-
cery store in Sadler’s Square Shop-
ping Center, next to Cornwell
Drugs. No official date has been
set, but Audy Dover, owner of
Dover’s, said she hopes to open
soon after Thanksgiving.

Dover Supermarket opened its
first store in 1920 in Concord, NC.
They also have a store in Mount
Pleasant. Dover’s is a traditional,
_ full service grocery, committed to

Off-Campus Students

selling “fresh quality products the
way [they were] sold thirty years
ago,” Dover said. His grandfather
began the chain, followed by his
father, and now he marks its third
generation.

Dover’s compares its prices
to Winn Dixie, Food Lion, Harris
Teeter, and Bi-Lo. In quality,
Dover’s only competitors are Har-
ris Teeter and Winn Dixie.

Dover stressed how his store
tries to draw the line between qual-
ity and price; because, as he notes,
“People want quality, but won’t

pay more.” He is especially proud
of Dover’s meat and produce de-
partments, stressing that the store
sells only fresh meats and produce. —

’ Dover welcomes student ap-
plications and he looks forward to
establishing Dover Supermarket in
Davidson, emphasizing thatndone
will ever “beat us in quality.”

Happy! Happy!

Joy! Joy!

Disturb Several Town Residents

By Phil Atchison

In past weeks wails of discon-
tent have echoed in the pages of
local newspapers and the sore ears
of the Davidson administration.
’ Some of the students who make
their homes in the surrounding
neighborhoods of the college have
come under attack for alleged in-
appropriate behavior. Neighbors
have complained of raucous par-
ties and rambunctious revelers.

The inhabitants of 705 North
Main Street were the main focus of

a front page article in the.

Mecklenburg Neighbors section
of the Charlotte Observer. That
article aired neighbors’ complaints
of twenty-four hour drunken actiy-
ity and acts of indecent exposure.

Another off-campus house on

North Thompson Street was men-
tioned for having had, earlier in the
fall, a noisy party and a raging
bonfire. Theconflagration required
the Davidson V.F.D. to extinguish
the blaze.

The town of Davidson has re-
acted quickly to these allegations.
A letter was sent by the town attor-
ney to the owners/landlords of cer-
tain houses reminding them that
under an obscure article of North
Carolina law they could face fines
and/or imprisonment for distur-
bances perpetrated by their ten-
ants.

’ Then there is the threat of an
unused town ordinance which pro-
hibits more than three men of the
same freternity from living together
in the same dwelling.

Ata town meeting on the thir-
teenth of October residents and
students discussed solutions to their
problems. Trey Rust, a resident of

705 North Main, attended the meet-

ing and volunteered to organize a
committee of eight off-campus stu-
dents for the purpose of bettering
the relationship between students
and the town.

“The main problem the neigh-
bors have with students who live
off campus is the noisy traffic of
people coming and going,” said
Rust. “There are a lot of kids
around here whose parents don’t
want them seeing us drink all the
time.” 6

The general concept of this

See "Off-Campus" on page 4

! ; "Where America Shops For Sungiasses*
= (rela belle REVO.

Serenamm O70=Y Maxi Yim’ fey om

|-77 Exit 28, Lake Norman, N.C. (704) 892-6017 2

v

- Senior Friendship Program es
"The Senior Friendship Program is a cooperative effort between
Reach Out and the Davidson Senior Services Center in which students
_are paired with “grandparents” from the community or from the Pines,
Students visit their Senior friends regularly and attend cultural events,
help out around the home, or just sit and chat. The program also has
about five organized “get togethers” per year, and these are usually
held at the Depot behind the Main Street Computer Center. The most
recent gathering was a “Kick Off the Holiday Season” party on
_ Thursday, November 19 at the Depot where all who attended enjoyed
Thanksgiving and Christmas goodies and the first carol sing of the
season with piano accompaniment by Miss Neta Belle Scaraboro.
The Senior Friendship coordinators are currently organizing a
new dimension to the program in which student volunteers go to visit
Senior Citizens in the health care unit of the Pines. There is a need for
students to take an hour per week to read the newspaper, organize
games, or walk and exercise with the residents there. We would be
glad to have more volunteers for the Senior Friendship Program, and
many students have found it to be a very rewarding experience. Please
call Jen -6332 or Suz -6803 if you are interested.
Wonderful Wednesdays
The Wonderful Wednesdays program .provides Davidson stu-

dents with the opportunity to interact weekly with inner city children
of all ages. The Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church sponsors this
program and has come to depend on Davidson students to serve as role
models and teacher’s aides. The church holds “Sunday School”
classes and serves dinner every Wednesday night. This program may
be one of the least known and most enjoyable in the Reach Outsystem.
If you like children, you’ ll love this program. Call Kyle Kinner or Seth

Mccain (X6641) if you would like to become involved.

a,

The Honor System: 7
Hey, Read This Article!

By Matt Bumstead

Well, I fooled you, didn’t I? I
got you to start reading: one of
those boring Honor System ar-
ticles! But as long as you’re here,
why not spend four more minutes
and finish this thing off?

When I last wrote, I was de-
scribing in detail the trial process;
Thad made it through the executive
session, in which the six voting
panel members and the secretary
deliberate for hours about the in-
nocence or guilt of the defendant.

If the defendantis found inno-
cent, all records of the trial are
destroyed immediately. If the de-

fendant is found guilty, the De-
fense Advisers and Solicitors will
each suggest a proper sanction and
will present reasons or mitigating
circumstances that have led them
to suggest that sanction. The Coun-
cil will then return to executive
session to decide upon sanction.
The Council will take into account
the recommendations of the So-
licitors and Defense Advisers ‘in
deciding upon the proper sanction.
In order to decide upon a sanction,
two-thirds of the panel members
must agree in a vote; unless the

See "Honor" on page 3

| RAFTERS
< RESTAURANT |

Serving the best in traditional |
Southern Foods
Tues.-Fri. Lunch: 11-2; Dinner: 5-9
: Saturday Dinner:5-9
he Wednesday-College Night .
| Special on Selected Appetizers (14-Price)
i . Discount on Beer:
Occasional ENTERTAINMENT
__ Weekend Specials include
grilled swordfish and broiled salmon
Entrees include fresh vegetables
To.Go Orders — Daily Lunch Specials
761 N. Main St. ¢ Mooresville. NC
704/663-7322

: THE

