10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 30 1992

ARTS

Prustman

Continued from page 10

Piano Competitions. Last year, he was awarded the prized $10,000
Avery Fisher Career Grant. After studying at UCLA and the Peabody
Conservatory, this young musician advanced quickly in the classical
music world. Prutsman mesmerizes audiences worldwide with his
talented ability and poetic creativity. His performance at Davidson
proved to be the’Concert Series’s last and most successful event of the
year.

Oscars

Continued from page 10

der the intense scrutiny of the many close-ups contained in the film.

Best Actress: Geena Davis, “Thelma and Louise”; Laura Dern,
“Rambling Rose”; Jodie Foster, “The Silence of the Lambs”; Bette
Midler, “For the Boys”; and Susan Sarandon, “Thelma and Louise.” I
wouldn’t mind if any of these ladies took home an Oscar - O.K., I would
be slightly irked if Bette Midler won I mustadmit. My pick here is Jodie
Foster; but she just won three years ago in this same category for “The
Accused,” so the Academy might be a little reluctant to reward her again
so soon. This is anyone’s ball game, but I feel Foster was the best actress
of the year because no one could have carried off her role of Clarice Star-
ling with as much conviction.

Best Director: John Singleton, “Boyz N the Hood”; Barry Levinson,
“Bugsy”; Oliver Stone, “JFK”; Jonathan Demme, “The Silence of the
Lambs”; and Ridleuy Scott, “Thelma and Louise.” Everyone’s still ina
lizzy over Barbra Streisand’s apparent snub in this category, and consid-

ering she was nominated by the Director’s Guild of America for their
award I feel the anger is warranted. However, in my opinion “The Prince
of Tides” was not the most memorable picture ever made. Oliver Stone
has a good shotat this one with his explosive “JFK,” but I think the Oscar
will goto Jonathan Demme for “‘Lambs.” Herecently won the Director’s
Guild of America award and in the past forty some odd years, only three
winners of this award have not gone on the pick up an Oscar as well.

Best Picture: “Beauty and the Beast”; “Bugsy”; “JFK”; “The Prince
of Tides”; and “The Silence of the Lambs.” None of these films left an
indelible mark on the world of cinema except “Beast,” “JFK,” and
“Lambs.” No animated film will ever win best picture, so that means
“Beast” is out. If by some fluke it does win then I will lose any and all
respect that I ever had for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and
Sciences. That narrows it down to either “JFK” or “Lambs.” Both have
an equal chance of winning, but I feel that I should be consistent and go
with “The Silence of the Lambs” for Best Picture. It just won Britain’s
equivalent of an Oscar this past week and its recent release on home
video and pay channels have probably kept it fresh in the minds of voting
Academy members - a definite plus for the film.

You’re probably wondering why I neglected to make predictions for
Best Supporting Actor and Actress. The truth is that I don’tknow much
about these categories, but I'll stick my neck out and say either Juliette
Lewis (“Cape Fear”) or Kate Nelligan (“The Prince of Tides’’) for Best
Supporting Actress, and Harvey Keitel (“Bugsy”) for Best Supporting
Actor. Don’t hold me to these picks though.

Well, I guess that about wraps it up for this year’s predictions. On
March 30 I'll be in front of the tube seeing if my faves win and hoping
that Billy Crystal will be able to make the three hour plus ceremony a
little more watchable. Oh, just like many others I’ll be eager to see what

Cher will (or won’t, rather) be wearing this year. If nothing else, that will

be worth staying up for.

Bumstead

Continued from page 10

try music is measured.
Hank Williams - NOT JR.!!! He is possibly the most widely-known
and revered artist in country music history; and it is difficult to imagine
how great his status as hero and legend would be today had his career not
_ended when he was killed in an auto accident atage 29. Williams’ songs
such as “Hey, Good Lookin’”, “On The Bayou”, and “‘Lovesick Blues”
are among pieces that have become arich part of this country’s heritage;
He is a legend and performer for all times.

And so, another installment of everybody’s favorite column. has
come and gone. As country music goes, the artists I have listed above
head up any list of the all-time greats. You couldn’t go wrong buying
any of their greatest hits compilations. As this year closes, so must this
column (quit applauding); so, please tune in the next few weeks for one
(or maybe two) more little hillbilly tirades.

8 EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

MOVIES at THE LAKE

3:10, 5:15
7:20, 9:25

3:30, 7:00
0: 30

N coe roiy ee
3:10,5:15,7:15,9:15 | 3:10, 5:10, 7:10, 9:10

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

Photo By Gianni Giansanti
tickets can be bought at the Dis-
covery Place box office or through
TicketMaster locations. They cost
$13 each - twice the price of a
regular movie. Still, the music of
the “world’s greatest rock and roll
band” and the OMNIMA X experi-

museum’s executive director, said
the film would not interrupt the
museum’s normal operations and
would only be shown after hours.
On Thursdays and Sundays the
film will be shown at 8 p.m and on
Fridays and Saturdays at 8 and 10

Stones

Continued From Page 10
over more than 80 miles of film.

Discovery Place is hosting the
film as an educational fundraiser

for the museum’s educational pro- p.m. ence are worth the price of admis-
gramming. Freda Nicholson, the For those interested in going, _ sion.

> The B- The xs Noor The

= Rafters = Rafters Rafters
Restaurant Restaurant Resturant

Sandwiches are back for Dinnes at The

Rafters

By popular demand, you asked and we
listened:

Enjoy your favorites: Reuben Club, our
own Mushroom Sandwich or any of our
other old favorites.

Don't forget--We will be serving Mother's
Day 12-9PM
Carnations for all Moms

Serving eis 761 N. Main Street, Casual Attire
ues-Fri. 11- . “Maj j
ether Mooresville Ma jor Credit Cards Ac-
vieetinisio (704) 663-7322 sh rol
. Beer and Wine
DCTV SCHEDULE FOR 3/30/92-4/5/92
Day
Time Monday Tuesday | Wedneeday Thureday Friday Saturday Sunday
8:00 am - 10:30 am piTenee: pee Annoeeeey ‘ ment ‘ ment sa pele aig
Board Board Board Board Board Board Board
: 5 i Joseph w The Announce-
10:30 am - 1:00 pm Heaalh eas News | “Comet” Brodeky Storytellers | Kugelmase ment
A A A A A Announce: | Announce-
1300 pm - 7:00 pm t nt
a ee ea a)
P Joseph “Best of Aa w Anno
7&0 pm’. 9:00 pm | DCTV News | "Comet: | Tp rodeky DCTv" oa Storytelora ment
A A ¢ A Announce- Raneiines: Announce- | Announce-
9:00 pm - 10:00 pm ment ment nt ment
Board Board Board Board Boerd Board Board
Women The :
10:00pm - 1:00am Pesta Kugelmass | DCTV News| “Comet” Reaey ath Bptiokad
Cay sarge . Board

CHANNEL 14 IN YOUR NEAREST LOUNGE OR SENIOR APARTMENT 7

