| THE DAVIDS ONIAN »

NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 : 3

Beaty

Continued from page 1

College where she received mem-
bership in Phi Beta Kappa and
majored inclassicallanguages. She
obtained her doctorate from the
University of North Carolina where
she was a Woodrow. Wilson and
Southern Foundation Fellow. She
was a member of the faculty of
Westhampton College of the Uni-
versity of Richmond from 1960
until 1973, where she rose from

assistant professor to chairman of

the department of ancient lan-
guages.

In 1973 Beaty returned. to
Davidson to serve as Reference
Coordinator for Independent Stud-
ies after the college received a
$50,000 matching grant from the
Council on Library Resources and
the. National Endowment for the
Humanities for the purpose of
making the library a more integral
part of the academic experience.

Also at Davidson, Beaty
headed up. the successful United
Way campaign in 1976, followed
inher father’s footsteps by writing
honorary degree citations for many
Davidson honorees, and served.as
unofficial calligrapher for the mem-

bership diplomas of many -

Davidson organizations. In her
spare time she also taught a Sun-
day School class at the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church

In 4979 Beaty wrote
Davidson:>A History of the Town
from 1835 until 1937. UNC-
Chapel Hill Professor of History

Emeritus William S. Powell called ~

it “a model of local history.” For
Davidson’s sesquicentennial in
1987 Beaty wrote A History of
Davidson College, an update of
the 1923 history written by
Davidson’s first librarian Cornelia

Rebekah Shaw. For DCPC’s ses-
quicentennial in 1987 she wrote A
History of the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church.

“In each of these works she
presented the character as well as
the characters which have brought
Davidson to its place in the sun in
the 20th century, in each she
broughtascholarly insightand lov-
ing sensitivity to the humanness of
struggle and accomplishment in
building our Davidson— town,
college, and church. In each she
reminded us of our past and subtly
reminded us of our challenge for
the future,” stated Park in the May
faculty Resolution.

Beaty also worked with Dr.
Benjamin W. Farley on translating
Calvin's Ecclesiastical Advice
which was published by John Knox
Press last year.

Some of her hobbies included
painting and playing on her second
hand upright piano.

Park wrote in the May Reso-

lution, “Because youhave followed.

Seneca’s bidding that ‘I am glad to
leam in order.that I may teach,’
and because you have so expertly
taught us in the library classroom
aswell as in the scheduled class-
room, and because you have lov-
ingly chronicled ourcorporate lives
in the town and gown, inspiring
both our appreciation for things
past and our resolve for things to
come, and because you have shown
kindness and patience. as well as
instruction to the seeker, become
an example others who have bur-
dens to carry, and given exquisite
meaning to the term ‘A Daughter
of Davidson,’ we, the Faculty of
Davidson College; "do now pro-
claim in your own native tonguc,
‘Ave Maria,’ Hail Mary. Our
thanks for your presence among

”

US...

REACH OUT
AT DAVIDSON

Arosa House :
The Arosa House service project provides the perfect opportu-
nity to get involved in Reach Out: the time commitment is minimal
and the rewards are great. Arosa House is a home in Charlotte for
abused children who have been taken away from their parents by the
courts, Once a month, students spend a Saturday morning working to
make Arosa House a better environment for the children. The
volunteers paint rooms, clean the house and yard, and do other odd
jobs. The work done is greatly appreciated by the staff and children.
If you are interested, please call Janet (-6836), Jennifer (-6836), or
Rachel eet

= Tpaviileon AIDS Project _

Help us stop the spread of AIDS! This is the first year of the Davidson |
AIDS Project; dedicated to educating the community of Davidson
about AIDS and its effect on AIDS patients. While the primary
purpose of the ‘Project is to raise awareness in the community,
Davidson AIDS Project will also serve. AIDS patients by providing
support, understanding, and compassion for those living with AIDS.
Students will have the ‘opportunity to be a buddy for: an AIDS victim,
work in a home for women with AIDS, or be a big sister/big brother
for a child whose parent has AIDS. The Project is working closely
with Hospice at Charlotte, Metrolina AIDS Project, SHOC, and the
Pre-Med Society. ‘There will be an informational meeting at8:30p.m.
on Wednesday, September 9, 1992 in the Big Screen Room. For more
information or questions, call Carla (-6644) or Daci (6639).

Reach Out will feature two of its programs each week in the
Davidsonian.,

Presidential Candidate
Clinton Stumps in the Piedmont

By Chris Hood
“We're here because we want
to pull this country together,”

Democratic presidential candidate ~

Bill Clinton told a crowd of 2,500
Tuesday at the Piedmont Triad In-
ternational Airport in Greensboro.
Among those attending were ap-
proximately 20 Davidson students,
many of whom are members of the
college’s Young Democrats orga-
nization.

The Arkansas governor uscd

the opportunity to continue focus-.

ing onthemessuchas the economy,
education, the end of the Cold War
and the family. “The American
Dream hasn’t failed,” he promised
the crowd, “but (President Gcorge)
Bush’s policies have, and we’re
here to change them.”

On the issuc of the economy,
Clinton attacked the “trickle-
down” theory .closely associated
with the Bush administration. He
stressed the importance of creating
jobs in the private sector and offer-
ing incentives such as tax breaks
for those willing to invest in Amcri-
can businesses. Highlighting suc-

cesses in Germany and Hawaii,
Clinton called for the United States
“to finally join the ranks of other
industrialized nations of the world
and provide affordable health
care.”

A large contingent of those
present consisted of students from
local high schools and colleges.
“The doors of education ought to
be open to everyone,” Clinton spe-
cifically told this group. Noting
the dramatic increase in ‘college
costs inrecent years, he highlighted
his policy of offering financial aid
toall. This assistance could be paid
back in the pe of an apprentice-
ship program or a percentage of
income carned after school.

With the widespread fall ‘of
communism and the demise of the
Cold War, Clinton asserted that it
was time to “put our own pcoplc
first.” He called for more attention
to domestic problems, stating that
“most Americans are working
harder for Icss money than they
were 10 years ago.”

When Bush supporters in at-
tendance began waving pro-life

signs and chanting, Clinton spoke
on the importance of uniting
Americans. “We need to work to-

gether to decrease the number of

abortions through adoption and
education....We can be pro-family
and pro-choice,” he assured thé
crowd.

Clinton also spoke about his
vice presidential nominee, Sen. Al
Gore, D-Tenn. According to
Clinton, Gore’s views prove that

. “wecan be pro-labor and pro-busi-

ness. We can be pro-environment
and pro-growth.”

“This election is about the
courage to grasp for the future
against being rooted in the past,”
he concluded. “Amcrica is a ‘We
can’ country, and we can bring
America back.”

Write For
News!!

SPRING BREAK '93-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH &

GO FREE!!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski pack-
ages also available. Call 1-800-648-4849.

RESERVE OFFICERS’ TRAINING CORPS

Caroline Lemley, Junior, Davidson Colle Ze

"AN ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP.
PAYS OFF TWICE"

Caroline's four-year Army ROTC Scholarship is paying for most of
her Davidson College education. It's worth over $12,000 per year in
tuition, fees, and books. It also provides her $100 a month for personal
expenses. But it's paying off even more with leadership experience and
officer credentials impressive to future employers.

Caroline is one of many Davidson College students who have won
four-year and three-year Army ROTC scholarships. ‘You can, too!
Enroll in MIL 101 "The US Army Today” to find out if being an officer
is right for you. If it is, then go ahead and apply for a three-year
scholarship. You have nothing to loose and a future to gain.

Contact Major Mike Hawkins, Belk Hall, Room 2, 892-2165.

AoE
INF
ass

ARMY ROTC

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE ¢ ‘AURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

