THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, MARCH 2,

1992 11

Music Groups Preparing to Tour Over Spring Break

By Susan Sheffield

Come March 6, while most
people are going to Floridato begin
this season’s tan, the Wind En-
semble and the Concert Choir will
be going on tour to do programsall
over the country. The Choir is
representing the school while ev-
fryone else will be recuperating
from the two-month hiatus from
leisure. Fortunately, the music is
good and the conductors are char-
ismatic.

Originally, the music tours
were' a way for the less-widely-
traveled students of yon to see the

cultural centers that they other-
wise might miss: New York, Chi-
cago, Washington, New Orleans.
This year, add Disney World. Now,
students do not get terribly dis-
tracted by the prospect of going to
New York yet again, so they con-
centrate on the music.

The Choir and Wind En-
semble/Jazz Band perform at
churches and schools on the way to
their destinations, preferably in
towns where students live. To
minimize the cost to the music
department (who pays for every-
thing except food) students stay

with host families, whose generos-
ity toward total strangers is aston-
ishing.

This year, Dr. Lawing will
take his merry band of brigands to
Chicago. They will play concerts
there, Virginia and in Wisconsin,
with a program that includes
Vaughan-Williams,
Lingnschootn, Dixieland and Big
Band standards. Their home con-
cert, which should be very good,
will be. on Tuesday, March 17.

Dr. Saunders, Ellen Brewer
(the accompanist) and the choir

stops in Charleston, Savannah and
Winter Park, Florida. The choir is
singing Britten’s Rejoice in the
Lamb, the text of which was writ-
ten by a man who was institution-
alized, a section of American
music, Brahms and more. The
concert will be Wednesday, March
18, and should also be a fine op-
portunity to hear music that is not
ordinarily performed by college

, choirs.

Anecdotally, in 1981, the year
Donald Plott, a wonderful conduc-
tor, died, Dr. Mary Nell Saunders
was asked to take over the program

Grammys

Continued from page 10.
Reba McEntire’s “For My Broken Heart,” Kathy Mattea’s “Time Passes
By,” Trisha Yearwood’s “She’s in Love With the Boy”, and Tanya
Tucker’s “Down to‘My Last Teardrop”.

The Grammys often favor the records that show the most depth of
talent, diversity, and capability. Number one songs and hype mean little
at the Grammys. Any of the nominees, with the possible exception of
Mattea’s album, would have been a justifiable and deserving choice; but
what a sweet moment it was for Nashville and all fans of music when
Mary-Chapin Carpenter’s name was announced. In a short period of
time, she has become the darling of both the industry and of the critics;
and the fans haven’t exactly shunned her.

Carpenter, a Washington, D.C. native anda graduate of Brown, is an

all-around artist whose efforts in her short career (she has released only —

three albums) have brought her vast, somewhat unexpected amounts of
praise. In her acceptance, she wasn’t hokey, sappy, or corny; she wasn’t
trite or arrogant. She was almost bursting with joy, however, as she
glided out from backstage to receive her award. Carpenter’s bubbly per-
sonality and sparkling smile warmed the crowdas she said, “I don’tknow
if ’llever have a chance like this again, so I’ve got a long list [of people
to thank]”. Carpenter is extremely bright and well-spoken; yet, on this
night, the right words were hard to come by. :

Although she has several top-ten and top-five songs, and USA Today
picked her to win, she’s not the biggestname, and she’s certainly not pure
country. But her writing is some of the best of any. format that anyone
has heard; she writes purging, cathartic ballads as deftly as she composes
sharp and clever, upbeatsongs. Herrich, full alto can take on lively elec-
tricity as well as a smooth, gentle; and fluid purity. Her live show, one
Ihave seen several times, is a delight; she exudes a remarkable warmth
and a fiery passion for the stage, She is even a great guitarist.

Once thought of as folky, she has displayed tremendous depth and
versatility throughout her three albums; her fourth - not far off - promises
tobe a jewel. Carpenter is, in my estimation, the finest all-around female
talent in country music; it was wonderful to see someone with so much
to give in all aspects of life so justly rewarded. If you haven’t had a
chance to hear her music, I heartily recommend her albums State of the
Heart and Shooting Straight in the Dark to all listeners, no matter you
think of country. Her music is powerful, thought-provoking, and a

pleasure to hear.
Phish

Continued from page 1
ganization, or a song list long enough to last two sets.” Well, I thank the
big guy whoever he is for his generosity in giving Phish a start. Go buy
A Picture of Nectar for a truly composed, truly performed, and truly
amazing musical experience.

Next Week: Don’t know yet.

To: All rising Soph, Jrs. and Srs.
From: CHOICES-Davidson's Alcohol &
Substance Abuse Prevention Program

Would you be interested in helping to change -
drinking attitudes on the Davidson campus?
Become a CHOICES peer educator for the next

| academic year. Come to the Counseling center
in the basement.of the Union for information
and an application form. Applications must be
completed by March 22nd. Interviews will
follow the following week.

are going to Disney World after

in order for the choir to be able to
do a tour and spring concert. This
was also the year that several stu-
dents convinced their host families
to give them their cars so that they
could go to a reception given in
their honor by the Williamsburg
alumni chapter.

The hosts probably realized
that this was not so when their
charges staggered in only minutes
before they were to be driven to
meet the bus.

2 WR ITE FOR
ARTS
Contact Stancel.
Riley at -6397 -
Filling in for :
the vacationing
Chris Hoveland

ALL STEREO SOUND

Miedicine = 3:10,5:20,
fen an 7:30, 9:40

The Prince of Tides (R) >" Ps ae
Donny MOM
SHOOT

-3:20, 5:20,
fey «7:20, 9:20

3:15, 5:25,
7:35, 9:45

“THE HAND
THAT.
THE CRADLE" (RA)

| f2 EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75. ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6P

MOVIES at THE LAKE

“_]

I-77 EXIT28 CORNELIUS
892-3841

e Great Mouse Detective
(G) 3:00 & 5:00

Love. Friendship.
AERIED GREE
TOMATO

Bugsy (R)
7:00 & 9:35

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

OFFICE

ELECTION SIGN-UPS
FOR CATEGORY IV
WHICH INCLUDES:

3 CLASS SENATORS
FOR RISING
SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS,
& SENIORS

MARCH 16-19
IN THE DEAN OF STUDENTS

& DUNLOP
BFGoodrich

18816 Statesville Rd.
- MON.-FRI. 8AM-5PM; Cornelius, NC 28036
SAT8AM-1PM (704) 892-9218
FULL LINE OF GENERAL AUTO REPAIR ON AMERICAN AND
FOREIGN CARS
New and Used Tires v4
Computer Tire Balancing Air Conditioning
Computer Wheel Alignment NC State Inspection
Brakes ’ Transmissions
Tune Up Trailer Tires & Service
Major and Minor epee on Gasoline &
Diesel Engines Welcomed

GOODFYEAR
Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center

IN TERSVIL fies ite

fut TRE iN
H \
iio
CORNELIUS Hwy 73

