MONDAY, OCTOBER 12 1992 5

Ths t6dk os Ban,
Poems bank
the trial process.

have to take place, has informed

of the meeting _
place and time; and everyone as-

No Council member but the Sec- ©
retary knows whothe defendantis —
upon his or her arrival. When the evidence, the two sides present
defendant appears, a Council rebuttal evidence, which is fol-
member may feel that a tie to the —
defendantortothesituationshould panel of Honor Council members
disqualify him/her from serving — may call or recall any witnesses
onthe trial. Thatmemberinforms whose testimony iey feel is rel-
the Chair and Secretary of the evant. —

‘|sembles at the designated spot. toy ten gusto i
|. Sie melvin besnestews

lowed by a period.in which the —
contrary; there must be no logical

conflict; having signed the confi-  Throughouta hearing, there is
dentiality statement that all in- great emphasis on the idea that,
volved sign (in a closed hearing), _: although the proceedings are for-
he/she leaves. The Secretary then mal, everyone should be clear-
finds a suitable replacement from —_headedandcomfortableatall times.
the same class as the member who Therefore, if anyone feels that a
has left, and the procedure carries _ break is necessary at any time - to
on. think, get a drink, etc. - the Chair

Onceeveryonehas signed the will call for a short recess. Al-
statement of confidentiality, the though thenumerous shortrecesses
hearing may begin. Afterthestate- draw out an already long process,
ment of charge is read aloud by _ it is important that those involved
the Solicitors, it is asked whether not be distracted at any time.

_Cess, ibs be aga firstexecu-
. . tive session.

find that they are faced with “clear
and convincing evidence” to the

way that a violation could not
have taken place. A panel mem-
ber voting guilty not only believes
that there was a violation, but he
or she - given the facts - also
knows it. There must be a two-
thirds vote (4 of 6) to find the
accused guilty; the secretary con-
tributes heavily to the discussion
as a free-thinking devil’s advo-
cate but does not vote.

; The next installment will con-
tinue discussing the hearing pro-

November Date Set for Third
Annual Bone Marrow Registry

By John Ramey

On November 18, the Project
Life Committee will hold the third
annual Bone Marrow Drive. It will
be from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the
Morrison Room. The Red Cross
will be typing students, faculty,
and members of the college com-
munity by drawing two tablespoons
of blood from each volunteer.

Bone marrow transplants of-
fer a potential cure for leukemia,
Aplastic Anemia, and other blood
diseases. Patients who cannot find
a bone marrow match among fam-
ily members must search the Na-
tional Bone Marrow Registry. The
chances of finding a match through
the Registry is 1 in 20,000. As the
number of volunteers increases,
however, the odds of finding a
match also increase. A bone mar-
row transplant saved my life, and I
hope you will consider helping
other patients like me.

On June 29, 1990, I was diag-
nosed with Aplastic Anemia. At
the time, I knew nothing about this
disease, blood counts, or bone
marrow transplantation. I had al-
ways been healthy, but something
like Aplastic Anemia or cancer
just creeps up on some people.

Aplastic Anemia is not a can-
cerous or contagious disease. It is
simply the dying of bone marrow,
the fluid organ that produces red

and white blood cells and platelet.
Without your bone marrow, you
will die either by excessive bleed-
ing or from infections. The bleed-
ing is fromalack of platelets, which
clotcutson your skin as wellasany
minor internal bleeding. The in-
fections become hazardous be-
cause without white blood cells,
you have no immune system; then
even common colds can be dan-
gerous.

Theaccepted cure for Aplastic
Anemia is a bone marrow trans-
plant. This is where genetically
matched bone marrow from a do-
nor is introduced into the patient.
Finding a genetic match is the first
serious obstacle. Siblings and rela-
tives are the most likely candi-
dates. I fortunately received mine
from my father, soI did not have to
search the National Registry.

Before I could receive thenew
bone marrow, my dying marrow,
as well as the remains of my im-
mune system had to be destroyed
by intensive chemotherapy. This
was done so that when the new
marrow was introduced into my
body, my oldimmune system could
not attack it. On October 29, after
five days of chemo, I was given my
father’s marrow. In order to avoid
infection, I was in the same room
in the hospital for 42 days, and I
had to live close by the hospital for

Baker

Continued from page 1

Bob Price, assistant athletic
director in charge of business, ech-
oed the comments of Millen and
Beyer. He said, “We don’t see the
need being expressed” and that
extending the hours would consti-
tute an “absolute financial prob-
lem.”

Price, however, expressed a

willingness to try the extended
hours on a trial basis. Records of
student usage at these late hours
indicate a lack of need, but Price
said that if students actually want
to_use the facility on Friday and
Saturday nights then he will make
an effort to accommodate their
wishes. Price emphasized that the

administration needs student input,

and is interested in what students
have to say, because he said, “their
the one’s paying the bills.”

a few months afterward. The cru-
cial time period after receiving a
transplant is 100 days. If you can
last this long without your body
rejecting the marrow and the mar-
row not reject your body, your
chances improve dramatically.

I survived the first 100 days
with only a handful of frightening
experiences. However, after the
crucial time period, when I was
home. once again, my bone mar-
row began to attack tissues in my
body. This is called graft-versus-
host disease and is dangerous to
transplantees. I was given medica-
tions which I have had to take until
two months ago. The ill side ef-
fects of these drugs are still being
dealt with, but for the most part my
only struggle now is to get back
into shape.

This isa very abbreviated ver-
sion of my story, but because I had
a match, I am alive to tell about it.
Many of the people I knew in the
hospital could not find matches
among their relatives or on the
registry and are not alive today to
tell others about their struggles.
But, if enough people give two
tablespoons of blood and get their
names on the National Bone Mar-
row Registry, those waiting will be
given a chance.

(Cone om mm

ee ee eee ee
Pater ees eo ;

es es eo Woo ee

Fulton

Continued from page 2

To counter these ever worsening problems, Fulton advocated the
privatization of prisons and specialization of prison and parole projects
aimed at decreasing the number of repeat convictions. Such problems
are especially important to address because the average age of criminals
is steadily decreasing, and therefore many more lives are being wasted
without hope of redemption.

' Privatization, she argues, would bring in the necessary capital to
build much-needed new facilities and remove the cost of such projects
from the taxpayers.

Fulton concluded her speech by highlighting the urgency of the
changes she expounded by eloquently stating, “Criminal and justice are
becoming mutually exclusive. That is not the purpose of the system.
Unless drastic changes are made, the criminal will perpetuate but justice
will die.”

Judge Fulton’s speech was co-sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program
and the Black Student Coalition.

Lavrov

Continued from page 1

portance of friendly, bilateral relations with each neighbor of the
Commonwealth of Independent States. A tight historical interdepen-
dence exists but, more significantly, he says a human interdependence
remains. Although he joked that the name “commonwealth” is .a
misnomer because currently they are neither a common group, nor are
they wealthy, Lavrov remains optimistic about the ability of each nation
within the Confederation to make real strides under Russian leadership.

Lavrov also addressed the current state of the Russian military. He
said that the end of the Cold War has brought inevitable change to
military policy across the globe and that Russia is rewriting their military
doctrine along the same lines as the United States. Although Lavrov said
that arms sales are “an important element of foreign policy for many
countries,” Russia is in favor of tightening international cooperation on

sales.

NCSL Prepares
for October Council

By T.K Tibby

Only a summer has past since
AnniKirkland was firsthighlighted
in the Davidsonian. Then, she was
justa freshperson who had “rattled
the North Carolina Student
Legislature(NCSL) with her elo-
quence, confidence and intelli-
gence.” Kirkland’s achievements,
which include being 3-0 with her
written and sponsored legislation
in NCSL, earned her the nickname
of “Sparky” by past Delegation
Chairperson Warren Cooksey be-
cause he said that “in NCSL there
is always that new individual who
has agenuine enthusiasm and mag-
netism that attracts and infects oth-
ers with a love of legislation. This
individual is a spark of hope for the
organization.” At last year’s An-
nual Legislative Session, she was

‘voted by her colleagues as the Best

New Delegate. This was both an
honor and an indication of her fu-
ture because this award was also
given to last year’s Speaker of the
House and the newly-elected gov-
emor.
Kirkland’s spark has not died.
Now the Chairperson of
Davidson’s Delegation to NCSL,
she has outlined several goals for
this year to increase mer besship

YO!!!

The Davidsonian needs
"PHOTOGRAPHERS! If you have
either cnperest Be skill, call Casey —

recruit more schools and minority
Students to NCSL and to host an
Interim-Council [a monthly meet-
ing of the NCSL where legislation
is debated].” Kirkland has
achieved two of her goals thus far.
Her delegation membership has
quadrupled and she was successful
in her bid for the October Interim-
Council, which will be held at
Davidson October 23,24, and 25.
Kirkland believes that “the Interim-
Council will provide an opportu-
nity for Davidson to improve its
reputation in NCSL and also it will
allow interested Davidson students
the opportunity to see first-hand
what NCSL is all about.” Over
fifteen differentcolleges willcome
to Davidson to debate bills and
resolutions, and also to elect the
Speaker of the House, which
Kirkland plans to run for.
Kirkland and her delegation are
extending an invitation to all inter-
ested studentsand faculty to attend
the sessions of the Interim-Coun-
cil which will be held in Perkins
Auditoriumon October 24 from
11:00a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and on
October 25 from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. For more information con-
tact Anni Kirkland -6303 or T.K.
ven Libby. -6011.

J

Ge
