THE DAVIDSONIAN. ADVERTISEMENT wonpay, marcy 23, 1992 9

Committee's Report

SAEs regularly hold positions of distinction on the Davidson College campus, including: Honor Council members, Hall Counselors, CCRL members, Code of Responsibility Committee

members, SGA members, Union Board members, Senior Class Gift Committee members, Varsity athletes (this year with oné team captain and one MVP), Phonathon chairmen, Stu-
dent Campaign Committee members, etc.

8- Page 8, same paragraph, “This committee concludes that their [SAE] abuses differ significantly both in kind and in degree from those of other groups on campus.”
The report then lists 12 things it says the SAEs or its members allegedly have been responsible for since August 1991.

FACT- Individuals who have been responsible for 8 of these 12 things have all formally accepted full responsibility and apologized for their actions. The SAE house, as well,
has made it quite clear to the college community that it does not condone any of these actions (See The Davidsonian, February 10, 1992). If necessary, an appropriate punishment has
been levied toward the individuals involved. It is not just for an entire group to pay a second time for mistakes that were made and paid for previously by an individual.

One of the 12 things listed simply is not true. (See FACT number 2.) ; —

That leaves three things remaining from the original 12. The SAEs, collectively as a house, have addressed each of these concerns in their five point policy that was enacted proac-
tively by the house in an effort to improve relations throughout Patterson Court and on the entire Davidson campus as well. These were published in the Davidsonian on March 2, 1992,
almost two weeks before the committee’s report was issued. The committee made no reference to or acknowledgement of these proactive steps.

9- Page 8, bottom of the page, “In no case has any individual accepted full responsibility for any of these actions.”

FACT- As mentioned above, not only have individuals accepted responsibility for these actions, some have been punished for them by the college. This statement in the report
. simply is not true. , ‘ .

10- Page 11, third paragraph, “Excessive drinking and fighting are commonplace at [SAE] house parties.

FACT- Davidson College and Patterson Court have both admitted that there is an alcohol problem on our campus. To say excessive drinking is commonplace at SAE parties

is implying that SAE is the only fraternity or eating house at Davidson that sponsors parties with alcohol. That is not true. Nor is it true that there is more, or less, drinking that goes
on at parties held at our house. This can be accounted for in a number of ways, such as: checking records in the Dean of Students office to determine how many parties SAE has had
in the last year as compared to other houses on the court, checking records to determine how many kegs were purchased by the SAE house as compared to the other houses on the court.
dt alsois noteworthy to remember that under mandate by the college (unless by invitation only) all Davidson College Patterson Court parties are open to all students. Therefore, it is
not possible to attribute and link a perception of excessive drinking to one house since all members of all houses can and do attend each other’s parties.

As for fights at the SAE house, they certainly are not commonplace. Again, I invite the-committee to research how many instances of fighting have occurred on the entire court
in the last two years, not just at SAE, as that will not give anyone a true picture of exactly what goes on at Davidson College.

11- _ Page 13, third paragraph, “Because of a repeated series of intolerant, offensive, and violent actions and because of the failure of the fraternity or its members to accept
full responsibility for those actions, effective immediately, the President should direct the Dean of Students to suspend the fraternity...until July 1, 1994.”

FACT- In no way was there a series of these types of actions and in each incident that did occur individuals did take responsibility (See explanation, 8).
FACT- The SAE president has spoken with the President of the college about a more rational and logical method of handling any and all sanctions toward the SAE.

The.committee’s report does not point out a large number of things the SAEs have done wrong as a group. It merely cites repeatedly individual actions which have all been dealt
with by the college. However, the committee then recommends suspending the SAEs, as a-group, for over 2 years from Davidson College.

The committee’s report freely uses words like, “perceive,” “alleged,” “appear,” “believe,” and “apparently.” In fact these words are used 15 times throughout the report, an average
of more than one per page. These words, however, appear in conjunction with the SAE house 10 of the 15 times they are mentioned in the report. The proposed punishment is then
said to be based on “fact.” :

The SAE house does not wish to endeavor to portray itself as guiltless. We have acknowledged our shortcomings and our mistakes. We do not perceive ourselves as being perfect
by any means. We do not, however, consider it proper or just for-us to be singled out as the problem concerning issues which pervade other parts of the campus and the entire nation
at the present time. eae

This select committee views fraternities in a negative light. Its underlying goal, it seems, is to abolish them, starting with the SAEs. People naturally segregate themselves into social
groups with other people who have similar likes and. dislikes. This has always been true and will continue to be true, not only at Davidson but everywhere. Davidson, in this regard,
is not different from any othér college or university. The ultimate goal is to have all of these groups exist in harmony with eachother. If SAE did not care about Davidson or want to
make a positive difference here then the house and its leaders would not already have committed themselves to working with the school to bring about positive changes. It is noteworthy
to remember that a group cannot change and make a difference unless it is given the opportunity to do so. This committee has only heard and synthesized one view of SAE. Indeed,
there are many others. ' ;

The committee’s report leads one to think that SAEs, and fraternity members in general, are racist individuals. The committee obviously did not take the time or make the effort
to find out that every national fraternity on the Davidson College campus, at present, has at least one member who is viewed by society at large as being a minority. Some, specifically
the SAEs, have had such members for many, many years. If a fraternity wishes to have a member involved and included in its brotherhood who happens to be of a different race, color,
or religion then it definitely could not view those types of individuals as “different” or “inferior” in any way.

If the school desires to formulate a committee to investigate the entire Davidson Campus then it should speak to and report the feelings of an entire cross-section of the campus.-
The committee, in essence, spoke with people who are, for whatever reason, unhappy at Davidson and its report represents only those findings. If necessary steps are to be taken then

they should come from and benefit all members of the Davidson College community. kh
Aga Peve

‘

FEE ag

Aa jo
J

Alpha Epsilon %

fi

Die
