THE DAVIDSONIAN S P O RT S MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992 15
Schwab, 9:16 before halftime. immediate letdown. Furman’s é
S occer With 37:52 left in the game, Kyle Vosen scored with 35:29 to Volley
Andy Haile scoredonareboundof _ play in the half when sloppy clear-
Continued from page 16 a shot by Hayes to make it 3-0. ing by Davidson let a ball loose Continued from page 16

Ukrop got his second of the game with Deeganoutofthe goal. Three _ and the hitting of Katherine Anderson were bright spots for the Wildcats.
tically efficient offense to upset with 4:16 to go when he shook off and a half minutes later, a break This past weekend, the team travelled to Furman and Wester
the Bruins in Los Angeles. The adouble-team tothe leftofthebox down the left side of the field pro- Carolina for Southern Conference matches. After winning the first game
team had just nine shots, butcon- 20 yards out, broke to the middle duced a goal by the Paladins’ Jay _ decisively against Furman, the Wildcats lost the momentum and the next

verted on three of them. UCLA
took a 1-0 lead about ten minutes
into the game when Eddie Lewis
scored, but might have let down
after that. In the 13th minute, on.a
play that may have been offsides,
Davidson scored the equalizer.
Rob Ukrop lofted a pass to Ben
Hayes, who scored from point-
blank range at the right side of the
‘goal. With 16:37 left in the half,
Ukrop put the Wildcats ahead 2-1
with a shot from 10 yards out.

John Sampers took a ball
through the middle and scored to
seal the victory in the 69th minute.
UCLA hadallowed only two goals
in its first 11 games, but encoun-
tered a Davidson team playing its
best soccer of the season. “The
guys are just playing real well
right now,” coach Charlie Slagle
said. “Everybody knows where to
be.” The convincing win was, of
course, the most important in the
history of the program, Said
Slagle, “I think we’ve finally
reached that new level.”

Davidson 4 Cal State-Ful-
lerton 0

One of the after-effects of the
UCLA win was a sluggish and
scoreless first half against Fuller-
ton; “I was worried we mightcome
out flat after the great game Fri-
day and I was right,” Slagle said.
In the second half the ‘Cats, as
Slagle put it,
(their] game a little bit more.”
Ukrop, on his way to-tournament
offensive MVP honors, scored
twice; Mike Newton and Andy
Schwab also scored.

Davidson 3. UNC-Greens-
boro 0

After a scoreless first half in
which Davidson pressured the
Spartan goal frequently but could
not find the net, the ‘Cats broke
through in the second half. Phelps
“Samurai” Sprinkle scored at
56:10 after a Sampers deflection
for a 1-0 lead. Less than four min-
utes later, Craig Omli’s long
header from 30 yards out found
Hayes, who headed it in for the
goal. Sampers volleyed in a long
cross from Lance Kinerk for the
final goal with 2:10 left.

Davidson 5 Georgia South-
ern 0

The Wildcats remained un-
beaten (4-0) in the Southern Con-
ference with the win; they played
aman up for the final 55 minutes
after the Eagles’ Brian Buback
was issued a red card. Sampers
scored on a goal-front scrum five
minutes in for Davidson’s first
goal, and Ukrop made it 2-0 with
a spinning shot to the lower right

“started playing”

and put a hard, right-footed shot
past the keeper. John Hudson
scored the last goal at 88:20 after

Ryan Northington’s curling shot

hit the right post.

Coastal
Davidson 0

Slagle had said before the
game that the Chanticleers might
be the best: team on Davidson’s
schedule, and after the game said
thatthey hadn’tproved him wrong.
Coastal moved to 13-1 with the
win, but was forced to forfeit eight
of those wins two days later when
the NCAA ruled that some of the
team’s 12 foreign players had
played professionally before com-
ing to America. The win over
Davidson was legitimate because
the players in question were held
out of the game.

Arguably, the key to the game
was Coastal’s physical style of
play. The Chants committed 24
fouls to Davidson’s 11, and the
frequent- stoppages in--play- pre-
cluded any real continuity in the
Wildcats’ offensive attack. But
defensive miscues _ sealed
Davidson’s. fate. Fifteen minutes
into the game, Davidson keeper
Alex Deegan rushed out of the
goal to try to collect a long Coastal
pass, but could only deflect it, and
the Chanticleers’ Rob Williams
volleyed the ball into the open net
from 25 yards out for a 1-0 lead.

Eighteen minutes into the sec-
ondhalf, Davor Seric gave Coastal
a 2-0 lead by beating Deegan with
a superb ‘individual play. When
Davidson’ s transition from offense
to defense was slow, Williams
scored his second of the game with
10:46 to play. Slagle said after the
game thathe wouldn’tcall the game
a dirty one, but asserted that
Coastal’s physical style discon-
certed his team. “We have trouble
against teams that play that physi-
cal,” he said.

Furman 3 Davidson 2

Slagle called Wednesday’s
Davidson-Furman matchup “as
important.a game as Davidson has
ever played.” The two teams en-
tered the game tied for the South-
ern Conference lead at 4-0, and the
winner would earn the conference
title and a first round bye in the
conference tournament. In addi-
tion, a Davidson win would go a
long way toward earning them an
NCAA bid.

Despite all that was at stake,
though, Slagle felt that he didn’t
get his team’s best effort. Ukrop
put the ‘Cats on the board first with
a left-footed rebound of a shot by
Hayes five minutes into the game,
EUs bis bo was a tollowedd by an

Carolina 3

Weyer and a 2-1 lead.

The Paladins took a 3-1 ad-
vantage on Vosen’s penalty kick
in the 41st minute. Ukrop seemed
to give Davidson the momentum
when he scored on.an indirect kick
with :06 left in’the half. The ball
was batted to the left to Ukrop,
wien the ball around the wall
and into the lower right corner.

Naturally, in the second half
Furman played’a more defensive
game in protecting its lead.
Davidson pounded the ball at the
Furman goal for much of the 45
minutes (including a flurry of shots
in the final minutes), but could not
score. Perhaps the best chance came
with 21:30 left, when Ukrop was
fouled just outside the box and
immediately sent the free kick to
Sampers, alone on the right side of
the goal. Sampers’ shot floated high
and caromed off the top of the
crossbar.

After the game, Slagle was
angry at the effort of some of his
players. “We’ve got a couple of
guys,” he said, “that don’t want it,
who are very talented.” He felt
that, though not aytomatic, “‘a[n

NCAA] bid would have been eas--

ily in our hands had we won.”
Davidson 2 Winthrop 1 OT
Withsome difficulty, the ‘Cats
(12-4-3) concluded an undefeated
(6-0-1) home season with an over-
time win Friday night. The Eagles

‘had allowed an average of just one

goal per game entering the match,
and their preoccupation with de-
fense keeps every game close. A
Sampers header redirected a pass
by Omli into the goal fora 1-0 lead
4:28 before halftime, but, though
they bombarded the Winthrop
keeper with shots, the Wildcats
could not score again in regula-
tion.

When the Davidson defense
evaporated in expectation of an
offsides call, Scott Rawlins sent
the game into overtime with a goal
at 85:15. Davidson held a 27-6
advantage in shots after regulation
time. Ukrop got the game-winner
with 5:44 left in the first overtime
when he volleyed in a corner kick.
The goal was Ukrop’s 24th of the
year, and gave him the national
lead in scoring with 55 points.

The game was the regular-
season home swan song for the
nine-man senior class that Slagle,
in a post-game ceremony, called
“the greatestclass we’ ve ever had.”
The Wildcats concluded theirregu-
lar season Sunday afternoon at
Marshall. They begin play in the
Southern Conference Tournament
Friday at Bryan Park in Greens-
boro.

corner, assisted by. Sampers and

ay, Novernber 6: ‘Volleyball \ wo
" Tennessee-Chattanooga, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday, November 7: Swimming &
Diving v. Howard, 2:00 p.m.

I sees ID Beem ecee
| F Palit oop err | °° 2: Pxlaaaallar Sea at)
@ PLANNINGA , Buy Two

‘1 HOLIDAY PARTY?! Medium Pizzas 4)
| } For The Price Of 4
| CALLUSFOR | - Atare.. 4
| SPECIAL PARTY |g, Scceeee sens

l { IE socesnroe!
a eS ee

three games, losing the match 15-9, 10-15, 9-15, 3-15. The Wildcats’
middle attack continued to improve, as Lorie Logan and Anderson
succesfully connected to produce kills off of quick sets in the. middle.
Howard also notched four service aces and 14 digs in the Furman match.

On Saturday, the Wildcats played an extremely strong match in a
loss to Western Carolina, 11-15, 9-15; 10-15. The offense was well-
distributed, with 14 kills from Delery, 12 from Augustin, and another
strong performance from Anderson.

The WCU match culminated an especially strong week for Ander-
son, who hit for a .345 average during the week’s three matches. Logan
tallied an impressive 113 assits during the week.

The Wildcats’ record stands at 11-17 overall and 2-4 in the Southem
Conference. Despite the losses, the Wildcats are encouraged by the
tenacious defense and improved offense displayed in this past week’s
matches. Coach Carolyn Blake was also encouraged by the team’s play.
“Even though we have lost a couple of conference matches, we have
played each team competitively. We have figured out how each team
plays, so we will be ready for them at the conference tournament,” she
said.

_ The team continues its Southern Conference schedule Friday night
at home against the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.

DIRECTIONS TO cite each
CONFERENCE —
SOCCERCHAMPIONSHIPS AT

BRYANPARK, GREENSBORO __ ie

Take I-85 to 29 North. Go 5-6 miles on 29, get off at Bryan Park exit,
Bear left. Go to first road past Bryan Park entrance, Makea right a and |
then another immediate right, Games will piu 4 cals occer
Complex. No charge for admission. a hae

NOV-DEC. LATE NITE SPECIAL

Large Cheese Pizza plus
Two - 12 oz. cans of
Coca-Cola classic® or diet Coke®

$5.99 plus tax
Add'l. Toppings
Only $1.00

Hours: 10 p.m.-Close
Offer Good Thru End of Exams

Call Us! 896-8007

Shops On The Green
Hours: 4:00 pm - 12 Midnight Sunday-Thursday
4:00 pm - 1:00 am Friday-Saturday
CLIP AND SAVE THESE VALUABLE COUPONS
DINNER FOR 2 OR 4! Buy a Large 2-Topping Pizza at
I$Q 4Q|Medium 2-Topping Pizza] TeBular price and get an order of

PLUS TWO 12 oz. cans of I Domino's Twisty Bread
Coca-Cola® classic or diet Coke® FREE!

Is10. col cord 2-Topping Pizza f Twisty Sauce available for only I
tae, 49¢. Second pizza $6.00.

88 Cola® classic or diet Coke®
Volid at perticipating stores only. Not velld with any

Velid et participating stores only. He ey
other offer. Prices mayvery.

