THE DAVIDSONIAN N IK WS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 5
H ] Coles ing crowds that harrassed her. optimistic note. He encouraged —
O mes Coles claims that people like _ the audience to maintain hope say-
Continued 1: Ruby Bridges fulfill the prophecy _ing there is a side than
Contined from page 1 wore lias that the first will be lastandthelast — that which is skeptical or cynical.
He is currently due toreceive his Master of Artsin Political Sciencefrom school in New Orleans in 1960. will be first. He shared with the Take to heart the lessons taught b
West Virginia University in December. ., Fora full year the National Guard aydiencethesamewarninghegives _ Jesus and the prophets of faraet ie
_-. The position of Patterson Court Advisor was created, according to had to protect Ruby from angry his Harvard students: despite the _ well as the wisdom in the literature
Richard Terry, because as “the campus and college have grown, we mobs of white parents on her way many benefits of education itcan of Raymond Carver and Chekov.

needed somebody as a.liaison (to the Court).” He said, “His job is to
make sure students are represented in the process.” Terry said that it is
important to have somebody who can deal with this every day and give
it constant attention. “I think students appreciate the attention this is
getting. He is somebody they can go to, who will listen to them,” said
Terry. .

Terry said of Holmes, “Everybody who has dealt with him has been
impressed.”

The Davidsonian recently hadachance to talk with Kurt Holmes. Below
excerpts from that interview. :

Davidsonian: What exactly are the specific duties of your job?

Holmes: In essence, the job is designed to be pro-active and to try and
avoid problemsand work with the Court ina positive sense, helping them
work through the changes in the alcohol policy and anything else that
comes up along the way. An example would be easing the process of

toand from school. Coles worked
with her in an effort to understand
how such a young girl dealt with
this psychological burden.

Not until his work with Ruby
Bridges did Coles begin to make
the distinction between: character
and intellect. He claims that too
often people improperly assume
that those most educated in society
have the best sense of right and
wrong. What struck Coles in 1960
was the depth of character and
moral compassion in the six year
old daughter of illiterate Louisiana
sharecroppers. Several times each
day Ruby prayed for the scream-

easily lead to the pride of intellect,
which St. Augustine saw as a
deadly sin. Intellectual arrogance
can destroy the goodness andcom-
passion in anyone.

In our search for sprin pur-
pose Coles places great emphasis
on teaching and learning. He asks
questions like, “where does good-
ness come from?” and “how does
one lead a moral life?” We can
learn ‘the answers to these ques-
tions from each other. Rather than

just surviving with intellect Coles “

challenges people to live and learn
with our hearts and souls.
Coles ended his lecture on an

~
iy

getting work orders completed or projects that the houses are undertak-
ing and that sort of thing, basically positive things: In practice the last
few weeks its been almost exclusively alcohol policy and monitors. The
other half of my position is with residence life. I am going to be doing
a lot of programming with the RA’s and residence halls, pretty much

_helping the RA’s get some skills in programming and offer things for the
students.

Davidsonian: With your title, a lot of people don’t realize that half
of your job is working with Residence Life. Talk about this a little
more,

Holmes: Well, in reference to starting a required programming, I am
supposed to do some educational programming and some social pro-
grams. Davidson doesn’t carry requirements like that for the Residence
Life staff and we’re trying to encourage the RA’s to do more things
within the residence halls, for their floor or building. That could be

-*EARN EXTRA INCOME*

Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel
brochures. For information send a
stamped addressed envelope to:

Travel INC., PO Box 2530,
Miami FL. 33161

something as simple as movie nights, study breaks, social events, or

some educational programming. People may be interested in certain
topics regarding sports, academics, study skills, and those kinds of
things. We’re trying to make the dorms into more of a residence
community and not just a place where people sleep.

Davidsonian: Why do you think Davidson needs a Patterson Court
advisor?

Holmes: When I interviewed in the middle of July there weren’t a whole
lot.of students here, so it wasn’t a real good estimation of what goes on
on the Court. I had to base any judgments I had on what people had told
me about the Court. I guess I probably came into with it with more of a
prior experience assessment of what a fraternity system and a Court of
social houses like that is like. I worked previously at Washington and
Jefferson College and somewhat with fraternities there. It wasn’t
specifically in my job description to do that, but again it was a small
campusand you can’ thelp but overlap some. I spent four years working
with my fraternity, Theta Chi, on the national level as a regional
counselor working with a couple of chapters in West Virginia, four in
western Pennsylvania and a couple in Ohio. So, I had more of a broad
based experience on how they run the systems at various institutions.
They’re all different but there is also a lot of carry-over. I think that any
system, I use the words Greek system even though technically the
women’s houses aren’t Greek organizations but they’re still social
affiliations, needs someone to put the time in to be pro-active with them.
There’sa lot of need for the specifics of that and a lot of opportunities for
students to do things that you don’t have at other clubs, but if you’re left
out hanging in the wind many times you’ re left hanging outto dry. When:
problems come you need to have an advocate. My job shouldn’t be
necessarily the person who’s chastising people or works on the discipline
side of the fraternity. It should be more the person who is helping them
get past the problems. By virtue that there wasn’t someone, I would
probably assume that there should have been years ago. It taxes Dean
Terry’s time to try to.give attention to what they need and I think that the
Court was probably getting short-changed in the amount of hours
someone put into assisting them.

Davidsonian: How do you think it will affect your position having not
been here last year under an old alcohol policy and having to see
people adjust to a new one? :

Holmes: Half the time I wish I had been here to help with the process of
developing the policy. Its tough to walk into an established policy on
paper that is not established in practice and to try and implement it.
Another side of me enjoys the fact that I am detached from the creators

See "Holmes on page 6

RESERVE

OFFICERS’

TRAINING CORPS

Standing: G.A. McClung, Jeff Crain, Eric Rosenbach, Pat Malcor, Joc Beach, Lisa Ruddick, Pat White,
Mike Rogerson, Jason Morris, Matt McKinney, Matt Pitzer, Giorgio Hiatt, Caroline Lemley. Kneeling:
Tony Porcaro, Mark Wittschen, Jon Peters, Scan Harvey, Julia Brown, Kelly Davis, Jennifer Brown,
David Harding. Sitting: Rob Townsend, Ben Balsicy, Tom Shelbume, Darren Moore, Richard Riyera.
Not Pictured: Bo Bartholomew, Tom Greene, Shane Mills, Bill Pomeroy, Rion Smith.

ARMY ROTC SALUTES OUR

Every year Army ROTC awards thou-
sands of merit-based scholarships to quali-
fied students around the country and
right here’ in your school. These
scholarships pay most tuition, as well

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

SCHOLARSHIP WINNERS.

as books, lab fees and an allowance up to
$1000/year. But more than that, Army
ROTC is one course that develops
your leadership abilities and confi-
dence, qualities that lead to success.

