THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS ~

MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992 15

Working |
Group

Continued from page 16

of scholarships in the budget will
remain at that level, and Wildcat
Club funds will be used to finance
any further scholarships. The
Working Group’ srecommendation
gives the Athletic Director the
responsibility to distribute both
men’s and women’s scholarships
(previously, the athletic director
was responsible for only women’s
scholarships).

Recommendation five stipu-
lates that Davidson must not field
uncompetitive teams “simply to
meet eligibility standards for con-
ference or divisional affiliation.”
The corollary to thatrecommenda-
tion is that Davidson should not
simply meet the minimum stan-
dards for Division I affiliation
(seven men’s and seven women’s
sports). Indeed, all parties seem to
agree that Davidson’s athletic
program, at whatever divisional
level, ought to have an emphasis
on participation. Said Holland,
“We are not interested in support-
ingaminimum Division] program
which would take opportunities
away from students.” .

Recommendation seven gives
authority over theathletic program
to the College President, in accor-

of 9.2% is a short-term goal. The
long-term objective is to lower the
net cost of athletics to the college
to the Division III level,.a savings
of $500,000 to $750,000, while
maintaining a Division I program.
The real question, then, is whether
athletic departmentrevenue (from,
forexample, basketball ticket sales)
and outside contributions can make
up the difference between a Divi-
sion III budget and Division I fi-
nancial necessities so that Davidson
teams can continue to be competi-
tive. “If we can’t do that,” Holland
said, “we need to admit it.”
Atpresent, the College budget
funds 24 athletic scholarships, fif-
teen for men’s basketball and nine
for women’s sports (the scholar-
ships are administered on a pro-
portional basis, and there are more
male athletes than female). That
number will move to 23 in 1992-
93 and 22 in 1993-94 as men’s
basketball scholarships are low-
ered to 14 and then 13 according to
NCAA legislation. The allocation

Tennis

Continued from page 16
Milorieva in No. 4 singles. Nance strengthened throughout the match

and used the home crowd’s enthusiasm and support to stop the top seed
and win her flight.

Nicole Wilcox defeated Radford’s Elsie Dondero 6-4 6-0 to earn top

honors in No. 5 singles, and Barbara Grooms knocked off Radford’s
Julie Campbell 6-2, 6-2 in No. 6 singles. The team of Jennifer Beahm and

Wilcox captured the No. 3 doubles title with a6-3, 4-6, 6-1 victory over

the Tupi Donna Hanlon and Anne Paterno.
nfortunately for the ‘Cats, Campbell won si

: x of its matches on

dance with the suggestion of the

,

Saturday and lost only three points to its leading challenger. Though -

Winthrop stopped the Camels at No. 5 singles and No. 1 doubles,

Campbell reigned in the first three singles positions and the first two

doubles brackets to assure themselves of the Big South title.

Davidson was unable to top the regular-season conference champi-
ons, but the ‘Cats collective effort throughout the tournament was con-
sistently strong. With their flight victories, Nance, Wilcox, Grooms arid

the Beahm-Wilcox combination all earned spots on the All-Conference
team; Price was named Coach of the Year. Last season, when they won
the conference tourney, the ‘Cats placed only singles champion Leslie
Goff and doubles champions Mary Beth Ruth and Natasha Ruth on the
All-Conference squad.

“This wasa tremendous year forus,” Price concluded. “Weknew the
challenges would be bigger this year, and we gave the best wecould give.
Memories from this tournament will warm many a winter day. I would
definitely give our team an ‘A’ for its effort.”

Golf

Continued from page 14 .

The District II Tournament was held April 17-19 at River Run and
The Peninsula, and was co-hosted by Davidson and UNCC The tourna-
ment attracted some of the better teams in the South, among them East
Carolina, East Tennessee State, Old Dominion and Duke, and Mietz
admitted before it started that his team’s chances of success were slim.
“Our outlook fora high finish isnot good,” he said, “but we'll go outand
have some fun anyway.”

It turned out Mietz was right. Davidson’s total of 323-3 17-329=969
placed them last among the 23 teams. McDaniel finished with a 76-80-
81=237 total to lead the team. Craig Leonard shot 83-77-83=243.

Nearly everyone on the team returns for next year, So Mietz has
reason to expect improvement next season. But he is also apprehensive

- about returning to the Southern Conference; scholarships are a definite
factor in the Southern, and Davidson simply cannot compete with the
bestteams in the conference. Mietz says that Davidson can compete with
VMI, Western Carolina and Appalachian. State. “If we play well, ‘he
says, “we can be in the middle of the pack in the Southern Conference.

Knight Foundation Commission:
“{t}rustees should explicitly en-
dorse and reaffirm presidential
authority in all matters of athletic
governance.”

The acceptance by the Trus-
tees-of the Working Group’s re-
port signifies an important com-
promise between those who favor
Division I affiliation for Davidson
and those who support Division III
affiliation. The Working Group’s
student survey revealed that 87%
of athletes and 66% of non-ath-
letes oppose moving all sports to
the Division III level. And Holland
reports that the performance of
Davidson student-athletes is on a
par with those at Washington and
Lee, a highly-regarded Division
III school, suggesting that Divi-
sion | athletics does not necessar-
ily compromise academic integ-
rity. But the question of finances
simply cannot be ignored. The
Board of Trustees’ acceptance of
the Working Group’s recommen-
dations sets out a path for the fu-
ture. Davidson will likely only stay
at the Division I ‘level if its teams
can continue to be competitive with
a Division III budget.

Thurs-
an

Track

Continued from page 15
championships was good enough for eighth overall.

In the 800m, Mike “Herr” Grant (2:00.1) and Joe “Herr” Beach
(2:01.9) knocked on the two minute door, saving personal bests for the
conference meet.

Freshman Lee “Crack” Sutton placed eighth at Marshall with a shot
put of 44' 2". His strong performances this spring show promise for the
coming years. Rob “Mr. Complain” King also showed promise in the
hammer throw with a distance of 119" 3".

Rob “Crash” Clemens gave an outstanding effort in the pole vault,
and Will “Cheese” Lazenby finshed up with a discus throw of 118'.

In relays, the squad of Spears, Hurtado, McMichael, and Grant
teamed up for outstanding times in the 4x400m (3:28, sixth at the
conference meet) and the distance medley relay (10:30.5, third fastest
ever at Davidson).

Coaches Gary “G-factor” Andrew and Beth “Bam-Bam” Manson
were very pleased with the efforts of the season. There is great cause for
optimism with the strong corps of underclassmen.

Baseball

Continued from page 16

25-21. Their conference mark is complete at 10-6, and they will finish
either second or third and host a first-round playoff scries. Rick Bender
is hitting .391 with 12 homers, and could reach the Davidson single-
season record of 15 home runs.

PH.D.
M.D.
J.D.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS,
* YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

bc a, alee) Le

ia

CHARLOTTE. NC (704)541-6300
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT.
LSAT * GMAT * GRE* MCAT

