THE DAVIDSONIAN

4 _ MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992 7

e

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor

KEVIN MILLER- News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor

The Dabidsonian

Founded in 1914

“The South's Foremost. College

Weekly” ALEX DANIEL-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS -Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager

Ca MORELAN D SMITH-Circulation Manager

Committee Did Poor Job

On February 10 President John Kuykendall charged the Select Committee on Alleged Intolerance
“with the task of investigating-the several indications of harassment and intolerance, with special
attention to reports of incidents involving individuals or groups on Patterson Court.” This investiga-
tive body wasnever charged with making recommendations or proposing punitive sanctions. In alet-
ter to the campus community, Kuykendall explicitly says, “The committee’ s task was not judicial.”
Yet, instead of fufilling its role as a fact-finding body the committee did recommend sanctions and
has, in effect, assumed a judicial role in the Davidson community..

The “Carolina Alumni Review” magazine reported on the work of a specially appointed
committee in its Spring issue.’ In November of 1990, University of North Carolina, at Chapel Hill
Chancellor Paul Hardin appointed a committee on “Community and Diversity,” with the charge to
“assess the condition of community” at his university. While it is somewhat comforting to know that
problems of community intolerance are not unique to Davidson, it is down right-embarrassing to
compare the professionalism of UNC’s committee to that of Davidson's “Select Committee.” The
Chapel Hill group was a 22 member committee which spent an entire year analyzing, interviewing,
and studying their campus before summarizing their findings. The “Select Committee” determined
after three weeks of research and interviews with less than 2% of the student body, that drastic and
fundamental changes were necessary to restore community to Davidson.

The first mistake in this matter was the composition of the committee. Dean of Faculty Robert
Williams was selected as chairman of the group of six. It is absurd for the Dean of Faculty to over-
see the direction of acommittee charged with investigating student life. We find it difficult to imagine
the appointment of Dean of Students Will Terry to serve on a committee investigating faculty con-
cems. Although the committee was specifically instructed to examine carefully the role of Patter-
son Court in the Davidson community, not one Patterson Court member was selected for the
committee, Of the two students chosen, one never joined a house on the Court and the other deac-

tivated from his fraternity. These two students are hardly representative of acampus in which more |

than 70% of the women are members of eating houses, and 60% of the men are fraternity members.
Of the two professors chosen to serve, one was on sabbatical for the entire 1990-91 school year.

- Finally, College Chaplain Chuck ‘Hasty was selected as amember of the committee under guise that
he would maintain an objective outlook towards the evidence presented. Hasty, however, signed his
name to the controversial flier circulated weeks ago which irresponsibly charged the SAE fraternity
with various incidents of impropriety. His signing of this letter should have disqualified his

_ participation in the “Select Committee” since the committee decided toexpand their role and suggest
sanctions. Furthermore, The Davidsonian believes that the College Chaplain should maintain a
neutral stance from which he could bring opposing sides together and his membership on the
committee makes this difficult.

Perhaps the most disturbing and shocking result of the Committee's report is the slanderous
conclusions they reach. After interviewing 45 people and only 29 students, the committee somehow
felt comfortable in making such leading statements as,"Some students believe that the SAEs are a
fraternity of wealth, influence, and untouchability” and “Some SAEs are the sons of Davidson alumni
and trustees and were admitted as legacies.” To paint the picture they did on the basis of their lim-
ited “research,” is unprofessional and grossly unfair. Their unsupported characterizations weren't
limited to the SAE house either. A decidedly negative interpretation of Patterson Court was also
unfair, though not surprising since Patterson Court houses weren’t adequately represented on the
committee. To an outsider, or in the worst case a prospective student, a reading of the report makes
Patterson Court seem more dangerous than a big city street corner. While no one is denying that the
Court has been the scene for several unfortunate incidents, we believe that the vast majority of

Davidson students would disagree with the report’s characterization. Furthermore, the committee
chose to ignore the positive attribrutes of the court (Yes, there are some).

An oppportunity was missed and their work has only contributed to the common feeling among
the student body that the administration and faculty fail to understand their concerns. Many students
read the report and their only reaction was, “What?!” The patched relationship between SAE and
Rusk and the work of the Honor Council illustrate that student life problems are best handled by
students. Yet the committee’s work led Chuck Hasty to say that the report is “‘a call to the faculty to
be involved in the total life of the community.” The faculty should be involved members of the
community, but their influence over student life should be limited. The recent quiet dorm proposal,
which was found to be opposed by a whopping 93% of students, was anotherexample of faculty over-

stepping their bounds. The “Select Committee” simply was not representative of the student body - .

a fact students realize with one quick reading. Student representation should have accounted for at
least half of the committee.

Itis our hope that President Kuykendall will be successful in sifting through this skewed analy-
sis of life at Davidson to find value in their report. ‘Although this editorial has concentrated on the
negatives, the report does have some merit. Problems exist and the committee's formation was agood
idea. Itis simply unfortunate that by limiting their investigation and by failing tocount forall elements
of the community, the committee's report amounts to an overzealous and largely weckges, over-
reaction to the school’s problems.

hy The Davidsonianis published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson College.
Please address fan mail and to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina
28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Ourrather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor
of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions sed in letters to the editor or fies do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $27 per year.
Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Rusk President Announces ;
Reinstatement of Functions with Fraternity

To the Davidson Commu-
nity:

On Tuesday, February
4, Rusk House passed a mo-
tion by secret ballot to sus-
pend co-sponsorship of par-
ties and social functions with
SAE for the rest of the se-
mester. This motion, sub-
mitted. anonymously by
members of Rusk, was writ-
ten in response to several
specific incidents that had
occurred at SAE, as well as
a general feeling of fear or
apprehension that the au-
thors had sensed building
among Rusk members over
time. After much discus-
sion, the motion was ap-
proved by an overwhelming
‘majority of the members,
with only 19 opposing votes.
However, given time to
consider the effects of such
action, Rusk members de-
cided that possibly a semes-

ter's suspension of activities
would becounterproductive
in light of our hopes for
improved. relations and
greater respect from the
SAE’s. After a house meet-
ing with a delegation from
SAE present for discussion

‘and questioning, where we

had a chance to openly ex-

“ press our concerns, demand
‘explanations and action re-

garding them, and hear the
delegation’s genuine com-
mitment to address the alle-
gations facing their frater-

nity, we thoughtfully evalu- :

ated our decision, coming to
a consensus to uphold the
motion with the added op-
tion to re-vote in six weeks.

On Tuesday, March 17,
the floor was again opened
for discussion regarding our
suspension of social func-
tions with SAE. Statements
were made highlighting the

internal changes that SAE
has made or pledged to make,
the noticed shift in the gen-
eral attitude of the brothers,
and the importance of giv-
ing them a chance to put
their promises into action.
A vote was called for, and by
secret ballot, the housevoted
102 to 58 to retract our sanc-
tion and begin having par-
ties with SAE, with the
expectation that their prom-
ised changes be upheld and
carried out. Although co-
sponsorship is not possible
at this time due to SAE's
pending probation, Rusk
would theoretically be will-
ing to work with SAE al-
lowed.

I point this out because I
think that as members of a
community under specula-
tion and in which change is

See "Wallace" on-page 11

Landess Cites Importance of Code

To the editor,

a short case for the impor-
tance and value of the Code
of Responsibility and how it
might pertain to the unfortu-|
nate tension between some
students at Davidson. Col-
lege.

Students at Davidson
have long been bound by the
Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility to conduct
themselves ina manner ap-
propriate for mature adults.
Significantly, the responsi-
bility for maintaining that
level of conduct and sanc-

Please allow metomake

tioning conduct which does
not reach that level is the re-
sponsibility of the whole
college community, includ-
ing students, faculty, and
administration. Therefore,
if any person in any one of
these groups complains
about the ineffectiveness of
the Code of Responsibility
or the various mechanisms
used to enforce it, they are,
ineffect, complaining about
themselves.

The following excerpts
from the Code'seem to me to
have direct bearing on sev-
eral incidents of whichI have

become aware through re-
ports in The Davidsonian
and other campus publica-
tions. The first excerpt is
from the preamble.

The Code of Responsi-
bility is based upon the be-
lief that Davidson’s educa-
tional purpose can best be
advanced ina context which
emphasizes the responsible
use of freedom, as opposed
to license. The aim of the
code is to encourage indiviu-
als to develop responsible
judgementcapable of direct-

See "Landess" on page 11

McKelway Addresses Quiet Dorms

An Open Letter to
Davidson Students
Dear Friends:

A number of you have
written or spoken to me in
recent days about the issue
of quietdorms or quiet halls.
Although the Executive
Committee of the Faculty has
urged the administration to
provide this option for stu-
dents, it has certainly not
intended that such an ar-

-| rangement be forced upon.

anyone.
_ The faculty as such has
never passed a motion con--

ceming, or even discussed,
quiet dorms. The College
Constitution does not em-
power the faculty to legis-
late in the area of student
life. If we vote to change the
curriculum, it is thereby
changed. If we voted to have
a quiet dorm nothing would
happen.

Many faculty dobelieve,
however, that the college has
an obligation to recognize
diversity also in desired liv-

they wish. This is why the
Executive Committee has
been urging the Dean of
Students and the Director of
Housing to offer such an
environment if (and only if)
a sufficient number of stu-
dents desire it.

We understand that
under no_circumstances
ought any student be re-
quired to live in such adorm
orhall. For this reason there
would always have to be

ing conditions - and that , fewer places available then

students have a right to live
in a quieter environment if

See "McKelway" on page
I]
