‘NEWS

THE DAVIDSONIAN — MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992 3
student’s head and took the right to them by the Charlotte Police as feat prt ay te na
G set of keys from his pocket. nota bad area of Charlotte, an area ate We Lae 8 h pit ob ke
unmen He gavethekeystohispartner with a relatively low crime rate. pete demerit netted | ©

Continued from page 1

out of the car, two males ap-
proached them from behind the
building.

The students said that the two
men split up and wentto either side
of the car to where they were stand-
ing. One student said, “You get
that sinking feeling fast that
something’s not right.”

The female closed the door
and said that the man who con-
fronted her grabbed her arm and
repeated over and over for her not
tolook at him. She said that he did
not grab her roughly, but just held
her by the arm. The other man
confronted the male student and
pulled a 9mm handgun on him.

The man told the male student
to get down on the ground face
down. He then pinned the student
down on his face, holding the gun
at the back of his head. The sus-
pect then proceeded to take the
student’s wallet, watch and one set
of car keys.

The other man took the fe- -

male student to the front of the car
where she could see her friend
pinned to the ground. One man
handed her the car keys and told
her to open the door to the car. The
male student actually had two sets
of car keys and the ones that she
was using were the wrong ones.
She told the man that they
were the wrong keys. The other
suspect still had the gun.atthe male

who told her once again to open the
door. Obviously nervous, she
fumbled around and tried the wrong
key saying toherself outloud, “This
is the wrong key.” The unarmed
man told her to takeher time as she
tried to open the door.

She finally unlocked the door
and the armed suspect got in the
car on the driver’s side. He then
asked her if she had any money and
she told him no. Her wallet was
sticking out from underneath her
jacket, which she was holding, and
the armed man grabbed it from her.
He looked through the wallet and
then threw it in the car.

The other man then went
around the back of the car and his
armed partner let him in on the
passenger side. The male student
was still on the ground and the
armed man told him, “Don’t move
or I will kill you.”

The men put the car in reverse
and as they were backing out the
armed man yelled to the male stu-
dent, “Don’t move or I’ ll kill your
whore.” After the men had left the
area, the two students ran into the
restaurant and called the police.
They said that within a few min-
utes the police arrived and a little
while later ten police cars also ar-
rived to search for the stolen car.
The students made statements to
the police in the restaurant and
receivedaride back to the Davidson
campus.

The area where the two stu-

The parking lot beside the restau-
rant was well-lit and within good
view of Monroe Road and the res-
taurant. They said that as the inci-
dent occurred, unluckily, nobody
left the restaurantand nocars drove
down the road. The robbery oc-
curred at 8:20pm in the evening in
this open lighted parking-lot.

After the students returned to
Davidson they were awakened in
their rooms around 2:00 am Satur-
day morning by the Davidson po-
lice. The Davidson police told
each of them that the stolen car had
been involved in a homicide.

They were driven to Charlotte
by a Davidson College police of-
ficer and then the Charlotte police
took them to Rock Hill, SC. They
re-told their story to the Rock Hill
police who related to the students
that they had two suspects in cus-
tody.

The two. students identified
both men in a photo line-up and
gave statements once again. They
were then taken back to Davidson
and did not arrive back on campus
until 5:30am. The female student's
wallet was later found on a Char-
lotte street.

The two suspects were charged
with the Rock Hill shooting. Ac-
cording to The Charlotte Observer
state prosecutors have already said
that they plan to seek the death
penalty for them. The Davidson
students are expected to testify at
the trial.

L2"

Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

dents were robbed was described

Pizza Engineers -

|16" Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

18"

Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

Free Delivery |

students of their car and money,
but he was surprised that the armed
Suspect did not shoot the male
Davidson student while he had him
pinned to the ground.

e
Price
Continued from pagel
Barwick, Andrew William Bazemore, Carla Ann Davis, Maxwell Ellis
Fisher, Elizabeth Bridges Ford, Sarah Jane Sadowski, Kirby Darr
Shealy, Alan Murray Verm, Benjamin Wayne Wiley, and David
McCormick Wright. :

The class of 1994’s new members are Suneya Gupta, Andrew John
Haile, William Loomis Pomeroy, Karen Ann Marshall, and Alden
Hitchcock Smith.

Ben Klein presented the Thomas Jefferson Award to a faculty
member who by personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship
promotes the high ideals of Jefferson and who has given generously and
well beyond the call of duty. This award is established by the Robert Earl:
McConnell Foundation. Lunsford Richardson King was the recipient of
the Thomas Jefferson Award this year.

Fall Discover Davidson To Be Held Sunday October 4

Given the success of the spring “Discover Davidson!” program
the Office of Admissions has planned a fall event designed to encourage
the most talented prospects to consider applying to Davidson College.
All high school seniors from across the country who have expressed an
interest in Davidson will be invited to this fall visitation program.

Discover Davidson will take place on Sunday October 4, from
1:00 pm to 7:00 pm. The day’s events include: a welcome from Dean of
Admissions Nancy Cable Wells, campus tours, an academic fair, a
student life panel, a financial planning session, dinner, and a dessert
social for the entire college community. The Office of Admissions nceds
everyone’s involvement to help reveal the unique characteristics of
Davidson College.

Carla Davis will lead the student effort to make this day a
success. If you have suggestions or would like to help with this program,
please contact Carla Davis at -6644 or Admission Counsclor Lisa

Help Davidson out in your own special way,
Environmental Action wants a logo for a shirt,
That can be worn every day.
Submit to us your grandiose green work of art,
And then we'll be able to start-
The Davidson Going Green Campaign!
Contact Marc La France or Leslie Goff and
further details we can explain!!

-6194 or 892-9043

IDENTIFY YOURSELE

Davidson Screen Printers specializes in
imprinted T-shirts, sweatshirts and
other sportswear for fraternities,
sororities, dorms, clubs, sports teams,
and other Davidson tiallene
organizations. Let us help you create a
garment that will express your group's
unique qualities and characteristics.

Davidson
fm Screen
7 Printers

: 428 South Main Street
P.O. Box 126
Davidson, N.C. 28036

Tel. (704) 892-5973
Christine & Ken Hageman

