THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10 1992

Courtesy of College Relations
Endowment
Reaches $100 Million
Vice president for business
and finance, Robert Sutton, re-

endowment topped $100 million

the stocks, bonds and real estate
which constitute the endowment
were valued at $103,472,000.
Growth of the endowment
was aresult of increased value of
existing assets and additional
assets raised over the year. Robert
Sutton said in the Campus Chron-
icle , “It was the function of a
strong stock market and good per-
formance by our portfolio man-

Campaign for Davidson has also
helped.” eae
Half of Davidson’s “abies
ment is comprised of stocks and
the rest is made up of bonds and
real estate. The endowment’s
constant return has ranked it in
the top quarter of all college and
university endowments.

Epes to Appear on “Jeopardy”.

German professor Hansford
Epes will appear in a special sen-
iors tournament on “Jeopardy”
sometime between March and
September. The show will be
taped on February 24-25 in Hol-
lywood. Epes was chosen along

Gilbert, assistant director of de-
velopment, was also chosen to

CAMPUS BRIEFS

* appear on the game show but he

cently announced thatthe college —

this past fall. As of December 31 |

agers and strong support from the '

‘stand others. The meeting will
with 22 other people during try- also give everyone the o

outs held- in’ Charlotte.” James ©

has yet to be called to report to
Hollywood. —

“Jeopardy” is flying Epes to
Los Angeles and will pay for his
Stay at a Beverly Hills hotel.
There are fifteen contestants in
the tournament with three play-
ers in each competition.

“Jeopardy” originally aired
from 1964-75 and was picked up
again in 1984. Among TV game
shows it is ranked only behind
“Wheel of Fortune". Around 500
contestants appear on the show
each year.

Epes has also served as the
coach of Davidson’s college
bowl. He hopes his experience as
coach will help out his chances
on “Jeopardy.”

Town Meeting
Scheduled for Wednesday

In order to bring positive.ac-
tion out of campus discussions
regarding intolerance within our
community, a town meeting is
scheduled at 9:00 p.m. Wednes-

' day, February 12. This meeting .
intends to broaden understand-

ing and communications at

Davidson.

Along with discussing ways
to improve group interaction, the
meeting will attempt to give ev-
eryone an opportunity to under-

nity to bring about changes ‘and
answers to the difficultissues that
exist at Davidson.

Quiet

Continued from page 1

counselors to deal with these problems,” Terry noted. “We can make
strides when we are armed with information but I’m not hearing it.
Faculty can be great assistants in this. All they’ve got to do is call me.”

While these professors have not gone to.the source to tackle the
problem, at the Tuesday meeting they did discuss the idea of establish-
ing quiet halls or dormitories to provides havens of silence on campus.

Dean of Students Will Terry sees quiet dorms asan option in the near
future, if only on an experimental basis. He would much rather see the
initiative come from the Council on Campus and Religious. Life,
however, instead of a faculty committee with only minimal student

representation.

Williams said quiet hdurs were placed on the agenda because “there
was enough concern that the rights of students to naoty and sleep were

being overridden.”

“We are not trying to get into the in loco parentis situation again,”

Williams said.

The onus is now on Registrar Sue Ross who faces the unenviable
task of making labs and seminars mesh more easily with the many extra-
curricular activities Davidson students involve themselves in.

vehicle.

CAMPUS CRIME

5:00 p.m. Monday, February 3 - 3:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 4

Between the above times, someone broke into Jerry Stockdale’s
unlocked vehicle in the Copeland House parking lot and removed a
Sony tape recorder, two cassette tapes and a black and white garage
door opener. The possessions are worth-$130.
6:00 p.m. - 10:20 p.m. Sunday, February 2

Between the above times, Davidson student Peter Herndon re-
ported that someone entered his unlocked vehicle in the computer
center parking lot and trashed it, Nothing was stolen, however.
11:59 p.m. Sunday, February 2 - 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 4

Between the above times, some unknown person(s) bashed in a
Davidson student’s.right front passenger window with a rock. This
person(s) then proceeded to remove a hand-held, black NEC cellular
telephone from its permanent mount on the center front console of the

CCRL Passes New Pledge Guidelines

By Curt Bickers

Dean of Students Will Terry
and the Council for Campus and
Religious Life recently approveda
written Guidelines for Pledge
Activities. This year’s guidelines
are generally the sameas last year’s
except for a few subtle changes.
All freshmen, faculty, administra-

~ tion, pledge trainers and Patterson

Court Presidents have received a
copy of these rules.

Dean Terry said that a pledge
activity is “anything a pledge does
as a requirement for initiation.”
He also said that hazing is “any-
thing physically or mentally harm-
ful to someone.”

The guidelines have been
clearly stated and any violation
committed should be reported.
Violators will be punished accord-
ing to the guidelines for the infrac-
tion which they committed.

Guidelines for Pledge Activities
Spring 1992

The following are guidelines
for pledge activities for Patterson
Court houses. These rules are
designed to protect the freshmen
from an intrusion into their aca-
demic responsibilities and to pro-

tect both organizations and the
college from excesses that might
damage reputations, facilities, and
individuals.

A violation of any of these
guidelines may result in any of the
following: the suspension of
pledge activities for a period of
time or all together; the suspension
of social activities for a given pe-
riod of time; the inability to initiate
pledges; the inability of a house to
‘rush’ next year; or the suspension
of the house frorn its association
with the college. Individuals, of
course, can be sanctioned under
the Code of Responsibility.

Pledge activities may not last
more than seven weeks, excluding
Spring Break, and be concluded by
April 1. The beginning date is
February 1.

1. A pledge may not spend
more than six hours (excluding
study hall) during the week on
pledge activities.

2. No pledge activity will go
past midnight Sunday through
Thursday.

3. No pledge activity may re-
flect negatively upon the reputa-
tion of the college or the partici-

pants, and no pledge activity may
include any project which would
violate the Davidson honor code
(stealing).

4. No pledge activity may in-
volve the use of alcohol including
pressure on pledges to drink dur-
ing visitations.

5. No pledge shall be forced to
engage in any activity that con-
flicts with academic responsibili-
ties. Academic responsibilities are
defined as class assignments, re-
hearsals, field work, etc.

6. Fines may not be used to
coerce pledges to attend meetings
and activities which conflict with
their academic responsibilities.

7. No pledge activity shall result
in ‘damage to personal or college
property or to any person. This
includes activities which are en-
gaged by whole or part of a frater-
nity directed at another house on
Patterson Court.

8. No pledge activity may in-
volve hazing of any sort.

9. No pledge shall engage in an
activity identified with his frater-
nity in any academic building on
campus.

10. There shall be no public
nudity, including intrusion into
other houses on Patterson Court.

SOLIDARITY WEEK

. . “ P
In the midst of.a week of tension on campus, Maura Cullen sp

by Lillian Roe
oke to a receptive

audience about the importance of respect, love, and understanding for other He PERE:

Mubarak Awad Urges Non-Violence

By Tom Price

Mubarak Awad, a Christian
Palestinian who has been deported
from Israel, spoke Tuesday after-
noon in the 900 room as part of
Solidarity Week. Awad was born
in Jerusalem in 1943 and attended
high school there. He spent his
college years at Blufton College
which is a Mennonite school.
Currently he is working in Wash-

ington, D.C. for a non-violence .

organization that he founded.
Awad stressed the importance
ofunderstanding and non-violence
in approaching the tension between
the Jews and the Arabs in the Mid-
East. He listed several factors that
he believes have led to increased
tension in the area. Among them
were the collapse of the Soviet

“Union and the “corruption of the.

Arab world.” He considers the
Arab world to be corrupt because

- its leaders have been unrepresen-

tative of the people and have con-

. tinued to deny voting rights and

free elections.

Awad ‘said that the Israelis
wanted “recognition, security, and
peace” from the Palestinians. The
problem, Awad said, is that Pales-
tinians are willing to grant all of
these concessions, but they also
want the Golan Heights. Awad
noted that there has been a soften-
ing in the Palestinian attitude since
the initial establishment of the
Jewish state in 1948.

Awad also attempted to ex-
plain the association between Pal-
estinians and terrorism. He be-
lieves that Palestinians began us-
ing terrorism to express their anger

and bitterness over the establish-

ment of the Zionist state. Awad
said that this violent stance has not
worked because the world “has
heard the bombs , butnotthe cries.”

_ Awad also stressed that the Pales-
' tinians have been responsible for

far fewer deaths than the Israelis.

To help ease tension in the
Mid-East, Awadis advocating U.S.
support for both sides. He said that
if the U.S. were to simply switch
its support from the Israelis to the
Palestinians, another forty years of
high tension and violent coexis-
tence would result. By supporting
both sides, Awad, believes the U.S.
can play a positive role in quelling
the tension.

Most importantly, however,
Awad called for non-violence in
the region. He said, “The holy land
is not holy anymore” and that the
region has become a “land of war.”
He praised the efforts of President

Bush and Secretary of State Baker

in getting the Middle East nations _
together to talk. Awad called on

. everyone to grab the hand of a Jew

and an Arab and to be a “brideg-
maker” for peace because “we do
not need to hate someone because
his beliefs are different than us.”
