14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17 ,1992

Davidson ©
Sports Shorts

Baseball Kicks Off Season
With Loss, Win Against UNCC

The Davidson baseball team opened its season
February 8 with a 7-4 loss at UNCC. The 49ers
assumed a6-0 lead after three innings and then held
off a Davidson rally. Designated hitter Drew Fassett
drove in three Davidson runs with a fourth-inning
double. Starter Andy Paul took the loss for the
Wildcats.

The two teams met again at Wildcat Park the
following afternoon, with Davidson capturing an 8-
7 win. The ‘Cats’ five-run fifth inning sparked them
to victory; Tim Kerns hit atwo-run home run in that
frame. Paul Brannan scored the eventual winning
run in the seventh on a sacrifice fly by Jazz Freitas.
Randy Spaw threw three innings in relief of starter
Jim Stanfill (1-0). Both Mac Chapman and Rick’
Bender went 3-5 with a double and 2 RBI for
Davidson.

Last Tuesday, the Wildcats scored nine runs in
the first two innings on their way to an 11-5 lead
against Furman. The game was postponed due to
darkness after eight innings and will be completed
later in the season. Senior Joe Azzolino struck the
big blow in the first with a grand slam homer that
drove in Freitas, Bender and Mike Liebdzinski. The
‘Cats knocked the Furman starter out of the box
after just one-third of an inning. Kerns hit a two-run
home run, his second of the year, in the second
inning. Bender went 3-6 with three doubles.
DerekTwombly (6 ip, 6 hits, 3 runs) was the pitcher
of record for Davidson when the game was called.

Women’s Tennis Falls to Campbell

Campbell swept the first four singles and first
two doubles matches to earn a 6-3 victory over
Davidson February 8 in Buies Creek, N.C. Nicole
Wilcox and Barbara Grooms gained victories at
number five and number six singles, respectively,
for the “Cats. The number three doubles team of
Jennifer Beahm and Wilcox also won. Davidson’s
season continued this past weekend in the Wildcats
Doubles Classic.

Final Game

Continued from page 13

ated numerous quick transition baskets off of turnovers. Asin Davidson’s
game against Spartanburg, the Wildcats played even with North Green-
ville in the second half. Davidson dropped the game by twenty points.

In the last game of the season for Davidson, against Washington and
Lee, the team honored seniors Faison Nuckolls and Skye Macleod
before the game. They were presented with roses from each team |
member as they were announced. It was a very special moment for the
two women because they have started a tradition in the program in just
one year. The Wildcats cruised to an early lead with inside scoring from
Nuckolls, who had twenty-six points and twélve rebounds. Everyone
was a part of the action, and they went into halftime with a 37-12 lead.
The Wildcats kept up the tempo in the second half with breakaway
layups by Kristin Solsrud, Courtney Robertson, Bryson Moore, Katrina.
O’Neal and Jenny Plowright. The final outcome was 72-48.

Coach Filar was very impressed with the enthusiasm and intensity
in the final game of the season and the crowd at the end of the game. He
said, “We wanted to end the season with a strong finish, and have no
regrets, This team has come a long way since November and improved
tremendously. We will really miss Skye and Faison next year not only
with their style of play and leadership, but as persons. The others on the |
team and I are fortunate to have worked with them.”

Day Heats Up, Leads Radford
Over Plummeting Davidson Squad

By Bruce Balestier

The plotline to Saturday night’s
Radford-Davidson basketball
game wasachingly familiar. A 30-
11 Radford run spanning ten min-
utes of the second half erased a 13-
point Davidson lead, and though
the Wildcats drew within 61-59
with 2:46 to play, the Highlanders
converted down the stretch to
capture a 72-63 win. The victory
left Radford atop the Big South
standings with an 9-1 record.
Davidson (7-14, 2-7) has lost five
straight and eight of their last ten.

As expected, the protagonist
in the Radford surge was junior
guard Doug Day, whose quiet first
half (three points on 1-5 FG) turned
out to be the calm before the storm.
He lit up the ‘Cats for 19 second-
half points, among them five three-

“point goals, and finished with 22

points. Day shot 1-6 from two-
point range, but 6-11 from three-
point territory.

Day’s exploits helped Radford
overcome a fine first half by
Davidson. The Wildcats’ outburst
began in-earnest with roughly
eleven andahalf minutes left in the
period, when Ron Horton got past
the Radford press and took off just
inside the free throw line for a
dunk. Patient pressure paid off for
the ‘Cats at the six-minute mark,
when Janko Narat stole the ball
and fed Sterling Freeman for a
layup and,a 21-20 Davidson lead.
Two minutes later, Freeman’s fin-
gerroll in transition gave the Wild-
cats a 28-20 advantage; they settled
for a 35-28 halftime lead.

Davidson continued in the
same vein at the outset of the sec-
ond half; when Narat picked up a
loose ball and laid it in, the Wild-
cats had their largest lead at 41-28.
But Day struck swiftly. Ina span of
5:23, he hit five three-pointers,
most under heavy defensive pres-
sure, to give his team the lead.

Maria Whitehead Sets |
Triple Jump Record at Pepsi Relay

By Peter Hurtado
The womens track and field
team keeps adding names to the
record books, as four more indoor
records fell in the past two weeks

of action. 7
Freshman Maria Whitehead,
last week’s female athlete of the
week, posted her second school
record performance in as many
meets with a triple jump of 32'6 1/

2" at the Pepsi Relays at Virginia |

Tech. Whitehead posted a fine long
jump of 14’1 3/4" as well. She also
set the 200m record three weeks

ago.

Senior Kathy Beach chalked
up three more records of her own,
two coming this past weekend at

the Clemson Invitational..Her stel- .

lar times of 5:12 in the mile and
10:27 in the 3000m eclipse her
previous records in those events.

Beach also broke her own
5000m record last weekend at the
US Air Invitational with a time of
18:26.1. Her sights are set on re-
writing several outdoor records this
spring.

The women’s distance medley

Frank Harris’ running shot i)
the lane cut the Radford lead to 61
59 with 2:46 left, but the Highland
ers’ Brian Schmall answered wit!
a three-pointer. Zimmerman hit
baseline jumper to make the defi
cit 64-61 with 1:20 to play, bu
Radford then beat the Davidso
trap for a layup and a 66-61 advan
tage, and finished the game at th
foul line. :

Harris led Davidson with 1:
points, while Narat scored 12 an
grabbed 11 rebounds. Freema)
played superbly off the bench
scoring 10 points on 4-5 shootin;
to spark the ‘Cats first-half run
Radford won the game at the three
point arc; the two teams converte:
equal numbers of field goals an
foul shots, but the Highlander
made 9-19 three-pointers~ whil
Davidson made 0-4. The Wildcat
play Wednesday at Wake Fores
and Saturday travel to Radford fo
arematch with the Highlanders.

relay team crafted a fine time of
13:58.2 at the Pepsi Relays. Lisa
Sitek led off with a 1200m.(4:20),
followed by Whitehead in the 400m
(:65), Heather Tarpley in the 800m
(2:42),--and Carolyn’ Meadows’
5:54 mile.

The women hope to rid them-
selves of injury and illness by
winter’s end and plan to make a
run at several records. The team
will take a week off and will com-
pete nextat the Holiday Inn Invita-
tional at Virginia Tech.

Study abroad in Stockholm,
Sweden with The Swedish
Program at Stockholm
“University.
# Instruction is in
English. &§ Course
offerings are diverse,
for example: women
and equality, environmental |
studies, international

THE SWEDISH PROGRAM

STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY

care

relations, Budapest.

For more information please contact your Study Abroad Advisor or call The Swedish
Program office at Hamilton College: (315) 859-4404

Scandinavian literature,
public policy, history of the
Vikings, politics, health

Swedish family or in a
university dormitory.
&§ Witness the
dramatic changes
reshaping Europe on our
excursions to Berlin and

8 Live witha

