4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

From the Archives

Alcohol and Davidson: A History Since 1838

By Towner Blackstock

(Author's note: this article
originally was to follow up last
week's history of fraternities at
Davidson, 1858-1938. The con-
clusion will be printed later, but
for now here is a more timely,
albeit related, topic.)

Onadry day, youcan stand on
the front steps of Chambers and
see the discolored patches of grass
where Old Chambers used to stand.
This phenomenon, commonly
called the “ghost of Old Cham-
bers”, once had an entirely differ-
ent meaning than it does now. Ac-
cording to College Archivist Dr.
C.G. Davidson, Maxwell Cham-
bers, who willed in 1855 the funds
used to build Chambers building,
was “not exactly a teetotaler.”
Many people interpreted the pale
imprint in the grass as Maxwell’s
ghost arisen in anger over the ban-
ning of alcohol at Davidson.

Many students would have a
hard time imagining a dry
Davidson. Yet in the 1838 charter
of the College, the Trustees made
it illegal within a two mile radius
from campus “to retail spiritous
liquors, or otherwise to sell, give,
or convey to the students of said
College any intoxicating liquors.”
Pool tables, gambling, theater or
horse shows, “rope or wire danc-
ing” and just abouteverything else
were banned in the same section.
Although the Presbyterian found-
ers meant to preserve the moral

salvation and of the student body,
things were awfully boring, and
students were kept under a short
leash.

The zeal against alcohol so
evident in the Trustees and faculty
did manifest itself in the student
body. The Sons of Temperance
had a organization on campus in
the 1850’s, members of which
pledged to put an end to the use and
sale of alcohol. Of course, frater-
nities secretly appeared in ’58, and
they were certainly not sons of
temperance. In 1854 the Trustees
spread the alcohol ban to a three
mile radius around the college,
perhaps due to an enterprising
vendor sitting right on the two mile
marker. One must keep in mind
that a student had to ask a faculty
member for permission to leave
the college grounds in these years,
although surely they could find a
fitting reason to take an extended
stroll or two.

The rebuilding of the railroad
in 1871 made travel outside that
radius of abstinence possible, and
more than one student was found
“in his spirits more than naturally”
at the rail station, according to one
woman. For such behavior one
could be expelled, or at least sus-
pended. Qne student was sus-
pended for drunkenness and fight-
ing, and he later came at one of the
professors witha gun. Needless to
say, he was subsequently expelled.

Dancing proved to be a prob-

lem of this era too, and became
quite inseparable from alcohol.
Students petitioned in 1871 and
1879 for Commencement dances,
but the Trustees and faculty would
hear nothing of such “evils”. Even
in 1918 the Trustees still disap-
proved of dancing, the College still
being a very Presbyterian school,
and dancing having been declared

‘by the Church as “not a whole-

some form of pleasure for Chris-
tian people to engage in.” A state-
ment like that makes you wonder
what they would have said about
“hooking.” Even better, the Con-

cord Presbytery stated in 1919 the -

“condemnation of the dances of
today asamoraland spiritual evil....
We deem ‘lascivious’ and indirect
violation of the Seventh Command-
ment all dances wherein there is
great physical intimacy and in

' particular where the arms of the

dancers partly or wholy encircle
persons of the opposite sex.” Well,
if they could only see Patterson
Court now!

There was one problem to these
statements; students could not be
restrained from attending dances
in Charlotte, especially with the
increased availability of the auto-
mobile. Neither could the College
try to stop drinking at these dances
unless it wished to punish students
for dancing, too. The Dean of
Students tried, though, during the
*30s but to no avail. By the late
thirties, even the president of the

school wanted to see dancing on
campus, if only to bring the greater
sin of drinking under control.
World War II brought dances to
campus for good in 1943 as a
morale builder for the cadets sta-
tioned in Davidson.

Alcohol during the fifties and
sixties existed, but was not allowed
anywhere on campus. Up to 1954,
a student could be dismissed for
drinking or for possession even off
campus, and then the rule changed
to include on campus only. The
students obviously thought thisrule
to be ridiculous, going so far as to
argue in 1965 that the trunk of a
student’s car was technically “off-
campus”. Pictures of fraternity
men with beer frequently appeared
in the Quips and Cranks of the
Sixties, so it was unquestionably a
part of student life. In 1966, the
Trustees deleted the 1838 char-
ter’s section banning pool tables,
theater, and the sale of liquor in-
side a three mile radius of campus.

The biggest step came in 1968
with the establishment of the Code
of Responsibility. The code al-
lowed the individual freedom to
make personal choices, especially
about alcohol. Drinking now was
allowed in the fraternity houses, in
homes, and even in the residence
halls. The stringent controls of
Davidson, including mandatory
ROTC andchapel, were abolished,
and in 1970, self-scheduled exams
began. Women were admitted soon

thereafter, and the self-selection
system started. With the sudden
lack of authority and guidance, and
with the coming of the Love Gen-
eration to campus, alcohol and
drugs became commonplace.
According to Bill Giduz ’74, you
could walk through the dorms and
smell the marijuana smoke com-
ing through the open doors.
Today, ofcourse, Davidson has
become a bit more discreet, and
studentregulations of alcohol have
restricted its use. In the last one»
hundred years authority and the
control of alcohol has transferred
from the faculty and trustees to the
students and the individual, giving
unparalleled room for personal
choice and responsibility, or, as
the case may be, irresponsibility.
With the trustees putting control of
the new alcohol policy in the hands
of the Dean of Students, there is a
minute shift towards the old ways.
Regardless of that or nearly any-
thing that may come, the freedoms
of today area long cry from the, as

contemporaries admitted, boring

world of nineteenth century
Davidson College.

As always, information used
in this article comes from Mary °
Beaty’sA History of Davidson Col-
lege and the College Archives.
Many thanks to Archivist Dr. C.G.
Davidson and his assistant Frances
Redmond.

Greene

Continued from page 1

to an example of a baby that was born horribly malformed and was
abandoned by its parents. The baby had almost no hope of a normal life,

but the doctor performed the necessary operation and preserved the -

baby’s life. For the doctor, he said, there was no question as to what to
do. -

Then, he said, there was an intern who injected a lethal amount of
morphine into the bloodstream of a young lady who was in extreme pain
while dying of ovarian cancer. The intern was acquitted of murder.

Greene said that although this intern performed the exact same
service-as some civilians do when they use a gun or a pillow on a dying
friend or family member, the civilians are usually tried for murder
because they killed in ways that a doctors would never use.

He realized that there is, “nothing more difficult in life than pain,”
physical and psychological. “The desire to prolong life does so at the
cost of prolonging suffering,” he asserted.

Greene also suggested that a patient may reach a point where neither
beneficial treatment nor euthanasia are wise, and that, at this point, a
doctor is obliged to stand back and discontinue his functions as a doctor.

Greene said that only a court of law may decide to end a person’s
life, nota doctor. He asked two questions: “Do you have to be a doctor
to be merciful enough to kill?” and “Can a doctor charge for.an assisted
death?”

The second question Greene answered with, “Of course not. There-
fore, its not the doctor’s job. A doctor is a doctor when he is doing a
doctorish thing.”

In aresponse to a question, he addressed abortion, which is a type of
euthanasia in his opinion. He stated that he supports abortion only when
the mother’s well being is threatened, otherwise it is murder.

He concluded by admitting that he does not know what his position .

on the subject would be if he himself were suffering near to death, and
he had to decide whether or not he wanted to submit to euthanasia.

Write For News
Contact News Editor
Kevin Miller at -6372

Recycle this Davidsonian

tA nines can ant we
Pee Pees ee See waa

iV f2 EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6P

<y

Mov! I-77 EXIT28 CORNELIUS

OVIES aTTHE LAKE 892-3841
Medicine — 3:10-5:20 Great Mouse Detective (G)

an 7:30-9:40 _J3:30-5:30-7:10 — Bugsy (R)9:00 (Only)
The Prince of Tides (R) 3:30-7:00-9:30) Fried Green 3:30-7:00-9:30
Nominated for7 Academy Awards Tomatoes a Nominated for 2

Academy Awards

SHOW TIMES FOR TODAY ONLY!

STOPIoe ig emacs Final Analysis (R)
mi ate 3:20-5:20-7:20-9:20 3:30-7:20-9:45

The Hand That Rocks the Cradle (R) 3:10-5:10-

3:15-5:25-7:35-9:45 WAYNES WSRLD 7.10.9:10

patagonia’

"Come Check Out The New Spring Merchandise"

OUTDOORS

Lita

10% off with Davidson ID
through Feb. 29

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

sTeVai

