nconmsons_ OPINIONS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992 9

Tony Tunasit:

"Could You Speak English?"

I was hanging upside down on

the Jungle Gym with my best friend _
Danny discussing the prosand cons

of Big Bird for President, when
suddenly Dana walked by and shot
a loogie at me. Immediately, I
knew that Dana DeRussy, the class
cubbiemonitor, the cutest girl with
no frontteeth, and the coolest freck-
les in kindergarten, was going to
be the mother of my twelve chil-
dren. So, I did what'every five-
year-old guy has done when he’s
in love:

DANA: Mrs. Kubicki, Tony
pulled my hair again!!!

Life used tobeso simple. Only
yesterday, the woman of your
dreams was that little girl who
tagged you during “Duck, duck,
goose.” Or you could find out if a
girl liked you by using one of these
neat devices: ~

Mary Lou, do you like me?
(Please check which applies)

—Yes.

—No.

—Maybe.

—Try again when you’re
taller.

Now, men and women are
playing subversive mind games.
We emit mixed signals, no signals,
telepathic signals and morse code
signals. I think men and women
justdon’tspeak the same language.
I overheard the following conver-
sation at First Rich the other day:

SHARON: What did he say
about what she told him about that
incident he had?

SCARLET: Well, he said that
she wanted him to tell her that he

said he wanted him to her him that °

he how.

SHARON: Really?!

SCARLET: Yeah and he said
cof! HeB2TM Goof f™M j. |,

Perhaps women use an intrin-
siccode which we men mustsome-
how try to interpret and under-
stand. I know that the guy that
wrote the book How to Under-
stand Women and Fix a Standard
Butterfly Valve Carburetor is
bloody rich. :

Women apparently have the
same problem understanding men.
Take, for example, the following
headline I happened to see on the
cover of “Teen” Magazine: “3,200.
Guys Give the inside dirt on dat-
ing, relationships and DEION
SANDERS, ATLANTA’S SU-
PERMAN?!!” Yes, the language
of man includes philosophy, reli-
gion, literature, and the sciences
and mathematics, which are all
neatly packaged in the latest Base-
ball Weekly. (Check out the neat
picture of Kenny Lofton sliding
head first into John Olerud’s
spikes! !)

Women are learning, though.
Tactually heard the following con-
versation in the Union:

Pithy Irreverence:

What Time is it Anyway?

Time is standing still. Can
you feel it?

On the clock on the wall right
around the corner from Dean
Terry’s office, it’s 4:25. On the
nosey. Has been now for four
years. :

Atleastoncea week whenI’m
late for class (I live in Apartment
C, which is in Mooresville, so it
takes a while) I overhear someone
say, “Oh, good, we’ ve still got five
minutes.”

The grandfather clock at the
top of the stairs in the library reads
8:11, and probably has now for
decades.

Now, before you call these
timepieces useless, consider the
Positive: they are right twice a
day.
The lights have gone out be-
hind those cool Back-to-the-Fu-
ture-esque clocks on each end of
Chambers.

And what’s the deal with that
bell on top of Perkins? Why does
it always toll out 43 o’clock?

How are the powers-that-be
supposed to run a college when
they can’t even keep the clocks on

time?
I don’t think it’s negligence.
Obviously, there’s a conspiracy

Sean Lind

going on here. The

people who own and operate the
clocks are just letting them run
down, hoping we won’t notice,
and soon everything and everyone
will be thrown into a state of utter

SAMANTHA: Um, so you’re’
in Williamson, right?

PATRICK: Yeah.
you’ ve got Kimmel, right?

SAMANTHA: Huh? Yeah.
So, uh, have you been to the Union
Outpost yet?

PATRICK:Uh, no.

SAMANTHA: Did youknow
that the Braves won?

PATRICK: The BRAVES
WON?!!! Really!! Oh shoot!
Gosh, that means they’re eight

Um,

Samantha, will you marry me?!!!

As you can clearly see, the
women havea clear advantage over
men. They have leamedafter many
years of Monday Night Football,
the World Series, The NBA Finals
and Billy Joe’s Rabid Armadillo
Flickerball Tournament that the
way to a man’s heart i is through
sports.

Many men have died trying to
figure out women. Always, men
are left with the samé question:
“What do you mean you didn’ tlike
the Standard Butterfly Valve Car-
buretor? I had that especially or-
dered.” We have yet to understand
the language of women. Actually,
I must confess, I know how to
understand women. All you have
to do is $°%t# *&AGEGE F oo*§£. ..

confusion.

The Union will start being
open at totally irrational and in-
convenient times. Classes will be
scheduled for “whenever-the-hell-
you-get-there.” No one will be
able to tell if their Domino’s is $3
off or not. People will get con-
fused as to when what comes on
CNN.

As you see, Chaos. Total
Chaos.
This is not the way for the #18

liberal arts school in the nation to
be run. Change must come now,
before it’s too late. Before we all
lose track, (there’s only so long
you can use that old “one one-
thousand, two one-thousand” trick)
and the administration formsa spe-
cial committee to determine, with-
out bias, of course, what time it is.
Then they’ll have us.

But the problem is that people
already don’t really know what
time itis. Either that, or they don’t
care, which is worse. And with
Spike Lee coming soon, too.

RIIIING! BZZZZ! BEEEP!

“Wake up!”

SHOC

Continued from page 6
tions and receive information about
mental, physical, and sexual health
issues.

If you are interested in any of —

these subcommittees, or would just
like to know more about SHOC,
contact Dave Wright at X6350,
Suma Desai or Jennifer Humphrey
at X6552, or Catherine Milligan at
X6831.

Suma Desai

DT

Continued from page 6

similarity. “Guess you play a lotta ball, with a name like that, eh?”

The joke, of course, being that mine is one of the only households
in the country into which you can walk on any given New Year’s or
Thanksgiving and not find a game on TV. That, along with the fact that
I am the puniest and least coordinated of an already athletically inept
family, would cause the ice to break alright, sending the antecedent of the
utterance directly into the bone-chilling waters of my frosty (the inevi-
table modifier here) stare. Now that I am of a slightly more jovial sort,
I simply reply, “Actually, am a seven foot basketball toting drug addict,
but I’m trying to keep it quiet.” It’s a bit more up, I think, but new
acquaintances still find me rather odd.

Last year, things gota bit out of hand. While a senior at Davidson,
I would gallivant about the greater Charlotte-Mecklenburg vicinity only
to be confronted by signs bedecked with my name. Always on the hunt
for fame, the notion of my full name (this time even the middle initial was
meted out to us both) splashed across billboards and planted in the yards
of the more politically active citizenry was by no means displeasing. I
knew someone else must be running, but I did entertain a Perotvian
fantasy of a grass-roots movement to propel me into office—and I liked
the thought. If I hadn’t seen the candidate’s photograph in the Observer,
I never would have minded the unsolicited employment of my appella-
tion; but the guy was an absolute dweeb! Many’s the time when I have
justly deserved the insulting and even obscene participles which have so
often preceded my surname, but this guy cleaned out the larder and
rummaged through the garage while taking the proverbial cake.

After several costly therapy sessions for which I am still trying to
have this policy wonk billed, I managed to get over my dismay; that is,
until last week. Upon a brief visit to my beloved alma mater it was
brought to my attention that there is amember of the class of 96 whoalso
carries my name. I had never felt so betrayed by an admissions office.
Sure, [hadn’t exactly done enough on campus tohave my name retired,
but they could have at least waited a term or two. I worried immediately
what this fellow’s having my name would do to my reputation at school,
but several of my old friends told me to rest easy. “Don’t t worry,” they
said in their ever-supportive tones, “he’s cooler than you.” Having met
him myself during my visit, I sce that they’re right. Now I am left only
with fears of what a hinderance his name will be for him at Davidson.
Have my former fraternity brothers castigated the poor soul for fear of
not making the:same mistake twice? Have any of Davidson’s absent
minded professors advised him against taking their classes fearing that
he, too, might be prone to skipping the reading and babbling nonsensi-
cally in class?» Have my creditors caught up with him yet?

Probably not. In fact, my thinking that my fellow students and
teachers have even remembered me at all to this young man can only be
called wishful at best. If anything, one or two fifth year seniors may have
seen his name in the meat book and ‘said something to the effect of
“wasn’t there some .. . nah.”

Learning that you’re last ycar’s model is a painful experience
indeed, butit’salso, I think, anecessary one. Asa youth freshly entcring
the world, one must put behind him the days of his past, and with the
chisel of his character carve into the granite of the world a name for
himself.

Phooey. I'll just get some spray paint.

Sincerely,
David Thompson
Editor Emeritus

King

Continued from page 7

obvious that the writer of the ar-
ticle has some type of animosity
for the football team. As I read the
article I felt as if I was reading a
school newspaper from Rhodes
College, based upon the way the
article seemed to gloat about our
defeat.

Even in my state of extreme
agitation, I decided to give the
writer of the article the benefit of
the doubt by speaking privately
with him about the article. Much
to my surprise when I looked for
his phone number on my official
residence adviser student directory
I could not even find his name, or

_ any name even close to the ficti-

tious “Kent Brockman.” I even
called the student union and they
did not have any student of such
name in their directory. “Kent
Brockman’s” fictitious name only
confirmed for me that the mean-
spirited tone of the article was in-
tentional.

My first complaint is directed

toward “Kent Brockman” for writ-
ing an article that is so destructive
of team morale, and school spirit ,
and for not having the backbone to
sign his real name to the article .
My second complaint is directed
toward the sports editor, Bruce
Balestier, and toward the Editor in
Chief, Walter Price for letting such
garbage not only be published, but
published anonymously.

Asa Davidson Student athlete
I try to support all of Davidson’s
athletic teams. Although it may be
too much to ask the student body to
have more school spirit ( as evi-
denced by the mass departure of so.
many students at halftime of our
football game), I do not think that
it is too much to ask the sports
section of our school newspaper to
print articles that are at least favor-
able to our sports teams.

Sincerely,
Rob King
Jumior Offensive Guard
