10

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

Free Association: Jeff George

Take strength in pain.

“For it happens, indeed it is typical of
faith, that he who claims to believe does not
believe at all; and on the other hand, he who
doesn’t believe, but is in despair, has the
greatest faith.” -Martin Luther

At first glance, that quote might seem
utterly absurd, but in reality there is a lot of
truth to it. Although Luther was referring to
faith in the Christian sense, the idea can be
applied to our lives: often, the lowest point
in a person’s life is the best time for hope.

If Dr. Barton will forgive me, I would
like to use an example that he presented in
class to illustrate my point. A psychological
study was once conducted comparing so-
called “normal” people to a group of clini-
cally depressed patients. Both groups were
asked to perform a task, and then asked to
evaluate their performance on that task. The
researchers found that “normal” people
tended to over-estimate their performance
(“I’m awesome atthis!”) while the depressed
group was almost perfectly accurate in evalu-
ating the percentage of times they performed
the task correctly.

Ever experience this: madly in love
with a member of the opposite sex, you
spend months trying to get this person to
first meet you, then learn your name, then
actually start tolike you, and finally —gasp—

go out with you.

During that time, you are driven by the
thought of reaching a goal, and you are
taking active steps to make sure that life will
be good, When you finally achieve your
goal, however, things become different: you
stop working so hard, and eventually every-
thing comes crashing down around you.

Most of us just tend to cruise along,
overestimating some things and ignoring
others. While everything seems to be going
well, the truth is that we aren’t driving
toward some goal; we’re just driving, until
something happens to make us crash. It is
then that we take an honest look at our lives.
When a person is suffering, when a person
miserable, then he or she can truly see what
is going on in and around them. And, more
importantly, he or she can see that there is
hope for the future.

It is for this reason that there is a certain
strength to be derived from pain. It comes
from a mixture of the common phrases “I
can only go up from here,” and “that which
does not kill me can only make me stron-
ger.” In other words, being at the bottom of
life is actually an opportunity.

Believe me, I’ve spent my share of time
at the bottom of life. I have been invisible
before, many amesi | I have been hurt and

Pa CS ari |

insulted; I have been lonely and alone; I
_ have been tired, depressed, and seemingly

~ hopeless. Looking back on it all, those were:

the most important times of my life.
* You See, when you havethe rafe oppor-
tunity to take an unbiased look at yourself,
you can see just what, exactly, is wrong with
your life. If you are being truly honest, you
will also see the things that are very much
right with you, and you can build upon the
latter to fix the former. In short, when your
self-esteem is at its lowest, that is the time to
build it up even higher.

Nobody can get through even one week
without having their confidence shaken, let
alone an entire lifetime; the trick is to make

sure that after each setback, you don’t give.

up on everything and write yourself off to
complete loserdom, which is tempting be-
cause it lowers everyone’s expectations.
Instead, search your life for some motiva-
tion, something that will drive you to bounce
back and attack the world once again.

That motivation could be a desire for
self-improvement, a material goal (such as
grad school or a good job), or even just to
prove everyone wrong.

Whatever the reason, if you’re down in
the dumps right now, or if you ever get there
(itll happen, sooner or later), remember that
you have the power to change your life for
the better, as long as you have the power to
take active steps toward a goal. Life is never
so bad that you cannot hope.

Seay Rations: Nathan Seay
Don't abuse

alcohol.

This week I want to address one of the
most horrifying and prevalent problems on
this campus; indeed in all the world. This
problem of which I speak is alcohol abuse.

No, I’m not speaking of homeless people
begging for money on the street so they can
afford a bottle of Night Train or White
Rocket. I can assure you that people whose
lives have been destroyed -by alcohol never
commit the sin Iam about to expound upon.
I’m talking about people who don’t finish
their beer. (Most of the worst offenders tend
tobe female, but I’ll try my best not to let my
male chauvinist pig side show through.
Really wimpy males are just as guilty.)

I’m actually riled up into some sort of
pseudo-religious fervor every time I-see
someone dump a beer down the sink, whin-
ing that “it’s too warm. It tastes gross.” The
only response that I’1I dignify that statement
with is: if your beer isn’t cold when you get
to the bottom, then you’re not drinking fast
enough. This especially upsets me when it’s
good beer; I can give some leeway to people
drinking 40 ounce bottles of King Cobra.
But then again, that stuff isn’t exactly a
savory treat when it’s ice cold. If you’re
man enough to drink cold malt liquor, then
you’re man enough to drink it warm.

I'll be the first to admit that I place a tad
more emphasis on beer than most other
people. My love affair with the golden
liquid started some years back. I learned
respect for beer, no matter how cheap, warm,

“472 Dawouied by thate Maou SEE

| ('

4 00 (co

€
sy) Vb TH
SAM |
wo Pass! |"

pow ON |
ORK,
ly

or flat it was. The only place where I could
store beer safely away was in the trunk of my
car. This was fine and dandy in the winter,
but in the summer, that beer could get up to
120 degrees. Did that ever stop me from
drinking every drop? Heck, no. And I loved
every bit of it. I considered myself lucky
when I could put itsomewhere inside, where
at least it would stay room temperature.

Now that I’m 21 and can drink in front
of God and everybody without fear, I no
longer have to store beer in my trunk. I can
put it in my parents’ fridge if I want to. (But
then my brothers would get to it before I do.)
I appreciate beer in any form. Tocite an old
German proverb: “There are no bad beers.
Some are just better than others.”

I know that I’m not the only one out-
raged at this sacrilege going on every day. I

propose that we change the big brother/
sister thing here on campus to teach respect
and admiration for alcohol in any form. Pair
up heavyweights with lightweights. Ifsome-
one is alcoholic. enough to have several
students, let them take them all on.

Now, I’m probably getting myself in
trouble talking about alcohol with such rev-
erence, what with the administration think-
ing that it’s not a vital part of Davidson
social life and all. But I’m sick and tired of
letting good things go to waste due to people
who just don’t know what a blessed inven-
tion beer is. So next time you see me out,
think twice before dumping out your dregs.
Give it to me. I'll see that it’s disposed of
properly. I’ve had some experience in this
area, It was the closest thing to a job I had
last summer.

The justice system hands out another unpopular ruling

Ramsay continued from page 9

such a fool of himself I was almost ashamed
to be from Alabama) and was asked count-
less questions concerning his dealings with
Anita Hill. He was never found to have
harassed Anita:Hill in any way.

After the hearings, Hill was asked if she
was satisfied with the outcome. Of course
she said no. Once again, it seemed as if
women had been dealt a stultifying blow »y
the oppressive male fist.

But, ladies and gentlemen, the facts!
She waited ten years to accuse him. She was
not even working for Clarence Thomas when

she originally said the harassment took place
(she later changed her testimony). She con-
tradicted herself time after time. Her star
character witness contradicted Hill’s own
testimony. It was ludicrous to believe that
the woman had any credibility at all. There
was nothing sexist about it—Hill’s accusa-
tions were weak and Thomas was found not
guilty.

By the way, the Supreme Court has just
redefined sexual harassment as “conduct
making the workplace environment hostile
or abusive to a reasonable person.” Watch
out—this includes men and women.

So, where am I? I am realizing that

many minorities verge on paranoia when
they perceive the entire judicial system
working against tiem. I am realizing that
reactions of vio'ence and outcry are often
made without full knowledge of the facts. I
understand Lorena Bobbitt’s frustration but
cannot justify her method.

Let me close with some humor. Lorena
sighs that she has undergone unbelievable
trauma. John squeals that his life will never
be the same again. And both are trying to
sell their stories to Hollywood.

There is a line of actresses lobbying for
the part of Lorena.

No one wants to play John.

Semester in Exile:
Chris Frampton

Chicks, stop
whining.

Life. What a beautiful choice. I guess.
Ihave always felt like life might not be such
a good choice. Why, Chris, have you be-
come such acynic? Well, because of chicks.

That’s right, that pitiful group of little
people who insist upon equal rights and fair
treatment despite their obvious inability to
do anything besides tease men into arage so
intense that it is unbefitting a person so
obviously worthy of respect and, yes, wor-
ship. OK, maybe chicks can do something
but if you ask me, all it is is whine.

Wait, as my thoughts begin to develop
here I realize that even men whine. Yes,
despite our superiority, we do have a ten-
dency, albeit slight, to dwell on the insignifi-
cant and to thus make the trivial monumen-
tal. (I can write.)

But what does all of that mean. Nothing
really, except that there is little doubt in my
mind that every member of today’s society
has found a thorn in their side, so to speak,
and instead of simply removing it them-
selves, they have checked into the emer-
gency room.

Still, you’re not sure what Iam getting
at. Well, I can’t tell you, because I am
referring to items in this week’s paper that I
have learned of through a privileged source
and it is against the newspaper’s code of
ethics to allow writers to directly respond to
an article in the same issue. But, take a look
around this edition, there is a lot of whining

‘ going on here.

I did get to read Nathan’s, and he said I
could respond, soI will. Only he has written
about something of any true significance,
and his conclusion is misguided. Drinking
the dregs of a beer can was a requirement in
high school. However being legally mature
enough to handle our alcohol, we should and
are mature enough to recognize that the
backwash at the bottom of a beer can is not
desirable, in fact it is gross, and to top it off,
there is no alcohol in your backwash, unless
you’re really drunk.

So, back to the bird in hand, or is it the
two in the bush, I never understood that
unless I looked at it from a purely sexual
point of view.

Pray tell, Chris, why you are so obvi-
ously frustrated with the women, I mean
chicks, that have for so long gracefully oc-
cupied a place alongside the men of the
world. Well, I will tell.

That girl chopped off that man’s mem-
ber, and every time I hear that story in the
presence of a chick, I can see a devilish
twinkle sparkle in her eyes, and itscares me.
You can see them saying, “Go girl. Give
that man a taste of his own medicine.”

Just the thought of having my little
buddy chopped off sends me cowering into
the corners of oblivion; and having every
other person in the world knowing about it,
as is the case with poor Mr, Bobbit, makes
me consider that perhaps life is not such a
beautiful choice. Especially when you con-
sider that the chick who committed this
monstrosity was displeased with his sexual
performance in bed. Can you imagine a
person saying to you, “I orgasm or you and
Mr. Willy part ways.” Ican and lam afraid,
very afraid. Although, I admit, that chick
would have the time of her life.

I just wish someone would have made a
similar threat when I made the decision to
take my core requirements. I’m sharpening
my knife so you better take yours.

P.S. I think women deserve whatever
they want, I just wish that tradition hadn’t
allowed them to become so proficient in the

use of knives while they were cooking man’s
dinner.
