THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘MONDAY, MARCH 29 1993 5

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Executive Editor

LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor
o ’ ALICE FELMLEE-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
. RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor

ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA-Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost 5 MANDY CURTIS-Copy Editor
College Weekly" MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager

ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Reduced Course Loads

Several weeks ago, The Davidsonian reported that Residence Life had elimi-
nated clusters for the 1993-1994 school year. Student outrage was overwhelming,
primarily because of RLO’s failure to include any students in the decision making
process.

In the same way, some students argue that the reduction of faculty course loads
was Carried out in a covert manner, ignoring students’ desires. Policy changes that
affect them so profoundly, they claim, must first be made public for discussion and
approval, and the failure of the administration to do this is the cause of much campus
“discontent.” 5;

However, in these two cases of policy change, similarities end at the lack of
student involvement. Eliminating clusters would affect only students. When
students voiced their disapproval, RLO amended the policy. Though the reduction
of faculty course loads does to some degree limit students’ choice of classes,
primarily affects the faculty. Faculty, then, should have most of the say in the
decision.

Beyond the specific merits and downfalls of the reduced faculty load is the
more important issue that this discussion highlights: how much input should
students have into changes that affect faculty policy and how much input should the
faculty have on changes that affect student life?

The answer to this question can be found in the very recent history of
administrative changes affecting student life. The failure of the new alcohol policy
to achieve its stated goals is the most prominent. It is a glaring example of what
happens when the administration infringes upon the students’ powerto control their
own actions. It seems likely then, that professors can most effectively bring about
faculty change by governing themselves.

As Davidson students, we have a tendency to lose sight of the fact that after our
36 month stay here, the life of the school continues. The administration has been
planning to reduce course loads since before any of us were here, and the actual
effects of the change will probably not touch most ofus. A relevant question might
be one that Gill Holland asked several weeks ago on another topic, “Is this a
legitimate topic for conversation at Davidson?” Yes it is—in offices and faculty
lounges, not in dorms. There are more important problems to worry about here;
let’s get to them. ° . :

Power of the Majority |

Recently Davidson has seen significant efforts exhibiting support by the
majority forminority groups oncampus. The forum discussing gay and lesbian life
at college and in the professional world drew nearly twenty percent of the student
body. This overwhelming attendence reveals growing concern about minorities’
experiences. Another instance in which campus minorities need support involves
repeated incidences of the campus police stopping black students to check for
college IDs. Complaints must be made by more than the small African-American
Davidson population. Certainly it is through the actions of the majority that the
college experience can most rapidly be made beneficial and enjoyable to all
students overlooking differences including those of race, socio-economic back-
ground, and sexual orientation.

AY THERE Doe «++ WHAT
can YouTELL Me.
ABOU" WILTON 7...

_LETTERS

Excluding Students Causes Weak Relations

To the editors,
The decision of the fac-
ulty and administration to
lower the faculty course load
is the latest move made in a
series of actions meant.to
better the national ratings of
the school. To our knowl-
edge, no input was sought
from the student body.

The plan to lower the

courses taught to five a year
was supposedly decided on
seven years ago. Through
involvement with the SGA,
Patterson Court, Honor
Council, Davidson Ambas-
sadors and other activities,
we have not once heard of
this plan in our three years
here. It is this kind of co-
vertness that breeds apathy

and discontent in the student
body. {

The general disregard
and unresponsiveness of °
school officials for student
opinion is disconcerting and
degrades our Davidson ex-
perience. We area vital ma-
jority of the academic com-

Ca

See Canu on page 7

Zimmerman Defends Course Loads

To the editors, ©

In convincing the presi-
dent and trustees to reduce
the normal faculty teaching
load to five courses a year,
Dean Williams has helped
Davidson take one of the
major remaining steps to-
ward achieving its dramatic
potential as one of the
nation’s preeminent liberal

arts colleges.

Inspiring teaching re-
quires time, energy, and
preparation - much more
than laypersons realize. The
acknowledged leaders
among national liberal arts
institutions must have dis-

covered something signifi-

cant about the quantity/qual-
ity balance, since they all

havea maximum load of five
courses. The best way to
take out place among them
is, as Dean Williams knows,
to foster the conditions for
creative teaching that have
given them their reputations.

A balance among class-
room hours, time with indi-

See Course on page 7

Basketball Team Thanks Students

To the editors,

‘The men’s basketball
team_and_ coaching staff ex-
tend their gratitude to the
many fans who cheered us
on throughout this past sea-
son.

The encouraging words
and the vocal support from
faculty, staff, administrators
and students remained ever
present sources of inspira-
tion. Even when we found

ourselves away from the
friendly confines of Belk
Arena, we had the pleasure
of looking into the stands
and seeing the familiar faces
of so many Wildcat fans.
Special thanks to those who
joined us at the VMI game
and the Conference Tourna-
ment in Asheville.

Our seniors, J.D., Matt,
and Detlef, willalwayscher-
ish the memory of the fond

farewell that they received
at the final home game. The
underclassmen will be seek-
ing to build upon the mo-
mentum of this year’s suc-
cessful retum to Southern
Conference play. Weall are
ever grateful for your sup-
port and: inspiration.
Sincerely,
The Wildcat Men’s
Basketball Players and
Coaches

Parent Harper Quotes Nietzsche

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsoninan requests that letters to the editro be no longer than 300 words and reserves
the right to edit all letters. In addition, no unsigned letters will be published. Our offices
are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of. The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50-per year. Advertising rates are

To the editors,

Ihave been reading with
bemusement and consterna-
tion about the recent contro-
versy surrounding Athletic
Director Terry Holland and
the women’s basketball
team. Although the episode
seemed to some to imply an
egregious error on Mr.
Holland’s part, it paled in
comparison to Oklahoma
State University and Colo-
rado University, two top
twenty women’s teams, hav-
ing to play ascheduled game
ina high school gymnasium
because of a high school
wrestling tournament being
scheduled at the college fa-
cility. Like it or not, it takes
significant amounts of
money to maintain acollege
athletic program, anu occa-

available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

sionally small sacrifices

must be made to aid fund
raising. As I understand it,
two professors who com-
plained bitterly about the
Davidson incident (on the
grounds of sexism) were
willing to accept the money
obtained if it were chan-
nelled into academic pro-

grams. When our son was -

going through the college se-
lection process, one of the
things that distinguished
Davidson from other out-
standing academic institu-
tions was the fact that
Davidson offered a total,
more well-rounded college
experience. While academ-
ics rightly was firstand fore-
most, athletics and social life
were integral offerings for
students at Davidson. The
athletic program was unique
in that it offered the oppor-

tunity for student athletes,
almost all of wham partici-
pated without athletic schol-
arships, the opportunity to
pursue a level of excellence
in conditions which let them
Strive to be the best they
could be within the true spirit
of college athletics.
Friedrich Nietzsche
once warned, “Be careful lest
in casting out your demons,
you cast out that which is
best in you.” The Davidson
College experience is a to-
tal, well-rounded one. While
no one would argue that ath-
letics is the most important
aspect of college life, the
Davidson community had
best tread softly if they are
considering labeling athlet-
ics and social life demons. ~
Sincerely, :
David L. Harper, M.D.
