THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993 9

Nathan Seay

After three weeks,
TV, Nastiness, and me

I’m sure that all of you have
noticed the hype building up to the
showing of ABC’s NYPD Blue.
For those of you living under rocks,
let me fill you in.

Anetwork has finally decided
torunsome realistic programming,
which happened to include some
questionable language and a butt
cheek or two.

A bunch of right wing organi-
zations got together and raised a
clamor, which only served to pique
my interest. I’ll try anything that
upsets Jerry Falwell and Jimmy
Swaggart.

Here’s my point: I can under-
stand if you are offended by the “s”
word or the “f” word and don’t
want them said on television. I can
live with that. The thing that up-
sets me is the hypocrisy of it all.
There are so many words that are
so much more offensive to me that
are said about four thousand times
a day.

I like to think that I’m strong.
Idon’tcringe atmuch. Ican handle
any word in the English language
until one of those feminine hy-
giene commercials comes on.

How do the powers that be
decide that people can’t say the “f”
word, but when the commercial
breaks roll around, you have to
plug up your ears?

If I were in charge of a televi-
sion ‘station (and it will become

very apparent why I’m not within
two sentences), I would launch my
own nonviolent protest. Instead of
saying that someone is a “gosh-
darned son of a bean eater,” why
not have a character turn around
and say, “You constipated fool!
What’s wrong with you? Do you
have a yeast infection or some-
thing? Go take your hemorrhoids
someplace else!"

And while you’re at it, douche
away that not-so-fresh feeling! No,
I’m not in a good mood. I have
diarrhea.” The censors wouldn’t
be able to touch it. The exact same
thing will be said moments later by
an attractive woman letting the
world know things about her that I
wouldn’t want to know about any-
one. And what’s up with all the
people who aren’t satisfied with
their movements? (I’m not talking
about Beethoven.) People are con-
stantly griping on television about
not moving enough. This rarely

comes up in my daily conversa-
tion. Let me rephrase that. I think
that it rarely comes up in normal
people’sconversations. I justcan’t
see a petite little girl leaning over
to one of her friends and saying,
“It’s such a beautiful day. It’s a
shame I can’t enjoy it more. Ican’t
go to the bathroom, you see.”

And what about the nudity? I
am a firm believer that clothes are
silly and frivolous (except when
it’s really cold out). I don’t see a
problem with nudity, but I respect
the opinions of others, and can see
their point about not wanting butts
on TV. But the networks, again,
are being inconsistent in their cen-
sorship policies.

Practically every diaper and
soap commercial manages to

squeeze a rear end into their com- .

mercials. “Oh, but it’s just a little
baby’s bottom. It’s just so cute.
What could possibly be wrong with
that?”

I have no argument with you.
But I happen to think that Sharon
Stone has a cute little tush, too.
Why can’t she show hers on televi-
sion? Here’s something I’d like to
discuss: how old does a butt have
to be before it is no longer allowed
to be shown on-TV? If you show
someone’s bottom on television,
what’s wrong with showing the
exact same bottom twenty years
later? It’s the same-fiesh, only a
tad bigger.

Idon’t think that the networks
should be so concerned with cen-
soring words known by every five
year old in America. They are
learning much more offensive lan-
guage every time a commercial
comes on. I hope thatWYPD Blue
is a success. But you can count on
it failing if it goes the way of every
other quality television series to
come along.

The religious right will claim
it a victory of their morality, and
stations will probably shy away
from intelligent, realisticshows and
still churn out: politically correct
schlock like Full House. But
maybe, just maybe, NYPD Blue
will stay on the air, “s” words,
nudity, and all.

If the ratings stay good, the
networks may catch on to what the
people really want: Andrew Shue
mooning us every weekonMelrose
Place.

"They weren't naked, it was nudity!"

Ney continued from page 7

impact? I found your arguments
for nudity at the very best to be
hopelessly weak. Was the weak
reasoning due to a turtleneck that
was too tight or the third cup of
cappuccino in a smoked-filled
room? (Please do not inhale—you
may want torun for President some
day.)

Now in response one might
say that I am very narrow-minded
person and I would agree. That is,
however, not to mean that being
broad-minded is a virtue or that
being narrow-minded is a sign of
ignorance or lacking reason.

It has always been my belief
that the way to truth, honor, and
virtue is a narrow way for focused
minds. Maybe they are just dumb
goals in life.

Is Davidson on this narrow
path? I fear not. I fearit has given
up too much and has not the cour-
age, the will, nor the desire to be an
institution of Higher learning in a
world of low living.

“Captain Kirk to Enterprise.
Beam me up Scottie. There is no
intelligent life down here.”

“Quis custodiet
custodes?”

Abeunt studia in mores,

Peter Stuart Ney

ipsos

“Li do nct Neal Yad: we, shod

SARS MUIR 5
grits) (Cnn
Cake ) Horeser do you cealize Hut we :

speed Villian of, toxpuers dollars

on deSemse whan we easily bee

Hee capacity to sverwheln aay chi
wis Stats us ;

sibbe
OGRE rere

WHAT 22 Do ym

Now, wowded ih be become
Cond Kid some H& Ha manag Yat we
Spad m dense +d ped Am
sonating ihe, haalth care tat woud

fake care of oor people oh how’

logical 1S we

So, does anybody like voice

Semester in Exile: Chris Frampton ar boy mail. I have to be honest, I hated it
ing mom's at first, but Iam coming around: It
They only gave Mme |tecartoon | justtakes patience. Besides, with

out voice mail, I never would have

a measly 10 inches learned what Eres una buena coje
means.

, So, like I said, there is very

Where do you hurt? this would be fine, however, if I little room in this week's issue

My grades at UNCC are slip-
ping because it turns out that chem-
istry and calculus are hard courses
no matter where you take them.
My rent has been due for entirely
too long for me not to have paid it,
sorry Spear. I owe the state of
North Carolina for an ugly series
of speeding tickets. My back hurts
for falling asleep on the couch en-
tirely too often. And, to top it all
off, I only have like ten inches of
space to fill in this week's edition
which allows for very little explo-
ration in the realm of well devel-

could just figure out where I put
that bottle of bourbon.

Anyway, with rush winding
down I thought that I would give
everyone an accurate picture of the
world down on Patterson Court,
but I think I already did that. Ac-
tually, the last time I did that I
really pissed off a house, so never
mind.

Dear Jeff George,

Telling everyone that you are
a potential rapist is not a good way
to pick up chicks.
Sincerely,
Chris Frampton

which means I am done. Next
week, after acting yet another test
in one of those ever important core
requirement courses I am taking, I
will write something long and
drawn out and very uninteresting.
(Does anyone else think that it is
ironic that Davidson has these cer-
‘tain requirements but then allows
students to earn them at another
school. Me, too.)

To drink or not to drink, it is a
simple problem. This last sen-
tence is being written forthe simple
reason that I needed to fill another
three lines of copy.

oped and intelligent crap. All of

Open Letter

The difference you can make

To the community,

This Wednesday, November 17, is the annual bone marrow drive, during which everyone has the
opportunity to add their names to the Bone Marrow Registry. Isigned up my freshman year during the drive,
and I waslucky enough tomatch witha 44-year- old man with chronicleukemia. I donated my bone marrow
last April to try and cure his leukemia.

The procedure itself was not very painful, about the same as getting your wisdom teeth out. The only
danger is the small risk associated with the anesthesia. The doctors took the marrow from my pelvic bone,
so my backside was a little sore for a couple of days, and I was playing in a lacrosse tournament by the next
weekend. My recipient’s name is Rich, and he has a wife Barbara, and two sons, Rich Jr. (21 yrs.) and
Michael (16 yrs.). We have been able to communicate with each other through the Red Cross, and I call
the Charlotte Red Cross every so often to check on him. The last I heard he was doing really well. He has
made it through the hard part so things are looking good for his future. The best part has been the letters
that I have gotten from Rich and his family, for they have given me the chance to get to know more about
him and his life. I want to share some of them with you so you can realize what a difference you can make
if you match with someone:

To my dear sweet donor,

During the last ten days, we destroyed all of my cancer. You are the link that makes me whole again.
The moment your marrow is fed into me, the emotion that I will have will overtake any words that I could
write down on paper. But I promise that I will not let you down and that your marrow will growin me. There
are always negatives with positive, even though I don’t dwell on them. For some reason if this doesn’t work
out, please don’t think your effort was for nothing. Try again for someone else someday.

Love, Rich

P.S. See You Soon! Someday we’ll have a full bone marrow registry thanks to people like yourself,
your family and your friends. No oneshould be denied a bone marrow transplant because thereisn’t amatch
available.

Dear Megan,

First of all I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for what you’ve done for Rich. It takes
a special person to do what you’ve done. Rich is doing well, he’s had a few bad days, but all in all he is doing
well. He’s now making his own blood and platelet. He is a very energetic person, he plays golf and softball,
so being cooped up in the hospital is starting to get to him. As he said, “I can only read so many golf
magazines.” Megan, thank you again for everything. Keep in touch as I will, and hope to meet you when
we can.

Love, Barbara

This experience was the best thing that I have ever done and I encourage everyone to sign up on
Wednesday, foras Rich said,”No one should be denied a bone marrow transplant because there isn’ta match

available.” Sincerely,

Megan Snyder

