THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993 5

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

ALICE FELMLEE-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA-Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost MANDY CURTIS-Copy Editor
College Weekly" MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS -Business Manager

ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Another Campus Debate

The newest policy debate.rages across campus. Not about tolerance or
diversity.: This time it’s the prized Honor Code. Where does its jurisdiction
end: can a student be charged with an Honor Code offense. for stealing a
street sign in California? Impracticality of enforcing such a stringent law,
some claim, forces us to leave off-campus offenses to other authorities,
while others say that the Code is more than a set of rules, but a way of living,
that reaches into the depths of a Davidson student’s existence.

Like many of the debates that flare up around the College, the specifics
of the two camps’ arguments overshadow the basic principles upon which
the Code stands, and more importantly, of which people of strong moral
character are made: honesty, fairness, and conviction.

Virtues such as these hardly demand any debate, but debate continues.
Forcing an untrained mind to consider that which may seem improbable is
the charge of a liberal arts institution. That such lively discussion still exists
at this time of year, as souls grow weary and exams loom ahead, certainly
must be a positive sign of the vitality of the College’s intellectual abilities.
These debates are the stuff that will enlighten and discipline our minds so
that we may make intelligent decisions in life. They do not, however,
represent life, but politics.

When asked what happened at Davidson this year, would students
answer, “We took leaps and bounds towards having a more diverse
campus”? No, this was politics. What happened at Davidson this year was
much, much bigger.

This year, students traveled to Charlotte on a weekly basis to help
underprivileged students learn toread. They shared their knowledge so that
these young citizens might one day have the intellectual POpo ues most
of us in college have.

This year, students donated time and blood to place themselves on the
National Bone Marrow Registry, in an attempt, however slim the possibil-
ity, to help save the lives of strangers. Some already have been picked.

This year, a soccer team shocked the college athletic world, making the
community feel as if they had played some part in this triumph, and filling
the college with pride. They came home to an over-packed stadium and
placed Davidson on the map—and national TV.

These events do not represent up-and-coming political or intellectual
debate, but some of that which makes our lives meaningful: courage,
selflessness, and giving.

The catch-phrase for next year? Who knows. Diversity, tolerance, the
honor code, and debates themselves all have times and places. Being
members of a college community, however, affords us the opportunity to
leave these things behind once a year, for three free months.

Underneath flowery speech and poetic prose lies a very simple message.
Have a darn good summer. Enjoy it. And most importantly, don’t think.

Good luck to the seniors and thanks to all those who helped us in our
quest to truly be “The South’s Foremost College Weekly.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149, Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. The Davidsonian
requests that letters be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit
all letter. In addition, no anonymous letters will be published. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

“gi and fe Ww spupid
gf @55€5,

LETTERS

Carlson Defends Diversity Question

To the Editors,

As aconcerned member
of the Davidson community,
I feel compelled to reply to
Phillip D. Atchison and A.
Weaver Whitehead’s April
12, 1993 letter to the editor in
which they explained their
“dismay and shock” at the
possibility of the establish-
ment of “thought-police” in
the admissions office. I am
happy to tell them they have
nothing to worry about.

Davidson changes con-
stantly, like any good col-
lege. In order best to reflect
the shifting attitudes and pri-
orities of the college, the fac-
ulty admissions committee
revises the entrance applica-
tion periodically. At this

_ |time, the committee is con...

sidering a host of revisions,
not the least of which is an
additional essay question
designed to ascertain an
applicant’scapacity forcriti-
cal thinking.

Such a question, as en-

dorsed by. the SGA-ap-
pointed Council on Minor-
ity Affairs, would center on
issues of open-mindedness
and curiosity, according to
SGA president Alden Smith.
“Tt’s not a conservative
or liberal issue,” said Dr. Bill
Mahoney, chair of the fac-
ulty admissions committee,
“It’s a thoughtful or un-
thoughtful issue.” Dr.
Mahoney wants to modify
the application as a whole to
emphasize intellectual en-
gagement. He does not want
to enforce any particular
opinion, just ascertain that
any opinion expressed on the
application is an example of
well-formed critical thought.
“We take © open-
mindedness informed by
critical thinking seriously,”
he said, “It’s just the oppo-
site of the thought police.”
I applaud the admis-
sions committeeand COMA
for their commitment to
something much more im-

portant than so-called politi-
cal correctness. Their deci-
sion to represent Davidson
to prospective students as a
place concerned with stu-
dents’ capacity to form ‘and
reform their opinions is ad-
mirable. And the entrance
application is the perfect
place to start.

Just as current students
were informed of the impor-
tance of the Honor Code by
its prominence on the appli-
cation, future students will
know that Davidson values
everyone’s opinion, no mat-
ter how divergent from the
current intellectual fad.

If it chooses to change
its application, Davidson
will introduce its commit-’
ment to. true open-
mindedness: the ability to
evaluate critically one’sown
views and opinions in the
light. of other’s views and
opinions.

Respectfully,

Sara Carlson

Cruise Clears Misunderstanding

To the Editors,

In last week’s issue of
The Davidsonian, a short
story of mine appeared along
with a photograph of a house
that appears to be the subject
of the story. But the story,
jbeing fictitious, has no sub-
jectin reality; itis imaginary.
The place, the people, they
are all imaginary. However,
when placed next to an im-
age similar to one described
in the story which does exist
in reality, like the house in
the photograph, it seems to
be saying things about that

real image that are not so. It
crosses out of fiction to real-
ity and appears as a lie, as
slander in this case. The
description of the house in
the story is a description of
the house in the story, not a
description of a house on
Depot Street, but the presen-
tation in the paper made it
seem as if it is. They are
entirely separate, but too
similar to be presented to-
gether. Had I known they
were going to be, I would
not have given up the story
to be printed. :

So please, if you have
not read the story and think
you may, do me this favor.
Rip the picture out, or, even
better, cut it out so as not to
risk making a mess of the
thing. Everyone likes to cut
stuff and God knows, we
don’t get the opportunity
around here to ever actually
cut. Too much money was
laid down for those swiss
army knives to allow not
cutting whenever the chance
comes about.

Thanks,

Mike Cruise

King Addresses Passion Play

Dear fellow skeptics, doubt-
ers, and cynics,

Iam writing in response
to your reaction to the im-
promptu crucifixion scene
which occurred the Thurs-
|day before Easter Sunday.
First of all, I would like to
thank you for your participa-
tion in the play. Without
your attention and involve-
mentour play would nothave
been so realistic. Just as
Christ was mocked and
scomed nearly two thousand
years ago, so too did your
cynicism mock and scom him

last Thursday.

By writing this letter I
am not pointing a condemn-
ing finger at anyone. The
reason I address this letter as
“Dear fellow, skeptics,
doubters, and cynics” is be-
cause I understand where
you are coming from. As
human beings we have all
been skeptics, doubters and
cynics throughout different
times in our lives and we
shall remain skeptics, doubt-
ers and cynics of many dif-
ferent things. Doubt and
skepticism can be healthy

products of a liberally edu-
cated mind.

There is a place, how-
ever, where this doubt and
skepticism end. For me and
many other Christians this
doubt ends where faith be-
gins. Faith is not something
rational which can be ob-
tained through any theorem
or proof, but rather begins
when one abandons all ra-
tionality. Those of you who
have read any Kierkegaard”
will recognize such a “leap

' See Play on page 7
