6

- THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

The Week in Washington
Brawling Senate passes Brady bill

By Brett Marston

In a fitting final week for the
103rd Congress, which has been
marked by a series of bitter politi-
cal battles over controversial is-
sues, the Senate voted to pass the
Brady bill, which is now the most
significant piece of gun control
legislation to pass Congress since
the Gun Control Act of 1968.

“The Brady bill has passed,”
declared Vice President Al Gore,
according to the Congressional
Quarterly.

Named after Jim Brady,
Reagan’s press secretary who was
wounded in the 1981 assassination
attempt, the Brady bill has been an
object of debate in Congress for
seven years.

In a voice vote on Nov. 24th,
the Senate approved the confer-
ence report of the bill, which will
require a five-day waiting period
for handgun purchases.

The Senate had already ap-
proved its version of the bill three
days earlier, but when the final
round of negotiations between the
Senate and House began on Nov.
22, disagreement over additional
restrictions and stipulations threat-
ened either to bring Congress back
into session after Thanksgiving or
to sink the bill entirely.

Senate Minority Leader Bob
Dole, R-Kansas, who led Republi-
can opposition in the final hours of
negotiations, finally agreed to sup-
port the bill in the voice vote, how-
ever, after-Senate leaders decided
to discuss the additional stipula-
tions in January when Congress
reconvenes.

These stipulations include the
provision that the bill will expire in
four years, or become inactive 24
months after the development of a
federal instant check system to

check the criminal records of hand-
gun purchasers at the time of sale.

Opponents of the bill have
consistently argued that a waiting
period for handgun purchases
would be ineffective, and that law-
makers should instead allocate the
already scarce resources toward an
automation of the federal criminal
identification system.

Some states already have an
“instant check” system for hand-
gun purchases in place. In Vir-
ginia, for example, handgun deal-
ers simply dial a toll-free number
to check if the purchaser has a
criminal record, has been deemed
mentally unstable, or is otherwise

"In Minnesota, all the state
law enforcement organiza-
tions have passed resolu-
tions in support of a seven
day waiting period. ... We
have seen the Brady Bill
work for 17 years."

prohibited from legally purchas-
ing a handgun.

Proponents. of the bill have
claimed that although the effect of
the bill might be minimal, many
states, such as Minnesota, have
had success with similar measures.
In addition, the computerization of
federal records is already under-
way, buta waiting period is neces-
sary, they argued, until this pro-
cess is complete.

“In Minnesota, all the state
law enforcement organizations
have passed resolutions in support
of [a] seven day waiting period,”
declared Ken Collins, police chief
in Maplewood, Minnesota, “we
have seen the Brady bill work for
17 years.”

Collins spoke at hearings held
in Congress in March of 1991,
when lawmakers were discussing
a seven day waiting period. His
speech, as well as many others
from these debates, can be found in
the- June/July 1991 issue of the
Congressional Digest.

In this December’s issue of
theAmerican Rifleman, the mouth-
piece of the National Rifle Asso-
ciation (NRA), Wayne LaPierre,
the NRA’s executive vice presi-
dent, claims that popular opinion
is decidedly against gun control
laws.

“So I challenge the Adminis-
tration, the Congress and the me-
dia. . .: Go ahead and trot out all
the bizarre gun control schemes
you can dream up,” LaPierre
writes. “Then we’ll met [sic] you
at the polls one year from today.”

At the heart of the debate over
the Brady bill have been questions
such as the constitutional “right of
the people to keep and bear arms,”
which is part of the Second
Amendment’s discussion of the
militia, as well as the question of
whether or not gun control will
actually contribute to an decrease
in violent crime.

On this point, Brigadier Gen-
eral and Mrs. Jerry E. White said in
the March 1991 discussion of the
bill, “Will a . . . waiting period
make a significant difference? Re-

alistically, a full answer cannot be__

given until after the law has been in
place.”

Let’s hope that it does make a
difference.

Sources used in researching this
article: the Congressional
Digest, the Congressional

Quarterly, and the American
Rifleman.

ELSEWHERE

-
NOTES

The tidal wave of crime

“Spotting a White House political offensive is a lot like spotting
a tidal wave. All you have to do is look offshore and watch for a big
bump. By that standard, it takes no special genius to see that President
Clinton and his staff have fastened on crime.

“It is an impulse to be saluted, especially since Mr. Clinton does
not seem drawn to the simplistic—and some times demagogic—
approach embodied in Nixon-Reagan-Bush rhetoric. Their main
theme was that the nation could stamp out crime by chasing and
punishing criminals more relentlessly. But several decades of experi-
ence have proved beyond reasonable doubt that a purely punitive
approach can, at best, hold the line. To decrease crime requires a
mixture of law enforcement, social and economic remedies. . . .

“There is another interim requirement while the long-term rem-
edies of education, economic opportunity and family discipline are
applied. The President and Congress must be tough and smart enough
toreduce the firepower on American streets by regulating the availabil-
ity of handguns. The long stalemate over the Brady bill, just ended,
shows how far they are from that task.”

-from the November 28 editorial pages of The New YorkTimes.

New combination

“Remember how integral was the locker in your high school days?
At a growing number of Southern California campuses those clanging
doors are falling quiet. Faced with rampant vandalism and other
headaches centered on the compartments, administrators are choosing
to rip them out and let students haul around all their books and other
belongings in their backpacks. wall Il the back i injury lawyers get
word, today or years from now.”
-from the December 3 editorial pages of The Wall Street Journal.

Naturalizing the scapegoats

“As long as the nation’s economy is dragging, some Americans
will find scapegoats in immigrants. The naturalization effort could
certainly mitigate that problem, but it alone won’t solve it. ‘This effort
is nonetheless a fine example of the kind of governmental activism that
is compatible not solely with America’s laws but also with its tradition
of assimilating culturally diverse people into a unique nationality.”

-from the November 27 editorial pages of The Miami Herald

The Dean Rusk Program
India, Pakistan bring the nuclear age to the cradle of civilization

By Saad Gul

In the early seventies, when
India exploded what was officially
described as'a “peaceful” nuclear
test in the Rajistan desert, the In-
dian subcontinent, site of the
world’s oldest civilization entered
a New era.

While the Indian government
insists to this day that the blast was
peaceful, it has also cited a number
of reasons why it would be justi-
fied in acquiring nuclear arma-
ments: it points out that unfriendly
China has them, and in a future
conflict, lack of nuclear weapons
on the Indian side would, at best,
place India at a distinct disadvan-
tage. At worst, the war would be
over before it had begun.

Indian right-wingers also ar-
gue that India, which has through
virtually all of history remained a
major world power, and is in the
process of becoming one again,
has as much right to nuclear weap-
ons as any other power. For that
matter, they argue, there is no di-
vine law limiting nuclear weapons
to current powers.

The explosion set off panic in
neighboring Pakistan, still smart-
ing from a humiliating defeat in

the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war that
had cost it half its territory. Upon
the advice of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, memories of 1971 fresh in
their minds, then Prime minister
Bhutto embarked Pakistan upon a
program that is widely believed to
have resulted in the development
ofa nuclear weapon in the late 80s.

The weapons program has
caused all the more concern in the
West because both India and Paki-
stan test-fired sophisticated mis-
siles at the beginning of the de-
cade. There is real concern that a
future Indo-Pakistan conflict could

-turn nuclear.

In fact, last June, CNN re-
ported that tensions between the
two nations rose to the point that
President Bush hastily dispatched
his deputy National Security Ad-
visor, Robert Gates, to the region
in 1990. Apparently, intelligence
photographs showed nuclear armed
Pakistani jets in a combat ready
state, ready to take off if the then
prevailing tension had turned into
a war.

The problems are com-
pounded by high emotions over
the matter. Indian leaders see their
nation as a great power that has

been unfairly, but temporarily, de-
nied its rightful place on the world
stage. They are also well aware
that they would not survive a day
in office if the Indian people so
much as smelled a sell-out. The
extremist right-wing BJP openly
calls for India to detonate a nuclear
device; the demand appears to have
support among the Indian people.

Pakistanis are particularly sen-
sitive to any attempt to tamper
with the nuclear program, long re-
garded as national ‘family silver.’
They resent the program being la-

belled the “Islamic bomb,” point-
ing out that nobody accuses India
of having a Hindu bomb. Another
sore point is that the Pressler
Amendment, the legislation of U.S.
aid to Pakistan that nearly led to a
complete embargo this year, spe-
cifically singles out Pakistan for
“special punishment.”

There are no easy answers toa
complex question that could cause

hundreds of millions of deaths at

any time. Pakistan is firm that it

‘will never sign the Nuclear Non-

Proliferation Treaty (NPT) unless

STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

FORUM

9:00 p.m., Wednesday,
‘December 8, Morrison Room

Come to review and discuss the Trustee's
proposal to revise the existing Statement.

India does so simultaneously; In-
dia is equally firm in its stance that
the NPT as it currently stands dis-
criminates against third world
countries, and it sees no reason to

comply with its blatantly discrimi-

natory provisions, unless these are
modified so that they are no longer
BOR

Both countries, however, do
point out that their leaders are aware
that nuclear weapons are serious
business, and will benomore likely
to order their use than Western
countries like Britain.

Classifieds

FREETRIPSAND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Orga-
nizations wanted to promote the|
Hottest Spring Break Destina-
tions, call the nation's leader.
Inter-Campus Programs.
1-800-327-6013.

WANTED:
Apartment or portion
of house to rent or

sub-lease. 892-4992,
ask for Janet.

