_CHRISTMAS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

8

Twas the week before Christmas and all
through the school

Everyone was stirring, cause someone's a
fool.

Some of us were drunk, as we wanted to
be,

And while others studied, we guzzled with
glee.

in our mouths and bellies and our hands
was the Beast

As we sat and imbibed the ultimate feast.

Swimming in merriment, there was little
wonder

That our dreams of good grades had gone
all asunder,

But still we were glad to be with our buds

And soak our sorrows in those wondrous
suds.

For some this is blasphemy,

Our drunken tendency

But for us it was wonderful, a way to
escape

The fact that all semester we hadn't had a
date.

So we sang and we danced and we yelled
' at the moon.

Knowing our end was coming and way,
way too soon.

And while we could have done something
to rescue

Our dreams of being a lawyer with the
‘power to sue

We knew full and well that those dreams
were just that

Even for a magician with a big magic hat.

For try as you may and try as you might

Santa can't bring everything on Christmas
night.

So we buckled down and set to our task

Of drinking everything in the room that
might go in a flask.

And then it struck one person that there
was still a hope

That our teacher was under the influence
of dope

When he or she graded our papers and
tests

And forgot that all along we'd been a real
pest

In their class about philosophy. or
something or other.

For while studying was one thing we did
another

Thing with our time, our time that is,

Like trying to hook with a cute girl named
Liz.

So we drank and we wallowed

And a few drugs we swallowed

And laughed at the fact that our parents
would be pissed

When they learned about the million
classes we missed.

But then there was Johnny, locked away
in his room

Preparing to avoid that ultimate doom

Of not knowing what your finals hold in
store

Just because you find studying such a big
bore.

And then we came to, and looked around
the place

And realized we had to come to face

That unless we got sober and studied
some more

Davidson would laugh at us and shut the

‘door

On our dreams of the good life

With a flaming hot love life,

And while we knew we wouldn't get an A,
we knew that was OK

Cause Christmas, it's a Holiday

And the semester is almost over.

-Chris Frampton

Stephen Faller
Crappy seasonal

conversation.

Point of interest. There are two strange
phenomena that I have noticed flowing
around Davidson. They aren’t intrinsically
Davidson problems, or perhaps not prob-
lems at all, but they are something worth
noting.

The first is something I call “seasonal
conversation.” After three years here, I’ve
noticed a few trends, I’ve noticed that good
conversation, the stuff that gets your mind
going, is hard to find. However, plenty of
people talk about the latest Davidson crisis.
A wise friend revealed to me that everything
here is a crisis, or is at least seen that way.
How was your summer? What will you
take? What are you doing for fall break?
What did you do for fall break? How many
midterms do you have? Whatare you doing
for Thanksgiving? How was Thanksgiv-
ing? Sound old? Sound dead? Sound cold?
It is. If I’m right, we’ll be talking about
finals, and then break, by the time the paper
comes out.

The other is “battle of the busy-ness.” It
is to complain; a competition to have the

-worst load. It is prideful and bitter simulta-

neously. One fellow student actually said
that won. Won what? Who knows? But I
don’t think it’s to our credit that if we ever
met Job, we’d say, “Boils? I’ve got finals!
Four! Aw, man!”

Conversation, it seems to me, is an
attempt to connect with another soul, but

you can go through hundreds of these things
and still feel very disconnected. Why is it
that this drivel the only thing we can find to
talk about? What’s wrong with us?

Then, there’s all of this stuff, which is
really a non-stuff (a nothing that we’re try-
ing to use in the place of something) in the
face of Christmas.

What is Christmas? I think that’s a
question that’s been pulling us apart for
years. Psychologists say it’s the most de-
pressing time of the year, and plenty of
people counter that with persistent “good
tidings and good cheer.”

Either the holiday is the commercial

Holt Vaughn
Christmas is one of

-my. moments of time.

It was two weeks before exams, and I
had never been so stressed. Three papers, a
presentation, no girlfriend, hungry, plane
reservations for home, get back in shape, no
girlfriend, obnoxious roommate (just kid-
ding, Sean), two meetings, car wash, catch
up on my reading, bike stolen, get clothes
from laundry, pay the dumb CD club so
they’ ll quitsending me Stevie Wonder CDs,
and no girlfriend.

But I had to keep studying. SoI sat there

staring blankly at “Zen and Japanese Cul-:

ture” for over two hours and fifty pages. Yet,
I didn’t remember one thing | had read. All
I could think about was the things that were
stressing me out. I was so hungry. I started
to fantasize about “Oodles of Noodles” and
a Blueberry Muffin. Mmmmmm-

“Concentrate!” I kept telling myself.
So I did. I read the same paragraph four
times and each time understood it less and
less. I decided I needed a study break. After
all, everyone needs a break—even smart
people. So I threw on my Patagonia jacket
and started my way to the Union.

The cold air bit into my skin no more
than ten feet out of the library doors and my
ears felt like they were going to freeze off
the sides of my head. So I pulled my Spurs
cap low and buried my ice fists into my

pockets of warmth. As I began to walk -

briskly, my mind started to wander and
stress about my papers, presentation, etc.
The more I thought about my troubles, the
more I stressed, and the faster I walked.
Scurrying through the library courtyard and
past Chambers, I knew the trail by memory
and didn’t even have to look up--until I
heard that sound. It was faint but clear. It got
clearer and clearer until I realized the sound
was voices singing—on the front steps of

Chambers.

It was that Christmas party that I heard
about. I thought about going earlier that
evening but I opted not to because of my
workload. But wait—they might have food.
Not Oodles of Noodles, or anything that
good, but I did hear they might have cook-
ies. Free cookies, that is. So I decided to
stroll over to the circle of people.

"Boyfriends had their
arms around girlfriends.
The local residents were
out with their husbands,
wives, children, and even

a few dogs."

To say the least, I was amazed at the
turn out. There were hundreds of people
there. I saw a lot of my friends, but I decided
to keep a low profile because of my time
schedule. So I just kind of lingered in the
background and started to people watch.

Everybody hadcandles melted on pieces
of paper, and they were singing Christmas
carols along with the choir. People were
talking and laughing. Boyfriends had their
arms around girlfriends. The local residents
were out with husbands, wives, children,
and even a few dogs. Teachers were talking
with teachers like friends instead of col-
leagues. Students talking with teachers about
everyday things besides tests. No stress about
papers, presentations, plane tickets to get

home, or anything else. They just seemed to -

be enjoying the moment. The very precious
moment.
Then the.singing halted on one sudden

void and blackness retailers make it to be, or
itis something special. I don’t meanto force
any theology on my readers, although I
think it’s only fair to say I’m coming froma
theological perspective. However, just as I
think Christ can be for everyone, so can
Christmas. I’m saying that I don’t think
stereotypical Christians have the market on
feeling good this holiday (although I think it
is most tragic when those who profess to
believe or condemn with their religion go
around stuffing the season with the said
nothingness because if they’re right about

See X-mas on page 10

note. Everyone from child, parent, student
to teacher stopped what they were doing and
looked up. It was like a blanket of silence
overtook the courtyard. For no more than a
few drawn out seconds, everyone in the
crowd was the same. No students, no teach-
ers, no parents, no children, no classes, no
fraternities, no eating houses, no halls, no
sports. Just people. People sharing a mo-
ment together that would never be relived.

Then the Christmas lights were lit. You
could see the sparkling trees in the reflection
of everyone’s eyes. People started to scream
“Merry Christmas!” as loud as they could.
Buddies were slapping hands, girls were
giggling, and couples were kissing. A Rock
and Roll song came over the speakers and
people started dancing, smiling, running
around, hugging everyone and anyone
around them. It was one of the most beauti-
ful things I think I had ever seen on campus.
Yeah, the lights were nice, the music set the
mood, and the sky was peaceful—but what
really struck my attention were the smiles.
The smiles on every single person there.
Smiles of absolute happiness and apprecia-
tion of the moment. Though I was still in the
background, the happiness was too conta-
gious and I cracked a smile on my own face
as well. I couldn’t help it.

And then I left. [walked slowly back to
the library completely forgetting how hun-
gry I once was, how stressed I was about
papers, and everything else. Thoughts were
racing about inside my head about some-
thing totally different.

Yeah this place was stressful and, yeah,
Thad a lot of work to do. But, to me, that’s
not what these years of college are really
about. Ten years from now—what differ-
ence would it make? Who cares what grade
I make on my Zen Buddhism test? I prob-
ably won’t even remember I took the class.
All I’m going to have to take away from this
place is going to be the memories. Memo-
ries of those special moments. Memories of
those smiling faces.

Merry Christmas.
