10 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ : SPOR | S MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993
{

Baseball Preview '93

‘Cats Prepare to Open Season
Offense Solid, Pitching Still in Question

By Bruce Balestier age, 68 home runs) and the right kee Brewers. Worse yet, the team Given the uncertainty of his. ago, and Western Carolina came
Questions. As the startofsea- arm of Andy Paul (11-4, 10com- _ lost four senior pitchers to gradu- _ pitching, Cooke says that steady within a game of doing the same
son approaches, Davidson base- plete games, 2.73 era, 113  ation,andSamMackin, arguably _ hitting and defense will be crucial last season. And the rest of the
ball coach Dick Cooke has some, strikeoutsin118innings)toavery the second most effective arm toDavidson’schancesfor success. teams are all competitive. Says
last year(2.95era),didnot  “Ireallythinkoffensiveleadcrship Cooke, “There’s no weak club.”
return to school. " +~ by the veterans is going to be criti- Add to the conference slate
@ ‘ >) So when Cooke says, cal in easing the difficulties of the games with North Carolina, Duke,
“Pitching-wise, it’s wide _ pitching staff,” he said.““Wedon’t _N.C. State, Wake Forest, Georgia
open,” he means it. Senior —_projecthavingalotofstrikcoutsas Tech and Maryland of the ACC
Randy Spaw figures tobe _a pitching staff, so we’re going to and one with South Carolina of the
the number one starter. have to make sure we play the SEC, and you’ve got one demand-

Spaw was 3-8 witha 5.74 glove.” ing schedule. “It’s going to be chal-
eralast season, but did pitch The Wildcats’ retumtoSouth- _lenging,” Cooke says.
quite well on oceasion; he —_ ern Conference play means a more Davidson opens its season on

went eight strong-innings _ difficult schedule right from the _ the road this Saturday against its
against both Wake Forest _ start. Georgia Southern and The only non-Division I opponent,
andN.C. State.JuniorChris _ Citadel both made it to Omaha in Coker. The home opener is Febru-
Carrigan has pitched well —_ theCollege World Seriestwoyears ary 18 against N.C. A&T.

so far this spring; he and ;

Mills Ariail, last

season’sfreshmanofthe //— —\
year, could wind up in
the rotation.

Seniors Mac
Chapman and Mark
Snyder, juniors Clay
Halland Brian Heil, and
sophomore Tighe
Crovetti all threw some
innings last year and
likely will again. Fresh-
men Jeff Andrews,
Brian Cole, Rhett
Ingerick, Brian 4
Krehmeyer and Chris
Pollard all could be
called on immediately.

Junior Tim Sobon might

be in the mix, but the

ee prognosis on his injured

ee) x a Ri shoufder is still uncer-

Photo courtesy of Sports Information tain. .

Whether or not seniors Mark Snyder (pictured here) and Mac Says Cooke, “They
Chapman, sophomore Mills Ariail, and junior Chris Carrigan can could all sce relief or
fill the vacuum left after Andy Paul signed with the Milwaukee Starting roles. We’ re just
Brewers and four other senior pitchers graduated, will be one of the going to have to sce how
\\ telling signs for the upcoming season. J the season unfolds and
how they perform when

they’re called. We’ve
and they all revolve around his respectable 28-25 record. ButPaul gotsome guys who! thinkcan
pitching staff.Lastyear’steamrode forfeited his senior season when __ be successful. It’s just a huge
an explosive offense (.297 aver- hesignedinJune withthe Milwau- _ lack of experience. It’s a great
opportunity for these guys to
step up and take charge and
see who wants to get the ball.” Swett : , |
In contrast, Cooke’s Photo courtesy of Sports Information
lineup is pretty stable, and }/ What histeam lacks in pitching experience, Head coach Dick Cooke
should hit the ball well again. hopes to make up for in offensive skill. Watch for Junior Brett
Seniors Rick Bender and Tim _}} Boretti in the season opener against North Carolina A&T. Last
Kemsfinishedone-twoinmost | year, the starting catcher hit .312 with 9 home runs.

B R ING YOUR DEGREE TO offensive categories last year. \\_ »)

Bender, a shortstop, hit .341
BB&T with 13 homers, 14 doubles BR 3.75 ar ASTERNFEDERAL THEATRES
AND BUILD A CAREER and 42 rbi. Kerns, a rightfielder, $3.75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM
hit .337 with 12 homers, 12 MOVIES AT THE LAKE I-77 EXIT28 CORNELIUS
YOU CAN BANK ON Tunica sande. chistes VIES AT THE |

Contact Your Career Planning And Placement Center centerfielder Jazz Freitas hit.330. Aladdin (R) Sommersb 13
For Interview Times Catcher Brett Boretti hit .312 with 3:20, 5:05, 7:15, 9:05 3:30, 7:00-9:30 :

nine home runs. Paul Brannan, A FEW

BB &T : the leftfielder, hit 275 and stole fll GOOD MEN  3:30,7:00,9:39 | Laded Weapon I rc 13)
10bases in 11 tries. Chapman, the . Sa
It's More Than A Bank. : R “ASPEN EXTREME" ¢c- CHILDREN 3:10, 5:15
It's An Attitude. third baseman, hit .259 and 3:30, 7:00, 9:30 bs eee 7:20, 9:25

knocked in 38 runs. Hall will start rr -
the season at first base and junior a WGN? ) 3:15, 7:30 Tonunnte aun a
Chad Blackwelder at second base. SHOW TIMES FOR TODIy Oe ETE
Snyder and Fassett will platoon at :

designated hitter.

Since 1872

