ARTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

11

Movie Magic

é

By Scott McLean

Hey y’all! I’m baaaack! After a week
of much needed R & R, I have returned to
give you the scoop on what’s new at the
movies this week. First I would like to
extend thanks to Mr. Crumbley for filling
in last week— I was creatively zapped and
couldn’t even write my own name much
less an article worthy for your perusal.
Kudos Alex!

Anyway, this week’s featured flick is
A Nightmare Before Christmas, director
Tim Burton’s animated opus. Though
Burton didn’t direct, he does share pro-
ducer credit with long time collaborator
Denise Dinovi and his personality is all
over the film. From the weird creatures and
puppets (some of whom you’ll recognize
from Beetlejuice) to the music (by Danny

© Touchstone Pictures

Elfman who has done all Burton’s films and
wrote the theme to The Simpsons as well),
this movie reeks of Burton. That is by no
means a bad thing as this one turns out to be
yet another jewel in his crown.

The story centers around Jack
Skellington, the Pumpkin King of
Halloweentown. Bored with scaring chil-
dren year after year, Jack is looking for
something new and exciting and he finds it
when he stumbles on the door to
Christmastown.

Having discovered the cure for his mid-
life crisis, Jack decides to give Christmas a
try this year and he recruits the citizens of
Halloweentown to help. He kidnaps Santa
and sets about delivering Christmas to the
children of the world - Halloween style.
What ensues is a bellyfull of laughs as we

© Touchstone Pictures
Director Henry Selick
has brought Tim
Burton's Nightmare
Before Christmas to the
big screen. At the
height of the
production, only 70
seconds of film could
be created in one
|] week's time because of
"| the painstaking work
| involved in the
traditional stop-motion
animation techniques
used to produce it. The
F| film has received
critical acclaim from
most major reviewers.

© Touchstone Pictures

Tim Beton creates a-Christmas nightmare-for the ages —

watch the inept Jack doing the best he
can to make this Christmas an unforget-
table one and he succeeds with flying
colors. A mostly opera-style produc-
tion, the music/lyrics rival the animation
as being the movie’s best feature.

Director Henry Selick combines
these two elements beautifully creating
an artistic masterpiece. Of course, he
gets some help from the voices of Danny
Elfman, Catherine O’ Hara (Beetlejuice,
Home Alone), and Paul Reubens (none
other than Pee Wee Herman himself).

Even if you’re not big on the music
or the puppets, just looking at the elabo-
rate sets is nearly entertainment enough.
This is a film that you definitely won’t
forget anytime soon so checkit out. I’m
sure you won’t be disappointed.

e e e
Still Whistlin' Dixie
Waxin'
Metaphysical
By Geoff Graham

When I started writing a couple months
ago, I don’t think I really had any direction
with this article. I simply planned to write
about Country music. Whatever I felt like
saying, I’d say. Before long, however, reason
stepped in and suggested I write something
people might be interested in reading. There-
fore, I’ve restricted myself to reviewing al-
bums, concerts, and such with my own per-
sonal flare (or whatever you want to call it). I
gained direction, so to speak.

It’s silly, I think, to try to convert the
world to Country music. I don’t want anyone
stuffing Dave Neiland rave crap down my
throat. Why would anyone want me force
feeding them Geoff Graham country crap?
Besides, the world has enough Country fans as
itis. There’s just enough to annoy the hell out
of everybody, but just too few to make ‘em so
mad they’d do something about it.

“Well, Geoff,” you say, “What are you
getting at? Didn’t you mention something
about direction a minute ago?”

Well, I’ll tell you. Someone asked me,
being the oracle I am, if I’d write something
about what Country means to me. I don’t
know that I can answer them. I have even
stronger doubts that anyone cares. Neverthe-
less, I’ll give it a try. It’s not like Rachel is
going tocut my article. The Arts section needs
filler. So, if your expecting some sort of
review, sorry to disappoint you.

I don’t want people to get confused, here.
I know my opinion carries a lot of weight, but
don’t take it as gospel. Country, to me, is a
tropological symbol. It means something dif-
ferent to everyone. Likewise, through that
unique meaning, we can interpret something
about the individual.

For instance, if you think Country lacks
any redeeming qualities, if you thinkit’s dumb,
or simple and unoriginal, if you think Country
fans lack intelligence, and so on, that says
something about you. Keep in mind, this is
only my opinion. Maybe you lack compas-
sion, or an ability to empathize. Maybe you’re
hostile. Or, most likely, your vindictive na-
ture, your need to put down the things and
people around you, is an attempt to cover up
your own inadequacies. It’s a sign of insecu-
rity, a cry for help.

If you see Country ina different light, like

See Dixie on page 12

Poet Shapiro illuminates prosaic style to 900 Room audience Tuesday

By Alex Crumbley

Alan Shapiro, accomplished poet and
Professor of English at UNC-Greensboro,
spoke and read his poetry to an enthusiastic
900 room crowd on Tuesday night. He read
mostly from Covenant, his latest book of
poems published in 1991, and from Jn Praise
of the Impure, his new book, soon to be
published. Poet C.K. Williams called Cov-
enant “a marvellous work, one of the best
I’ve come across in years, and one which
grows richer and richer on every reading.”
His enthralling presentation Tuesday night
appealed to all kinds of people, from lovers
of mythology to civil rights activists, bas-
ketball enthusiasts to aspiring writers.

Shapiro’s poetic style, often in com-
plete sentences, sounded prosaic. Techni-
cally speaking, what makes his work poetry
rather than prose is his ability to make line
breaks add meaning tohissentences. Shapiro
makes the reader consciously aware of turns
of phrase and the perhaps multiple mean-

ings of words in his arrangement of poetic

lines. Unfortunately, this effect is more
apparent to the reader than to the listener,
and hearing him read makes his piecessound
more like prose than poetry.

A flavorful combination of the old and
the new, the classical and the contemporary,
and the separate and the whole, make the
subjects of Shapiro’s poetry innovative and
thought-provoking. His poems are often
rooted in the classics or historical events,
butalso are relevant to contemporary issues.

He read “Mud Dancing,” from Cov-
enant, which compares the surrendering of
cultural identity which took place from the
Holocaust to Woodstock. About the poem
heremarked, “The things that onelovesbest
are the things that are taken from one, and
taken irrevocably.” The difference between
the two, obviously, was the means and the
willingness by which each group lost its
identity, but his comparisons between them
are fresh and powerful.

He composed “The Visitation,” also in

Covenant, while sitting in trafficone day. In

it, he simply wonders what Old Testament
angels who visit the earth in disguise would
think of us if they saw how we acted toward
one another in traffic. “The Visitation” also
takes old ideas and projects them onto new
conditions, making them both more vivid
and meaningful because of the unique com-
bination of the two.

Several of his poems concern his fvor-
ite sport— basketball. Before reading “Be-
tween Assassinations,” which he called his
“Tintern Abbey,” he remarked, “My spots
of time all take place on basketball courts in
cities.” Many of these poems address the
problems of race relations in America, a
problem which Shapiro feels has only got-

"ten worse since integration. Interestingly,

Shapiro went to Brandeis on a basketball
scholarship to play point guard.

Shapiro’s work springs from an insatia-
bly well-read mind, as is apparent from his
multitude of literary and classical allusions.
When he met with Dr. Abbott’s creative
writing class Tuesday afternoon, he named

Upcoming Speakcre

Evelyn Wu-Dehart
Nov. 8, 4:30, 900 Room.
McGeorge Bundy
Nov. 8, 8:00, Gallery.
Dr. Evan Derenzo
Nov. 11, 4:30, 900 Room
Storytelling at BSC
Nov. 14, 4:00

incessant reading as an essential ingredient
for becoming a successful writer, along with,
of course, constant.practice in writing. He
also advocated a healthy balance of arro-
gance and humility for the aspiring writer:
arrogant enough to believe in one’s own
ability and humble enough to accept criti-
cism. Shapiro is a native of Bostén and
taught at Stanford University before coming
to North Carolina.
