10

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

Diversity.

What an issue. Time and time
again members of academia have
repeated this word, believing
whole-heartedly that if they saidit
enough, colleges would suddenly
begin to look like a gigantic
fingerpainting of races.

The idea has been forced into
the role of most important item on
the agenda for today’s college cam-

‘puses. Even conservative
Davidson has fallen in behind the
diversity banner, bringing to its
campus a speaker so upset with the
English language thatshe replaced
the word heroine with the word
shero.

And diversity is a fine idea.
Certainly, as Johnetta Cole indi-
cated in her address, colleges and
the world can “draw on the talents,
sensitivities, and the plain old
smarts of all our people.”

Chris Frampton

Diversity or segregation?

But why now? Is this the
battle that remains to be fought in
terms of equal rights for all mem-
bers of American society? Possi-
bly. But are there positive results
to the active minority recruitment
that has becomeso popular? Maybe
not.

Certainly people deserving of
an education but restricted finan-
cially have been given an opportu-
nity they might never have had as
a result of this trend. But, obvi-
ously, not all minorities are poor,
so why would they want tocometo
Davidson?

The answers are at first obvi-
ous: a first rate education, an ex-
cellent faculty, strong facilities.
But what then? Most students ca-

pable of getting into Davidson are
well-tooled enough to attend insti-
tutions of a similar stature. So, if
you are a minority, ethnic or other-
wise, why come to a traditionally
white, traditionally male, tradition-
ally Christian institution?

It is a question that is on the
minds of many college administra-
tors. The answer seems to be along
these lines: “Because we have a
black student center, because we
give a large number of minority
scholarships, because we will ca-
terto your needs.” But the result of
such a response may well be dan-
gerous. Inarecentreporton “Sixty
Minutes,” students, black and
white, at Duke Ghivenity were
asked about their campus and the

amount of interracial interaction
that took place. The answer was
none. The reason? The report
suggested that the answer may lie
in the university’s treatment of mi-
noritjes. In its efforts to attract-the
finest minority students in the coun-
try, Duke has all but built a wall
between the black and white stu-
dents by building separate facili-
ties for minorities, in some cases
lowering their entrance require-
ments, and setting up a separate
counseling center. The result:
Blacks feel stigmatized and cut off
from the white population.

And this is a problem at
Davidson. Last year, a black stu-
dent responded to the question of
why he was a member of a com-
mittee by saying, “Because I am
black.” The look that followed
seemed to say, “What are you, an
idiot?” Last week Travis and

Rafael wrote that most white stu-
dents do not talk to them unless
they were drunk. They claimed
that teachers ignore them in class.
Almostevery black student oncam-
pus is a member of the BSC and
those that are not often times ap-
pear to be pressured into joining.
This doesn’t appear to be diver-
sity. It seems that blacks have
begun to officially segregate them-
selves. Why? Possibly they feel
that they are integrated in appear-
ances only. Possibly. Not even
one percent of Davidson’s frater-
nity members are black.

So are appearances correct?
One question seems to stand out: is
the admissions office’s policy of
minority recruitment beneficial to
the college at the expense of those
it claims to help? Hopefully not.
Hopefully the answer will become
an unwavering no.

As I See It: Tom Norwood
The media lacks

morals.

I’ve been angry at the media lately. I
shouldn’t say lately, because I’m always
angry at the media. The media has no con-
science. They do not care who they trample
to sell papers or to boost ratings. They de-
fend their ruthlessness by saying that people
need to be informed. I agree that people have
the right to know what is going on in the
world, but at some point you have to draw
the line. Many times the public’s right to
know should give way to common decency
towards those who are involved with the
news. Not everything is news-worthy.

For instance, a few weeks ago all the
major networks showed a dead American
pilot’s naked body being paraded through
the streets of Somalia. The family had not
even been informed of the pilot’s death
before the tape was played for the whole
world tosee, Imagine if you were the mother
of that pilot, and you saw your son’s naked
body being paraded through the streets of
Somalia. His death would be hard enough,
but to find out in this way would be horrible.
“It’s news-worthy,” they cry. It may be, but
the networks should have had the decency to

EOF

wait until the family was notified.

But decency is a word that the media
does not understand. They are innately heart-
less. Don Henley says it all in his song about
the media called “Dirty Laundry”. “You got
the bubble-headed bleach who comes on at
five. She’ll tell you about the plane crash
witha gleam in hereye. It’s interesting when
people die, We love dirty laundry.”

Later in that same song Henley says,
“Kick’ em when their up, kick’em when
their down.”

A good example of this is Michael
Jordan. The media loves to probe in his
private life, and when his father died they
hada field day. They askedclassy questions
such as, “How do you feel right now?” and
“Does your gambling have anything to do
with your father’s death?” I don’t care about
the public’s right to know; let the man be.
I’m going to stop bitching now, because it is
pointless.

The media will never change. It is the
nature of the beast.

: Rick Thurmond
Ah, the 'braire, my beloved locale.

They say that when.writing, you should
write about what you know. I know beer.
Way overdone. I know Beavis. Also over-
done. I know my parents pretty well, but I
stopped writing about them in high school.
I know sleep but what can you write about
sleep? I know cigars but who ever heard
about writing a columnon cigars? Ido know
one other thing and if you’re like me (if
you’re not, you’re either a complete dork or
really cool. I can’t figure out which), you
know it too.

Being a senior at Davidson, which is
bound to happen as long as you take your
core requirements, I know the library pretty
damn well.

Home of CHAL and the soothing-in-a-
nauseating-sort-of-way green carpet, the
place where you can read Rolling Stone and
Sports Illustrated without paying for a sub-
scription, nap haven, clean bathrooms, and
tows and rows of books that have not been
checked out since 1963, except for the ones
Ineed. But E.H. Little ismuch more than all
that. If you think about it, which you prob-
ably have not because it won’t be on the test,
the library is Davidson. A microcosm if you
will.. When you first walk in the double
doors, you immediately see... more double
dosts. This part I have not figured out yet,

but there’s got to be something there. Then
you see these reception desks manned by
very friendly librarian-type people. Look to
the left, and you see more people talking at
the desk or at the tables. It’s just like
Davidson.

Atfirst glance, it and its people are very
personable and approachable, often smil-
ing, and say “hi” to you even if they’ve never
seen you before. At first, the library even
smells good. Look to the right and there’s
more people engaged in amiable conversa-
tion. Just kind of passing the time in the
guise of being tutored in math.

A little further to the right (the micro-
cosm continues), though, and you see stairs.
Stairs going up arid stairs going down. You
see, because this not being graded, I can get
away with this sentence fragment thing.
And of course you go up the stairs first
(Unless you’re me--I take the elevator).
Besides, all the cool people are upstairs
anyway, meaning me.

So now you’re on the second floor.
Welcome to the party floor of E.H. Little. If
they were going to puta keg anywhere in the
‘braire, it'd be up here, either on the baicony
or in the smoking lounge. The alternative
table could be by the newspapers. And they
could put the... but enough dreaming. Up

on this floor, you still have some kind of
connection to the outside world through the
big windows. You can even watch the
football games when they get inside the
twenty yard lines.

There’s people studying up here, but
there’s just as many students talking, mostly
about what they’re going to do when they
leave the library. But they also spend a lot
of time discussing, i.e. bitching about, work.

(You’ve heard them, “I’ve got three
tests and two papers this week!” Like no-
body else does? Like you’re the only one
enrolled in classes at this school? Why
don’t you shut the hell up and get something
done instead of talking, i.e. bitching, about
it all the time? That’s what I want to say to
them.)

Have youever noticed that more people
study with walkmans on the second floor? I
know people that leave their rooms to take
study breaks on the second floor of the
library. Iknow a guy that hada date once on
the second floor. She stood him up.

Which, of course, brings me to the
basement. Even though nobody really wants
to, everybody usually makes it down there at
one time or another for one reason or an-
other. For me, it’s usually because I forgot
to hitthe 1 button in the elevator. When it all
comes down toit(can thatactually happen?)
the basement represents the heart and soui,

See Rick on page 12-

Gull's Nest: Bill Gullan
Sports are a vital

part of America.

As Russell Baker once wrote, “In
America, it is sport that is the opiate of the
masses.” Thisis truer than even Baker could
have known. People to whom sports is a

_ secondreligion arebelittled frequently. “It’s

only a game,” could be the most often used
expression we have, and it’s always said
with seriousness and scorn. But let’s put it
this way: What other hobby has taken on
such an obsessive role in our society? Why
do grown men playing little boy games
strike such a receptive chord for us? Why
were there thousands of drunken
Charlotteans downtown last week celebrat-
ing the birth of the Panthers? Why would I
kick a water fountain and hurt myself over a
stinkin’ baseball game?

Larger than life heroes, unfathomable

"After the game is over and
the field is cleared, we'll all
like each other a lot more."

upsets, the thrill of victory, and the agony of
defeat. Don’t these images bring something
personal to everyone’s mind? My_larger
than life hero was Phillies third baseman
Mike Schmidt. My favorite photograph
from my childhood (other than the one ofme
naked on the swing) was taken by my mother
in Clearwater, Florida around 1981. Yes,
we used to plan our spring vacations around
Phillies spring training! Anyhow, Schmidt
was number 20, andIhad alittle red Schmidt
jersey on my skinny (!) eight year old body.
He was in a batting cage practicing the
swing that produced over 500 home runs. It
was big Mike Schmidt wearing number 20
in the batting cage and little Bill Gullan
wearing number 20 watching him practice.
If I do say so myself, it was darling! We
went to Clearwater every spring, when the
hopeful cries of “Wait ‘til next year” were
turning into dreams of the World Series. All
of the players were when I was an impres-
sionable freshman, and when Frampton was
allowed in Chambers. What great memo-
ries.

So you see, sports is a vital part of our
private lives past and present. It also pro-
vides acommon bond I share with all Phila-
delphians, or all Davidsonians. “So we’ll,
root, root, root for the home team. If they
don’t win it’s ashame...” After the game
is over and the field is cleared, we'll all like
each other a lot more, and we’ll know that
even though the same exact thing will never
happen again, we were privileged to see it,
be a part of it, and live it.
