THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993 5

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

ALICE FELMLEE-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

The Basidson

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager °

ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Time for a New Union

First Union advances Davidson’s campaign to $112 million, the college plans
to build a new facility, and anew Union Board has a vision fora new building to
foster a more unified campus. All indications reveal an opportune time to decide
that the next project for the College Facilities Planning Committee should be anew
college union.

A new Union that'caters to all students as well as administration and faculty
could provide opportunities for unified interaction and individual expression
-rather than merely offering an alternative social organization.

Recent glimpses of a unified and supportive student body suggest that
Davidson would enjoy a more unified environment. For example, the 900 Room
could not accommodate the large crowd for the Tibetan monks. Twelve hundred
of us waited on the lawn of Chambers to hear Spike Lee. Davidson fans ned both

sides of the soccer stadium chanting “red” and “black”.
A new union could provide not only periodic large social events such as

Midwinters or major concerts, but also a centrally located place to congregate
casually. Most importantly anew union would direct efforts to improve the morale
that determines the overall atmosphere of acollege. If we can unite our efforts, we
could eventually see anew union and certainly enjoy decreased division as a result.

Support for Alden

SGA President Alden Smith ends his innaugaration speech (see opposite page)
by promising the campus “his best.” While this is certainly what should be
expected of him, itis not enough. The position also necesitates an ability to oversee
the countless numbers of committees and special interests on campus, as well as
have a strong vision of the direction in which Davidson College should travel.

Fortunately, Davidson has elected just such a person in Alden Smith. Alden’s
speech shows that he has set the problem of diversity highest on his list of priorities.
In addition, his actions indicate a true interest in joining the voices of every student
together into one which can be easily heard by the administration and Trustees and
effect their policy making. For these reasons, The Davidsonian fully supports
Alden and believes he can render the SGA a true force for positive change.

$21,037 and Rising

With the Trustees’ recent announcement of another eight percent increase in
tuition, one might have expected an outcry of oppression, a revolt of sorts. The
reaction around the College, however, has been strangely quiet. It seems that
tuition increases have become all too familiar.

Attacking the Trustees as insensitive to the needs of students, paying the
increase in small coins as the students at UC-Santa Barbara decided to do (see
opposite page), or rolling the comptroller’s office might be expected responses, but
itis doubtful anything will really happen. Another example, perhaps, that in ways,
Davidson is still just a “lazy” Southern college.

More than anything, though, the increase is another reminder of how much
someone is sacrificing for us to come to Davidson. Four years here will now
commonly cost ovér $100,000. That’s alot of money. We should take advantage

of it.

everyone s As eve ee 4
TH/ ras

Cttle eces

Gown, Bill never Dked Socks]
lent ahard one Co axplain

Pere

| Support Women's Hoo;

DS

eS

To the Editor,

On Saturday January
23, a senior Davidson bas-
ketball player made a three
point shot with six seconds
remaining fora victory of 64
to 62 over Division I
Winthrop University.

During the season,
Davidson has beaten many
impressive Division I teams
at home. There was one
major problem with all of
these games. There were no
fans. I’m not saying that the
stands were vacant. There
are always at least two sets
of parents, the training room
staff, and friends of the
coaches and players. The

faculty members in the
crowd probably make up a
higher percentage than
Davidson students. That’s
usually it. ‘
Welcome to women’s
basketball. I got involved
with the women’s basket-
ball team because I saw the
energy and excitement that

the Davidson community .

had for athletics during the
men’s soccer winning streak.
How many Davidson stu-
dents can honestly say they
have watched a women’s
basketball game? What is
even worse is that I have
watched everyone walk out
of the Belk Arena as the

women’s team runs onto the
floor after a men’s game.
~ Women’s basketball is
as exciting as men’s basket-
ball. The refs are just as
blind (example: the Wofford
game), and the women hustle
just as hard. The shot clock
only runs for thirty seconds,
which keeps everything at
as fast a pace as men’s bas-
ketball.
Title IX of the Educa-
tion Amendments of 1972
states, “No person in the
United States shall, on the
basis of sex, be excluded
from participation in, be de-

See "O'Brien" on page 7

College Arborist Asks for Your Help

As the new campus ar-
borist, I have noticed and
wish to point out several
‘things to the students and
faculty concerning the trees
and tree work on campus.

1. Physical plant work-
ers are here to serve the cam-
pus and its residents; as they
circulatearound the grounds,

leeway and refrain from
blocking their passage with
parked vehicles.

2. Please respect and
avoid areas marked with

please give their vehicles ~

signs, cones, or protective
barriers soas to avoid bodily
injury or unnecessary delay
incompletion of the work in
progress.

3. Do not walk or drive
under trees being pruned or
otherwise worked onas tools
or debris may fall and seri-
ously injure passerbies,

4. Avoid chaining bi-
cycles to trees, especially in
the dorm areas. Over time
this will unnecessarily dam-
age trees.

We are proud to serve

the college and community
and will gladly answer ques-
tions about our work as we
are doing it. But please don’t
walk up behinda worker with
a chain sawor other tool as
this puts one in serious haz-
ard. We arecurrently under-
taking major restorations of
the plantscape on campus.
and would sincerely appre-
ciate you cooperation in
keeping 1993 accident-free.
: Sincerely,
Murv Alleman
Arborist

Lindsey Corrects The Davidsonian

To the Editor:

I regret to inform you
thatanerror of quotation was
made in the last issue of The
Davidsonian in the article
concerning alcohol and its
role in students’ lives.
Whether a mistake in pub-
lishing or a simple misun-

derstanding, I would like to «

take this opportunity to ex-
press my view. I do not
think alcohol is necessary to
have fun at Davidson. I
myself find that even the sim-
plest meal at the Commons
can be fun if you make it that
way. I would hope that oth-

ers here are open-minded
enough to find fun in many
different and varied aspects
of college life also. I thank
you for this chance to clarify
my viewpont.

Sincerely,

Beth Lindsey

OPINIONS

By Seth J. McLaughlin
and J. Kyle Kinner

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Thank your lucky stars
that Saturday’s paperreached
us when it did. Otherwise,
how could we report our
shock and dismay to learn
ies “Davidson’s decision to
rent Belk Arena for last
Monday’s UNCC-Furman
men’s basketball game—at
the expense of its own previ-
ously scheduled women’s

game—has professors cry-
ing sexism.” Whoa, mama!
It just seems like the good
newskeeps pouring in, don’t
it?

Barely a week after dis-
covering that our tuition will
rise a mere 8.umptyumph
percent (as seniors, we’re
leaving before that critical
“Parents Mortgage Home”
Stage sets in), this dilemma
leaps tothe fore. According

Holland Stiffed Women's Hoops

to the CO, Athletic Director
Holland felt free to pressure
woman’s coach John Filar
into taking a dive, canceling
the game. Although AD
Holland claims that “noharm
was done because the
women were, given the op-
tion of moving their game
against Radford to late after-
noon,” the facts don’t bear

See "Birks" on page 7
