THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

CG ad Ad

he Bavidsonian

: MANDY CURTIS-News Editor

A ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor

ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Assistant Sports Editor

CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERICSJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

Respect on the Court

With Saturday’s “first night down” celebrations, fraternity and eating house
activities have effectively begun for the 1993-94 school year. While Patterson
Court continues to be the primary social outlet for students, it has taken a beating
in the last few years. The Court has borne the brunt of denigrating comments about
social “life” at Davidson, and received much of the blame for campus discontent.

Some of this is deserved. The court, at times by definition, encourages an
irresponsible use of alcohol that can lead to other problems: fights, damage to
school property, and, for some students, difficulties in the classroom.

Much of the malign, however, has been generated by a disproportionate
amount of attention placed on Patterson Court due to a fundamental lack of other
viable social options. Being as small as it is, there simply isn’t much to do at
Davidson.

The primary effect of this attention has been the administration’s effort to
curtail drinking. By focusing solely on the Court, the alcohol policy has become,
tomiany students, more of an attack on their life-style than a serious effort to control
the problems caused by abuse. The result: few people respect or even pay attention
to some of the most basic aspects of the policy. This does not need to be the case,
and indeed, a loosening of the restrictions this year has led, in a large degree, to the
houses making a more concerted effort to observe the policy.

Patterson Court does not, however, have to be a place of controversy. Clearly,
the policy of “open parties” is one of the positive aspects of Davidson. At many
schools, fraternities virtually lock themselves up in their houses, never venturing
to socialize with other people. But at Davidson each party includes members of
every segment of college life. This is an accomplishment that the administration
has recognized and made efforts to continue, limiting the number of parties on the
Court on any given night, thus sending everyone to the same place.

But, like all similar systems around the country, the member houses also
receive criticism for being seperatist. And while there is truth to this statement--
by nature fraternities cannot include everyone--it really is a moot point. Certainly
the Court is not for everyone. However, for years, the houses on the little semi-
circle behind Vail Commons have created homes for many people, providing them
with a close group of friends and confidantes with whom to share their college
experiences.

Patterson Court is a unique place, providing social opportunities for a sizable
group of people but at the same time giving people a chance to escape from the
largess of college life Our hope is that, if and when problems arise in the future,
both the administration and the student body will continue to work together to
uphold a fraternity and eating house system that is undoubtedly positive. In
essence, mutual respect between the students and the administration can only serve
to sustain a valuable social venue. °

LETTERS

Rogers speaks out about racism

To the editors,

“racism will notscour
our pages...” So write the
editors of The Davidsonian
in their September 13 publi-
cation. Despite this state-
ment, one has but to turn the
page to be confronted with a
column replete with racism,
“Do you really want to live
with all of this?” by Rafael
Candelario and Travis
Hinson.

Mr. Candelarioand Mr.
Hinson use two recent oc-
currences at the BSC house
as a platform from which to
attack what they see as a
white effort to oppress black
Davidson students.

First, members of the ~

BSC returned to Davidson
to find that their house had
been used all summer and
left “filthy.” As of Septem-
‘ber 13, nothing had been
done to rectify the situation.
Secondly, a window at the
BSChouse had recently been
smashed by a bottle.

Itis understandable that
Mr. Candelario and Mr.
Hinson are upset at someone
using their house and return-
ing it uncleaned. To a de-
gree, I can sympathize with

their frustration at nothing
having been done to clean
the house this far into the
school year.

However, to chalk up
the delay in cleaning the
house to racist motives on
the part of whites is ludi-
crous. Mr. Candelario and
Mr. Hinson might do well to
consider the great number of
work orders the physical
plant has had to deal-with as
students return to dorm
rooms with problems.

Like it or not, a dorm
room with problems is more
important than any unclean
eating or social house—stu-
dents must live in the dorms.

~~ As to the window inci-
dent, I have no idea what
motivated that bottle
thrower. Perhaps it was rac-
ism, perhaps alcohol. Maybe
it was a little of both. Since
this limited incident was ac-
companied by noracial slurs
or any other racially moti-
vated indicators, we have no
way of distinguishing it from
so many other destructive
occurrences at other eating/
social houses.

The article Mr.
Candelario and Mr. Hinson

build up around these two
incidents is nothing short of
black racism. Mr. Hinson
tells us that things like what
happened to the BSC house
remind him that “... Mr.
Charlie doesn’t want me
here.” Mr. Hinson gra-
ciously defines “Mr.
Charlie” for us: “the man,
old whitey, i.e., the estab-
lishment that has continu-
ously held the Black man,
and all other minorities
down.”

The article is full of
other racial statements and
symbolisms: “It’s nice to be
Black again, oh, [mean back
again, ... [can finally see the

“white, oops, I mean the light
at the end of the tunnel...
Stay Black,” with the spell-
ing of “black” with a capital
“Bi?

These sentiments are
both frightening and sadden-
ing. Frightening in that they
display a strong dislike of
whites in general. Sadden-
ing in that these students
seem to believe truly that
most Davidson whites do not
want them here.

See Rogers on page 10

Seay isn't

witty, he's

‘he

offensive

To the editors,

Upon reading [the first
issue of the] Davidsonian, |
was taken aback by the elo-
quence possessed by your
columnist, Nathan Seay.

His fascinating piece
entitled, "Men are what?
Men are dogs?" held my

attention with a grip unpar-
alleled by any literary work.
There is, of course, one line
that I'd like to take the lib-
erty of quoting; the piece de
resistance of the whole edi-
torial.

Seay writes, "The meals
range from bland starfish to

spicy hot beaver." Oh, what
glittering brilliance!

I commend you, The
South's Foremost College
Weekly, for printing such
works of subtlety, tact, and
class.

Sincerely,

Amanda Davis '96

McKelway makes a correction |

To the editors,

I appreciate the care
with which Mandy Curtis
reported our conversation
about tenure. The headline,
“After brief discussion, Col-
lege decides to continue tra-
ditional, accepted tenure

policy,” is, however, incor-
rect.

Any such decision be-
longs to the Trustees, who
simply asked their Educa-
tion Committee to examine
ourtenure policy and to give
a report of their findings at

some future meeting of the
Board. To my knowledge
the Trustees have taken no
action that would require it
either to reaffirm or to
change the present policy.

Sincerely yours,

A.J. McKelway

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

0 6 2 ww ee,

. | tates aré-avaHlable upon fequest:: Copyright is held by tie Trusteés 6f Davidson College.

=

Union has Ben & Jerry's, too

To the editors,

Congratulations on your
front page article about Ben
& Jerry's opening on Main
Street.

"wide Welightedte have- - years plus -eight-other-fla-

them as neighbors. It is cer-
tainly appropriate to note that
the Union Cafe has carried
all of the flavors mentioned
in your article for over two

errs

vors including Apple Pie
Yogurt!

Many thanks.
Sincerely,

Julie Mills

Manager, Union Cafe
