_ARTS

10

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Photo from Youig's Album "Comes A Time"
Neil Young recently performed in the Charlotte area.

By Rachel Newcomb

Probably a good many of you
read Robert James Waller’s The
Bridges of Madison County this
summer. I was no exception. For
the most part, people seemed to
like it, but critics have denounced
it as being nothing more than an
overly sentimental romance novel.

Reading back over it again,
looking at it with cynicism, maybe

liked it, and I don’t care if it was a
best-seller, or ifthe characters were
one-dimensional.

Because the novel was so
short, and because the characters
weren’t developed with any com-
plexity, it left much up to the imagi-
nation. Andifit were upto me and
not Hollywood to do the casting

I am a little embarrassed. But I °

for the movie, Robert Redford
wouldn’t get the starring role. Neil
Young would be Robert Kincaid,
National Geographic photographer
and last of a dying breed.

Ican see Neil swinging a blue
jeans-clad leg out of his pick-up
truck, slinging his old Nikon be-
hind him as he trudges off to pho-
tograph a covered bridge some-
where in Iowa.

I can see Neil strumming a
few notes on his guitar, humming
a tune about Indians as a pot of
fresh garden vegetables simmers
on an old cookstove nearby. Rob-
ert Kincaid kept a notebook where
he scibbled phrases like, “Before I
became a man, I was an arrow—
long time ago,” or “The old dreams
were good dreams, they didn’t

Neil Young as Robert Kincaid

work out, but I’m glad I had them.”
I bet Neil carries just such a note-
book.

I had the fortune of seeing
Neil Young live at Walnut Creek
Amphitheater in Raleigh on Au-
gust 28. Of all the concerts I’ve
ever been to, and I’ve attended a
good many, this one was by far the
best.

The fact that I had 7th row
seats might have contributed to
thisopinion. Neil was so close that
I could see his facial expressions,
and hear every word he sang. Some
people I’ve spoken with who sat
on the lawn said the delay where
they were sitting was disappoint-
ing, but I didn’t have that problem.

See Neil on page 12

Three
alternative
bands see

popularity rise
By Tom Bavis

America is taking more chances in the
record stores. This summer saw the trend
toward widespread acceptance of alterna-
tive music accelerate with vengeance.
Lollapalooza was again successful, and vet-
eran alternative groups like 10,000 Mani-
acs, Soul Asylum, and Primus went plati-
num for the first time. If those group’s
successes aren’t proof enough, look only to
the Proclaimers top ten hit “500 Miles;” that
song was originally released four years ago,
when it met the stony silence of an utterly
disinterested America.

Fortunately, success this summer has
come for more than just the two or three
token groups. The American listener has
also welcomed the likes of Matthew Sweet,
Smashing Pumpkins, and Radiohead. These
three groups all released albums this sum-
merandall three have been meeting the kind
of success usually monopolized by lesser
talents.

Maybe it was unfair to think that Mat-
thew Sweet could improve upon his 1991
masterpiece, “Girlfriend.” Still, I could not
help but be disappointed by his new album,
“Altered Beast.” Sweet’s sound — warm,
guitar-driven pop — has remained, but the
songs are harder to like. Where “Girlfriend
was risky, “Altered Beast is cliched. The
melodies in songs like “Time Capsule” are
so catchy.I forget what I am singing garbage
like “Do you want me/do you need me/can
you not say / you believed me.”

Where “Girlfriend” was thematic and
whole, “Altered Beast” has no direction.
Thereare still many wonderful songs to hear
— most notably “The Devil With Green
Eyes” and “Life Without You” — and the
album has not driven me away from Mat-
thew Sweet forever. But he can do better
and I hope he will next time.

Unlike Sweet, the Smashing Pumpkins
are a more challenging group to listen to. It
is not that they are bad; they can be stunning.
But their new album “Siamese Dream,” like
their debut “Gish,” is too dynamic, too ex-
treme between its psychadelic tripping and
power thrashing, to hear passively. Once
again the Pumpkins are produced by Butch

See Bands on page 11

Rodin piece
acquired by art
department

By Aimee Norman

Dr. Nina Serebrennikov told one of her
classes this past Monday morning that she
knew Davidson College had truly entered
the world of the visual arts when she saw
Jean d’Aire being rolled by her office last
week.

Jean d’Aire is the sculpture by Auguste
Rodin which dominates the central atrium
of Davidson’s new Visual Arts Center. The
piece, which arrived from New York on
August 20th, is the generous gift of alumnus
James G. Pepper and his mother, Nita E.
Pepper.

The bronze statue is one of six figures
which Rodin prepared to appear together in
The Burghers of Calais. This monument,
commissioned in 1884, was created in
memory of six leading citizens of Calais,
France, who volunteered their lives to save
their town from destruction by an army in
1347. These men, symbolically dressed in
sack cloth’s bonds, offered Edward III the
key to their city and their lives. The king
was so impressed by their bravery that he
spared both their lives and the town of
Calais.

Jean d’Aire, the piece which stands in
the new Visual Arts Center, represents part
of Rodin’s thought processes about the
Burgher’s monument. The preparation of a
nude study iscommon practice among sculp-
tors to assure anatomical accuracy before

See Rodin on page 12

The Visual Arts Center

Photo by Casey Rogers
Construction on the Visual Arts Center continues, though the facility is in use.

By Rachel Dunifon
All Davidson’s Art Department wanted

paid off as they, as well as the rest of the
the new $9.1 million Visual Arts Center.
According to Studio Art professor Herb
Jackson, plans for change began when the
Art Department requested more space for

- Guest House was considered a possible op-

was some more space. Their 20 year wait _

Davidson community, enjoy the benefits of .

their classes and programs. At thattime the ,

. tion, until it-was decided that it would be .

renovated as a hotel. Then the Art Depart-
ment faculty was asked to be patient for a
while as other space was investigated.

Other locations, such as Johnston Gym
and thecurrent Union building were consid-
ered for use as visual arts facilities, but were
later rejected. In the meantime, the faculty
of the Art Department drew up very specific
plans detailing what facilities and space
they wouldneed.

It wasn’t until 1984 that the idea of

- building a new arts center was proposed by

OPPO SOE A ee a

Visual arts center seen as a community boon

President Kuykendall. In 1985, committees
of faculty, administrators, and trustees trav-
eled across the country to select an architect
for the project. They finally settled on
Grahm Gund, a well-known American ar-
chitect whose work can also be seen in the
Ford Theatre in Washington, D.C.
Gund used the detailed plans developed
by the Art Department to design the Visual
Arts Center. To the delight of J ackson, “this
