THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Washington |
Clinton stretches self on foreign policy

By Katie McKelvie

Unable to refuse George
Bush’s foreign policy leftovers or

‘resist the sweet temptation of a
national health plan, critics now
charge that President Clinton has
bitten off more bias even he can
chew.

Faced with a plate of Somalia,
Bosnia, Russia, Haiti, the North
American Free Trade Agreement,
and health care reform, Washing-
ton insiders now wonder whether
the source of Ross Perot’s “giant
sucking sound” might actually be
from the West Wing’s kitchen.

The president’s voracious ap-
petite could prove extremely dam-
aging to the future of his domestic
agenda.

Clinton’s selling power is es-
sential in order to pass such con-

troversial proposals as NAFTA and
health care. If the public sees him
as indecisive and lacking a “con-
scious focus,” his credibility will
diminish, and with it his ability to
push legislation through a skepti-
cal Congress.

Right now Clinton’s objec-
tives in Somalia appear sketchy,
his efforts in Haiti have been
plagued by “defects in the
administration’s decision making,”
and problems in Bosnia and Rus-
siaremain “unresolved.” Congress
is calling for a “coherent foreign
policy” and complains of “the

administration’sinattentiveness to.

congressional concerns.”

Clinton recognizes he was
elected on the “promise that the
American people were hungry for
a president who showed that he

knew that something had to be -

done here to address our problems
at home that had been long ne-
glected.”

However, despite the
acknowledgement of the Ameri-
can voter’s domestic appetite, Clin-
ton remains “adrift” in the “new
era” of foreign affairs of the post
cold war.

With the NAFTA vote in the
next couple of months and an ardu-
ous battle over health care antici-
pated throughout 1994, the
president’s future success with
Congress and the American people
depends upon his ability to stop
playing with his food and eat it.

Information from “The Ship of
State Adrift” in the Washington
Post Weekly.

Around the World

Guatemalan exile helps his

By Jeff Fuller &
Martha Knight
Exiled from his native Guate-
mala along with thousands of in-
digenous refugees, Carlos Choc
Caal, a 30 year old refugee leader
is endeavoring to help his people
return safely to Guatemala after
years of exile in Mexico. Carlos
Choc Caal spoke about his posi-
tion in the 900 room on Thursday,
October 28 as a Dean Rusk Pro-
gram speaker.
With help in translation from
Craig Ross and Spanish professor

Lois Kemp, he shared the story of -

his time in Mexico as an exile
struggling to return to his home-
land.

Guatemala has experienced

civil unrest since 1954, when a
CIA coup ousted the reformist
president and pave the way for a
series of dictators. Although civil-
ians gained government control in
a 1986 election, the military still
retains power by threatening the
people.

Military oppression in the
early 1980s caused 45,000 indig-
enous Guatemalans to flee their
country and settle in three Mexi-
can states. The military power was
secking to liquidate them in order
to acquire their land.

Although the indigenous
people gained solidarity at first,
the “government’s response was
bombing, attacks, and massacres,”
Choc.Caal stated. Thus the Guate-

WE DELIVER

move than just great pizza!
We also deliver dinners,
subs, BEER and WINE!

Our Prices Can't
Be Beat!

AVINO'S

Monday Special
Buy any item from our menu,
get the 2nd one 1/2 price.

(Excluding drinks & appetizers) .,
Wednesday Special

All U Can Eat Pizza $4.50
Pitchers of Beer $3.00

All ABC Permits -- TV in Bar

892-4794

1-77 Exit 30, Davidson * Sadler Square * M-F 11:30-10:00 * Sat 4:00-10:00

‘Support the Bone Marrow Drive.

Add yourtypetothe -
National Bone Marrow Registry.

November 17, 9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m., Morrison Room

-or- if you are already registered, you can help defray the Red Cross'
-expehses by buying a new two-color Bone Marrow t-shirt.

people home
malans were forced to leave the
country orbe killed. Several mem-
bers of Choc Caal’s family were
murdered during these attacks.

Along with 200,000 other
Guatemalans, Choc Caal fled his
country when his parents and four
siblings died in this massacre.

In 1987 he was elected by the
General Assembly of Refugees to
represent the Maya Balan camp
and to help plan a safe return to
Guatemala.

‘Foday» Carlos» Ghoc-Gaal..is
trying to negotiate a safe return to
Guatemala for 25,000 refugees who
want to go back. Earlier this year
refugees began to return, but Choc
Caal expressed that now “the big
challenge for our people is how to
acquire land.”

The land in Guatemala is now
owned by the wealthy who leave
large tracts unworked. Purchasing
land is impossible for the refugees
as prices as high as $6 million for
a plantation are presented. Al-
though Guatemala is their home,
the refugees are returning toa con-
siderably worse economic situa-
tion in Guatemala compared with
Mexico.

Choc Caal also discussed the
problem of security for returning
refugees. The refugees require an
escort to take them across the bor-
der, or else they will be susceptible
to attack as threats and persecution
still exist against the refugees.

Although the present govern-

“ment in Guatemala appears to be
friendly toward the refugees, Choc
Caal fears the government’s in-
ability to help. Choc Caal also
madea point that United States aid
to the refugees is only helping the
government; aid is not reaching
the refugees. Although Choc Caal
has the help of Mexico, the United
States, and several non-govern-
mental associations, he stated that
the refugees possess a great degree
of self-sufficiency.

However, Choc Caal ex-
pressed need for financial aid,
physical accompaniment for the
refugees while travelling from
Mexico to Guatemala, and pres-
sure on the United States govern-

ment to apply its aid et tothe

refugees. »

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 7

Perspective

NOTES

Attacks on Clinton are wrong
“Suddenly the fall fashion is to attack President Clinton’s foreign
policy and the team running it. Pundits and politicos galore are
talking about ‘a ang of failures’ and calling for the secretary of state
to resign.

“The attacks are wrong. They are untimely. They are misguided.
But they are more. They are symptoms of the miserable extent to
which ‘instant policy’- policy by television and Congress and public
opinion polls and talk shows-is making sound, long-term policy
almost impossible.
“I am astounded that we Americans pay attention to the public-
ity-seekers who condemn an administration’s foreign policy after it
has been in office only nine months. In the dynamic world after the
Cold War, while prodigious forces for change make working out a _
coherent foreign policy tortuously difficult, how can any sensible
person expect foreign policy ‘success’ in less than 300 days?”
-from the October 28 viewpoint by Davidson’s own Ambassador
Jack Perry in The Charlotte Observer.

Attacking the Clinton regime

“This year the Enemies List has been limited to members and
cohorts of the Clinton administration, those simps and ninnies, lava-
lamp liberals and condo pinks, spoiled twerps, wiffenpoofs, ratchet-
jawed purveyors of monkey doodle and baked wind, piddlers upon
merit, beggars at the door of accomplishment, theives of livelihood,
envy-coddling tax lice applauding themselves for their magnanimity
with the money of others, their nose in virtue’s bum. They aretheshih
tzus of Poli Sci returning to the vomit of liberalism, little boar pigs
looking to rut with that sow-who-eats-her-young, the welfare state,
Squamous muck-dwellers bottom-feeding on the worries and disap-

‘pointments or the etectorare-ciretr carp of democracy:

“When have we seen such an administration of pukes and feebs?
The president and his ‘spawn, incubi at the public teat, surpass
Kennedy in their arrogance, Johnson in their lack of scruples, and
Carter in their plain stupidity. They are dung beetles in legislation,
legislators in the bed chamber, chambermaids on the battlefield, and
field marshals in the war against everything reasonable and decent.
Suchlike has not passed through that large intestine which is the
Executive Branch since Franklin Delano Roosevelt was wheeled up
the disabled access ramp to the gates of Hell.”

-from “Collective Guilt” in the November issue of TheAmerican
Spectator.

| Verdict challenges notions of justice

“Everyone whosaw the videotaped beating of [Reginald] Denny
understood that a terrible and possibly fatal act had been committed
against him. His attackers not only left him bloodied and semicon-
scious; the videotape also showed one of them--Williams--doing a
jubilant dance over Denny’s stricken body. Furthermore, this was, by
any reasonable definition, a ‘hate crime.’ African-American motor-
ists drove through the intersection of Florence and Normandie un-
harmed; white, Asian and Latino drivers were detained, beaten and
robbed by angry young black men. Many people who viewed the
video-tapes--whites and nonwhites, liberals as well as conservatives-
-reacted with’a visceral feeling of outrage at the verdict.
“Now that the jury’s judgment is in, people are debating whether
it was just and reasonable, whether the prosecutors overcharged,
whether the jurors were influenced by the tense racial climate and
what it all means about our notions of justice.”

-from the October 22 issue of the Los Angeles Times .

Mexican environmental groups support NAFTA

“We believe that the importance of environmental concerns goes
far beyond issues of international trade. Yet, trade does affect the
environment, and if NAFTA is ratified there will certainly be impor-
tant consequences for the environments of Mexico, the United States,
and Canada. We also believe that NAFTA and its environmental side
agreement will be beneficial for our country’s environment, since a
commercial opening already exists but without the rules provided by
the environmental side agreement.

"No country in the world has truly solved its environmental
problems. Mexico is no exception. We are confident, however, in the
positive results of our serious commitment towards a better environ-
ment.”

-from an advertisement on behalf of 20 leading Mexican environ-
mental groups prints | in the October 24 editorial pages of The New
York Times. :

i

