THE DAVIDSONIAN ~-

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993 7,

The Aavidsonian HARRISON ROBERTS- Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON- Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS- News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY- Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB- Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL- Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS- Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS- Business Manager ~
ERIK SJOSTROM- Circulation Manager

Another successful Final Four

One wonders many times if the pressures of a Davidson education and
the realities of today’s college athletics are not antithetical. Given the nature
of collegiate sports, it seems the dollar has become more important than the
degree, and “the program” more influential than the individuals producing
the revenue. So when Davidson dropped to Division III football, many felt
the school acknowledged its unwillingness to sacrifice academic integrity
for successful athletics.

But along comes a man who knows two things: that accessibility to

varsity athletics is essential to an overall education, and that good athletics

are not to be limited to the mammoth, the rich, or the powerful. More than

any other administrator on this campus, Terry Holland has produced

tangible results in an area with dire need. He has championed the creation
of new varsity teams, especially for women; he has received the respect and
support of his coaches; and he has helped bring the single largest soccer
event in the nation to our campus.

When over 10,000 people arrived at Richardson field on a Friday
afternoon, they proved that last year’s turnout was neither a fluke nor a case
of the home town crowd packing the stands. They showed stolid dedication

to a game which seems to consistently teeter on the brink of acceptance. Ati

the end of the day, Virginia took its trophy home, and all the others went
away empty handed—except Davidson. With at least one more year of the
Final Four, the Wildcats came out on top.

So to Mr. Holland, to tournament director Lee Sargent, to Pat Millen, to
Emil Parker, to Coaches Slagle and Wright, and to the countless others of
whom we are not aware, but who spent months in preparation for a weekend
of sport, congratulations and thanks. We look forward to next year.

On Mental and Oral Hygiene

Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start
studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.
Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start
studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.
Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start
studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.
Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start
studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.
Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start
studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.
Start studying. Start studying. Start studying.

And don’t forget to floss.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students o
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words an
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Ou
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinion
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views o:
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertisin

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College

foe

sl)

LETTERS

Non-smokers are people, too.

To the editors,

Imagine this: You are
sitting in your room, mind-
ing your own business, when
all of a sudden you notice
the intrusion of an unwanted
guest.

Now, normally, when
you have company, the
person(s) will usually knock
first, and, more than likely,
your guest will be welcomed.
Unfortunately, the intruder
that I am speaking of gives
no warning before entrance.
Well, who is this inconsid-
erate person, you ask? My
response is that the intruder
is not a person, but smoke.

When I came to
Davidson, I came with the
assumption that the, no
doubt, intelligent students at
Davidson would be consid-

erate to those who chose not
to smoke. Why would they
not be considerate, I thought,
for they are among some of
the brightest students in the
world. But when it comes to
consideration for others, they
score below average.

I choose to be a non-
smoker, and I was hoping
that at Davidson my reasons
would be honored and re-
spected. I was not expecting
to find.a smoke-free envi-
ronmentthroughout the cam-
pus, although I now see with
dismay that we’re talkihg
about adding cigarette ma-
chines. But, I did hope to be
placed on a hall where there
were not any smokers.

What purpose is served
when you are a non-smoker
and request a non-smoking

roommate only to find out
that you have been placed
on a hall in the midst of
smokers?

If you ask me, allow-
ing people the privilege of
smoking in their rooms does
not solve many problems.
The smoker may be out of
sight but is definitely not out
of mind; the fumes from the
cigarette can easily filter into
the rooms of other residents
on the hall. |

The time has come for
all non-smokers to rally in
support of smoke-free halls
at Davidson. If not on all
halls, we should at least have
afew halls designated smoke
free. Itshould not be just our
choice, itshould be our right.

Sincerely,
Lummie L. Allen

Christmas break starts way too late.

To the editors,

I am writing this letter
as a response to Dr.
McKelway’s remarks about
the revised school schedule.
Ifindit utterly appalling that
he does not see what all the
fuss is about concerning the
school schedule when many
Students will not be home
for Christmas vacation until
December 23. Even the
waitress at the Waffle House
was baffled to hear that

school ends to late.

Maybe Dr. McKelway
doesn’t realize it, but many
of us do not live in the Char-
lotte-Mecklenburg area, I
will be forced to leave my
car in Davidson (like I need
it in Dallas for a month any-
way) and must now spend a
great deal of money to get a
round-trip plane ticket, Also,
I will not have the time to
buy presents for my loved
ones when I get home, nor

will I be able to work before
Christmas to earn the money
to pay for these presents.
Virtually everybody on
this campus is upset with
this schedule change. The
Christmas atmosphere only
occurs for the days prior to
Christmas, and it essentially
ends on December 26. With
the stress and added work
load of exams, few students

See Break on page 8

What happened to equal rights?

To the editors,

The Davidsonian's ex-
pressed views on discrimi-
nation, equality, and unity
amongall people have failed
to mention one key issue.
The writers have spoken of
feeling alienated and of the
dominance of the white male
in this country. However,
these letters have not con-
sidered how the white male
has been affected by gov-
ernment legislation such as
affirmative action and quo-
tas. This time last year, I
was a senior in high school
going through the mayhem
ofselecting acollege. Every
Friday morning, our college
counselor issued a bulletin
concerning the different
scholarship applications
available to seniors. While I
was looking down this list,

my hopes of paying for my
college education increased.
As I read on, I noticed that I
qualified academically forall
of them, but there was only
one stipulation. I was either
the wrong gender or the
wrong race. Of the fifteen or
so scholarships on the list, I
only qualified for two of
them, one to a local techni-
cal school and one to a jun-
ior college. I was grateful
for these opportunities, yet
they hardly amounted to
what I had hoped for after
four years of hard work.
The next class period I
began discussing thisdream-
shattering with a friend
whose father is employed by
a government agency. At
the end of my story, I no-
ticed that my tragic tale had
not even affected my friend.

I asked if this angered him,
and with a nonchalant atti-
tude, he replied, “Yes, but
this is nothing new.”

He further explained
that when his father hires an
employee, the position is
filled by the person who ac-
cumulates the most points
during the interview. There
is one catch, though. Before
the interview even begins,
the following points are
added: 5 points for being a
woman, 5 points if the per-
son isa minority, and 5 points
if the person is handicapped.
Somewhere I think I missed
the point value for being a
white male. OH! It’s 0.

Now I know many of
you are thinking that old Mr.
“Charlie” has suppressed

See Ihle continued on page
8
