8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

ALICE FELMLEE-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
YVETTE PITA-Special Section Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MANDY CURTIS-Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

The DaGi2 °

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS -Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Eliminating Clusters Not the Key
to Achieving Diversity

“The code of responsibility is based upon the belief that Davidson’s educational
purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use
of freedom, as opposed to license.”

-Preamble to the Code of Responsibility

Freedom. Responsibility. License. A continuum of ideals that has perplexed
American thinkers since the time of the framing of the Constitution. Where, in the
world’s most complex society, does the government draw a line between the
freedoms of its individual citizens and the laws it must impose to bring about the
kind of order it desires?

Davidson faces a similardilemma. The founders of the college felt that the best
environment in which the students would learn and mature was one in which they
were free to make decisions for themselves while being held accountable for all
their actions.

Many times, administrations have found that the pursuit of the college’s goals
and the students’ individual liberties are opposed to one another. Compromises
must be made to reconcile the two.

This year, the College has picked diversity as the benchmark goal to pursue.
The Residence Life Office’s announcement that clustering would be discontinued
next year demonstrates that, in this case, student liberty is the clear loser... -

While RLO’s goals are obviously well-intentioned, the policy is mis-guided.

Most students see diversity as a desirable goal; they elected the SGA Presidential
candidate who ran on the diversity platform. However, students want to be assured
that they can live with friends. RLO claims that students will still be able to live
on the same halls with their friends. On paper, maybe. In reality, no one really
knows if this will be possible.
Students already feel that they have been left out of too many decisions that
primarily affect them: shortening the exam period and implementing the Bonus
Bucks system are just two examples. Many feel that the College is not responding
to their needs and desires. Is it worth risking further student alienation in
implementing a policy with questionable probability for success?

If the college is truly serious about achieving diversity, they might find that
there were more effective means to do so while retaining the acceptance of the
students. Building the new Union would be a way to bring students from all
sections of the campus together for social and intellectual reasons.

Ofcourse, this is an expensive solution to the problem, but diversity itself need
not be a problem. If, as it appears to be, the students do want diversity, they will
find it on theirown. How much sweeter would a discovered diversity be than one
that is forced upon the College?

In this case, the administration should not have to compromise student liberty
in order to bring about their goals. There are many acceptable means to achieve
diversity, but eliminating clusters is not one of them.

Congratulations

Special congratulations to the rugby team for beating Duke. It looks like yet
another Davidson team is moving into the big-time. Keep up the good work.

FolkS, L' ve decided
Be Opkst would be a

Waste of al] of ovr
Fine, br te mabe
few Evy OT

5 the lest of the class dispar rd
Marvelled at the. di'scove rest hig oun

/
7 ty mabe this

beer Wi va

—— 7

LETTERS

Curran Comments on Flag Issue

To the Editors,

Alex Crumbley’s
thoughtful piece, “Should
the Stars and Bars Fly on
Davidson Campus?” raises
some important questions for
the Davidson community to
consider ata time whenmany
people on campus are talk-
ing about ways for Davidson
to_achieve a culturally di-
verse, but not divided, intel-
lectual and social commu-
nity.

Even if the displaying
of the Confederate battle flag
is an act protected by the
First Ammendment, should
a member of the Davidson
community continue to do
this when there are others
here who see the flag as a
symbol of a racist and di-

vided past that is best laid to
rest? What should a person
do when her or his act of
“self-expression” is offen-
sive to other people in the
community?

Ifthe individuals did re-
move their Confederate flags
from their dorm room win-
dows as a result of Alex’s
article, would they merely
be kowtowing to the dic-
tates of political correctness
or showing genuine respect
and concer for those people
who see the flag as a symbol
ofracism that hasno place at
Davidson?

Alex was rightthat what
is at stake here is not politi-
cal correctness or First
Amendment rights. (Flying
the Confederate flag is, of

course, protected by the First
Ammendment.)

Maintaining the right to
express our ideas and our
values is vital to our flour-
ishing as an academic and
social community.

But, as Alex notes, our
individual acts of self-ex-
pression—including racist
and segregationist ones—are
to be upheld and esteemed.

Ihave not been in doubt
that, no matter how innocent
the intentions are, symbols
of a divided past are put on
display at a time when it is
most important that the val-
ues they represent remain
long dead and buried.

Sincerely,

Angela Curran
Philosophy Department

Burt Responds to Kerns

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. We reserve the right to edit any letter we receive.
Please limit letters to 300 words or less. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors,
“Tim Kerns Disgusted
by Fans” wasone of the worst
letters that I have ever read
in The Davidsonian. That
letter infuriated me so much
I decided to take time out of
my busy schedule to reply.
First, I was not present
at the UNCC game Wednes-
day. Jeff Hearle and I went
to the women’s game at
Wester Carolina. Although
the guys had a game that
night, we had decided ear-
lier that we were going to
attend the women’s game,
although it was away, to
show true Davidson support.
Kems asks why some
students, including myself,
constantly harass the offi-
cials. My answer is that if
you ever paid attention in
any type of sporting event,
you would notice that hind-
sight is twenty-twenty. At
the men’s Western Carolina
game, while sitting on the
bench, I sat back and lis-
tened to the fans forachange.
I thought that the fans did a
great job. Even one of the
‘Officials felt the same way.
In Davidson’s game
against Eastern Tennessee
State, when one of the offi-
cials made a call that infuri-
ated one of the fans, he
looked into the stands and
saw one of our fans chewing
the other official’s head off

and just laughed. He and

many other officials realize
that it is just a fun game and
that-there is no way you are
going to please everyone.
The pointis, although we do
sometimes harass the offi-
cials, we all realize that it is
just a game; one winner and
one loser.

Everywhere else I go, I
guess those fans feel exactly
as I do about school spirit. I
guess that you have never
gone to an ACC or NBA
game. These players can’t
shoot a free throw withouta
crowd of fans behind the
basket either yelling
“Brick!” or waving their
arms.
See, the problem with
this school is that many of
these dormant people, or so-
called fans, who do get up
the energy to go to the bas-
ketball games just sit there
and don’t verbally cheer for
our team at all. [know fora
fact that the members of the
basketball teams, male and
female, would rather have
those few fans that get off of
their asses and cheer than to
have .those_other fans that
just sit there with no emo-
tion.

One time during one of
our crucial moments when
we were in overtime with
Georgia Southern, some of
our so-called fans had the
audacity to just sit there and
ask me to sit down because

they could not see. I’m not
asking thatevery person yell
at the top of their lungs. At
least stand up and clap for
the team. Here we are ona
winning streak, and we're
threatened in overtime.
People, when the team is in
overtime, they need all of
the support that they can get;
from the bench, the coach,

~ and most important of all the

fans, Whatmostof you don’t
know is that a powerful fan
club can intimidate an op-
posing team.

Kems says that we em-
barrass him when we are
yelling out things. Well,
these so-called fans, and.
when I say “so-called fans,”
I am not talking about fans
who don’t stand, or don’t
yell, but the fans who had
rather I sit down during a
fast break so that they can
see, is a total embarrassment
when prospectives come
onto this campusand see just
how stuck up we act. It
embarrassed me whena pro-
spective asked, “Where are
the other students?” Re-
member, it’s not the stupid-
ity of the fans, but the cour-
age of the fans to stand up
and cheer for a team, even if
they feel as if they were the
only ones cheering. And I
will always keep on cheer-
ing. ¢

Sincerely,

* Jason “Burt” Burt "95
