THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS __ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993 15

Women's soccer falls to 4-3-1 after loss to ACC

By Neil Marks

The women’s soccer team
dropped its record to 4-3-1 with
two tough home losses this past
week. On Wednesday the team
lost to Duke 4-0 and then lost to
Vanderbilt 4-0 on Saturday. While
the scores were identical, both the
level of competition and the level
of play were not.

The Wildcats came out strong
against the ninth ranked Blue Dev-
ils and applied a solid defense that
kept the game even throughout the
first half. The Wildcats could not
generate any offense, though, and
defensive lapses in the second half
cost them four goals.

“They were a notch above us,
but we played up to their level
throughout most of the game. If
we keep playing good teams like
Duke and holding our own, in a
year or two we will be beating
them,” said freshman half-back
Kelly Ammann.

“We’re just sorry the score

didn’t indicate how well we
played,” added Ammann.

The loss to unranked
Vanderbilt proved to be a major
disappointment for the team. In
contrast to the Duke game, the
team looked tired and lacked the
concentration and focus evident
earlier in the week.

“We came out slow and we
played them instead of making
them play us. We came out stron-
ger in the second half but they
made a quick goal and got the
momentum going in their favor,”
explained junior half-back Ellen
Sprinkle. :

“We were disappointed with
that 4-0 loss because Vanderbilt
was a much lower caliber team
than Duke was. We just weren’t
focused and we played a-bad
game,” said Ammann.

The team will play Radford at
home on Tuesday before travel-
ling to lone conference opponent
Georgia Southern on Friday. -

power Duke

Where is it going? Senior Colleen Camaione and freshman Megan Driscoll wat

aftercoming out of a defensive wall.

Deegan returns to starting line-up for win against Demon Deacons

Soccer continued from page 14

In other games played here
this weekend, the #22 ranked De-
mon Deacons from Wake Forest
took the victory from California-
Berkeley 2-1 to open the tourna-
ment play on Friday night. In
Sunday’s action, the Furman squad
took their first loss of the season,
falling to California 2-1 in a rather

huge upset. Toclose the weekend’s
activities, Davidson faced Wake
Forest.

For this match, the third was a
charm. After facing twotop twenty
teams with tough losses, the Cats
took their frustration out on the
Demon Deacons with a 1-0 upset
victory. The game marked the
return of Alex Deegan asa starter,
directing the defense and collect-

ing nine saves on the afternoon.
From his performance, Deegan
appears to have picked up right
where he left off last season.
Davidson took the lead in the first
half when freshman Fernando
Campos picked up a crossed ball
that slipped through the Wake de-
fense and drilled it past the Deacon
goalie for the only score of the
game. Davidson was able to hold

off the Wake offense, which took
19 shots, many of which came in
the last 20 minutes of play. With
10 minutes and 30 seconds left in
the game, a Wake striker puta shot
past Deegan that appeared to be
heading for the net, when out of
nowhere sweeper Ed Denning
cleared the ball before it could
cross the line. With the Cat’s first
victory over atop twenty-fiveteam,

their record was raised to 4-4 on
the season. Davidson had three
players named to the all-tourna-
ment team: senior sweeper Ed
Denning, junior fullback Tommy
Suter, and freshman mid-fielder
Fernando Campos. Though all
participating teams ‘finished with
1-1 records, Furman was declared
the winner by virtue of a goal dif-
ferential in a point system.

That penny jar on your dresser

Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh? per-
sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the
Apple’ Computer Loan’— to make owning a Mac’ even easier. To see.

Apple SD 4 “Apple PowerBook™ 145B 1/50,
Color Classic® 4/80, Built-in 10" Built-in Keyboard & 10" Backlit
Color Monitor and Apple Keyboard II. Super Twist Monochrome Display.

Apple Macintosh

LCI 4/80, Apple Basic
Color’ Monitor & Apple Keyboard Il.

With these, you
can right now.

just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
Reseller today. And discover the power more college students é
choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best? a,

For further information visit .
Computer Services Center
Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432

“Available lo qualifying students, at parbopating autbor:zad Apple Campus Resellers ©1993 Apple Computer. Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh and ‘The power to be your best” are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Macintosh Centris and PoscerBook are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. Classic i a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc.

Centris™ 610 4/80, Apple Basic Colo
Monitor & Apple Extended Keyboard II.

