BACK PAGE SLAUGHTER _

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993

asdlany Services Director, Carl Pritchard

On April 23, 1993, The Davidphonian
was privileged to interview Mr. Carleton
S. Pritchard, esq, Davidson’ s Director of
Auxiliary Services.

US: Mr. Pritichard, mind if we call you
Carl?

Him: Yes. You must call me Mr. Pritchard.

US: Fine. Carl,what kind of an accent is
that anyway?

make a fast buck. My salary’s tied to how
much I can stick you all for in a given year.
Last quarter, Imade $300,000. Pretty good
for.an old man, eh?

US: So, the "Bonus Bucks" and new meal

plans were just acon job to take our parent’s
money?

Him: Of course. I made it look like you »

guys were being given money, when, in

providing mediocre dining at inflated prices

for all the world to enjoy. Anyone for
Pizza?

US: But, Carl, how can you get away with
such chicanery? ;

Him: Don’t call me Carl. . . . Off-the

record?
US: Of course.

Him: Well, while I’m supposed to be |

Him: . Excuse me?
Us: Where are you from? What were
your humble beginnings?

Him: The actual place isn't impor-
tant. Let's just call it Smalltown,
America. My parents were working-
class citizens in a working-class
neighborhood. From them I learned
that if you want to make something of
yourself, you've got to pull yourself

up by your bootstraps. Or by some-
body else's. My first real job was at

McDonald's. Man, those were the
days. None of this "Happy Meal”
crap. Just bad, cheap, fast food:
Things were simpler then. No health
nuts yelling, "High cholosterol!" We
cooked in pure beef fat. It was there
that I learned thé skills and values
that would later enable me to take the

"managing auxiliary services", I have
my fingers in everybody else’s pie as
well. I'll put it this way: Davidson
College is essentially a business. In
the business world, he who has the
money has the power. Revenue equals
respect, if you know what Imean. And
I'm the one who keeps Davidson in the
red every year. I am the man on this
campus. John Kuykendall reports to
me. Dean Terry? Baldy’s on the
payroll. WhenI say jump, the Trustees
say “How high?”

US: My goodness, we had no idea you
were so powerful. But you can’t be
completely profit-motivated. At least
the Commons is a good deal. Right?

Him: Yeah, right. You boys look a
little thin. Have you been eating in the
commons lately?

college dining world by storm.

Us: And from there you made. it to

Drawing courtesy of the Art Department

Since no one at The Davidphonian actually talked to Carl, he was
unavailable to be photoed (is that a word?). This is a rendering.

US: Every night.

Davidson. What exactly does a “Director
of Auxiliary Services” Hover at Davidson?

Him: Iam responsible for the management
of four on-campus food service outlets, as
well as supervising a thriving catering en-
terprise here at Davidson.

US: So, you are basically charged with
providing the students with good food at
good prices. Yet some would argue that
you are either hopelessly incapable of do-
ing your job competently, or you are a
cheap, money-scrounging miser. How
would you respond to those charges?

Him: Scurrilous lies. . . . Off the record?
Well, I'm definitely not incompetent, and I
wouldn't call myself a "money-scrounging
miser" either. I like to think of myself_as
the ultimate capitalist. I’m not-hére
serve the college or the students, but to

fact, I was watching the profits roll in from
unused meals. Brilliant, wouldn’t you

Him: That’s probably why. . . . Off the

record?

say? But those rip-offs pale incomparison —

to the UNION OUTPOST. The single
biggest boondoggle in Davidson’s history.

US: What do you mean?

Him: Think aboutit. Iclose the Union and
open the OUTPOST, essentially creating a
food monopoly on campus. And you suck-
ers are too drunk to drive anywhere else to
buy food. Then, I take already inflated
convenient store prices, and add a cool
50%. Where else can you get an omlette,
hashbrowns, and a Coke for $6.00? Whop-
ping profits for me, crappy food for you.
I’ve been examining feasibility studies for
some time and I think we’re ready to go
public. By year’s end, there should be a

o UNION OUTPOST in every city and at

every freeway overpass in our fair land,

US: Of course.

Him: I wouldn’t eat that food if my life
depended on it. How do you think I’ve
lived this long? Not.by eating that fat-
laden, cholesterol rich poly-saturated road
kill. We take the horses even the glue
factories reject. You never knew Badger
tasted so good until we called it “Veal
Cutlet.”

US: Well, to be quite honest Carl, we’re
shocked.

Him: Why should you be. I represent the
values on which this nation was founded:
greed, greed, and more greed. If you
wanted to get a real education for your
20,000 bucks, you should’a come to me.

Did anybody else notice we didn't mention FIJI even once In the whole paper?
