6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

Editors' note: "Elsewhere" is a weekly feature designed to
discuss news occurring beyond the Davidson College
community. It is in no way an attempt to "cover" world news--
the resources of this small paper are far too limited to even
attempt such a bold task, It is, however, intended to provide
a forum for analysis of weekly world events.

NEWS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

| Perspective
NOTES
Nixing Reagan

"If anybody needed an explanation of an economic plan that
seemed, even to many Democrats, to have no economic rationale, that
was it. In the end, the driving idea behind the Clinton program was not
jobs, economic growth, or even deficit reduction. It was undoing the
economic policies of the Reagan era, especially the hated across-the-
board tax cuts of 1981. Indeed, as many Democrats have come to
understand, [Clinton's tax plan] is likely to slow the economy."
-Brit Hume, ABC's Chief White House
correspondent in "Undoing Reagan," from
National Review, September 6, 1993.

A Broader Approach in Bosnia

“The Bosnain solution must be sought in the context of a broader
approach to the challenge of many newly emerging small nation-
states. Once the fighting stops, the former Yugoslav republics will
quickly discover that economic considerations dictate the restoration
of severed links. Those small states must become building blocks for
a new regional order. Today’s fragmented former Yugoslavia could
help pave the way to a more peaceful solution to Europe’s most
pressing problem: the fierce pride and mutual hatred of the Continent’s
many ethnic minorities.”

-Dusko Doder in the 1993 summer

issue of Foreign Policy

Inalienable Rights

“Look, the Constitution says that all men are created equal, and it

doesn’t say that all men are created equal except for gays. Just like

everyone else who is born in this country, gays are endowed by their

creator, God, with inalienable rights, and among those are life, liberty,

and the pursuit of happiness. At birth, whether you are born in Russia,

Cuba, South Africa, or New Yourk, you are born equal. The difference

is that our [American] babies can grow up to live free.”
-Conservative Barry Goldwater defend-
ing his stance against the Pentagon’s ban
on homosexuals in the military in the Sep
tember 7 issue of The Advocate. Mr.

; Goldwater’s grandson is gay.
On Adolescent Crime
"It's acase study in how best to create a criminal. You take a high

school senior who's never been arrested before. And when he gets

caught climbing through the school window andeating ice cream from

the cafeteria, you don't reprimand him, put him on probation or assign

him to community service. If you want to turn him into a hard-core

criminal, sentence him to three years in an adult prison."
-From the editorial pages of The Atlanta
Constitution, September 1, 1993.

And from Davidson

"The Administration needs to terminate these Utopian hopes for

Davidson and start looking at basic human needs: sex, beer, drugs and
rock and roll."

"The lack of intelligent graffitti shocks and dismays." :
-Anonymous. From the walls of the men's
bathroom in the Union.

Che Davidsonian
is looking for
insightful, intelligent,
no-nonsense, analysis
of world &
national events.

If you are interested, contact
Mandy at -6252

The Week in Washington: Stephen Shores
Clinton unveils health care plan

An early vote on
NAFTA could derail bill

Last week was highlighted by
the long awaited release of the
Clinton Administration’s plan for
national health care. The proposal
of managed competition stands to
be a divisive issue as many law-
makers from both parties have

raised serious questions about the
effects of such a policy on the
current-health care system.

The Clinton plan will set up
regional health care alliances
throughout the country. The alli-
ances would contract with groups
of health care providers for the
lowest cost of services.

Citizens and legal aliens will
choose the benefits package they

Around the World: Tim-Ogden
A crash course in

international politics

Solving problems in the
Middle East and the
former Soviet republics.

One of the annual rites of pas-
sage for Davidson freshman is the
International Awareness Test, the
college’s helpful and humiliating
way of proving to you that you
know nothing about what’s going
on in the world. If you’re a fresh-
man you may still be licking your
wounds over this

economicreformscan continue the
way Yeltsin wants them. Thismay
backfire on Yeltsin by galvanizing
his hard line opposition in the par-
liament.
Country: Israel (maybe not the
Gaza Strip anymore)
Players: Israeli Prime Minister
Yitzhak Rabin, Foreign Minister
Shimon Peres, and PLO chairman
Yasser Arafat
What’s going on: The Palestinian
Liberation Organization and Israel
are apparently about to sign an
historic agree-

painful experi-

ment giving the

enceandif you’re "Right now the main Gaza strip and the
an older student sticking point [in the West Bank city
the memory Middle East peace of Jericho limited
probably hasn’t Palestinian self
faded too’far. talks] is thatthe PLO rule, These areas

Perhaps (I and Israel have to have been under
hope) you’re recognize each others _ Israeli control
wondering what existence." since an-Arab at-

you can do to get

tack on Israel

more in touch

with the world. One option is to
drop out of Davidson so you can
even contemplate having the time
to read the New York Times on a.
daily basis. Another is to read this

‘column weekly and attend the

monthly Foreign Affairs Forums
sponsored by the Dean Rusk Pro-
gram (which, Imightadd, are much
more interesting than NY7).

This year many different
Davidson students interested in
international affairs will be writ-
ing in this space. It fell to me to
write the first Dean Rusk
Davidsonian article.

Rather than focus on any one
point of what’s going on in the
world, I decided to help you fresh-
men, and you upperclassmen fresh
of a vegetative summer, restore
your self esteem (at least as far as
your international awareness is
concerned).

Here’s a rundown of some of
the more important recent devel-
opments that will clue you in on
what the newspaper headlines are
talking about.

Country: Russia (not just the So-
viet Union anymore)
Players: Russian President Boris
Yeltsin, Russian VP Vladimir
Rutskoi

What’s going on: Yeltsin dis-.

missed his chief rival Rutskoi until
charges of corruption can be in-
vestigated. However, debate is
still going on over whether Yeltsin
has the power to do this. Many
believe that Yeltsin is just trying to

get Rutskoi out of the way so that

backfired in
1967.

The agreement may be signed
before you read this (Check the
NYT to find out). Right now the
mainsticking point is that the PLO
and Israel have to recognize each
other's existence (which they
haven’t ever done officially) and
the exact wordings of these decla-
rations are being haggled over in-
tensely.

Country: Haiti

Players: Elected President Jean-
Bertrande Aristide, new prime
minister Robert Malval, Military
government

What’s going on: Haiti has been
inthe news forthe past year mainly
because of the huge tide of Hai-
tians leaving the country and try-
ing to come tothe U.S. One reason
they were coming is that the legiti-
mately elected president Aristide
had been overthrown by a military
junta.

After months of blowing

smoke the world finally got around -

to imposing an oil embargo on
Haiti until the military agreed to
return Aristide to power. A few
weeks later the military relented.
Robert Malval was installed as
prime minister recently, an impor-
tant step toward restoring Haiti to

democracy.

Other important events tolook
for are: Japan’s attempt to reform
its government, Bosnia and Soma-
lia, as always, the struggle for
democracy in Nigeria (Africa’s
most populous nation), and the
_Progress of NAFTA.

desire from among the ones pro-
ded by the variousalliances. Each
i will be required to offer a
basic set of benefits to all of their
clients.

Central to Clinton’s plan is an
increase in taxes on employers to
finance health care for workers.
The average yearly increase for an
individual will be $1,800 and for
an average family $4200. Eighty
percent of this tax increase will be
paid for by employers.

Republicans contend the tax
causing higher unemployment.
The administration’s solution for
this problem is to subsidize those
small businesses which cannot af-
ford a tax increase. However, the
source of this revenue remains a
mystery.

Clinton will also try to ap-
pease skeptics by not including
short term price controls as part of
his plan. Many lawmakers view
price controls as a hindrance to the
technological advances which
characterize the success of the cur-
rent system.

The administration warns,
however, that “price gouging” (the
practice of raising prices now to
make up for profits that may be lost
later) will not be tolerated.

Passage of the plan can de-
pend as much ontiming ascontent.
Should NAFTA come to the floor
before Health care, Clinton may be
in some trouble, For passage of
NAFTA, Clinton will rely heavily
on Republican support of the plan.
Many Democrats have come out
against the treaty because of the
threat to jobs in their districts.

Clinton must prevent Demo-
crats from abandoning his health
care proposal because of deals he
makes to pass NAFTA. Lawmak-
ers want NAFTA to come now so
it will not play such a large role in
deciding next year’s elections. In
addition, NAFTA is set to go in
effect on January 1.

Clinton will expend much
political capital on his health care
plan. The plan needs bipartisan
support to pass through Congress.
If it does pass, the states have until
1998 to comply with its terms.

An alternative to the Clinton
plan would be to keep the remain-
ing structure.

As Republican Richard
Armey of Texas claimed in
Monday's New York Times,
“Eighty-percent of the people are
satisfied with the current health
care system.”

Although Armey conceded
some changes are necessary, the
current system does have positive
elements. Among theseis the avail-
ability of the most advanced treat-
ment in the world. Those who are
covered under the current struc-
ture receive the best health care in
the world.

Recycle
This

bs a
