THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1993

15

Back-to-back-to-back-to-back: Field hockey wins fourth title in four years

Hockey continued from page 14

continually split Catawba’s defense
with quick passes and switching
from one side of the field to the
other. The Wildcats played with
style and composure as they domi-
nated the game.

At the end of the first half the
score was a whopping 6-0, with
Kledis getting two goals, and Missy
Potts, Nicole Ficeto and Nancy
Hilles each getting one. Potts also
had three assists. Defensive stand-

outs for the game were Robin Pep-
per, Jill Bennett, Erin Lang, and
freshman Allison Rhoads. The 8-0
victory was a complete team ef-
fort.

In the final game of the tour-
nament, the Wildcats faced Vir-
ginia Tech. Unfortunately, it
seemed as if the Cats had used up
all of their goals in the previous
game. Davidson had numerous
scoring opportunities but could not
seem to get the ball into the cage.

The game was frustrating for the

This week, the Wildcat swim-
mers had two meets, one at UNC-
Chapel Hill on Wednesday, and
another against VMI and
Georgetown University; at VMI,
on Saturday.

The Cats were not victorious
against UNC-Chapel Hill on
Wednesday, but on Saturday the
women defeated Georgetown. The
men beat VMI but lost to
Georgetown. The women did not
compete against VMI because
VMI has no women's teams.

Among many notable perfor-
mances on Saturday were those of
sophomores Churchill Hoof and
Julie Brabson, and freshman
Karey Thompson.

You win some,

you lose some

Hoof won the 500 yards
freestyle, Brabson won the 1,000
yards freestyle, and Thompson
took third in the 1,000 yards
freestyle, which she had not been
expecting to swim.

The current standings of the
team are:

Women 3-4-0

Men 3-5-0

The next set of meets will be
Nov. 20, at 2 p.m. against East
Carolina University and William
and Mary, at ECU. And on No-
vember 21, Davidson faces the
Univeristy of Richmond and Mary
Washington, at the University of
Richmond.

Jen McGillan

————— Call Robert at 892-5241

Some big time things are
happening in the world of
sports. Be a part of them.

Wildcats: they were clearly the
better team (Tech rarely got the
ball over the 50 yard line), but they
just could not score a goal.

The game remained scoreless
through regulation and two over-
time periods which led into the
penalty stroke shoot-out. Lang was
the first shooter who placed the
ball effortlessly into the upper right
corner of the goal-cage. Davidson
goalie Emily Coleman played with

complete composure as she saved
two of Tech’s strokes and let two
others go wide.

Wildcat scoring machine
Holly Kledis got the winning
stroke, giving Davidson a final 2-0
victory in the shoot-out. The win,
although not one of Davidson’s
finest, had an exciting finish, and it
led the team to its fourth Deep
South Championship title.

the 1993 field hockey season, the
superior play andthe undying dedi-
cation of the four seniors: Coleman,
Lang, Bennett, and Hardesty. They
were supportive leaders both on
and off the field, and each one of
them has given complete dedica-
tion and commitment to this team.
These four players made the
team a unique family, not just a
group of student-athletes playing
together. :

The agony of defeat

During the final weekend of

¢

Last year's flickerball champions, the Connor House team, coached by Scott Vermillion, lost the
championship game 6-0 to the Stairmasters, last year's fourth Rich team. The Stairmasters
scored on an intercepted pass early in the game and ended the season undefeated.

Photo by Casey Rogers

(0
~ butthisis ridiculous.

Youre supposed

get a lot out of college,

Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus
1 Display, Apple Keyboard Il and mouse.

Apple PowerBook Duo™ 230 4/80 (witb
Plus 14°D Keyboard Il and mouse. Macintosh External Floppy Disk Drive and
oe PowerBook Duo Floppy Adapter not shown).

Macintosh Quadra® 610 8/160, Apple Color

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any _ give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
select Macintosh’ or PowerBook*computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
software programs. It all included in one low price. And-the software _ an Apple" computer? It does more. It costs less. It’ that simple.

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596: It was designed to P_niroduicing the Great \pple Campus Deal «
For more information, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today!
For further information visit
Computer Services Center
Contact Kim Kenyon at x2432

‘October 1, is not included in tbe shown in this ad. But you will receive these same software programs
been yee, beara fps prvipeny sey ita ani not original product packaging as

in an integrated package

