10

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, MARCH I, 1993

Davidson 1993: The Winter of Our Discontent

By Alex Crumbley

Over the past couple of se-
mesters, I have noticed a disturb-
ing trend in the attitude of the
Davidson adminstration toward its
students. This trend has mani-
fested itself in a series of decisions
which, though apparently intended
to improve Davidson College, have
only succeeded in producing an air
of discontent on campus. In its
attempts to boost its reputation and
endowment, our beloved Davidson
seems to be forgetting one essen-
tial ingredient— its students.

I need not remind anyone of
the many examples of Davidson’s
anti-student trend. We have all
heard enough about the alcohol
policy, the exam day decrease, and
the bonus bucks rip-off in the past
year to know that most students are

mester.

First, Iam troubled by the new
idea to cut the professors’
courseload and create more time
for them to research and publish.
If enacted, this idea would cut fifty
courses out of the curriculum, di-
minish the amount of specialized
courses, and increase the size of
classes. This measure represents
to me an effort by Davidson to
leave its personal, teacher-oriented
image behind and move into the
realm of more competitive research
institutions.

Second, the new no-cluster-
ing rule. Were students consulted
about this at all? Whether it’s
another attempt to undermine the
social setup at Davidson or a ploy
to make lottery easier for Resi-
dence Life, students should have at

dissatisfied with all of these. I'd
rather concentrate on actions the _ before they were so coldly notified
administration has taken this se- that they couldn’t live with their

least been asked for their opinion

friends next year. Richard Terry’s
decision to eliminate clusters is
based on the mistaken assumption
that upperclassmen placed on a
random hall will react the same
way as freshmen do on their halls.

Freshmen make close friends on ©

their halls because they don’tknow
anyone else and experience a new
situation together. Upperclassmen
who already have friends will, for
the most part, only find the new
situation annoying.

Third, the tuitionincrease. My
freshman year, Davidson was the
best buy among U.S. colleges. Now
it costs over $21,000, about the
same as the Ivy Leagues. :

And the trustees wonder why
fewer students are choosing to at-
tend Davidson. Last week’s SGA
minutes report that the Trustees
blame the decrease in enrollment
on “aggressive advertising of com-
petitive schools and the relative

lack of merit scholarships at
Davidson.” They obviously think
that the answer to our problems
lies in money; if we spent moreon
advertising and scholarships, more
people would come. I disagree.

I overheard a sophomore and
a prospective talking on a Sunday
night when many prospectives
came here for Discover Davidson.
The high school senior asked, “So,
are you glad youcame here?” The
Davidson student, bound by the
honor code, replied, “I was glad

last year, but, to be honest, I.

wouldn’t come here next year.
Everything’s changing so much,
what used to be good about this
school is going away.”

Icame here expecting no more
than what I saw when I visited as a
prospective student: acommunity
of smart people, happy because
they could live with whomever
they pleased, content with the free-

dom they had socially, and pleased
with the emphasis Davidson places
on teaching and attention to indi-
vidual students. Now I see many
of Davidson’s strengths, its aspects
which set it apart from other
schools, being sacrificed one by
one to move us up the U.S. News
and World Reportcollege rankings.

When I was a prospective at
SGA weekend, President
Kuykendall spoke to us and said
that he hoped Davidson would
never be packaged up and sold like
other schools are. I hope he and his
administration remember this goal.
We are a small Southern college.
Let’s set our own standard and
attract students who like Davidson
for what it is, not for how much it
resembles Williams or Amherst. I
am all for improving grand old
Davidson, but in changing it, let’s
be careful not to take away what
makes it great.

In Support of Holland

To the Community,

In Elizabethan times a rogue once said to a courtly lady of high stature,
“Madam, will you make love to me if I pay you 1,000 pounds?” The startled lady
stammered, “Well... uh. . .yes, I guess so.” The rogue continued, “Madam,
will you make love to me if] pay you five shillings?” Greatly indignant, the lady
exclaimed, “Absolutely not! How dare you sir. What do you take me for?”
“Madam,” the rogue replied, “we have already established what you are; now
we are simply trying to establish the price.”

In the most recent controversy involving the athletic department, perhaps
we too have established what we are, but some of the people crying indignantly
have directly or indirectly helped make us what we are.

Unfortunately, in modern athletic departments to operate quality athletic

additional revenue must be produced from outside the institution. Consider, for
instance, that the current controversy started when the men's basketball team at
UNCC relinquished its contractual right to a Coliseum game, in exchange for
a hefty donation from Neil Diamond. Obviously, to give up the Coliseum and
home crowd to play in a relatively unfamiliar gym was a disadvantage, but
UNCC had established its price.

While all years are tight in athletics, this year may be eventighter. First,
in response to criticism from the faculty and others, Athletic Director Terry
Holland suggested reducing the overall percentage of the school’s budget
contribution to athletics over this year and next. This allows additional funds
to be transferred to academic areas. Additionally, this year the athletic
department was asked to expand significantly the hours of Baker Sports
Complex to provide students alternative late night activities on all week-nights,
but even more on weekends. The athletic department is doing this, but no
additional budget money was provided to pay for extra personnel hours required
to cover this expanded schedule. The faculty knew that in doing both these
things Mr. Holland was taking on the responsibility of having to raise additional
funds to keep operating at the same level as before. Hence, the $4,500 offered
ceratainly looked attractive.

To be sure, Coach Filar and the women’s basketball team make a sacrifice
for the good of the athletic department, and intemally we all know and
appreciate that. Would we have moved a men’s game to accomodate UNCC’s
offer? Absolutely. Would we have moved a men’s tennis match out of
Knobloch if the dapartment were offered $4,500? I would have personally held
the doors open and accepted the check. The faculty should be aware that the
athletic department constantly has offered sacrifices to try to support the
programs at an acceptable level. Over the last two years for instance, the faculty
salaries have gone up an average of 8% each year, this in two years of a very bad
economy. Quite honestly, they deserve good salary increases. But last year in
the athletic department, there were no raises. Instead, this money went to the
programs, so that the students wouldn’t feel the.cutback. This is not to elicit
sympathy; it is simply a statement of fact.

I would urge the faculty to look at what has been accomplished under Mr.
Holland’s leadership. In spite of voluntarily reducing the school’s budget
percentage to athletics, he has expanded intercollegiate teams sponsored to 21
total. This is more than a lot of state-supported universities offer. One of our
every five students has the opportunity to compete intercollegiately. He has
asked us to try and increase team size or start JV programs to offer even more
opportunities to compete. He has provided budgets that, while not as large as
those of our opponents, still are adequate for coaches to excel. He has pushed
the Southern Conference toward playing games exclusively on weekends.

I think if you will ask any student-athlete and coach, you will find that they
are in a better situation now than when Mr. Holland arrived. But this success
has come at the cost of his tireless fund-raising efforts. And to succeed in the
future he knows that he will have to continue looking for additional ways to
provide revenue. In the future, he again will have to make difficult decisions
suchas the recent one, and to do this he will have to rely on his judgement gained
in more than 30 years of collegiate athletic experience. I forone hope that Terry
Holland is the one making those decisions for Davidson for along time to come.

- Sincerely,
Jeff Frank °66
Men’s Tennis _

ICANT DRave Anywhere,
Ve Dele wo uc...

DRIVERS ARe ReSfoisiéLe
FoR 30%7Jo OF ALL Acci DENTS

UM You alow, THe7 SAY DRDNK [THAT OF COURSE, MEANS THAT TOY MALeS You Gee) MAKES ME
CF ALL AccibesTS ARe We Fave
OF AGSTemi0US NON -IMBIBERS |
.WAkalG YOU ToUNATe TD Hive
CONCARNS YON? J CoMeoNe So WHOL BESOTIED py,
TH DOA You THAOVG HN THES i

programs and to treat the student-athletes as well.as.they. should be treated,}.-

By Nathan Seay
1 like institutions to have con-
sistent policies. It brings out a sort
of validity to their beliefs and prac-
tices (no matter how irrational).
That brings me to the armed

forces and homosexuals. (So it’s ..

not a great transition; sue me).

The armed forces’ ban on ho-
mosexualsis utterly ridiculous and
completely inconsistent. (“Incon-
sistent?” You ask, “How is it in-
consistent?” Just give me a few
paragraphs, and I will show you).
The military seems to be denounc-
ing any “non-normal” sexual ac-
tivity. (By “normal” I mean every-
one who has sex with their spouse
in the missionary position exactly
one time per month).

So, (here comes my point)
aren’t there lots of “unnatural”
sexual practices other than homo-
sexuality? If the army wants to
discriminate against people who
don’t hold with their ancient (and

All 1 Ask for Is

unhealthy) views of sex, shouldn’t
they target people with less “nor-
mal” fetishes?

I’ve heard the argument that a
heterosexual officer won’t follow
orders given by ahomosexual one.
(Wasn’t there a similar argument
when trying to admit African-
Americans into the armed ser-
vices?) Now, I’ve never been in
the military, and I hope that I never
will have a large bald man yelling
at me to do seven hundred push-
ups in the mud after running seven
miles with a two hundred pound
pack on my back. But it seems to
me that the typical soldier would
take any order from a homosexual
much more seriously than, say, a
guy who gets off having sex with
his chihuahua while watching the
Home Shopping Network.

I’vealso heard people say that
homosexuals wouldn’t be able to
keep their mind on the battle be-
cause they’d be thinking about

Consistency

having sex with their fox hole mate
in the heat of battle. It’s pretty
obvious how ridiculous this argu-
ment is, but let’s imagine for a
second that it’s not. Then what
about necrophiliacs? (For us lay
people, that’s people who have sex
with dead people). In war, there’s
lots of dead bodies lying around.
Who knows? Some guy might get
a little hot from all the carnage
around him. One thing would lead
to another, and the next thing you
know, we have an American sol-
dier trying to invade a dead Iraqi.

If the military wants to dis-
criminate, let it discriminate con-
sistently. Screen for people who
are turned on by whips, chains,
major appliances, barnyard ani-
mals, and Rosanne Amold. Ifany- -
thing can lower morale in the mili-
tary, it would have to be a highly
decorated soldier getting arrested
for exposing himself to a troop of
circus clowns,

T.V. Ads Misrepresent

Stop continued from page 9

that Caucasian women began to be
featured in these public service
announcements, and the appear-
ances of Cauacasian males are far
and few between. This creates the
impression that- only minorities
have AIDS.

Lastly, there are only a few
handfuls of minorities in movies. I
know many of you are saying, “At
least, they are on television.” But,
you are missing the point. The
presentation of minorities is de-
grading, and I am not impressed.

Thus, my main points are as
follows:

1) Much remains to be improved
in the television world.

2) The consequences of the de-
grading actions taken by the tele-
vision industry are more devastat-
ing than most realize,

3) Instead of TV, where represen-
tations are false, look to one on one
communication to get to know
minorities.

I have no problem admitting
America is a racist society, but
many do. Perhaps, you think I am
specifically referring to you in this

Minoritt
Norities
article, but I may not be. We often
don’t want to admit problems, but
the “melting pot” is overflowing
with problems, and one of them is
racism.

The factremains that America
is more of a “tossed salad.” When
you are offended by my declara-
tion of racism, ask yourself both
why am I angry and why I feel the
way I do.

Think about what you see on

television and the ideas that those
images create.
