THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 5

Col. Bruce in Johnston Gym: eccentrics doomed

By Chris Hoveland ’93

There is probably no rock-
and-roll band in America today
with instrumental virtuosity like
the Aquarium Rescue Unit. Their
performance at Johnston gym on
Thursday fronted by the legendary
yet obscure Col. Bruce Hampton
confirmed this suspicion. But a
question kept nagging at me: why
can’t everybody like a band with
this level of talent and musical
creativity? Perhaps one only needs
a proper introduction.

An introduction tothe eclecti-
cism of Col. Bruce should begin
with this advice: expect the unex-
pected. Right when you’re settling
into the blues, here comes some
lightning bluegrass, a soulful jazz
ballad, and then a you-can’t-re-
ally-categorize-it piece. But
things you can counton: a fu
up, skat-singing bassist who takes
leads, a guitarist with licks from
hell, a drummer who promises to
throw your dance step, and the
goofiest bulldog of asinger to pull
offa“Crazoid?” solohe can’tplay.

When I first experienced the
Colonel and friends I was a sopho-
more at Davidson and had just
assumed the responsibilities of the
Union’s Intimate Performance
Committee with Peter Jackson. I
walked away from thatshow fright-
ened and quite sure that as a guitar-
ist I would never be able play at
that musical level even if I buried

myself in a closet to practice for a
decade or so. But that night when
I, with the sparkle of musical na-
ivete in my eye, asked the bassist
how the band got their start, I was
taken aback.

The musicians of the band had
maintained successful careers in
studio work, but bassist Oteil
Burbridge recalled to me that, well,
he hated. music — he had been
playing radio advertisements and
the like and at that point was about
ready toputanendtohis bass. The
drummer “Apt. Q258” told the

bassist he needed to come check 7

out Bruce Hampton because “he
hates music, too.” Sothe Aquarium
Rescue Unit was born.

What kind of music, you ask?
Jimmy Herring, the Fayetteville-
native guitarist (who filled in for
the jailed Dickey Betts of the
Allman Bros. Band one night this
summer) told me about it after the
show Thursday. He described it as
performance art: “[Apt.Q258] used
to put his drums in a row with the
bass or kick drum on one end and
toms on the other and in between
he set up all kinds of bongos and
congas and whatever he had. He
played them all running back and
forth to each drum without ever
losing the tempo. He and Oteil
would wear dresses and stuff, too.
Man, they were out there.” Where
they still are.

The Colonel’s history is a per-

formance in itself. After a stint in
the army he entered the music busi-
ness and later cut a record with his
group the Hampton Grease Band.
This infamous album held the
record of “least-selling” for that
label. The band eventually broke
up and later the Col. found himself
a job as a barking manager in the
World Wrestling Federation. That
wasn’t for him either, so back to
the acoustic drawing board.

Hampton began the Unit
project with the Burbridge and Apt.
Q258, two guitarists and a banjo
player when the guitarist Herring
sat in with the band. Herring re-
calls, “The frst night I sat in with
them I really began to levitate."
When asked if the standards or
music that they commonly knew,
Herring replied, "No, it was com-
pletely boundless music, nothing
pre-set. We were just starting out,
so when we hit something, it was
really coincidental. But it was out
of that [spirit] that the first album
[self-titled] came out.”

Matt Mundy, widely ac-
claimedas one of the greatest man-
dolin players, joined the band the
day after Herring did. Mundy left
the band just recently (following
theH.O.R.D.E. tour) for other pur-
suits. Herring explains, “Matt left
to pursue acoustic music... he was
afraid that the music he loved was
dying. Now he’s playing around
Richmond and will move to Boone

soon. It was cool, but I miss him.”
So did we. You can hear Mundy’s
playing on Widespread Panic’s
latest release Everyday on “Pickin’
Up the Pieces.” Also absent from
the Davidson Set was Count
Mbutu, a percussionist who teaches
at a music conservatory in Atlanta.

From this brief biography and
without even hearing the band I
think readers wouldagree this band
is no ordinary one. Anyone who
heard the show knows it. Let me
make clear that while the Unit is
certainly an oddity, their music is
sincere—rarely have Iseena band
that tours as heavily as the Unit
perform with so much enthusiasm,
energy, and taste. The Aquarium
Rescue Unit is a band with the
potential for legendary status while
similarly doomed for (as they un-
doubtedly know and perhaps thrive
upon) obscurity.

The Colonel’s latest release
Mirrors of Embarrassment, which
highly recommend, features sev-
eral of the songs heard in the
Davidson set including “Shoeless
Joe” and the ballad “Trondossa.”
The album also features special
guests John Popper of Blues Trav-
eler and banjoist Bela Fleck. Pick

up a copy and keep it alive.

Editors' Note: Upon request of the
editor, Chris Hoveland, ’93, agreed
to contribute this article. The edi-
tors appreciate his contribution.

1992-93 Report on Disciplinary Action

sanctions.

SUMMARY OF CHARGES:

Section VI: Alcoholic Beverages

Section VII: Drugs

Section X: Residence Hall Life

-Judicial Committee-

The Judicial Committee, composed of three student members, a faculty.member, and a member from
the Dean's staff, heard 55 cases during the academic year 1992-93. In each case, the defendant admitted to
violating one or more sections of the Code of Responsibility. Defendants were invited to appear before the
committee or to submit a written statement presenting mitigating circumstances. The committee considered
these circumstancés, previous citizenship record, and the nature and neventy of the offense before levying:

Sanctions included one or more of the following: required counseling, service hours, probation, fines,
restitution, the addition of points to the randomly assigned housing lottery number, and eviction from
campus housing. Two students were evicted from the residence halls for the academic year 1993-94 for
failingto complete their assigned sanctions. Six students appeared before the committee two or more times.

Section I: Academic Responsibility
(Includes the use of false ID)

Section IV: Misconduct which affects the rights of others
(Includes hazing, harrassment and assault)

Section V: Misconduct which affects the property of others
(Includes damage, joyrides, throwing cans, etc.)

(In addition to other Code a Responsibility violations)

Sectin IX: Response to campus security officers

(Includes excessive noise in dormitory)

-Alcohol Enforcement Committee-

The AEC dealt with 78 citations for alcohol violations by individuals. They threw out eight and imposed
sanctions on seventy. These sanctions involved fines and community service.

Five people had more than one violation. Three people were cited by campus police with a state citation.

The AEC levied fines or imposed social probation on Patterson Court houses six times.

-Honor Council-

The Honor Council heard cases involving Code of Responsibility violations by nine students. Sanctions

included warnings, social probations, fines, and restitution.
The Honor Council dealt with four students charged with honor violations. All were found not pully:
One steven was bach titi oye the Dean of Students for an admitted honor violation.

19

13

LOL program

educational

opportunities
Love continued from page 1

black high school students for col-
lege. The bank’s involvement will
extend beyond their financial con-
tribution and include pairing stu-
dents with Nationsbank employ-
ces as a mentoring program. Love
of Learning aims to provide its
Students an environment which
fosters the development of the
whole person anda foundation that
encourages future personal growth.
Students attend college preperation
classes beginning at 7:45 a.m. and
ending at 8:30 p.m. with minimal
breaks for meals. Classes inlcude
African American history courses,
advanced lab sciences, as well as
Spiritual development.

The nationally syndicated ur-
ban affairs columnist William
Rasberry spoke at the graduation
ceremony. Hisencouraging words
were a part of an Afrocentric ser-
vice which acknowledged the
“coming of age” of the twenty
seven students. Participants wore
African dress and danced to tradi-
tional African drums. Each gradu-
ate recieved a kente cloth stole and
anew, symbolic name, paralleling
the African ceremonies of the pas-

‘WIRE

sage from childhood to adulthood.

Woman rejected
by The Citadel

woman who sued The Citadel af-
ter rejecting her admission based
on her gender, was blocked by a
federal appeals court that said it
wants to hear more about whether
or not women should attend.
The Citadel, a state-run, all-
male military institution, found
out Shannon Richey Faulkner, of
South Carolina, was a female af-
ter accepting her to the school.
The Citadel then rejected her.
Faulkner had won an earlier
injunction in district court in
Charleston. A judge had ruled
that she may attend day classes at
The Citadel, but not belong to the
corps until the issue is settled.
The Citadel appealed to the fed-
eral court, which supported the
institution. An appeal is sched-
uled to be heard September 27.

Harvard tests
male contraceptive

Cambridge, MA (CPS)- A
malecontraceptive that blocks the
production of sperm while pre-
serving the libido has been tested
and found successful by Harvard
medical researchers.

The contraceptive, which is
given by injection, suppressed
sperm production in over a dozen
volunteers who reported no loss
in sexual desire. When the injec-
tions were terminated, sperm
counts returned to normal within
approximately 90 ey the

Charleston, SC (CPS)- A

tat atdead
2

At this point in the testing,
volunteers had tosubmit toa daily
injection, which chief researcher
Syros Pavlou termed “not practi-
cal.” He said, however, that sev-
eral laboratories were attempting
to create a longer-lived injection,
a birth-control nasal spray or an
underskin implant.
According to the Gazette, the
contraceptive, which consists of
an ingredient that blocks sperm
production combined with the hor-
mone testosterone, is the first of
its kind that was effective in all
males tested.

Employment
Ooutlook brightens

Milwaukee, WI (CPS)- The
hiring outlook is improving for
the fourth quarter and should ex-
ceed hiring patterns from a year
ago, according to the Employ-
ment Outlook Survey conducted
by Manpower.

In a survey of nearly 15,000
U.S. firms, Manpower found that
22 percent of the businesses sur-
veyed are planning to hire, com-
pared to 21 percent last year.

Employers in the Northeast
and West will be hiring below the
national level, the Midwest at
about 22 percent, and the South
above the average.

Among the industries, whole-
sale and retail sales hiring trends
are strong, while public adminis-
tration continues to be slow. Fi-
nance, insurance and real estate
firms are hiring more, the survey

ey ones

