THE DAVIDSONIAN

A cartoon in the November 22 issue of
Newsweek shows a woman brandishing a
long knife, ready to cut the turkey, while all
the men cower in fear beneath the table. The
caption reads: “Thanksgiving at the
Bobbitts.”

This, of course, refers to what Jerry
Adler has called the “spectacular mutila-
tion” inflicted upon John Bobbitt by his wife
Lorena. She took a twelve inch steak knife
and, while he slept, cut off all but one inch of
his Little Man Tate.

Not unprovoked, mind you. Sheclaims
that he came home drunk at three in the
morning and forced himself upon her. Inher
fear and anger, she avenged herself.

And yet, a jury just acquitted John
Bobbitt of all accusations! He walks a free
man today, his briefly departed part reat-
tached and almost fully functional, thanks to
nearly ten hours of microsurgery.

Predictably, this court decision has
caused an uproar among feminists and those
who sided with Lorena. How coulda manbe
acquitted when he did something so terrible
that it drove his wife to take such Gtestic

action?
Kim Gandy, vice-president of the Na-
tional Organization for Women, said, “I do
find it shocking that it took this to get atten-
tion for marital rape...Because it happened
to a man suddenly it’s a big deal.”

Oh, please. This incident did not get
attention for marital rape because none took
place (Calm down, I’ll illustrate that in a
moment); what it did get attention for is
domestic violence on such a demeaning

PIN I( INS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

9

Robert Ramsay
Does the justice system fall.

short of its goals? No.

level.

I am not trying to leach importance
from the subject of marital rape. In marriage
or out, rape is a horrible, humiliating, devas-
tating violation and is never justified. But
notice what Lorena said to the police in a
Statement the day after the incident. “He
always [has an] orgasm, and he doesn’t wait
for me to have an orgasm. He’s selfish. I
don’t think it’s fair. So I pulled back the
sheets and then I did it.”

Did you follow the thought? She didn’t
think it was fair that she didn’t climax, so she

cut off his buster! She: could’ have been

raped or tivated violently before that night,
but all the jury cared about was: what hap-
pened that night. John and Lorena had bad
sex, and the next thing John knew, his wife
was tossing the other three inches out the car
window! The jury acquitted John Bobbitt
because Lorena and her lawyers could not
prove that John provoked “the Blade of
Bobbitt.”

Still, though, feminists such as Kim
Gandy are claiming that this is yet another
battle women have lost in the sexual war.

It was the same with the Rodney King
trials. The acquittal of those police officers
caused massive riots in Los Angeles as well
as other American cities. There were even
some minor breakouts in Birmingham—

Gull's Nest:

Bill Gullan

Dad: Be responsible, son.

We are all irresponsible to a certain
point, and then we realize when we need to
do the correct thing. Supposedly, the key to
being effective and efficient in your daily
life is to make that point come as ealy as
possible.

I don’t really know how to do this, but,
being perceptive and experienced, I under-
stand when that point is arrived at entirely
too late.

Let me give you an example. There are
times on the weekends when you don’t feel
right going home. You get the urge to go,
but your watch says it is too early. Whether
the desire to go comes from too much alco-
hol, the feeling that the often fruitless search
for “romance” will again be fruitless, or just
the physical wanting to go to bed is unclear
to me.

However, we all have a point in time
after which we do not feel bad calling it a
night. My time is about 1 AM. Some feel
comfortable leaving at midnight, others not
before dawn. The more responsible one gets
and the older one becomes will theoretically
move the time of departure earlier.

Ronald Reagan once said that he knew
he was old because when he had two options
he “would pick the one that got me home at
9 PM.”

Maybe he couldn’t and being away
from Nancy, but I don’t think so. Responsi-
bility (the early to bed and torise syndrome),
maturity, and age are the factors in this
discussion. Let’s look at other issues in
college and determine the extremes of re-
sponsibility:

1. Doing (or taking in) the wash (“They do
it for you!”-my Dad)

Responsible: I do the wash when my basket
is full.

Irresponsible: I do the wash when I start
wearing the Phone-a-thon shirt.

2. Getting work done (or “piving yoursels a
chance.” -my Dad)

Responsible: I work on Saturday after-
noons.

Irresponsible: I work on a bottle of some-
thing Saturday afternoons.

3. Cleaning the room (“How do you live like
this?”-my Dad)

Responsible: I clean the room as it gets
dirty. I always put things away.
Irresponsible: I can hold off until pledging.
4. Studying for tests (“Study a little every
day.”-my Dad)

Responsible:. I keep up, brush up, and re-
view before the test.

Irresponsible: I go on the night before to the.

smoking room, where I can concentrate.

5. Financial obligations (“Be frugal.”-my

Dad)

Responsible: I pay things when they’re due.

Irresponsible: I pay things when they sue.

6. Summer employment (“I want you to
have fun, but...-my Dad)

Responsible: I send out resumes in Decem-

ber.

Irresponsible: “Mom, will you pay me to

work in the garden?”

7. Getting enough exercise (“You look a

little bigger.”-my Dad)

Responsible: I’m trying to get in shape.

Irresponsible: I’m in shape (a circle).

8. Keeping up with current events (“The

world is changing.”-my Dad)

Responsible: I read the morning paper.

Irresponsible: I look at that world map they

put up in my favorite stall. .

9. Checking the mail (“You didn’t get those

plane tickets yet?”-my Dad)

Responsible: I go to the Post Office every

afternoon.

Irresponsible: Why did Rose’s send me last

winter’s catalog?

10. Getting requirements done (“Take a

math class at Temple.”-my Dad)

Responsible: I have finished the core cur-

riculum.

Irresponsible: Wait, you can’t screw this

one up--never mind.

I think you understand now (despite the
vagueness of the first paragraph). Ronald
Reagan said, “It is true hard work never
killed anybody, but why take the chance?”
If he had worked harder and been more
responsible in college, who knows where he
might have ended up!

some dumpsters set on fire and the like.
Black activists claimed that the police offic-
ers were acquitted because they were white—
it was a racial thing.

No way. All Rodney King’s lawyers
had to do was prove that he was beaten
beyond necessity. All they had to do was
fulfill the burden of proof. They could not do
that. The officers were acquitted because
they were innocent until proven guilty, and
they were not proven guilty. Simple as that.

What was racist was that the mayor of
Los Angeles, after the verdict was made
public, denounced the jury, claiming that
they should have known an acquittal would
cause riots. In other words, the juryshould
“have expected blacks to react violently to
the legal process. How insulting!

Also, the videotape shown on TV only
featured about eighty-five seconds of a four

to five minute video. What happened in .

those three or more minutes that the jury
saw, but not the public? And why did the
-public not take into account the fact that
King had engaged in a chase, evaded arrest,
was thought to be high on PCP, and that the

other men he was with went peaceably while
he was the only one to cause and receive
trouble?

Again, I am not exculpating the beating
of Rodney King; I don’t know all the facts.
But neither did those who reacted so vi-
ciously to the verdict.

All this boils down to the fact that a
great deal of Americans do not trust the
justice system, especially minorities or those
who feel oppressed. Their speculation is
understandable to a point, because most
things in this country do go in favor of the
majority. The courts, however, do their job.
If proven guilty, the accused is punished; if
the burden of proofis not met, the accused is
free.

Feminists’ declaration that John
Bobbitt’s acquittal is a blow against women

’ is an uninformed and self-righteous procla-

mation, just as it would be for blacks to call

‘the Redney King verdict racist.

Sometimes people see what they want

_to see. An example: Anita Hill accused
_Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment.

Without getting into the mess of whether or
not it was because he was a black conserva-
tive, I will present some arguments.
Thomas went through endless humili-
ating hearings (in which Howell Heflin made

See Ramsay on page 10

nee

revoiver

DistrOyted by Thoune Mea services

Liberal arts or a Liberal education?

Garrison continued from page 8

goals of the college, not the whims and
popular ideas of the alumni.
Let’s take a look at another institution

that is “representative” of the governed.
Under the leadership of another elected, but
spurious despot, this body is anything but
representative.

The cabinet of Bill Clinton is said, by
the mouth right under his lengthening nose,
to be representative of the American people.
He has instituted an undeclared quota sys-
tem to pick his Cabinet. “I think,” Clinton
declared in 1992, “that it’s very important
that my Cabinet look like America.” Did
you know the following facts about his
administration? After chastising Reagan
and Bush for putting too many rich men in
power positions, Clinton placed at least nine
millionaires at the top of his administration,
more than either Reagan or Bush (AP, Janu-
ary 27, 1993).

Donna Shalala, the secretary of health
and human services, has goals to re-educate
the young and restructure society. She wants
an America that is chock-full of single moms
and children being raised by two dads.

Children will be best raised by day care
facilities and taught how Europeans “stole
America from the Indians.” (She declared
all of this in a speech given at the University
of Chicago on November 15, 1991.) While
at the University of Wisconsin, she was a
leader in the ban on language that would be

’ which has attempted to create leadérship”

“demeaning” to any “race, sex, religion,
color, creed, disability, sexual orientation,
national ancestry, or age.” (Sound famil-
iar?)

Jocelyn Elders, the Surgeon General,
was appointed despite letters and phone
calls that opposed her candidacy by about
100 to 1. She advocates giving condoms to

all students in public schaols and sex educa-

tion classes for kindergartners.

In.Arkansas, she chose not to inform
teenagers that they had been given defective
condoms, despite the fact that she knew the
danger of that action.

She is proud of the fact that birth rates
went down in Arkansas due to her cam-
paigns there, but she doesn’t report that
pregnancy rates went up 17%.

Roberta Achtenberg, the assistant sec-
retary for fair housing at HUD, participated
in a San Francisco Gay Pride Parade in
1992. Riding in a white convertible bearing
a sign that read “Celebrating Family Val-
ues,” she kissed and hugged her lover, Mary
Morgan, a Municipal Court Judge: With
them in the car was Judge Morgan’s 7 year-
old son.

Then, Achtenberg had the gall to ac-
cuse Sen. Jesse Helms of anti-Semitism
when he opposed her appointment.

Do these people sound “representative”
to you?

Do you want “representatives” or men
who are known to be moral and religious?

Do you want a liberal arts education or
a Liberal education?
