ARTS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

11

Portrait of an artist: Josh Harris is a promising young one

By Josh Larned

Upon first coming to Davidson, Josh Harris
regarded his love of drawing as little more than
a hobby to be pursued during a boring high
school class. However, his true passion for the
visual arts quickly blossomed after his exposure
to the college’s studio art program.

Today, Harris has earned the reputation as
one of the department’s most promising senior
majors.

What remains unique about Harris is the
fact that he has no penchant for any particular
medium. Although he works predominantly in
charcoal, acrylic, and oil, the exploration of
varying techniques is quite simply, in his own

words, “something I enjoy doing.”

Such enjoyment is highly evident in
Harris’s works which are indiscriminately plas-
tered around the walls of his studio.

Close examination of these works demon-
strates the artist’s keen interest in exploring the
human form. Sketches of legs, arms, faces,
torsos, and whole bodies reveal Harris’s labo-
rious attempts to recreate man’s physical struc-
ture.

“Ihave spent most of my time studying the
human figure as a subject,” remarks the soft-
spoken artist.

However, Harris’ art does not read simply
like an anatomy book. He seeks to employ this

examination of physique in order to better
understand the human as a living organism. As
aresult, figures are set in motion and placed in
an array of positions with the result of convey-
ing action and movement to the viewer.
Harris is currently working on prepara-
tions for an exhibition in which all senior
studio art majors have to participate during the

spring semester. At this point, he is not yet sure

if he is going to pursue any long-term artistic
plans after college.

However, one thing remains an absolute
certainty: what Harris sees as a past-time,
others have come to perceive as enormous
potential.

Noland's abstract art displayed in the VAC

By Josh Larned

Now through December 15,
the Visual Arts Center is playing
host to exhibits from modern ab-
stract artists Kenneth Noland and
Tommie Robinson.

Noland, a native of Asheville,
is regarded as one of the leading.
pioneers in abstract painting. In-
fluenced by the avant-garde move-
ment and the works of Miro,
Matisse, and Picasso, Noland
formed the “Washington School”
in the early 1960s, along with art-
ists Morris Louis and Helen
Frankenthaler. According to
Davidson professor Shaw Smith,
the leaders within this movement
attempted to “stain their raw can-
vases allowing the accidental com-
binations of gravity and paint veils
of color which floated across the
surface like the improvised har-
monies of jazz.”

Indeed the artist’s exhibit, en-
titled “Noland’s Nolands” certainly

‘Photo by Anne Bartholomew

That's art. Onlookers view Kenneth Noland's piece entitled "Reef." The artist's work will be

reflects a strong commitment to
color. “Across,” is one of a few
works in the exhibit that employs
the use of the chevron to demon-
strate how color penetrates the
space of the canvas, thus creating a
living form. “Reef,” which con-
sists of horizontal parallel stripes,
truly resembles an ecosystem by
exploring the interactivity of color
value (the relation of one part in

exhibited through December 15.

the picture to another with respect
to lightness and darkness).
Across the hall lies
Robinson’s exhibit of “Unseen
People.” Robinson, a Charlotte
native, focuses upon conveying the
stories of individuals deemed to be
misfits in modern society. Each of
his subjects are unique and per-

sonal, as the artist pays close atten-
tion to facial composition and ex-
pression. This technique is evident
in “Three Wise Men,” a study of
aged homeless men, whose de-
meanors exude sage-like qualities.
As a result, the artist allows view-
ers to attempt to understand a per-
son they would not ordinarily iden-

tify with on an daily basis.

These superb exhibits will not
be around for much longer. Those
interested should therefore get
down to the V.A.C. before it’s too
late. The two make for an illumi-
nating study break. Both galleries
are open from 10-4 on weekdays
and 2-5 on weekends.

Origins of the blues

“I will say that the blues is an expression of the so-called negro in America.
Of his hard tribulations that he had. . . . See, this people they had so much
torment, lynched, burned, tarred and feathered, and then they have sung
sadder blues than we could ever imagine, in this daytime, you see.”

- Lonesome Jimmy Lee

By Rachel Newcomb

Many people are not aware that some of the
music we listen to today was not written by the
artists we currently hear performing it. The
Allman Brothers didn’t write “One Way Out” or
“Statesboro Blues.” The Grateful Dead weren’t
responsible for “Goin’ Down the Road Feelin’
Bad,” “Bertha,” “Smokestack Lightnin’” or
“C.C. Rider.” Eric Clapton and Led Zeppelin
enjoy a wide audience for songs like “Alberta”
and “Traveling Riverside Blues,” which, when
those songs were written in the early part of the
century, once took quite a different form. Much
of popular music today owes a great debt to this
form of music known as “the blues.”

It is difficult to define exactly what “the
blues” means. As a song form, it first appeared
in the last decade of the 19th century. With
elements of both slave and African culture, the
blues as an oral tradition took root in rural,

poverty-stricken areas of the South. Despite
the Civil War and Reconstruction, blacks at the
end of the 19th century still found themselves
denied of almost all the human freedoms which
whites took for granted. In the Mississippi
Delta where most blacks were sharecroppers, a
folk song known as the blues arose.

In the early years, the blues were essen-
tially rural in character. They reflected the
day-to-day hardships ofblacks as they struggled
to survive against an oppressive white culture.
For subject matter, these early folk blues songs
covered a wide range of topics such as: prison,
railroads, jobs, sorrows, rootlessness and travel,
lost love, and Sexuality. Many blues songs
contained boastful lyrics that exaggerated mas-
culinity.

The term “blue” was first used by the
English in the 1500s to describe troubled emo-
tions. In the United States, blues author Will-

iam Barlow writes, the word “blues” was first
used in the early 1800s to describe “a mood of
low spirits and emotional stress.” By the end
of Reconstruction, southern blacks used the

. term to describe a new type of folk song that

was beginning to appear. These songs ex-
pressed the trials and tribulations of everyday
life in the rural Sduth. Despite their source in
sorrow and hardship, the blues are not com-
pletely pessimistic, as author Richard Wright
attests. “Their burden of woe and melancholy
is dialectically redeemed through sheer force
of sensuality, into an almost exultant affirma-
tion of life, of love, of sex, of movement, of
hope.” For their form, early folk blues took a
pattern of three-line, twelve-bar stanzas. Lyr-
ics often employed the use of metaphors and
could sometimes be extremely poetic. Accom-
panying the vocalist, instruments included
guitar, fiddle, banjo, harmonica, and bass.
Musically, the blues have many influ-
ences. It is believed that West African
griots, solo tribal singers who pluck string
instruments, were the ancestral forefathers of
the music. Antebellum Negro spirituals and

See Blues on page 12

Screen Scene

No doubts
about Mrs.
Doubtfire

Hey, word up!

I hope everyone had a great
Turkey Day holiday. If y’all were
anything like me, after stuffing
yourselves for several days with
food you took some downtime and
headed out to the theaters to catch
a flick— maybe a good comedy to

help you laugh off some of those
pounds you gained.

There were several out there
this holiday to pick from, but as for
myself, I chose to see the highly
anticipated Robin Williams pic-
ture Mrs. Doubtfire.

This is the first film out from
Robin’s new production company
and if it is any indication of what’s
to come, he’s got a successful fu-
ture ahead of him.

In this Williams vehicle, our
favorite Genie plays none other
than a voice actor (cinematic irony
or what?) who has recently been
canned.

If losing a job weren’t trau-
matic enough for him, he’s also
going through a messy divorce
from his wife (Sally Field) who’s
just gotten full custody of their
three children.

The wife, a successful busi-
ness woman, now needs a nanny to
watch after the kids until she gets
home from work. Here’s the catch
(in case you haven’t heard it al-
ready). Williams, posing as a 60
year-old British woman, lands the
job hoping that in this way he can
be close to his kids.

Everything is going fine until
complications arise: his ex-wife
now has anew love interest (Pierce
Brosnan) and his day job at a local
television station turns into a pos-
sible career as the host of his own
show.

I did have some minor gripes
with this one: the lack of any
supporting acting, a contrived
script with a shaky plot, and the
extreme exploitation of the “man
in drag” thing just to name a few
(playing Aerosmith’s “Dude
(Looks Like a Lady)” during a
scene modeled after Tom Cruise’s
Risky Business dance number
seemed a little much).

But then Iremembered: thisis
Robin. This one-man-show didn’t
let any of these things hinder him
and they don’t make this film any
less entertaining. In fact, it’s a riot
(thanks to Williams). Bound to be
ahit this holiday season, I strongly
recommend the flick to anyone
seeking a good time.

Extremely funny and easily
digestible, this is one movie well
worth the price of admission and

popcorn and Coke.
&
