6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

'Conservative' Davidson not concerned with Equus nudity

By Lexy Devane

The Davidson College The-
ater and Speech Department’s pro-
duction of Equus, amodern drama
by Peter Shaffer, concluded yes-
terday with unprecedented success.
Although controversy over the
play’s nude scene seemed unavoid-
able due to the productions dates,
October 26 to 31, occurring on
Parents' Weekend, the vast major-
ity of students viewed Equus as a
triumph for the drama department
and for the school as a whole.

Equus was aimed at mature
audiences dealing with themes of
‘plastic’ normality, confused sexu-
ality, and religious turmoil. The
cast of Equus maintained the origi-
nal integrity of the play including
full male and female nudity.

Director Alex Pinkston chose
Equus because “the show carries
the audience ona tremendous jour-
ney. It forces students to question
all they ever assumed about life
and reality and. to come to grips
with what is meaningful to them
individually. In life, there are di-
lemmas, like Alan and Dysart’s,
that have no concrete answers.
People must learn to trust their gut
instincts and decide if normality is
better. Equus makes people think
and this is liable to spark a more

diverse society.”

Pinkston has wanted to direct
Equus since playing the main char-
acter Dysart ina U.C.L.A. produc-
tion. Last spring, the idea of di-
recting this challenging drama be-
came more tangible after taking

inventory of the talent present in

the department.
Pinkston approached the Dean

of Students regarding the contro-

versial nature of the play and both

agreed that the nudity was essen-
tial to the play. He received no
negative feedback from any fac-
ulty members.

“The nudity is necessary to
demonstrate the character’s com-
plete vulnerability. It is essential
in showing the absolute pain Alan
(played by Adam Knapp) is suffer-
ing and aids in the audience expe-
riencing these emotions with him.
The nudity is also tentative and

frightening and these emotions
are expressed by (Knapp) and
(Jennifer Don). It is much more
than a nude scene,” explained
Pinkston.

The scene actually was modi-
fied from the original script by the
use of naturalistic and back light-
ing under the direction of Ronnie
Higdon. During the actual nude
scene, no frontal lighting was used.

The script recommends using
harsh white light to further em-
phasize the complete mental and
physical vulnerability of Alan.
However, because of various fac-
tors including the age of the ac-
tors, the production staff chose
more discrete lighting.

“Equus is an important, pain-
ful production. It disturbs people
as it should because it is a trag-
edy,” stated Jennifer Don, who

plays Jill the co-star in the contro- .

versial nude scene. “Equusis about
a lot of things; one thing it's not
about is people taking off their
clothes. My only apprehension
was the audiences' ability to recog-
nize this.”

Many students agreed the nude

scene was an absolutely essential ©

part of the drama. “To perform
Equus any other way is offensive,”
stated Stacey Carter. “I thought the

- Bone marrow transplants
fight leukemia.

By Stephen Keller

In the fall of my sophomore year in high
school, around September of 1987, I visited my
family doctor for a routine sports physical. He
thought there was something strange going on
with my heart beat, and sent me to a cardiologist
“just as a precaution.” To make a longstory short,
after a month of tests and about 20 different
doctors, I was diagnosed as having chronic myel-
ogenous leukemia.

For a high school sophomore who had no
symptoms of such a deadly disease, the news was
hard to swallow. The doctors went on to tell me
that without a relatively new procedure called a
bone marrow transplant, there was a good chance
that I would not survive more than four or five
more years.

Immediately we started the search for a suit-
able bone marrow donor, which is not an easy
process. Matching bone marrow types is not like
matching blood types; there are many more fac-
tors which have to match perfectly to find a
suitable donor. Fortunately, the chances are very
high to find a good match among siblings, so my
older brother and sister were each typed.

Unfortunately, my brother and sister matched
each other, but not me. Where could I look? Then
the doctors told me about the National Bone
Marrow Registry.

The Bone Marrow Registry collects names
and bone marrow types to find matches for those
who need a transplant, as I did. One major
problem is that the chances are only about 1 in
20,000 of finding a match among non-related
patients, which was my case. At that time, theré

_ were fewer than 100,000 people on the registry,
so my chances were not very good of finding a
match.

The search for my donor continued to the
International Registry, which contains names and
types from all over the world. After two years and
my high school graduation, a suitable donor was
finally found: a Canadian lumberjack in western
Canada.

Life Saving

This was August of 1989, and I was
ready tostart my freshman year at Davidson.
I put off my enrollment until the fall of 1990,
and entered Johns Hopkins Hospital in Bal-
timore the first week of August. .

Asitturned out, I was to receive the first
non-related bone marrow transplant at-

‘tempted at Johns Hopkins. ‘My case re-
ceived special attention from every doctor in
the unit. I was very fortunate that I Was able
to be at Hopkins because I live in Aberdeen,
less than am hour from the hospital, and my
family and friends could easily visit me. If
I had not had the transplant in Baltimore, I
would have had to travel to a special center
in either Milwaukee or Seattle for the proce-
‘dure.

Ten days of a chemotherapy protocol
killed all of my diseased bone marrow, es-
sentially leaving me without an immune
system. I then received my new bone mar-
row from my donor. He donated his marrow
in Canada, and a nurse from Hopkins flew
with it immediately to Baltimore, rushing
into my room with the marrow in a little

, Igloo cooler. The bone marrow looked like
a regular pint of blood, and I received it
directly through my IV line.

The whole process was kind of anti-
climatic, but that little bag saved my life.

During the next few weeks in the hospi-
tal, my new bone marrow began to grow in
my bones, and my body fought off infection
as best it could. I was very ill most of this
time receiving around one million different
drugs (just kidding, but it seemed like that
many).

Even now I cannot remember some of
the days I was in the hospital while I: was
sick. My parents kept a journal and my

friends came to visit; they tell me what .

happened.

After seven weeks in the hospital, I was
strong enough to go home. This did not
mean, however, that I was fully recovered. I
was restricted to my house for the first
couple of weeks having to wear a mask to
keep out germs any time I stepped outside. I

had to go to the hospital every morning for

about a month and a half for check-ups and
therapy. Eventually, sometime after Christ-
mas, my visits to the hospital tapered off, and I
was able to stop taking the medication I had

‘been on since I left the hospital.

Finally I was given permission to leave the
house, and even to find a part-time job nearby.
My condition improved, and I was very lucky
not to have any serious complications. At that
time, the chances of survival for a non-related -
bone marrow transplant patient were only about
40-50 percent. Istill have to go back to Hopkins
every August for a follow-up visit, but I have
had no problems.

My check up this past August determined
that I was in better shape than the doctors had
expected. I was able to goto Germany last year,
and will graduate from Davidson on time next
May (OH BOY). I am able to do all this with.
tremendous thanks to the National Bone Mar-
row Registry.

For three years now, Davidson’s student-
run Project Life Committee has organized a
drive to place students, staff, faculty, and com-
munity members on the registry. To date, over
1,100 people have been typed at Davidson.

To be typed as a donor, all you have to do
is allow the Red Cross to take two small vials of
your blood and fill out a form. It takes about 10
minutes, and if you are a match, you could save
someone’s life. The procedure for donating
bone marrow is very simple, and is sometimes
an outpatient procedure meaning you can go
home the same day.

Two Davidson students have already been
bone marrow donors since joining the Tregistry
within the last three years. Back then, they were
in the same position most of you are in now:
sitting in your room, reading this article, won-
dering if you really need to do this.

Well, those two people have made a big
difference in the lives of two other people who
desperately needed a bone marrow transplant,
and thanks to the registry, have received this
lifesaving procedure. ae

Even more Davidson students who joined
the registry have been called back for further
testing. They are waiting to hear whether or not
they can be marrow donors as well." >

play was excellent in all respects.
Itisa troubling drama, and tolessen
the raw emotion and honest an-
guish of the play by altering any of
the controversial scenes would
have been a travesty. It is refresh-
ing to me that in a school usually
labeled as being very conserva-
tive, a production such as Equus
can be accepted so well.”

Part of Equus' controversy
regarded the fact it coincided with
Parents' Weekend. Will Cowan
said, “Equus unquestionably was
well done. I was not offended by
the nudity because it was done in a
mature manner; but the play could
have been just as powerful if it had
been left out. However, the timing
of this play was inappropriate be-
ing on Parents’ Weekend. The
majority of parents are most likely
more conservative than their chil-
dren and viewing this play together
may be uncomfortable and form
an awkward situation.”

Pinkston emphasized the nu-
dity was not done for the “shock
value.” The scene was actually not
performed nude until the Sunday
night before the Tuesday opening.
Prior to that, it had been panto-
mimed and then acted out in swim
suits for lighting purposes.
Pinkston feels this added to the
tender uncertainty the characters
maintained throughout the play’s
running.

The cast of Equus was truly
an ensemble who worked together.
“Equus forced the cast to expose
themselves emotionally and liter-
ally and dig down into themselves
and find a darker place. The cast
went through the ultimate vulner-
ability. [Knapp and Don] truly gave
themselves to the scene.”

Crime Report

On October 23 at 4:27 a.m.
an Officer arrested a man who
was vandalizing the SAE house. '
The manreportedly pulled apiece
of a gutter off the building. The
offender, a former Davidson stu-
dent, was seen by an officer who
approached and attempted to
identify him. The offender be-
gan running. After a chase the
officer wrestled him to the ground
while the offender began to lie
about his identity. The offender
declared he was willing to pay
for the gutter valued at $25.

~ On October 23 at 9:45 a.m.
‘an officer reported that an un-
known person made a forcible
entry into one of the north side
double doors at Cunningham.
There were no signs of an in-
truder, and the building was un-
disturbed. The bottom lock of
the door was broken and small
fragments of wood were shat-
tered from the door. The cost of
the damage was valued at $200.

- On October 23 at 7:00 p.m.
an unknown person entered a
vehicle in.a satellite parking lot
by breaking the driver’s side vent
window and removed a vehicle
Tepair kit. The repair kit con-
sisted of assorted items valued at
$50. No suspects were found.

_ + + «Compiled by Jeff Fuller

