SRN NG : x os Yn te
iC € ne iy id “te, fsaee / penis ad si ia energie tN a le !
G ‘ THE DAVIDSONIAN! ART S! MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993 > 9

_ OFF THE SCENE

aN

A completely boring and entirely too difficult to read
calendar of the week's upcoming events.

Grateful Dead & Residew. 900 Room. Free with Davidson College
I.D. 9:30 p.m.

Come hear your favorite Dead songs and some originals. Apr. 30.

Obstinacy Training Workshop. Led by Richard Terry, this workshop
teaches firmness and tenacity against insurmountable obstacles.
Learn how to say “no” to even the most seemingly logical requests.
Designed to give the developing student a will of iron. Great for
combating peer pressure. Plus: Tips on how to use your student ID
access cards before they change the security system again. Morrison
Room. Apr. 27, 7:00 p.m.

Beetle Education Seminar. This consciousness-raising seminar in
volves a tour of the northeast area of the main campus, where the
brutal Southern Pine Bark Beetle is currently destroying a number
ofinnocent trees. The affected trees, some of which have been here
since the 1940’s, are all being destroyed. Learn how you can spot
this merciless insect and the best techniques for beetle crushing.
Tour meets at the baseball field, Apr. 26 at 2:00 p.m.

Day At The Algae Pond. Due to the recent success of “Day at the Lake,”
the school is sponsoring a Day at the Algae Pond. The Algae Pond
is located about a mile from campus onthe road leading toI-77, right
next to “ELOX- An Agie Group Company.” This small ecosystem
often supports such wildlife as mallard ducks and the occasional
heron. Patterson Court Houses will sponsor booths designed to
educate students on the value of algae in our society today. Algae
burgers and shakes will be served. With the wonderful DJ from Day
At The Lake!! (You know, the one with the Curl Activator.) May
1, 12:00-5:00 p.m. -

Liquorhouse. Tuesday, 8:30-11:00 p.m. Come drink liquor and eat
doughnuts. A great chance to see your friends and professors and
catch up on old times. 900 Room.

KROP Lunch. Special lunch for Rob Ukrop. Every Wednesday, 11:30
a.m. 900 Room.

Skunks of Prey. Presented by the Carolina Skunk Center. Learn about
the different varieties of the skunk found in this area and how you
can spot them from afar. Familiarize yourself with the telling odor
that lets you know a skunk is in your neighborhood. With ever-
popular scratch-and-sniff booth. Included: a discourse on the

mating patterns of skunks, migratory patterns, best techniques for _

washing skunk spray from the body. Apr. 28. 7:30 p.m. in the Big
Screen Room.

Eighteen Year Old Night. 900 Room. Thursday, 8:30-10:30 p.m.
Bring your friends. Play Word Yahtzee, Scrabble, UNO; and :
Trivial Pursuit for Juniors. Kool-Aid will be served. Don't forget
your two i.d.'s

Partnership For A Doped-Up America. A representative from the
Partnership For A Doped-Up America will be speaking on Apr. 28
in the Morrison Room. He will discuss the health benefits of the
drug and its many uses— for cancer patients, to make rope, as
birdseed, as a source of paper, and most importantly, for relaxation
purposes.

VAX Seminar offered by the Association of Student Librarians. Log on
with the Society for Creative Anachronism. Computer Services
Center, Apr. 28.

The Pines Nudist Colony is having a College Day this Saturday. Come
as you are.

Celebrating Men At Davidson - See how far we’ve come, and how far
we still have to go. Speaker: Chalmers Davidson. Tuesday,
4:00 p.m.

Tacky Party atSAE. Off campus at the American Legion. Stair-diving
lessons led by David Lindsay and Rachel Newcomb. Saturday
night.

Kappa Sigma and Connor - Knitting Festival Mixer. Friday night.

PIKA - Party Saturday night. Plenty of hot tub nudity, no alcohol
monitors or cops (until some do-gooder gets there!).

SPE Cookout. Wednesday. Grill weenies on the SPE cooker with the
Sig Epcook, climb the SPE tree, play around of ‘pong with the guys.

Order on the Court - PIKA is having a party, so KA is having aBYOB.
Saturday. Watch highlights from the 1992 Soccer Season video.
“We laughed, we cried, it was the feel good video of the year.” —
Spanky Valdez.

Phi Delt Music — Up all night, sleep all day. Can be heard from
anywhere on campus. Two people rockin’ out, playin’ foosball on
the roof— PAR-TAY!! All week.

Tractor Pull in Baker Sports Complex. Wednesday night. Sponsored
by Inter Varsity Christian and Fellowship of Christian Athletes.
Followed by tag team co-ed mud wrestling in the shallow end of the
pool. —

Senior Apartments- there’ll be nothing going on.

Davidson Police— How to Close Down a Party Rudely. Sponsored by
Officer Hightower.

"Welln Tabitha, the White House is really interesting. If you want to sneak out the back door with
me, we can ditchthis crap and I can show you my Presidential pencil.”

+... Catch the Horoscope Fever!

Scope continued from page 8

ing at Added: Dimensions
(Note: prices may vary according
to size of garment). Don’t diet, the
Libra constellation defies gravity
in more than one way. Don’t worry
though, Rosanne Barr has a new
exercise video that helped other
Libras such as Oprah Winfrey and
Liz Taylor. Oh horizontally chal-
lenged one, some say the world is

round, but you will make it flat

again.

scorpio (oct. 23-nov. 21)
You will die on the 22nd.

sagittarius (nov. 22-dec. 21)
You centaur-archer, you. . . you
are hung like a horse and will hit
the bullseye this month. Experi-
ence the world of Catherine the
Great- anew stallion will beridden
around the 10th. On the 19th, your
new jockey, a Libra, will cause
you grief and backpains after riding
you for the first time. On a finan-
cial note, you’re chances of getting
away with embezzlementare good
on the 20th, but on the 21st, the $2
stolen from your hall counselor
will not go unnoticed. Don’t let

- that bring you down, archer, you’ ll

experience two hours of arched
back on the 26th.

capricorn (dec. 22-jan, 19)
Ram, ram, horny ram. Rammed. .
. oh ram, you ram, oh, you ram.
Horny horndog, your horns are
rammed, ram, ah sweetram. Ram,
ram, you horned ram: ramming
ram, oh ram some more. (Random
ramming)

aquarius (jan. 26-féb. 18)”

Rejoice! This is the dawning of
your age! On the 2nd, tempera-
tures rise, and your water starts to
boil. You’re in for a steamy en-
counter around the 9th, but don’t
get washed up- these feelings soon
evaporate. Cheer up, old fella!

You’re known for your individual-—

ity-chronic loneliness and nights
spents alone in your single playing
solitaire. Good movies torentnext
Friday night: Revenge of the Nerds
III, Dying Young, Can't Buy Me
Love, and that recently severed
Siamese twin’s Silk Stalkings video
collection.

pisces (feb.19-march 20)
Something’s smelling fishy and

they say it’s you. Your chronic
odor festers in your hall (4th Belk?),
and this problem won’t improve
until you shower on the 6th. Scour
the hairier parts of your body with
Ajax- this may help the situation.
Try gasoline and Listermint for
your breath-your special predica-
ment demands these drastic-mea-
sures. On the 27th, beware of a
hardy sailor who may skin you
alive, yet this might solve your
roblem. Your weakness, insecu-

“rity, begins to bother you midmonth

when people forget your name be-
cause you have such a plain face
and wear big shoes. Don’t worry-
it’s not that you’re ugly. . . you’re
just not very interesting.

aries (march 21-april 19)
You are small and hairy and you
suck. Don’t get any big ideas this
month or any month, for you are
destined to be little. They say big
things come in small packages,
and boy do you have a big surprise
for that cute Gemini approaching
your sector, After that Gemini
dumps you on the 19th, consider
being Danny DeVito’s stuntdouble
for a career. You won’t make
much money, but you might die.

Poetry...

Oh, My Aching Toes

Mom's

All

Trees

Trees everywhere

Bees

Bees Everywhere

Mom's Everywhere

Dad's
Dad's Everywhere

WATCH OUT BEHINDYOU!
THERE'S A WOOKER!

All Hurting My Toes

_” Maybe
Maybe I'll Wear Shoes
