7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1993 7

Ohe Bavidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
COURT McBRYDE-Assistant News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Assistant Sports Editor.
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost

College Weekly" WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager

JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Quit labeling us

In the past year, attempts to place a catch-phrase name onto our generation
have flourished. “The MTV Generation,” the “Lost Generation,” and “Generation
X” have all been touted as phrases which identify and define a generation that has
consistently eluded definitive labeling.

The attempts fail because they rest on the faulty assumption that previous
generations have been successfully labelled. “Baby-boomers” and the lost
generation of the early 20th century have become household terms. Accuracy,
however, does not necessarily follow popularity.

The media has all but transformed the sixties into a sort of flower-toting,
chemically enhanced free-love-a-thon whose participants were as united by their
common love for humanity as their spirit of activism in fighting the Vietnam war
and racial and gender barriers.

In an almost arrogant manner, the Baby-boomers have now sought to define
us as lazy and apathetic in contrast to their activist past. “The Lost Generation”
and “Generation X” both imply that our generation is one without ideals, beliefs,
or even care for the events unfolding around us in the world. The MTV reference
cynically indicates a belief that we are defined by our common appreciation for
Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” video. Any definition, however, that describes us
as a group uncertain of our purpose and our direction is misguided. To be uncertain
is a part of being a young adult--not part of a generation.

Perhaps the most definitive characteristic of our generation is that no set of
events have yet united us. Baby-boomers went to bed worried about the
Communist threat and watched Neil Armstrong set foot on the moon.
"Twentysomethings" biggest battle with the Communists came in the 1980
Winter Olympics' hockey semi-finals, and the most important outer-space event
was an explosion over Florida. Memorable, but not defining, moments.

The only common bond the “twentysomethings” share may be having grown
up watching the same television shows--beginning with Beaver Cleaver and the
Brady Bunch and ending with Bart Simpson and Beavis and Butthead. At times
it seems we have entered a world of fantasy and sarcasm on the border of
tastelessness. ©

But similar tastes in TV shows do not a generation make.

So we suggest that we not be judged until there is something to judge. Before
any names are called or stereotypes established, let us see our Martin Luther Kings
and Jane Fondas, our Vietnams and racial battles, and our Woodstocks and
bellbottoms. Maybe then, we will fit nicely into a comfortably constricting
category. Maybe not.

DC Cove: Beer Ue Jeera ty

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

On drunk driving

To the editors:
George Kruse. My
Uncle George. Uncle

George loved life as much
asanyone I have ever known.
He married my Dad's sister
Barb about fourteen months
ago. They had dated in col-
lege, but had gone theirsepa-
rate ways. By a chance of
luck or an act of God, they
had met again many years
later. They married. They
were beginning to plan a
family.

Men's lacrosse was
Uncle George's passion. He
was an All-American incol-
lege. Recently, he had offi-
ciated some of the biggest
games in Division I. He
travelled hundreds of miles

to see the Final Four.

Uncle George was one
of those people who would
ask how I was doing and
care about the answer. He
was truly youngin spirit. He
could swap stories of col-
lege escapades with me, even
though he had graduated
many years ago. Uncle
George found me a job last
summer just because he
wanted to help.

Uncle George was
killed inan automobile acci-
dent on September 11, 1993.
He was wearing his seatbelt,
but seatbelts don't perform
miracles when you are hit
head on by a drunk driver.

That driver was nine-
teen years old and out for a

good time. I imagine he
wasn't much different than a
lot of students. I know thata
vast majority of students will
drink. But, please, walk to
the Court; walk to
Backstreet; or have a desig-
nated driver take you to and
from the Korner Pub or Char-
lotte.

I know that everyone
has heard the drinking and
driving lecture a thousand
times. Unfortunately, the
driver that night had not
heard it enough. Now he
faces vehicular homicide
charges.

My: family faces life
without Uncle George.

Regretfully,

Brian Francis '96

Davidsonian soccer coverage is weak

Dear soccer fans,

You are doing a stellar
job of supporting the
Women's team; the stands
were packed for the first
three home matches. Un-
derstandably you couldn't
make the next three games.
Only adedicated few trekked
to Catawba to witness an
emotional overtime tie. So,
you missed Jen Beebe's up-
per-90 goal and you were
not there when Claudia
Lombard stumbled upon a
hat trick deep in Elon terri-
tory. (Youeven missed Ellen
Sprinkle, sans ponytail, ina
shirt and tie.) Perhaps you
planned to peruse an article
about the Cats’ 2-0-1 road
record in the last issue of
The Davidsonian. Too bad.

Nota peep, nota snippet, not
even a measly Cat Nip con-
cerning the upset victory
over perennial power UNC-
Greensboro. Susan Taylor's
break-away breath-taking-
do-or-die barely-in-there
game-winning goal...
Pardon me, I digress.
This is the editorial section,
not the sport's section. The
south's foremost college
weekly is weak all right--
weak in sports coverage.
Giggy Maxwell, how about
anew promotion: instead of
Unfinished Business hype
the recent coverage of
women's soccer as Undone
Business. "Ladies and
gentlemen, sports informa-
tion will be kicking an adidas
soccer ball into the stands.

Catch the ball, lucky fan,
and you win...the assignment
of writing an article about
today's game."

Fans, too bad you could
not read about last week's
exciting three hundred min-
utes of soccer. Just in case
the women's next home
games are not mentioned on
a later page of this edition,
the team plays Radford on
the 28th and then Liberty the
following Saturday. Both
matches are at 4:00 p.m.
Come out and support
Davidson women's soccer,
and don't forget your pencil
and paper. You could be the
next Davidsonian sports re-
porter.

Go Cats,

Lisa A. Lyons '95

Committee invites you to sleep outside

To the editors:

Are you comfortable?
The safest wager would be
that you are. If you aren’t
bumming in a contoured
chair or a convenient bed
whose origin you’ve prob-
ably nevercontemplated, I’d
bet you’re at least inside
where the temperature has
been directed to within 10
degrees of what you con-
sider ideal. Even if you’ve
labored to disprove me by
reading outdoors,
Davidson’s campus is far
from the world’s most dis-
comforting locale. SoI think

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

I’ve caught you—you’re

comfortable.

I know. “Any more
great revelations?” you’re
asking.

Well no. Odds are,
though, thatif Davidson stu-
dents are chatting about a
week of intense suffering,
they’ve had fourreviews and
a major paper. ;

If they’re “starving,
they skipped breakfast.

If they’re “tired,” they
were up until three-ish curs-
ing procrastinatory tenden-
cies.

If they’re “sick,”
they’ve been’ court
martialed—Patterson Court

martialed, that is.

I don’t mean to belittle
your problems, because I
know very real concerns
plague students here. I do,
however, intend to empha-
size our blessings. Many of
us are so accustomed to ease
that we’ve lost focus on its
source. The High-tech Age
boils down to-spoiling and
discontent and plateaus
called paradigms. Yetcom-
forts aren’t omnipresent.
Our world still houses a
majority who have internal-
ized a true understanding of

See Inverse on page 10
