8 THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIO NS

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

I had lots of time on my hands over the
break. I tried to keep myself as busy as
possible so that my mind wouldn’t start
thinking about my future. The television
didn’t always work, because I’d stare at
MTV’s Adam Curry and Full House’s Bob
Saget and think, “These people have jobs,
and I don’t.”

I don’t mean to brag, but I think that my
personality is slightly more stimulating than
the Bigfoot pizza guy. And tragedy of
tragedies, he’s sitting on his duff getting
royalty checks every week for more than I'll
make in a year cleaning out monkey cages.

I finally decided just what would cheer
me up and make me think about something
other than the future approaching me like a
window approaches a bug. I was so desper-
ate that I went to (English professors, take
note) a bookstore.

I was in search of something light and
refreshing, perhaps something in the fantasy
persuasion. Disaster soon took hold of me.
For some reason, bookstores put all the most
inspirational, fantasy-provoking material as
high on the shelf as possible.

During the complicated machinations
my body was going through in order to keep
my head down and my eyes plastered
squarely on the cover of theBlond Bimbos in
Bikinis Monthly, | ran straight into one of
those cardboard display thingies. Sure

Nathan Seay

Shag and me.

enough, it was a lifesize cutout of my nem-
esis, Shaquille O’Neil. I stared stupidly for
a while at his grinning head, wondering
what on earth this man can be doing in a
bookstore. I figured it was a book full of his
song lyrics or something along those lines,
but the reality was much more frightening.
Shaquille O’ Neil has written an autobiogra-
phy.

No, I’m not making a joke that profes-
sional athletes are illiterate or anything.
(After all, he got into college. How on earth
could he do that without being able to read?)
My shock stemmed from the fact that this
guy is younger than me.

Yes, his life story at age 21 is now
published. Ididn’tread it, but I doubt that he
has done much more than any other 21 year
old on the planet. After 1 was done weeping,
Istarted thinking about my own life and just
how exciting it is. I mean, I’m not as tall as
Shaq, but I bet I have made a fool of myself
in public more times than he has, even if you
count all the airings of his video on MTV.

The last idea I had for a book was
inspired by that Gone With the Windsequel.
Mine would be called The Bible Part IT. 1
heard that the first one is a perennial favor-

ite. How could a sequel lose? I’1I fill it with
even more sex and violence than there is in
the first one and—Presto!—a sure-fire made
for TV movie. My publisher dissuaded me
from the idea. I think it had to do with some
legal problems.

My understanding is the book was writ-
ten some time ago, and that those genealo-
gies are so darn confusing. Who can keep up
with all those begats? So I gave up the idea,
and couldn’t come up with anything else
until Istumbled over Shaq while looking for
pornography.

Here was my ticket out of the real
world. A book of my life would sell like
flapjacks in a lumberjacks’ camp. After all,
the American public revels in other people’s
misery. How else would you explain the
success of shows like Rescue 911? I don’t
think that it’s William Shatner’s efferves-
cent personality or Gil Gerard’s witty in-
sights.

My autobiography is coming along
nicely. I know that all of you are just dying
to hear some stories about my childhood, so
I’ve decided to give you, my adoring public,
a few highlights from my life:

. March3, 1972: My parents showed me

my reflection in a mirror. I laughed and
laughed. I constantly requested the mirror
and often threw tantrums just to look at
myself.

June 27, 1972: I realized the fat, bald,
toothless thing looking at me was actually
me. I cried for three solid days and that
realization probably explains why I wer
while brushing my teeth.

May 5, 1976: Went to preschool and
tried to talk to a girl. She ran away in tears
before I could get three words out of my
mouth. Later in the day, the cute little thing
I tried to talk to threw a rock at my head. I
inquired about the meaning of this puzzling
behavior and was told by an adult that the

~ girl had-a crush on me. (No, I don’t get it

either.) I was about as close to understand-
ing women then as 1 am now.

January 2, 1977: When questioned
about who dumped a jar of honey on my
brothers, I said that I did it. While I was
being spanked, I came to a lesson I’ve car-
ried with me to this day: if it can get you in
trouble, lie like a tipped cow.

Well, folks, [hope you’ve enjoyed these
tiny snippets of my life. Start saving your
money now for my book. If this book
becomes a success, I may not have to reach
for that top-shelf reading material to forget
about my future. Then I’ll be able to afford
drugs.

Alex Crumbley
The media burlesque.

Over Christmas, I had a chance to watch
some television, at best a difficult activity
for a Davidson student to fit into his sched-
ule. After watching a minimal amount of the
tube for many months, I saw it with fresh
eyes and realized something which many
heavy TV watchers may not notice while
mesmerized by its dangerous lullaby.

What dawned on me was the amazing
power of the media and the ways in which
that power is abused, every day, right before
our glazed eyes. It may sound strange for a
newspaper editor to criticize the media, but
I mean to focus more on the TV media than
the written media, whose influence, inci-
dentally, is steadily being eclipsed.

The media’s power is not difficult to
recognize; it controls what the people know,
and the tone in which it presents that knowl-
edge can determine how the public feels
about a certain issue. Consider this sce-
nario: a woman is found dead. Her husband

is suspected of the crime, but no evidence
has been brought against him yet. The local
news program shows a picture of the crime
scene, then a mug shot of her husband, then
a picture of him being thrust into a police
car. For most, these pictures speak louder
than the voice behind them which says, “. .
- no formal allegations have been brought
against him,” and we assume he is guilty.

Everyone at one time or another has
seen the media’s ability to distort the truth,
or to present it in such a way that most
people watching TV feel a certain way about
it. This problem is not always the fault of the
TV news program.

I know that people are constantly dis-
gruntled with how they are portrayed in the
Davidsonian. Our coverage of Oxfam was
apparently a disaster, and we often get let-
ters from different groups complaining about
this and that. I do not think this problem is
singular to the Davidsonian, and I know

UTILIZING A LITTLE - KNOWN WT
SIDE. KGREEMENT, PRESIDENT CLINT

TO diel toctl

PREPARES TO WAKE THE FRST SHPHENT

_walS

LS a2 Hey?
wy
RE aon Sgt =

SOT

MEXco

RETURN fan

al a

we

—=——
=

a

—S
xz

fe"
g

‘e

ya —

Ahr ii ie
Trtune Meda Servces

Bobby searches for his ae and an article.

Ramsay continued from page 7

Everyone has seen It’s A Wonderful
Life. The concept is so interesting. What
would the world be like if you were never
born? Another daydream.

Well, I would not have had the flu, but
I would still have missed Christmas. The
dog would stil! be dripping on the carpet.
Jennifer would have a new CD player.

I would not have been caught in that
traffic jam; in fact, there probably would

have been no traffic jam. Chris and Alexis
would have enjoyed their sailing trip and the
Annapolis Sailing School would be plus one
mainsail.

So, like many philosophers, I ask, what
is the point? What motivates me to con-
tinue? Isit the small victories in my life, or
are those equalized or even outweighed by
the small failures? And then I realize why I
do go on.

Who the hell else would wipe jelly off
the wall?

from first-hand experience how difficult it is
to give everyone a fair share of attention.

But lately the TV media has disturbed
me with its overt sensationalism and its
shameless desire to feed brain-dead America
whatever junk it wants. Before the earth in
Southern California even finished quaking
last Sunday, NBC was on the scene with the
dramatic heading “The Great Quake of 94”
on our screens, and ABC, with an ominous
drum march playingin the background, titled
the disaster the “Nightmare in Paradise” as
if it were a movie. Tastelessly, they played
over and over again a tape of a mother
learning for the first time of her daughter’s
death and collapsing in hysterical grief. Some
things just are not meant to be publicized,
and our TV producers seem to have lost the
tact to decide what is proper.

A few years ago during the Persian Gulf
War, CNN, too, covered the action as if it
were some sort of sporting event. Their
coverage was revolutionary in its thorough-
ness, but it drew our attention toward the
military aspect of the war rather than the
humanitarian issues involved. The Gulf
War is the first war the people of America
were able to watch like a mini-series; there

were even Schwartzkopf and Powell action
figures sold to promote the event.

Too often, the media focuses our atten-
tion on what is unusual or catchy rather than
what is really important. A few examples:
the Bobbitt trial, baby Jessica (who fell
down the well), the Amy Fisher story, the
Koresh standoff, and, of course,
Panthermania. While we brood over Michael
Jordan’s retirement, the rest of the world
keeps on spinning, countries rise and fall,
and people die in Somalia and Yugoslavia.

I take offense to being labelled “the
MTV generation,” not only because of
MTV’s brainlessness, but also because of
the connotation that America defines itself
through its television. We are setting a bad
precedent if we succumb to the lure of the
media’s often tacky mindset and allow it to
name our generation after a TV station. I
hope that our media realizes its faults and
that it one day handles its enormous power
in a more intelligent way.

For us, the first step in combatting the
media’s dominance, especially over “the
MTV generation,” is to realize its limita-
tions and see it with educated and critical
rather than entranced and powerless eyes.

Susan Beale

Enough Bobbitts, already.

Are you frustrated and sick of hearing
about the scandalous “Bobbitt Penis Trial?”
I have to excuse myself for appearing to
jump on the bandwagon and contribute even
more coverage and hype to the saga.

Actually, I wasslightly interested when

- I first heard about Lorena Bobbitt, in the

heat of anger (and perhaps, momentary in-
sanity) sliced off her husband’s male organ
and disposed of it in the neighborhood.

I was more amazed to learn that, after
many hours of surgery, doctors were suc-
cessfully able to reconnect his prized object
that made hima man. Astypical Americans,
we enjoy being entertained and learning
about amazing stories of fellow human be-
ings. But don’t you think that this sort of
story should be covered as a top headline in
a low-calibre gossip magazine or television
show, rather than as the lead story on many
of the prestigious news broadcasts?

Though the story has some appeal, the
Bobbitt trial is not real news. Thousands of
assault trials are tried in the American court-
tooms daily, yet we only hear of a few of the
most scandalous and sensational battles. The
simple reason that we have been bombarded

with continuous news coverage is because
Lorena Bobbitt did something novel and
unheard of in our modern era. She did
something that any normal man would re-
gard as his worst nightmare or fear — she
castrated her husband and momentarily stole
away his manhood.

I just read in Time magazine (Jan. 24)
that Lorena accused her husband of abusing
her and forcing her to have repeated anal
sex. I personally feel that it should not be
any of our concern or our business what
sexual acts were performed in the Bobbitt’s
bedroom. Do not misunderstand me. I am
not advocating censorship when a story or
article is important or worthy of news cov-
erage, but what we have heard the last few
days is not news, but rather a
“Hollywoodized” story to boost ratings and
appeal to our lower and base senses.

Thus, I am not advocating that the
Bobbitt trial should have been ignored by
the media, but rather the journalism and
news industry should have enough respect
for their audiences to inform them of real
news instead of regarding the “Penis Trial”
as their top story.
