6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week i in Washington
As elections near only the

candidates seem interested

By Andrea Short

With mid-term elections ap-
proaching quickly, House and Sen-
ate campaigns are reaching a cli-
max. Anew CBS/New York Times
Poll shows that the voters, how-
ever, are uninterested and unim-
pressed with their choices. Many
senior senators are facing the tough-
est races of their careers

respondents felt that even if com-
pletely new people were elected,
the government would still be in-
ept and inefficient. The respon-
dents were not hopeful that gradual
change could improve the situa-
tion; fifty-seven percent said that
the nation needed a new political
party. While many expressed feel-

centage points of the senior Demo-
crat. ‘Romney’s threat has less-
ened, but the press has continued
to closely follow this surprising
race. Thirteen Democratic candi-
dates face incumbent Republican
Senators, and conventional politi-
cal wisdom is betting that Demo-
crats have a chance in only one
contest.

against political new-
comers.

The CBS/NYT poll
released Thursday an-
nounced startling levels
of dissatisfaction and
cynicism. Over sixty
percent of the 1,429

The voters, however,
are uninterested and
unimpressed with

their choices.

‘The most ex-
treme example of
the voters’ disgust
with career politi-
cians is the race to
represent
Oklahoma’s second

adults polled by telephone could
not name a single elected official
that they respected. When asked
about their own representatives,
the level of dissatisfaction re-
mained high, with only 56 percent
of respondents expressing ap-
proval, and only one third of those
expressing approval supporting
their current representative’s bid
for re-election. The dissatisfac-
tion with the Washington crowd is
ravaging the incumbents’ chances
for re-election, and many races re-
main to close too call.

The electorate’s anger at their
own and other officials seems
rooted in the larger failings of gov-
ernment. More than half of the

e Where:

e What:

¢ When:

e Benefits:

ings of powerlessness and lam-
basted their representatives for
being out of touch, the officials
may not deserve all of the blame;
only one in four respondents could
name their own Congressional
Representative when asked.

The party most hurt by this
anger will be the Democrats, as
they fend off Republicans hungry
for the majority. Massachusetts’s
senatorial legacy, Edward ‘“‘Ted”
Kennedy has faced, but apparently
warded off his toughest opponent
of his thirty-two year political ca-
reer. Mitt Romney, in his first bid
for public office, waged a success-
ful campaign that this summer

laced him within only a few per-

A seventy-one year old retired
middle school principal named
Virgil Cooper is the surprise fa-
vorite for the Congressional seat.
The Democrat is the favorite in the
largely rural district that hasn’t
elected a Republican since 1920.
His campaign has consisted of
some short-lived commercials on
the local access channels, touring
the countryside in his pickup truck,
and the slogan “Elect an Average
Citizen.” If Mr. Cooper succeeds,
Washington may begin to see a
flood of political newcomers in
1996.

Sources include: the October 25
and November 3 issues of The
New York Times.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 4 294

1TSEWHERE

Perspective

NOTES

districtinCongress. .

IQ not the whole story

While it’s true that IQ clearly measures something enormously
important to the way people live out their lives, it’s also true that IQ
fails to measure many other human qualities also crucial to life
outcome. rs :

IQ can’t, for example, measure creativity or character. It can’t
measure drive or determination. It can’t measure wisdom, which
derives from experience, or talent, a commodity only tangentially
related to brainpower. Ronald Reagan is probable the classic example
of the triumph of talent over intellect. He’d be the first to admit that
he’s no intellectual titan, but he was more effective by far than a good
many presidents who were brighter by far.

Braininess, then, may be the most overrated of virtues. Ina work
populated only by thinkers, nobody could fix the toilets, and every-
body would die of cholera.

-Albany Times columnist Dan Lynch

Sex in America

Is there a living, breathing adult who hasn’t at times felt the nagging
suspicion that in bedrooms across the country, on kitchen tables, in
limos and other venues too scintillating to mention, other folks are
having more sex, livelier sex, better sex? Maybe even that quiet
couple right next door is having more fun in bed, and more often. Such
thoughts spring, no doubt, from a primal anxiety deep within the
human psyche. It has. probable haunted men and women since the
serpent pointed Eve toward the forbidden fruit and urged here to get
with the program.

-Time Magazine, Philip Elmer-Dewitt

GLAS Campus- Wide Tenn Shea
Ben of tt: 'Celebratin g Life y

900 Room ($2.00 admission)

Saturday, November 12, 1994 at 8:00 p.m.
Video Slide Show, Fashion Show, and D.J.
‘Dance Party

Metrolina AIDS Project, Time Out Youth,

and a scholarship for any student working
in the gay community _

Look for sponsor tables in the Union Lobby and

First Floor Chambers

Sponsored by: SGA, BSC, Patterson Court, ISA, FLAG, SERCH, Theatre
Department, Cultural Events, College Union, and The Davidsonian
Models Kepresenting: SGA, BSC, Patterson Court, ISA, FLAG,

SERCH, Varsity Sports, Staff, Faculty, Administration, Davidson/Charlotte
community...

