4

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994 .

This Week in Washington
Cuban refugees & U.S. political implications

By Andrea Short

Haiti must now share news
headlines with its nearby neighbor
Cuba. The Clinton administra-
tion, after reversing the United
States policy of accepting illegal
Cuban refugees on August 18, faces
yet another immigration problem
in the Caribbean.

Currently, the administration
exercises the non-policy of hous-
ing the Cuban refugees at
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base,
which also houses approximately
14,000 Haitan refugees. The
groups are segregated and housed
in tent cities, but the new influx has
produced a new group of refugees:
Americans. To accommodate the
- 40,000: more Cuban refugees ex-
pected to float into the United
States’ hands, the U.S. has begun

to evacuate all military families.

and civilians from Guantanamo
Base. Prompted by concerns over
possible rioting as well as the need

for additional space, the evacua-
tion of American citizens is the
first since the Cuban Missile Cri-
sis.

If the Clinton administration
continues on its current course, the
cost to the United States will be
financial as well as political. Cur-

. fently, military sources estimate

that housing the refugees at
Guantanamo Bay will cost an ini-

tial 100 million dollars with an’

additional 20. million dollars per
month for food and supply costs.
Uprooting and resettling military
families and civilians will also cost
taxpayers another eight million dol-
lars. These costs loom over the
administration as the flow of rafts
continues and an effective policy
eludes the Clinton administration.

Domestically, Florida, already
home to a huge immigrant popu-
lace, fears that it will have to ab-
sorb even more refugees fleeing
Cuba and Haiti. The threat of more

refugees prompted Florida Demo-
cratic Senator Bob Graham to visit
Guantanamo Bay this week. The
Senator found considerable cause
for concern as he discovered that
20- to 30-year-old males with dim
economic prospects comprise the
majority of refugees awaiting pas-
sage to Graham’s home state. The
refugees’ poverty increases Flo-
ridians’ reluctance to welcome
what they perceive as an even fur-
ther drain on their communities’
economic and social resources.
In 1980, Florida and other
Southern states experienced a mas-
sive flood of 125,000 refugees
within a five month period. Resi-
dents dnd political figures in Florida
have not forgotten the infamous
Mariel boat lift which dumped refu-
gees into the laps of unprepared
social agencies and small commu-
nities. That incident caused politi-
cal disaster for many elected offi-
cials in the early eighties, includ-

ing Bill Clinton, ‘who lost his re-
election bid for the Arkansas
governorship. The emerging refu-
gee crisis will play a major role in
Florida’s gubernatorial race this
November.

The United States also recently
uncovered evidence of what they

have long suspected: Fidel Castro _

is releasing Cuban prisoners and
encouraging them to join the flood
of rafters. Guantanamo personnel
have isolated approximately 100
refugees that they strongly suspect
are former prisoners. Officials have
not yet determined whether these
individuals are violent criminals
or political ‘prisoners. ‘Cuban

‘spokesmen deny charges that

Castro is using the influx of Cuban

rafters as a dumping ground for,

criminals. However, in past in-

The Dean Rusk Program
Cairo Population Conference: Africa’s position

By Zik Joseph

Much controversy surrounds
Cairo’s Population and Develop-
ment conference this week in
Egypt. The main goals of this UN-
sponsored conference as entailed
in its preamble have been the root
of several uncertainties,

Last week, Sudan joined Saudi
Arabia in declaring that it would
not participate in the conference.
Whatever topics are tackled dur-
ing this conference, there is no
doubt that the African case will be
one of the indispensable topics.

The minds behind this confer-
ence estimate that, if the actions

discussed are implemented, world <

population (currently six million)
would peak at 7.813 billion in the
year 2050 and decline with time.
Currently, Africa has the highest
population growth rate globally.
With drawbacks such as high
poverty, AIDS, and infant mortal-
ity rates already affecting the con-
tinent, a 3.2 percent population
growth rate possesses the threat of
causing the failure of this 1994
conference. Many analysts ‘con-
tinue to question whether the con-
ference will achieve its goal of
reduced population growth.
Programs which will be imple-
mented according to the final draft

document are questionable. This .

explains why some nations are
threatening to boycott the confer-
ence. Although Saudi Arabia did
not give reasons for its withdrawal,
Sudan clearly “hit the nail on the
head.” To that nation, the confer-
ence is a channel for the West to
spread what Sudan terms “immoral
and irreligious values.”

Some of the issues that will be
handled include abortion, gender
equity, and the status of women.
However, what the masterminds
of the meeting have overlooked is
the questionable effectiveness of

implementing birth control meth- ,
ods such as abortion. Although ©

such methods are effective in places

such as the U.S., in other.countries :

their implementation is question-
able .
Africans (sub-Saharan Afri-

cans in particular) have only re-
cently become accustomed to the
use of contraceptives for reducing
the risk of acquiring AIDS and not
as a means of birth control. Abor-
tion, for instance, is conducted
mostly in underground organiza-
tions because cultural and tradi-
tional expectations still undermine
that issue. So the imposition of
such programs by this conference
would not only be unrealistic but
would be met with much opposi-
tion.

Even in light of the above is-
sues, many African governments
realize the need for a reduction in
the soaring rate of population
growth. Projections estimate that
sub-Saharan Africa’s population
of 600 million people could reach

1.6 billion by the year 2030. Cur- °,

rently, Nigeria holds the highest
population figure with 119 million
people, and Equatorial Guinea has

the smallest with 379,000 people.
These figures are already eating
away the percapita income of many
countries. Africa cannot afford to
see this growth detriment continue.

The Cairo conference needs
to re-examine such a case. In sub-

’ Saharan Africa, families are hard-

pressed due to economic hardships;
there has been a tendency to re-
duce the average number of chil-
dren per family. This definitely
brings with it a lot of problems in
terms of how areduced family size
can be achieved. That is why the
Cairo conference delegates should
focus on how this can be achieved.
They should let different countries
independently enforce the two chil-
dren per family maximum.

Write for News.
Call Ashlyn at
-2148.

NOTES ‘

stances such as the Mariel boat lift,
approximately 2,000 refugees were
discovered to be Cuban prisoners.

Thursday, U.S. and Cuban
negotiators began talks at the
United Nations to discuss the cur-
rént refugee crisis and policy. Hin-
dering any progress on the refugee
crisis, however, is Cuba’s insis-

‘ tence that the U.S. end their long

standing trade embargo. With the
two nations pursuing different
goals, the outlook is dim for a
quick solution to surface from the
remaining meetings:

Sources include the September 1
and 2 issues of The New York
Times and the September 5 issue
of Time.

I.R.A. cease-fire

down of the agonizing first act."

‘This is not about peace,' the Belfast I.R.A. commander said when
I asked about Gerry Adam's negotiations with the British. ‘This is
about getting the referees off the playing field, about finding a way for
the British to leave with some semblance of dignity. The real war has
always been between us and the Loyalists. That has not changed, and
that's what we're getting ready for.'

Ironically, this 'Ulster apocalypse’ is what British troops came to
'| preventin the first place. The apocalypse will not be allowed to happen
now, but the commander's words underscore how little has changed in
a quarter-century. They also underscore the limited nature of the
I.R.A.'s current peace gestures--not a final curtain on the long-running
tragedy, as many would like to believe, but more likely the winding

-from Scott Anderson's "In Ulster, Just the End of the Beginning"
printed in The New York Times on Friday, September 2, 1994.

Birth control and the Pope

"The coincidence of Catholic teachings and individual reproduc-
tive choices has always been mostly that: a coincidence."
-From George Moffett's "Unruly Masses" printed in The New York
Times on Friday, September 2, 1994.

Vag

Congratulations Davidsonian !
Students bring this ad in for 10% off everything
in the-store and 20% off footwear.

PDO MRS
Bier? Veta

Offer valid
until 10/17/94

Shops.on the Green: Exit 28, Past MicDonald's and the Comfort Inn

Teva

THE SPORT SANDAL.

