6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

This Week in Washington
Clinton scores but the game's not over

By Scott Hile

Last week President Clinton
scored what most would calla much
needed victory. The crime bill,
authored by Senator Joseph R.
Biden Jr., chairman of the judi-
ciary committee, became a rally-
ing point for President Clinton and
the Democrats of Congress as the
health care debate began to wal-
low in partisan politics.

The banning of 19 types of
assault weapons provides the main
debate issue of the crime bill. The
National Rifle Association (NRA)
spent much time and money fight-
ing the bill over that one issue, but
a disorganized opposition by Re-
publican members of the senate
could do little to prevent the bill’s
passing before the upcoming re-
cess.

Many of those in opposition
to the bill were angered by the
‘pork’ being attached to the bill to
help individual senators’ and
congressmen’s states. Another
point of contention was money al-
lotted for questionable crime pre-
vention ideas such as midnight
basketball leagues to keep youth
off the streets. ©

Beyond the ban on assault
weapons, the bill would create
grants to local governments for

increasing the size of their police

forces by an estimated 20,000 to
100,000 officers nationwide.
Other conditions of the bill include
life sentences for repeat offenders
of federal felony or drug offenses
(commonly knownas “three strikes
you’re out”), mandatory reporting
of whereabouts by convicted sex

The Dean Rusk Program
Refugees: a global problem

By.Kate Crosman

In last Friday’s edition of the
New York Times, there were five
stories in the International section
that dealt with refugees.

On the front page, and in a
special section at the end, all eyes
were on Cuba, and the ever-in-

creasing human tide flocking to
Florida’s shores. Rwanda, and the .
estimated 800,000 people who
have fled that country for Zaire,
filled page three. Haiti, as last
week’s news, was relegated to page
four. Bosnia garmered just one
paragraph on page five.

Afghanistan, Algeria,
Tajikistan, Sri Lanka, Iraq, Burundi
and many others went unmen-
tioned, Friday’s paper did not touch
on the millions of people around
the world who have been forced to
flee their homes but who, because
they have not crossed an interna-
tional border, cannot be classified
as refugees.

These people, called “inter-
nally displaced persons,” are
caught in a limboland where they
are not entitled to traditional refu-
geeaid. Arecent article that looked
at the global scope of the crisis
estimated that there are 45 million
people who meet the definitions of
“refugee” or “displaced person” in
the world today.

Once we examine this astro-
nomically high number, and the
seemingly endless round of civil
conflicts that continue to force
people to flee their homes, another
disturbing trend becomes apparent
—there is nowhere for them to go.
Even apart from the U.S.’s own
refugee policies (and the recent
changes that have made those poli-
cies far stricter), it is obvious that
many nations are turning their
backs on displaced people.

Some countries, like Finland,
try to operate within the confines
of political correctness and simply
change their definition of “refu-
gee” so that almost no one quali-
fies. Other countries (Pakistan, for
example) close their bordérs to
keep out the victims of neighbor-
ing conflict. Afghans fleeing from
their nation’s civil war were once
welcomed into Pakistan, but are
now forced into camps on the

‘border.

Nearly every nation, espe-

cially those that fall intothe Group ©

of 7 developed countries, is wary
of encouraging the immigration of
refugees, who are politically un-
popular and often seen as an eco-
nomic liability. Yet humanitarian
considerations demand that the
world find a. better solution than
forcing people to stay in areas
where they are simply not safe. In

offenders. to local authorities,
and acontroversial feature which
allows previous sex offenses to
be omitted as evidence during
Federal trials for sex crimes.
This last action is expected to be
Constitutionally challenged in
courts as cases arise.

Inlight of this victory, Presi-
dent Clinton ‘may not be sleep-
ing easily since the Senate will
recess before taking any action
on the health care plan. He must
also decide whether to accept
the incremental health care plan
currently in Congress or veto
the plan as he had threatened
earlier.

Source: August 24, 1994 edi-
tion of The New York Times

this post-Cold War era, when all
the easy answers have dissolved
and vicious ethnic and sub-national
quarrels are the norm, innocent
citizens are suffering.

Kate Crosman ’94 is the Assistant
to the director of the Dean Rusk
Program

Dean Rusk will be sponsoring a
speaker series on the global refu-
gee crisis from October 27. - No-
vember 21.

DAVIDSON
AMBASSADORS

Student Admission Volunteers

Monday, September 5
7:30 pm in the Big Screen
Room of the Union

Come learn about hosting prospectives,
giving tours, letter writing, and Discover and
Decision Davidson

For more information, please call Admission Counselors
Sally Stone (-2234) or Robert Marshall (-2186)

ELSEWHERE

NOTES

Too Many Nuclear Labs

Now that the U.S. and:Russian have begun to dispose of their
overstocked nuclear arsenals and are seeking to ban nuclear tests,
Washington needs to decide what to do with the renowned weapons
laboratories that designed all its warheads. .

The labs clearly have a legitimate, continuing role in “steward-
ship” — insuring that warheads remaining in the stockpile are safe
and reliable, and retaining the expertise to replace old warheads when
they eventually decay. But some officials in the labs and the Pentagon
want to expand that mission and stay in the business of designing
better bombs, even for missions that have not been defined.

This is a provocative step that might well make it harder to
persuade other nations to forgo nuclear arms and tests. It is alsoahuge
waste of money to keep three large labs at work on nuclear arms when
their expertise could be applied more usefully to other tasks. It would
be better to take one lab out of weapons entirely and shrink bomb
design work at the other two.

-reprinted from The New York Times, August 26, 1994

Patron Saint of Fly Fishing a Woman

I suppose some fishermen are reassured by the image of women
“clomping” along the river bank and exclaining, “I have no idea what
I’m doing.”

In actuality, however, plenty of women have been adept fly
fishers for many centuries. The first on record is Dame Juliana
Berners, a 15th-century English prioress who wrote “The Book of St.
Albans,” a compendium of works on field sports printed in 1496 and
including a treatise in which Dame Juliana describes how to tie a wet
fly, how to construct a fly rod and, thus equipped, how tocatch a trout.

Dame Juliana has.long been revered as the founder of modern fly

: ‘fishing, She is algo the, patron saint of the oldest women’ s fly fishing, | .

club in existence, founded in 1932 and numbering some 90 members.
-Victoria Murphy, “Fly Fishing Never Belonged to Men Only,”
from the August 18 OP-ED page of The New York Times

Make Congress Obey Congress

The House took a long-overdue step toward responsibility this
month when it approved, with only four dissenting votes, a bill to
make Congress obey the laws it imposes on everyone else.

The House bill and a similar bill pending in the Senate would
subject senators and representatives to 10 Federal laws from which
they have historically exempted themselves. Both bills give employ-
ees of Congress and various Congressional agencies the same legal
rights as private-sector workers under Federal laws that regulate labor
standards, family and medical leave and occupational safety and
health, among other things.

-reprinted from The New York Times, August 18, 1994

- 507 Providence Rd. ° 333-1003...
The Arboretum * 543-8333
~-202 5. Main St. « Davidson * 892-0604 a

GIANT DELICIOUS
BROWNIE WITH

BENGOERRYS
FAMOUSICECREAM,

pars
CREAM.

Experience
a faith community .
as you learn more

about your faith.

We offer Master
of Arts and Master
of Divinity degrees. -

President Jack L. Stotts and middler
Betsy Johnson-Miller, Windom, Minn.

Meet the people and feel the friendliness of Austin Seminary.
Come to Fall PROSPECTUS, September 30-October 2.

If you feel called to a church vocation, or seek insights in Bible,
church history, pastoral care, theology, Christian education,
world religions, worship, ethics, and ministry — call Eleanor
Cozad Cherryholmes, Director of Vocations and Admissions
at Austin Presbyterian Seminary.

512-472-6736 or 800-777-6127
AUSTIN PRESBYTERIAN THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY

100 East 27th Street, Austin, Texas 78705-5797

