OPINIONS

8 MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994 %
She said: “AIDS isaplague pressed to people sh
sent by God on the gay com- Rob Spach

munity.” Irecall sitting with -
a group of friends back in
1985, not long after AIDS
had begun to break into our
society’s consciousness, and

AIDS and religious faith:
Preparing for the Quilt

with AIDS.

For those of us who are
believers, our response to
the Quilt can be set into the
context of our relationship
with God. Our experience

being startled and angered

when a Christian woman I had grown to respect and who was planning to become a nurse
made that remark. I had heard such a view from televangelists that I considered to be
judgmental in many of their remarks. I was taken aback, however, that someone who was
in many respects a gentle, kind-hearted, and faithful spirit could utter that kind of claim
which-had no biblical basis and in fact ran counter to the whole thrust of scripture.

The display of the NAMES Project AIDS Memorial Quilt affords those in the Davidson
community who value their religious faith an opportunity to reflect on how Christians have
responded to the reality of those who suffer with AIDS. Certainly there are many people
of faith who have’ made personal, compassionate contact with AIDS patients and have
worked to promote AIDS education. Witness, for example, the ministry of the Regional
AIDS Interfaith Network in Charlotte and the fact that just a few months ago, the new
Catholic bishop in this diocese held a healing service centered on

AIDS.

Too often, however, our response has been far less than good
or right. Ignorance, indifference, fear, judgment, twisting of scrip-
ture, failure to live out our calling by God—all of these characterize
the less-than-Christ-centered response which Christians have ex-

A Different Perspective:
Ike Bailey

- Better leave that
white girl alone!

Since I decided to attend Davidson in my senior
year in high school up until the present, I have been
given this advice constantly: interracial relation-
ships, particularly those between whites and Afri-
can-Americans, causes several different reactions
in both communities, but the reasoning behind the
reactions haven’t been quite clear.

The majority of African-American women
that I know are not very fond of the concept, for
several reasons. Statistics show that there are
about ten African-American women to every seven
African-American men. Even further, lots of the
men are either dying young or are imprisoned. So,
there is a feeling that the “few” African-American
men that are stable should stay with their race since
there are already so few to goaround. But I believe
the media plays an even bigger role concerning the
negative reactions towards these relationships.

For too long, the media has portrayed the
stereotypical “beautiful” woman as being thin,
small-hipped, with long blonde hair—all features »
that are usually associated with white women. This
portrayal somehow seems to suggest white women
are more attractive than African-American women,
who, on the average, have distinctly different fea-
tures. This view can be compared to the view held
by most African-Americans about the Confederate
flag. To see an African-American male dating a
white woman somehow can seem as if African-
American men support the theory that “white” is
more beautiful. Just as we don’t hate the actual
flag, black women don’t hate white women—just
the thought of that theory being proven.

Sex also seems to play a major role. There is
a mythical theory that African-American men are
somehow “inherently” better lovers than white
men. So some believe a white woman would date
an African-American just to get “satisfied” sexu-
ally. And African-American men are supposed to
believe that white women make better sexual part-
ners because of their supposed willingness to “‘ex-
periment.” Even though you can honestly say that

some relationships are built around sex, including —

some same-race relationships, I believe most inter-
racial relationships are not.

People get involved in relationships for sex,
money, and because of other stereotypical percep-
tions all of the time. But to believe all interracial
relationships are built on such negatives just doesn’t
seem logical. We all make good and bad decisions
concerning who we should date, regardless of the
race of our mate.

In this society, I believe you would have to be

See Oil and Water on page 9

faith.

Cracked Cymbals by Michael A. Slayton

oO READ

ATADISTAN

cauereenares
ay

“Now remember, your prescription is
very strong. If you look directly into
the sun, your head will catch fire.”

of the Quilt can take on

meaning and depth for us as people for whom the loving kindness of God and the
resurrection of Jesus are central to existence. To assist in that process, a group of students
has planned a service of worship for the college community dealing with the issue of AIDS
and faith. This will be held in Lingle Chapel on November 10 at 4:30 p.m. (the afternoon
of the opening ceremony of the Quilt display). Our hope is that through this time of praise,
prayer, and scripture reading, we will prepare ourselves to see the Quilt through eyes of

In so doing, we will be able to reflect upon the lives of those who have died of AIDS
in the light of God’s passion for all of His children. Perhaps we will even be able to do what
I failed to do when my friend said what she did nine years ago: we will stand up to fear,
falsehood, and prejudice, naming them for what they are, and we will begin to bear in our
lives the truth that because we all are bound together as members
of the human family, the sorrow of one is the sorrow of all. In so
doing, we may also discover that the strength, hope, and compas-
sion that we have received from God are most fully ours when we
give them away freely to others in need.

Rob Spach is the Chaplain of Davidson College.

Rosie
Molinary

Answers to
your questions:

in defense of. my stability
and your safety

Attow me to answer a few questions. A lot of
people have asked, which means even more are
thinking about it—so, here goes (this is especially
written for my Cafe friends last week who told me
I was Monday Night football conversation):

Matthew Hobbie  MattRich Sarah Terry

Who will we be?

Davidson's s Presbyterian background

Beads acrucial time is upon us. It is time to assess the Presbyterian-
related status of Davidson College. We, as members of this community,
must decide who we are and who we willbe. _
This issue was brought to the forefront in last week’s SGA meeting -
in which there was a proposal to amend the rules governing the
presidency of the college. The rule in question now states that the -
president must be an active member of the Presbyterian Church. The
amendment would state that the president be a Christian, period. We
feel that this is a challenge to our identity as an institution—an

leges.

identity of Davidson College. We have all seen the

Senin necting
Se wed. Ais

~ causes us to exclude anyone. The ee ie
of everyone and affirms its ecumenical ties. Precisely

a perspective, Itis important tha
5 bi oe ks Lib

encourages its members to Saige with fink
everyone and allows decisions to be made

institution that is fe he anon nationally-acclaimed | liberal arts col- -

The Presbyterian Church has played an integral part in ahapi i

Are my stories true? I won’t even bother
with a YES. Let me just say that when you go toa
high school of 3,000 people that is the essence of
diversity and you aftn’t very shy in the first place,
you are bound to broaden your horizons.

Am I unhappy or depressed? No, I am not
suffering from depression. I am very happy, and

__ that is because I’ve had such a full life with expe-
riences that have really made me stretch. Bad.
things will happen to you; whatis tragic is how you
let that affect you.

Will something happen to you if you are
friends with me? No, probably not. I’ve known
my roommate for nine years now, and she’s still in
one piece and mentally stable (well, as stable as she
can be living with me); so rest easy. If something
does happen to you, I promise to write about it in
the next Davidsonian so you'll never be forgotten.

Why don’t you write about something
happy, or do you just not have any happy expe-
riences? I have had many happy experiences, but
bear in mind that I am pretty easy to please. If I
wrote about what a good time I had catching a
football last week, you wouldn’t really care. You
might not care what I write anyway—but at least

| it’s some food for thought.

Are you always so serious? Catch me on a
dance floor, with any amount of sugar in my

| system, or late at night when I’m half delirious.

You’ ll never ask that question again, or you’ Il wish
the answer was a yes. —

What is my point? Bill and Tony are gifted
enough to make a situation funny yet meaningful.
I, however, cannot ooze great humor onto a com-
puter screen. We are all conscientious people, but
in the midst of our busy lives at Davidson, we
sometimes overlook or forget about things that are
important. My articles are an attempt to place my
thoughts together; if they depress you, I am sorry.
That is by no means my purpose. I am attempting
to relate some of my observations of life to people
who I know are going to make some significant
changes in our futures. I do not claim to be wise.

My only claim is that I have been impressed by life,
and I think all of you can relate to that.

