THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994

~

LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

The Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

‘

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly's . BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations manager °
JENNIFER JULY AN-Business Manager

MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

The Generation Syndrome

In Richard Linklater’s film Dazed and Confused, a tableau set in 1976 high-school
America, a character named Cynthia expresses her thoughts on what she calls the “Every
Other Decade Syndrome.” She wonders, since the 50s were boring, the 60s were cool, and
the 70s, "well, they obviously suck," maybe the 80s will be radical. Let’s face it, she says,
it can’t get any worse.

Watching the film, you may find yourself saying to Cynthia, “Think again.” As
children of the 80s, most of us know what a quagmire of money-grubbing, electric drums,
and crimped hair that our formative years were—how very far from “radical”—even if we
still dance to 80s music once a semester.

Cynthia, however, is exactly right. The “Every Other Decade Syndrome” was an
affliction in 1976, and itis an affliction today. Complaints about the 90s abound: the United
States is toeing the line of socialism; World War III may come from the Middle East instead
of Eastern Europe; and none of us in “Generation X” can find a job. Dissat-
isfaction with the present is not something peculiar to brooding 70s teenagers. It is a mindset
that falls most frequently upon those in society who are just about to move into (or, to put
it more radically, take over) the leadership of this country.

Of course, people in our age group are not the only ones who are dissatisfied.
Discontent spans all ages, from the kid who divorced his parents to Rush Limbaugh. But
dissatisfaction is usually associated with young adults who, stereotypically, are still trying
to “find themselves.”

The search to “find oneself” is active and personal and certainly not something that can
be classified. Labels such as “Generation X” and the “MTV generation” hinder a group of

individuals from finding an identity; they make it harder to escape from conformity. Are

all college-aged people slacker-grunge-MTV-addicts who can only getajob at McDonald’s?
Most of us would be offended at that assumption.

Yet, many of our peers have fallen into that unfortunate grouping—even Davidson
graduates who supposedly have an edge in the world of gainful employment. Surely they
are dissatisfied. There were people in the 60s, 70s, and 80s who found themselves fitting
the stereotype, and members of all of these groups were dissatisfied.

Most of them managed to “find themselves,” and so will most of us. Despite the labels
and the dissatisfaction, the new battalion of young adults who are moving in, like their
predecessors, will, one day, take over. We will shed the stigma of “Generation X” and
eclipse the power of the soon-to-be Ex-generation—eyen if now we are dazed and confused.

SWE |
ZZ ;

“Guess there
are just a few
bugs to work gut

NNN NA SAREE ~

LETTERS

In defense of basketball courts

To the editors,

Last Tuesday, the SGA
voted ten to ten on my out-
door basketball court reso-
lution. The loss (Al Gore
was not around to break the
tie) was not mine alone.
That’s the truly sad part. I
had to share this loss with
the hundreds of other bas-
ketball players on campus.

If you play the game
with any consistency, you
can spot a good court when
you see one, just as beer
drinkers can distinguish a
good beer when they taste
one. When preparing for a
party, no one would want
someone who’s never tasted
beer to decide which brand
to buy. In the same way,
basketball players do not
want those who don’t care
about the sport to tell them
what court to play on.

For a couple of years
now, the current outdoor
court has faced neglect and
callous decision-making
from the Powers That Be:
the debris-filled surface is
cracked and a hassle to play
on; overhanging branches
hinder outside shooting; and
apermanentlight fixture sev-
eral feet in circumference
remains on the court.

In relative terms, we’re
talking about a beer that’ll
make you puke, whatever
your tolerance level. We’re
tired of playing on this sorry
excuse fora basketball court,
especially when the ones in
Baker are filled or are cov-
ered up by the bleachers be-

fore and after varsity games.

Is there any other school
in this country whose only
basketball court has a 300-
foot light that doubles as a
defender? In this predomi-
nantly Division I school,
should our support for ath-
letics be limited to those who
excel? How much longer
will our many everyday, rec-
reational players be slighted?

Fortunately, Terry Hol-
land has taken up our cause,
offering to supply an all-pur-
pose surface FREE OF
CHARGE for one year.
That’s FREE. No cost to
you or your parents. No cost
to your dog, either.

The placement of this
court has become a topic of

controversy, which comes as

no surprise. As Mr. Holland
and] discussed this proposal
throughout the summer, we
knew some students would
not want to lose their park-
ing. But here’s a shocker:
upcoming plans for the
school include moving all
parking to the perimeter of
campus. How much longer
will we cling to the tennis
courts parking lot, when it
might not even be here for
you tomorrow?

Using only half of its
surface—20 to 25 spaces—
an outdoor basketball court
can be constructed. And
since the surface is free, it
can be sent back to the dis-
tributor by year’s end with-
out any penalty to students.

Why did we choose this
area for a court? Its flat

grade and central location
are unique qualities of this
campus. On the other hand,
placing the court in Baker
parking lot would add un-
necessary costs to Terry
Holland, and ultimately to
you, because of sloping sur-
faces that would need to be
re-graded.

Physical Plant Director
Bob Collins has added over
300 parking spaces in the
last three years. But this just
isn’t good enough for some
people. Maybe we should
convert the entire campus
into a giant parking center,
so that everyone can obtain
aspace fifteen feet from their
dorm. :
Better yet, let’s widen
the hallways and doorways
so we can park in ourrooms.

I don’t mean to sound
unsympathetic to those 20 to
25 students who will now
have to walk three extra min-
utes (yes, I counted) from
Baker to their dorms. But
what kind of representative
would I be if I ignored the
needs of hundreds of basket-
ball players?

If you believe the de-
mands of 20 to 25 people are
more important than the
needs of hundreds, then go
ahead and shoot down my.
proposal. I won’t be bitter.
But if this isn’t your fight to
begin with, we’d all prefer
that you stay on the side-
lines.

Respectfully,
B.J. Rudell ‘95.

-Making your voice heard

The Davidsonian is published-weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request, Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. |

To the editors,

Last Tuesday the SGA
voted on the resolution that
urged the athletic department
to place aremovable basket-
ball court on part of the ten-
nis court parking lot. Al-
though this resolution, fail-
ing by asmall margin, turned
out to be controversial, the
significance of that even is

far greater.

What happened on
Tuesday night is something
that should happen more of-
ten at SGA meeting. The
Davidson student body
played a great role in voting
for this resolution: Instead
of presenting our own, indi-

vidual ideas, many SGA rep-
resentatives were represent-
ing the ideas of their class-
mates, or their fellow
housemates. The debate was
centered around the results
of surveys, discussions, and
phone calls. Indeed that dis-
cussion, that debate, and the
vote was a true example of
the power of student gov-

“ernment. ~

What enabled this to
happen was not the willing-
ness of representatives to
write , hand out surveys, but
it was the willingness of the
students to respond to them.
We were able to express the
students’ opinions and ideas

because they expressed those
to. us. The phone calls, the
letters, of suggestions, and
the informal discussions
along the way are always
welcomed and appreciated.
A loud student voice enables
the SGA to be effectiv.
Thanks to the students
for expressing their opin-
ions! And, please feel free

~ to express comments, sug-

gestions, and ideas to the
SGA representatives. We
all have some responsibility

‘in making this school more

student oriented.

Sincerely,
Warren Buford ‘96
