16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

Abbott releases second book of poems, A Small Thing Like a Breath

By Alex Crumbley
About a month before break,
English department chairman Tony
Abbott’s new book of poems A
Small Thing Like a Breath crept
from St. Andrews Press and into

bookstores, unnoticed by most of

us Davidsonians who were chroni-
cally busy with papers, exams, and
Christmas plans.

Though he has given a couple of
readings from the new book around
town, it is still largely unknown to
students. Because Abbott speaks
in an instructive and down-to-earth
voice, all students would benefit
greatly from putting down their
textbooks for a few minutes and
pecking into the mind of this poet
who offers us a share in his experi-
ence.
Dr. Abbott can rightly call A
Small Thing Like a Breath a book
rather than just a collection of po-
ems. Primarily autobiographical
and written in free verse, his po-
ems fit into four sections progress-
ing in each section through the life

ay a 34 CE Fe
Photo courtesy of College Relations
Tony Abbott.

pattern from childhood to matu-
rity, eventually growing into the
poet’s mind at present. Abbott ties
archetypal questions of God, inno-
cence, and morality to his own
experience and uses the cyclical
nature of human growth as a ve-
hicle for expressing his realiza-
tions about these questions.

His romantic bent appears
through his belief in these cycles;

in the title section, he acts on the
Wordsworthian idea that “The
Child is father of the Man” as he
draws upon childhood experiences
to gain wisdom. He sometimes
uses young narrators, but usually
retains the language and reflective
mood of an adult looking back on
his past. He juxtaposes humorous
poems like “On the Terror of Be-
ing Chosen Last in Kickball,” with
serious topics like rape in “College
Days” to contrast the innocence of

' childhood with the teenager’s quick

and rude introduction into the world
of experience.

Abbott seems to be concerned
in much of his poetry with the
romantic problem of getting
“unstuck,” as he calls it in a. sec-
ond-year humanities lecture, from
the bounds of adult reason and
language. Hespends the next three
sections of his book trying to rec-
oncile his “immortal longings”
with his human limitations.

“Far from Home,” the second
section, contains themes impor-

Family values,

Geoff continued from page 14

the Country music arena.

A father, in tears, does his best
to explain to his child a divorce is
eminent. Realistic social and per-
sonal concerns have finally en-
tered the realm of Country. It
seems strange to me. Country’s
had its share of troubled personali-
ties for years: Both Hank and Hank
Jr., George Jones, and Keith
Whitley to name a few. But not

Diamond Rio & Dan Quayle

until recently have these troubles
made their way, explicitly, into the
artists’ lyrics.

1994 already confirmed the
trend. Suzy Boggus’ “Cinderella”
and Mary Chapin Carpenter’s “He
Thinks He’ll Keep Her” reached
the top of the charts soon after their
release just weeks ago.

What can we make of this? Is
ita metamorphosis? Is it a matura-
tion? Perhaps it’s simpler than
that. These problems (alcoholism,

divorce, adultery, and domestic
violence) existed long before any-
one even mentioned the term “fam-
ily values,” but only recently did
they reach the forefront of society’s
concerns,

Diamond Rio’s latest single,
“Sawmill Road,” says it best.
“When innocence went outofstyle,
we just watched it go.” Country’s
innocence is fading and it appears
there ain’t too much we can do
about it.

ON THE SCENE

tant to the young adult, such as
religious questioning and the con-
fused sense of home. He jumps off
the page andinto the reader’s lap in
the section’s title poem with his
plain and impassioned lyrics, as he
describes “the head-shaking,/arm-
swinging, foot-stomping, bone-rat-
tling/ shit-shaking taste of home.”

In poems like “Jesus Saves”
and “Christmas Vespers” he probes
into religious questions. His skep-
ticism of the church mixes
poignantly with his child-like awe
of God, and his desire for the di-
vine is often challenged and
strengthened by his disillusionment
with popular religion.

In the last two sections, “Lost

and Found” and “The Mole

Flower,” Abbott begins to resolve
the questions which plague him in
the first two sections: He realizes
that he can be comfortable with
life’s basic ironies and find salva-
tion from the world’s maddening
noise through art--in poetry, he is
found.

Poems about language, like
“Carrot Colored Words” ‘and
“Words Are the Only Fingers of
the Soul,” as well as a series of

meditations on inspiration, con-
vey his love for this new-found art.
These poems also instruct the as-
piring writer about words them-
selves and the fickle nature of the
muse.
Often, autobiographical litera-
ture can be limiting to the author as
his subjects can remain too con-
fined to his own experience. But
the main strength of Abbott’s book,
and what makes his poems not
only important individually but as
a part of a whoic, is the consis-
tently personal, straight-talking
tone he takes with the reader.

Rarely does he venture into a
different persona, and we soon get
the feeling that he does not need to
assume any masks as he relates to
us his very sincere and direct mes-
sages.

A teacher through and
through, he succeeds in showing
us the way, taking the reader past
what is merely personal to what is
universal. Ashecrafts for us words
about experience and about writ-
ing, we grow tolike him, trust him,
share his concerns, feel his frustra-
tions, and, above all, to learn from
him.

Schindler sweeps the Golden Globes

List continued fom page 16

occurred was overwhelming tome.
A warning: it is probably best not
to eat anything before or during the
picture because your stomach will
definitely be doing some loops
during certain scenes. However,
the violence was not shown for the
sake of violence; it was simply a
reality that the characters were
forced to endure.

Though I personally feel
Schindler’s List is inferior to
Spielberg’s other Oscar opus, The

great film and a moving testament
to the power of the human spirit. I
strongly urge all of y’all to go out
and see this film if you haven’t
already--it will most certainly make
an impact on you.

Anyway, that’s all for this
week. Upcoming events to look
forward to: Oscar nominations
will be revealed February 9 and
new films with Glenn Close,
Michael Keaton, Marisa Tomei,
Robert Duvall, and Kim and Alec
loom on the horizon. Stay on the
alert for these and other develop-

ART . Color Purple, it is nevertheless a ments, andI’ll see y’all next week.
The “Big Print” Exhibition. William Van Every Gallery. Visual Arts Center. Through February 28.
The Kate Collie Exhibition. Edward M. Smith Gallery Visual Arts Center. Through 28. THE Crossword
Gullah Landscapes. Afro-American Cultural Center, Charlotte. Through February 28. Call 374-1565 for
more info. ACROSS no | fi2 fia
Classical Taste in America: 1800-1840. Mint Museum, Charlotte. Through March 13. For info call 337- 5 Showed an old i
a : ora i "
14 — Grande, Ariz.
MUSIC is Holiday word
“A Little Peace Music”. Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building. January 31 at 8:00 p.m. ioe
Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Performing Arts Center. February 5 at 8:00 p.m. and February 6 at 2:00 19 Misfortunes
p.m. Call 372-1000 for more info. 22 Price quote
Davidson College Woodwind Ensemble. Hodson Hall, Cunningham Fine Arts Building. February 6 at pe Church official ie
8:00 p.m. 27 Attractive ml
Robert Cray. Performing Arts Center. February 11. $0 iaagacine heads i
Gladys Knight and Company. Performing Arts Center. February 12. 34 Rodent
35 indentured
servants 1}
37 Flower leat
SPEAKERS a7 ower leat
Michael Zantovsky, Ambassador of Czech Republic. 900 Room, January 31, 7:00 p.m. 40 Underground
Kate Collie. Presentation in conjunction with her exhibition. Multipurpose Room, Chambers. February 42 coh pall
2 at 7:30 p.m. d poe dgmaile Moca Services, inc
Bhikkhu Dhammavihari. “Religiousness in Buddhism and Global Community.” 900 Room, February 2, pl! ~~ A eave Renee
7:30 p.m. 50 Makes tighter 10 HEIKIE] HOC H| STV
ICE CIE
Bo arma abbr. 43 Soft crink | SMO] Vm a] ololala ERIC +
THEATER/DANCE/MOVIES _ Senne i BOGE HUaBE Ale
Orlando. Mint Museum, Charlotte. February 1 at 7:30 P.M. This is a low profile gem that has received 62 Fancy case 33 as CCIE ale te He
raves. Y’all should definitely check out this one. Gs feat ret Fc aa EVEVCICIEY CIEE INES
Malcolm X. 900 Room. February 2 at 9:30 p.m., February 4 at 8:00 p.m. 66 Small colonists 28Hang around = FT AT aT erat A 4 ia et
i 67 Wear gradually 29 Flower essence S00 BOON AAoo
Schindler’s List. Arboretum 10 Cinemas. 68 Isolated 30 Large land etateta 8 BEDE AE)
. Spiri s : .m. 5 i 69 Whip JOBE CECI
Aladdin. Spirit Square, Charlotte. February 6 at 2:00 p.m. Call 372-SHOW for more info. 70 Dispatches a oe ce CIEE) EJENEEI PCIE)
71 Pieces (out) Fp eteligt HAD COASE OBA
MISCELLANEOUS DOWN oa BORG BEM Ce
Medieval Society. Phi Hall, upstairs. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. 2 herp 30 ak ed HOEK CLIEIENEY ae
Eumenean Society. EU Hall, upstairs. 7:30-9:00 p.m. sone, yi Shines —
Jumping Java Cafe, International Coffee House Union Outpost. February 5, 2:00-6:00 p.m. 4 ion “éenn
Philanthropic Society Meeting, Phi Hall, upstairs. February 6, 9:00 p.m. po ig teal cue. one's
Vesper Service. Big Screen Room, Union. February 6, 10:00 p.m. 7 Measuring stick 51 Knot up
8 Fruit drinks 53 Wyo. range 56 Deep tire marks 60 Sea bird
-Compiled by Scott McLean & Josh Larned within another 55 Volcano site 59 Cozy place 64 Append

Hs ‘ Ce Laas eer aiag eae f>
Nik fe be Oe mee a ‘ . laa ag te |

~owweor
