THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1994 oa

* Ad
The Davidsonian LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
: ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor ;
BROOKE McRAE-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

A good cause,
a good effect

After Saturday night’s stunningly successful FLAG Fashion Show Benefit,
one ecstatic coordinator was overheard saying, “I have never loved Davidson so
much as I love Davidson right at this very minute.”

Well put. Our college has come a long way in its history, evolving gradually

from an all-white, all-male institution to the increasingly diverse, national power -

that we now know. These changes, especially the incorporation of women and
minorities, have not always come easily, at Davidson or in the rest of the country.
But they have come, and they continue to come.

In fact, some very noticeable changes have occurred even in the last three years.
Seniors who remember the controversy that erupted when FLAG tried to get a
charter here in the fall of 1991 might be surprised that an event like the fashion show
could meet with such success at Davidson. One Patterson Court house, a house
which participated enthusiastically in the show last weekend, voted down the
proposal to give FLAG a charter only three years ago.

There is no question that Davidson is much more progressive in its collective
attitude toward homosexuality than ever before. This past weekend represents the
furthest that Davidson has ever come in its expression of togetherness and social
awareness. The effort of the entire campus to organize Health Awareness Week,
from the FLAG benefit to Dr. Ruth to the AIDS Quilt, proves that most of us have
overcome our problems with talking about sex and AIDS..

But, while basking in the glow of our week of progressiveness, let’s not forget

that we still have along way to go. Davidson is still not a place where homosexuals,

can feel completely comfortable in a social setting. There are very few gay students
out of the closet on campus, and those who are bold enough to come out might not
feel comfortable being seen out with a companion. Gay students still encounter a
bigoted attitude at Davidson, expressed in places like cartoons on dormitory doors
that say: ‘“AIDS— It stomps fags dead.” There is always more progress to be made.

FLAG is making an important effort to establish a scholarship for a student who
works in the gay community, but, unless they receive help, it will take long time for
them to endow it. It may also take a long time for us to begin including courses in
gay literature or sexuality in our course curriculum. But these are the next steps we
must take. oN

We need to have the courage to institutionalize the same progressive attitude
our campus has shown in the past week. Until we do, our support for FLAG’ s cause
can be called little more than a fashionable show.

oe

/ Wel, We will yet things
( culling’ by bombing the

Pro-life and Paul Hill

To the Editors:

Ihave a few thoughts to

share in response to E.J.
Dennis’s article, “Martyr or
Murderer,” which appeared
in last week’s Davidsonian.
For those of you who didn’t
have a chance to peruse this
piece, I will say that Mr.
Dennis presented an argu-
ment in defense of Paul Hill,
an avid pro-lifer who will
stand trial for the premedi-
tated murder of an abortion
doctor. It is made clear to
the reader that Mr. Dennis is
not necessarily advocating
Hill’s actions, but simply
asking us to “consider the
paradigm from which [we]
judge him versus his own
paradigm of the world.”
' The. central argument
Dennis employs is that of
the genocide which took
place in Nazi Germany.
Were I a citizen then, he
asks, would I not be justified
in choosing to murder a Nazi
soldier responsible for mass
murder of innocent Jews?
“Do not the deaths of many
justify the killing of this
one?” I say no. Unequivo-
cally.

The moral that may
make abortion “wrong” is
the SAME moral that makes
murdering the abortionist
equally wrong. The death of
many NEVER justifies the
death of one. Even in Nazi
Germany. How cana Chris-
tian (like Hill claims to be)
possibly think they can get

away with violating one of
the Ten Commandments us-
ing the Hebraic moral of “an
eye for an eye” in his de-
fense?

Whether or not abortion
is a “moral wrong” is so ob-
viously controversial thatno
one has the right to impose a
penalty on those who dis-
agree. Mr. Hill has violated
the basic premise of the Con-
stitution of this nation. The
Constitution that allows him
to believe in his subjective
condemnation of abortion is
the same Constitution that
protects the rights of those
who choose to have one.
What I am trying to say is
that the stated purpose of the
Constitution, to provide
equality for ALL, makes it
inherently pro-choice.
That’s what pro-choice
means. It is sad that people
are often too quick to forget
this. Pro-choice means be-
lieving in the freedom to
choose. Anyone who recog-
nizes that the rights granted
them by our laws to believe
in what they may are the
same rights that grant others
the disposition to disagree is
pro-choice, whether they re-
alize it or not. Pro-life-ers
seem to think all too often
that pro-choice means pro-
abortion. It doesn’t. Learn
the difference.

Who gave pro-lifers the
right to impose their beliefs
on others? Noone. They’ ve
simply assumed it. What

they fail to see, though, is

that they have no more right

to PREVENT me from hav-

ing an abortion than I have

the right to MAKE them.

Any pro-life-er, though, will

disagree with this. (At least

the one’sI’ ve talked to.) The

reason they have aGodcom-

plex is that they insist they’ re

right and I’m wrong. Well

maybe they’re right for the

way they see the world. But

that doesn’t give them the

right to force those beliefs
on me. Isn’t that the premise

of Mr. Dennis’s article? To

ask us to look at the world

through someone else’s

eyes? Well, maybe if Paul
Hill had done that from the
start, we wouldn’ t be having
arguments about it now. In
the murder he committed,
Hill demonstrated to this na-
tion that he has zero respect

for anyone else’s beliefs

should they differ from his

own. If he has no respect for

me, what incentive will lever

find to respect him?

If you don’t believe in
abortion, then don’t have
one. But you have no more
right to make that decision
for someone else than I have
the right to make it for you.

What Hill did was
wrong, and there’s no ratio-
nal reasoning in the world
that can mollify that.

Sincerely,
Jenn Williams ‘'95

Thanks to NAMES Quilt
volunteers and visitors

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

To the Editors,

We would like to give a
hearty thanks to Davidson
College for supporting the
NAMES Project AIDS Me-
morial Quilt this past week-
end. Wecouldnothave done
this event without the 452
volunteers and the more than
2000 visitors. Youall helped

us to raise lots of money for
our beneficiaries and for the
NAMES Project Founda-
tion.

This event has brought
together many members of
ourcollege community, both
from the college and the
community at large. Inlearn-
ing about the enormity of

the AIDS pandemic, we hope —

that discussions initiated this

weekend will continue, and

that no one will forget the .

great strides that Davidson

has made this fall.
Sincerely,

The NAMES Project
Host Committee

Write letters to the editors.

Mail to P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28306.
Or, deliver to the Davidsonian office

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

on the top floor of the Union. :
