THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week out of Washington

Secretary of the Navy John Dalton

Speaks on

By Robert Ramsay
Secretary of the Navy John
Dalton spoke Wednesday, April
20, to a partially filled Love Audi-
torium. His speech, “The Courage
of Character,” focused on the quali-
ties of a good leader, and the im-
portance of employing ethics when
making decisions.

The theme of the talk was this
quote by JohnC. Kirkpatrick: “You.
can do anything you set your mind
to do, and don’t you forget it.”
Dalton explained how successful
leadership is defined by character,
and character is about the courage
to make ethical decisions in the
face of opposition. Dalton quoted
Robert Schuler, who said, “If you
don’t stand for something, you'll
fall for anything.”

Although Dalton’ s speech was
itself intriguing, the question and
answer session which followed
piqued the most interesting remarks
from Dalton.

When asked what the Navy's
current, post-Cold War goal is,
Dalton responded, “To establish a
forward presence.” Dalton argued

"Courage of Character’

Secretary of the Navy John Dalton.

Photo by Tony Wagner

that having ships within “relative
proximity” of potential locations
of conflict is crucial to American
security.

Dalton said that the purpose
of the Base Realignment and Clo-
sure Process, which reduces the
number of ships and bases in the
naval fleet, is to create a “cost
effective naval service.” Accord-
ing to Dalton, a350-ship U.S. Navy
is a definite possibility for the fu-

ture. In addition, the aim of the
United States’ intervention in
places like Somalia and Bosnia,

said Dalton, is toinstalla“‘positive .

stabilizing effect.”

The most prominenttopic dur-
ing the questioning was, of course,
the recent Tailhook scandal. With
diplomacy, Dalton said that the
experience has enabled him and
the others involved to “learn from
mistakes.”

U.S. team takes the win in the

World continued from page 1

a one-on-one against goalkeeper
Tony Meola. The Molovan at-
tempted to chip the ball over the
keeper’s head, but Meola made an
outstanding save. Controlling the
midfield and winning most defen-
sive headers, the Americans sim-
ply dominated the field, racking up
21 shots and constantly pressuring
the Moldovan defense. The shut-
out was only America’s second
this year, the other coming against
Denmark in February. The three
goals scored were the most offense
for America all year.

“When you score a goalearly,
it makes things much easier for the
team,” said head coach Bora
Milutinovic. America’s other goal
came from former UCLA standout
Mike Lapper when, with five min-
utes remaining in the first half, he
took a deflection off a Reyna shot,
and placed the ball past the
Moldovan keeper. The goal was
Lapper’s first career international
goal in his 37th game with the U.S.
National team.

“We were looking forward to
getting a win tonight. These games

are important and tough, and we
need to win them,” said keeper
Tony Meola. The U.S. National
team left for California on Thurs-
day and faced Iceland in San Di-

World Cup

ego yesterday. The team will then
continue to play exhibitions, as the
European players return before fac-
ing Switzerland in their first game
of the World Cup.

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994 eee ©

FTE EL EE: MEERA i HE

Perspective

NOTES

You can bank~

on us!

Earn up to. $175
a month by donating

life-saving plasma!

EARN UP T0$30 AND GET
PAID TODAY

You can “bank” on us in Ca

1994 to provide you with
extra $$$.
Visit our friendly, mod-
ern Center and eam cash
while helping others.

- STATE 1.D. REQUIRED

S plasma alliance

“people helping people”

1511 Central Ave.

M-TH 6:30A-9P Sat 7:30A-6P

-~Promises broken in Bosnia

Life in the ‘Nixon generation’

. He was the omnipresent figure, the man of so many incarnations
that the journalistic cliche of four different decades was "the new
Nixon." And now that Richard Milhous Nixon has passed into
history, the revisions of his reputation will no longer be determined
by his own contrivance but by the judgment of scholars.

Why anyone as ill-at-ease as Nixon would choose a career in
politics is baffling. But that was only one of the many mysteries
about him that most of us in the press never deciphered. The
intelligence, the self-discipline, the dogged determination that brought
him back from so many rejections, including the ultimate shame of
a forced resignation from the presidency; the analytical skill, the
tactical toughness, the leaps of boldness, like the opening to China-
-all these were evident.

-from the viewpoint section of Sunday's Charlotte Observer

An economic cool-down

Can the economy, for the first time in a generation, keep
growing without rekindling inflation? That's the question on the
minds of mahy experts as the nation's economic expansion ap-
proaches its third anniversary.

The signs were encouraging last week. Consumer prices rose a
moderate 0.3 percent in March, bringing this year's inflation rate at
a tame 2.5 percent, down a bit from early 1993.

Inflation watchers fret about two potential bottlenecks in the
economy. One is the higher demand for automobiles, appliances and
other manufactured goods, which could drive factories.to the limits
of their production capacity.

-from the Business section of the April 25 issue of U.S. News and
World Report

It wasn't supposed to come to this in Gorazde.

The Serb aggressors, like so many schoolyard bullies, were
supposed to back off after getting their noses tiles atta by a few air
strikes.

A dozen legions of angels may now be able to help the 70,000
inhabitants of Gorazde, but the United Nations cannot and the United
States and its NATO allies apparently will not.

The shame is less that they can't or won't than that for so long
they led the Bosnians to believe they could and would--and that, with
an arms embargo that continues in force even now, they may have
kept the Bosnians from acquiring the means to defend themselves.

-from an editorial in the Chicago Tribune

Fri 6:30A-8P Sun 9:00A-6P

ChayJotte. NC 28205

RESTAURANT

FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED BY RICK BRYANT & CINDY BOOKER
p ALL OUR FOOD IS AS FRESH AS IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN.
WE'RE KEEPING “REAL FOOD” ALIVE IN MOORESVILLE

¢ STEAKS ¢ SWORDFISH
¢ GRILLED CHICKEN ¢ BURGERS
¢ SPECIALTY SANDWICHES

e ALL MENU ITEMS HOMEMADE
INCLUDING DESSERTS
¢ BEER & WINE

SERVING LUNCH MONDAY-FRIDAY 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.

© ORDERS TO-GO ¢ DAILY LUNCH SPECIALS

SERVING DINNER FRIDAY-SATURDAY 5:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M.
COME JOIN THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RAFTERS

663-7322

761 NORTH MAIN STREET .-

MOORESVILLE

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT THANKS THEIR CUSTOMERS & HOPES TO SERVES YOU SOON!

Be a Carolina Tar Heel!

Session I: May 19-June 24, 1994
Session II: June 28-August 2, 1994

Suefegts rome amy colege ox university, waghers,
a ents for first, secood, or bath sessions. at CT maay appl copies Visine Summst

UNC-CH offers, during two $Y week sessions, over 900 courses i 45
disciplines. A typical Course load per session is 6 semester hours.

Some evening and ni eS conrens Sood tee Wiper ere comes offered.

Approximate Cost per Session: sulin sag Hees of 3115 $49 per credit
rma cr See in an of S115 ELUS $49 per croc

When requesting a catalog and application, please mention seeing this ad in
C1540, 200 sty ot Naz Carling

Capa Chapel NG 279.

Fax: Fen 19962-2130.

Carolina at Chapel Hill
1133 ot or ?19-F52-1009

