12

Holt Vaughan
Bobbitt vomit.

I don’t know about you but if I read one
more thing about this Bobbitt saga I think I
might vomit. I admit, it was funny at first,
when the news was fresh and new.

I remember the day clearly when I dis-
covered the article like a hidden jewel. It
was on the back page in relatively small
print. IfI recall correctly, the headline stated,
“Man’s Penis Chopped Off.” (or something
like that — I know it had the word penis in
it anyways.)

What can I say, I was like every other
curious person in the country that read the
article. It made my day.

I know the matter was serious. After
all, this was a major wake up call to the
general male population. But the subject
matter was so bizarre it was humorous.
Okay, it was hilarious. People were crack-
ing jokes all over the place. I don’t know if
anybody even believed the story or not. It
didn’t matter. The article was such a conver-

Sation piece.
But then the media started to get hold of

the story and started to recognize its popu- ~

larity. Idon’t know who it was, but someone
really important in the media decided that
this was the story of a lifetime. The local
newspapers went from worthy news sources
toasmall step above the “National Enquirer.”

The Bobbitts' personal life (and I do
mean personal) started taking precedence
over international issues. Wars were going
on in some countries, N.A.F.T.A. was caus-
ing a Mexican crisis, and Bill Clinton was
reforming Health Care, yet the Bobbitts still
got front page coverage.

Oprah started paying the Bobbitt fam-
ily and their friends to fly from.all over the
country to discuss their relationship with
John and tell America what the real John
Bobbitt was like.

The Bobbitts were becoming celebri-
ties. Don’t quote me on this, but I could

almost guarantee that more people in this
country know who Jolin Bobbitt is than their
own state senator. (Do you know yours?)
Not only do these people know who Bobbitt
is, but people know who his mother is, what
his favorite colors are, and even the size of
his genitals.

Why-are-people-so-interested-in-this
case? Lorena Bobbitt is becoming a sort of
hero for some people: Some say that John
got what he deserved. Others claim that
Lorena was “temporarily insane.” I say,
who cares?

Thank God the jury is finally out on
Lorena's trial. Whether or not we agree with
their decision, (she was acquitted, by the
way), we can finally move on with our lives
and put the severed penis behind us. Not
literally.

I don’t know about you, but I’ve heard
everything I could ever want to know about
John and Lorena Bobbitt, and I don’t want to

‘hear any more, Call me selfish, but I think

it’s old “news.” Let’s talk about something
more interesting, like a skater-murderer.
Now that’s news. Not this sissy earthquake
or government stuff.

Cartoonists & Wiiters Syndicate

w

I have to question those pesky cryogenics.

Olaf continued from page 11

Run Again,” I read something almost unbe-
lievable.

In Port Townsend, Washington, there is
a company called Geneti-Pet. They clone
doggies and kitties.

Oh, yes. You pay $75 for the vet to
extract blood from your still living pet, and
then Geneti-Pet will store this blood in liq-
uid nitrogen for a mere $200 a year.

You assume that Geneti-Pet will bring
an exact replica of your animal to life when
the old one dies. No. You will have to find

someone else to actually do the cloning—
some real genetic laboratory, I hope.

Of course, Geneti-Pet “offers no guar-
antees.” Because if the power goes out and
the liquid nitrogen turns to gas and all the
blood thaws, then you’ve lost your pet for-
ever, plus the $200 per year you’ve been
paying to have the dog’s blood cryogeni-
cally frozen, which I presume is better than
a simple meat locker.

So, what we have is acompany that will
take already extracted blood and super-freeze
it, and then give it back so you can take it
somewhere else and get a pet exactly like the

one that just died. And only for $200 a year!

Amway should be ashamed of them-
selves. In order to earn their money, they
have to convince their friends to join and
convince other people.

Don’t they know that all they really
have to do to make a lot of money is freeze
blood?

I wonder how a competing business
would sell themselves. “Rover-Clone: We
Freeze It Colder.” “Jurassic Bark: We Love
Your Pet’s Blood As Much As You Do.”

The point is this: I respect any capital-
istic effort, but sometimes it makes me laugh.

"Firstly, there will never be a next time..."

Miller continued from page 11

My, my, my, what a cop-out!

Why could this not be handled
immediately...in my presence? I’m left to
believe that it probably will not be handled
at all.

Another unidentified employee, possi-
bly the Assistant Manager, came up to me as
I was leaving the check-out. She so inno-
cently said to me, “I’m sorry you had that
problem. The next time you’re in Dover’s
and can’t get anyone to serve you, come to
the front and get one of us. We’ll be glad to
help.” ee ae

WHAT!!! Is she serious? Firstly, there
will never be a next time. Secondly, why

would a company hire someone to do a job,
and then allow that employee to
choose whom he or she will serve?

If I cannot get service from the person
hired to serve me, should I have to walk all
the way to the front of the store to ask the
manager for assistance? No, I don’t think
so!

Here again, this says to me that the
management has no concern that they hire
racist individuals to serve all customers.
The management will serve those of us who
do not realize discrimination or racial bias.

Well, guess what? This strong, proud,

and intelligent African-American woman ©

just does not meet that criterion.
Trealize that the green dollars I spend to

help businesses become and remain suc-
cessful look the same and are equally as
important as that of the individuals who are
not of color.

In my opinion, it would be wise to do as
a great man of color, Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., once said, and I paraphrase, “We,
should never judge a person by the color of
their skin, but by the content of their charac-
ter”.

Until you know for certain that my
personal character is less than acceptable to
society, never discriminate or show racial
bias toward me!

Sincerely,

Joan Miller

_ Love of Learning Assistant

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JAN JARY 31, 1994

Rob King’
Self-selection
and God.

So what do self-selection, fraternities,
and God have in common?

One response would be that they do not
have much in common at all. Another
response would be a moralistic condemna-
tion of all that transpires on Patterson Court.
I would like to offer a different view which
hopefully marches to the beat of a com-
pletely different drummer. ;

When I look back three years ago upon
my own self-selection night experience, I
have humorous, although somewhat blurred,
memories of countless naked “beer slides,”
being “wedgied” by my big brother in Kappa
Sig, and for the rest of the night wandering
aimlessly around Patterson Court. Iam sure
that this experience sounds familiar and is
probably vivid in the minds of many people
(especially if this just happened a week
ago).

Since that time, I have pledged, joined,
been active in, and subsequently become
inactive in a fraternity.

Now being a “not as wise as I think I
am” old man of twenty-two years (complete ©
with receding hairline), my interests have
changed and I mostly just have deep discus-
sions with people, play basketball, and think
about things.

One of the things I have thought about
for some time is the nature of a fraternity. In

"Hey, I just found a
link between
fraternities ...and God."

theory, fraternities are a wonderful idea, and
many times do help an individual grow in
many ways. I fondly remember the idealis-
tic words of our Star and Crescent which
every pledge learns: “The Star and Crescent
shall...be worn...only by him who is worthy
to wear it. He must be..:a man of honor and
courage...an intelligent man...a man of
truth...and above all else, one who walks in
the light of God.”

All of these qualities are very admi-
rable, but the last lines stand out in my mind
the most. What does it mean to be a man or
woman of truth? Besides a simple adher-
ence to a code of honor, I feel that being a
person of truth means seeking the truth in
any given situation and wrestling with the
difficult problems of our world. If anyone
has ever taken one of Dr. Mahoney’s reli-
gion classes, they probably know what I
mean about being a “seeker of truth.”

“And above all else, one who walks in
the light of God.” Hey, I just found a link
between fraternities (or, rather, one frater-
nity, but I’m sure others are similar) and
God.

Other than this example, what else do
fraternities and God have incommon? Have
you ever read something by one of your
favorite writers or spoken to a friend and
been completely attuned to a particular idea
so you know that deep down you share a
common understanding? If you have felt
this, then you are experiencing what frater-
nities in their ideal state are trying to recre-
ate.

This same feeling of common under-
standing is what binds those who are “seek-
ers of truth,” and “walk in the light of God.”
The members of this fraternity, however,
include male and female, young and old,
rich and poor, “cool” people and dorks and

-| anyone else who wants to join. Everyone

gets a bid and there are no dues to pay. Once
you're initiated, however, you will never
quite be the same again.
