_ THE DAVIDSONIAN :

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

eins black: Reverend Brenda Tapia tells all

By Sarah Teachworth

Because the African-Ameri-
can population at Davidson is
small, SERCH (Students Estab-
lished for Racial and Cultural Har-
mony) sponsored a meeting en-
titled “Everything You Ever
Wanted to Know about Being
Black, but Didn’t Have the Cour-
age to Ask” to increase understand-
ing. Assistant Chaplain Brenda
Tapia led the discussion in the Big
Screen Room of the Union Tues-
day night.

Tapia began with a brief out-
line of her life from her birth to her
college years. She was born in the
“negro ward” of a local hospital
and was exposed to discrimination
in the earliest stages of her life. In
elementary and middle school, she
made good grades, but her success
was hampered when North
Mecklenberg High School inte-
grated in 1965 and her school
closed. In a predominantly white
school, she was treated as an infe-
rior by many of her teachers and
was harassed by some of her peers.
Discrimination even existed at the
traditionally black college she at-
tended, Howard University. For
instance, the sorority she wanted
to join did not accept dark-colored
women.

Feeling confused and alien-
ated, Tapia turned to her history
for solutions. Among other re-
markable feats, her African ances-
tors were performing delicate eye
surgery centuries before such tech-

Reverend Brenda Tapia talks to curious students about being black..

Photo by Brooke McRae

nology reached the Western hemi-
sphere. After years of soul-search-
ing, she concluded to "no longer
define myself from the outside in,
but from the inside out.”

After telling her own story,
she gave the audience a chance to
write questions on paper placed in
ashoebox which was passed around
theroom. Herresponses to various
questions evoked a variety of reac-

. tions from the audience.

_Onepersonasked whether she
thought that blacks had a stronger
bond than whites because of the

struggles they hadto endure. Tapia
says that while she doesn’t feel this
is necessarily so, she has noticed
that whites seem to be family-ori-
ented while blacks are group-ori-
ented. She believes that the reason
for this is that in slave days, the
only way to have a family was to
consider all blacks family.

The audience went into hys-
terics when Tapia was asked how
she feels about being asked ques-
tions for the sole purpose of dis-
covering how a black feels about
an issue. She says, “Why do people

have to begin their questions with,
‘Brenda, from a black perspec-
tive...’? Of course, if they’re ask-
ing me, they’re going to get an
answer from a black perspective.”
Tapia advises that the best way
to be more sensitive to African-
Americans is to meet individuals,
being certain that actions and com-
ments come out of love. __
Before she received a stand-
ing ovation, Tapia concluded, “My
office is in the corner of the base-
ment of Pryer. Please visit me any
time. I get lonely down there.”

Dean
Shandley to

lead
dinner
discussion

By Jennifer Kerns

Once a month, the Chapel
Committee sponsors a dinner, ask-
ing professors to give a “last lec-
ture” with informative knowledge
for students. In Dean Shandley’s
case, the Committee chose a “first
lecture” instead. On Tuesday, Sep-
tember 27, at 6 p.m., Shandley will
hold a dinner discussion with stu-
dents in the Union.

“We wanted to give upper-
classmen achance to meet with the
new Dean in an informal setting,”
says Dinner Discussions Chair
Matt Rich.

Shandley wants to introduce
himself to the campus and to meet
students as well. He plans to dis-
cuss his personal history, how he
balances his family and his career,
his faith, and his first impressions
of Davidson. Afterwards, he in-
tends to open up adiscussion about
students’ concerns. “I don’t want
itto be aspeech,” says Shandley, “
I want a conversation.”

Write for News. -2148.

Mackeoelt Performa? 636 8/250 a
with CD-ROM, Apple’ Color Plus 14” Display,
AppleDesign” Keyboard and mouse, Only $2,08358.

- Poronce acutin —

educational
actually helps students

With Apple’ special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh?
the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-
able Macintosh Performa’ which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help
get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple” PowerBook’ or the Power

Apple* PowerBook’ 150 4/120. Only $1,528.94.

spending

Power Macintosh" 7100/66 8/250

twit CD-ROM, Applet Mi
AppleDesign” Keyboard. 7.

Scan 15

that

Keyboard and mouse, Only $2,97340.

discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best?

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Macintoshi'—- the world’ fastest Mac” And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-
puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals, Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac
is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to | le

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432 |
*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter® II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor,

PowerBook” 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect,
All prices include shipping and

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc.All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintuch Quadra, Performa, PowerBook and ‘The power to be your best" are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 4pleDesign, Mac and Power Maci

D are trade

ts of Apple Computer, Inc.

