THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994 9

Wren I went sailing over the
holidays, I learned to look at the
world upside down.

One beautiful afternoon, I was
lying out on the deck of the boat.
Out of curiosity I tilted my head
back so that the waves were splash-
ing in the sky and the infinite uni-
verse floated by below me.

I tried it again at night, when
the stars were out and the water
was calm. Imagine seeing a ceil-
ing to the universe but an infinitely
extending interior. Imagine see-
ing the world upside down.

In the same way, encounter-
ing God brings us to a place that
counters our natural instinct. We
constantly strive to increase our
wisdom and stature, and all the
while God is telling us to become
like children. Is it he who is look-
ing at things backwards, or are we?

Why does the apostle Paul re-

Kimberly Kreiling

Have you been kissed by an angel?

joice in his sufferings? Why will
the first be last and the last be first?
Why is it that to gain life we must
first be willing to die?

Perhaps these paradoxes were
written to capture our attention.
Weare meant to struggle to under-
stand their meanings. If they are to
bethe guidelines on which we base
our lives, God wanted to make
them interesting. An irony lies in
that many people consider religion
to be just the opposite of interest-
ing.

The essential paradox says
this: In raising up ourselves we are
dragged down, while in humility
we are exalted. Christ, acknowl-
edging his role in our lives, said,

“..my power is made perfect in
weakness” (2 Corinthians 12:9).
In essence, we are successful only
when we agree that we will fail.

Our culture sends us the mes-
sage that we should be capable,
successful, and independent. In
this context, to say that I think of
myself as weak and incompetent
sounds like I simply have a poor
self-image. ButifI really am weak,
then shouldn’tI come to grips with
the truth? For only at the point of
realizing my sickened state will I
be willing to acknowledge my need
for forgiveness.

I have learned not to strive to
come to a state where I am finally
satisfied with my knowledge. The

opposite is true: if we ever say, “I
have figured out how God works
and now I’m fine,” then we are
bound to fall one day to our knees,
begging for forgiveness for our
pride. For only to the extent of our
pride are we capable of being
humbled. —

The goal lies in becoming
aware of our utter dependence on
Christ. Then we will find the mean-
ing in his words, “Blessed are the
poor in spirit, for theirs is the king-
dom of heaven.”

Consider this true story. A
boy was born with a birthmark that
coveredhalfofhis face. Asachild,
he was ridiculed by the other chil-
dren for his flaw. He believed

Holt Vaughan
Thank you for the pressure.

Dear Important People,

Hi. My nameis Holt Vaughan,
and I am a faithful hall counselor.
How are you? I’m fine, thanks for
asking. By the way, I had a won-
derful weekend. Friday night I
walked a friend of mine back to his
dorm who was too drunk to stand
up on his own.

When I got back to my dorm,
I put three freshman to bed that
didn’t know which bed was theirs
because their vision was so blurred.
Saturday night I wasup until 4 a.m.
transporting a freshman to the.
detoxication center in Charlotte.
Anyway, enough talking about
me—how was your weekend?

I just wanted to compliment
you on the fine job you’re doing as
far as controlling the social life at
Davidson. I think it’s great that
you allow us to have parties, but if
itwereup tome! think weshouldn’t
have any parties at all.

I think that the typical
Davidson student should not have
a life and simply work all the time.
This way we could stress all the
time, and let the pressure build up
so we could be miserable. Then
we could flip out or something
cool like that.

At least you only allow the
students to go out a few nights by
controlling the number of parties
we have each week. I think it is so
wonderful how we have one party
a week so that we can plan ahead
and zone in on those special occa-

sions. You know what I’m talking
about—the pressure that is added
to the students’ lives who decide
they need to go out every night
there is a party on the court. I’m
sure you know how it is—when
there’s only one party a week,
people feel like they have to go out
because there isn’t going to be
another party for three or fourmore
days.

Anyway, I just wanted to tell
you how healthy I think it is for
students to study as hard as they
can for five nights and then go out
as hardas they can on the nights we
have parties. Thank God we don’t
have parties all the time. I mean, if
people were stupid enough to

- spread the parties out so that we

have them more often, the parties
wouldn’t be that big of a deal.
Lord knows we wouldn’t want to
take the pressure off the students
by deemphasizing those party
nights.

I just wanted to say thank you
for keeping my life as a hall coun-
selor exciting. Thank you forkeep-
ing the police busy so they can
continue to hand out alcohol viola-
tions, and thank you for keeping
the Davidson students’ lives so
stress free.

I sure am glad that you keep

‘all of these restrictions because

they sure are working well. Please
keep up the good work.
Sincerely,
Holt Vaughan

Open yourself up to find truth.

Looking continued from page 8

One of the many examples of
how Jesus radically crosses barri-
ers is found in Luke 19:1-9. In this
passage, a tax collector named
Zacchaeus climbed a fig tree in
order to see Jesus better.

Jesus befriended him, not even
mentioning the fact that Zacchaeus
had sinned by exploiting his own
people. Instead, Jesus decided to
enter his home, an action which
created an “ontological union” be-
tween the two men. Inother words,
Jesus was viewed as a tax collector
himself.

This example might not seem
too radical, so I guess I will putitin

a blunt modern context.

Imagine Jesus going to a gay
bar, a crack dealer’s house, or an
adult movie theater in order to be-
friend all sorts of people. Pretty
radical.

In closing, I would just like to
encourage you to cross whatever
boundaries you may have. Attend
a F.L.A.G. meeting, go to
Intervarsity or F.C.A., have dinner
with an international student, at-
tend a Young Republicans meet-
ing.

Sure, there will be some hy-
pocrisy anywhere we go, but we
might be surprised at some truth
found in each perspective. Hey, I
guess this article is about love.

comments until his father told him
that his mark was the kiss of an
angel, and because of it he was
blessed. The boy was then trans-
formed by the awareness that he
was loved.

Every one of us is flawed. But
like the boy in this story, our in-
competencies can be the root of
our joy.

Alone, on her knees, admit-
ting her shortcomings, the tired
soul encounters the presence of a
forgiving father. In dying herself,
she has become born again.

As long as we parade about
with our heads high and filled with
images of our own greatness will
we remain the nothing that we are
without God. It is when,we bow in
reverence that we become his chil-
dren, welcome in his presence.

My challenge: turn your world
upside down. It’s hard to fall if
you’re already on your knees.

Chris Edmonston

Why it's embarrassing to be an American.

My first three years at Davidson were spent play-
ing football. You see, I tried really hard to imperson-
ate an athlete during this time period in the hope that
I would learn something.

Yet, little did I know that I could have produced
amuch greater return on my educational dollar if I had
spent those many afternoons in front of my television.
Asa senior, I no longer can play football, and, thanks
to the senior apartments and the miracle that we
simply call “cable,” Inow enjoy the luxury of learning
as I watch afternoon talk shows.

How could I have been so blind to their wisdom?
How could Ihave ever wasted those three years? How
did the United States, or, for that matter, the world,
ever make it through centuries of history without
these very important people and their very important
shows and opinions? If I had the answers to these
questions, who knows, I’d probably have a talk show
of my own. Imagine that.

It seems like everyone has their own talk show
now, anyway. I mean, in a couple of months we can
all tune into the “Susan Powter Show.” You know
her—the short, blonde haired “Stop the Insanity”
lady. The one who tells us all how fat we are in the
hope of making us feel good, as well as to sell a few
thousand more of her $49.95 weight loss programs.

Gee, I sure am glad that she’s qualified to help
people. I want to know...“When is it my turn? Where
do I sign up?”

I have an over-view of several talk shows--my
favorite, to be exact. ;

Oprah: I know that I am treading on thin ground
here, because a lot of people on this campus take their
Oprah seriously. But I am here to tell you that while
she may seem sincere, and while hers is the best of the
afternoon talk shows, she is no different. Her topics
are often sensational, shallow, and no one remembers
the Michael Jackson interview anymore.

Jerry Springer: Jerry stands as the lone male in
the afternoon TV talk show battlefield (Montel comes
on at night in our market, Phil’s in the a.m.). To put
it simply, don’t bother watching the show itself, but
catch the last five minutes. At the end of each show
is “Springer’s final thought,” where Jerry tells it like
itis. He tells us about how assinine his guests are, how
stupid their causes are, and that almost everyone in
society is scared of someone or something.

Ricki Lake: She is the newest, most sensational,
and her show stinks. Don’t waste your time.

Jenny Jones: Now, I consider myself a feminist.
But this show is a little extreme. Watch Jenny long
enough and you could become convinced that every

_ man is a John Bobbit wannabe, a criminal, or a

brainless “Beavis and Butthead” fan. Typical topics
are “Why did I marry this good for nothing sports
watchin’ bum,” or, “My husband’s having a child
with my sister and its all his fault for seducing her.”

What can we, as Americans, possibly learn from
tuning into Jane Whitney and listening to our fellow
Americans spill their dirty laundry for the entire
nation to see?

I don’t need to see a woman have an entire hour
long program dedicated to her because she claims that
she is from Venus for me to surmise that she is a few
clubs short ofa fifty-two card deck. Idon’t need them.

And, yet, I keep tuning in. Is it to laugh? I hope
so, but I’m not always sure. What I am sure about is
that these shows are entertainment—only. I shudder
to think that in this huge country there might be
someone out there who believes these shows to be
factual, important, topical, and that there really could
be an outbreak of one-toed hermaphrodites in At-
lanta.

The most offensive aspect to me, at least, is when
people with real problems turn to or appear on these
shows for real answers. In this guise I equate talk
shows with televangialism. Ina Christian sense, aTV
never baptized anyone, never married anyone, and it
never “saved” anyone. Likewise, talk shows don’t
solve problems. On the contrary, they have extremely
destructive potential.

At the end of any of the “serious” topic-shows
(and you can bet money on this) some pop-psycholo-
gist with a hot selling new book will arrive on the set
to solve everyone's impotency, marital problems, or
mend 20-year-old wounds.

I don’t want to offend any psychology majors
here, because counseling is needed and important, but
how can those who call themselves professionals
attack problems and provide solutions for real-life
issues as complex and as serious as incest or physical
abuse after one hour in a television studio setting? I
can only hope that some desperate person doesn’t
depend on those same “professionals” for real coun-
seling, therapy, or advice.

And yet, I still tune in. It’s hard for me to admit,
but talk shows make me feel good about myself. I
realize how lucky Ihave been. Ilaugh at them. Imock
them. I point out their hypocrisy as their topics and
commercials seem to be designed to prey on lonely
and neglected housewives. I snicker as my apartment
mates watch Jenny Jones and yell, “Down with men.”

These shows are worth their entertainment and
shock value only. And I, as well as countless other
drone-like Americans, continue to tune in. I can’t
help but be a little embarrassed.
