THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994 5

NATO offers former communist
nations a “Partnership for Peace”

By Brett Marston
Undaunted by fears that his

trip would attract less attention than
tales of sexual abuse and mutila-
tion, President Clinton visited Eu-

rope early this month to meet with’

leaders of NATO countries to dis-

cuss the future of this: organiza-* «
tion. Last year, Clintoh proposed ‘‘

the NATO ‘summit in Brussels in
order 'to discuss his “Partnérship
for Peace” plan, which will pro-
vide for military cooperation be-
tween current NATO meimbers and
the countries of Central and East-
ern Europe and the former Soviet
republics.

In April 1949, fearing a pos-

sible Soviet attack on Western ‘ “

Europe, leaders from Belgium,
Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland,
Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, Norway, Portugal, the U.S.,
and the United Kingdom met to
sign the North Atlantic Treaty,
which proclaimed that “an armed
attack against one or more of them

. Shall be considered an attack
against them all.”

NATO was born.

Greece, Turkey, and the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany joined
NATO in the fifties, while Spain
held out until 1982. Now the mem-
bers of the Visegrad Group--Po-
land, Hungary, Slovakia, and the
Czech Republic--wish to join, too.

Wary of exacerbating the ten-
sions in Russia by giving the com-
munists and nationalists political
ammunition, NATO leaders de-
cided to forestall formal inclusion
of these countries into the security
organization and instead have ex-
tended an offer to all countries in
the region, including Russia and
other former Soviet republics, and

even neutral countries such as
Austria, Switzerland, Sweden and
Finland, to join the “Partnership

| for Peace.” The Partnership will

be an activity of the newly created

‘North Atlantic Cooperation Coun-

cil (NACC).

“Members . . . would pattici-
pate in joint planning, joint train-
ing, joint exercisés, joint maneu-
vers,”. explains Stephen Oxman,
U.S. Secretary of State for Euro-
pean and Canadian Affairs, in the
latest issue ofEurope. “They would
basically be working toward
interoperability with NATO.”

As Oxman emphasizes, mem-
bership in the Partnership for Peace
‘would not guarantee” eventual
membership in NATO, “but it
would be an important part of the
process.”

Polish president Lech Walesa,
who has been the most fervent of
the leaders of the Visegrad nations
in pressuring: for expansion of
NATO, initially described the plan
as “too little but in the right direc-
tion,” according to the New York
Times. Poland’s painful history
would seem to justify Walesa’s
disappointment.

Hungarian and Slovak lead-
ers were similarly cool in their
assessment of the plan, but for dif-
ferent reasons: tensions overa size-
able Hungarian minority jin
Slovakia are threatening to drive a
diplomatic rift between Bratislava
and Budapest. Czech leaders were
more enthusiastic than their allies
in their endorsement of the Part-
nership. :

With the Warsaw Pact dis-
solved and most countries in Cen-
traland Eastern Europe on the path
towards democracy and free mar-

kets, is NATO still necessary?

University of Chicago profes-
sor Charles Glaser thinksitis. “The
strongest ‘case for a post-Soviet
NATO,” he writes in the Summer,
1993 issue of International Secu-
rity, ”is that it is both an effective
means for protecting Western in-
terests in Central Europe and a
prudent insurance policy against
unlikely but large dangers, includ-
ing a major power threat from the
East and security competition
within the West.”

“[U]nless we are entirely con-

fident that war between Europe’s”

major powers is impossible,” he
continues, on what some might
call a cynical note, “developing a
long-term policy for insuring this
peace should be an important part
of Western policy.”

In his article “Replacing
NATO” in the Winter, 1993-94
issue of Foreign Policy, former
British diplomat Jonathan Clarke
argues that NATO has outlived its
usefulness and that Western pow-
ers need to develop new security
structures to deal with post-Soviet
Europe.

Clarke expresses his concern
that the expansion of NATO might
alienate Ukraine, the Baltic states,
or other countries in the region.
“The last thing Europe needs is a
new fault line,” he writes.

Perhaps the: Partnership for-

Peace is a good compromise.

According to the New York
Times, Russian president Boris
Yeltsin, echoing Clarke’s concern,
reacted positively to the Partner-
ship, calling it “a good formula,
because drawing one more line,
dividing all into white and black
anew, no, this won’t do.”

NOTES

commentators.”

Words we abuse

at America

When journalists wield harpoons

“He [Admiral Bobby Ray Inman] no doubt understood that for a
few journalists every decision he would take as Secretary of Defense
would be scrutinized, and even hyperbolized, not on its immediate
merits but because of innuendo surrounding decisions he had made
more than a decade before. And he must have decided that the good
he could accomplish would never outweigh the determined barrage
that would be unleashed on his character.
“This is hardly McCarthyism, and it would not have driven a more
determined figure from Government. But it does allow understand-
able pause to a man of Admiral Inman’s wealth and reputation. The
political landscape is littered with casualties of the Reagan, Bush and
Clinton Administrations who have been targets of columnists and
interest groups as they moved through the confirmation process--
people whose lives will never be the same.
“In our free-wheeling society, these imbalances must be accepted
as the preferred alternative to censorship. Still, Admiral Inman, for all
his flailing, was right to decry the irresponsibility of some political

- from the Op-ed page of The New York Times, Friday, January, 21.

“A political way of thinking has so permeated the American
consciousness that it has changed the way in which we use English.

“Below, a lexicon that shows how certain words are used by major
American newspapers, by the electronic news media (especially
television), and by many individuals in public and private debate.

“Conservative: A person with selfish motives.

Liberal: A person with altruistic motives.

Ultra-Conservative: A person who is too conservative.

Ultra-Liberal: Term not used. One can not be too liberal.

Sexist: A man who disagrees with women with liberal views.

Minorities: Members of groups whose spokespeople are angry

Christian Right: Contemptible people who always try to impose
their values on other Americans.
Rage: The excuse for violence committed against innocent
people by members of an aggrieved minority.”

- from a January 21 Opinions piece inThe Wall Street Journal.

Czech Republic ambassador to discuss relations Monday

By Kimberly Kreiling.
The ambassador of the Czech Repub-
lic, Michael Zantovsky, will be present for
an open discussion in the Carolina Inn next

Monday, January 31, at 4 p.m. He willalso.

give a public lecture at 7 p.m. in the College
Union 900 Room.

Zantovsky--poet, journalist, and trans-
lator--was active in the independent com-
munity of Czechoslovakia during the period
of Communist rule. Davidson’s professor
Scott Denham met Zantovsky last summer
and comments, “He thought he’d go to
prison; now he’s the ambassador to the
United States.” »

At the close of the Velvet Revolution,
Czechoslovakia passed a law preventing

members of the Communist party from hold-
ing important posts, lasting for five years.
Elected to office in their place were popular
activists and artists, regardless of their expe-
rience in government affairs. Zantovsky is

‘one of the former dissidents who now com-

prise the majority of the Czech government.

Professor Denham met Zantovsky when
attending a program in Salzburg designed to
bring enemies together to talk about poli-
tics. The seminar, “Literature as Political
Force,” and lengthy discussions over dinner
and drinks inspired their friendship.

Until 1980, Zantovsky worked as a
psychologist at the Research Institute of
Psychiatry in Prague. During 1980, he be-
gan to work as a free-lance writer, inter-

preter and translator of English language
literature. He has translated the works of
authors as diverse as Woody Allen, James
Baldwin, and Joseph Heller. His determina-
tion to finish controversial works, such as
Heller’s Catch 22, in the face of opposition
resulted in his punishment by
Czechoslovakia’s former Communist re-
giine.

Zantovsky’s personal bibliography in-
cludes more than three-hundred song lyrics,
librettos and poems that appeared as record-
ings or in publications. He has also worked
as a journalist, serving as a correspondent in
Prague during 1988 and 1989.

The ambassador’s political career in-
cluded his involvement in the International

PEN club and in a movement called “Open
Dialogue.” He served as press spokesman
of the Civic Forum in 1990 and then became
head of the Czech President’s Press Office.
He also served as advisor to Vaclav Havel
and was a member of the President’s Coun-
cil. He was appointed Ambassador to the
United States in 1992.

The ambassador of France, Jacques
Adreani, will be visiting Davidson on Feb-
ruary 9. He will speak on “Current Franco-
American Relations” at 7 p.m. in the Cham-
bers Building Multipurpose Room. Both
visitors are sponsored by Davidson’s Dean
Rusk Program in International, Studies.

Source: College Relations

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards In the world...Visa® and MasterCard®
credit cards..."In your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA® and MasterCard® the credit cards you
deserve and need for— ID—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAINMENT—
EMERGENCY CASH—TICKETS—RESTAURANTS—
HOTELS—MOTELS— GAS—CAR RENTALS—
REPAIRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

No turn downs!
No credit checks!
wish ASe0 eee No security deposit!
) 8
ont

SEND THE COUPON TODAY
YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING!

EZ—CARD,

BOX 16516, ATLANTA, GA 30321 !

NAME

YES! I want VISA®/MASTERCARD® Credit

Cards approved immediately.

100% GUARANTEED!

ADDRESS

STATE — ZIP

CITY
STUDENT? Yes

SIGNATURE

Yes No SS#

NOTE: MasterCard ts a registered trademark of MasterCard Intemational, Inc.
Visa Is a registered trademark of VISA USA. Inc. and VISA Intermatioml

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

