6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week in Washington
Republicans control headlines and Houses

By Andrea Short

The elections may be over,
but the Republicans are making
loud claims that last week’s coup
was just the beginning of real
change. Wasting no time, Newt
Gingrich, the controversial and
confrontational Georgia represen-
tative, last week announced his
plans to overhaul the House.
Gingrich promised that he would
keep the House working for 20-
hour days and seven-day weeks
until he passed his “Contract with
America.” The contrast between
Gingrich’s fiery style and Senator
Bob Dole’s quieter, more accom-
modating conservatism has caused
speculation about how unified the
Republicans really are.

Gingrich’s brand of politics is
to demand change — radical and

quick change. Already he has dis- —

posed of three House committees
in his quest to reduce Congres-
sional staffs by one-third. The
District of Columbia, Post Office
and Civil Service, and Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committees
have all been dismissed. His rec-
ommendations for committee
chairmen have been no less radi-
cal; he has bypassed senior mem-
bers and recommended more jun-
ior representatives for the Judicial
and other powerful committees.
These substantial structural
changes constitute only part of the
ambitious plans that Gingrich and
others are calling “The Transfor-

mation.”

A strongly moral, tradition-
ally conservative ideology charac-
terizes Gingrich’s goals. .A politi-
cian known more for his opposi-
tion than initiation of legislation
has identified school prayer, term
limits, tax cuts, and a balanced
budget amendment as target goals
for the upcoming Congress. The
newest and mostcontroversial goal
Gingrich has announced, however,
is his plan to place children of
welfare recipients in orphanages.
This inflammatory plan has at-
tracted much criticism from both
parties. Senator Dole, whose quiet
ability to compromise and build
consensus differs drastically from
Gingrich’s, said of the plan on
CNN’ Late Edition, “Orphanages
may be going too far, but I’m not
going to get in a fight with Newt
Gingrich.”

Many of the differences be-
tween Gingrich and Dole are char-
acteristic of the Congress itself.
The House, by virtue of its large
numbers, is more argumentative
and less apt to reach or accept
compromise. The Senate’s smaller
size and filibuster rule fostera much
more deliberative, thoughtful leg-
islating and allow senators to place
more value upon reaching a con-
sensus. Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut senator seeking the
position of minority leader, de-
scribed the majority as “really three
kinds of Republicans: House Re-

publicans, Senate Republicans, and
Senate Republicans who served
recently in the House.”

The sudden attention to the
1996 Presidential race has not
helped to smooth’ differences
within the Republican Party. Sena-
tor Gramm from Texas and Sena-
tor Specter from Pennsylvaniahave
wasted no time in publicizing their
expected bids for the White House.
Senators Dole, Gramm, and Spec-
ter all traveled to Iowa last week to
“visit” the state that holds one of
the earliest Republican presiden-
tial caucuses. The field is by no
means narrowed to three, however,
on Monday The New York Times
profiled 12 Republicans who may
throw their hat in the ring. The
illustrious orinfamous list, depend-
ing on your ideology, included
Senator Dole, former Vice Presi-
dent Quayle, Jack Kemp, Gov. Pete
Wilson of California, and James
A. Baker. With the return to the
majority and the electoral man-
date, Republicans are, as one
Rutgers political science professor
describes, “like people who have
been released from extended in-
carceration, coming out in the light
and squinting, and feeling a sort of
sense of vengeance toward their
jailers.”

Sources include: The November
14, 15, and 17 issues of The New
York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program
Foreign policy after the elections

By Jack Perry
After the Republican vittory
in the Congressional elections, the
United States now enters a two-

year period in which all policies, ©

including foreign policy, are sub-
ject to a sharp tug-of-war between
the Republicans on the Hill and the
Democrat in the White House.

Making foreign policy in a
time of divided government is not
atall new, but several factors make
this a new situation whose out-
come is not clear.

First, it is almost unprec-
edented in modern times for the
GOP to have both houses of Con-
gress while the Democrats have
the Presidency — usually it is the
other way around.

Second, forthe first time since
Franklin Roosevelt, we do not have
the Cold War as the organizing
principle of foreign policy. In the
post-Cold-War world, American
priorities and duties and even in-
terests are much harder to discern
and still harder to agree on.

Third, partisanship seems to
have been growing in Washington
politics, so that “finding a middle
way,” often a proclaimed ideal,
especially in foreign policy, is not
in fashion.

Afterthe sharp Republican vs.
Democrat fighting over member-
ship in the League of Nations fol-
lowing World War I, a fresh spirit
of bipartisanship grew in Wash-
ington during and after World War
II, so that in the formative years of
the Cold War the Democrats found
the minority Republicans strongly
supporting their major initiatives
such as NATO, the Truman Doc-

trine, and the Marshall Plan.

No more. While bipartisan-
ship can still coalesce around ma-
jor problems — especially when
American troops go abroad, as in
Grenada, Panama, the Gulf War,
and now Haiti — there is a spirit of
division in Washington that sur-
faces even on foreign policy issues
like intervention abroad. Presi-
dent Clinton may find it harder to
get a Republican Congress to back
some of his foreign policy deci-
sions.

This is especially true of a
fourth factor: the chairmanship of
the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee by Jesse Helms. Helms is
known as a maverick, an original
with his own personal agenda in
foreign affairs and a high disdain
for “foreign policy experts,” espe-
cially those in the Foreign Service
Department of the State Depart-
ment.

He has thrown down the gauntlet
to Clinton on GATT, and unless
Clinton lets himself be run over by
Helms — which he cannot afford

to do — Helms, in all probability, -

is going to try to make foreign
policy a difficult realm for Clinton
over the next two years.

In the domestic political con-
text, this acquires special signifi-
cance because a sitting President
traditionally, although not with
such success recently, makes for-
eign policy an asset for reelection.
Admittedly this did not work for
George Bush, but it has for other
Presidents, especially for Richard
Nixon, and Clinton would prob-
ably love to have some foreign
pclicy successes to bolster the im-

age of ‘Presidential leadership” as
he runs for reelection in 1996.
Helms hates that idea.

Do other Republican leaders
hate the idea? It will be of great
importance for foreign policy to
see whether the Republican party
puts forward responsible, moder-
ate leaders in foreign policy who
are willing to work with Clinton on
common goals. To do so would
clearly be in the national interest,
in the sense of a “grand coalition”
in difficult times forging a national
consensus on main directions for
foreign policy. This is what hap-
pened after World War I. At the
onset of the post-Cold-War era,
will it happen again? It seems
doubtful. :

Some areas seem bound to
bring clashes. They include Russia
and Eastern Europe, where sup-
port for Yeltsin and a go-slow
policy on NATO membership for
Eastern Europe may come under
Republican challenge. They also
include the controversial North
Korea policy. Other aspects of
Asian policy may also get fought
over. And of course they include
the foreign crises that are bound to
come — in Bosnia, or inthe Middle
East — and bring up the always
bitter debate about whether to in-
tervene.

At a time of divided govern-
ment, foreign policy will be far
from the major battleground, but it
may — especially with the machi-
nations of Jesse Helms — bring
some interesting moments of con-
troversy. How the leaders of both
parties handle them will be atest of
statesmanship. -

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994 .

Urban Legends

From the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) file for
alt.folklore.urban, a news group on the Internet in which readers post
urban legends and discuss their veracity. Terry Chan, an economist
in Berkeley, California, maintains the FAQ. Using sources cited by
readers, he determines whether the legends are true false, or “unan-
swerable” and then adds them to the list excerpted below. The news
group has about 150,00 readers a month.

A penny falling from the top of the Empire State Building will
embed itself in the pavement.(false)

Microwaving panties kills yeast infections. (Der evee false but
not conclusively proven)

Bubbles in bubble wrap contain a cheap but toxic gas. (false)

You can send a coconut through the mail without any further
wrapping. (true)

If your college roommate commits suicide you get automatic A’s
in your courses. (false)

Three Men and a Baby has a scene with a real ghost in it. (false)

Family visited wilderness park. They saw bears and wanted to get
“cute pics” of bear with child, so they smeared honey on child’s cheek.
Bear ate child’s face. (believed false but not conclusively proven)

Koalas are always stoned/drunk from the alcohol in eucalyptus
leavés. (false)

Koalas, being filled with eucalyptus oil, explode in brushfires.
(false)

Mikey from Life cereal commercials exploded from eating Pop
Rocks with soda. (false)

Little Mermaid video cover features a clear drawing of penis.
(true)

Sesame Street’s Bert and Ernie are gay. (false)

From Harpers October 1994

’ Family Values

“None of these battles [Hands out our pockets, hands off our
children, end judicial tyranny, reform the welfare mess, and teach
American values without apology] will be easy. The liberal elites
still control the White House, the media, the universities and the
Washington bureaucracy. But there is one thing the new majority
GOP can do on its own. It must speak the truth about American
culture.

Everyone knows democratic capitalism can’t exist without a
virtuous people. We all know tax changes won’t be enough to save
us if the family continues to disintegrate. A line-item veto and a
Balanced Budget Amendment won’t bring American renewal if our
children are raised in a sex-saturated, violence-obsessed culture.
The new GOP congressmen and senators on their way to Washing-
ton include dozens who understand these issues. I am hopeful that
they and the GOP leadership already in town will be willing to speak
to the hearts of the American people. . .”

From Gary Bauer’s “Don’t Forget Family Issues” in November
18 1994’s Wall Street Journal.

Killing Presidents

“Why do we want to kill our President?’ A doctor asked me that the
other day, and left me wondering whether there is something about
the American system, or the American psyche, that now makes the
Presidency a hopelessly vulnerable institution.

‘With the exception of Reagan who was sui generis,” he said,
“we have cut off every President for nearly 30 years: Johnson,
Nixon, Ford, Carter, Bush. Now it looks as if the same will happen
to Clinton.

“° We don’ tjust say they failed at this or that. We say they failed
as human beings, and we seem to get satisfaction from that idea.
There’s almost a glee about it: ‘Boy, he really was terrible.’

“With each of those Presidents one can find a fault that led to’
his undoing. Lyndon Johnson dug us into the disaster of Vietnam.
Richard Nixon was responsible for the lies and abuses of Watergate.
And on and on.

“Vietnam and Watergate, moreover, had lasting effects on the
institution. We ceased to believe Presidents, to assume their good
faith. The press became hostile, and has remained so. It did not give
Bill Clinton even a brief honeymoon.”

From Anthony Lewis’s “The King Must Die” in November 18
1994’s New York Times.

The Davidsonian is looking for a circulation manager and a
business manager for the spring semester. Both positions are
paid and extremely prestigious. Call Leigh or Alex (2148).

