ARTS S&L LIVING MONDAY, FEBRUARY 21, oii

12 THE DAVIDSONIAN
REALITY BITES
It's a movie about, for, and in spite of us.
By Robert Ramsay Bites is suitable for our age group

Some of the most powerful
and affecting films are remarkably
unrealistic. This is why I find it so
refreshing to watch powerful and
affecting films that are, ofall things,
like a home movie in their realism.
Steven Bochco recently pulled it
off on television with his contro-
versial NYPD Blue, and Ben Stiller,
from the almost unwatched series
The Ben Stiller Show, has done it
even better with Reality Bites (Uni-
versal, PG-13).

The film concerns a group of
college graduates struggling to find
something to do with their educa-
tions. At the forefront is Lelaina
(Winona Ryder), an aspiring docu-
mentarian who videotapes her
friends in an effort to show their
struggle to find their future and
themselves. Her emotions are
caught between her best friend Troy
(Ethan Hawke) and an executive
from In Your Face TV named
Michael (Ben Stiller).

This is not, though, a love
story in the classic sense. It is, in
fact, less about love than it is about
reality, and the struggle to live
within it. The characters, having

just stepped into the “real world,”
try to give up the run-home instinct
and develop an ability to say “Iam
an adult and can handle this.”

Written by 24-year-oldscreen-

/riter Helen Childress, the film is
$0 appropriate for the college gen-
eration—those of us who will soon
be entering the world of dead-end
jobs and closed doors. But Reality

»

empower

not only when it concerns the job
market, but also when it addresses
relationships, sex, managing
money, and being resourceful.

In one of the most touching
and amusing scenes of the film,
Lelaina and her friend Vickie
(Janeane Garofalo) are in a cafe,
and Vickie is pondering her life as
she waits for the results of an HIV
test. She explains that she feels
like a new character on Melrose
Place, an analogy that reflects the
cohesion of reality and visual me-
dia in our culture—a fact also rep-
resented by interspersed clips from
Lelaina’s documentary.

Stiller and Childress include
even more elements from today’s
pop culture. Vickie works as a
salesperson at The Gap and, after
finding out she has been promoted
to manager, says, with fear in her
face, “I’m in charge of all those t-
shirts. Crew neck, v-neck, ribbed,
what have you” She expresses in
that one line the anxiety that re-
sponsibility causes these people to
feel.

Lines in the film range from
the extremely witty (see above) to
the marginally sappy, such as
Troy’s exclamation to Lelaina:
“The only thing you have to be at
23 is yo:'rself.” But the perfor-
mances are so strong that the film
never falters.

Ryder has not been this good
since Heathers—she is, in fact,

See Reality on page 13

PUBLIC NOTICE

COMMUNITY CONSTRUCTION UNDERWAY!

ls Davidson a place where differences are respected and celebrated?
Do feel safe expressing beliefs and attitudes that are different from the norm?
Have you encountered prejudice and not possessed the skill to respond as you would like?

On this Friday, March 4th, you are invited to participate in a
put on by Bonnie Wright ('79) of the National Coalition Building Institute. The workshop begins at 3:00 pm, includes

dinner, and continues until 10:00 pm. The workshop and dinner are free!!_ NCBI has conducted successful workshops
at Duke, Harvard, Amherst, Outward Bound and dozens of other schools and crganizations. The workshop is designed to

“individuals to combat various forms of discrimination, facilitate resolution of polarized conflicts based on
prejudice and develop intergroup coalitions."

_SPACE IS LIMITED - CONTACT RICHARD TERRY (-2188), JOHN EAVES (-2225),
JANET SHANNON (-2041), ANGELA CURRAN (-2453), DON KIMMEL (-2338), OR
RUTH PITTARD (-2420) TO SIGN UP OR FIND OUT MORE!!

EVERYTHING'S FREE!!!

H Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures
Ben Stiller, Winona Ryder, and Ethan Hawke star in the film.

PREJUDICE REDUCTION WORKSHOP

