OPINIONS

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

11

Davidson is back to the grind. Christ-
mas has been declared over, and now we’ve
the long stretch of school between now and
spring break. New Year’s resolutions have
been made, but I wonder if we haven’t
forgotten how to be resolved. Classes have
begun, books have been bought, and we are
all nicely settled in.

Perhaps too settled in.

Davidson is made of the most malleable
stuff on Earth, and the paths we trod today
quickly become the desperate trenches of
tomorrow.

Asastudent body, we seem tobe unable
to stop the routines which sicken us. Every-
one is willing to explain their theory of why
“The Davidson social scene sucks!” but no

Stephen Faller
Davidson's irresolute resolutions.

one is willing to change it.

There is a phenomenon known as
“Davidson Apathy,” but I do not think it is
appropriate. Students seem tohave no trouble
getting to parties or making it to the latest
movie at the lake.

Nor do they have any trouble complain-
ing (and perhaps this column will be seen as
such a complaint, but I hope it will be
something more).

Ithinka simple review of current events
will put things into perspective. This last
weekend, the college once again turned its

head to North Carolina drinking laws and
several were injured, thus marking the “cel-
ebration” of self-selection (self-selection is
an ironic phrase because the events sur-
rounding it are oriented to the loss ofselfand
individuality).

Davidson prides itself in “Creating Tra-
dition,” but I think it would be better off
without creating traditions of weekly drunk-
enness.

On the other hand, consider my letter
about Pam Kennedy. Now she’s back in the
kitchen, and no one has done anything about

it. I have collected one letter expressing
discontent in her employment re-allocation.

Many people congratulated me on writ-
ing the letter, ‘promising additional letters
just around the corner. “While I certainly
enjoy convenient praise, where does that get
us? It gets us nowhere, and it leaves Pam
back in the kitchen.

We are so worried about getting all of
our healthy recreation that we just may
forget what we are breaking from.

We may be forgetting, and becoming
comfortable with forgetting, what things are
important. Even now, students are express-
ing discontent over the changes of the weight
room, but I suspect that in the fine line of

Life in Exile: Chris Frampton
Special interest
jerks.

I am sick and tired of special interests
over-playing their role in this week’s elec-
tions for both president and vice-president
of the SGA. For years this problem has
plagued our country’s esteemed Congress,
but it never once crossed my mind that our
little hamlet would be invaded by such a
plague.

Take for example the campaign that
B.J. Rudell has waged over the last several
weeks. One of the most important aspects of
his campaign has been his focus on indi-
vidual issues. Perhaps the largest contribu-
tor has been the pledge by the women of
Sentelle who have convinced B.J. that they
must have benches in front of their dorm.
Indeed a horrible injustice has been done,
but certainly the campaign help that they
have given B.J. gives him an unfair advan-
tage.

They played a key role in coming up
with his slogan, “Stick with B.J.” Though if
you simply replace the word “with” with the
letter “y,” you get an idea of how they have
convinced B.J. to campaign for benches.

Then there is the campaign for Allison
Sabel for V.P. First and foremost she is
guilty of plagiarising. The Davidsonian
came up with the idea of a campus-wide
party first. But more important and notable
is the influx of funds into her war chest by
the government of Ghana. It would appear
that her appeal for more geographic diver-
sity is really a guise designed to provide a
college level education for the royal family
of Ghana. If you don’t believe me, consider
that Ghana’s slogan is “The Bright Coun-
try” while Allison calls herself “The Bright
Choice.”

But don’t forget the man who came up
with the most original slogan of the election,
“Vote for Dan,” Dan Nechemias. (Heshould
have used, “I drink.”) This is aman who has
placed improved relations between women
and men on campus as a priority. during his
campaign. Actually, though, he just needs a

ee.

1

tradition, nothing will get done.

reise

AC sky
Fellow, 2

date, and thinks he may be able to get a
proposal across that forces someone to date
him.

But Davidson has also been attacked by
national advertisers. Lookat Eric Rosenbach
who has taken money from the retailer the

.Gap. Witness the number of times that he

says “the gap between the Trustees and the
students.” Sounds like an innocent and
worthwhile topic of discussion, until you
consider that Davidson’s official outfitter is
paying him to say their name as often as
possible.

-Well, I am certainly not going to fall
prey to such activity. I think I’ll just go to
bed right after I eat my Ben and Jerry’s Ice
Cream and suck down andicy Yahoo choco-

"late beverage. Night.

Oh, and take them.

DC: Where daters fear to tread

Date continued from page 10

you’re either too drunk or too busy to do
anything about it. And let me make it clear
that I’m not discussing dates for date func-
tions. I’m talking about a real date.
Davidson is notorious for its weird so-
cial habits (i.e. getting drunk and screwing,
to put it bluntly). But outside this world of
inebriation lies another where people of
opposite sexes get together and talk to one
another. I’ve done my own informal survey
over the past couple of years of men and
women at Davidson and their attitudes to-
wards dating. Both would love to be asked

out. It’s a stale tradition that says “the boy
asks the girl.” Yeah. “See Spot run.”

That’s why, ladies, if you meet a guy
you think you’d like to know better, ask him
out. If you wait for him to do it, in all
honesty, he’s probably not even thinking
about it.

And guys, if someone asks you out,
don’t automatically think she’s out to get
married or to get laid. Be flattered that a
woman has some sort of interest in you.
Who knows? You both may even become
friends.

Sincerely,

Katey Hines ‘94

Robert Ramsay
Do you love your pet that cpus

To start, I want to make a clarification
concerning my last article, “What Am I
Doing?” The article was, as I thought I
explained, written differently from my seri-
ous work. It was an embellishment and a
joke, and none of the comments I made were
credible insults.

Specifically, I want make sure every-
one knows that Chris Knox and Alexis West
were the best mates a sailor could have. The
trip was so great, and I cannot think of any
real insult to make—I commend Davidson
Outdoors. I would love to go sailing with
Chris and Alexis again, if for nothing but
Alexis’s fantastic apple pancakes.

Now, on to this week.

I’ve never thought Amway was very
credible. I really don’t see how you can
make so much money without selling any-
thing. When you are a part of the Amway
family, you sell-nothing; you just convince
everyone around you to become part of the
Amway family and sell nothing.

And yet, thousands of people are mak-
ing thousands of dollars by taking part in
Amway, so it must work. Perhaps I do not
know the full extent of the business possi-
bilities. Ido know, however, that it is a “get
tich quick” scheme.

How about the lottery, or the horse
races? You put in your share along with a
million other people and the guy next to you
gets it all. Or, to be more sophisticated,
playing the stock market. This sometimes

works, but the payoff is rarely phenomenal.

A major trend among pseudo-entrepre-
neurs in this country is opening the mouth.
Notice how successful Howard Stern is, and
what does he do, really? He talks loudly. So
does Rush Limbaugh. There is a difference
between the two: Rush yells his opinions
concerning social topics and makes some
kind of a point, however small; Howard
yells his opinions concerning social top-
ics...

Also, a great deal of people start busi-
nesses that capitalize on a fad or rage in
America. For instance, immediately after
the film “Back to the Future” was released,
the skateboarding population experienced
an unprecedented surge. Three skateboard
shops opened up in my neighborhood alone,
and not one of them lasted over a year. I
guess the owners “got rich quick,” huh?

There are businesses that start fads of
their own, some that I can’t believe people
buy into. Do you remember jelly shoes?
Soon after the jelly shoes got started, an
entire jelly product culture was created by
more people starting businesses that tapped
into that fad. It’s a trend.

I believe that now, though, I have found
the purest example of this “get rich quick”
idealism. In the January 31 issue of News-
week, in a small report by Lucy Howard and
Gregory Cerio called “See Spot Run—And

See Olaf on page
