THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAN NECHEMIAS

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994 3

What has been your most significant con-
tribution to SGA or the Davidson com-
munity?

“T’ve had the opportunity to serve ona
number of committees in the last couple of
years, since I’ve been here. I was on the
SGA Phonathon Committee last year and I
put a lot of effort into that. We raised a lot
of money for the school. It was a good
experience for me to get a working relation-
ship with some of the people who make this
school work. Also, I was on the Financial
Aid Planning Committee, which completely
revised the way the financial aid will be
given because they set the cap at 13.5% and
that was a year-and-a-half long that we
spent changing the way that that would
work. That also developed a new merit
scholarship pro-

Junior Political Science Major

very right, because it seems like anyone
who graduated from this school should
want to give something back and should be
able to give something back. It seems to me
that that hurts the college both in image and
also hurts financially because it seems t

me that you’re cutting out a number of
people who might like to give money who}
aren’t Christian. I think the Statement of
Purpose discourages students who aren’t
Christian from coming here and I’m not
sure that’s something the college wants to}
do.”

How would you address the issues of the
policy requiring Trustees be Christian
and the Statement of Purpose if you are’
elected?

“Pll start with the Statement of Pur-
pose. Ithink that’s the trickiest one because’
Davidson was founded by the Presbyterian]
church and it still maintains a linkage. I
think it would be very foolish for the cal-

lege to deny that linkage or any way todeny] .

its religious heritage and its continued reli-
giosity. It seems to me that we need to keep}
this school Christian in the sense that it
encourages tolerance and it encourages
higher knowledge. I guess the Statement o'
Purpose is most important to students that
are looking at Davidson and we don’t want
to be discouraging to non-Christians and
we also don’t want to ignore our heritage.
“As for the Trustee requirement. I’ve
always had a problem with that. Person-
ally, as a non-Chris-

gram. I got to work
with Dean Wellsand
Terry Holland. That

Vote for Dan

tian, I find it almost

was a lot of fun to
work with people
like that and to feel

was really a differ-
ence. Just this last

school. I’ve always
made an effort that

Experience: SGA Phonathon Chair (92-
94), CCRL (93-94), member of Finan-
cial Aid Planning team (92-94)

likeagainIwasmak- | Current activities or commitments:| come successful
ingacontributionto | Phonathon, CCRL .. and not be able to
the school, that it | Major campus concerns: new union,| serve the school asa

all forms of social relations (especially
male/female), decisions made without

semester, I joined | ever consulting “the boss,” i.e., the stu-} think that should be
CCRL. We’ve had | dents who pay to go here, weight room| changed.”

alot of impact asto | Post-Davidson aspirations: law school

the design of the fu-- | and something in politics somewhere in} What do you see as
ture Union, what | D.C. the primary role of
kinds of dining it | Campaign promises: I think the most| the vice president?
willhave, thingslike | important thing an SGA representative “I think the pri-
that. It’s really fun | can do is to always seek the opinions of| mary role of the vice
formetobeapartof | allstudentsandexpressthemtothe proper] president is to help
thedevelopmentand | authority. I promise never to lose touch] the president as
growth of the | ofstudentsand theirproblems. Iwillnot| much as possible.

become part of the “we will ask/tell the
student body after the fact” administra-

while Ido this, Iask | tion. My goal is to be a good representa-
the people around |tive and serve the best interests of
me what they think | Davidson and my classmates.

come to this school,
give a lot to this
school while I am
here, graduate, be-

Trustee. It’s kind of
offensive actually. I

The vice president
plays a large role in
committee selection.
I think committee
selection is impor-

so that it’s not just
my opinion or what I think is best for the
school. It’s hardly ever that. It’s usually
what I think other people feel. I think that’s
probably my biggest contribution—trying
to always be representative of the student
body on the committees I have served on.”
In your opinion what were the SGA’s
most important accomplishments of
1993?

“I think the SGA’s most important
accomplishments were particularly pres-
suring the school for the union which I
guess we have to continue pressuring them.
I think Alden’s goals, as far as the State-
ment of Purpose and more recently the
Trustee requirements are critical in order
for Davidson to shed its image as a regional
school. It seems to me that Trustees, which
includes people that have graduated from
the school, requiring them to be Christian
doesn’t seem very ‘90s to me, doesn’t seem

tant, probably one of
the most important functions of the SGA
because those are the students who get
stuck with 3, 4 faculty members, some
administrative members of the college in}
making decisions that affect the students’
everyday life. ... A lot of the same people
are doing more than one committee ‘over
and over again. I think we need more
turnover. I think as a vice president, also,
it’s a position of prestige, just like the
president, and that gives the person that’s
elected the right to go around and harass
administrative members and whoever might
beslighting the students in any way. When-
ever students have a complaint, their first
means of redress is the SGA. I think as one
of the top members of the SGA, it would be
my responsibility to go pursue students’
complaints. ... When little things like [the
weight room] pop up, that’s the kind of

-offensive-that-I-can}..

ALLISON SABEL

What has been your most significant
contribution to the SGA or Davidson
community?

“My most significant achievement at
Davidson College would be with the stu-
dent government as chancellor. Asa fresh-
man second semester, I became chancellor
and continued through first semester of my
sophomore year. That involves, for people
who don’t know, it’s sort of the secretary
and treasurer combined into one position so
I learned a lot about the background of the
SGA. I learned how we deal with finances,
what we use our money for, what areas it
can go to. I also learned how the whole
government works, what areas we must
work through, letter writing skills, and many
official duties that you need to deal with,
faculty, Trustees,

Sophomore Math/Pre-Med Major

‘against you if you’re not a Christian mem-

What is your stand on the pro
changes of the Statement of Purpose a
the policy requiring that Trustees
Christian? If elected, how would yo
pursue these issues?

“For both of them, I do not agree wit
the current ones but I do with the chang
that have been proposed by the studen
government. The Statement of Purpose
and for the Trustee policy, I feel that th
Christianity needs to be either lessened o
dropped entirely. I understand that this is
Christian school primarily. Many people
were upset in our meetings that we wer
dropping Christianity entirely from oy
document. Even though I don’t feel that’
necessary, I don’t think it should be a strike

ber. What I feel that | would like to do, is to
continue with the SGA’s proposals. There’
not much we can do as of now until it goe:
in front of the Trustees and we get thei
opinions on how they feel on what we’v
done. If they return to us and say that the
do not like it, that they will-not accept ou
changes, what we’re going to have to doi
repropose them, change what we’ve done
and go at it again. Basically it’s just goin
to be a push, push, push, until we get wha
we want.”

What do you see as the primary role o
the vice president?

“I feel that the vice president of th
student government, what their primary rol
is, is dealing with the

administrators,
etc. ”

The Bright Choice

committees and vari-
ous other aspects of
the SGA. The vice!

In your opinion,
what were SGA’s

the year of 1993
was the Statement
of Purpose and the
Trustee policy that
we are currently
working on. For the
Statement of Pur-
pose--actually for

surgeon

and independents.

Experience: Freshman Class Senator,

i SGA Chancellor oa hal :

most important | Current activities/commitments:| 9" dag ein BEpont
accomplishments | Women’s lacrosse, Big Sisters Coordi- chairpeople for all of
of 1993? nator : the different commit-
fice zafitace< |temeteommmmee eomomrmat DIVA T  ofevean
sues of the SGA for i bal peroaage pene naan zation which I feel

Post-Davidson aspirations: Pediatric

Campaign Promises: I will increase the
diversity at Davidson by more geographi-
cally distribution, minority students, and
class choices. I also want to have a cam-
pus wide party over one weekend that
will include all fraternities, eating houses,

president must orga-
nize all committees,

that I do have, that I
can use in order to
keep everything
within organization.
I also feel that the
vice president needs}
to be there for the}
president and you’re

either of them--
nothing has been officially accomplished,
but we’ve made a movement in the right
direction. What we are doing with the State-
ment of Purpose, is we have proposed a

‘| version. It then went to a committee that

was composed of faculty, etc. They redid it
and it now has gone to the Trustees. They
will look at it. Also for the Trustee policy,
what we have done with that is dealing with
that you must be an active member of a
Christian church in order tobeon the Trustee
committee. What we’ve done with that is
we’ ve suggested a change thatit be dropped,
the part about Christianity and you should
not have to be a Christian active member.

sion and decided to follow what we had
done. So they also proposed something. I
feel that this has made both issues have an
impactonthe Trusteesso hopefully changes
will occur in the year of 1994,”

Then the faculty got involved in our deci-

helping basically the
president handle any situation that they;
need help.  You’re there to help them oni
anything. I‘ve talked to Alice Spivey who
is vice president and Alden [Smith] who
was the year before last about what they’ve
done, and it really does need to focus a lot
on the organization part of the SGA.”

What do you predict will be abcess
biggest challenge in 1994?

“I personally feel the biggest challenge
is going tobe working with diversity. We’ve
been trying to increase the minority diver-
sity on campus through Alden’s activities
. . and also through Anthony Foxx’s. . .
What I do think we need to do is to increase
the diversity in other aspects—geographi-
cal diversity, minority-wise also, and also
the classes. We need to increase ms

all aspects of Davidson College in this are:
because we are lacking.”

educated decisions. Please vote Tuesday.

thing that I would like to take care of.”

Election Coverage: An Editorial Note
Elections are approaching. On Tuesday, students can vote for the SGA President and Vice
President—Eric Rosenbach or B.J. Rudell; Dan Nechemias or Allison Sabel.
The interviews are printed verbatim with only minor changes due to space restraints. Keep
in mind that these are spoken interviews—not written. :
The Davidsonian will maintain its non-endorsement policy in hopes that all students will make

-Interviews and photos by Leigh Rawdon

