THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

13.

Well, Jeff, now that you’ve addressed

the issues of complacency, discrimination, .

and emotional pain in your first three ar-
ticles, whatever will you find to enlighten
the masses with this time?

The answer, unfortunately, is...nothing.
That is, I have no wisdom-of my own to
impart this time, if leverreally hadany. This
article is mainly composed of stuff I didn’t
write. The basic theme, though, is wisdom.
There are few sources of wisdom that are as
complete and helpful as the famous Sermon
on the Mount, whether you happen to be
religious or not. The sermon, found in the
Sth chapter of the Gospel according to Mat-
thew, expounds upon the virtues of being
different. In this case, being different might
mean any number of things, but all of them

Free Association: Jeff George

Geez, I'm a lucky guy.

involve placing your own personal beliefs
as the guiding force in your life, above any
other pressures. To make a long story short,
it’s all-about seeing the good side of what
most people consider to be bad situations.
So here, for your reading enjoyment are Jeff
George’s Modern Paraphrased Beatitudes:
You’re lucky if...

-you are down hearted, because you
have the opportunity to find the problems in
your life and to make your life the way you
want it to be.

..you feel sadness for others, because
your ability to understand their pain will

make you both feel better.

-you exercise thoughtfulness and com-
passion over hatred and aggression, because
you will earn the respect of those around
you.

...you continually seek to improve your-
self and your life, because your search will
keep you focused and happy.

«you provide aid those around you
when they are in need, because they will
help you when you need it most.

..you hold firm to what you believe
despite pressures, temptations, and ridicule,
because you will respect yourself, and your

self-esteem will not be damaged by. the
uninformed opinions of others. _

..you help others to improve them-
selves, because you will have the satisfac- “
tion of helping to bring peace to the world.

..you are discriminated against or at-
tacked for what you believe or for what you
are, because you will bécome that much
stronger and understanding for having suf-
fered.

In short, your situation will always be
what you make of it, andit is up to you alone
to make it a good one. A wise person can
find all the happiness in the world just by
making him or herself into the best possible
human being. Work with the talents you
have, know your limitations, and stick to
what you believe. «

Nathan Seay

Get rid of those
keys.

Something has been bothering me for
some time now, and I think that this week
would be an appropriate time to vent my
frustration publicly with some new fashion
statement that seems to be all the rage among
freshman women.

I first noticed this strange behavior at
the beginning of last semester. I was walk-
ing through the halls of Chambers, minding
my own business, when I heard a jingling
sound.

I may not have given it a thought had
it been closer to Christmas, but September
was a bit early to hear those jingle bells. I
searched and searched for the source of the
tintinnabulation to no avail. (“Tintinnabu-
lation” is the type of word referred to by
English majors as an I’m Smarter-Than-
You term.)

At last my eyes came to rest upon the
protuberance on which the jingle jangle
bounced.

I couldn’t believe what I was seeing. I
had to stare. The young lady walking in
front of me had somehow gotten her keys
stuck halfway into her back pocket. The rest
of her keys flounced against her Calvin
Kleins.

I felt sorry for the girl, who, I was sure,
was just as confused as I as to where the bells
were coming from. I figured that the girl
was a freshman because she was cute and
had not yet filed a restraining order against
me.

Ihadn’t yet done my good deed for the
day, so I took it upon myself to save the
young waif before she sat down andskewered
her eighteen year-old behind.

cal

}\ PHILADELPHIA

c-
en

c.arsad § SiS 50C:.
7

Iran up to her and informed her of the
danger she was in. She turned her big blue
eyesupto mine, ablaze with passion. Things
were going well. Then she opened her
mouth. “Who gave you permission to stare
at my butt?”

I tried to stammer a reply, but before I
could get any words out of my mouth she
spoke again. “Hey! You’re that guy who
was playing with my underwear in the laun-
dry!” Then my little butterfly punched me
in the solar plexus, leaving me to suck tile
while she ran off screaming, “Pervert! Per-
vert! Cover your behind or Nathan Seay
will stare at it!” After I regained my breath
and my feet, I started noticing other girls
walking around with musical seats. It ap-

peared that dozens—if not hundreds—of
girls chose to place their keys in such a
manner as to put their cabooses in jeopardy.
After interviewing a few girls, I found out
that this was the new hip thing to do on
campus (pun most definitely intended).

I don’t know how or why this fashion
statement involving self-mutilation started.
Iguess that piercing belly buttons just wasn’t
enough. Now these crazy teenagers have
invented butt piercing which they practice
every time they sit down. I’m all for ex-
pressing yourself whatever way you want
to, but I think that it’s time for some of these
ladies to start questioning the Fashion Gods
and ask why they subject themselves to this
torture. Idon’t think that being cool is worth

Chris Edmonston

Spend a day with a two year-old.

Thad a very interesting semester break.
Not only did I live through my first New
England blizzard, go flying down the side of
a mountain ona sled, and shovel more snow
than I ever imagined, I got to babysit my
gitlfriend’s nephew for an afternoon.

Thank the powers that be that she was.

there with me, for I got out lucky and did not
have to change any diapers. She did all the
“messy” stuff while I got the hard job of “the
entertainment.” I thought entertaining him
would be easy. I was wrong, and I probably
should have just sucked it up and volun-
teered to change the diapers. But, Idid make
several observations as I was being led all
around the house.

First of all, two-year-olds do every-
thing all out. Nothing for them is a half
effort. Whether it is coloring, playing blocks,
or eating, everything is all encompassing—
a total investment.

Two year olds do not like to be told
“no.” And, my girlfriend’s two year old
nephew especially does not like to be pro-
hibited from anything. However, he is very

sly. When he is stopped or paused in any
way, he looks up at you, holds up one little
finger, “Just one more cookie, or Just one
more time.” They know where to hit you at
your weakest and get what they feel they
need,

' Two year olds trust. They look at us and
absorb. Each day I was with him I could see
his mind at work: processing, connecting,
arriving at new and impressive conclusions.
I drew for him, and he learned the many
shaped I was drawing ina mere afternoon. If
my mind was capable of that type of absorp-
tion I believe my GPA would be much
higher.

As a twenty two year old American, I
had never experienced anything like this
before. I had never really baby sat. I had
never taken the time to spend with anyone’s
children. In fact, I had avoided two year
olds like the plague.

But on this day Ihad no.choice. He was
mine to watch. Mine to protect. Mine to
keep safe. Mine toentertain. He became my
responsibility, and in that afternoon not only

did he learn the difference between a penta-
gon and an octagon, but I learned some far
greater, more complicated lessons.

Being a parent is hard. I never had
appreciated what my folks did for me and
my sister. How did they do that? How do
anyone’s parents? By four in the afternoon
when his mother returned I was tired. I
didn’t want to move, only to sleep. I felt as
if I had just finished an exam.

My Christmas and my trip to England
taught me a lot of lessons. I learned not to
sled with blue jeans on. I learned not to walk
across icy ponds with tennis shoes on my
feet. But these are weather lessons. The life
lessons I learned came from the classroom
of the two year old. My day with Cody was
in many ways the most rewarding and amaz-
ing of my life.

The laughter of children is inspiring
and beautiful. I believe that almost all of us
as Davidson students take this for granted in
our environment that is devoid of children.
The most I had ever come into contact with
achild’s development previously was in Dr.
Palmer’s General Psychology class. Until
that day when I saw a child learn and grow.

Spend the day with a two year old:

self-sacrifice, and look at how cool I am.

Okay, maybe that was a bad example.
But, like my mother says, if your friends
don’t like you because of how you look, then
they’re not really your friends. (Hey! Wait
a minute. All my friends keep making lots
of body hair jokes. I think I have to reevalu-
ate my circle of comrades. I may not have
any friends after all.)

One girl tried to justify the posterior
placement of her keys by saying, “If you put
your keysin your front pocket, it makes your
hips look bigger.”

One: only an idiot would think that
your hips are normally shaped with an extra
big bulge on one side of your pelvis. Andif «
you are naturally shaped that way, keys are
a great way to even out your figure. ;

Two: you are an idiot if you think that
you are drawing attention away from the
size of your hips by placing flashing lights
and hooting whistles on your gluteus maxi-
mus.
I’m afraid there is some bad news even
for those women who move their keys away
from that dangerous locale. I will take onthe
unsafe position of speaking for all of
malehood and say that no matter how hard
you try, no matter what you do, no matter
what you wear, we will look. You can
frustrate us by carrying your books like
you’re playing bridge, but we will all look at
something.

One good thing about taking the keys
out of your back pocket is that the next man
you bust with downcast eyes will not have
an excuse. I’ve already taken advantage of
that situation in several instances. The next
girl who caught me looking at her behind
(this happens to me three or four times a day)
whirled around and demanded what I was
looking at. “Simple,” I coolly replied, “I
was just trying to see what kind of car you
drive.” I still got punched, but at least I
know deep down that she’can’t file a re-

straining ordér against me—yet.
