ed

THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS 6 LIVING MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Grammys, George
Ducas, & C [sic] ountry

First of all, I’d like to thank went to “A Whole New World”
my editors for leaving "country" from Aladdin. Apparently, none
capitalized one time in my last _ Of the voters heard the
article. If any readers actually soundtrack to George Strait’s

Pure country. Apparently none

of the voters heard any one of the
ten songs that absolutely beat the
pants off that flaky “A Whole

New World” jingle. Apparently

all the voters (like my editors—
country, country, country) have a
consuming resentment for the art

I praise weekly. Anyway, back

to the Grammys. a

wrote in and complained about
the rampant uncapitalizing of
some of my favorite words (I
was going to write about God
and America, but I was afraid
those yellow bellied sapsuckers
might, once again, abuse their
authority), I thank them as well.
If leaving country capital-

Geoff Best collaborative effort (in
country, country, country) went
Graham to Reba McEntire and Linda
Still Davis for “Does He Love You.”
Max Childers and Robin Hemle Photo by Amy Laukkanen © ane t We.e I don’t know if anyone noticed,
: 7 Whistlin Dixie but Reba is arguing with Linda

The New South:

over who has more right to the
man who two-timed them both!
What an idiotic song. The two
floozies should team up and beat
the living fool out of the dude.

ized was just a mistake, and none
of my “faithful” readers even
considered any sort of protest,
well then, to heck with you all.

contemporary writers

By Ashley Payne

This past Monday afternoon,
the 900 Room was teeming with
creativity as Max Childers and
Robin Hemley held a reading of

’ their works.

Childers, weary of reading
from his second novel Alpha
Omega , treated his audience to the
opening chapter

story from his first collection of
short stories, All You Can Eat. He
described the story as a cross be-
tween Leave it to Beaver and Inva-
sion of the Body Snatchers. The
narrator, Jack, tells of going to a
“Pancake Social” with his wife
Sarah, and his son Jamie. They go
to the church social not out of a

all his life; Jack decides he loves
Sarah’s fifteen-year-old hairdo and
drops his vendetta against the “nice
fat man” sitting across the table.
At the end of the story, Aunt
Jemimaiscarried out onastretcher,
hardly noticed by anyone but
Jack—everyone else is happily
eating pancakes.

Hemley com-

country, country, country,
country, country, country,
country, country, country,
country, country, country,
country, country, country,
country, country, country,
country, country. My editors just
had to uncapitalize "country"
twenty times! Ha!

Now, on with my article.

Now that would make a great
song. Maybe next year.
Apparently, the voters never
heard Clint Black’s duet with
Wynonna. “A Bad Goodbye” is
well written, tastefully executed,
and addresses a somewhat
plausible subject. Clint and
Wynonna are great. I know it.
You know it. The whole world

The Grammys were pathetic. knows it. There must have been

of'a book he has“ Hemley combines humor with an __bises humor with First of al, the best song written
recently begun, : Soe ican an attention to the for a movie or television show See country on page 12
aler ate attention to the real desires and real eres aa N
gregation Oo n ‘0 e hu- ‘
Dead. needs of the human heart. man heart. He FRESHMEN:

The novel points to the ideal
begins with human goal of get- * °
Walter Lewis, an ting back to a Che Davidsonian needsyou.
English professor who has been desire to interact with “church- “sweetand wholesome” life, asthe ;
denied tenure for the fourth or fifth going people,” but because they syrup suggests. However, he un- Call the editors -2148.
time, grading papers for his cre- love pancakes.Sarahalsowantsto dermines this ideal through the all-
ative writing class. He prepares see Aunt Jemima, who makes a_ too-real group mentality that pro-
himself for one particular student, guest appearance. Jack begins the _ vides security but erases individu- THE Crossword
Malone, who insists on writing story asaself-righteouscynicwho ality.
science fiction storieseventhough lets his audience know about “his Both Southern writers teach aS ole TPP FP eet oe Ry
Lewisasked his classtoavoidsuch marriage gone to hell.” But as inthe Charlottearea. Max Childers S Lather 2 13 Na
types of fiction. Lewis confronts Aunt Jemima enters the story, a is an Assistant Professor of En- dance? a5 16 7
the paper (and later the class) by _ transformation takes place: Sarah glish at Winthrop College, and 1 ye i 19 : 20 fat
escaping from his usual “bland” gives Jack her “vacant smile;"" Robin Hemley isa creative writing 4 Work by Frost a oS
remarks to scrawl the word "PU- Jamieeatsmore foodthanhehasin teacher at UNC Charlotte. 17 impolite ae 25 26
TRID" on the paper. After he ‘St en 1 5 =
unexpectedly  demolishes | PDJAVINO'S WEEKLY SPECIALS oe 5 3 5
Malone’s paper, he flees to his. | | : ; A 22 Delivered 36 a7
office. eMon. Night: 80z Steak Pizzola, Fries, & 23 Break into . i :

Malone and his counterparts | Soup or Salad $9.95. Domestic beer $1.00 24 Mego = :
pie 2 fog poarnaseianatgg | eTues. Night: Kids 12 and Under Eat 1/2 28 Backoone, a “eer es

. . ‘ in actor
silence, hoping they will think he | Price from the Kid's Menu. Import Beer 32 Newman o : nt E
has gone elsewhere. During this $1.50 33 Ingicate [ Ee =
inka ea dealetncny a eWed. Night: All You Can Eat PizzaS4.75. 36 Speak a eg ate svc
3 ' — e: pref. All ts Reserved

his father’s house in North Caro- | Pitcher Beer $3.50. Mug O' Beer SO.75 38 Domingo and oe ANSWERS
lina. Overcome by this drastic turn : Shell 40 Steed 6 Chances
of events, Lewis growls and chases eThurs. Night: Jumbo Stuffed Ss, 41 Kaves, old 7 Riper |
Malone and his gang asif he were | Soup or Salad, & Bread $7.75. Glass of “reap Tompson 19 Row ct su
a crazed version of Frankenstein’s Wine $1.00 heroine 11 Eastern VIP HBOOD SUODEE
monster. pegs ppp cam DEOOS BaOOO OOo

Chi iting is light and ; i i) ef" Chi i 49 Grose” 16 Eng. river BOE BOO mI)

ilders’s writing is light an eFri. Night: Chef's Choice 50 Open areas 21 Own OOD BOOS BOO

funny at times although this begin- 3 Capito's roo! 22 Wnter Bellow ST ea tat Sine
ning seems somewhat obvious. 88 Food regimen 38 Night sight ae NO SSU0 OOD
The letter notifying him of his in- $6 Suppositions 25 Trialpiaces [3g] |WIN] 310) ¥] O12) 4] a] 01 9]
heritance approaches a deus ex 58 Sp. lady Seuorent CIEIIE! {stot atari
machina attempt to create a plot. h D AVINO’S Restaurant ay a Heaiin aren
Childers’s talent should not go & Bar 1 Classical 90 To shetter 2
unnoticed. His unique style has » G cA » 892 -479 4 2 ae 33 Shields 40 Party givers 46 Threesome
the capacity to turn a rather com- a WY baseball 34 id uprasa = 41 “Aida 4; Been garden
mon introduction into interesting hrs Sadler Square Shopping Center 3 Tart 36 individOals 42 istant dog
° m (<p Davidson, NC 4 Always, toa 37 Grimy 43 Had concern 51 Grease
literature. / Hours: M-Th 11:30-10:00 Fit. 11:30-10 bard 39 Omit abyliable 45 Unsullied 52 Total

Robin Hemley, also in need of py Sat 4-10 Sunday Cloeed
a change, decided to read the title at

