6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Hollywood
Some thoughts on Schindler's List

By Brett Marston
— i unanimous
acclaim across the U.S.,Schindler’s
List promises to be one of the most
important cinematic portrayals of
the Holocaust ever produced.

At least two German newspa-
pers have reviewedSchindler’s List
and also given it high praise.
Monika Zeigler’s article in Die
Wochenpost from December 29th
of last year remains mostly de-
scriptive except for one interesting
paragraph.

“Spielberg must have set to
work like a man possessed,” she
writes after describing the positive
critical response to the movie in
the U.S. “With documentary pre-
cision, he brings the evil before our
eyes—shootings, executions, the
unbridied caprice of ihe SS sdi-
diers, and equally as immediately
and convincingly the resistance of
one German, Oskar Schindler.”

Andreas Kilb’s review in the
January 28th issue of Die Zeit is
more interesting and insightful than
Zeigler’s article. The title, “Wait-
ing until Spielberg Comes,” mir-
rors Kilb’s concern that the Ger-
mans have yet to deal sufficiently
with this part of their history.

“WithSchindler’s List,” writes
Kilb, “Spielberg has done that
which no European or American
director has yet been able to do: to
transform the story of the ghettos
and concentration camps into a
cinematic fiction without distort-
ing it with kitschy or cheaply bru-
tal effects.”

“Considering Schindler’s
List,” Kilb continues, “one must

ask oneself why not one of the
truly significant films which deal _
with the horrible chapter of recent
German history has come from
Germany.”

Referring to the television film
Holocaust, which aired on. Ger-
man television in 1979 and helped
Stir widespread public debate about
Germany’s national socialist past,
Kilb writes. further, “with
Spielberg’s film, Hollywood deals
with (bewaltigt) German history a
second time, and the Germans, the
true masters in letting their history
pass them by, look on.”

How will German audiences
receive Schindler’s List ? Prob-
ably without the same unambigu-
ous enthusiasm which American
gaitics and late have shown in

Price ccenal

In most every review I have
read, critics have shown genuine
respect for Spielberg because of

‘the mature way in which he has

brought the Holocaust tothescreen.
There are nonetheless two points
which most critics seem to over-
look.

First of all, although
Schindler’s List itself is convinc-
ing (with the possible exception of
the portrayal of Schindler, who
sometimes remains flat), the pack-
aging and selling of the movie lay
bare some troubling characteris-
tics of Hollywood. The
television commercials are disturb-
ing for their simplistic representa-
tion of the themes of the movie.
Further, some theaters—including
the Arboretum—have shown this
movie in the usual way, with pre-

views for the latest steamy, action-
packed flicks commanding the

audience’s attention for fifteen

minutes before the opening scene,
which thus flounders under the
contradiction.

Secondly, the fact that we need
Spielberg to tell us a convincing
story about the Holocaust should
make us worry about the way our
society constructs history.

“As a contribution to popular
culture,” writes John Gross in a
review in the New York Review,
“[Schindler’s List | can only do
good. Holocaust denial may or
may not be a major problem in the
future, but Holocaust ignorance,
Holocaust forgetfulness, and Ho-
locaust indifference are bound to
be, and Schindler’s List is likely to
do as much as anv sinole work Cai
do to dispel them.”

What concerns me is the
damning observation underlying
this argument: that education about
this subject does not primarily take
place in schools and universities,
in civic and religious groups, in
families, and in local libraries, so
that we must rely on the entertain-
ment industry to keep alive stories
about the Holocaust.

Perhaps this troubling situa-
tion compelled some to create the
Holocaust memorials in Washing-
ton and Los Angeles.

Ultimately, how we remem-
ber, discuss, and portray this hor-
rible chapter of history will reveal
and to an extent determine the es-
sence of our humanity. Should we
trust Hollywood to guard Holo-
caust memories for us?

The Dean Rusk Program

Don't look now-- the Old Order
makes a comeback in Russia

By GautamSrinivasan

The results of recent elections
and the strong showing of Russia’s
old hard-liners shakes Western
confidence in Yeltsin and the re-
form movement.

When Eastern Europe broke
away from Soviet control and the
Soviet Union itself dissolved, the
Cold War was considered over.
Western politicians and thinkers
celebrated the triumph of democ-
racy and the free market believing
that our “superior” systems had
defeated Communism once and for
all. The people of the old Commu-
nist world would soon enjoy the
benefits the West had known for
years. But strange things have
happened on the way to wonder-
land in Russia.

Although Russian citizens
have warmed up to democracy,
their move to an open market has
been hesitant. Economic reforms
have been half-hearted and faced
opposition in the face of the old
order. The economy has gone into
a tailspin. Boris Yeltsin replaced
Gorbachev promising to speed re-
forms, but the economic slide has
continued.

With no end to the pain in
sight, ex-Communists and anti-re-
formers have begun to pick .up

support. Nostalgia for the old days
when basic needs were provided
for have fueled the old order come-
back.

The recent Russian elections
are yet another sign of the troubled
water. The results of the election,
held in mid-December, do not bode
well for Yeltsin and the reformers.

Yeltsin’s party, Russia’s
Choice, and other reform parties
hold only a 35% bloc of Russia’s
new Parliament. The rest is con-
trolled by a variety of parties with
different goals. The Russian Unity
and Accord Party wants to slow
down reform; the Agrarian Party
wants to limit reforms; others op-
pose reform completely. While
Yeltsin does have several friendly
parties in Parliament, itis clear that
he will face many uphill struggles
ina possibly unfriendly Parliament.

Perhaps the most tangible
evidence of Russian frustration is
Vladimir Zhirinovsky and his ironi-
cally named Liberal Democratic
Party. Their goals fly in the face of
Yeltsin’s reforms and are enough
to cause considerable concern in
the West.

In a time of economic hard-
ship, Zhirinovsky’s extreme na-
tionalist rhetoric has captured many
Russians. He has called for a Rus-

sian reconquest ofthe Soviet Union
and has threatened to seize Fin-
land, slice up Poland and even to
retake Alaska. While he may
sound like a man with a few screws
loose to us, his words hit home
with many Russians. They are
angry that their once mighty coun-
try, indeed one of the world’s su-
perpowers, is now inshambles and
looking to the west for help.

What does this mean for the
United States? The election re-
sults didinitially surprise the White
House, but radical policy changes
are not likely to follow. Until now,
the U. S. has firmly stood behind
Boris Yeltsin as Russia’s best hope.
Strobe Talbott, the President’s
chief Russia aide, continues to push
this stance.

Undoubtedly, Talbott will
eventually have to deal with the
question of how much assistance
to offer Russia. While the White
House has been quick to talk about
the importance of democracy and

a free market, economic help has

been slow to follow.

At some point, the U. S. will
have to beef up its role. If the
economy continues to flounder,
Zhirinovsky will have ample frus-
tration with which to feed aes na-
tionalist talk, | ’

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994

NOTES

Ills that don’t exist

“Is there a health carecrisis? Ask most Americans and the answer,
most assuredly, is yes. Ask, then, the nature of the crisis and you
venture onto trembling earth.
“Polls repeatedly confirm the existence of a ‘health care crisis.’
But when asked to define it, a gap emerges between the public’s|
assessment of the crisis and the Clinton administration’s.
“Americans have high regard for the quality of care and generally
feel more secure about their own circumstances than generic responses
to ‘crisis’ questions would suggest.”
-a column in the Perspective section of the Sunday, January 30
issue of The Atlanta Journal/Constitution.

Guilty until proven innocent

“Singer Michael Jackson is paying out a multi-million dollar
settlement to the teenager who sued him for alleged child molestation.
That confirms what we knew long ago: that the entertainer was guilty
as sin.

“As for figure skater Tonya Harding, of course she was behind the
plot to injure opponent Nancy Kerrigan. What is the U.S.. Olympic
Committee waiting for? Take a poll and toss her off the team already.
“Of course, we are being facetious. We have become uneasy
about the tone, if not the zealousness, of the rush to judgement on
people—including celebrities who are public figures—for supposed
criminal acts.”

-from an editorial in Baltimore’s Sun, Saturday, January 29.

Patrick’s nomination

“President Clinton has finally chosen someone for the oe of|
assistant attorney general to head the Justice Department’s civil rights
division: 37 year old Deval L. Patrick. It has taken much too long to
fill this job, a fact that should trouble many others besides the most
active supporters of civil rights. The risk in moving at such a glacial
pace has had to do not just with policy vacuums and problems in
administration. It has also carried the suggestion-we suspect unin-
tended-that the administration was indifferent to the issues at stake.”
-from an editorial in the Thursday, February 3 issue of The
Washington Post.

A new ‘genetic era’?
“Every week, we read of the latest advance in genetics. But the
news is often less exciting than bewildering. We are deluged with|
stories about the importance of genetic explanations, then warned that
the ability to identify genetic diseases is far ahead of therapeutic
possibilities. There are stories extolling the benefits of predictive
testing, and stories decrying the risks of gathering genetic information,
like the loss of privacy. We are told that this is the dawn of a new
genetic era, and cautioned about an impending eugenic nightmare.

“Images of the gene are appearing not only in news reports but in
magazines and on television, in advertising copy and books on child
care. Human beings in all their social and moral complexity are
equated with their DNA; and the gene, a biological entity, has become
a cultural icon invested with social meaning.”

-from the Op-ed page of The New York Times, Fri., February 4.

The Beauty Myth
"Tonya [Harding] loyalists are absolutely right in noting that
women who win [advertising] endorsements fit a too narrow pretty
feminine Dorothy Hamill, Chris Evert and yes, Bell Kerrigan. No|
tough girls need apply.
"But the sorriest spectacle is not just Tonya versus Nancy, or Nike
versus Reebok. It's the grand slam takeover by companies that award
the real gold medals. In this world every accomplishment has the same
value: a market value. What you can do is only worth what you Gaal
sell."
'_ .Ellen Goodman, an associate editor of The Boston Globe, from
the Viewpoint page of The Charlotte Observer, Saturday, February 5.

People really hate Congress
"WASHINGTON.--The Raleigh-based National Congressional a |
has a new name-- the National Conservative Club.

"When a lady wrote me and said, 'I won't support any organization]
with the word ‘Congress in it,' I knew it was time for the National
Congressional Club to change its name," club Executive Director]
Carter Wrenn wrote to contributors last week.

John Monk, from the Charlotte Observer, Saturday, February 5.

