6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1994

The Dean Rusk Program
Menkhaus speaks on lessons for

United Nations peacekeeping

By Graham Ernst

Last Monday , Davidson Pro-
fessor Dr. Ken Menkhaus dis-
cussed the relationship between
United Nations peacekeeping mis-
sions and United States involve-
ment in Somalia, Rwanda, and
Haiti. His analysis of each mission
resulted in four recommendations
for improvement in the future.

Dr. Menkhaus spent last year
in Somalia as a special advisor to
the U.N. sanctioned UNICEF mis-
sion and is currently on a fellow-
ship at the Peacekeeping Institute
of the Army War College in Penn-
sylvania. He is expected to return
to Davidson’s political science de-
partment next fall.

While Dr. Menkhaus refused
to address the issue of where the
U.N. should and should not inter-
vene, he was very clear in describ-
ing guidelines for success when
intervention does occur. Unfortu-
nately, these guidelines were the
result of failures of the UNICEF
mission which have now been titled

“the “Somalia Syndrome.”

Foremost, Dr. Menkhaus cited
the conditions under which the U.S.
and the U.N. went into Haiti as a
problem from the start. The mis-
sion was expected to be “litmus
test” for aggressive peacekeeping

under U.N. approval. Many
thought that UNICEF would be-
come a forerunner for future con-
tainment of global anarchy. How-
ever, General Adide and other So-
mali warlords knew that the U.N.
was under pressure to succeed in a
short period of time. These war-
lords were willing to wait out the
foreign peacekeepers decreasing
U.N. bargaining power.

The pressure for immediate
success by the U.N. and the U.S.
alsocreated adiscrepancy between
the U.N.’s ability to take on the
“massive task on rebuilding the
Somali state and satisfying pres-
sures to bring the troops home soon
and unharmed.

Finally; the U.N. political ana-
lysts greatly underestimated what
it would take to rebuild the Somali
state. Instead of simply reviving
the wounded government, the U.N.
officials arrived to find a govern-
ment that was “D.O.A..” As a re-
sult, there was great difficulty in
finding legitimate sources of po-
litical authority besides clan war-
lords. This fact forced the U.N. to
expanded upon President Bush’s
initial goal of the mission which
was to provide humanitarian aid.

During the current mission in
Haiti, several things have been done

that were not done in Somalia lead-
ing to greater success. Foremost,
U.S. troops quickly disarmed
Cedras’ attaches. Second, reserve
officers with better human rela-
tions skills and sound knowledge
of Haitian language and culture
were used to a greater extent than
they were used in Somalia.

_ Dr. Menkhaus concluded his
speech with suggestions for in-
creased future success in peace-
keeping missions. First, the U.N.
should only intervene when it has
the means and the will to solve the
country’s problem at its root de-
spite what CNN cameras show day
to day. This does include accept-
ing casualties.

Second, Peacekeepers must
understand that their role balances
between neutrality and impartial-
ity. It is nearly impossible to me-
diate negotiations and enforce
peace simultaneously. Third, the

‘U.S. should propose reforms for.

the U.N. to decrease its slow bu-
reaucratic power and internal cor-
ruption.

Finally, the U.S. should con-
sider establishing a corps of peace-
keeping troops with extensive po-
licing skills to accommodate the
needed “sensitivity to culture” that
is required for future success.

This Week in Washington

U.S. and North Korea reach
agreement over nuclear weapons

By Andrea Short

Last week, American and
North Korean negotiators appar-
ently settled the question of North
Korea’s potential nuclear prolif-
eration. After a discouraging, two-
hour meeting on Sunday, negotia-
tors managed to reach a compro-
mise that promises North Korean
nuclear reform with the assurance
of substantial U.S. and interna-
tional aid.

A previous accord had been
reached in early August, however,
North Korea reneged on this agree-
ment; they demanded two billion
dollars to compensate abandoning

their nuclear reactor program and

objected to U.S. inspection. .

Originally the nations had
agreed on a nuclear freeze in con-
junction with gradual concessions
from the United States such as
diplomatic recognition, but after
North Korea’s new demands, the
nations were forced to reevaluate
negotiations last week.

Robert Galluci, the chief
‘American negotiator, reported
Monday that an agreement had
_been reached, but no specifics of
the accord would be released until
Clinton approved the terms.
Galluci flew back to Washington
D.C. to meet with the Administra-
tion and some key Congressional
members, intending to return to
Geneva on Friday if Clinton agreed

to the accord. While the two na-
tions maintained some secrecy
about the accord’s terms during
the week, U.S. officials kept South
Korea informed throughout the
talks. Y
Tuesday afternoon Clinton
released the terms of the agree-
ment and announced his approval
of the talk’s results. “This agree-
ment will help achieve a
longstanding and vital American
objective — an end to the treat of
nuclear proliferation on the Ko-
rean Peninsula,” Clinton remarked
_after meeting with foreign policy
advisors. North Korea agreed to
replace their graphite nuclear reac-
tors with more modern light-water
reactors that produce less weapon-
grade plutonium. Allowing full
inspections, followed by disman-
tling the nuclear reactors, and, fi-
_Nally, disposing of the controver-
sial nuclear fuel rods comprise
North Korea’s main responsibili-
ties. In response, Clinton has au-
thorized a four billion dollar en-

ergy aid package spread over the

next ten years if North Korea fol-
lows this freeze/disarmament time-
table.

The accord includes aid from
numerous other countries besides
the United States. South Korea
and Japan will head a group of
nations in providing North Korea
with the light-water reactors. South

Korea will provide half of the costs
of replacing the nuclear reactors
while Japan will contribute ap-
proximately thirty percent of these
expenses.

Both nations have a strong
interest in ceasing any North Ko-
rean attemptto build nuclear weap-
ons. Germany, Russia, and the
United States are expected to con-
tribute the remaining funds.

While Clinton proclaimed suc-
cess, last week the Pentagon and
the International Atomic Energy
Agency expressed reservations
about the accord’s weaknesses.
Pentagon sources question the
United States’ promise to supply
heavy oil for factories and homes;
they fear that the oil will be used to
strengthen the North Korean army.
Also, the International Atomic
Energy Agency officials expressed
concern over allowing North Ko-
rea to retain control over nuclear
weapons for several years.

As one agency official ex-
plained, “this means that we are
living with a country that flouted
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty and will remain in non-
compliance for years. We wanted
to get that fuel out of the country,
and out of the country fast.”

Sources include: the October 18,
19, and 20 issues of The New York
Times.

Inter-study representative will meet with students interested in studying in
Britain, Ireland, and Belgium. Friday 10:00 a.m. in the Big Screen Room.

NOTES

The charred bodies of 48 men, women and children—members
of a secretive religious sect known as the Order of the Solar
Temple—were discovered in two Swiss villages, a tragedy that
included apparent suicides and what local authorities described as
“collective murder” made to appear as mass suicide. In a fire-
damaged farmhouse in Cheiry, a village north of Geneva, police
discovered 23 dead men arid women wearing ceremonial vestments.
Fifty miles away, in Granges-sur-Salvan, investigators found 25
additional ‘bodies in three burned-out chalets. Many had bullet,
wounds indicative of point-blank execution. Almost simultaneously,
Canadian authorities reported the death of five more suspected cult
members near Montreal. Police are searching for the cult’s two
leaders, Luc Jouret, a Belgian homeopath who emigrated to Switzer- '
land via Canada, and Joseph di Mambro, a French Canadian.

As reported in the October 17, 1994, issue of Time Magazine.

Turning dropouts into scholars

It’s a notorious corner in the South Bronx—once a grand
address, now the hub of the nation’s poorest neighborhood. Today,
at 149th Street and the Grand Concourse, a public high school for at-
risk children defies Darwin on a daily basis. Inside Hostos-Lincoln
Academy of Science, aclass of seniors grapples with “The Seafarer,”
an Old English poem about danger, survival, and destiny. None of
these teenagers was expected 'to ever navigate into the treacherous
pages of medieval lit. In fact, their eighth-grade counselors had
written off most of them as probable dropouts, based on low reading
scores and spotty attendance. Now, after four years here, more than
80 percent are headed for college. “The Anglo-Saxons thought every
person’s fate was predetermined,” the teacher, Vincent Sottile,
reminds the class. “But we know we have to help ourselves.”

Now is the time to speak up!

Davidson College is in the midst of a comprehensive self-study that
includes all areas of campus life. One focus of the self-study is "Information
Technology," which includes computer use, service, and support; audio-
visual matters; and technology in the library.

: All members of the Davidson community-students, staff, and faculty-are
urged to communicate ideas for the future, observations about the present, and
suggestions pertaining either to the Information Technology Self-Study
Committee (#7 Jackson Court) or to individual members of the committee:
John Casey (Computer Services, co-chair), Theo Curry (student appointee),
Linda Erickson (Financial Aid), Polly Griffin (Registrar), John Heil (Philoso-
phy, co-chair), Peter Krentz (History), Grant Jones (Anthropology), Leland
Park (Library), Mitch Rhea (Chemistry), and Mary Thornberry (Political

Science). Committee members can be reached by e-mail.

eee

A
WN

Paramount Parks
Paramount Parks is holding auditions to cast the upcoming

1995 show season at Paramount's Carowinds in Charlotte,
North Carolina!

1995 will feature an all new Paramount On Ice:™, costume
character shows, roving bands, vocal groups and a
comedic/improvisational actor program featuring popular
Star Trek® aliens.

We need experienced singers, dancers, actors, costume
character performers, instrumentalists, technicians and
variety performers of all types! :

For more information write or call:
Paramount's Carowinds
P.O. Box 410289, Charlotte, NC 28241
704.587.9011

CHARLOTTE, NC
Saturday, November 5, 1994
Sunday, November 6, 1994
Paramount's Carowinds
The Paramount Theatre
2:00-3:00 Instrumentalists
3:00-5:00 Singers, Actors,
Technicians,
Variety Performers
4:00-5:00 Dancers, Show Characters

AV DIT) O.NS

‘TM & Copyright © 1994 Paramount Parks Inc. ® and © 1994 Paramount Pictures.
Star Trek is a regi d trad k of P. Pi All Rights Reserved

COLUMBIA, SC

Monday, October 31, 1994

University of South Carolina

Russell House Ballroom

2:00-3:30 Singers, Actors,
Technicians,
Instrumentalists,
Variety Performers

2:30-3:30 Dancers

PARAMOUNT

