THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Washington
Clinton focuses on future battles

By Brett Marston

President Clinton delivered his
televised State of the Union mes-
sage before Congress this past
Tuesday, focusing primarily on the
upcoming battles for welfare re-
form and his national health care
proposals.

As usual, Clinton’s delivery
left much to be desired. Clinton is
hardly a convincing speaker—the
generous applause which punctu-
ated nearly every sentence of his
speech had more to do with spec-
tacle and partisanship than with
whatever Clinton himself found fit
to say.

But let us give credit where
credit is due. The State of the Union
message has rarely been contro-
versial or exciting. Reviewing the
messages of presidents from Wash-
ington to Johnson, Arthur M.
Schlesinger, Jr. writes that presi-
dents “tended to employ the rheto-
ric of consensus seeking to mini-
mize differences, to mollify oppo-
sition and to court support. Abra-
Sive issues were often swathed and
submerged” (see the introduction
to The State of the Union Messages
of the Presidents, 1790-1966: Vol.
I, New York: Chelsea, 1967)

For all of his laudatory rheto-
ric, Clinton did breach controver-
Sial topics in a straightforward
manner and did not shy away from
confronting his opponents on dif-
ficult issues.

“For too many families, even
when both parents were working,

the American dream has been slip- -

ping away,” he contended after a

short introduction in which he re-

membered the late Tip O’Neill.
Claiming that his victorious

. presidential campaignin 1992 rep-

resented a “vote for change” from
the American people, Clinton out-
lined his speech and his major leg-
islative proposals for the coming
months:

“And so tonight, let us resolve
tocontinue thej Journey of renewal,
to create more and better jobs, to
guarantee health security for all, to
reward welfare work over welfare,
to promote democracy abroad and
to begin to reclaim our streets from
violent crime and drugs and gangs,
to renew our American commu-
nity.”

Clinton spoke at length about
the status of the economy and his
Administration’s deficit reduction
plans.

“In one year, with NAFTA,
with GATT, with our efforts in
Asia and the national export strat-
egy, we did more to open world
markets to American products than
at any time in the last two genera-
tions,” he claimed. “That means
more jobs and rising living stan-
dards for the American people.”

He also mentioned defense
conversion, increased investment
in new technology, environmental
protection laws, the creation of an
“information superhighway,” edu-
cational reform, and an overhaul
of the unemployment system.

Perhaps the most fiery topics
which Clinton discussed were the
welfare system, which Clinton
claimed “defies-our values. as a
nation,” and his proposals for health
care reform. Clinton pledged to
veto any legislation which. does
not insure every American “pri-
vate health care insurance that can
never be taken away.”

“I know there are people here’
who say there’s no health care cri-
sis,” he said, anticipating the Re-
publican response which was tele-
vised directly following his speech.
“Tell it to the 58 million people
who have no coverage at all for
some time this year. Tell it to the
81 million Americans with pre-
existing conditions. .. .Tellitto the
small businesses burdened by sky-
rocketing costs of insurance.”

True to his record for the past
twelve months, the President men-
tioned foreign affairs only briefly.

Displaying his preference for
dry, biting humor as well as his
aspirations to the presidency, sen-
ate minority leader Bob Dole de-

livered the televised Republican .

response to Clinton’s message.
References to Reagan’s rhetorical
Style were unmistakable in his
choppy phrases and his attempts to
convey a “tough guy” image.

Dole attacked Clinton’s health
care reform proposal as another
potentially expensive and ineffi-
cient government program, draw-
ing viewers’ attention to a chart of
the governmentbureaucracy which
he claims the President’s plan
would create.

Dole also expressed his con-
cerns that defense cuts have been
too deep, Democratic leadership
in Congress too soft on crime, and
a Democratic president too insin-

cere in his promise to reduce the
deficit.

He ended with a ivi of
praise for America and American
leadership in the world.

Quotes from Clinton’s speech
are from the New York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program

War & Peace: DC holds model UN meeting

By Saad Gul

Six Davidson students headed
to UNC Charlotte last Saturday for
the Carolina’s Model United Na-
tions meet. Warren Buford,
Yaroslav Bruiswick, Saad Gul, Jon
Hutzley, Chris Russell and Tho-
mas Wang represented the college
in a joint effort between the Dean
Rusk Program and the International
Student Association arranged by
Russell and Wang.

The idea was conceived when
Russell and Wang, both having
extensive MUN experience in high
school, were surprised to find that
there was no existing MUN at
Davidson. The two brought up the
idea at Dean Rusk SAC and ISA
meetings, and got the go-ahead.
While a dearth of funds prevented
immediate membership of the Na-
tional meet in New York, the
Carolina’s conference was ap-
proved as a pilot project.

A few problems did hamper
the organization, even in its em-
bryonic stage. Delays and admin-
istrative problems meant that
Davidson’s country assignments
of Cuba and Germany were not
intimated to the organizers until
after Christmas. This meant that
the team, which was supposed to
be at the meet the first weekend of

the semester, did not have ig .

able delegates like Eric Collings
were lost to other scheduled events
like athletic meets.

In fact, on the morning of the
conference, even the minimum
number of required delegates of
eight were not available. It was
decided to execute the plan as in-
tended, but with extensive circula-
tion on the part-of the delegates
among all the available commit-
tees, including the International
Court of Justice, the Security Coun-
cil and the Economic and Social
Councils.

Especially when taking into
account the relative inexperience
of some delegates, the conference
went off amazingly well. By the
end of the first session, most del-
egates were well into the swing of
things, and were beginning to think
and live their assigned roles.

The debate was lively, prepa-
ration good, and insights intelli-
gible. Some of the items on the
agenda were relatively common-
place like the Third World Debt;
others were current like the crisis
in Bosnia; some were long term as
in the environment; while some
were downright obscure, the Kash-
mir. On the lighter side, in the last
part of the evening a Cuban pro-
posed to the Security Council to
send peace keeping troops to the

‘+* household.

In the judging, Davidson did
well, with both delegations win-
ning “distinguished delegations”
awards, as well as one Dubious
Distinction Individual Award, the.
Boutros-Boutros Award for the
Most Diplomatic Use of a Phrase
from the Cuban delegate to the
Security Council.

The team’s success has
sparked an increased fervor in
Model UN meets with the next
ambition being the Southern
Regionalsin Georgia. Anyone who
would like to help out should con-
tact Chris Russell or Thomas
Wang.

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994 9

NOTES

“It doesn’t make any sense to me that our nation accounts for 40
percent of all health care spending around the world, and we have only
5 percent of the people. It doesn’t make any sense to me that what we
get for that additional spending is a lower proportion of citizens with
health care than the other industrial countries. And listen to this one:].
A typical insurance policy here Provides less coverage than in any of
the other major industrial countries...

" -remarks from Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen printed inThe
Washington Post on Thursday, January 27,

A million Mrs. Bobbitts ;

“Lorena Bobbitt’s response to being continually raped, sodomized
and beaten by her husband was uniquely bizarre. But her situation was
commonplace. What happened to Mrs. Bobbitt happens, in varying
degrees, to more than a million American women every year.

“In 1992 the Senate Judiciary Committee issued a staff report
titled “Violence Against Women: A Week in the Life of America,’ a
depressing litany of sexual assaults, physical abuse, knifings and
shootings. The victims are women; the perpetrators are for the most
part, their husbands and lovers.

“The report is only 22 pages long, but each page is enough to turn
the stomach. It also serves to put Lorena Bobbitt in perspective. She
is quite simply, one of a crowd.”

-from an editorial in the Friday, January 28 issue of The New York
Times.

Can you be guilty of being thought guilty?

“If in today’s Andy Warhol world you can now be famous for
being famous, can you also be guilty of being thought guilty? How far
‘can the scandal process go before someone finally has to say just what
the accused official is guilty of?

“Our political scandals have now become as stylized as Kabuki
drama. There is the character of the High Official, brought low by
long-ago sins. The Opposition Leader, pressing the scandal forward
as far and fast as possible. The Inquiring Journalist, nobly enraged by
lack of access to documents. The smooth Damage Controller. The
Shady Character from the High Official’s past.

“Have we gotten so good that we no longer need any substantive
information to keep the drama going?”

-from a commentary piece in The emerelpale Inquirer, Satur-
day, January 22.

Capitalism marches in Asia

“The Senate vote this week to lift the embargo on Vietnam
recognizes the tremendous potential for trade with our former enemy
and the entire region. Americans are just beginning to awaken to the
fact that two-way trade with the Asian-Pacific Rim already exceeds
our commerce with the European Union, or a combination of our
North and South American neighbors.

“This potential for increased trade and more U.S. jobs springs
from the fact that capitalism is on the march in Asia. If Adam Smith
and Karl Marx could visit Beijing and Hanoi today, they would be
shocked to see countries like China and Communist Vietnam sprinting
toward capitalism.”

-from a commentary written by Arlen Specter, the senior senator
from Pennsylvania, in the Friday, January 28 issue of The Wall Street
Journal.

such as these:

are also required.

federal student loan.

scholarships and more.

FINANCIAL AID AWARENESS MONTH

In the spirit of this special designation, we invite students to call or visit the Financial Aid Office to ask questions

Q: How do I apply for need-based aid for 1994-95?

A: Submit a Financial Aid Form (FAF) and a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the College
Scholarship Service by March 15. The Davidson College Application for Financial Assistance must be submitted
to the Financial Aid Office by May 1.

Q: How do I apply for a merit/honor scholarship? :
A: Submit The Merit/Honor Application to the Financial Aid Office. Two honor recommendations from faculty

Q: How do I know if I'm eligible for any financial aid? :
A: Check with the Financial Aid Office, #1 Jackson Court, 892-2232. Most full-time students will qualify for a

Q: What sources of assistance are available to me and my family?
A: Again, check with the Financial Aid Office. Possibilities may include loans, jobs, payment plans, outside

FEBRUARY IS

