10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1994

The Davidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS- Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON- Managing Editor

MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY- Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED-Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN-Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN- Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost.
College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN- Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD- Circulation Manager

A simple solution?

We are under the impression that the Student Conduct Council and five faculty
members have spent a large amount of time studying Davidson’s definition of
plagiarism. The tangible result of this study is a new phrasing of that definition:
“Intentionally presenting someone else’s work as your own.in a research paper,
written work, lab report, musical composition, computer algorithm, or data file is,
therefore, cheating.”

This seems a simple and obvious definition. We ourselves had problems
figuring out how to document the above quote, since the phrase “presenting
someone else’s work as your own” first appeared in Sheridan Baker’s The Complete
Stylist and Handbook. We intended to give the author credit. Still, it is often times
difficult to properly document any source, especially considering that most students
get so caught up in their own thoughts that it is easy to be guilty of oversight.

And intent does seem the key. Doling out Honor violations for simple mistakes
is contrary to the purpose of the Code. However, the new definition, which is
actually over a page long, also provides an easy escape for students who have
presented others’ work as their own. “I amsorry, I just didn’t know how to document
that.”

This escape route could easily become a problem for an Honor Council that has
recently come under heavy scrutiny concerning its ability to govern the activities of
the student body. Though we canthink of no clear solution to an interesting problem,
we also do not envy those who must now enforce this new definition.

Asimple documentation mistake can be confused with an intentional deception.
It is sometimes hard to differentiate between the two and the new definition leaves
that distinction up to the judgment of members of the faculty and the Honor Council.

Perhaps the “clarification” places more “academic control,” as one faculty
member has argued, in the hands of professors. But the ultimate ruling lies with the
Honor Council, and their decisions affect lives. That places a lot of responsibility
on their shoulders.

Still, we think that the true responsibility rests with the professors and their
students. The key to not making documentation mistakes is good paper writing
skills, and as with every academic issue, it is up to the teacher to teach them and the
pupils to learn them.

Handling the Heels

We at the Davidsonian have been doing a a little math, putting our knowledge
of geometry to work, so to speak. We are going to apply what we know about the
transitive property to this year’s men’s basketball team. So here goes.

Davidson beat N.C. State. Then N.C. State beat Georgia Tech, who had already
beaten the Tarheels of the University of North Carolina. Therefore, it is not hard to
believe that on a good day, the Cats could handle the Heels. See how that works?
Unfortunately, The Charlotte Observer and Jason Byassee actually pointed that out
before we did, but it is a good argument anyway.

But all kidding aside, this team is a serious contender in the Southern Confer-

ence, and it is not hard to see why Saturday’s reunion of the 1969 SoCon.

championship team was appropriate. With stars like Janko Narat and Brandon
Williams and scores of others, the team is in a great position to return to the NCAA
Tournament for the first time since 1986.

Congratulations are certainly in order for Coach McKillop and all of the players
and assistant coaches. \

LETTERS

Racism still alive in Davidson

To the editors,

The sun isshining beau-
tifully. The warmth from
the sunshine lends memo-
ries of a day of springtime.
Laughter is in the air, caus-
ing smiles from the inside
out. Oh No! A dark cloud
shows its ugly face.
As I walk into Dover’s
Supermarket around 12:40
p.m. on Wednesday, Janu-
ary 26th, I head for the
butcher’s counter to get a
pound of lean turkey breast.
Yes, I’m trying to get rid of
the extra pounds. I told you
spring is in the air, so al-
ready, I’m preparing for that
“great day.”

To my surprise, when I
arrive at the counter, I find
that I’m the only customer. I
think, this day just keeps get-
ting better and better! Two

employees, one male and one
female (oh, did I forget to
say white employees), were
_behind the counter. Both
looked at me when I got
there, but chose to continue
doing what they were doing.
As he was completing wrap-
ping a package of beef, and
she a package of bacon, I
was ready to place the order
for my Jean turkey breast.
Oops! It was not my turn.
Both started on another pack-
age after once again looking
at me standing there.

Then, the dark cloud I
mentioned earlier began to
wipe away my sunshine.
After at least five minutes
had passed, I asked if I could
get someone to serve me.
The female once again
looked up, saying yes. The
male continued to wrap

meat, never looking up
again.

Being the proud Afri-
can-American woman that I
am, I had a need to inform
them that I realized the game
plan. Although it did not
disturb my character, it defi-
nitely worked my nerves!

Ithought, even ifitdoes
not cause the individuals to
change their narrow-
mindedness or enhance their
personal growth, I had to
inform them of the ignorance
and insensitive mind-set they
allowed to encompass their
world,

As I shared this experi-
ence with the store manager,
I was appalled by his re-
sponse, “Thank you for tell-
ing me; we’ ll take care ofit.”

See Miller on page 12

Dating at the big

2s) 6B pe

To the editors,

Seeing as it is my final
semester at the big “D,” I
plan on living it up. Sure,
I’ll keep up with my classes,
but let’s just say my extra-
curricular activities will not
be diminished in terms of
frequency of occurrence.

To many of you, these
activities consist of going
down on the court or going
to Back Street or Davino’s
some Wednesday or Thurs-
day night. Others of you
think of going white water
rafting, or bicycling. Still
others might just think of
getting high and listening to
music, just hanging out with

friends.

There are plenty more
activities, most of which I
cannot begin to go into, be-
cause they involve variations
of the above, or none of the
above.

The bottom line is:
whom do you do these ac-
tivities with? Looking from
my perspective, I usually do
them with my friends, most
of whom happen to be fe-
males. I don’t have a boy-
friend, but I feel the social
climate at Davidson limits
my association with males
in a setting outside of aca-
demia and the court.

I understand many of

you Davidson women have
plenty of guy friends that
would be willing to go with
you to see a movie, play fris-
bee at the lake, or do what-
ever. But what about that
one guy you would like to
getto know better? Ido not
mean necessarily to hook
with, but spending time with
someone you’dlike to spend
time with that you don’t see
that often. This is
where the dilemma comes
in. If you would like to go
out with him, and you usu-
ally just see him on the court,
or on your way to class,

See Date on page 11

Favoring

athletes over students

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the studen
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words an
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Ou:
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinion
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views o:
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertisin
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College

To the editors:

I would like to extend
my most heartfelt thanks to
whomever in the athletic de-
partment finally decided to
make Davidson just like any
other school—one that fa-
vors its athletes over stu-
dents. Under the guise of
“equal facilities,” students
who do not play varsity ath-
letics will no longer be able
to use the free weights in the
Baker sports complex.

But wait! Students can
use the new Nautilus equip-
ment upstairs, or they can

use the free weights at the

football stadium. However,
as two of my roommates
have found out, there is lim-
ited space and limited time
slots at the football weight
room. Not to mention that it
is mandatory for each stu-
dent to sign up for four days
a week. If one misses their
time slotthree times, the time
slot is taken away and given
to a student who is more
serious about lifting weights.

Iwouldn’t be so hacked
off if I had time to work out
four times a week, or if stu-
dents had actually been con-
sulted about the possible

change. My point is that my
parent’s 20+ grand a year
deserves better. Why build
such an excellent facility as
Baker only to restrict part of
its use to a fraction of
Davidson’s tiny student
body? ;

Iwouldalsolike to point
out that it has been quite
some time since the Supreme
Court corrected the mistake
of Plessey v. Ferguson.
“Separate but equal” no
longer applies—except at
Davidson, that is.

Sincerely,

Bryan Allison ‘95
