THE DAVIDSONIAN —

MONDAY, APRIL 11, 1994

LEIGH RAWDON- Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY- Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS- Managing Editor

Che Bavidsonian

- KATHERINE HASH- News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY-Ass't News, Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY- Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED-Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN-Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB- Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN- Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON- Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
’ KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN- Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD: Circulation Manager

| ma.
(Preventing Censorship)

Last week, we printed an opinions piece entitled “Pornography leads to a greater
future” by the mythical Clayton Huey. Mr. Huey got the better of us, but in the face of
our misfortune we learned something interesting and unexpected about many Davidso-
nians.

The comment we heard most was not “You’re stupid for not realizing Clayton Huey
isn'ta person” (though we did hear that), or “I can’t believe how radical that Clayton Huey
guy is!” What most outraged Davidsonians said was this: “I can’t believe you printed that
sexist article.” :

Now wait a minute. These critics are walking on dangerous ground, even if
unintentionally. oahu Ei Se Iii ;
~~ The “politically correct movement,” as it has been aptly and obtusely named, lately
has become a buzz word, even a cliche, in American journalism and letters. Being P.C.
has definite advantages. People who do not use gender-inclusive language or are not
sensitive to other cultures and religions lose credibility in their dealings with other people.
Rightfully, many Davidson professors teach us how to use gender-inclusive language in
our writing to prepare us for an increasingly sensitive world.

But there is a point where a good thing can be taken too far, and it appears that many
Davidsonians, in their cry for censoring Huey's ideas, are dangerously close to crossing
that line.

If people think that pornography is good, then they can say it in our paper, whether
or not we agree. And if readers disagree, they can write in and express their views, too.

Even if taken literally, the extremism of Mr. Huey's stance should not deprive him
of his right to free speech. The first amendment should be foremost in our minds,
especially here at an institution whose very existence depends upon the open exchange
of ideas.

Too many colleges have already committed the injustice of institutionalizing
political correctness. At the University of New Hampshire, a creative writing professor
was suspended for comparing focus in writing to sex. At one college, there i is even arule
against inappropriate laughter.

That’s not funny. To limit any kind of speech, no matter how extreme the view and
no matter how noble the cause, would be to insult everything a college stands for. The
way to make progress is to change what people think, not what they say. It is a fallacy to
think that forbidding people to say they like pornography will make them change their
minds about it. Repression only causes resentment and brings no solutions.

On the other hand, getting a point of view into the open will spark debate and fertilize
the ground where people can grow and change. We are editors, not censors. We edit trite
vulgarities as a simple matter of course, but we have no qualms about printing bizarre
points of view. Once, people thought the idea of women voting was pretty bizarre, too.

College is not about being proper. It’s about learning. We should thank our

administrators and faculty that Davidson has not fallen into the verbal police state that has a

infected many colleges and universities.

senza

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the studen’
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian.
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words an
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Ow
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinion
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views ©:
. | the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost. $32.50 per year. Advertisin

_ LETTERS

Do students employ professors?

To the editors,

Uh-oh. Students as
employers, huh? I missed
that concept until last week’s
letter about faculty evalua-
tions, so I’ve got some ques-
tions.

Does this mean! should
getapprovals on my syllabi?
Does this mean I’m being
uppity about office hours and
appointments? Just to clarify
the organization chart, is my
employer my immediate
(student) supervisor, or the
person at the “home office”
(if not in our Financial Aid
Office) who signs the
checks? Does this mean that
scholarship and research are

“moonlighting”? Will I
know I’m fired if nobody
shows up, or if they don’t let
me stand in front and talk
any more? Surely there’s
not an assumption that I’m
in this for the money .. . but
I’m betting it means be
damned careful with grades.

So far, evaluations
haven’t jeopardized my re-
lationships with students, at
least from my end, but
misperceptions that I am an
“employee” of students

might. Call me aprisoner of _

my own history with em-
ployer-employee relation-
ships, but that framework has
great potential for misunder-

standings. I thought we were
doing something different,
and better.

Meanwhile, somebody
fill me in. Maybe that wacky
Dean and those zany Trust-
ees, to say nothing of the
American Psychological
Association, are REALLY
running a number on me.
And for heaven’s sake,
please tell me if I should go
back and look at ten years’
worth of student evaluations
in a whole new light.

Disappointed,

Cole Barton, Ph.D.
Associate Professor of
Psychology

To the editors,

My feelings upon read-
ing the article in last week’s
Davidsonian entitled “Por-
nography Leads to a Greater
Future” were ones of dis-
gust— not concerning the
piece itself, but rather with
the author and the editors of
the Davidsonianwho under-
handedly allowed the use of
a pseudonym in the place of
the author’s name. In doing
so, the Davidsoniannot only
compromised on a supposed
policy of not allowing ano-
nymity, but hurt the honor-
able reputation of “The
South’s Foremost College
Weekly,” atleast in my eyes.
_ Because I know the au-
thor, and recognize the work
as satire, I have no objec-

tions to the content of “Por-
nography ...” Many people
who do not, however, see
this article in the same satiri-
cal light might wish to re-
spond to Clayton Huey, the
man credited with the piece.
Unfortunately for them,
there is not Clayton Huey
listed in the student direc-
tory. It seems that protect-
ing the anonymity of awriter,
especially the author of a
possibly controversial ar-
ticle, contradicts the spirit of
discussion that the Davidso-
nian thrives upon. By al-
lowing contributors to hide
behind a curtain, the David-
sonian opens itself up to a
situation in which contro-
versial articles of any nature
can be published with little

accountability by the author.

A writer who truly be-
lieves what he or she has to
say need not hide behind a
pseudonym. It was always
my understanding that
Davidson hoped to produce
bright, thoughtful students
with the confidence to be
vocal and stand behind their
words. If Davidson hopes to
continue such a tradition,
then perhaps the Davidso-
nian should be a bit more
thorough when publishing
pieces from first-time con-
tributors, and perhaps
Clayton Huey should decide
whether or not he has the
nerve to stand by his words.

Anonymously,
Tan D. Fitzpatrick ‘97

A note from "Clayton Huey"

To the editors,
In defense of my article,
“Pornography Leads to a

April 4, 1994 issue, I would
like to explain its meaning,
why I used a pseudonym,
and why I even submitted it.

First and foremost, I
want everyone who didn’t
pick up on the sarcasm to
know that the piece was, in
face, a satirical essay. I was
trying to express my objec-

eral, Living with freshmen
males, Ican’tsay that I never
come across any type of por-
_|nographic material. How-

ever,.1 can say. that I am

Greater Future,” foundin the:

tion to pornography in gen- —

against it. I think pornogra-
phy promotes the idea of
casual sex as well as’ rape
and many sexual crimes we
hear so much about. I think,
as a country, that we have
greatly swayed froma found-
ing principle, “One nation
under God,” and I think por-
nography helps detract from
the original meaning of this
idea. But before I get too far
off on a tangent, and just to
reiterate, I want you to know
that it was a satire—I think
you can see the meaning
now.

However, because of
the possibility of immediate
offense and possible misun-

derstanding, I left my real
name off the article. I didn’t

“want someone who. misun-

derstood or merely read half

‘of the article to make a pre-

judgment about me. I think
any judgments can be made
now, since you know what
it’s about and who I really
am.

Now, to why I submit-
ted the article. It started out
as a graded, satirical essay
which was based on Jonathan
Swift’s “A Modest Pro-
posal.” After reading it, my
professor and peer editing
group asked me to submit it

See Huey on page 9
. ’
