THE DAVIDSONIAN : . MONDAY, AUGUST 29, Rte sf

: LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
Gh er B upidsonian ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor

CASEY ROGERS-Associate Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
KRISTINA NEVIUS-Photography Editor

; ARTHUR GASTON-Copy Editor
eis sanick alot WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

fest atcsiihe Sf tat BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
College Weekly : KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager Br L ERS
SCOTT HILE- Operations Manager

JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager ;
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager ee LETTERS
ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

To the freshmen parents:

We hope you enjoy this, your free issue of the Davidsonian. We wish we could send
you a free issue every week, but as our budget is limited, alas, we cannot.

But do not despair. You can subscribe for a measly $32.50 for a year of The South's
| Foremost College Weekly. If you doult the value of such an investment, consider this list
of ten reasons to subscribe:

1. You can keep up with the goings-on at your child's college.
2. Our big 80th Anniversary Issue comes out in September,
3. You will help to make our newspaper better by contributing to our budget.
4. We will not send you a free set of steak knives.
5. $32.50 is only .002% of thé Davidson tuition.
6. We have remarkable insight into the O.J. Simpson case.
7. If you subscribe, you are guaranteed at least one (1) picture of your child in the paper.
8. We won the award for the fourth best Southeastern college newspaper in 1969.
; : 9. We know the value of thororough editting.
We have a question. , Why do editorials always have to express an 10. You will receive our swimsuit issue free of charge.
opinion, give an answer, shed some light on an issue a make readers “*disregard #'s 4-10
say, “Hey, that’s right.”
Why can’t we, at a college, where we are trained to question ©
everything, just ask some questions of our readership that make them say,

Please make checks payable to The Davidsonian and send them to:

The Davidsonian

“Hey, that’s a good question.” - It seems almost better to bring up a few P.O. Box 219:
topics here'ant! there thae might spark sore discussion; father than force «| Davidson, NC 28036" 8
our own point of view down your throats.
Like, who gets stuck with the “Bad Stuff” boxes? Where are you NR eer ont suebore
from? Why can’t we think of something to write about after a whole Sincerely,
summer of stuff happening? If you could, would you trade in your arms The editors

for wings? Why is the new apartment building so bright? Why do all
fraternities with Alpha and Kappa in their names have so much trouble
around here? Why can 21-year-olds still get alcohol violations? Why
does Dean Shandley look like the guy from Weekend at Bernie's? Why
did it take us so long to find an advice columnist for the paper? What are
those huge monoliths hanging from the ceiling in the commons? What
does a guy have to do to get a drink around here? Where is Waldo, and
does he know Carmen Sandiego? If people had tails, would they be hairy
of fleshy? What is the derivative of X -Y? What is a derivative? Why
can’t we all just get along?

Learning begins with a question. We are all here for four years to find
out as much as we can, so question constantly. And remember, there are
no stupid questions. (Although some of the above come dang close).

Yes! I want a full year of
Che Bavidsonian delivered to my
door for a measly $32.50.

I support young, starving

Welcome journalists and am generally a _

good person.

We would like to extend a warm Davidson welcome to Dean
Shandley and the Class of 1998 and express our hope that you will have
many prosperous years (well, for the freshmen, we hope only four) here
at the finest college in the South.. And we hope that Dean Shandley isn’t - Pane
permanently nicknamed Bernie because of our publication. We look Address
forward to bringing you the news in the coming years. ni

=

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Student Class

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, | |!
P.O, Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The |
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and | .
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our |
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions | ||
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of | ||
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising |
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Mail subscription form and check for $32.50 made payable to
The Davidsonian to P.O. Box 219, Payideon, North Carolina, 28036.

a ee eee

