LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS-Managing Editor

Che Davidsonian

KATHERINE HASH-News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY-Ass‘t News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED-Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN-Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN-Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON-Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" °

BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULY AN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

Nixon's legacy

Richard Nixon, for all his faults, never failed to teach America about itself. What we
learned was, and is, disturbing: our Presidents no longer represent the pinnacle of American
success the way they once did. Our ideal that integrity and hard work ensure success has
been undermined by the knowledge that people who compromise their morals can rise in
society, even to the highest office in the land.

We can praise Nixon for his legacy ‘of savvy foreign policy— ending the war in
Vietnam and establishing diplomatic relations with communist China—but we must
recognize his true legacy for what it is, however regrettable it may sound. Since his
resignation, Americans have lost their trust in the Oval Office and, with it, their respect for
its occupant.

Where this distrust manifests itself in our culture is obvious. We need look no further
than Clinton’s town meeting in Charlotte to see citizens being openly spiteful toward our
nation’s chief executive. The aura of respect that used to surround our Presidents has faded,
and in its stead has crept the thirst for scandal, the desire to tear down what we have placed
on high. \We expect our leaders to be confident and strong, yet we insist on focusing

attention on their personal mistakés, their blights of character, and their failures. Strict (and; «

by. all means,‘ necessary) Criticism of policies has decayed into this general mood of
irreverence that followed in the wake of Nixon’s fall, and it is uncertain whether the office
will ever fully recover from its effects.

It is ironic and, perhaps, fitting that we all praise Nixon now that he is dead. The
President whose breach of trust challenged our faith in the entire system is now generously
hailed as a model of endurance and resilience. (The featured editorial in Saturday’s
Observer was titled, “Richard Nixon: I miss him already.”) Meanwhile, his legacy makes
the task of his successors ever harder for them to accomplish.

Granted, between Watergate, being a Republican, and going to Duke, Nixon doesn’t
tate very high on our list of favorite people. But he has given us one last insight by his death.
We should see our Presidents as public servants who strive the good of our country, and,
regardless of their mistakes, we should, if not approve of them, at least respect them.

If we can be so kind to the deceased Watergate President, why can’t we give our living,
breathing President the respect he deserves?

A New Purpose

At noon on Friday, when the Trustees officially changed Davidson’s Statement of
Purpose, they did more than a rewrite a few words in the course catalogue. They redefined
the goals and attitudes by which our college is viewed and for which it exists.

Inthe spirit of the openness and toleration that have enveloped our campus, our purpose
no longer looks to Jesus Christ as “the'central fact of history,” the sole source of spirituality.
Instead, we acknowledge the need for spiritual development in general, regardless. of
denomination, and affirm the respect and consideration each tradition deserves, Finally, our
written purpose parallels the ideals that our classes and activities have long sought to
promote.

Though we can never deny the value of our Presbyterian heritage, we can now move
forward, in earnest, to become a community that not only invites but also includes those of
different beliefs and backgrounds, whether in the student body, the faculty, or the
administration.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building: Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Kitchen report unsubstantiated

To the editors,
Concerning "Court
houses fail sanitation inspec-
tion," April 11, 1994, by
William Robert:

As a member of the
Davidson College student
body and Patterson Court, I
would like to express my
relief in knowing we have a
hygiene crusader on the
Davidsonian staff. The
Davidsonian took it upon
itself to inspect Patterson
Court houses and give its
honest opinion regarding the
sanitation of each.

The writer took the time
to look through the North
Carolina health codeand pin-
point various severe viola-
tions of the code that appar-
ently occur on Patterson
Court every day, right under
our noses. Thank you.

I question two things

about the articles, however.
To begin, when did the re-
porter witness these serious
infractions? As a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha, I for one
have never seen the reporter
on the premises, not to men-
tion atdinner. This leaves
me wondering if perhaps he
received the majority of his
information through word of
mouth.

My second question is
one of the significance of

the discoveries. How many

of the alleged violations have
posed or could pose a seri-
ous health risk to the mem-
bers of an eating house?
Inow charge the David-
sonian to muster all its in-
vestigative skills and take
on the arduous task of find-
ing any and all cases of
Patterson Court members
suffering illness or harm

from eating in supposedly
the unhealthiest places to eat
oncampus. Now that would
make an interesting story.

I guess my displeasure
and dissatisfaction lies with
the editors of The Davidso-
nian, editors willing to print
articles that apparently have
no sources and no hard evi-
dence to substantiate rather
inflammatory claims. And
to echo Dennis Rice’s com-
ments, these articles had no
business in the news section
of the paper anyway, as they
were obviously nothing
more than opinions based on
one student’s perception of
Patterson Court, a student
with no real substantial evi-
dence or significance to his |
comments. ,

Sincerely,
Jason Roebuck, ‘97

More kitchen critics’ critics

To the editors,

- The article “Court
houses fail sanitation inspec-
tion,” which appeared in the
April 11 edition of The
Davidsonian was unprofes-
sional, out of place, and in
some places just plain false.
The Patterson Court Coun-
cil feels that the “unofficial
inspector” of Patterson Court
houses did not have the cre-
dentials or experience to
undertake the study that he
did and, in the process, has
unfairly slandered Patterson
Court Houses.

First of all, the approach
‘| Was unprofessional and
sloppy. While he did obtain
the proper documents and
consult the proper statutes,
his inspection process was
faulty. In a true inspection,
a restaurant would receive
one week’s notice before the
Officials arrived. In other
words, Waffle House or Chat
N’ Chew must only be
clean during the actual in-
spection, and ithas a week to
clean things up beforehand.
Also, Mr. Robert only men-
tioned this inspection to the
cooks at the various houses,
not to the presidents, nor to
Patterson Court Council.
Surely, the manager at
Hardee’ s is informed of such

an inspection, especially
when the results will be the
headline in.next week’s pa-
per.

Secondly, some of what
Mr. Robert reported was
false or should have included
other background informa-
tion. Forexample, Mr. Rob-
ert stated that Pi Kappa Al-
pha did not have enough
racks to dry all the dishes

used ata meal, andhe pointed _

out that Kappa Sigma had
“food encrusted on the stove
top.” Actually, PiKA has

sufficient drying racks, and

the only substandard equip-
ment one might find in a
Patterson Court house are
the stoves or deep fryers,
which are supplied by
Davidson College, and as
Ben Balsley put it, “usually
pre-date Dean Terry.”
Patterson Court would surely
enjoy all new equipment so
they might pass the next in-
spection.

Finally, in light of how
Mr. Robert went about this
inspection, this article should
not have appeared as a head-
line. Tripp Winslow, Vice
President of Sigma Phi Ep-
silon, and Dennis Rice, the
Certified Executive Chef
were especially disappointed
atthe article’s placementand

content.

The follow-up article in
the April 18 edition was no
better. Again, Robert con-

” sulted few and did not have

his facts straight; PiKA, for
example, never serves a buf-
fet in the kitchen, but rather
in the main dining room. Is
it really an issue of whether
our cooks, who answer not
to the school or the Davidso-
nian but only to us, wear
sanitary gloves? Will next
week’s article try to uncover

. the unsanitary methods our

dear mothers use at home?
Might as well.

_ It is a shame that stu-
dents, faculty and parents
will see these headlines and
assume that the results are
accurate and professional. In
the same week that Dean
Terry is honored for his ca-
reerat Davidson, andS.G.A.
elections are held, itis a trav-
esty that articles such as these
get the headline. These ar-
ticles hurt Patterson Court
and Davidson as a whole,
and are of a quality far be-
low that which one would
expect from the “South’s
Foremost Weekly.”

Sincerely,
Josh Worsham
PCC President
