THE DAVIDSONIAN -

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994 ee oe

- LEIGH RAWDON- Editor in Chief
_ ALEX CRUMBLEY- Executive Editor
-" MANDY CURTIS- Managing Editor

Che Bavidsonian

- KATHERINE HASH- News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY:Ass't News Editor
‘ROBERT RAMSAY- Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED-Arts Editor
.SCOTT MCLEAN-Ass't Arts Editor

WILL COBB- Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN- Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON- Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist .

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

_ . BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN- Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD- Circulation Manager

Thank you, Mr. Baker

Not everyone at Davidson thinks very long about another donor giving yet another gift
to our college. Too often we are blind to the donors, their families, and their commitment
to Davidson simply because the effects of their contributions are not always immediate or
directly visible to most students.

Thompson S. Baker’s gift of $5 million for merit scholarships is something we should
all recognize, though, not only for its overwhelming generosity, but for the impact it will
have on the future of our college. The largest monetary gift from a single person in
Davidson’s history, Baker’s donation will fund scholarships sure to bring unprecedente
changes to the face of our campus.

Finally, Davidson can begin to compete with the prestigious merit scholarships of other
collegés, which, in the past, have drawn away some of our best admissions candidates.
Firmly establishing the college within the student scholarship competition, the Baker
scholarships will provide the added attraction Davidson has lacked for so long, and they will
entice the brightest and most talented students to give our school a closer look. As Dean
of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable Wells stated Saturday, the scholarships will
draw students of varying talents and from broad backgrounds across the nation and around
the world.

Of course, Davidson will still have its present scholarships available, including the
Stuart Scholarships, the Patricia Cornwell Writing Award, and the new William Terry
scholarship. The Baker scholarships, however, will rank alongside UNC’s Morehead and
Tennessee’s Whittle scholarships, which offer incoming freshmen a “full ride” for four
years.

As we reach the last stages of the Campaign for Davidson, we feel it fitting to show our
respect and gratitude to the many who have given not only their time but also their money
and support to the college community. This kind of philanthropy and civic spirit is truly
remarkable, and we, along with future Davidsonians, are indebted beyond measure.

Thank you, Mr. Baker, for everything you’ve done.

Thank you, Mr. Styron

In this week’s Newsweek , William Styron explores the suicide of Vincent Foster, a
Davidson graduate and Clinton aide. Styron writes, “[Davidson’s] venerable Calvinism,
although liberalized in recent decades, has inculcated in its students a belief that hard work,
material success, civic virtue and creative achievement are the real guarantors of mental
health.” -

He continues to claim that “Davidson’s values left their mark” on Foster and implies
that they helped to push him down the path to self-destruction.

Our first instinct may be to disregard Styron’s claims altogether. His statements are,
indeed, purely speculative, but Styron, a short-term Davidson student himself, poses an
important question for other Davidsonians to consider even now.

What mark does Davidson leave on its graduates? Diligence, wealth, creativity, and
altruism are admirable goals, but they are not the only ones we value. Ideal Davidson
graduates carry away with them their own priorities and the ability to fulfill them how they
choose.

Davidson does teach us that success is the key to happiness, but a definition of success
is what it challenges its students to discover for themselves.

At least in 1994, the college administration does not presume to know all the answers.
Styron’s assertions are not entirely invalid, but they do oversimplify what our college is
about. :

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the studen
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words an
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Ou
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinion
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views o
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertisin

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College

Sanitation report unfair

To the editors,

In response to William
Robert’s article on sanita-
tion in Patterson Court

_ | houses, we think a few points

need to be made.

How can a person with
notraining in the subject rank
the Patterson Court houses
with such precision? The
figures are presented as if
they were fact. Since the
author of the article has not
received the years of train-
ing that health inspectors are
required to undergo, he has
no business even attempting
to make such precise mea-
surements. His rankings are
nothing more than his opin-
ions and do not belong on

| the front page, but on the

opinion page.

We do not see why Mr.
Robert is inspecting us on
regulations we are not even
required to meet. Even res-
taurants that are required to
meet these regulations are
givenaweek’s notice before
inspection. If problems are
found, they are informed of
the problem and given an-
other chance before a grade
is given.

At Sigma Phi Epsilon
we use the necessary chemi-
cal disinfectants and are ex-
tremely careful about main-
taining sanitary conditions
in our kitchen. We know the
responsibilities of serving
food to large numbers of our
brothers. We take this re-

sponsibility seriously and
take pride in doing this job
well. .

We resent the fact that
The Davidsonian is failing
us ona test we do not have to
pass. We also resent the
manner in which the results
are presented, which leads
the readers to believe that
the tests were carried out by
a trained professional.

Sincerely,

Dennis Rice,

Certified Executive
Chef:

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Tripp Winslow,
Vice-president
Sigma Phi Epsilon

Styron and Foster

To the editors,
As a Davidson College
contemporary of Vincent

found William Styron’s
piece about Foster’s alleged
suicide unpersuasive. The
observations of the symp-
toms of Foster’s supposed
depression: weight loss, no
appetite, and insomnia, all
come from vague,:
unattributed sources. Those
who will speak for the record
describe an apparently per-
fectly normal, solid-as-ever

Foster, Jr., I must say that I °

Vince Foster in his final days.

Concerning the tangible
evidence, you must know
that the circumstances of the
discovery of the list of psy-
chiatrists and the torn-up
note are bothsubjects of con-
troversy, and that no drug,
anti-depressant or otherwise,
was found in his system at
the autopsy.

lagree that religion was
an important part of the mid-
60s Davidson experience,
but the ultimate-rich-play-
boy social fraternity towhich

Vince belonged seemed to
have found an effective bac-
chanalian antidote to any
Calvinist guilt that might
have rubbed off.

Though the ruminations
of one emotionally troubled
novelist might be intriguing,
they are no substitute for the
thorough, open investigation
that this important case de-
mands.

Sincerely,

Gary D. Martin

Chantilly, Virginia —

20 people do not a party make

To the editors,

Last Friday night, dur-
ing the Everything concert
on Patterson Court, several
Davidson police officers
kept the peace by breaking
up a party at one of the court
houses.. This “party” con-
sisted of a group of people
sitting around socializing.
The lights were on in the
house and there was no mu-
sic and no alcohol being
served. Most of the people
were either waiting to use
the bathroom or simply try-
ing to get out of the cold.
Despite the wine and
cheese atmosphere of the
crowd, Davidson’s finest
decided that the gala must
stop. The police cited the
college’s rule that any gath-
ering over 20 people consti-:

tutes a party. Since this

“party” was unregistered, it
could not continue.
Itseems to me that gath-
erings such as this one are
the type that Davidson has
been promoting since. the
implication of that notori-
ous alcohol policy last year.
You have a bunch of people
standing around talking, with
norampant violence, noran-
dom injuries and no exces-
sively obnoxious behavior.
Wait—I forgot, there were
over twenty people, so things
must be out of control. _
As-much as some stu-
dents are inclined to blame
the police for dispersing this
peaceful gathering, we can-
not hold them ‘entirely re-
sponsible. ‘The true perpe-
trator here-remains the ri-
diculous 20 personrule. The
police were merely perform-

ing their duties.

Is there really aneed for
this rule? I doubt it. Should
we start registering a party
when twenty people gather
in a dorm lounge to watch a
game, or when the members
of an eating house assemble
for a meal? I agree that there
is some need to regulate par-
ties on the court, but this rule
is impractical. _ Perhaps if
there were some clause in
the rule to only warrant the
dispersal of a gathering if
the group becomes too loud
or destructive, then it would
make more sense. However,
as it stands, the rule is too
general and misused by col-
lege officials.

Sincerely,
Jeff Kent
Class of 1996
