RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

Album Review

Rachel loves
Neil Young

By Rachel Newcomb

It is seldom that Rolling Stone maga-
zine bestows the honor of a five star review
on an album. Over the years, I’ ve seen only
a few records receive this accolade -- usu-
ally old:blues compilations or previously
unreleased Jimi Hendrix tracks. So you can
imagine the surprise and the anticipation I
felt when a cartoonish drawing of Neil Young
appeared beside the featured review in this
past month’s issue, along with that rarest
award -- five stars.

I bought the CD the day it came out,
edging my car through traffic as quickly as
possible in my eagerness to get home and
find out why this album was deserving of
five stars. At first I was puzzled. Ithas taken
longer for Sleeps With Angels to grow on me
than, for most of his other albums. Neil
Young has many different voices, and while
one can draw comparisons between some of
his albums, each record is absolutely dis-
tinct. Rather than assuming a record
company’s vision as his own, Young him-
self produces and writes the majority of his
work: At times, this makes his records seem
almost a personal chronicle of his life and a
reflection of the world as he sees it. And the
world, as Neil writes about it on Sleeps With
Angels, is not a very hospitable place.

On Sleeps With Angels Young has gone
back to working with Crazy Horse, his back-
up band well-versed in the art of distortion
and loud, ferocious rock and roll. Nothing
about this album contains remnants of the
soft, folk-tinged contentment on Harvest
Moon. {ff anything, Neil draws from the
same creative well of discontent from which
1989’s burning epic Freedom flowed. . It
wasn’t what I expected, but after several
listens I found Sleeps With Angels to be yet
another quirky, yet richly rewarding tri-
umph for Young.

Always a fan of cutting-edge music like
Nirvana, Young had met Kurt Cobain and
respected his work. A veteran of a personal
battle with drug abuse himself, Young tried
to call Cobain after Cobain’s drug overdose
a few weeks before his suicide this past
spring.” Young was unsuccessful, and in a
suicide note Cobain quoted one of Young’s
lyrics: “It’s better to burn out/Than to fade
away.” Sleeps With Angels, the title cut on
the CD, is a highly personal response to
Cobain’s life and death: Amid distorted,
angry guitars, Neil whispers the plaintive
chorus: “He sleeps with angels/ (Too soon)/
He’s always on someone’s mind.”

The whole record paints a disturbing
portrait of the world as Young sees it, an
environment which was too painful and
meaningless for Cobain to find happiness
in. The album opens with “My Heart,” a
short lament to missed opportunities and the
dream of a better place and time, all sung to
the hollow plink of an old-fashioned honky
tonk piano. In “Driveby,” Young com-
ments on the random violence which is
increasingly becoming part of everyday life
in America, with a soft chanting chorus of
“driveby, driveby” hanging ominously in
the background. I particularly like the con-
stant sliding bass note running throughout
“Safeway Cart,” another haunting vignette
on the realities of day-to-day existence.

In “Trans Am,” Neil displays a remark-
able yet disjointed storytelling ability with
several surreal narratives centered around
an old car. My favorite cut on the album is

THE OAWYXXE'V —

An adventure of Epic Proportions

By Jenn Schuetz and Jonathan Brooks
Rain, moleskin, some sun, and Ben and
Jerry’s ... all a part of the unique experience
of the Odyssey. Eighty Freshman and a
handful of staff members participated in this
year’s pre-orientation trip with Davidson
Outdoors.

What is the Odyssey? Many Freshmen .

sign up for the Odyssey to meet fellow
classmates or simply to get into the woods
for five days. Upon the conclusion of the
trip they may discover new perspectives on
how to live, communicate, and have fun.

Working together hiking, paddling riv-
ers, and preparing food for the group build a
sense of trust and comradarie among the

group members. After a few days in the -

mountains, the group which had previously
been unaquainted with its members is at
once a cohesive pack. After learning to
work together for an entire week, the tight
crew then participates in a service project at
the end of the week. This offers an opportu-
nity for the group to work towards a com-
mon goal and introduces the freshman to the
service-oriented aspect of Davidson.
Additionally, the program offers an at-
mosphere in which students may be intro-
duced to faculty and staff. William Brown,
the director of the college union, both ben-
efited from and rewarded the group of which
he was an integral part. Davidson Outdoors
hopes to build its staff participation in future
years.

man Odyssey in which Dr. David Grant,
professor of Biology, participated in the
program, and finds that the staff participa-
tion eases the incoming students’ transition
into college.

Marlys Daugherty, co-director of
Davidson Outdoors, expressed that the Od-
yssey program offers a unique experience
for freshman in which they develop inter-
personal skills through their interaction with
other Davidson students and staff in a small
group outdoors. This assists their relations
to the larger Davidson community upon
their return.

' The trip leaders also benefit from the
experience as they learn to delegate respon-
sibilities, act as a facilitator for the group,
and interact with incoming students. Lillian
Roe, a current Davidson Outdoors leader,
recounts her freshman experience, explain-
ing “It cushioned the transition into college.
I left for school anxious, excited, nervous. .
.and the Odyssey allowed me to meet other
people who had the same feelings, and it
helped me learn how to relate to new situa-
tions and new people. After my freshman
Odyssey, I had a great deal of confidence in
myself. Isurvived a week living tightly with

Junior Jonathan Brooksrecallshis fresh

ae

Photo by Ed Harris

Freshmen enjoy a week of outdoor activity before school starts.

eleven other people and made some of my
best friends in college.”

We spent the first day of Odyssey at
the lake campus, playing games, swimming,
and celebrating the birthdays of three par-
ticipants. The groups then camped out at the
lake campus and left in their respective
crews in the morning. Eight groups of
twelve left early in their morning bound for
the mountains and rivers. Four crews spent
their time hiking, rafting, and canoeing on
the Chattooga River, while the other four
crews enjoyed trips to the French Broad and
Nolichucky.

Ed Daugherty, co-director of Davidson
Outdoors, recognizes this year’s Odyssey as
“the smoothest trip, due to the abilities and
confidence of the trip leaders." The trip was

enhanced as logistics crews were stationed
at different outposts to bring food, fuel, and
gear to groups on the trail.

The recent tropical storm caused water
levels to rise on rivers, ensuring exciting
trips for all the groups. With water levels
incredibly high, the currerlé#hustled along
and the white water fun never stopped.
Jonathan Brooks and Ann Dupre Rogers
had an exciting experience rafting section
three of the Chattooga with a guide who had
twenty years of experience on the river.
With the water at dangerous levels on the
famous Bull’s Sluice run, their group ran
off-line and took a dangerous backwards
spill down the wrong slide. The guide, with

See Granola on page Il

Strings and oratory: a Look at Arts in September

By Rachel Newcomb

Students at Davidson can look
forward to a variety of cultural activities
to fill their time this September. On
September 20, cellist Alan Black will
perform at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Mr.
Black is the principal cellist of the
Charlotte Symphony as well as a cello
instructor at Davidson. He has performed
widely throughout the Southeast as a
soloist and recitalist. He will perform
Ravel’s “Sonata for Violon and
Violoncelle,” Mark Carlson’s “Abschied.”

' Bach’s “Suite No. 2 in d minor,” and On:

September 12 and 13, Dr. James-A.
Forbes Jr. will speak in Love Auditorium
at 7:30 p.m. as a part of the Staley
Lecturer series. Dr. Forbes is a preacher
from the Riverside Church in New York
and has three earned and ten honorary
degrees.

He has the distinction of being the
first African-American minister to serve a
pastorate of one of the largest

_ multicultural congregations in the nation.

On Sunday, Sept. 11 he will preach at the
11 a.m. worship service at Davidson
College Presbyterian Church. His lecture

topics for Sept. 12 and 13 include the
intersection of the Christian faith and
issues confronting today’s youth. The
lecture is free.

- The East Carolina Vocal Quartet will
perform on September 17 at 8 p.m. in
Hodson Hall as a part of the Concert
Series.

» This renowned quartet will present
musical selections from operas, operettas
and Broadway shows. Tickets are $7.50
for adults and $2 for non-Davidson
students and children under 18., For more
information, call 892-2357.
