6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

U.S. escalates involvement in
Haiti, but violence continues

By Andrea Short

U.S. troops did enter Haiti
early last week; however, the last
minute accord altered the terms of
the military mission. Former Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter led the Ameri-
can emissaries and facilitated the
agreement that allowed U.S. troops
toenter relatively peacefully. Lim-
iting the U.S. presence drastically
changed the troops’ ability to re-
store peace in Haiti.

Tuesday broughta brutal wave
of violence as Haitian military at-
taches used pipes, nightsticks, tear
gas, and machine guns to quell
pro-Aristide demonstrators. U.S.
troops stood watching the violence,
as they followed the American
“policy of non-engagement in Hai-
tian-on-Haitian violence.” Presi-
dent Clinton and other officials
claimed ignorance of much of the
day’s violence; later, they recog-
nized the instances of brutality but
dismissed their responsibility.

The Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff announced Tues-
day that U.S. troops “are not in a

business of doing day-to-day law
and order.” Many Haitians ex-
pressed’ dismay over the U.S.
troops’ neutrality to reporters as
they watched the citizens and po-
lice clash. Most clashes grew from
the General Cedras’s ban on pro-
Aristide demonstrations, which
Clinton and the U.S. Embassy in
Haiti publicly denounced.

Public outcry and steadily in-
creasing violence forced the
Clinton administration to allow
U.S. troops to intervene in Haitian
violence. U.S. Commanders
Shelton and Meade, who are over-
seeing the Haitian mission, visited
Cedras’s headquarters on Wednes-
day to inform him that U.S. troops
would no longer practice non-in-
tervention. Cedras had issued an
order to his attaches to “take all
necessary means” to stop demon-
strations in the streets of Haiti.
Clinton sent 1,000 additional mili-
tary police officers to Haiti in an
effort to calm the civil disorder.

U.S. troops now have autho-
rization to break up Haitian clashes,

and in extreme cases, to use
weapons to end the violence.
This policy also attempts to ap-
pease the U.S. soldiers’ own
frustrations that have mounted
while they’ ve been forced to idly
watch the Haitian police inflict
violence.

Administration officials ad-
mitted that the policy change
was, in part, prompted by
Clinton’s own political needs;
an official said, “Four or five
nights of [graphic Haitian vio-
lence] on television would have
undone us politically.” With the
return of Aristide not slated un-
til October 15, the administra-
tion had little choice buttostem_ .
the rising violence quickly. The
tougher line pleased Aristide,
who is rumored to be unhappy
about the agreement to delay his
return.

Sources include: the September
21 and 22 editions of The New
York Times.

Angola's Fleeting Hope for Peace

Savimbi and dos Santos attempt to put 30 years of fighting behind them

By Graham Ernst
Rebel leader Jonas Savimbi
of the Union for the Total Indepen-
dence of Angola (UNITA) and
Angolan President Jose Eduardo
dos Santos are scheduled to meet
this week in an attempt to resolve
a two-year civil war that is indica-
tive of more, than 30 years of tur-

moil in this African nation.
Since Savimbi rejected dos
Santos’ victory in the runoff elec-
tion held in September of 1992,

more than 100,000 people have.

died. Everas the two leaders head
to the bargaining table, 1,000
Angolans die every day from star-
vation, disease, and continued
fighting.

This latest round of negotia-
tions comes after Savimbi indi-

cated that he was willing to adhere
to a cease-fire if UNITA could
have control over the Huambo
province. Each side has requested
the intervention of 7,000 UN troops
to monitor the negotiations. While
this show of good faith offers prom-
ise to a devastated country, dos
Santos and UN officials are wary
of Savimbi’s sincerity.

Angola gained its indepen-
dence’ from Portugal in 1974 fol-
lowing an uprising organized by
three left-wing political groups:
UNITA, the Marxist Popular
Movement for the Liberation of
Angola (MPLA), and the National
Front for the Liberation of Angola.
A transitional government com-
posed of the three revolutionary
parties was established in Luanda,

NO CHOLESTEROL

NO LACTOSE?

- 507 Providence Rd. * 333-1003
The Arboretum ° 543-8333
202 5. Main St. Davidson * 892-0604

oe
VERMONT"S FINEST « ICE CREAM 6 FROZEN YOGURT..

the Angolan capital. Withina year,
the coalition broke up, leaving only
the MPLA in Luanda.

With more than 50,000 Cuban
troops armed with Soviet weap-
ons, the MPLA led a successful
campaign against its one-time ally,
the National Front. Only with sup-
port from South Africadid UNITA
survive the assault in the jungle
near Huambo.

UNITA gained strength in
1986 when the U.S. supported
Savimbi with arms and funding to
offset Soviet influence in the bipo-
lar world. However, after the fall
of the Soviet Union, reports ledked
that Savimbi had ordered the as-
sassinations of 21 dissidents. Then,

after losing the election to dos.

Santos in September of 1992,
Savimbi violated the 1991 cease-
fire with a series of offensives
against government troops. U.S.
support for Savimbi deteriorated
until President Clinton officially
recognized the dos Santos govern-
ment in May of 1993.

Even without U.S. support,
Savimbi funds his rebellion by
exporting diamonds, giving him
the capability to continue his gue-
rilla warfare for another 20 years.

In Luanda, a thriving black .

market dominates everyday life.
Although Angola has fought for
peace since the early 1960s, it is
clear that some factions have not
had enough. While this week’s
conference offers a chance for
peace, the world must understand
that UNITA will not settle for peace
without victory.

Sources include: 5-12-92, 5-20-
93, and 9-11-94 issues of The
Washington Post ; 2-26-94 edition
of The Economist ; 5-2-91 issue of
The New York Times ; 6-29-93
issue of The Christian Science
Monitor ; and the January 1994
edition of World Today.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1994

| Perspective Perspective
NOTES

No guns, no glory

Bill Clinton is learning something few people understand intu-
itively: Peace is hell. ;

Peace is not of those things we love but don’t really like. There
is no instinctive craving for peace. Peace, won cheaply and easily,
doesn’t put a knot in your throat or bring a tear to your eye. Peace
makes us secretly nostalgic for war.

There’s not much glory in waging peace. There is goodness, and
nobility, but not glory. No one ever charged a machine gun nest
waving a multilateral agreement. Steve McQueen never starred in a
movie about the Treaty of Versailles.

-Joel Achenbach in The Washington Post, reprinted in the
September 25, 1994, issue of The Charlotte Observer

Concerning Faludi’s “attack”

This week’s New Yorker article entitled “The Naked Citadel”
quotes a retired Citadel administrator as saying, “I guess I sound like
a buffoon,” following his defense of the military college’s fourth class
system. Judging from the overall tone of the article, we’d say that was
the idea. This is a barely disguised polemic that has only a passing
resemblance to what we consider to be journalism.

Sensationalism sells, and the appearance of this vitriolic article
assuredly reflects that recognition by the New Yorker’s editors. But
this mean-spirited, heavy-handed attack on The Citadel reflects more
on its author and the New Yorker than it does on the college it seeks
to tarnish.

-An editorial in The Charleston Post and Courier concerning
Susan Faludi’s article, reprinted in the September 19, 1994, issue of
The Charlotte Observer

Faludi’s rebuttal to Charleston

In my journalism as in yours, a critical reaction to a story is a sign
that it has succeeded in opening debate. But debate is ill-served when
the reaction is based on an intentional misreading. And in your
editorial mischaracterizing my New Yorker article on The Citadel as
a “mean-spirited, heavy-handed attack,” I feel I’ve been woefully
misread. :

The story was an attempt to climb inside the shoes of the male
cadets and perceive their motivations. The motivations of women
attending single-sex institutions have been amply explored this way.
But the male equivalent has been neglected.

Why do young men feel the need for an all-male environment?
What are they seeking? Do they find it here? I concluded in the New
Yorker article that, paradoxically, the macho showmanship of a
military academy grants young men the protective covering behind
which they can share a tenderhearted, nurturing relationship with each
other. While The Citadel appears to be a bastion of traditional
masculinity, it offers an escape hatch from some of the burdens of
masculinity imposed on men by our culture.

-Susan Faludi in the Charleston Post and Courier, reprinted in the
September 19, 1994 issue of The Charlotte Observer

Vampires in Hollywood -

Anne Rice is no longer turning pale at the prospect of Tom Cruise
as Lestat in Interview with the Vampire. According to producer David
Geffen, Rice was shown a version of the movie last week and is now
giving the Neil Jordan film a thumbs-up.

“She loves it,” said Geffen. “The movie and the performances
were beyond her wildest expectations—and, by the way, she thought
Tom was incredible.”

Another draw: The producer confirms that /nterview has been
trimmed down to 2 hours and 40 minutes. “There were scenes that
were too brutal,” says Geffen. “Some of them had to be adjusted and
even eliminated.”

-Richard Natale in the September 30, 1994 issue of Entertain-
ment Weekly

| Quote of the Week

“Domino's?!? Youdon'tknow the number for Domino's?!?” |
-a frustrated Union desk worker
overheard on the phone with an
obviously-clueless student

CALL YOUR MOTHER.

