THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING MONDAY,OCTOBER 31, 1994 11

Hong Kong and
Vietnam host
adventurous summer

By Renu Bhatt

In the midst of the chaotic
hustle and bustle of Hong Kong
and the looming memories of the
war in Vietnam, Eric Rosenbach
spent last summer traveling
through these various regigns of
Asia, gaining first-hand experience
to enhance his senior thesis.
Rosenbach, a senior from Penn-
sylvania, is a political science ma-
jor who would like to go into for-

eign service. He is planning to do.

his thesis on the “economic and
political transition in Vietnam.”

After visiting Eastern Europe,
Rosenbach’s interest was spurred
to study economically disadvan-
taged nations and their develop-
ments. Thus, after being awarded
a Ratcliff Endowment with a Dean
Rusk grant, he decided to focus on
third world development. He went
to Hong Kong to study the city’s
political transition. In 1997, Hong
Kong, which is currently a British
possession, will become a Chinese
acquisition. At present, Hong
Kong’s currency is the Hong Kong
dollar, which is different from the
rest of China. The standard of
living in the city, says Rosenbach,
is comparable with that of the
United States.

Despite his time in Hong
Kong, Rosenbach’s main interest
focused on Vietnam, where he
spent a month backpacking “solo,”
staying in hotels or in family huts
in villages. Surprisingly, the Viet-
namese are very happy to meet
Americans. Rosenbach says the
people are “so poor, yet so nice.”
A “major difference is their out-
look on the war.” The countryside
is still strewn with active bombs.
Each year farmers are killed by
explosions while tilling the soil.
Poverty-stricken people use metal
detectors to find scraps of metal
left over from detonated bombs to
sell, and they sometimes set off
remnant bombs.

“Everyone rides bicycles,”
Rosenbach notes. There are hardly
any cars because no one can afford
them. Rosenbach, however, rented
a motorcycle to explore the coun-
tryside. He says that “the country
is really, really scenic. People
were so friendly and beautiful. And
the food there was so amazing be-
cause of the French influence.”
Kids like to have their pictures
taken. The people also enjoyed
pulling Rosenbach’s hair because

they have so little body hair. They
were-also amazed at how tall he is
since they are, for the most part,
considerably shorter.

SPRING BREAK '95- |.
SELL TRIPS, EARN
CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus
representatives.
Lowest rates to
Jamaica, Cancun,
Daytona and Panama
City Beach.
Call 1-800- 648- sain

The only paved road in Viet-
nam runs from Hanoi to Saigon.
Rosenbach’s most adventurous
experience was when he ap-
proached the Cambodian border
on his motorcycle. Once he, got
into a tiny, bordering village, the
police arrested him! The region
had just been opened to foreigners,
so he looked suspicious. After a
couple of hours, a ten dollar bill
got him out of the predicament.

Rosenbach reflected on the
amount of Communist propaganda

Eric Rosenbach stands with one of the friends he made in his travels, "1 “684

that plasters the country. They “people were so friendly, butsome On the whole, Rosenbach _ people and their country. He adds
refer to Ho Chi Min as “Uncle people showed hostility.” How- looks back fondly on his experi- that “the culture shock coming
Ho.” “Ho Chi Minis like a deity,” ever, people were too intimidated ences abroad. He seems to have home was worse than the culture
says Rosenbach. For the most part, by his size to do anything. ' fallen in love with the Vietnamese _ shock going there!”

“Sexually Speaking”
with Dr. Ruth

Wednesday, November 9, 7:30 p.m. in Love ciate hie

_ Tickets on sale i in the College Union beginning Wed. Oct. 26

$2 faculty, staff & students
$5 general admission (Available only beginning Nov. 2)

