THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1994 4

erN ‘
The B anidsontan LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
‘ ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor

CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULY AN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Forgive us our debts

Students are notorious for maintaining close budgets and even bouncing a check now
and then. After all, it is difficult to have a job and still have time to attend class, study, and
participate in extracurriculars, and spending money earned during the summer just doesn’t
seem to last throughout the school year like it should.

Davidson is great about giving work-study jobs to students and eouiding ways to make
money through the catering service and concessions at sporting events. Even if our summer
money gives out toward the end of the semester, we can sign up for these short-notice jobs
and make enough to balance the old First Union account.

But somewhat contradictory to this seeming concern for student incomes are the
astronomical fines attached to parking violations on campus. Parking tickets given by the

campus police cost from $25 to $100, most of them $50, which is enough to send students
reeling when it comes time to pay the bills.

Perhaps the fine-setters operate with the mentality that our parents will pay off the fines
at the end of the year without even questioning what they are paying for. What’s two
hundred dollars if you’ ve already shelled out twenty thousand?

It’s a lot, especially if you realize that students, not parents, are usually the ones who
have to pay off the fines. Even if some students’ parents do have the means to pay
outrageous parking fines, that doesn’t necessarily mean the students do. Many students
operate on the income they earn here at school. Most students with work study jobs earn
around $4.50 an hour and work 10 to 12 hours a week for a weekly income of around fifty
dollars. A fifty dollar ticket, therefore, consumes a full week’s worth of earnings. I doubt
police officers, faculty, or staff would pay a parking fine equal to a week’s income without
a little protest.

Parking tickets in the town of Davidson cost $10. In Charlotte, they cost $10. In
Atlanta, where parking problems really exist, they cost $25. Not to be outdone by city
governments, Davidson College charges twice, even four times that much for transgres-
sions such as parking in a faculty/staff spot, leaving cars in the laundry lot past 4:30 in the
morning, or parking in front of Patterson Court houses to run inside for a bite to eat. Parking
illegally on quiet Davidson campus is simply not a matter of life and death, and we shouldn’t
have to pay so gravely for such trivial mistakes.

This argument does not propose that students should be allowed to park wherever they
please. We are simply arguing for a more appropriate fine. Students don’t want to pay ten
dollars for a parking spot any more than they want to pay fifty dollars. Sometimes we get
in a hurry and leave our cars in the wrong place. We know that. But being financially raped
for it only makes us annoyed, poor, and resentful. So let’ s be good Presbyterians and take
it easy on our debtors.

‘SEXUALLY SPEAKING

wite De, Rur

Socio!

y 219
20dologica | Cigars N

‘ald

Change for the sake of change

To the editors,

Why is Eric Rosenbach
again attacking the by-laws
of Davidson College? We
are not even Christians, yet
we still feel that Davidson
College, as a Presbyterian
school which receives funds
from the Presbyterian
Church—United States of

America, needs to be headed
by a Presbyterian president.
After all, one of the
president’s functions if to
maintain strong ties to the
Presbyterian community.
Rather than being ‘“‘inher-
ently wrong” as Rosenbach
suggests, the by-laws are fit-
ting. Some traditions are

traditions for a reason—be-

‘cause they make sense. Eric,

your policy seems to be
“change for the sake of
change.” Do you just want
to see your name in the pa-
per?

Sincerely,

Greg Padrick ’95

Jeni Hankins ’96

Insulted by some NAMES quilt publicity

To the editors,

As the AIDS awareness
weekend approaches, the
NAMES project committee
has been publicizing the ar-
rival of the AIDS quilt by
providing “facts” about
AIDS and the HIV virus.
You may have seen the bright
yellow flyers in dorms or in
Chambers— the one that al-
ways catches my eye is the
one that claims, “Alcohol
Leads To HIV— If youcan’t

‘walk straight, you can’t put

onacondom.” This assump-
tion is outrageous and in-
sulting. Yes, I have been

known to consume alcohol

in my time here at Davidson,
but -gasp!- I have not con-
tracted HIV! The person
who produced this misinfor-
mation is offending those of
us who choose to responsi-
bly partake of alcoholic bev-
erages, as well as the many
people who contracted HIV
forreasons entirely unrelated
to their behavior. Drinking

does not automatically lead
to sex, just as sex does not
always lead to HIV. Al-
though the rest of the public-
ity surrounding the Quilt has
been praiseworthy, this
evangelical-sounding claim
has no place. With enough
false ideas around concern-
ing AIDS, we should be par-
ticularly careful not to make
misleading and insulting
statements such as this.
Sincerely,

Disco Dan Mojonnier

In defense of fraternities

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

To the editors,

I’m a member of a fra-
ternity and I enjoy Patterson
Court’s atmosphere. The
nature of fraternities and eat-
ing houses at Davidson is far
more inclusive than most
schools, generally allowing
everyone a chance to party.
However, I recognize the
need and demand for an al-
ternative. The Union lacks
the facilities and Charlotte
lies too far down the road.
The school needs to do some-
thing.

With that in mind, I
would like to express my
greatest concern for
Davidson’s social scene.
Fraternities at Davidson are’
under attack. For whatever
reasons, much of our faculty
and administration see fra-
ternities in an extremely
negative light. I’ve heard of
plans to phase out fraterni-
ties within the next five to
ten years and I’ve seen pro-

posed maps of a future cam-
pus—a campus with many
more dorms and no fraterni-
ties or women’s + eating
houses.

This worries me. With-
out this social option, the
school will deteriorate. Ad-
mittedly, everyone does not
want tojoinahouse. Admit-
tedly, everyone does not en-
joy the atmosphere on the
court. But, at least fifty per-
cent of Davidson does.
Nothing can replace the
court. Not a new Union.
Notmoreconcerts. Noteven
21 year-old- -night every
night.

Furthermore, houses
contribute to more than just
the college’s social environ-
ment. We sponsor innumer-
able service projects—sup-
porting everything from
Habitat to MADD. We offer
a realistic alternative to
Carlton Pritchard’s Com-
mons. We allow many stu-

dents the opportunity to hold
leadership roles they would
otherwise never experience.
Weraise lots of money at the
telethon. The positive in
Patterson Court far exceeds
the negative.

Before the board of
trustees, or whomever com-
prises the faceless body that-
makes all the real decisions
at Davidson (behind closed
doors), decide to annihilate
the court, I’d like them to
keep this in mind: I will
continue to feel a part of the
Davidson family after
graduate, but my fraternity
plays a large role in cement-
ing that bond. If it goes, so
will much of my future con-
tributions. I am confident
that I speak for many mem-
bers of Davidson’s fraterni-
ties.

Respectfully,
Geoffrey D. Graham,
Class of 1995

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

WRITE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
P.O. BOX 219, DAVIDSON, NC, 28036
OR DELIVER TO THE UNION OFFICE ~*
