THE DAVIDSONIAN

S PORTS hs MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1994 15

Cat Nips

A brief ananlysis of Dallas Cowboy football by two biased fans

By Mike Wang & Dave Dwyer
OK, so you’ve had the good
sense to return and read the sopho-
more edition of this column. To
begin, we’d like to address the
Cowboys’ performance last Sun-
day against the Oilers. A dismal
effort, sure, but this game proves
that even when the Cowboys play
extremely poorly, they are still ca-
pable of beating decent teams. The
Oilers, although they’ ve lost anum-
ber of free agents during the off-
"season, are still a quality team and
finished the ‘93 campaign with a

12-4 record, tops in the AFC Cen- _

tral. The Oilers and Cowboys have
played each other during the pre-
season every year since 1967, and
inthis year’s preseason bout, Hous-
ton defeated Dallas in a Mexico
City swamp 6-0.

Because the Cowboys don’t
have a game scheduled for Week
4, we’ve decided to analyze the
remaining major games for that
week. First up: Atlanta vs. Wash-
ington. The Falcons, behind Andre
Rison’s guarantee of a win, beat up
the L.A. Rams 31-13 last week;
Washington, led by journeyman
John Friesz, silenced a number of
critics in defeating a solid Saints
team in the Superdome 38-24.
Though it goes against our prin-
ciples, ‘we’re calling Washington

to score more points. But hey, —

Norv, what’s with starting Friesz
over $20 million rookie Heath
Shuler? If he turns out to be half as
good as Troy Aikman, then you’ ve

got a wild-card playoff spot. But
forthe sake ofa good rivalry, Shuler
is the future of the ‘Skins, and he
needs to play now.

Switching to the AFC, we
think New England will get their
second win over Detroit, given De-
troit shows up after being embar-
rassed by Dallas on Monday Night
Football in Irving. In the Battle of
the Bays, the Green boys will beat

" Come Visit The Bistro Everyone's
Talking About ...C-Rex"

the Tampa boys, and in this week’s
sleeper game, look for Cleveland’s
Dawg Pound to doze by the second
quarter against Indianapolis.

This week, to introduce our
player profile section, we will cover
the ‘94 Dallas rookies. The
Cowboy’s first round pick was
Shante Carver, a defensive end out
of Arizona State. Carver is adjust-
ing fromcollege linebacker to NFL

‘first two games.

lineman, and he will back up
Charles Haley this season. Chris

Boniol is another impact rookie

who will make his mark as akicker.
This free agent rookie from Loui-
siana Tech has yet to miss in his
Other rookies
worth noting include Sonoma State
(where’s that?) product Larry
Allen, former Gator Willie Jack-

son, and 6’7”, 355 lb George

Hegamin from NC State. Hegamin
was the largest player selected in
the ‘94 draft. These players should
continue to carry on the winning
tradition of America’s favorite
franchise.

Last week’s trivia answer:
Albany State. This week’s ques-
tion: In what year and round did
the Cowboys draft track star Carl
Lewis?

8301 MAGNOLIA ESTATES ¢ CORNELIUS

1-77, N, EXIT 28; HWY 73 WEST - ACROSS
PENINSULA COUNTRY CLUB ENTRANCE

(704)892-4811

RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED

Appetizers &
Dinner Entrees
$6.95 - $17.95

- Jazz Nightly
» ~~ Feature Acts on Weekends_
- Nightly Dinner Specials

-Wine Specialties

- Great Atmosphere

Great Music

$50 OFF

Any Two Dinner

Entrees

Wilh this coupon only «Present betore ordering * Not valid
w/ any other offers * Expires 9/30/04

$500 OFF

Any Two Dinner

Entrees

With this coupon only * Present before ordering * Not valid
w/ any other offers « Expires 9/30/04

— koronce,acut in

educational

spending that

~ actually helps students.

Macintosh"

pe Performa’ 636 8/250
with CD-ROM, Apple’ Color Plus 14° Display,
AppleDesign Keyboard and mouse, Only $2,083.58.

With Apple’ special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh;
the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-
able Macintosh Performa’ which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help
get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple’ PowerBook’ or the Power

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Quadra, Performa, PowerBook and “The power to be your best" are regi

. Apple’ PowerBook’ 150 4/120. Only $1528.94

Power Macintosh 7100/66 8/250
with CD-ROM, Apple’ Multiple Scan 15 Display,
AppleDesign” Keyboard and mouse. Only $2,973.40.

o

. For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432

*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter® II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor.
PowerBook’ 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect.
vad :

All prices include shipping and

drademarks of pple Comp

Inc. AppleDesign, Mac and Power

Macintosh the world’s fastest Mac” And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-
puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac
is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to

discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best? Apple 4

