THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 18, 1994 oo

"Responsibility in the Media" panel Friday included Jack Claiborne, Jennie Buckner, Jack Perry,

Lester Strong, and Ervin Duggan.

oto by Amy Laukkanen

Board of Visitors enjoys media day

By Mary Clare Jalonick

Last weekend, as students en-
joyed Spring Frolics, the Davidson
College Board of Visitors held its
annual meetings. Visitors, com-
munity leaders, business leaders,
and alumni are invited to campus
each year to share their knowledge
and observe campus activities.

The board’s long day began

with a talk from President Kuyk- .

endall about the state of the col-
lege. Following that, the visitors
attended a panel on “The Media
and Children.” Panelists Ervin
Duggan, president of PBS; Jack
Claiborne, vice president of Park
jCommunications and former edi-

torialist for the Charlotte Observer,
and Ann Clark, 1994 National Prin-
cipal of the Year, debated ideal
programming for young children.

The panel, which alsoincluded
Davidson professors Ed Palmer and
Herb Jackson, asked the question:
“What kind of program can be
created for preschoolers and still
be financially profitable?”

Discussion centered on the
problem of violence in television
and working with society to create
solutions,

The visitors moved from “The
Media and Children” to workshops
held by the fine arts faculty, where

~ they Jearned -obpdiabite’ mem-

bers’ experience in visual arts,
music, and creative writing.

The day ended with another
panel forum discussing “The Re-
sponsibility of the Media.” Speak-
ers included Claiborne, Duggan,
Boston News Anchor Lester
Strong, and editor of the Charlotte
Observer Jennie Buckner.

According to Director of De-
velopment Kevin McCarthy, who
helped to organize the day, the
Board of Visitors is so valuable
because it “gets individuals in-
volved in the life of the college
who might not normally have con-
tacts with Davidson. We can draw

on their su chel

= Seniors reflect on’ classes”

By Robert Ramsay
As graduation approaches,
seniors reflecton the past four years
of their life. Seniors take this time
to think of what classes, profes-
sors, and. academic experiences
have enabled them to mature, and
which have meant the mostto them.
Craig Ross, an anthropology

Major, has been fascinated by the

classes in his department, but says
that the most rewarding experi-
ence was an archeologica! dig in
Mexico led by William Ringle.
Ross worked on a Mayan dig with
people of Mayan descent, and says
that it was great to be able to “put
the two time periods together.”

English major Ashley Payne
says that she benefited most from
Randy Nelson’s 20th-Century
American Fiction class. She says,
“The literature is thought-provok-
ing, and it’s something we took out
of the classroom.”

Robin Taylor, also an English
major, praises Film as a Narrative
Artwith Zoran Kuzmonovich. She
enjoyed the experience of making
a film and was challenged by the
way the class made her look at film
not just as literature, but as some-
thing that can force her to question
her own ideology.

For Steve Turner, the most
valuable classroom experience was
his Intermediate Physics Labora-
tory with Laurence Cain. In the
class, Turner had to produce his

‘own experiments and then present

them to the class. He says that the

__ experience = him valuable prac-

tice at problem solving and public
speaking.

Reeshemah Harrison, a pay-
chology major, has nothing but .
praise for John Kello and his In-
dustrial and Organizational Psy-
chology course. Harrison found
that she shares many ideas with
that aspect of psychology and in-
tends to focus on that field in post:
graduate studies.

However, not all Davidson
seniors spoke of courses in their
major. Lisa Sitek, a Biology ma-
jor, favors her Music 101 class,
and Todd Bowman is a fan of Gill
Holland’s Chinese ‘Literature
course, despite the’ fact that he
majors in political science.

‘The common theme of se-
niors’ favorite academic -experi-
ences, though, is the word experi-
ence. Hands-on practice in and out
of class seems to make the most
vital impact on Davidson students. ©

Anne Wampler’s internships
with medical specialists in Char-
lotte were “wonderful,” and Susan
K. Taylor rolls her eyes with de-
light when she speaks of her work
with Wanda Webb at the Transi-
tion House.

Although academics is a large .
and extremely important aspect of
the college experience, it is not the
only benefit one derives from four
years of higher learning. When
asked what the greatest achieve-
ment of college has been, Susan
Taylor spoke for her 393 fellow
students when she said, “growing

up.

Speed. Power. And more speed. That what the new Power Maina is ll about. Itsa
Macintosh? with PowerPC” technology. Which makes it an
incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are
endless, ‘Because now youll have the power you need for high- -performance applications

Power Macintosh™ 6100/60 8/250,
internal AppleCD™ 300i Plus CD-ROM Drive, Macintosh?
Color Display, Apple? Extended Keyboard Il and mouse.

The new Power Macintosh from Apple.

Introducing the fastest ways
to get through college. ”

like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you
waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more in-
formation and see for yourself. Now
that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same.

For further information visit

Computer Services Center

Contact Kim Kenyon at X2432

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc. Al right reserved. Apple, be Apple logo and Maciniuc are regilered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. AppleCD and

Power Macintosh are trademarks of pple Computer, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation, used under license therefrom.

Apple @.

