SPORTS

14

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

A gentleman
breaks a
gentleman’s
record

By Matt Pitzer
Sports Editor

Among the many stories and anec-
dotes floating around during the last week,
one perfectly demonstrates Cal Ripken,
Jr.’s character:

Jim Gott was the pitcher who beat the
Baltimore Orioles on May 30, 1982 —the
day that Ripken started his consecutive-
games streak, which last week passed 2,130
games, the record held by the immortal
Lou Gehrig for almost 60 years.

Gott’s win that day in 1982 was his
first in the major leagues, and, recently, he
gave the game ball to Ripken to com-
memorate the beginning of the streak.

Ripken took it and promptly handed it
back, saying something like, “I thank you
for gesture, but I’m giving it back to you,
because, you’ ve made your statement, and
this ball means a lot more to you than it
will for me.”

In the hearts of baseball fans every-
where, Ripken the gentleman came as
close to immortality as anybody can last
week when he broke the unbreakable
record.

Of course, for Orioles fans, Ripken
has been immortal for years now, ever
since he was named Rookie of the Year in
*82 and was named Most Valuable Player
in ‘83 when he lead Baltimore to its last
World Series title

Ripken has bridged time; indeed, he
has conquered time. No fewer than 13 hall
of famers were active when Ripken started
his streak. No doubt there will be several
more by the time the streak ends.

But for Ripken, it is never been about
the streak. It has been about love, a love for
baseball and a love of playing the game.

He has said many times that he plays
everyday, because he couldn’t stand not
being in the game. When it comes to
baseball, Ripken has a heart the size of the
whole city of Baltimore.

To see Ripken honored the way he
was last week, with a 22-minute standing

and with a45-minute post-game ceremony,
is more than an honor to him. It is an honor
to all of baseball and, in a way, to all of
what is right in life.

His breaking the record took nothing
away from the great Gehrig. In fact, it
celebrated his legacy only more. When
Orioles fans started chanting “Lou, Lou,
Lou” when a few words were said in his
tribute, when Gehrig’s teammate Joe
DiMaggio was close totears, and when the
crowd at Yankee Stadium gave Ripken a
standing ovation, you know a smile crept
across the Iron Horse’s face wherever he is
now.

Ripken always plays the game the
way it is supposed to be played — giving
100 percent on every play. He recently
said that going all out all the time is one
way he’s avoided getting hurt.

Ripken will continue to sacrifice him-
self for the team for only a few more years;
but when he retires, when his consecutive
games played streak ends somewhere
around 2,500 or 2,600 games, we can say
what a sign in the crowd at Camden Yards
said on Wednesday:

We consider ourselves the luckiest
fans on the face of the earth.

Thanks, Cal. ,

ovation when game 2,131 became official}.

Wildcats outlast
Sewanee in opener

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Writer

The Wildcats used their second half
dominance to overpower Sewanee 21-14
Saturday in football’s season opener at
Richardson field.

FOOTBALL

Sewanee had the upper hand in the first
half, taking a 14-7 lead ona two-yard keeper
by quarterback John Stroup to cap an 80-
yard drive with 1:46 remaining before the
break. But the Wildcats defense dominated
the second half, holding Sewanee to 98
yards passing and minus-21 yards rushing.

“We were confident we could plug the
run,” James Cassidy, a senior lineman, said.
“But the first half we had to play conserva-
tively because we couldn’t get a good scout
on them (because this was the opener). The
coaches did a great job of making adjust-
ments at halftime, and we stepped it up a
notch on both offense and defense.”

Cassidy played a big role in that, com-
ing.up with back-to-back sacks in the middle
of the third quarter which forced Sewanee to
punt from their own 15, andhelped Davidson
to the game tying touchdown, a four-yard
plunge by sophomore quarterback Tommy
Dugan.

“Tom played great — really tough,”
Wildcats coach Tim Landis said. ‘Just look-
ing at the stats he completed: 17-25 (for 183
yards, one touchdown, and two intercep-
tions). That’s as good of a day as anyone has
had here percentage wise for a long time.
We'll take him on our side any time.”

Dugan added 44 yards and two rushing
touchdowns, including the game-winning
23-yard scamper early in the fourth quarter.
On the play, Dugan was rolling to his left
searching for a receiver when a big block at
the 10 sprung him and he was able to power
his way through two would-be tacklers at

Soccer has

- By RicH GLENN

Sports Writer

After a disappointing season-opening
loss to Stanford, the men’s soccer team
rebounded and won the third place game
against College of Charleston 3-2 in the
Wake Forest Classic in Winston-Salem.

MEN’S SOCCER

Davidson, however, could not take ad-
vantage of that win, tying Radford 1-1 Thurs-
day and losing 2-0 to Hartwick Saturday at
the Oneonta (NY) Mayor’s Cup to advance
to the consolation game Sunday against
Georgetown.

The Wildcats knew they had to win
Monday against Charleston to get their sea-
son going the way they wanted.

Davidson started out slowly but picked
up the level of play and outplayed the Cou-
gars for most of the half. Robert Clarke and
Phil Julien led the offensive attack and kept
pressure on Charleston. On defense, Alex

Brandon Clarke
Two Wildcat defenders take down a Sewanee receiver in Saturday’s game.

the 5 and get into the end zone.

From that point, the Wildcats defense
took over the game, picking off Stroup three
more times (he had already been intercepted
twice), recovering a fumbled snap and stop-
ping Sewanee on downs at Davidson’s 36.

“Our kids played real hard, but we have
to make the key plays when we have the
opportunities,” said Sewanee’s coach Al
Logan.

“We had the key turnover deep in their
territory that wasn’t very good on our part
offensively [referring to Dan Dearing’s in-
terception inside the 10, which set up the
drive leading to Dugan’s game-winning
score]. There were many good things, and
many things we need to improve on.”

Freshman Michael Harrington had a
big day receiving in his first college game.
He came up with five catches for 57 yards,
all in the second half.

“T went in during the second quarter and
my knees were shaking, and right away they
threw me a pass and I caught it (the play was
called back because of a hold), and I stayed
nervous forthe next three plays,” Harrington
said. .
“In the third quarter, the jitters were
out, and I could just play ball. It [playing in
college] was something you dream about.
I’m glad I had the opportunity to help my
team win.”

Davidson is home again this week
against Maryville on Saturday at 1:30 p.m.

trouble after first win

Deegan played another solid game in goal
behind the defensive trio of Isaac Stewart,
Chad Lagerwey and Stephen Thomas, who
played well again.

The half ended ina0-0 tie, and Davidson
was reminded of the Stanford game when
Davidson’s team dominated most of the
game but was burned on late goal.

“We came out after the break really
fired up,” said Ryan Northington.

The enthusiasm paid off as Davidson
scored three times in the first 15 minutes of
the second half. Julien started the scoring
when he converted a Northingotn corner
kick. Northington played a nice ball, and Ian
O’Brien passed it to Julien who put the ball
in the net. A couple of minutes later, Robert
Clarke beat his man toscore the second goal.

The scoring didn’t stop there as Clarke
got a breakaway and beat the Cougars goalie
for his second goal in 10 minutes. “Julien
and Clarke played really well up front and
finished well for us,” added Northington.

Davidson shut out the Cougars until the
80th minute whena Charleston player found
the back of the net. At this point, Charleston
was pushing eight players forward trying to
tie up the game.

With the score 3-1, the Wildcats stayed
with their game plan and didn’t collapse
their defense. Unfortunately with eight sec-
onds left, Charleston scored a fluke goal for
the final score.

When asked what the difference in play
from the opener Saturday to Monday,
Northington said, “We knew-we couldn’t
Start out 0-2, and we had to get a win before
starting our trip to Virginia and New York.
Everyone showed up to play and the offense
played superbly.”

This was a big win as the team traveled
to Radford Thursday and from there headed
to New York.

Against Radford, the game ended in 1-
1 as Bryce Jewett came through for Davidson
with the goal. After that game, the Wildcats
boarded the bus for an all-night trip to New
York for their game against Hartwick.

Unfortunately, Davidson was shut out
in the Georgetown game Sunday.

The long stretch of road games contin-
ues this week as the Wildcats travel to The
Citadel on Wednesday and to VMI on Satur-
day.

Davidson will finally play its first home
game September 27 against.Duke.
