6 .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Week in Washington

Budget packages promise change

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Both the House and Senate
approved similar budget plans last
Thursday and Friday as President
Clinton threatened to veto the final
Republican package.

The House acted Thursday on
its budget reconciliation bill, which
combines ten separate spending
bills into a single federal budget.
The 227-203 vote for the bill was
highly partisan: only ten Republi-
cans voted against the bill, and
only four Democrats supported it.

A final vote on the Senate
budget reconciliation bill came
shortly after midnight on Friday.
After 38 separate roll call votes on
specific items, the bill passed by
the slim margin of 52-47. The
Senate was also sharply divided:
no Democrats joined all but one
Republican, Sen. William Cohen
(R-MB), in voting for the bill.

The differences in the two bills
will be worked out in a House-
Senate conference committee. Ifa
compromise bill is approved’ by
both chambers, it will be sent to
President Clinton, who is certain
to veto it.

‘Both reconciliation bills are
enormous in their scope and com-
- plexity: the Senate bill is 1,949
pages long, and the House version
runs to 1,754 pages. Despite dif-
ferences on specifics, Republicans
hailed what Stuart Butler of the
conservative Heritage Foundation
called “a structural change in
American government.”

The bills promise to balance
the federal budget by 2002 by cut-
ting $900 billion in federal spend-
ing over seven years. Taxes would
be cut by $245 billion, including a
$500 child tax credit for families
and a reduction in the capital gains
tax rate for investors. The Earned
Income Tax Credit, which lowers
taxes for families with incomes
under $28,500, would be reduced
and its eligibility requirements
tightened.

To generate savings, the bills
would reduce Medicare spending
by $270 billion over seven years
by setting strict limits on payments
to doctors and‘hospitals and en-
couraging the elderly to use man-
aged care plans and medical sav-
ings accounts. Welfare programs
and Medicaid would be turned over

to the states, who would set eligi-

bility requirements and benefits.
Aid to Families with Dependent
Children, the main federal welfare
program, would be eliminated, and

Medicaid payments to states would
be reduced by about $182 billion.
Students and parents would face
higher interest costs on federal stu-

NOTES

dent loans, and child care assis-
tance, school lunches, and nutri-
tion aid would be cut by both
houses.

The chambers disagree on key
issues, including raising Medicare
eligibility and deductibles, student
loan interest-rate subsidies, and
allowing welfare payments to teen-
age mothers. They also differ on
whether to eliminate direct agri-
cultural subsidies. The House ver-
sion would amend the Constitu-
tion to require a balanced budget
by 2002, increase spending for pris-
ons, and limit death row appeals.
The Senate version would increase
anti-terrorism funding and impose
strict limits on gifts by lobbyists.

Dr. Studmuffin?

ST. PAUL—Robert Jones says people have the wrong idea about
scientists.

They’re not all nerdy white guys with pocket protectors and
glasses held together with masking tape, he said.

Some scientists life weights. Some are people of color. Some win
Grammy Awards for their singing.

Some are, well, studmuffins.

Jones, 44, a professor of plant physiology at the University of
Minnesota, is one of the 12 scientists - one for each month - who
appear in a new calendar called “Studmuffins of Science.” Jones is
“Dr. May.”

Produced by National Public Radio as a fund-raiser for the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, the calendar
is intended to encourage young people to consider careers in science.

Jones, reached last week in New York, where he is attending the

official unveiling of the calendar, said he participated i in the project to
explode the stereotype of the geeky scientist.
“T did this to change people’s perception of what scientists are,”
he said. “They are normal people with lives outside of the laboratory.
Studmuffin is probably a misnomer. This is not about selling sex. But
sometimes you have to use shock value to get your point across.”

Sources include; October 27 of
The New York Timesand October
25 and 27 of The Wall Street Jour-
nal.

Dean Rusk Program

Quebec faces secession question

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Today, an estimated five mil-
lion Canadians living in Quebec
will vote on whether they will stay
Canadian. This is not the first time
Quebeckers have voted on whether
to stay a part of Canada or not.
Quebec, which is 80 percent French
speaking, has flirted with seces-
sion for a while. This is, however,
the first time that the secessionists
have been predicted to win.

Last week, to the surprise of
many, polls began to show a slight
separatist lead. Neither the gov-
ernment nor the people of Canada
expected this. The result was an
immediate rush on the part of the
government to try to alleviate the
situation.

Canadian Prime Minister Jean
Chretien has’ spent the last week
appealing to Quebeckers not to
leave Canada. He has made mul-
tiple speeches in and around Que-

bec and has exercised for the first
time in his career the federal. act
allowing him to use prime time TV
to address the nation. _

Despite all of these and the
various other appeals to Quebec,
the vote still seems to slightly fa-
vor secession.

Asaresult of the possibility of
Quebec gaining her independence,
bank rates have risen by over one
percent. There has also been a
flood of people trying to open ac-
counts in Canadian banks on the
outskirts of Quebec which will not
run the financial risks that those in
Canada will face when they loose
government backing.

In the last few days there has
also been a large number of Que-
beckers attempting to get a Cana-

dian passport which might be dif-' ”

ficult or impossible when Quebec
secedes.

It wasn’t until a little over a
week ago that the vote swung from
about 60 percent opposed to seces-
sion to just over 50 percent in fa-
vor. The reason is two pronged:
the separatist party has gotten a
new leader and the federalists have
lost their cohesion.

Until last week, the separatist
leader had been Jacques Parizeau;
an economics professor who had
little success in playing the game
of politics. On October 9, how-
ever, Parizeau turned the campaign
over to Lucien Bouchard.

Bouchard, whose party, the ©

Bloc Quebecios, control the sec-
ond largest number of seats in Par-
liament, completely re-vamped and
re-energized the campaign for se-
cession. Bouchard, who is a very
popular public figure, has prom-
ised that an independent Quebec
would be able to keep the Cana-
dian dollar, share a dual citizen-
ship with Canada, and become an
independent but integrated
economy inside Canada’s.

When one adds the bickering
and disunity among the federalists
over whether or not to make con-
cessions to Quebec, it becomes a

little clearer why the poles have -

shifted in favor of the separatists.
Many analysts are predicting
that the only way for the federalists

to win the vote on Monday is to _
make major concessions to the -

separatists which they have said
they will not do. Whether they
make the concessions or not and
whether they win or not, the sepa-
ratists have had an impact on Ca-
nadian politics.

The.extent of that impact on
international politics and econom-
ics is not so clear.

Jones said students today are looking for role models. When he
was growing up on a farm in Georgia, Jones said, his role model was
George Washington Carver. Jones even earned his doctorate on a
' | George Washington Carver fellowship at the University of Missouri.
Jones was photgraphed in his laboratory and also at a health-club.

It’s the health club picture showing him sitting shirtless on a workout
bench that made the calendar..

Sources:

the Charlotte Obsérver Oc- He said he received no money for his participation in the calendar
tober,25,27 project and paid his own way to the New York kickoff.

The Economist. October 21-
07. -Taken from the from tie Sindey; Octob October 22, 1995 edition offhe Atlanta Journal

You can bank
on us!

Earn up to $200 a month
by donating life-saving
plasma!

@®

New donors earn $30
today.

: a,
You can "bank" on us inW
1995 to provide you
with extra $$$. |
Visit our friendly, mod-
ern center and earn cash
while helping others.

plasma alliance
“people helping people”
1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205
333-0335
Valid ID with Social Security number required.
M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm

