THE DA VIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13,1 995 ff

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor Business Manager —
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY

Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager

Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
Assistant News Editor : CHLOE BROOKE
JOANNA JOHNSON Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

De-pressure
Dee, press your eyes
Depressurize

Argh, Davidson.

What can we say about this place that we love to hate and hate to love? What can we
say about all the work we have, should do, but don’t have enough hours in the day to do?
What can we say about doing anything for money on a Saturday night, turning
instantaneously from Dr. Jekyll into Mr. Hyde? What can we say about this place that
can turn yourself upside down and inside out, change your world view, alter your self-
image in a year, and make you want to pull your hair out, hit your roommate, break into
Backstreet screaming “I swear I’m 21!,” and then break down and cry to Mom on the
phone? ;

Well, let’s see what William Styron had to say about this place (at least, when he was

here).

Smothered by the blanket of Southern Christian ideology, Davidson used to require
that all students go to compulsory chapel service in Love Auditorium. He went on to
make the indirect yet explicit connection between himself, Vince Foster, depression, and
Davidson. Interesting. What can we say about an illustrious, Pulitzer prize-winning
author and former Davidson student who publicly speaks and writes about Davidson in
this manner? ;

Okay, we know the connection was a loose one — Vince Foster didn’t commit
suicide because he once went to Davidson College. And as Styron said, he didn’t fall into
clinical depression because he spent his first two college years here. In fact, Styron
pointed out that one doesn’t fall into clinical depression for one particular reason. That
much we know.

Obviously, Styron was talking about the Davidson — and the South, for that matter
— he knew years ago. So the question now is how much of what he said still rings true
today? Wasn’t it just a couple of weeks ago that the Student Health Center held a seminar
on “Dealing with Depression”?

Depression manifests itself here as it did 30 or so years ago — as it does anywhere
and everywhere. We see it in the rampant eating disorders. We see it in the need for a
whole seminar devoted to depression. We see it in the manic behaviors of Court party-
goers who just nights before were holed up in the library.

Often, especially in this crunch time just before Thanksgiving break, we see these
distorted images of ourselves — or rather we choose not to see that the images are in fact
distorted. This is when we stop eating or we can’t stop eating. This is when we can’t sleep
but all we want to do is sleep. This is when we call home every night — or all we have
to say is that things are “fine.” We go to extremes, and the person we see in the mirror
isn’t the same person we saw months ago. Maybe we don’t even know the difference.

But for some of us it is there — in our erueuen ss in our actions, in our outlooks, and in our .

minds.

LETTERS

The Health Center does care

To the editors,

Iam writing in response
to The Davidsonian’s Octo-
ber 30 editorial, “The Morn-
ing After,” and the related
editorial cartoon, “Morning
After Pill No Longer Of-
fered at Health Center.”

Reflecting our apprecia-
tion of two earlier informa-
tive Davidsonianarticles on
Student Health and Student
Counseling issues, our
Health Educator, Georgia
Ringle, actually initiated the
interview on the morning
after pill (MAP) to deal with
avery specific issue. In past
years, physicians assistants,
who would evaluate and pre-
scribe the MAP, were at the

facility from 1:30 p.m. until

5:00 p.m. This year, medi-
cal staff serve between 1:30
and 4:30 p.m. We recently
had a situations wherein a
student expecting the previ-
ous arrangement made an
appointment so late (after
4:00 p.m.) that the two op-

tions we have to obtain a
MAP were no longer avail-
able that day. The whole
point of the interview was to
get word out to the student
body via The Davidsonian
that students wanting the
MAP need to contact the stu-
dent health facility early in
the day and to state that need
clearly so that effective ar-
rangements can be made.
Although arelated statement
was in The Davidsonijan ar-
ticle, it was essentially lost

in other more peripheral in--

formation and attention to

“controversy.” We at Stu-

dent Health are very con-
cerned about students in this
matter, and the original point
still needs emphasis. It was
disappointing that The
Davidsonian’s coverage
missed an opportunity to
help address an important
student need.

I hope that the follow-
ing response will address
your assertion that students

seeking a MAP have “no
option at all.” It is true our
previous contracted medical
staff did provide MAP pre-
scription at the Student
Health Facility, and that our
new contracted staff do not.
However, this is not — as
editorial implied — the re-
sult of a specific college
policy change. Our policy
continues to provide as com-
plete and professional medi-
cal care as our resources will
allow. What happened in
this regard is that the Stu-
dent Health Facility contract
for medical services was dis-
continued at Davidson Clinic ©
and begun with Lake
Norman Family Medicine
Center (LNFMC), adecision
basedon many factors. Each
clinic had offered advan-
tages and disadvantages, but
the most positive compre-
hensive health services pack-
age for us was found with

See Healthy on page 9

About expletives

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

As a reader of The
Davidsonian, (have noticed
the frequent and casual use
of unnecessary expletives in
many of the articles, par-
ticularly in the Opinions sec-
tion. The use of such words

‘are commonplace im dia-

logue between students and
friends, and one does not
usually become offended
when a mild but somewhat
crass phrase is interjected
into aconversation. A news-
paper, however, should be
held to a higher standard.

I have enjoyed reading
The Davidsonian since the
first issue came out this year.
It is a paper that provides
coverage of local and global
events, student opinions, and
humorous commentary.
However, Iam always some-
what disenthralled with the
publication whenever! come
across a word that I find most
often scribbled on one of the
bathroom walls of the many

fine facilities here on cam-
pus. I do not enjoy being
able to’ draw a connection
between my school newspa-
perand the walls of any bath-
room (though I would like to
say that the recent efforts of
The Toilet Paper have been
most commendable), but re-
grettably, the same words I
read on the tiles above the
sink or urinals are found in
bold black and white on the
pages of The Davidsonian.

I realize that the editors
of the paper are attempting
to produce an honest, un-
censored sounding board for
many of the otherwise un-
heard thoughts of students,
but by allowing such words
as “piss” and “damn” into
the paper, the quality of all
the articles is cheapened and
an unattractive light is shed
on the entire paper.

In the most recent is-
sues of The Davidsonian
there have been numerous
examples of such flagrant

disregard for quality jour-
nalistic writing. More spe-
cifically, in the seventh is-
sue of this year a disgruntled
fraternity man submitted an
article venting his frustra-
tion at the paper’s lack of
coverage of the Otis Day
concert. The article was con-
tinued on another page un-
der the heading “Pissed.” I
will grant that the phrase was
initially used in the article,
but the paper did not have to
brandish the word as some
sort of wonderful elabora-
tion of the sentiments ex-
pressed by the peeved Greek.
In addition, the phrase
“damn” or “damn it” can
always be found in one of
the many random and unre-
lated accounts of some
fellow’s absolute infatuation
with the jaded topic of beer
drinking. Honestly, some

See Really pissed on
page 9
