6 7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1995

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Asst. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS TERESA WHITE KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
: Sports Editor Operations Manager
Associate Editors MATT PITZER JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Photography Editor Advertising Managers
ROB KOSICKI MEREDITH BENKE
Assistant News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
JOANNA JOHNSON Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE Circulation Managers
Opinions Editor CHLOE BROOKE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor MCNEILL CARSWELL
LAUREN FREEMAN
Arts & Living Editor Editorial Cartoonist
JOHN COPENHAVER CHRIS MOORE
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

SNTAS 1/7 TE

LETTERS

Thank you for caring

What a closing. The Rhodes.

Not since the first NCAA soccer Final Four brought thousands to our community
in 1992 has a fall semester seen so much excitement. Davidson has undergone some
exciting changes, and students have won some major victories. Despite flack from the
trustees, we have a co-ed hall on campus and will continue to have one thanks to the
quick and diplomatic reaction by students to administrative mandates. A national poll
rates us dramatically lower than last year, which only works to strengthen our pride. The
Patterson Court Council totally revamps the Court alcohol policy, introducing the pretty
wristbands that decorate the grass in piles on Sunday mornings. Davidson not only
reaches but exceeds Campaign goals. We get a page on the World Wide Web, thrusting
us into the modern cyberworld. Trustees finalize new student Union plans; the Habitat
House unites student efforts; a new Athletic Director moves into Baker; one of our very
own is given a Rhodes Scholarship; both soccer teams win the Southern Conference. It
all comes back to soccer, apparently.

Actually, it all comes back to the soccer players, and the Court members, and the
Union Board members, and the rest of the students at Davidson. What makes this
semester so memorable is the student victories that episodically surface — that
constantly surprise us. We often complain that, as students here, we do not do enough
to make our voices heard. But we do. :

We have voiced our complaints, our praise, our support, and our dedication not just
in arguing oyer policies or fighting the administration but also in cheering for our sports
teams, contributing to Habitat, or attending Vespers. Just as a professor lends credibility
to her teaching by virtue of her education, students lend credibility to their concerns by
virtue of their accomplishments, their drive, and their commitment.

In many ways we have embraced much of our Rhode Scholar’s philosophy of
making connections between action and thought. We have demonstrated the values of
leadership, service, and scholarship that Davidson represents. We have succeeded in
applying thought learned in the classroom to the world outside the classroom.

Applying action to thought, as Letitia Campbell calls it, is what this semester has
been about. We have asserted ourselves in crucial arenas of debate. We have proved
ourselves on important fields of performance. We have learned to take a stand for what
we believe in. And through this, we have united as a student body. Decisions that
directly affect half of a single hall are seen as decisions that affect all of us. A committee
‘project has grown into a community event. Your victory is my victory; your victory is
our victory.

Therefore, we have all benefited from the extraordinary events of this semester. We
have performed ina skillful and mature manner, and we like to think that we have earned
respect. When fans clap for the soccer team, they are clapping for all of us. When Letitia
walks the halls, we smile with pride — for her and for Davidson.

To the editors,
The children and I
wanted to thank the students

lege for your sweet getures

and faculty of Davidson Col-

and prayers during the ill-
ness and death of my hus-
band Harold.

With our deepest appre-

ciation, -
Dana Gulledge
Courtney Gulledge
Shawn Gulledge
Union Oupost

Deny and ignore

To the editors,

Once again, the
Davidson student body ca-
reens towards the inevitable
end of semester climax, the
Exam Period Game Plan.
Slack or neurotic, everyone
has one. For you first-year
students, here’s the deal:

The Strategy, stage one.
Sure it changes hourly, but
it’s a great way to procrasti-
nate. It starts with the best-
case, worst-case scenario
calculations. Then, the ten-
tative exam blueprint. The
general consensus on this
one is the hard first, easy
later scheme. Get the worst
over with Friday, go out Sat-
urday night and take the next
one Monday morning.

The Rationalization.
You really want to get out of
here. Here’s the thought
process: okay, so I'll take
my first exam Friday, study
all Friday afternoon and

_| night, and then take the sec-
ond exam Saturday morn-°

ing. Right. Oh, how naive
in the week before exams...
The Reality. Unfortunately,
The rationalization soon de-
generates into bedlam. So,
it’s Monday night andI have
three exams left. I haven’t
taken off these socks since
Friday, I watched Rolanda
and Tempest today, I’ve
eaten pizza for five nights in

arow, and I just started study-
ing for Exam Number Two.

The lie is over. All bets are
off. Who am I kidding?

Deny and Ignore. Don’t
worry, the defense mecha-
nisms kick in again. Once in
Chambers Gallery, a strange
calm sets in. It can’t be that
bad ... after all, I got in to
Davidson. I must be compe-
tent, right? Three hours and
it will all be over.

It is imperative to reach
the final stage early in exam
week. Remember the big
picture. After all, exams
definitely do not pass the
coveted will-I-care-about-

this-in-10-years test. Per-
sonally, when deep in the
throes of Reality, I like to
keep in mind my father’s
advice: the night before an
exam, go to the movies.
Back to the denial and
ignore stage after the exams
come to aclose. Just forget
about the accounting exam
that killed you, the ENG 495
that brought you to your
knees begging for mercy, the
Calculus that brought you
right back where you started

. in taking it over, or the reli-

gion exam you thought you
could blow off but shouldn’t
have. So back off, all of you
professors for being mean,
evil, awful, horrible, merci-
less individuals who obvi-
ously have forgotten what it
means to be a student in col-
lege. Bah, humbug.

Sincerely,
Katie McKelvie ‘96

What’s the deal with Christmas

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

What’s the big deal
about Christmas? I don’t
mean the religious part, I
think that’s very important,
particularly if you’re Chris-
tian, but I’m talking about
the social duties connected
with what has been a per-
fectly good religious holi-
day for a very long time.
Don’t get me wrong. I love
Christmas. I just don’t think
it’s very much fun anymore.

Here’s a hypothetical,
itis early December. The air
is somewhat brisk. It’s the
kind of weather where if you
stay outside too long you get
the magnificent tingle/sore-
hess in your nose and throat
like winter has run a
zambonie all through the
inside of your head. It is

time for you to go to the
mall. Every other person
this side of the moon will
also be going to the mall, but
whatcan you do? Itis Christ-
mas. You love your family
and friends. They’ re all get-
ting you presents. They
would be rather angry if you
showed up for the holidays
and gave them a nicely
wrapped box of nothing.
They might not give you any
turkey. Or they might leave
you out in the snow to let the
zambonie run rampant on
your throat. Anyhow, the
alternatives are not very at-
tractive. So you tough it out.
You area trooper. You head
straight into the inferno, or
the closest thing to Dante
outside of LA at rush hour.

You get tothe mall. Itis

just as you expected. You
have to park across the street
at Hardees because the ex-
pansion lot is filled with the
vehicles of crazed shoppers.
You are almostrun over three
times by angry drivers who
must be suffering through a
similar shopping nightmare,
and you have only just come
in sight of the mall. Finally
you reach the doors. You
look inside. It is like look-..
ing into a glass cage where
one of those controversial
experiments with white mice
is going on. Little red-faced
people are running every
which way in search of their
own wedge of cheese, and
something about the scene

see Christmas on page 7
