12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS Se LIVING ‘MONDAY, piace 30, 1995

Student in Wurtzburg relates experience so far

Davidson junior sends message back to America about what it takes to speak German

By Emity SiMMons
Reporter-in-residence, Germany

When wefirst gotto Germany,
everyone in our group was a little
jet-lagged, a little confused, and a
lot overwhelmed. Needless to say,
none of us really had the slightest
clue about the customs, rules, etc.,
of our new home. All we knew
was that we needed .to sleep and

POSTCARDS
FROM THE EDGE

that maybe in a few days (or hours)
we would want to sample some of
that great beer.

My guest family was very ac-
commodating. I don’t think they
knew what jet lag is, but when I

told them I had to sleep, they un-
derstood — sort of. I could sleep,
as long as my sleep fit in with the
order of the day’s activities. I had
to make sure I had my breakfast,
did my daily chores, and ate lunch
at the proper times before I could
even think about relaxing. Not that
I was never allowed to relax; my
relaxation just had to fit into the

schedule, As time passed, I found.

that everything I did had to follow
a plan. If itdidn’t, well, atleast as
far as my host family was con-
cerned, all was shot to hell.
Anyone who knows me will
agree; I am not the most organized
person around. Thus, I began to
feel as if I could never fully adapt
to this culture — as if I were a big
loser who couldn’t even do the
right things at the right time of the
day. Even though I could not keep

up with all the order, I had begun to
think that I was wrong for not
doing so. Talk about stressing out.

Then I met Sebastian. He was
a member of one of the German
host families and ended up spend-
ing a lot of time with us. Sebastian
was basically your average Ger-
man kid, except that he had spent a
year in Chicago when he was 16.
This allowed us to connect with
him pretty easily and he gave us an
interesting perspective of what itis
to be a German kid. It was also
really interesting to observe the
“typically American’’ traits he had
picked up while living in the States
in comparison with his oh-so-Ger-
man ones. By living in America,
Sebastian had come to act quite a
bit less “in Ordnung’’ than his
German counterparts while still
maintaining a lot of his German

traits. Sebastian would do crazy
(and I guess supposedly typically
American) things like spend the
night away from home without a
phone call and skip school for five
days straight. I don’t really know
if those things aretypically Ameri-
can, but they are a lot less in order
than what’ stypically German. But,
he would get really uptight over
things like crumbs in the butter and
crossing the street on a “Don’t
walk” signal even when there were
no cars in sight.

The funny thing about all this
was that while we treasured the
fact that Sebastian was not uptight
about a lot of things — which
made us very comfortable — we
would hear comments from some
other German host families that he
was chaotic and was not really
good to hang out with. Now, if

someone who will only cross the
street on green and who must have
clean butter is chaotic, God only
knows what I am. It makes me a
little disheartened to think that the
very same reasons I like Sebastian
and feel comfortable around him,
his countrywomen and men find
him a threat to society.

I guess that’s my whole point.
My biggest obstacle here in Ger-
many has not been the language; it
has been realizing that even though
I may be speaking German, what I
am saying is not heard the same as
it would be in my language. I have
had to learn that it is not only my
knowledge of the German language
that allows me to communicate
effectively with others — it is also
a feeling for the culture, and that
whatI do and how I perceive things
is as important as what I say.

A

from page 10

times of the 17th century, deals
with Hester Prynne, a woman
forced to wear a scarlet letter “A”
on her chest as punishment for
giving birth to a child (long after
her husband had presumably per-

ished in a shipwreck). The man.

who impregnated her, Reverend
Dimmesdale, can only watch in
silent agony as the town ostracizes
Prynne. Even as he suffers, the
evil Chillingworth (so well-named)
-plots against the two of them, de-
termined to make them suffer.
More than a century of read-

ers have read this tale, now consid-
ered almost required reading. It’s

a story that has plenty going for it-

— suspense, the agony of guilt, the
question of culpability. It also
forces the reader to ask question.
“Who impregnated Hester?” is the
first question. “Who is
Chillingworth and why is: he so
evil?” “What does Chillingworth
see on Dimmesdale’s chest in the
middle of the night?”

These are all questions the
movie (I refuse to call it a film
adaptation) The Scarlet Letter
doesn’t even ask. Instead of start-
ing in medias res as the book did,
it feels obliged to show us the pre-
story of Hester’s arrival in the vil-
lage and her affair with
Dimmesdale. Mistake number one:
Never bore the audience in the first

20 minutes. Sorry, but the build-
up is slow and unnecessary. Mis-
take number two: Where did all
these Indians come from? They
were nowhere in the book, and for
good reason. Talk about an extra-
neous subplot. Mistake number
three: What happened to Pearl?
That ambiguous figure that was at
the heart of the Hawthorne story
has nothing but an extended cameo
in the film. Alfred Hitchcock was
in his films longer than Pearl was
in this movie. Mistake number
four — well, I only have so much
space. .

Is there anything to speak in
the movie’s favor? Pretty much all
of it is lousy, from the obtrusive
musical score to the ending-you-
can-see-coming-from-a-mile-
away (which is, of course, differ-

ent from Hawthorne’s. If you’re
goingto trash something, you might
as well go all out). The only enjoy-
ment one might get from the movie
is purely unintentional on the film-
maker’s side. I got a certain per-
verse pleasure from thinking
throughout the movie, “They’re
not going to do that, are they —
wait a minute ... yup, they sure
did.” The movie is so fundamen-
tally flawed that it was enjoyable
at times to see how bad it would
get.

Still, I can’t forget the actions
of one of my professors. After
watching The Scarlet Letter he
waited around until after the cred-
its rolled to see if there was going
to be some sort of apology at the
end. Personally, I couldn’t leave

_ the theater fast enough. (Grade: D)

Twins

background music, the kind that
flows through you and leaves your
arm hair standing on end. For die-
hard fans (all three of us), this CD
is a must. For those with only a
passing interest, I would recom-
mend beginning your collection
with their breakthrough Heaven or
Las Vegas, or my favorite, one of
the top three of my favorite CDs of
all time, the previously-mentioned
Four Calendar Cafe. You will
quickly realize why Guthrie has
said about the band, (I am para-
phrasing), “‘surely this is the voice
of God.”

GREAT DUMPHIN

SALE

All Sweatshirts

25% of f

(extra treat with
each purchase, NO TRICKS!)

October 30, 31, 1995

ORDER YOUR CLASS RING

Davidson College Bookstore

Montague

from page 10

Rough Field and Time in Armagh.

Montague visited Davidson as part of an American tour to launch his
new book, which was published by Wake Forest Press. The English
Department and the Union Literary Arts Committee, headed by senior
Jack Livings, sponsored the poet’s visit.

The poet was born in Brooklyn, NY but raised in County Tyrone in
Northern Ireland. Last year he added the American-Irish Foundation
Prize in poetry to his long list of honors.

Visiting Professor of English Ralph Black, who served as Montague’s
host during his visit to Davidson, says, “Certainly no other Irish poet can
blend the personal, political, and historical more fluidly.”

Tony Abbott, Chair of the English department, agreed: “The whole
modern Irish history and landscape is in his voice and his poetry.”

Montague stayed through part of Tuesday to have lunch with
members of the English department and the Creative Writing and
Modern American Poetry classes: After lunch he read more poems and
answered questions. Before the end of the discussion he played a
recording of a dramatic reading from “The Rough Field.”

The poet also took time during his visit to meet with a few students
individually. (I had coffee with Montague Tuesday morning and
discussed the poetry and life of Sylvia Plath, the topic of my thesis.
Montague gave freely of his insights from his acquaintance with Ted
Hughes, the English poet laureate and former husband of the late Plath.)

Vereen Bell winner Geordie Schimmel had the opportunity to
discuss “a sheaf of poems” with Montague. He spent much of Tuesday
discussing poetic philosophy and “the importance of casting back into
past” with Montague.

Schimmel drove Montague and his companion Elizabeth back to
Wake Forest on Tuesday, where Montague completed his tour before
returning to Ireland.

Write for The Davidsonian. It’s
never too late to join the fun. Call
Matt, Jeff, John, or Matt. -2148.

