THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995 7

Che ADavidsonian

LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor.
RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
* RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
ROB KOSICKI-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" WALT BARRON-Advertising Manager
CAROLINE BYNUM-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULY AN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Et tu, Newt?

Newt Gingrich, the bomb-throwing back bench Congressman from Georgia, finally
reached the pinnacle of Congressional power as a result of the November elections.
Presumably, the country will discover in time what has been visited upon it.

The current incivility and extreme partisanship in Washington is in large part due to
Gingrich and his tactics. For years, he has attacked Democrats and Republicans alike in his
quest to discredit the Congress to a degree that would make it possible for him and his
followers to take over.

They did so in what seemed like a lightning flash and startled most of the country. What
still is not known is whether Gingrich is really a “revolutionary,” as he describes himself,
or whether he is in reality a hungry politician who wanted, above all else, to acquire power.

Early signs point to the latter. By first agreeing to accept a multi-million dollar book
advance, Gingrich made it apparent that his concept of public service is not as pure as he
had represented. Only when he realized that the deal would weaken early perceptions of
him did he decide to take only a dollar advance on the book. And his waffling on the term
limits issue is the result of a newly discovered feeling that matters look vastly different when
you are on the inside rather than the outside.

The sad truth is that Newt Gingrich has always been primarliy in pursuit of personal
recognition and power. He does have an agenda of issues that interest him, and he has
developed a philosophy of government that has a certain amount of coherence to it. But his
unwillingness to rise above the petty self-interest and instincts of political survival for
‘which he has castigated others is disappointing.

Time will tell. But our prediction is that he is not the messiah.

True revolutionaries are willing-to risk all for their cause. A leader who really wants
to change the system needs to face and speak the truth.

Gingrich has been willing to do neither. He knows that the balanced budget amendment
is a political gimmick. Why doesn’t he have his new House write a balanced budget? No
constitutional amendment is needed to do that. Why does he propose tax cuts when he
knows that this is contradictory to the idea of balancing the budget?

Unfortunately, the games of trying to fool the people have not stopped. We just have
a new cast of characters. For they all know that the budget can never be balanced without
fundamental changes in the entitlement programs; they all know that cutting out “welfare,”
as most people define the term, will have little effect on the budget; and, they all know that
it would endanger their political hides to face those tough questions.

Gingrich and his minions are not going to face the issues forthrightly, and they aren’t
going to solve the problems. When asked recently about his refusal to endorse retroactive
term limits, Gingrich said, “You can be for the concept of term limits without being a martyr
about it.”

_ Some people thought Gingrich, in his great fervor and zeal to right the system, might
have been more willing to be a martyr. Maybe that’s why the people of Georgia’s 6th
congressional district have kept sending him back up Capitol Hill. But he is no martyr.
There may be no room left for martyrs on this hilltop.

So, the country must keep looking. Creating momentous change is painful, and those
who do so usually pay a tremendous price in the process. Political hogwash like a “Contract
for America” almost always becomes a smokescreen that conceals the same old wheel of
power turning once again It isnot the rhetoric of true, self-sacrificing leaders.. A revolution
in the Congress may be what we remember from 1994, but time will show that the hard and
largely overlooked work of President Clinton and the Democratic Congress to reduce the
deficit is the most valuable legacy of our government in the early 1990s.

ahF SEL ECTIO N ccs

LETTERS

Nation of Islam visit justified

To the editors,

In the December 5,
1994, issue of The
Davidsonian it was reported
that the Black Student Coa-
lition hosted a closed meet-
ing in the BSC house that
included a speaker from the
Nation of Islam. Several
students attempted to get into
the meeting and were denied
access,

However, as was an-
nounced to the campus in a
previous article in The
Davidsonian, this was not a
campus-wide or BSC event,
but an invitation-only meet-
ing for African-American
and Latino males that hap-
pened to use the house. As
Tony Perez’s article stated,
it was a retreat that was in-

tended to be a motivational/
goal-setting event for minor-
ity men. Its purpose was to
stimulate increased contri-
butions to the Davidson com-
munity by African-Ameri-
can and Latino males. The
retreat format was not un-
like what a lot of student
groups do on campus all the
time.

As for the Nation of Is-
lam speaker, he was invited
not because of his religious
affiliation but because of his
ability to motivate. Actu-
ally, in the words of one stu-
dents who I spoke with who

the students who attended
more respect for being able
to make up their own minds
on whether what is said about

the Nation of Islam is some-
thing they can agree with or
not.

Alan Staggers’ article
did not accurately’ portray

‘what was the intended pur-

pose of the event and it is
unfortunate that he did not
spend more time trying to
find that out before he made
public assumptions about
what it was. It was my hope
that we will, in the future,
seek to understand before we
judge and embrace attempts
to further involvement on
campus rather than divide
and furthér segment our vari-

was there, we need to give s ous-student pci eae x

‘Sincerely:
Tom Shandley
Dean of Students

Phi Delt's light display disrespectful

To the editors,

Those fortunate
Davidson students who do
not live down the hill might
not have noticed the lights
display atop the roof of the
Phi Delta Theta house dur-
ing the week of final exams.
A few members of Phi Delt
decided to show their Christ-
mas spirit and their affection

for the women of Connor
House by writing “HO” with
an arrow pointing to Connor
on their roof. In the spirit of
appropriate revenge, ahand-
ful of Connor women made
afew adjustments tothe roof,
leaving the Phi Delts with a
roof that read “HOG.” Ad-
mittedly we were wrong to
tamper with another house’s

property, but that did not
warrant the reply to our ac-
tionss—a flashing sign that
read “BOX” and pointed to
Connor.

Ido not think that every

member of Phi Delt sees the ~

women of Connor in such a
demeaning way, or that this

See Peeples on paged .

Berkey calls for objective teaching

To the editors,

News from Davidson
sometimes travels slowly to
those of us living tempo-
rarily in distant parts.

I just received the No-
vember 28 issue of The
Davidsonian, with its report
that the SGA had passed a
resolution calling for the
elimination of the standing

requirement that members of .

the College’s Religion De-
partment be professed Chris-
tians. In an editorial in the
same issue, you applauded
the SGA for its action.
Such a move is, of
course, long overdue, al-
though one should recognize
that the current members of
the Religion Department are

already among the most
broad-minded and tolerant
in our community. It is en-
couraging to see the student
body, represented by the
SGA and the editorial staff
of The Davidsonian, push-
ing for change on this and
related issues, issues which

See Berkey on page 9

Alternative Gift Fair reaps profits

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. |

To the editors,

Iam happy toreport that
the Alternative Gift Fairs of
the Davidson community
were a smashing success.
During the Holiday Season
the community of Davidosn
raised over $10,000 to send
to worthy projects helping
people in need all over the
world. The Alternative Gift

Fair held in conjunction with
the Community Christmas
Party in the Student Union
sold “alternative gifts” to-
taling over $5,000. A sec-
ond fair held the following
Sunday at Davdison United
Methodist Church collected
an additional $5,000, bring-
ing the total forthe Davidson
community to an excess of

$10,000. This is a signifi-
cant and exciting way tocel-
ebrate Christmas!

I would like to thank the
student organizations that
were instrumental in this pro-
cess. The Chapel Commit-
tee was very helpful in orga-
nization and planning for the

- See Gift on page 9
