THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1995 13

“The magic of made things”
Cort Savage’s sculpture displayed at Mint Museum

By SARA CARLSON
College Relations

Most people, when confronted
with a hair dryer, know what to do:
plug it into the wall, flip the switch,
and use the hot air that comes roar-
ing out. Few people, however,
understand the way the hair dryer
works, why it is shaped.the way it
is, or what is its ultimate place in
the universe. They know how to
use it, but beyond that, the hair
dryer is magic.

Cort Savage, the sculptor-in-
residence. at Davidson College,
understands full well the magic of
made things. “I don’t know how
my car runs, but I appreciate it,”
Savage said. “Art can be the same
way.”

His current show at the Mint
Museum of Art in Charlotte is
stocked with kinetic sculptures
vaguely reminiscent of common-
place manufactured items.
Whether they use materials that
surround us,such as floor mats and
upholstery, or whether the overall
shapes remind us of the everyday
world, such as snails or mufflers,
Savage’s motorized sculptures
draw in visitors to his show through
an element of familiarity.

Appreciation of all the layers
of Savage’s work requires time
spent withthe sculpture. Although
his art may appear quirky or even
frivolous, each piece has a serious,
underlying reason for existence;
by implication, so does all technol-
ogy. It is up to the visitor of the
show to find the meaning and to
experience each piece with an open
heart (not to mention ear, eye, skin,
and mind). Because of that, Sav-
age says children have the best
reaction to his work. “If kids are
interested, they pay attention. They
have a certain willingness to expe-
rience — they’re not trying to nar-
row theirrange of experience. They
don’t put up any masks of pretend
indifference.” :

The Mint show contains five
sculptures from Savage’s work in
the last four years, as well as a
collection of wire “sketches” —
small form models of shapes that
interest the artist.

He has purposely chosen
works that occupy different planes
of the small gallery. One hangs
from the ceiling, one is mounted
ona wall, two rest on the floor, one
with electrical cords running up to
the ceiling, and one both sits on the
floor and projects onto a wall. The
pieces turn on and off at irregularly
scheduled intervals, so each viewer
has the opportunity to appraise the
sculpture both in activity and mo-
tionless silence.

Art professor, Cort Savage

Savage relishes. the diverse
reactions his work brings forth. He
does not intend the pieces to be
easy, and each piece demands visi-
tors bring their own experience to
bear. But the sculpture and
Savage’s earnest desire to engage
visitors make a visit to the Mint
well worth the trip. “Trouble only
begins when people fail to bring

their ownexperience and their abil-

ity to have fun to the gallery,”
Savage said. “If they think they

Zeke Hendrix

For a man who began making
kinetic art with little or no under-
standing of technology — the pur-
chase of Radio Shack’s “Basics of
Electronics” launched his kinetic
career — Savage makes art that
performs to his specifications re-
markably well. He said the tech-
nology behind and within each
piece came only withendless hours
of trial-and-error tinkering. “With
any piece in the room, I’ve gone
through a living hell getting them
to do what they do,” Savage said.
“The solutions are simple, but they
take ages to find.”

don’t understand, they feel intimi-
dated. I see the visual arts becom-
ing more information-oriented, art
about information as a means of
empowering culture. What I think
gets lost in that approach is experi-
ence. When you experience, you
can both intellectualize and inter-
nalize. Then the piece has mean-

' ing for you.”

_Savage’s work is on display at
the Mint Museum through March
2. It is open from 10 a.m. to 10
p.m. Tuesday, 10 a.m. to5 p.m.
Wednesdays through Saturday, and
noon to 5 p.m. Sunday.

x

Looking For A
Summer Job??? SO
ARE WE!!! :
Carolina Pool
Management needs
Lifeguards, Swim
Coaches, and Swim

Instructors.
Summer Positions
available in the Charlotte

aresg:.<..
For More Information:

704- 362-0748

if
Sa Check Us Out! YY

COLLECTIONS! is an information and social

resource center for Charlotte's gay and lesbian
community. In our relaxed, friendly setting, you'll find...

games, periodicals and over 1,000 BOOKS available
to borrow; DELICIOUS coffees, teas, and desserts;
weekend ENTERTAINMENT and special events;
informal GROUPS like a bridge club and "twenty-
something talk;" nice PEOPLE of all ages who enjoy
a great ALTERNATIVE to the bar scene; plus a whole

lot MORE!

COLLECTIONS! extends a warm invitation for you

to visit us anytime. Just call us to find out our hours and
what's going on. We could be just what you've been

COLLECTIONS!
(704) 333-SEEK
226 Baldwin Avenue
Charlotte, NC 28204

looking for.

[ COUNSELOR: Camp Illahee for Girls, Brevard, NC, is seeking creatvie, enthusiastic
individuals committed to building children's self-esteem and serving as positive role models.
Wonderful opportunity for personal and professional growth. Staff needed for: tennis,
swimming, riding, kayaking, rock climbing, arts, nurse and more. For more information
(704) 883-2181. P.O. Box 272 Brevard, NC 28712.

ON THE SCENE

»

Tonight

Rev. Percy Reeves. “I want to reach this community.” 4-6 p.m. in
the Big Screen Room. :

Gator Gumbo Cajun Band. 9:30-midnight in the 900 Room.
Authentic Cajun music, dance instruction, food, and drink will all be
a part of this entertaining evening.

Valentine’s Day Coffeehouse. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room. Come
enjoy coffee and doughnuts while writing Valentine’s Day messages
to your friends.

Internship/Summer Job Fair. 10:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. in Chambers
Gallery. Different organizations are coming to talk about opportuni-
ties for internships and summer jobs.

Bone Marrow Drive. 9 a.m.- 4 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Tryouts for Universal Wolf. 8-11 p.m. in Cunningham.

Mexican Cooking Workshop. 6-7 p.m. in the Alumni House. Come
learn how to cook and savor the taste of great Mexican cuisine.

Campus Forum - Affirmative Action. 7-8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Come hear a panel of faculty and students discuss some of t he most

controversial issues of the 1990s.

Twenty-one-year-old night, 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room. Come
drink lots of international beer.

Tryouts for Universal Wolf. 8-11 p.m. in Cunningham.

Wednesday

Dr. Bob Barrett. “What you Need to Know about AIDS.” 4-5:30 p.m.
in the 900 Room.

Power of One. ‘9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. This movie-is the
story of a young South African boy of English descent struggling for
his dignity in the midst of apartheid.

Thursday

William Raspberry, a Pulitzer Prize-winning urban affairs colum-
nist for The Washington Post, is coming to speak on why building a
community is so important. Don’t miss him.

Dr. Nancy Dubler, director of the division of bioethics at the
department of epidemiology and social medicine at Montefiore Medi-
cal Center comes to speak on patients rights in the Morrison Room at
7 p.m. :

Indian Cooking Workshop. 6-7 p.m. in the Alumni house. Come
cook and learn about delicious Indian cuisine.

Friday

Power of One. 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday

International Night. 7:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Sunday

Sons of Abraham. 2-3:30 p.m. in the-900 Room. An all-male a
cappella singing group performs gospel and contemporary hits,
ballads, and skits.

Citizen Kane. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week

Senior Exhibitions. All week in Edward M. Smith Gallery at VAC.
Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m.

Ansel Adams Exhibition. ‘The Man Who Captured the Earth’s
Beauty.” All week in William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at VAC.
Open weekdays 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m. and weekends 2-5 p.m.

