6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1995

Week in Washington : :
Presidential field grows larger

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week correspondent

Even with President Clinton
on vacation in Jackson Hole, Wyo-
ming, and Congress in recess, there
is hardly a shortage of news from
the presidential campaign trail.
Pete Wilson has entered the race,
Jesse Jackson is poised to do so,
and speculation is increasing about
independent challenges to Clinton.

Wilson, Governor of Califor-
nia, announced his candidacy for
the Republican nomination last
Monday in New York. Using the
Statue of Liberty as a backdrop,
Wilson railed against “out of touch,
out of control” government and
proclaimed himself as a “léader
with the courage of his convic-
tions.”

Attacking Clinton’s alleged
lack of progress on domestic is-
sues, Wilson articulated several
conservative themes in his speech,
such as toughness on crime, oppo-
sition to affirmative action and il-
legal immigration, and individual
responsibility. He criticized the
Clinton administration for “the rat-
tling of rubber sabers” in Bosnia.
Repeating his opposition to affir-
mative action, Wilson said that
America “promises freedom — not

a freeride.” He also derided illegal
immigration, saying that “the
wrong way [to enter America] is
not the American way.”

The tone of his message, es-
pecially his stance against illegal
immigration, reflects the conser-
vative bent the Republican field
has shown so far. In his remarks,
Wilson sought to downplay his
image as a moderate and appeal to
fiscal conservatives.

These themes follow three
controversial stands Wilson has
taken in his home state. First, he
cut government spending by $30
billion. He supported the drive to
outlaw affirmative action programs
in California. And he supported
Proposition 187, which would re-
voke most welfare benefits to ille-
gal aliens. Even though. Wilson
raised taxes and remains pro-
choice, he tried to portray himself
more conservatively.

Another strong challenge to
Bill Clinton may come from an
independent backed by Democrats
defecting from their party. Ac-
cording to pollster Frank Luntz,
“There’s clearly less a need for a
Republican to leave his or her party
than fora Democrat.” Perot proved
in 1992 that a well-financed inde-
pendent candidacy can be viable.

One of these challengers may
be Jesse Jackson, who announced
last Monday that he will place his
name in an unofficial straw poll.
Voters in 20 cities nationwide will
select their choice for president in
this CityVote election process.
Jackson has hinted at another presi-
dential run before, but this is an
even stronger indication that he
intends to launch an independent
candidacy. Even if Jackson does
not run, he wants to be “a strong
presence in the campaign” to focus
attention on urban issues.

Colin Powell, now witha stun-
ning 62 percent favorable rating in
recent polls, has said that he will
take a month-long book tour be-
fore discussing a possible run.

Even with these develop-
ments, Senator Bob Dole remains
the Republican front-runner. Some
Republicans are worried about the
“inevitability” of his nomination,
believing that voters will tire early
of his message. Dole’s support in
Iowa and New Hampshire has
dropped 10 percentage points, and
his campaign has become admit-
tedly complacent. With Dole tied
down in the Senate this fall, it will
take focus and discipline to main-
tain his momentum through 1996.

Dean Rusk

Wu’s release eases tension
between U.S. and China

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

On Thursday of this last week,
the Clinton administration breathed
a huge sigh of relief. That morn-
ing, the U.S. was informed that
Harry Wu, the U.S. citizen arrested
for espionage by the Chinese gov-
ernment in the middle of June, was
being set free and allowed to return
to the United States. Finally, there
was hope that the U.S./Chinese
relationship might be coming
around. Some say Wu’s release
might mark a turning point in the
U.S.’s relationship with China, but
to truly understand that relation-
' ship, one must look at its history
and events which occurred before
the arrest of Wu.

The U.S. and China first ex-
changed ambassadors in 1979.
Even though, at the time, the U.S./
Chinese relationship was stilted at
best, itslowly improved until 1989.
In 1989, the Chinese government
sent troops into Tianamen Square
to stop a peaceful student demon-
stration for democracy. By the end
of the week, hundreds of demon-
strators had been killed by the mili-
tary, and Communist China’s most
publicized democratic demonstra-
tion was over. U.S. relations with
China plummeted, but eventually
economic concerns outweighed
those for human rights and after
being granted Most Favored Na-
tion Status, China was again back
on amiable terms with the U.S.
(even though human rights issues,
weapon sales, and a string of copy-
right violations continued to hinder
diplomatic efforts).

May 22 marked a change to ~

me f

jatgal

Xiangtan
Chengd:
Z

hongging

Be hil ngzhou
Tengctwon Su

Wuhan ¢ >

hall

nds

SHANGHAI
4

Hapgthou FP ningdo
inhua

AY

this relationship, however, when
the Clinton administration granted
a visa to President Lee Teng-hui of
Taiwan so that he could speak at
Cornell University, his alma mater.
Since 1979, the U.S. has not offi-
cially recognized Taiwan as a le-
gitimate government. China saw
the U.S.’s action in granting Teng-
hui’s visa as a possible first step
toward that recognition. And in
response, China immediately be-
gan threatening naval maneuvers
off the coast of Taiwan in an at-
tempt to intimate Taiwan and the
U.S. China also withdrew its U.S.
ambassador and delayed approval
of the new American ambassador
to China. During this time, U.S./
Chinese relations reached their
lowest point since 1979. Then to

make matters even worse, the Chi-
nese arrested Wu.

This was not the first time Wu
had hurt America’s relationship
with China. Before he became a
U.S. citizen, he spent 19 years in
Chinese prison camps. After his
release, Wu had set out on a very
publicized and successful cam-
paign to show the world what ex-
actly went onin those prison camps.
Using hidden cameras, Wu man-
aged to documented multiple hu-
man rights violations in these
camps. He was returning to China
to attempt more documentation
when he was arrested by the gov-
ernment and accused of espionage
(a charge which carries a possible
death penalty). The U.S. govern-
ment immediately protested. And

@ | AJAUUOSoONta

LSEW

NOTES

Shannon Faulkner
Shannon: Only tough can be first

Shannon Faulkner’s crusade didn't exactly set the soul on fire — even 4
feminist soul. For one thing, it had that been-there, done-that feel.

It was a thrill when women scaled the walls at America’s military
academies, the training ground for the service elite. But that was two decades
ago.

We went; we conquered. Thousands of us.

Bring up the topic of women in combat, and you’ |] get a feisty dinner party
conversation going. But women attending military academies? Old news.
And the Citadel? Why bother? :

The fact that South Carolina tax dollars subsidize this boy’s club did se’
the outrage meter spinning. But that was just one of many reasons to bg
appalled at government — hers, ours, America’s.

Example: When Faulkner was being restricted to classroom-only work
last spring at the Citadel, Alabama was still charging rape victims for their owH
post-assault examinations.

So I was pulling for her, but she was barely a blip on my radar.

Until she quit. :

Talk about outraged. And incredulous. Not to mention embarrassed.

She fights for 2 1/2 years to get there and couldn't make it a week? Sha
arrives 20 pounds overweight and, her parents say, without a clue that she’d
be singled out by cadets. What was she thinking?

More to the point, what were Mom and Dad thinking? And her lawyers’

Faulkner has started the interview rounds —Newsweek, Prime Time Live
—and she swears she was in good physical shape. She says it was the menta
and emotional toll that did her in.

No doubt she was under tremendous stress; she did get death threats and
was alone in ahostile land. Maybe she was in better condition than she seemed}

Unfortunately, if you are Shannon Faulkner, being in decent shape isn’
enough. You have to be pumped up like Linda Hamilton inTerminator and
just’as tough.

Being good won’t get it. You have to be better.

It’s not fair, but it’s a fact.

-Terri Toncale, The Birmingham Daily News

Shannon: She was not superhuman

During the week that Shannon Faulkner departed The Citadel, at least 34
other “knobs” quit — burned out, exhausted, fed up, depressed, or had
suddenly come to their senses. You heard very little about them. They were
all men.

There are lessons in Faulkner’s departure from The Citadel, but not the
ones offered by her ready defenders or detractors: her experience says next tq
nothing about whether women can stand up to the rigors of The Citadel.

Instead, the controversy surrounding her departure merely bears out an
old truth: women and people of color are judged by a double standard. Ou
failures are magnified.

Nowhere is that more true than fore those who take up the dauntin,
challenge of being “firsts” — kicking open doors, knocking down walls
breaking through glass ceilings. Theirs is not a task for mere mortals.

Of course, it is no accident that so many of those “firsts” — especially ir]
the civil rights movement — did so well. Many were chosen by strategists whq
wanted them to succeed and were actually aware of the burdens that trailblaz:
ers would bear. Fail or not, every black person in America would be judged
by the actions of those “firsts.” They had to be exceptional.

Shannon Faulkner’s sin was that she turned out to be less than superhu:
man. The 34 young men who dropped out of The Citadel in their first wee
paid no great penalty for that. Faulkner did. So did the cause she championed

-Cynthia Tucker, Editorial PageEditor, Atlanta Constitution

the Chinese government began a
dangerous game of chicken with
the U.S. as it attempted to show its
opponents (especially those in the
military) that it was willing to stand
up tothe U.S. and would be willing
to fight over the issue of Taiwan.

What appears to have caused
the release of Wu is the UN Con-
ference on Women whichis sched-
uled to begin next week in Beijing.
Hillary Rodham Clinton had
planned to attend the conference

(giving it legitimacy as well as’

showing the United States’ sup-
port for China’s role in the confer-
ence). After Wu’s arrest, it be-
came clear that Clinton would not
attend the conference while Wu
was in custody. :
Now that Wu has been re

leased, Clinton has expressed her
intention to attend the conference
and the latest barrier in China’s
relationship with the U.S. has been
breached. The U.S./Chinese rela-
tionship, however, still remains
severely strained. Taiwan contin-
ues to be the main problem for the

U.S. and China. And as the U.S.’s

relationship with Taiwan contin-
ues to improve economically and
politically (Taiwan’s move from
an authoritarians state to a demo-
cratic one has done a-great deal to
further this), the likelihood of a
simple or quick solution to the
U.S./Chinese problems appears
less and less probable.

Source: Time, September 4,
1995.
