THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

~The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor | Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
Assistant Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager
Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
Assistant News Editor TED PENICK
JOANNA JOHNSON Assistant Photography Editor
: BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

‘-Vamonos!

Picture this.

You’ re floating in the turquoise waters of the Mediterranean after lying topless on
the white sandy beach of Alicante, Spain. The sun beats down, you feel alive, and you're
thinking (in Spanish) about the night of fiestas to come — to a discoteca, a tapas bar, a
sidewalk café?

You’ re riding on the back of a huge elephant in India, after journeying in a ricksha
across town. Later you’ ll learn an ancient Hindu tradition and travel to the Taj Mahal.

You’re trekking through the Himalayas after living ina small mountain village in
Nepal studying Tibetan monks. You’ ve spent months taking pictures, learning Nepalese,
meditating. Now you’re on your way through the largest mountain range in the world.

You're on a bus travelling to the Atacama desert of northern Chile with a small
group of friends. At once youcan see the snow-capped mountains of the Andes looming
to your right and the crests of the Pacific waves breaking to your left. Later, you'll feel
intoxicated by the wine and the dazzling galactic display of the Southern hemisphere.

You’re helping your host mother prepare dinner in your hut in Zimbabwe; you’ re
standing mesmerized before the Birth of Venus in Florence; you’ re eating a baguette and
fromage in Paris with a carafe of wine; you’ re traveling to the outback in Australia ...

It’s not too late to make these pictures realities. If you’ ve never thought of it, if
you’ ve thought about going but aren’t quite sure, if you’ ve gone and would love to go
elsewhere — do it, go abroad. Travelling and studying abroad offers you the
possibilities that Davidson and the United States can’t give you. Study abroad programs
afford you the opportunity to live in another culture and experience firsthand the
language, customs, food, education, celebrations, politics, and religion.

‘Yes, Davidson is an amazing place. Yes, Davidson provides us with a fabulous -

education. Yes, Davidson draws many amazing people together. But Davidson is
Davidson — it’s small, stressful, stringent, and slight in comparison to the rest of the
world. And it will remain Davidson — whether you’re here or not.

What many of you need is to leave Davidson, just for a while, and open your mind
to the countless possibilities that lie before you just over the horizon. Conquering even
a portion of the infinite space beyond and expanding your logic and reason even for just
a few months can and will make all the difference in your life.

Whether you choose a small program, a large program, a Davidson program, a
touring program, a summer volunteer program, an individual program, you’ ll probably

find the experience more rewarding than anything you’ ve ever done before. Whether
you’ re a freshman, sophomore, junior, or senior, you should find the time — a summer,
a semester during college, or a year after college — to travel or study abroad before
you’ re burdened with the responsibilities, the obligations, and the logistical impossibili-
ties that the future will most assuredly hold.

And when you return, not only will you have learned an immeasurable amount
about another world, you might foster a greater appreciation for Davidson. You might
appreciate the freedoms of the United States a little more. But certainly, you will have

learned more about yourself — which is the best sort of learning and the most valuable
part of an education.

LETTERS

Bill’s addendum

To the editors,

Many thanks for the
expansive coverage the SGA
has been receiving. Allow
me, if you might, to add an
addendum to your reporting
of our debate on those three
church related issues.

Your publishing the roll
call is fine. * We desire ac-
countability for our mem-
bers, yet a few things need to
be said.

First, issues such as
these cut to the heart of what
it means to be a representa-
tive. My ruminations onrep-
resentation certainly need
not be printed here, but, suf-
fice it to say, some senators
voted their conscience and
others their perception of
what a majority of their con-
stituents believe. Some sena-

tors sacrificed their votes to
provide a balance for what
they saw as a split among
their constituents’ views (i.¢.
if Rusk was split, it might be
appropriate for one to vote
yes on something and one
no, regardless of the
representative’s beliefs).
Second, as to our Ex-
ecutive abstentions, Warren
Buford and I felt uncomfort-
able voting either affirma-
tively or negatively. We
came at the beginning of the
roll call and did not want to
sway undecided voters.
More importantly, though,
we are supposed to repre-
sent the whole student body,
and these votes were to de-
termine what the will of the
student body really is. Cast-
ing a vote on behalf of the

whole student body might
not only skew the results, it
would be premature and pre-
sumptuous. Though we may
be perceived in some quar-’
ters as having passed the
‘buck, I can assure you that I
am not capable of such a
shrewd political move and
that I have opinions on these
issues which I’ll be glad to
share with anyone at great

length (as you might imag-

ine). ;

This debate and vote
was truly a shining hour in
the history of SGA. The
quality of the discussion was
inspiring, as was the seri-
ousness with which these
issues were taken.

Pensively,

Bill Gullan ‘96

SGA President

Hey, we play well, too

To the editors,

Last week in The
Davidsonian, the Davidson
women’s soccer team was
completely neglected. Be-
ing the first issue since fall
break, we thought perhaps
some mention might be
made of our two strong vic-
tories in Florida over the

break, or of our recent and
future games against nation-
ally ranked opponeits.

We noticed that you
were certain not to neglect
any of the in-season male
sports and even asked
Davidson students to come
out and support them. Are
you making a statement

about whose sports are more
important or are you just
plain lazy? Your action has
been very disappointing, and
it certainly doesn’t reflect
good sports reporting,

Sincerely,
The Davidson
Women’s Soccer team

IN MEMORIAM

Dr. Steven Hancock Lonsdale
Davidson College Classics Professor

January 6, 1952 - October 11, 1995

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036, Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Donations in Dr. Lonsdale’s memory to go to |
the Steven H. Lonsdale Book Fund, E.H.
Little Library, Davidson College

