6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington

GOP cuts student loans,
AmeriCorps Funding

By Davip SANTscHI
Washington Week Correspondent

President Clinton and the Re-
publican-controlled Congress
reached an agreement last Wednes-
day that will keep the federal gov-
ernment from shutting down dur-
ing budget negotiations.

The stopgap spending bill pro-
vides temporary financing for gov-
ernment services until November
13. All federal agencies whose
budgets have not been approved
by Congress can spend at 5 percent
below the amounts set in the pro-
posed 1996 spending bills. Pro-
grams that the Republicans plan to
abolish or significantly scale back
can spend at 10 percent below their
current funding. This would tem-
porarily spare many of President
Clinton’s favored programs from
being cut disproportionally before
a final budget is signed.

. Congress has moved far
slower on the grinding budget pro-
cess than on legislation passed
during the first part of the term.
Only bills for Congress’ operation
and military construction have been
sent to President Clinton. House
Majority Leader Dick Armey (R-
TX) justified the slow pace, com-.
menting that “the toughest thing to
doin Washington is cut spending.”
Senate Minority Leader Tom
Daschle (D-SD) argued that Re-
publicans were trying to make
policy in the budget bills and
blamed delays on “the extreme
right [dominating] the agenda.”

In debate Tuesday over the
bill for Veteran’s Affairs, Housing
and Urban Development, and other
independent agencies, the Senate
voted 52-47 against a Democratic
amendment to fund AmeriCorps,
the president’s national service
program. The $425 million re-
quested by congressional Demo-
crats was far less than the $819
billion the president sought.

AmeriCorps, begun two years
ago, gives college students educa-
tion grants in exchange for their
participation incommunity service.
Republicans have attacked it as
wasteful and tried to eliminate it
last year, but the president suc-
cessfully restored its funding. Sen.
Ted Kennedy (D-MA) character-
ized the vote as an “unfortunate,
unwarranted, and unfair attack,”
but many moderates who supported
AmeriCorps in the past had diffi-

- culty defending it when welfare

and Medicare were being sharply
cut. President Clinton is expected
the veto the bill.

Also this week, the Senate
Labor and Human Resources Com-
mittee cut $10.8 billion from fed-
eral student loans in an 8-7 vote.
Under the new arrangement, col-
leges would have to pay a .85 per-
cent fee on all loans, which would
cost $2 billion over the next seven

years. The interest rates on loans
would also increase. Students

would have to begin repaying the
interest on their loans immediately
after graduation and the principal
within six months. Proponents

played down the impact of thé bill,
saying that the costs would hardly
be felt by most college students.

The bill would reduce student
loans made directly through col-
leges and universities from 40 per-
cent to 20 percent of all student
loans granted. President Clinton’s
plan for 100 percent of loans to
come from directly through uni-
versities was described by a com-
mittee spokeswoman as “an en-
titlement for bureaucrats.” A
House committee passed a similar
bill on Thursday that would cut
direct student loans entirely. Re-
publicans claim the government
would save $1.5 billion by making
student loans available through
other sources. The differences
between the bills will be worked
out in conference.

These provisions certainly
mean that less money will be avail-
able for student financial aid pro-
grams. The federal student loans
that are offered will be probably
have stricter payment plans and
will be distributed through private
lenders.

While recent budget debates
have focused on welfare and Medi-
care, the votes scrapping
AmeriCorps and scaling back fed-
eral student loans show that young
people are not immune from con-
gressional budget-cutting.

Sources include: September
27, 28, 29 of The New York Times
and September 27 of The Wall
Street Journal. :

Dean Rusk

PLO signs peace agreement

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

In a ceremony at the White
House this last weekend, Israel and
the Palestinians signed a peace
agreement pulling Israeli troops
and governors out of the Palestin-
ian controlled parts of the West
Bank. The accord was the ex-
pected next step to the Cairo agree-
ment of last May.

The accord calls for Israeli
troop withdrawal from the occu-
pied West Bank beginning Sun-
day. The withdrawal, which ends
a 28-year occupation, is supposed
to be completed by the summer.
The accord allows for Palestinian
elections for their new areas, which

is expected to give voting rights to

over a million Palestinians.

The Israeli transfer of power
only effects 30 percent of the West
Bank. This is because there are
quite a few Israeli settlements in
the West Bank which Israel is not
willing to turn over to the Palestin-
ians.

After Israel succeeded in beat-
ing the Arab powers in the Seven
Day and other wars right after it
was created, Israel began an ag-
gressive settlement plan for its
newly occupied territories. The
settlements try to change new ter-
ritories tiv. occupied territories

Viet" a! A

4

aa

CS

into parts of Israel. The hope was
that the settlements would spread
Israeli influence as well as increase
the proportion of the Israeli to Pal-
estinian population. The settle-
ments were relatively successful
and gave the Israelis a legitimate
claim to the land.

In recent years these settle-
ments have come back to haunt
Israel. Israel’s focus has changed
recently, as it has been trying to
pacify Arafat and the PLO by giv-
ing them their own Palestinian
state. The problem has been that
all the occupied territories have
Jewish settlements which Israel set

up. So while Israel feels the need
to create a separate state for the
Palestinians, it has not been able to
successfully move the Jewish set-
tlers whoconsider their settlements
home and would never be willing
to live under Palestinian rule.
Arafat said that this recent
peace agreement will definitely
lead to a Palestinian state. While
“the accord was a major step, it
avoided the issue of the Jewish
settlements. As long as this issue
is avoided, there cannot be peace
in the Israeli occupied territories,
and there can definitely not be an
independent Palestinian state.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 ae 4

Che Davidsonan

ELSEW!]

NOTES

2-year-old enjoys vacuums, not toys

FOND DU LAC, Wis. Most 2-year-olds play with things that
go “vroom.” Mitchell O’Hearn prefers things that go “whoosh.”

The tot who loves vacuum cleaners got 10 for his birthday,
including a handheld model and an industrial strength giant.

His aunt, Bonnie O’ Hearn-Harmer, says Mitchell is “obsessed”
with the machines.

“Nobody knows why .... Perhaps it’s because he had colic as
a baby and they ran vacuum cleaners to calm him down,” she said.

“Other kids go ‘vroom’ with their cars and run them back and
forth on the floor. Mitchell goes ‘whoosh’ with the vacuum.”

When Mitchell visits, she said, he “knows where every aunt and
uncle keeps the vacuum. He goes to the closet to say ‘hi’ to it and asks
to have it plugged in.”

Suits cite unexpected Norplant side effects

It was all a frightening mystery to Kimberly Thompson: the
throbbing migrains, the shortness ‘of breath, the 40-pound weight
gain in just three months.

“It was the worst part of my life, wondering what is happening
to your body,” said the 25-year-old Chicago mother of two. “There
were times I would cry and say ‘What’s wrong? Is it me?’”

It was clear to Rhonda Rice something was terribly wrong when
she was hospitalized five times in a year.:

“I was having anxiety attacks, irregular heartbeats, fainting
spells,” the 31-year-old Texas woman said.

Both women hope to prove their ailments had acommon source:
Norplant, a contraceptive touted as a major medical advance when
introduced in the United States. Just 4 1/2 years later, it is the target

of flood of lawsuits that could jeopardize its future.
~ he first major new contraceptive since the birth control. Pi
came on the market 30 years ago, Ivurpran was talica as a Sale,

effective, no-fuss form of protection. Six matchstick-sized. silicone-
coated rods are implanted under the skin of the upper arm, releasing

a synthetic hormone into the bloodstream that prevents pregnancy
for up to five years.

Nearly | million U.S. women tried Norplant. Now, 50,000 users
have retained lawyers to sue over it, according to Chris Parks, a
Texas attorney representing 600 women. Most claim they weren’t
adequately warned of the scope and severity of the side effects.
The manufacture, Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, a division of
American Home Products Corp., maintains Norplant is a good
contraceptive. The Food and Drug Administration recently reaf-
firmed its support. .&

While the legal battles have just begun, the publicity already has
taken its toll: daily sales of Norplant have plummeted from 800 to.
60, Wyeth-Ayerst spokeswoman Audrey Ashby said.
from the Sunday, October 1, 1995 edition of theCharlotte Observer.

rich hot fudge, Ehecciate
whipped cream, and real

cookie d

202 S. Main St.
Davidson,NC

892-0604

