6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington
Clinton, Congress battle budget

By ANDREA SHORT

Washington Week correspondent

On Monday, President Clinton
revealed the first version of his
1996 budget plan to Congress. Al-
though the budget includes many
substantial reductions, the plan will
increase the deficit by $196.7 bil-
lion, $4.2 billion more than the
estimated 1995 increase. The num-
bers may not show any reductions
in government spending, but
Clinton does propose significant
changes in the federal
government’s structure.

The budget plan includes this
statement about the governments
structure: “Many programs, per-
haps even whole agencies, have
outlived their usefulness.” Clinton
calls for ending 130 government
entities, including the Interstate
Commerce Commission and 37
different education programs. He
also plans to cut bureaucratic and
administrative costs by combining
many individualized grants and
programs. Unifying federal trans-
portation and infrastructure im-
provement grants and cutting the
House and Urban Development
Agency’s 60 programs to eight will

substantially reduce overhead

costs. Executive agencies will also
feel the cutbacks if Clinton’s pro-
posals pass; the Office of Person-
nel Management will reduce its
staff by one-third, and the General
Services Administration will em-
ploy only half ofits current 16,800-
person staff.

Clinton supports cuts in many
areas, but he continues to increase
spending in others. He intends to
increase the number of people in
his community service program,
Americorps, by 27,000 next year
and proposes a 2.4 percent raise
for all federal employees, civilian
and military. The $500 per child
tax credit and tax-deductible edu-
cation costs will decrease federal
revenue, but measures aimed at
reducing the middle class’s tax
burdens enjoy broad bipartisan
support. —

Congress has already made it
clear that Clinton’s cuts, while
welcome gestures, need to be much
more severe if the government
wants to bring the deficit under
control. John Kaisch of Ohio,
House Budget Committee Chair-
man, said that Clinton’s “budget
lacks courage.” Even Democrats
suggested that Clinton should have
cut deeper into the quagmire of
government bureaucracy. With the
Republicans try to push the bal-

anced budget amendment through
the Senate (the measure passed the
House last week), the pressure is
on to make substantial cuts this
year. The balanced budget amend-
ment, however, is losing some sup-
porters as the issue moves from
broad claims to specific cuts.

To reach the Republican goal
of a balanced budget by 2002, ap-
proximately $500 billion will have
to be cut from government spend-
ing. Economists and strategists
foresee trouble trying to make these
cuts without endangering Social
Security and Medicare/Medicaid,
the sacred cows of politics. Cur-

‘rently these two programs com-

prise 39 percent of the federal bud-
get. The Republicans have yet to
announce their budget strategy, but
they have said that it proposes $200
billion in both spending and tax
cuts. Most Washington experts
concede that this budget plan only
represents a starting point for the
Republicans and Democrats to be-
gin their debate. Clinton will re-
lease a more specific: plan this
spring when Vice President Al
Gore announces his second report
on reinventing government.

Sources include: The Febru-
ary 3, 6, and 7 issues of The New
York Times.

Dean Rusk

U.S. and China in bade face-off |

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

On Saturday, February 4,
the United States announced it
will impose a 100 percent tariff
on over $1.08 billion worth of
Chinese goods as of February
26. These trade sanctions come
in response to the continued pi-
racy of U.S. copyrights and pat-
ents by Chinese factories.

China responded by declar-
ing that it will match the move,
imposing a 100 percent tariff on
many imported U.S. goods.

With the “reform-minded”
Deng Xiaoping near death, U.S.
officials must prepare to negoti-
ate with Deng’s likely succes-
sor, Communist Party Chief
Jiang Zemin. Zemin is gener-
ally perceived as a much weaker
politician than Deng, leaving
him vulnerable to nationalist and
conservative influences in his
government.

U.S. Trade Representative
Mickey Cantor defended the
bold move by the Clinton ad-
ministration stating that the sanc-
tions will only be implemented
on the condition that the Chi-
hese government continues to
fail to crack down on companies
that produce counterfeit U.S.
goods.

The U.S. is most concerned
about 29 Chinese factories that
produce 70 million compact and
video laser disks annually. Can-
tor said that the U.S. was willing
to drop the sanctions if
factorieswould legally license
their products and pay royalties
tothe American companies who

own the patents.

This week’s exchange of trade
sanctions has forced several U.S.
companies to look elsewhere for
future investment in fear of an
imminent trade war. Companies
with current investments stand on
shaky ground as European and
other Asian investors will likely
receive preferential treatment from
the Chinese government.

While these trade sanctions
are a solid move in defending
American economic interests in
China, the Clinton administration
may be gambling its alliance with
China in dealing with North Ko-
rea. This past summer, U.S. nego-
tiators had to ask for China’s sup-
port in the U.N. Security Council
after threatening to revoke China’s

“Most Favored Nation” trade sta- -

tus for continued abuses of human
rights.
In addition, two recent events

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13.1995

NOTES

- Instead they’re sort of reddish-brown. Or burnt sienna. Think of

Valentine’s Day Distortions

Valentine’s Day means we see hearts everywhere. But notice
that very few are anatomically correct.

This serious misrepresentation of the size, shape, color, and
complexity of this human body organ has led to all kinds of
distortions ...

Hearts are not, for the most part, heart-shaped. They are blob-
shaped, or fist-shaped, more indistinct and squishier than the
carefully symmetrical pink paper hearts we see on mushy cards
and candy boxes this time of year.

Beyond that, they are not uniformly smooth. They are, after
all, muscles, and they flex, which is to say beat or pump, 40.to 60
times a minute, on average.

Beyond that, hearts are not uniformly pink or red, despite that
misleading depiction in almost every drawing we see of them.

the color of partly dried blood.

My contention is that the sooner we get over our romantic
notions of smooth, pink, symmetrical paper hearts, the wiser and
more realistic we can be about the romantic relationships these
phony hearts are meant to represent.

Despite what we think when smoke gets in our eyes, as the old
song put it, the people we fall in love with, and even — if you can
imagine it — we ourselves, are not smooth, bright red and
symmetrical, metaphorically speaking.

We are, instead, lumpy, semi-stained, and slightly off center,
the whole lot of us.

-Reprrnted from the February 12, 1995 Charlotte Observer

Pop-Tart Trial

Humor columnist Dave Barry says anyone who asks him to
testify at a trial does so at his own risk.

Putting a humorist and “known liar” on the stand would
probably be a breach of legal ethics, the nationally syndicated
writer said Friday.

Anyone who does so “should get the electric chair, -at the
minimum,” he added.

Attorney Sam Petroff is considering asking Barry for help in
acase in which Pop-Tarts are alleged to have started a kitchen fire.

“I suppose we could attempt to qualify him as an expert,”
Petroff said.

Barry wrote in a June 1993 column that he ignited the snack
pastry in a toaster as an experiment after reading that Pop-Tarts
caused a house fire. The column generated about 20 letters or
newspaper articles describing similar experiences.

Petroff’s client, Thomas Nangle, is being sued for allegedly
causing $3,000 in damage to a home after his Pop-Tarts ignited a
fire. Nangle claims Kellogg Co., which makes Pop-Tarts, should
pay the damages.

- Reprinted from the February 5, 1995 Greenville Times

have jeopardized the U.S. snuclear
accord with North Korea. First,
the new Republican Congress,
most notably the new Chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, Sen. Jesse Helms (R-NC),
have expressed reservations about
paying North Korea not to develop
a nuclear weapons program. Sec-
ond, North Korea and South Korea
currently are struggling to meet
the April 29 deadline for reaching
an agreement on the construction
of two light water nuclear reactors.

With the tremendous eco-
nomic opportunities that the Chi-
nese markets offer and the need to
have China’s support against North
Korea, the Clinton administration
would be wise to wage a trade war
only as a worst case scenario.

Sources include 2-9-95 issue
of the Wall Street Journal; and 2-
5-95 through 2-9-95 issues of the
New York Times.

Project Life Bone Marrow Drive Benefit

to be held at The Milestone in Charlotte on
Saturday, February 18 from 9 pm until.

Four alternative bands will play:
Dirt Merchants (from Boston)
Furious Nipples (from NYC)
Jeff Carrol and the Desmonds (frtom Raleigh)
East Orange (from Atlanta)
Contact Bill Flowers at The Milestone for more information.

CORRECTION

Last week’s Davidsonian, in the article “Student Union Plans for
Move to Johnston Gym,” reported that “The Facilities Planning
Committee, consisting of the four vice presidents of the college and
the president's assistant, approved the new Union in the fall.” In fact,
according to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the committee merely
approved a “feasability study to see if Johnston Gym would work as

anew Union.”

HELP WANTED!! Men/ Women earn up to $480
weekly assembling circuit boards/ electronic
components at home. Experience unnecessary, will
train. Immediate openings in your local area.

: Call 1-602-680-4647. Ext.102c

