THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995 13

Virgin Machine:
German symposium brings much-needed
libido to Davidson

By DAvE WILLIARD
Staff writer

In a cinematic flash of
homoerotic pornography, “styl-
ized” sex scenes, and impressive
sex toys, Monica Treut’s Virgin
Machine played to a packed house
on Saturday night in Perkins Audi-
torium. As part of this week’s
German symposium on cultural
studies, Treut’s film concluded a
three-day conference that brought
together scholars from Davidson
and,as far away as Montreal.

The symposium focused on
the changing nature of cultural stud-
ies and emphasized the need for
humankind to learn more about the
way culture informs and shapes
human behavior. The conference
began on Thursday with two intro-
ductory lectures, one by Jonathan
Petropoulos, Assistant Professor
of History at Loyola College, and

, the other by Irene Kacandes, As-
sistant Professor of German and |
Comparative Literature at
Dartmouth College. Friday and

Saturday included four panel pre-
sentations and two round-table dis-
cussions. Davidson professors
Burkhard Henke and Louis
Ortmayer presented papers along
with other notables from Harvard,
Amherst, The New Yorker, and
NPR, to name just a few.
Professor Scott Denham, or-
ganizer of the symposium, is in-
cluding all of the conference’s par-

.ticipants in a forthcoming book.

The book will be acollection of the
papers presented this weekend and
will use Germany’s current cul-
tural flux as an example of how
humans can learn to co-exist in a
world of dwindling resources,
growing populations, and chang-
ing politics.

Maggie McCarthy, the new-
est member of Davidson’s Ger-
man department, introduced Vir-
gin Machine on Saturday evening.
“This film will bring some much-
needed libido into our midst,”
McCarthy said..The.film chronicles
a German woman’s emigration to
the United States to the lesbian

pornography scene in San Fran-
cisco. Among the film’s many
thematic threads, Treut humor-
ously portrays both female and

male perspectives. In the film,.

bald men glisten with the forehead
sweat of lusty patriarchy, while
lesbian prostitutes perform their
trade next door to a
sadomasochistic couple who pre-
ferto have sex with monsterclothes
pins on their nipples. Only in Cali-
fornia, of course... ..

Treut, whocame tothe screen-
ing from her artist-in-residency
position at Hollins College in Vir-
ginia, held a discussion following
the film. Unfortunately, Treut was
evasive in answering questions and
said that she preferred to leave her
film’s interpretation up to the crit-
ics.

That comment alone pretty
much stumped anyone who wanted
toask herany more questions. Still,
the German symposium was quite
a success, and I hope that this con-
ference will attract similar gather-
ings at Davidson in the future.

Lady
Macbeth

from page 10

The ‘witches;*or ‘three*weird
sisters, were portrayed more as
conjurer women. While they
brought an eerie animalistic qual-
ity to the ensemble roles, the su-
pernatural element of their hold
over Macbeth was not as dynamic
as it could have been. I would
enjoyed seeing them hover and
cling to him more, infecting him
with their prophecies.

With his jovial, smiling face,
Oscar James created a sympathetic
Duncan, yet his weak vocal power
made the murdered king less a
figure of order and good. Roger
Griffith’s portrayal of Banquo was

also disappointing, and the bond
between Macbeth and his charac-
ter was never fully realized.

Nevertheless, strong support*

ing performances were given by
Tony Osaba.as Macduff and
especially by Irma Inniss as Lady
Macduff; iit one of the most chill-
ing murder scenes in this bloody
play.

With perhaps one or two mis-
haps, the sound of the production
was excellent, and the metallic,
"knifely” drumbeat between scenes
was remarkably stirring. The light-
ing was similarly impressive, par-
ticularly during the murder of
Banquo.

And if costumes could always
be this colorful‘and appropriate to
the characters, plays could be told
as much by their clothes as by the
actors themselves. Since it was
primarily up to Macbeth’s ward-

robe to convey the setting of Af-
rica, the costume design of this
production was particularly pow-
erful.

But perhaps one of the aspects
I enjoyed most about Stephen
Rayne’s Macbeth was the choice
to have. Lady Macbeth’s body
brought upon stage after her sui-
cide. Though essentially an artifi-
cial construct, it helped transform
Macbeth’s famous “‘out, out, brief
candle” speech from a lucid mo-
ment in his maddened delirium
into one of tender grief and aching
regret. Furthermore, it made it
possible for the play’s final tab-
leau to have the couple’s corpses
stretched out upon one another,

which like Shakespeare’s Othello, «
reminds the audience what a dear —

price has been paid for pride’s sake:
a love for which the couple should
have lived.

Interested in Photo Journalism? Talk to
Rob Kosicki. -2148

OUTDOORS Etc «fm Ltal

You only get one pair of feet.
Outfit them acco

Our footbed’s firm walking surface mmetion of your feet. Overall, this exer.

allows you to walk farther without dees your legs, improving circulation.
4)

2 | + Tough = but flexible EVA soles.

or P W yeu've of average weight, you put at

Comfort starts here. The Original least $08 pounds of pressure on every
step you talse. Our soles are designed

ensures proper support and weight to absorb shock, yet they're remark.

distribution. ably lightweight.

Deep neeicup. Our heelcup makes -..

sure that the natural padding in your

foot rests directly under your heel”

bone, where it can do the most good.

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn

rdingly.
o

Yoo Bar, Our integrated toe bar
encourages the natural gripping

The original comfort shoe-

© 1995 Bererstocs no requiered Medea

|

THE SCENE

ON

Novelist Sheri Reynolds, author of Bitterroot Landing, reads from
her latest work and presents the Freshman Writing Awards. 7:30-
9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Tonight

Tuesday

Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

'

Nobel Laureate James Tobin, author of Policies for Prosperity,
comes to speak on his pioneering work in monetary theory and
macroeconomic policy. 8 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Twenty-one-year-old Night. 10:30-midnight in the 900 Room.

Wednesday

John Knecht, Professor of Artat Colgate University, discusses two
recent video works which examine issues urgent to the human
condition. 8-9:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.

Saturday Night Fever. Part of John Travolta Week, He’s so sexy.
9:30-11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Ben and Jerry’s Study Break. 10-11 p.m. in the Big Screen
Room.

Thursday

Dewitt Crosby, a psychologist with the Davidson College Coun-
seling Center, leads a discussion of women’s body images called
“Our Bodies/ Our Sexuality: For Women Only.” 7-8:30 p.m. in the
Carolina Inn.

Caroline Whitback of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ©
will speak on “Truth and Trust in Scientific Research.” Part of the
Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar program. 7-8:30 p.m. in the
Chambers Gallery. satan!

Arnold Mesches. Come meet the artist at this reception coinciding
with his new exhibit. 7-9 p.m. in William H. Van Every, Jr. Art
Gallery.

Jumpin Java Cafe: Poetry Readings by Davidson students.
9:30-midnight in the Union Outpost.

Friday

Baseball clinic with Minor League sensation Michael Jordan. All
afternoon. Call Phil Jackson for details.

Saturday

ASE Drumming Circle is a women’s drumming and percussion
group which performs both folk and contemporary music. Call -
2140 for information on time and place.

Sunday

The Confession of St. Patrick is a religious drama performed by
the distinguished scholar Roger Nelson. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson
Hall.

Violin Recital by Davidson music scholars Amanda Merrill, Eliza-
beth Parker, Vidalia Scrivano, and Emily Davis. 8-9:30 p.m. in Vail

Commons.

Steel Magnolias. Remember, a pound of manure is worth an ounce
of pretension 8-10 p.m. in the 900 Room.

All Week

Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from the Anomie Se-
ries.” In the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m.
Monday through Friday, and 2-5 p.m this weekend.

Senior Exhibition: Carrie McColgan. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday
through Friday, and 2-5 p.m this weekend.

The Universal Wolf. A vicious new version of Little Red Riding
Hood, presented at 7:30 Tuesday through Saturday, and 2 p.m.
Sunday. Also don’t miss a special discussion with the acclaimed
playwright herself, Judie Schenkar, following the performances on
Friday and Saturday. ‘

