THE DAVIDSONIAN

BAC KPAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, MAY 1,1995 20

J ust off a plane from Japan,
Former Speaker of the House Tom
Foley talks to two Davidsonians about politics,

Who have been your political
.role models?

First of all, my father. In terms
of public life, my father, a prosecut-
ing attorney and judge, in my own
eyes epitomized the honorable na-
ture of public service. And also
people I have worked for — the
prosecutor I worked for, the attorney
general I worked for, and Senator
Henry Jackson, whose staff I served
on for several years before I ran for
Congress. And I think all of them
reflected for me quality and integrity
in public life — and ability as well.
One of the interesting things, I think,
when working, as I'did, very closely
with somebody like Scoop Jackson
was observing him in common of-
fice activity, interacting with him,
and watching him on the Senate floor.
I came away from that experience
thinking even more of him than I did
before. I think that is a very success-
ful test of anybody being a good role
model: tosee them up close, and still
think, not that they’re perfect, be-
cause nobody’s perfect, but that they

are to be respected.

Getting more to the present day,
how do you think the role of the
Speaker has changed just since
January?

Well, one of the ways it’s
changed is that because the Republi-
cans came into the majority in the
House after 40 years, none of the
Republicans in the House of Repre-
sentatives, incuding the retiring Re-
publican Leader, Bob Michel [R-
IL}, had ever been acommittee chair-
man ora Majority Leader or Speaker.
As such, it was a different kind of
new event for everybody, a new ex-
perience, and I would say 60 per-
cent, or close to it, of the Republican
membership inthe House was elected
in the last three years — the last
election and the election of 1992. I
think many of them see the Speaker
as the “Spiritual Father” of that kind
of majority, so they’re quite loyal to
him personally; and in that way,
they’ ve kind of empowered the new
Speaker to take on responsibilities

or to be able to exercise influence -

beyond what most Speakers would
have been able, and have been able,
to do.

Now, I think in recent years,
there have been efforts — I’ ve made
some of them myself — to enlarge
the authority of the Speaker in some
critical areas. For example, the of-
ficers of the House were really be-
yond the Speaker’s control until I
became Speaker [1989] and got the
support of the [Democratic] Caucus,
allowing the Speaker exclusively to
nominate the officers. The Caucus
could reject them but couldn’t sub-
stitute. We were going to do the
same thing this year, and did it, with
respect to the House Administration
Committee. The Speaker needs to
have an ability to set the agenda and
to, not control the committees, but

be able to urge and encourage the
committees to process the legisla-
tion and to make schedules possible.
Otherwise, the institution is so big
and so diverse and responds to so
many different influences that'a leg-
islative program can be hard to do. I
have, obviously, questions about the
validity of the Contract With
America, but I think it is a pretty
impressive exercise to get that many
bills through Congress, and I think
the enhancement of the Speaker’s
office in part made that possible. I
would hope that the next Demo-
cratic Speaker — and I hope there
will be one soon, perhaps as early as
January 1997 — will be able to also
build on that enlargement.

One thing you mentioned in
your lecture was the need for a
“national dialogue” of a nonvio-
lentand philosophical nature. What
are our forums for national dia-

logue and civic discourse?

Obviously, Congress is a point
of at least important national dia-
logue. And I think that there is a
need to enhance the debates in Con-
gress to make them less speeches
justifying positions and more open
and truly discursive debates. There
was an effort in the last Congress to
do that by putting on debates on
general subjects — not just legisla-
tion, but on broad subjects, such as
“Where should we go on health
care?” and “How should we reform
the welfare system?” Unfortunately,
a lot of that has been dropped in a
rush to deal with this highly articu-
lated legislative program. So from
my standpoint, I think the Congress
needs to have more real debate —
maybe more of it right before the
vote rather than earlier on, maybe
something that is dealing with gen-
eral subjects rather than just particu-
lar legislation.

Beyond that, we need to find
ways to carry on debates at the local
level. Members of Congress have
tried to have town meetings, and
they have discussions of issues.
Obviously universities, colleges, and
other educational institutions have a
role here, as well as the media itself.
I’ve said that I don’t object to talk
radio as such; the problem often is
that it doesn’t encourage free discus-
sion but it takes a strong position on
an issue and then berates those who
callin with different viewpoints. But
it has the value of engaging people,
and in an environment of technol-
ogy, it is important that people have
engagement, some methods and
means of encouraging face-to-face
discussion. Otherwise, people can
sit home and listen to television and

send faxes and converse by e-mail.
And I suppose one of the things I was
criticized for to some degree was not
encouraging members to vote from
their home districts. We could do
that, technically. But if we did that,
I think the discipline of coming to-
gether in Congress would be lost and
people would stay home all the time.
People would say, “That’s fine.
That’s wonderful. They’re in their
home districts. Isn’t that a good
thing?” On the other hand, it is
important to be in contact with your
constituents but also important to be
in contact with your fellow members
and to exchange views with them.

The Hill, and the Republican takeover of Congress.

On a particular policy issue
that is of interest-to many people at
Davidson, the idea of re-evaluating
the funding for the arts in America
is becoming more and more of an
issue. What kind of a statement do
you think this makes, when you talk

about perhaps a major reduction in
Sunding for the arts in America?

Well, I think it would be unfor-
tunate ifthe United States withdrew
support for the arts. It’s not an over-
whelming item on the national bud-
get. Some people argue that the
federal government has no business
supporting the arts, that that can be
well accomplished by private phi-
lanthropy and support, but it’s not as
easy to do with private funds as
many people imply. Almost every
country today provides some form
of support for the arts, and I think
that for the United States to abandon
it totally would send a rather strange
message in terms of what we believe
in, in terms of our national culture.
Now, one of the big problems that
the NEA [National Endowment for
the Arts] has gotten into ... is in the
area of performance art. That’s where
almost all the troubles have occured
— some in other areas, but a lot in
performing arts, and it’s always,
again, atthe margin, where incidents
have caused great outrage and con-
cern. Some people have discredited
the overwhelming acceptability of
public support for the arts.

Finally, how would you en-
courage students who have aspira-
tions for public service, and how do
you think that, as a nation, we can
encourage people who are capable
leaders to enter public service?

Well, I think that students and
other people who are interested in
public life ought to be encouraged. I
think for them the best course is to
get the best education that they can.

Thomas S. Foley is a native
of Spokane, Washington, and
served as the Democratic Repre-
sentative in the House from
Washington’s Fifth District from
1964 to 1994. He practiced law
briefly in Spokane before becom-
ing deputy prosecutor in Spokane
County and later assistant state
attorney general.

In 1961, Senator Henry M.
“Scoop” Jackson hired him as a

terior and Insular Affairs Com-

mittee. Jackson encouraged Foley
to run for the Fifth District House
seat three years later.

Foley became the chair of
the House Agriculture Commit-
tee in 1974. Two years later he

special counsel on the Senate In- .

‘reputation for his affable, concil-

Brandon Clarke
was elected to the chairmanship
of the House Democratic Caucus.

After the 1980 election,
Speaker of the House Thomas P.
“Tip” O’ Neill named Foley Ma-
jority Whip, the third-ranking
Democratic position in the House.
When O'Neill retired in 1986,
Foley became Majority Leader
and in 1989 succeeded Represen-
tative Jim Wright as Speaker of
the House.

As Speaker, Foley presided
over all of President Clinton’s
legislative initiatives, such as the
Crime Bill, the 1993 budget ne-
gotiations, and the Family Leave
Act. He was an active player in
this past summer’s health care
reform debates. Foley was de-
feated in the 1994 elections by
Republican George R. Nethercutt.

Throughout his tenure in
Congress, Tom Foley earned a

iatory manner and stabilizing in-
fluence, often tempering other
more partisan members of both
parties. This congenial manner
gained him respect from both sides
of the aisle.

I happen to think a liberal education
is the best preparation for public
responsibility as well as for any other
profession. I think that it is rela-
tively easy to become involved in
the political system if you’re inter-
ested in electoral politics. People
would be surprised how welcome
particularly talented assistance is,
by candidates or by parties, as long
as one is reasonably uncritical about
the level of their involvement. If
somebody wants to walk in and run
a campaign on the first day, that’s
not going to happen. But if people
are willing to work hard and partici-
pate and help, they are welcomed.

One of the things we have to do"

is worry about the reputation of both
electoral politics and public civil ser-
vice and other kinds of government
service.

From the elections side, politi-
cians need to stop engaging in this
gross negative campaigning, which
I think is giving everybody in the
political system a tarnished reputa-
tion. Idon’t have any great prescrip-
tions for how that can be done,
frankly. The first and best way to
stop it is for the public to punish
those. who use it; but the word on the
street is that the public does not
punish it — the public encourages
and rewards it. Voters say that they
hate negative campaigning, but they
tend to reward it and may be un-
happy even with the winner. Con-
trolling political costs, campaign

costs, I think is important. Public-
supported campaign costs has a le-
gitimate argument behind it, but it
seems to be very unpopular, and I
don’t think Congress will pass any
legislation that provides any partial
public financing, I’m sorry to say,
for Congressional elections. The
parties differ on how to correct the
political financing system soit would
be difficult to get a quick reform
there. Some problems we have to
keep addressing, keep working on. I
would like to see the cost of cam-
paigns lowered. I would like to see
easier entry for challengers, whether
it’s by giving them some opportu-
nity for public mailings or television
or radio time, along with incum-
bents. I think you have to think in
terms of that kind of encouragement
to get the political system perceived
to be open as well as to open it.

To put in a final plug, I don’t
think term limits are the answer be-
cause I think they tend to restrict the
voters’ choice rather than restrict
politicians. If it’s the problem of
campaign reform, I think we ought
to address that. It is an interesting
Statistic that more than half of the
present Congress has been elected in
the last five years. Probably 80 per-
cent of the Congress doesn’tremem-
ber Ronald Reagan, so there is turn-
over, much greater turnover than
people imagine. That excuse for
term limits doesn’t hold. I can say
that now that I’m not in office.

BY LETITIA CAMPBELL & PETER VARNEY
