THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

Opinions Editor Copy Editors
MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT DAVID SANTSCHI
ROBERT RAMSAY TERESA WHITE
Arts & Living Editors
Associate Editors JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager
WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER
: Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Photography Editor
Assistant News Editor ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

MATTHEW EIRICH CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

“Toot, toot,”
goes our horn

Hey, prospective, did you know that Newsweek ranked Davidson second only to
Stanford for its demanding undergraduate workload? And U.S. News and World
Report ranked us number eight of the top liberal arts colleges in the country? Did you
know they call Princeton “The Davidson of the North”? Did you know that our college
newspaper is considered the “South’s Foremost College Weekly”? Did we mention
that this year’s freshman class’s average SAT is 13something?

Though we may just look small, and we may actually feel small, that doesn’t mean
we don’t just compete with the Wake Forests, Dukes, and W&Ls of the South, but also
with the Williams; Dartmouths, and Pomonas of the North and West. Truly, Davidson
continues to climb up the ladder to fame and notoriety, to the upper echelons of hi gher
learning. No longer will we be confused with Davidson County Community College
or with Dickinson or Dennison. Clearly, we have begun to make a name for ourselves
— the name that we deserve.

So don’t worry, unaware, frightened, ambitious little prospectives; Davidson
really is a great school even though your friends might not know about us. They will
know us soon, we swear. Really, we’re so smart.

Oh, Davidson.

Whatare we doing? Why do we suffer so greatly from the little-person-syndrome?

Yes, we do have a lot of work: Yes, we do have a beautiful school. Yes, we do
have an amazing faculty and staff. And yes, many of us are pretty smart. We can’t help
but think about where we stand and how the outside world perceives us when weekends
like Decision Davidson roll around. Certainly, we have to sell ourselves and our school
to a certain degree; we wouldn’t have reached the $150 million campaign goal had we
not sold ourselves so well for the past five years. We do need to sell Davidson to
prospective students in order to perpetuate the level of excellence we have worked so
hard to reach. And we do need to sell ourselves for the sake of employment after May
21.

However, we shouldn’t feel like we have to force and reinforce our academic
prowess, our reputation, and our name on society as a whole to the point that we demean
ourselves. Moreover, we should take pride in our institution and not worry so much
about what others think. Let people figure us out for themselves. Have faith that they

> will. j

We should let Davidson speak for itself through pure facts and actions. We should
let prospective students sift through the colleges and universities themselves. Those
who see the magic of Davidson are the ones we want — not the ones who have to be
swayed from skepticism. Besides, do we really want to become such a sought-after
school that we lose ourselves to the rat race of college-hunting? Do we really want
Davidson to become a business or a factory where we ship them in and send them off
like bottled milk: generic, competitive, and with one-track minds? Don’t we want to
protect our hidden gem for those deserving? :

Above and beyond everything, we need to realize that intellect and ability shine
through whether or not people know where you go or went to school. People usually
have more respect for those who don’t have to force-feed their social status, money,
reputation, and intellect. We should have more respect, pride, and confidence in
ourselves, so that we can let our thoughts and actions speak for themselves.

an JvsT ANOTHER VICTIM
3 OF TE NEVERENDING
VOICE MAIL MESSAGE v

all r31n9 bled,

sop homo res

etcetera bla
blah blah blah
blah donations

bloh blah,

LETTERS

Reasons for PCC proposal

To the editors,

We would like to clear
up some common miscon-
ceptions resulting from last
week’s article concerning
the proposed changes to the
alcohol policy.
Independent students will

be charged for alcohol.

The proposed Patterson
Court membership fee, a flat
fee to be paid at the begin-
ning of each semester, would

go directly into a risk.man-
agement fund. That is, a

fund to cover the cost of the
police, risk managers, and
trained bartenders. In the
past, this money was pro-
vided entirely by the Dean of
Students office, but will be
withdrawn due to budgetary
restraints. In addition, it is
expected that only one-third
of the total cost of risk man-
agement will be provided by
the Independents’ contribu-
tion. The remainder will be
covered by the Patterson
Court organizations. It is
imperative to note that this
money will be going toward
things from which we all
derive benefit: safety and
security.
This is a “war on Inde-
pendents.”
Consultations with
those in the legal profession
have made it frustratingly

clear that we are naked in the
eyes of the storm of litiga-
tion that could result from
any mishap. Consequently,
we must alter the current
system. Parties will still be
open to everyone who wishes
to go, provided that they
make their intentions known
by contributing to this fund.
Werealize these changes are
not the result of popular de-
mand. Rather, they are the

result of economic realities,

issues of risk management,
and the safety of members
of the Davidson College
community. The culture of
trust and honor that pervade
this campis is regrettably
notas significant to lawmak-
ers as it is to us.

Changes will destroy the

Court.

The Task Force, with
these changes, is attempting
to continue the tradition of
open parties on campus,
rather than force them into
becoming closed functions
as national risk management
guidelines suggest.

By closed functions we
are referring to members
only parties witha very small
guest list. We agree that this
idea contradicts a sense of
community for which

Davidson strives. We real- -

ize these are major changes,

but we urge you to look at
the reality of the situation
and recognize that these pro-
posed changes are in the best
interests of the students and
the College as a whole.
Perhaps this will put
things in perspective. Imag-
ine this scenario: You re-
ceive a phone call from your
parents, stating that you must
finance your tuition next
year. What’s your reaction?
Denial? Anger?.. Surprise?

All of these would be accu-"
rate and legitimate senti-
ments.

This analogy is similar
to the reaction of the
Patterson Court Council and
the Alcohol Policy Review
Task Force when told we
must begin covering the cost
of risk management. Faced
with this predicament, mem-
bers of the Task Force
struggled to create a policy
which solves this problem
as well as maintaining the
positive character of the
Davidson social scene.

Sincerely, ;

Jill Dyer, PCC Sgt-at-

“Arms
Bill Gullan, SGA
. President
Morgan Perry, Union
Board President
Steve Shames, PCC
President

An alternate plan

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

The pending Patterson
Court policy revision con-
cerning Court membership
is bound to forever alter the
Davidson College social
scene. Ideas like closed par-
ties, bartenders, and wrist
bracelets, while admittedly
necessary for the Court’s
survival, will nonetheless
make this social outlet less
appealing to many students.

Before implementing sucha
policy, we should make sure
that it does not further frag-
ment the student body.
Patterson Court Advi-
sor Kurt Holmes recently
predicted “that approxi-
mately 200 independents”
will purchase “Court mem-
bership” (Davidsonian, 4/3/
95). When added to the
roughly 900 current on-cam-
pus house affiliates, this fig-

ure would leave more than
25% of all Davidson stu-
dents completely isolated
from the Court—period.
They will not be permitted
to watch a Court band or
even find a friend in a

‘house—period. Granted,

this separation would arise
purely through individuals’

see Rudell on page9

Send a letter to the editors.
Call -2148, or e-mail: IN % " Davidsonian @ Davidson.edu”
