THE DAVIDSONIAN

Take it in, rake it up.

Pulitzer
prize-winning
author William _
Styron to visit

By JoHN COoPENHAVER
Arts & Living Editor

Rob Kosicki

Rarely does Davidson College have a chance to bring an author as
esteemed as William Styron to campus. Styron, born on June 11, 1925,
spent his childhood in Newport News, Virginia. Although he dabbled in
writing throughout high school, he became serious writer during his year
at Davidson in 1942; After one yearef college (in the summer of 1943),
he transferred to Duke University. Later, from 1944 to 1945, he served
as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Once his service was over, he
returned to college, graduated, and then in 1947 went to New York City
to work as an associated editor for Whittlesey House. Later he moved
over to the trade division of McGraw-Hill.

After being fired from McGraw-Hill for throwing water-balloons
out the office window, he-started working on his first major work, Lie
Down in Darkness, which, once published, was recognized as a brilliant
first novel. From this point his writing career flourished, and he has
produced many award winning pieces. His most famous novels are

ARTS AL LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Shakespeare with a ttnist

Twelfth Night opens on Hodson stage

By Katie MCALISTER
Staff Writer

This month promises to be a
time of enlightening dramatics,
when the Davidson College De-
partment of Theater and Speech

presents Shakespeare’s Twelfth |

Night. This performance offers a
‘twist, however, on the original
Shakespearean play. The plot is
still basically the same, yet the
play itself is set in the 1930s.
What was the driving force
behind Director Alex Pinkston’s
decision to transpose the. play to
the 20th century? It is understand-
able that Shakespeare’s plays in
their day drew in large audiences,
as many of the jokes and actions of
the drama’s were relevant to the
times. But are Shakespeare’s in-
genious comedic interludes still
appealing to modern day audiences
who have little to no context from
which to comprehend the amusing
moments? It is with these thoughts
in mind that the director made a

few alterations to the original play.
The objective is to involve a mod-
ern audience in the beauty and

_eloquence of Shakespearean lan-

guage, without butchering the play
itself. Hence, this dramatic inter-
pretation. In order to gain a greater
amount of audience involvement,
this version of Twelfth Night ex-
hibits the excitement of the ‘30s
through the inclusion of music from
that time period.

The cast preforms the spoken
portions of the play, with the inclu-
sion of musical comedy numbers
that are reminiscent of the flavor of
the ‘30s. Pinkston explains that he
“wants to get the audience involved
more, so, of course, we play on all
the delightful elements of ‘30s mu-
sicals!””

The setting is near a Mediter-
ranean island called Illyria. The
Island is governed by a Duke,
named Count Orsino who, as ex-
plained by cast member Nick Paul,
is “a bachelor in the hot pursuit of
the Lady Olivia, proprietress of the

Club Twelfth Night.” The play
continues to unravel into a story of
characters in disguise, impossible
love. triangles, and as Paul de-
scribes, ‘‘a story of misadventure
and many other stories of foolery
and misunderstandings.”

As for Pinkston’s explanation
for his non-purist attitude towards
Shakespearean writing, he explains
that he doesn’t believe that one can
be a purist when it comes down to
it. He explains, “Shakespeare
certainly can be done as it was
originally written. I’ve seen
Twelfth Night that way and was in
it that way once, and it works ona
slightly humorous level for us to-
day.

"But, I want a bit more farce,
a little more physical business.”
Pinkston has certainly achieved
those goals with his interpretation
of Twelfth Night. Itis sure to be an
interesting and exciting produc-
tion! The performance dates are
November 8-11 at 8 p.m., and
November 12 at 2 p.m.

CORNELIUS COFFEE

Cornelius goes Bohemian with Caribou Coffee Goin fora |
cafe latte, a cappucino, an espresso, or an herbal tea. And
coming soon will be a new bagel shop next door.

Rob Kosicki

Pulitzer prizing winning The Confessions of Nat Turner and American
Book Award winning Sophie’s Choice. Other books include: Set This
House on Fire (1960), The Quiet Dust and Other Writings (1982),
Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness (1990), and A Tidewater
Morning: Three Tales of Youth (1993).

Styron, the McGraw Lecturer for 1995-96, will be coming to
campus on Thursday, November 9 and Friday, November 10. See the
box for the schedule of events related to Mr. Styron’s visit.

Styron Schedule

Spring Break Early
Specials!

Bahamas Party Cruise 7 Days i

$279! 15 Meals & 6 Parties!
Cancun & Jamaica From $359!
Panama City Room With
Kitchen $119! Key West!
Daytona! Cocoa Beach! Prices
Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Hurry!

1-800-678-6386

* Monday, November 6, at 7:30 p.m. in Perkins
auditorium, the film version of Sophie's Choice will
be shown.

¢ Thursday, November 9, at 7:30 p.m. in Love
Auditorium, Mr. Styron will talk about depression
and read from Darkness Visible.

¢ Friday, November 10, at 12:30 p.m. in Perkins
Auditorium, Mr. Styron will meet with the Senior
English Colloquium and answer questions about
Sophie’s Choice, the film, and about the relation of
the novel to the Holocaust.

FREE TRIPS & CASH!

Find out how hundreds of
students are already earning
FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF
CASH with America's #1
Spring Break company! Sell
only 15 trips and travel free!
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT
TRAVEL NOW!
(800) 95- BREAK!

_favvy A New

OF 2 SALONA

and
Exciting
Place for
Hair &
Nail
Services

20430-2 Norman Crossing Shopping Center I-77 Exit 28, behind Wendy's

895-0404

20% Student Discount with Davidson College ID
*Please specify Master Designer when calling

