6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Dean Rusk Program
Scholar ' ae ethnonationalism

By Graham Ernst

Renowned author on religious
studies Dr. Marty Martin of the
University of Chicago spoke on
the growing power of fundamen-
talist and ethnonationalistic move-
ments in the current world climate.
The Religion department and the
Dean Rusk Program sponsored
Marty’s speech delivered before a
full house in the 900 room last
Thursday night.

President Kuykendall called
Dr. Marty the “interpreter of our
generation” after noting his back-
ground at the University of Chi-
cago and his extensive work with
the Christian Century.

__ Dr. Marty focused his speech
on analyzing the effects of the
growing bond between religion and
ethnonationalism. He cited the
current events in the former Yugo-
slavia, Rwanda, prospects in Af-
ghanistan, Algeria, and the
breakaway Russian republic of
Chechnya as evidence of the prob-
lems inherent with the demise of
“nations” and the emergence of
“peoples.”

Dean Rusk Program Director
Jack Perry. found particular inter-
est in Dr. Marty’s point that the
“power to kill” and the “power to
heal” both emerge from the ener-
gizing power of religion which
causes these “two faces of the same

Dr. Marty Martin

Photo by Rob Kosicki

phenomena.”
For example, Chechnyan sol-
diers fight with a green ribbon tied

to the barrel of their rifles. Al-

though they fight brutally against

the Russian forces, it is clear that
the Chechnyan Muslim faith has
served to unify all Chenchnyans in
defense of their republic.

Dr. Marty also expressed res-
ervations about the growing ten-
dency of the media in the United
States to stigmatize Islamic funda-
mentalist movements as evil. He
compared this depiction of Islamic
fundamentalists to the depiction of
the Soviet Union during the Cold
War.

Former Dean of Students Will
Terry attended the event and took

special note of Dr. Marty’s
camparison of the rise of funda-
mental religious movements in the
United States and similar funda-
mentalist movements in other parts
of the world.

When asked about former
president Jimmy Carter’s impact
on relieving some of the tensions
in Bosnia, Dr. Marty praised Carter
for his initiative, but he was pessi-
mistic that the current cease fire
negotiated by Carterwould last.

Dr. Marty concluded his
speech with optimism for finding
solutions to ethnonationalist and
religious conflicts despite nega-
tive reports from the American
media.

This Week in Washington
Congeniality and cooperation

break down in the House

By Andrea Short

Last Wednesday, Congress
passed the first piece of the
Republican’s Contract with
America. The Congressional Ac-
countability Act, which received
only one “no” vote in both houses,
requires Congress to adhere to the
same employment laws that pri-
vate businesses follow.

For the first time ever, the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Oc-
cupational Safety and Health Act
of 1970, the Americans with Dis-
abilities Act of 1990, and the Fam-

a half, Congress will need more
money to implement the reforms.
Creating another oversight agency

to monitor and enforce compli- .

ance will also add to the
legislation’s cost. Estimates for
the next five years range from one
to four million dollars of addi-
tional cost per year.

The Republicans also post-
poned the release of their plans to
cut taxes until President Clinton
announces his 1996 budget in Feb-
ruary. While the Republicansclaim
they decided to wait to aid biparti-

spending cuts. The Coalition pro-
poses to end federal taxes for a
family of four earning less than
$30,000 a year, to eliminate fund-
ing for the arts and public broad-
casting, to eliminate the federal
welfare program, and to cut off
money to the Legal Services Cor-
poration because it aids 200,000
people obtain divorces every year.

The most exciting session of
the week, however, did not result
inany legislation. On Wednesday,
Democratic Representative Carrie
Meek denounced Newt Gingrich’s

ily and Medical
Leave Act of
1993 will apply
to members of
Congress and
their staffs. The
legislation does

*““Gridlock has been replaced
on the floor of this body by
totalitarianism.”

highly controver-
sial 4.5 million
dollar book deal.
Outraged by what
hecalled personal
attacks on the
Speaker, Penn-

allow members
to practice one form of discrimina-

. tion — members may still dis-
criminate on the basis of political
affiliation. Seen as the least con-
troversial part of the Republicans’
Contract with America, the legis-
lation is expected to receive Presi-
dent Clinton’s signature within the
next few weeks.

Although subjecting Congress
to the same laws as private busi-
nesses is a long overdue reform,
these standards may prove costly.
Despite the legislation’s obvious
political appeal, it violates the
Republican’ s promise to cut spend-

.ing. Now required to obey such
wage standards as the minimum
wage and overtime pay of time and

san cooperation, the Democrats
speculated that the Republicans
postponed announcing their plan
because they haven’t determined
how to pay for the promised cuts.
A top Democrat on the House Bud-
get Committee, Paul Sabo, specu-
lated that the Republicans would
“find it is more difficult and less
complicated than they expected,”
to cut taxes. Republican success,
however, depends upon their abil-
ity to deliver their promises about
the economy and government re-
form. : :

The Christian Coalition has
announced it will embark on a
massive lobbying effort to help
realize the Republicans’ ‘tax and

sylvania Repre-
sentative and long time Gingrich
ally Robert Walker demanded that
Representative Meek’s words be
stricken from the record. By a vote

of 217-187, House Republicans

succeeded in striking Meek’s
words from the Congressional
Record, but that vote only further
enraged the Democrats. North
Carolina Democratic Representa-
tive Melvin Watt denounced Re-
publican tactics saying, “Gridlock
has been replaced on the floor of
this body by totalitarianism.”

Sources include: The January
18 and 19 issues of The New York
Times , the January 18 issue of
USA Today,, and the January 19
issue of The Charlotte Observer.

MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 1995

A,

aULSEWH

ERE

| Service: How can King best be remembered?

NOTES

“An important question lies at the center of the unfortunate feud
between Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s family and the National Park

Are the heirs of the martyred civil rights leader right to fight the
Park Service’s plan to build a visitors center honoring King? Would
the family’s porposal for an interactive civil rights museum on the site
be more in keeping with his legacy?

Raising money in King’s name and naming structures in his honor
are not unimportant. Money is needed to carry onhis work. Structures
that bear his name are material reminders of the man.

But in comparison to the true depth of King’s legacy, the life he
lived and the example he set for us to follow, they are the “shallow
things” that King said would not matter. That we celebrate and
emulate his attempt to “love and serve humanity” would be much
more in keeping with the true meaning of his legacy.”

-Reprinted from the January 16, 1995 Atlanta Constitution.

King’s dream

“In this, the 27th year since Martin Luther King Jr. was assassi-
nated, here’s what Freeman Bosley Jr., the first African-American
mayor of St. Louis, has to say about racial integration in the United
States: “Our schools and our communities are more segregated right
now than they were in 1960.”

Apparently, then, the United States will not herald the new
millennium, as many dreamed in the civil rights-altering 1960s, by
achieving an integrated, colorblind society, because the dream of
integration no longer appears to be a popular American goal.”

-Reprinted from the January 15, 1995 Birmingham News.

Special Ski Program Announced
: For Davidson

Students And Faculty

We are pleased to announce the establishment of a special Davidson
Ski Program which is being made available by New Winterplace Ski
Resort. Davidson Students, Faculty and Staff wishing to take
advantage of this special ski program must present their Davidson
identification card when purchasing lift tickets or renting ski
equipment. —

SPECIAL PRICES ARE:
Weekdays (Monday through Friday)
Lift Tickets Rental Equipment
(skis, boots & poles)
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. $16.95 $ 9.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $19.95 $ 9.95
3 p.m. to 10 p.m. $14.95 $ 9.95

Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays

Lift Tickets Rental Equipment
(skis, boots & poles)
9 am. to 5 p.m. $31.95 ‘$16.95
9 a.m. to 10 p.m. $38.95 $16.95
5 p.m. to 10 p.m. $19.95 $11.95

Compare these prices to our regular prices. Weekday 9-10 lift
ticket and rentals would normally be $46.00, that's a 35% savings.

Several affordable lodging packages are exclusively available for
college students by calling Winterhaven Condominiums, located
slopeside, at 304-787-3202, or Glade Springs Resort & Conference
Center, just 8 miles away, at 1-800-634-5233.

Following a record ski season last winter, several off-season

‘im provements took place including a major expansion of the Resort
Center, 1200 pair of new Rossignol rental skis, a cafeteria tripled in
size, a new restaurant, a new trail, and more!

New Winterplace Ski Resort is located 16 miles South of Beckley,

West Virginia, 1 1/2 miles from the Ghent Exit (Exit 28) on Interstate
WHE

If you need additional ski area info, or need additional lodging
information, call 304-787-3221. For latest snow condetans; call the
Snow Phone 1-800-258-3127.

Don't let the warm weather fool you! Winterplace has 15 trails

and all chairlifts open! Our slopes average 36" of packed powder base.
It's the miracle of modern snowmaking! Winterplace has more

snowmaking capacity per acre than any southeastern ski resort! |

