THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995 q

The BWavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor Bushes Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY

Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager

Associate Editors

TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCH
WILLIAM ROBERT ie
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor. Advertising Managers
NEG MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
ews Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor

ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

Assistant News Editor

JOANNA JOHNSON Asst. Photography Editor ha aiaee
BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT ° Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914 |
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

=
ASH ME

WHY BABIES SHOULDNT Smoke IN BED

CASH ME/ ASH ME//
FOR GODSAKES
OMEBODY

//

,

Must See TV

This past week was filled with season premiers —Seinfeld, Friends, ER, Mad About
You — that have caused us to look at ourselves and evaluate what it is that draws us to
the television Thursday nights. What is it that makes us love Jerry, Cosmo, Ross, and
Phoebes? Perhaps we seek the fictional escape that only predictable situation comedies
can provide. :

But are we drawn to the TV in longing for the fantasy life that these characters lead?
Do we gather ‘round for these shows each week because of the contrast they represent to
our own lives or because of the similarities that we can relate to?

Let’s take, just for example, the season premier of Friends, one of the top NBC Must
See TV hits of last season. After months of anticipation, the long-awaited conclusion to
the Rachel-Ross romance proved to us that the reason we watchFriends isn’t because we
can relate to the hair or the clothes or the fabulous apartment in the city. It is because we

identify with the experiences, relationships, and situations that these characters find
themselves in.

For Rachel and Ross, the circumstance was all too familiar: she wants what she can’t
have. For over a year, Rachel blew off Ross, ignored his many signals, and feigned
ignorance of his feelings for her. It wasn’t until he left last season that she realized what
she was missing all along. But then when she sees that he’s with someone else, she wants
him more than ever. How ironic.

But how totally and utterly real.

And that’s the point. We don’t necessarily want to point out the obvious — that we
always want what we can’t have, but only when we can’t have it, or when we think we
can’t have it, or something like that. However, our point (why beat around the bush) is
to get to something much more basic, genuine, universal, yet personal about situational
comedies — an art form of the late 20th century.

We watch Must See TV because in very simple and honest ways, we, as 20-
something-year-olds, identify with the human experiences of these other 20-somethings.
Yes, they wear different masks and exist in different elements under different laws of
physics, but they live out the lives of many of us, enduring through times of heartache,
depression, fear, excitement, pain, and exhilaration.

Perhaps we’re just in search of affirmation and acceptance within the existing ©

society, and this is why we turn to the TV — something that has become an integral part
of our generation, (Generation X with divorced parents, yeah, yeah). That affirmation

and acceptance that we receive through messages broadcast by TV connects us with our *

_peers, provides for a general sense of association, and gives us a basis for community.
Perhaps we have overlooked the TV and its essential. role in this association process.
Incorporating the visual stimuli — television, movies, music videos — into our collective
library of knowledge gives us a basis from which to grow and learn and communicate.

LETTERS

Caption belittling

To the editors:

Upon reading Septem-
ber 18°s Davidsonian, we
were initially gratified by the
tone of “Excuse me” by Katie
McKelvie and the editorial
“Half-naked and tripping.”

However, the Dean
Rusk column covering the
United Nations Women’s
Conference brought a cer-
tain irony our prior reaction.
The coverage of the confer-
ence would have been ad-
equate had a Davidson stu-

dent not been a delegate there
for the past three weeks. The
only mention of conference
attendee Letitia Campbell
was a charming couplet of
demeaning captions under-
neath a map of China and
Mongollia.

Apparently, a confer-
ence photo of Letitia was
supposeed to have accom-
panied the article (hence:
“Letitia, that crazy China
doll”). Had the appropriate
picture been run, we wonder

if it would still have been
credited to “Titty Campbell.”

How unfortunate that
the refreshing slant osten-
sible in the two afore men-
tioned articles was then
brought down by. the belit-
tling of one of Davidson’s
own students.

Sincerely,

Amanda Davis ‘96 ~
Jenifer Goodwin ‘96
Anne Miller ‘96
Karen Morris ‘96

Joking

To the editors:

We would like to regis-
ter our dismay at the cap-
tions published in the
Davidsonian (9/18/95) col-
umn authored by Eric Sapp
on “U.N. Women’s Confer-
ence makes international

strides.” The map of China ~

was labeled in a way that
was offensive to the woman
indicated. The caption for
the map includes what we
regard as an ethnic slur. In
this seemingly small num-
ber of words, the

Davidsonian has succeeded
in insulting a worthy indi-
vidual, stereotyping women,
trivializing a momentous
international event, and de-
meaning the. on-going

See Five on page 9

Bill and

Warren respond

To the editors:

The following is a copy of
the letter sent by Bill Gullan
and Warren Buford to U.S.
News and World Report:
The decline in yourrank
of our institution would lead
one to believe there has been
a deterioration in the quality

of education at Davidson
College in the past year. But
do not worry Davidsonians;
our faculty is as excellent,
our Honor Code as strong,
and our students as satisfied
as 12 months ago.

At Davidson, the “work
hard, play hard” attitude car-

ries on. The work ethic of
our students has not dimin-
ished. Our alumni continue
to shine, both professionally
and personally. Our com-
mitment to service remains.
The quality of. those who

See Top Dogs on page 9

Recycling is

easy

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors:

Although recycling at
Davidson is much better now
than in past years, we still
have far to go. The town of
Davidson is quite conscious
of recycling, and I think the
college should be, too. Indi-
vidual students are the ones
who make the program work.
Recycling bins are located
all around campus. For in-
stance, blue bins are scat-
tered around Chambers,
Martin, Dana, and the Union.
A large bin labeled
“recyclables” sits outside of
the library. All the Patterson

Court houses have contain-
ers. Grey wooden carts sit
by the dumpsters at the se-
nior apartments. Also, each
dormitory should have bins
in the first floor lounge. If
there aren’t any, begin your
own collection in a box.
Roughly 70% of trash can
easily be tossed into a recy-
cling bin.

Students must make the
extra effort to carry contain-
ers a few extra steps outside
the library or down the hall
in Chambers and put it in the
appropriate container. so it
can be recycled.,

What can Davidson re-
cycle? Aluminum cans,
glass, plastic, high and low
grade paper, newspaper, and
cardboard (yes, pizza boxes).
All that you need to do is
collect them, put them in
bags — store glass in double
or triple bags — and put
them in the appropriate
place.

Students can get more
involved with Davidson’ s re-
cycling program by joining
the Union’s recycling com-
mittee. Already, many stu-

See Bins on page 9
