THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1995 : 7

Che DMavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

Opinions Editor Copy Editors

MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT DAVID SANTSCHI

ROBERT RAMSAY : TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors

Associate Editors JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager

WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER

Sports Editor Advertising Managers

News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM

Photography Editor

Assistant News Editor ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

MATTHEW EIRICH CRAIG MURPHY

“Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Social sex change

Thursday night. Connor’s ladies lock-in. Black velour bodysuits. Dancing to Ace of
Base’s “I Saw the Sign.” Beer. A hundred inebriated women herded into the corral to be
auctioned off at the stroke of eleven. More beer. Midwinters and not a date in sight.

Oh, Davidson.

We all know the complaints about the male dominated social scene and gender
relations—gender roles, gender images, gender biases, gender segregation, gender what-
ever. Whether we agree or disagree that relationships between men and women are less than
amazing isn’t the point. But we can’t ignore the fact that the issue continues to come up in
the paper, in conversations, and in the classroom.

So what to do? Would Barbara Harvey’s crusade for sororities change the situation?
Does Rebekah Peeples’ letter about Phi Delt or Brian Cole’s response help?

Unfortunately, the situation remains riddled with complexities. Figuring out exactly
what the problem is, if there is one at all, where it lies, with whom, why, and how to fix it
continues to plague our arena of discourse.

We’ ve tossed around a bunch of ideas: coed freshman dorms, coed eating houses, anew
Union, all-campus parties, etc. But nothing seems to change the facts that our social
activities revolve around the seven fraternities, for better or for worse, and that the biggest
weekends of the year (i.e. Midwinters) are more than less based on what the fraternity boys
are doing.

Perhaps coed freshman dorms by hall would do the most to make positive changes
toward better relations between the sexes. Nothing brings people closer than proximity, and
living together can only foster healthier, more stable, and longer lasting friendships.

The all-campus party works as well. When everyone participates, regardless of
individual affiliation, and puts forth the effort needed to png all factions of the college
community together, we really might get along.

Sororities, however, do not spell the answer to the debatable, cryptic, and intangible
problem between men and women. Many women agree that the eating houses serve as an
appealing and unique feature, giving women social options while not subjecting them to a
demeaning and ridiculous rush experience found at so many other colleges and universities.
Sororities couldn’t possibly support the unity, integration, and inclusiveness that we’re
supposedly searching for.

Maybe the cattle imagery is too harsh. Maybe we’re all just wasting time as we talk
and write about the seemingly endless battle of the sexes. Maybe sororities would be a
positive instrument for change at Davidson. But maybe, and probably, not.

Student staff change

Encouragingly enough, changes have taken place in some areas recently. Eric
Rosenbach has relinquished the SGA scepter he held with such calm authority and passed
it on to Smokin’ Bill Gullan. Allison Sabel has said good-bye to the executive branch of
the SGA after a surprising loss, and Warren Buford has moved into her vacated chair. The
bearded Nat May, whose Union Board presided with graceful restraint, has been replaced
with Morgan Perry, the victor of another unpredictable election.

And in the offices of The Davidsonian, a quiet but frenetic takeover has taken place.
A coup, you might say.

This turnover did not involve interpersonal competition or the pitting of Abel against
his journalistic Cain. It involved the conquering of fear — the confident ascension of the
new executive editors despite the realization that they have no idea what they are doing.

The fear stems from more than the size of this job — keeping a college campus
informed about everything of pertinence going on without editorial bias, and sometimes
reporting on significant past events with a degree of appropriate editorial bias. The fear is

also a result of the work of the past editorial staff, who so eloquently performed the task to

which we aspire. {

But change is good; it keeps things fresh and appealing. In accordance with this belief,
The Davidsonian has adopted a few noticeable changes in format, some bringing back old
traditions and others introducing improved trends. Some of the changes are aesthetic and
some are textual, but we trust all will add to the appeal and readability of the new W lpepele
friendly” Davidsonian.

|; ONY ae smoking, policd
. Ne of ‘

TACKLING THE IMPORTANT

ISSUES” A

LETTERS

Nation of Islam double standard

To the editors,

The invitation of amem-
ber of the nation of Islam to
the Davidson College cam-
pus has caused much con-
troversy. The controversy
involves race, a difficult is-
sue, which I will most re-
spectfully ask you to look at
from a different angle.

Suppose that a member
of the hypothetical group
“Whites R Us,” an organiza-
tion espousing white self-
love, separatismh,“and other
values similar to those of the
Nation of Islam, were in-
vited to give a motivational
seminar to interested white
males and encourage them
to take a more active part in
college policy. And sup-
pose that campus reactions
were similar to those that
followed the visit of the Na-
tion of Islam. :

After carefully reading

| Dean Shandley’s letter to the

editor inthe January 23, 1995
issue of The Davidsonian,
consider a substitution of
white and WSC for black
and BSC, respectively.
Similarly, insert Whites
R Us in place of the Nation
of Islam. Would we have
encountered the following

excerpt in Dean Shandley’s
letter to the editor?

“In the December 5,
1994, issue of The
Davidsonian it was reported
that the White Student Coa-
lition hosted a closed meet-
ing in the WSC house that
included a speaker from
Whites R Us. Several stu-
dents attempted to get into
the meeting and were denied
access.

However, as was an-

* HOuncéd te the’earipus i"a* “piis* criSis Would ave “en

previous article in The
Davidsonian, this was not a
campus-wide or WSC event,
but an invitation only meet-
ing for White males that hap-
pened to use the house.

As John Smith’s article
stated, it was a retreat that
was intended to be a motiva-
tional/goal-setting event for
white men. Its purpose was
to stimulate increased con-
tributions to the Davidson
community by white males.
The retreat format was not
unlike what a lot of student
groups do on campus all the
time.

As for the Whites R Us
speaker, he was invited not
because of his religious af-
filiation but because of his

ability to motivate. Actu-
ally, in the words of one stu-
dent who was there, ‘we need
to give the students who at-
tended more respect for be-
ing able to make up their
own minds on whether or
not what is said about Whites
R Us is something they can
agree with or not...”.”
Neither Dean Standley
nor anyone else would ever
have written something so
outrageous. Ifhe had,

sued. Ourcommunity could
not tolerate that breed of big-
otry.

Along the same lines,
could the organizers of the
Nation of Islam meeting
agree that a Whites R Us
motivational session could
also be held, without college
or fraternity sponsorship, in
the basement of one of the
fraternity houses? I don’t
think so.

There is, I suspect, a
double standard. And per-
haps that is material for a
constructive campus forum
or conversation.

Sincerely,
Andrew C. Sicora ’98

Ex-editors examine

editorial

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. |

To the editors,

As former editors of
“The South’s Foremost Col-
lege Weekly,” we were
greatly distressed at the Edi-
torial Board’s January 23,
1995 editorial. We feel that
the board’s decision to tackle
events in the national arena
was a poor one.

During our editorship,
and for the seventy-eight
years prior, the newspaper
has prided itself for its focus
onevents in, around or about
Davidson College and the
surrounding Davidson com-
munity. The Davidsonian
should be about events di-

rectly affecting Davidson,
not Washington.

Your foray into national
politics leads the newspaper
into a partisan direction—
we feel that this is unwise.
The newspaper is meant to
be one for all the students at
Davidson, not those of one
particular political ideol-
ogy—tregardless of whether
it be liberal or conservative.
Opinions such as these are
better left to individual col-
umnists on the follow three
pages and should not be ex-
pressed as views of the en-
tire Editorial Board. You set
a dangerous precedent when

you tackle issues if such a
decisively partisian nature.

It is our hope that in the
future, The Davidsonian’s
Editorial Board will adhere
to topics of direct relevance
to the Davidson community
and that the board will keep
its political opinions to it-
self.

Sincerely,

Walter S. Price
Editor Emeritus ’93

Thomas C. Koonce
Editor Emeritus ’93

%
