12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIV

i=
ON THE SCEN

|

The New Winds, a woodwind trio, combine wiz-
ardry, grace, and mastery to bring offbeat sonic

concepts into a provocative show. 8 p.m. in Hodson
Hall.

Tinsley Ellis gives a Live Monday concert in the
900 Room from 9:30-midnight.

TUESDAY

One-act tryouts for American Dream by Edward
Albee and /carus’ Mother by Sam Shepard. 7 p.m.
in Cunningham, Room 110.

A.R. Ammons, revered American poet and winner
of the National Book Award, MacArthur Prize for
Poetry, and Bollingen Prize for Poetry, reads from
his work in the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m.

21-year-old night. 10:30-12 in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY

Housing Lottery. 8-11 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Colors, an original production by the studio theatre
classes, will be performed at 7:30 p.m. in the Studio
Theatre.

Lowell Bryan, Director of banking practice: at
McKinsey & Company, speaks on “Implications of
Global Capital Markets” at 8 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

In the Name of the Father. 9:30 p.m. 900 Room.

THURSDAY

ROTC/Red Cross Blood Drive. Help reduce a
severe blood shortage in the local area and get some
free munchies to boot. 11 a.m.-4:30 p.m. in the
DCPC Fellowship Hall. If you’re in a rush, call
Mike at 892-2165 for an appointment.

Colors. 7:30 p.m. in the Studio Theatre.

Richard Lewontin, Professor of Biology at the
Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology, deliv-
ers the Smith Lecture on aspects of biological
determinism, human evolution, and: the human
genome project. 7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Housing Lottery. 8-11 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.
FRIDAY

George Wilson, Chair of the Philosophy Depart-
ment at Johns Hopkins University, lectures on film
theory. 4:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

ACES Workshop. “How to Survive on a Pre-
dominantly White Campus.” 7-8:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

SATURDAY

Jumpin’ Java Cafe. 2-6 p.m. at the Outpost.

Voice Recital. Joanna Boyd, soprano, performs
her senior recital at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

SUNDAY

Clarinet Recital. Senior Jennifer Julyan performs
at 2 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

My Left Foot. 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.
ALL WEEK

Arnold Mesches Exhibition. “Selections from
the Anomie Series.” In the Van Every Gallery.

Senior Exhibition: Carey Thompson. In the
Smith Gallery. ©

Rants ‘n Raves

ING MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995

Bavis reviews lo-fi,
revved up walls of sound

By Tom Bavis
Staff writer

Bush, Sixteen Stone. The debut by
this British quartet stands out by offering
almost no surprises. Principally a ve-
hicle for singer/songwriter and guitarist
Gavin Rossdale (a spitting image of Eddie
Vedder), Bush offers listeners a slow,
heavy, inferior hybrid of Pearl Jam and

_ Smashing Pumpkins.

“Everything Zen,” the ‘first single
and video, takes most of what they have
to offer and packs it into four minutes.
No other songs quite match “Zen” in
energy or quality. Rossdale’s lyrics say
very little and exist mainly to give his
gritty, almost robotic hard rock voice
something to say. Altogether, Sixteen
Stone does little to offend — but it doesn’t
shake up the house of hard rock, either.

Danzig, 4. It’s dreadful. Like Led
Zeppelin in 1971, Glenn Danzig left his
fourth album semi-titleless. _Unfortu-
nately for people with ears, he mimics

Led Zeppelin IV’s mysterious, heavy

death rock sound but comes up with an

album that makes Foreigner 4 seem like
va Classic.

Produced spottily by big-name pro- —

ducer Rick Rubin (also responsible for
Tom Petty’s Wildflowers and most Run-
DMC albums), some parts not only don’t
rock that much but kind of sound like a
demo made by some Judas Priest-loving
17-year-olds. Drummer Chuck Biscuits
must have earned his job with his goofy
name— he certainly shouldn’thave with
his unreliable drumming. He’s terrible.

Then there’s Glenn Danzig himself.
You may remember him from the vid-
eos: he’s the one who looks like a min-
iature Lou Ferrigno. As always, his
voice sounds like Jim Morrison imitat-
ing Elvis, and it’s sometimes good for a
laugh. The lyrics read like high school
poetry — the kind a kid writes when he’s
been dumped by his girl and has started
getting into Satan worship.

The first line from the first song,

“Brand New God,” sums the album up
better than I ever could: “I ama walking,
screaming hell / A thing of torture to
behold.” Just dreadful.

Oasis, Definitely Maybe. If this
group spent less time thinking about how
great they were and spent more time
focusing their noticeable talent, Definitely
Maybe could have been a great album.
Pictures of the quintet — mostly those of
guitarist and songwriter Noel Gallagher

_and his younger brother Liam — hog all

the space on the CD booklet.

Thus listeners don’t get to read the
lyrics, which pertain mostly to drinking,
being British, and wanting to be famous.

Liam Gallagher gives his voice the
Johnny Rotten workout, ending vocal
lines with a snotty cockney wail.

The music also tips its hat to the Sex
Pistols, opting for lo-fi, revved-up walls
of sound. Though not a bad group, Oasis
treads a fine line between being brilliant
and being a bunch of drunk brats.

Dreaming

from page 10

tional Indian voice and drums lent itself
to the interdisciplinary and cross-cul-
tural feel of the evening. And in the spirit
of classical Indian music, each performer
was free to improvise within a frame-
work, which added texture to the music.

Each of the five cankam poems was

joined by corresponding poetry from

Native American, Chinese, and Korean
cultures, further extending the broad cul-
tural perspective of the show. As each
cankam poem dealt with a different eco-
region, each Native American, Chinese,
or Korean poem dealt with the same type
of topic. For instance, the first cankam
song was about the coastal region, and
the other poetry joined with it included a
Native American poem called “The Great
Sea” and others centering around the
various characteristics of the coastal re-

gion. All the other cankam poems were
joined by similar types of poems read
before and after the songs were played.

Native American poetry was read
by Miles Mowry, Davidson Theater ma-
jor. Gill Holland, Davidson Professor of
English, read English translations of Chi-
nese and Korean poetry, while Thomas
Wang read the Chinese versions of the
poems and Jung-Ah Shin read the Ko-
rean versions.

A lot of work went into preparation
of the evening, with poetry selection by
Mark Csikszentmihalyi, Davidson Vis-
iting Assistant Professor of Religion,
Rosemary Zumwalt, Chair of the
Davidson Anthropology/Sociology De-
partment, Holland, Selvamony, and
Stasack. The set was a part of Cort
Savage’s Myths of Rationality, a work
created in 1992 and previously shown in
New York, New Orleans, and Winston-
Salem. The sculpture forms a circular
corridor made out of thousands of slides
representing the history of art and archi-

tecture froma western perspective. Lights
shown through Savage’s sculpture added
even more to the artistic/interdiscipli- .
nary nature of the program, and members

_ of the audience were invited to view the

set from onstage after the performance.
In addition, lights were done by Ronnie
Higdon and sound was done by Steve
Smith.

All of the work put into Dreaming of
Home was well worth it. Not only did the
Davidson community get to experience a
cross-cultural collaborative effort, but
they learned how enriching it can be to
discover and take part in other cultures —
not only to learn about them, but simply
to enjoy them. Before the show and even
after reading the program, I was not sure
whatthe performance would be like. After
the show, Icame out feeling both amazed
and excited. The Davidson community
should include more of this type of pro-
gram in the future. It would be of great
benefit and highly enjoyable for every-

No taste

from page 10

Amici

Pizzaria

one.

to the smiling person in the illuminated booth at the
theater, that you have been warned. Wait until it
debuts on videocassette, and when it does not sell
(which it will not) and when it is given away at the
door (which it will be), use the videocassette as a
worm farm or part of an explosive device, or strap it
to. your body and act mysterious. (This might be the
only thing that could make the movie entertaining.)
Something. But don’t waste your money.

Have a new CD that
you love or hate?
Let others know.

Write a short review of
it for Arts & Living.
Call John or Jacob.

-2148.

Amici Pizzaria now has a new
Eat-in Dining Room!

With pool tablesjukeboxecigarette machine.
We also offer new & delicious dinners, including a variety
of tasty pastas. And as always, Amici still has great pizza|

hot and cold subs, hot Italian subs, and
Philly Cheese Steak sandwiches.
College Special: Monday, Tuesday, &
Wednesday nights get $1.00 cans of beer w/ Davidson I.D

Friday Nights starting at 10:00:

Live Music/ Free Admission. Food specials on Fri. nights,

**Right now, come in and get a free beverage
with the purchase of a meal and this ad.**

As always, your Davidson I.D. gets you 10% off all
food and beverage items ©

211 N. Griffin St. Sadler Square. Phone: 892-4570

