THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 fhe

Che Davidsonian

* ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Opinions Editor Copy Editors
MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT DAVID SANTSCHI ¢
ROBERT RAMSAY TERESA WHITE
Arts & Living Editors
Associate Editors ) JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager
WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER
Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Photography Editor
Assistant News Editor ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

MATTHEW EIRICH CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Waiving the FLAG

As we speed without brakes in a car whose destination is “The End of the Term,”
and as another class prepares to graduate, leaving its home of the last four years, the
question of what lessons we will take away from Davidson becomes an important one
and one that we who remain should ask.

Hopefully, this process will illuminate the fact that college is about more than
studying and partying, that the most important lessons are learned outside the
classroom. Hopefully, these lessons will extend beyond textbook knowledge and
give us support and guidance as we confront the difficult moral issues which
constantly confront individuals living in our society. Hopefully, we will realize that
the most important lesson we will learn in our time at Davidson is how to overcome
our differences and get along with others.

Unfortunately, however, these hopes for openmindedness and acceptance seem.
not to have been fulfilled — at least in Davidson’s past. Several letters printed in the
Spring 1995 issue of the Davidson Journal detail the opinions of older alumni who
condemn the existence of FLAG, Friends of Lesbians and Gays, on campus; one of
th 1 'S appears in its entirety on page four of this issue of: The Davidsonian.

These individuals express amazement and disgust at the “acceptance and ...
introduction of gay culture” at Davidson. They quote Scripture passages which
process conformity as the only route by which an individual may “inherit eternal
life.” One goes so far as to say that because of the current awareness about gay and
lesbian issues and concerns, “I will always be proud that I [graduated] from the 1950
Davidson. I will never feel this way: about the 1994 Davidson.”

Many of these alumni-base their arguments against FLAG — and hence against
openmindedness and acceptance in general — on religious grounds. They assert that
a Presbyterian college founded on Christian ideals ought not to allow, much less
support, such a blatant violation of Biblical mandates.

Evidently, these individuals have forgotten a basic tenet of Christianity articu-
lated by Jesus as part of the supreme commandment: “Love your neighbor as
yourself.” Jesus didn’t say, “Love your neighbor as yourself unless he or she is gay,
in which case banish him from society.” Rather, openmindedness and acceptance
were two of the most important lessons Christ taught both in'word and in deed, and
to exemplify these ideals is to truly be a Christian.

It seems, then, that to accept and-embrace gays and lesbians as they are ‘is to
follow the teachings of Christ, who himself defied traditional mores by interacting
with Gentiles, lepers, and others which society shunned, It seems that as a religiously
affiliated college, our moral duty is to espouse Christ-like openmindedness a
acceptance of all of our differences. And this, as one of the alumni letters states, “‘i
not an option.”

Above all, in our roles as individuals living in a world which emphasizes
diversity, we must champion our openmindedness and acceptance of our individual
differences as the most important lessons we take from our time at Davidson —
lessons in the fundamental human activity of getting along with others.

MEY L,

HAVE FUN ! Fun/f,,
but SAFELY //" teh

VObick Cur he eed NA

Unpe RAGE *
Branding IRONS

DRINKING

ArrKove D.
BINGE

Suir

SERING FROLICS

‘95 WAS
A ROvSING SUCCESS MADE

exten FUN WITH THE DEBUT oS
OF THOSE EYE-CATCHING
BRACELETS.

Q

Q! 9)

\D
d He 5 6vlo

OLICS OF THE FUTUKE, Xt de

move ake

a Yonnse’e, once ®

SEMI- PERMANENT
BAR Cope Tattoos
FeK EVERYONE

LETTERS

Cultural diversity, Davidson style

-| To the editors,

“Cultural diversity!”
screams the Dean of
Atudents.

“Cultural diversity,” re-
minds the registrar.

“Cultural diversity!”
proclaims the president.

“Cultural diversity,” ”
symbolized by crosses on‘

the lawn of Chambers.

Hardly.
Davidson College
policy has injected the term

“culturaldiversity”” into the
familiar language of its stu-
dents and employees appar-
ently in an effort to broaden
the minds of those who work
and study on the Davidson
campus. Appreciation of
diversity is a noble and wor-
thy endeavor forevery think-
ing person, a pursuit which
invites the destruction of ste-
reotypes, ignorance and in-
sensitivity. Diversity, how-
ever, isnota word that comes
to mind when imagining an
academic building adorned
with Christian symbolism.
Without question,
crosses erected to celebrate
the salvation of Jesus Christ
are in line with the religious
affiliations of the majority
of Davidson students. Un-
doubtedly, the construction

of crosses for the Easter sea-
son is well-intentioned and
not designed to suppress any
other religion here.

The problem lies in the
placement. Why are crosses
placed in front of the main
academic building? Surely
the church 100 yards away
is a more appropriate place.
‘Chambers is the one place
where every student can ex-
pect to spend some time. No
other building stands as a
physical example of every-
thing that Davidson intends
to be. Yet crosses, the su-
preme symbol of Christian-
ity, stand in front of this
building. There must be at
least one person on this cam-
pus who is not a Christian.

The diversity expressed
in the composition of the
student body is done a dis-
service when the views of
the many are forced upon
those of the few. Forced is a
strong word, but is another
applicable? Three seven-
foot wooden crosses are
firmly planted in the ground
of the lawn shaded by the
school’s primary academic
building. Further, of the four
sides of Chambers, the trio
of crosses stand between it
andevery one of the school’s

residence halls, meaning that
every trip to class for every
on-campus resident is high-
lighted with Christianity.
The world is currently
experiencing a communica-
tion revolution which is
quickly making this planet a
very small place. Strange
and unique cultures, envi-
ronments, and religions are
now exposed with a few -
clicks of a remote control.
The global village is a real-

ity, and°its"1s"our°aaty as”

citizens of the planet not to
exclude the smallest minor-
ity. The Davidson experi-
ence is attempting to taste
the many flavors of the
world’s variety but is obvi-
ously unable to swallow.
Crosses in the most public
place on campus do not cre-
ate an ideologically open at-
mosphere for the few minor-
ity groups this school has
been able to attract.

Davidson is a tradition-
ally Christian institution
tucked into a traditionally
Christian region and nation,
but this must not hinder the
spread of the world’s wealth |
of diversity.

Sincerely,
Cormac Conner ’95

v

Trustees are required to...

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright i is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

‘To the editors,

According to the by-
laws of Davidson College,
the Board of Trustees shall
consist of men and women
who are active members of
the Christian church. Pre-
sumably this policy seeks to
achieve several objectives.
It recognizes the Presbyte-
rian roots of Davidson and
alleges to continue the ethos
such a heritage establishes.
The perpetuation of such
values occurs, because theo-
retically, deeply Christian
trustees will enforce poli-
cies that reflect such charac-
ter. Anothercommon argu-

ment suggests that changing
the policy so that non-Chris-
tians could be trustees would
cause some Christian alumni
to stop giving money. These
arguments carry very little
merit for me. Until the cur-
rent Board of Trustees re-
peals this rule, I will abstain
from giving my senior class
gift to Davidson College.
Requiring trustees to be
Christian is not only exclu-
sive and anti-semitic, but
also is contrary to the

. Davidson College Statement

of Purpose.
The Board of Trustees
oversees operation of the

college and consists prima-
rily of men and women cho-
sen for either their wealth,
power, or dignified status.
Tobeamember of Davidson
College’s Board of Trust-
ees, one should possess out-
standing character, common
sense, intellect, and the abil-
ity toraise money. Are these
traits present only in Chris-
tians? I could be the most
successful alumnus of
Davidson College ever. I
could be the Chief Justice of

the United States Supreme
- Court in 30 years, butI could

See Denali on page 9
