RIS & LIVING

MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995

Casting back

Into the past

John Montague brings poetry,
humor, and a part of himself to campus

By Mary Laura Moretz
Staff Writer

Irish poet John Montague began his reading last Monday night
by holding up his new Collected Poems with his picture on the cover
and saying, “That’s me.”

He went on to read some of his most loved older and new
poems, including “The Trout” and “Crossing.” The filled 900
Room sat entranced as he interspersed poetry with history and
personal anecdotes in his deep Irish tones.

Montague remained in the Union for several minutes after the
reading, taking requests, answering questions, and signing copies of
his Collected Poems. The collection includes a whole range of his
work, from the 1950s through the present, and from books likeThe

See Montague on page 12

Irish poet John Montague shares a personal anectdote during his reading in the 900 Room.

CD Review |
Cocteau.

Twins sound
heavenly

By Marr Forge
Special to The Davidsonian

I paid $12 for four songs that make up the
new Cocteau Twins CD entitled Twinlights.
When I heard that they had produced a new
CD, I expected it to sound like their last
release, Four Calendar Cafe, with thick,
metallic guitar chords, mesmerizing bass, .
and the usual siren voice of Elizabeth Fraser.
Over the years, they have becomé more
technical, able to manipulate just the right
amount of electronics for soothing effects. I
was anxious to hear their latest advances.
When I put it in the CD player for a trial run,
I heard a piano. I thought, maybe just this
first song has piano. Nope. The entire CD
is like an unplugged album.

At first I was upset, because I enjoy the
swirling guitars and the entire electric, flow-
ing ambiance that they had come to em-
brace. I found, however, that the minimalist
nature of the CD is to the band’s advantage.
In Twinlights, Elizabeth Fraser’s voice is
the key instrument, backed by her husband
Robin Guthrie’s simple, but heavenly guitar
strumming and plucking, as well as piano,

PHOTO CONTEST WINNER

Freshman Meredith Judy’s untitled submission was
selected as the winner of The Davidsonian’s fall
photography contest. Congrats, Meredith!

bells, and the scarce and barely audible
synthesizer. The instruments serve only to
keep time and add to the songs’ moods that
Fraser creates. For fans of the band (I realize
that only about 12 people on campus are
familiar with them), those pretty guitar
chords and bells that evoke their usual atmo-
sphere of calmness are the same as they
always have been.

This CD is classic Cocteau Twins, just
presented in a new way. The first track,
“Rilkean Heart,” has that quality of many of
their songs by sounding somehow familiar.
My favorite track, “Golden Vein” confirms
Fraser as the angelic vocalist with the most
beautiful voice I have ever heard (Enya
included), while Guthrie’s chords continue
to be the dreamiest. This is truly over-
whelming music. It is hard to believe her
voice is human and the melodies man-made.
It ranks up there with Portishead as ideal

See Twins on page 12

By Ep AcLE
Movie Critic

Italmost sounds
like a bad joke. Ican
picture some movie
executive getting out
of bed one morning
and having this won-
derful idea: “Let’s

ter, but let’s do it
with Demi Moore as
- Hester Prynne so we

re-dothe Scarlet Let- .

can throw in some —

steamy sex scenes.
Let’s make
Dimmesdale a sav-
ior of the Indians.
Best of all, let’s
make Chillingworth
a real bad guy by
having him scalp
some __ people!!!
Think of itas Dances
With Wolves meets
Indecent Proposal
meets Silence of the
Lambs. How could

if possibly go

“A” for asinine

The Scarlet Letter
mangles a masterpiece

wrong?”

It goes wrong in
almost every pos-
sible way imagin-
able. This may just
be the English major
in me speaking, but I
think that the origi-
nal was a damned
good piece of writ-
ing. Nathaniel
Hawthorne’s novel,
set in the Puritan

~ See A on page 12

Rob Kosicki

Halloween scares
up some cutting
edge fashion

By Mary STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Sometimes things work out. The first major Halloween party
of the season most definitely worked.

As The Davidsonian Halloween talent scout I feel the urge to
warn anyone who plans to buy a witches cap at Rose’s or just use a
sheet for that oh-so-clever toga look: you will only embarrass
yourself and your friends.

Halloween will always win out in the hierarchy of creative
holidays regardless of signature Christmas lights or new and inter-
esting ways to make Easter Egg trees because Halloween forces one
to reveal the true extent of one’s creativity, humor, and individual-
ity.

Perhaps you are saying to yourself, “Hmmm, this girl not only
has an inflated sense of holiday favoritism, but she probably
watches Mystery Science Theater, too.” Well, MST3000 is another
matter entirely, but not totally unrelated.

People need to dress up. Just flip through any Davidson
yearbook and nota page goes by where there is not a shot of someone
dressed in costume somewhere. Granted that somewhere is usually
PiKA’s 70s party. ©

The problem with Halloween now is that we have unknowingly
bankrupted our supply of clever and frightening ideas for outfits.
How many more Freddy Krueger’s can we have? How many more
black cats with tails?

That reminds me of the time this little girl at a Halloween party
dressed in black tights, black leotard, black ears and whiskers sat
down to eat her orange candy-corn cupcake and all of a sudden
jumped up and started screaming and crying and still jumping.

Everybody thought she had suddenly developed some weird
cupcake phobia, but what we didn’t know was that she had actually
sat down on a pile of red ants and they had crawled all in her tights.

In developing your creative costume you must be aware of the
fine line between too esoteric and too corny. Ideally, you will enter
aroom and everyone there will know exactly who or what you are,
but they will be stunned speechless by your ingenuity. Having to
explain your costume seriously weakens the effect.

Some of the better costumes this weekend included a smartly
dour Georges Sand, a shaved and bleached Susan Powter, a Red Hot
Chili Pepper donning the single sock, a droog from Clockwork
Orange, and someone who actually thought they could pass as a
Wallace Stevens poem.

- Be wary of making yourself into a Resevoir Dog or Mia
Wallace: very passe. And no one really wants to see another
walking enema or tampon although it’s always a crowd pleaser.

This year, relinquish the confines of costumes. Dress yourself
as a verb, or something totally abstract like ‘trouble’ or ‘silly’ or
‘fundamentalism,’ “Hey! Look at me! I’m a cult!” :

You may surprise yourself and attract new friends — or better
yet, offend the ones you already have. Or if you’re in Rusk, just be
a cow.
