6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995

Week in Washington

-Powell record criticized

by conservatives

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Urging General Colin Powell
not to seek the Republican presi-
dential nomination, a dozen con-
servative Republicans attacked his
record and claimed that his candi-
dacy would fragment the Republi-
can party.

The meeting at the National
Press Club last Friday was designed
to expose Powell’s vulnerabilities
and present a united conservative
front against the retired chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Even
so, their strong interest in the pros-
pects of a candidate who has not
even declared his intentions shows
how seriously they take Powell’s
popular support. If Powell decides
to enter the race, it is not certain
whether he would run as a Repub-
lican or as an independent.

Powell has been criticized re-
cently for his reluctance to use
force in the Persian Gulf War, a
$100,000 silent-partner investment
in a Buffalo television station, and
his wife’s treatment for depres-
sion.. The conservative speakers at
the meeting cast doubt on Powell’s
leadership. Frank Gaffeny Jr., a
Reagan administration official,
said that Powell is “too cautious to
be commander in chief.” They
also voiced concern over Powell’s
moderate views. ‘‘He is wrong on
the major public policy issues,”
said Morton Blackwell, a Republi-
can national committeeman.
Powell has said that he supports
gun control, abortion rights, and

affirmative action and opposes
some welfare reforms and school
prayer. Despite his popularity, the
speakers were confident that
Powell’s approval ratings will drop
once his background is exposed to
more scrutiny.

Other speakers questioned
Powell’s electability. With the
Republican party dominated by
staunch conservatives, many be-
lieve Powell is too moderate to
gain broad support. David Keene,
chairman of the American Conser-
vative Union, wondered how “any
conservative would want to sacri-
fice the work of decades on the
altar of political celebrity.” Mr.
Blackwell even accused conserva-
tives of supporting Powell simply
because he is black. “If General
Powell were a white general hold-
ing these views, they would not
consider for a moment supporting
him.”

If Powell were nominated,
Director of the National Right to
Life Political Committee Carol
Long said that “our top priority
during the primaries will be his
defeat.” The leaders also prom-
ised to oppose any attempt to offer
Powell the Vice Presidency.

Despite charges that he is not
conservative enough to be the Re-
publican nominee, Powell retains
strong support among American
voters. In a Wall Street Journal/
NBC News poll released Friday,
Powell would easily defeat Presi-
dent Clinton in a two-way race,
receiving 49 percent support com-
pared to Clinton’s 34 percent. Ina

three-way race between Powell,
Clinton, and Dole, Powell would
receive 31 percent, Clinton 30 per-
cent, and Dole 26 percent. ©
Within the Republican party,
Powell trails Senator Bob Dole (R-
KS) by four percentage points, 34
percent to 38 percent. The poll
indicates that the possibility of a
Powell candidacy has divided con-
servative Republicans into two
groups: those who support Powell
and those who are moving to Dole

- to stop Powell.

Increasingly, a racial gap is
emerging in support for Powell.
Whites favor Powell over Presi-
dent Clinton by a margin of 51
percent to 31 percent, while blacks
prefer Clinton 55 percent to 28
percent. Many whites feel that
Powell would ease racial tensions;
some pollsters believe whites sup-
port him to prove that they will
vote for an African-American can-
didate. If Powell decides to run,
experts predict that as the election
nears, whites will back away from
Powell, and blacks will increase
their support to ensure the election
of a black candidate.

Many Americans still view
Powell as a political outsider and a
principled leader, but they are un-
aware of his positions on specific
issues. As one Virginia resident
explained, “I think he’s just some-
body who can do something dif-
ferent.”

Sources include: October 3 of The
New York Times and October 2
and 3 of The Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk

Rabin assassinated
“What will happen next?”

By Eric SApp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Prime Minister Yizahak Rabin
was assassinated at 4:15 a.m. (EST)
yesterday. He was shot three times
by Yigal Amir, a right-wing Is-
raeli. Shimon Perez, the man who

' shared the Nobel Peace Prize with
Rabin in 1994 is now the acting
Prime Minister. Those are the facts.
And those facts leave the world
with little idea of what the future
will bring. ‘

Rabin began his political ca-
reer as a general. He was com-
mander and chief of Israel’s army
in 1967 and led Israel to one of its
most impressive victories over its
Arab enemies by capturing land in
the West Bank and Jordan. A little
over a quarter of a century later he
was shaking Yasser Arafat’s hand

and beginning the move towards -

peace in the Middle East.:

A month ago, Israel began to
withdraw from the West Bank. As
was predicted, Rabin received a

great deal of opposition to this
move and there have been multiple
rallies protesting the return of parts
of the West Bank to Palestinians.
Tensions have been high as acts of
terrorism by both sides continued.
However, few would have guessed
that these conflicts would lead to
the first assassination of a high
ranking official in Israeli history.
Even fewer would have believed
that he would have been killed by
a Jew, rather than an Arab.

The current question on
everyone’s mind is, what will hap-
pen next? According to the com-
mentary so far, the general mood is
pessimistic. There is-no question
that Rabin was one of if not the
major force behind this unprec-
edented peace in the Middle East.
His death could definitely be
major blow, |

However, it could also be the

best thing’ that happened to the:

peace process. Israel was split-
ting. The Likud (the conservative

anti-Palestinian party) was gain-

ing power. Rabin was losing popu-
larity. :

History has shown that the
best way for a politician to regain
popularity is to become a martyr
for his cause. Dostoevski put it
best: “Men reject their prophets
and slay them, but they love their
martyrs and honor those whom
they have slain.”

Rabin’s death is a terrible trag-
edy, if for no other reason than the
fact that the world lost a man who
had dedicated himself to indepen-
dence and peace, as opposed to
war and power.

There is a possibility that
Rabin’s death could destroy the
peace in the Middle East. How-
ever, because Rabin was killed by
a right-wing Jew, as opposed to a
Palestinian, and because of the kind

of man he was, there is atleast as.

much of a chance’ that Rabin’s
murder could be the turning point
in the Middle East. There .is a
chance that his sacrifice will not be
‘in vain.

_ NOTES

Raising Pigs

There is more and more call from the public for information on
feeding the backyard hog. This reflects the fact that more people than
ever are “city dudes” who don’t have any background. They just want
to know the basics about feeding a few pigs out to market weight so that
they can have the local abattoir process their pork for home consump-
tion. So here are they key facts about feeding hogs.

Most novice pig feeders would be feeding pigs from 40 or 50
pound starting weights to finished weights of 220 to 260 pounds.
During that period, the pig’s nutritional requirements change fairly
drastically so the diet should be changed accordingly. It is more
economical to feed a grower than a finisher diet. The grower diet
should be about 14 to 16 percent crude protein and be fed from about
40 pounds to 110 pounds body weight. Then a less expensive finisher
diet (12 to 13 percent crude protein) should be fed to market weight.

The daily feed intake will vary greatly depending on the weather,
sex and weight of the pig and the energy and protein level of the diet.
However, the typical numbers will range from about 3 1/4 pounds at
40 pounds body weight to 7 1/2 pounds of feed at 260 pounds. The
overall average daily intake will probably be around five pounds.

Pigs.are normally fed in self-feeders to allow unrestricted intake
of food.: This encourages maximum growth rates which may or may
not be that important to the backyard pig raiser. Slightly limited intake
of feed may produce a leaner animal and may require slightly less feed
per pound of gain. If daily hand feeding is done, it is not difficult to
determine how much the pigs will consume daily then reduce the
amount just slightly so that the pigs are a little hungry at the subsequent
feeding time. Limit feeding should allow about 90 percent of what the
pig would eat if feed is unrestricted. Realize that limit feeding may
result in more fighting at the feeder which may increase wastage of
feed.

Because the pig is an omnivore, it will eat a wide variety of feed-
stuffs especially if forced to do so. Some people may be interested in
feeding table scraps to pigs. According to Georgia Department of
Agriculture regulations, this can be done if, and only if, all of the pork
consumed on a farm is produced on that farm and all of the pork
produced on that farm is consumed on that farm. The reasoning behind
this regulation is that these conditions prevent the possibility of
trichina entering the public food chain from that farm. Nevertheless,
feeding food scraps is not the best way to meet the pig’s nutritional
requirements. .

It is not likely that the backyard pig will be an economical source
of pork., Commercial pork production is too competitive. However,
some people gain.a certain satisfaction in producing their own food
even if the cost is higher.

-Taken from the Wednesday October 4, 1995 edition of The
Market Bulletin

New Age

HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

Come in for any of our many services:

cuts * perms « hair-coloring * manicures * pedicures

- Right now, Davidson students and faculty
receive 10% off all retail items
with a school I.D.

We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba.

Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell,
Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastion, and Goldwell
hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center:
Next to Harris Teeter
~~ Cornelius, NC"

892-3067. i

