_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 5

Watson Fellowship
Announcement

The information session for the Watson Fellowship program will be held on
Thursday, September 7, at 5 p.m. in Chambers Room 212.

The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship is one of Davidson's most prestigious and
exciting opportunities. We are one of 50 institutions selected to participate.

A Watson Fellow is provided the opportunity for a focused and disciplined
journey abroad — of their own choosing — for an entire year. With a $16,000
grant from the Thomas J. Watson Foundation, the Fellows have the means and time
to explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and
abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and develop a
more informed sense of international concern.

The successful candidate has demonstrated integrity, strong ethical
character, intelligence, the capacity for vision and leadership and potential for
humane and effective participation in the world community.

The information session will provide an overview of the program, application

and selection processes, and the oportunity to hear from former Watson Fellow
participants. :

Freshmen dig
and scrape during
orientation

By EuceniA LEATH
& CHAD WELLMAN
Staff Writers

On Saturday, August 26
amidst the rain and mud, the class
of 1999 joined together to dig
ditches, make peanut butter and
jelly sandwiches, scrape paint from
an old pool, and lug furniture
around the Davidson campus. All

of these philanthropic efforts were .

a new addition to the Davidson

freshman orientation program.
This year Davidson introduced

a new aspect to the freshman ori-

Free Checking .

ao
Get the Account, Based oh
he Complicated Princide of
tydent. lime Management,

Surf

onKing

The Wachovia College Account

lf you've got better things to do than worry about banking, the Wachovia College Account was designed with you in mind.
We-make it easy, with free checking and a Banking Card with Visa Check, for free transactions at all Wachovia ATMs. Your an
is also accepted everywhere they take Visa® for payment directly from your checking account. Plus, you can oy for special
college overdraft protection, credit card and savings accounts. It’s easy as pie. Because, after all, there’s more to life than banking.

No Hassles. No Kidding. Oh Yeah. Free Checking.

WACHOVIA

Wachovia Bank is a member FDIC, Accounts subject to approval.

entation consisting of each fresh-
man giving three hours of his or
her time to a community service
project. Hall counselors were on
site leading and working with their
assigned groups.

‘Groups landscaped at a Se-
nior Citizen Center, made food for
the Charlotte Homeless Shelter,
sorted trash for recycling in
Davidson, and constructed beds
for Davidson students.

This new service aspect of the
freshman orientation was designed
to unite the new class and reaffirm
Davidson’s commitment to the
community through service.

But what did the freshman
think about these service projects
and their lofty aims? Many fresh-
man commented on the lack of
organization and excessive length
of some of the projects.

One eager group wandered in
search of a field only to discover
that their efforts were fruitless be-
cause the field had already been
cleaned. Frustrated from dragging
disassembled beds across campus
in the rain, another group saw no
end to their labors. After scraping
paint from the bottom of a pool on
his hands and knees for three hours,
Brad Stroble said, “That was hard
as hell!”

However, despite the taxing
work, inclement weather, and a
few organizational flaws, most
freshman seemed to benefit from
the experience.

From the service projects,
many freshman gained a new per- —
spective on how vital community
service will be to them in the next
four years. After completing his
service project, Josh Glazer said,
“Tt was fun. I enjoyed the project.
It made me want to sign up for
more volunteer work.”

Dan Motz commented that
sometimes students at Davidson
are “caught up in [their] own cul-
ture and can’t see the other side of
Davidson because Davidson Col-
lege is so sheltered.”

These projects enabled stu-
dents to encountet everyday prob-
lems that are right across the street.
The opportunity to interact with
other members of the Davidson
community excited many students,
and gave them satisfaction in see-
ing their efforts make an immedi-
ate difference in the lives of others.

The Davidsonian
wants you to
write for News,
Opinions, Arts &
Living, Sports,
whatever — or
take pictures,
draw cartoons ...
the options are
limitless.

