THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVIN G

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

15

BILTMORE AND MORE AND MORE
Travel to Asheville during the holiday season

By Curisty SHI
Travel Correspondent

The upcoming break provides
an excellent opportunity to explore
Asheville. Located in the Central
Mountain region of the state, this
area offers many sights and sounds.
Plan to visit during the holiday
season (from now until Christmas)
and enjoy the festivities.

ON THE ROAD AGAIN

Asheville’s biggest attraction
by name, the Biltmore Estate.
America’s largest privately-owned
home, Biltmore hosts an elaborate
Victorian Christmas during the
season. The essence of the estate
emanates from the 255-room
Biltmore House, which is “a Euro-
pean chateau built in French Re-
naissance style by George
Vanderbilt, grandson of tycoon
Cornelius Vanderbilt.” Among the

priceless antiques and art furnish-
ing the home is an ivory chess set
used by Napoleon while in exile on
the island of Saint Helena. During
the holiday season, be sure to visit
the kitchen and catch a glimpse of
a gingerbread replica of the man-
sion. Also located on the estate is
the Biltmore Winery, which in-
cludes its own visitor center, tast-
ing room, and retail store where
local vintage can be purchased. I
visited the winery several years
ago and although I was too young
to sample the wine, I remember
tasting the best grape juice of my
life in that building. For informa-
tion, call (800) 543-2961.

Below the entrance to
Biltmore Estate lies Biltmore Vil-
lage, a collection of restored Tutor
houses, now turned into shops. A
ways up the road, on Macon Av-
enue, sits the famous Grove Park
Inn. Built in 1913 from hand-
hewn boulders, this resort captures
the heart of mountain elegance.
Here also you can find an assort-
ment of holiday activities. For

informationon these, contact Dave
Tomsky, (704) 252-2711 ext. 5007.

Asheville is home to the fa-
mous author of You Can Never Go
Home Againand Look Homeward,
Angel, Thomas Wolfe. Visitors
can tourthe boarding house where
he grew up, which he called
‘Dixieland’ in his writing. Wolfe’s
name appears everywhere through-
out the town, from street names to
Thomas Wolfe Auditorium at the
Civic Center.

At the Asheville Civic Center
this weekend (Nov. 24-26) is a
juried craft show. The 22nd An-
nual High Country Christmas Art
& Craft Show provides an excel-
lent opportunity to get Christmas
shopping checked off your holiday
‘to-do-list’. M. Gail Gomez can
give further details (704) 252-3880.

Ashevilleis easy tofind. There
are several options for getting there,
Tusually take 77 North to Statesville
and from there, I-40 West heads
straight into Asheville. Be sure to
check the weather before you go,
since there might be snow.

The Biltmore Estate.

College Kitchen

Pork tenderloin
cuts the mustard

By Ros Kosicki AND JAY SHULTz

Chefs-in-Residence

For those of you who have been writing’ in and giving us your
thoughts, thanks for the input. We really appreciate it. Some of you, and
you know who you are, have been dying to make a pork dish, so here it
is. For this recipe, you will need the following ingredients:

1 lb. pork tenderloin

2 tblsp. butter or margarine

3/4 cup beef broth

3/4 cup heavy cream

1 tbIsp. Dijon mustard

3/4 tsp dried tarragon

Salt and pepper to taste

1 Ib. bag of egg noodles, optional

Cut tenderloin into 1/2 inch thick slices. Slightly pound the pork
slices with a meat mallet to tenderize. Why a typical college student
wouldn’thave a meat mallet, Idon’t know, but for those of you who don’t
have one use your hand or something. In a large skillet over medium-
high heat, cook the pork in butter until it is no longer pink (about 3-4
minutes per side), Remove pork toa serving dish and keep warm; discard
drippings from skillet. Using the same skillet, cook broth and tarragon
over high heat for about five minutes. Reduce heat to medium, add cream
and mustard, and mix thoroughly. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Spoon mustard sauce over pork. We recommend that you serve the pork
with pasta, preferably egg noodles. Enjoy your pig, and don’t forget to
keep sending us letters. We also love e-mail. That’s JASHULTZ or
ROKOSICKI for those morons who haven’t figured out how to address
a message to someone on campus ...

til we cook again.

The Davidsonian wishes you
and your loved ones
a happy Hannukah,
a merry Christmas,
a happy New Year, and
a wonderful holiday season.

(We know we’re a little early — but believe
us, you’re going to need something to look
forward to in the next few weeks.)

Postcards from the Edge
Garcons run a real tour de force

By Ranpy HARTWELL
Staff Writer

PARIS, FRANCE— It’s only
1:30, but a sizable crowd has gath-
ered for the 4 o’clock start. Ger-

man tourists in Birkenistocks, Pari! '

sian grandmothers with yappy
(French, what else?) poodles, and
Japanese students alike jostle each
other for a view of the starting line.
Gendarmes surround the Hotel de
Ville, making sure no one disturbs
the concentration of the contes-
tants. They’ ve been training along
time for this, some for years, and to
let anything ruin a chance a glory
now would be trés triste. This is,
after all, Paris’ Indy 500, its
Pamplona Running of the Bulls.
It’s the 19th Annual Course des
Serveuses et Garcous de Café de
Paris, or the Waiter/Waitress Race.

The runners arrive in full uni-
form, though each is different de-
pending on what cafe or restaurant
they work in. The girls form Hip-
popotamus, which is sort of like
Parisian Shoney’s, wear t-shirts
over their red polyester skirts that

Ten

from page 13
DUDUDUH!”

1. The Natural. Undeniably
overwrought and reviled by most
critics, The Natural is still my fa-
vorite. Why? There’s something
about it, something magical.
Maybe it’s the theme of redemp-
tion, maybe it’s the music, maybe
it’s just a yearning for a time when
we all still dared to-have heroes. I
really can’t explain it. What I do

. know is that every time I see it I

still shed a tear or two, and I don’t
even like baseball.

There you have it. Definitely
not the ten greatest films of all
time, they’re just my personal fa-
vorites. If you have any free time
check ‘em out.

read “Course des ‘Garcons’ de
Cafe.” They’ll show who’s
tougher; they are wearing high
heels for all of the 8K run on the
Grands Boulevards, past the Lou-
vre, over Pont Neuf, nothin’ but

net.’ Sofie’ have special ‘tituals’ of

preparation. Two garcons in front
of me do sprints, a serveuse has a
last drag on a Marlboro.
It’salmost four, and the mayor
and other dignitaries get ready for
the whistle to blow. The runners
are ready too, each tightly gripping
a tray laden with an opened bottle
of Perrier, three glasses, and a nap-
kin. This is the hard part. An 8K
race in uncomfortable work clothes
is one thing. An8K race in uncom-
fortable work clothes holding a
full tray is another. Butit’s too late
to back out now; the whistle has

sounded — they’re off! some are
a little too eager, and their trays
topple in the first few feet, green
Perrier glass shattering all over the
ground. With that kind of hustle, it
makes you wonder why ordering a
chocolat chaud takes ‘so long: ‘But ‘
they keep going, all 400 of this
year’s contestants. Once all have
started, the green Propeté de Paris
trucks follow behind, sweeping up
broken glass,

The crowd dispersed, since
there’s not much else to see. But
less than an hour later, the first
garcon has returned, tray, Perrier,
and glasses intact. Incoyable! I
can’t hear his name, but he re-
ceives a silver tray for his efforts.
Now he may still deliver that fa-
mous Parisian waiter attitude, but
at least he’ll be quick about it. :

And a Scott McKenzie theatre production in two acts of
“The Gift of the Magi,” by 0. Henry

The pageant and dinner begins with a .
Trumpet Fanfare: “Bring on the
Wassail!” Entertainment features
musicians, dancers, an elaborate period
set, rich costumes and a talented cast °

presentation. The four-course Victorian Feast includes

Wassail, traditional Roast Goose with all the ;
Tenderloin of Beef and Flaming Plum Pudding. This very
» special holiday celebration vill uplift the Ciristmas Spirit .
in everyone! Begins at 6:30 p.m, seating until 7:15; the evening

_ concludes by 9:30. Price: $49. per person, excluding tax and

Mon., Dec. 4
ADVANCE RESERVATIONS REQUIRED:
220

Mon., Dec. 18

