THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995 - 3

Observer article misre

“A slow news day”

By Jason McMuLLAN
Staff Writer

Last Monday Davidson found
itself on the front page of theChar-
lotte Observer, not for a spectacu-
lar sports feat or outstanding aca-
demic achievement, but over the
religious requirements of the presi-
dent, trustees, and religion profes-
sors. : :

- Mr. Ken Garfield, Religion
Editor of the Observer-and author
of the article, said that the story
had been on his agenda to do be-
fore the Board of Trustees meets in
February, and “‘a slow news day”

brought it to print. He thinks that
since the issue doesn’t just affect
Davidson but colleges in general,
the issue deserved front page cov-
erage. He further adds that several
letters to the editor (four on Thurs-
day) make this a “hot topic” for the
community.

However, many of the people
Garfield quotes in the article feel
that they were misrepresented.
College Chaplain Bob Spach feels
that his viewpoint is much more
complex than it was depicted.
Religiously fundamental or com-
pletely secular schools are
stereotypically the only two op-

tions for higher education;
Davidson doesn’t fit cleanly into
either category, Spach says.
“Given our statement of purpose,
this is a place that doesn’t want to
step away from faith or learning —
we want to integrate the two.” He
feels that Davidson provides a “dif-
ferent, meaningful experience”
because “‘academics and faith are
intertwined.”

Spach feels that a non-Pres-
byterian could make a great col-
lege president, but keeping a Pres-
byterian president is beneficial,
since Davidson’ ties to the church
are still strong. This would “pro-

vide a way to relate to the church
and can nurture that positive, not
traditional, relationship between
the church and college.

On the other hand, Spach
“doesn’t see the need” for the Chris-
tianity requirement for religious
professors. The Religion Depart-
ment is “academic, not indoctrina-
tion,” he stresses, so it should not
be closed to anyone.

College President John
Kuykendall will state his opinion
in February, when the Board votes
on these issues. He is a voting
member of the Board of Trustees,

presents Davidson

brings religion at Davidson to the front page

Freshman Cintra Pollack,
whose opinion Garfield uses to
rebut Spach’s, is also upset. “He
[Garfield] put me up against Spach
when we had never really talked
about the issue at all. We actually
agree on a lot of things. Since this
is a Presbyterian school, I actually
have no problem with Presbyte-
rian President. He [Garfield] never
asked me. He took what I said
about trustees and applied it to
others.” Pollack disagrees with
the Christian trustees mandate,
since it may one day prevent her
from being on the board.

and his vote will be one of 45.

PCC responds to
drunk driving report

By CuHaD WELLMON
Staff Writer

In aneffort to fight drunk driv-
ing at Davidson, SGA President
Bill Gullan and members of the
PCC convened November 19 at
the PCC meeting to hear the results
of the SGA-sponsored drunk driv-
ing task force report. The findings
prompted a vigorous response from
PCC members who hope to estab-
lish the Patterson Court’s role in
the elimination of drunk driving.

PCC members criticized the
weekday party limit and concluded
that the limit should be dropped.

Chairman .Steve *Shames ‘says, ;

“Houses should have what they
want.” Currently the two party limit
encourages students .to drive off
campus to area bars. Usually with
‘no parties, Monday, Wednesday,
and Thursday are “big bar nights,”

says Shames.

The weekday shutoff time for
kegs was also targeted as a reason
for drunk driving. Now all houses
mustcut kegs off at midnight. With
no alcohol served after midnight,
many students choose to drive to a
bar where they can drink for two
more hours. If kegs could run until
1:30, however, students would
have only thirty minutes to drink at

‘the bars, because bars serve until

2:00 am. PCC members seem to
think that few people would drive
to a bar and stay for only twenty
minutes.

The PCC also expressed an

interestin changing the atmosphere

of weekday parties. Currently
Patterson Court parties are associ-

ated with “rambling drunks and °

outrageous noise.” The PCC hopes
to bring amore relaxed atmosphere
to the Court on weekdays, more

like the 21-Year-Old Night in the
Union where students just hang
out while drinking a few beers.
_Shames says that pushing

BYO parties on weekdays could
help establish sucha relaxed atmo-
sphere for weekday parties. BYO
parties would not cost houses any-
thing and are adamantly encour-
aged by national fraternities.

PCC members noted that end-
ing the weekday limit on parties
could also encourage the relaxed
atmosphere.

The changes hoped for by the
current PCC, in response to the

drunk driving report, will not be
-aderessed 1miHentarely. io

The current PCC will be re-
placed by the junior members in
January. The new PCC will have
the opportunity to make an imme-
diate impact on Patterson Court
and drunk driving at Davidson.

Habitat

from page 2

closing words.

The greatest success of the
project is the money that has been
raised. At the time of the rally,

over $16,000 had been contributed
to the Habitat House fund. Senior
and Fundraising: Committee Chair
Amy Hawfield considers this a “‘tre-
mendous success.”

Senior Smita Donthamsetty,
President of Reach Out and Co-
chair of the Habitat House Com-
mittee, enjoyed the rally for an-

other reason: “When I was sitting
there before I was about to speak,
I looked down on the bleachers
and saw all the people there. My
eyes welled up with tears because
I was so amazed that one event

could bring together so many dif-

ferent people, and that’s our whole
hope for the project.”

Campus hosts Gift Fair

By Laura Jones
Guest Writer

On Sunday, December 10, from 2 to 4 p.m., you have an
opportunity to do all your holiday shopping without leaving cam-
pus. Because it has been so well received in the past two years,
Davidson will be hosting our third annual Alternative Gift Market
where you can make donations to various global charities for those
special people on your shopping list as an alternative to the gifts that
you could buy at the mall. The Alternative Gift Fair will be held in
conjunction with acommunity-wide holiday event sponsored by the
Union. There will be Christmas music, decorations, cookies, cider,
Santa, and the unique chance to purchase a water buffalo for the on
most near and dear to your heart this holiday season. ¢

The Chaplain’s Office, the Chapel Committee, and a host of
other student organizations, including many of the houses of Patterson
Court, the Women’s Issues Committee, various campus religious
organizations, and Ben and Jerry’s are sponsoring the Alternative
Gift Market with the theme, “Give the World a Christmas Present,”

is'a perfect Way to Celebrate the tradition of gift-giving in a fresh
and meaningful way. This year we have the bonus of being able to
offer a free Ben and Jerry’s calendar full of valuable coupons to all
those who choose to buy gifts from the Alternative Gift Market.

Chickens and egg production in Egypt, medical supplies for
hospitals in Bosnia, rain forest wetlands in Brazil, potable water in
Burundi, and adult literacy training in Appalachia, USA are among
the many gifts available for “purchase.” For a better idea of the gifts
available, check out the bulletin board in Chambers. Also at the gift
market will be representatives from several independent charities
seeking holiday donations, including the Davidson Habitat House.
As shoppers purchase gifts, they will receive cards with their gifts
inscribed and a description of the charity on an insert ready to mail
or deliver as alternative gifts for family and friend. Donors, card
recipients, and people in need all around the world will receive joy
as a result of these purchases.

Staff Appreciation Day, Tuesday, December 5

Commons (Food Services): Sugenia Wells- Dining Supervisor, Rebecca Braddock- Dining Supervisor,
Shelton Forney- Supervisor Dining Custodians, Wendy Gaffney- Food Preparer/Server, Dorothy Reid-
Food Preparer/Server, Lula McNeely- Food Perparer/Server, Ruby Mann- Food Preparer/Server, Glady
Bowman- Cashier, Patricia Belk- Cashier, William Graham- Custodian, Carl Lennon- Custodian, Wand
Braddock- Custodian, Westly Smith- Custodian, Roy Wylie- Custodian, Helen Keller- Custodian
Amelia McConnell- Custodian, Kineth Alexander- Custodian, Sandra Reid- Custodian, Lennie Caldwell-
Custodian, Charles Palmer- Custodian, William Kelley- Head Production Cook, Lisa Risk- First Cook|
Annie Rivens- First Cook, Marjorie Torrence- First Cook, Pamella Kennedy- Second Cook, hers
White- Second Cook, Richard Graham- Second Cook, Jean Little- Second Cook, Rosalie Shaw- Secon
Cook, Rickey Forney- Second Cook, Robert Sherrill- Second Cook, Paul Lewis- Stockroom Keeper

CANCEL YOUR
-~ LIBRARY FINES

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

From November 27th until December 20th you can pay for your Library fines
and IOUs with cans of food which will be given to needy in our area.

’ HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or IOUs. (E.G.--for five
cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)
WHERE: Library Circulation Desk

New Age

HAIR DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

Come in for any of our many services:

cuts * perms « hair-coloring * manicures « pedicures

Select from a line of Paul Mitchell,
Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastion, Abba, and
Goldwell hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

_. *Christmas Special*
10% off all cuts and styles
with this coupon.

