4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington

Welfare compromise
nears passage

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

The Senate on Friday neared
agreement on a compromise wel-
fare bill after week-long wrangling
over specific provisions. While
much of the original Republican
proposal remained intact, several
compromises ‘were made to hold
the votes of Democrats and mod-
erate Republicans.

The Republican bill eliminates
the current system, in which every
person who qualifies receives ben-
efits, and replaces it with lump-
sum payments, or block grants, to
the states. According to propo-
nents, having the states distribute
the money to individuals would
encourage change and save $70
billion over five years.

Last Tuesday, a Democratic
amendment was rejected 50-49
which would have limited the
amount that states could cut from
their welfare programs. Demo-
crats sought to force states to main-
tain welfare spending at 90% of
current levels for the next five
years. Otherwise they feared states
would try to minimize spending on
welfare to fund other programs.

Although their proposal was
rejected, Republican leaders agreed
to add an 80% spending require-

ment to the bill. Democrats and
moderate Republicans also forced

the elimination of a provision that

would deny additional welfare ben-
efits to women who have children
while receiving welfare payments.
The defeat of the family cap pre-
serves current procedure, where
benefits automatically increase
when a family has additional chil-
dren.

Conservatives like Sen. Phil
Gramm (R-TX) argued against
subsidizing “people who have ba-
bies they don’t want” and lamented
“the destruction of families.” But
others contended that the family
cap would mostly impact children
who, according to Sen. Patrick
Moynihan (D-NY), “haven’t been
asked to be brought into the world.”

Other concessions to moder-
ates came later in the week. The
Senate rejected 76-24 a proposal
introduced by Sen. Lauch Faircloth
(R-NC) to cut off benefits to moth-
ers under 18 who have out-of-wed-
lock births.

Late Thursday, Republicans
agreed to add $8 billion for child-
care over five years, mainly to ap-
pease Democrats who claimed that
families forced to work under the
new plan would not have enough
money to pay for it. A Democratic
amendment providing $11 billion
for child care failed three days
earlier. Bowing to conservative
pressure, the Senate on Thursday

voted 63-37 to give states addi-
tional money if they could sub-

stantially reduce out-of-wedlock

births.

Despite these concessions that
eliminated the most conservative
elements of the bill, the legislation
remains largely unchanged. It im-
poses a strict work requirement,
which would require 50% of wel-
fare recipients to work by 2000,
puts a five-year limit on receiving
welfare benefits, and encourages
state innovation to break depen-
dency. Most importantly, the wel-
fare bill eliminates the entitlement
of Americans to welfare benefits
and makes.state governments
solely responsible for administer-
ing welfare programs.

The tone of the debate has
become markedly more conserva-
tive in the last year. Turning wel-
fare over to the states in block
grants and cutting off benefits af-
ter a certain time directly chal-
lenge 60 years of poverty legisla-
tion. Some Democrats were out-
raged that the debate moved so far
tothe right. However, White House
spokesman Michael McCurry
praised the Senate bill as moving
“in the direction of real reform.”
His response indicated that Presi-
dent Clinton, like Democratic lead-
ers on Capitol Hill, is eager not to
appear as an obstacle in its path.

Sources include: September
13, 14, 15 of The New York Times
and September 14 of The Wall
Street Journal.

Dean Rusk

U.N. Women’s Conference
makes international Strides

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

This last week marked the end
of the Fourth World Conference
on Women. Overall, observers
seemed to be pleased with its out-
come and almost all the partici-
pants were pleased.-with how little
hostility there was between dis-
agreeing parties throughout the
conference. Issues brought before

the conference ranged from women |

in leadership positions to lesbian-
ism. While not all of the issues
were addressed to the satisfaction
of everyone assembled, there was
major headway made on some
important topics.

Sex and power were the key
themes in the Conference’s Plat-
form of Action. A large emphasis
was placed ona woman’ s ability to
make her own decisions in issues
surrounding her own sexuality and
childbearing.

Violence against women was
also given a great deal of consider-
ation by the assembly. In particu-
lar, rape as a result of war (which
has been common in the former
Yugoslavia and Rwanda) and geni-
tal mutilation (which is still an
issue in many African countries)
were strongly condemned and pun-
ishments for these actions were
proposed.

The final emphasis was put on

Letitia, that crazy China doll.

Tai vine? °Shijiat

 oXining
” Yettow Lanzhou

ea ah ea ses ‘tun,
A Hostergs eS

<Panchihua.

Titty Campbell

women’s position in society and
emphasized the importance of fe-
male leaders as well as reiterating
the importance of a strong family.

’ It would be a mistake to as-
sume that the conference went over
without a hitch. It started off onthe
wrong foot with all the problems
surrounding China’s harassment
of the delegates during the first
week of the conference. There was
also major disagreement over how
much equality women should re-
ceive. There was a large concern
among some countries (especially
Muslim ones) that following the
conference’s platform would lead
to major unrest and turmoil within
their countries which traditionally

oppose equality of the sexes. There
was also disagreement over the
use of contraception and abortion
to help further women’s control of
their own bodies. And probably
the largest unrest resulted from the
issue of recognizing and comment-
ing on the rights of lesbians. In the
end, no statement was made re-
garding homosexuality.

The final consensus seemed
to be that women needed to be
protected by their countries from
abuse and given a more equal po-
sition in society. However, the ex-
tent of that equality was to vary
between different societies based
upon their historical, religious, and
social customs.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995

Che Nawidsonian

a

US

NOTES

‘Wrong Leg?

A Tampa surgeon who has been widely vilified and ridiculed for
mistakenly amputating the wrong leg of a patient on February 20
sought this week to regain both his license to practice medicine and
a measure of his once-solid reputation.

In a three-day hearing before the state official who will make
recommendations on his professional future, Dr. Rolando Sanchez
and his lawyer, Michael Blazicek, publicly presented their side of the
story for the first time.

They said that a series of errors by other hospital personnel and
the severely diseased condition of both legs led Sanchez to believe
that he was operating on the correct leg.

The blackboard to which surgeons refer in the operating room at

University Community Hospital listed the wrong leg for amputation,

as did the operating room schedule and the hospital computer system,
testimony showed.

By the time Sanchez entered the operating room, the wrong leg
had been sterilized and draped for surgery. s

Some doctors who appeared as witnesses said that the leg
Sanchez removed was in such poor shape that it probably would have
been amputated in the future.

Sanchez testified that he learned of his error frofti a nurse as he
was still cutting through the leg. After reviewing the patient’s file,
she had started to shake and cry. But by that point, he said, there was
no turning back.

Taken from the Sunday, September 17 Charlotte Observer

Cyberspace

Paul Saffo, Director of the Institute for the Future and author
of Dreams in Silicon Valley, in a computer chat via the Internet
with Fort Worth Star-Telegram staff writer Stephen Michaud:

You know that a technology is about to become a compelling
medium when it is attacked by the establishment as dangerous to
youth and culture. Remember, Plato railed against writing; the
Roman church violently opposed the printing press; 19th century
English intellectuals were alarmed by the effect of novels on youth.

Now “cyberspace” is the target. But look at what a frail,
unconvincing thing cyberspace is — mostly text, some fuzzy graphics
and stilted applications, all running at excruciatingly slow speeds.
Only someone utterly unfamiliar with today’s on-line world would
seriously consider it a threat to anything.

Cyberspace is no more likely to destroy youth or culture than did
earlier media. On the contrary, like all earlier media, digital media
will be a source of renewal and growth. Culture itself constantly
evolves. This evolution only seems destructive to aging commenta-
tors attached to fuzzy memories of an idealized past.

Taken from the Sunday, September 17Charlotte Observer

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

Sculptured Nails * French Manicures
Pedicures * Tanning Booth

At The Duchess we offer you a day of stress- free
pampering.

New additions to our store:
- Facials
- Skin care
- Facial Tanning
Ask for Peggy

TANNING SPECIAL:
10 visits for $33.00 _

CONNIE AND MICHELLE:
Full Set of Nails for only $40.00 (thru February)

plc

Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Cornelius
(704) 892 - 7030

