THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995 7

| The Pavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Opinions Editor Copy Editors
MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT ‘DAVID SANTSCHI
ROBERT RAMSAY TERESA WHITE
Arts & Living Editors
Associate Editors JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager
WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH .
RUSS TARVER
: Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Photography Editor
Assistant News Editor ' ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
MATTHEW EIRICH CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

“TUAT OUTEIT REALLY HIGHLrOts
THE MARMOREAL GLOW oF YOUR SKIN

VIVIAN, Anis VouR POSE IS PARTICULARLN
MOVEMENTED, BuT WHY THE HELL

CAN'T THEY DIM THE LIGHTS tN HELEZ ©

_——.

We

APT HISTORIANS ATTEMPT:

INTIMAN IN DINING

Mb fu

Man, this toy store’s
pretty big.

Father and daughter journey down to Charlotte to look for possibly the
bigge®t toy the parents have ever given her. A car. Ina word, “psyched” about
sums up all of the feelings of the day. She’s psyched that her parents want to help
start her off as an adult. He’s psyched because the car could enable employment
in the upcoming years. But mostly, she’s psyched because it’s going to be hers.

After a number of hours searching and scoping, wheeling and dealing, they
make up their minds about what she should get that will be appropriate: safe,
comfortable, practical, economical. The deal goes down; everybody’s happy;
dad leaves town; daughter’s left to pick up the car and sign the paperwork — in
her riame. =

She’s finally an adult. :

So why, then, is she so scared when daddy leaves town? Why does she
suddenly feel nervous when she’s left on her own to figure out the dirty work?
Picking out the car is the fun part, the easy part carried out by the child. This is
the hard part — insurance, registration, property taxes, temporary tags, etc.
Suddenly, the toy store seems so much bigger and more serious and the
salesperson so much meaner and scarier when the parent leaves the child alone
atthe register. Suddenly, things don’t seem so easy and carefree. Suddenly, there
is responsibility.

She’s scared because she’s never done anything like this by herself before.
She’s scared because she’s the one who needs to make the final decision to sign
the papers in her name and trust that everything’s running smoothly — a
judgement call she’s never had to make before. She’s had her parents there to do
things for her, to protect her from big people who might want to trick her, to make
those judgment calls based on their lifetime of experiences.

It’s okay that she’s a little nervous — she should be. Never mind that she
called her mom before she went and immediately called her dad at the first pay
phone on the way home. Of course, she still wants to make sure she knows what
to do, that they approve, and that she’s done things right. She, like all of us, will
always look to her parents for approval and encouragement just as her children
someday will look to her for that same security and confidence. But she needs to
do these things on her own as one of the many steps to becoming an adult.

Becoming an adult means more than merely picking out the toy off the shelf,
but picking up the responsibilities and fulfilling them. Becoming an adult means
adding onto the list of lifetime experiences, trusting the judgment that is based on
what parents have taught for 20 years, and growing up.

LETTERS

Staton committed to health care

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editor,

As reported in a recent
issue of The Davidsonian,
the SGA passed a resolution
regarding the Student Health
Facility entitled “The Dec-
laration of Rights.” Having
been appointed Director of
the Student Health Facility
(SHF) early last academic
year, I am now responsible
for campus health services,
and it is incumbent upon me
to address the issues raised
by such a resolution. Part of
my response is to speak to
the campus community in
this open letter.

My first statement is to

| affirm that I am committed.

to our facility’s offering
health services of the great-
est breadth and quality af-
forded by the resources
available at Davidson Col-
lege. For example, this first
year has seen a doubling of
the health educators’ time
and our first Health Fair on
campus. Furthermore, if
there is a significant defi-
ciency, Iam also committed
to a current student at
Davidson, as an alumnus,
and as an individual used to
a sense of professionalism
and pride in my work; I
would not be satisfied with
any less.

The SGA resolution
came from some work done
by Senior Class President
B.J. Rudell at the beginning
of this academic year. Dean
of Students Tom Shandley
and I met with him and some
other concerned students at
that time. Several immedi-
ate response steps were taken
then, such as posting a no-
tice requesting students’

comments/ complaints and
discussing with staff and stu-
dents from Davidson Clinic
these issues. In a separate
but related matter, I had al-
ready begun exploring if the
marketplace of: health ser-
vice providers in this area
mightoffer service enhance-
ments, such as increased
physician coverage, at acost
similar to what we now pay
for our contract with the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg
Health Authority/ Davidson
Clinic. That effort contin-
ues.

Although I was disap-
pointed that the SGA reso-
lution took almost the form
of a written 60 Minutes fea-
ture story, containing state-
ments that were more nega-
tive and inflammatory than
task-oriented, I am never the
less grateful for the student
interest in the health services
on campus and for the feed-
back and focus for improve-
ment it can provide us at the
Student Health Facility. All
of the points made will spur
some really helpful self-ap-
praisal by the SHF. Some of
the complaints . seemed
frankly unrealistic or inac-
curate. I realize, however,
that my perception to this
effect might be suspect for
some students who would
see this as merely a defen-
sive administrative stance.

In. an effort to prevent
this from occurring (or any
misperception to that effect)
and in hopes of using the
resolution as a point of de-
parture for positive change,
I have sought the help of an
ad hoc Health Services Ad-
visory Committee. I desired

an impartial, authoritative,
andeffective committee who
represent the college com-
munity. I was gratified that
each person I approached
immediately agreed to serve.
Two students are included:
Lucien Dervan (represent-
ing the SGA) and Debbie
Liverman (representing stu-
dents residence staff). I en-
courage students to apprise
them of any concerns. I also
included a faculty member,
Dr. Don Kimmel, who
teaches biology, has an M.D.
degree, and is highly re-
spected by students and fac-
ulty. Assistant Dean of Stu-

dents Leslie Marsicano rep-
resents notonly college staff

input, but demonstrates an
advantageous special inter-
est in women’s issues.
Lastly, I found in Charlotte
cardiologist Dr. K.D. Weeks,
a distinguished outside phy-
sician who is also an alum-
nus and the parent of a cur-
rent student.

This committee will
meet this semester and the
nexttoreview the SGA reso-
lution, to acquaint them-
selves with the SHF, to make
recommendations, and to
review SHF responses. I
expect these efforts to be
fruitful and substantive. I
hope that the college com-
munity can be assured that
the Student Health Facility
is responsive and doing its
job well as we work on these
matters in the upcoming
months.

Sincerely,

David Staton, Ph.D.
Director, Student
Health Facility

Che Dabidsonian

has e-mail.

We welcome comments, complaints,
suggestions, letters, etc.
Drop us a line any time:

Davidsonian @ Davidson.edu

