RIS & LIVING

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

Movie Review

Not
Toying
Around

Toy Story
hits it big

By Ep ACLE
Movie Critic

Remember when. E.T. first
came out so many years ago? Re-
member how you used to pester
your parents, wanting to see it over
and over? And remember that
even when you saw it for the fifth
time you still wanted to go back
and see it again? It doesn’t seem
like there are too many movies
these days with that type of appeal.
There have been some fairly good
recent movies, but if someone had
asked me last week toname a movie
that I think Should be considered a
classic I’d have to go back a few

years. Now, I just have to go back
to the day before Thanksgiving.

Since Toy Story opened up on that
Wednesday, I have been to see it
three times.

This movie should propel ani-
mation into the next stage. As
many of you know, this is the first
movie ever done completely by
computer. When watching the toys
go through their motions I was
amazed for the first three minutes.
I didn’t notice the effects for the
rest of the film, because they were
so good I forgot they were effects.
Parts of the film are so lifelike that
it almost seems that they were live
action. The animation alone is
reason enough to go see Toy Story.

The most magical aspect of
Toy Story, however, isn’t the ani-
mation; it’s the story. The plot
seems deceptively simple, but on
reflection can mean as much as
you want to bring to it. On the
surface level the story is about a
toy cowboy named Woody who
has long been his owner’s favorite
toy. He ceases being Andy’s fa-
vorite toy, when Andy receives a
Buzz Lightyear toy. Buzz; on top
of being a snazzy toy, also believes
that he is a real Space Ranger. The
rest of the film concerns itself with
the trouble Woody and Buzz get
into when Woody tries to take back
his spot as Andy’s favorite toy.

Upon closer examination, Toy
Story becomes:much more than a
story about toys that come to life
when their owners aren’t around.
It is also a meditation on the after-
_ life, a tale about coming to realize
one’s place in the world, anda look
at the fickle nature of friendship.
Another part of what makes the
movie sing are the various other

Pianist at Saturday night's Student, Faculty, and Staff Variety.

Brandon Clarke

SHOWING OFF

By CHAD FOGLEMAN
Staff Writer

The diverse talent of the dozen acts in the first annual Student,
Faculty and Staff Variety Show marveled a Saturday night 900 Room
crowd despite the unrelenting O.J. jokes of Professor John Swallow
(“math department humor,” as his fellow emcee Terri Gordon ex-
plained). The home-grown showcase of music, song and poetry was
sprinkled with Middle Eastern dancing by Little librarian Jan Blodgett
(it’s a shame she can’t wear those bells on her hips when she strolls
through the government documents) and the edifying couplets of the
Habitat House Committee’s (very) vaguely Shakespearean “A Mid-

summer Night’s Construction Party” (a drama redeemed by it’s costum-
-ing: fairy J. D. DuPuy wore green tinsel headgear).

Of the third act, M.C. Gordon predicted, “This girl can sing,” and
senior Laura Leibfreid complied with Alanis Morrisett’s “Forgive Me,
Love” in simple and strong a cappella. Katherine Palmer and guitarist
Diane Krause of Ecdysis (which means “molting” and, moreover, is “fun
to say,” Palmer confessed) treated listeners to an harmonious original
“In Your Own Time.” Sophomore David Milling needed a phone book
to reach the keys, but his piano and vocal work “Close My Eyes” still left
Sara Beth Hamlin so “speechless” she spent the entire intermission

See SHOW on page 12

U2’'s Passengers takes a new train,
but doesn't get off at the right stop

By JAMES BERRY
Music Critic

Amidst a whirlwind of syn-
thesizer, processed guitar, and frag-
mented crooning, Brian Eno and
the four members of U2 finally
cross the boundary into the pre-
carious realm of art rock with their
latest release entitled Original
Soundtracks, 1. If you can imagine
the process of evolution that took
the band from The Joshua Tree,
through Achtung Baby, and into
Zooropa .then this album might
make sense, although those who
are expecting a typical U2 album
will be sadly disappointed.

The concept behind Original
Soundtracks J (at least as I under-
stand it) lies in the title. The songs
were written as background music
to various films. Because of this,
the album lacks the continuity and
theme of previous releases al-

PASSENGERS: ORIGINAL SOUNSTRAGKS 1

Passengers: Original Soundtracks.

and feature only the slightest hint
of guitar, using odd samples as
percussion and background noise.
Melody is kept to a minimum as
well, although the final track,
“Theme From Let’s Go Native,”
echoes the intensity and suave of
“Zooropa” with its regulated bass
and rhythmic guitar. “Beach Se-
quence” is the epitome of repeti-
tion although it’s gota nice vibe to
it.

Fa

The actual songs embody only
a pinch of the traditional U2 but
still emanate the characteristic
moodiness and careful word play
of Bono’s lyrics. Only six or seven
of the fourteen tracks have words
at all and those that do sometimes
repeat a single phrase throughout.
(Take “Always Forever Now”,
which fits the title to melody with-
out any additional lyrics.) The
track with the most attitude has to

though there is a characteristic

be “Elvis Ate America,” a stripped

See see Toy on page 12

i ee

sound which comes from Eno’s
tailored synthesizer: Also, the al-
bum hasn’t been marketed in U2’s
name. Because of Eno’s contribu-
tions (which might exceed that of

attributed to Passengers, a name
intended to encompass Eno, U2,
and whoever else they can get to
join them. This time (since it’s
expected that this is to become a
tradition) the list includes Luciano

the band. members), the. album is'. Pavarotti, Howie B,.and.Holi. . . .

The tracks range from dance
driven instrumentals such as
“United Colours” to fairly evolved
song ideas like “Miss Sarajevo”
(where Bono is joined by Pavarotti
on lead vocal). Most of the

‘instrumentals have:little structure ~~ > -

chant of cliche with an annoying
background sample gritting “El-
vis” with deep-throated enthusi-
asm. “White trash/Memphis flash/
Didn’t smoke hash/Would have

~~ gee-U2 ‘on page '12.-
