THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995 4

~The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER ;
ROBERT RAMSAY ee ASH
6 Assistant Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager
ssociate Editors TERESA WHITE J
WiLiawthoeret RES OSHUA BUCHANAN
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
Noe MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
itor
MATTHEW EIRICH Dees eee

Photography Editor

ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

Assistant News Editor

TED PENICK
JOANNA JOHNSON Assistant Photography Editor
Opliionsias BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
ee acladedge CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Top 10 Topics if Davidson
Had its Own Talk Show

10. My Life in a Box: Lack of Personal Space at a College of 1,600

My Life in a Closet: Sexuality at Davidson

My Life in a Bottle: The Story of a Davidson Drunk

My Life in Bed: Male-Female Relationships at Davidson

My Life in a Bong: Drugs at Davidson?!?

My Life in a Basement: A Science Major’s Guide to College Survival
My Life in the ‘70s: E.H. Little’s Home Decorating Tips -

My Life in the Shadows: First Children, Overachievers, and You

My Life in Church: 160 Years of Overly-Cautious Presbyterianism
My Life: Self-Centeredness and Self-Pity at 28036

HNYRUDAIHM ©

My Life in a Box

Jon flew home last week to celebrate his grandmother’s birthday. While there, he
decided to get some work done on a paper, and spent half of the only day he was home
at the public library. He had to speed to make it home with enough time to get ready for
the party that night. :

No one was home, though. His father and mother and his sisters were gone, with
no note or message to tell him where they could be. He got ready for the party anyway,
thinking they might have run an errand.

Soon, his mother called to tell him that they were all at the hospital because his 17-
year-old brother had been in a wreck and possibly suffered head trauma. Luckily, the
boy was fine, but the incident scared Jon.

He began to question his priorities. He rarely saw his family, and the one day he had
with them he spent at the library working on a Davidson assignment. Although his
presence would not have prevented the accident, he was not there for his family when
he should have been — or so he thought.

‘What is important, really? Do the years we shave off our lives under the weight of
self-induced pressure add so much to our futures to be worth it? Do the Fall Breaks we
commit to work and the Parents’ Weekends we spend in the library produce a return
equal in proportion to the investment?

They cannot. There is no replacement for people. Those around us are not like
books; they can enter and exit, and the knowledge they offer is alive. They cannot be
placed in the carrell until next week or summarized in a 30 minute pledged essay.
Talking with friends, spending time with family creates us in a way. It gives us the ability
to interpret the reflection of life found in. books, a two-dimensional world that cannot
support us. ;

Years from now, Jon will be able’to find the same information he studied in the
public library in his hometown. But how many more birthdays will his grandmother
have; how close did his brother come to a kind of book burning?

Students walk around this campus clinging to their books, to their calendars, and to
their notes as if they were the very marrow of their bones. As social as we are, do we
forget each other? Do we say no to an hour with friends in order to merely piddle around
in the library, convincing ourselves we are productive? Do we sacrifice a weekend with
those dear to us because of a distant test?

If we do so, we may ace the review. But as we rise to leave a Chambers classroom,
we will see the emptiness around us, and realize, sadly, that we have failed.

LETTERS

Halloween carnival additions

To the editors,

Iam writing in response

to the article in last week’s

Davidsonianconcerning the

Halloween carnival. First, I

would like to thank the staff
for including coverage of a
charitable event. Service
should.be an integral part‘of
the student image portrayed
by The Davidsonian to
supplement the typical ones

of beer drinkers and study

fiends. Many people on this

campus are very committed

to making the community a

better place; their lives serve
as excellent examples.
Second, I would like to

thank the staff for giving

credit where credit is due.
Without the help of the
Boehmlers, the event could
not have been a success.

‘However, it is particularly :
important’ to! recognize all)

those who made the carnival
possible. Maybe Sarah
Teachworth simply ran out
of room. I would like to
point out the vital contribu-
tions of Michelle Caroll,

Mary Margaret Cochrane,
her mother, Karen Davids,
Katherine Hash, Sakira

Peay, and all the freshmen

workers. The children and
parents who attended the
carnival really appreciated

all your hard work. They.
even went out oftheir way to. -

future we will be able to
reach more people thanks to
the combinedefforts of com-
mitted people like you.
Sincerely,
Jill Stephenson ‘97

Unwanted

gifts

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions

expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of

the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

On Monday morning I
awoke to find a lovely sur-
prise on my doorstep. Some-
one had left me a Harris Tee-
ter plastic bag with brown-
ies inside accompanied by a
letter. My first thought was
that it was one of those Hal-
loween bags our parents or-

| der; however, I quickly real-

ized this was no gift from
mom, in fact I still don’t
know who sent them.

When I opened the let-
ter addressed to me with my
full first, middle, and last
name ( something which I
rarely use), I found that I had

_| been randomly chosen as an

individual who needed to be
re-directed toward the path
of God- apparently I'd lost
my way. The letter pro-
ceeded to tell me that I was
being challenged to step into
the light, to take the step
which would let Christ into
my life, and to run toward
God so that he could call me

|his child. The letter ends

with no signature, no invita-
tion to a Bible study group.

basically, nothing.

Now, I have a problem

with this. Personally I may
not be the ideal church-go-
ing Catholic girl my mother
had hoped I would be; but I
did spend numerous years in
Sunday school and at mass,
and I have never doubted
that I was one of God’s chil-
dren. Consequently, I really
do not mind when someone
tries to tell me about their
religion, their churches, or
religious groups, so long as
they do not try and impose
their views on others. How-
ever, Ido mind when some-
one tries to tells me that I
should turn toward religion,
and then doesn’t even tell
me who they are, what reli-
gion they are affiliated with,
or where to meet. Of course,
the main question I’m ‘ask-
ing myself is, ‘why me?’ If
I have offended someone to
the point that they feel I need
to be saved, then I should
like to know what it is that I
did. Have I really sinned
more than my neighbors?
In any event, this is not
the first time I hear of this
sort of thing happening at
Davidson. Last year my
roommate, Jenn Ray, re-

ceived a package at the
Union. When she picked it
up she found that someone
had sent her a Bible with a
hand-written card, unsigned,
saying that God would save
her from her sins. She never
found out who the sender
was; and the incident has
been forgotten. Now we
begin to wonder, does some-
one have something against
our apartment? Why have
we been randomly targeted;
and who for “Christ’s” sake
is sending us these mysteri-
ous gifts? ’

I don’t know what hap-
pened to Jenn’s Bible. I
haven’t seen it lying at her
bed-side; but I’m sure it
didn’t end up in the trash
with the brownies that my
ever-cautious roommates
made me throw away. They
claimed that we didn’t know
who had made them (have I
made that point clear
enough?). Mom’s Hallow-
een scare tactics hung over
our apartment as those “ un-
wrapped candies” hit the
dumpster.

Sincerely,
Frederique Campagne ‘96

tell meso. [know thatin the —
