MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

NEWS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

James Swisher

_ Alegend in Davidson music, 1949 — 1996

Jim Swisher taught music at Davidson for eighteen years. He acted as pianist-in-residence for several years
as well, but he retired last year because he was suffering of cancer. He died last Sunday night. Here a student
and a colleague express what Jim Swisher means to them.

The following is excerpted from Pro-
fessor Bill Lawing’s retirement speech
last spring for Jim Swisher.

Two weeks ago, those of us who
heard Jim Swisher perform in Love
Auditorium experienced one of the
most musically moving and emotion-
ally touching moments of our lives. It
was an evening that reminded us of
Jim’s gifts, in music and life, that he
has shared with us for eighteen years.

Endowed with a multiplicity of
talents and interests, Jim entered Yale
unsure of a career goal. He excelled in
writing, running, acting,
painting, and he also played

chamber music, fostered especially
through the Nikos trio, which has cel-
ebrated ten years of performance ex-
cellence. All these professional ac-
complishments, by themselves, are
goals to emulate. But inso many ways,
they pale beside Jim’s other contribu-
tions to Davidson College and to this
community.

In his 1978 cover letter that ac-
companied his application for his po-
sition, Jim wrote, “I am personally
convinced that the interdependence of
disciplines and ideas is indispensable
for education at any level.” In so very

that process, with a stubborn, vocal,
irreverent, argumentative, Catholic,
Italian, Midwestern musician repre-
senting the faculty, speaks volumes
about you — and about him.

Jim’s community activities fos-
tered his other loves. His involvement
with the Davidson Community Play-
ers was a fulfillment of his earlier love
of acting. As much as I treasure Jim for
his piano artistry, I also treasure his

conviticing performance in The Cherry .

Orchard and The Diary of Anne Frank.
He and Rita were also faithful mem-
bers of the DCPC choir in the years

the piano on the side. Win-
ning the Yale Symphony
Concerto Competition in his
sophomore year moved him
toward acareerin music. In
[his] remaining years at
Yale; his musical life took
shape, as Jim increasingly
found himself active as a
chamber musician, and as
an advocate of contempo-
rary, especially American
contemporary music. Jim
found a natural home in
chamber ensembles, where
his love of conversion and
discussion could be ex-
pressed in the language of
music.

After several years per-
forming with a professional
trio, and teaching part-time
at Wesleyan University, Jim
arrived at Davidson in 1978,
and began a most remark-
able career that has included
over fifty performances on
campus, not to mention, a
reputation as one of the
greatest teachers this Col-
lege has known. Within a
month of his arrival he gave
us the first of many electri-
fying performances, a re-
cital that included music of
Beethoven, Chopin,
Debussy, and especially the
Six Pieces of Arnold

Lessons in Life
By Elizabeth Field

Music lies deep in the core of my being, rarely uncovered by anyone but myself.
I learned on the day of my first piano lesson with Dr. Swisher that he was someone
who could peel away the layers of reserve which surround this core and see my true
feelings and thoughts.

Thad planned to walk into this lesson with a smile on my face and say a polite
“nice to see you,” then sit down to play the Bach prelude and fugue which I had been
working on the previous semester. It didn’t happen. From the minute I stepped into
the door, Dr. Swisher seemed so intent on knowing how I was and how my first
semester had gone that I knew if I played the Bach the way I was really feeling, he
would know there was something wrong. “I broke up with my boyfriend last night,”
[blurted out, immediately regretting that I had told this to someone whom Thad only
met once before. Dr. Swisher quickly allayed those regrets. We spent fifteen
minutes talking about relationships and left forty-five for Bach.

Each lesson with Dr. Swisher was like that, although later into the semester I
didn’t have to verbalize my thoughts because he could read them just by listening
tome play. Inthis way, friendship with Dr. Swisher was challenging in the best sense
of the word because there was no hiding from him. By knowing him, I knew myself
better than I had before. Music is a language which Dr. Swisher could understand
better than anyone else I have ever met. To hear him play Mozart or Brahms or Grieg
was to hear a dialogue spanning the centuries between musicians who knew what it
meant truly to appreciate life.

Now that Dr. Swisher is gone, Davidson College has lost a friend and a teacher
in the truest meaning of the word. I am sure, however, that he would not want us to
focus on what we have lost, but rather what we have to look forward to. Dr. Swisher
made us confront our innermost beliefs and emotions. By continuing to do that on
our own, we will keep his memory alive.

Schoenberg, the perfor-

mance of which reshaped

my-own sense of the musicianship of
that twentieth century pioneer.

There are so many other
memorable performances. I especially
recall two. One was his performance
of the entire 24 Chopin preludes, where
Jim, the consummate chamber musi-
cian, conversed with the gods, ormaybe
Chopin himself, through the thunder-
storms that punctuated the evening. A
second was the dedicatory recital of
the Donald Plott piano, which required
on-stage seating to accommodate the
overflow crowd. I remember [how
well] Jim [kept his] composure that
evening, [as] he contend[ed] with an
unusually close audience.

: Jim’s performance activities out-
side of Davidson have included recit-
als throughout the country, concerto
appearances (two of which were world
premieres), and a continued love of

many ways, Jim has spent his career
fulfilling that philosophy. He spent
several years in the Humanities pro-
gram, and gave to it a greater under-
standing of our art. His lectures in
Humes, as in all of his courses, have
been cited on many occasions as the
best examples of truly inspired teach-
ing. Indeed, I believe that as a lecturer
he is unequalled at this institution. His
love of disciplines and topics beyond
music brought him commonly toclass-
rooms that spanned the arts and sci-
ences, as a guest lecturer who could
not only discuss music, but who could
relate it to the non-musical audience
he was addressing ...

Other services to Davidson have
included several years as a member of

the Admissions Committee; and mem-,

bership, now 13 years ago, on our last
Presidential Selection Committee. Mr.
President, for you to havecome through

they resided in Davidson.

Jim’s friends and colleagues seem
to have vastly different ways of char-
acterizing him. Appropriately, these
remarks form a mosaic of this wonder-
fully complex man. One perception,
which all of us who have watched Jim
perform can appreciate, is of his tre-
mendous performance flair. His con-
cert performances are elegant, athletic
and graceful. Watching Jim perform is
as absorbing as listening to the music
he is performing.

A former student observed that
Jim holds a special ability to define
what he wants out of his life, and focus
his energies in pursuit of those ambi-
tions. Certainly, his marriage of career
and family is an example. He has
relocated twice, each time farther from
Davidson, to support Rita’s studies
and career, and to give Anna and Tali

Y REN WHEE irs EEE wey ‘eee *

greater opportunities. At the begin-
ning of Rita’s career as a radiologist,
Jim chose to take a two-year leave of
absence, to manage the family’s af-
fairs. His return to Davidson was
marked by a richly deserved new title,
Pianist-in-Residence, and by a nar-
rower focus: that of performing as

much as possible, and of teaching a .

most fortunate cadre of piano students.
These events are remarkable testaments
not only to Jim’s ability to define his
aspirations, but also to his willingness
to sacrifice to achieve them.

Words of praise and admiration
flow freely. From one colleague, “His
combination of scholarship and sheer
intelligence combined with wit and
dedication to his craft makes him an
extraordinary teacher. He is always
willing to learn. When he makes a
mistake (once every decade or so), he
is able to admit it and to learn from it.”
From another: “He will not back down
in the face of a good argument. He is
the type of friend who will tell you to
your face that you have made a stupid
fool of yourself. That is a quality some
people never learn to appreciate, but
for those of us who did, he is a valued
friend.” And finally, “I am touched
and astounded by the unusual courage
and tranquility with which he has faced,
and continues to face, his illness.”

But the central issue of Jim, and
the ways he has affected our lives, is
actually quite simple. It is music.
Again a remark from a friend: “One of
his gifts is to see music as the center of
the universe, since it gets at the issues
that really matter: love, hope, and cour-
age. I will always remember his lec-
ture on the final scene from The Mar-
riage of Figaro . He talked about love

Photos courtesy of Bill Giduz and Quips & Crianks

and forgiveness and the wonderful way
in which Mozart charmed us into for-
giving a flawed man.”

Similar statements were made by
his brother, and perhaps his closest
friend, Michael, who wanted to cor-
rect an impression that was given in a
recent interview in the Charlotte Ob-
server.

The article describes how Jim
came close to tears on several occa-
sions during the interview, and it links
those emotional moments to his ill-
ness. As Michael related, the reporter
never reached what was really impor-
tant to Jim. “Jimmy was not overcome
over his own mortality. He hasn’tcried
once about that. He was overcome
when he began talking about music.

He is so awed, and astounded by
music, by the fact that it even exists,
that he reacts emotionally to the con-
templation of its existence. I am sure
that as he considers his future, that he
will miss his life far less than he will
miss his music.”

There is one additional quality:
Jim is a gifted a partier as anyone who
has ever graced this faculty. His wit
and humor are most sparkling in social
occasions.

Jim, for now, we honor you and
give you thanks in a formal manner,
but in about a half hour, after the fac-
ulty passes the music minor, we will
toast and roast. It’s a shame that you
won’t be here with us, if for no other
reason than to prove, once again, that
you can outlast us all.

Jim, we hope a miracle or two
comes your way. We express to you
our immeasurable gratitude for the life,
and its music, that you have shared
with us.
