MONDAY, OCTOBER 28,:1996 — at

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER JILL WILLIAMS Business Manager
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Sports Editors
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW Advertising Managers
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS
News Editors Photo Editor
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL McNEIL CARSWELL
Copy Editors :
Opinions Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN Web Page Managers
NINA BLOUNT JILL WILLIAMS CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON DANIEL MOTZ BRAD CHASE
ERIC PENDERGRASS
Arts & Living Editor Cartoonist
‘GREG GARRISON

SUSAN RUGGIERO

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

GwtHEe fou THe

HEALTH, Kips, [T's
Sloty TINE.

N Love Time A
°,
THERE Was hie

WITH AW SP wierd, i

TREND SOME Whege ‘e
MAW LUXeupove
Age rertesseD.

a:

THE GIRL PESuDED avy Moke & More sowed) Be
Ws BES AN THE Seeat

LUXE MBOVRG DEBATE.

WN, AND THE Two

BERT aac ied fe

scfemyou!
ae hn T

MWNY Poors DisLixeD
This Pilon

or era ey FED oF 1 AVD
EWDED (HT Hin aye RTE

Meeay a THis Ts Te Is THAT
Ever oY
‘ x33 e¥6eDy..

GHA

LETTERS

Decreasing Interest

The Davbidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Finally got a piece of the pie?

“Feminism” is a hatd word to define. At Davidson we don’t really define it at all.

Ask'many Davidson students, and they will tell you that they don’t care or everyone’s
overreacting or I’ msick of it or it doesn’t really apply tome. Ask some students about different types
of feminism, and they will claim thatitis all the same, or that itis all about equal pay or equal grading,
and don’t Davidson women get that anyway?

Yes, women do get an equal share of the Davidson pie, and yes, rarely does one hear of a sexist
professor, and yes, women do lead campus organizations.

But yes, there are “girls” here who act stupid to get their way on the court and “guys” who love
that. There are people here who believe that treating women with respect means putting them on
a pedestal and letting the men do the dirty work. And there are. people here who will read that
sentence and exaggerate it to mean that a man should never open a goon for a woman and that all
petty chivalry is a “rape” of the female psyche.

At Davidson females have both triumphed and failed in their struggle against chauvenism and
the patriarchical tradition. The days of the “old boy” system are quickly giving away to the equal
and understanding treatment of women. There will always be set backs, misunderstandings, and
resistance to change, but what we should unconditionally expect — what we should hope for —at
a college like Davidson is a willingness of students and faculty alike to put their egos and
assumptions aside and open their minds to learning about the other gender. It is easier to hold onto
previous conceptions than to examine them, and maybe relinquish them. In truth it is lazy ignorance
that should be feared, not incapacity to learn, and continuing education which is most important,
not fiery accusations of ignorance or stagnant tradition.

Give marrow,
or money, or both.

This week Political Science Professor Dr. Susan Roberts and her husband, Development
Director Kevin McCarthy, spoke about their summer. Their son Cormac gave his bone marrow to
his little brother Jack and saved his life. The two boys spoke as well, Cormac eloquent for his age
and Jack typical for his — running through the audience, distracted, and reveling in the attention.
Their parents watched on with teary eyes as everyone in the crowded 900 Room pondered what
would have happened Jack had not found a donor.

Senior Mary Dowd also spoke, through tears, of her experience as a donor last spring. She
saved the life of a small boy.

The chances that a person’s bone marrow will have a perfect match are very slim. Because of
this, itis very important that, given this opportunity, everyone at Davidson get typed. The process
is harmless, but it is potentially harmful to others to neglect it.

Because of Davidson’s exstensive Bone Marrow drive (and the persistance of founders David
and Scottie Lindsay) up to three lives have been saved. Almost every semester a Davidson student
shows up on the register as a potential match. This is amazing and most likely unprecedented by
a college.

However, bone marrow typing is not free. Each one is $60. Project Life needs to raise this
money, and they have not received the funding that they have in previous years.

So, buy a t-shirt, buy a donut (they will be on sale soon) or just give a donation. Above all, get
typed if you have not already — the drive (it’s free then) will take place in three weeks. We are saving
lives, Davidson, and it is so easy to do!

All apologies

We would like to apologize for our neglect to credit many of the photos last week. It was a
careless oversight, and we are deservedly embarrassed. Although Photo Editor Ben DeLisa has
asked us not to try to list the pictures and the photographers we stupidly ignored, we would like to
thank Ben, Bill Giduz, and all of the photographers who have contributed to The Davidsonian this
year. We appreciate their sacrifice of time in both taking and developing, their consistant production
of creative and quality pictures, and their part in making The Davidsonian a whole publication.

| To-the Editors:

I have been reading the
regular series on “women’s is-
sues,” in The Davidsonian with
steadily decreasing interest.
Each week I see articles with
grandiose schemes to delve into
the very serious matter of
women’s issues. What I find in
their content, however, is acon-
test of name calling and mud
slinging.

I’mnot an expert on Paki-

‘stan, nor am I an expert on is-

sues facing women, but I do

know this ... if what feminists in

Pakistan are“struggling

against” are perfect gentleman

like Fahd Gul and Yasir Ishaq,

they should spend more time

counting their blessings. If Fahd _
Gul and Yasir Ishaq choose to

surrender their seats on a bus

out of respect for women, we

have no reason to question that
motive. To the charge of giving
up a seat for a lady, I plead
guilty myself. Indeed, one need
not go to Pakistan to witness
the crime. In the far off and
strange land of Chicago I have
taken part in the barbaric ritual.
Strangely, I do not remember
one woman who took it as an
implication of her weakness of
gender. I wonder if African
Americans felt blessed by our
recognition of the great strength
of their race when
they were forced to stand in our
stead. Something is wrong here.
Let us beat this dead horse
no longer. Surely there are more
pressing issues facing women
than seating preferences, ren-
egade prison officials, and Fahd

Gul. The discussion on
women’s issues, need not, and

should not be“For the Last
Time.” What does need to be
for the last time is this perplex-
ing infatuation certain people
have with the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan. One might ask, why
talk about the United States?
Why not talk about Pakistan?
My request comes not from
some covert agenda to glorify
Islam and Pakistan, but a prin-
ciple closer to home.Why do
you look at the speck in your
brother’s eye, with never a
thought for the plank in your
own?... First take the plank out
of your own eye, and then you
will see clearlyto take the speck
out of your brother’s.” (Luke
6.41, 42).

Brian Yeiser Boyd '97

Independent Homecoming

To the Editors:

It troubled me when I read
the Alex. Obregon’s Opinions
Article in the October 7th
Davidsonian. Alex was discour-
aged and disillusioned by the
Davidson Homecoming expe-
rience. She felt that students
should not be excluded from

activities, namely fraternity .

dances, from an event that
stresses Davidson as our home.
Alex spent the evening walking
around the court with her
“hometown honey” wondering
where she was allowed.

I agree with Alex. It is
unfortunate that anyone felt
excluded by the fraternities on
homecoming night, but frater-
nittes are exclusive organiza-
tions. On Homecoming, by in-
viting some men, they exclude

others. As Alex illustrated, it is
impossible for women to be-
come involved unless they are
invited by one of these select
few.

-There was an alternative,
however. The Independent
Senators and the Black Student
Coalition sponsored a Home-
coming dance that Saturday
night. We invited everyone to
this dance — both male and
female — fromevery class. We
put up fliers on all upperclass-
man halls and apartments and
even placed individual invita-
tions under every freshman door
tomake sure people were aware.
And people came!

Members of every class,
from seniors to freshman, par-
tied down in semiformal attire
to a great D.J. with their fellow

Davidsonians from ten to two.
I thank the BSC and all those
who attended for making it such
a success.

Alex, it is indeed unfortu-
nate that you, or any other stu-
dent, felt alienated from your
Davidson home on homecom-
ing night. To avoid this, the
Independents provided an event
for all students and will con-
tinue to do so in the future. I
apologize if we somehow failed
to inform you of the event. An
atmosphere and community
where students feel welcome is
our highest priority. Alex, you
will always have a home with
the Independents.

Matthew Hobbie '97
Head Independent Senator

Soccer Strikes

Back

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

Whois Daniel Motz? Who
the hell is he? And why isn’t he
out playing soccer? He must be
one incredible soccer player to
have so astutely figured out the
problems of this year’s team.
At least a better player than he
is a journalist. Does he not
know that when he makes state-
ments he should include his
sources. Does he not know that
when heinsults his own school’s
team, he should try to logically
justify himself. It makes one

wonder how good a journalist
he actually is when the people
he quoted deny having spoken
to him, and Coach Slagle ad-
mits having received leading
questions from Motz about his
“embarrassing seniors, ques-
tions which he refused to an-
swer. I know of Motz’s amaz-
ing ability and knowledge of
the sport of soccer, but to the
test of his soon to be adoring
fans, he is still an unknown. I
would like to personally apolo-
gize to Daniel Motz for being

an embarrassment to my
school, God and Country, and
thank him for his insight this
year. If we support him pub-
licly, and ask very nicely,
perhaps Daniel will consent to
grace Richardson field with his
abilities next fall. I would also,
as the most apathetic, under-
achieving non-leader of the
men’s soccer team, like to wish
him good luck in the MLS.

Isaac Stewart ‘97

Davidsonian t-shirts for $10. |
Wow! What a bargain! Call -2148 today.

