2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Colbert fills last senate vacancy

Two sophomore candidates, Damon Colbert and Eric Sapp, vied for the
only remaining available SGA independent senatorial seat at last Tuesday’s
SGA meeting. By secret ballot, the SGA elected Colbert to the position.

Campus Health Fair slated for April 3

The second annual Campus Health Fair will be held April 3 from 11:30
a.m. to 2 p.m. on Chambers lawn. Sponsored by the Counselling Center, the
fair will include free food, free prizes, and free health checks. The fair
features participation by several campus social groups, clubs, and depart-
ments.

Old shoes needed!

The Uptown Charlotte Men’s Shelter is in dire need of all your old
clothes, especially shoes! Please raid your closets and see if you can help us
out. We will place a labelled garbage bag in each dorm lounge and will pick
up the contents at the end of each week. The clothing drive will last until April
14. Flyers about this clothes drive can be found on each hall. If you need any
additional information, please contact Ann Hatfield and Audrey Edmundson
at X6629 or Sezmin Noorani at X6088. -

Electronic Registration and Grades System Named

The new registration and grade retrieval service is no longer nameless.
That is because sophomore Adam Drudge came up a winner in the contest to
name the system. It will now be called the “CATS-LINE.” It stands for
“Computer Assistant Telephone Service Line.” Registrar Polly Griffin said,
“About 30 entries were submitted, and Adam’s was one on which everyone
could agree.” Drudge says he simply “thought of a name which embodies the
spirit and character of the school.” :

He will receive $50 for his efforts. A logo will be developed for the
system and will be sent to all students on a magnet with the actual “CATS-
LINE” instructions and phone number.

Nominate your favorite professor

Students can nominate their favorite professor, staff or community] °

member for the annual Omicron Delta Kappa award. Nominations can be
found at.the front desk of the library, at the front desk of the union, and in the
Dean of Students office. All forms should be turned in by April 5 to the Dean
of Students office.

Don’t panic

Sirens heard on Tuesday at 11:50 a.m. are only Duke power tests at the
McGuire nuclear station.

Forgotten Language Tour comes to Davidson

On Friday, April 12, and Saturday, April 13, the Orion Society's —
Forgotten Language Tour will visit Davidson. Nationally renowned nature
writers and poets will offer a series of readings, workshops, and discussions
that will encourage a thoughtful consideration of our relationship with
nature. The tour will include Ecologist David Abram, Poet Alison
Hawthorne Deming, Anthropologist Richard K. Nelson, and others.

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 1,1996

“Squeezed” budget for 1996-97
focuses on salaries, networking

By ApamM HIckKEy
Staff Writer

Davidson’s $45 million bud-
get, approved by trustees in Febru-
ary, has been completely re-
vamped.

Overall, most areas of the bud-
get will receive some form of in-
crease. But a few, such as athletics
and institutional advancement, will
see a drop. Increased attention to
compensation, computer network-
ing, and other major expenses has
necessitated some sacrifices from
other areas of the college. But the
endowment and a smaller-than-
usual rise in tuition have helped to
make up some of the difference the
budget calls for.

salary.

Though Residence Life and
Computer Services are contribut-
ing to the project, the development
of the campus telecommunications
network will be funded by the gen-
eral fund as well. But the total cost
of the project and the expected
date of completion will not be avail-
able until next month.

Also, the $30 million debt in-
curred from bonds issued to raise
money for the Baker Sports Com-
plex, the Visual Arts Center and
several residence halls will need
$2.5 million to prevent it from ris-
ing due to interest.

In addition to these issues, the
college has $16 million of repairs
which are waiting to be made.

to make up for the budget loss
through contributions to the
Davidson Athletic Foundation.

There are other, smaller cuts
as well. Davidson will end its an-
nual $60,000 donation to WDAV,
which expects to make up for the
loss by drawing on a reserve fund
and increased fundraising.The
library’s acquisitions budget will
not receive what has become an
“automatic” annual increase of
$80,000. Auxiliary enterprises is
expected to cut $63,000 from its
expenses.

The end of The Campaign for
Davidson means an $85,000 cut in
expenditures in Institutional Ad-
vancement. The Academic Affairs
office, as well, will fund two new

A p - faculty posi-
proved by the i tions without
i ific al-

February, the | WHERE YOUR MONEY GOES | iecttiontrom
budget rose the college’s
$3.072 mil- general fund.

lion to $45.278 million for the
1996-97 fiscal year.

Robert Norfleet, Vice Presi-

dent for Business and Finance, iso-
lates three major areas of concern
that the budget planning had to
address: “‘a lower increase in the
comprehensive fee for students,”
“a major investment in technology
infrastructure,” and “trying to re-
main competitive in terms of com-
pensation.”
. . The 5,3,%. increase in student
charges, which brings the total cost
to $25,267, will account for some
of the increase in spending.

But far more will be contrib-
uted by the endowment, which will
contribute $7.281 of its $163 mil-
lion to the budget, an increased
contribution of 12.1 %.

An increase in revenue is
needed to cover several major ex-
penditures.

Roughly 55 % of the new costs
will go to increasing compensa-
tion, which includes the benefits
faculty receive in addition to their

But money for this will come
directly from the endowment and

does not require cuts from other —

areas.

Such renovation priorities in-
clude Phi and Eu halls, exterior
painting of Dana, Cunningham,
Martin, and the College Union,
replacement of one of Chambers
Buildings’ four chillers, replace-
ment of one of the college’s two
boilers, and renovation of third
floor labs in Martin... -,

Cost cutting and reallocation
of moneys will fund 15.8% of the
new expenditures.

Bob Price, athletics business
manager, states the athletic pro-
gramming budget was actually cut
by $100,000, but compensation
increases left a net decline of
$23,739.

Price and Jim Murphy, Ath-
letics Director, are currently de-
veloping a five-year plan to cut
costs so that future decreases can
be more effectively planned for.

In addition, they are seeking

The numbers are not the only
things that have changed this year.

Norfleet, -who is in his first
year as VP for Business and Fi-
nance, states that the entire budget
process has been revamped, call-
ing it “less hierarchal, less bureau-
cratic, less top-down.”

The team which sets the bud-
get includes as permanent mem-
bers the controller (as facilitator),
the Chair and Vice Chair of the

faculty, and ll the Vicé Présidents.

Norfleet explains that as the
budgeting process progresses, each
department affected is contacted
onaspecific level, leading to “much
greater detail” and making the pro-
cess “infinitely more collabora-
tive.”

“I think we made some ex-
tremely significant first steps [re-
garding the budgeting process],”
says Norfleet, “We’ll be refining
this for several years until Davidson
finds what it needs.”

NAMES Project |
IDS Memorial Quilt

rganizational Meetin
* April 10* *9 p.m.*
*Somewhere in the Union*

— 892-3306

Lucky

freshmen —
from page 1

didn’t seem worried about this:
“We have found that we didn’t
need that many toilets for the
amount of people using the facili-
ties. It shouldn’t be a problem.”

‘Holmes tagged the total cost of this

summer’s renovations in the area
of $825,000. “This sum is about
half of what it would cost to re-
build these dorms,” he says.
Holmes also outlined a tenta-
tive plan to eventually convert
many of the sophomore dorm
rooms to singles, “We have seen a
rise in the demand for singles on
campus, and we are trying to meet
that.” This year the RLO increased
the number of singles on campys
from 30 to 64 units. Most of these
additions come from singles cre-

‘ated in the sophomore dorms.

“Eventually, there will be a new
dorm and we will be able to have

|. most of the-units in Knox, Irwin,

and Akersas singles,” Holmes says.
