2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Physical Plant helps clean up after Fran

Fourteen staff members of the Physical Plant have taken time
out from their regular work schedules to volunteer for clean-up
efforts in the wake of Hurricane Fran. The staff has been in and
around the Wilmington area since last week, working with the United
Way and the First Presbyterian Church there.

Bob Collins, who is director of the Physical Plant, says staff
members were given the service opportunity by President Kuykendall.
“He thought it would be a good idea to extend an offer of help,”
Collins says.

The staff members put in long hours, working from 5 a.m. to
sundown, and sometimes later. As of now, they volunteer seven days
a week, but are expected back at Davidson soon because, as Collins
says, “We're not overstaffed; we’re going to have to bring them
home soon.”

The staff works in shifts. Some who came home for a break
Friday will be returning to Wilmington Monday, and those who
wanted to volunteer but couldn’t be spared during the regular work
week went for the weekend.

Hurricane Fran Relief Drive

Students who want to help out hurricane-hit communities: but
can’t go to Wilmington can do good right here at Davidson. A relief
drive organized by Reach Out, the Dean of Students Office, College
Relations and Career Services starts today and ends on Friday,
September 20 at noon.

Non-perishable food items, particularly those with pop-top lids
and items that do not require heating, like cans of tuna, are especially
in demand. Bottled water, ready-to-use baby formula, cleaning
supplies, toiletries, paper products and pet food are also requested.

Drop-off stations are located in Chambers, Vail Commons,
Baker Sports Complex and the Carolina Inn.

SGA creates ad-hoc committee on parking

In the pursuit of more information concerning this summer’s
33% increase in parking registration fees, the SGA has formed an ad
hoc committtee on parking, headed by junior Damon Colbert. Colbert’s
committee is charged with discussing the situation with Robert
Norfleet, Vice President for Business and Finance, as well as Ray
Thrower, Director of Public Safety. Colbert spoke with Thrower last
week and submitted a summary of this conversation to the SGA.
Colbert has not yet spoken with Norfleet but says, “I’d definitely like
to talk to. him and try to get a more thorough explanation as to why the
price of vehicle registration increased.”

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16,1996

What you are going to do with
the rest of your life, loser?
Visit the Internship Fair on

Wednesday, 12-3 in Chambers Gallery

The Duchess Nail, Hair &
-Tanning Salon
Full service salon for women & men

892-7030

"Best Prices in Town"

Nails

manicures * pedicures in European spa pedicure chair
acrylic * gels * tips: * fiberglass

Tanning
"Hottest Bulbs in Town"
$4.00 per session * $33.00 for 10 sessions
$43.00 for 15 sessions * $50.00 for 20 sessions

Treat yourself...you deserve it
Ask for Connie, Michelle, or Susan

-RedKen Hair Products & more...
0
ax Se, Located 1/2 mile
Ex Go south of
Davidson College Campus

PSs 20700 N. Main St.

In focus ... NEW PROFESSORS

Martha Montello:

Showing the real life benefits of literature

By ELIZABETH BLACKBURN

Staff Writer

“The best thing about
Davidson is the opportunity to get
to know the students outside as
well as inside the classroom. I find
that the students are very bright,
sharp in discussion and really a lot
of fun!” said Martha Montello of
her first few weeks at Davidson.

Martha Montello is visiting
Davidson for the semester, teach-
ing classes in Narrative Ethics and
Freshman Composition.

Sheis a visiting professor from
Harvard Medical School, where
she will return in the spring.

Davidson College is not new
to Montello.

She has visited Davidson a
number of times over the past few
years as a guest lecturer and as a
result of these lectures, was invited
by Rosie Tom, Director of Medi-
cal Humanities, to teach during the
Fall semester.

Montello began her career at
Yale University, where she taught
for two years, and has spent the last
seven years at Harvard.

Her area of research is Lit-
erature and Ethics with a concen-
tration in American Literature.
When asked about the best aspect
of her career, Montello replied,
“The thrill behind teaching litera-
ture in a medical school is showing
the real life benefits literature has

towards making decisions and re-
lating with others, especially in the
way that doctors interact with pa-
tients.”

In addition to teaching two
classes, Montellois currently work-
ing on a book about Walker Percy,
the late physician-novelist. In her
few moments of spare time, she
enjoys playing tennis and loves to
read. :

Montello has two sons, one of
whom is a senior at Duke Univer-
sity. Herotherson, Paul Wulfsberg,
is a sophomore at Davidson.

“Ataresearch school, such as
Harvard, the emphasis is on scho]-
arship, whereas at Davidson, the
emphasis is on the student.”

Public safety: students asked for change
“We are very open minded,” says Thrower

By Austin RIcE-StiTT
Staff Writer

Although some students claim
that changed parking regulations
are to blame in an. apparent out-
break of towings and ticketings on
campus, the Davidson College
Public Safety department says that
the new set of rules were made this
summer in response to student
concerns and suggestions.

Until recently, students
whose cars were towed for illegal
parking also received a parking
ticket and fine. Now, due to stu-
dent objection, tickets are no longer
issued when a car is towed.

“We’re very open-minded and
have made lots of changes based
on student information,” says Ray
Thrower, Director of Public Safety
and Police on campus, who adds
that most of this year’s changes do
benefit students. In the past, stu-
dents have been allowed to park in
specific faculty and employee
spaces in certain lots.
' This year, students can park
in any faculty or employee spot in
any lot from 6:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
each day and all weekend. The
only exception is the laundry lot
because the laundry remains open
on Saturday. “We try to make
changes the students have asked
for,’ says Thrower. “But,” he
warns, “after five, we will tow
your vehicle.”

Towings on the Davidson
Campus today are much less fre-
quent than they were several years
ago. In the past students were
towed for a variety of infractions
but the price of a ticket was only
$10. Years ago, during one of his
monthly meetings with the Stu-
dent Government Association
(SGA) Security Committee,
Thrower agreed to decrease the
towings, but said he would have to
raise the ticket prices to their cur-
rent level. Meetings between
Thrower and the SGA still take
place each month.

Roughly ten student parking
spots have been removed. Seven
of these, just north of Johnston
Gym, were eliminated to provide

ml

You asked for it: Officer Laney gives a parking ticket

Ben DeLisa

handicapped accessibility accord-
ing to regulations of the American

‘Disability Acts. A few spots were
‘also removed in the lot west of

Belk to enable fire equipment to
reach the building. “We had to
meed Federal and State Regula-
tions,” says Thrower.

The last majorchange involves
the addition of a few visitor spots
on the lower half the campus, and
the addition of the fire lane around
Patterson Court.

The added visitor spots re-
sulted from requests and visitor
complaints.

The fire lane has always ex-
isted, but is now clearly marked.
No other major changes have been
made,

The Campus Police Depart-

ment urges everyone to read the
Parking and Traffic Regulations
brochure that is issued upon regis- ©
tering vehicles.

“We don’t enjoy writing tick-
ets. And we don’t enjoy towing
cars,” says Thrower. “If everyone
would just read the handbook,
they’d be okay.”

Better Than
Babysitting

Responsible mature student
needed to house/dog sit for
three Golden Retrievers.
House on Lake Norman off
of Brawley School Rd. Call
664-6007 after 6:00 or leave
message with name, number,

and best time to call.

