6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in ) Washington

The vacation in review:
Government shutdown

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

During Christmas vacation,
news from the nation’s capital is
often forgotten amid religious ob-
servances, New Year’s celebra-

tions, and the break from daily °

routine. However, there were a
number of key developments on
the national scene since the end of
first semester exams:

1. President Clinton and con-
gressional Republicans failed to
reach a budget agreement. Both
sides have not made any new pro-
posals and remain mired in dis-
agreement over specific dollar
amounts to cut from budget items.
It is increasingly likely that no
budget will be adopted and that
programs will be subject to interim
funding until after the November
elections;

2. U.S. soldiers proceeded on
their peacekeeping mission to
Bosnia. 20,000 troops are moving
into the region. Also, Bosnian,
Croat, and Serb forces beat with-
drawal deadlines specified in the
Dayton peace agreement;

3. Sen. William Cohen (R-
ME), a moderate Republican, be-
came the thirteenth senator who
has announced that he will not
seek another term, citing dissatis-
faction with the budget process;

4. On January 9th and 10th,
the Dow Jones Industrial Average
lost nearly 165 points. The col-
lapse of federal budget negotia-
tions and unexpectedly low earn-
ings and overvaluation in some
technology stocks contributed to
the decline;

5. The blizzard of 1996 struck
the eastern United States from Ala-
bama to Maine in early January.
Washington received 17 inches of
snow, closing government opera-
tions for four days. Faced with 27
inches of snow, New York City’s
public schools closed for the first
time since 1978;

6. Republican presidential
candidate and millionaire publisher
Steve Forbes has polled a strong
second to front-runner Sen. Bob
Dole (R-KS), in part because of his
heavy spending on radio and tele-
vision advertising.

Interest in Hillary Rodham
Clinton’s role in two separate inci-
dents under investigation height-
ened substantially last week. In
testimony before the House Gov-
ernment Reform and Oversight
Committee on Wednesday, former
White House administrator David
Watkins seemed to contradict Mrs.
Clinton’s denials of substantial
involvement in the firing of the
White House travel-office staff.
Watkins fired the staffin May 1993
because of unproved allegations
of poor management. Critics have
linked the firings to efforts by Mrs.
Clinton to gain control over White
House internal operations.

Watkins’ notes and a memo-
randum released by the committee
portray Mrs. Clinton as the central
figure in the decision. “We need
those people out—we need our
people in—we need the slots,”
Watkins quotes Mrs. Clinton as
telling him. Mrs. Clinton denies
that she ordered him to fire: the
employees, saying “the mere ex-
pression of concern could be, I

guess, taken to mean something
more.”

The Senate Whitewater Com-
mittee heard testimony Thursday
from Carolyn Huber, a, White
House aide who handles the
Clinton’s personal correspon-
dence. She said that last summer
she found copies of billing records
for Mrs. Clinton’s legal work for
Madison Guaranty Savings &
Loan, whose failure is at the heart
of the Whitewater inquiry. With-
out specifically recognizing the
records, she assumed they were
intended for routine filing, placed
them in a box, and removed them
from the White House living quar-
ters. She rediscovered them on
January 4 when she was cleaning

-her office. They show that Mrs.

Clinton did about sixty hours of
work on the Madison case; Mrs.
Clinton has characterized this time
as “minimal.”

Because the records were
found in a room accessible only to
the Clintons, Ms. Huber, and a few
servants, investigators speculate
whether someone in the White
House deliberately withheld the
information. Sen. Alfonse
D’ Amato(R-NY) said that it would
“not be unreasonable” to assume
that the copies were in the office of
Vince Foster, the White House
counsel who committed suicide in
July 1993. White House officials
blocked access to his office shortly
afterhis death. D’ Amatohas prom-
ised to seek an extension for the
committee’s investigation.
Sources include: January’17 of
The New York Times and
January 18 and 19 of The Wall
Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

Chechnya is back:
Russia’s thorn

Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

A year ago, Chechnya was on
the front page of every paper in the
U.S. Suddenly, after Grozny fell,
the news coverage stopped and it
seemed as if the fighting was over.
Dudayev’s statement that the fight-
ing would continue in the form of
guerilla attacks was the only indi-
cation the average American had
that the conflict was still alive in
Chechnya.

Tolstoy wrote that “Chechnya
is a thorn in Russia’s side.” Last
week Russia rolled back over on
that thorn when around 250
Chechen terrorists invaded the
town of Kizlyar and seized 2,000
hostages. Kizlyar is in the Russian
Republic of Dagestan which board-
ers Chechnya.

The terrorist’s initial demand
was that Russia pull its troops out
of Chechnya. After a short stand-

off, the Chechen terrorists settled
for a dozen buses and safe conduct
back to the Chechen boarder. Rus-
sia agreed and it appeared as if a
major disaster had been averted.

However, as the convoy en-
tered Pervomayskaya (only a few
kilometers from the boarder), three
Russian gun-ships opened fire on
the convoy. At the same time,
Russian troops destroyed the bridge
the convoy was planning to use to
cross the border. The terrorists
(with their hostages) quickly spread
out into Pervomayskaya and took
more hostages. Another stand-off
began with Russia swearing the
terrorists would not be let back
into Chechnya.

- Inresponse to the stand-off in
Pervomayskaya, a second band of
terrorists hijacked a ferry travel-
ling from Russia to Istanbul and
threatened to blow it up if their
comrades in Pervomayskaya were
not allowed to return to Chechnya.

The conclusion of the conflict
was mixed with both triumph and
tragedy. In the end, the hijackers
turned themselves and their hos-
tages over to the Turkish authori-
ties without any loss of life.

. However, the conclusion of
the Pervomayskaya conflict was
much bloodier. Russia decided
that there was no way to save the
hostages and simply wiped out the
town (hostages and terrorists alike)
from Mi-24 helicopters and with
GRAD multiple rocket launchers
which fire 40 nine-foot long rock-
ets.

On January 19, Yeltzin de-
clared the conflict over. When
asked whether Russia expected to
find any survivors’ in
Pervomayskaya (hostage or ter-

rorist) the answer was a somber,

“No.”

Sources Include: The Econo-
mist January 13, 1995, Charlotte
Observer 18th&19th

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Perspective

NOTES

Job Market Improves For College Grads

New college graduates should have better odds than their
predecessors at landing jobs, according to a recruiting survey by
Michigan State University’s Collegiate Employment Research
Institute.

This survey of 527 employers showed a 4.7 percent increase in
the number of college grads destined to be hired, the third such
increase in a row after a four-year decline.

Not suprisingly, the most marketable degree choices men-
tioned were computer science, engineering, science, business and
healthcare.

However, survey author Dr. Patrick Sheetz warns that students
should not view his survey as a mandate to major in computer
science.

“Too many people decide on their occupation based on supply
and demand. You should get into an occupation that you dearly
love,” he said. “You will do better in it.”

Aslthough more employers plan to hire new college graduates,
on average they will not be paying them more. Starting salaries are
estimated to increase only slightly— about half a percent. Chemi-
cal engineers out of the gate will make the most cash, averaging
$41,182.

‘A tip for job hunters: get an internship and head south.

According to the survey, about 48 percent of new hires had
career-related experience, and job hunters with internship experi-
ence have even a greater chance at bagging ajob. Geographically,
the Southeastern United States will be especially fertile ground for

job hunters, followed by the North Central, South Central, South-
west, Northeast and Northwestern U.S.

Many college career placement offices also report that more
corporations are doing on-campus recruiting. Colorado College
Career Center Director Richard Roberts said there is sometimes a
shortage of students who want to see recruiters, a turn-around from
a few years ago. But even as coporate America sends more re-
cruiters to campuses, many graduates are steering toward careers in
smaller companies and non-for-profit areas, said Roberts.

“A lot of students are pessimistic about their chances in the
corporate setting, even though there is a general upturn in the job
market,” he said.

Before any art history majors resolve to become chemical
engineers, move to Atlanta and rake in the big bucks, Sheetz advises
students to use the survey as a guide only.

“Don’t push students into fields because of pay and demand,
but students should be aware of what’s going on in the market-
place,” he said.

Flu Lingers After Epidemic

Forget the socks and the underwear. This holiday season's
number one most unwanted gift is the one that keeps on giving--
influenza.

The Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta said that by mid-
December influenza type A virus--more commonly known as "the
flu"--had reached epidemic proportions in the nation. Twenty-nine
states reported regional or widespread influenza-like illness in mid-
December and the virus' strength remained constant as of the first
week in January,

Nancy Arden, the CDC's cheif of influenza epidemiology, said
‘states in all areas of the nation have been hit hard by the flu and there
is no way to tell when Americans will see relief from the virus,
which is characterized by fever, headache, body aches and throat
soreness.

Dr. Marv Gardner of the student health center at Northwestern
University said students came pouring into the office as soon as they
came back from break on Jan. 3.

Gardner said he noticed a considerable rise in flu cases ever
since students returned back to the university from Thanksgiving
break. :

But things could be worse, said Gardner, who added that the flu
epidemic has not yet led to "standing room only" in the waiting
room.

Doctors say that the flu season seems to have had an early peak
this year, starting sometime’in mid-December.

-College Press Service

