THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Palatible Pleasures
Discover your womanhood.

Bake a cake.

By JEFFERY CROAMARTIE |
Chef-in-Residence

“Cooking can, and should, be
acreative joy—and once you learn
to cook really well, not only will
you get a great deal of personal
satisfaction out of it, but you will
also contribute to the happiness of
your family. Undoubtedly, you
will shed some tears of frustration
along the way; butonce you achieve
your first perfect cake and serve
your first perfect dinner party, you
will be anew woman ready to meet
any new recipe” (McCall 4).

Becoming a woman used to
be acomplicated ordeal — fat shots
of beta-17-estradiol and removal
of external genitals. The McCall
method only takes a perfect cake,
a perfect dinner party, and a few
tears along the way. What a deal!
I bet the McCall sex change would
really open up Davidson’s male
minds so that we could all be more
empathic toward these angry,
skinny, delusional, people who
have a mission to passionately en-
lighten readers every week in the
Opinions section. Oh, who am I
kidding, we all know that would
take much more than a sex change.
Let them eat Cake.

So, let us start our journey to
become a new women with the
cake. A good homemade cake can
be very versatile. It could be a
birthday present, breakfast, mid-
night feast, or even (in heated mo-
ments) a projectile.

If you have never baked some-
one acake before, you should defi-
nitely try it sometime; reactions
are usually extremely positive.

What better way to show concern
and support for your friends than
baking them a cake? The art of
building and maintaining strong
friendships is the most important
part of your lifelong education.
Granted, it does not factor into
grades, but that is just one more

-reason why grades reflect little of

true education.

Jeff in a dress.

Our days are numbered, so
cherish, support, love, and roll in
the mud with your friends. Share
the joys and pains together; eat
some cake.

Boxed cake mixes are really
all right, but I’m serious about
wearing a size seven dress, so we
will go from scratch. Remember
that senior apartment ovens are a
pain to work with, so get to know
your oven’s issues and maybe it
won’t scar you for life.

Enough Trash Talk: Fudgy
Chocolate Layered Cake

If you have a real oven (off
campus) preheat your oven to 350
F (275-300 F if in Martin apart-
ments). Grease two 9 inch cake

pans and dust them with flour or
use wax paper.

Mix 1 3/4 cups of all purpose
flour, one cup less one tablespoon
unsweetened cocoa powder, 1 3/4

teaspoon baking soda, and 1/8 tea- -

spoon of salt.

In another bowl, beat 1 and a
half sticks (3/4 cup) butter (soft-
ened), 2/3 cup granulated sugar,
and 2/3 cup firmly packed brown

sugar. Beat this mix until light and

fluffy. Then add two eggs (one at

a time) and 2 teaspoons of vanilla

extract, then beat some more.
Next slowly add the flour mix

_and 1 1/2 cups of buttermilk to the

butter, sugar, egg mix. Beat until
butter is blended in, and then di-
vide equally into the two cake pans.

Watch them carefully in Mar-
tin ovens (otherwise 25-30 mins.
in a real oven,) 15-20 minutes
Martin time. Use the toothpick
down the center of the cake test to
see if they are ready. If the tooth-
pick comes out clean, they are done.

Let the cakes cool on wire
racks for about 30 min. while you
make the frosting.

Take 2 sticks of butter (1 cups),
2 cups of confectioners sugar, and
3 squares ( 1 oz per square) of
unsweetened chocolate (melted),
and two teaspoons of vanilla ex-
tract. Beat until it looks like frost-
ing. Take another square of choco-
late and shave off a bunch of little
slivers. When you are done icing
the cake and frosting has cooled
down, sprinkle the shaving on top
of you cake along with a pinch of
confectioner’s sugar.

Enjoy. Any questions? Please,

no more threats. Jeff-x6827.

HOROSCOPE
ee

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)- This week retrace the journey of
Natty Gann. If you don’t remember her, then take any incredible
journey. Lucky animal: dog with a good sense of smell.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Watch Tron again. And
again. Apply grids to your everyday life. Do not let the Tron-
visionaries make you nervous, theirs are not mathematical grids.
Lucky System: Cartesian coordinate.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Build a rickshaw. Drive/Run
it around campus. Compete with the cushmans and zippies.
Rickshaws corner like they’ re on rails. Lucky Struggle: From the
senior apartments to Chambers. Lucky Mythical Person: Sisyphus.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Eat a lot this week. Mexican
food is volatile, but the after-dinner flan helps your kingdom
remain peaceable. Lucky Food: Fajita Dentata.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— You will be terrorized by a large
flying monkey. WATCH OUT. It might get caught in your hair.
Lucky Shampoo: RID™, baby.

Aries (March 21-April 20)—- Collect gourds. Arrange them in a
pyramid form. Alas, they won’t stay—they’re gourds and there
fore rounded at one or both ends. Lucky instruments: hollowed-
out gourds. Lucky Name: Gordon.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)- This week you will most certainly need
energy supplements. Ginsana ™ is trendy butKwai ™ works
better. Lucky Substance: oh, you pick.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)- You, born under the sign of the twins,
double your pleasure. Listen to ABBA and Cyndi Lauper. Then
watch the ABBA movie, it is damn good. Lucky you.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You are a bastion of class and decorum in
this crazy disjointed world. Love yourself. Love others. For they
love you.

Leo (July 23-August 22) Strategic studies float your boat. Begin with
Battleship™ (as in, “you sunk my”) and graduate to war games
of a more serious nature like Risk™, Also, Connect Four™
parties. Try to go diagonal.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— The chaste and pure Virgo be
comes a hottentot Venus this week. It is a false transformation.
Lucky person: Hottentot Venus. Get Lucky Place: witha Hottentot
Venus.

Libra (September 23-October 22)— Hunt for non-traditional objects
in unconventional ways with unsuspecting people. If you are in
costume, this will aid you in your journey. Lucky Place: Book
store—who knew?

By Dorcas AND A PILLAR OF SALT
Consulting Astrologists Astrologists

Gnome culture:

area restaurants
from page 10

dent) start at $5.95. My large meal
(pizza, part of the appetizers, part of
the desserts, wine) totaled around $15.
Prices could be lower if they want to
attract a more regular student crowd,
but the food was worth every cent.

At Jasper’s, however, few op-
tions exist, and those that do are over-
priced. Steak lovers have a variety of
options (beginning at $13.95), but
those looking for other options (a run-
ning theme here) will be dissapointed.
Only two pastas.grace the “favorites”
section of menu, beginning at $10.95.
Both were dissapointingly flavorless
and the Spinach Fettucine Alfredo left

’ pools of oil on a friend’s plate.

Another friend who ordered the
fillet mignon for $14.95 (with
Hollandaise and Bacon, $17.95) was
epecially put out by the fact that a
salad was not included with the meal.
We decided to share a salad in order to
rectify the problem, and we were
pleased to see that the waitress cracked
the eggs for the Caesar right there at
the table. As she tossed the salad, he
leaned over to me and said, “We’ Il see
how this measures up to Wendy’s
Caesar side.” He was joking. Eight
dollars later ($4.00 each), we both
agreed that we preferred the fast food
version (try it, it’s only 99 cents). The »
salad was good, but it just wasn’t
worth the money we paid for it.

In addition to the salad that cost

as much as the gas one would pay for
three trips to Charlotte and back I
ordered the French Onion Soup ($4.95).
This was good. But with two glasses
of wine, my soup and salad totaled
$20. The lunch menu is less expen-
sive, but how often does a college
student want to spend $6 - $8 onlunch?

Maybe I’m just bitter. I admit I

loved the relaxed atmosphere of Back
Street. It just makes me sad that that in
this misdirected town of gnomes, Les
Trois ‘thousand dollars a meal and
Frankly My DearIam Way Too Young
For That Dress that the new restaurant
is catering to the same group that ev-
eryone else is catering to— high-brow
crowds. ;

Do students live here or what?
Has capitalism failed to notice the 1600
eager and willing, food eating, beer
drinking, cheap wine tasting students
sitting accross the street?
WE WOULD SPEND MONEY
ON MAIN STREET IF WE HAD
SOMEWHERE TO SPEND IT.
Essentially, Jasper’s is a restau-

rant that students will only visit out of
convenience. Fuzion is more than just
another option — the food is excellent
and the menu diverse enough that cus-
tomers can visit repeatedly and experi-
ence a different taste every time. I
highly recommend it. As for Jasper’s,
drive the extra two miles and visit
Wendy’s instead.

Cj
Musical Talent

Looking for an easy gig? Want
the chance to try something new?
Play or sing at an open mic:

Games Night
November 9, 1996
9pm-1Z2am 900 Room

CY

y Sign up at the Union Info. Desk or call shanion x6559 Deadline: Monday, Nov. 4, 1996
