THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

APRIL 29, 1996

SENIOR SEND-OFF

oast it? I’ll take it home.” -

year?)

proximity.

Recap. Lessons Learned:

- after all, “we run it like a club.”

so to opt out of our theses.

fostering shoes.

Oh, how we’ll miss ...

Mandy “Pat Benatar” Curtis & Katie Mac
Ode to Senior Spring:
making eyes at
Harris Teeter

“T’d like six plain bagels, please. Actually, just one will do. You can’t

Then to Harris Teeter and, reflected in the doors of the frozen food section,
p glimpse of the orange jumpsuit. Shielded by corn Niblets, I make eyes at the
UUnabomber. Three weeks, I think to myself. (Where is the yearbook from last

Returning home, the Martin Court fox reminds me of the key: it’s all about

I take a bite of my bagel. The chimes. I wish [had a pencil thin mustache
fo go with these marching ants. It’s like a black fly ...

1) Nolicense? Sara, remember to bring your passport to 21 year old night

2) The Might E. Dreamworld says, “This too shall pass.”
3) Accept the inevitable smooch (i.e. become masters of your own destiny
While biking on Bat Cave or streaking in Female Form). S
. 4) The rain it raineth every day (and the chimes).
5) Leave campus over Easter break. It’s magically delicious!
6) Fight taxidermy and nymphets.
7) Earth Day reminds us not only to eat hamburgers on paper plates but

8) Date functions: flank, forget, and then order the picture.
9) For maximum effect on The Date: always wear the red scarf and non-

10) Dfinger and make eyes over email.

Well, hereitis. My grand finale.
The pinnacle of my Davidsonianca-
reer. It’s been quite the wild ride: a
veritable fiesta of amateur journal-
ism. As my parting gift I think I'll
leave you, the faithful reader, with a
sliver of my infinite knowledge, an-
other lesson in life from El Jefe. Soin
the great tradition of space filling
Opinions articles, here are the top ten
things I learned in college:
10.) Professors are never wrong. Pro-
fessors here, for the most part, have
Ph.D.s. For those of you that don’t
already know, that is an abbreviation
of the Greek phrase “I am smarter
than you,” If you say something on
the border of challenging this intel-

Bill Gullan

Out of the Gull’s Nest

Bill takes a last look from his Davidson roost

There is no time nor room for a
manifesto, ala the Unabomber, nor do
Ihave the inclination to spew out some
platitudes, couched in sentimentality.
Many of you were not students here
when I wrote my column every week,
and surely many of yo who were never
readit. Advice is not my thing, either;
you can figure out how you should live
your life far better than I could. So in
lieu of a traditional Gull’s Nest or a
self-indulgent Ann Landers-style col-
umn, allow me to share a few things
I’ve noticed these four years: -

— Sometimes “celebrating diversity”
inadvertently means breaking down
unity. Our differences spice up our
education, but our similarities breed
friendships.

— There is no more imbecilic act than
taking a swing at somebofly. Why
does someone who says something, no
matter how vile or offensive, deserve a
bloody nose?

— Emotions are irrepressible and in-
dispensable. However, many a poor
decision has been made, or an argu-
ment lost because emotion reared its

head. ;

— One great thing about Davidson
professors is that they thrive on dis-
agreement, rather than become an-
noyed by it.

— People who bemoan “anti-intellec-
tualism” at Davidson do not realize
that with our small classes and empha-
sis on discussion and interpretation,
we boast more intellectualism inside
the classroom than most schools have
at all. Intellectuals need not wear
black and drink coffee; they only need
to take seriously the charge of examin-
ing oneself and the universe.

— We are not allowed to stereotype
anybody (except a Jesse Helms sup-
porter.)

— I have never seen anything like the
loyalty and affection people feel for
Davidson. It’s wonderful to be part of
this tradition.

— Police officers who are polite and
who smile receive more cooperation
than those with a chip-on-their-shoul-
der.

— This campus would be a lot safer
and more fun if the drinking age was

El Jefe’s last stand

Jeff Kent deigns to offer a few final words of wisdom

lectual supremacy you are usually coun-
tered with the hated and feared retort of
“can you show me that in the text.” Or
perhaps, for the more blunt instructors
of the math department, a simple “prove
it” usually suffices.
9.) Don’t ever invent fictional charac-
ters for newspaper articles, especially if
the de: ion of those characters is
less than flattering. Every friend re-
motely resembling that description will
undoubtedly get upset. The term “pear
shaped” is definitely out.

8.) If you are a guy, shy away from
cameras on self-selection night, espe-

’ cially if the camera man works forThe

Davidsonian. Otherwise, like my room-

and Living with peanut butter on your
nipple — or worse.

7.) The “freshmen 15” is a very real
phenomenon. If you live in Belk as a
freshmen, then you understand the
problems created by undersized mir-
rors. When I was a young buck resid-
ing on Second West, I put on about 15
pounds of what I thought was pure
muscle. When I returned home I dis-
covered to my horror when looking in
a full size mirror that all my cherished
muscle had somehow slid from my
arms and shoulders to my waistline.
Perhaps gravity is just stronger in my
hometown of Atlanta, but I doubt that.
6.) If you live in the apartments, do not,
Irepeat, do not eat any food left in your

refrigerator from the former tenants.
The shelf life of Steak’Mmms may be
impressive, but remember that there
are some natural by products in them,
and those elements tend to rot.

5.) At Davidson we don’t just go to
parties and get drunk. Instead, we
dress up in ridiculous outfits and then
get drunk. Think about it, it’s true.
4.) The lofts in the down-the-hill dorms
are very dangerous.

3.) Here are the stages of romantic
engagement: hook up, “hanging out,”
followed by “seeing each other,” fol-
lowed by a full fledged fling, then
dating, then whipped. Then you do
something cheesy like lavaliere or get
engaged. If you have a special some-

still eighteen. With over half of our
students underage, the student and fac-
ulty block party Patterson Court ought
to be has degenerated into a stupid
name-calling war replete with exag-
geration, uninformed judgment, and
suspicion all around. _

— People here sometimes take every-
thing so seriously. _ tee

— Knowing facts means very little.
The facts change every generation.
What our education really teaches us is
how to think; what one. should do in
attacking a problem. Who would you
want to hire? Someone who knows a
lot of information, or someone who
has the ability to adapt to new informa-
tion? The first is an automaton, and
his/her effectiveness is ephemeral. The
second is flexible, and his/her effec-
tiveness is permanent.

— Isn’t his/her stupid? Why can we
not prove our belief in equality by our
actions, rather than by being forced to
use awkward language which ruins the
flow of a sentence?

Thanks for reading.

one make sure you know your status.
There is great potential for argument
otherwise.

2.) Despite my greatest efforts to re-
form the meaning of “hoochie” into a
respectable term, the word just hasn’t
broken through into polite conversa-
tion. Such a shame because, as I have
said before, the word “hoochie” is just
sofunto say. It’s light, it makes people
smile, and it rolls of the tongue with
such grace and ease.

1.) Four years. Almost one hundred
thousand dollars. No job. This school
should pay me — or at least let me
stick around so I'don’t have to grow
up. Chow.

And so it ends; this dance with
Davidson that winds and twists but
never slows down. I chose Davidson
haphazardly at best. Intoxicated by.
the springtime tulips and the warm
hellos, I turned to my father after an
hour on campus and said, “This is it.”
Now, in just weeks, I will turn to him
once again and say, “so it was.”

But what was ‘it’ really, in words
and visions? We can all name the
concrete elements of our existence
here. They are different for each one
of us — choices we made on a whim
and with thought. Who we were
before Davidson and who we are now
are not descriptive things. Instead,
they are narratives, collages of hap-
penings, excerpts from personal pages
of our lives, hodge podges of
nonsequitor and sequential happen-
ings. These intricacies — these years
— begin to overlap in the end when
we summarize our beings; a summa-
tion that replicates the true learning
experiences we encountered here.

We learned to love. Whether it
was our friends, a special someone or

mate, you may end up featured in Arts

Rosie Molinary

Rosie reflections

a sports team. We learned how amaz-
ing love could be and how much it
could hurt when disappointed. We
learned to change, but not lower, our
expectations.

We learned to pick up pieces and
glue them back together, not just our

efit the most is when we did the great-
est good, for ourselves and others.
Many of us choose to listen to the
choirs of need and respond to those
problems we had the talents to assist,
thereby lightening the burdens of those
around us.

arguments, come to the table and dis-
cuss. When the episodes of our con-
flicts did not unleash themselves in
this sequence, we learned the pain and
complexities of conflict and the deli-
cacy of reversing damage.

We learned who we were becom-

own but the pieces of those
around us as well. And
when it seemed as if all
the world had darkened
with our own personal

... after an hour on campus
and said, “This is it.” Now,

ing, who we were
not. While often
painful, we finish as
much more com-
plete entities than

despair,weacknowledged , ; when we started. .
that part of suffering and © just weeks, I will turn to —_We teamed to
Heredia pekongge Becav: “an it was.” ammo ball o
AAT We Gagan AIST eo an Say, SO It was. 1 sculeiieinie
stronger and wiser. ment, we learned to

We learned to serve. Each one of
us recognized that we were not com-
plete until we responded to the world
around us. We went beyond what was
convenient for us, what was in our com-
fort zone, what was familiar and non-
threatening.

When we stopped to realize this

world, is not necessarily about what ,

makes us happiest or how we can ben-

_ Welearnedto think. In our think-
ing, we questioned. We questioned
ourselves, each other, our families, our
professors, this institution, society, and
the world. We leave this institution
now with the imprints of our thoughts.
As we developed, as we thought, we
pushed for change or dialogue or tradi-
tion. . Whatever our battle cry may
have been, we learned to develop our

open up, dive into the confessional and
free ourselves from private thoughts.
We learned to speak our love — what-
ever that love might be — without
apology, to show our passion without
remorse and to share ourselves with-
out expectations.

We learned to learn. We learned
in our classrooms, from our friends,
and our experiences. We found out

how to investigate and reach conclu-
sions, how to challenge, how to ques-
tion. We learned that the cycle of
learning is never complete; itis always
broken; the volumes are never full. So
what we must do is work throughout
our lives to fill those volumes, to fill
our volumes. This objective is not just
for our own personal betterment, but
to help those around us. _

We learned to change. The one
truth of any existence is that life is a
pathway of changes and we must adapt
to survive. We changed our haircolor,
our majors, our roommates, our friends,
our fears, our hopes, and our priorities.
We changed who we wanted to be,
what we were becoming. But even as
we changed, we trembled at the change
of others or this institution. We yearned
for some consistency, for comfort.

If we were in such aconstant state
of flux, it seemed disarming that ev-
erything else was as well. Now comes
our greatest change of all. We have
moments of our futures. I wish you
