2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

NEWS BRIEFS

Recycling summit to give direction to campus efforts

The recycling effort at Davidson has “definitely been growing” in
recent years, says Helen Robinson, Reach Out Coordinator for Recy-
cling.

For this reason, Robinson and others recognize that on-campus
recycling needs to be given a definitive direction. Reach Out’s
recycling committee is planning to hold a recycling summit in the near
future, to which members of the administration, Physical Plant,
Residence Life Office, and students will be invited.

Robinson says she hopes that the summit will result in an
“efficient recycling plan for the whole campus.”

Mathews a free man

The arresting officer in the case against sophomore John Mathews
did not show up at the trial, allowing Mathews to be set free of all
charges. Mathews had been charged with disorderly conduct anround
a bonfire. No explanation of the police officer’s absence has been
offered by the Campus Police, but a happy and relieved Mathews says
that it is a symbol of the“innocence that he has maintained throughout
the whole ordeal.”

Libertas receives SGA charter

The SGA Charters and Bylaws committee grantedLibertas an official
charter last week. A charter gives an organization permission to apply
for funds from the Activities Tax Council, apply for an office in the
College Union, and deposit funds in a college account. The Media
Board still must approve the magazine.

Wavidsonian has award winning web site

The Davidsonian was recently awarded one of the “Top 100 Web
Sites on the Planet” by 2Ask, an Internet group which evaluates
thousands of home pages each month. The Davidsonian's Homepage
will be featured as.a “Top 100” site for the month of February and
posted on the 2Ask list effective March 1, 1996.

After months of programming and working out many problems,
The Davidsonianis now accessible on the Internet. The Davidsonian’s
homepage is located at:

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/
davidsonian.html

The homepage is available to students on campus through the
Davidson College homepage using Netscape. To locate the page,
either type the http address above or choose “student life” on the
Davidson College homepage and scroll down under Student Activities
and choose The Davidsonian.

The homepage is updated weekly and offers many of the same
articles that are found in the print edition of The Davidsonian. It also
offers the opportunity to respond to articles by writing email to the
individual author of any article. Eventually pictures from each week’s
Davidsonian will also be scanned in so that they can viewed on the
computer, In addition, the page is home to information about the staff
of The Davidsonian, individual homepages of writers and editors and
past issues.

Registering almost 200 visits a month from off campus comput-
ers, The Davidsonian’s homepage is able to offer information about
Davidson College to alumni, students traveling abroad, prospective
students and other web surfers.

Recently: the address, or Uniform Resource Locator, of the
homepage was registered with Yahoo and WebCrawler, two popular
Internet browsing programs. With the addition to these services, The
Davidsonian page will be easier than ever to locate on the Internet.

Send questions or comments about The Davidsonian’s homepage to
brchase @davidson.edu.

— Compiled by Kirsten Recknagel

Habitat officially kicks off

“It’s a chance to do something real with your life.”

By KirsTEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Students, faculty, and com-
munity members gathered Satur-
day at the future site of the first
Habitat For Humanity house to be
sponsored by Davidson College.
The occasion was the site’s
Groundbreaking Ceremony, which
marked tremendous progress made
by volunteers in preparing the over-
grown lot for construction.

and Mr. and Mrs. Jetton simulta-
neously thrust their shovels into
the earth on which the Habitat
house will soon stand.

Kinnaman, who has served in
a variety of capacities on numer-
ous Habitat For Humanity projects,
says he was pleased with the num-
ber of people who turned out for
the ceremony.

“Tt was wonderful to see the
whole community and not just
Davidson students come together,”

who spent Saturday afternoon
working on the lot.

“T’d never heard of Habitat
until I heard about this project,”
adds freshman Shannon Howland,
“Tt’s achance to do something real
with your life.”

At its conclusion, students,
faculty, and community members
who had attended the
Groundbreaking Ceremony moved
down the street to the Ada Jenkins
Center for barbecue lunch on the

action, withthe words, ‘‘Let’s break
ground!” Kinnaman, Kuykendall,

We want to hear what you have
to say. Write us on email to
“Davidsonian.” If you are not
on campus, then write us at

“Davidsonian @ Davidson.edu”

The ceremony, which began lawn.
at noon and lasted approximately
15 minutes, featured a few words
from several individuals closely
involved with the house’s construc-
tion. Cooper Dean, Co-Chairman
of the Special Events Committee,
spoke, after which Laurie Greif,
Family Liaison, introduced the
Jettons, the family for whom the
house is being built.

_ Mr. and Mrs. Jetton each
spoke briefly, and were followed
by Davidson College President
John Kuykendall.

Finally, Ben Kinnaman, Con-
struction Director for the project,
initiated the ceremony’s symbolic

says Adrienne Jones, a freshman
Se

ie, ae PY gs
ee }

a

4
sh. o

Students and volunteers clear trees to
prepare for the ground-breaking.

TRUSTEE MEETINGS

As of 1995, students were to sit on trustee committees. Each of these students serves as a representative for
the student body on the individual committee that they attended Trustee Weekend.

Institutional Advancement: Will Cowan

The priorities for the Institutional Advancement Committee are fundraising and the annual fund. As of right
now, three specific priorities are to increase scholarship money, encourage the annual fund, and work on
the life sciences building project. The new campus union project is on hold as of now because the other
projects are soimportant. There was also talk of Davidson presidential candidates, and if they will approach
fundraising with the same vigor as President Kuykendall has. They hope that the annual fund will continue
to flourish like the Campaign for Davidson did in the last 10 years.

Athletic Policy: Warren Buford

Associate Director of Athletics Sterling Martin introduced new Athletic Director Jim Murphy to the
committee and reported statistics from recent games. The committee also discussed the Davidson Athletic
Fund, which will attempt to raise money for Davidson athletics after the budget was cut by $100,000 this
year. The committee also talked about the major need for a new track.

Buildings and grounds: Katherine Hash

The committee is planning building anew dorm by fall 1997, as there have been problems getting everyone
housed. Another priority is a fiber optics system that will give Davidson a “total communications network.”
The committee is also discussing how to most effectively deal with maintenence problems, because, at this
point, by the year 2015 Davidson will have about 25 million dollars in backlogged maintenence. The reason

that expenses have been sketched is that newer buildings like Baker and the VAC have higher operating
costs.

Council for Campus and Religious Life: Bill Gullan

Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano reported on international students at Davidson, while Desay
of Students Tom Shandley reported on a study done by representatives of other colleges about drinking a’

Davidson Gullan also distributed a copy of the SGA drunk driving report, the final report of the SGA Ad
Hoc Committee on drunk driving, and urged the trustees to read it.

Admission and Financial Aid: Missy Graves

Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable gave a report on the current application statistics: although
applications are down this year, she also noted that there are fewer 17 and 18 year-olds in the country. SAT
scores and class rankings remain at high levels, and African American applications have increased. The
committee is focusing on the yeild right now-— the number of people who are accepted that come to
Davidson. Usually around 47% of those accepted come, but last year 39% came, and the wait list was used
more extensively than normal. The committee is trying to decide if students are chosing other “name”
schools or schools with better financial aid. They also discussed the financial aid situation; with the recently
instituted 13.5% cap, they are trying to raise money for additional funds. They hope to earmark funds for

certain scholarships and target specific students, this way donors will see where their money is going.

*
