THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996 7

~The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

JOHN COPENHAVER JAMES BERRY CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
Asst. Arts & Living Editor Photography Editor
Associate Editor MARY TOWLES ALLISON JOSH GLAZER
TERESA WHITE
Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BEN GRIFFIN
CATHERINE ANDERSON BONNER MEAD
Assistant Sports Editor
Assistant News Editors MICHAEL KRUSE ss Circulation Manager
NARESH NAGELLA CHLOE BROOKE
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL Copy Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN Web Page Manager
Opinions Editor SUSAN RUGGIERO BRAD CHASE
KATIE McKELVIE JILL WILLIAMS ;

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Sag ty

GZ Za

Springtime In Davidson

LETTERS

Back Jack

To the Editors,

The Bavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Sometimes an event
happens that makes all oth-

About family —

As winter draws to a close and the sun slowly introduces itself to the green Chambers
lawn, we continue with our Davidson routine. Weary freshmen, bored sophomores,
stressed juniors and nostalgic seniors are preoccupied with the year’s imminent close,
churning out papers and thinking towards frolics, formals, and summer freedom.

However, just a few blocks away, a family very close to the Davidson community is
dealing with a tragic illness and emotional nightmares that they never thought they would
have face. ;

Little Jack Roberts may be too young to know what is happening to his body or why
he must travel to Charlotte several times a week. :

He probably doesn’t know, either, that several people in his Davidson family met last
week to mobilize a full-force effort to help him and his family.

Everyone at Davidson is busy. However, these people have put him and his family
first — rightfully and thankfully so.

Let’s join them and try to forget our spring crunch for a little while. Offer to babysit.
Buy Jack a gift. Give blood in his name. Have your marrow typed for others like him.

At Decision Davidson this weekend, prospectives from all parts of the world asked
students and faculty why they should make Davidson home for the next four years. The
common thread in the wide range of answers that they gave was, “Davidson is afamily,
we care about each other, we have aninvestment in the community.”

So, let’s hold‘true to that, and give what we can to one of our kindred.

He needs our help, and it is the very least we can do.

About openess

For years Davidson students have enjoyed mixing and mingling on the court, and we
all want it to remain healthy.

John Rogers (see article, page 8) is correct about some things. Yes, liability is a huge
issue, and we must deal with it. Kegs will disappear, and that will solve most problems.
Debating kegs is useless — but debating our alternatives is not.

No kegs does not mean the end of the court. Such extreme acceptance of BYO, closed
parties and guest lists is what could mean the end of the court.

The CCRL recommended that we ban kegs, but that was the only significant change
that students will see (hopefully) . The Trustees will likely accept this recommendation
— they don't want to see the end of the Court either.

Rogers says: “My fraternity’s policy, doubtless similar to the others, prohibits kegs,
open parties, and slush funds, among other evils.” Open parties are evils? Has our
litigation-crazy society made any potentially liable situation an evil?

He says, “Some people have raised noteworthy concerns, including potential in-
creases in drunk driving and binge drinking. However, these concerns are not well
founded.” He cites one statistic from Duke to prove this point. At the keg forum, someone
responded to this argument with the fact that Duke not only eliminated kegs, they
eliminated hard liquor and “round the world” shot parties at the same time. This is why
the ER visits went down. All concerns about drunk driving are valid, no matter what the
situation.

Rogers is correct in asking Davidsonians to accept the inevitable, but if closed parties
are truly the inevitable, then his passivity is frightening.

Should a situation arise in which closed parties become a possibility, then Davidson
students should fight against it — not for kegs or beer, not for wild nights, not for Patterson

- Court to be the center of Davidson social life — but for the principle that any Davidson
student can go to a typical Davidson party.

That single factor shapes what we are here for — whether we visit the Court or not.

The Pavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box

219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available

upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ers seem small and pointless
in comparison. This past
week Jack McCarthy, son of
Susan Roberts and Kevin
McCarthy was diagnosed
with Acute Myeloid Leuke-
mia (AML) a type of leuke-
mia most commonly found
in adult patients. Jack and
his parents are beloved mem-
bers of the Davidson com-
munity. Every person that
has ever seen Jack’s smile is
concerned for his welfare
and wants to help during this
difficult time.

Susan and Kevin re-
cently found out from their

Cormac, is a bone marrow
match for his little brother,
opening the door for a bone
marrow transplant. This is

step in what will be a trying
time for the family.

The college has set up a
voicemail update line so the
family is not burdened with
an overwhelming amount of
calls as Jack’s status
changes. The number is 892-

san have e-mail and this is a
great way to send messages
to them to let them know
that we are all thinking of

doctors that their other son,..:

very good news and a first,

2675. Both Kevin and Su- .

them. Community mem-
bers, staff members, students
and faculty are involved in
planning stages of various
events and support mecha-
nisms to let Kevin, Susan,
Cormac and Jack know just
how much they mean to this
college and this community.
Students who want to help
can participate in a wide va-
riety of events, organized by
asupport group called Jack’s
Rabbits, made up of faculty
staff and community mem-
bers. Dean Williams has
offered his office as a cen-
tral communication center
and for further information
please call 892-2204.

_ As students, itis some-,

Jack” By Doing the Follow-
ing: :
¢Volunteer for Child Care
Assistance: Emily O’Brien
(6634); Alexis DeVane
(6617)

*Give blood “in honor” of
Jack at the DCPC Blood
Drive Saturday April 20,

9 a.m.-1 p.m. (call 892-5641

-for ‘an appointment). . Also

you can call the Charlotte
Red Cross at. 527-0313 to
give blood anytime.

ePray at the private’ medita-
tion services for Jack in
Lingle Chapel daily from
12 p.m.-1:15 p.m.

eSign up for the Bone Mar-
row Drive on April 17 at a

, table; in-.Chambers,; ori call.

times\easy: too ignore the ,' 2185. (Fheractuahdrive!will

world around us and become
absorbed in our stress, our
lives and our friends. Often
we don’t take time to reach
out to others. This family
needs our support both
physically and emotionally.

The following is a list
of activities and gestures in
the works to support Jack
and his family. Please take
time out and let this family
see how much they mean to
this community and specifi-
cally to the students of
Davidson.

You Can Help “Back

be on April 23 in the Gallery
from 8 a.m.-5 p.m.

Attend the short Service on
Friday, April 19 at 5:15 p.m.
in the Main Sanctuary of
DCPC with other members
of the DavidsonCommunity,
Jack’s priest and his family.
Bring gifts (tapes, videos,
books) to “Jack’s Box” on
front porch of 560 Pine Road.
eRun in the Davidson Day
Care Fun Run on Davidson
Town Day, May 4.

Sincerely,
Emily O’Brien ‘96
Alexis DeVane ‘96

Frolicking guidelines

To the Editors:

This year’ s.Spring Frol-
ics will be a BYO BEER
event. Below are the guide-
lines that you must follow in
order to bring beer to Spring
Frolics.

To all 21 year olds:

1. Each person is al-
lowed to bring 12 beers
maximum inside the gates
of Richardson Field during
the event.

2. You may only enter
once with beer — so if you
bring six, that is how many
you will have at the event.
No glass allowed! Cans
only!

3. You should bring
your beer in your owncooler
with your name printed on
it. We will have ice at the
field if you need it. There
will-be a few coolers that

will be available on a first
come-first serve basis.

4. Upon entrance to the
field you will take your beer
to the designated serving
area, At the area you may
receive one beer at a time
(We will provide cups. You
must use our cups). If you
would like to share your beer
with other 21 year olds, this
must be done at the serving
area. Some other notes about
the event:

1. You will be able to
come and go as you please.
However, if you leave with
your cooler, you will not be
permitted to enter again with
your beer.

2. 21 year olds will be:

identified with a wristband

- which you will receive upon

entrance to the field.
3. Your name will be

written on your wristband at
the entrance gate and only
you will be able to receive
your beer. This is intended
to keep your beer from mys-
teriously “disappearing.”
All of the rules follow
the Davidson College BYO
policy guidelines. Please
comply with the rules so that
we can all enjoy ourselves
on the 19th. If you have any
questions or concerns please
call me at 896-6185. Thank
you. DO NOT BRING
OPEN CONTAINERS TO
THE GATE! YOU WILL
NOT BE PERMITTED
TOENTER WITH OPEN
CONTAINERS!

Sincerely,
Mecie Beachem
Union Social VP
