THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

Violin prodigy takes stage

By JAMES BERRY
Music Critic

Watching Hilary Hahn play
was like watching a rock concert
out of context. Soon after taking
the stage, she was rocking back on
her heels, stepping forcefully into
each demanding phrase, and keep-
ing her attention focused on the
instrument tucked neatly under her
chin. Though her eyes rarely
strayed from the violin’s neck, she
was in constant communication
with the audience. Classical mu-
sic, for me, is rarely so exciting.

A 15 year old from Baltimore,
MD, Hilary attends the Curtis In-.
stitute of Music where she takes
classes as an undergraduate. Her
resume includes appearances with
the Baltimore Symphony, the New
York Philharmonic, the Philadel-
phia Orchestra, the Cleveland Or-
chestra, the Pittsburgh Symphony,
and a number of others. She’s also
performed outside of the U.S. in
such places as Germany and Hun-

gary. Though she appeared as a
soloist here at Davidson, she also
plays as a chamber musician with
equal skill and enthusiasm.

Among the pieces performed
were works by Leonard Bernstein,
Issac Albeniz, Henri Wieniaski,
Sergei Prokofiev, and Robert
Schumann. My favorite was
Bach’s Partita No. 2 in D Minor
for Violin Alone. After the opener
in which Hilary was accompanied
by pianist Hugh Sung, she returned
to the stage with grave confidence
and began the whirlwind of moody
harmonies without any distrac-
tions.

Each stroke of Hillary’s bow
is solid, energetic, and expressive.
She wavers between softer and
louder phrases with ease, catches
each cascading note with clarity,
and sustains them without losing
any tone.

Although concentration is a
must at this level music, she didn’t
sacrifice her performance for flaw-
less execution. Every phrase

brought expression to her face and
some form of movement to her

body. She struck alternating strings —

on time, danced gracefully around
the finger board, and held a sense
of consistence throughout the
show.

Not only is the complexity of
the music impressive but the fact
that it’s memorized as well. Some:
of the pieces were easily 15 to 20
minutes long and no music stand
graced the stage. Knowing that
their were six pieces played and
that each of them was encapsu-
lated in that 15 year old’s head is a
Staggering thought. But she
pumped each note out as if it were
obvious what came next.

Hugh Sung, the pianist, was
no less impressive. He jumped
from one end of the keyboard to
the other and changed rhythms
while weaving his part easily into
that of Hahn’s.

Hodson Hall was full last
Monday, and rightly so. Hilary
Hahn deserves an audience.

Hilary Hahn.

Book Review

Horse Whispers wins first place

By Mary Tow es ALLISON
Staff Writer

Among the gifts under the tree
this Christmas were books — a lot
of ‘em. Now, I’m not complain-
ing. [love to read, but after a week

‘of grueling exams the last thing on

my mind was reading materials
...Unless it’s Glamour, Soap Op-
era Digest, or Cosmo. The Horse
Whisperer by Nicholas Evans
looked particularly enticing,
though.

This dramatic story is about a
young girl and her horse. (No this
is not a take off on the story of
Black Beauty). Grace and her
horse, Pilgrim, went riding on a
crisp, snowy morning and when
attempting to cross an icy road, a
tractor-trailer collided with them.

I won’t tell anymore of he
story, just in case any of you indus-
trious Davidson students want to
read it, but from there it takes the

reader on a harrowing journey of
anguish, perseverance, and love.

Nicholas Evans is a British
author and is also known through-
out the US as an accomplished
screenwriter. The Horse Whisperer
tells its story as if it’s a movie.

The scenes are exciting and
jump from one character to an-
other. Evans even threw in a few
tawdry love scenes to make the
book’s Hollywoodization com-
plete. (That comment is not to
dissuade you — this is not a V.C.
Andrews/Piggly Wiggly smut
book.)

With its extremely realistic
dialogue, I felt as if I were in on the
characters’ secrets and if I hadn’t
been so taken with observing the
scenes, I could have jumped in on
many conversations, offering com-
fort to the distressed parents of
Grace or participating in the ac-
tions of the characters.

The Horse Whispererdid any-

thing but whisper.

The story spoke loudly enough
for me to hear the true emotions of
the characters, not the voice of
Nicholas Evans.

My parents and grandparents
claimed they never saw me be-
cause I was either out running
around or I had a nose in some
book.

Regardless, it didn’t take long
for me to read this one, despite its
many pages.

The story flowed so easily, I
read the whole novel in a day and
a half. Actually, I had problems
concentrating on other books I read
over the break because this one
was so incredibly fast paced and
moving.

If you actually have time to
read while you’re here, pick up
The Horse Whisperer. It'll keep
you up at night, wishing the story
would never end.

Odyssey

from page 10.

with their ability to withstand the
cold with limited external assis-
tance.” For the brave Chris Currie,
who had the good fortune to be on
duty on the hallowed night, it was
a memorable trial by fire: instead
of the usual duty involving lost
canary reports, HIS duty night in-

. volved rushing from hall to hall,
dealing with all types of unex-
pected emergencies that pop up
every so Often.

Despite all dire predictions,
however, the damage was mini-
mal. As usual, Self-Selection’s
reputation had preceded the actual
event, gearing up the full majesty

of the law to deal with it. When the .

smoke had cleared, most of
ClubWest stood exactly as itstands
on any other night. Sure, there
were the occasional signs of rubble:
ascraped backside, a slashed thigh,
a.couple of toe-in-eye incidents as
well as abundant hangovers; but

with all said and done, the damage
was far less.than feared. .

The evening was split into two
parts: the first, where freshmen
and the occasional upperclassman
were formally pledged and under-
went impressive secret rituals in
the manner of their illustrious pre-
decessors from bygone eras. These
tightly guarded ceremonies form
the bond between various fraternal
chapters across the nation and
Canada. In small packs, the fresh-
men uneasily disappeared into their
respective houses. Hours later,
they emerged — some with the
vestiges of the ceremonies on their
person (the Fijis, for example, car-
ried impressive markings on their
faces). They also happened to be
generally divested of any manner
of clothing. Amidst screams and
hoots they thundered past the
women’s eating houses, fired up
by the blistering cold. The manda-
tory rituals thus completed, many
sped back to the hall for repairs.

In steaming showers, tales of
battle were swapped, and the plans
for future engagements mapped

out. Suitably attired, the
ClubWesters then sauntered back
onto the Court to celebrate their
new status by vigorous partying.
By this time, many independents
had also seized the opportunity to
imbibe some refreshments. “The
guys who stayed might be worse
than the ones who went down [to
the Court]” noted neighboring Hall
Counselor Bo Craig. His partner,
Chris Smith, roamed the Court on
the lookout for lost residents.

In the midst of the storm, an
oasis of calm was the Union Out-
post, where many sought reprieve
from the partying. Pledge Stowe
Beam unwound by playing the pi-
ano; others stopped by for a bite to
eat. Many swept into the hall
lounge or counselors’ rooms, de-
manding the carcass of the pizza
that had been disdainfully cast aside
hours ago.

Gradually, the partiers ran out
of their energy, and the halls began
to fill up again. The men fell into
their beds, generally contented, but
also aware that another chapter in
their lives had just begun.

Postcards on the Edge

Two from Davidson tour
the wonders of Europe

By CHARLOTTE SEIGLER & NINA BLOUNT
Guest Writers

Ciao Belli! (Hello Beautifuls!) We are writing this together to
give you a two-fold perspective on the Davidson study abroad
experience in Italy.

Charlotte is Studying on the Syracuse University program in
Florence. The program (one of 67 American programs in Florence)
includes 200 American students, the majority of whom are from
small private schools, and all of the classes are in English. She chose
Florence and Syracuse for their art history, and both have far
exceeded her expectations. Art courses meet every other day at an
actual site, and famous, beautiful art is always popping up in
unexpected places around town. She lives with a family in which the
father is an ex-rock star, the mother is an actress, and they have one
16-year-old daughter. Life is full of hand-gesturing, infrequent
baths, and pasta, but the family is very kind, and things are always
interesting. Florence’s social life is dominated by tourists, dance
clubs that play Pearl Jam, and attractive men with lots of hair and few
inhibitions. The city was recently voted the second most beautiful in
the world (to San Francisco), and it is truly a wondrous place to
experience.

Nina lives in an apartment in Venice with two other American
girls. They are the only three people on her program! Venice is also
a beautiful city, full of art, architecture, and food. It is an island on
which no cars are allowed, so transportation is by foot: and boat.
Living the life of a Venetian is wonderful. The people are welcoming
(once they discover you’ re not a tourist), the city is very relaxing, and
the men are much less “sketchy” than in Florence or Rome. Classes
are mostly art history, Italian history, tasting different kinds of
cappuccino, etc. Nina is doing an independent study project on
Venetian politics but is discovering that the way things are supposed
to work in the government and the way they actually work are two
different things (typical Italian!). She has made many wonderful
Venetian friends and has thoroughly enjoyed discovering the Italian
culture. -

One of the most fun aspects of studying abroad is the opportunity
for travel. Although spontaneous road trips are a little more difficult
to pull off in Europe (train strikes, arranging meeting places, actually
finding the meeting places...), we have both managed a few. Nina has
raised some hell in Prague, Paris, Belgium, France, and, of course, all
over Italy. (She is being pursued by an Italian baron.) Charlotte
drank a lot of wine in the French countryside, got stuck on a deserted
island in Greece, and enjoyed a “Davidson reunion” with nine friends
who happened to be in London at the same time. Together, we have
been harassed on a Florentine dance floor, followed home by
Venetian high schoolers, drunk wine at 9 a.m with the ferry conduc-
tors of the prestigious Lake Como — and then driven the ferry (we
were in better shape than they were), and much more that we’ ll never
tell—unless you ask very, very late at night.

There are, however, a few Davidson things that we miss: RUSK
fingers and fries, studying at Denny’s, cops in Suzukis, and thinking
that Knox-to-Chambers is a really long walk.

