. RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Looking into
nature’s eyes

Readings awaken the animal within us

By Kristina Nevius
Guest Writer

After a stimulating Friday afternoon of semi-
nars and discussion groups, the Forgotten Lan-
guage Tour continued to work their magic as they
read from selections of their works.. Jan Deblieu,
Alison Hawthorne Deming, and Richard Nelson
captured the audience; they drew us into the world
of nature and taught us the language they have
learned. “The great blue heron, eye fired toward
shore,/where we held our breath ...” and we held
our breath waiting for Deming to conclude “‘Ref-
uge”’ so that we might taste what it means to stare
eye to eye with animal and speak without words.
The evening concluded with Nelson’s spellbind-
ing lesson on the Koyakan people and their way of
speaking the nature from which they learn.

Saturday evening, David Abrams continued
the idea of visual communication. Will we lose our
language our language if the nature around us
disappears? Abrams says yes, because it is from
nature that our language originates. When we
come eye to eye with a great blue heron, for a
momententranced, we are changed; we have learned
something that our whole body feels. And what we
haye learned is another way speaking.

Stafford spoke in the language of stories and
hypnotized us with humor and eloquence. Rodgers,
speaking through poetry, carried us into the land of
love and birth — the world in all its pulsating,
gyrating, panting wonder and awe. ““The trouba-
dours” as they call themselves, chimed, spoke, and
perhaps even tricked us into walking into visual
world of nature from which we left with changed

Glossy ibis, says the guide, setting her tripod

on pavement, training the lens for the birdwatchers
to fix the downward curved bill and spindly legs
of the wader. I can't help but itch

to get closer than this tailore birdwalk, Once

I rode to low marshland with a friend. The horses
mucking up to their knees, parting the brushy alders
where there wasn't any trail. We gave them their heads,
trusting their instincts to get to dry land.

On the far side we rested, the woods

glowing with rust and lemon, We sat. Reins dropped,
the horses leaned to fidget the leaves.

Wind thickened in the evergreens. Then the quiet cracked—

wings that loud slapped the air—brittle legs
arrowed through weeds to land not five feet away.

The great blue heron, eye fired toward shore,
where we held our breath. Even when

we began to speak, edging slightly closer,

she stayed. And something in her lack of fear,
the fix of one black iris on us—horses,

woman and man alike—kept us in our place.

FORGOTTEN LANGUAGE TOUR

Hikers explore
in rapt attention

Walk through Raptor Center brings group
in touch with hunters in feather and flesh

By Douc CutTING

Guest Writer

Saturday morning, a group of Davidson stu-
dents and professors travelled with the Forgotten
Language Tour writers to the Carolina Raptor
center and a Wetlands Refuge. The initial goal of
the trip was to see some of the natural elements that
need to be expressed, described or protected with
language and writing. I was enthralled by the
Raptor Center, a facility which houses and reha-
bilitates injured birds of prey. Our tour weaved
through a wooded trail and stopped to observe
barred. owls, red-tailed hawks, black vultures,
kestrels, and numerous other winged hunters. Our
guide emphasized the importance of the raptors in
the food chain, a fact which is often overlooked by
ignorant shooters and others in our uninformed
society. At the close of the tour, the students were
interviewed briefly for an Orion Television docu-
mentary. We expressed the appreciation for such
facilities as the Raptor Center and the need to
educate with these living examples of environmen-
tal problems and solutions.

Our trip relocated to a wetland area in a Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge near the Raptor Center.
After a brief picnic, the area was explained by a
local environmental educator, who provided nets,
waders, and binoculars and encouraged us to ex-
plore. While the professors’ young children stuck
with the elements and probed for tadpoles and
salamanders, the authors, students, and camera
crew conversed on a grassy road and discussed the
meaning of the day’s events. What followed was
an intriguing mixture of readings from the poems
and books of the various writers and student input
on environmental, economic, and life issues. We
all walked out of the woods enlightened and thor-

vocabularies and desire to be taught more.

—Alison Hawthorne Deming

courtesy of Audubon Society

‘oughly refreshed. :

Bach into fashion! BachFest 1996 celebrates 50 years

of the Bach Aria Group and a couple hundred of great organ music

By Liz Lockett

Music Critic

Davidson College, UNC Char-
lotte, Myers Park Presbyterian
Church, and The North Carolina
Arts Council sponsored Bach Fest
1996 this past week, a celebration
solely devoted to commemorating
the music and message of J.S. Bach.
The festival featured the Bach Aria
Group of New York, the only mu-
sical organization whose sole char-
ter is to promote the performance

and study Bach’s music.

Friday night, March 29th, the
Bach Aria Group along with our
own voice professor, Diane
Thorton and tenor, Jeffrey Price
performed two Bach trios and ex-
cerpts from several Bach cantatas.
The arias performed illustrate
Bach’s word painting, canonic and
contrapuntal style, and remarkable
ability to musically interpret sa-
cred and secular text.

A master class was conducted
for Davidson and UNC-C music

students. Class focused on perfor-

mance style for vocalists and in- .

strumentalists . Vocalists. Abigail
Showalter, John Patterson, David
Santschi, Jessica Bigazzi and
Vidalia Scrivano performed with
instrumentalists Mary Baxter,
Laura Scheiffer, Jennifer Miller,
Owen Collie, Emily Davis, Chris
Jives, Jane Cain, and Bill Grant.
Finally on March 31st, the
Bach Aria Group was joined by the
professional and student members
of the Bach Fest Chamber Orches-

tra; soloists John Williams, Jeffrey
Price, Diane Thorton, and Louise
Toppin; and members of 17 area
choruses, including Davidson
College’s Chamber Singers, di-
rected by Donna DiGrazia and or-
chestra members Owen Collie and
Jonathan Pieslak. This concert
featured the Brandenburg Concerto
No. 4, Cantatas No. 9 and No. 94,
and an organ prelude and postlude.
The cantatas were performed in
the style in which they would have
been performed during the time of

Bach. The chamber choir and in-
strumental ensemble were at the
front of the church with the solo-
ists. The other 300 members of the
choral ensemble sat with the con-
gregation and gave a spectacular
sound for the final chorales of the
two cantatas.

Bach Fest was an incredible
celebration joining Davidson Col-
lege with other local musicians
and the outstanding Bach Aria
Group to create an unforgettable
listening and learning experience.

South Asian panel discusses religion and

By Saab GuL
Staff Writer

On the evening of Tuesday,
April the 3rd, as a part of the ongo-
ing Gala of festivities for South
Asia week, a group of students
held a forum to discuss conten-
tious issues relating to South Asian
and South Asians growing up in
the US. Religion Professor Will-
iam Mahoney, an expert on many
of the area’s faiths and religious
traditions, served as moderator
along with junior Hiren Patel, one
of the organizers.

The discussion points included
religion, and Hindus, Buddhists,
Muslims, Christians, Jains and
even agnostics shared the vision of
their faith as they practiced and
understood it personally.

Sophomore Deepa Kamath
also spoke on how South Asia’s
long-standing tradition of religious
tolerance is manifested today in
the pacifist teachings of gurus. She
also passed around medallions and
a check list of principles espoused
by these proponents of tolerance.
Sophomore Renu Bhatt explained
the difficulties of practicing her

faith in the environment of a 20th
century American lifestyle.

‘The most lively: discussion,
however, revolved around the is-
sue of arranged marriages. Partici-
pants held a wide variety of views,
ranging fromvigorous opposition
to fervent defense. Participants
agreed, however, that the institu-
tion was greatly misunderstood in
the West.

Sophomore Damon Colbert
wondered how the marriages
worked, and asked if they were
held together by thethreat of social
ostracism in the event of a divorce.

Panelists generally did not think
that this was the case, though they
conceded that divorce would carry
a stronger stigma in South Asian
society than it does in most mod-
ern Western societies.
Sophomore Jackie Rasulo
asked about the existence and forms
of dating in South Asia today. The
reactions were mixed, ranging from
low but increasing prevalence in
some areas (India) to relatively
insignificant in others (Pakistan).
Sophomore Vijay Iyengar said
that his dating had raised a few
eyebrows from his first-generation-

marriage

immigrant family, but brought no
restrictions. Freshman Fahd Gul
clarified that unlike the West,
young people often did not see
arranged marriages as stifling.
Many actually see them as
lending a greater element of free-
dom, leaving people with more
time for pursuits other than finding
their life-mate. Junior Hiren Patel,
for instance, offered that he could
go either way, but would be very
content with an arrangedmarriage.
A small butenthusiastic group
of students attendedand generally
enjoyed the event.
