THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

FACULTY VOICE

Annie Merrill Ingram

Assistant Professor of English
Free and Easy

You know it’s important to recycle, right? You know how
precious and fragile our environment is, right? You know that paper,
glass, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, scrap metal, and other materials
can be recycled, right?

So, do the right thing, right now: RECYCLE:

In case your imagination or resourcefulness has temporarily left
the building, here are some free & easy tips for how to incorporate
recycling into your daily routine;

1. USE THE BINS. Believe me, students already think I’m wacky
enough — but when I start scrounging through the trash bins in
classrooms in Chambers for recyclables, they know things have gotten
out of hand. Don’t throw away that glass juice bottle or coke can —
recycle it!

2. RECYCLE IN YOUR ROOM OR OFFICE. Recycling bins are
conveniently located throughout campus — so there’s no good excuse
for throwing arecyclable away. Find abox or bag tocollectrecyclables
in, then periodically visit the appropriate recycling bin.

3. LOOK AT THAT PAPER PILE UP! Faculty, staff, and students.
how many flyers, memos, reminder notices, etc. do you get each day?
How many do you throw in the trash? You can recycle more than just
newspapér! Find a small box and place it next to your wastebasket for
recycling all kinds of paper (including junk mail). Bins are conve-
niently located throughout campus for recycling both white and
colored paper. ;

The Environmental Action Committee regularly combs campus
for expired flyers on colored paper, which we make into colorful 5-1/
2 by 8-1/2 notepads. Call me at 892-2487 if I can pick up your colored
recyclables.

4. PRACTICESMART PHOTOCOPYING. Use the duplex (double-
sided) option whenever possible. Make only as many copies as you
need. If you are making multiple copies of a half-page (or quarter-
page) memo or assignment, print several to a page and then cut them.

5. REUSE PAPER BEFORE YOU RECYCLEIT. (This may seem
like an advanced step for you novice recyclers, but it’s really easy.)
Use the blank side of white and colored paper to print drafts, write lists,
doodle while you’ re on the phone, take class notes, write letters home,
keep a journal, practice your origami.

6. RECYCLE CARDBOARD, TOO. You can recycle any kind of
corrugated cardboard: pizza boxes, packages from home, book boxes
and mailers from publishers. Some of these might make excellent
recycling bins for your room or office, too!

_ These are just a few of the many things you can do every day to
.| improve your recycling habits. 1’ m amazed at how many people know
the importance of recycling yet do little or nothing to recycle the
materials they use. Perhaps it’s just a matter of not having integrated
recycling into your everyday habits. But with some simple behavior
modification, you can help reduce the waste that goes to landfills, cut
back on paper production instead of cutting down trees, and save
energy and money, too.

What are you waiting for?

minors. Open communication is a

Minors necessity for achieving the best
from pane? possible outcome.
port the adoption of minors to open Sincerely,
communication lines with faculty Warren Buford,
and to discuss the benefits of mi- SGA President
nors with them. We urge faculty Clair Freeman,
members to listen to our voices SGA Vice President

and to consider the advantages of

If you don’t like it,
_ write your own.
Call Katie -2148.

Peter Hallenbeck

FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Different take on
“Proving Faith”

After reading Eric Sapp’s ar-
ticle entitled “Proving Faith” last

_ week in The Davidsonian, 1

thought it only appropriate to pro-
vide a response, since there were
several points that I found some-
what troubling. ;

The first problem I have is
with Eric’s various examples of
facts that Rob Vogelbacher sup-
posedly takes for granted, such as
the earth being round, carbon be-
ing the basic element, and stars
being huge balls of gas burning

‘millions of miles away.

He assumes that.Rob, “like
the restof us, most probably doesn’t
understand and couldn’t ‘prove’
any of the answers I assumed he
would give,”

Eric then proceeds to state that
this information has been learned
via teachers and books and has

- been accepted purely on faith.

Now, one problem I have is Eric’s
equating scientific facts- and ac-
cepting God both as matters. of
faith. ,

In my handy Webster’s Colle-

giate dictionary, I found a defini-
tion of faith as, “a firm belief in
something for which there is no
proof.” You could perform a sci-
entific experiment such as trying
to prove that the earth is round: If
you execute this experimenta thou-
sand times, it is going to have the

same result. Such experimenta-
tion leads to the notion of a law.
If one tries to prove the exist-
ence of God, he or she is inevitably
going to fail. In ascientific experi-
ment, one proceeds with the data,
analyzes these data, comes to a
conclusion, and, finally, a theory.
A theory that has been proven over
and over again is a law. Simply
because one does not understand
the data involved does not mean
that one must accept.the theory or
law on faith.
The point is that if one desired
to test out whether the earth is
round, he or she could. There is no
such process in proving God.
Herein, faith enters the equation.
Eric also points out that if Rob
had any questions about God, he
could “talk toa pastor or look in the
most popular book in the world,
where one will find dozens of first

person accounts of people who:

have ‘discovered’ God.” Well, I
imagine you could talk to mentally
deranged people who are certain
that they are having a first-hand
account in “discovering” dragons
or unicorns. Does that mean that

they exist?

My point is to show that hav-
ing faith in the existence of (a) God

is exactly that: having faith. Faith”

is a wonderful, mystical, and inex-
plicable phenomenon that guides

the lives of some, yet is devoid in
the lives of others.

Faith in God is putting one’s
complete trust and confidence in
whatever one’s conception of that
word means, whether it be a per-
sonally involved God, a Deistic
God, an energy life force common
to all things, or whatever. No one
can “prove” that God exists any
more than any one can “prove”
that one form of God exists over
another.

Finally, that “Einstein’s claim
that mass can turn into energy re-
quires just as much faith as
Matthew’s claim that Jesus healed
a blind man” simply is false.

Simply because a majority of
people cannot understand the work-
ings of this theory does not mean
that it requires faith to believe it.
Einstein’s E=MC? theory’can be
proven and indeed is not that diffi-
cult to understand with a certain
knowledge of physics. Jesus’ heal-
ing of a blind man cannot..

Whether one chooses to ac-
knowledge the veracity of that par-
able is up to one’s faith, “a firm
belief in something for which there
is no proof.” —

Faith is indeed a mysterious
phenomenon which, .as Sgren
Kierkegaard stated, “no thought
can grasp because faith begins pre-
cisely where thinking leaves off.”

Katie Whew, isn’t |

McKelvie

it hot?

Now, the issue of North/South
differences can get a bit hairy (es-
pecially for us carpetbagger-Yan-
kee-types) but at times it actually
can be quite amusing. Take the
discussion I had while being inter-
viewed for a job last Friday.

“What, Ms. McKelvie, as a
Northerner, do you see as the main
differences between the South and
the North?” Fabulous. Not only
have I already been flailing be-
yond all help in this interview but
of course then I get thrown this
whopper of a question. What to
say?

First, I tried the cocktail party
answer I’ve recycled to Southern
parents here for four years: the
weather is just so great and aren’t
the people just so nice and isn’t it
refreshing to walk down the street
and be greeted with a how are you
by a perfect stranger ... blech. It
was no use. The interviewer man,
probably with roots so deep in the

South he resented NC for its scur- ©

rilous Yankee name, shot holes
through my superficial answer with
his unrelenting, beady interviewer
eyes.

And then it came to me. It was

the highways. No, not the asphalt
itself, but the collection of bill-
boards and landmarks on the adja-

“What, Ms.
McKelvie, do
you see as the

main differences
between the
South and the
North?”

cent stretches of land.

The big Gaffney peach. The
giant illuminated red cross con-
stantly reminding the people of
Greenville that “Jesus Saves.” The
old cardboard signs advertising
boiled peanuts.

It was Pedro telling me to exit

immediately to purchase South of
the Border bumper stickers. It was
Stuckey’s blue billboards and
Jimmy Carter’s petting zoo. It was
a giant sign near the North/South
Carolina border that warned all of
us drivers that “Those who reject
Jesus are on the path to hell (whew,

isn’t it hot?)” i

The scary interviewer looked
at me like I had nine heads and zero
brains but I was on a roll. In other
parts of the country, I continued,
the stretches of road are enclosed
by endless strip malls of predict-
able chains of restaurants and
stores. Sure the South has its share
of Walmarts and Wendy’s but it
also has room for more one-of-a-
kind oddities.

And that’s the main differ-
ence between the North and the
South. And I think that’s a pretty
great thing.

He looked at me for a second.
Then, in true scary interviewer
style, he looked down at his scary
interviewer pad and scribbled
something probably along the lines
of “get this scary psycho chick out
of my office stat.” And whew, was
it hot.
