-- ©" MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996 9

~The: ~Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

uN GoE vee Arts & Living Editor Cartoonist.
ENHA SUSAN RUGGIERO GREG GARRI
MARY CLARE JALONICK  . rc
4 ics Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
ssociate Editor JILL WILLIAMS CAROL YNUM
TERESA WHITE we
¥ : Sports Editors Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL MICHAEL KRUSE ~ MEREDITH LUCIUS
Associate News Editor Photo Editor Circulation Mana
ger
RANDY HARTWELL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors Copy Editors Web Pa, ic
ge Managers
NINA BLOUNT CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART ,
KRISTEN RICHARDSON JILL WILLIAMS BRAD CHASE '
DANIEL MOTZ ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

ee Hey i. wolts Seo! 2 eee

ee FLESHMAN! ONCE...
2 GoD 6LESS EH.
I

The Babvidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Pubs and Professors

People mourned the closing of Back Street for more than the loss of convenient
draft beer. It was one of the few places left where students and professors still
gathered together as equals, outside classroom and office walls. Thirty years ago,
when the county was dry and Cornelius offered the closest oasis, they had regular -
after vespers’ gatherings at professors’ houses. The professors took a bunch of
college kids into.their homes, providing the students an opportunity to learn from
instructors and their families in an informal setting. Talkto alumni at Homecoming;
they remember these student gatherings, professors, and professor’s families, and
of course, home-cooked goodies.

Now, these close student/professor relationships are rare, and if they exist at all,
they are restricted to limited office hours. Maybe the lack of these unique
friendships stems from fear — fear of everything from lawsuits to peer pressure.
Grades also become an issue. Often professors seem monolithic in a student’s eyes,
towers of knowledge peering down with a judgmental gaze. But they were students
at ohe time, and they became professors because they have an intense love for
learning, a love that is far from lost.

We spend so much time fearing the power of professors and trying to impress
them that we forget that they are human, that they may care about more than our
academic lives, and may have more to teach than their academic fields.

Getting personal is hard, but fear (or plain laziness) should not destroy
communication and potential learning.

The passing of James Swisher provoked one student to write about her special
relationship with him, and there were probably many more who felt the same way.
Most of our educators are likely similar to Swisher — touched when students open
up to them, interested in knowing about more than our writing ability or logical
thinking skills.

Weare lucky to attend a school where student/professor relationships are a goal
that we strive toward.

Weare also lucky that the school is giving us a chance to develop them outside
of fluorescent-light professionalism. This Friday the 900 Room opens with an open
invitation to students of all ages. Hopefully many will take advantage of this
opportunity to relax and interact on campus — it is rare that we have such a chance
to really get to know each other.

To the editors:

A little over a week
ago, I went to get my car
from the Johnston Gym
parking lot, and I found
another car in the space
where mine had been. Fran-
tic, and somewhat puzzled
since I couldn’t imagine
anyone actually wanting to
steal my car, I proceeded to
the Davidson College Po-
lice Office and found the
door locked. Hoping that
someone inside could hear
me, I knocked on the door
several times. Eventually I

“campus.

resorted to pressing the RED
button on the emergency
phone, and then I
waited,...One ring....Two
LIN GS Three
rings.....finally the phone
picked up, and I heard none
other than the voice mail
system for 911. Somewhat
shocked I left a message say-
ing “My car’s missing, could
you call me back.” I did
eventually find a cop, but I
had tochase him downacross
Somehow this
whole incident didn’t
Strengthen my faith in the
D.C. Police Department.

Had something actually
been wrong, such as a nice
head wound, would I have
bled to death waiting on
the cops to call‘me back?
Exactly how often do the
cops check the mail box for
911? Why is there a voice
mail system for 911 in the
first place? Just be careful
nexttime you have anemer-
gency and try to use the
boxes across campus, and
leave a message at the beep.

Brent Gilbert, ‘99

ROTC opportunity.still open...

Whe Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian; P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of he Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The September 2nd
Davidsonian article an-
nouncing the US Army’s
decision to shut down
Davidson’s ROTC program
was certainly disheartening
news, but the Army’s deci-
sion does not finalize the
situation. The article was
accurate in reporting that
Davidson was one of 30
schools that were targeted
to be shut down, but that is
the worst case scenario.
There are a number of vi-
able options for the pro-
gram.

The most prominent
option involves the recent
bill that South Carolina
senator Strom Thurmond
has proposed. That bill dic-
tates that “‘the secretary of
the Army may not reorga-
nize or restructure ROTC
Cadet Command or termi-
nate any senior ROTC
units” dated for closure
May 20th 1996 until 180
days after the date on which

-the secretary submits a re-

port explaining his ratio-
nale for closing the speci-
fied program. The
Davidson ROTC depart-
ment has a long and distin-
guished tradition of produc-

.| ing fine military officers.

Davidson ROTC graduates
include 32 generals and nu-
merous senior officers, in-
cluding Dean Rusk. More

importantly the program has
performed exceptionally
well in recent years, receiv-
ing recognition as the most
improved program in the re-
gion in 1995. Davidson ca-
dets have posted near-per-
fect scores the last two years
at ROTC Camp All Ameri-
can, including two regimen-
tal honor graduates, an honor
given to only 13 cadets in
the country. Considering
these factors the Secretary
of the Army would have a
difficult time justifying his
decision to shut down the
program. There are also
other option forthe program.
Regardless of the Army’s
final decision, it is not likely
that ROTC will disappear
from Davidson entirely.
Lieutenant Colonel Colcord
and the other Davidson cadre
members are working on a
program that would involve:
leaving some cadre mem-
bers on campus, and having
Davidson be a satellite pro-
gram to UNCC. Under this
system Davidson cadets
would remain on campus and
receive the same high qual-
ity training as they are cur-
rently receiving. The
Davidson ROTC program
has excelled in the past and
will continue to excel in the
future.

Iwas motivated to write
this article because I feel so
strongly that the ROTC pro-
gram comprises such an in-

tegral part of our school
and offers Davidson stu-
dents a tremendous and
unequaled educational op-
portunity. Besides the fi-
nancial benefits, military
training helps develop
managerial, leadership and
organizational skills. Fur-
thermore, it has taught me
the importance of team-
work, discipline and dedi-
cation. My experiences in
ROTC have instilled con-
fidence in myself that I will
be able to apply to any field
I may pursue in the future.
I don’t think I could have
received those kinds of ben-
efits from any normal
Davidson class. Military
service serves as an excel-
lent platform to any profes-
sion, and especially offers
educational and training
benefits to students wish-
ing to pursue medical and
legalcareers. For these rea-
sons the Davidson ROTC
program must continue to
thrive.

Sophomores and
freshmen that are interested
in becoming involved in
ROTC still have the oppor-
tunity to become fully en-
rolled in the program and
apply for scholarship ben-
efits. I would encourage
anyone whois interested to
stop by the ROTC depart-
ment or call myself at
#6721. =

Matthew Eckert ’97
