6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

Week in Washington
Minimum wage increase?

By Davin SANrTScHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Congress is nearly certain to
vote on a substantial increase in
the minimum wage during this ses-
sion, which many congressional
observers are confident will pass.

Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS), the
assured Republican presidential
nominee, has blocked a vote on
raising the minimum wage in the
Senate. Using a procedural ma-
neuver earlier in the week, he pre-
vented immigration legislation
from being considered so Demo-
crats could not attach a minimum
wage increase to the bill. House
Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA),
has used the House’s strict rules to
prevent a vote on the minimum
wage.

Abandoning their leadership,
21 moderate House Republicans
introduced a bill on Wednesday to
raise the minimum wage from
$4.25 to $5.25 per hour over a 15
month period. This is ten cents
higher than the increase President
Clinton proposes. According to
Rep. John Boehner (R-OH), the
fourth-ranking House Republican,
“there appears to be an awful lot of
support” for the increase. With a
growing number of Republicans
joining President Clinton in call-
ing for an increase, Boehner does
not believe the leadership can real-
istically prevent a vote.

Democrats hope to use this
House action to press Dole to per-
mit a Senate vote. “Opposition to

.the minimum wage isclearly dwin-

dling in both the Senate and the
House. . . I don’t know why the
majority leader would climb on a
sinking ship,” said Sen. Edward
Kennedy (D-MA), the sponsor of
the increase. Dole said Friday that
he may include the minimum wage
as a bargaining chip in other legis-
lationthat Democrats oppose, such
asa $500 child tax credit. Gingrich
said Thursday that if the Senate
voted on the increase, the House
would follow.

Many Senate Republicans
believe that Democrats are forcing
a vote on the bill to embarrass
Dole’s presidential campaign.
Even Doleconceded that “youcan’t
explain” voting against an increase.
Although not eager to endorse a
higher minimum wage, Republi-
cans do not want to be seen as
obstructing such a politically sym-
bolic bill. “Be realistic, it would
carry here,” said Sen. Nancy
Kassebaum (R-KS).

The buying power of the mini-
mum wage is at its lowest level in
nearly 40 years. Itis estimated that
12.2 million people, or 11.7 per-
cent of the workforce, earn be-
tween $4.25 and $5.15 per hour.
Of this group, a quarter are teenag-
ers and half are part-time employ-
ees. As a “ripple effect” of in-

creasing the wage floor, those who
earn up to $6 per hour could see
pay increases.

Increasing the minimum wage
would probably cause job losses,
although economists disagree as to
their extent. Lawrence Lindsey, a
Federal Reserve Board governor,
claims that 400,000 jobs would be
lost eventually if the wage were
raised by 90 cents. However, a
panel of 101 economists, some of
them Nobel prize winners, have
endorsed an increase as economi-
cally beneficial. Harvard econo-
mist Lawrence Katz believes that
“the gains to low-income ‘people
outweigh the employment costs.”
Conservatives such as House Ma-
jority Leader Dick Armey (R-TX)
oppose the increase altogether be-
cause they fear it would cost too
many entry-level jobs. “I’m not
interested in increasing the num-
ber of non-working poor,” he said.

Dole is in an awkward politi-
cal position. He does not want to
anger blue-collar and low-income
workers and be portrayed as an
extremist, yet voting for an in-
crease would cost him conserva-
tive Republican support and fur-
ther his image as an unprincipled
deal-maker.

Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) be-
lieves a prolonged debate would
be politically dangerous for Re-
publicans. “The important thing
from a strategic point of view is to

Menendez brothers sentenced to life
The jury that convicted Lyle and Erik Menendez of murdering thei
parents spared them the death penalty and sentenced them to life in
prison.

Rabbi pleas for clemency on SS captain
Rome’s chief rabbi and an distinguished Italian journalist appealed for
leniency for former SS captain 82 year-old Erich Priebke, who was to
stand trial for his role in Italy’s worst wartime atrocity. The journalist!
wrote that Priebke had no choice but to follow his orders to kill 335
Italians, including 77 Jews, in the Ardeatine Caves massacre. Priebke|
was living in Argentina when discovered by an ABC News team and}
extradited to Italy.

Whitewater Panel’s life extended
Senate Republicans and Democrats reached a compromise to continue
the panel investigating the Arkansas business dealings of Bill and
Hillary Clinton into mid-June.

Egyptian gunmen massacre 18 at hotel
Gunmen with automatic rifles and pistols opened fire on Greek
tourists, killing 18 and wounding 17. Officials suspected fundamen-
talist Muslims who are into their fourth year of a violent campaign
against Egypt’s secular government.

Yeltsin restores red flag
Yeltsin signed a decree restoring the red banner, embossed with a gold|
star instead of the Communist hammer and sickle, as a national
emblem. It will be unfurled beside the Russian tricolor at patriotic
ceremonies. —from April 18 and 19 of The New York Times

get back to our issues,” he said. Sources include: April 18 and 19
David Keene, aDole advisor, putit —ofThe New York Timesand April
more bluntly. “Probably the best 19 of The Wall Street Journal.
thing to do is get the damn thing

out of the way.”

Global Perspective | i
Israel attacks Lebanon in retaliation campaign

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

As the Israeli elections ap-
proach, Israel’s affairs seem to
become more and more influenced
by people trying to alter the
election’s outcome. Before Israel
was even able to recover from the
deadly bombings by HAMAS a
few weeks ago which rocked the
elections polls and shifted the them
in favor of the right-wing Likud

-party, it has found itself in the
midst of yet another conflict, this
time with the Lebanese Hizbullah.

Many analyst speculate that
the recent Israeli attacks on Leba-
nese camps around Beruit (the first
time Israel. had attacked Beruit
since the Israeli invasion of Leba-
non in 1982), are largely moti-
vated by Shimon Peres’ attempts
to make himself appear more hard-
line and interested in Israeli secu-
rity. During the HAMAS bomb-
ings, Peres came under a great deal
of fire from Likud leaders for “giv-
ing Israel away to the Palestin-
ians” and for his lack of appropri-
ate responses to the bombings. The
Israeli people apparently agreed
with these charges, and Peres saw
what had at one point been a com-
fortable lead disappear.

Recent rockets attacks by

Hizbullah rebels (an Iranian-
backed terrorist group intent on
forcing Israel to give up its seven-
mile-wide buffer zone it initiated
after its invasion of Lebanon in
1982) have given Peres achance to
redeem himself in his people’s
eyes.

Operation “Grapes of Wrath,”

‘as the Israeli operation is referred

to, began two weeks ago on the day
after the end of Passover. Israeli
gunships fired laser-guided Hellfire
missiles into a suspected Hizbullah

command station. Hizbullah re-.

sponded by firing another 40 rock-
ets into Israel the next day. This
allowed Israel to extend the scope
of its attacks.

Israel gave warnings to the
civilian population in 60 Leba-

nese cities on thé border that they
had six hours to evacuate before
Israel would begin artillery attacks
on their towns. Only a few hours
after the warnings, over a hundred
thousand Lebanese had evacuated
and were fleeing to the North. Is-
raeli attacks began later that day.
Throughoutall of these events,
the US remained quiet. The main
reason is because this was Peres’
chance to show his power and will-
ingness to fight to the Israeli people

(something very important to his
chances for re-election). The US
strongly favors Peres and his
Labour Party over the Likud and
their promises to end the peace
process, and was willing to allow
affairs to unfold as they were.
That is, the US was willing to
stay silent until Israel hit a UN
refugee camp with artillery fire

sides to end hostilities. But as of
deadline for this article, nothing
had come of that call for peace and
both sides are still saying they will
only stop if the other makes the
first move toward peace.

lexi pe
OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap!!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES

|START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE.

last Thursday and killed over 70 info@aerotech.com
refugees. After the artillery attack, Aur -Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000
Clinton stepped ina called on both hitp://campus net/serotech

We provide individualized
application through skill and
product.

All salons are not created equal.

Ours was created with YOU_ in mind.
We carry:

Aveda
Paul Mitchell
Biolage

Nexxus
Senscience

_ 704/895-0404
Norman Crossing Shopping Center

o L| " 9

vee

