12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, ee 19, 1996

Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

Upon strolling into Davidson’s 900
Room casino last Saturday night, images of
Marlon Brando playing Sky Masterson in
the musical Guys and Dolls and singing
Luck be a Lady Tonight came to mind.
Although there were not any singing or
dancing mobsters, the 900 Room proved to
be much classier and cleaner than Nathan
Detroit’s sewer casino. Upon receiving my
stipend of 100 casino chips as I walked in the

door, I hoped that some of Sky Masterson’s ~

luck would rub off on me for the evening.

Casino night was the final event in
Davidson College’s Solidarity Week. I can
not imagine any other event that would
bring the campus together more than a gam-
bling casino. Fortunately, the chips were
free and no one actually had to spend any
money.

Among the more interesting and eccen-
tric events that took place in the casino were
a faculty lounge lizard, as well as a belly
dancer. Dr. Palmer of the psychology de-
partment tickled the ivories while singing
typical lounge tunes ina lush baritone voice.
Later on in the evening, a belly dancer
performed around the room. I learned after-
ward that it was one of the college librarians.
These two faculty members formed only
part of the faculty and student contingent.
Palmer and the belly dancing librarian re-

Cards on the table.

Cashin’ it in: Casino Night

Josh Glazer

vealed only a couple of the faculty’s hidden
talents. In fact upon being skunked at the
blackjack table, I realized that one of these
hidden talents was card sharking, or least
that is how it appeared to me after losing
many chips. For most of the evening, I
played craps under the masterful dealing of
Dr. Swallow.

Instead of losing my entire cache of
chips, as I imagined I would, I managed to
win quite a large amount. I quintupled my

original amount of chips and ended up with
500 chips.

In fact, judging by the bids at the auc-
tion following the gambling festivities, I
possessed the second largest amount of chips
in the room, only surpassed by my gambling

‘partner who had 550. By the end of the

auction, I won a stuffed animal named Ben-
jamin Bunny. My gambling partner wound
up with a free oil change as well as $15
worth of ice cream.

Sharing the Planet

Rap on Race calls for universal understanding

By Emity SMITH

Staff Writer

anger by focusing on discrepancies. However, they emphasized the
need for understanding and open-

mindedness

if such fears are to be overcome.

“Open your minds and be prepared to think,” said Marcus
Williams, setting the stage for Wednesday night’s presentation of
“Rap on Race” in the 900 Room. As part of Solidarity Week, the
twelve- episode program incorporated selections from
Alice Walker and Margaret Mead as well as an excerpt fromBoyz
in the Hood. Original dramatizations were preformed by Davidson’s
Rosie Molinary and Marcus Williams. ’

The cast explored stereotypes and issues often associated with
members of different ethnic groups through dialogue, poetry, and
rap. Director Rosie Molinary commented, “In dealing with the
issues, we find that there is no clear answer, no straight path out; thus
we are left with complexity, confusion, and hate.” The cast pre-
sented struggles in sorting out the complex feelings of fear and

Perhaps the analogy of one episode, comparing two separate
families whose roots had become intertwined, reflects a recurrent
image the cast sought to portray. They were often faced with the
dilemma of discovering their own unique “roots,” yet trying to
respect and appreciate others. The episodes revealed many of the
misconceptions that arise in day-to-day life, as well as the frustra-
tions opinions can catalyze.

Despite the small turnout, “Rap on Race” provided a medium
for communication of ideas. After the program, the audience was
invited to join the cast in discussing the presentation or any other
concerns they had.

As Amy Jones said in one of the episodes; “The plan is to share
the planet, rather than divide it.”

At the Clubs

— Music in two hours or less—

ComPILED BY WILL Foy
* This means good stuff

Monday, Feb. 19

Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Hum w/ Mer-
cury Rev

Tuesday, Feb. 20
Be Here Now (Asheville): John
McLaughlin
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Life in Gen-
eral

Wednesday, Feb. 21
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Solution A.D.
w/ The Drag
Jack Straw’s: Dixie Power Trio
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Gibb Droll*
w/ Emma Gibbs & The Ginger-
bread Men

Thursday, Feb. 22

Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Everything w/

Athenaeum* (an all-time Davidson fav)

Jack Straw’s: Other People* (Davidson’s
own Cito Giulini!),

Tremont: Hobex w/ Mary Sunshine

Jack Straw’s: Knocked Down Smilin’*
w/ The Empty’s (triangle funk w/
DC horn & guitar):

Friday, Feb. 23
Amos’s: Bus Stop
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Drivin’ n’
Cryin’*
Jack Straw’s: Hypnotic
Clambake (zydeco w/ a kick)
Tremont: Iodine w/ Stellar
Ziggy’s: Urge w/ Egypt (Egypt’s new
drummer great performer!)

Saturday, Feb. 24
Amos’s: Curiosity Shop
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Trans Am,
Joby’s Opinion, Tractor Hips
Jack Straw’s: Flyin’ Mice* (blues rock)
Milestone: Mysterion*(Davidson soph.
Matt Staton!)
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Eddie from
Ohio* w/ Craven Melon

Sunday, Feb. 25
Amos’s: Cry Uncle
Cat’s Cradle (Raleigh): Jawbreaker w/
Engine 88

CONGRATULATIONS

WALT-AM!

Good Luck From
Classical 89.9 WOALV.

>

Live a
Little!
Write
for Arts
& Living.
Call James

or Towles at
x-2148

“a

Mexico/Carribean $189 RT, Europe $169
OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap!!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES,
START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE.

AirTech, Ltd, 212/219/7000, info@serotech.com

a te/feammpas.nctfeerotech

