2 ' THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Court limits wristband use

Because of rising expenses, the Patterson Court Council (PCC)
has modified the wristband identification program for students attend-
ing parties on Patterson Court. Previously, students under the age of
21 received a different color wristband from those students over 21 at
Patterson Court parties.

The PCC altered the wristband program so that only students over
21 will be given wristbands. This reduction still complies with the
alcohol policy, and the new wristbands will be obtained from a
beverage wholesaler who sells the wristbands at a reduced price.

Steve Shames, previous president of PCC, says, “We’re using
much less expensive wristbands. The new PCC group will be making
new recommendations on the policy. A lot of things we did worked
on paper but did not necessarily work as well in practice.”

About the new policy Beth Bell, the adviser to the Patterson Court
Council, says, “Visually it still is a safe, reliable method for the
officers to be able to identify who is over-age and who is under-age,
and it still, when used in conjunction with PCC stickers, is a way to
identify who is a member of the Court.”

The new Patterson Court Council will be able to examine the
current wristband policy and determine if any additional modifica-
tions are necessary. — Amy Whitmire

his expectations are high for the

Unopposed

from page |

top positions uncontested in my
time here.” Brown attributes the
consistency of such unopposed
election races to the “growing phe-
nomenon of so many people being
gone one semester or another,” to
the reputation of the candidates
running, and to students who are
heavily committed.

. He adds that “these people
have not waltzed into office” and

new positions.

The other candidates are ex-
cited as well that their races are
already run. “I can now use the
energy I would have used cam-
paigning inmy Co-Curricular Vice
Presidency,” says Everett. I’m very
excited about being Reach Out
President,” adds Brasfield.

All contested elections are
being held today from 9 a.m. - 5
p.m. in Chambers and the Com-
mons.

throughout the semester.

Davidson Outdoors will offer whitewater rafting trips

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

Davidson Outdoors

Women’s Film Festival sparks thought

Movies bring faculty and students together to explore gender issues

By Lora Chavis
Staff Writer

Under the leadership of Letitia
Campbell, the Davidson College
Union Women’s Issues Commit-
tee seeks to stimulate thought and
discussion through the Women’s
Film Festival, beginning January
30th and ending February 8th.

Campbell hopes the festival
will present Davidson students with
some new angles on women as
well as gender in general, race, and
sexual identity. -

The 13 films that will be

shown representten different coun-

tries. They will cover topics rang-
ing from lesbian love in The In-
credibly True Story of Two Girls in
Love to a nun’s love for Christ in
the movie Therese.

The Union is presenting the
film festival, and most of the films
will appear in the 900 Room. How-
ever, many other factions have been
involved in bringing the festival to
Davidson.

Love of Learning contributed
money in order to bring the. film
Daughters of the Dust, giving in-
sightinto an African-American ex-

perience.

Many of the faculty contrib-
uted time and effort as well. Pro-
fessors will present movies and
lead discussions. :

The idea Campbell says is to
“bring together student, faculty and
staff in a non-academic environ-
ment, but an intellectual environ-
ment at the same time.” She be-
lieves that film is arelatively unex-
plored medium on the Davidson
campus and naturally leads people
to discussion. Using film as a tool
to spark thought seems like a natu-
ral choice.

FRIENDSHIP IN
THE AGE OF

AIDS

Love Auditorium
Wednesday, January 31, 1996
7:30 p.m.

DAVIDSON

Two friends. Joel Goldman And T.J. Sullivan.
Members of different fratermities at Indiana Univesity.
Both went on to work for their national fratemities and
had busy lives, never thinking that HIV or AIDS would
affect their friendship. Recently, they leamed that the
face of AIDS could be their own, or that of a best
friend. Their informative, moving, and :
humorouspresentation is helping to shape a collegiate
response to the HIV crisis nationwide. Their program
will show you how to reduce your risks of contracting
the deadly virus which causes AIDS and illustraste
how to be supportive when one of your friends,
brothers, sisters, or loved-ones become HIV positive.

TheProgram

Sponsored By:
Residence Life Office ©
Patterson Court Office

Patterson Court Council
Union Speakers Committee
Dean of Students Office
Department of Athletics

Connor House

Rusk House

