8 THE DAVIDSONIAN — ELS EWHERE
[Political Perspectives |

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

Justin
Paschal

I was very fortunate to attend
the Democratic National Conven-
tion as adelegate from New Hamp-
shire. More importantly, I was
able to attend the convention as a
student representing my peers here
at Davidson, My involvement at
the convention, as a college stu-
dent, solidified President Clinton’s
commitment to us, and the
President’s record on education
speaks for itself.

President Clinton reformed
the college student -loan system,
making college loans more afford-
able for 5.5 million students like
you and me. He created

AmeriCorps, which is allowing
45,000 young people to attend col-
lege while improving their com-
munities. Furthermore, despite
great opposition from congres-
sional leaders (i.e. Dole and
Gingrich) the President expanded
Pell Grants for over 3 million stu-
dents. Clearly, this President cares
about you and me and is not so far
removed from our generation as to
overlook our needs.

Again, the Democratic Con-
vention served as a testament to
that effect. The College Demo-
crats of America held daily forums
in which students like myself were

Vote for Bill Clinton

able to both ask and answer ques-
tions—questions that will help to
shape the policy that will directly
affect “Generation X.” In short,
the 1996 Democratic National
Convention was a great success,
not only for Bill Clinton, but for
students like you and me. This
Presidential election is something
that we cannot afford to lose.

If you are interested in shap-
ing the future of government and
protecting our future as students,
please join me at the next Davidson
College Democrats meeting, Sun-
day, September 29 — 8.p.m., 900
Room or call me at x6825.

Scott
Lafranchi

The Republican Congress and
Democratic White House recently
passed a bill which eradicated the
program of Aid’to Families with
Dependent Children. It was aheart-
less act; it was an act which turned
its back on the future of our nation;
it was a heinous crime ratified to
appease the movement of blind
budget cutting. Yes indeed, the
United States has a frighteningly
malignant beast of a deficit to deal
with. It doesn’t take a Davidson
educated economist to figure that
out; it is obvious that something
must be done. However, in order to
preserve our freedom and avoid
major internal strife it is absolutely

Priorities

essential that we set priorities.

I began to doubt the priorities
of the Clinton administration and
the Republican Congress when I
heard the news that the U.S. had
sent multi-million dollar cruise
missiles into Iraq with the added
message that more attacks were
possible. The military action was
in response to Iraq’s continued
conflict with the Kurds. But Iraqi
and Kurdish conflict is nothing
new; the two peoples have been
fighting against each other for hun-
dreds of years. No, oh draft'dodger
and great military mind Mr.
Clinton, firing cruise missiles at
anti-aircraft stations in southern

Robin Dodson

As the election approaches we need to take a firm stand on the amount
of money a candidate receives the money. The big money during
campaign time is corrupting our political system. The money inevi-
tably controls who runs for office, who wins elections, how bills are
written and ultimately how legislators vote. Congress has again failed
to reform this system, but it is time that we, as voters, try to reform the
corrupt system.

It is obvious that the 1996 elections will be the most expensive ever.
Unfortunately, candidates typically receive less than 20% of their
contributions from supporters who reside in their district — no wonder
their constituents aren't always heard. This election we should ask all
candidates to pledge to help reform this corruption before we cast our
ballots. Citizens all over the country are joining forces to force
legislators to clean up their act through a campaign called Americans
Against Political Corruption — asking candidates to commit to
passing the following reforms no later than the first 100 days of the
next Congress:

1) Make the politicians raise money from the people and the district
that they represent. No more than 25% of the money should come from
outside their district.

2) Use a constitutional amendment to limit campaign spending. This
is the only way to set mandatory limits on total spending and use of
personal wealth.

3) Limit campaign contributions toa level ordinary citizens can afford
— $100.

4) Give voters better information through providing candidates free
TV and radio time. ‘

5).Give voters more choices on election day by establishing a national
initiative petition process and eliminating barriers to third party
candidates on the ballot.

It is important that you endorse this wherever you vote and especially

for those candidates that you choose in November. All of these
| reforms could ensure that Congress is truly representing those it
should: the people.

Iraq is not going to resolve their
ancient battle. In fact, the Clinton
administration only added fuel to
the fire. Not only did they fire the
missiles but then they foolishly
followed that by sending several
top-of-the-line American fighter
planes to Kuwait. Consequently,
Iraq stated that it feels threatened
because their anti-aircraft capabil-
ity has been greatly reduced in the
region of the Kuwait-Iraq border,
and on top of it all Kuwait now has
extremely dangerous warplanes
under their command. The nefari-
ous comedy continued when Ku-
wait assumed that Iraq feeling
threatened would lead to military
action. Then the U.S., the world’s
police force who refuses to pro-
vide for even their own children,
stepped in and said that they were
ready to deploy several thousand
troops to Kuwait in order to ease
their concerns.

The most disheartening thing
of the entire situation was when
Kuwait, the very country that the
U.S. freed from Iraqi rule in the
Persian Gulf War, stated thatit was
“annoyed” with the U.S. because
our government assumed that Ku-
wait would want further assistance.
Nevertheless, the Kuwaiti govern-
mentultimately approved the troop
deployment and Washington im-
mediately shipped out our military
personnel.

So I ask, is it more important
to help a country who is blatantly
ungrateful to our tax dollars and
loss of life, than to ensure the young
ones of our nation food on their
table and shoes on their feet? It is
obvious that the Republican Con-
gress and Democratic White House
support that priority. So as you sit
there today reading your newspa-
per, I encourage you to consider
your responsibilities as an Ameri-
can citizen. No, getting an advanced
degree and making ahundred grand
ayear is not one of those responsi-
bilities. '

On the contrary, shaping th
priorities ofa nation in distress and
maintaining your pro-active role
in a government of the people and
for the people are your
respsonsibilities.

C hye

¥

Beyond Day

International ...

North Korean submarine infiltrates South Korea’s shore

An offshore craft sighted by a taxi driver in South Korea last Monday
morning turned out to be a North Korean submarine carrying 12 North
Korean infiltrators. The submarine was captured by South Korean troops on
Tuedsay morning. Only one of the crew’s members was found alive; the
others chose to die rather than face capture by the South Koreans.

Mexican journalist and critic of government abducted

A Mexican journalist who covers issues of social protest in Mexico and
is often critical of the Mexican government was abducted last Monday.
Colleagues of Razhy Gonzalez demanded the government take responsibility
for his safe return. Gonzalez was approached by two masked men while
walking with a friend last week. The abductors forced Gonzalez into a car at
gunpoint.

Italian police raid political party headquarters

Italian police officers in Milan burst into the headquarters of the Norther
League, Italy’s separatist party. Umberto Bossi, leader of the Norther
League, was involved in a scuffle with police as they forced their way into the
offices. Police had a warrant authorizing them to search for evidence of anti-
constitutional activities by the Northern League.

National ...

Ross Perot enraged at exclusion from debates

Ross Perot, presidential hopeful and leader of the Reform Party, threat-
ened to obtain a restraining order against the Democrats and Republicans
until they allow him to join the presidential debates. Perot was not invited to
participate.

Abortion-inducing drug nears FDA approval

RU-486, an abortion-inducing drug long available overseas, has finally
gained the FDA’s conditional approval. Sponsors of RU-486 hope that the
drug will be available on US markets by the middle of next year.

Local ...

Japanese visitor to Chapel Hill cleared of charges of domestic violence

Charges were dismissed last week against a Japanese man who was
arrested and charged with domestic violence last month in a Chapel Hill hotel.
Yasuhisa Tsuzki was artested when police arrived at his hotel room to find
his wife in need of emergency medical care after having been beaten by him.
YasuhisaTsuzki explained to police that beating one’s wife-is acceptable
behavior in Japan. ;

THE Crossword
ACROSS 1 f2 [> |e s «6 10 |11 [12 fx
1 Boutique
5 — of Troy 14 1s 16
10 ReRity Bar. i o
14 Bust!
15 Originated be LS ea be ve as
16 Butterine 24 25
17 Arab VIP
18 Complaint 26 27 j28 29 90 [31 {32
20 Defense Dept. 5 a Bs 36
22 Disagree at ie} iss
4 Bak
oscaumet i e
26 Not healthy. ina [a3 i 45
wa pad
29 Something 46 7
stored
33 Eisenhower or [#8 |49 150 by S253 }54
Van Dor: .
34 Make ary wet | ice gd My
36 Moray ee Fr
37 Mine entrance f
38 Barely enough re
39 Red quartz
Opal aaah
a Abela 7 Cut of meat
r u
43""Ablewas!— _ 8 Psychic’s ability: ANSWERS
Elba” br. . =
45Tumeot year 9Mostpoor [S| 3] 3] OMMAIS|V[a]AmmS
46 Complex of 10 Kind of cake or |N] 1] 8] 30% 9] 3] 8] 3] Ui G] ON] S|
vice 1 Seed ng fat ota Pema
48 Songbird in 12 No more than aces et ae
Persian poetry 13 Crude person rer a :
51 Swelied out 21 The best CODED
55 Ja: — 23 — dixit
$56 Burn 25 Dried fruit J ‘
58 Stem jomnt 3 Ficure. BH BSOO8 BOO
BiUeoty one __...2y Low point DSO  BOOBOO
Byer tea: SORIRGE Ge HOOD wor
61 —gobragh! 30 Kingdom . a : = :
62 Alleviate 31 Metrical writing }413131 31 1] ORR NM] OO] 9] Vj 1] Ni] 3]
63 Leavening 32 Senior one OOO BOO OOD
htt aa 34 Sarbesre 10} HD HAO LV) 0} GO} OF 1
‘Race 45 Kind of bran DOO DOBRO OOO
2 Heacquarters 38 Children
3 Norse god 39 Called upon 47 Arithmetic word +52 Had on
4 Arust's.creation 41 Birthright seller 48 Vile 53 Actress Adams
5 Bargain 42 Knitting stitch 49 Arm bone 54 Lairs
6 Flynn of old 44 Drink 50 Asian land 57 Actor
movies 45 Pick 51 Ali — Marvin

