2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 22, 1996

NEWS

Will your department be
offering minors next year?

MINORS

How do you feel about religion at Davidson?

In the light of all the controversy recently, students are holding an open foru
on religion in Phi hall Wednesday at 8:30 p.m.. Freshman Julie O’Conno)
Sophomre Sara Gephardt, Junior Seth Clippard, Junior Matt Rich, Sophomort
Eric Sapp, Chaplain Rob.Spach, and Junior IVCF president, Macon Stoke
will speak on a panel.

‘Presidential Search Committee takes first steps

The Presidential Search Committee, whose 19 members include sted
faculty, students, and administrators, has recently approached the Academi

Search Consultation Service, a firm based in Washington D.C., for help in th
presidential search process. The firm will be concerned with referenc¢
verifications, among other procedures, However, the Search Committee will
attend to all application reviews and candidate interviews.

Dorm Storm results compiled .

Dorm Storm, the ongoing SGA project detailing student opinions on variou
issues, is complete. Freshman Senator Jonathan Sipling, who has led the Do
Storm effort from its earliest stages, announced at Tuesday’s SGA meetin,
that all Senatorial reports had been compiled. Warren Buford, SGA Presiden|
told the Senate that the Dorm Storm final report is an interesting documen
worth looking over. “It’s 13 pages of nothing but specific and general stude
concerns,” he said.

National Service Day scheduled for Tuesday

National Youth Service Day, Tuesday April 23, is dedicated to the union of ou
campus and community. Students have the opportunity to serve in four way:
spring cleaning at the Senior Nutrition Center, cricket with kids from th
community on Chambers lawn at 4:30, working at the Habitat House, an
Bone Marrow Screening. In addition to the service component of this da’

there will be community dinner at the Ada Jenkins Center at 6 p.m. The Ad.
Jenkins Center is located across the tracks (take Depot Street, follow the ben«
to the left which runs in front of the Ada Jenkins Center). All students ar
welcome free of charge. Please come and support our effort to bring ouf
college closer to the surrounding community.

Widely recognized poet Gerald Stern to speak Tuesday

Gerald Stern, an American poet and recipient of numerous awards, includin,
a Guggenheim Fellowship, PEN Award, and multiple National Endowme
for the Arts Grants,. will read selections from his most recent poetry o
Tuesday, April 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union. The author
11 books of poetry, Stern will also present the Vereen Bell Memorial Award!
for Creative Writing to Sophomore, Junior, and Senior Class recipients:
Source: College Relations Office

Guatemalan human rights advocate and massacre survivor to speak

Forty year-old Carlos Chen, a Guatemalan Maya, and survivor of a 198:
massacre in that country, will speak on “Living Beyond the Massacres: O
Struggle For Change in Guatemala”:on Tuesday, April 23 at 7 p.m. in th
Morrison Room of the Union.

A former teacher and community leader, Chen lost a pregnant wife ani
two children in the 1982 massacre. After years in hiding, Chen has resume:
leadership as a human rights advocate. Funded by the United States, Chen i
gathering testimony from survivors of the massacres in order to create writte
historical record of their experiences. In addition, his group is involved i
exhuming mass graves of massacre victims to provide burial in cemeteries,

If only they’d worn their seat belts

North Carolina’s law enforcement officers netted more than seat belt viola
tions during their seven day “Click it or Ticket” campaign. 576 checkpoint!
across the state resulted in over 5,000 seat belt citations, as well as a wide rang
of other interesting violations, 23,928 in all. The campaign’s charges include
718 drug charges, 15 stolen vehicles, and 7 fugitives from justice.

campaign also netted 1,096 driving while impaired charges. As the aeauls a
“Click it or Ticket” prove, it pays to buckle up.

Source: Governor's Highway Safety Program

Athletic Policy: Clair Freeman

The committee discussed the smoothness of the NCAA certification process — usually it takes a
year, but for us it only took two months with few recommendations. They also presented the Self-
Study focus report, which expressed many positive things about the athletic program in addition
to a recommendation for more intramural support. The Belk arena floor renovations will be
finished by June 1, and improvements to outdoor courts have been made to compensate for the lack
of indoor courts this spring. We are among the finalists to hosts a Women's World Cup Soccer game
in the summer of 1999. We will also host the first and second Round Games of the 1997 NCAA

Men's Basketball Championship at the Charlotte Colosseum next March.

Council for Campus and Religious Life: Warren Buford

The committee talked about Davidson Outdoors and how successful it is, they will be offering a
summer program that will be longer than they have been in the past. The Careers Office presented
a senior survey that presented what the class of 1995 is doing. They listed the twelve recommen-
dations of the self study, and discussed the banning of kegs extensively. The committee voted to
ban kegs and tabled a resolution that recommended longer serving hours on the court.

TRUSTEE COMMITTEES

The department will not offer minors.
Verna Case, Biology

By and large this department is in favor of minors.

Mitch Rhea, Chemistry

‘

We are going to try and pursue it. There has been talk about a concentration also.
Ss Michael Toumazou, Classics

They are likely, but we are still in discussions.
‘Clark Ross, Economics

We probably will, but we need to meet with the teacher education committee. Many of our courses are already cross listed
with other departments, also. So, we still need to work on clarifications.
Grace Mitchell, Education

The English department has not yet formally discussed minors, but intends to do so.
Anthony S. Abbot, English

We have taken the lead in the French department! Within hours of the faculty vote, a French Minor proposal was in the
hands of the EPC. The department hopes to offer minors next fall.
Charles D. Dockery, French

* The department has discussed minors and plans to introduce a minor in German as well as Russian. Currently, no

departmental major is offered in Russian. Japanese will not boast a minor, but will be incorporated into the future East
Asian Studies Concentration.

Mark R. McCulloh, German

The department has held no formal discussions as of yet.

Malcolm O. Partin, History

Two permanent department members are on leave this year, and consequently the department feels that it’s premature to
make much more in the way of detailed plans, though we are seriously discussing [minors].
Benjamin J. Klein, Mathematics

Minors are currently being discussed within the department. We plan to propose a minor.
; Lance Stell, Philosophy

The Physics department hasn’t discussed [minors] one way or another. I don’t know when we will or if we will.

Laurence S. Cain, Physics

My feeling is we won’t offer minors. We are already short-staffed and are having difficulty servicing majors as it is.
Edward L. Palmer, Psychology

We have not yet discussed the issue of minors.
David R. Kaylor, Religion

j

Yes, we will offer minors. i
Luis H. Pena, Spanish

The department has not been able to discuss the actual structure of a Theatre minor. We do have plans to do so since this

is something the students obviously want, ... and to make every attempt to offer one, but we don’t know how or when that
could be done.

Joseph Gardner, Theater

The Davidsonian was not able to reach the anthropology, music, political science and sociology departments.

Admissions and Financial Aid: Missy Graves

The committee reviewed the statistics from the class of 2000, and reviewed the distribution of
financial aid for that class as well. They looked at how recruiting went, and discussed ~
reviewing the gap in financial aid for the last three years. They looked at fund-raising and
donating strategies.

Buildings and Grounds: Katherine Hash

The committee extensively discussed plans for the new life sciences building, which has been scaled back
so the college can afford it. There was supposed to be an atrium between the two buildings (the new one
will be built in front of the old one), and that is no longer in the plans. However, there will be some sort
of a plaza between the two like between the library and Chambers building. They are hoping to be able
to break ground in the Spring of 1997. The college is working on networking the entire campus, and
expect the project will be complete in the next three years.. The third floor of Martin Science Building
is being renovated, and should be done by the end of the summer. The committee also announced that the
golf course is being renovated, responsibility for it was transferredback to the Physical Plant from the
Athletic department. They will begin soon.

