DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

- MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 15

The finest fish
in fresh water

By JoHN RoE
Outdoors Columnist

J.A. Henshall, a pioneer of American angling, once called the
smallmouth bass “the gamest fish that swims.” And after many days
on the water, I agree. Pound for pound, no other fish provides a more
challenging and exciting fight. The smallmouth, a native of the
streams and lakes from eastern Oklahoma to southern Quebec, thrives
in some of the most beautiful countryside. Whether found in a deep
blue pool at the base of a limestone outcropping on the New River or
in a shallow riffle of a creek meandering through the wooded hills of
Kentucky, smallmouth have earned their way into the hearts of many
outdoorsmen who enjoy fishing in the solitude and peacefulness of a
rural landscape.

Finding a good smallmouth hole is half the fun. [have spent many
hours scouring maps for obscure, little known streams that follow the
contours of a valley. I have also spent much time in the field éither
hunting or backpacking, noting any stream I run across for its small-
mouth potential. One of the finest streams I have fished was found
while quail hunting on a friend’s farm. From the top of a ridge, I
spotted it’s blue-green pools and oxygen rich riffles winding through
a maze of sycamore and oak trees, and I promised myself I would
return to fish it that spring.

Upon returning, my first cast to the still water behind alog was met
by a hungry three pound smallmouth that took to the air four times and
pushed the limits on my ultralight tackle. That afternoon, a friend and
I waded a three mile section of the stream and enjoyed fishing under
some of the most spectacular limestone bluffs and oldest trees I have
ever seen. We managed to catch a few smallmouth too.

Both traditional spinning tackle and flyrod can be used to catch
smallmouth. For spinning tackle, it is tough to beat the effectiveness
of an in-line spinner or live crawdad on light line, but for the flyrod, try
poppers, terrestrials, aquatic insects (such as hellgrammites and
caddisfly nymphs) and streamers. A pesky smallmouth hooked on the
fly will test any flyfisher’s skill, and maybe even cause him or her to
realize that trout aren’t the only fish worthy of praise.

A day on a smallmouth stream can be rewarding in many ways.
Not only are smallmouth hard to catch, but they are a beautiful fish that
thrives in some of nature’s most fascinating places. Holding a
smallmouth in hand and seeing its brown, white and bronze colors will
make you want to return it to the cool water in which it lives. It is
important to practice catch and release on smallmouth streams, for
these ecosystems are fragile. Take the time to pick up trash along the
bank, for if nothing else, you will not have to look at it the next time
you visit. Give smallmouth fishing a chance, and you might agree that
the bronzeback is the finest fish in freshwater.

Casner plays tough at ITA

By Kerry BROPHY
Staff writer

Sophomore Dana Casner
made an impressive showing at the
ITA National Clay Court Qualify-
ing Rounds held Sept. 14-29 in
Baltimore, Md.

These matches attracted col-
legiate tennis players from across
the nation, each contending for a
spot amongst the top 32 players in
the country. Casner won her first
match before falling 6-4, 2-6, 6-1
in the second round.

“Tt represents an outstanding
opportunity following a very suc-

cessful freshman year,” said head.

women’s tennis coach Carolene
Price.
Price also contends that

Casner’s performance showed her

" potential to be nationally competi-

tive and looks forward to an im-
pressive coming year. Indeed,
Casner’s achievements in the ITA
National Clay Court Tournament
marked a good start to the season.

“Tt was a great experience. I
had two close matches and it was
great to play in a national tourna-
ment,” said Casner. “I saw people
from all over the nation that I had
never encountered before.”

Tournament finals were held
yesterday. Junior Jon Pastel of the
men’s team proceeded through
later rounds of competition in the
event. Information on where he
stands among the elite players in
the nation will be known later this
week.

21316 Davidson aaa 896-0089
OPEN: Mons, 10:00em-4:00pae Saturday Saturday 10:00am-4:

Flickerball Standings
through 9123/96 —

Men’s League
Division 1
Team's Name __Wins__Lossses___
BOB 2 0
Cold Beer 2 0
En Fuego 1 1
Rugmunchers 1 1
KA 0 0 1
PIKA 0 1 1
Go Deep 0 1
SAE 0 2
Results:
9-8 Cold Beer 7 SAE 0
Rugmunchers 50. Go Deep 30
KA 0 Pika 0
9-15 BOB 32  Rugmunchers 22
En Fuego 53 SAE 19
Cold Beer 6 ___Pika_0
Division 2
The Beef Curtains 3 0
The Wookies 2 0
Worst Nightmare 1 1
Ole Ole 1 v4
0 2
Results:
9-15 B.C. 19 OleOle 13
9-22 W.N. 19 Vinnie & Boyz 13
The Wookies 41 Ole Ole 12
B.C. 34 W.H. 31
Division 3
2nd Little 2 0
AA Fly Boys 1 0 1
Ist Little 1 2
BBB ~ 0 1 1

Field hockey
splits in Ohio

By Caro REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey
team returned from a three-day

’ road trip to Ohio having avenged

last year’s.loss against Ohio U.
with a 3-2 win, but they dropped
the next game to Central Michi-
gan, 5-1.

Coach Betsy Pryor was eager
to prove that last year’s 8-3 loss to
Ohio was not indicative of the.qual-
ity of the Davidson program.

Erin Smith led the way against
the Bobcats, scoring twice after
Teresa Alden’s opening goal. The
two teams swapped goals until
Smith, coming off a successful
penalty shot by Ohio, hit a cross-
ing shot for the game-winner.

Smith scored the lone Wildcat
goal against Central Michigan and
upped the team momentum after a
very slow first period, but the of-
fense could never catch up to the
halftime defecit.

After splitting games in the
Ohio trip, Davidson traveled to
Winston-Salem to play one of their
toughest games of the season
against ACC-member Wake For-
est. The Deacons, ranked ninth in
the nation, overpowed the Wild-
cats, 5-0.

“The score is not a reflection
of how we played,” said Chase
Keith. “The passing, the moving,
and the comraderie were all there.”

Goalkeeper Sara Gebhardt and
captain Mary Dowd fortified the
defense all week and tirelessly
fought the strong Wake Forest at-
tack. Some of the younger
Davidson players came off the de-
feat Wednesday with the valuable
experience of playing a top team.

They return home Tuesday to to
play Radford.

“Radford is a very big game,”
said Keith. ““We’ve never beaten
them even though we are such
equally matched teams.”

Women harriers
run best race yet

By JONATHAN HAYES

Vinnie and the Boyz 0 3 Staff Writer
Results:
: 9-15 Vinnie & Boyz 27 BBB 19 The women’s cross country
9-22 2nd Little 34 Ist Little 25 team traveled to the Greensboro
AA Fly Boys def. Ist Little Invitational this Wealcenil
Women’s League _ The Wildcats finished fourth
Division 1 overall out of thirteen teams. The
bir beriiree ae ; team was led by Suzy Burr, who
fad wes 5 finished an individual ninth out of
Basement Rich 1 2 ‘more than a hundred runners.
Ist Rich 0 2 Almost everyone improved
ori Cannon a Z their times, and the gap between
9-15 Rusk 13 BasementRicho _ the top five runners was only three
K&G. 6 Ist Rich 0 minutes over the three mile dura-
2nd Cannon6 3rd Cannon 0 tion.
9-22 K&G 7 Rusk 0 “ ’
2nd Cannon 6 Ist Rich 0 _ iyo WO Fe. Dibased Recanae the
Division 2 times are coming down, and the
The Cubby Bunnies 2 0 1. confidence is going up,” said team
The Woohas 1 0 2 captain Kelly Kiefer. “The team as
yet : ; ; a whole is coming together.”
The Wildthang _0 est So far this year, the team has
Results: been hurt by many injuries. Next
9-15 2ndRich 18 4th RichO week, the women hope to return
tah is bee huss ig y some healthy runners for their first
9-22 CB.7 Ath Rich 7 home meet on Saturday versus
The Wildthang Woohas 0 Campbell, Winthrop, Wofford, and
UNC Asheville.

Catch the
Habitat Spirit!

Who: | You!
What: Landscaping Day

When: Saturday, October 5
8 a.m.-5 p.m.

Join us for all or part of the day!
Where: Habitat House
Why: We need your help!

(and we'll give you a free lunch)

Come be part of
the project!

UTDOORS
ee ade \Lical

Shops on the Green--Cornelius, NC
892-1848

Check out our new
snowboard department.

Al

M1 norrow AIRWALK

@

CIDE
See all the new fall clothing from

patagonia & Columba

