THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996 7

Che PMabidgontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Asst. Arts & Living Edi
. 1g Editor Photography Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER MARY TOWLES ALLISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK TOSH GLAZER
; ; Sports Editor Advertising Managers
asseciare por WILL BRADSHAW BEN GRIFFIN
A WHITE BONNER MEAD
News Edi Assistant Sports Editor
lews Editor MICHAEL KRUSE i i
CATHERINE ANDERSON CHLOE BROOKE
; ; Copy Editor
Assistant News Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN Cartoonist
NARESH NAGELLA SUSAN RUGGIERO GREG GARRISON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL. JILL WILLIAMS
- ; . Web Page Manager
Opinions Editor Business Manager BRAD CHASE
KATIE McKELVIE KATHERINE HASH
Arts & Living Editor Assistant Business Manager
JAMES BERRY CAROLINE BYNUM

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Zhe Pavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http:www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian.html

Softening the blows

Last Friday, March 15th, was the first day of Women’s Month events on campus.
For the next three weeks, the campus will be stirring with different events relating to
the nature, struggle, and triumph of the woman.

Christina Hoff Sommer’s “Who stole Feminism?,” which “argues that, today, a
group of illiberal feminist activists has been promoting an agenda of male bashing,
censorship and victim politics that sets women against men,”and “Take Back the
Night,” which raises “awareness and understanding about the tragedy of rape and
dating violence through personal accounts by survivors” (Women’s Month flyer) are
just a couple of the significant events occurring on campus.

However, there is one potential problem.

The title of one of the first major events, “Why Men Hit?: A Forum on Male
Responsibility” misrepresents the theme of the whole month.

The brief reads: “One in four women will be abused by a current or former partner
at some pointin their lives. In over 95% of domestic assaults, the man is the perpetrator.
With numbers like this, we have to wonder what is being done about domestic
violence” (Women’s Month flyer). From the information presented in the brief, the
meeting appears to be about the devastating frequency of domestic violence; yet from
the title, it looks to be about men hitting men or puppies or appliances. And more to
the point, from the title, about 50% of the campus is implicated in carelessly violent
behavior. . .

-Undeniably, the presented statistics show men are 95% more frequently the
abusers in a domestic violence situations. But the mistake comes in implying thatall
men hit, the unfortunate mistake of the title, “Why Men Hit?”

If the title had been “Why Some Men Hit?” or more accurately “Why 95% of ©

Domestic Violence is Perpetrated by Men?,” then the stereotypical implication would
have been avoided. 95% doesn’t mean 100%.

Although a large percentage is startlingly significant, an objective interpretation
of the statistics is warranted. If we allow a high frequency to represent the whole,
dangerous stereotyping will result.

The unjustified grouping of one sex under a category — men under “abusive
partners” in this case — polarizes the sexes. Arbitrary finger-pointing starts, and
statements like “all men are jerks” reenforce stereotypical assumptions about men,
stymieing inter-sexual communication through fear and hatred.

In the effort to promote understanding and sensitivity towards women, the
organizers have abandoned their understanding and sensitivity towards men. Alien-
ation, of either sex, is harmful. Gender studies, gender relations, imply thatboth sexes
need careful attention. °

Both Davidson men and women alike must guard against stereotyping the other

sex. Without a high level of sensitivity and an objective viewpoint, gender conflicts

cannot be resolved successfully.

Although placing so much importance on a misappropiately titled event seems
hypersensitive, it hints a larger problem — a problem, which for the women’s
movement to be successful, must be overcome.

The Wabvidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the
students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The
Pavidgonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148
or -2149. E-mail address: Davidsonian@Davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the
third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of

upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Whe Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available |

y, ‘Bake
fe ey

. 55% Of Davidson’s Women And 85% Of Ite

Fraternity Members

Claim That There Is

No Sexual Harassment On Patterson Court

LETTERS

Court will not
be eliminated

To the editors: _

Since the Self-Study
document on the “Quality of
the Student Experience” was
made public a few weeks
ago, there have been
numberous concerns ex-
pressed about the recom-
mendations concerning
Patterson Court. More spe-
cifically, the concern of
many students is that the rec-
ommendation to ban com-
mon containers (including
kegs) is the “beginning of
the end” of Patterson Court.
Some: students believe the
administration and faculty
intend to eliminate Patterson
Court, and this is the first
step.

I hope to use this forum
to dispel these rumors. Cer-
tainly, the recommendation
to ban the use of common
containers on the Court, in
keeping with campus ‘wide
policy, will change the struc-
ture of parties. With every
national fraternity banning
such use and the double stan-
dard that we have created on
our own campus (kegs are
banned inthe residence

halls), continuing the use of
common containers puts the
members, student leaders

. and the College at an unac-

ceptable legal risk.

What will be allowed in
place of kegs is being dis-
cussed now. For many cam-
puses, a system of BYOB
has been the answer, but

‘there may be other alterna-

tives. The Patterson Court
Council is working on this
now, and, if you have ideas,
I urge you to discuss them

. with those leaders.

1 want to. assure ‘you
that students will be ‘heavily
involved in the discussion

of alternatives. It will ulti-
mately be the duty of the
Committe on Campus and
Religious Life tomake a rec-
ommendation to the
President on this matter.
While it was the intent
of the Self-Study Commit-
tee on the Undergraduate
Experience to provide rec-
ommendations that will

-make the organizations on

Patterson Court more re-
sponsible, safe, and in align-
ment with their national af-

filiations (fraternities), these
proposals were not intended
to signal the demise of the
Court. In fact, with other
recommendations that ex-
pand new member educa-
tion and provide an annual
review of each eating house
based upon community-ac-
cepted principles, it is my
sense that the strength and
contributions of each house
may increase, not decrease,
as a result.

’ Finally, as the Dean of
Students, I want to enhance,
not diminish, the range of

méanihgfulopportunities for
students outside the class-

room at Davidson.

We all know that the
Court is an important social
outlet for many of our stu-
dents. We must all work
together — students, faculty,
and administration — to in-
sure that the organizations
on the Court operate in a-
manner that is acceptable,
supported and appreciated.

Sincerely,
Tom Shandley
Dean of Students

Spach responds to flyers

To the Editors:

This week flyers ap-
peared around campus with
a hand-drawn picture of
Jesus on a cross and the
words “Follow the HIP.
Commandment: thou shalt
not BUG thy neighbor.” A
couple of them were pasted
over ads for the En Route
spirituality discussion group
which my office sponsors.
As chaplain of the college, I
found these flyers provoca-
tive because they suggest
that at least some people here
have been bothered by the
religious ethos of the col-
lege, including whatever
they percieve to be promoted

by the chaplain’s office. I
was disappointed, however,
that the flyers were unsigned,
so I had no idea to whom to
respond about these issues.

I would like them to
contact me personally be-
cause I want to address their
concerns forthrightly. If they
feel that they are being
“bugged” about religious
matters by my office, or reli-
gious groups on campus, or
the college in general, I'd
like to hear their concerns
and take steps to change the
situation. No one should
have to feel that they are
being “bugged” about reli-
gion here. It is central to the

Sign-ups for SGA committees and interviews for

serving on a Faculty Committee:
Tuesday 3/19 — Friday 3/22, College Union Lobby
Questions? Call SGA -2147.

mission of my office to try to
make Davidson a place
where people of all different
denominations and faiths —
or no religious faith at all —
can find opportunities to
explore and express their
beliefs, have fellowship with
others, and learn to appreci-
ate and respect those from
whom they are different. I
hope that whoever put up
those flyers will get in touch
with me so that we can work
together to make that mis-
sion a reality on this cam-.
pus.

Sincerely,
Rob Spach

