Fe

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 7

The BPavidsonian

ALENDA LUX ‘UBI ORTA,LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor

Executive Editors Cartoonist
JOHN COPENHAVER SUSAN RUGGIERO GREG GARRISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK
: : Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
Associate Editor JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
; Sports Editors Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
Associate News Editor Photo Editor Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors Copy Editors Web Page Managers
NINA BLOUNT CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON JILL WILLIAMS BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Keis“tan
Re- nd gel _
PRESS ONE,

ME SAGE. Foe. t <To LEAVE A MEessAge Re

Kiggtess
ye WHAT THIS 15
Awpong Nom
Teo?

Je: hin” K _Kyil:s en~ “dell, PRESS
ONE Now.>

fo LEVE A Me SSGE FoR.

Sm i -ta- “ha, , PRESS

MAN, fil 5 ir 1M THEouGy ym
Ait aon PHONE .NoBopy hRouwp
tS HELE HAS THE

The Wabidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

‘Drunk driving

At Wake Forest last Wednesday night, six sophortiie women were headed to a party. They

" climbed in the car together and began the short drive to an off campus house a few blocks from the. '

school. A few minutes later, a drunk driver veered into the wrong side of the road and killed two of
them. Two more were seriously injured.

Wake Forest now finds itself in the midst of memorial services and funerals, depressed get-
togethers and trips to the hospital. Just over an hour away Davidson students are blatantly unaware,
hopping in cars after nights of drinking all in the name of “sleeping in my own bed.”

“T had my car at a party, and I was buzzed,” says one junior. “I didn’t want to go through the
trouble of walking back to campus from the party and then picking it up the next day. Although I was
intoxicated at the time, I hold myself entirely responsible for my action.”

“It was only a few blocks,” says another. “It’s just Davidson, and there are rarely other cars
around.”

“J don’t think I would have necessarily deme a breathalyzer test, but I don’t really consider it
driving drunk,” says a senior.

Another senior tells it like it is: “I wanted to go where I wanted to go, and I wanted to go there

right then.”

Within our memory there have been no major drunk driving accidents here. We live by
rationalization and precedent, often convincing ourselves that everything will be just fine — just like
last time.

There is no way to eradicate drunk driving completely. Sadly, tragedy usually has the strongest
effect. But until more students begin take responsibility for themselves, those who throw the parties
must begin to take responsibility for them. Bars follow this policy regularly; it shouldn’t be difficult
for one of our prestigious classmates to figure out how. Notice the sobriety of who is leaving. In short,
think.

Still, a central place to drink (because people will drink) helps the situation. This last weekend
most parties were off campus, leading several people to lie about their sobriety and hop into theircars.
Many without cars also risked their safety, walking long distances in the dark to off campus houses.
If parties could be kept on campus and attract students to them, much of the problem would be
eliminated.

Hopefully more houses will have parties after first night down. As of now, those looking for a
party are driving to find them. Drunk driving happens. We cannot deny it, and we must begin to take
preventative action against it. Too many students risk their lives for a bed or a beer. Too many of us
let them. :

The Measure of Value

Fabulous. We're eleven.

Now that we have reached this prestigious number we can brag with something to back us up.
We are better than Washington and Lee, worse than Middlebury. We just have to get our numbers
up in faculty resources, but they are looking good in class size. Too bad we ranked low in the library
category, but way to go on the reputation!

This talk is silly.. Davidson is Davidson, and Davidson ‘96 is no different froin Davidson ‘95.
The rankings are important to perspectives who crunch numbers and long range planners who study
our weaknesses. These numbers, however, have beén so blown out of proportion that students
themselves compare rankings with friends at other schools.

When we fell to 21 last year, the SGA wrote a letter of disappointment to U.S. News and World
Report. John Kelton made’a trip to Washington, D.C. This was noble, and it says a lot about the

commitment that Davidsonians have to Davidson. We hope U.S. News took those gestures into '

account.

But we shouldn’ t take our new-fangled- -almost- -top-ten-but-not-quite ranking to judge ourselves.
We know that we are getting a good education, and one magazine cannot tell us exactly how good that
is — especially when it fluctuates so dramatically.

Love or hate Davidson for what it is, not for what they tell you it is,

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O, Box
219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters

of Whe Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available

to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board |

upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Simply Wrong

To the Editors:

Re: Your “go-gatchet”
editorial is amusing and well
written, but needlessly
sneers at the Student Gov-
ernment “were all done in
the time it normally takes an
SGA committee to be
formed...”

While it is easy, fashionable
and politically correct to bash

the SGA, this droll humor
dismisses what the organi-
zation has accomplished,
often after a considerable
committment from indi-
vidual students.

Having no more elections to

contest myself, I believe that _

your mirth is unfortunate and
mislea’ding.By
marginalising the student’s

leadership, itpaints a de-
pressing picture for the stu-
dent body at large, and
freshmen,who have yet to
beelected, in particular.

Last but not least, I think it is

simply wrong.

Saad Gul "97
President, Senior Class

No time for tears

Ysa

To the Editors:
Listening to Dean Cable
rattle off the awesome list of
achievements of the Fresh-
man Class, I felt my eyes
begin to well up with tears.,
Iwas overcome by pride in
my new alma mater, and
anxiety that Iwould not mea-
sure up to my fellow stu-
dents.. But there was no
time for sentimentality, and
before the tears could trickle
down my cheek, it was on to
a picnic lunch on Chambers
Lawn, followed by the writ-
ing and foreign language
tests, a quick dinner with my
parents and my roommate’s
family, and. an address by
President Kuykendall, until,
thoroughly exhausted, I met
my confoundedly enthusi-
astic and energetic hall coun-
selors and the girls who
would live on my hall for the
rest of the freshman year. I
had just gotten back from

the Odyssey that morning |

and had not had even a few
minutes to shower or change
clothes. |

The last thing I was con-
cerned with at that point was
making a good impression,
much less venturing over to
the Union to see a band play
after our hall meeting was
finished. My mind was re-

| duced to a primitive state in

which my only thoughts
were of a shower and sleep.

Perhaps this hectic
schedule was devised to keep

our minds and bodies so busy
that we weren't over-
whelmed by the monumen-
tal transition we were about
to make. Perhaps they hoped
that in all this hustle-and
bustle, we ‘wouldn’t have
time to focus on the more
intimidating aspects of start-
ing college— such as being
thrust into a community of
hundreds of people you
know nothing about and who
likewise know nothing about
you, or your parents leaving
you to return home thou-
sands of miles away in the
very midst of your class
schedule crisis.

If this was indeed the
intended purpose of orienta-
tion, it was a noble one, but
admittedly a failure. The
hectic schedule of orienta-
tion served only to intensify
my worries rather than alle-
viate them. Not only was I
conscious of the transition
point this represented in my
life, but I had also the added
agitation of attempting to
find my way to an endless
string of one function after
another

My parents offered little
comfort when they told me
this was merely an introduc-
tion to the busy life of a
college student. I prayed this
was not true as I feared I
would be forced to live out
of the boxes that still sat in
my room for the rest of the

year. dani Abas gs did

slow down quite a bit after
orientation— or 1, ly
would not be writing this
article.

Even though the fact
that I had just arrived back
from the Odyssey intensi-
fied the chaos of Freshman
Orientation, I know I was
not the only one over-
whelmed by the seemingly
endless succession of events
we were obligated to attend.
While I realize the necessity
of most of the events during
orientation (with the possible
exception of the 1970s retro
security video) , I wish that
these events could have been
a bit more spaced out, so as
to give us time to settle into

’ our dorms, meet the people

on our hall in a'less stressful
atmosphere, and just think
about what this whole
change in our lives meant to
us — in other words, to re-
ally become oriented.

While I could suggest
beginning orientation a day
or two earlier, many would
object to this solution in fa-
vor of getting the whole ori-
entation process over as
quickly as possible. Thus,
while I am unable to offer a
solution, I am able to recall
the stress of orientation, and
feel that one’s first experi-
ence upon entering college
should be a more pleasant
one.

Brooke Shaffner

rive us your sympathy.
Call x2148.
