THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS ; S&L LIVING .

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 13

Squirrel Nut Zippers [HO MON@e)gi
electrify Charlotte a

By Kate Green &
JASON SCHMIDT
Staff writers

Feeling the vibes from the 20s,
a group of Davidson students ven-

tured into Charlotte Friday nightto -

hear the revived swing sound of
Chapel Hill’s The Squirrel Nut
Zippers. Despite the Tremont
Music Hall’s prison-like cinder
block structure, The Squirrel Nut
Zippers filled the entire space with
their unusual sound, compiled of
such varied elements as the swing
sound of the 20s, modern day ska,
traditional jazz, and the half-time
sounds of South Iredell High Vi-
kings’ marching band.

. To the delight of the diverse
crowd, the band played for over
two hours, broken up into two hour
long sets. Each set mixed songs
from the group’s two albums with
new material, which the band has
plans to record in the near future.
Not only did they mix the tunes
selected, but they also varied the
sounds from the slow whine of the
trumpet to the fast paced rhythms
of the banjo.

Generally, the upbeat tunes
were extremely easy to dance to,
but the mellow pieces were much
less inspiring. The quick tempoed
song, “I Found a New Baby,” which
senior Morgan Todd describes as
their “‘sassiest and spunkiest” piece,
captured the bands energy and
abilty to intertwine all musical
threads into their unusual sound.
The haunting melodies of slower
numbers, such as “Lover’s Lane,”
were not musically exploratory and
dampened the creative force of the
band.

The band members are just as
funky as their music. Katherine
Whalen, who causes much debate
over her gender, due to her strange
female vocals and masculine stage
presence, further complicated the
issue when she was spotted in both
the men’s and women’s restrooms.
Apparently, she dropped a bottle
of Stroh’s in limbo between the
two locations, exclaimed, “oh
mwy, I must get a mwop, andwas
seen occupying both places, Dur-
ing the mishap, the other band
members circulated amongst the
crowd without incident, distribut-
ing autographs and friendliness in
abundance.

The crowd was as eclectic as _

the band’s music. _Many people

dressed in flapper affair and danced

with the skills of a Swing-Kid.

Others resembled the usual |

Davidson folk, with trés preppy
attire, or the current pop-grunge
scene outfits. Energy, charisma,
and good-humoredness abounded.

The evening’s finale was a
gargantuan congo line of sixty
some-odd people, initiated by the
leadership skills~of several
Davidson students: sophomores
_John Paulas, Asa Hercules, Dewy

Ervin, and seniors Morgan Todd
and Catherine Sauls. The band was ..

as thrilled as the crowd and the:
_ evening ended in the wails and
pfs

By Dorcas AND SLIM
Consulting Astrologists

CAUTION - EXPLOSIVE. USE ONLY UNOEA ADULT SUPEAMSION Virgo (August 23-September 22) Do a forbidden dance with Dr.

Kuykendall. Like one of these: Lambada, Cha-Cha, Flamenco,
Tango, Mambo, or the more docile, Limbo. Dr. K. prefers the
ABSQUIR RR ELAS merciless macarena. Lucky Loci: Copacabana or the Tropicana.
Libra (September 23-October 22)—- Release yourself from the con-
WUT MEE im fines of hell. Transfer. Complete floor exercises and stick the
landing. Do NOT do rhythmic gymnastics. It sucks. Lucky
Person: Mary Lou Retton or Olga Korbut or Dante

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— Pagan pleasures pulsate
through your path toward righteousness. Look out. Get a
private dancer. Lucky Music: any old music will do.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— When eating at North
Harbor this is your mantra “Itdon’tmattajustdon’ tbiteit.”™ Avoid
redundancies. Self-instruct yourself alone in a language you’ ve
never learned before today. Lucky Place: Thunderdome
and beyond.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)-Do not get too close to the sun.
Remember Icarus. Your life is better from a poly-daemonic
perspective. Worship many idols. Lucky Icon: Vladimir Ma
donna or Toilet Duck.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Giant Puppets are high on hill

OO NOT HOLD IN HAND AFTER LIGHTING ©

with a lonely goatherd. You will be there too. You whistle back to

_the lonely goatherd.
: Lucky Yodel: riiiiiiiiiicccooooooc00000llllllaaaaaaaaaaaa.
. Pisces (February 19-March 20)- Go to the roller derby and listen to
arena rock. You'll get more than a feeling. Lucky Movie: Fast
Times at Ridgemont High.

Aries (March 21-April 19)— Dabble in Real Estate. Shady deals bear

forbidden fruits but mind the Hall of Justice. If you can name that
KH Al R D ES | G N = R S bird character, then you will live forever. Lucky obscure adjec-

tive: avian
Taurus (April 20-May 20)- A stag’s antlers will bring good fortune.
: Make sure they are on the stag. The stag will be near a maypole,
salon y 8 8 ypole,
A fi all sam ce : but not dancing around it like you should be. Lucky Place:
specializing in - Sherwood Forest or Narnia.
men's and women's hairstyles. - Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Take this week to observe the customs of

the archipelago. Darwin’ s studies on analogous structures will aid
you in your journey. Mendelian Genetics will not be helpful.
Lucky vessel: HMS Beagle.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You again experience the week of a
lifetime. You are so unbelievable that golden light forms a

SouthLake Shopping Center mandorla around you. Everyone worships you for the god and/or
; goddess you are. You don’t need luck, everywhere you go you
Suite 106 ae ticle
Next to Lonestar Leo (July 23-August 22)-Sing this: 12345. 678910. 11tweeh
892-3067 eheheheheh elve. This message was brought to you by the letters

k and r and the number 8. Lucky Children’s Programming:
’ Lambchop’s play along. Perpetually unlucky children’s program
ming: Barney.

Now carrying 8 lines of products. ;

Honey On The Inside Honey On Double Sandwich!

cured va pure, natural honey _—_____ Glazed with hone} teas Buy 1 Sandwich - Get 1
a | Sandwich* FREE! —

[Lead Oe sew

LAKE NORMAN - CORNELIUS
IRS Southlake Shopping Center
_ ig iia 1-77 at Highway 73 (Exit 28)
Hickory Hams was RATED BEST in av, Tot ear er mance (Near Hartis Teeter and Roses)
_and Taste in T Conbtton dese nponath “Pubished March 21, 1991. ~ Phone 892-9592 Fax 892-9593

