12

RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

Vumpatants ovtrkeat Union

By TERESA WHITE
Associate Editor

College in general is not for
the faint of heart. This nugget of
knowledge was particularly appro-
priate for the freshmen welcoming
concert of the ska band the
Jumpstarts.

The temperature in the 900
Room soared as more and more
people arrived and added their body
heat and body odor to the thicken-
ing atmosphere.

“Tt was just too loud, too hot,
and had too many people,” fresh-
man Irene Middleton complained,
echoing the sentiments of many
others who could not tolerate the
sauna and left after only. a few
minutes. - :

Despite the large number of
those unwilling to stay and sweat,
the Jumpstarts kept a brave mass
enthralled with their energetic per-
formance.

The band stirred up the crowd
with their easy blend of reggae and
rock and inspired the mob of danc-
ers with their own endurance.

Most impressive was the dar-

ling of the evening, the tiny trum-
pet and trombone player who was
the sole one in the house managing
to look cool.

Her absolute opposite was the
lead singer, whose rose-colored
glasses amazingly stayed in place
in spite of his romping around the
stage, hair dripping, shirt soaked
to his body, and sweat flinging
from his face into the crowd.

Many revelers followed his
lead. “I shook my booty ‘til it
hurt,” senior Dan Mojoinnier said.

Mojoinnier and other frolick-
ing, uninhibited upperclassmen
gave fine examples to the shyer
freshmen, who stayed mostly
against the walls. Understandable,
really, since, as freshman Sarah
Sofia said, “They were really good,
but I was so hot I was sweating
without dancing.”

If nothing else, the heat at least
gave people something to talk
about. Sofia admitted that she still
“had fun and met a lot of people.”

Classmate Jeff Bergmann
agreed, “It was a good opportunity
to relax and meet people after a
long day.”

wt #'

Jumpstarts rev the freshmen audience up in the 900 Room last Thursday night.

Freshmen packed in the hot room, bouncing to the catchy music of this reggae band.

The Glory of Tori

Tori Amos plays Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte

By JOHN COPENHAVER
Executive Editor

Going to see Tori Amos per-
form is unlike any other concert
experience. First of all the crowd,
composed of everyone from leather

legged teenagers to casually clad.

college students, respected Amos’s
concert atmosphere for the most
part.

Her concerts are quiet, in-
your-seat experiences. Audiences
don’t come to dance around and
scream lyrics out, but rather to
watch and listen from their seats.
During most of Amos’s songs the
crowd remained silent and capti-
vated.

Only a few times did over-
zealous audience members scream
out: Tori, I love you. “The show

as ... Classy. It was nice to NOT
stand and sweat for two hours dur-
ing a show,” says senior Josh
Buchanan, an audience member
and Davidson student.

Amos played a richly experi-
mental performance. If you went
to see Tori play her old favorites
like you heard them on the album,
you would’ve been sorely disap-
pointed. She took a lot of liberty
with her old songs, turning them
into different musical experiences
altogether.

Songs like “Little Earth-
quakes” from her album Little
Earthquakes and “Cornflake Girl”
from her album Under the Pink
came to life on stage when accom-
panied by a guitarist.

Unfortu-

BauWauHaus Productions

Tori Amos as pictured in “Dew Drop Inn” tour book.

nately, other songs suchas “Caught
a Lite Sneeze” and “Blood Roses”
from Boys for Pele fell short of
their on-stage potential. In these
songs Amos wasn’t as comfort-
able with the harpsichord as the
piano, causing her to speed through
these songs.

The only completely disap-
pointing song was “Little
Amsterdam.” This version dem-
onstrated how experimentation
doesn’t always pay off. Some-
where in the middle of the song,
Tori’s sensual breathing and moan-
ing coupled with awkward piano
playing lost the song. I kept asking

myself if we were still on the same
song or if we had drifted into anew
‘song.

The last song of the set was
“Hey Jupiter” from Boys for Pele,
which Amos performed on a small
electric organ. This rendition was
probably the most haunting ver-
sion of this song I’ve ever heard.

Leaving the concert, I felt as
though Ihad been toa unique event,
and that my money had been well
spent. If you’re a Tori Amos fan
and haven’t caught her on her Dew
Drop Inn tour, I would suggest
taking time to go see her show. It’s
not one to miss.

Theater Review

Life on the Color Line
makes connections

By Lori Cook
Guest Writer

As part of orientation Saturday, the freshmen class viewed a
dramatization of and participated in a discussion on Life on the
Color Line, anovel by Gregory Howard Williams, which faces the
grisly reality of racism during the late ‘40s and early ‘SOs. The
novel is an autobiography in which Williams depicts his precarious
walk along the racial line distinguishing black from white. He is
neither Caucasian nor African-American, for although he appears
to be white, his father was a fair complexioned black man. The root
of Williams’ search for racial identity lies in the fact that he was not
always aware of his true heritage until the separation of his parents.
Despite his rocky home life and societal bigotry, however, Greg
Williams overcame the restrictions placed on him and is presently
the Dean of the Ohio State University College of Law.

The Davidson Theater Department’s adaptation of Williams’
tale so vividly illustrated the racial injustice he experienced, that
reading the book beforehand would not have been necessary,
although it gave a better insight into the author’s viewpoint. The
players in the dramatization included sophomore Nick Paul, per-
forming the role of Greg Williams; junior Britton Taylor, portray-
ing Greg’s brother, Mike; junior Jose Ruiz playing Williams’
father, Buster; ‘95 graduate Tene Moore in the role of Miss Dora,
Greg’s maternal figure; junior Sarah Hankins as Greg’s grand-
mother and teacher; junior Benjamin Summers, playing many
parts including Mr. Ferrill and Mr. Bennett; and Wesley Hart, a
junior who portrayed both Bear and Brian.

Between scene performances, Biology Professor Don Kimmel
and assistant Chaplin Brenda Tapia promoted discussion of the
issues raised in Williams’ novel to promote their application on the
Davidson campus. The overwhelming conclusion of the discus-
sion — as well as Greg Williams’ main theme throughout Life on
the Color Line _— was that everyone should strive to overcome
those labels that human beings constantly pin on others regardless
of their true understanding of the individuals and that for which
they stand. Through exploration and discussion, the Davidson
College Harmony Committee hopes to promote making “connec-
tions” — the theme of the ’96 orientation — regardless of racial,
religious, gender related stereotypes and more.

Assistant Chaplin Brenda Tapia best summed up the impor-"
tance of resisting labels when she said, “‘There’s nothing more
important than being what you were created to be” — regardless of
what others expect of you.

Johnrey Fuller

