THE DA VIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, Al APRIL 29, » 1996 |

Thanks to Gravity slingshots new release

By WILL Foy
Staff Writer

Relentless is a word thatcomes

to mind for much of Thanks to |

Gravity’snewestalbum, Slingshot,
on AWARE Records. The album’s
10 tracks move from relentless
‘acoustic rock with a twinge of in-
dustrial rhythm, to slow, haunting,
emotionally relentless ballads, like
“Catching Stars on Paper Plates.”

This persistence of music is . [%

driven by all four of this Ports-
mouth, NH band, especially in live
performance: Andy Happel on
acoustic guitars, vocals, and vio-
lin; Feelix Caughran on piano,
synths, and Hammond B-3; Sean
Daniels on percussion and backing
vocals; and Drew Wyman on bass.
Each member propels forceful
rhythms with great technical skill.
Andy mentioned to me at Jack
Straw’s that while his guitar skills
are self-taught, hehas studied clas-
sical violin since age 3. Sean, like
many drummers, continually prac-
tices to perfect his craft, and Drew,
dissatisfied with commercial prod-
ucts, built his own bass, the
“Grooverocker.” Feelix searches
for new sounds to plug into his
synths, such as the airplane takeoff
used in “Phenomenon of Flight” or
the dolphin clicks on “Bobsled.”
Stylistically, Thanks to Grav-
ity doesn’t fit into any standard
boxes, but their sound is a pleasant
mixture of acoustic: instruments,
and electrified technology.
Happel’s vocals are unique, andon
the violin, he is just as expressive.
Wyman’s Grooverocker flies
through miles of funk in many

Thanks to Gravity.

Josh Glazer

songs, but at times lays a sensitive
groove. Caughran, while a player
of one of the most currently ridi-
culed instruments (the synthesizer)
does play with talent, and a genu-
ine feel for what synths are sup-
posed to be. Daniels’ drumming
features complicated rhythms and
many, many percussive devices,
including well over a dozen cym-
bals, and a newly purchased MIDI
drum for fun. His harmony on vo-
cals adds to the layered mixture.
Meaningful lyrics, not teen
angst or alternative rage, are the
primary feature ofmostofthe TTG
catalog. “Catching Stars...” calls
for political reform “brothers... oh
brothers in the clouds/when will
your hands be clean.” Sexual re-

straint appears in “Isometric Play-
thing,” as Happel warns “you know
i can’t do that/you know i can’t/
this is not going to be easy.” Con-
fusion in a “Crowded World,” or
bitter goodbyes in “Last Time.”
Perhaps the most pointed tune in
the bunchis the unlisted “Spoddies
and Birits,” a tune directed at ma-
terialism, lack of care for others,
and the stereotyping each of us
contributes to our ‘social lives.
Happel writes: “it’s sick when part-
ners criticize the ones with the
cheaper car/the ones with the older
tires/the ones: who stop to chat/a
foreign man ignores his kids”
You can listen to this album on
WALT’s. rotation; call 2471 and
ask for it.

Acts

from page 10

sorts of woman problems. When
he’sin the second grade, his mother
(Jackie Rasulo) commits suicide.
His necropheliac grandmother
(Tamra Carhart), obsessed with the
. last pictures taken of any deceased,
tries to comfort him but can do
little to help. Wallace gets his first
kiss in eigth grade from Sarah
(Emily Eagan), and though she
instigates the kiss, shecalls Wallace
“too fast” and runs away. At thir-
teen, he ruins another relationship,
this time with Victoria (Emily
Eagan). Though he loses his vir-
. ginity to Lilly (Kate Laidlaw) as a
college freshman, she wants to in-
troduce him to her sister Nina
(Jackie Rasulo), who he falls in
love with. The subject matter
ranged from dramatic monologues
to quick one-liners, but the actors
did a great job of keeping the pace
as well as changing character or
age.
The final segment consisted of

Christopher Durang’s “Naomi in
the Living Room” and Maria Irene
Fornes’s “The Conduct of Life.”
They were directed by students
Joshua Buchanan and Amanda
Davis respectively. These two
plays were contrasts in subject
matter and audience reaction.
“Naomi in the Living Room”
depicted the bizarre visit of straight-
laced John (Bobby Ramsay) and
sweet wife Johnna (Jane Ruschky)
to John’s mother’s (Naomi, played
by Jennifer Neale), apartment,
Jennifer Neale provided an excep-
tional rendition of John’s erratic
mother. Her performance was
characterized by brief periods of
seeming mental containment and
sudden eruptions of lunacy. The
quirky script provided for much of
the work’s humor. Naomi de-
scribes her living room as the area
for living. Correspondingly, the
kitchen is the place of all things
kitsch, most notable and familiar
of such things is agnome. Perhaps
the most exciting point in the play,
besides Miss Neale’s unpredict-
able spasms, was when Mr.
Ramsay donned female attire, a
short sun dress identical to that
worn by Miss Ruschky. This was
a frightening moment for the audi-

ence and perhaps more frightening
is my admittance that he looked
good. A well-directed gem, this
play provided countless aspects for
the audience to love: cross-dress-
ing, spousal mimicry, an insane
old hag, etc.

The audience was required to
redirect their emotions for the next
piece, “The Conduct of Life.” The
comical aspects of the first work
were traded for the serious matters
of sexual abuse, the disintegration
of relationships, and the mainte-
nance of one’s disillusioned san-
ity.

Dramatic performances by all
members of the cast propelled this
work: Laura Seib as Leticia, Stowe
Beamas Alejo, and Jessica Robblee
as Nena. Trey Adams’s brutal
depiction of Orlando was most
prominent and disturbing. Simi-
larly, Southern belle Kay
Walraven’s rendition of a dis-
gruntled Italian maid (Olimpia)
threatened to steal the show.

Once again, this work was
well-directed, highlighted by ex-
cellent use of lights and choice of
scenes depicted. If you missed the
one acts this year, consider this
article promotion for next year’s
efforts.

The Davidsonian is looking for people who want to work
on the editorial staff next semester. If you want to help
edit news or art, takes pictures, manage advertising or
work on the web page, call John or Mary Clare x-2148

HOROSC

CO}

PE

By Dorcas AND MADGE
Consulting Astrologists

Taurus (April 20-May 20) — You are blessed by Shamash, the
Assyro- Babylonian Sun God. He is responsible for the sunny
weather. Pay homage to him this week. In lieu of burnt offerings,
write for Opinions next year. Lucky Section of the Davidsonian:
Opinions. ‘3

Gemini (May 21-June 20) — Don’t be afraid of the big bad Latin beat.
It is inevitable that you join a Conga line in your lifetime. Hey
Girls, slay his heart with aslanderous Mambo. Lucky Singer: Tito
Puente. Perpetually Unlucky Singer: Gloria Estefan.

Cancer (June 21-July 22) — Beware of the ubiquitous people on
campus. They may be following you. Superman’s Father is a
walkin’ talkin’ miracle. Lucky Places: Anywhere on campus,
Bruegger’s Bagels, the Planet Krypton.

Leo (July 23-August 22) — Practice restraint this week. By the
weekend, you will have the continence of Morrissey — if you
want it. Leitmotif: hair shirts

Virgo (August 23-September 22) — This week you will be visited by
a band of minstrels. They are only in town for a few days, so live
itup, buttercup. Lucky Song: Greensleeves Lucky Place: Vu?
Green.

Libra (September 23-October 22) — Watch old figure skating tapes
this week. They are enjoyable. Try to learn a triple axle or lutz.
Lucky Skaters, Pairs: Ty Babylonia and Randy Gardner.

Scorpio (October 23-November 22) — Collect insects on the cross-
country trails. Beware of the fire ants. Once you have collected the
insects, pin them through the thorax. Watch them scream. Just
kidding. Lucky Insects: Stinkbug, Earwig. Unlucky insect:
Scorpion. .

Sagittarius (November 23-December 21) — Begin music lessons.
You will prevail in percussion. We recommend the wood-blocks,
kettle drums or that you just bang two rocks together really hard.
Lucky instrument: cymbals.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19) — Do not strike a Faustian
bargain this week.. It is almost time for you to take your finals.
It is not wise for you to deal with the devil this week. Unlucky
Amorphous Being: Mephistopheles.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18) — Jupiter ascending highlights
creativity. You are particularly adept in the kitchen, primarily as
a pastry chef. Lucky Food: Strudel, Turnovers, Napoleons.

Pisces (February 19-March 20) — You feel out of the loop this week.
To counter these feelings, explore the Zeitgeist at the local
coffeehouses. Lucky Drink: Vanilla Latte.

Aries (March 21-Aprill19) — This week you will be graced by the
presence of a true Harlequin. Yes, there is pantomime in the air,
folks. “Investing” in a lottery ticket is a good idea this week.
Lucky Numbers: 13, 4, 98, 7, 2.

For a private personal.reading call
Dorcas or Madge at 1-900-FREE-LUV.

Re Fon’s oe
Seareon, BBQ & Carenine

Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks,
our famous Barbecue and award winning Banana Pudding:
PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS |

