MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1996

— The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc. Arts & Living Editor

Busi
JOHN COPENHAVER usiness Manager

JILL WILLIAMS YNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK ee
Sports Editors
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW Advertising Managers
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS
News Editors Photo Editor : ;
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA
RANDY HARTWELL bake Circulation Manager
Copy Editors McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT DANIEL MOTZ
‘KRISTEN RICHARDSON Web Page Managers
Cartoonist CLAY LENHART
Arts & Living Editor GREG GARRISON BRAD CHASE

SUSAN RUGGIERO ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

HEY YALL THANE
ATH WONDERS OF

ehy6O0) ELSE.
ren Add GOT C ANALCHY,
TWAT 'S WHR we Pie

boy | emoWHAT we We
Y VO.» Now ey ,
yy ING, WE cw) 4 THE Beer suut> oF F
BOWE You The LAT [t30, THATCL auc
Bed “ME Bt ACL. The PARES. «on
F: W Hehe Ones A stupenr.
oy) D Gertez

HEY, ( NEED Te
Pian
Gee

Sw

The Bavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Thanks for Habitat

Consequences.

Oh, the fear of the lawsuit. Oh, What If, What If, WHAT IF? ©

WHAT IF a student who walked across campus to get another student a drink
tripped and fell, and then sued the school for not installing a coke machine in a
near enough locale?

WHAT IF a student who drank six beers and threw up ona friend’s silk shirt :
sued the school and a beer-supplying fraternity for cleaning charges and the
mental anguish for having to deal with said friend?

WHAT IF voluntarily wearing swimming goggles on the head as a part of a
collective sport activity, scars a poor, innocent freshman for the rest of his or her
years (Neglected by acrush? Spurned by a professor? Ostracized from social life’

at.Davidson foreyer?). the yictim sues the school, for heartless, subjection of a...
certain set of values on a willing and impressionable team member? ~

We could come up with these forever. IT COULD all happen. ANYTHING
can happen. Anything at all. :

But should we let our college experience be affected by these possibilities?

In some ways, yes—people have sued and will continue to sue. Our lawyers
are there to protect us, and rightly so. But we should avoid any unnecessary
lawsuits, even if it means we have to give up a few liberties.

But when the measures become excessive, then we have surrendered to the
fallacies of the system. When we force ameaningless label ona frivolous activity,
cancel an event because of some technical mistake, or attribute all wrongdoing to
the source of a lawsuit-inducing incident, then, we are sending the members of
this community a message with mixed-signals: be creative, encourage commu-
nity, but don’t even attempt to cross a line, for fear of the consequences.

So, they say, this is correct. Students should be taught to play by the rules
and not cross inappropriate lines. But why should we live paranoid? This is
extreme, they say, we are just preparing you for the real world. But we, at
Davidson, are taught to look at the real world through multi-disciplined eyes,
through educated minds that help us to make our own decisions and decide the
consequences for ourselves.

We are not, in general, stupid; we will make decisions based on rational
principles and expected outcomes.

Thus, we shouldn’t be told we cannot wear something for fear its meaning
will become distorted; or we shouldn’t be told we cannot gather with friends
because one gathering at one time went awry. :

_ Itis sad how some people become slaves to the system without putting true
thought, experience, or trust into those they deal with. Davidson has taught us
to act exactly the opposite. It is unfortunate that college policies often conflict
with the very education we receive from it.

To the Editors:

On behalf of the Board
of Directors of Our Towns
Habitat for Humanity, ‘I
would like to thank and

_|congratulate the entire

Davidson College commu-
nity on the successful
completion of the Wildcat
Habitat house. This vision-
ary undertaking required

untold dedication, determi-
nation and persistance from
untold numbers of: people.
You have accomplished not
only a lasting home for the
Jetton family, but a lasting
legacy for yourselves of
unity, service and pride. I
hope this will be the first of
many opportunities for Our
Towns Habitat to work in

partnership with Davidson
College Habitat. But until
the next project; there is al-
ways a hammer waiting for
you in one of our towns—
just call and volunteer.
Thank you for caring.

Jane Cain
Vice President of Davidson
Habitat for Humanity

Hit and Run

To the Editors:
Friday morning, No-

yember 22, I walked to my.
“/car on my way toTun some —

errands and was_ shocked
and infuriated to find that
my car had been severely
damaged. My car, a red
Honda Civic hatchback, was
parked on the corner of Con-
cord and College street just
past Jackson Court. I last
saw it Saturday, November
16th.

I am truly not upset that
my car is damaged. Acci-
dents happen Especially
parked on Concord Road, I
would be unrealistic to
imagine that my car was en-
tirely safe. BUT I am ex-

tremely disconcerted that I

lice been notified.

I understand that the
damage may have been
caused by someone other
than a member of the
Davidson community. How-
ever, if anyone reading this
letter knows who is respon-
sible, I need to be informed.
If I cannot find the person
responsible or a witness to
the hit and run, the repairs
will fall entirely on my shoul-
ders. However “real life”
that consequence may be, it
is my belief (and not mine
alone) that Davidson is

Structured to prevent such

responsible (although I
would hope they would no-
tify me directly), who might
have witnessed it, or when
it may have happened,
PLEASE let me know.
Again, I understand that
these things happen in life. I
AM NOT UPSET at the in-
cident, only at the lack of
responsibility.

You can reach meat -
6835, Flowe 303,
seclippard @davidson.edu,
or voice-mail -3886 —

Seth Clippard ‘97

Projecting Life

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the term by the students of Davidson .
College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. ©
Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149, Our offices are -
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to
the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The
Babvidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year, $17.50 for the Spring Semester. Advertising

To the Editors,

On behalf of the Project
Life Committee, I would like
to thank and congratulate
the students, faculty and
staff on this year’s bone
matrow drive. I would first
like to thank you for the tre-
mendous support we re-
ceived. We appreciate the
campus-wide interest in the
drive and the many encour-
aging words through out our
quest to raise $12,000. By
purchasing our t-shirts,
raffle tickets, spaghetti din-
ners and donuts, you helped
us to reach our goal. I espe-

rates are‘available upon réquest:* Copyrighit is held by the Trastées of rok te College. ~

‘cially. want to thank the

_ coming more common, pa-

McCarthy family, Dr. Don
Kimmel, Catherine Turner
and Scottie Lindsay for their
guidence-.and continual sup-
port for our bone marrow
drive.
Secondly, I would like
to congratulate you for
making this year’s drive the

biggest ever. We typed 363

people, putting Davidson’s
seven year total well over
2,000. “We are making an
enormous. contribution. to
the National Bone Marrow
Registry each year from our
small campus. As bone
marrow transplants are be-

tients are finding donors be-
cause of drives like ours. I
am happy to report that
Davidson has inspired other
schools, such as UNC and
Elon, to start their own drives
based on our success.

I would like to encour-
age you to keep supporting
the bone marrow drive and
to get typed if you missed

‘this year’s drive, so that

Project Life can continue to
give terminally ill patients
a second chance at life.

