2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Ian Hummel joins SGA Senate

Sophomore Ian Hummel Was sworn in as Phi Delta Theta fraternity
Senator by SGA President Warren Buford last Tuesday. Hummel
replaces junior Brian Brown as Phi Delta Theta SGA representative.

Students chosen for membership on Advisory Council
on Campus and Religious Life

The SGA approved.the nomination of six students to the Advisory
Council on Campus and Religious Life at the SGA Senate meeting
last Tuesday. The following students will serve on the CCRL:

Sophomores:

Will Bradshaw

Lee Burnett

Brent Gilbert

Lucy Sherman

Chad Wellmon

Junior:

Barry Newhouse
An SGA selection committee nominated six students after meeting
with all interested applicants. The selection committee was chaired
by Sophomore Class President Ann Harriot Fisher.

SGA passes resolution in favor of improving track
facilities

According to the SGA minutes from last Tuesday's SGA meeting, the
Senate passed a resolution regarding improvements to Davidson
College's running track. The resolution, introduced by SGA Vice
President Clair Freeman, says in part, “the SGA strongly supports the
athletic department's efforts to begin planning a new track facility,”
ahd that the SGA Senate ”encourage[s] improvement to the surface
of the walking/jogging track at Richardson Field ....“ In addition, the

resolution also provides for a student advisory committee to provide
student input in the new facility's planning. The committee consists

of eight students, two from each class. The following students are
members of the student advisory committee:

Seniors:

Lara Burkholder

Eugene Jung

Juniors:

Kate Pittenger

Tripp Franklin

Sophomores:

Kelly Kiefer

Stan Baker

Freshmen:

Schaap Freeman

Brent Ferrell

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

NEWS

MASTER OF SCIENCE IN
ACCOUNTANCY

Cameron School of Business

+ Bano raat dager ha wil prepre ou fr cer

Aw 21,:1997 for Accounting Undergraduates .
bay 9 1997.for = a Re aa

In focus ... student voices

How do you feel about the proposal
to eliminate the Humanities
program in favor of mandatory
freshman writing seminars?

I'm definitely for the Humanities program. I think it's a wonderful way to read literature that I would normally
not be inclined to read. The idea of the Humanities program inspires many incoming freshmen to participate
in it.
Clay Cofer
Sophomore

I think that the writing seminars would be a really good idea. Writing skills are something that I've had to

spend a lot of time on in Humanities. I'd like to be able to balance spending a lot of time reading and working
on my writing, but it's hard to find enough time to do that.

Amanda Covington

Sophomore

I think Humanities is valuable, more so for people who aré interested in math and science disciplines. It

allows them to touch on subjects that they may not be deeply interested in without being completely

engrossed by the topic. It would be nice if writing seminars would be available to any student who wishes
to improve their writing skills.

Daniel Cantey

Sophomore

I definitely don't think they should change the Humes program at all. It helped me so much. It was a lot of

work, but it was worthwhile. My writing was somewhat helped by ee Humes, but I don't think they should
change it.

Maggie Slocum

Senior

Tomorrow's leaders need to be able to recognize broad patterns of social change. They also need to be able
to think quickly on their feet. Homan ee teaches Pat

Ieffery ¢ Cromartie

Senior

I think it would be a disastrous mistake. I think [Humanities] was the single most important class I've ever

taken. [The Humanities program's attention to writing skills] might be the only possible criticism of the

course; it tended to vary with the instructor. However, [attention to writing skills] is a potential weakness
that could be addressed in a number of ways.

Dean Cromartie

Class of ’69

Presidential search continues but gradually narrows

Students on the Search Com-

Fatt An ocstes Information
Business Not-for-Profit :

* Class sizes.are small and you can.complete the program jn...,.. - 5
ten to thirteen months.

* Classes begin:

from page 1

dates to the campus for conversa-
tions with faculty, staff, students,
alumni/ae and Board members.”

: “Our strongest prospects will
need these conversations to assess
the match between their talents and

_the College’s priorities before de-
ciding whether to make the com-
mitment Davidson’s presidency
requires,” the statement continues.

mittee — Seniors Warren Buford,
Carrie Blackburn, David Wick,
Junior Liz Sale and Sophomore
John Bell — missed two days of
classes last week in order to con-
duct interviews with candidates.
Bell feels that students are
properly represented in the search.
“T have been very happy with the
makeup of the committee and the
way the meetings have been con-
ducted. The students have been

given arole and a vote— we aren’t
just window dressing. Trustees,
faculty, and administrators have
been open and honest. They have
sought after student concerns and
input throughout the search”

“T feel that the committee is
making sure that all candidates will
be. responsive to students’ needs,
and I am confident that once our
final decision is made that all stu-
dents will be happy with our
choice,” says Blackburn.

Don’t forget to order your ‘96-‘97
yearbooks. Price is $10.00

Place your order:
Mondgy - Friday 2-5 at the Union Ticket Window

or

Fridays in the Union from 10-1

