THEDavipsonsAN BRRACK PAGE INTERVIEW vownoay, arrit is, 1996 16

Between bites of breakfast,

Cornel West shares his views on evil
in America, Marxism, and the politics of conversion.

April 12, 1996

In Race Matters you support large-
scale public intervention to insure ac-

cess to basic social goods describing .

yourself now as a radical democrat.
How do such programs relate to being
a radical democrat, and is being a
radical democrat the same as being a
democratic socialist?

Well, one has to be an experimentalist.

Nobody knows exactly which program
will work, We’ ve never really tried a full
employment policy for example. We'd
have to try it and see if in fact it had
impact in overcoming some social mis-
ery. Then we'd follow through. If not
we'd try something else. The problem
with using the term ‘democratic social-
ist’ is people think you have a-certain
blueprint which you impose upon soci-
ety no matter what the costs are. It is true
that I’m still very much a democratic
socialist, but what one means by that is
simply insuring that people have access
to basic social goods and that one have
accountability.

How can democratic socialism be used
to ameliorate racism?

If people have access to basic social
goods then that would automatically al-
leviate some of the tension. Alot of the
tension is people fighting for the funds
and scarce resources that one finds in the
working community and among the very
poor. I don’t think that any economic
system can completely eliminate racism
or sexism because racism and sexism are
not solely economic phenomena. They
are also psycho-cultural, political, and in
the hearts and souls of individuals. I
think it would be a contribution towards
eliminating it but it wouldn’t eliminate
it.

How can we work to reduce or elimi-
nate the strong connection that exists
between economic and political power?

_We need campaign reform in terms of
granting free television time and free
commercial time to show candidates other
than those who merely have the money
to pay. We need much shorter primaries
so candidates can be heard without hav-
ing enough money to sustain almost a
year and a half or more of campaigning.
But that’s the beginning. We’ve got to
somehow decouple economic power
from political power enough... though
we’ll never be able to do it completely.
Then, in a democracy an organization
would have the right to come together, to
bring power and pressure to bear. We
just want to make the conditions fair
under which that can happen.

Last night you discussed the problem
of evil in America. How can we get a
public debate on this topic started with
people so hypersensitive to being chal-
lenged over what is right, just, good, or
evil?

We have to engage in a moral discourse
in a self-critical way. The debate over
abortion is primarily a debate about evil;
one side believes it’s evil while the other
doesn’t. We have to be able to be candid
about our moral convictions even as we
recognize that its not just a matter of
imposing them on others. So, you
wouldn’t mind talking about vast eco-
nomic inequality as an evil. I say let’s
argue about it...what you think evil is,
what I think evil is, and how it relates to
the public good. If for example the issue
of abortion were to lead toward a level of
civil strife that you’ ve seen with race like
we’ve seen in the 1960's or in the civil
war...you'd have to come up with some
sort of compromise...or we begin to slide
down the slippery slope tochaos. If we’d

come to some non-violent way of deal-
ing with slavery we wouldn’t have
600,000 fellow human beings killed in
the war. Similarly, in the 60’s, if we had
come up with some non-violent way, the
way King talked about, we wouldn't
have had so many deaths, riots, and up-
risings. But, that doesn’t mean that one
still is not clear about one’s convictions.
When people believe white supremacy is
a natural way of life, were gonna hold on
for dear life. We've got to try to con-
vince them that’s not the way. They’d
rather fight, BOOM, and we end up with
the democracy in deep trouble. There’s
nothing wrong with being quite honest
and candid with one’s moral convic-
tions, but when one is in the public sphere
you have to have a certain respect or
tolerance for other peoples’ views, even
when you utterly oppose them.

You’ve stated that “the case of the
church-based civil rights movement
would seem to counter [Malcolm X’s]
charge that black Christianity serves
as a sedative to put people to sleep
rather than to ignite them to action.”
Whether or not Malcolm would agree
with your claim, he might still assert
that non-violent constraints on move-
ments necessarily restrict the spheres
within which they may move and suc-
ceed. Is moral violence ever possible
as a means of fighting injustice?

I think generally

pretty good at it. The Black Panther
Party crushed. So again the game of
violence is a very dangerous one.

You talk in Race Matters about nihil-
ism. When Black youth see that men
like Martin and Malcolm have been
gunned down, the BPP and other
movements systematically crushed, the
FBI’s COINTELPRO operations...and
at the same time conservatives forces
crying that Black America need only
try harder to succeed. How can we
reconcile these to things to give the
youth any hope?

America has to be honest about itself
concerning what the genuine possibili-
ties are for people. The same people who

_ Say ‘if you really work hard you can

make it’... lets say if a conservative up-
per-middle class person were to wake up
Black the next morning and had acknow]-
edged to themselves that they were Black,
poor, and wouldn’t have the opportuni-

- ties that they themselves claim are out

there. There is a certain hypocrisy going
on in terms of the rhetoric on the one
hand and the fact that they don’t have to
live that kind of life on the other. That is
partly what I meant by the empathy last
night. If we cannot increase the scope of
empathy that people really can feel then
we only end up with a mean-spirited
discourse. I think that’s very much what
we’re seeing. It is true in poor Black

Blacks and Jews.

DIRECTION: WEST

Courtesy of the Oak Row Report

Harvard Professor Cornel West, who spoke Thursday
night in Love Auditorium, teaches Afro-American
Studies and Philosophy of Religion. He is the author of
several books and a leading commentator on the
complexities of American race relations. Currently, his
interests lie in the problems facing the urban African-
American and in maintaining communication between

Their influence is waning though their —

numbers are not necessarily declining.
It’s ironic though because their influence
is waning primarily because of mass
media. Also the younger generations are
more unaffiliated than they’ ve ever been
with these churches.

You discussed

speaking, vio-
lence is, just a bad
way of going
about dealing with

conflict. You
want to avoid it at
all costs. There

are certain condi-
tions under which
violence is ines-
capable. Gener-
ally speaking it is
not a good way

public good.

Say let’s argue about it
.-. What you think evil
is, what I think evil is,
and how it relates to the

sermons as com-
mercials for Jesus
and of preachers
selling sermons
every week...to
what extent are
false sales pitches
going on com-
pared with genu-
ine transfers of
values?

It depends on how

of...primarily’ be-

cause if your ends are non-violent ends
for democratic cooperation then the
means that you deploy will ultimately
shape and influence your ends. It be-
comes highly problematic to use violent
means for non-violent ends. Anti-demo-
cratic means for democratic ends. It
doesn’t work.. That for me is a very
convincing argument, that one must con-
sider the relationship of means to ends in
political strategy and political tactics.
That’s part of my critique of Brother
Malcolm, actually.

What if he would respond that unjust
oppressive forces have not and will not
respond to reasonable non-violent re-
quests or demands? Is violence then
inescapable but still not just?

Exactly. At that point there is simply no
other way. The ANC in South Africa or
the Jewish resistance against Nazis in
Poland, I would think are certainly un-
derstandable and in some ways justifi-
able. Realize that it is the last option
available. Usually when it is the last
option available, nine times out of ten it
will be crushed anyway. Now you do
take that one chance and say ‘ok let’s see
if we can actually organize and have
enough power to change or overthrow
the present order.’ But usually you're
crushed anyway. Again though, I can
see Malcolm’s point. You push against
a wall and there is no other language
available.

You speak their language...
You speak their language. But usually if

you’ re speaking their language, they’ve
been speaking it for a while. They’re

communities it’s not just the
COINTELPRO against the Panthers, but
of course the police. The constant sur-
veillance, keeping track, and containing
the population through incarceration in
jails creates a lived experience of this
vigilant watch over them. It’s unbeliev-
able.

To what extent are we using what you
call the ‘politics of conversion’ to battle

. this nihilism?

The politics of conversion are very real;
I’m a product of it. Growing up I could
have been doing a number of other things
but part of a family, church, and political
movement turned me around. By con-
version I mean a turning of the soul, a
reorienting of one’s self to wrestle with
one’s rage through moral and political
channels that are justifiable as opposed
tounjustifiable self-destructive channels.
Black folk out there were reorienting,
turning their souls away from self-hatred
and self-destruction to a self-respect and
a construction. You have to talk about
the spiritual and existential dimension as
well as the political and economic one.
The politics of conversion are a very
loose and highly inadequate way of try-
ing to make that connection.

Those practicing these politics won’t
be politicians, but cultural organiza-
tions like schools, families, churches,
mosques, and temples...

Absolutely right. They'll be civic asso-
ciations. You're absolutely right.

You’ve mentioned that religious orga-

. nizations are in decay.

good the preacher
actually is. Is he or she actually digging
deep into the worlds of the Gospel and
recognizing just how critical and non-
conformist the Gospel is in relation to the
world? If there is a prosperity gospel:
God blesses you with material posses-
sions and so forth then that is too narrow.
There is nothing wrong with material
possessions or relative prosperity, but
when it becomes idolatry then I was
arguing that you’ve ended up with a
commercial. I do think that we've al-
ways had that in the Christian church.
But, I think it’s emphasized even more
now in a moment of deep conservatism.
Rich market culture becomes so seduc-
tive and material possessions become in
and of themselves sacred.

As Marx observed.

Oh, yeah, very much so. There are some
very deep insights in the Marxist tradi-
tion.

You’ve stated that “Marxism and
Christianity share a similar moral
impulse.” How did Christianity part
with Marxist notions of community
good, or have the two actually parted?

Christianity has been a movement pri-
marily concerned with accenting equal-
ity before God and concern about the
limitations of human efforts. | Marx
himself grew up as a Christian...his early
essays were on Jesus. He was very
Christo-centric and was convinced that

the way of living in the world was witha
compassion for the poor. When one does
look at the ministry of Jesus one does see
a fundamental focus on the least of the
samaritans, those who had been
marginalized. Marx puts at the center of
his perspective those who are oppressed,
the workers. That’s the vantage point
from which he looks at the world, In an
interesting kind of way, like Christians
who are supposed to look at the world
through the lens of the cross, those who
suffer, Marx looks at the world through
the lens of those who suffer. The differ-
ence was that Marx himself was deeply
influenced by the Enlightenment and the
developments of modern science and
therefore he was convinced that Chris-
tian beliefs about God, faith, and grace
(following Feuerbach and others) got in
the way of overcoming the suffering.
Marx is convinced that the very church
that came out of the Jesus movement was
a major obstacle to dealing with suffer-
ing But, looking at the world through the
lens of the cross was still a useful one.
You begin to see tremendous
divergence...liberation theologians prob-
ably understand this best than most,
Gustavo Gutierrez and others who said
‘look there is this rich tradition within
the Christian church that still follows
Marx, but we don’t have to accept his
Enlightenment views aboutreligion.’ We
don’t have to accept his secular critiques
of religion, but we do listen and take it
seriously...but with a Christian response.
That’s part of my tradition. I think Marx
was wrong about religion; there’s no
doubt about that. But he had his own
reasons. Most of the churches of his day
were aligned with the status quo and
supported the most ugly forms of oppres-
sion. When you have 98 or 99 percent of
the church going in one direction you
begin to think there is nothing to this
faith if this is the manifestation oft. Ifhe
had been around when the Martin Luther
Kings, the Fannie Lou Hamers, and the
Myles Hortons were more numerous he
would have had a different context in
which to write. All Marx was writing
about was that particular Lutheran church.
It would be like if for Black folk, the only
Christian organization they knew were
the Ku Klux Kian, how could they ever
be Christian. But, they’ ve always known
that that particular version does not ex-
haust the possibilities of Christianity. If
the Klan were the only version of Chris-
tianity, then they’d look for something
else. That was Marx’s situation; he had
to look for something else.

BY BENJAMIN HILL
