NEWS
Hamlin,
Everett,
Beachem:
planning ©
a new 7
yearfor >= PS
the Union |

Lora CHAVIS
Staff Writer

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

No exceptions, stickers will be checked

Like last semester, Patterson Court parties will be open only to
those students who display a PCC sticker on their school ID cards.

Members of Court Houses will receive these stickers through
their House, and independents must purchase a sticker at a cost of
$10 in order to attend any court party this semester.

- Stickers will be on sale in Chambers gallery on Tuesday and
Wednesday 5 :

Ashley Maner, newly elected PCC Secretary, says that although
enforcement of the sticker policy grew lax last semester, the PCC is
determined that the admittance policy will be upheld in the coming
months.

“We're really going to try to enforce [the policy] this semester,”
says Susie Spressert, PCC Treasurer, “if you don’t have the proper
PCC sticker on the back of your ID, you won’t be let in.”

ete

SGA inaugurates new leadership

Last term’s SGA President Bill Gullan passed his title to
recently elected Warren Buford last Sunday evening in Chambers
gallery. :

The inauguration ceremony, attended by the SGA Senate,
college president John Kuykendal, and friends and family of the
participants, welcomed SGA’s new leaders.

After Gullan’s final remarks as outgoing president, Buford and
new SGA Vice President Clair Freeman took thier oaths of office.
Buford then gave his first remarks as SGA president.

—compiled by Kirsten Recknagel

—ATTENTION—
JUNIORS, SOPHMORES,
FRESHMEN:

Sign ups in the Dean of Students
Office Feb 6—Feb 12 for serving

ona five-member

Student Advisory Council to

the Board of Trustees for the
Presidential Search.
Interviews by SGA members will
be held next week. Students

must be available to meet.a few
times during the summer.

CAMP

Box #919 Brevard, N.C., 28712

SUMMER JOBS!

Join our High-Adventure staff family for
the summer of 1996!!

THE EXPERIENCE OF A LIFETIME!!!
We will be at your school on_2. - 7-96 .

Call for an appointment with Cha-Cha, Rob, Dan, Alfred, or Nath.
For more information call 1-800-551-9136

CAROLINA

1996 is not the year for close
calls or vigorous campaigns. With-
out opposition, Sara Beth Hamlin
slid into the president’s seat of the
Union Board last week.

‘Jenny Everett also became the
Union Board’s new Co-Curricular
Vice President without a race.

However, Mecie Beachem had
to fight for her new position. The
only Union Board candidate with
opposition, she beat Jason Schmidt
to become Social Vice-President.

Meanwhile, the comfort of a
definite po-

Union Board President.

Sara Beth will be working hard this year asthe new = /0sh Glazer

cause of the ground work the
present Union Board has done,’’she
says.

Hamlin also stresses that she
“would like to see more involve-
ment in the Unionas a whole, more
opportunity for campus wide in-
teraction on a social level, even
more stimulating programs which
provoke thought .and discussion,
and an increased campus wide
awareness of the countless
oppurtunities available in the

February 4th.

According to Hamlin, those
selected will be the heart of the
success for the new Union Board.

She says they are looking for
energetic individuals with some
creative ideas to carry out these
jobs.

Beachem’says, “I would like
to see a diverse group of people
who want to work hard and have
fun.”

However, the success rests
also on students’

sition gave willingness and
namin te [DAVIDSON ELECTIONS 796] é¥  aen
time to begin the events which
deciding the Union Board
some specific goals for the Union Union, through creative commu- creates, says Hamlin.

Board’s future. nication and personal contact.” She states thatthe Union Board

Hamlin says she wants the
Union Board to help bring faculty,
staff, and students together in a
way that is informal and non-aca-
demic.

‘She would also like to see the
Union Board working closer with
the Patterson Court Council, SGA,
and Reach Outto bring all facets of
the community together.

With these new goals in mind,
Hamlin gives credit to her prede-
cessors.

“The upcoming Union Board
can do nothing but succeed be-

The current Union Board
made a promise to have events
available every weekend for stu-
dents. With this goal accomplished,
Hamlin hopes to sustain its suc-
cess.

Everett says, “What makes or
breaks the Union is the new board,
so it is important to chose the best
one possible.” She encourages ev-
eryone interested to make sure they
sign up for interviews.

Students may sign up to inter-

view for the various Board posi-

tions at the Union desk beginning

~ has made weekend programming

available for everyone, but she
hopes throughout the upcoming
year more students will take ad-
vantage of Union opportunities.

_ She says, “Currently many stu-
dents take the Union Board for
granted, but I hope that this atti-
tude diminishes as the Union Board
proves for yet another year that we
are sincerely devoted to the inter-
ests of the student body. I can only
predict wonderful things for this
College U nion in the next year.”

RESULTS

Brad House and Deborah Mitan (ct pictured),

| Defense Advisors

Bl “We look forward to supporting the honor system and contributing
to its efficiency.”

Amy Lindstrom and Sallie Permar,
Student Solicitors

Permar: “I look forward to learning the process behind the honor system.”
Lindstrom: “It will be a lot of hard work, but it will be a good experience.”

Caroline Polster and Matt Rich,
Council for Campus and Religious Life (CCRL)

“We hope that we can have a positive impact on the campus as a whole as we
serve the students of Davidson.”

Katie Brasfield and Bill Abrams
President and Vice-President of Reach Out

Abrams: “My idea for this next year is to try to make Reach Out a presence
on campus as a service entity, and I think it is important that people spend at
least some other time trying to do something outside of themselves.”

