THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Livin i i
1g Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER A
ROBERT Riatehy KATHERINE HASH
Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager ~
Associate Editors TERESA WHITE NAL
WiLLIAMEORLe JOSHUA BUCHANAN
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
Assistant News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
JOANNA JOHNSON Photography Editor
oe ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
Opinions Editor CHLOE BROOKE
JEFF KENT Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Ah, Davidson

ae In four years we’ve seen the changing faces of Davidson. We’ve seen the
building of a new Visual Arts Center and a new Melrose Place apartment building.
We've seen our soccer team to the NCAA Final Four hosted here at Davidson.
We've said goodbye to such major figures as Dean Will Terry, Athletic Director Terry
Holland, and College Archivist Chalmers Davidson. We’ve seen the end of a $160
million Campaign for Davidson. We’ve seen the growth of Charlotte and of the
greater Cornelius area. We’ve seen one of our fellow students win the Rhodes.
We’ve seen John Kuykendall to the end of his term as Davidson’s 15th president.

As far as changes go, these have all been quite significant.

But as significant as these big changes have been, the quieter, more subtle
changes—those that might not make the front page but can be found buried on page
four—are what will strengthen and confirm the ideals behind the reality at Davidson.
Three years ago we heard the stories of racist and sexist behavior on the part of our
fellow students; we saw attitudes we wanted to change. Four years later, we see a
campus striving for unity, inclusiveness, open-mindedness, and tolerance—goals,
attitudes, and ideals manifested in the Habitat for Humanity house, a new. Ethnic
Studies concentration, a well-supported FLAG group, and a co-ed hall. Though not
breaking news at Davidson, these changes in perceptions deServe as much credit.

Tradition, however, is as important as transition. As we move into the 21st
century, we must strive to maintain the basic principles that brought us here: honor,

character, hard work, faith, and ingenuity. Believing in this place as a good and -

positive environment, believing in community, believing in education—these
traditions have become a part of all of us. These traditions are what keep us together
in the face of change.

In the coming years, Davidson will walk the tightrope between tradition and
change. We challenge our successors at The Davidsonian to continue as facilitators
and communicators of these changes while remaining true to the history and integrity
of Davidson. Recognizing the power of the written and printed word, the importance
of communicating ideas, and the necessity of an open forum for student discourse,
The Davidsonian must walk.the fine line with Davidson in instigating change and
perpetuating tradition. Perhaps this task is a larger responsibility than we can even
fathom.

We trust that our new editors, John Copenhaver, Mary Clare Jalonick, and
Teresa White, will face the challenge and succeed with tenacity and grace. As for our
own staff, we couldn’t have printed the South’s Foremost College Weekly without
the ability to crop photos and download fonts. Special thanks goes to our beloved
associate editors, William and Russ, for their hard work, energy, humor, patience, and
friendship. Without them The Davidsonian would not have the smart quotes that it
does. We also thank our seniors—Katherine, Schoon, and, well, okay, El Jefe—for
their commitment to the paper, and in turn, to Davidson. Thanks for the memories.

Mandy Curtis Bobby Ramsay

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Thought

Ss on Pass/Fail

Itis that time again: The
deadline is fast approaching
and students all over this
campus are wondering to
themselves, “am I going to
take a class pass/fail and if
so which one?” The answer,
unfortunately, is that we are
forced to make uninformed
decisions which we often
regret after our first grades
are returned. My question is
simple: Why do we have to
decide on pass/fail before

why are we not allowed to

[exchange the pass/fail for

our real grade at any time in
the semester? I have asked a
great many people this ques-
tion and no one has ever
given me ‘an answer other
than that’s just the way it is.
Inthe following article I will
try to convince you that that
is not the way it should be.

The most glaring prob-
lem with the current system
is that almostno one receives

we get any grades back, and °

a grade in the first three
weeks of class (the deadline
for pass/fail). We are forced
to gamble on whether we
should take a certain class
pass/fail or not. As a result;
this decision normally is
based on what we have heard
from friends about how hard
the class or professoris. This
can either lead to a person
getting creamed in a class
he/she thought they could
handle ora person ending up

gotan A- on his first test. He
was really upset because he
said if he hadn’t taken the
class pass/fail he could have
worked hard and gotten an
A or A-. What ended up
happening was that he sim-
ply blew the class off and
passed.

Many argue that the pur-
pose of pass/fail is not to
make GPAs better, but to
allow students to take classes
outside of their major that

taking a class pass/fail that they aren’t good at without
he/she does really well in. . having-to,.worry.about.th

dent will tell you that the
first part of this problem is
bad, it is in the second part
where one finds the total con-
tradiction to everything for
which Davidson and
academia stand. The cur-
rent system gives no incen-
tive for students to try or
learn in their pass/fail
classes. A friend of mine
took aclass pass/fail and then

to my second question: If
the student does the work
and puts in the effort in a
class, why not allow that stu-
dent to receive the grade he/
she deserves? If a student

takes a course pass/fail and

then gets an A or a B in it,

see Pass/F ‘ail on page 8

Finding the meaning of service

To the editors,

I had been tutoring
Tikeysie and her classmates
all day, but she had not yet
spoken to me. When it was
time to go home, the little
first grader ran over to me
and gave me a hug. Then
she asked, “Will you buy me
something?” Surprised by
her question, I replied,
“What kind of something?”
Finding my question equally
odd, she shrugged and said,
“T don’t know. People who
come here usually buy me
something and then they
leave.”

Encounters like this one
and many. others last sum-
mer had a profound effect
on my idea of service. Al-
though I have always volun-
teered for a couple of hours
a month in the community
and tried to donate what I
could,’ as a Stapleton-
Davidson intern, I realized
that I did not have a clue
what service was. Like many

people, I saw service as an
activity. The message that
my type of volunteer work
sent was that I was there to
just fulfill some moral duty,
which would have no effect
on me once I left. One wise
first grader showed me that
service is not about a few
hours or a few dollars — itis
about a way of life. Service’
should be an integral part of
all we do and in all our rela-
tions, whether we are inter-
acting with people in the in-
ner city, friends, roommates,
professors, coworkers,. or
parents.

If you, too, have a heart
of service and are still look-
ing for that perfect summer
job, the Stapleton-Davidson
Urban Service Internship is
an opportunity worth inves-
tigating. The internship of-
fers students a $2500 sti-
pend to work at a service
agency in inner-city Char-
lotte through a local church.
Such service agencies range

from serving as a counselor
for a day camp to counseling
the homeless to offering
emergency assistance to
people in crisis. Further-
more, while gaining hands-
onexperience serving people
and learning about the de-
tails of social service, in-
terns are also challenged to
explore their call to serve
through discussions with
ministers and other interns.
Iencourage anyone and
everyone to apply, for it is
truly an amazing opportu-
nity. But I must warn you:
those who undertake this job
cannotescape without being
permanently changed. Con-
fronting the harsh and un-
settling realities of the inner
city calls into question our
beliefs and habits. But, while
improving our serve is never
an easy thing, what we learn
is always worth the effort.

Sincerely,
Nicole Howard
