6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Week in Washington

Clinton unveils 1997 budget

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Tuesday morning, President
Clinton presented a $1.64 trillion
budget for fiscal 1997. While con-
taining few new proposals, the plan
would result in a budget surplus by
2002.

The 2,000 page draft is largely
based on the compromises that
Clinton already made to Republi-
cans during the failed balanced-
budget talks held two months ago.
Discussion on the plan will not
begin until the current 1996 bud-
get crisis is resolved. “Until we get
past this year’s problem, the 1997
budget is just a debating point with
Republicans,” said a senior admin-
istration official on Monday. .

The new budget is important
politically because it will form the
basis for a legislative struggle be-
tween the president and Senate
Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-KS),
both of whom are presidential can-
didates. According to Leon
Panetta, White House Chief of
Staff, “a very unique window of
opportunity” exists before the sum-
mer campaign season in which the
two contenders will grapple over
the budget, welfare, and Medicare
reform. Both sides will be care-
fully calculating the political im-
pact of their support for any legis-
lative compromises.

Clinton forecasts modest eco-
nomic growth of 2.3% per year for
the next five years. His budget
would cut taxes by $117.5 billion
over seven years, including a $500

per child tax credit for middle and
lower income families and a de-
duction of $10,000 for college tu-
ition. Clinton would increase
spending on education and the en-
vironment and extract $124 billion
in savings by reducing Medicare
growth. There would be no capital
gains tax cut for investors. The
budget would be balanced by 2002,
although most of the cuts are post-
poned until 2000, precisely when
Clinton would leave office if he
wins a second term.

Dole reacted cautiously to
Clinton’s budget. “If you want a
real balanced budget, if you want

_tomake fundamental changes, I’m

willing tositdown with you. You’ ll
getcredit. I’ll getcredit.” Clinton’s
plan already allows him to claim
credit for proposing a balanced
budget, and any legislative com-
promises that Clinton can sign
would show voters that he can ful-
fill his campaign promises.

Many observers predict that
Republicans will send Clinton bills
that he will veto so that they can
portray the president as an obstruc-
tionist. Dole is already touting
Clinton as “Veto Bill.” With a
Republican majority in Congress,
Dole will have a far easier time
achieving legislative results that
he can use in the fall campaign.

In an important ruling for
American college campuses, the
United States Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit of Louisiana found
that universities cannot prefer mi-
norities in admissions decisions,
even to increase diversity. The

three-judge panel ruled unani-
mously last week that the Consti-
tution does not allow the Univer-
sity of Texas Law School “to con-
tinue to elevate some races over
others, even for the wholesome
practice of correcting perceived
racial imbalance.”

The suit was brought by four
white students who were denied
admission even though they had
higher test scores than admitted
minority applicants. The ruling is
far more conservative than the land-
mark Supreme Court decision of
Regents of the University of Cali-
fornia v. Bakke, which held that to
increase campus diversity, race
could be considered in admissions.

“This is clearly another nail in
the coffin of racial preferences,”
said Clinton Bolick, litigation di-
rector of the conservative legal
group Institute for Justice. Ted
Shaw of the NAACP Legal De-
fense and Educational Fund Inc.
accused the court of “dismantling
the entire body of case law in the
area of race discrimination.”

The University of Texas has
not decided whether to appeal the
ruling tothe Supreme Court. Schol-
ars are uncertain whether the high
court will review the case, let alone
reverse it. Meanwhile, adminis-
trators at the University of Texas
predicted that the number of black

and Hispanic students might be cut
“by half or more.”

Sources include: March 19 and 21
of The New York Timesand March
19 of The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective
Doubt cast on the future of Bosnia

By Anpy BaRwiG
Guest Dean Rusk
Adjunct Reporter

The historic Dayton Agree-
ment and the snowy images of
combat battalions crossing rivers
into Bosnia seem to have faded
from the minds of many Ameri-
cans. Indeed, a rash of foreign
policy crises from the downing of
two anti-Castro planes over Cuba
to the Chinese war games in the
Taiwan Strait has relegated the
NATO peacekeeping mission in
Bosniato brief mention in the daily
headlines. Has peace and stability
finally come to the war-torn Balkan
region?

All is not well in Bosnia. A
string of recent events has under-
scored the frailty of the peace agree-
ment and has suggested the likeli-
hood that Bosnia will plunge into
the abyss of civil war once again
after American forces withdraw at
the end of this year.

First, the. transition of
Sarajevo’s suburbs to the Bosnian
government’s control has been far
from what the leaders at Dayton
envisioned. Hopes for Sarajevo to
serve as an example of ethnic har-
mony and reconciliation have
transformed into a grim reality as
Bosnian Serbs fearing retributions
from the government authorities
have left their homes outside of
Sarajevo.

Second, with all the public
outrage over gross human rights
violations and ethnic cleansing
which brought the international
community into the conflict in the
first place, the worst perpetrators
of these crimes against humanity
continue to roam free in areas con-
trolled by militias.

One of the Bosnian Serb lead-
ers who was personally involved
in the shelling of civilian areas in
Sarajevo recently made a brazen
public appearance at a ski resort
outside of the capital city, flaunt-

ing the impotence of peacekeeping
forces to establish any precedent
of justice for crimes done in the
past.

These scars of war will not
heal within the single year allo-
cated for the peacekeeping mis-
sion in Bosnia.

The locus.of the debate tends
to focus on America’s steadfast
stance for its departure date from
Bosnia. Careful to set a definite
date for the withdrawal of all its
forces from Bosnia, America was
seeking to avoid the same kind of
mission creep which wrecked
peacekeeping efforts in Somalia.

Is one year enough time to
expecta nation torebuild and agree-
ments to cement? Military forces
inside Bosnia have dug in for the
year, allowing time to regroup, re-
arm and retrain. Sustainable peace
still seems to remain in deep freeze.

The question is, will the com-
ing thaw signal a return to hostili-
ties?

Paraguay’s international adoptions under suspicion

Paraguay’s court system has become the target of numerous accusations;
that it has repeatedly sanctioned illicit international adoptions of Paraguayan
children during the past few years.

One Paraguayan woman recently stepped forward, intent on challenging
the allegedly corruption-riddled system. She claims that her 14 month old}
daughter was stolen and ‘Sold for international adoption to an American couple
in 1993,

Since the demise in 1989 of Paraguay’s dictatorial government, which
has ruled the small South American country for 35 years, Paraguay has come
to supply more children for adoption in the US than any other South American]
country.

Disco fire in Manila results in over 100 fatalities

During Tuesday’s early morning hours fire broke out in a crowded disco
in Manila, capital of the Philippines. Literally packed with teenagers in the
midst of a school-end celebration, the entire building was ravaged by flames.

Hours after the fire, 80 bodies had been recovered form the wreckage, and
officials predicted that the death toll would likely reach 150.

Cuban emigrants’ hopes rise with lottery announcement

Last week, just days after the US government announced its intention to
hold a second lottery to allow Cubans to emigrate to the US, throngs of Cabal
gathered in Havana outside the United States’ Interests Section, hoping to}
hand in their lottery applications.

The lottery system was devised in 1994 by the US in an attempt to curb] -
the flow of Cuban boat people entering the U.S.

Through the lottery, Cubans who do not have relatives in the US and
might not otherwise qualify for emigration are given a chance of acceptance’
into the United States.

Western envoys say HAMAS budget funneled through Jordan

Western leaders, reacting to a string of deadly terrorist acts against Israel
for which HAMAS, a militant Islamic movement, claimed responsibility,
urged Jordanian officials to shut down HAMAS operations within Jordan.

Jordanian Information Minister Marwan Muasher denied Hamas pres-
ence in the nation saying, “There are no HAMAS offices in Jordan.”

Yet Muasher was forced to admitted that HAMAS representatives
maintain operations in the political headquarters of Jordan’s legal organiza-
tion, the Muslim Brotherhood. The Brotherhood holds 17 of 80 parliamentary
seats in Jordan’s government.

Western intelligence officials insist that much of HAMAS’ $70 million
budget is channeled to the group through Jordan.

Sources include: The New York Times March 19 and 21, 1996

etc.

“Blinding Sperm” could lead to male contraceptive

RALEIGH, NC—A North Carolina State University scientist has
developed a synthetic chemical compound that “blinds” sperm and
may lead to a male contraceptive.

The compound, a sugar analogue, has been found to inhibit 98%
of the enzymatic activity needed for sperm maturation and fertility in
male rats, without altering their hormonal balance, reports Dr. Joseph
C. Hall, Assisstant Professor of
Biochemisty at NCSU.

“The analogue appears to have a short onset of action, negligible
effectson the libildo and no residual effect on the rat’s fertility after
the dosage has been discontinued,” he says.

How’s it work? Normally, a male enzyme gives the sperm cell
the ability to recognize, bind with and penetrate the membrane of
egges, resulting in fertilization. The analogue inhibits this enzyme.

Additional research will be needed before scientists can know if
it is safe and effective on humans, Hall says.

—College Press Services

lasts about seven hours. In addi-
tion, the scene takes place in a
hospital room during a medical
examination, not in the bedroom.
The character, an AIDS patient,

Angels

from page 1

and by four o’clock had a group of
pro-Angels ready and motivated to
counter-protest Chambers. Christa

Abbott canceled rehearsal for that -

night, and signs were made to bla-
zon our support. By the time the

protest began at 6:30 p.m., theater
students had gathered about 12 stu-
dents to support Angels. We
marched along with approximately
150 other supporters, and chanted
“Censorship has got to go!” The
police kept us separated from the
20 Concerned Charlotteans that
protested on the other side of the
block.

Despite the cold weather, spir-

its were high among the pro-An-
gels group, as we shouted “Free-
dom in Art!” and other chants. A
popular one was: “What do we
want? Free Speech! Where do we
want it? Charlotte!” Ticket hold-
ers marched with us until the show
began.
The controversial scene lasts;

according to Kushner, about eight

seconds, while the two-part play

removes his clothes reluctantly for
a nurse to check his lesions, and
these few seconds of nudity are the
basis for Chambers‘ argument to
pull the play.

Many other plays contain male
frontal nudity, including Equus by
Paul Shaffer. Our Davidson Col-
lege Theater Department produced
Equusin 1994, yet lead actor Adam

Knapp was not arrested. nor. did .

protestors march opening night.
The real issue is the homosexual
content in Angels in America, not
the nude scene.

Angles inAmericawill be run-
ning until March 27th in its com-
plete form, but after that date the
scene may be changed or the play
canceled. If the play is forced to
change, Kushneris considering tak-
ing the case to the Supreme Court
as a violation of free speech. As
one of the Angels supporters and a
theater student, I can only hope
that the play will be allowed to run

in its pure form.
