6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington
Clinton urges a new State of the
Union — an “Age of Possibility”

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Twice declaring that “the era
of big government is over” and
calling for a partnership between
government and individual initia-
tive, President Clinton delivered
his fourth State of the Union Ad-
dress before a joint session of Con-
gress Tuesday night.

“We must go forward as one
America,” Clinton said as he urged
businesses and families to assume
more responsibility for their com-
munities. “To improve the state of
our union, we must all ask more of
ourselves. We must expect more
of each other, and we must face our
challenges together.”

Clinton appealed directly to
voters in his speech and avoided
explicit criticism of the Republi-
can-controlled Congress, which
has slashed many of his favorite
programs and shut down the gov-
ernment twice to force him to ca-
pitulate on budget negotiations.

“I compliment the Republi-
can leadership and membership for
the energy and determination you
have brought to this task,” Clinton
said. He deplored “division, dis-
crimination, and rancor” and
stressed the need for teamwork
between both parties. However,

he lectured Congress to “never —
ever — shut the federal govern-

ment down again.”

Rather than focusing on re-
cent Capitol Hill developments,
Clinton concentrated the bulk of
his speech on the future. He struc-
tured his speech’ around a list of
seven challenges that he believes
America faces.

Borrowing many themes of
conservatives, Clinton urged “par-
ents to be their children’s first
teachers.” He supported ratings
for television programs and the
installation of ““V” chips in televi-
sions for parents to block out un-
wanted programming. Challeng-
ing the entertainment industry to
“improve what children see on tele-
vision,” he offered to meet with
network representatives personally
next month discuss the matter.

To provide “educational op-
portunity,” Clinton outlined an
ambitious goal of connecting ev-
ery classroom to the Internet by
2000. He repeated his support for
national teaching standards and
called for the expansion of the
work-study program from 700,000
to 1 million students over the next
five years. He proposed making
$10,000 per year of college tuition
tax-deductible and providing
$1000 merit scholarships for the
top 5% of American high school
students.

Clinton boasted that “our
economy is the healthiest it has
been in three decades.” He noted
that eight million new jobs have
been created since he took office,
while the combined rate of unem-
ployment and inflation is at its
lowest point in 27 years.

Still, he said “too many of our
fellow citizens are working harder
to keep ahead.” Clinton called for
a $2600 voucher for continuing
education and job training, an in-
crease in the minimum wage, and
a tax credit for working families.
Clinton also asked for a bipartisan
welfare-reform bill he could sup-
port and urged a national crusade

against teenage pregnancy.

Another major focus of his
speech was “[taking] back our
streets from crime, gangs, and
drugs.” He reiterated his support
for the Brady, Law and the Crime
Bill of 1994 and urged the trying of
teenagers who commit capital of-
fenses as adults. He asked housing
authorities to evict convicted crimi-
nals and residents caught selling
drugs.

In other matters, Clinton called
on Congress to enact a bipartisan
campaign finance reform bill anda
line-item veto. While criticizing
Congress for reducing environ-
mental protection funds, he ap-
pealed to communities and busi-
nesses to reduce pollution without
new regulations.

Referring to Bosnia in par-
ticular, Clinton thanked members
of the armed forces and hoped that
the nation would not submit to the
“voices of isolation.”

While the speech offered few
new proposals, Clinton largely suc-
ceeded in painting himself as a
voice of reason above the political
chaos of the past several months.
His speech was conciliatory in
many respects. Topics such as
television violence, parental re-
sponsibility, and cracking down
on illegal immigration were bor-

rowed from conservatives, and he
avoided partisan attacks.

President Clinton claimed that
while he shares many overall Re-
publican goals, he would achieve
them with greater compassion.

Sources include: January 24 of
The New York Times and The
Wall Street Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

Yeltsin struggles to find steady
ground amid crumbling state

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunt Reporter

This year will mark the first
time in Russia’s history that it will
truly have a taste of what democ-
racy is really like.

This coming June, Russia will
have its first real presidential elec-
tion. Since Yeltsin came to power
after the failed coup in the old
Soviet Union, he has been fighting
to maintain his “man of the people”
image while trying to simulta-
neously guide Russia through post-
Soviet turmoil and show the rest of
the world that Russia is truly be-
coming more democratic.

There have been many ob-
stacles standing in his way. First,
there has been the problem with
the economy. Making the change
from a socialist government run
economy to a liberal capitalist
economy has been difficult and is
still far from complete.

Senior Economic Advisors and
quick-fix economic policies thana
person can count (the most recent
casualty being the Minister of the
Economy, Antoly Chubais). His
problem is that change hurts, and
the people who feel the pain and
discomfort of achanging economy
are the voters. The voters force-
fully expressed their discontent
with Yeltsin’s reforms most re-
cently this last December by giv-
ing the communist party the ma-
jority of seats in Russia’s Parlia-
ment,

Yeltsin’s biggest problem,
however, is that he has no real
Support group, and so he is stuck
trying to appeal tothemall. Yeltsin
is not liberal enough to satisfy the
liberals nor conservative enough
to satisfy the conservatives. Asa
result, he simply takes turns paci-
fying one group after another.

His recent actions in
Chechnya seem to indicate (as

Yeltsinhasgonethroughmore many analysts have suggested) that

with the elections quickly ap-
proaching, Yeltsin has decided that
if he is to be re-elected, he will
have to have the support of the
right-wing nationalists. His for-
eign policies, both in Bosnia and
more recently in Chechnya, seem
to confirm this theory.

To the West, Russia’s chang-
ing political scene is like the pro-
verbial rock and ahard place. Very
few people in the West believe that
the re-emergence of communism
is anything but trouble. The prob-
lem is that the second most power-
ful group at this moment in Rus-
sian politics are the ultra-national-
ists of the Liberal Democratic
Party.

One surveying the Russian
political scene can see the spot
Yeltsin has found himself. There
is no middle ground to stand on. If
Yeltsin hopes to be re-elected, he
must pick a side — and even then
there are never any guarantees in
politics.

Write for Che Dabvidsonian. Call us at -2148.

’ MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 1996

They Should Really Pay Profressors More

An art professor at Texas A & M_ university resigned in
December after police said he offered to give a student an A in
exchange for $100.

Jose Martinez, on faculty with the university for more than 15
years, was arrested after he accepted money from freshman Chris-
topher Cruz, who was wired to campus police.

The incident started a week before when Martinez announced
to his class that he was collecting art portfolios for a final grade.
Cruz, who could not find his portfolio, said his professor offered to
overlook that fact in exchange for $100.

Acting on the advice of his friends, he approached the professor
again, this time with a hidden tape recorder.

According to the university police chief, “Cruz told Martinez
that he didn’t have the money. So, the professor lowered the price
to $50.”

Martinez was promptly arrested by the South Texas Drug Force
after accepting an envelope containing the $50 from Cruz. He acted
like he had no idea what was happening.

Martinez was charged with bribery, a second degree felony, and
has pleaded innocent. If convicted, he faces a maximum 10-year
sentence or $10,000 fine.

Historical Tabloids

Forget the grocery store checkout counter. To history fans, the
nations most exciting tabloid may be one published in a 150 year old
brick farmhouse on the fringe of Amish country in Pennsylvania.

When the tabloid, Old News, headlines an article, “Greek
Philosopher Faces Death Penalty” (Socrates) and dates it 399 B.C.
no one complains about staleness. 8

Other eye interesting headings: “King of England “Tried for
Treason” (Charles I, 1649); “Sitting Bull Predicts Victory for the
Indians” (1876); “President’s Wife Accused of Bigamy” (Rachel

| Jackson); or “Surving Titanic Crewman Describes Wreck: Blames

Sea Monster for Disaster”(1912); “We never have to going digging
for our dirt,” says publisher Richard Bromer. “We just look it up in
the encyclopedia.”

-College Press Service

-Orlando Sentinal

GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK

NEW TAN RATES
$4.00 PER SESSION

10 sessions for $33.00
15 sessions for $43.00

20 sessions for $50.00

Monthly Unlimited for $49.00

SS,
{> Ga Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Comelius
S0UL SOUTIOgES (704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails ¢ French Manicures « Pedicures
TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

-9: National Eating Disorders Awareness We

Monday Feb. 5: 7:30 p.m., Carolina Inn, "What Helps?
Personal Accounts," Students,
Dr. DeWitt Crosby and Georgia Ringle

Wednesday Feb. 7: 7:30 p.m., Visual Arts Lecture Hall,
"The Very Skinny Woman In The
Expensive Clothes: Images of Women
In Advertising," Dr.. Nina Serebrennikov

February 5-9: The Student Counciling Center will offer free

k

screening for Eating Disorders, daily 9-12 noon

