2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Junior Class Senator Elected

Sophomore Sara Strauss was elected by an SGA secret ballot vote last
Tuesday to fill the only vacant position on the SGA Senate. She will serve
as senator to next year’s Junior Class. The Senate seat had been unfilled since
the Class 3 elections held during the first week of April.

Strauss ran against sophomores David Aycock and Greg Russell for the
position.

Kappa Sig Senator sworn in
Freshman Conner Eldridge was sworn-in as Kappa Sig’s SGA repre-
sentative at last Tuesday’s SGA meeting.

Trustees grant tenure to all six eligible faculty members

Among the decisions faced by Davidson’s trustees during their visit
two weeks ago was that of tenure grants to several faculty members.

All six eligible faculty members were granted tenure. They include:
Jonathan Berkey, History; Mauro Bothello, Music; Scott Denham, German;
Vivien Dietz, History; Ken Menkhaus, Political Science; and Janet Shannon,
Anthropology/Sociology.

Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarships available

Only two and a’half weeks remain until application materials for the
Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarships, worth around $22,000, are due. Stu-
dents who have completed two years of college are eligible to apply for the
scholarships, which are awarded by multiple-county Rotary districts. Appli-
cations should be submitted to students’ local Rotary Club, either from the
home or college area.

Students may contact former Rotary Scholars Julius Melton, Director
of Institutional Advancement; Ruth Pittard, Assistant Dean-Bonner Schol-
ars/International Students; or Homer Sutton, Associate Professor of French.
Students may also contact recent Rotary Scholarship recipient Marc LaFrance,
a senior.

Writers wanted

The Lambda 10 Project would like the personal stories of gay fraternity
men on what it is/was like to be gay in a fraternity — “Closeted or Out.” The
project would feature these stories in a published book and bring “visibility”
to the fact that gay brothers do exist and are contributing members of all
Greek fraternities.

These stories along with homophobia intervention techniques tailored
to fraternities will then be published in a book for utilization by the Greek
community and student affairs professionals.

If interested, write Shane Windmeyer; Office of Student Ethics/Anti-
Harrassment Programs; 705 E. 7th Street; Bloomington, IN 47405-3809, or
call (812) 855-4682 or (812) 855-4463, or email lambdal0@indiana.edu by
June 10, 1996. All information will be kept confidential.

Presidential Search Committee seeks suggestions

Plans, are underway for the search for John Kuykendall’s successor.
The Search Committee has asked all members of the community for
suggestions regarding candidates for the position. They would prefer to
receive these recommendations before the end of June 1996. The mailing
address is Larry J. Dagenhart; Chair, Presidential Search Committee; P.O.
Box 31247; Charlotte, NC, 28231. The committee is looking for someone
capable of most fully exhibiting certain characteristics, among the follow-
ing: :

Depth of experience and talents to recognize and articulate needs and
opportunities for change, along with the ability to appreciate the deep
heritage of Davidson — among its many features a clear focus on teaching
and learning, a familial character, a relationship to the Presbyterian Church,
an emphasis on athletics as part of full undergraduate experience, and a
highly-regarded honor code. According to the college charter, the president
will be affiliated with the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Personal capacity for stragegic thinking and planning, along with the
ability to engage others and then oversee the translation of widely-shared
planning goals and objectives into action.

A record of engaging, developing, empowering and guiding acollabo-
rative and decisive administrative team.

NEWS.

MONDAY, APRIL 29,1996

CONVOCATION

ODK Teaching Award: Homer Sutton
ODK Honorary Member (Community): Bernice Houston

- ODK Honorary Member (Staff): Joretta Archie

Departmental and Special Awards

Bill Avery Music Award: Aaron Payne Lesher

Sandy Black Memorial Award in Premedical Studies Clyde Jason Wright

Franz Boaz Award in Anthropology: Karen Allise Morris

Bremer German Language Award: Adam Leonard Knapp

William Scott Bryant Memorial Award: Heather Kathryn Brown, Eric Manley Sapp and Charles Alan Stormont
Tom Daggy Biology Award: Janet Carson Steven

Alberta Smith DeVane Religion Award: Shannon Lea Simmons

Henry T. Lilly Award for Excellence in English: Mary Laura Moretz and Sarah Elizabeth Brewer
Le Prix de Francais (French Prize): Christine Post Roberts

William B. Hight Teaching Award: Carrie Ruth Waggoner Harris

Mundo Hispanico (Spanish Award): Rebecca Lorraine Blue

Douglas Houchens Studio Art Award: John McKinley Harmon

David Halbert Howard, Jr. Chemistry Award: Thomas Edward Vanderbloemen

Max Jackson Award in Art History: Noni Neils Nielsen

Kendrick Kelley Award in History: Cynthia Anne Marion

William G. McGavock Mathematics Award: Richard Hugh Onkey

A.K. Phifer Award in Economics: William Woods Nolen

J. Harris Proctor Award in Political Science: Eric Michael Collings

Richard Ross Memorial Music Award: Jonathan Robert Pieslak

Theatre Award: Christa Ann Abbott

Porter Vinson Chemistry Award: Diem-Thu Nguyen Thieu

William Vinson Mathematics Award: Dominick Joseph Talvacchio and Yang You

Daniel Blain Woods Award: Kathleen Elizabeth Cook

William Gatewood Workman Psychology Award: Katherine Stirling McEntire and Scott Tonidandel

Announcements of Graduate Fellowships, Scholarships and Other General Announcements

Department of the Army Superior Cadet Awards:
Class of 1996: Sean Redmond Harvey

Class of 1997: Matthew James Hardman

Class of 1998: Andrew Clark Wiser ’
Class of 1999; Lisa Kay Armstrong

Dean Rusk Program Award: Eric Michael Collings and David Victor Chrisopherson
C. Shaw Smith Award: Rosemary Molinary and Jennifer Ann Hankins

Charles Malone Richards Awards: Matthew Arthur Rich and Ravi Scott Jain
Agnes Sentelle Brown Award: Neldes Regina Marranzini

George Gladstone Memorial Award: Thomas Christian Currie

- Tommy Peters Award: Brandon Demond Williams

Rebecca E. Stimson Award: Claudia Danielle Lombard

International Scholars Honor Society:

Phi Beta Delta was started in 1985 in Long Beach, California and there are now more than 80 chapters around the
country. Thanks to the efforts of students, factuly, and staff, Davidson is now the home of the Gamma Pi chapter of Phi
beta Delta. The organizing committee determined the requirements for membership, which state that members must be
juniors or seniors who have had a meaningful international experience, which can include having gone abroad, being an
international studies concentrator or a Center major focused on international studies, being an international student, or
having an international experience in the U.S. (i.e., teaching English to recent immigrants), must have a GPA of 3.15 or
higher, and must have actively promoted international awareness on campus or in the community. The following students
have been selected as the first class of the Gamma Pi chapter of Phi Beta Delta: ae

Lori Brablett Nathan’Gilmer David Pruet

Amy Burrows Mary Gilreath Jill Reger

Letitia Campbell Sara Lyn Goodman Christine Roberts
Jin Chang Peter Hallenbeck Margaret Ann Scheu
David Christopherson Jeni Hankins Jennifer Schuetz
Eric Collings Brad Hilsmier Whitney Simpson
Mandy Curtis Samantha Hodges Darell Smith ‘
Berna Demiralp Laura Jones Sulakshana Srinivasan
Lexy DeVane Loon May Kee Carloe Steele
Stephen Elliot Aigool Khalikov Jorge Thiermann
Jenny Everett Margaret McGehee Krisztina Tihanyi
James Furr Hedy Moolenaar Peter Varney

D.J. Gerken Swati Patel

Drugs

from page 1

(mushrooms), “bags of green veg-
etable matter,” and various pills —
Ativan, Vicodon, and Lortab.

Police received an anonymous
tip from an unrevealed source, and
they responded to the information
by going to the apartment and ask-
ing to search it. They found, ac-
cording to the campus police re-
port, “three pieces of what ap-
peared to be psilocybin on the
coffee table of the apartment.”

Five people were present in
the apartment when the police en-
tered; only one was a Davidson
student.

The Davidson senior, worried
about blame being placed on her
roommates, automatically beaks Te-

sponsibility for the drugs. How-

ever, the real owner of the drugs
(the boyfriend of the visiting stu-
dent) was on the porch when the
police arrived, and left when he
saw them.

The police officers, who had
already located the drug-filled car,
asked who owned the vehicle. The
friend claimed it was hers, and ac-
companied police onasearch. Then
they found the drugs, along with
$1,560 in cash, inside the
boyfriend’s backpack inside the car.
She claimed that her boyfriend had
been in possession of her car for
several months.

The police then placed the
friend under arrest on charges of
possesion with intent to sell. She
claimed that she had no idea that
such a large amount was in the car.

The next day the Davidon fe-

ie ee} ‘ :

male retracted the statement that
the drugs in the aprtment were
hers and told the police that the
drugs belonged to the boyfriend
and his friend.

The police, though, have not
formally charged either of the
males.

In general, says Davidson
College Police Chief Rick Moore,
“our position is that we are not
going to tolerate drugs on campus,
and when we do find them we will
charge the users with possesion.”

However, he says no other
drug citations have been issued
this year.

’ Good luck
on exams, from the °

BWavidsontan staff. Dont
orry, we are failing too.

Campus crime for the week of
April 22, 1996

__ In other episodes around campus, the police have found that
careless actions on the part of students have caused problems.

On April 21 a first floor apartment was robbed when a man
climbed through the window. One of the residents was in the room,
sleeping, when the incident occured. Later the roommates found that
a wallet was missing,

In another occurence, on April 22, a man was found in a room in
Cannon dorm. He roamed the halls for a short period, and was later
placed under arrest on charges of trespassing by the campus police.

In addition to these crimes, three backpacks were stolen from the
commons on April 19. Their collective worth added up to almost
$800.

Moore stresses that students can avoid problems by locking
ground floor windows and not letting strangers into dorms. “It defeats
the purpose of the card swipe if people let just anyone in,” he says.

And dont forget: buy exam envelopes
and pay your library fines.

