THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996 3

Court presidents

By Beto BAcon
Staff Writer

The banning of common con-
tainers will have many effects on
Patterson Court and social life at
Davidson. Unfortunately, since
the revised alcohol policy has not
yet been completed, all of the ef-
fects are still unknown. Nonethe-
less, fraternities have begun pre-
paring for next semester.

Pi Kappa Alpha President
Dave Farrar says, “We’re going to
purchase alcohol solely for the
brothers at our functions.” Thus,
members of other fraternities and
eating houses and independents
will have to bring their own. ..

Farrar says, “About half way
through [the semester] we’re go-
ing to switch overtoentirely BYOB
so that we can apply our national
charter and our insurance. ~ That

way we won’t be in violation of
our insurance anymore,”

Farrar doesn’t see a big change
in the types of parties at PiKA. “It

“Personally, I think it’s stupid
to ban kegs and still have open
parties because it’s going to be
harder for the cops to control beer

Sigma Phi Epsilon President
Rix Threadgill agrees. “I believe it
will force drinking more into the
apartments and off campus. The

won't change much for us espe- coming out of the basement.” idea of the Court was free beer, and
cially, because we usually have a David Wick, president of that’ s what the keg meant.” Hence,
lot of bands and theme parties. It Kappa Sigma, encourages.:. Threadgill forsees a decline in the
might have more im- ; number of open par-
pact on other people = ¢, e ° ° o ye ties on campus.
if their regular idea “1 believe it will force drinking more He says: “Wee
of ond isjustkegs into the apartments and off campus. _ triedtopush forthe
and tape music.” ° school policy to al-
ThePresidentof Lhe idea of the Court was free beer, lbw us tn buy alco-
the Kappa Alpha or- and that’s what the keg meant.” hol for the house.
der Josh Norris sees , sigs : ‘ That’s the only thing
a change in the num- — Sigma Phi Epsilon President Rix Threadgill that has saved ue in
ber of open parties the past because the
KA will have. Davidson students to maintain the ~ school policy is over our rational

“There will obviously be a
decline in the number of parties we
have because it’s going to be a lot
more expensive to buy beer in
cans,” he says.

Panelists discuss

wide range of issues
at FLAG forum

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
News Editor

In the intimate setting of the
900 Room before a crowded audi-
ence, three women told about their
Own experiences as declared bi-
sexuals and lesbians. The forum,
sponsored by FLAG; was medi-
ated by sophomore Robert Knight,
former president of FLAG, and
sophomore Susan Plummer, cur-
rent president.

The forum addressed a wide
range of issues, from experiences
before coming outto relations with
family and friends in the context of
their sexual orientations.

The panelists all expressed
concern with the reactions of fam-
ily, friends and the community in
general, but most had not experi-
enced outright discrimination, al-
though “everyone has their silent
forms of discrimination,” said se-

-nior Shayna Chazin.

When asked why they chose
to speak at the forum, each woman
expressed a unique motivaton: the
decision was spontaneous for
Chazin, and sophomore Arsiyanti
Ardie attributed her motivation to
spontaneity as well as to express
her feelings concerning the recent
religion issue and alternative
lifestyles. As an active Southern
Baptist, she says, “I don’t want to
be ostracized. It’s still me.”

After the forum, Ardie felt
good about her decision to speak.
“T feel that it went well,. it was
actually nice that there weren’t as
many people as last year because it
make it more comfortable for us.

Since then all of the feedback had
been really positive — people have
been really open.”

Junior Adriana Arcia says,

“One of the reasons I spoke was
because when! was struggling with
my own sexuality last yearithelped
me immeasureably. Most people
see homosexuals as mythical crea-
tures, but when people come out as
those we know, they become more

accepted to society.”

“I thought the forum went re-
ally well,” says Knight. “I was
very proud of the three speakers,
and I hope the audience has a
greater understanding of their
friends on campus.”

Overall, the group felt like
Davidson was a receptive commu-
nity and open minded for the most
part, and were pleased with the
movement toward awareness that
they had seen. “This college has
definitely surprised me and is defi-
nitely going in a good direction,”
said Knight.

“I would encourage people to
come out not only for their own
well-being, but to set an example
for society as those we know and
love and talk to everyday,” says
Arcia. She would be willing to
speak with anyone who has ques-
tions or concerns of their own re-
garding the matter.

uniqueness of open parties at
Davidson. :

“One of the main things that I
want to work on, and that I chal-
lenge the students at Davidson to
work on, is to keep the party sys-
tem open and figure out a creative
and logistic way to have a semi-

- BYOBsystem that works,” he says.

Wick feels that the open par-
ties are “the backbone for a suc-
cessful social scene at Davidson.”

-He fears that the elimination of
open parties would cause students
to leave campus in search for other
social settings.

Minors Update

By CATHERINE ANDERSON

fraternity policy.” The national
organization “applauds” the ban-
ning of kegs and “does not ever
want house funds to be used for
alcohol.”

Craig Murphy, president of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, also felt
national pressure. “The increased
pressure from the national organi-
zations and the general liability
concerns have pretty much made
the banning of common containers
inevitable,” he says. “It’s just un-
fortunate to see another one of
Davidson’s unique social charac-
teristics done away with.”

foresee fewer parties in fall

-Murphy is unable to say
whether or not there will be any
changes at SAE other than the re-
quired ones. He says, “Davidson’s
social functions might change.
We’re in limbo right now, waiting
on the formal wording of the alco-
hol policy. Once wé hear that then
we'll try to decide as a house the
best way to‘carry out social func-
tions.” ~

Phi Delta President Mike
Ingram says, “I really don’t see
anything changing too much, justa
fewer number of parties and more
brotherhoods.”

He says, “We survived the
change to just beer with one cup
[coming up the stairs at a time]. I
think we can survive going from
kegs to cans and probably even
eventually to BYOB.”

Eating house presidents are ©
not sure what the new system will
bring for their organizations, since
national pressure is not an issue.

Connor President Molly
McGehee says,“To be honest, I
don’t know which way we will go
with this. Hopefully we will go to
an intermediary policy, between
BYOB and kegs. It’s going to be
difficult. We will have to wait
until the fall to figure it out.”

French, Music minors |
for 1996-97 splint year

News Editor

instead of taking a sixth class.”

The Educational Policy Conmnittse’ viewed and approved ‘the’ first minors proposals ‘from the
Departments of French and Music. Says French Professor Homer Sutton, “The French minor will consist
of six courses of the 211 level and above, which must include a composition and conversation course, an
introduction to French Ljterature course, a course in French culture or civilization and three additional
courses beyond 211, one being at the 300-level or above.”
' Of the requirements for the pending Music Minor says Chairman and Professor of Music William
Lawing: “Basically our minor is parallel to our major, but simply requires fewer courses. Where the major
requires four courses in music theory, four courses in music history, a senior seminar and one outside
course, the minor requires two Courses in music theory, two courses in music history, one outside course
and an additional course above the 200-level. The nice thing about a minor is that one can give a recital

The Art History Department has announced its plans to decline the invitation to offer minors.
The two approved minors proposals will go before the faculty for a vote on May 7.

The Babvidsonian is looking for 1996-97 editorial staff. If you are
interested in getting to know the ‘in’ crowd, give us a call at - 2148

We provide individualized
application through skill and
product.

All salons are not created equal.

Ours was created with YOU in mind.
We carry:

- Aveda’

Paul Mitchell

Nexxus
Senscience

Biolage

my

favvy

SAL

o3

i ba

Ay

"704/895-0404

Norman Crossing Shopping Center

1-77, Exit 28--Cornelius, NC __|

