THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996 11

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor

Executive Editors Cartoonist
JOHN COPENHAVER EMILY SIMMONS GREG GARRISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

Associate Editor SUSAN RUGGIERO CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
Sports Editors Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
Associate News Editor Photo Editor Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors Copy Editors . Web Page Managers
NINA BLOUNT CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON JILL WILLIAMS BRAD CHASE.
DANIEL MOTZ

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

BS init
yt

WKY

WANA MAMA. AMAWA HA WAWANA Ha
IT'S TIME
WRIA, aN
AlN Y
bait Hable HA
AW AH HAHA Mit
A AMAHEMHy
eiediang

LETTERS

“The Wavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Freedom and Diversity

And so you are here. You looked at your father or your mother last Spring, and
you said — this is it; this is where I want to be. And now, so fast, good-byes are said,
and you are left here.

You may be thinking: oh God, why did I choose this or oh God, I love ithere. You
can bet on one thing — your attitude will frequently change.

You have chosen a small Southern college. This means that you will not be
recognized by standing up and sitting down at your graduation — you’ll walk across
the stage one by one. You have a chance at a leadership position. You’ll be friends
with your professors. You will know most of the people you pass in the hall, and they
will know all about you — often more than you think.

The Southernness of Davidson also implies a lack diversity, and this is unfortu-
nate. Itis no secret that Davidson has a low percentage of African-American students
and relatively no Hispanic students. As college students learning to open our minds,
we are not given access to a true cross-section of cultures and races, income levels and
backgrounds.

But let us work with what we have.

Many times rhetoric focuses on numbers, and complaints fail to look beyond the
surface. We yell about the lack of black faces, but we fail to look in the eyes of those
who are staring at us.

Students complain about the lack of diversity, saying, “In a larger school many
different types of people inhabit the campus, and therefore thoughts and ideas are
more freely expressed. Here at Davidson everyone thinks alike.” On the surface this
statement might seem true, but if you dig, if you question, and if you talk long enough
to someone, you’ ll soon find out what a diverse place Davidson can be.

When students complain about the lack of diversity at Davidson, it’s often ironic.
It’s not diversity they seek, but rather sameness. When they are looking for diverse
members of a student population, they are often searching for people different from
the majority, but like themselves. The search for diversity should be a search for those
unlike you whom you can learn from and respect.

So, yes, you are abandoned here. You are truly alone and among people who can
‘teach and show you things undreamt of before. And those people may be wearing
khakis and baseball caps — or maybe not.

Whe Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of

Davidson College. Each student may have one free copy. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -
2149. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions

expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the

Editorial Board of The Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35:00 per year. Advertising rates are

available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Welcome

To the Editors:

To all those returning,
welcome back! Hopefully,
your summer was enjoyable
and you are now ready for
another year at Davidson.

To the class of 1997,
congratulations on the ac-
complishments of the past
three years and those forth-
coming. We are proud to be

_ |part of that group and antici-

pate a positive senior year.
Totheclass of 2000, we
are excited that Davidson
chose you and that you ac-
cepted the offer. We are look-
ing forward to looking for-
ward to working with you as
the year unfolds. As seniors,
we are pleased to see such a
talented class enter
Davidson. We are comfort-
able in the knowledge that
you will lead Davidson into
the next century.
_To the new faculty, on

behalf of the students, wel-.
come to Davidson. We will

enjoy getting to know you as
classes begin and orienta-
tion ends.

As the president and
vice president of the Student

Government Association,
we are bound both by duty
and delight to represent stu-
dents to the administration,
faculty, staff and commu-
nity of Davidson. Joining us
in that task is a senate of
thirty members, committee
members and others who
volunteer to help.

We reach out to hear the
student voice, inform stu-
dents of issues, address stu-
dent needs and propose so-
lutions. Last semester, we
set out to do just that. From
January to May, the SGA
addressed several important
issues. Some of them, we
were able to resolve. Many
students welcomed the ad-
dition of academic minors to
Davidson when the faculty
kindly adopted a student pro-
posal in April. Through our
Student Advisory Council,
we pushed for needed
changes, such as a second
phone line in the senior apart-
ments, new paths and light-

ing around campus, and late ©

night Cat Card access to
Chambers and the Martin
Chemistry Building. We are

grateful to all students and
staffs who helped us achieve
these enhancements for stu-
dents.

In addition, we orga-
nized an extensive polling
project, called Dorm Storm,
to gather student opinion.
Resulting from that were
discussions about the needs
for improvement to the 24-
hour computer room and a
more frequentrides program
for students who wish to go
to Charlotte, or neighboring
towns. Both of these are top
priorities as we begin this
year.

Through ourmany com-
mittees and councils,..we
have also discussed other ex-
citing issues and will con-
tinue to do so this semester.
It is important to us that our
agenda is set by the student
body, so we rely heavily on
student input. The SGA of-
fice phone numberis X2147.

Warren Buford
SGA President

Clair Freeman
SGA Vice President

Get your parents to ...

Subscribe

to The Davidsonian -
mail a $35 check to :

P.O. Box 219
Davidson, NC 28036

Get your T-Shirt for the low bargain
reduced price of $9.99 with
subscription. Look cool. We swear.
