THE DAVIDSONIAN

th

ARTS & LIVING MONDAL, SEPTEMBER 16,1996 8 OR

Palatable Pleasures

Wooing with chocolatel£

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

Today more and more young
women are focusing their time and

you and your offspring/pets. First,
learn how to make chocolate.
Empathy is something you have to
figure out on your own, however, I
can help you out by showing you a

until it is smooth.

Then let your chocolate cool in the
freezer or fridge (1-2 hours.)

energy on finding a career. Now, very simple chocolate trick: When the chocolate gets kinda
the males out there might view this hard, remove.
as a threat, but I’d much rather Here’s what you Do:

view this as a golden opportunity.
You see when women dedicate
their lives to their career; their do-
mestic skills are going to decay.
There are afew women whocando
everything well, but they are tough
to find. So, the way I see it, male
domestic skills are going to be
more and more in demand as a
significant percentage of women
become the primary financial pro-
viders.

This means you can safely
forget about Dr. Putnam’s PAC
committee, the LSAT, the GRE,
declaring a major, and all the other
silly things we worry about. You
only need a few simple skills to
keep a woman happily supporting

Get 1 Ib (16 0z) of Semi-sweet
Chocolate ships, 1 cup of Heavy
Cream, 1 tablespoon of sugar and
1 tablespoon of butter.

Inmedium sauce pan heat the cream
until just before scalding (Before
Boiling).

Place the remaining ingredients
(butter, sugar & chips) into a metal
pan or large bowl.

When you get your cream all nice
and hot, dump it into the bowl with
all the other stuff.

Immediately whisk the mixture

Take a melon baller or spoon and
start scooping.

Roll the scoops into small, marble
size balls.

Your balls might melt (THIS IS
BAD,) so when you are done shap-
ing and coating - put them in the
freezer.

This will yield about 3 dozen balls
(Truffles). If you ever need to
transport the truffles, be sure and
keep them in a cooler or make it a
fast trip. If they melt in transport,
then it is back to the pre-profes-
sional blues. And Remember:

If it’s Fat Free it Sucks.

Jumpin’ Java starts the week out right in the Outpost 8
p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Coffeehouse perks you up with doughnuts in the 900
Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java livens up the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Night provides good olde fash-
ioned fun in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Avasanl

WEDNESDAY

| Internship Fair could supply you with the job you need

in Chambers Gallery 12 p.m. - 3 p.m.

Charles Cooke, M.D., a Davidson alumnus lectures on
dealing with overwhelming illness in Chambers Gallery 7
p.m.

Empire of the Sun adds excitement to the 900 Room.9:30
p.m.

a real pullover

Arlene Render speaks on recent developments in Burundi
in the 900 Room 7 p.m.

look great on the peak of Everest, but kinda silly

Great stuff, cotton fleece. Warm. Soft.

Kayak Rolling provides a fun and exciting study break at
Baker Sports Complex 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m.

Incredibly comfortable. at dinner with the in-laws.

Trouble is, many of today’s fleecy styles Which is why we came up with these clas-
sically inspired versions. Sinfully soft piled cotton
fleece styled after English cricket sweaters, tastefully

appointed with an OSCC chest patch. With just a

seem more suited for the grungy snowboarder

AVGSHNHL

than the regular guy.

You know... neon colors, zippers and

Coffeehouse is there for you again in the 900 Room 8:15

velcro closures. All the bells and whistles that a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

OSCC’s New Fleece V-Neck Cricket Sweatshirt.

bit of polyester to help retain its shape.

Project Life Spaghetti Dinner fills you up for a good
cause in Johnston Gym 5 p.m. - 8 p.m.

Empire of the Sun entertains you before the big night in
the 900 Room 8 p.m.

First Night Down tears up the night on Patterson Court.
Freshmen: don’t miss dinner with your hall beforehand.

Pub Night is the social center for those who don’t care to
laugh at freshmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 1 a.m.

Catfish Jenkins plays it again in the 900 Room 9 p.m. -
12 a.m.

Jumpin’ Java brews it up yet another time in the Outpost
8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Concert Series presents “Mosaic,” a quartet of clarinet,
violin, cello, and piano in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.

Zac says,“Two IDs, you sorry punk!

You need two IDs at the 900 Room bar!”

Ultimate Frisbee!

Join the fun!

Tuesdays and Thursdays
at 4 on on n the IMACs

See ae Bar Ba Tae Yaa ee |

3 Specialty Shops on the Park, Charlotte

Actual styles may vary from those shown here. Quantities limited.

To receive Harold's free men’s and ladies’ catalogs, call 1-800-676-5373

CF OWES
