2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Winston-Salem couple create scholarship
A scholarship for children of Presbyterian ministers has been
created by Gail and Gilmour Lake and friends of Julian and the late
Robert Lake. The scholarship, worth more than $680,000, will fund
the Julian and Robert Lake Scholarship at Davidson College.
The scholarship will cover half of Davidson’s costs, and will
not encourage students to persue the ministry.

. Lake, a 1958 Davidson graduate, says, “We were fortunate that
Daddy always served a big congregation and could afford to send
us to Davidson, but with today’s rising tuition costs there are a lot
of ministers for whom Davidson is simply not an option. I hope this
scholarship will help ease some of the burden.”

Professorship in public policy created
In honor of the late Jim Batten, graduate of the class of 1957
and former Chairmd#h and CEO of Knight-Ridder, the Knight
Foundation and Knight-Ridder are creating a professorship de-
signed to bring differing specialists in public policy to-campus.
The Batten Professorship, which will be interdisciplinary, will
begin in the 1996-97 school year.

Duke Endowment to fund Davidson projects

The Duke Endowment’s annual grant to Davidson will this
year focus on a new campus wide computer-networking project, a
new building for the life sciences, and financial aid.

The largest amount of the grant will go to the campaign for
Davidson, scholarships, library aquisitions, and student internships
and assistantships. Dr. Elizabeth Locke, Executive Director of the
Duke Endowment, said, “We congratulate Davidson on the success
of the recent campaign.

Even though the campaign exceeded its goal, the needs for
finacial aid, infastructure and technology continue ... we hope that
our gift will encourage other donors.”

New Resident Directors found

The Residence Life Office concluded their search for new
Resident Directors after a series of applications and interviews in
November. Juniors Laurie Greif, Jennifer Hibbert, John Hollan,
Wendy Nichols, and Elyse Weitman were chosen to head up the
new staff of Resident Advisors and Hall Counselors that will be
chosen in March. Interviews for these positions begin in February.

Freshmen self-select

As upperclassmen stormed on to their halls Friday morning,
most all freshmen women woke up to good news.

Ninety-eight percent of the women were put into the house of
their choice, with two percent receiving their second choice.
Thirty-nine women went to Connor, 59 to Rusk, and 49 to Warner
Hall. Only five did not receive their first choice.

Pledging was down this year, as 49.8 percent of men and 69.2
percent of women joined a house; both numbers are more than eight
percent less than the class of 1998.

One hundred eleven men joined fraternities, with the average
pledge class size at 16. PiKA has 15 pledges; Sig Ep, 18; Phi Delt,
25; SAE, 8; Kappa Sig, 21; KA, 21; and Fiji has 4.

Patterson Court Advisor Beth Bell was pleased with her first
year of tallying up the results. “Things worked out perfectly this
year,” she says. “It was wonderful.”

ae -Compiled by Mary Clare Jalonick

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 1996

GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK
NEW TAN RATES
$4.00 PER SESSION

10 sessions for $33.00

15 sessions for $43.00

20 sessions for $50.00
Monthly Unlimited for $49.00

Rt,
Sy Go Located at the Chair Factory
20700 N. Main St., Comelius
SOUL SOUTIOSE (704) 892-7030

Sculptured Nails ¢ French Manicures « Pedicures
TREAT YOURSELF TODAY!

Davidson chess team

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Staff Writer

It was a team whose history
extended only three years; a team
who hailed from the Southeast,
where chess clubs are few and far
between, and consequently partici-
pated in a single tournament all
season; a team who entered the
Pan-American Intercollegiate
Chess Championships in New
York seeded 31st in a field of 36
competitors.

But the Davidson College
chess team hurdled any obstacles
it may have faced, making a name
for itself in the championships over
winter break with a first place vic-
tory in the small school division
and an impressive 21st place over-
all finish.

Led by team captain John

‘Ballard ‘06, team members Vinod
Thomas ‘98, Travis Benn ‘98, and |

Mark Gospodnetic ‘99 faced daunt-
ing competition of international
scope.

Seven Canadian teams were
represented as well as a team from

. the Dominican Republic and the

Peruvian National Champion
Team. Five players entered the
championships under grandmas-
ter status, one of whom is Currently
working on his Ph.D. at Harvard.

But Davidson’s team proved
able to hold their own in a tough
field. Outperforming traditionally
powerful schools such as MIT,

John Ballard, Chess Champ.

Rob Kosicki

Mississippi State, and the Univer-
sity of Florida, Davidson’s repre-
sentatives propelled themselves in
the ranks.

In addition, John Ballard ex-
plains that out of a “number of
colleges, Davidson had the best
record of all small schools and was
given the National:Small School
Chess Championship trophy.”

Each member of the four per-
son team played six matches

throughout the tournament. Tests
of mental stamina and concentra-
tion, the matches, which were
timed, lasted as long as six hours.

The team’s success is a result
of both the talent and commitment
of its members. As Benn played
his last match of the tournament,
the minutes ticked away and the
departure time of his flight out of

See Chess on page 3

donations.

prizes.

*First time donors are
also eligible for weekly
drawings for cash and [

Class Reunion
You'll see lots of your friends...

. .. when you visit our
friendly, modern center.
Plus you'll earn $30
ioday and up to $200 a
month for your plasma

plasma alliance

“people helping people”

333-0335

1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205

Valid ID with Social Security number required.
M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm

