THE DAVIDSONIAN

_OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996. 9

FACULTY VOICE
Shelley Rigger

Brown Assistant Professor in Political Science

e § is}
Taking Time Off?

Career Services is offering a seminar for seniors called “Taking
Time Off.” Which makes me wonder, from what? It’s not that I don’t
understand the utility of the phrase; I just don’t like it. “Taking Time
Off’ makes life sound like an express train. You get on when you start|
school at the age of five, and if you behave yourself, you stay on until
you arrive at the final stop 70 years later. If you must, you can make!
a pit stop. Once. Briefly. I prefer the idea of life as a local train,
stopping at lots of stations, branching and turning and circling back
around.

Maybe I’m defensive. I graduated from college in 1984. I started
graduate school in 1988. ‘I guess you could say I took four years off.
But to me, those years counted for at least as muchas any others. Wha'
did I do in my four years of branching and turning and circling back?

I taught seventh and eighth grade ie iar and wrote newsletters for
environmental groups.

I lived in two beautiful, fascinating, terrifying cities: New Haven
and Boston.

I shared six different houses and apartments with 12 different!
people, including a few whose names I don’t even remember.

I lived alone.

I survived a flat tire in the dark at rush hour two 0 days before
Christmas on the New York thruway just outside the Bronx with the car
full of packages.

I escaped from muggers.

Isubsisted on $8,000 (that was the salary at my first full-time job).
Good practice for grad school.

I paid off my student loans.

I experienced the bliss of real vacations: no pressure, no projects,
no dissertation, no publications to work on — just free time. I look
forward to enjoying this again, after I retire.

I figured out that I liked teaching, but that the kinds of challenges!
that would keep me going for 30 years were not the ones I would face
in a seventh grade classroom.

I met my best friend in the world.

I found the love of my life.

I tasted the lifestyles of the rich and famous in Manhattan with a
band of vagabond Irish housesitters on the lam from the INS.

I got in shape for the first and last time.
I traveled to England (twice), Europe and Mexico. And Califor-

nia.

I learned my way around Montreal.

I owned my first car.

I recovered from college enough to appreciate grad school when
I finally got there. When I did get there, I found myself happier and
more balanced than many of my classmates. And I finished my degree
in record time.

If you had asked me at this time in 1984 what I wanted to be doing
in 1996, my answer would have been “teaching Chinese politics,
probably at a college.” Evidently, I didn’t need to take time off. But
without those four years, I might be doing the same job I am now, but

my life would be poorer in exactly every other way.

“Ie Winkelmann.

Sex, women,
and MTV

Ibelieve in the feminist move-
ment and its value to society. Be-
cause of my involvement in this
movement and my mind set, I tend
to overemphasize and analyze so-
cietal influences on our cultural
beliefs and norms concerning
women. At the same time, I fail to
recognize many influences because
of the context in whicti they are
presented and/or simply their wide-
spread acceptance and common
appearance in society. MTV is one
of these influences which I have
seemingly overlooked. But just
like movies, books, and television
shows, the images MTV presents
are watched and digested by a gen-
eral audience and have at least
some impact on our view: of the
world.

I watched a documentary on
MTV and its. presentation of
women in society, and what I saw
was very disturbing. It provoked
many new thoughts and questions
that I had not considered before,
the main one being that the idea of
sexual imagery in music influences
sexual interactions between gen-
ders.

All of the clips in this film,
Dreamworlds 2, were taken from
recent, popular music videos and
adv, ments. They were shock-
ing, lievable and at times dis-
gusting. My thoughts were di-
vided, wondering if how MTV
depicted women was really influ-
ential in the development of gen-
der and sexual identities, if this
information that the video pre-
sented was useful in any way, if I
personally believed that the scenes
presented were harmful and de-
grading. The last was the most
critical tome. Howdid I feel about
what I had just seen?

Lately, I have found myself

wondering if women really are
subjected by men, pushed into a
submissive role in order for men to
retain their power position. I know
that bias still exists, but legally we
share equal status. This film’s
intent was to show how male fan-
tasies of women have become
mainstream, how these fantasies
of violence and bodily objectifica-
tion and submission are accepted
and liked. It was all so evident, but
still I wondered how this really
affects us, me. Is it really a big
deal?

Everything around us influ-

MTV shows
women in a
submissive, male-
dependent role,
and this only
reinforces the
already existing
stereotypes that
tradition and the
media scream.

ences the way we think — the

books we read, the songs we hear,

the people by whom we are sur-
rounded, the religion we follow,
etc. I hate the fact that women
have such low body images. I hate
that everyone feels the need to lose
weight and achieve some set soci-
etal ideal. I hate that we diet and
shop and primp all to look good, to

get noticed. Why do we doit? It’s
a game we play to succeed in the
world. And MTV just contributes
to this already overwhelming im-
age of the ideal female beauty. It
shows the women men want. And
this influences the way we think of
ourselves and the way others re-
gard us. MTV shows women in a
submissive, male-dependent role,
and this only reinforces the ‘al-
ready existing stereotypes that tra-
dition andthe media scream. MTV
did not create these stereotypes,
and it is not the main force keeping
women in their so-called subordi-
nate position, but it does reinforce
them and further ingratiate them in
our minds.

Sex has been shown to sell,
but is it what we really want to buy
into? I do not particularly like
being judged solely on my looks. I
honestly like to be noticed, I think
we all do. ButI, by no means, want
that to be the basis of a relation-
ship,

I do not want myself or any
woman to be thought of as always
wanting sex and willing to take
whatever she can get. I do not want
young boys to watch these videos.
and see the sexual violence and
think that it is the norm in a rela-
tionship. And these are thei images
that MTV presents.

“ «Women are not a'sum of their
parts. We are beautiful for. many
other reasons than the size of our
breasts orour sexual prowess. Nei-
ther submission nor masochism is
eroticmasochism.

But MTV only displays the
opposite of these ideals. It misrep-
resents women, and in doing so
interferes with our ability to define
our own sexual identity and tohave
normal gender interactions.

Just Say No to BYOB

The most common phrase ut-
tered by seniors in the past few
weeks other than, “I have no idea
what I am doing next year,” is “I
am so glad we are almost out of
here.” We, the class of 1996 have
seen a lot of changes at Davidson;
we remember a time when SAE
was off campus, Beach Weekend
existed, the “good ol’ days” before
the alcohol policy, and-we used
clickers to get in the dorms. Now
they give us wristbands, we have a
fantastic basketball team, voice
mail runs our lives, and the smok-
ing room is a figment of imagina-
tion. Who knew? If you had told
me three years ago that the keg
would become a relic and that
Davidson would move towards
BYOB, I would have laughed in

your face. I am not laughing now. ~

I am tempted to join the ranks
_ of the graduated and undisturbed.
Like most of my classmates I want
to leave the small problems of fra-
ternity/eating house’ business be-

hind; I wish that I could put all of
the policy changes that are going

to occur next year out of my mind.

Unfortunately, I think the changes
that are currently in the planning
stages, mean more to Davidson
than any senior realizes. Yes, we
“are almost out of here,” but are we

excused from caring whathappens -

when we are gone?

The BYOB system would
radically change the social scene
at Davidson. Why would anyone
21 or not, go to a party with two
cops, risk managers and everyone
carrying their own beer? Parties
will move to the apartments and
off campus; drinking will move
into dorm rooms, and road trips to
other schools will increase. Not
only will there be an increase in
drunk driving and fake IDs, but
Davidson will lose something that
is much more valuable than any
“crazy” party scene. Davidson will
lose the concept of open parties. If
a house wants to have a function

Emily O’Brien

with alcohol provided by the house
they will have to take up a collec-
tion. Homecoming, Spring Frol-
ics, Christmas Cocktails and
F.A.C.’s will be huge hassles of
finding out who has paid and who
hasn’t. Brotherhoods and Eating
House members-only functions
will increase.

Not only will the new policy
strain relations between Patterson
Court members and independents,
butinteraction between underclass-
men and people over 21 in a social
setting will end. Twenty-one year
olds will go to bars and underclass-
men will stay in their rooms or go
off campus. If we go off campus
not only will the community grow
to dislike the parties, but parties
will be a lot less safe.

I am not implying that we are
a campus of alcoholics and that
without beer provided we will not
venture out of ourrooms, but people
dtink at Davidson, and that is a
reality that will not change. I can

~ probably count on my fingers the
number of court beers I have had in
the past two years, but I go to
Patterson Courtto see the Davidson
populous. I go to the court to see
people I wouldn’t call up, I go to
dance, and, yes, I go because there
isn’t much else to do around here.
The BYOB proposal will go into
effect next fall if the trustees pass it
— plans for a new Union (which
would give us something else to
do) are scheduled for afterthe new
Life Sciences Building — in other
words around the year 2000.
Small changes are necessary.
I understand the keg issue. I think
of it in the same way I think of the
newly erected chain fences around
campus. We are killing the grass.
So, throw down some straw and a

_ chain held up by two fence poles

and perhaps half of the traffic will
actually use the paths. The other
half will just step on the straw and

‘over the chain.

As a senior I do not want to

come back inten years and find out
that the Court is a thing of the past.
The Court is very far from perfect,
but it is something that Davidson
students, graduated orcurrent, have
in common. I think that radically
changing the system to BYOB will
ultimately kill the Court and result
in a much more dangerous and less
integrated social scene at Davidson.

. It may not happen right away but

ten years from now it will. I don’t
want that, and I do not think it is
best for Davidson. We need to
compromise with the administra-
tion about a new policy that might
work at Davidson, I hope that by
the time I leave a plan will emerge
that will not result in great detri-
mental changes. If not, “I’m so
glad to be out of here.”

We have a social scene that
may not be the best around, but we
don’t drive drunk, everyone is in-
vited, and there are cops, risk man-
agers and sober monitors every-
where.
