THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVIN

__ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1996

Daryle Ryce flops; Catfish
Jenkins to test the waters

KATE GREENE &
JASON SCHMIDT
Staff Writers

After Monday’s uninspiring
show in the 900 Room, the Union
Board’s Intimate Performances
Committe (IPC) may need to sal-

vage their rep with their second

show, Catfish Jenkins, who will be
playing Saturday night in the 900
Room.

Monday’s performer,Daryle
Ryce, hails from Charlotte and
Spartenburg. Cover tunes and less
than candid originals spotted her
performance. Her guitar playing
was more up-to-par, but her piano

skills were less than Billy Joel-

esque. She played for the usual
Davidson ‘Monday night IPC

crowd, who enjoyed the mellow
atmosphere as a break from their
monotonous studies. Some stu-
dents, such as senior Sara Beth
Hamlin, came for a second time to
hear Daryle Rice. Those students
who were first-time listeners en-
joyed the folk music for its atmo-
sphere not, in this case, its musi-
cality.

The last time Catfish Jenkins
came to Davidson, the band proved
to be the epitome of college sounds.
Based in the mecca of college
music, Athens, GA, this band hopes
to follow in the wake of success of
other bands who. originated from
there, such as R.E.M. They had
their first big break two years ago
when one of their songs, “The

the compilation, AWAREII. With
this break, the foursome gained
much of their popularity, follow-
ing, and national recognition.

Their sound resembles other
Davidson alumni, such as Cravin
Melon, Edwin McCain, and the
Connells. They have a traditional
lead electric guitar and a beat that
can keep any college student inter-
ested.

The bass line is exploratory
and riveting compared to the tradi-
tional, Michael Stype-type vocals.
Press literature claims that amem-
ber plays the harp — something to
wait for in anticipation.

Catfish Jenkins is playing on
Saturday, September 21st. The
show is at 9pm in the 900 Room,
but the doors open at 8:30pm.

Wishing Time,” was released on

Mystery Machine zooms to Charlotte

By WILL RAGLAND
Staff Writer

This past weekend about a
hundred daring freshmen took the
plunge into the Magical Mystery
Tour, an event sponsored by the F-
CREW, which proved that fresh-
men indeed can run everything
well. The night began with a Sub-
way supper in the 900 Room and a
magically mysterious t-shirt. Af-
terwards, we were carried away in
vans towards our unknown desti-
nation somewhere south of

‘Davidson. After a short journey
we arrived to the Omnimax The-
atre in Charlotte, a domelike plan-

etarium structure.

__ We were herded into the the-
ater, given a pair of 3-D glasses,
and prepared ourselves for the big
show that night known as “Laser
Flashback.” Not quite knowing
what to expect, we were exposed
to an ear-piercing laser show/con-
cert featuring such artists as Jimi
Hendrix, the Grateful Dead, and
The Doors. We were taken on an
emotional roller coaster, with psy-
chedelic colors and shapes danc-
ing in front of our faces.

One could comparethe show
to a freakish dream, an art form
overwhelming the senses of sight
and hearing, or to an artificial col-

lection of drug-induced hallucina-
tions. It was quite an experience
having Jimi, Jerry, and Jim giving

me a personal concert in my ear, .

but also a thrilling one. The lasers
were especially amazing, creating
both weird forms and recognizable
ones.

The Mystery Tour was a wel-
comed escape from reality, and
one that the participating freshmen
enjoyed. As we were truckin’ on

back to Davidson, the familiar

phrases danced in our minds. Come
on baby light my fire; it’s justa box
of rain; and the wind began to
howl. All I have to say is ... what
a long, strange trip it’s been!

FIRST LEI

Freshmen Stephen Gamboa, Laura Shearon, Chase Coffey, Chris Richards, Erin Woodall, Staff
Grayson Carter, and Coddy Coddington cheese for the camera.

We need good writers.
We need help. We need
you! Write for Arts and
Living. Call Susan or
Jill at x2148

HOROSCOPE :

By Dorcas AND SLIM
Consulting Astrologists

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— Build a Geodesic does Make it shiny. Use}
Epcot as a model or one of the biospheres. Lucky Person: Buckminster.
Fuller.

Libra (September 23-October 22)- This week you only live twice, so live
let die. This message comes from Russia, with love: Octopussy does
have eight legs. Lucky Person: Oddjob. Lucky Gadget: gun.

{Scorpio (October 23-November 21)- Perform ablutions with Mr. Clean.

His pate is good for scrubbing. Lucky person: Saye Massengil and/or |:
Shaw Smith. :
jSagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Find yourself climbing: Mt. Be
Parnassus. Compose poems of other elegant literature there, north of the] -
Gulf of Corinth, Lucky instrument: lyre, mandolin, lute, flute, kettledrums
or Casio™ keyboards. loa
|Capricorn (December 22-January 19)- Teach English as a Secdal Language.]’

Repeat this phrase: Mr. Rogers has a gopher. No luck? Try, teaching
Spanish. Can you say S-O-C-K-S? Lucky pedagogical device: Speak sae:
Spell™ or See-N-Say™,

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)- Native Meso-Americans called “com” |’
“maize.” They also had different words for other things. men Bib
doctrine of oppression: Manifest Destiny t:

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—This week, beware of the perils offibel. Words} t:
hurt, but they’re not fatal. Watch for falling prices! Day) discount

_ murderer of communal America: Wal-Mart. f

Aries (March 21-April 19)— Express yourself in a different tongue. Ye Olde}'
English impresses even the most jaded professor. Try this: “Fie, ye
wanton hussy! A pox on thee, scurvied knave!” Lucky tale: The
Summoner’s, as told by Sting. Lucky place: any shoppe. io

‘Taurus (April 20-May 20)- Many find peace in linoleum printing. Make a'}

Bible like Guttenberg. Then sell it as a real one. Honor Code or Code of

Responsiblity— you be the judge. Lucky Guildhall: whichever one youcan} .

think of at the moment.

|Gemini (May 22-June 20)- Life passes you by when you are iced ina

pillory. You will be subjected to vegetable justice and the stockades hurt
delicate skin. Unlucky vegetable: GIANT Squash.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You Rock. ;

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Watch what is in your favorite food swcitiak: Even
though Methylchloroisothiazolinone may sound okay, it’s not. It will |
make you barf hard.-Unlucky ingredients: Methylchloroisothiazolinone
and partially hydrogenated soybean oil.

i}

Nominations needed for

Goodwin-Exxon Award

$500 educational grant and $100 grant to charity

Students, faculty, and staff should stop by Dean of
Students Office. Submissions due October 3.

Call 892-2225 for more info.

