DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996

Field hockey loses players to injury

“By Cancel REYNOLDS
i .! Staff Writer:

‘Davidson field hockey re-
‘turned from fall break with a win
against Louisville and losses to
Miami of Ohio and St. Louis.
Coach Betsy Pryor attributed prob-
lems with the team’s performance
to a plague of injuries.

Four starters have been out
due to injuries. Captain Mary Dowd
is out for the year with a torn liga-

‘ment in her knee. The other cap-
tain, Mandy Neidert, has not played
yet this season because of a stress

fracture in her leg. She plans to
begin practicing on a pain-depen-
dent basis. Lisa Holthaus and

. Teresa Alden have missed games
with less serious knee problems.

“This is something we would
never wish for, but we’re going to
have to make the best of a really

bad situation,” said Erin Smith,
“who, early in Saturday’s game
against Virginia Commonwealth
University, drove the ball repeat-
edly into scoring range with side-
line fast-breaks.

Chase Keith was the first
Davidson player to capitalize on
advantageous field position. She
hammered ina line-drive shot from
ten yards out to score the first goal
of the: game.

By halftime, the Rams had
tied Davidson and dampened the
Wildcat attack, but VCU never led
the Wildcats during the game.

In the second half, Kate

Schoening flicked in a penalty
stroke and Kim Ceci scored from
twenty-five yards out, giving
Davidson a 3-2 win. Both are
freshmen, which helped quiet con-
cerns about the team’s youth.

Pryor carefully watched her
players and called timeouts twice
in the second half to steady them
and keep them focussed.

“There were moments of bril-
liance, but we were hesitant at
times,” Pryor said.

Like Smith, Pryor is turning

the rash of injuries into solhething:
positive. ;

“Tt shows us what we have and
what we need,” she said, pointing
out that she will be able to better
anticipate gaps that need to be filled
for next year’s roster.

Playing third-ranked Virginia,
was an abrupt way to end the cheer

. of Saturday’s victory.

“Tt is hard playing a team like
that and taking all they have, but
we came together as a group be-
cause of it,” said Neidert.

7 1 Chase
| Keith.

| controls

the ball

asa

| defender

closes

down

space.

Anna Judy

The bleeding continues

Skid at nine games after thrashing at Furman

By Dantet Motz
Copy Editor

Davidson’s Oct. 9 contest against North Carolina was supposed
: to be the turning point for the plunging men’s soccer team.

A victory over the eighth-ranked Tar Heels would have snapped
the Wildcats’ five-game losing skid, helped the team break out of
their virtual season-long slump, and given Davidson greatly-needed
confidence for the stretch run.

But it didn’t happen that way. Instead, the Tar Heels whipped
the Wilcats, 4-0, setting up an embarassing performance at the
Adidas UVA Invitational over Fall Break.

And it was Furman’s turn on Friday to beat up on the Wildcats.
The Paladins, ranked eleventh in the nation, romped over their
conference archrivals, 4-1.

“Obviously, it’s really tough right now,” said coach Charlie
Slagle. “We’re trying to do anything we can to win, but everything
is just snowballing.”

_ Davidson (6-12, 2-3) played the Tar Heels even for much of the
first half, but North Carolina took a 1-0 halftime advantage on an own
goal off a corner kick.

The soft score prompted Slagle to replace senior goalkeeper
Matt Hill with sophomore Marshall Tyler.

“T just thought Matt was being a little tentative,” said Slagle.
“We needed someone to come in and aggressively come off of the
line.”

But nothing could help the Wildcats in the second half. Three
quick Carolina tallies provided the final 4-0 deficit.

“We made a lot of errors in the second half,” said defender Chad
Lagerway. “North Carolina is a good team, and good teams capital-
ize off errors.”

“We’ ve gotten to the point where each game seems to follow the
same pattern,” said Slagle. “We play a team tough fora half, but after
our opponent scores their first goal, we fold. Good teams fight their
way back into the game, and that’s what we have got to start to do.”

Davidson didn't show that fight over Fall Break at the Adidas

See Bleeding on page 15

Thursday, October 24

8:00 p.m.
Love Auditorium
Davidson College
Davidson, NC

General Admission:
$10.00 General Public / $5.00 Students

_ Sponsored by Inter Varait Christian tainilani ene oe

