MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER
MARY CLARE JALONICK

Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON

Arts & Living Editor
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

Associate Editor JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
: Sports Editors Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
Associate News Editor Photo Editor Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors Copy Editors Web Page Managers
NINA BLOUNT CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON . JILL WILLIAMS BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ

ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

P00 PARKING STICKERS. Towieff 1 MUST ADMIT, \ WAS
OVT THE WAZOO. VoIce-MAIL INTRIGUED, AND so | DECIDED
ON THE OTHER EWD oF fi, To INVESTIGATE.

ny r sLEUTHING BROUsHT ME Te
THIS OFFICE, WHERE | Foun

CHANGES 13.-¢

THAT THE MAN BEHIVD ee.

SSS

SSS

4

= afeM ike 18

LETTERS

The Bavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at; ~
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

We want a celebrity

Purpose

In the past few weeks, The Davidsonian has printed opinions articles that have
generated controversy. Some people have a problem with this.

Toreprint the first amendment would seem dramatic and trite. However, we can
offer a brief statement of purpose for each section. If you should find that we violate
any of these delineated intentions, then call us on it. Write us a letter. Give us a call.
Request a meeting. Denounce us publicly.

Simply, news stories report on-campus events and discuss, unbiasedly, on-
campus issues. Opinions articles are submitted by students who would like to offer
their view ona particular issue tothe campus. They do not reflect the opinions of the
Editorial Board, and we publish what we receive. Arts and Living features review
(subjectively) fine arts events and campus happenings. Sports articles report on
sports.

This should clear up any misconceptions. We welcome criticism — your opinion. -
will help us create a more respéctable ‘publication: ' But ‘do not’ask us to violate the!
first amendment. Davidson is a small place, and any freedoms or facts'that ‘are=

censored could have a detrimental effect on the student body. We, along with other
campus publications, are your voice. Use us as such, and let others do so as well.

Parking

Hello, Town of Davidson! Are you listening? The students are speaking. The
merchants are speaking. The new parking policy does not work.

The designated area has sat three-quarters empty every day. Spaces in front of
a busy college campus should be filled with campus cars, not the cars of merchants
who would rather park behind their businesses, which are closer to them anyway.

Angry students and faculty have been spotted combing main street recently,

counting the number of spaces designated for merchants and denied to students, It ..

is possible that as many, or even more, merchants exist as spaces exist for them, but
they are not parking in them. Case closed.

Off campus students, in particular, need these spaces. They pay taxes to the town
in order to receive benefits.

Davidson College feels affectionate toward the Town of Davidson. It would be
sad for all involved if that relationship turned sour or competitive.

So please, work with us on the issue of town parking. Give us back the spaces
that were rightfully ours, even if just for two hours at a time.

Politics

Congratulations to those who facilitated the outing of the latent political junkie
“in all of us on Sunday night.

College Republicans and College Democrats did a fine job of preparing for the
Clinton/Dole debates, decorating the 900 room and providing political entertainment
for a packed room of students. And whoever is responsible for the television in the
library deserves kudos as well, for library hermits eagerly crawled out of their carrels
to the sound of campaign rhetoric and election year banter.

Last January President Kukyendall told The Davidsonian that he noticed a trend:
“students are not, just now, very much motivated to become engaged in politics.”

We often say, also, that Davidson students are starved for an occasional outside
breath of fresh air or an out-of-classroom intellectual enterprise. Thanks for proving
to us, and to them, that this isn’t always the case.

#

tore

To the Editors:

An exciting oppor-
tunity now exists for stu-
dents on this campus. We
have the ability to nominate
a new professor. '

The Knight Foundation -

recently gave a generous
amount of money to
Davidson College for the
establishment of the James
Knox Batten Professorship
in Public Policy. Jim Bat-
ten, a career journalist [Ed.
note: Batten began his illus-
trious career on The
Davidsonian], was a
Davidson alumnus and the
fan —— and: CEO

of Knight-Ridder, Inc. This
professorship will bring
someone accomplished in
public policy — journalism,
politics, etc. — to our cam-
pus to teach for one semes-
ter each year. Most likely
this person will teach two
seminars and give various
public lectures based on his/
her life experience. It is an
interdisciplinary position
that stands to affect our en-
tire community.

Alongside a panel of
professors, I represent stu-
dents on the nominating
committee. Some public

has already: considered. for
next year are: Bill Bradley,
Michael Dukakis, Harvey
Gantt, Nancy Kassebaum,

and Jason:McManus. We.
have the money andthe pres-
tige to attract. incredible
people so we’re aiming high.
If you can think of some
renowned figures whom you
would like to see walking
around campus, letme know.
I invite all students to email
or call: me (-6344) with their
personal nominees. This is
an opportunity too good to
pass up. I look foe to
your. ideas.

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of ’
Davidson College. One copy per student.Please address all-correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the

Editorial Board of The Babvidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year: Advertising rates are

available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

~ Support the

To the Editors:
Last Monday night I

wentto something spectacu- .

lar. The Davidson College
Wind Ensemble put on an
astounding concert. A con-
cert that should have drawn
a huge crowd. Unfortu-
nately, only about 50 mem-

’ | bers of the student body and. .
faculty showed up. I know.
‘| that there’ wasn’t much ‘in

the way of advertisement for
this, but I’m sure that more
than two or three score of us
knew about the event.
They managed to pull
off a magnificent concert
with as much professional
air as I’ve seen anywhere
with only three weeks and
seven scheduled practices.
This kind of determination
and talent is not an everyday

occurrence.

lam disappointed in the
populace of Davidson Col-
lege for not showing more
support for our resident mu-
sicians. This was, by far, the
best use I’ve made of my
time since coming to this
school in August.

I am not only disap-
pointed in the size, or lack
thereof, of attendance at the
concert, but I am also sad-
dened by the fact that so
many missed out on this ex-
perience. There will be many
more opportunities, but I’m

_ scared that, once again, most
of us will not take advantage
of them.

Check out the Calendar
of Events, or ask someone
who would know, but don’t

simply let opportunities pass

you by. Become exposed.
We support the football
team, the soccer teams, and
even the flickerball teams,
but so far, not the arts.
Iknow the kind of hard
mental and physical work it
takes to be part of something
like a football team .:.or a
musical ensemble. Giving
your best is a hard thing to
do when it seems that no one
appreciates it.
_Mycongratulations and
admiration go out to Dr.
Lawing and ‘to, the Wind
Ensemble. And to everyone
else, I sincerely hope that
youcan find time during your
busy nights to go out and
support your fellow
Davidsonians.

Jim Rice

Show your good
taste and high IQ.

Wear a Davidsonian t-shirt.

_ Fashionable. Comfortable. Versatile.
_ All this and.a handy pocket, too.

Yours for $10.
Call Caroline at -2148.

