6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Week in Washington :
Dole wins Iowa, Gramm

pulls out of the campaign

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

In a surprisingly close race in
the Iowa Republican caucuses
Tuesday, Republican front-runner
Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS) pulled off a
narrow victory despite a strong
challenge from commentator
Patrick Buchanan.

Dole led the Republican can-
didates with 26% of the vote.
Buchanan was close behind with
23%, followed by former Tennes-
see governor Lamar Alexander
with 18%. Rounding out the Re-
publican field were millionaire
publisher Steve Forbes with 10%,
Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX) with9%,
and former State Department offi-
cial Alan Keyes with 7%. Sen.
Richard Lugar (R-IN) and two
businessmen, Robert Dornan and
Morry Taylor, picked up little sup-
port.

Because Dole is from a neigh-
boring farm state, he was expected
to do well in Jowa. Buchanan was
the major surprise, vaulting into
second place through his appeals
to social and Christian conserva-
tives and his protectionist stance
on trade.

After finishing poorly in Loui-
siana and lowa, Phil Gramm
dropped out to concentrate on win-
ning re-election to the Senate.
Gramm had raised $19 million
through 1995 and once was Dole’s
strongest challenger. In a state-
ment Wednesday, Gramm admit-

ted that “maybe that there is not a
market” for a social and economic
conservative. Taking a parting shot
at Buchanan, Gramm said, “Our
party can never follow the path of
protectionism.”

Meanwhile, the campaign was
in full-swing in New Hampshire,
the site of the first Republican pri-
mary. In a televised debate on
Wednesday, the candidates focused
their comments on trade and job
creation, which are important is-
sues in New Hampshire. Buchanan
and Alexander repeatedly attacked
Dole for negative advertising.
“When you use negative ads, there
is a hollowness at the core of the
campaign,” said Buchanan.
Alexander told Dole, “You're bet-
ter than negative ads. Why don’t
you pull them?” To which Dole
responded, “I didn’t know about
negative advertising until I saw
you do it against Pete Wilson,”
referring to Alexander’s commer-
cials against former contender and
California governor Pete Wilson.

Here is arundown on the lead-
ing candidates:

1. Dole—Despite his Iowa
victory, his campaign is failing to
generate strong enthusiasm, and
he has failed to establish a coher-
ent campaign theme. His popular-
ity is highest among the elderly,
while Buchanan is leading among
social conservatives. Six recent
polls show that he and Buchanan
are Virtually tied in the New Hamp-
shire race.

2. Buchanan — His cam-
paign is pleased with his perfor-
mance in Iowa, but he needs to
overcome Dole’s portrayal of him
as “an extremist” to win New
Hampshire. He has been particu-
larly effective at using radio call-
in shows and television interviews
to gain free media coverage. How-
ever, his campaign manager, Larry
Pratt, resigned Thursday amid al-
legations that he attended meet-
ings of right-wing militias and
white supremacist groups.

3. Alexander — The former
governor has risen steadily in the
polls. While avoiding directly
negative ads, he has tried to con-
vince voters that Dole and
Buchanan cannot defeat Clinton.
His strategy has to been to paint
himself as an “outsider” and call
for reducing the size of the federal
government.

4. Forbes — His campaign
announced that if he finishes be-
low fourth in New Hampshire, he
will withdraw from the race. De-
spite outspending his rivals three
and four to one in Iowa, his string
of negative ads against Dole has
backfired. Also, the other Repub-
licans have dismissed his idea of a
flat 17% income tax, which is los-
ing support.

Sources include: February 13 of
The Washington Post and Febru-
ary 15 and 16 of The New York
Times and The Wall Street Jour-
nal.

Global Perspective
Thirty year terrorist war makes

for uneasy peace in Ireland

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

In order to clear up any mis-
conceptions, one must understand
that this writer did not mean to
imply thatthe events that occurred
in the early 1900s were the begin-
ning of the Irish-British conflict.
The conflict between the Irishand
British has existed for centuries.
This series, however, is only con-
cerned with the formation of the
IRA and to a lesser extent Sinn
Fien (the IRA’s political wing).
For this reason the entire history
of the conflict has not been in-
cluded in the series.

IRA Series

Last week, we looked at the
origins of the IRA. After being
formed to continue the quest for
independence of Northern Ireland
after WWI, the IRA began a gradual
decline which, by the 1950s, had
brought it to the brink of extinc-
tion.

The mid-1960s, however, re-

energized the IRA in response to a
new wave of Protestant agitation
and riots. The new IRA was led by
a new generation of Republicans

who were much more organized
and vocal than those in the past.
Perhaps one of the most monu-
mental occasions in the formation
of the IRA came during the riots
and attacks on Catholics that took
place in Northern Ireland in 1968.
Protestant forces, led by Ian Pais-
ley (a Protestant minister) attacked
unarmed Catholics and rioted in
Catholic towns while the RUC (The
Royal Ulster Constabulary) stood
idly by or deserted their beats all
together. This was the main event
that convinced the IRA that the
only way for Catholics to remain
safe and for the North to be freed of
British dominance was through
force.

It was that .belief that sub-
merged Northern Ireland into a
state of war for 30 years. Cities,
towns, and families in Northern
Ireland were torn apart as terrorist
campaigns and British police re-
sponses (many times as brutal as
the terrorist acts themselves) made
violence, fear, and hate a way of
life for the people of Northern Ire-
land. What was perhaps most
unique about the fighting that took
place after the ’60s was that it was
not simply contained to Northern
Ireland. The British mainland, and

London in particular, became prime
targets for IRA bombs. This
brought the conflict to the front
door. steps of the British.

This state of quasi-war con-
tinued into the 90s. But everyone
gets tired of fighting after a time,
and after 30 years, both sides
seemed ready to talk peace. And
so 16 months ago, a cease-fire
which was originated and guided

. through by the Clinton administra-

tion brought the fighting to an end.
That peace was came to a violent
end last week when the IRA deto-
nated a bomb in the Docklands on
the 9th of Feb.

Gerry Adams, Sinn Fien’s
leader and the man who has guided
the peace process from the IRA
side, said that he regretted what

had happened. Clinton and Major -

reflected that same sentiment (if in
a slightly more vehement form).
But it has become apparent that no
matter how the leaders feel or what
they say, peace will only be
achieved when the people are will-
ing to forgive and forget. And
unfortunately as recent events have
shown, that still may bea long time
in coming.
Sources:
Newsweek

Feb 19 Time and

ELS EWHERE : PAicti leah FEBRUARY 19, 1996

Chinese war games

China is continuing to put pressure on Taiwan and its president,

Lee Tenghui to not hold elections. Over 400,000 troops were

mobilized by China for war games off the coast of Taiwan. The US

has issued a warning that any actions of aggression taken by China
against Taiwan would have “very grave consequences.”

Economist Feb. 10-16

Demostrators march in Chechnya

There was furtherunrest in the break-away Republic of Chechnya
last week when demonstrators marched in support of the withdrawal
of, Russian troops from Chechnya and the return of President Jokar
Dudaev.

Economist Feb. 10-16

Aristide hands over power

In Haiti, former-president Jean Bertrand Aristide handed over
power to President Rene Preval in the first peaceful turn-over of
presidential power in Haiti since its independence 192 years ago.

Economist Feb. 10-16

Republican candidates down to eight

Phil Gramm became the first of the Republicans to discon-
tinue his bid for the Republican nomination as presidential
candidate. With his withdrawal last week, the number of Republi-
can contenders is cut down to eight with Dole, Buchanan, and
Alexander in the lead. :

Charlotte Observer and Time Feb 19

etc.

Different schools, different philosophies

A saying at MIT goes, “Choose Two: friends, sleep, or study.”

Now, the school is taking steps to allow students to at least try for
the first choice.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology students can now take a
break from their high tech classes in fiber optics or quantum physics
to learn the kinder, gentler arts at their newly formed Charm School.

_ Although the one day Charm School is neither required or worth
any credit hours, several hundred students come anyway to learn a
new social grace or two.

“How to Ballroom Dance,” “How to ask for a Date,” and “How
to tell a Joke” were just some of the lessons offered at this year’s class.

Students received a “Charm coupon” each time they success-
fully completed a lesson; six coupons were worth a Charm School
Bachelor’s degree, eight garnered a master’s, and an ambitous 12
earned a Ph.D.

“Year after year students move from a college environment to a
professional one,” says Kathleen Rowe director of media relations at
MIT, “All of a sudden they encounter a different way of life, this
gives them a chance to ask questions and better adapt to it.”

College Press Service

Excuses, Excuses

You woke up an hour late for class, your dog pulled the plug out of }-
the computer before you could save the term paper that was due, your
car ran out of gas.

At the University of Akron, professors got together to talk about
how “excuse making” has become an art.

Among the ways students stated “Why I need an extension...”
were:

“T have a split personality, and one does not like to do home-
work,”

“T was stuck in an elevator somewhere downtown.”

“I kissed the toaster and had to go to the hospital.”

“My dog caught on fire.” and ...

“T lost the prosthetic arm I write with.”

Professors stated the most popular excuses dealt with flat tires,
family tragedies, a doctor’s appointment, or ahomework hungry dog.

College Press Service

