Cable access a distant possibility

Too many questions at this point

By Mary-E ise BRUMFIELD
Staff Writer

Despite various rumors circulating campus, none of the indi-
vidual dorm rooms are currently cable-ready.

According to Housing Operations Coordinator Debby Harrison,

" the entire project is still at a stage of uncertainty. Many-questions
must still ’be answered before the possibility of cable TV in each
dorm room can become a reality, she said.

The administration must decide whether cable TV should be
installed in each room in the first place, rather than simply keeping
cable in the dorm lounges. This is due to concern regarding students
staying in their rooms and watching TV instead of going into the
lounges to watch television with others.

The College is also debating about whether to use a satellite
dish as some other colleges or subsribe to the local cable company.

And if the administration decides to use the services of a cable
company, then which one should it choose?

Harrison said that the College is presently utilizing the service
of only one vender for the cable access in the dorm lounges and
senior apartments — Prestige Motor Cable in Mooresville.

The company is charging the College residential rates at this
point in time, but that could change if cable were to be installed in
the individual dorm rooms.

Another dilemma that the administration is facing is how to bill
students for the use of cable TV in their rooms.

Will those students who watch cable in their rooms rather than
just regular television be billed for it? And will there be an option
of having access to premium channels such as HBO and The Movie
Channel?

Harrison said that RLO does not have the answers to those
questions right now, and probably will not be able to answer them
this school year.

Until RLO can provide answers to those questions, students
will simply have to be satisfied with watching cable TV in their dorm
lounges.

Networking proceeds without holiday
Project closing in on Spring 1998 goal

College Relations

Campus networking is closing in on its, goal of reaching all
residence halls by the spring.

Marcia Makl, director of networks and systems, said all resi-
dence halls except for Martin Court buildings A, B,C, D, and E have
been completed, and B, D, and E will receive attention over the
Christmas holidays.

MakI said that satisfactory progress towards the goal of “pro-
viding ethernet to every student desktop and pillow.”

Also, wiring is currently being installed in Lingle Manor,
Martin ‘Science Building, Oak Row, Elm Row, Carnegie Guest
House, and Vail. Commons.

Mak said that the Commons will be a special focus over Christmas
because the break provides the best access time to the kitchen and _
serving areas: :

The Commons presently has its own network and server, and
the holiday work will link that setup to the campus-wide network.

Mak! said some of the upcoming installations will employ new
CAT 5 UTP copper wiring.

devices helps alleviate space and cost concerns because it does not
require a network closet.

The space and cost conservation are ideal, Makl said, for places
like Jackson Court offices because each builging has only a few
employees and limited floor space.

The E.H. Little Library and Chambers, which are already on the
network but haven’t been upgraded to the newer CAT 5 UTP wiring
yet, are also on Makl’s “to do” list.

ITS plans on upgrading the library this summer, and will
establish more network connections throughout the building at the
same time.

“Leland Park wants a far more computer accessible library,”
Mak said. “‘He would like more connections so students can take lab
top computers to the library and be connected in their carrels.”

Other networking plans include wiring the College Union and
the new College Relations Office (presently faculty housing), and
upgrading the networks in Grey House, Harding House, and Julia
Johnston House. .

Makl urges anyone who has networking questions to visit ITS’s
“Campus Network Master Plan” web page at http://

Union decision

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

SORE Sat

to be made in
near future

By Naresh NAGELLA
Associate Editor

After some three-years of planning and preparation, a deci-
sion regarding the new union will allow it to literally take shape.

In the next couple of weeks, the Union Selection Committee
will decide on the architectural contractor who will supervise the
building of the new Union.

Three weeks ago, the committee heard the proposals of many
different architects in a day-long ‘session ‘that took place on
campus.

Each architect was able to offer their conception of the new
union that will take the place of Johnston Gym.

Each proposal took into account the various analyses done
over the last couple of years that gauged student opinion as to
where the union should be-and what is should hold.

The Committee wanted to make sure whatever chosen
design would complement the campus’ needs.

“We have made some progress, but we have still not made
the final decision,” College Union Director William Brown said
of the current situation. ,

“(That) will be contingent upon some on-site visits to be
made later this week.”

Members from the committee plan to visit student unions
built elsewhere by the final architectural firms being considered.

Even after the finalist is chosen, there will be a process of
negotiation dealing with the exact cost of the project and length of
construction. The final deal must be approved by President Bobby
Vagt. .

“If everything proceeds the way that we expect then we
should know in the next two-three weeks,” Brown said.

“Hopefully we should not run into anything unusual. We are
focused on two architects and are learning more about them. We
want to learn some things about the way they work.”

The College does not use one single architectural firm for all
its building projects, but follows a selection procedure that looks |.
at many different companies and builders.

Any building or ground-breaking can not take place until all
such negotiations are made final.

Brown wishes to make sure the College community under-
stands the process is handled with care and precaution since the
committee wants to make the best decision possible.

“We are getting really close to making a final decision and
we are excited about it,” he said.

She said this outdoor CAT 5 UTP cable with special protection

www.davidson.edu/computing/systems/nmp.html.

“After (these stages) are done, we can focus on building.”

Budget from page 1

sonnel and Development — currently
professors Hansford Epes and Ken
Menkhaus.

The group has also been involved
in conversations on compensation with
representatives of the faculty's Profes-
sional Affairs Committee, and been as-
sisted with “number crunching” by a

Budget Support Team consisting of

Robert Norfleet, Ed Kania, LoriGaston,
and Susie Fuller.

The budget working group has
accelerated the schedule of meetings by
starting earlier in the year in order to
submit a proposed budget to the trust-
ees about three weeks before they meet
to review and approve it Feb. 5-6.

Vagt said the proposed budget will
also be shared with members of the
College community in a general forum
early in the year.

Norfleet, Vice President for Busi-
ness and Finance, predicted that the
1998-99 budget will increase no more
than three percent over this year’s $49.08
million figure, continuing the decade-
long trend of continuously. diminishing
the rate of growth in Davidson’s price
for students and their families.

Norfleet said the budget working
group has proceeded with two main
purposes — keeping the rate of tuition
increase down, and maintaining em-
ployee compensation as the highest
expenditure priority. He said the bud-
get team hopes to keep the tuition in-
crease under four percent, which would
represent the 10th straight year of de-
celerating tuition rates.

Some might ask why it is so im-
portant to keep tuition increases low, in

light of the fact that the College has for
several years enjoyed record numbers
of student applications.

“Product demand can turn on a
time,” Vagt said, noting that the Col-
lege has been fortunate that 60-70 per-
cent of student families can pay full
tuition. If.that number dropped, the
College would face a financial crunch
that would increase its expenses and
might drive many applicants away.

In-addition, Vagt said, “We want
to be attractive to the broadest spectrum
of folks, intellectually and economi-
cally. We begin falling down the slip-
pery slope if we say that we don’t have
to be sensitive to cost because everyone
loves us.

“The most frequent question I hear
at alumni meetings is ‘What are you
doing to make sure I'll be able to afford
to send my kids to Davidson?’ And it’s
not a cynical question, it’s from the
heart. They want their children to come
here, and they’re imploring us to do all
we can to make that possible.”

Since tuition increases have tradi-
tionally supplied the main source of
new income, the budget working group
is searching everywhere for other
sources of new money.

“Normally by now, we would have
settled on arevenue estimate,” Norfleet
said, “but there are so few new dollars
under this tuition scenario that we’re
investing more time than ever trying to
increase revenues at the margin.”

This may include increasing rev-
enue from auxiliary services, catering,
and summer programs, and will cer-
tainly include an extra push on the An-
nual Fund.

Vagt said the institutional advance-

ment aims to raise $4.2 million for the
Annual Fund this year, which would be
$300,000 more than last year.

“We don’t have a big new capital
project to undertake, so alumni volun-
teer chair Robert Norris and the staff
see this as an opportunity to show do-
nors that this is a vital contribution,” he
said, “that it’s the most significant com-
ponent of unrestricted aid for the Col-
lege.”

Another way.-to find new money is
to cut existing expenses, and the budget
working group is considering many
options.

““We’ ve been ona financial auster-
ity program for a decade, operating on
budgets that have been flat,” Norfleet
Said.

“So the next step in cost control
isn’t easy, and will require a lot of
cooperative planning.”

Vagt said staff reduction is defi-
nitely the least desirable option, but
added, “We wouldn’t be true to what
we’re doing if we didn’t look at that,
too.”

He said another option is energy
conservation, which is good policy and
can result in significant savings as well.
He pointed out that limiting after-hours
access to Chambers, except during ex-
ams, might yield significant savings,
but would only make sense if the Col-
lege could identify other more efficient
places for students to study.

Vagt pointed out that another ma-
jor potential for savings in the budget is
simply doing more with existing re-
sources.

“We haven’t stretched to the lim-
its of what we have yet, and I believe the
600 people who work here are the best

ee a a ee ee ee eee eee

source of ideas in this regard,” he said.
“We need to tap everyone’s creativity
in a formal way to help with efficiency
efforts.”

For the second year in a row, the
budget will be expressed as categories
of compensation, operating expenses,
technology, and capital expenditures.

This arrangement allows the Col-
lege to identify its specific investment
in these important categories across the
institution.

In particular, it is important to de-
termine how much is being spent on
technology, and which divisions or of-
fices need more resources for that pur-
pose.

Norfleet said the College’ s depart-
mental budgets contain between $700-
800,000 for technology, in addition to
the Information Technology Services
budget.

He pointed out that the need to
constantly update technology has trans-
formed it into another sort of “utility
bill,” like electricity and water, that
must be regularly met.

To better manage the technology
expenses across the institution, Norfleet
said the Joint Committee on Informa-
tion Technology is recommending that
the College support a more limited num-
ber of hardware and software standards.
Also, it is becoming ‘obvious that the
College can support a four-year cycle
forreplacement of computer equipment

_and software, rather than the ideal of

three years.

Not so many offices have capital
expenditures — items that last more
than a year and cost more than $2,000.
But the science departments use sig-
nificant capital equipment such as labo-

ratory instruments, and separate iden-
tity of this category helps the College
plan for support’of this aspect of the
academic program.

One of the most important capital
projects currently underway is a psy-
chology and biology departmental in-
ventory of the capital equipment in hand.
and of equipment that needs to be pur-
chased immediately and in the future to
equip the new Life Sciences Building.

Norfleet said the College’s budget

-process will be further refined as it is

integrated with the work of the Priori-
ties Planning Group that was created
last year. That group’s decision on
College priorities are designed to drive
the budget process.

Norfleet said the budget working
group and PPG, which include many of
the same members, are “moving on
parallel tracks, but they’re not yet joined
at the hip.”

“Our objective is to bring these
processes into sync so they become one
and the same,” he added. “Ideally, the
budget is simply a financial expression
of the institution’s slated priorities.”

Eventually the work of the PPG in

developing a five-year plan and setting

priorities for capital projects will di-
rectly drive the budget working group.
Atthis point, the PPG has completed its
first rough draft of a five-year plan,
based on plans submitted by each Col-
lege division.

PPG.subcommittees are currently
refining parts of that draft- with the in-
tention of sharing it with members of
the community early next year.

PPG members then hope to submit
their first plan to the trustees at their
spring meeting.
