MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1997 7

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief Arts & Living Editor Business and Circulation Mgrs.
RANDY HARTWELL HEATHER LARSON CHLOE BROOKE
TERESA WHITE

McNEIL CARSWELL
Associate Arts & Living Editor
Associate Editor JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Advertising Managers
MATTHEW EIRICH

JOHN EARLY
Sports Editors PETER MARTIN
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW
ANN CULP MICHAEL KRUSE Web Page Managers
: CLAY LENHART
Associate News Editor Photo Editor BRAD CHASE
NARESH NAGELLA ANNA JUDY ERIC PENDERGRASS
Opinions Editors Cartoonist
KRISTEN BARTCH CHRIS MOORE

DAVID SANTSCHI

Founded in 1914 :
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly” :

LETTERS

Missing the Point

The Babvidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

American Graffiti

In late 1980, the artist Keith Haring began noticing that the metropolitan transit
authority in New York City would cover the posters in subway stations with black paper
once the advertiser’s rental period had run out. Intrigued and inspired by the very public
spaces which he saw as blank canvases, Haring began using them for his own personal
expression. Soon, his white chalk drawings of little androgenous cookie-cutter people
emitting rays of energy and movement became easily recognizable to harried commuters.
The drawings spoke to them, documenting the laughable existence of the consumer,
whose individual dynamism, however forceful, was no match for a media-driven
capitalist culture.

Certainly, Haring’s intentions were distinct from those of other “taggers,” as graffiti
artists are sometimés known, but the impetus was the same—both had found space in
which to express themselves. Actually, the space probably finds them, as blank, open
stretches oftén deinand some¢one’s imprint. (This editorial space has that tendency. More
on that later.) From the time of the cave painters of Lascaux to the Kilroy era, empty
spaces have begged human expression. Or at least human hubris usurps the spaces for
it.

This appropriation, and the exhilarating freedom it suggests, call to mind the graffiti
that appeared last week on the wall surrounding the construction site of the new science
building, as well as on the yellow brick wall paper hung in the Union Gallery before
Spring Break as part of Alcohol Awareness Week.

Shortly after the construction wall was erected, the words “‘We hated the damn trees.

anyway” materialized in perfectly stencilled, oh-so-Davidsonesque Palatino font. Deemed
inappropriate, they were painted over. Then, Saturday night, more graffitithis time less
neat and coherent—appeared. Apart from the exclamations “Tree stumps are my
FAVORITE!”, “This is LIVIN’ ,” which may have been addressed to “earth people,” was
a human profile, with the letters “TS” for eyes, engaged in a private sexual act. This, too,
was painted over.

The construction wall graffiti, like most, differs from that in the Union Gallery, in
that no one asked for it. The graffiti on the yellow brick paper was entirely solicited,
requesting descriptions of “Positive and Negative Experiences with Alcohol” on one wall
and “Hopes and Dreams” on the other. Though Union Board President Matthew Hobbie
argued for its duration, it became evident the paper would have to be removed once such
bons mots as “Beer+Sluts=Fun” degenerated into sniping personal attacks.

To which we say, in all three instances, of course.

Everyone treasures the freedom of expression, but with that freedom comes a great
deal of responsibility. We are not advocating censorship, at least not of the Jesse Helms-
NEA-Robert Mapplethorpe variety. We just want taggers and others who use public
space with which to express themselves to be mindful of the duty they owe those who own
that space—the public.

Keith Haring used subway station platforms to enlighten a populace.
degrading trivia enlightens no one.

Mean,

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: Whe
Pavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
lin letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.' Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

The Tuesday before
Spring Break, the SGA
passed an altered form of the
petition that 450 of you signed
during the two days it was in
the Commons and in Cham-
bers. Basically, we asked
that the Faculty recognize
Veteran’s Day in the same
way they had decided to rec-
ognize Martin Luther King
Day. Unfortunately, the Fac-
ulty Executive Committee
denied SGA’s request. As
the person who drafted the
SGA resolution, I was obvi-
ously disappointed by the
Faculty Exec’s decision.

However, what disap-
pointed me the most and what
this article is about has noth-
ing to do with Veteran’s Day.
What upset me was the Fac-
ulty Exec’s argument as to

- why it chose to recognize

Martin Luther King Day and
not Veteran’s Day. When
Buster Burk and I presented
our resolution to the Exec,
we were told that the primary
reason they chose to recog-
nize MLK Day was because
(in their opinion) it was a
Christian holiday. Their rec-
ognition was based on the
fact that Dr. King was a min-
ister and that the holiday rec-
ognized Christian ideas. And
since Veteran’s Day had no
Christian foundation, it was
not worthy of the same sta-
tus. Perhaps other consider-
ations went into the Faculty
Exec’s decision, but if they

did, this one was the one
sighted to us as the basis for
the decision.

Anyone who reads my
periodic “opinions” pieces
would know that I am a Chris-
tian. Normally I would be
the first one to congratulate
Davidson on taking a stand
on the side of Christianity.
But in this case, as far as 1am
concerned, the position we
appear to be taking is mis-
guided. If we say the only
reason we are recognizing
MLK Day is because it is a
“Christian holiday,” we to-
tally miss the point of that
holiday, and we do a disser-
vice to what Dr. King stood
for and accomplished.

Although it is undeni-

able that Dr. King used the

teaching of Christ as his guide
in organizing his movement
(in fact, I recently wrote an
article on that topic), MLK
Day is much more than a

~ Christian holiday. MLK Day

does not celebrate Christian-
ity as such; it celebrates the
Civil Rights Movement and
the courage and principles of
its leader. It celebrates equal-
ity and the ideals upon which
America is founded. ° It is a
holiday that celebrates the
joining of the races in a way
that they had never before
been joined. And it is a holi-
day thatremembers the plight
of all underprivileged and
discriminated peoples in-our
country. We are denying all
of these accomplishments
when we ignore the real pur-

pose of the holiday and say
that “the reason we recog-
nized MLK Day was because
we felt it was a religious holi-
day that tied into the reli-
gious roots of our school.”

As a southern college,
we should be especially
aware of how we may look if
we fail to recognize the civil
rights aspect of MLK Day
and confuse the issue by cit-
ing other reasons for recog-
nition. We cannot try to walk
some political tightrope. If
by recognizing MLK Day for
what it really stands for, we
are obligated to recognize
other federal holidays (such
as Veteran’s Day), tl then so be
it.

But that should not be

the issue that drives us in
making our decisions. When
we decide a holiday is impor-
tant enough to be recognized
by the school, our official
stance must be one that rec-
ognizes the true meaning of
that holiday. Basically, if a
holiday is important enough
tocancelclasses for, itshould
be important enough that we
are willing to publicly recog-
nize it for what it is.

Now that we have had
some time to discuss the is-
sue, we should be willing to
change our current position
and recognize that MLK Day
is not about the “Christian
ideal upon which this school
was founded” but rather is an
affirmation of the importance
and accomplishments of the
Civil Rights Movement. .

Eric Sapp ’98

Can’t find that pot o’ gold at the
end of your rainbow? Haven’t
seen any four-leaf clovers
lately? Buy a Dabidsonian
t-shirt. The luck o’ the Irish is
sewn right in by the wee
leprechauns who write for us.

