THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & Livinc

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Hurricane Hugo Jug

By Carrie Morris
Associate Arts & Living Editor

This weekend, courtesy of jug-
gling extraodinaire Bill Giduz, the
College hosted a festival dedicated
to juggling.

A little bewildered? Yeah, me
too; no idea that this could be seri-
ous. Call me short-sighted, but jug-
gling?! But if you got through this
entire weekend without the plea-
sure of running into these insanely
fun, game junkies, you missed out.
Kick yourself.

In Johnston Gym on Friday
afternoon a workshop lasting until
midnight was held. Lunar Luau
proved to be an ideal place to juggle
fire and rile up crowds. Saturday
morning jugglers littered the lawn
to show their expertise, and the half-
time show at the football game was
theirs for the taking.

Mark Nizer hosted a show in
Hodson Hall and the games culmi-
nated at a show in the 900 Room
that night. All ages were invited
onstage to play. Some juggled,
some had innovative ideas on how
to drink water out of a cup, some
shocked the crowd with magic tricks
that ended up producing pink tissue
paper underwear and some made
bad jokes which made the respon-
sive, jovial audience squeal with

ees

gling Festival sets Davidson ablaze

Kathie Nitz

@ World-class jugglers from all over the region came to Davidson this weekend for the Hugo Juggling Festival.

glee. These renegades could do no
wrong. They come with big, black,
weathered trunks full of toys. They
dress up in psuedo-tuxedoes, tie-
dye, Kermit the Frog and Jurassic
Park attire. They range in age from
about 8 to 48. AndI can safely say
that they are having more fun than
anyone. I attended the Renegade
Show in the 900 Room hosted by
Mark Nizer (a.k.a. The Bad Boy of
Juggling) on Saturday night, and I
must admit-my naivete.
Apparently, there is a sub-cul-

ture out there that I never knew
existed. This crowd of mostly men,
though not completely, were
drinkin’ beer, eatin’ cold pizza,
heckling each other with inside jokes
and_ laughing hysterically. The
crowd was from all over — Florida,
California, Virginia, Maryland, At-
lanta, and, yes, North Carolina. As
I sat at the front door to stamp the
hands of those over 21, I began to
realize that this was just another
stop on the road for some of these
guys. Some had just come from a

show in Atlanta, some just picked
up here in Carolina, and for some,
this was not the last venue. The
non-jugglers in the crowd were
amazed and fascinated (that was
me...), and laughing along because
it was, well, wonderfully funny. It
sent me back, way back, to that
elation I used to get at the circus
every year. These performers are
doing something that they love. Itis
a life of playing games and making
audiences laugh and drop their jaws
— what could be better? The most

intriguing aspect of this whole event jugglers on the edge of our seats.
was that it was an exposé of this :

wonderful talent that
is based on fun and
laughter. Nothing
about it is pretentious,
nothing is exclusive,
and these masters of
the games love every
minute of it. It isa
passion for enjoy-
ment of themselves
that is so attractive

Paul Newman is Cool Hand Luke

The movie very well could have been titled Paul
Newman is an Incredible Actor. Cool Hand
Luke depicts a man’s struggle on a southern
chain gang during the early 1960s. The film,
released in 1968, no doubt
caused quite a stir by its
no-holds-barred look at
the brutality and corrup-

ties.

I would neither do the movie justice nor fully
arouse your interest in it without attempting to
understand the character of Luke while praising
the acting of Paul
Newman. He is truly a
non-conformist, an anti-
hero, and a rebel loner.

tion inherent in prison life.

However, to those of us

that have seen the more

recent The Shawshank Redemption, life for the
prisoners in Cool Hand Luke pales in compari-
son, evoking the atmosphere of a rigorous boot
camp instead of a hellish prison. The chain gang
serves merely as a canvas for the main character
of the movie, Luke, played brilliantly by Paul
Newman.

Luke is sent to prison for destroying parking
meters while on a drunken escapade. Once
there, Luke clashes with just about everybody he
possibly can: the evil warden, the sadistic guards,
and the ring leader of the prison played by
George Kennedy (Leslie. Nielsen’s partner in
The Naked Gun.) He soon gains the prisoners’
respect through remarkable acts of will and
stubbornness which included winning an egg
eating contest and taking a severe beating.in a
boxing match a la Robert DeNiro in Raging
Bull.

Although the prisoners now rally behind
him, Luke continues to dig himself a deeper and
deeper hole as he clashes further with authori-

He is admired by men

because of his great will

and determination, yet
rejects their praise and the eventual crown of
martyrdom they force him to wear. His charac-
ter is tinged with an otherworldliness and the
deep search for meaning. It is not surprising that
more than a few critics have compared the char-
acter of Luke to that of Christ. Luke remains an
enigma.

Ina similar fashion to the way Newman finds
the emotional heart of his character, his physical
portrayal of Luke is dazzling. The camera is
drawn toward Luke’s hard, burned, sweaty body
while studying intently those famous blue eyes,
a definite treat for any lady and enough to make
any guy scurry down to the gym.

So lay aside the books for a couple of hours,
resist watching Tommy Boy again and go see
Cool Hand Luke. Go bask in the performance of
a truly great actor and go see if you can unravel
the mystery of Cool Hand Luke. The film will be
shown both Wednesday and Friday night in the
900 Room. It can also be found in the language
lab or at the nefarious Blockbuster.

and what kept us non-

Bill Giduz

@

Some Lines on Woe Cat, Asleep Atop a Heap
* of Newpapers

Dom Talvacchio

Rest. Rest you easy, old lion; curl

Your hind legs over that smeared ink, dried-up

Letters on an already yellowing news page; breathe

Softly, or loudly, or however you want; you’re

Allowed this space, this time; go on and

Hang your paws over the jagged edge, made soft

By so many layers of staggered sections: Tuesday’s Travel

And Sunday’s Sports, Monday’s Money and Friday’s Food, stuffed
Deep into each other, just right for a cat’s bed; just right

For your bed, where you put to sleep not only your beautiful
Body, but also the body of words that are stifled beneath you.

Dom Talvacchio is a double major in English and Math from
Moorestown, N.J.

Come to the Project Life Pasta Dinner.
Friday, 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m., on the lawn: between Patterson Court and
the Commons. ;
$5 per person. Tickets on sale today and tomorrow in.Chambers.
Direct any questions to Kate Stevens (x6335).

FG 8 OOO ee OOOO O28 8 84 8 eRe Oe ee Fe Se a aR gS
