12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

HOROSCOPE

By Dorcas AND HARDWARE
Consulting Astrologists

mayonnaise, and Joan Crawford.

revolutionary. Love Locus: help key.

Ichthyoid: a fish, of course.

Robinson.

love in the Chambers elevator.

of having produced a real gem.

Body. Who knew?

Snarf™, from the Thundercats™,

work. Lucky Registrar: HAHAHAH!

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Make this weekend fun. Some
suggest that these three ingredients lead to fun: A sheepskin
condom, a jar of mayo (Hellman’s only) and a coat hanger. You
be the judge. Lucky People: Little Bo Peep, someone who likes

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— If you are a senior, or even if you
are not, think about a career in keyboard design. You could make
millions in moving the “help” key to another location. Be a

Aries (March 21-April 20)— Don’t buy into that whole Publisher’s
Clearing House thing. You KNOW that Ed McMahon’s picture
is not on the envelope. Lucky Family: American.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)— Do not order pescado al horno at El
Cancun. What do you really think al horno is? Ordering fish
inland is quite sketchy as well. Not to be taken lightly. Lucky

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Don’t cry for me Tears of A Clown. You
never really left us. You are the world. Lucky Person: Smokey

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Happy New Year Cancer, If last year was
_g00d for you, this year will be even better. You might experience

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Do not ever pay admission to Madame
Tussaud’s “Wax” museum. It is not worth it. Get some candles
and make your own museum. Then you will have the satisfaction

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— This week venerate Camillo
Golgi. That’s right, he found the apparatus of the same name. He
found it ninety years ago this week. It is also called the Golgi

Libra (September 23-October 22)— Consider starting your own
Venetian launch company. This would bring some elegance to
‘Davidson. You could make some bucks going from Chambers to
the VAC and the senior apartments. Drawback: no waterways.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— Remember cartoon characters
of yore. Try to emulate Rocky’s voice. You will only be able to
do this once in your life. Contemplate what Bullwinkle means
and who might have conceived of this name. Lucky Character:

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Do not use the “cats”
line. It, like other products of the Registrar’s Office does not

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Go to a concert in a gym.
Dance like the pre-teen you are. Oh, I am sorry, I must be con
fusing this horoscope entry with Self-Selection.

Write for Arts. Call
Ol’ Susanna at 2148.

Palatable Pleasures

Combating Fridge Odor

By JEFFERY. CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

Upon returning from break, I discovered a lovely new fragrance
radiating from my fridge. It was an aroma of rotten pasta with a twist of
onion. The culprits were carefully removed, yet even after a total scrub
down the fridge retained its not so fresh scent. My roommates and I
agreed that this was a serious problem which required immediate action,
so they left to go watch basketball as I prepared for chemical warfare.
The baking soda I had placed in the fridge back in August must really
have been saturated by the odor because it stunk worse than the fridge.
So, what did the all wise Chef-in-Residence do? Well, he did what any
self-respecting, upstanding, Southern male would do: he called his
mamma. As usual, mamma let loose the usual criticism by remarking,
“Maybe if you stopped living in a pile of feces, went to church, and
stopped acting like a damn fool, then women would stop labelling you
a freak — you little freak!”

After the customary lecture, I learned that coffee grounds are the
holy grail of the fridge stench jihad. Place an open can of ground coffee
in the foul cooler of decay, and in just a few hours, the moldy pasta with
an onion twist smell will be replaced with a deep, rich aroma of coffee.
The battle was done, and my, roommates returned from the game and
complimented me for my domestic triumph. They also consoled me by
reminding me that Davidson is in fact full of little freaks, and this is
nothing to worry about.

Boring domestic. tasks always become more fun when they are
utterly romanticized into global jihads of glory and domestic righteous-
ness. Consult Josh Peklo and Jason Wright if you need pointers on how
to turn the most trivial chores into a three-ring-mud wrestling event of
epic proportion. Brian Woodward and Hayes Trotter also have some
solid advise on vaporizing soap scum with a light sabre. Anyway, it is
important to cut loose or much of life will become mundane, and you be
knocking death’s door before you realize what hit you. In other words,
acting like a “damn little freak” transforms boring tasks into much fun.

Enough Doma—Let us Cook and make pleasing smells for the
Gods.

: Tomato Jalopefia Butter

This is a butter glaze that is really good on grilled chicken, and it is very
- simple.

-Soak a handful of sun dried tomatoes in a small bowl of water.

-Grill a couple of whatever kind of spicy peppers you prefer until they
have char marks on all sides. Remove peppers from the grill and seed
them. Chop the rest of the pepper.

-Take a stick of butter and beat it like a ... well just smash it up real good
(use a mixer if you have one).

-Toss in the tomatoes (not the water), some chopped cilantro, and the
peppers.

-Mix again and place in you fresh smelling fridge.

-When the chicken is done, just spoon the butter mix on the chicken and
you are good to go.

Al the Clubs

— Music in two hours or less—

RETRO THURSDAYS

YOUR FAVORITE 70’s & 80's Music.

LONG .

ISLAND ICE | &

SPECIALS.

JAZZ }
ENTERTAINMENT CLUB

fer gown Laks Norman extrvtascmeat
6201 Mognone Plaza. Laka Norman

(704) 892-0010

WEDNESDAY NIGHT TALENT NIGHT
Open to all Musicians and Vocalists
Sign up in advance
1st Prize - $50, 2nd Prize - $30, 3rd Prize - $20

RETRO THURSDAYS
Your Favorite 70's & 80's Dance Music with a D.J.
Starting 9 until.......
January 24 Barbara Lewis Group
January 25 Charles Hairston - One More Time Band
January 26 SUPERBOWL PARTY
Big Screen T.V., Snacks, Drink Specials
January 31 Que Jazz Band
February 1 Que Jazz Band
February 7 Ziad
February 8 Part Time Blues Band
February 14. VALENTINES NIGHT
Irv Cox Jazz Group
February 15 Charles Hairston - One More Time Band

February 21-22 Barbara Lewis Group
February 28 John O'Gorman Band

ComPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Jan. 20
Double Door: Les Moore, Jim
Brock, Rick Blackwell,
Johnny Alexander, Joe
Lindsey & Charles
Hairston

Irish Cue (Cornelius): John
O’Gorman & Friends

Tuesday, Jan. 21
Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad Jazz
Jam

Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic
Rorrer & The No Name
Band

Mythos: College night -
Techno

Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night
Tremont: Sebadoh w/ Rex

Wednesday, Jan. 22
Cat’s Cradle (Carboro): Gran
Torino
Club 2000: College night
Dance (Bare as you Dare con-
test)
Comedy Zone: Mickey
Rooney.
Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic .
Rorrer & The No Name
Band ;
Double Door: Donna Duncan
& Maniac Mood Swings
Jack Straw’s: Draggin’ Flow
ers w/ The Newcastle
Boys

Thursday, Jan. 23
Baha: Retro 80’s Dance night
Comedy Zone: Mickey
Rooney

Jack Straw’s: Day By the River
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

Friday, Jan. 24

Baha: Chairmen of the Board

Comedy Zone: Mickey
Rooney

Jack Straw’s: Treehouse w/

- Tendoer Idols

Mythos: Dance-techno

Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

Tremont: Stella/ #1,Family
Mover

_ Saturday, Jan. 25
Baha: Dance (No Cover
Before 10:00)

Jack Straw’s: Blue Dogs w/
Running from Anna
Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)
Tremont: Squirrel Nut Zippers

Sunday, Jan. 26
Double Door: Les Moore and
Friends
Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free
dance lessons at 8:30pm
(Salsa & Meringue!)
Pterodacty]: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

$4

Club #’s

Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-

2883
Baha: 525-3343
Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611
Comedy Zone: 568-4242

