THE DAVIDSONIAN >)

Flying Karamazov Brothers astound:
Modern-day jongleurs entertain a packed

Love Auditorium

By Wes.ey H. GoLpsBerry
Arts & Living Editor

uesday’s performance in the

| 1997-98 Davidson College Art

ists Series, the first of the year,

featured one of the most talented and
unique acts in the. country.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers,
a four-man ensemble of juggling musi-
cians, performed their newest show
entitled “Sharps, Flats, & Accidentals”
before a full crowd of students and
community members. The performance
lasted about two hours, not including
the reception which followed in the
Chambers gallery.

The Karamazovs, who are not re-
lated in any way and are not named
Karamazov, made their zaniness appar-
ent from the very start of the show. As
student Britton Taylor addressed the
audience, informing all of the public
reception which would follow (which
the performers themselves did attend),
an off-stage voice shouted out asking if
it would feature kegs.

The voice then corrected himself,
adding, “Ohthat’s right, we’re at David-
son,” (or something similar) poking fun
at the ever-changing alcohol policy.
The joke came as a definite surprise to
most audience members.

The Brothers’ first act was a musi-
cal number, an arrangement of the first
movement from W.A. Mozart’s Con-
certo in Bb for Bassoon, featuring Ivan
Karamazov (Howard Jay Patterson)
playing the bassoon part on euphonium,
with two brothers accompanying him
on concertina and a. wind instrument
similar to a clarinet. Ivan’s euphonium
skills were, in fact, reasonably impres-
sive.

Their next number, and every one
following, featured juggling. Each of
the four brothers began juggling three
pins, with the group then juggling all 12
pins together in ornate aeronautical pat=
terns of unparalleled complexity. Their
stunts managed to grow in complexity
as the night wore on.

The idea behind “Sharps, Flats,
and Accidentals,” as one brother ex-
plained, is that juggling is in fact music,
which he proved by way of a flawed
syllogism — music is rhythm, juggling
is rhythm, therefore juggling is music.

The Karamazovs discovered many
interesting ways of incorporating jug-
gling and musical performance.

Intheir arrangement of Bach’s Two
Part Invention in d minor, two brothers
performed an arrangement for marim-
bas, each man simultaneously juggling
three mallets while using them to hit the

@ Banging drums with clubs, the Flying Karamozov
Brothers launched this year’s Artists Series.

appropriate keys at the right times. This

was, perhaps, their most astonishing -

feat.

Another trick featured a brother
wearing a board with drums on his
back, juggling three pins while using
them to beat the heads of the drums.

In the Karamazovs’ most famous
act, entitled “The Gamble,” master jug-
gler Ivan accepted challenge to juggle
a small statue, a blanket, and a tele-
phone for 10 seconds. He maintained
control over the three objects fora mere
nine seconds, earning the punishment,
a cream pie to the face, as well as a
standing ovation from the crowd.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers’
brand of comedy is well-suited for
younger children, although palatable
for youth and adults of all ages. Their
show incorporated a joke about Jesse
Helms and one crack on UNC, in which
one of the brothers banged on a drum
three times to signify No. 3, saying,

“That was for the folks in Chapel Hill.”

The group remarked that the joke

seemed to work everywhere in North
Carolina.

The four jesters wore different cos-
tumes for each act, ranging from con-
servative tuxedos to feminine ballet garb.

One of their last acts involved each
brother wearing an electronic helmet,
which when banged upon (by ajuggling
pin) would emit a musical note. One of
the helmets failed to work properly,
causing the wearer to perform the piece
“a cappella,” or with voice, so that each
time in the piece that he hit his helmet
with the pin, he “sang” the appropriate
note. The tone quality in his singing
was deplorable, but forgivable consid-
ering the circumstances.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers
left the audience in complete awe of
their skills and creativity, and got this
year’s Artists Series off to a roaring
start.

such as the wars in Sarejevo, the Los

Sexual’ Etiquette

By Linpsey MEyYers
Student Health Advisor

Welcome back to the Student Body! We want to inform you of an exciting
upcoming college event: the Health Center has invited Dr. Robert A. Hatcher,
M.D., to speak in the 900 Room Nov. 10 at 8:00 p.m.

He is the author of Sexual Etiquette 101 and will speak about the same topic.
He should be a really entertaining guest to have around on campus, so drop by
and ask a few questions. This guy is the mentor of our very own “Sex Lady,”
Georgia Ringle, and has taught her everything he knows. His iinet for
sexual etiquette are as follows:

10 Rules of Sexual Etiquette
. Be sure sexual activity is consensual.
No means no.
. In sexual situations, always be thinking ahead
Be aware of your and his/her alcohol and drug intake.
Be prepared.
Communicate openly.
. Share responsibility in a sexual relationship.
Respect sexual privacy.
. Don’t sexually harass other individuals
10. Be considerate of others.

=O RMPIAVAYWN =

Here is a sample of the funny stories in his book:

eMy diaphragm: A Real Conversation Piece

“One morning after removing my diaphragm, I placed it onto a shelf but not
inside its case. At a social occasion in our home that evening, our new puppy
came frolicking into the middle of the living room — with my diaphragm
hanging off of his eye tooth.”

eShopping and Sex Do Not Mix

“My boyfriend and I went shopping one day. When I went to try on an
outfit, he accompanied me into the dressing room as he frequently did. We
became aroused and engaged in intercourse on the floor. Upon leaving the
dressing room, we were grabbed by security. The entire episode had been
videotaped. Needless to say, I was mortified.”

We hope that these funny stories lure you into coming to hear Dr. Hatcher
speak next week. Hope to see there! As always, please send comments and
questions c/o Mitch Shores, P. O. Box 4180.

Sullivan a success in 900 Room

By ZaIpDEE Rose
Staff Writer

Angeles riots, and pigeon fighting in
New York City.

Sullivan had a,strong speaking
voice, which would sometimes be a
thick New York accent, depending on
what he was reading. Because some of '
his poems were heavy in theme, he
would crack jokes in between readings
to keep the mood less somber.

Sullivan ended with a five-part
poem that took 25 minutes to read! It is
his newest poem entitled Zen Match
Box.

All in all, Sullivan was an enjoy-
able reader with perspectives as a New
Yorker living in Charlotte. Listeners
were invited to the Homeroom after the
reading for a more personal visit with
Sullivan that included book signing.

The Literary Arts Committee spon-
sored an award-winning poet from Char-
lotte Oct. 27.

Chuck Sullivan was well-received
by a moderate audience of approxi-
mately 50 in the Union 900 Room.
Christian Hunt, a sophomore who had
Sullivan as a teacher at one point, intro-
duced Sullivan as a “Catholic existen-
tialist.”

Indeed, Sullivan’s poems were
satirical and light-hearted, filled with
religious images. He started with two
poems about his grandmother who had
passed away, then moved on to topics

On the Scene ar Davipson COLLEGE

(Coffeehouse. Drown yourselfin caffeinated
bilge and little powedered-donuts. 8:15
a.m.-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Joy Marjo. Native American poet
extraordinaire, reads some of her works in
the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Jumpin’ Java. Hurry, the fat-free Rasp-
berry Newtons are going stale. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old-Night. Alcohol for the
upperclassmen’s collective liver. 10:00
p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Gerry Chisolm, holds a sale on the
College Union Patio 9:00 a.m.-5:00
p.m.

St. (lair Trio features a soprano, a
piano, and a clarinet. Come keep Wes
company. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson Hall.

Coffeehouse. Eat more ARE 8:15
a.m-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Gerry Chisolm. The sale of the cen-
tury continues on the Union Patio. 9:00
a.m.-5:00 p.m.

Davidson College Symone Orthes.
tra Concert. Come see your class-
mates play works by Mozart and Berlioz.
8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Jumpin’ Java. Free Triscuits! 7:30
p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano students recital. Piano ‘stu-
dents tickle the ivories. 8:00 p.m. in
Hodson Hall.

Hunger Banquet. An allegory of world
hunger. 6:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. at Vail Com-
mons.

Freddy Jones Band. Appearing in Love
Auditorium for $5.00, if it’s worth it to you.
8:00 p.m.

Tom Wicker. The Wickster gives the inau-
gural Batten Professorship lecture at 8:00
p.m. in Hodson Hall.

“The Godfather.” Beware of drowsy veni-
son. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Mexican Muralist Movement. 4:30
p-m.-6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. For
more info, contact Nancy Fairley.

“The Godfather.” Al Pacino again.
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Felonious Swank. They’re a Beatles

Jumpin’ Java. No quesadillas. 7:30
p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano Trio. More piano-playing. 8:00
p.m. at Hodson Hall.

Dr. Robert Hatcher. He speaks in the
900 Room at 8:00 p.m.

cover band. Playing from 10:00 p.m.-
11:30 p.m. at the Outpost.

