Warping in the realm of the unconcious

all break could not come soon
enough for Matthew Hobbie.

The physical and
emotional stress of the last
couple weeks had taken their *
toll. All last week, I got just
a few hours of sleep a night.
And Thursday night, the last
night before break, I didn’t
sleep at all. This lack of
sleep plus a cold made me a very sick boy.

After missing my first class on Friday
and bobbing my head through the next two,
I stumbled to my room, removed my clothes,
and fell into bed. Two hours later, | woke up
sitting in the living room of my apartment,
fully clothed. I had locked the door of my

“room with the keys inside, and I don’t re-
member a bit of it. Believe it or not, things
could have been worse — I could have gone
to sleep clothed and woken up naked in
someone else’s living room!

Normally, if something strange like
this happened to me, I would be worried; but
I am not, for this was not the first time. lam
incredibly active when I'm unconscious.

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rather than alcohol or drugs, my loss of
consciousness is instead always due to sick-
ness or lack
of sleep.
One
way this
activity is
seen is in
my con-
stant fight
with my unconscious self over waking up in
the morning. My freshman year I took my
first and only 8:30 class. The night before,
I would stay up until about four — studying
calculus — and try to wake up at eight. But

it was nearly impossible. I would set my |

alarm and wake up late to find that I had
turned it off in my sleep. To remedy this I
set my alarm clock across the room.

The next day I woke up late once
again, since I had walked across the room
during the night and turned off the alarm. I
then decided to immobilize the alarm switch
with duct tape and once again set it across
the room. I woke up late the next day and the
tape was broken.

Another manifestation of my active
unconscious is my tendency to fall asleep and
wake up in another place and time like I did
last week. The extreme of this is when the
change in time and location occurs in the time
it takes to blink. Liz Sale and I came up with
aterm for this our sleepless freshman year —
warping. With the sleep-starved Davidson
student, warping can occur at any time.

I have to admit — among warpers, I am
a champ. One day I blinked reading on my
couch in Belk and woke up in my German AT
on the third floor of Chambers. Another time
I woke up ina Biology lab. How I got to those
places and what I did along the way, I will
never know.

My favorite warping experience was
while traveling alone by train between
Dresden and Berlin in Germany. I boarded
the train in Dresden, placed my bags in the
overhead racks, and sat down. I closed my
eyes and when I opened them I was standing
on a train platform in the middle of nowhere
(not Berlin) holding all my bags.

The few people on the platform were
staring at me along with the conductor who

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

was asking me in German, “What in the heck
are you doing?” I had the next two hours.to
get my head straight while I waited for the
next train.

What I wonder is, what happens in the
time between closing my eyes and opening
them? How much do! do in my sleep? How
many classes have I attended, how many
miles have I driven, and how many conver-
sations have I had while I was totally uncon-
scious? Am I awake right now?

For those who can relate to my experi-
ences and have even warped yourselves, you
know that although it could sometimes be
dangerous, warping is notalwaysa bad thing.
For one, it is exciting, and second, if you’ re
lucky, you'll wake up in the Union!

If you find yourself transported there
this week, don’t miss the International Fes-
tival, the Sorority Forum, Club Night,
“What's Eating Gilbert Grape,” Jumpin’
Java, Coffeehouse, or the Horror Film Festi-
val showing all next week!

Check your Union Board Calendar for ,

dates and times. I hope to see you there —
conscious or not.

The staff: An often forgotten vital part

avidson College is considered
to be a top-notch institution,
We have a great faculty. Our stu-
dents are the best and brightest. Our admin-
istration is
first-rate —
just look at
our current
and former

food for more than five hundred people and
serve it to you, always making sure you
have everything you want by asking, “What
else?”

They operate the
Union Outpost. You
know, those people who
deal with drunken 20-
year-olds who ungrate-

presidents.

But there is

one aspect of

Davidson College that is just as vital and
often overlooked. I am referring to the
Davidson College staff.

Do you ever pause to wonder just who
that person is who mops up Friday's Court
beverage off of your bathroom floor Mon-
day morning?

Have you ever considered how much
work it takes to set up for the inauguration of
the president of Davidson College? Or, have
you ever reflected on why that guy sings
aloud while cooking your omelet?

They are the Physical Plant. The people
who fix our air conditioners and replace
broken windows. They are the laundry.
Those who take our nasty, smelly bundles
and return nicely-wrapped, clean clothes.
They are the Commons workers.

The ones who work hard to prepare

fully order their food,

pick fights, and mess up

the bathroom. They are
those in the Union Café who cook up your
MexiBurger and onion rings.

They are Building Services. You
know, the people who sweep up after your
hall and do their best to prevent mildew
trom forming on the shower walls. They are
the ones who wax the floors in Chambers
and empty the trash. They clean the glass of
the street lamps for the inauguration and
mow the lawns. They are the bookstore
staff. They sell us our tomes, our paper, and
our pens, They are the Davidson College
police, who escort us home late at night and
who ensure that the image of Davidson as a
safe place is more fact than myth.

These people provide services that we
as students depend and rely upon every day.
In some cases, they perform tasks that some
would find revolting.

Too many students take these people
for granted and do not give them the respect
they deserve. Too often they are criticized
rather than thanked. You may gripe about
something when you find it is not done to
your satisfaction, but how often do you show
your appreciation when it is done right?

The most obvious example to me is
Vail Commons. I have dined there ever since
my freshman year, and I have heard.all sorts
of complaints.

I do not think most people realize how
well one can actually eat there. This is a place
that tries its best to respond to the wishes of
the students. When Eric Sapp voiced his
opinion about the food, they responded.

It seems that every year Wanda
Braddock has to reiterate that she welcomes
any and all suggestions for new meals or
ideas.

And it seems that every year there is
something new to try. We now have the
sandwich bar, three meals a day on the week-
end, the pizza bar, and Baskin Robbins ice
cream.

During my freshman year, we started
out with chocolate, vanilla, and chocolate-
vanilla swirl.

Now one can choose any flavor from
mint chocolate chip ice cream to strawberry
frozen yogurt. The people work there all

of Davidson

work hard for us: from Irene who slides the
Cat Cards, to Gene who will cook you anegg
just right, to Rickey who helps cook up the
peach-and-curry chicken.

As far as personal experience goes,
another part of the Davidson staff that I
would like to recognize is the janitorial staff.
My freshman and sophomore years, Johnny
Morrison was the man with the mop. Then
when I came back from being abroad, |
landed on First Watts and was fortunate
enough to receive the daily cleaning services
of Georgia Anderson. Now that Lam senior,
I must make sure my shower drain does not
clog with hair and that my hallway is vacu-
umed.

Butit’s not only these services which I
miss. I also miss their personalities. [ miss
chatting with Georgia about life, or joining
Johnny in expressing my dislike for the
Dallas Cowboys.

I wish I could go into detail about every
service these folk provide. But they do
things that we do not even know about. I'm
sure I have failed to even mentionevery staff
position at Davidson College. But you know
who they are.

They are people, like you and me.
They deserve your respect. They are vital in
your quest to become a doctor, a lawyer, or
an Anderson Consulting drone.

Cure the

ith President Vagt’s inau

gural address on fostering

idealism still fresh in my
mind, I’ve been wondering recently why
Davidson does not have any -organiza-
tions com-
mitted to
peace and
social jus-
tice. We

disease,

or solutions to these problems which
would go beyond a few hours of service.
Perhaps it is because we are implicitly
guilty. The majority of Davidson stu-
dents have benefitted from the status quo,
as indicated by the mere
fact that we are here en-
joying an expensive lib-
eral arts education.. .To

have amed-

ley of ser-

vice organi-

zations, and even a chapter of Amnesty
International, but it disturbs me that our
community has not been actively tackling
some of the larger, underlying issues of
injustice.

With great enthusiasm we march out
of our ivory tower to feed the hungry, but
we do not collectively address the ques-
tion of why, in this rich nation of ours,
people gohungry inthe first place. We are
very eager to serve, but not eager to dis-
cuss root causes of poverty and injustice

challenge the systems of
injustice which exist in so-
ciety, we must necessar-
ily examine our own posi-
tion within them.

However, it requires more than per-
sonal transformation; we must also ques-
tion national policy. We must bring our
religious and ethical perspectives to bear
on national politics and specific issues
like the federal budget. This is another
area we seem tobe neglecting at Davidson.
With all of the active religious groups
and service committees on campus, one
would think that discussions about mili-
tary spending, nuclear weapons stockpil-

not the symptoms

ing and human rights abuses would prolif-
erate. Yet outside of a few poorly attended
speakers and small pockets of concerned
individuals, this is not the case. Are we
really as apathetic as we seem? Why is
there no campus-wide dialogue about the
vitally important issues?

My own exploration of social justice
and nonviolent protest has occurred out-
side of Davidson. Most recently I attended
a workshop offered by the Fellowship of
Reconciliation on nonviolence and com-
munity organizing. I was most impressed
with the other college students I met, stu-
dents who are actively involved in the
peace and justice movement. They attend
demonstrations, organize with their com-
munities, and hold forums. Where is that
spirit of activism at Davidson?

The Chapel Committee, of which I
am a member, will be testing the waters of
social justice at Davidson this coming week.
We are organizing a national, interfaith
faith sponsored by the Fellowship of Rec-
onciliation which will begin on Thursday,

October 24, The. Fast for Sanity is being
called in order “to identify with the hun-
ger and malnourishment in our own na-
tion, and throughout the world, caused by
the insanity of was and the enormous
military spending that precedes and en-
courages armed conflict.” Needless to say,
this statement is bold. This is not simply
a fast for hunger awareness; after all,
everyone agrees that hunger should be
eliminated. This fast is being called so
that people with begin to examine na-
tional budget priorities from a faith-based
point of view, This raises important ques-
tions about the place of the military and
other institutionalized forms of violence
in our society. Topics like the culture of
militarism have not been broached during
my years at Davidson, and it is the climate
of silence about this and other peace and
justice issues which leads me to wonder
where all the activists have gone. Hope-
fully this fast will be a chance to spark
dialogue on our campus about issues which
have been conspicuously neglected.

Alenda Lux

Fires (no \ess.

ct a We Vow ‘re
wode sh all banter eettaad \
Hrs wan Low Unleeeo
Clesde te Ho shee?
Dowidson, And ad

on foue Liat |

Re N en weeFernds

Oy Werke Lotze

Neigert still
lurking on the
information
superhighway

oes the name Rob Neigert ring

any bells? If not, let me give

a quick refresher course: bel-
ligerent sexual harasser (ask any num-
ber of women on campus), the perpe-
trator of threatening phone calls, the
knifer that was quickly transferred in a
very hush-hush manner, and that guy
who is sending me e-mails!

Either he read the article about my
breasts, or I’m working through some
very nasty karma. Imagine this: I’m
sitting at my computer sipping coffee at
9:08 Thursday morning and this is the

e-mail I get:

“So what do your breats (I’m as-
suming he meant breasts) look like any-
way Your secret admirer...:)”

The message came from a
robman @eagle.cc.ukans.edu. And
while I wasn’t sure who the sender was,
I am a sporting young woman, and,
after I forwarded the message to my
boyfriend, I replied. I think I said
something like “36C, firm, high, and
wide-set, etc,” you know, like any num-
ber of breasts.

By this time, my illustrious boy-
friend is in calling all the technological
wonders to his aid in order to figure out
who the weirdo is that is e-mailing his
girlfriend about her breasts.

At a little after five last Thursday
afternoon I received this message:

“I must say, that was an average
description. You could go into more
detail — your breasts do have nipples,
color, and texture, or am I mistaken?
Who am I? Let's just say I knew you
one year ago. Oh, and to ease your
worries, | am not fat nor ugly (I was
really worried, phew, it’s just Neigert
not some other physically unattractive
man). In fact, | am becoming certified
by anational gym to become a personal
trainer — I'd rock your world...:)

I guess the use of smiley faces
makes it okay to proposition women
who have already expressed their disin-
terest over e-mail.

This is the part of the message that
blew even my mind. With that in mind,
it must be good. :

“In addition, | know what you
look like with cloths [sic] on — tell me
what you look like without them, and
Ill do the same for you.”

Gross! If I was looking for this
kind of entertainment, I’d be calling
singles hotlines for desperate twenty-
somethings.

Again, this was signed by “A Se-
cret Admirer.” Frankly, it sounds like
he wants to do more than secretly ad-
mire. I guess he was hoping for some
free e-mail porn.

By this time I was. having some
extreme e-mail deja-vu; pompous, ar-
rogant, sexually-suggestive e-mailer —
it reminded me of Rob Neigert, and
would you believe it, he’s -going to
University of.Kansas and his e-mail
address is “robman@eagle.cc.ukans.
edu.” I’m not sure whether to be com-
forted to know who is sending me the
messages or worried because now I
know who he is.

I guess my main concern is
whether or not by refusing his e-mail
advances I will be next on his hit list. I
bet he still has those butterfly knives.
Will there be.a nice burly young man to
catch the sting of the blade for me?

Will his threats and harassments
to women everywhere have‘to come to
fruition before someone realizes that
this guy is not your ordinary “I was just
drunk and stressed out” college boy,
but someone who is in serious need of

mental evaluation?

