Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

+ Editors-in-Chief Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

RANDY HARTWELL JEFFERY CROMARTIE CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
Sports Editors Advertising Managers
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW JOHN EARLY
MATTHEW EIRICH MICHAEL KRUSE PETER MARTIN
News Editors Photo Editor Circulation Managers
ANN CULP ANNA JUDY CHLOE BROOKE
NARESH NAGELLA McNEIL CARSWELL
Copy Editors
Opinions Editors BETH BACON Web Page Managers
KRISTEN BARTCH PENNY WALL CLAY LENHART
DAVID SANTSCHI BRAD CHASE
Cartoonist ERIC PENDERGRASS
Arts & Living Editor CHRIS MOORE
HEATHER LARSON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Babidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Hi, we’re new here

We are relatively new to this thing. We are still learning to walk the tight-rope
without the safety net of our illustrious predecessors. And we would be remiss if we did
not thank publicly John Copenhaver and Mary Clare Jalonick for their continued support
and encouragement. They set a level of professionalism and credibility to which we will
always aspire and which we will never exceed. With deep gratitude we express our
indebtedness to them and wish them the best. Enjoy your sleep-filled Sunday nights, John
and Mary Clare. You have earned them.

We pledge to do the best job we can in presenting a balanced and diverse, interesting
and substantial paper every week. We have our opinions, agree with some people on
campus and disagree with others, but we always will try to be fair.

This is not our paper. It belongs to the students. Well, OK, it actually belongs tothe |

Trustees, but that is another matter. The direction of the paper, its content and
appearance, lies with the student body. If you do not like The Davidsonian, get involved
to change it. Call us on it when you think we have messed up. (A pat on the back when
you think we have done something well does not hurt, either.)

We would like to see greater participation in all aspects of the paper. Staff writers,
from any class, are always needed. Photographers, too. The opportunity to garnera prime
title in short time shines brightly. Meaningful involvement in the production of the paper
is far from unattainable.

Sometimes, our announcements encouraging people to write may seem silly and
only half-serious. And although they are written in a light-hearted way, the underlying
message is sincere. We want and need your talent and input.

Davidson faces a new era. Our national reputation is established and with that new
recognition problems arise. And most important among these new problems is Davidson’s
identity. What kind of school are we? What kind of school do we want to be?

Exciting and daunting events such as the selection of a new College president,
determining the facilities of the new Union, and creating the possibility for more
integrated coed-housing also will shape the answers to those questions.

We want The Davidsonian to be the place where students express what they think
about these and other events. We hope everyone will move in step to create a forum for
meaningful discussion.

We hope this does not sound like we are taking ourselves too seriously. We want
The Davidsonian to be fun and playful, too. One of the effects of Davidson “tunnel
vision” is an inability to see the humor and bright side of the things happening around us:
the male wet t-shirt contests, the exciting last-minute victories, the quirky news stories.

In short, we will try to keep perspective.

The Wavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Dabvidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed]

in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 7

WE DIDN'T Tink
OF THIS SOoNER

LETTERS

Cool it at the Outpost

To the Editors:

First of all, let me say
that I have worked at the
Outpost since its inception,
and it’s been great getting to
develop good friendships
with so many of you. But I
feel we need to address some
issues regarding conduct.
Extending the party you just
left, or just hanging out and
having a little fun is accept-
able, and I encourage that.
Fighting and. profanity and
abuse of the staff are not.

We just lost two more
employees due in part to the
stress of trying to please in-

toxicated, impatient, abusive
Students. We are trying to
serve you as fast as the small
facility will allow, but you
have to understand that a
whole party full of people
can’t walk in at 2:00 and be
eating at 2:10. If the ex-
tremely poor behavior con-
tinues, we may have nochoice
except to consider increasing
staff or hiring a police officer
just to keep things in hand.
This would be an expensive
solution which would prob-
ably come out of your pock-
ets in higher prices. If it gets
worse, we may have to con-
sider closing the Outpost.

Now .the good news.
Knowing the quality of the
Davidson student, I think a
little self-government will’
solve these problems. Try to
hold on to the dignity I know
you possess, and let my staff
have theirs. Remember,
friends don’t let friends em-
barrass themselves or their
school. If you have any sug-
gestions for how we can deal
with these problems, please
let me know.

Dennis Rice
Union Outpost Manager

Peet : A tee

The Wildcats Deserve Support

To the Editors:

Let me say first that Iam
a very loyal supporter of
Davidson College both on the
academic and athletic side.
There is no better college in
the United States.

Even though I live in
Georgia, I follow very closely
the men’s basketball team. I
am very concerned now about
the lack of student support as
well as the general fan sup-
port. Granted, the team is not
nationally ranked like it was
in the 60s when we could
easily pack the 11,000-seat
capacity Charlotte Colos-
seum. However, Coach
McKillop has brought this

program up to respectability,
and we are currently ranked
in the top one third of all
division-one schools. With
‘the second lowest number of
malestudents in division one,
all Davidson alumni can take
great pride in what this team
accomplishes.

Knowing the academic
rigors, I still see no reason
why a majority of the student
body cannot walk across cam-
pus and remain in a seat for
two hours thirteen times a
year. There is much more to
life than studying, and I cer-
tainly hope Davidson Col-
lege is not trying to bring in
anall-1400 SAT student body
of eggheads with no way of

relating to the outside world.

Davidson College is cer-
tainly not a household name,
and one way we get our name
in front of the public is
through athletics. Having
small crowds at ahome game
on television is no way to
impress the general popula-
tion. In my opinion, if the
student body, close-by
alumni, and local fans do not
support this program, then
they do not deserve a divi-
sion-one team. Here’s hop-
ing your readers will get be-
hind this very fine group of

~ young men.

Bill Ford ‘65
Canton, Georgia

Correction: Junior Michelle Bougdanos was incorrectly called “Michael” in the
Election Issue of The Davidsonian. We regret the error.

Valentine’s Day is Friday. Woo
that special someone The
Davidsonian way, with a

Dabvidsonian t-shirt. After all, a
Davidsonian t-shirt is forever.
Only $10. (But don’t tell her what
a good deal you got on it.)
