A plethora of musical genres hit the airwaves every Sunday on WALT

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1997

: Specialty shows give listeners a wide variety on a typically stay-up-late homework night

By JENNIFER MILLER
Guest Writer

1610 AM. Like any radio sta
tion, WALT has a rotation list
from which one song every 15 min utes

S unday is specialty day at WALT

must be played. Anything outside of *

these four songs is up to the disc jockey.

The specialty shows, however,
have a defined theme or genre, so they
don’t have to play anything from the
rotation list.. Free from the constraints
of a regular show, the specialty shows
range from classic Jazz and Americana
to hard-core and Britpunk. This week’s
focus is on the Sunday night line-up:
“Classic Jazz” with John Paulas (8:00-
9:00 p.m.), “Britpunk” with Abigail
Bergsma and Norrie Herrin (10:00-
12:00 p.m.), and “Hard Core” with Will

- White and Scott Hutchins (12:00-1:00
a.m.). .

It is little surprise that John Paulas,
known campus-wide for his resonant
bass voice, has his own radio show.
Paulas presents “Classic Jazz.”

Paulas took to jazz as a kid grow-
ing up in Néw York, listening to the
radio, as well as old records. In fact, his
show’s music is supplied entirely from
his own collection. Paulas’ show, along
with a variety in sound quality provided
by the old records versus CDs, spans a
wide range of classical jazz beginning
with Scot Joplin in the 1890s and early
ragtime to stride piano and the modal
jazz of the 1950s.

Despite the wide range of the show,
his focus is on piano jazz. He plays
selections from Jazz greats including
Fats Waller, Art Tadum, Oscar Peterson,
George Gershwin, and Bud Powell.

Paulas doesn't model his show on
anyone, but admits to the influences of
unforgettable jazz disc jockeys, such as
the “Purple Groddo.”

“He was just whacked out, in a
purple cave, with mushrooms growing
all-over,” Paulas said.

His original intentions for the show
were to make a Peter Shikey-style show,
designed to “teach the classical listener
something about the music,” according

to Paulas. But he abandoned the format
after it became tedious.

He now aims for “lots of jazz and
little talk.”

Paulas-also broadcasts special edi-
tions of his show including a show on
Dixie Jazz, the New Orleans original
marching music, and Washboard Jazz,
which used wash boards for percussion.

His show includes a range of jazz
that most stations ignore when only
focusing on modern jazz, brought on by
a personal passion.

“It’s some of my favorite music,”
Paulas said, “so I want to share it with
the folks at Davidson.”

“Britpunk” is presented by Abigail
Bergsma and Norrie Herrin. Bergsma
and Herrin met on the Davidson in India
program and discovered that they had a
lot in common — namely music.

Their show features a combina-
tion of techno and hard core and Brit
Pop. Bergsma said that she has always
found British popular music more in-
teresting and has followed it from the
Beatles to the present.

Their diverse show plays every-
thing from Brit Pop featuring the
Beatles, Smiths, David Bowie, Blur,
Swede, and Radiohead tocurrent techno
and electronic hard core. They try to
focus on the current, but Bergsma said
she tries to throw in some oldies like
Elvis Costello from time to time.

They also include American bands
that fit the genre such as Blondie, the
Ramones, and the Talking Heads —
American punk of the 70s. Bergsma
said that she likes to play British Glam
(not to be confused with American Glam
Rock of the early eighties).:

She described British Glam as
“music I am almost:embarrassed by
how much I like it,” characterized by
it’s dramatic staginess. These bands are
great in concert and even stagey when
simply on the radio.

Admittedly shy on the air, Bergsma
said they don’t talk much and “if some-
one wants to know the name of a song,
they can call in.”

The “Eighties Extravaganza.”
(3:00-4:00 p.m.) is presented by Spanky

and D-licious, two senior athletes who
wish to have their identity remain con-
cealed. They started out together on a
regular show, sharing similar tastes in
music, and they meshed so well that
they decided to strike out on their own
with a specialty show.

They enjoy the unregulated free-
dom of the specialty show. Spanky said
that they are never at a loss of some-
thing to play. They enjoy the show as a
way to relax and for at least one hour of
a normally hectic Davidson week.

_ Spanky said that they try to strike
up nostalgia from the 80s and child-
hood. They play stuff that everyone
liked at some point, including Milli
Vanilli and New Kids on the Block.
They even play 80s Glam rock.

“Come on, admit it, you used to
buy this stuff,” Spanky said.

They—playthe—artist formerly
known as Prince, Paula Abdul, and Bel
Biv Devoe, early Rap including Run
DMC, and early Madonna —a favorite
of D-licious’.

They basically play what Spanky.

‘describes as Davidson 80s — “‘the stuff

you hear all the time,” such as “Come
on Eileen.” Since both are athletes,
they try to promote sports events on

campus and even brought up the soror-
ity issue, though few people called in
with a response.

Will White and Scott Hutchins,
the hosts of “Hard Core” (12:00-1:00
a.m.) try to stretch the limits of their
freedom by being as loud and offensive
as possible. They play punk rock and
digital hare core. White describes their
music as offensively loud as well as
relatively explicit. Some of their most
frequently played music comes from
hard core greats such as Atari Teenage
Riot. Their set ranges from early 80s
punk from the Dead Kennedys to the
more contemporary Tool.

They claim to play loud and less
popular music. White suspects that the
show doesn’t have many listeners, but
they enjoy itregardless. Of course, they
welcome any feedback and calls for
requests... Their-mission is_to-offer_a
forum for hard core music that is hard to
find elsewhere, and provide some air
play fora genre that appeals to a minor-
ity of fans. .

They do -get call-ins, especiall
from their five most loyal fans. Once
someone called in impersonating an
offended regulator and forced them to
play Tiny Tim.

Ona different note, Tom Knowles
presents “Blues,” (4:00-6:00 p.m.),
which differs from Jazz with it’s tell-
tale 1-4-5 chord progression, for those
who understand the lingo.

He features BB King, Muddy ©
Waters, and a “whole lot of soul.” His
repertoire ranges from the late 20s and
early 30s, the oldest performer being
Robert Johnson, “King of the Delta
Blues,” to the present with the 16-year-
old guitarist, Jonny Lang.

Knowles’s show flows around two
types of Blues — acoustic and electric.
He starts off with the acoustic and flows
to the electric. His show always has a
controlled progress — no random mix.

If he starts with Eric Clapton play-
ing Freddy King, the next song will be
a Freddy King original. Knowles also
plays blues from mainstream artist, like
Jimi Hendrix who, as few people know,
played blues as well as acid rock.

Knowles tries to keep his listeners
informed with a little history behind the
music, and its significance.

He is always happy to take re-
quests. ;

Knowles ‘first got interested in
blues through his guitar teacher and
finds “nothing as soulful as good blues.”

By ANNE STANCIL
Staff Writer

The Davidson Jazz Ensemble
captivated students and their parents
with swingin’ tunes Friday night.

Under the direction of Bill
Lawing, chair of the Music Depart-
ment, the 16member group performed
11 jazz and Big Band charts. Encom-
passing a wide variety of. styles and
eras, the jazz ensemble included hits
from Count Basie and Benny
Goodman, to name a couple.

Jazz Ensemble rocks 900 Room

Swingers treated to a rare performance on

Halloween night

All members displayed their im-
provisational skills and musical wit,
delivering a stellar blend of woodwind,
brass, and rhythm.

This performance was a rare treat
for the campus because the Jazz En-
semble only comes together a few times
during the year.

The annual Spring Break tour is
their biggest gig. For a week the en-
semble travels to various spots around
the country showcasing their musical

flare. Last year the ensemble was right -

at home in New Orleans. the birthplace

SPEND YOUR SUMMER IN THE

COLORADO ROCKIES

Experience the outdoors and help create memories at the King Mountain
Ranch Resort. For an.application and our summer job openings call 800-
476-5464 or E-mail at hosts @kingranchresort.com

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROA

of jazz.

Halloween night brought out the
ensemble’s ghoulish grooves.

They were definitely ‘In the
Mood” for haunts and harmony.

Even the guy from Scream
stopped by to chime in on bass trom-
bone.

Lawing even dawned a “jazzy”
green wig to direct the last number, a
Benny Goodman favorite.

A definite treat for all, the David-
son Jazz Ensemble tickled the audi-
ence with musical tricks and style.

D

AKUDZUN=

ON SOULE. BROAD

704-663-1859

international cuisine with a southern twist
259 South Broad Street © Mooresville * North Carolina 28115

GREAT BRITAIN

Representative:

Location:

COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring or Full Year. Scholarships Available.
Study Abroad Information Session:

Steve Seaworth of ISA and
Marita Foster of University College Cork
Date: Wednesday, November 5
11:30 — 1:30 At Table
College Union

Fog further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University,
4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY

