6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Tapia shares her love of learning

By Liz NEIHEISEL
Staff Writer

Brenda Tapia has a true love of
learning, and she has brought it to
Davidson.

This summer marked the 10th
anniversary of Davidson’s Love of
Learning program, founded by
Tapia in 1987 as an innovative five-
year program geared towards im-
proving the intellectual, spiritual,

~and physical development of local
minority students.

The program, dubbed an “aca-
demic boot camp” by news anchor-
man Charles Kuralt, begins the sum-
mer before students’ ninth grade
year and lasts until the summer pre-
ceding their freshman year in col-
lege.

Students begin their time in
Love of Learning with an intensive
four-week stay on Davidson’s cam-
pus, where they spend up to twelve
hours a day inclasses. A typical day
consists of seminars ranging from
leadership workshops to academic
classes to spiritual development
classes.

Tapia, who attributes both the
innovation and success of the pro-

gram to God and the Holy Spirit, .

speaks adamantly of the program’s
holistic approach: “If you’re going
. to educate the student, you have to
affect their home, their learning en-
vironment, and their community.”

Love of Learning is therefore
based on four components: work-
ing to effect the lives of the stu-
dents, their parents, their learning
environment, and their community
resources.

Davidson’s program has been
unable to actualize the last two com-
ponents for lack of both financial
and personnel resources. The first
two, however, have achieved phe-
nomenal success. Out-of 300 stu-
dents involved in Love of Learning
over the past three years, 269 went
to college with an undetermined
number reaching graduation. Seven
of those students have completed or
are currently enrolled in a graduate
program.

While all of these statistics
bring great joy to students, faculty,
and staff, it is the change in the
student that brings them back year
after year. Tapia and her staff are
focused on “seeing people not where
they are right now, but where they
can be. Our joy comes from watch-
ing students become who they were

created to be.”

With this goal in mind, counse-
lors are trained to reach out to the
students, encourage close interac-
tion, and promote a bonding experi-
ence during the residential camp.
While some students. find success

in only two weeks, others need more’

time to blossom, and such is the
goal of the five-year program.

This summer, with the first
decade of Love of Learning past,
former students, teachers, parents
and faculty joined together for a
special celebration:

Over 300 people returned to

Davidson to reunite with those indi-
viduals that changed their lives for-
ever. , ,
“all
[her] children” return, was presented
with a commemorative plaque and
a round-trip ticket to Jamaica from
her faculty and staff. Tapia has
been featured in various news pub-
lication in the Charlotte area and
beyond, including the Observer
Times and Davidson’s own Topics
magazine.

Students interested in becom-
ing involved with the Love of Learn-
ing program can contact Brenda
Tapia at extension 2452.

Tapia, who was glad to see

Exquisite Fall Clothing

e7 Accessories

For Ladies

Mon. - Sat.
10 AM to 6 PM
106 S. Main Street

896-8860

Write for
News. Call
Naresh or

Jessica
x 2148

We need people capable of
going beyond half-full or half-empty
thinking. People who see
subleties. Who are quite frankly
bored by easy answers and off-the-
shelf solutions.

People who are constantly
challenging their own thinking and
are thirsty for new ideas and
knowledge.

You'll have a degree from a top
school. Getting a job won't really
be an issue. The question is: which
job? Which industry?

http: /, www.ac.com

| We’re looking for people who
look at this glass and say:
“There’s gotta be other
glasses of Loail

=

Andersen-Consulting offers you
the chance to work in a variety of
roles on unique projects-with top
worldwide companies.

We are the leader in helping
organizations apply information
technology to their business. We
implement solutions to help our
clients change.

Are you the person we're talking
about? The kind of person with an
unquenchable desire for challenge
and professional growth?

Andersen Consulting 1s an equal opportunity employer

Are you interested in the ever
changing area of technology and
business? If so, Andersen
Consulting can train you for a
career not just a job.

Andersen Consulting will
actively recruit on campus this fall.
We are looking for qualified
candidates in all majors.

AANDERSEN
CONSULTING

“What do these folks have in common?”

Alison Bryant - Chicago Oftice
(312) 372-7100 ;

Amy Hawtield - Charlotte Office
(704) 332-6411

be held on

Michael Ingram - Charlotte Office
(704) 332-6411
Allison Squier - Metro NY Office
(212) 708-4400

Theyre ¢ rea als tor Andersen Consulting! Come see howyou can join them at our upcoming information Session, to
uesday, September 30 at The Carnegie Guest House, trom 6:00pm - 9:00pm.

If vou're interested in learning more about Andersen Consulting, and the career opportunities we otter, plea ise feel free to
contact us at any of the above listed numbers, or toll free at (800) 776-6411 ex. 1989. .

We look forward to meeting you on September 30! i

Michelle Carroll - San Francisco Oftice
(415) 546-8599.

Mary. Laura Moretz Philpott - Atlanta Office
(404) ¥80-9100

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997

Davidson

OC
19

for the week ending Sunday, Sept

‘COMPILED BY STEPHANIE MLYNAR AND Curis Lewis

International

Mother Teresa’s laid to rest Saturday

The viewing of Mother Teresa, held on Friday, was cut short as
thousands waited to see her. Soldiers closed the viewing to prepare
for the state funeral to be held on Saturday. Several angry people
broke through the security codon blocking the viewing. They were
stopped, however; Many were
saddened at not being able to see the beloved woman. The funeral
took place on Staurday. Mother Teresa’s body was escorted by the
military and draped with the Indian flag. She was on the same gun
carriage that was used for Muhatma Ghandi. A papal delegation
celebrated the service. Hillary Clinton and-other dignitaries attended.
Mother Teresa was buried at her Missionary Charity.

by police before they could see her.

DNC and National Policy Forum receive illegal campaign funds

The Washington Post reported that top U.S. officials recently told
a Senate hearing that the DNC and the National Policy Forum, a think
tank for the Republican Party, received illegal campaign contribu-
tions from a businessman acting in China’s interests. Ted Sioeng, an
Indonesian entrepreneur, has repeatedly appeared in name as provid-
ing illegal foreign funds for U.S. political campaigns. Sioeng gave
money to both the DNC and the National Policy Forum, but denies
that he is affiliated with the Chinese government. Committee Chair-
man Fred Thomas stated in July that the committee had found
evidence that suggested that China planned to “subvert our election
process,” Chinese officials deny donating money illegally to influ-
ence U.S. elections.

You will live longer, report announces

The life expectancy for Americans has reached its highest level
and the infant death rate has reached an all-time low, according to
officials of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in America.

Those were among many findings the Centers recently released
as part of an analysis of the nation’s vital statistics. As of 1996 the
average American could expect to live 76.1 years, an increase of .3
years from 1995.

There was also a significant narrowing of both the sex and race
gap in life expectancy. Six years now separates the life expectancy of
men and women, with women having a life expectancy of 79 years,
and men 73 years. In 1996, blacks could expect to live an average of
70.3 years, while for whites life expectancy was 76.8 years.

The report also indicates a plunge in AIDS related deaths and for
the fifth straight year, a decline in the percentage of teenagers giving
birth.

Aggressive prevention campaigns and greater usé of condoms
are largely responsible for the decrease. The all-time low infant death
rate, for example, is being attributed to the increased prevention of
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.

Overall, the report indicates significant gains in the nation’s
health.

tor ‘the Savvy Ones

Great Hair
Beautiful Nails
Soothing Pedicures
flawless Waxing

Rejuvenating Facials

I-77, Exit 28 * Norman Crossing Shopping Center
Corenelius * 895-0404

