7 eae THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Computer Center upgrades to Netscape Navigator
Gold

This semester Netscape Navigator Gold replaces Netscape Naviga-
tor, explains Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator of Academic Facilities and
Services. “One of the things you can do with, [Netscape Navigator
Gold] is use it as an HTML editor,” she says. Lorenzin adds that the
new Netscape version “functions in much the same way as Netscape,
with added features.” The decision to upgrade to Netscape Navigator
Gold was sparked by a member of the physics department who
wanted the service for classroom use. Lorenzin says, “We take input

from everyone and ask ourselves, ‘What have we been hearing that |.

other people need and want?’.”

Computer Center hopes temperature control woes are
over

“Over Christmas we installed a separate heating and air conditioning
unit for [Belk Computer Center],” says Lydia Lorenzin, Coordinator
of Academic Facilities and Services. The temperature problem about
which students complained last semester “should be over as of
today”, she says. The decision was made to delay installation of the
heating and air conditioning unit until the Winter Break because the
“installation would have been a real problem for students if done
during the semester,” Lorenzin says.

New professors join Davidson this semester

Davidson faculty are joined by several new members this semester.
Among them are: Assistant Professor for English Suzanne Churchill,
McGee Professor of Writing Maxine Cumin. Look for interviews
with both Professor Churchill and Professor Cumin next week in the
Davidsonian»

Campus-wide elections will be held January 27

Campus-wide elections will be held January 27 from 8 am to 5 pm in
the Commons and Chambers. SGA president, Vice President, and
student representatives to Trustee Committees will be chosen, as will
many other positions. Call John Bell at —6165 for more information.
The deadline to sign up to run in these elections is tomorrow, January
21.

Davidson Cemetary secrets recorded by Professor
Emeritus

Until recently, no records of those buried at Davidson cemetary
existed. However, recently Professor Emeritus Malcolm Lester
completed a census of the cemetary. He discovered that Davidson
cemetary includes 23 college faculty members as well as 12 students.
All 12 students died while enrolled in Davidson College. Nine
Davidson mayors are buried in the cemetary. The cemetary has now
fallen into a state of disrepair, but the college plans to restore plots and
create a permanent maintainance endowment when funds are raised.

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

NEWS

Write for
The Davidsonian.
Call Teresa,
Randy or Matt
—2148.

In focus ... STUDENT VOICES

What was your favorite part of
self-selection night? :

Although nudity is something one often looks forward to, for me I enjoyed self-selection
most because the upperclassmen had an opportunity to really get to bond with the freshman
girls that are now a part of their house.

Katie Sanderson ’99

Drinking with my friends at my house.
Shannon Forbes ’98

House cleanup on Sunday morning.
Bratton Holmes ’98

Naked vomiting frat freak orgiastic fun loving beverase gazzling dance to the music rock til
you drop self serving mind blowing sweat streaked meaning worship of the god Bacchus.
Nick Paul ’99

Dancing at the eating house and fraternities.
Ginny Quis ’00

Eating dinner and watching a movie with good friends.
Stephen Elliott ’97

The only thing Isaw was a group of Kappa Sigma guys urinating on the bushes by their house.
John Hollan ’97

Being joyously soaked with 200 some other people and watching my friends spit champagne
at each other.

Sarah Muffelman ’00

Dancing forever.

. Whitney Blake ’00

Without a doubt....
Meredith Benke’99

Wholesome and philosophical conversations.

The girls actually became friendly thanks to the champagne they came off their prissy
pedestals and actually spoke amiably.
Chris Drury ’00

The champagne.
Ashley Weedn ’98

Playing kings in the laundry room until 1 a.m.
Jen McGillan ’97

Brooding over the state of my miserable life and toying with the idea of actually going
down to the court.
Jordan deBree ’99

Seeing that some guys weren’t as big as they seemed.
Tarik Khan ’00

The rationale.
Kurt Fesenmeyer ’99

Blow-out Scrabble Tournament!!!
Sunday, January 19 at Jumpin' Java.
3:00 in the Outpost.

Bring a dictionary and a killer instinct.
Call Jason Hamrick for details.

