THE DAVIDSONIAN

HARVARD UNIVERSITY’ S
JOHN F. KENNEDS
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT

...1S looking for future leaders in Public Affairs.
We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy,
with concentrations offered in:

¢ Criminal Justice

e Energy & Environmental Folicy

¢ Government & Business

¢ Health Policy

¢ Housing & Community Development
¢ Human Services, Labor & Education
¢ International Affairs & Security

¢ International Development

e International Trade & Finance

¢ Nonprofits

e Press & Politics |

e Science & Technology

e Transportation

e Urban Economic Development

INTERESTED?... Then come meet with the Kennedy School
Representative who will visit your campus on:

DATE: Tuesday, November 4, 1997
TIME: 4:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.
LOCATION: Contact Career Services for Location

INF Gs >< ><

INFOnxx is recruiting a few top college graduates to build a team of project managers
who will learn how to manage, operate, and direct a dynamic, fast-growing company.
Founded by two Ivy MBAs five years.ago, INFONxx provides opportunities unmatched
by the investment banks and consulting firms, at a competitive salary. You will have
an immediate and direct impact on our business. Please visit the Davidson Career
Services Office for details on the position, our company, and our upcoming campus

visit.

Are You Considering Professional School? |

STUDENTS ?ALL YEARS eALL MAJORS WELCOME!

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997
Davidson receives
$100,000 grant for

South Asian Studies

By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

During the summers of 1998 and
1999, Davidson College will be con-
ducting a seminar in South Asian Stud-
ies for 10college professors from around
the country. Davidson received this
$100,000 grant from the Ford Founda-
tion.

Many colleges competed for the
grant, and Davidson was selected be-
cause of its 28-year history of leader-
ship in this area of study.

“There are very few schools with
the level of expertise in South Asia that
Davidson has, “ said Dr. Greg Guldin,
chair of the selection committee and
chair of the Chinese Studies program at
Pacific Lutheran University.

“The level of involvement of the
faculty is impressive, as is the number
of faculty and students who have been
there. :

“The Davidson proposal brought
together a number of resources on cam-

‘pus with faculty expertise.

“It was a well-crafted proposal,
and made it easy to pick Davidson.”

Guldin noted that India’s popula-
tion is predicated to overtake China’s in
the next 20 years, and this discovery has
led to the need for more education about
South Asia. :

Colleges and universities need to
initiate more programs that will make
students more aware, and Davidson will
be a leader in this initiation.

The 10 college professors partici-
pating inthe seminar, “Presenting South
Asia: An Ancient Complex Culture,”
will develop courses in South Asian
studies for liberal arts colleges.
Davidson’s director of South Asian stud-
ies, professor Job Thomas, said the pro-

fessors will be selected based on their
commitment to the field in February
1998.

Bill Mahony of the religion de-
partment and Lakshmanan Sabaratnam,
a sociology professor, will assist Tho-
mas inconducting the South Asian semi-
nar at Davidson.

Thirteen other Davidson faculty
members will teach additional Asian
topics such as appropriate technology,
Asian music, environmental econom-
ics, developmental economics, cross-
cultural counseling, and Indian theater.

In the summer of 1998, the 10
professors will come to Davidson for
21 days of lectures and workshops.

These functions will be used to
introduce the professors to the cultural
heritage of South Asia and the issues it
currently faces.

The 10 professors will also have
the chance to work with Davidson fac-
ulty in developing the new courses for
students.

“The grant will help Davidson
become the nerve center for a great deal
of activity on India in the next few
years,” Thomas said. ;

During the summer, the group will
also visit Washington, D.C., and the
Indian and Pakistani embassies.

They will also have the opportu-
nity to view Asian art at the Freer and
Sackler galleries.

The following summer, the 10 pro-
fessors will live in India for 21 days
where they will travel and study.

This visit will allow them to meet
Indian experts and learn about the insti-
tutions that correspond to each
professor’s field of interest.

Information from the Davidson
Chronicle was used in this report.

INFOnxx Informational Services
~- October 28, 7:00 p.m.
Career Services

