full 50 percent of the mem
bers of my household —

not counting the cat, who.

disdains to vote — believes
that personal well-being is directly pro-
portional to the quantity of sugar con-
sumed on a daily basis. The other 50
percent not only disagrees, but even
dictates to its disgruntled constituency.

Since the pro-sugar faction —
John, 8, and Conor, 5 — grudgingly
admit that their tyrannical parents have
consistently made excellent choices on
their behalf, sedition never (OK, rarely)
ensues.

This is an.example of a kind of
paternalism in which those who have
the benefit of additional information
and broader perspective have the power

_ and responsibility to look out for the
interests of the whole and to judge
whether an apparent “good” or “ben-
efit” is truly good and beneficial, or less
beneficial than a competing benefit, or
even harmful. This kind of paternalism
is not always a bad thing, as the ex-
ample shows.

My simplistic example has limited
usefulness. Davidson’s vexed question
this fall — whether we should invite
sororities to campus — is not as easily

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Regarding sororities: Idea of gender equity is flawed
Let us admit what we are saying here

solved.

Whether we are making compli-
cated decisions or simple and clear-cut
ones, however, it seems good to look at
a big picture, taking note of advantages
and disadvantages and weighing con-
flicting and mutually exclusive ben-
efits.

This community has, I believe,
thought long and hard about sororities.
Of all the points advanced the champi-
ons of sororities, the only one worth
arguing about is gender equity.

Statements such as “if five percent
want sororities and 95 percent do not,
we should still bring sororities on cam-
pus and worry about the consequences
later” run so counter to common sense
and a sense of community as to merit
counterargument.

No one has convincingly argued
that sororities are in the best interests of
the community at large or of the women
students in particular. Many, including
the women students themselves, have
offered good reasons why sororities are
not in their best interests.

We are left, therefore, with the
question of gender-equity. But what
kind of equity are we talking about?

Clearly notthe kind of equity which
enjoys a broad perspective, but that
which says: equity means equal and

equal means identical, therefore equity
demands that A must be identical to B.

Men have fraternities on campus,
therefore, women must have sororities,
even if the overwhelming majority of

women do not want them and even if no
convincing arguments concerning the
benefits of ‘sororities have been ad-
vanced.

This kind of “equity,” that is, “you.

will have what we say is fair evenif you
do not want it and even if it goes against
your best interest,” seems a perversion
of the paternalistic example sketched
above.

Instead of children who lack the
experience and knowledge to make the
best choices for themselves, we have

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

citizens, without houses or meal plans.

But the reasoning by which we
must invite sororities on campus is that
“equity” means “A must be identical to
B.”

Therefore, if female social organi-
zations must be identical to male social
organizations, then they must be truly
identical. Sororities must have houses
and all the advantages which fraterni-
ties have.

“But,” you might say, “the sorori-
ties don’t want houses. They will be

“This community has, I believe, thought long and hard
about sororities. Of all the points advanced ... the only
one worth arguing about is gender equity.”

young adults who have carefully
weighed the evidence. Instead of a
decision considered in the light of the
community’s desires and/or best inter-
ests, we have an arbitrary fiat based on
selectively-applied knowledge.

For, as Professor Ingram pointed
out a few weeks ago (Nov. 11, “Main-
tain current academic atmosphere: No
to sororities”), there are serious‘contra-
dictions in the proposed status of so-
rorities.

The supporters of sororities say
they will be content with semi-equity:
let us on campus, they say, and we will
be happy to operate as second-class

happy with classrooms in Chambers.”

“Sorry,” comes the only reply pos-
sible. If we were acting on what people
wanted and felt was in their best inter-
ests, this argument would have been
settled long ago. Equity means equal
and equal means identical. A must
equal B. If the sororities come here,
sororities mst have what the fraternities
and eating houses have. Otherwise, A
would not be identical to B. You cannot
have it both ways.

Since proponents of sororities. in-
sist that the new organizations will not
replace eating houses, our definition of
equity demands that, if we admit sorori-

ties to campus, we make plans and find
the money to build them their own
houses.

Every student on this campus who
eagerly awaits the physical improve-
ment of the Union, that truly non-exclu-
sive social center, knows just how dif-
ficult it is to find the money for a project
about whose benefits the students and
faculty unanimously agree.

If we are to have sororities to give
our women students opportunities iden-
tical to those of our men students, then,
I suppose, so be it. But let us not cloak
this giant step backward with the lan-
guage of progress.

Let us admit that what we are say-
ing is, “We know 95 percent of the
women students do not want sororities,
and that the absence of sororities on this
campus influenced your decision to at-
tend Davidson. We know that the over-
whelming majority of youconsider your
present arguments to be equitable and
satisfying. We even know that most
members of this community — faculty,
students, and staff — suspect (probably
rightly) sororities are not in the best
interests either of the, community at

‘large or. of the women students in par-

ticular.

“But, even though you do not want
or need them, and they supply you with
no observable benefits greater than those
you now enjoy, you must have them
because you do not know what is best.”

* Even John and Conor would not
buy that one.

When home loses its familiarity

Toughts over Thanksgiving Break — is home home?

ou can’t go home again,
because home has ceased
to exist, except in the moth
balls of memory.”
—John Steinbeck, Travels With Char-
ley

Nothing has changed.
Everything has changed. .

Contradictory statements? Yes.
Confusing? Yes.

I. don’t know what.I am feeling.
Defining what I feel as confusion is an
easy out, too simple an explanation for
complex emotions.

I am at home as I write this.
Thanksgiving dinner, if you can call it

‘lead weight.

that, sits heavily on my stomach like a
I came home Tuesday
afternoon, Nov. 25. The drive was
different than I had anticipated — I was
as nervous as I was excited.

Ilive three hours north of Davidson
in the mountains of Southwestern Vir-
ginia — Roanoke, to be exact.

We didn’t come up the interstate
but traveled through the rolling Blue
Ridge Mountains.

As the car finally rose over the last
mountain, cresting the top, Isaw down-
town Roanoke miles away; nestled
safely in its valley, illuminated in fall’s
afternoon sunlight.

‘The buildings seemed so small
from our perch high above: I looked to
the left; in the distance, the open land
circled by mountains which seemed so
huge in memory now seemed restric-
tiveand enclosing. [looked to the right,
toward the southwest,, toward Mill

Mountain, and toward my house. It
didn’t seem as high as I remember.
Roanoke, Va., has a nickname. It
is called the “Star City of the South,”
because it is home to the largest man-
made star in the world, which sits atop

As Thanksgiving dinner digests,
that is the question I keep mulling over
in my head.

My family is in Roanoke: my spirit,
my roots, my childhood. But is it still
my home?

“A fair amount of the country seems to have a good time
at one of the abundant local pubs, which seem to be quite
popular. (At least that’s what they tell me.).”

Mill Mountain. It glows white each
night watching over the city’s 100,000
residents. ~

As we wound down that last moun-
tain, the star came into view. Every
time I drive toward town, I know I’m
home when I see the star.

Am I?

As the car drove toward my house,
I felt as though I didn’t belong. I didn’t
fit. Ican’texplain it, but knew I wasn’t
going home. I couldn’t relate to life
here without extreme initial difficulty.
The transition wasn’t smooth. I just sat,
for along time. Nothing fit then or fits
now. I didn’t think I'd grown. Maybe’

I have.
Last night, Wednesday night, |

went to a party at a house up the street.

I saw everyone from high school.

Sure, some people had gotten
heavier, their clothes had changed, but
it could have been another night in
August with everyone still clinging to
one another.

However, now we were talking
about the reality of college instead of an
image.

I fell right back into high school,
and so did my friends. But we have
been at different colleges and universi-
ties for almost four months, with differ-
ent experiences, different relationships,
and different friends.

Didn’t everyone realize this?
Shouldn’t it matter? It does to me. Still,
nothing fits.

I thought I had grown. Maybe not
as much as I thought.

mikruse @ davidson.edu.

requirements mandate.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Friday
at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at
Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, secferahis in

WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words.
The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust: submissions as space

