This 6-9 team is
going places

hat a difference a year makes. Af

ter starting the 1996 season with a

promising 4-2 record, the" Wild-
cats dropped 13 of their last 16 games, stum-
bling to a final 7-15 mark.

This year, Davidson began the season 0-5,
but they have won six of their last ten, includ-
ing three in a row. .

And right now the Wildcats are one of the
best 6-9 teams in the country.

“Right now, we're playing like a top 20
team,” said goalkeeper Brad Stroble after
Davidson beat North Carolina this week.
“There is no doubt about it.”

Last year’s long downhill spiral com-
menced on Sept. 24.

A 5-0 loss to UNC Greensboro initiated a
nine game losing streak for the Wildcats, their
longest streak in 19 years.

Almost a year later to the day, the turn-
around this year was Sept. 21.

Then, the Wildcats defeated Southern
Conference rival and regional power Furman

3-1, seemingly giving the youthful Wildcats
the jolt that they needed

But records cannot begin to illustrate the
differences between these two teams.

“We have different personnel this year,”
coach Charlie Slagle said. “It is justa differ-
ent team,”

With four freshmen and two sophomores
starting for Davidson, the flavor of this team
is indeed tresh.

And while this young team needed a tran-
sition period to grow accustomed to both each
other and the college game, their heart and
effort could never be questioned — unlike last
year

The 1996 Wildcats, consisting of nine
seniors, dropped eight contests by three goals
or more. During their nine game slide, they
were outscored 32-4

This year, seven Davidson’s nine losses
have been decided by a single tally

When the Wildcats step onto the field this
year. a talented squad may defeat Davidson.
But the Wildcats will fight hard until the final
horn and they.rarely will beat themselves.

And the Wildcats are performing on the
field. Quietly marching toward a Southern
Conterence regular season tte with wins
over Furman and UNCG, Davidson controls
its own destiny

With victories in their final four games,
all conference contests, the Wildcats would
earn the No. | seed in the conference tourna-
ment

But regardless of this year’s outcome,
there is a feeling that a foundation has been
built. :

“We know that we are young and that we
are good,” Stroble said. “And in all honesty,
this might not be our year. But with the way
things have been going, you never know. This
year looks pretty good, too.”

And while.the young talent will continue
to grow, last year’s. team demonstrated that
there is much more into making a program
successful.

These kids have figured that out.

%

Men’s soccer team making its move

Liz Reic

@ The men’s soccer team celebrates its victory over Carolina Thursday at
Richardson. The Wildcats also stunned Wake Forest Sunday in Winston.

Wildcats shock Carolina, No. 15 Wake

By Danie. Morz
Senior Staff Writer

All season long, they said that they could do it.

This week, they proved it.

By shutting out ACC powers North Carolina 2-0 and
Wake Forest 1-0, the men’s soccer team (6-9) proved they
can compete with Virtually anybody in the country.

~~) °

“Obviously, these are two great wins for us,” said
coach Charlie Slagle after the Wildcats defeated Wake}
Forest. “To beat those teams}

shows we are playing very’
well right now.”

Wildcats 1

On Thursday against
North Carolina, junior goal-

Wake 0

See Men’s soccer on page 14

»'4
Men’s hoops

opens practice

Expectations sky high

By Micuaet J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Roughly 12 hours after Duke opened practice
with pomp and fanfare in front of a sell-out Cameron
Indoor Stadium crowd and a national TV audience on
ESPN’s Midnight Madness, Davidson’s men’s bas-
ketball team — the opposition in the Blue Devils’
home opener Nov. 20 — officially began its NCAA
drive amid the relative silence of Belk Arena.

The Wildcats ended what coach Bob McKillop
last March predicted would be the’ most productive
off-season in Davidson basketball history and began
practice Saturday at noon.

“I’m so glad that it’s started. It has finally
begun,” said Chadd Holmes, the Wildcats’ starting
center last year.

“The preseason, it always just seems so long,”
said guard Billy Armstrong, who will captain the

-Wildcats this year along with backcourt mate Mark

Donnelly. “We can’t wait to go back to regular
practice. I’m really excited to get the season under

“There are always nerves on the first day, but
we're going to be anxious more than nervous, *
assistant coach Jason Zimmerman added. “The pre-
season has been great, but now you turn it up a notch.
We're ready to go.”

But for the Wildcats, Saturday's action marked
more of a continuation than a beginning. Since the
first weekend of March, when Davidson fell 77-70 to
eventual league champion and Sweet 16 participant
Chattanooga inthe Southern Conference semifinals at
the Greensboro Coliseum, the squad — both coaches
and players — have pointed to this season as the one
in which the Wildcats could, and perhaps even should,
end the school’s 12-season NCAA tournament drought.

In August, the squad traveled to Italy and faced
stiff international competition. Upon returning to
campus shortly before classes started, the team began
playing pick-up on a daily basis and conducting its
own informal practices.

Saturday ’s practice just made it official — 1997-
98 has arrived.

And the Wildcats boast one of, if not the deepest,
most talented and experienced rosters in the confer-
ence. Every preseason magazine has pegged Davidson
as the class of the league’s Northern Division and
most of them label the team as NCAA tournament
material.

“If we stay healthy, if potential is converted into
production, we have an opportunity in front of us to
bring national attention to Davidson College,” coach
Bob McKillop said in an interview Friday.

While over 9,000 watched Duke christen what

See Men’s hoops on page 14

Undefeated Methodist spoils Homecoming, tops Wildcats
Reeling football team suffers fourth straight loss

By Jack Morse
Staff Writer

The change of scenery only led to
more frustration. The football team re-

turned

1odist 19 home to
amperage om Richardson
Wildcats 16 | ricidattera
three-game,

three-loss road trip and dropped its
fourth straight Saturday against Meth-

be

t ss 3 ies | a Ae
Apathy? The campus reacted like never before to the
1992 NCAA Final Four — a once-in-a-lifetime opportu-
nity. Anoth pective in the ongoing series, page 13.
At the Jake. Daniel Motz comments on the Cleveland
crowd and its impact on the ALCS. Baseball playoffs
commentary, page 14.

Beating up on the cellar-dwellar. The women’s soccer
team took ad’ ge of Ch 2 day, winning 6-
0. Then came Wake Forest. Game story, page 14.
Secondary a primary problem. The Methodist passing
attack operated at full-throttle Saturday. Football note-
book, page 15.

Volleyball still on pace for high conference finish. The
Wildcats beat Wofford and fell to nemesis Furman. this
week. Press box, page 15.

odist College.

And that’s exactly what happened,

The biggest of which came with

Tommy Dugan went down withan ankle

For a while, everything was going
according to plan, The Wildcats were
up 16-13 over the Monarchs, the 12th-
ranked team in Division II]. The Wild-
cats’ defensive line, which was out-
weighed by an average of 90 pounds,
had shut down the strong Methodist
running game that came into the contest
averaging 185 yards per game.

So Davidson’s game plan was to
make Methodist pass.

Football

Methodist 19, Wildcats 16
Men's soccer

Wildcats 3, Bucknell |
Wildcats 2, Carolina 0
Wildcats |, Wake Forest 0
Women’s soccer
Wildcats 6, Chattanooga 0
Wake Forest 2, Wildcats 0
Field hockey

Wildcats 6, Siena |
American 4, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 3, Va. Commonwealth 2 (2OT)
Volleyball

Wildcats 3, Wofford |
Furman 3, Wildcats |
Cross Country

Men: 12th of 14 at N.C. Intercollegiate Championshi
a BBO tees LAST

as Monarch quarterback Brian Turner
connected on 13 of 21 passes in leading
Methodist to its sixth win this season in
as many tries.

“They haven’t really had to throw
against anybody,” said coach Tim
Landis. “They just ran the ball against
people and hadn’t really been chal-
lenged. We made them throw the foot-
ball — that was our game plan. They
threw it and made some big plays.”

1:16 left in the game. Turner made a
perfect 26-yard pass to Leonard Bellamy
in the end zone to steal the three-point
victory.

But Davidson had controlled the
game up to that point.

The fireworks started after a score-
less first half. After going up 2-0 ona
safety, Davidson received the ensuing
kickoff and backup quarterback Matt
Strader took the helm after starter

injury.

The Wildcats drove the ball down
the field for a touchdown by fullback
Eric Ferguson — the super sophomore
had 14 rushes for 147 yards. But he had
help, as Nate Hagerman provided 44
yards on 10 rushes.

“We just lined up against them,”
Landis said, “and nobody’s ever tried to

See Football on page 15

Dane Erickson

Saturday @ Randolph-Macon (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM,
Men’s Soccer WSAT 1280 AM)
Fr. * Mid Men’s Soccer

Friday vs. Appalachian St. (7:00 p.m.)
Sunday at Georgia Southern (1:00 p.m.)

With 4:03 remaining in
Sunday’s bout with 1Sth-
ranked Wake Forest, this
freshman phenom out of
Lakewood, Colo., tallied the
dramatic game-winner from
just outside the penalty box,
giving the surging Wildcats
their third straight victory.

Women’s Soccer

Tomorrow at Furman (7:00 p.m.)

Saturday vs. Richmond (1:00 p.m.)
Volleyball

Tomorrow @ UNC Greensboro (7:00 p.m.)
Field Hockey

Friday vs, William & Mary (TBA)

Sunday @ Radford (2:00 p.m.)

Swimming & Diving A

Saturday @ Emory Relays (Noon)

/ status as frontrunner in the race for the

Men’s soccer ys. Georgia Southern
Sunday ¢ Statesboro, Ga. * 1:00 p.m.

The Wildcats attempt to maintain their

Southern Conference regular season title.
Coming off recent wins over ACC powers
Carolina and Wake, Davidson now shifts
its focus to league play — and the Eagles.

