By Mary-E.ise BRUMFIELD
Staff Writer

Dr. Tracy K. Koogler, M.D., came
to Davidson Tuesday to speak on the
issue of non-heartbeating organ donors.
Her talk, entitled “Pediatric Non-
Heartbeating Donors: The Potential
Benefits of a Protocol,” took place in
Chambers Gallery and drew a small
crowd consisting of Davidson students
and people from the Davidson commu-
nity.

Koogler was introduced as a 1988
Davidson graduate who went to the
University of Virginia to get her degree
before doing her residency and intern-
ing at Children’s Hospital in Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

She now works in Pittsburgh, Pa.,
at the Children’s Hospital located there.

Koogler started off her talk with a
brief history of organ transplants in the
United States. She cited the first kidney
transplantas taking place in 1967, when
aman named Christian Barnard received
a kidney from a South African woman.

She emphasized that the need for

organ donors has been — and still is —_

very great.
According to her statistics, there

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Small crowd hears Koogler discuss the benefits of donating organs

were 50,000 patients on the national
organ donation waiting list in 1996, but
only 19,000 of those received trans-

’ plants.

Overall, only 46 percent of suit-
able donors actually consent to giving
their organs to someone who needs
them. As aresult, the numbers of people
who need organs is going up, but the
number of available organ donors is
decreasing.

Koogler next spoke about what
constitutes brain death. She cited sev-
eral criteria that have to be met in order
for a doctor to declare brain death in a
patient. These include: acomatose state,
a lack of breathing, the absence of
brainstem function, normal blood pres-
sure and temperature, and no spontane-
ous movement.

The patient has to consistently meet
these requirements in two formal ob-
servations and all informal observa-
tions to be pronounced brain-dead.
~ _ The next point of Koogler’s talk
was about non-heartbeating organ do-
nors themselves.

She defined a “non-heartbeating
donor” as a patient who has an irrevers-
ible disease or injury that will lead to
their death or an unsatisfactory mode of

living, and who does not respond to
attempts at resuscitation.

However, she emphasized that
non-heartbeating patients are still
“brainalive.”

Koogler cited certain criteria that
a non-heartbeating patient has to meet
in order to be an organ donor. First,
they cannot show any signs of having
HIV or hepatitis, and they cannot have
any systematic infections or extracra-
nial malignancies either.

And second, the patient must die
within two hours of his or her removal
from all life support systems, or their
organs will go bad and cannot be used.

Children are now being focused
upon as another source of non-
heartbeating organ donors, she said,
because they have the highest rates of
death resulting from primary brain in-
juries, and therefore already produce
high rates of organ donations.

Koogler continued with some ethi-
cal issues that are at stake where non-
heartbeating organ donation is con-
cerned. Officially declaring a patient’s
death by establishing the lack of a heart-
beat in the patient is very controversial
because of the question of whether or
not the heart can start beating again on

its own.

At this point, there is no known
data on that issue, which makes it an
iffy topic for doctors.

Another issue that was cited as
being one of ethical concern was the
Uniform Determination of Death Act,
which was established under President
Reagan. ‘

This act proved to be controversial
because of the differing opinions on the
number of minutes a patient may be
declared dead either if they have no
functioning respiratory and circulatory
systems, or if their brain does not func-
tion, which is another topic of contro-
versy.

Other areas of ethical concern that
Koogler mentioned were: the Doctrine
of Double Effect (i.e., administering
medications to the patient to relieve
their pain when they go off life support
versus killing them to get their organs);
the place of death (saying goodbye to a
dying loved one in the operating room);
and the public’s perception of non-
heartbeating organ donations.

She concluded by saying that the
issue of non-heartbeating organ donor
protocol is very controversial, and it has
gotten a lot of negative press coverage.

She cited a recent “60 Minutes”
show that presented a very negative,
one-sided look at the issue, which went
on the air after a woman in Cleveland
threatened a heart institute with a po-
tential lawsuit for making it their prac-
tice to accept nonheartbeating patients
as organ donors.

However, there are also some very
positive things that can be said for non-

« heartbeating organ donors.

Statistics show that non-
heartbeating donors do— atleast, where
kidneys and livers are concerned.

There are also several other coun-
tries besides the United States that imple-
menta policy of using organs from non-
heartbeating donors — Spain, Japan,
and the Netherlands, to name a few.

Maybe the most important thing
of all is that many of the families who
have lost children are willing to donate
their children’s organs to people who
desperately need them.

If that continues to be the norm, it
could potentially increase the number
of pediatric donors by as much as 40
percent, which would in turn greatly
increase the total number of annual or-
gan donors.

|

\

&

ul SO

Abo

A brief history of Greek life at

By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

While students almost unani-
mously agree that Davidson bolsters
one of the most reputable academic
environments in the country, much more
dissention exists when the focus is turned
to the social environment.

Although often facing opposition,
students and faculty have made tremen-
dous strides during the last 150 years in
creating a social atmosphere that pairs
well with its academic one.

The issue today is the potential
addition of sororities to a campus that
solidly embraces the current system.
On that note, it may be worthwhile to
reflect on the history of fraternities and
eating houses at Davidson.

Prior to the Civil War, the social
interaction for the relatively “isolated”
Davidson men was provided by the
Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary
Societies. However, these societies
stressed academic pursuits and became,
in effect, additions to the curriculum.
Still a ‘social gap existed that longed to
be filled.”

The beginnings of a solution came
in 1857 with a representative from Beta
Theta Pi at Chapel Hill. During his stay,
he appealed to the students and in the
following January initiated three
Davidson men. Among them were the
two presidents of the literary societies.

Longing for an alternative, the stu-
dents also established a Chi Phi chapter
in 1859,

While these early “fraternities”
grew to approximately 13 students each,
they remained a well-kept secret in a
time when Davidson was not receptive
to secret organizations, hidden from the
“rigid eye” of the faculty, or to their
tendency towards “undesirable con-
duct.”

The Civil War brought a quick

‘state of prolonged dormancy for the

fraternities as many members traded
their books for guns and headed to war.

When students returned to campus
after the war, the'fraternities fought an
uphill battle to regain their footing at
Davidson. First faced with a ban on all
secret societies, the societies were slow
to move.

However, an agreement reached

among the College and the lifting of the
ban provided relatively fertile ground
for fraternities, even on a campus that
prohibited drinking, cards, pool, and
dancing.

And, by the 1890s and with the
addition of Kappa Sigma, Davidson
fraternities seemed to bloom and even
“slip from the gaze of authority.”

Fraternities weathered three more
wars and a number of minor setbacks.
In the sixties, serious questions’ were
raised concerning fraternity practices
such as hazing and the “tragically ne-
glected” non-fraternity men.

In response to a huge rush in Feb-

ruary 1968, the faculty and administra-
tion charged the fraternities to draw up
aplan “which will permit any student to
havea social affiliation with a fraternity
if hé chooses to do so.” After some
revisions and negotiating, “self-selec-
tion” was born.

To accept this self-selection plan
meant, for some fraternities at least, the
withdrawal of their national charters.

Phi Gamma Delta, along with
Sigma Phi Epsilon, decided not to con-
form to the self-selection policy and

Davidson

chose the option to move off campus.

While a few fraternities folded or
lost their charters, several remained
strong and thrived on campus with the
support of a swelling number of
pledges.

Today, seven fraternities are ac-
tive on the Davidson campus: Kappa
Alpha (1880), Kappa Sigma (1890, re-

chartered 1988), Phi Delta Theta
(1928), PhiGamma Delta (1913, char-
tered in 1923, re-colonized 1989), Pi
Kappa Alpha (1893), Sigma Alpha
Epsilon (1883), and Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon (1930).

In addition, four other social
groups were established to meet the
needs of a newly integrated and coed
student body: The Black Student Coa-
lition (1967), Connor Eating House
(1991), Rusk (1977), and Warner Hall
(1992). The information for this ar-
ticle was taken from Towner
Blackstock’s article in the February
17, 1992, issue of the Davidsonian and
Mary Beaty’s A History of Davidson
College. Also, special thanks to the
extremely helpful staff in the Library’s
Archives.

Many students use
new pass/fail policy

By Jenny HApGooD
Staff Writer

Choosing a class can be a difficult
and daunting task, especially when you
aren’t sure you’re up to par. Students
often want to try a challenging class but
know they are lacking the skills neces-
sary to do well. So Davidson provides
students with the opportunity to try
these more difficult classes by provid-
ing the pass/fail plan.

Students choose the pass/fail plan
within the first three weeks of a semes-
ter, and then they have the first 10
weeks to decide if they will keep the
plan. During this 10-week window,
students can evaluate their current grade
and decide if they would rather take the
grade instead of the pass or fail.

Students sometimes choose to take
the grade because one can only receive
pass/fail credit with a C-. And in some
cases, a student would do better to take
a D than to take the F.

This option to choose between

keeping the plan or rejecting it for the
grade is new to Davidson this year.
Previously, once students chose to go
pass/fail in a course that was it — there

- was no going back.

Out of the 200-300 students that
typically choose a pass/fail option each
semester, 45 to 50 students opted this
semester to take the grade instead of
taking a course pass/fail.

Freshmen and sophomores are al-
lowed one pass/fail credit each year,
while juniors and seniors can receive
one pass/fail credit each semester. But
the pass/fail plan only applies to core
classes, since no majors allow their
classes to be taken pass/fail.

“The benefit of pass/fail far out-
weighs the drawbacks becauseit allows
students to take a course they feel they
might not have their hand on,” Regis-
trar Polly Griffith said this week.

“It takes off the pressure and al-

lows them to have the academic and ©

psychological freedom to take a course
that might be a bit intimidating.”

LAYOUT.
THE FEW, THE PROUD, THE Dabidsonian LAYOUT STAFF.
If interested call Randy Skattum (x6667).

Christmas Is Comin...
The holidays are approaching and the Village Store
in Davidson can get you ready- in style!

Whether it's whimsical, elegant or classic we offer a great

variety of gifts that will make the season special.
Come browse among our geat selection of cards, frames,

candles, candleholders, painted boxes and more.

We'll be happy to wrap your purchases for free,

and provide shipping service.

village

STORE

110 South Main Street © 892-4440

multi-disciplinary degree
in 12 to 15 months, while
living in a fascinating
international city.

Free details.

SCHOOL OF
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
‘Coral Gables, FL 331243010
305-284-4173; Pax: 305-284-4406

