DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997 —

16

Women’s basketball runs out of
magic, falls to Georgia Southern

By Aaron DUNHAM
Staff Writer

DAVIDSON, Jan. 20 - In a
61-59 win over UT-Chattanooga
on Jan. 18, the Davidson women’s

basketball team
dug themselves
out of a deep

hole to win ona
layup by Jamie Brownatthe buzzer.

Monday night against Geor-
gia Southern, the Wildcats rallied
again. They fought back from a
15-point halftime deficit but this
time they fell just short, 66-63, to
upstart Georgia Southern.

Head Coach John Filar agreed
that the game was a disappointing
loss, but that it was also a positive
game for his team because they

displayed their never-say-die atti- —

tude.

“We have to come out and
play a strong 40 minutes,” said
Filar, alluding to the Wildcats’ slow
first half start. :

The Eagles (8-9, 2-3) were
sparked in their first-half surge by
aggressive defense and being able
to force Davidson into committing
several early fouls.

Davidson, in turn, responded
with a pretty aggressive defense in
the second half, forcing several
turnovers which created fast-break
chances. Their 50% second half
shooting also helped them outscore
the Eagles 40-28 in the second
period.

Still they found themselves
down three with just seconds re-
maining. Davidson drove

downcourt, but Danielle Mall’s’

game-tying three-point attempt fell
short at the buzzer.

Telly Hall, last week’s South-
ern Conference Player of the Week,
paced the Eagles with a game-high
21 points, including 11-Of-12 from
the foul line. Tarsha Askew added
11 points while Sharon Mitchell

grabbed 14 boards to go along with
8 points.

Davidson was led by fresh-
man Jennifer O’ Brien, who had
arguably her best game in a
Davidson uniform, pouring in 18
points to go along with 7 assists
and 5 rebounds. Carolyn Kirsch
picked up the frontcourt scoring
with 15 points while Jennie

Vanlerberghe, who played a paltry
14 minutes before fouling out, was
forced to sit with foul trouble.

In Vanlerberghe’s absence,
Georgia Southern controlled the
boards, outrebounding the Wild-
cats, 43-34, including a 17-10 edge
on the offensive glass which led to
17 second chance points for the
Eagles to Davidson’s twelve.

: Will Nolen
Carolyn Kirsch shoots a free-throw during the team’s 66-63 loss

to GSU. Down 15 at the break, Davidson’s furious rally fell short.

Women’s track

Saturday @ USAir Invitational
in Johnson City, Tenn. (ETSU)

Name(event) Time
Kate Feldmeier (mile) 5:36
J anet' Aardema (mile) 6:04
Kelly Kiefer (3k) 12:06
Lisa Green (3k) 12:12
Jenny Klotz (3k) NA
Beth Brewster (5k) 21:03
Katie Lannon (5k) 22:41

Notes: Feldmeier finished second
out of 18 in her heat of the mile.
Five other mile heats were run. “It
was a pretty competitive race,”
distance coach Bill Drake said...
Kiefer’s time was a lifetime best
for her... Brewster claimed the
tenth spot on the all-time top ten
performers’ list with her 5k on
Saturday.

Drake on this year’s team:
“They’re very loyal, and they’ ve
been working hard. They’d like to
be running faster, but we’re im-
proving slowly.”

Coming up: Saturday @ Virginia
Tech (women), @UNCA (men).

Wet.
Miles Cox (Fr.) 118
Andy Sterling (Jr.) 142
Ian Kaplan (Fr.) 150
George Escaravage* (Jr.) 158
Bo Bickerstaff (Fr.) 167
Ben Wall* (Jr.) 190
Tom Greene (Sr.) HWT
Aon Saturday
*co-captain

1.

On the Mats: Wrestling Update

Saturday @ Washington & Lee tournament @ Lexington, Va.

Notes: Seven of eight Wildcat wrestlers placed, but none made
the finals...Sterling won, 3-1, in sudden death overtime...Kaplan is
now 17-6 on the season...the 17 wins lead the team... Wall is now 7-

Coach Tom Oddo on his team: "We need to make sure we stay
healthy and get ourselves in the right weight classes. Because we've
got a handful of guys with fabulous records."

Coming up: Saturday vs. Longwood, Anderson, Va. Tech @
Longwood; Feb. 8 vs. UNC Greensboro

Place Record’
4th 2-2
3rd 2-1
3rd 3-1
3rd 3-1
4th 3-1
3rd 3-1
3rd 3-1

Men’s track update
Saturday @ UNC Asheville
Name Race Time
William Isenhour 5k 16:34
Keith Gordon mile 4:36
Steve Johnston mile 4:53 (personal best)
Thomas McElveen 3k 9:28
Dave Foss 3k 9:38

By Dante. Motz

Darner enters zone,
downs men’s hoops

Staff Writer

substantial 64-55 lead.

being more aggressive.”

half.”

Mountaineers.

okay.”

BOONE, N.C., Jan. 20 - The distinction between good shoot-
ers and clutch shooters is the ability to be in the so-called “zone.”
Monday night, Appalachian St. forward Tige Darner entered Varsity
Gym as a good shooter and left as a clutch shooter.

Darner made 10-of-14 field goals, including 8-of-10 three-
pointers, on his way to a career-high 30 points, carrying the Moun-
taineers to an 82-66 upset over Davidson.

“T’ ve never shot that well,” said Darner, who came into the game
averaging just under seven points. “Now I finally know what people

are talking about when they say ‘the zone.’ Be-
cause it just seemed like anything I putup was going
to go in.”

Seven of his threes came in the second half,
helping App. St. blow what was a tight game wide open.

A 1:50 span midway through the second half was particularly
crucial, as Darner hit four threes on four successive trips down the
court, turning a 43-42 game into a 55-45 Mountaineer advantage.

He added a final bomb with 4:46 to play, giving App. St. a

“We simply didn’t pick him up,” said Landry Kosmalski, who
led the Wildcats with a career-high 23 points and 10 rebounds, his
third double-double of this season.

“We take pride in defense, and to let one guy blow up on you like
that, there’s no excuse for that. It’s sickening.” :

“A guy shooting threes like that - honestly, I’ve never seen that
before,” said coach Bob McKillop. “It was just amazing.”

But the problems actually started from the get-go for Davidson,
which came out of the gate slowly for the second straight contest and
watched as App. St. raced to a 19-8 lead.

“The problem really is on defensive end of the court,” explained
McKillop, referring to the Mountaineers’ 62% field goal shooting in
the first half. “We come out playing on our heels, and weneed to start

In an adjustment to his team’s passive man-to-man defense,
McKillop went to a zone just before the intermission that helped the
Wildcats mount a 14-2 run over the last 4:48 of the first frame. A
running jumper by Ali Ton at the halftime buzzer tied the game at 33.

“Our guys knew at the half that we should have had the lead,”
said App. St. coach Buzz Peterson. “We talked about the zone
defense, and I’m rea] proud that the team held strong in the second

Two Kosmalski free throws pulled Davidson to within six (61-
55) at the 4:54 mark, but Darner’s eighth three sealed the win for the

The loss was Davidson’s first to App. St. in three years.

“We just keep saying that we want to get over the hump,” added
Kosmalski. “And we just keep saying it. We’ ve got to go out and do
it. It’s just a matter of doing it. And I think once we do, we’ll be

Notebook from page 14
four of their conference games.
The streak was halted vs.
ETSU, although it didn’t matter
much, as the shooting was abomi-

nable in both periods - 29.7% in .

the first and 28% in the second.
Higher shooting percentages
in crunch time allowed Davidson
to come back from late-game defi-
cits against App. St. and UT-Chat-
tanooga earlier in the season.

Statistical Slide

With their two defeats last
week, the Wildcats not only slipped
in the league standings, but also in
many statistical categories they had
dominated earlier in the confer-
ence season.

“At the beginning of the year,
we had the biggest rebounding

margin in the conference,” noted
coach John Filar.

Davidson was outrebounded
and outshot by both Ga. Southern
and ETSU and is currently last in
rebounding margin (-5.8).

Injury Update

Starters Kerry Brown and
Jessica Montrella, both of whom
have been out for most of the cal-
endar year with mononucleosis,
are anticipating returns to game
play in the next few weeks.

Brown is expected to play this
Saturday at Furman and Montrella
is due back by Feb. 15, when the
Wildcats face Ga. Southern in
Statesboro, Ga.

This article was reported by Aaron
Dunham and Michael Kruse from
Davidson and Johnson City, Tenn.
