THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1997 3

IN MEMORIANI

JASON POKAQO KOY

NOVEMBER 17, 1976-FEBRUARY

Friends remember “an incredible man’”’

By ANN CuLp Caterwauls, the Chambers Singers, Vang and Koyasuusedtojoke They took drive, but we
News Editor and the college choir. that when they wontheNobel Prize himtoaJapa- wanted to go
“Last spring, Steve they would each invite the otherto hese restau- through West
Jason Koyasu was looking for- Meriwether, Adam Brand, Jason, his homeland. rant for his Virginia and
ward to attending Sophia Univer- and I began the a capella group Koyasu would visit Vang in _ birthday, and Ohio. The
sity in Japan. The school does not — Caterwauls. It was never very ac- Laos, and Vang would gotoJapan. he loved to sp soeg e
start until tive,butwe “I guess now that he is gone, the share Japa- not Detroit,
April, so spent a lot jokesthat wemadewillnevercome nese culture |) y the purpose
Koyasuhada of time to- true,” says Vang. with them. | | was the way.
short break. gether. At Assistant Director of Human Hsieh |) Jason liked
“I told the end of Resources Carl Sorenson was says, “He | the process,
him that he last semes- Jason’shost father. “When wefirst loved Japa- |) not just the
would: love ter, it really met Jason, he’ seemed a bit over- nese pop and | j result. He
Sophia Uni- began to whelmedandsothe first yearwasa to sing. I | ‘hae just an
versity be- take shape, _ struggle. have to. start incredible
cause if there but then Ja- “This year he seemed to be finding the | man,”
are 100 stu- son had to moreadjusted,moreconfident. Yet, CDs that he |” | Koyasuspent
dents in a leave for Ijusthavethis pictureofhimbeing loaned me in } much time
class, there s t ud y happy even if his life was stress- myroom. He se with the
will be 90 abroad,” ful,” he says. loved the Sorenson’s
girls,” says says sopho- Koyasu loved math and in- computer six-year-old
junior Steve more Kenny tended to major in mathematics at _ and to travel. j son Alec and
Hsieh. “He Lee. Davidson, eventually hopingtobe- He thought his friends.
was_ really Sopho- come a teacher and even principal he was miss- . The
looking for- Iai K Anna Judy more Her at his international high school’in ing some- first time he
ward to expe- Sarah oy Shar es brother Alec © Van g was Tokyo called St. Mary’s. thing, that’s “was. at-our
riencing a dif- I searair ef pees versity at the Koyasu’s “His academic standards were _ why he loved to travel around. The ey f house, there
ferent type of ternational Festival in October 1996. -,oimmate so high,” says Sorenson’s wife only difference between him and 2S line of children Deis ehahed
college. It is this year. Karen, Koyasu’shostmother. “His _ me is that he studied so hard. by Jason: iy were running around
run by the Japanese government “We were the only two parents made a lot of sac- “We once drove 13 hours to get in such a tight circle that they were

and all of the classes are in Japa-
nese.” He told me that he wanted to
travel around the United States and
meeta lot of people. He didn’t want
to plan his travel outa lot. If he saw

international students on
our hall last year. We
had similar interests, so
we became bonded.

“I guess there is

rifices to send him here
and to give him a
private education
so he could come
here. I think he

to Michigan. We didn’t need to

all leaning in,” says Carl Sorenson.

Allofthose close
to Koyasu are find-
ing it difficult to
switch from the

wprat

something beautiful,thenhe would some sort ofinterdepen- | really appreciated Prpsent te the'p as
Stop. Ithink that’s why he was‘in dence between the two |. . what his parents» ENEreErENCHETTer al
; ray, ‘ ; -:-/about ' theit ‘friend.
Le f us. It Bc eee
Utah,” says Hsieh. of us. It is like losing were doing and - They still say “He

At Davidson, Koyasu was an someone you can really they were very
Assistant Teacher for Japanese and _ trust, like losing a part of my life,” proud of him.”

a member of the a capella group says Vang. The Sorensons have
many memories of their time

with Koyasu. They attest to
his love for lasagna. They
= | remember Koyasu reading

Whatever Your [meses
Heart’s Desire

Remember your Valentines with cards,
stuffed toys, frames and novelties from The
Village Store. We have a large collection of
heart-felt gifts and will be happy to wrap

is...” when referring
to him.

“For me I feel
like it’s an illusion
sometimes, that ‘it
will turn itself into
reality soon,” says
Vang. “Allofasud-
den he just disap-
peared and I am in
Davidson struggling through the life
we used to face together. To do that
without him is a challenging task.”

“We still have to go on doing
the process. One-day later we will
only think about him once ina while.
When I think about that, I resent the
fact that he has to be forgotten that
way,” adds Lee.

“I received a post card from
him dated January 31,” says Hsieh:
“He was really enjoying travelling.

i Steve Hsieh
Friends Jason Koyasu and Steve Hsieh took a
Davidson Outdoors trip together in October 1995.

Summer Job
Announcement

your purchases for free, and He was happy that it wasn’t raining.
provide shipping service. Se He planned to.come back to
Valentine’s Day is Serie pete ee Davidson around February 25.:. He

Vilage’
SOE’,

1966

said that he really wanted to sit
| down and talk while he was here.

We used to talk a lot about life.”
“T had really hoped that we
would see him graduate,” says
‘Karen Sorenson. ‘We were very
interested in the cross-cultural ex-
perience of having an international
student. I thought Jason might be
~ able to help Alec with a little Japa-
nese.” In the memorial service,
Carl Sorenson remembered the
small group of people Jason origi-
‘nally knew at Davidson. That group
hadexpanded to fill an entire chapel.
Jason Takao Koyasu left an impres-
_ sion on everyone he met. He was a
~ good student, excellent son, and
incredible friend. He will be deeply

| missed at Davidson College.

Friday, February 14.
110 S. Main Street.

