THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21,1997 9

©

Sororities at Davidson: Not worth ‘the trouble

cided and even indifferent to the issue.
After some thought, and hearing the

arguments
on both
sides, I
have come
to a con-
clusion.

lama
sophomore and a member of Connor
eating house. In high school, I never
thought I would join a sorority (or any
social affiliation) in college because I
didn’t think I was the type. I had even
come to the decision of not joining an
eating house, which I did not reconsider
until several days before self-selection
forms were due.

Seeing the excitement of my
friends at the thought of joining a house
made me think my decision over.

The cons did not seem to outweigh
the pros, so I got the shaving cream/
champagne treatment and became a
member of Connor House — a decision
I do not regret.

I now realize that there is no soror-
ity- or eating house-type, and many
strongminded, independent women join
both all over the United States.
stereotypes are not the reason the pros-
pect of sororities worries me.

First of all, concern for the safety
of the current eating house system makes
me uneasy about the prospect of sorori-

ties.

Though supporters claim that so-
rorities would not take away from the

The

role of eating houses but rather comple-
ment it, I disagree.

Ask any group of women on this
campus why they chose Davidson, and
at least one will answer, “Because there
are no_ sororities.”
Whether Davidson rec-
ognizes this fact or not,
the absence of sororities
has played a part in the
decision of all of
Davidson’s female stu-
dents to attend here.

I say this because every female
currently enrolled at Davidson came to
this college fully aware that sororities
do not exist on this campus.

It is not a big secret. Women who
want sororities to be a part of their
college experience choose to attend

’ other schools, while those who do not

choose Davidson.
With sororities on campus, this
fact would be reversed, and the “greek”

‘atmosphere on campus would be se-

verely affected.

Women would dismiss the idea of
eating houses before truly understand-
ing the advantages of the self-selection
system.

Even if eating houses and sorori-
ties could coexist, eating houses would
eventually become feeder groups for
certain sororities, destroying the inter-
house unity eating house officers have
worked so hard to nurture — a fate
worse than the death of eating houses.

The days of self-selection as we
know it now would be over. Or would
they?

According to a flyer I read re-

cently concerning sororities on campus
and how they would work at Davidson,
rush would be “self-selection only with-
out a computer.” Let me repeat that:
Rush would be self-selection without a
computer.

Just who are they trying to kid?

Rush is the process by which so-
rorities get to pick who gets to join and
who doesn’t. This is most certainly not
self-selection. The system of mutual
selection that sorority supporters are
proposing has been implemented in
many colleges throughout the United
States, but it is not without flaws.

Though all freshmen who rush are

nothing like what she thought or hoped
it would be. This can and will happen at
Davidson.

Just look at our fraternities.
Though rare, exclusion does occur. The
current system of self-selection allows
any woman to join any house. If a
woman cannot join her first choice eat-
ing house, the lottery and the current
number of members in the house are the
reason, and she has the option of wait-
ing a year or joining her second choice
and switching at the end of the semes-
ter.

With sororities, itis not that simple.
Exclusion is personal. Though sup-

“When Davidson first opened its doors to women, the
female students were given the option of having
soroities....Presently, the same choice is before us: to
have or not to have sororities.”

guaranteed a bid froma sorority, it may
not be the sorority of their choice. Last
fall, various freshmen at the University
of Georgia experienced what is gener-
ally known there as a “mismatch,” when
a freshman receives a bid from a soror-
ity she doesn’t want to join because she
has been excluded (yes, the word is
excluded) from the sorority of her
choice.

I know this happened because one
of those girls is a friend who later told
me her first semester in college was

porters claim none of the horror stories
we hear about sororities on other cam-
pusés would happen here, there is no
guarantee they would not. Self-selec-
tion may not be perfect, but it comes
much closer to perfection that rush/
pledging does.

What about being equal? Maybe
we should have sororities, for equality’ s
sake. Again, I beg to differ.

I consider myself a strong femi-
nist, and I am all for equality which, in
my humble opinion, lies in freedom of

choice. In choosing to come to
Davidson, I implicitly chose not to join
a sorority.

When Davidson first opened its
doors to women, the female students
were given the option of having sorori-
ties. Interestingly enough, the proposal
was turned down and Rusk house was
born. Presently, the same choice is
before us: to have or not to have sorori-
ties.

' Choosing not to join sororities does

‘not make us unequal to the men because

they can join fraternities; having the
choice makes us equal, not having so-
rorities.

If the argument of inequality lies
in the number (three eating houses ver-
sus seven fraternities), I’m all for more
eating houses.

This would cut down in the num-
ber of members in each house and take
care of the final argument sorority sup-
porters have: eating houses are too big.

The problem here is that women at
Davidson seem to like big houses. Rusk,
with around 200 members, could be
split up, but most Ruskies would not
stand for this.

Personally, I love being in a small
house because I’ ve gotten to know ev-
ery member. Either way, opportunities

. to build closer friendships are plentiful

here.

We don't need to sacrifice the self-
selection system or our eating houses
for something that will not bring us any
advantages we do not already have.

On a side note, if I need sorority
membership to get a job, what differ-
ence does it make where I go to college?

Sororities and the status quo

ost everyone has heard one
way or another the story
about the New England yo-

kel, who, when asked the location of a
nearby town, ponders the possible routes
for a long minute or two, then answers
definitively, “You can’t get there from
here.”

I
think

without hyperbole?

Ever since I came to Davidson
more than a decade ago, I have heard
students complain that self-selection is
a farce and a joke. Not everyone feels
this way or views it as a serious prob-
lem, but many do. Do we want to add a

frosting of sororities to
the Patterson Court layer
cake as it is now? The

sometimes ,
Davidson
is a place
that tells it-
self it “can’t get there from here.” We
don’texperimentas muchas we should.
We don’t shake off the old until it has
burdened us unnecessarily for a long
while. We go co-ed late in the game,
notearly. The same for integration. We
agree to reduce our commitment to fi-
nancial aid rather than daring to find
ways to maintain it.

We on the faculty and staff col-
laborate in the slow undoing of our
children’s tuition benefits rather than
demanding new and more prescient
ways to maintain them. Finally we tout
the joys of self-selection long after its
original purposes have been undermined
and the system itself discredited.

Before we step back into the hal-
cyon days of the 1950s and invite so-
rorities to campus, let’s take a good
look at self-selection and see if the
system into which sororities would fit
can be fixed at all.

If it can’t, why don’t we abandon
it? If we won’t abandon it, why don’t
we at least describe it honestly and

contradictory principles
‘of free choice and exclu-
sivity are merged here in
a way that necessarily
invites the charge of hypocrisy, and
such a system cannot be sustained for-
ever.

There have been calls this year to
stop the lying about self-selection, and
I agree that itis time to end the advertis-
ing that invariably leads to disillusion-
ment among many new students arriv-

ing on campus to find out things aren't

exactly as they were told.

Why should we as an institution
choose to prime our prospective stu-
dents for disappointment and cynicism?
It makes no sense.

Can we go a step further and de-
vise something new? I would like to
think so.

I would also like to think that the
argument for sororities can be given a
good, objective once-over by thought-
ful persons at Davidson.

Are women really at such a social
disadvantage at Davidson that we must
turn to the likes of Tri Delta and Zeta
Tau Alpha to provide the answer?

It is hard to muster_up profound

sympathy for the putative victims of an
injustice such as the alleged absence of
institutionalized “bonding” opportuni-
ties provided by sororities. In any case,
women have never called en masse for
the establishment of these bastions of
the socio-economic status quo. Ex-
tending the “Greek system” to include
sororities at Davidson may be fair, how-
ever, since the option does not now
exist for women students. Nonetheless,
sorority colonization of Davidson strikes
me as a symbolic step backward, not
forward.

If we cannot bring ourselves-to try
something new, but must cling to the
status quo,even adding another stratum
to it in the form of sororities, then let’s
at least, for the sake of frankness, aban-
don the rhetoric associated with the old
system.

There are many aspects of
Davidson College that show great in-
tegrity — let us emphasize those and be
honest about our institutional imperfec-
tions.

Perhaps the debate about sorori-
ties will lead not to something old, but
to something new and progressive and
innovative at Davidson. This is our
chance to stop telling ourselves we
“can’t get there from here.”

With new thinking, perhaps the
folks at Davidson can construct a stu-
dent social life that is appropriate to the
21st century, not to the last century or
the one before that.

‘If we we seek originality rather
than the status quo, then a new vision
could become a reality.

are available upon request.

The BDavidsonian i is published weekly on Tuesday during the academic year by the students
of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, ae tiie Gey 28036. Union (704) 892-2148 or -

Editorial Bias of The Bavidsonian, Subscriptions cost $40. 00 per dose Advertsing rates

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

rh San Seat Sad eh aad NICS Ss BE ak

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Keep Davidson “‘special’’

To the Editor:

I am upset to hear that sororities may come to Davidson.

Asa

freshman, I have been here for only two months and on the Court for even
less time. From what I’ve seen, I love Davidson — the way it is now.

I chose Davidson partially because of the absence of sororities. I do
not want the superficiality and other petty attitudes that my friends at other
schools face. Part of what makes Davidson special is its relaxed atmo-
sphere, which is incompatible with sororities.

.

While the seniors who want sororities will not have to face the

consequences of their actions, the freshman and the women coming behind

us will.

Although I recognize the advantages of sororities at other schools, I
do not see what function they will have here. If they cannot have houses
or serve meals or alcohol, what is their purpose?

What can they offer, other than national connections, that the eating

houses do not?

The connections from sororities are not worth their

disadvantages. Aren’t the connections from Davidson enough?
I have not been here very long, but I am certain that I do not want
sororities. Other first-year women share my sentiments. Why mess up

what’s good?

Carrie Arthur
Class of 2001

Have an opinion?
Write it down.

Call David (x6731) or Kristen (x6640).

Think you could make this
page look any better? +

Call Randy (x6667).

