10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1997

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors Opinions. Editors Associate Arts & Living Editor
JESSICA GOODSON KRISTEN BARTCH CARRIE MORRIS
NARESH NAGELLA DAVID SANTSCHI

' Advertising Managers

Sports Editor Layout Editor SCOTT REEDER

JAY CANTRELL RANDALL SKATTUM MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
DAVID JOHNSTON

Copy Editors Business Manager

WHITNEY BLAKE CHLOE BROOKE Circulation Managers
ANNA ERIKSSON CHLOE BROOKE
SONYA HAGLER Arts & Living Editor McNEIL CARSWELL
WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
Photo Editor Web Page Manager
ANNA JUDY HENDI FINK

Editor in Chief °
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

w

{
{
|
l Z> le )

INDAY MORNING. DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

SOMEWHERE St

T WD ir,
G
ees etTHAT

wh
<noubet +
we pare! f ak Spero
bh cure & ee ue
ene CO at A sett
J wes Wad ary

ett

a

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

A wake-up call

At face value, justice was served. Fhe Honor Council found Ryan Gist
innocent Tuesday night — the right decision, according to all but 12 of the 382
students polled by the Davidsonian Wednesday and Thursday.

But that, the mere verdict, did not and does not vindicate this particular trial or
even the system itself. For Gist’s public trial, held in the 900 Room in front of
hundreds of students — some curious, some outraged, some both — was a mockery
of the Honor Code — a system, an ideal, which we are told over and over again
defines Davidson, without which the College would perish.

To put it charitably, the trial was an eye-opener, raising issues that cannot be
ignored, questions that cannot and must not go unanswered.

The level} of the courtroom proceedings was apalling — reminiscent of junior
high debate. The members of the Honor Council lacked poise, coherence, and —
most shocking of all — an apparent understanding of what they, as Council
members, could and could not do under the admittedly ambiguous regulations i in
the Red Book.

All of which raises the question: Should students have the power to make or
break the scholastic career — and life, potentially — of another student? And
should they even be granted such an enormous responsibility?

After all, and in the Council members’ defense, they are just students,
essentially no different than anybody else, without any formal law training: They
are not law students. They are — due to no fault of their own — simply testing the
waters of justice, learning as they go along. In short, they are playing Supreme
Court. And it showed Tuesday night.

The administration would — and likely will — argue that such a responsibility
is what makes Davidson students cream of the crop, that the College attempts to
mold competent human beings capable of showing superior judgement and makin g~
difficult decisions intelligently, and that entrusting students with such responsibil-
ity is one way of achieving that purpose.

Indeed. But is it right to advance this aim at the possible expense of another
student’s career? I vote an adamant No. A student’s future is far too mpostant to’
jeopradize because of an idyllic vision.

And if what went on in the 900 Room Tuesday night is representative of every
Honor Code trial, the stakes of which are usually much more dire than in this
specific situation, then I shudder to think how many students of this college have
had their academic careers adversely affected or even terminated due to the
Council’s apparent — and really not surprising — incompetence, inefficiency, and
inability to conduct the trial professionally. Indeed, it would be truly amazing if it
were anything but amateur.

If the Davidsonian poll holds any validity whatsoever, and while it is certainly
not gospel, a fourth of the student body is a pretty representative bunch, almost one
in every two students lost some measure of faith in the Honor Code because of
Gist’s trial. This is a problem. Forty-eight percent is a disturbingly large slice of
the student population, especially considering the Honor Code, above all else, is
based on students’ unfailing trust in the system itself.

In the wake of the Ryan Gist trial, and students’ reaction, it is time for the
administration to act. The Dean of Students Office decides what goes to trial and
what doesn’t under the current system, then becomes glaringly absent, ruling from
a conspicuous distance.

It is time for the College to seriously evaluate the Honor Code — its countless
merits, its few inherent flaws, and its questionable application. :

Pel f han

Self-selection a misnomer
To the Editor:

After reading the. Sept. 15 Davidsonian, I was
compelled to offer my thoughts about the self-selec-
tion system at Davidson. Three things shape my
response: the top story on sororities, Joslyn Ogden’s

‘op-ed piece about the Court, and my own experience.

As a current junior, I can vaguely remember the
distant past when I first visited Davidson. I was
whisked about on the tour, hearing about the legend of
Duke.dorm and learning about the Honor Code. Stand-
ing in the stairwell of Vail Commons, I looked out
over the Court — a far-away mythical place of frater-
nities and eating houses presided over, controlled by,
and generally made a warm, rosy place by a nebulous
concept our tour guide called self-selection.

Not long after my arrival on Fourth Little, this
impression of the Court faded away, revealing the
truth: Self-selection is, at best,a very creative euphe-
mism for the bid system all fraternities employ, and,
at worst, a blatant lie told to mothers with healthy
suspicions of fraternities.

The vast gap between the Utopian vision of my
tour and the reality of the situation bothered me, but I
figured all’s fair in college propaganda. So I trudged
to the Court on First Night Down still unsure of
exactly how the process worked.

Here’s what I have found self-selection to mean
(for guys). It means that you must get a bid from any
house of which you wish to become a member. It
means you can fill out all the RLO self-selection
forms you can get your hands on in December, but if
you don’t pick a fraternity that picked you, well,
you’ ve just signed up for three more years of eating at
the Commons. It means that, all throughout rush,
there are meetings at which brothers pass around a
dog-eared facebook mulling over freshmen they have
met at their rush functions. And it means that, as the
semester progresses, some freshman guys will begin
accumulating bids as others attempt to impress the
brothers of their chosen house. .

These observations come from my own experi-

ence during one semester of being rushed, and a year ©

watching it from the other side as a brother. It is not
a condemnation of fraternities (I, myself, am a mem-
ber of Kappa Sigma), but the dichotomy between fact
and fiction invariably raises questions.

Does “self-selection” really mean anything at
all, or is it just something they tell the parents? How
can sororities be envisioned at Davidson as an unob-
trusive alternative to eating houses when the
Davidsonian reports that the sorority “selection pro-
cess will ideally be somewhat similar to the combina-
tion bid and selfselection system currently favored by
Davidson fraternities?”

What combination of bid and self-selection do
fraternities currently favor? Why is this myth per-

_petuated? And, finally, does the onset of sororities

threaten to strip the last vestige — female eating

houses — of any real meaning from the phrase “self-
selection?”

Mike Daly
Class of 1999

Nagella off base on UPS strike

To the Editor:

After reading Naresh Nagella’s “A salute to the
men in brown (Sept. 8 Davidsonian),” I shook my
head in disbelief. Nagella supported the Teamsters
and the “strikers,” claiming that the incident was
indicative of the power and usefulness of unions and
the compassion of the strikers. Not only was Nagella’s
information about the UPS strike less than complete,
but his presumptions about economic principles were
a bit scary.

Nagella seems to be less familiar with the UPS
strike than he pretends. Otherwise, he would not have
failed to understand that the true purpose of the strike
was for the Teamsters to maintain control of the UPS
pension fund. The part-time issue was an attempt to
garner public support against “evil big business”
rather than any benevolent effort to help workers.

Few of the 160,000 striking workers risked their
“standard of living for something they believed was
right,” as Nagellaclaims. They were merely obligated
to follow union orders. Many of the striking workers
weren’tupset with UPS and didn’t even want to strike.

Unfortunately, they were members of the union
and had to obey orders or risk threats and intimidation,
and could have lost their union membership and,
consequently in some states, their opportunity to
work.

I find nothing virtuous in Ron Carey and the
Teamsters’ desire to control the UPS pension fund to
preserve their share of it, nor do I consider the loss of
15,000 full-time UPS jobs to competitors during the
strike a success, much less the good guys “gambling
and winning.” ;

Even after considering these arguments, there is
even more misunderstanding. Believe it or not, even
in our mixed economy, there is still some element of
capitalism alive — the purpose of a business is to
make money. According to Nagella, “UPS decided to
pursue higher profits instead of providing better jobs
to more people,” implying that business should create
jobs rather than profits.

In a capitalist economy, job creation is a fortu-
nate benefit — not an obligation — of business. As
participants in this system, we are entitled to nothing
more than what we earn from our skills. To suggest
that any worker is entitled to more than his skills can
be sold for reeks of communism. Working is a
privilege, not a right, and people should be thankful
for the jobs they get rather than angry because they
don’t get what they want.

When Nagella suggests abandoning capitalist
philosophy, he seeks to undermine the strength of our
economy and hence our country.. We stray too far
already from the capitalist ideal by allowing govern-
ment intervention in the market at all. Rather than
intervene further by redefining our markets according
to communistic philosophy (proposing that the pur-
pose of a business is to create jobs), we should attempt
to salvage what few capitalist principles still exist.

Perhaps those who disagree should move to-China.
— I hear they have a. system where everyone gets a
full-time job,

Donavan Chaney
Class of 2000
