sophomore averaged 19.3 points a game this week.

__ TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

| O’Brien earns MVP as Wildcats

win Roundball Invitational

Champs from page 20

“The best thing about the weekend was that it
was’ an entire team effort,” said all-tournament per-
former Katy Kamp, who notched a career-high 24
points in Saturday’s semifinal win over Canisius.

After an Entily Steinmitz jumper cut the David-
son lead to seven with 15 minutes to play, the Wildcats
used a 14-6 run over the next five minutes to ice the
game.

Tournament MVP Jen O’Brien led the Wildcats
with 19 points and seven assists Sunday.

“The win over Charleston last weekend (Nov.
29) took some pressure off us and we have been
playing well ever since,” O’ Brien said. ‘‘Offensively,
things are going well, but we have to rise a couple of
notches on the defensive end.”

The Wildcats did limit the Eagles to 29 second
half points Sunday, holding Eagle guard Jessica Henry
scoreless after she exploded for 15 first half points.

“We keyed in on her in the second half,” O’ Brien
explained. “Our help defense definitely improved.
We just need to realize that all five players need to play
intense defense at all times.”

Kamp followed Saturday’s contest with an 18-

point, eight-rebound performance Sunday. Jennie
Vanlenberghe and Jessica Montrella added 14 and 12,
respectively.

In Saturday’s 103-82 pasting of Canisius, the
Wildcats set a program high for most points scored in
a game.

Davidson used a 10-0 run midway through the
second-half to shake the Golden Griffins. Twelve
Wildcats scored, four in double digits.

Besides Kamp’s 24, O’Brien scored 23, and
Montrella added 11.

Jamie Brown recorded a double-double, tallying
16 points and 13 rebounds.

Despite leading for much of the first half, David-
son trailed at the intermission 45-44. It was the last
time the Golden Griffins led.

In this weekend’s performance, the Wildcats (4-
3) proved how explosive they can be. The key is now
consistency.

“That’s something we’ ve really got to work on,”
O’Brien said.

“We tend to play to our competition’s level.
That’s good against teams like Vanderbilt, but we
seem to get taken out of game by teams like Saginaw
Valley St.”

Tech from page 20

on three straight three-point baskets, tallying a ca-
reer-best nine points.
Leading Georgia Tech’s offense was Betsy
Foy, who had 22 points, hitting 7-of-15 field goals.
Carla Munnion added 18 for the Lady Yellow

Yellow Jackets no match for Davidson

Sean Lutmer

@ Point guard Jen O’Brien earned MVP honors this weekend at
the Cheesebrough-Ponds Invitational at Belk Arena. The super

Jackets, hitting four from three-point range.

THE BATTLE OF MECKLENBURG COUNTY
Davidson vs. UNC Charlotte hoops doubleheader * Wednesday night at Halton Arena

The victory comes almost three weeks after

the Wildcats nearly upset then No. 10 — now No. 7
— Vanderbilt.

The Wildcats led virtually the entire way before
the Commodores escaped with the victory.

“The key was our ability to follow through and
finish our great effort,” Mall said.
Daniel Motz contributed to this report.

Filar gets 50th win in Canisius game
Kamp notches career high on Saturday

By DanieL Motz
Sports Editor

In Saturday’s victory over
Canisius, coach John Filar collected
his 50th career win.

a Women s
we Basketball
Notebook

The all-time winningest coach in
Davidson women’s basketball history,
Filar has transformed a program that
could not compete on the Division I
level in 1991 into a solid Southern Con-
ference contender.

In his sixth season as head coach
of the Wildcats, Filar has compiled a
50-84 mark.

Official history
While Davidson eclipsed the

program’s all-time record point total of
* 100 in Saturday’s 103-82 victory, his-

tory was made in fe game as soon as
the first whistle sounded.

Garry Roberts and Beverly Rob-
erts became the first father-daughter to
referee a game together in NCAA his-
tory. Judy Stroud also worked the
game ... :

As injuries have plagued the Wild-
cats the past two seasons, staying healthy
is a primary concern for Filar and his
staff this season.

Although the team so far has re-
mained relatively healthy, Jessica
Montrella gave Filar and the team a
scare Saturday midway through the sec-
ond half-when she took a blocking foul
to prevent a fastbreak layup.

“TL hit my neck on the floor,” said
the junior forward. “It’s alittle sore, but
it will be OK.”

Montrella did not return after the
fall, but she did play Sunday, scoring 12
points.

Kamp has stellar weekend

This weekend was a coming out
party of sorts for sophomore center
Katy Kamp. In Saturday’s win, she
notched a career-high 24 points. She

followed that with an 18-point, eight-
rebound effort in Sunday’s champion-
ship victory.

For the all-tournament performer,
the weekend was a big step in what had
been a frustrating season. +

“I broke my ankle over the sum-
mer and I’ve been working hard to
make it back,” said Kamp. “It is really
exciting to get back on the floor.” ...

The Wildcats shined not only on
the floor, but off'the floor as well. The
team has been selling T-shirts to raise
money for a Charlotte family in need
for this holiday season. After Sunday’s
win, the squad met the family and pre-
sented them with’a check. .

The effort was organized by former
Wildcat Molly Barry — formerly
Molly Burke. The 1996 graduate had
been working as a financial aid admin-
istrator at a Charlotte business school.
There she gotin contact with the mother
of the family.

“We had been talking about doing
something like this,” Barry said.

“We knew it wouldn’t be possible

Davidson Sports Information

at the business school, but I thought it _@ The Wildcats’ win over Canisius marked coach John

could be a possibility here.”

Filar’s 50th career victory.

Wanted !!!!

TRIPS

me http://www.icpt.com

Individuals, Student Organizations
and Small Groups to Promote

Spring Break
Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE

Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

1-800-327-6013

Courtesy of the Pacific-10

sabidsonian SPORTS

From Tucson to Albany, from Greenville, N.C., to Charleston,
S.C., the Babvidsonian Sports Staff will be on press row
across the country over Christmas break to bring you expanded
men’s and women’s basketball coverage.

DIVISION I COVERAGE FOR DIVISION I sports.

