Michael Brady of the Davidsonian
recently sat down with new Service
Coordinator Bill Abrams ’97.
Abrams discussed his mission, his
goals and his vision for his new
role. -

The Davidsonian: What philoso-
phy do you feel you’re bringing to
this position?

Abrams: I am very muchconcerned
with questions of how to under-
stand people and how to understand
the nature of life. I think that life is
largely about the education you re-
ceive in both an academic setting
and an experiential setting.

As service coordinator, I come
into the picture when we talk about
experience and about diversity of
experience. I am here to encourage
people to challenge themselves to
work in a community that has very
different things to offer from the
Davidson campus. The reason I
chose this job has to do with per-
sonal philosophy. That is, essen-

- tially, the relationships we conduct
and the way we act in our daily lives
very much reflects our character. I
am here to ask purposeful questions
and to advise students on how their
lives relate to community and on
what community means in their
lives. I ask the question, ‘““What is a
person’s responsibility within a
community.”

D: What service experiences moti-
vated you to be in a position of this
sort?

A: Like many people, I didn’t have

a tremendous amount of experience
with community service when I
came to Davidson College.

I managed volunteers and ulti-
mately became vice president of
Reach Out, but it was not until my
senior year that I participated in a
long-term project where I was di-
rectly involved witha local com-
munity.

Then I began tutoring at
Alexander Middle School and I
drove a truck for what is now called
Community Food Rescue. I want to
help other students.experience that
immersion within a community.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson education

D: How does your experience re-
late to your purpose or your goal for
this job, for this office, and for
Davidson College?

A: Ithink the education at Davidson
can be enhanced greatly by service
learning, joining your academic
experience in classrooms with. ac-
tive experience in the community.
The idea is to take into your rela-
tionships and into the community
things you learn and to make your-

self a reflection of the things you |

believe.

D: What are your day-to-day du-
ties? What do you do to coordinate
service on campus?

A: Basically my role is as an advi-
sor to individual students, but a

with Bill Abrams

large part. of my job is also to advise
different service groups. For in-
stance, my role with Reach Outis to
advise the officers of that group and
individual programs on how to
manage volunteers, how to recruit
volunteers, how to conduct their
operation, to set goals, develop a
mission, and set objectives on how
to reach those goals.

Then I help them evaluate at
the end of. the semester. where
strengths and weaknesses lie. Ide-
ally, every student that goes out in
the community will have the oppor-
tunity to sit with other people that
do the same thing and reflect on
their experience.

I assist students in their place-
ment, and we talk about things that
are important to their first experi-
ence — structure and the relation-
ship between student and the agency
where they volunteer.

Ihelp people see clearly all the
things that can be confusing or not

so apparent. Those things to me are
relatively simple, and the most pro-
found reason I do this job is because
of the relationships it brings me into
and the ways it helps me to chal-
lenge people.

D: So is it safe to say that the most
engaging aspect of the job is the
relationships you build with stu-
dents while they’ re here, and know-
ing that, on a grander scale, you’ re
affecting service in general?

A: I think that it very nfuch trans-
lates into something larger. It defi-
nitely acts on the level of individual
relationships. I think that’s how
things begin.

There’s an organization called
Campus Outreach Opportunity
League that was started by one per-
son who drove his car across the
East Coast talking with people about
service. He was a visionary. who
began with simple communication,
individual relationships.

I think that everyone inherently
has a responsibility to their com-

munity, and I think about half the

people in the world make a con-
scious effort to fulfill that tesponsi-

. bility.

A lot of people still float, how-
ever, and don’t necessarily engage
themselves in their community.

D: Do you foresee any challenges
during the upcoming year?

A: My challenge is to be an advisor,
to be a resource, to help people
develop a vision.

When I wasa student, Icame in
with a huge idea, and I sat down
with a group of people that brain-
stormed it and made it happen. It
turned into a two-week program
with over 20 activities that were
dedicated tocommunity awareness,
issue awareness, and service
projects.

This office is here to help stu-
dents develop a voice and to believe
that their actions make a difference.
Students should know this office is
always open and is a resource for
everyone.

We’re in the basement of the
Union opposite the bookstore. I
welcome people to come meet with
me and talk about their interests.

—

The Dabidsonian needs an Ads person.

If you are interested in making business contacts, making money for a great cause (us), and
putting something extremely beneficial on your resume, contact Michael Kruse at x6346 or

Austin Dean at x6735.

$ This is a paid position $

ComPILep BY STEPHANIE MLYNAR

International

Princess Diana dies in car accident

An accident late Saturday night in-a Paris tunnel claimed the lives
of Princess Diana and her romantic companion, Emad Mohammed al-
Fayed. Reports indicate that her Mercedes 600 sedan was being pursued
by photographers on motorcycles. Of the four occupants in the vechicle,
only her bodyguard survived, while the chaffeur died on impact.

More deaths in Algeria

More than 300 people were found massacred in their homes Friday
in Algiers, Algeria, furthering the problems between the Algerian
government and the Islamic groups seeking to gain control of the North
African nation.

The conservative Islamic groups are seeking power of the govern-
ment and implantation of Islamic laws which require women to cover
their heads, ban alcohol, and make Islam the mandatory religion. Mote
than 60,000 people have died in Adgeria since, 1992. Since June, attacks
by Islamic militants have increased dramatically. There has. been
speculation that the Algerian government is inciting massacres to justify

its execution of Islamic supporters and to gain the Support of Western
nations.

Bosnian broadcasting causing problems

In Bosnia, broadcasting is now being used as. an “incendiary
message” transmitter, as stated by NATO. Bosnian-Serb leaders are
accused of broadcasting violent messages that have caused attacks on
NATO forces. James Rubin, the.State Department spokesman, stated
that “there was clearly a coordinated use of media to incite violence”
The UN was attacked by Karadzies Friday with stones. No one was
seriously injured. The UN stated that it “will not hesitate to take
necessary measures, including the use of force, against media networks
or programs inciting attacks” as stated by NATO Secretary General
Javiar Solana. .

National

Primetime reprimanded

ABC’s Primetime Live, along with Capital Cities-ABC, was re-
cently sued by Food Lion for undercover work done at Food Lion
grocery stores. A jury found ABC guilty of fraud, trespassing, and
breach of loyalty. It awarded $1,402 in compensatory damages and $5.5
million in punitive damages. The $5.5 million was due to ABC’s lying
to videotape inside the supermarket. The judge reduced the punitive
damages because its grandiose figure was “suspect.”

Instead, Capital Cities-ABC will pay a total of $314,000. ABC
claims that it was merely doing its job by being faithful and honest to its
viewers. It also claimed that the First Amendment protected them from
being sued. Food Lion stated that its food practices are not as shown in
videos where rats ate food that was later sold, and rotten meat was

_| displayed as fresh by the use of food dyes.

USDA may increase its power

The United States Department of Agriculture, which inspects beef,
pork, and poultry, is seeking to increase its power to recall meat
products, impose higher fines, and shut down plants. This follows a
recent outbreak of E. Coli in ground beef. As of now, the USDA cannot
shut down unsafe plants or recall meat. It can only warn customers of
affected meat, withdraw its inspectors, thus stopping meat production,
or work with other non- governmental agencies to suggest or “advise a
text coal

