RIS & LIVING

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997

Is this for real?

Six Characters in Search of an
Author confuses and frustrates
reality, theater, and audience

By Nick PAuL
Guest Writer

Last week in Hodson Hall, from Wednes-
day to Sunday afternoon, the Davidson Col-

Summers, Robblee, Bill Giduz

‘argue over authorial ownership.

lege theater department performed Luigi
Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search of an
Author, a revolutionary work that questions
the traditional role of theater and perfor-

‘mance in the context of drama. The folks in

Cunningham East performed this challeng-
ing work with a professional flair that carried
the work gracefully to its conclusion and left
the audience with more than a little to con-
sider.

Pirandello knows that we like to watch.
To see the human drama unfold on a stage or
on a movie screen allows us a few hours to
concentrate on what constantly happens
around us during our daily lives.

. What then is the difference between
drama and reality? The former mimics and
comments on the latter and sometimes as-
sumes a life of its own.

The six characters in Pirandello’s play
seek a return to reality in the theater, explain-
ing that actors, sets, and costumes cannot
accurately recreate the reality that is inher-
ently at the heart of a drama.

The performance on Friday night was
intriguing and disorienting. With the first act

Iva Taylor, Peter Cain, Jennifer Giduz, an d Jess Robblee mourn their

Bill Giduz

author’s unwillingness to write, while Ben Summers tries to console.

beginning gradually as the actors and crew

began a rehearsal on stage, the focus of the
audience was broken up among the simulta-
neous actions that were taking place on stage.

The actors, staff and crew were led by the

Director (Ben Summers) and played their
roles satirically, providing some often neces-
sary comic relief intermittently throughout
the play. The heart of the play were the six
characters that entered with the intention of
living out their roles before the combined
audience on and off stage.

True, I think, to the playwright’s ; inten- :

tions, the gulf between the characters and the
actors was broad. The sincerity of the Father
(Josh Gaffga) worked well with the energetic
ambition of the Director. All action and
drama that took place on stage was manufac-
tured by the friction between the six charac-

ters. Their emotion was convincing, and so
strong that they seemed like magnets whose
movements around the stage were dictated by
the exact place’of the other characters.

The wardrobe of all on stage also marked
the vast difference between the characters
and the actors. Makeup and costumes were
superb, coloring those involved with the
original production and leaving the charac-
ters black and white. I often felt that as the
Stepdaughter character (Jess Robblee) stood .
next to the actress who was to play her (Laura
Seib) she seemed like a photo negative in
comparison.

Despite some moments of confusion in
the first act, and an onslaught of emotions
that was so enduring that it verged on the
ridiculous, the Theater Department did an
excellent job with this difficult work.

Women share stories of suffering, survival, and slow recovery

Take Back the Night brings forward victims of sexual assualt

in order to confront violence and offer courage

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff Writer

Last Thursday at about 7:20 p.m., I
walked into the 900 Room prepared to get a
good seat and take some good notes for a
Davidsonian article on Take Back the Night.
I was immediately made aware that a good
seat was not in my future.

Unlike other speakers and events I have
attended in my three years at Davidson, the
room was absolutely packed ten minutes be-
fore the event was scheduled to begin. Slightly
mystified, I plunked down on the floor in
front of the first row of chairs and jabbered
lightheartedly with some friends.

Margaret Lumpkin, the new Women’s
Issues chair of the Union Board, thanked
everyone who had helped organize the night
and introduced the first speaker.

As the room fell silent, a brave young
woman walked up to the front of the packed
room and took her lone seat. She warned us
that she would fidget and cry as she spoke. I
pushed my notebook and pen away, knowing
that this evening would be more emotionally
intense than I had anticipated and that I would
not need notes for my article.

That young woman was the first of five
who would sit before the crowd and tell their
stories. There were stories of molestation, of
rape, and of a death threat.

In addition to the speakers, three other
presentations were made during the evening.
Diane Krause, a Davidson junior on leave
this semester, played the guitar and sang a
song she had written about women’s strength.
Margaret Lumpkin read excerpts from the
infamous “Top 75 Reasons Why Women

(Bitches) Shouldn’t Have Free Speech,” writ-

ten by four Cornell students two years ago.
She also read excerpts from a reply e-mail
detailing startling statistics concerning women
_and sexual crimes. A moving poem written
by Jenny Lyon was read by Joselyn Schultz.

Emotions ran high throughout the
evening. Speakers and audience members
felt angry, sad, hurt, and hopeful at different
times and in different combinations.

At times, the individuals in the crowd
were absorbed in the experience of the speaker,
vividly feeling her hurt and anger and exud-
ing sympathy.

At other times, individuals’ eyes glazed
over — perhaps thinking back to nights. in
their own past, or perhaps recalling the story
of a friend or family member.

After the last speakerconcludedher story,
the silent crowd exited the 900 Room slowly.
Lumpkin advised that anyone who hadn’t
picked up a red ribbon should do so on the
way out. She said it was to be worn around
the wrist for as long as it took to fall off on its
own so that people could recognize who had
been there — so that people could recognize
who understood what happened there. Ev-
eryone also picked up candles as they left and
lit them in front of the Union steps.

There, the group sang songs and lent
support as people tied one ribbon to a branch
of a tree for every person they knew who had
been a victim of sexual abuse. Gradually; the
students dispersed and reluctantly rejoined
their evening routine.

Questions were raised throughout the
night, both audibly and internally. If
someone’s first sexual experience is rape,
does that “count?” Can she not be a virgin
anymore?

-If someone is raped, does it “count”

- how totake back the

when chummy girl-
friends ask each
other how many
people they’ ve had
sex with?

And what ex-
actly counts as rape?

Is it rape if you
don’t physically
resist? What if you
don’t verbally
resist?

What if you’re
too drunk or other-
wise incapacitated
to resist at all?

Classifying ex-
periences as “rape,”
“molestation,”
“sexual miscon-
duct,” etc. may be
important for some
people.

What all of the
speakers were more
eager to stress,
though, is that
people who have ex-
perienced sexual
abuse of one form
or another should
seek professional
help so they can
learn to move be-
yond mere survival
and begin to thrive
—so they can learn

night that changed
their lives forever.

