The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in'Chief Arts & Living Editor

Business Managers

MICHAEL J. KRUSE WESLEY GOLDSBERRY CHLOE BROOKE
, SCOTT REEDER
Associate Editor Sports Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH JAY CANTRELL Circulation Managers
CHLOE BROOKE
News Editor Photo Editor McNEIL CARSWELL
JESSICA GOODSON ANNA JUDY
’ Web Page Manager
Opinions Editor Copy Editors . HENDI FINK
* KRISTEN BARTCH -ANNA ERIKSSON
DAVID SANTSCHI SONYA HAGLER

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Davbidsintan is now available on the World Wide Web at: ,
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

‘This office is yours, too.’

Francis Wilson Price, this paper’s founding father and original editor, wrote on
April 14, 1914, that the Davidsonian “needs exactly what other publications must rely
on: the support of the students and friends of Davidson.”

And over 83 years after Price penned that first editorial, the message remains
unchanged.

Help.

‘The Davidsonian can succeed in one and only one way: by receiving consistent and
unfailing student patronage, cooperation, and assistance. I am ready, willing, ‘and
honored to be working for you, and I will — for better or for worse — drop everything °
— or, rather, continue to drop everything — to produce each and every week a mofe
perfect paper than the last. But I also, and even more importantly, need to be working
with you.

According to Admissions, over one in every 10 members of the newly-arrived Class
of 2001 served as editor of his or her high school paper or other literary production.

If just half, or even a quarter, of that group continues to pursue journalism as an
extracurricular at the collegiate ranks, the Davidsonian will be that much closer to
legitimately — not just in name — being the South’s Foremost College Weekly.

We don’t have a journalism program per se, and most every single person on the
Davidsonian staff works — and works hard and works long — for no pay and no
academic credit. But Davidson is home to Some unbelievable talents, some unbelievable
minds - and enough of them for this school to consistently be considered by the U.S:
News & World Report as one of the nation’s finest.

- You, the students at this college, are some of the most motivated people on this
planet. Our campus exudes raw talent, even if it is not (yet) labeled as specifically
journalistic. And that, in and of itself, is far more important than any amount of actual
journalism training.

Since I arrived two years ago as a freshman, I have learned what a small group of
dedicated people can do. Now I want to see what a large group of dedicated people can
do.

As Price said of his Chambers work space more than three- -qosrters of acentury ago,
“This office is yours, too. The Davidsonian: asks for your earnest cooperation.”

Today, I ask the same. Abas

v,

Viicbac| LA Korea nn,
od

Michael J. Kruse

~

, freshmen, the transfers, and

‘| from’7:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.

~ The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O, Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year.. Advertising rates are available upon.
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Welcome and Welcortie back...

..two greetings which seem to fill the air
everywhere recently, both on the campus as
well as in town. I notice that while everyone
responds in a similar fashion, the meaning
varies from person to person.

To those students and faculty who are
returning, the emphasis is on the “back.”
Their excitement is electric and real, but is
grounded in past events. They are looking
forward to things that are fa-
miliar, but know that there will
be new challenges. They are
confident, but not bored. They
are looking forward to seeing
old friends, but open to mak-
ing new ones. This enthusi-
asm comes from the possibil-
ity of building, but building
upon what they already know, ©
building on accomplishments
already achieved.

For the newcomer — the

faces, although they are fewer now, coupled
with the anticipation of seeing new ones. One
feels excitement at seeing familiar places,
although most have been altered and some
torn down. Yet, there are those aspects of this
campus which are absolutely unchanged,
things that you cannot see or touch: accep-

‘tance, caring, inclusiveness. In this case, the

emphasis is on the welcome back ; but, in fact,

to something entirely new.

_ Inwhatever group you find
yourself, freshman or return-
ing student, there is one truth
that applies across the board.
Your being on this campus is
what breathes life into it.

_ The frenetic activities —
building and patching, creat-

_Ing new courses, etc. — which
occur here all summer take
meaning only upon your re-
turn. Without the students,
this campus isa painting with
faded lines ‘and dull colors, a

the new faculty —the empha-
sis is different. Every step of becoming part
of this community is a bold new adventure.
There is no memory base off which to build
expectations. Their excitement is a combina-

tion of unbridled enthusiasm and a healthy |

dash of anxiety: The “welcome” means a lot.

To those of us who are fifty years old
coming back for more than a.visit, this wel-:
come is some combination of both of the
above. Like returning students and faculty,

one feels excitement about seeing familiar

come back!

symphony with no strings, a
sporting event with no fans.
To use a phrase that my daughter uses

_when I do something incredibly stupid, with-

out you, “the gates are down, the lights are
flashing, but the train is not coming.” What
goes on here in your absence is lacking in the
life and spirit which you bring it.

So whether this is your first week or your
101st week on this campus, know that we
mean it when we say, “Welcome and wel-

”

a

As we all return to campus, or as some of
us are doing, starting on this campus, we
must all remember the Alamo, and that the
Student Government Association is ‘going
into this year full swing for you and all of the
Davidson community.

The Vamanos ‘Van —
andl’ msorry, but I still don’t’
know if I’m spelling
“Vamanos” correctly — will
be in full effect in a couple
of weeks, but we can’t do it
without volunteers.

For. those who don’t
know, the Vamanos Van isa
van that runs Thursday .
through Saturday nights

Buster Burk

every student aspect on campus, and encour-
age you to get involved with them.

For more information on the commit-
tees, please give me a call at x6633.

_ One major change that we made last year
is that, instead of having three
weeks to decide if you want
to take a class pass/fail, you
now have eight weeks.

We deal with academic is-
sues, campus facility issues
(the laundry, the Commons,
etc.), and will be expanding ©
our scope into aspects of rac-

_ ism, diversity, overall happi-
ness of the students, etc.

I’m really excited. I hope
you.are, too!

It is an easy means of trans-
portation into Cornelius and Huntersville,
stopping off at Harris Teeter, the Movies by
the Lake, the Rainbow Deli, the bowling
alley, Target, and a couple of other restau-
rants. Itis a safe rides program that only costs
$1 each way, and if you volunteer to drive,
you don’t have to pay to ride the van for that
week.

I am also still on my playground kick,
and that is going strong. I would love to have
some swings and monkey bars and all that for
everyone by the end of this year.

For all of the freshmen and people who
just don’t know, the Student Government
Association is a group of students elected or
appointed to represent student views to the
campus, the faculty, and the Trustees.

We have 17 committees dealing with.

So when a problem arises
that you think could be fixed, or you see a
better way of doing things, or you just have an
opinion that you'd like to get off of your
chest, give it to the SGA and we’ II duke it out
in the Union Conference Room Tuesday nights
at 9:00 p.m. — anyone can come and partici-
pate.

Thope that a lot of you freshmen try to get
involved in the SGA because we make some
really great changes for the school. And
please, before you go to bed tonight, try to
think of some other question to ask everyone °
besides the old “How was your summer?” bit.

If you have any questions or. concerns
about getting involved or the school in gen-
eral, or just want to hear some really good

_Elvis impersonations, don’t hesitate to give

me a call.

Opinions. Have some. Call David.

