THE DAVIDSONIAN

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

of

No lack of effort here

To the Editor:

Inresponse to Jay Cantrell’s article in
last week’ s Davidsonian (‘‘Fall sports teams:
‘| A call to arms”);

I am pleased to see that you are bub-
bling with school pride and that you, along
with others, wish to see our fall sports

facts, facts some of us wish to put behind
us. Yes, the field hockey team is 4-6, the
women’s soccer team is 0-5-2, and the
men’s soccer team is 2-6.

As captain of the men’s team, I would
like to see not only us, but every team on
campus obtain more desirable results. As.a
spectator of sports as well, Lam more in-
clined to watch a winning team than ateam
which is struggling.

Asaplayer, lenjoy playing infront of
over 2,000 fans at Richardson Field. 1
would like to thank not only Cantrell, but
the other fans who have attended our games
T hope the support will continue as the
season progresses

I speak not only for the players on my
team, but others as well, when I say that |
was offended by Cantrell’s accusations of
us not playing withheart. The men’s soccer
team has lost four games by one goal, two
of which were decided in overtime, These
losses came against Wisconsin, the 1995
national champion, Radford, and Wiscon-
sin-Milwaukee.

We have played against stiff compe-
tition and are now a more experienced team
which has learned from its mistakes.

It would be appreciated if he would
refrain from attacking the character of play-
ers on my team. It was Rich Kleiman’s
aggressive play in the penalty box which
led to a Davidson goal as well as a black
eye,

I would like to see Cantrell approach
a player who was kicked in the face and tell
him he wasn’t playing with heart. While
he’s at it, he should tell Lawrence Cann and
Pat Miller, both of which have stitches
across the eye from various tackles, that
they don’t play with heart.

Neither Marshall Tyler or Wes Roach
have seen playing time this season as a
result of injuries acquired in the summer
while training for the season. Players with
no heart don’t train that hard.

While most students partake in sum-
mer activities, we spend at least four hours
per day in the North Carolina heat trying to
improve our game so that Davidson’s stu-
dents can tell their friends at home that the
College has successful athletic teams.

I’m not.asking you to join us, nor am
I asking fora pat on the back. I only ask that
you not insult any of the fall sports teams.
Just because a team doesn’t boast a stellar
record doesn’t mean that its players aren't
playing with heart.

To put it bluntly, expressing one’s
ideas often leads to useful discourse, but
presupposing indolence or lackadaisical
play on the part of Davidson athletes is
neither useful nor wanted.

Phil Julien
Captain of the men’s soccer team
Class of 1998

Teams need fans, not
Cantrell’s words

To the Editor:

I was disappointed and frustrated
when I read Jay Cantrell’s article regarding
our fall sports teams in the Sept. 23
Davidsonian,

I can’t imagine one coach or athlete
who enjoys losing. Instead, | know a very
dedicated coaching staff and their athletes
who have, every time they step onto the
court or field,.the goal of winning and
representing themselves and the College
with pride.

Seldom are any of us involved in
athletics fortunate enough to experience an
undefeated or injury-free season. We know
all too clearly what it feels like to have high
expectations that have to be altered because
of inopportune injuries, and also to have
difficult losses, those where we give the
best possible effort and still come up short.

We don’t need to be reminded of how
much it hurts to lose. But what hurts even
more is to feel that there are some folks out
there who think athletes and coaches aren't

teams excel. Cantrell’s articles was full of

bothered by losing.

Cantrell suggests that teams should
step up the intensity, get pumped, leave their
heart and soul at Richardson Field, and, if
they need inspiration, to watch Rudy or listen
to the Rocky theme song. I can assure him
that coaches do all in their power to moti-
vate, and to get athletes to respond to that
motivation.

And I’m sure that all of our athletes
would much prefer to be inspired by stands
full of their cheering fellow students than a
song or a movie. So maybe next week
Cantrell can watch a few athletic events and
become inspired himself, then write an ar-
ticle asking — even pleading — his fellow
students to come out and support the people
they sit next to every day in class — the
people who are willing to take on the rigors
of Davidson academics while putting in hours
of conditioning, training, practicing, and
performing athletics at the Division I level.

Talso would suggest that sports report-
ers actually attend the home events on which
they provide coverage instead of just calling
a coach or athlete an hour before deadline.

I guarantee that a first-hand account
willalways be more exciting and inspiring to
readers and participants alike.

So, fall teams, keep up the good work.
There are many of us who applaud your
dedication and effort and who are proud of
you. Regardless of what the scoreboard
says.

John Filar
Head coach of the women’s basketball team

Fellow athletes must —
stick together -
To the Editor:

To all fall sports teams:

After reading Jay Cantrell’s commen-
tary on fall sports, we as a team began to
realize how connected all athletes are here at
Davidson. :

Like all students, we have a four-course
load, but in addition we have 20-plus hours
of practice a week. We've all spent long
weekends in cramped buses and vans, and
watching game films in Huntington, W.Va.

Meanwhile, all of our friends are frol-
icking on the Court. We sacrifice our family
and vacation for our team. Our bodies take
the toll with sprained ankles, shin splints,
ACL tears, and hyper-extended knees. Our
reward? Quality rehab time with Beth and
Gator, not to mention fun fashion accesso-
ries such as crutches and ice bags.

However, this is a small price to pay
for the lasting relationships gained and the
rush of a well-earned win. Losing? It
happens. And we understand the disap-
pointing feeling of thinking you have let
down your school, coaches, and teammates.
We've all felt our hearts sink, standing help-
less watching the opponent scream in vic-
tory.

The point is, we know how it feels, and
we want you to know that there are at least 15
other students on this campus who can re-
late. We know your frustrations, we salute
your efforts, and are confident of your abili-
lies.

We got your back.

The women’s basketball team

Former athlete has
questions for Cantrell

To the Editor:

As a reader of the Davidsonian and a
former athlete, [have a few questions for Jay
Cantrell. a

First, has he ever played a sport? If so,
did he win every single game/match/what-
ever? IT seriously doubt it.

Andif he actually is an athlete, does he
remember what it felt like to lose? Not the
best feeling. I bet there were times that
Cantrell lost (if he was ever on a team)
despite all the team’s best efforts.

The last thing a team experiencing
difficulties needs is a public lashing. Hu-
niiliation does not equal support or inspira-
tion. |

Finally, I think Cantrell has forgetten
the role of sports hgre at Davidson. The last
I checked, sports art supposed to first teach

- student-athletes teamwork and leadership,

second#to add to the campus environment.
To putit bluntly, sports are for athletes,
not for Cantrell. If he wants entertainment,

watch some television. If he wants to cheer
for a team guaranteed to win, rent Hoosiers.
Because here in reality, it doesn’t always
work that way.

That’s not “ugly,” that’s life. Cantrell
should be.a real sports fan and cheer any-
way. He should be a gentleman and save the
ranting about intensity for a group of stu-
dents who aren’t working their butts off to
balance school, personal life, and trying to
win games for people like Cantrell.

Jessica Benoit
jebenoit @davidson.edu
Class of 2001

Mysterious e-mailer
chimes in

To the Editor:

To put it bluntly, Jay Cantrell needs a
kick in the rear.

He seems to lack: an appreciation for
Davidson athletics, and is in-dire need-to
realize that there are many athletes at
Davidson doing their best out on the field.

Many athletes spend endless hours
training to represent our school. Cantrell
should have pride in our school and get rid
of his attitude.

So what if we may not be winning.
Hasn’t Cantrell ever been on a team before?

Winning isn’t everything.

wildcat @davidson.edu

Swimmer: We don’t
do it for Cantrell

To the Editor:

I train for myself. Nothing else could
keep me there.

I cannot do it for my parents, my
colleagues, or even because I should. I have
to know myself, and know I want it. [come
back everyday because I understand the
fathom of my commitment and what it
means to risk an exhibition in competition.

If I did not love the practice, then I
would not be there —I would not attempt to
act like an athlete for an audience.

I applaud the student-athletes who
step up everyday and look to the next com-
petition.

I apologize to those who are disap-
pointed in our performance. Butas much as
we feed off of your excitement, we do not do)
it for you. If we win, we welcome your
frenzy. If we lose, we accept your criticism.

But we cannot accept your insinua-
tions that we are not aware of our loss, that
we are complacent. I refer to statements
like the following by Jay Cantrell in last
week’s Davidsonian: “Whatever the rea-
son, soccer players, you've dug yourself a
hole.”

Are the soccer players now inspired to
play harder?

Why not something positive? Some-
thing that will leave in its wake a desire to
supplement our drive by performing for our
colleagues — rather than animosity and
underappreciation?

I take pride in knowing the cross coun-
try team ran hard at its barelycovered, single
home race. I respect the volleyball team for
their determination.
hockey games. I cheer the women and men
on the soccer field, and I am excited the
football team is winning.

1 want them all to win. But not for my
sake. [leave the game and it’s over for me.
They have practice the next day. They
remember their win or loss and focus on the
next time — and try to win.

I want them to win for themselves. I
know, like everybody else, what it means to
get down and frustrated. It hurts me to see
the individuals, who I know and do not
know, lose. But they need it to help them
come back the next time. I’m just watching.

To the Davidson teams: I charge you
to revel in your wins and take pride in your
losses knowing you work hard everyday.

Take a loss and use its sting to hone your] |

training even more.

David Maddux

Captain of the men’s swimming and diving
team

Class of 1998

I stand tall at field]

Cross Country has best

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

performance of season |

home meet two weeks ago.

@ Suzy Burr shows her wining stride in the Wild

ill Bradshaw
cats

By Bratton HoLMEs
Staff Writer

Both the men’s and women’s cross
country teams had successful meets
Saturday at the Greensboro Invitational.

The women’s team finished third
of eight teams in what was clearly its
best meet thus far. The Wildcats were
close behind second-place finisher
Western Carolina. According to coach
Beth Puckett, the squad would have
defeated the Catamounts were it not for
the absence of rookie Jill Neumayer.

Suzy Burr finished first for
Davidson with an impressive time of
19:03 — good for an eighth place over-
all performance.

Allie Curran came in second for
the Wildcats, finishing in 19:24, and
Smyth Bitter was close behind her at
19:33. The team’s co-captains, Kelly
Kiefer and Katie Lannon, were the
team’s fourth- and sixth-place finish-
ers, respectively, with times of 20:08
and 20:38.

Claire Frey grabbed the fifth spot
for Davidson with a time of 20:33.

The meet marked an excellent out-
ing for the team, with each runner’s

individual time improving significantly
from the opening meet three weeks ago.

The men’s squad, meanwhile, fin-
ished fifth out of the eight teams at the
meet.

The first runner for Davidson was
freshman phenom Neil Burt, who fin-
ished fourth overall witha time of 26:25,
the fastest time ever by a Davidson
runner on the Greensboro course.

Brent Ferrell finished second for
the Wildcats followed by Thomas
McElveen. William Isenhour and Vic-
tor Talbird rounded out Davidson’s top
five.

Tripp Franklin also competed in
the meet after sitting out the last two due
to injuries.

“This is probably the most impres-
sive performance we’ve had this sea-
son, if not the past two years,” Janet
Aardema said.

“Most of the girls ran personal
bests. We only lost to Wake Forest,
who is a powerhouse, and Western,
who is real close.

“We’ ve already beaten conference
teams this season that we haven’t beaten
in years. So this season’s really looking

”

up.

Field hockey falls to

rival Appalachian

By CLAYTON SCHLOSS
Staff Writer

The field hockey squad came up
short against conference rival Appala-
chian St. Thursday in Boone, losing to
the Mountaineers 3-1.

T he

game, ini-

Appalachian 3/ |; .11,
Wildcats 1 scheduled
forthe pre-

vious. day
at Davidson, had to be moved to the
Mountaineers” AstroTurf field due to
excessive water on the Wildcats’ home
turf.

__. The teams were evenly matched,
as the AstroTurf field led to a rapidly
paced game highlighted by many fast
breaks and changes of possession.

The Wildcats actually held a sta-
tistical advantage over Appalachian,
tallying more shots, short corners, and
saves. But they could not take advan-
tage of their opportunities.

Attacker Lowell Rayburn scored
the only goal for the Wildcats ona short
corner. Rayburn inbounded the ball to
midfielder Chase Keith, who made a
pass over to defender Lindsey Parker.
Parker took a shot, and Rayburn de-
flected it past the Mountaineer goalie.

“We had the momentum going our
way the whole game,” Rayburn said.
“Most of the action was in their half of
the field, but we just couldn’t capital-
ize.”

Although the Wildcats lead the
traditional Davidson-Appalachian se-
ries 20-15, this was the Mountaineers’
third straight victory over Davidson.

avidsonian SPORTS —
Division I coverage for Division Isports.

