THE DAVIDSONIAN

I’m sure that everyone has heard
about the Honor Code trial that hap-
pened last week.

I didn’t want to write about this —
considering everyone is talking about it
anyway — but someone informed me
that some students seem to have lost
a lot of respect for the Code, or even
didn’t have much respect for it to
begin with.

This is a very bad thing, since
the Honor Code is the backbone and
nervous system of the College.

We saw that the Honor Code
supercedes local, state, and even fed-
eral law Tuesday night at Ryan Gist’s
trial. It’s hard to imagine that we have
a stricter Code at Davidson than the
United States has for itself. But that’s
the system, and it’s a good system.

Outside of Davidson, lying and
cheating are a way of life for some
people and businesses. ‘

A respectable man or woman
might not even do too well in the busi-

The value the Honor Code

ness world because of overwhelming
cut-throat, anything-to-get-ahead dis-
honesty.

Here the Honor Code helps you
out as well as everybody else. It is a
system of security and values that cir-

culates through campus — passing over
$10 bills found on freshman halls, slid-
ing over laptops and backpacks left in
the library, and continuing forever...and
beyond.

I'm not saying that all people
should conform to all systems of soci-
ety, but this one’s a Utopia.

Those of you who have lost faith in
the Honor Code or didn’t have faith in
the Code‘to begin with should really
question if you want to-be a part of this

community. Because if you don’t, you
shouldn’t be here.

The Honor Code is the core of this
school. Although many people feel that
Gist was wrongfully charged with a
Code of Responsibility violation, he
did take something that wasn’t his.

I’m glad the Honor Council
came to the decision that it did,
because in this circumstance, dif-
ferent levels of morality were under
scrutiny.

But there was the issue that some-
thing was taken, whether for a good
reason or not.

If I see a dog chained to a tree with
two feet to move around, although I see
this as terribly wrong, it is not my place
under the law to cut the rope and take
the dog away to a better home.

With this public trial, we all were
able to witness the seriousness and va-
lidity of the Honor Code, and see that it
is not out to get us and beat down those
like Gist, but to help us all out.

Time to worry: Gist over Koestner

I'm disappointed.

I hate when I realize things like
that — I hate when I look around and all
I can see is the worst in people. It scares
the hell out of me. Because I know I’m
part of that which I despise.

An event happened Tuesday /
night in the 900 Room. As of Tues- ~
day morning, the location and tim¢
of the event were unpublicized be-
cause they were unknown. Yet, over
500 people showed up — even Presi-
dent Vagt. He didn’t get to stay, though
— he said he didn’t want to. But it
really didn’t matter because he couldn't
even get in the room.

Then on Wednesday, there

ye

Koestner’s presentation wasn’t suffi-
cient. Surely those 500 would have
attended if only they had known. Or
maybe they knew and they didn’t show
up because their priorities are com-

pletely out of whack? I really wish it
was the former.

On Tuesday, some idiot — who
might have had good intentions, but

was Dean Shandley? President Vagt?
Dean Jeffries? The members of the
esteemed Honor Council? Dean
Marsicano? The English Department?
Philosophy? Religion? -Biology?
This issue touches all of your lives
— where were you? Perhaps the
fliers all over Chambers, the Union,
and Baker, and the advertisements
in both the Davidsonian and
Libertas were not enough.

I want to believe that, but how do
you explain Tuesday night’s numbers?
There were no fliers, no advertisements,
no radio announcements, and yet so
many of you turned out for what was

essentially a huge joke.

was a speaker in Love Audito-
rium — a speaker who has been
on the cover of Time and done a
special for HBO.

And she was addressing date

“YOu turned out for what
was essentially a joke.”

I feel sick to my stomach,
and this feeling won’t seem to go
away.

Perhaps it won't go away be-
cause the reported number of rapes

rapé, a topic that affects every
single student and faculty member here
at Davidson, not tomention every other
school and community in the United
States. Again, there were roughly 500
people in attendance. Not a bad turn-
out. Or was it? If you consider the fact
that over 450 of those in attendance
were required to be there, I’d say that
the attendance was pretty pitiful.
Where were. those 500 eager stu-
dents who had turned out the night
before? Perhaps the publicity for Katie

went about seeing them through in the
worst way possible — was on trial.
Five hundred students. turned out to
apparently show support for his stupid-
ity. Kudos.

Twenty-four hours later, a very
brave woman got up and shared the
most painful experience of her life, hop-
ing to prevent at least one woman from
being raped and suffering in the way
that she suffered.

"Where were all of you? Where

on campus last year was zero,
when | know that one out of four women
are raped or sexually assaulted. Per-
haps that zero makes you think we’re
safe. We’re not. We’ re just not talking
about it.

I have a feeling that I’m going to
be disgusted for a long time, but at least
I know where we all stand.

Ijust wish proper illumination was
as simple as a little lightbulb — al-
though I’m not sure we’ re ready to see
our true colors.

Misconceptions about the Honor Code

The recent query into the Code of
Responsibility — that all-encompass-
ing “other’’ Code that covers the of-
fenses the Honor Code doesn’t — has
promoted some rare discussion on cam-
pus. Which is great.

People need to think about what
the Codes mean to Davidson. A few
students have even looked at the
Red Book to see what those lovely
brown pages contain.

The trial Tuesday night was
packed, but I’m not going to write
about it. Plenty of others will do that.

General student opinion regarding
the Honor Code is far more interesting,
and the Davidsonian ran a poll to gauge
such opinion.

One question it asked was whether
the Honor Code should supersede fed-
eral, state, or local laws, to which most
students responded, “No.”

I hope I am not alone in my sur- °

prise at this outcome. The Honor Code
and the law have nothing inherently in
common.

Virtually every Honor violation
does not conflict with any law on the
books. For example, the police could
notcharge a student who cheats on atest

— yet it is a violation of the Honor
Code, and the penalty would be quite
severe. The Honor Code does super-
cede law, for it condemns things that

_the law does not. If the Honor Code had

to defer to the law, then we should

abolish the Honor Council, and instead
impose sanctions in. criminal or civil
court.

Perhaps this confusion is not a
product of the Honor Code but of the
Code of Responsibility, which is more
relevant in this case.

Many students feel that the charges
in the case were “technical,” or some-
how contrary to the true spirit of the
Code. Maybe.

Certainly more clear-cut violations
against the letter of the Code occur
almost daily. I’m referring to Section
VIL of this Code of Responsibility, which
forbids the consumption of alcohol for
those under 21. We all know this sec-

tion of the Code is broken by many

‘students and many times.

Before the beginning of. classes
last year, President Kuykendall ad-
dressed the class of 2000 about his
belief in the College’s policy on under-
age drinking. He had absolutely no
tolerance for underage drinking.

Apparently though, somewhere
down the administrative ladder,
those responsible for enforcing this
policy were — and still are — ona
different wavelength.

We had the unofficial “cup rule,”
where a student could be stumbling into
walls with a two-liter covered cup —

which the school gives us on our first’

day back — with the verbal coherence
of an inanimate object, and everyone
would wink and pretend that he had had
one too many Cokes.

Perhaps we should ask ourselves,
should this really be a part of the re-
vered Code if a large portion of the
student body disregards it?

And if it is impractical and/or un-
desirable to enforce this policy, why
should we enforce other sections of the
Code of Responsibility with any more
stringency?

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997

LETTERS TO THE Epitor

No higher standard than patriotism

To the Editor:

In response to the article in the Sept. 15 Davidsonian about the Ryan Gist trial:

We find it Utterly ridiculous that such a matter is of any concern to the Dean of
Students Office, and even more so that the matter was brought to trial. Since when is it
a crime to do the right thing? In our opinion, Gist is guilty of nothing more than showing
the proper respect to a symbol that stands for the freedom we all possess.

Whether intentional or not, the failure of the postal employees to properly display
the flag is a measure of disrespect to all of those that ever fought or died defending it.

Yet Gist was charged with violating a section of the Code of Responsibility that
states: “Social conduct is...to be based upon concern for Others and must conform to high
standards of courtesty and propriety.”

What higher standard is there to conform to than respecting the sacrifices of those
that came before you? Does the Dean of Students Office really think that Gist acted (or
even thought about acting) malevolently? The College’ s mission statement states that “the
primary purpose of Davidson College is to assist student's in developing humane instincts
and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.”

What kind of message are they trying to send when they prosecute a student for doing
the right thing? Should we as students be afraid to act on our own principles? The Honor
System should energize us to act on our beliefs, not to be frozen in fear of them. The Honor
Code is nota weapon. Itis the embodiment of our intellectual freedom, an inherent quality
in every person who chooses to be here.

Like Gist, one of us is an ROTC cadet who will enter the Army in the spring. Part
of the training a cadet receives in the ROTC program teaches him or her the importance
of the decisiveness in decision-making. Gist made a decision in removing the flag to place
the honoring of his country’s greatest symbol in front of any consequences that might
befall him for doing so.

As such, we think he should have been congratulated for his actions rather than
harassed by Dean Jeffries. We feel sure that both of them have much more important
things to do with their time.

David W. Aycock
Douglas S. Cutting, Jr.
Class of 1998

Trial shows student involvement

To the Editor:

As a freshman, I find myself overwhelmed by Davidson students’ respect for the
Honor Code. Coming from a high school that documented its code on one page of a
“Welcome toigh school” pamphlet, | am impressed by both the College’s and the students’
enforcement and application of the Honor Code. I have already witnessed its legitimacy
and strength in the classroom and outside of it.

I joined the masses Tuesday night in the 900 Room in order to observe the public trial
of Ryan Gist. After a 15-minute delay, a hush fell over the crowd and the esteemed Honor
Council entered the room. To my surprise, they were students like the rest‘of us, suddenly.
transformed by the responsibility of deciding another student’s future.

Watching the trial and wondering when I would pass out from the nauseating heat,
I couldn't help but notice the multitude of students listening carefully to the speakers.
Since the day I arrived on campus, hall counselors, club presidents, and professors have
stressed the importance of being involved.

The students in the 900 Room were certainly what I would classify as involved. It
was almost inspiring to see the students’ concern for their classmate and for the application
of the Code of Responsibility. In the mere 20 minutes I was there, I discovered the students
that I hoped to find when I applied to Davidson.

Students here really are involved and really do care. The trial — and the overflowing
900 Room —-proved that.

Later, I was informed that public trials of this sort are extremely rare. Knowing this,
I am glad I took a break from my Spanish to attend. Honor Council trials are valuable and
practical learning experiences. Bearing in mind the considerable interest level of the
students, I hope to see more trials made public in the future.

Jenny Hapgood
Class of 2001

The campus comes together
To the Editor:

Two major events took place on our campus last week, Katie Koestner spoke about
date rape, and Ryan Gist was tried for violating the Code of Responsibility.

We seem to have come together as a campus, leaving our library carrels, social
scenes, and most importantly our apathy behind to be a part of the action. These events
in and of themselves are important to the well-being of our campus community. Date rape
certainly occurs here at Davidson.

My cynicism makes me wonder how many students would have attended her talk had
they not been dragged there by their hall counselors. In this case, I would agree that the
end justified the means: being aware that atrocities do occur here is sobering and.reminds
me that Davidson is not the utopia that alumni or the pamphlets put out by the admissions
office would lead us to believe.

The presence of so many students at Ryan Gist’s trial is also fascinating. ‘Many
people changed their plans so that they could be part of the action. I heard an unconfirmed
rumor that it was even a hall program for some freshmen to go wave U.S. flags in support
of Gist. Why was this trial so important to so many normally uninterested students?

Student trials are open to the public unless they are requested to be private—go ahead
and check iton page 16 of the Red Book. I doubt any public trial in recent Davidson history
has had so much student response. Was the large number of students there a sign of
disapproval toward the administration?

Many students complained about the administration slapping the Code of Respon-
sibility charge on Gist. Perhaps students don’t have faith in the omnipresent Codes and
the people who interpret them. Students may have felt that they had to watch over the trial
to make sure that Honor Council members would be aware of the wrath they would face
if they found Gist guilty. This is ironic because everyone has the opportunity to vote for
Honor Council members. Nearly all the students left before the trial ended; which makes
me question the sincerity of their interest.

Last week, we were able to discuss and argue and be with one another in a
conscionable way. Apart from the. important issues that these events raise for us as
individuals, I think that the real value of last week's mass gatherings was that students
came together to think about what it means to be a part of the Davidson community,

t

Joslyn Ogden
Class of 2000

