NEWS

TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1997

i. eR AV RASONTAN:

Kuykendall presides over final Davidson commencement

John Kuykendall, who officially stepped down from his presiden-
tial post June 30, presided over his 13th and final commencement May
18.

“We aren’t through with you,” he told the graduates. “The lessons
and values you’ ve learned, the friendships you’ ve made, will continue
to be active in your life. You will continue your Davidson education for

the rest of your life.”
Elena Simon Franklin, a chemistry major from Memphis, Tenn.,
and Old Bridge, N.J., was the top graduate, earning niagna cum laude
s|honors. Franklin will travel around the world this year — “to get a
different type of education,” she said — before going on to graduate
school to study analyticalchemistry as it applies to the environment.

J.W. Nelson Chandler of Hemingway, S.C., a history major with a
concentration in Southern Studies, attained second honors and was also
named magna cum laude. He will attend law school at the University of
Virginia this year.

In addition, two professors received the Hunter-Hamilton Love of

Teaching Award — Anthony Abbott of the English department and

Donald Kimmel of the biology department.

The most popular major for the Class of 1997 was biology, with 72
students. English (63), history (57), political science (42), and psychol-
ogy (37) rounded out the top five.

1997 grad wins Fulbright

Sallie Permar, who graduated with honors in biology in May,
received a Fulbright Fellowship for a ten-month study of the epidemi-
ology of Kaposi’s sarcoma, an HIV-related cancer, at the University of
Zambia Medical School.

Permar, a Raleigh native, traveled to Zambia in the summer of 1996
as well, conducting research on malnutrition in preschool-age children
at the Mwandi Christian Hospital. She is one of 1,600 U.S. grantees
selected this year to travel abroad under the Fulbright Program, which
is designed “to increase mutual understanding between the people of the
United States and the people of other countries.”

At Davidson, Permar was chair of the Project Life bone marrow
drive, Student Solicitor for the Honor Council, and a member of the.track
and cross country teams.’ She received the college’s Tom Daggy:
Biology Award in 1997, and has worked irl research labs at Davidson,
North Carolina St., and Duke.

Permar will attend the Johns Hopkins University School of Public
‘| Health to obtain a Ph.D. inimmunology and microbiology following her
work in Zambia.

Novelist Patricia Cornwell gives $1 million endowment

Award-winning crime novelist Patricia Cornwell, a 1979 graduate
who has funded scholarships for promising writers at Davidson since
1992, presented the college with a $1-million endowment in late May.

Cornwell, who five years ago created the Patricia Cornwell Schol-
arships at Davidson as merit awards for entering students with excep-
tional ability and potential in writing, credits Davidson’s professors for
nurturing and encouraging her cafeer.

She is the youngest alumnus or alumna to ever make a gift of this
size to the college.

Cornwell made the gift at this time to honor Kuykendall.

“Education is our only hope for civility, and the enlightened young
must lead the way,” she said. “With this gift, I thank Dr. John and Missy
Kuykendall and all of the Davidson faculty for ~ passion and’
humanity. You have led me well.”

Kuykendall called the gift “a wonderful farewell gift that insures
good writing will flourish at Davidson forever.” :

Kresge Foundation offers grant for Life Sciences Building

The Kresge Foundation of Troy, Mich., issued in May a $750,000
challenge grant to assist in the completion of the Watson Life Sciences
Building.

The college will receive the money if and when it raises the $2
million balance needed for construction and endowment of the new
facility by next August.

“The Kresge Challenge reinforces just how important it,is for us to
wrap up the fundraising for this project before the building becomes
operational in 1998,” new president Robert Vagt said. “Alumni and
friends of the college need to know that We will receive the challenge
grant only if we are successful in meeting the goal. We are grateful to
the Kresge Foundation for offering the Davidson community this
wonderful incentive.”

The foundation, which awarded grants totaling over $87 million in
1996, also issued grants towards the completion of Baker Sports
Complex and the Visual Arts Center.

College Relations contributed to this report.

Multiple summer construction

projects give Davidson new look

By Liz SALE

Staff Writer

Enduring North Carolina’s
summer heat and humidity, the hard-
working staff of the physical plant
pushed. forward with numerous
projects. Some are blatantly obvi-
ous and some remain unseen to the

layman’s eye. Here’s a listing of

projects that were done over the
summer or are currently underway:

Arm of Doom

Aconcern for pedestrian safety
was the impetus to limiting vehicle
access to dorm row. Only the po-
lice, fire department, physical plant
and library staff (parking) will have
authority to use the road. The project
cost an estimated $18,000.

The Union Ramp

The curving ramp constructed
on the Union patio was built to
increase access to the building for
wheelchair-users. When completed
in late September, handrails will be
in.place along with automatic card
access doors. The estimated price

"mer.

‘have all new wiring,

~ BillGiduz
Crews have been hard at work on the Watson

Science Building over the summer,

for this jobis $55,000. _

ROTC Conversion

~ The College had *
a large need for stu-
dent living space at
the end of last year,
and converted ROTC
offices into dorm !
rooms over thé sum-

-These rooms
internet access; new
lights, and ceilings.
The physical plant
created five new
showers and -ex-
panded the existing
bathrooms. Amaz-
ingly, all of this work
was done within a
month.

oo

'
a
i '
'
:

Bill Giduz

Workers prepare for the return of students
‘in Martin Science Building in August.

Sentelle

Sentelle may look the same
from the outside, but internally, it is
anew building. Physical plant staff
put in all new plumbing, wiring,
internet access, and windows in ev-
ery room. This
building had not
been, renovated
since it’s con-
struction six de-
cades ago.

Presidents
House |
The
president’s
house had not
had any major
work done to it
since 1959, but
this summer the
overhaul began.
The construc-
tion will add

*

four rooms, renovate thirteen, and
addanelevator. While they are at it,
all new plumbing, wiring and
internet access will be included.
This project will be completed early
next semester. ;
Watson Science Building

The 30 new lab and classroom
spaces this building creates will be
available for the 1998-1999 school
year. The foundation was poured
this summer and plumbers are now
hard at work. The estimated cost of
this project is $12 million.

Physical Plant Shops

The new:shops are located be-
hind WDAV on Ridge Road. This
building will allow more shops to
be located together, and Davidson .
will no longer need to rent space for
its warehouse. Allinvolved hope to
have this project completed by No-
vember at a cost of $450,000.

Most dorms now wired

Duke, Lingle, senior apartments will be operation in January

By Liz SALE
Staff Writer

After much anticipation, most
dorms are now wired for Internet
access. Only Duke, Lingle, and the
senior apartments lack the internal
wiring, and they will be wired by
January 1998.

The fiber optic lines connect-
ing Duke, Lingle, and the. senior
apartments are currently being in-
stalled. Each dorm will go on-line
as the fiber optic connects it.

The dorms will be activated as
follows: Belk, Richardson, Cannon,
Watts, Little, Sentelle, Duke, Lingle
and. senior apartments... The con-

nection will hopefully be completed

by spring of this year.

Once the dorms are connected,
Information and Technological Ser-
vices will offer two different ‘ser-
vices to the World Wide Web.

One way to merge onto the
information superhighway is via
Ethernet. Unfortunately, though,
every computer using it must be
equipped with a special Ethernet
card.

An Ethernet card is like a mo-
dem, but about 500 times faster and
requires special wiring and installa-
tion. Depending on the computer,
the costs range from $70 to $150.

Another alternative. is Bell

South.Net using a modem. ITS

contracted with this provider to of-

fer other options to students and
staff.

Bellsouth’ .Net offers three
price plans: (1) 10 hours per month
at $9.95 monthly with a one-time
$10 hook-up fee; (2) 60 hours -per
month at $12.00. monthly with a
$10 hook-up fee; and (3) unlimited
hours at $9.95 monthly witha hook-

up fee.

For more information about
buying an Ethernet card or using
Bellsouth.Net, contact computer
services at x2402 or http://
www.davidson.edu/computing/
sai eh tu i

Interested i in working for
Che Davidsonian?

Meeting ¢ Tonight ° 8:00 ° Morrison Rm.

