.. U
Davidson wins
a fall classic

GREENVILLE, S.C. — This was the greatest
Wildcat athletic event I have ever seen.

The Davidson-Furman women’s soccer game
Tuesday night took two hours and a penalty-kick
shoot-out to decide a winner.

But that doesn’t tell the whole story. It doesn’t
even come close.

With an emotional loss to Furman a week earlier
fresh on their minds, the Wildcats returned to Stone

Stadium seeking revenge. What they got was a classic
they will remember long after this season is over.

Two Paladin shots caromed off the post in the
first half before they were cleared away by a Davidson
defense that was missing starter Natalie Stumpf, who
sat out due to a knee injury.

Meanwhile, in the press box, Furman’s men’s
soccer player Ryan Higgenbotham oozed with confi-
dence, claiming that Davidson’s men’s team was a
fluke and boasting that his Paladins would win if they
met again in the tournament.

‘When play resumed on the pitch, Davidson came
out as intense as if the Paladins had taken their wallets.
It might have been alittle too intense, as Kelly Rennick
was slapped with a yellow card for dissent in the 55th
minute. Ten minutes later, Wildcat goalkeeper Allie
Noznesky stopped a header by Paladin Leah
Versteegen. It was the first of a plethora of jaw-
dropping saves.

Then came the first in a series of momentum
swings. With 28:16 left in regulation, Rhina Roberts
was taken down in the box, giving Davidson a golden
opportunity to strike first. But Amy Balsinger’s pen-
alty kick skimmed the cross-bar as it sailed over the
goal, and the game remained scoreless.

In the next 20 minutes, two Wildcats sustained
injuries and were taken off the field. But after short
breaks, Roberts and Kelly Schmidt each returned to
the game determined to play through pain.

And with seven minutes left, Kate McKnight
gave the Wildcats the lead on a long shot that barely
went over Paladin goalkeeper Jen McNutt and hit the
crossbar before spinning awkwardly over the goalline
and into the left side of the net.

It appeared that Davidson had its revenge. But
great games appear to be won and lost several times
before the outcome is set.in stone.

With less than a minute left in regulation, the
Paladins applied enormous pressure. Versteegen took
the final shot, which looked eerily like McKnight’s
goal. Noznesky couldn’t reach it as the ball hit the
crossbar and bounced back into the field. As time
expired, the Wildcats celebrated because they thought
they had won. The Paladins celebrated because they
thought they had sent the game into overtime.

The referee ran to his linesman to seek assistance
onthe call. The linesman had sprinted from the endline
to midfield after the play, which is standard procedure
when the ball crosses the goalline but is quickly
knocked out of the goal. The referee signalled for a
goal, which officially came with aly nine seconds
remaining in regulation.

This play alone was symbolic of the season. They
came so close only to have something bizarre ruin
everything. But there were still 30 minutes to go.

As the teams prepared for overtime, the scoreboard
flashed results from other first-round games. Eventual
champion UNC Greensboro had defeated East Ten-
nessee St. 11-0, sending a message that whichever
squad eventually won this contest would most likely
lose to the Spartans in the next round. But none of the
Davidson or Furrnan players seemed to care.

In the sixth minute of overtime, Rennick was
ejected when she received her second yellow card. She
had kicked the ball away after she was called for a foul,
and the referee had seen enough. Again, misfortune

See Fall Classic on page 13

Sean Lutmer

@ Tommy Dugan was one of several Wildcat quarterbacks who eluded
Hampden-Sydney defenders to propel Davidson to a 43-0 shutout victory.

Wildcats pounce Tigers

By Micuaet J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

Teams like the 1997 Hampden-Sydney Tigers
exist for one reason: So teams like the 1997 Davidson
Wildcats can snap five-game losing streaks.

The football team halted a mind-numbingly frus-
trating winless skid Saturday, beating. the hapless Ti-
gers 43-0 at Richardson Field.

The victory was the Wildcats’ first since Sept. 21
— a 42-14 Centennial romp over Sewanee — and
Hampden-Sydney’s woeful season continued to the
tune of 0-8.

“We told the kids all week long that as long as we
played like we had all season long, we’d win,” coach
Tim Landis said.

And for the heretofore siruggling. Wildcats,
Hampden-Sydney was just what the doctor ordered.

The Tigers, who actually had more first downs
than the Wildcats (16-14), turned the ball over seven
times — two interceptions and five fumbles —en route
to their ninth straight loss dating back to last season.

For Davidson, which gained a shockingly low
193 yards of total offense in amassing a season-high 43
points, it was simply a case of capitalizing on Hampden-
Sydney miscues.

Near the end of the first quarter, Tiger center
Todd Ketcham’s snap fluttered over quarterback Karl
Tuhey’s head. The loose ball was recovered by Wild-
cat rookie standout Bo Henderson 17 yards behind the
line of scrimmage at the Hampden-Sydney 32-yard
line.

On the ensuing Davidson drive, fullback Eric

Ferguson, battling a sprained ankle suffered last week

versus Randolph-Macon, rumbled into the end zone
from four yards out, giving Davidson the early 7-0
lead with 12:10 to go in.the second quarter.

Two Tiger drives later, Freeman Belser, another
freshman who has starred in recent weeks for the
Wildcats’ defense, intercepted a Tuhey pass deep in
HampdenSydney territory.

Tailback Nate Hagerman took advantage of the
favorable field position, going 16 yards on the Wild-
cats’ third play of the drive to put Davidson up 14-0
with 7:53 left before halftime.

“It was a perfect pitch by (quarterback) Shaun
Tyrance and the offensive line blocked so well,” the
junior said of his first touchdown of the year. “I
looked up the field and I was surprised how wide
open it was. I just jogged into the end zone.”

And with less than a minute remaining before
intermission, cornerback Clif Henry picked off his
second pass of the fall and returned it 52 yards for the
Wildcats’ third score of the half.

In the second period, tight end Wes Jones hauled.

in an 11-yard touchdown toss from Tyrance, backup
fullback Ellis. Boyle notched his first career touch-
down on a 5-yard run, and Lorenzo Moll added a 3-
yard scamper.
‘\ “We definitely feel like we’ve been given a
wind, “ Hagerman said. ‘“We’re very frus-
five we dropped. I think we should’ ve
lost only one of them.

“But the opportunity to have a winning season”
—which would take wins in all three of the Wildcats’
remaining games, including Nov. 22 against I-AA
scholarahip opponent South Florida — “is a solid
goal we’re excited about.”

4
Wildcats

terrorize

Terriers

By Dante. Motz
Senior Staff Writer

Form finally held.

After defeating Southern Con-
ference teams that it was not favored
to beat and losing toconference teams
that it should have beaten, the men’s
soccer team triumphed this week with
wins over VMI and Wofford.

The victories give the Wildcats

~ the second seed in this week’s South-

ern Conference tournament.

Davidson tied Furman for sec-
ond place in the conference, but the
Wildcats regular season victory over
the Paladins gives Davidson the higher
seed.

Tonight the Wildcats host sev-
enth seed VMI at 6:15 in the
quarterfinals, a team they faced and
conquered only a week ago in Lex-
ington.

Sparked by two Drew Lindsey
goals in the first four minutes of the
contest, Davidson coasted to a 6-1
victory.

“The guys just came ready to
play,” saidcoach Charlie Slagle. “We
took control early and never looked
back.”

For the Wildcats (9-10, 5-2), it
was their first rout and highest scor-
ing output of the season.

“We just did what we had to do,”
said Slagle.

“We played very well and we
had that killer instinct.”

On Friday night, the regular sea-
son home finale, the Wildcats de-
feated Wofford, 2-1, on a sloppy
Richardson Field. It rained virtually
the entire game.

“We played well, but not great,”
said Slagle. “Give credit to Wofford.
They played tough and never gave
up.”

Hart Roper scored on a header
three minutes into the game, their
first of two goals. Pat Miller, in
transition, spotted Jeff Weekes, who
found Hart Roper for the goal.

With twenty minutes left in the
first half, Andrew Holbrook, who
checked into the game just 30 sec-
onds earlier, simply beat his man and
found Randy Culbertson for the goal
to give the Wildcats a 2-0 lead.

Greg Fleming scored early in the
second half for the Terriers (3-15, 2-
5) to halve the Davidson lead.
Wofford would get no closer.

The Wildcats had other goal-
scoring opportunities, but two proved
to be enough on Friday.

The Davidson defense contin-
ues to dominate, allowing just one
second half shot. The Wildcats

outshot the Terriers 16-5 forthe game.

The win pushed goalkeeper Brad
Stroble’s record to 9-8, the first time
it has eclipsed .500 all.season.

Penalty kicks. A kick-by-kick analysis of thewomen’s
soccer shoot-out at Furman, page 13.
Men’s Si The South
nament begins tonight. Story, page 14.
Field Hockey comes up short. The Wildcats lost this
weekend in the Deep South tournament. Story, page 15.
Volleyball sweeps up competition. Davidson didn’t
drop a single game this weekend. Story, page 15.

Swim teams host only meet of semester. Both groups of
Wildcat swimmers lost to Virginia Tech and William and
Mary. Story, page 15.

Cross Country improves. The men’s and women's
squads continue to climb up the conference ladder at the
league championships in Statesboro, Ga. Story, page 15.

Conf

tour-

Wisco 43 Hampden-Syndey 0 Allie Noznesky
Men'ssoccte - Women’s Soccer
Wildcats 6, VMI 1 Sr. * Goalk r
Wildcats 2, Wofford 1 eepe
Women’s soccer

Wildcats 1, Furman | (Wildcats advance on penalty kicks)
North Carolina St. 4, Wildcats 1
UNC Greensboro 4, Wildcats 0

Field hockey

Appalachian St. 4, Wildcats 3
Volleyball

Wildcats 3, East Tennessee St. 0
Wildcats 3, Appalachian St. 0

Noznesky made mind-bog-
|. gling saves throughout regu-
lation and 30 minutes of over-
time before savingigqyy of five
» penalty kicks in the shootout.
‘Her performance at Furman
Jed the Wildcats into the semi-
finals and earned her an all-
tournament team selection.

Football
Saturday @ Centre (1: :30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM,
WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer
Today vs. VMI (6:15 p.m.)

Volleyball

Wednesday vs. Campbell (7:00 p.m.)
Saturday @ Chattanooga (2:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ Western Carolina (2:00 p.m.)

cyenenng & Diving
Saturday @ Richmond (1:00 p.m.)

‘Women’s Basketball
Sunday vs. Fort Bragg (3:00 p.m., exhibition)

Men’s soccer vs. VMI
Tonight * Richardson Field 7:00 p.m.

The Wildcats face the Keydets in
the opening round of the Southern
Conference tournament. Davidson, the
No. 2. seed in the draw, looks to ad-
vance to Saturday’s semifinal action at
Furman with a win over VMI.

