T

——_— pp a. FF S|
me! a sc ro NG

a

* By Danie Morz

Men’s soccer knocks off Geor:;
Wildcats rebound \uamm ga
from ugly loss to

Appalachian by beat-
ing No. 14 Eagles

Senior Staff Writer

2 Sunday in Statesboro.

Appalachian 4

Wildcats 2—

Wildcats 3
Ga. South. 2

their second loss of the season.

blip on the screen.”

their last five.

erasing a 2-1 halftime deficit.

Once again handed a challenge in this topsy-
turvy 1997 season, the men’s soccer team responded.
Following a disappointing 4-2 loss at the hands
of Appalachian St. Friday at Richardson Field, the
Wildcats defeated 14th-ranked Georgia Southern 3-

“It may have been hard for us not to look ahead
to Georgia Southern,”
coach Charlie Slagle said
of the loss to the Moun-
taineers. “After the App.
St. game, we were all a
little disappointed.
“Disappointed, but

not discouraged. There
is a big difference.”

Knowing that they should have beaten the
Mountaineers, picked to finish fifth in the confer-
ence, Sunday was another occasion in which the
Wildcats could have packed it in this fall.

Instead, they came out and won perhaps their
biggest game of the year, handing the Eagles only

“This team has delivered all season,” Slagle
said. “Obviously, the hope is that Friday was just a

After starting the season 0-5, the Wildcats (7-
10, 3-2) have won seven of their last 12 and four of

Against Georgia Southern (12-2-2, 3-2), the
defense was the offense for Davidson.

Fullbacks Jeff Weekes and Pat Miller each
scored in the last 20 minutes for the Wildcats,

Weekes goal was set up by a free kick. With 17
See Men’s soccer on page 19

a Southern

‘ iz Reid
@ Lawrence Cann dribbles in the Wildcats’ 4-2 loss to Appala- '
chian St. Friday night at Richardson Field. But the team turned

in a gutsy performance Sunday, winning at Georgia Southern.

Golfers climbing to
top of conference

By Micuaet J, Kruse
Editor in Chief

The golf team is scheduled to host a tournament
at Brookdale in Huntersville this coming Monday and
Tuesday — an easy opportunity to see what has been
one of the better Davidson teams this fall.

The Wildcat golfers posted a second-place finish
at the seven-team VMI Invitational Oct. 6-7 in Lex-
ington, Va., and a fourth-place finish in a 14-team
field at the Radford University Invitational Oct. 21 at
the Draper Valley (Va.) Golf Club..

The squad also placed 13th out of 23 teams over
fall break at the Columbia Intercollegiate in Chatta-
nooga, Tenn., a tournament that included traditional
powers Maryland, Dartmouth, and Georgetown. And

* at Charleston Southern in September, the Wildcats

finished fifth in a 13-school event.

“This is by far the best we’ve ever done as a
team,” said coach Joe Mark, now in his fifth year at
Davidson. “I’ve been very pleased with the way the
boys have been playing.”

“This is the best team we’ ve had since back in the
60s when we wontthe Southern Conference,” Andrew
McDaniel added Sunday. “We're playing really well
right now.” ar

And no individual has performed at a higher
level than Jason Lina, a senior who is averaging 72
strokes in nine competitive rounds so far this season.
Lina recorded a stellar second-place overall finish at
the Radford tourney, shooting a 69-74-143. He was
also third individually in Lexington, only three strokes
behind champion David Goodman of Appalachian St.

“Jason has really improved tremendously —
probably the biggest improvement on the team,” said
McDaniel, who with an average round of 76 is no
push-over himself. “He’s there every week playing
well, and that’s a really big boost. Everybody else
kind of feeds off of that.”

David Alexander, a third-year player who blos-
somed as a top performer for the Wildcats last spring
and has continued that solid play this season, is
averaging a 74 in match play, second on the squad
only to Lina’s mark.

“At the collegiate level, that’s very good,” Mark
said of Lina’s and Alexander’s scores. “Their consis-

See Golf on page 17

Tough-luck football squad falls for fifth straight weekend
Wildcats drop second straight fourth quarter heartbreaker

«,.. By MICHAEL J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

If points were awarded solely for
effort, the football team would be in
great shape.

Unfortunately for the tough-luck
Wildcats, though, effort alone does not

determine

22 wins and

sage Sree aa +1 losses — a
Wildcats 15 painful les-
soe n

Davidson has learned all too often over
the last five weeks.

The Wildcats dropped a 22-15
heartbreaker to Randolph-Macon Sat-
urday at Day Field in Ashland, Va. The
defeat marked the squad’s fifth straight
after a 2-0 start to what was supposed to
be a potentially record-breaking sea-
son.

Entering the second half staring at
a 14-0 deficit, Davidson mounted a

spirited comeback in the third quarter,
scoring 15 unanswered points in the
period to take a one-point lead into the
final period.

Placekicker Brian Langley started
the. Wildcats’ scoring, booting a 28-
yard field goal just over seven minutes
after intermission.

Quarterback Shaun Tyrance, a
sophomore who began the season as a
third-stringer behind Tommy. Dugan
and Matt Strader, recorded his first ca-
reer touchdown on a two-yard scamper
with 4:41 remaining in the third quarter.

The score narrowed the 23rd-
ranked-in-Division-III Yellow Jackets’
lead to 14-9.

The Wildcats’ two-point conver-
sion attempt failed.

Only three and ahalf minutes later,
Tyrance connected with rookie receiver
Corey Crawford fora seven-yard touch-
down toss. Again, the two-point at-
tempt was foiled by Randolph-Macon’s

ie sue:

7 IY

A keepsake. Rob Ukrop was the star of the regular season,
but goalie Alex Deegan was No. | in the pos

Football
R

Another retrospective in the ongoing series, page 16.
Women’s soccer prepares for league tourney. After
falling to Furman in overtime, the Wildcats will return to
Greenville for another shot at the Paladins in the first
round of the Southern Ci tourna Story,
page 19. 3

Hoops galore. Full preseason coverage of both the men’s
and women’s basketball teams. Notebooks, page 17.
Deep South tourney. The field hockey team preps for its
postseason tournament. Story, page 17.

Swim teams open. Both groups of Wildcat swimmers
finished second in a season-opening meet at Emory.
Story, page 18.

dolph-Macon 22, Wildcats 15
Men’s soccer
Appalachian St. 4, Wildcats 2
Wildcats 3, Georgia Southern 2 (OT)
Women’s soccer
Furman 2, Wildcats | (OT)
Richmond 2, Wildcats |
Field hockey
William & Mary 4, Wildcats 1
Radford 2, Wildcats |
Volleyball
UNC Greensboro 3, Wildcats 1
Swimming and Diving
Men: 2nd at Emory Relays
Women: 2nd at Emory Relays

defense, as the Wildcats settled for the
15-14 advantage heading into the fourth
quarter.

There, with just 35 seconds left,
Yellow Jacket signal-caller Sidney
Chappell sneaked in from a yard out to
send Davidson to its second closing-
minutes loss in as many weeks.

Overall, Tyrance, who replaced
Strader early on, completed 15 of 35
passes for 165 yards, a touchdown, and
an interception in his debut.

Eric Sapp paced Davidson’s re-
ceiving corps with six catches for 77
yards, while Crawford added five re-
ceptions for 40 yards and tight end Wes
Jones contributed four for 52.

Tyrance led the rushing charge,
picking up 108 yards on just 10 carries.

The Wildcat defense was anchored
by Donnie Johnson (12 tackles) and
Freeman Belser (10).

Shreve Ariail and Bo Henderson
each added eight takedowns.

Andrew Letizia

@ Ben Spivey (64), Chris Hess (8), Ryan Gist (37), and
Chris Frederick (44) work together to bring down a
Methodist runner in last week’s game. The Wildcats

lost their fifth in a row Saturday to Ran

Patrick Miller
Men’s Soccer
Fr. ¢ Defender

Miller tallied the game-
winner in overtime Sunday at
Georgia Southern to secure a
3-2 victory for the Wildcats.
The win sent.a message to the
rest of the conference, as they
bounced back from a disap-
pointing 4-2 home loss to
Appalachian St. Friday night.

dolph-Macon.

Saturday vs. Hampden-Sydney (1:30 p.m., WCGC 1270 AM,

WSAT 1280 AM)

Men’s Soccer ~

Today @ VMI (3:00 p.m.)
Friday vs. Wofford (7:00 p.m.)
Women’s Soccer

Tonight at Furman (7:00 p.m.)

Thursday ys. North Carolina St. (6:00 p.m.)

Volleyball

Saturday @ East Tennessee St. (4:00 p.m.)
Sunday @ Appalachian St. (2:00 p.m.)

Field Hockey

Saturday and Sunday: Deep South tournament

Swimming & Diving

Saturday vs, Virginia Tech and William and Mary (Noon)

Cross Country
Saturday @ Southern C

a

Women’s soccer vs. Furman
Tonight * Greenville, S.C. * 7:00 p.m.

Last week, the Paladins topped the
Wildcats in overtime to secure a home
game in the first round of the conference
tournament. Therefore, Davidson goes on
the road to seek revenge and a berth in
Saturday’s semifinals.

(Statesb

Women’s Basketball

Sunday vs. Smoky Mtn. Swarm (4:00 p.m., exhibition)

. Ga.)

