6 THE DAVIDSONIAN —

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Senate approves Chemical Weapons Treaty

The Senate ratified the Chemi-
cal Weapons Convention (CWC)
with a 74-26 vote last Thursday,
giving President Clinton a signifi-
cant foreign policy victory.

The vote is among the first
major actions taken by the new
Congress.

The treaty bans the use, stock-
piling, transfer and. development of
chemical weapons. It would set up
an international monitoring agency
to enforce the treaty.

It passed after vigorous pres-
sure from public interest groups,
the White House, and Senate Demo-

crats pressured Jesse Helms (R-
“N.C.), chair of the Senate Foreign

Relations Committee, to allow a

vote on the question. :

Helms let the bill out from his
deliberations in the committee. He
still opposed the bill to the very end,
stating it would make our country
vulnerable to rogue states.

Allthe Senate Democrats voted
for the treaty, which needs a two-
thirds majority for ratification, as
did half of the Senate Republicans.

Many in the Republican party
expressed reservations about the
bill, but were swayed when former

Presidents Bush and Ford and
former Senator Majority Leader Bob
Dole came out in support of the
agreement.

The treaty has been signed by
more than seventy countries and
will go into effect tomorrow. Only
a few completely isolationist or se-
cluded nations have declined to back
the treaty.

President Clinton promised to

withdraw from the pact if it did not °

actually stop the proliferation of
nuclear weapons.

Source: New York Times

Swift strike ends stand-off in Peru

The Peruvian army stormed the
Japanese ambassador’s residence
Wednesday, freeing the remaining
hostages held by the Tupac Amaru
rebels.

The strike was successful, as
71 of the 72 hostages eventually
were released from the residence.

President Alberto Fujimori had
been planning the raid for months,
with the attack team undergoing a
severe training regimen in prepara-
tion for the storming of the resi-
dence.

The hostages had been held in
the compound since December 17.

The raid was relatively suc-
cessful. Two soldiers and one hos-
tage died in the brief struggle, how-
ever.

All fourteen rebels, including
two teen-age girls, were killed.

At question, though, is whether
the girls were resisting. Reports
indicate they yelled, “We surren-
der!” before they got shot.

The raid has been popular for
President Alberto Fujimori. His
approval rating doubled one day
after he finally brought out his
“tough guy” image, which many
believed helped him win his first

election.

“The raid was inevitable,” he
said. “We’ re sorry it was necessary.
It was a tragic victory.”

Inmore general terms, the siege
does mark another step toward
Fujimori’s campaign promise to rid
the country of the extreme terrorist
element.

Fujimori has made sort of a
career by finding and stopping left
wing extremists like the Marxist
Tupac Amaru.

Source: USA Today

HERE, DEFRIVED
YOUNG RRS, T
GIVE You Tals USED
BUT SERVICEABLE.
Brok To HELP You
PoLL OURSEL,

T WOULD'VE SCHEDULED FoR More CREOTIS
THIS SEMESTER, BUT I FIGURED T ALREADY HAD
ENOUGH PROBLEMS WITH \IISA, MASTERCARD AND

AMERICAN EYPRESS.

The future starts now.

Sign up with Mike Kruse or Liz Sale to help with next semester’s Freshmen
Issue. Get in on the ground floor — and into your room early. (That means
you get to choose the good side of the room before your roommate arrives.
Just one of the little perks of working for The Davidsonian.)

ul

@

International ...

U.S. protests France’s trade accord with Cuba

France has reached a trade agreement with Cuba, the latest salvo in its
dispute with Washington over a U.S. embargo against the communist
island nation. The U.S. government criticized the pact, and said France
was taking the wrong course. “We have an economic boycott in place
on Cuba,” said Nicholas Burns, a State Department spokesman. ‘We
believe that is the right policy. We do not favor any other countries
normalizing their relationship with Cuba.” He called Fidel Castro,
dictator of the country, a major violator of human rights. French
officials said the pact was not designed to stir up trouble with the U.S.

Zairian rebels capture key areas

Rebel forces announced the capture of three gateway towns to Kinshasha,
and military analysts and guerrillas are now in a position to choke off
much of the capital’s essential supplies. Most observers think it is only
a matter of time before the dictatorial regime that rules Zaire looses its
power. The opposing sides have been unable to reach a compromise
solution.

National ...

Clinton promises to stand up for gay rights

President Clinton says he will lobby hard for the passage of a bill that
would outlaw employment discrimination against homosexuals. “Such
bias must be eliminated from our country and from in our hearts.” he
said. Conservative groups will fight the legislation, saying it unfairly
forces employers to have inappropriate on the job discussions about
sexuality and gives homosexuals advantages in hiring. A poll has found
the 68% of Americans support the legislation.

Official again: Medicare fund could go broke

For the second year, the trustees of the Medicare program say its
hospital trust fund will go broke in 2001 if Congress.does not scale back
spending. It aimed to spark new calls for bipartisan ‘agreements as to
how to curb the program’s cost. The President has proposed saving
$100 billion in reduced payments to providers and congressional
Republicans are calling for $135 billion in reductions, preferring a
managed care approach to the problem. The plans would probably
extend the fund’s solvency for seven to eight more years.

Source for all above: USA Today

THE Crossword
ACROSS 2 ys | 0 9 fio ti |i2
1 Guinness or
Baldwin 13
5 Winnow
9 Dueling 16 7 18
memento los
13 Solitary [i (ua as
14 Contradict
15 Weighty work
16 Bard's river 23 1
17 Kilns
18 Enthusiastic
19 Fated
21 Bus fare
23 First home
24 Baseball team
25 Grade : 45
28 Household
servant
32 Dorothy's home
34 Words of 1 SS
imate
date
35 Literary
36 Election winners
37 Claw
39 Draft initials © 1997 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
Pgh est -edecuee
41 Predicament
42 °I'ma—Doodie 7 Flipper ANSWERS
D. 8 Evidence
45 Tied 9 Finances s|vjals 1|s|v[afialalala
an Wetoen Ha si ated viulslalomm aint
Oe a alaiv[afulv[o|slofulvinio
49 Printing direction 12 Beatty film staat rietetatt atelatel ciel
51 Conquer 14 Skeleton part tlalalsilstalulv
54 Thinks 20 Thought
58 Sharif of films 22 Sjiisivii CIEICIEILIESEIES
59 Acting award 24°—, tte” EIEIRILIAARS EMC) 9 ENCIL
61 Glen 25 Evade sis|is njolalvis sini]
62 Queue 26 Light watercraft |v|N| VIE YIO|N|/OMES/V/SiNiv|»
63 Verdi work 27 Beginning o[t]1{slalwjola alulolo[s
64 Issue 28 Handed (out) ainitin Nialaia
65 Legal document 29 Chores BOAOR OAonRoAO
66 Spar 30 Map alt |alvas|n/alaloM™iniolaly
67 Red and Black 31 Court concems
33 Attic, @.9. ADDR BRHEO BOOS
DOWN 38 Tavem brews ulviois Aisi tls PIER MBAZ
1 "When! was— 41 Roll call word
ae 43 Shake — (hurry
- 2 Affection up!)
3 Slaughter of 44 Aborigines ri
baseball 46 Deep loathing § — 52 Girlfriend, in 55 Title
4 Cores 49 Sting : Paris 56 Director Kazan
5 Lucky number 50 Scarlett'shome 53 Rational 57 Coteries
6 "“— Three Lives” 51 Shape 54 Frosts a cake 60 Health farm

