THE DAVIDSONIAN | Arts & Livin G

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

Krause gives campus sneak preview of debut CD, “Clarity”

Liz Reid
@ Diane Krause sings Thursday night in the 900 Room. Her CD,
“Clarity,” was released yesterday.

By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living

I met Diane Krause at the beginning of our
freshman year. .

She was sitting cross-legged on the linoleum hall
of first Rich, guitar on lap, dressed in Krause attire —
jeans, Oak Ridge soccer sweatshirt, hiking boots.

[had ventured out of my room (which was a rare
occurrence freshman year) to see where all the noise
was coming from outside my door.

I found Krause surrounded by a few hallmates
and she was begging them to sing with her while she
played her guitar.

She saw me and kindly forced me and my anti-
social alter-ego (which developed when I first arrived
at Davidson) to come over and join them.

I complied.

That moment, I learned how important it was to
take a risk and be myself.

Krause was as new as I was to the situation at
hand, but she put herself out there and infused all of us
around her that night with a sense of belonging ina
new and unfamiliar place.

That sense of community resonates as an impor-
tant part of her music.

She has brought crowds together and collected
loyal fans of all ages from all over the town of

Davidson over the past three years.

She started out as half of Ecdysis, a word mean-
ing “the shedding of an outer layer of skin; molting.”
This duo was composed of Krause and freshman
hallmate Katherine Palmer.

The two played in the Outpost, Caribou Coffee,
and were a house-packing gig at the late Cosmic
Coffee.

The shows were enthusiastic and casual, bring-
ing people together under the medium of poetry and
music.

On Thursday night, Krause performed some of
her newest work involving the piano as well as pre-
viewing some of the work on her solo CD, which
comes out this week.

Krause commands a majestic presence and tells
her story in flawless pitch — a quality of voice only to
be compared with angels.

Her music speaks from seemingly personal ex-
perience fueled by a vulnerable heart which makes her
nothing less than enchanting and overwhelmingly
human.

The advice she gave me without even meaning to
is advice she holds within her and has followed
throughout this part of her journey.

She creates, she shares her spirit, and she vehe-
mently follows the heart that I trusted when I was
pushed into the hall to sing with her.

In the wake of her debut CD, Carrie Morris recently sat
down with Diane Krause to discuss her music and where it has
come from.

Morris: When did music begin for you?

Krause: I grew up in the classical tradi-
tion with lessons in piano, violin, trumpet, and
And pretty much neglected church
choir. Actually, I pretty much neglected mu-
sic, left it on the backburner for other things

voice.

that at the time seemed more important

M: Such as?

K: Sports. Actually, when I came to
Davidson, I wanted to play soccer here and I
started to train. I realized that my knees were
in too much pain from all the playing I had
done. Soccer was the most important thing in my life at the
time, and it was so emotional that I realized I had to do

Krause: Truth through music

something with my life. So I started playing the .guitar the
summer after high school. ‘
. M: What were you playing?

K: | just wanted to play other people's
songs. Thad no intention of writing any music
whatsoever. I just enjoyed singing with people
and just playing things by Nanci Griffith,
Shawn Colvin, Indigo Girls — those kinds of
artists. Then I just started writing music even
though T didn’t really know where it was
coming from. [didn’t really know how to do
it but I found myself moved to do it. T had
written a lot of poetry in my last years of high
school and that was my original artistic me-
dium, but it was still personal. I didn’t share

See Krause interview on page 11

900 Room to ingest Gilbert Grape

The next movie in this year’s pa-
rade of outstanding — yet somewhat
overlooked — films is ‘““What’s Eating
Gilbert Grape,” the 1993 production
that will show in the 900 Room on
Wednesday and Friday.

Based on a novel by Peter Hedges,
this first English-speaking effort by
Swedish director Lasse Halstrém (“My
Life as a Dog”) makes for an indubita-
bly pleasant cinematic experience.

Johnny Depp plays the lead role of
the late-teenaged Gilbert Gape (his ac-
tual name), who resides in the
midwestern township of Endora, where
he is employed by a suffering neighbor-
hood grocery store.

The main character in the film,
Gilbert leads a unique life on several
fronts. Aside from his nearly insuffer-
able job, Gilbert has been forced to take
on the role of patriarch to his three
younger siblings ever since their father
hung himself in the basement of their
@ Johnny
Depp and ia
Leonardo
DiCaprio star
in “What’s
Eating Gilbert
Grape,” which
will play
Wednesday
and Friday in
the 900 Room.
Showtime is
9:30 p.m.

rickety farmhouse. His mother, who at
500 pounds has not left the house for
several years, “makes the circus fat lady
look like Kate Moss,” in the eyes of Sal
of the Borders staff in Novi, Mich.

Gilbert’s younger brother, Arnie
(Leonardo DiCaprio), is mentally re-
tarded and gives Depp’s exasperated
but persevering character plenty of daily
adventures to deal with — his two apa-
thetic, unappreciative sisters notwith-
standing. Gilbert is also involved in an
affair with a local housewife, played by
Mary Steenburgen.

Our tendency towards the Grape
family falls awkwardly between laugh-
ter and sadness.

We may either gawk at the im-
mense massivity of Gilbert’s mother
(Darlene Cates), for example, or feel

“pity for both her and her children, left
without a mobile parental unit.

However, this is the obviously the
intent of the picture: to be comical in
plot yet serious in the feelings that the
film portrays.

Halfway through the film, a trailer
appears next to a nearby Endora lake,
inhabited by a young lady named Becky
(Juliette Lewis) and her grandmother.
Becky just happens to be the only girl

Gilbert’s age within a 300-mile radius
of the local Burger Barn, so they be-
come fast friends.

The two rebel teens eventually rec-
ognize the fate put forth by their simul-
taneous geographical orientation and
indulge themselves in a relationship.
Becky expands Gilbert’s world view
and provides a source of consolation
after day-inday-out rescuing of Arnie
from life-threatening situations and de-
fending his mother’s dignity.

Other movie highlights include :

Crispin Glover, who plays an under-
taker.

“What’s Eating Gilbert Grape”
proves that an enthralling film need not
necessarily be a high-budget film.

It runs its audience back and forth
through the complete emotional gamut,
laughing hysterically one moment and
crying crystalline tears of sorrow the
next.

Leonardo DiCaprio’ s performance
won him an Academy Award nomina-
tion, and provides an entertaining
glimpse of him during his pre-Romeo
years.

The casting is excellent, the pa-
thos exquisite. It’s PG-13, so cover
your eyes during the naughty parts.

“L.A. Confidential” a
potential award-winner

“L.A. Confidential,” a highly
evocative picture about Los Angeles
circa the mid-1950s, is a film that’s
brimming with corruption, betrayal,
and tawdry sex.

But these thrills are not thrown in
our faces for the mere sake of cheap
excitement.

The multi-layered plot keeps you
riveted for the best possible reason —

you can’t imagine where the story is
leading, and the fiercely intense pay-
offs are worth the extra concentration.

As the film opens, we’re intro-
duced to three L.A. detectives who
will unravel a web of crime leading to
a heroin operation, a high-class call-
girl ring, set-ups, double-crosses, and
finally, the corridors of power that are
supposed to be keeping all this nasti-
ness in check.

Ed Exley (Gary Pearce) is abook-
ish straight arrow who only wants to
live up his father’s reputation as a
dedicated cop. é

He’s perfect Davidson College
material — he follows an honor code
and can play politics when needed.

Floating elegantly around the
edges of this situation is Jack
Vincennes (Kevin Spacey), a suave
veteran who earns extra bucks as the
technical advisor on a Dragnet-like

cop show. He also likes to help a
muckraking tabloid journalist named
Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito) set up
unsuspecting stars and starlets as fod-
der for the tell-all publication, Hush
Hush.

One of the main non-cop charac-
ters is Pearce Patchett (David
Straitharn), a filthy-rich pimp who
leases out women who have been sur-
gically altered to look like moviestars.

The “Veronica Lake” of this story
is Lynn Bracken, superbly played by
Kim Basinger. Her silky charms,
which could leave most men weak-
kneed, and the affections of a highly
unlikely police detective.

The first problem is that none of
these three cops can stand the sight of
one another. .

No two detectives are driven by
the same motive.

Carrerism, love, and a highly un-
expected sense of guilt all come into
play, but not before they perform a
series of twists around the various plot
strands.

The discovery of a gruesome mass
execution at a diner known as the Nite
Owl leads the detectives through the
lower rungs, and then the upper ech-
elons, of L.A. society.

The movie is long by today’s
standards at 136 minutes, yet it does
not drag and I felt no need to check my
watch wondering when it would end.

This is an excellent movie that
will garner some nominations, if not
awards, at the Oscars next year.
Grade: A.

