Ov

Mary-E.isE BRUMFIELD

Staff Writer

Professorships...scholarships...
building repairs, etc.. are all integral
parts of Davidson College. But, as with
anything in life, they are not free. So,
where does the school get money for
these and othercollege necessities? They
receive it from the Endowment for
Davidson.

According to Dr. John Kelton,
Executive Director for Institutional
Research, the “Endowment for David-
son,” which has just increased from
$185 million to over $200 million, is
comprised of funds given to the college
by many different people over the years.

The people who donate the money
to the college designate their contribu-
tions as either restricted or unrestricted.
Those donations which their contribu-
tors allocate for specific things, like
buildings are classified as “restricted.”
Those funds that can be spent on any
needs of the college are considered un-
restricted.

Kelton explained that the endow-
ment itself is invested in bonds, stocks,
and even property. He said that it is the
interest (or earnings) made on those
moneys that is used for different things
at Davidson, not the endowment itself.

| Mibpussury Cousce

 408,345,000° Ree Coutece

wment passes the $200 million mark

1000

10.

9. ‘MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Texas A&M UNIVERSITY
122. Davipson COLLEGE

Cou. 176,474
VASSAR COLLEGE 403,287,000" — HAVERFORD COLLEGE 174,625,000
1. HARVARD UNIVERSITY 8.811 BILLION
2. UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 5.697. BILLION
3. YALE UNIVERSITY 4.853 BILLION
4. PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 4.407 BILLION
5. STANFORD UNIVERSITY 3.779 BILLION
6. Emory UNIVERSITY 3.013 BILLION
7. UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 2.572 BILLION
8. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 2.558 BILLION

~)

2.476 BILLION
2.458 BILLION
200.0 MILLION

Source: AuG. 25, 1997 Curonicte OF HIGHER EDUCATION

So, out of $200 million endowment
dollars, only about $10 million, or 5%,
would be used for Davidson College.

Specifically, the college maintains
about 36% of its endowment in U.S.
stocks and is currently expanding its
global investments.

The increase in the endowment
fund, Kelton stated, was due to the fact
that the stock market has gone up re-
cently during its current “bull” cycle.
He is worried about what a possible
correction or the recent fall in the mar-
ket could mean for the endowment,
however. :

As the numbers stand right now, '
23 liberal arts colleges have endow- -
ments higher than Davidson’s.

@ Just last week,
Davidson’s endowment
surpassed the $200
million mark due to a
rising stock market and
continued, enthusiastic
alumni giving. However,
due to fluctuations of the
stock market, Robert
Norfleet, VP of Business
and Finance, is skeptical
of future increases of this
extent.

Senior class donates outdoor classroom

By Jessica GOODSON
News Editor

The class of 1998 will officially
leave its mark on the Davidson College

campus in the form of an outdoor class- ~

room. A majority of over half of the

seniors who recently voted for senior °

gift ideas preferred an outdoor class-
room over a scholarship to: promote
diversity or a book fund which would
pay forastudent’s books for asemester.

Prior to.the vote, the Senior Class
Gift Committee presented gift ideas to
key faculty members to gauge their
feasibility. Robert Collins, Director of
the Physical Plant, said an outdoor class-

room was reasonable, considering the

target budget. He also told the Commit-

tee that there was plenty of green space
oncampus to construct an outdoor class-
room, although no decision has pres-
ently been made regarding the
classroom’s location.

At the kick-off last Thursday in
the 900 Room, President Vagt chal-
lenged the Committee to garner 100
percent participation from the senior
class this year. He promised to donate
$5,000 out of his own pocket if: the
Committee succeeds in doing so.

The class of 1998 will begin solic-
iting money this year as part of a three-
year plan to raise funds. “Our short-
term goal is to get 100 percent. partici-
pation,” said committee co-chair Liz
Boehmler. “As of now, we have about
75 percent class participation. We have

30 class agents soliciting between 10
and 13 students each.” The Committee
projects that approximately $10,000 will
be raised by spring 1998.

The long-term ‘goal is to raise
$30,000 by the end of the fiscal year
2000. Because the College does not
typically grant advance funding for “‘tan-
gible” gifts such as the outdoor class-
room, construction will not commence
until the class of 1998 has the financial
resources.

Davidson is one of the few col-
leges in the nation that can claim over 50

* percent alumni contribution to its an-

nual fund. In fact, Davidson consis-
tently stays above 51 percent alumni
giving. The three-year giving plan keeps
students tied to their alma mater after

they graduate.

-“Contributions for the senior gift
are counted in alumni giving,” said
Boehmler. “It’s the epitome of our shift
from active students to alumni.”

Co-chair Shakeem Lane agreed,
adding that the attitude of the senior
class attitude has been fairly positive so
far.

“People realize that even though
they might not have chosen this par-
ticular gift, the idea of giving is to
represent class solidarity,” he said.

Tuition and room and board only
finance a fraction of the College’s op-
erations. The remaining costs are cov-
ered by the endowment, foundation
grants, and the annual fund. “By get-
ting people to give, you’re getting them

in the routine of investing in Davidson
College,” said Lane.

“It’s more than just giving money;
it’s contributing interest, time, and con-
cern.”

Pledges will be collected by No-
vember 21, and at that point a commit-
tee will be formed to execute further
funding for and construction of the out-
door classroom.

Davidson boasts two semi-outdoor
classrooms currently: “Dogwood Dell”
behind Martin chemistry building and
the benches encircling the well in front
of Chambers.

Boehmler said that this classroom
may include podium and chairs and will
be modeled after outdoor classrooms
on other campuses.

Alcohol policy: a sticking point in 60s, too

_ Students: Does alcohol mix with Davidson’s religious ties?

Laura’ CRAVER
Staff Writer

In 35 years, Davidson’s alcohol
policy has evolved from a short five
lines in the 1962-63 Wildcat Handbook
to a lengthy 10 pages in the 1997-98
version. Drinking and: Davidson have

’ had a rocky coexistence, as students

and administration seem to constantly
question whether alcohol and academ-
ics are compatible.

In 1962, the Davidsonian polled
approximately 540 students in an at-
tempt to capture the students’ senti-
ments regarding alcohol and the con-
troversy that surrounded it. Students

~-who found flaw in the alcohol policy

outnumbered the students on campus
who drank.

Of the students polled, 66 percent
said they drank, while an even larger 68
percent expressed a “dissatisfaction”
with the current alcohol policy.

The alcohol policy governing the
students in 1962 was as follows: “A
student will ordinarily be suspended if

he is found guilty of drinking, possess-
| ing or being under the influence of an

“alcoholic beverage while within the
_ town limits of Davidson or while at-
_ tending any off-campus event spon-

sored entirely or in part by Davidson

College.”

A proposed abolishment of regu-
lating or restricting off-campus drink-
ing found the most favor among the 68
percent who opposed the current plan.
“The drinking rule in regard to off-
campus drinking is absurd and will never

~ be enforced or upheld,” one anonymous

senior said. “It’s time the faculty got
realistic and faced the facts of life.”

Another student defended off-cam-
pus drinking, saying, “There are often
some occasions on school-sponsored
trips that call for and often pressure a
student to drink socially. Why not?”

Still, 23 students requested the rule
be clarified, especially concerning the
“under the influence” clause. Seven-
teen students criticized what they termed
the “hypocrisy” of the statement that
fraternity presidents are required to sub-
mit after each dance weekend regarding
drinking rule infractions they have wit-
nessed, and asked that it be dropped.

A lonely eight students found the
present rules were not sufficiently strict
and did not go far enough to curb drink-
ing.

“The students were asked whether
they believe students should be allowed
to have alcohol on Davidson’s campus.
Of those polled, 53 percent. were in
favor of the change. And 48 percent

supported having a “limited consump-
tion” policy on campus.

Such questions prompted one stu-
dent to ask if ‘tit would be feasible” to
allow possession but prohibit consump-
tion. Another student who felt alcohol
did not belong at Davidson drew his
response from the College’s close rela-
tionship with the Presbyterian Church:
“Because Davidson College is supposed
to be a religious-oriented college, it has
a duty to keep alcohol completely off
the campus.”

Students who favored allowing
the possession of alcohol but who were
not so comfortable with the “limited
consumption” policy suggested that
alcohol be stored in locked automobile
trunks or similarly secured cabinets in
fraternity houses.

“There is no such thing as limited
consumption” was a statement repeated
by more than 50 percent of the polled
students. Many feared the academic
reputation of Davidson would be tar-
nished if the alcohol policy was more
lenient.

“The academic atmosphere which
still remains would be shot to hell,”
commented one senior who admitted to
having had drinks in his room.

The “degree of limitation was the
major problem for those who favored

both “possession and consumption.’

~ sumption used the “maturity” theme as

The most prevalent idea was that drink-
ing could be allowed only in fraternity
houses and only on dance weekends
Students suggested this might cut down}
on automobile accidents by “rendering}
unnecessary off-campus excursions to
drink.” .

A “fringe” of nearly 10 percent |
all those taking the poll expressed <
wish for no limitations whatsoever
Students in favor of on-campus con-

their main argument, backing it up with
the suggestion that other rules could be
invoked to prevent “ungentlemanly con}
duct.”

“This is supposed to be a college
— not a womb,” one irritated senior
said.

“I believe the rules of common
courtesy and etiquette accompanied by}
the rules on ungentlemanly conduct are
quite adequate for the regulation off
drinking at Davidson,” said a “drink-+
ing” sophomore.

Few would argue with the obser-
vation that Davidson has became more
tolerant of alcohol.

Davidson’s policy on alcohol ca
be hard to decipher and contradicto
when read, but underneath it lies year
of controversy and conversation.

