By LisA WorTHINGTON
Staff Writer

On Monday, Nov. 10, the Student
Advisory Council to Residence Life
had its first meeting of the year with
Kurt Holmes, director of RLO, and Dee
Jordan, assistant director of RLO. The
main purpose of the meeting was to
inform students of the projects cur-
rently underway. -

The first issue is the housing lot-
tery. Students can expect this spring’s
lottery to bé much less complicated
than those of past years. There are three
significant changes in regard to this
year’s lottery.

First, the process will not begin
until February (in previous years, it
began in January). This change is being
implemented to reduce the overall
amount of time spent “in lottery” and in
order for students to have more time to
settle disputes over financial balances
and class status, two factors which can
prevent students from receiving their
lottery numbers on time.

Second, all applications will be
made available at the same time as the
lottery booklet, which explains how the

a a aay

RLO toying with current housing systen
Holmes, Jordan trying to simplify lottery, implement theme living

lottery works and lists deadlines. Hope-
fully, this change will help students
remember important dates regarding
lottery.

Finally, the process has been re-
duced to two phases (from the previous
three). Phase I will take place just after
Spring Break and involves initial appli-
cations for the Martin Court Apart-
ments. Phase II will combine what used
to be Phases II and III and entails the
distribution of the remaining Martin
Court Appartments, Patterson Court
housing, singles, and all other rooms.

One additional change is the op-
tion of requesting off-campus permis-
sion if one’s first choice does not pan
out.

This eliminates the necessity of
filling out yet another form if plan A
does not work. Lottery Night is tenta-
tively scheduled for Mar. 25; the backup
date is Apr. 1,

The second new development by
RLO is the possible introduction of
theme housing to the Davidson cam-
pus. Students sharing a common inter-
est in a subject with:an academic em-
phasis would have the opportunity to
form a cluster of eight to 20 students so

that they could explore this theme out-
side the classroom in a concentrated
area. :
The students participating ina par-
ticular theme cluster would be required

_ totake part in at least two theme-related

programs each month, organized by the
“program chair,” who would meet at
least once a month with Jordan and

work with the hall’s RA to connect the .

cluster to the rest of the hall. A faculty
member would also act as an academic
advisor to the group.

The application to form such a
cluster would be extensive: students
would list possible programs, set goals,
and give explanations of how the theme
living would benefit the larger hall and
Davidson as a whole.

RLO hopes that by requiring such
a thorough application and dedication
to programming, students will not take
advantage of theme housing simply to
monopolize a hall with their friends.

Technical details are still being
discussed, but theme housing is defi-
nitely feasible on the campus, provided
there is sufficient student interest.

Some details have already been
determined. For instance, the placing

of theme clusters would occur before
the actual housing lottery begins. RLO
would find a place foreach cluster based
on its size and personal needs. The
doors in the center sections of Belk,
Knox, Irwin, and Akers provide a parti-
tion which would allow for co-ed clus-
tering. Lingle House would also be a
possible site for such housing.

Once the destination is determined,
the cluster would be allowed to make its
ownroom assignments within that area.
However, once a cluster has committed
itself to the area, no members of the
group may switch out. °

Theme housing would be-open to
all upperclassmen but would primarily
be aimed. at sophomores, since many
juniors go abroad, and because seniors
generally prefer living in the Martin
Court Appartments, where theme clus-
tering would not take place.

Similar programs have already
been established and have experienced
considerable success at other schools in
the regions, including Wake Forest,
Duke University, and Elon College.

Publicity outlining the program in
further detail is forthcoming and an
information session will be held Nov.

24 to answer questions for those inter-
ested in considering this alternative.

The final topic discussed at the
meeting was the networking of the
dorms, which Holmes states is moving
along at “break-neck speed.” With the
exception the Martin Court
Appartments, all residential areas cur-
rently have the potential to “connect,”
despite some tedious tasks which still
need to occur.

The difficulty in wiring the senior
appartments stems from the inadequacy
of “empty space” (alcoves and tiny
nooks and crannies, such as are found in
Belk) within the appartments to contain
necessary equipment. Small buildings
will have to be constructed next to each
apartment, a project which is currently
underway.

In addition, workers must enter
studentrooms to carry outrequired tasks
such as core drilling between the floors.
Workers will not be permitted to gointo
rooms during Thanksgiving Break or
during Reading Day or exams, but they _
will work on Flowe, Ryburn, and MCF
during winter break.

The workers will be escorted by
members of the college community.

Park discusses future of library, worries about fate of CD-ROMs

Jeff Goldman of the Davidsonian re-
cently sat down with Leland Park, Di-
rector of the E.H. Little Library, to
discuss how the library currently serves
the students, and will
serve the students in the
future.

Davidsonian: Do you
think that circulation has
decreased?

Leland Park: No, it has
not dropped; in fact, it
has even gone up. It is
very hard to predict ex-
actly. It’s split between
regular circulation and
reserve circulation - those

with Leland Park

cause it to go down.

The number of interlibrary loans
has gone up dramatically, and that in
part is due to two things: one is indi-

two vary from year to

year, but the total amount of things
checked out has gone up, which is an
interesting experience because we'd
wondered with so many things avail-
able electronically whether that would

vidual student research (which is a lot
more sophisticated these days), and the
other is the awareness of other resources
that are available, because you are able
to get into other people’s catalogues

over the Internet.

D: Are you planning to replace micro-
fiche with CD-ROMs, as some busi-
nesses have?

P.: Well, it’s sort of a
combination of things
on that.
Nearly all of the
government docu-
. ments we get these
days come out on CD-
ROM, where it used
to be nothing but hard-
back.
Interestingly
enough, one of the
things you worry
about is permanency
- you know paper is permanent, and you
know microfiche and microfilm are.
We are not convinced yet, as far as the
long-run goes, that CD-ROMs are go-
ing to be the final thing. You worry

about having that available, and then in
a few years not having the machinery to
read that.

So we have invested pretty heavily
in CD-ROMs; in fact,.this summer in
working -with Dr. Wertheimer in the
History Department, we replaced the
legal set that we had upstairs with CD-
ROMs, which is wonderful. I mean, it
saved us about 15 or 20 feet of shelving;
we replaced it with a series of CD-
ROMs. Which made it easier, too,
because you can search it in better ways.
But we willbe doing that as it is appro-
priate.

This year we've added probably
over one hundred journals with full text
online. That’s really quite amazing.
We've also put in a 5,000 dollar printer,
so that when you’re using the CHAL
terminals, you can printit out, replacing
the old dotmatrix printer. But by hav-
ing those journals on-line, that’s really
quite amazing, because you can look up

an article, see what you want, click over

to it, see ifit’s something you want, then
copy it. That will increase over the
years, as we are offering those things.
Again, we want to be cautious, to be .
sure that things we sign up for are things
that are going to last. Project MUSE is
something that has all the journals that
Johns Hopkins University Press puts
out on-line. Again, that’s an ongoing
concern, Johns Hopkins is going to be
around, and the Project is going to be
around.

D: How long have you worked at
Davidson?

P.: I finished here in ‘63, then came
back in ‘67.

So I finished my thirtieth year last
summer. 7

Icame back as reference librarian,
then later was made assistant director
and then when Dr. Davidson retired in
1975, I became director. So I’ve been
director for 22 years.

Marrow drive enjoys high turnout

Project Life from page 1

With fundraising efforts completed
in the earlier stages of planning, the
Committee had more of an opportunity
to focus on publicizing around campus
and educating the student body. The
Committee was supported by various
individuals throughout the campus, in-
cluding individual hall ogee nig
in freshman dormitories.

“When I heard the Red Cross rep-
resentative speak at the initial freshmen
meeting about how this program could
help to save lives,” said freshman Jen-
nifer Lewis, a representative from Can-
non dorm, “I knew it was something I
really wanted to get involved in.”

Representatives helped in various
ways, selling T-shirts, giving educa-
tional seminars, posting flyers, and as-
sisting at the drive itself. “It was great
to see the people you talked to on the
halls come in and know that you helped
them realize this opportunity to help
someone else,” Lewis said.

* The annual Project Life bone mar-
row drive was begun on Davidson’s
campus in 1989 by a student named
David Lindsey, who before his fresh-
man year was diagnosed with leuke-
mia. After undergoing treatment and

receiving bone marrow from his brother,
Lindsey recognized and ministered to
the need for additional donors in the
national registry. With the help of
former service director Katherine
Turner, the Project Life Bone Marrow
Committee was formed. Since then
over 2,000 people have been added to
the National Donor Registry, with seven
people donating bone marrow to needy
recipients.

The drive itself is subsidized each
year through the Red Cross, which also
provides medical staff from the sur-
rounding area for typing. Since the
Committee was formed, the Red Cross
has continued to hail Davidson’s pro-
gram as one of the best student-run
drives in the country, not only in the

areas of fundraising and organization, °

but in its efforts to educate the campus
on the implications of being a donor.

Alldonors are required at the drive
site to read and sign a “Consent for
Participation” form, outlining the pur-
pose, requirements, benefits, safety, and
future implications.of being a donor.

The Project Life committee would
like to say a special thanks to all those
who were involved in this year’s drive,
and looks forward to continued success
in the coming years.

Alcohol from page 1

agrees. “I thought they were doing an
excellent job,” said Barber, who at-
tended Air Band during his rounds.

Boyle says he knows of no com-
ing sanctions against the house. Bar-
ber said that a citation was given be-
cause the hospital became involved,
but no official charges have been
brought against Phi Delt, although
“we're looking into the situation.”

Dean of Students and Vice Presi-
dent for Student Life Tom Shandley
was careful to emphasize that “the
incidents (of two weekends ago) were
not alcohol poisoning,” though “cer-
tainly the students both had way, way,
way too much to drink and it was the
appropriate thing to get them to the
hospital.”

“Alcohol poisoning isa very, very
serious issue,” said Shandley. “There
is a distinction between that and ex-
cessive consumption, where students
don’t know what to do and they ask for
help, which they should.”

Ringle explains dangers of alcohol poisoning

According to Shandley, this is the
fourth incident of “excessive consump-
tion” requiring medical attention,
“which is four too many.” Shandley
remembers four or five similar occur-
rences last year.

“It’s certainly on the minds of an
awful lot of people these days,” he said.

Alcohol poisoning is “one of the
scariest things for us,” said Georgia
Ringle, Health Educator.

Ringle explained that when stu-
dents are taken to the hospital for exces-
sive alcohol consumption, they are sub-
sequently referred to the Counseling
Center for assessment and education on
the dangers of drinking.

Ringle said that alcohol poisoning
occurs in a “pretty consistent pattern,”
and usually results from drinking shots

of liquor, because wine and beer induce °

vomiting before dangerous levels of
alcohol can accumulate in the blood,
whereas liquor can cause poisoning

“before vomiting.

Alcohol poisoning is often a result
of drinking games or pre-party prepara-

tions, according to Ringle. “It’s not
Court-related,” said Ringle, referring
to Patterson Court. “I think the Court
gets a bad rap.”

“What I think we’re seeing at
this school is people not knowing their
limits,” continued Ringle.

Those who don’t know their tol-
erance comprise most of the victims
of poisoning, she said.

An average person is at risk for
alcohol poisoning at blood alcohol
levels of .15 to .3, and the possibility
of death becomes imminent from
BALs of .25 to .4.

“It depends of the individual,”
said Ringle, who cites factors affect-
ing tolerance as metabolism rates, drug
use, other trauma, and histories of
depression. :

Symptoms of alcohol poisoning
include a person’s inability to be
roused from unconsciousness, labored
breathing, and slowing vital signs.

Anyone exhibiting these charac-
teristics must receive medical atten-
tion as soon as possible.

+ Layout. Come ON, YOu, KNOW YOU WANT TO.

