THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

Ms, Meredith Lynn Benke
Ms, Jessica Maria Bigaz.ci
Ms. Jean Porter Boehmler
Ms. Heather Kathryn Brown
Ms. Lois Ann Bumgerner
Mr. Jesse Coleman Burk
Mr. Jeffrey Scott Coker
Mr. Damon Dewayne Colbert
Mr. Jacob Andrew Darling
Mr. Cooper Wills Dean
Mr. Lucian Emery Dervan
Ms, Dana Marie Dixon
Mr. Paul Daniel Dryden
Ms, Patricia Nunnelly Evans
Ms. Virginia Asbury Fisher
Mr. Humes Jefferson Franklin, LI
Ms, Mary Noel George
Ms. Donna Lynn Gribble
Mr. Daniel Marshall Guill.
Ms. Charlotte Louise Hildebrand

‘

Because of their outstanding record of service, leadership,
and scholarship, the following students were selected by
faculty, staff, and fellow students as members of Who’s Who
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.

Mr. Matthew Maxwell Hobbie
Mr. Terrill Philippe Julien
Ms. Anne Catherine Kendrick
‘Mr, Benjamin Wise Kinnaman
Ms. Diane Elizabeth Krause
Mr. Shakeem Kenya Lane
Ms. Margaret Folk Lumpkin
Ms. Elizabeth Lindsay Maney
Mr. Robert Saunders Neblett
Ms, Sakira Vontric Peay
Ms. Heather Dawn Perry

Ms, Hallie Elsbeth Pitkin
Ms. Susan Trace Plummer
Mr. Nathan Ward Raley
Ms. Jessica Campbell Robblee
Ms. Mary Elizabeth Sale
Mr, Eric Manley Sapp
Ms. Joy Michelle Sparks
Mr. Dominick J. Talvacchio, II
Mr. Britton Howrey Taylor

Mr. Tyrone Curtis Wade, Jr.

Davidson
College
Police Blotter

furniture.

described above was never identified.

to Building No. 2 totaled about $100.

Warner BOMBARDED BY BEER CANS

Between 9:00 a.m, and noon Oct, 18, Wamer Hall was vandalized by unknown
persons, The vandals hurled unopened beer cans through the windows on the north
side of the bullding, breaking five windows. Furthermore, after breaking through the
windows, the full cans exploded, causing damage to the wooden floor and

CONNOR CASH BOX THEFT FOILED

At an alumni dinner at Connor House on Homecoming Weekend, alum David
Phelps Sprinkle was approached by a Caucasian man in khakis, green vest, and
flannel shirt, who asked Sprinkle for a cigarette. Sprinkle informed the man that he
had no cigarettes, and moments later witnessed him move towards a cash box, left
in-plain sight, that contained money collected from the dinner, The individual slid
the box to the edge of the table which it was sitting on and then proceeded to pick
it up. Sprinkle observing all of this, shouted at the man who immediately put down
the cash box and fled Connor, The box contained a total of $200. The individual

Jackson Court VANDALIZED

On Oct. 23, Jackson Court Bullding No. 2 was reportedly vandalized. Cutting
tools were apparently applied to phone wires and computer wires located on the
east side of the building used by Beth Covington, Director of Purchasing. Covington
reports that she has no idea of what could have motivated such an act. Damage

Scott GEIGER

Campus cops now on bikes

By Scott GEIGER

Staff Writer

After a year of consideration, Cam-
pus Police and Public Safety has de-
cided to add two Kona customized po-
lice bicycles mounted with special light-
ing to its patrol fleet.

With the new bikes come new uni-
forms for officers Tim Ramsey, Debbi
Lower, Stan Moore, and Emory
McLauren, who will be patrolling on
bikes at their discretion.

Officer Ramsey claims to be look-

ing forward to “free exercise” as he
cycles across campus.

The additions give policea stealthy
approach andallow them to watch walk-
ways, doorways, and cross-country trails
more closely, the latter of which has
never been adequately patrolled.

Director of Public Safety Ray
Thrower says that the new bikes are not
superior to the regular cruisers and never
will be. Rather, they offer more versa-
tility in the Campus Police’s ability to
protect and serve the Davidson College
community.

By Jessica GoopsoN

News Editor

Associate Professor of Theater and

Speech Ann Marie Costa was recently ©

elected advocacy committee chair for

the Association of Theater in Higher

Education (ATHE).

One of eight elected officials in
the organization, Costa’s responsibili-
ties will entail oversight of various sub-

~ committees, communication with other

ATHE committee members, and —
most visibly — lobbying in Congress
and educating about the significance of
theater and the arts in education.

Costa has been an active member
of ATHE for over 10 years and has held
a variety of offices prior to her election
to advocacy committee chair.

ATHE is comprised of over 2,200
post-secondary theater educators and
graduate students, in addition to theater
and performance artists in universities,
commercial venues, and community-
based and alternative theaters. The mis-
sion of ATHE is to “provide vision and
leadership for the profession and pro-
mote excellence in theatre education.”

As chair of the advocacy commit-
tee, Costa said she will aspire to effec-

@ Costa

tively communicate her conviction that
“the arts can serve to make us better
speakers, better leaders, better collabo-
rators, better peacemakers’ — that the
arts deserve to be central in education.”

Costa perceives advocacy as a
grassroots process. The advocacy com-
mittee of ATHE has several arms for
local action which, among other things,
seek to provide national standards for

] Costa named chair of ATHE advocacy

theater educators and curricula in el-
ementary and secondary schools and to
supply educators with “survival kits” of
what to do if their theater departments
are threatened with elimination, as well
as preventative measures departments
can take to safeguard against this.

Costa’s approach to the job has
been described as “pragmatic idealism,”
by which she will implement practical
means of reversing the current decline
in arts funding.

“When it comes to budget cuts, the
arts are the first to go,” she said.

“One way Costa plans to change
this is through an internet distribution
network.

The network would communicate
news in the areas of arts funding and
legislation, informing educators imme-
diately of actions that might affect them
and facilitating expedient responses to
national representatives and commu-
nity leaders.

Costa is currently directing a pro-
duction of Noel Coward’s comedy “Hay
Fever.” Performances begin tomorrow
and run through Sunday.

Material from the Davidson Chronicle
was used in this report.

Stands will crumble so track program can rise

The Davidson Chronicle

Davidson’s facilities planning
committee has given the athletics de-
partment the go-ahead to plan and raise
money for a new track on Richardson
Field.

Jim Murphy, athletics director, said
that if all goes well construction could
begin at the end of the 1998 football
season. The poor state of the stadium’s
east stands and construction of a new
physical plant facility on Ridge Road
were the major factors in the decision,
Murphy said.

The athletics department has been
considering a new track since the late
1980s, when the old track in Richardson
was stripped of its three inner lanes to
accommodate soccer matches in the
facility.

Murphy said the stadium was al-
ways the preferred site for a new track,
but a modern, eight-lane track would
not fit between the fields and the stands.
It would have been cheaper to build a
track on existing intramural fields, but
construction was.continually delayed
pending further study.

The decision has now been made
to remove the stadium’s east stands
entirely since they are deteriorating and
sparsely used. They were temporarily
patched with a synthetic substance to
make. them safe for fans this year, but
Murphy said it would cost up to
$200,000 for full repairs, and their util-
ity isn’t worth that price.

“Once you take the stands down,
there’s room in Richardson for an eight-
lane track,” he said, “and everyone has
agreed all along that is the best location
for it.”

Another consideration was the
overall campus master plan, which en-
visions a new concentration of student
life in an area defined by Richardson
Field, Johnston Gym, and Baker Sports
Complex.

“Tt all makes an attractive point to
bring a large percentage of the student
body together on a small piece of prop-
erty doing all sorts of things,” said Bob
Collins, director of the physical plant.
“The college is evolving and dur facili-
ties are evolving.

The track project is just a part of

overall plans we’re making to create

space that meets the college’s needs for
another half-century or more. Student
participation in physical activity is ex-
traordinary, and it’s more important
than ever to have high-quality facilities
for life outside the classroom.”

Collins pointed out that removal
of the east stands, landscaping of the
area, and changes in automobile traffic
routes will provide a new and attractive
vista from Richardson Field to Baker
Sports Complex.. It will also. improve
the flow of pedestrian traffic from the
Baker parking lot to the stadium and
onto the rest of the campus.

The next step in the track project is
to create a final design to determine its
cost, which Murphy estimated at about

$600,000.

Besides construction of the track
and destruction of the stands, the project
cost must consider landscaping, fenc-
ing, reconfiguration of the existing out-
door basketball courts, new pedestrian
walkways and some construction on
the west stands for rest rooms, locker
rooms and weight rooms.

Some money has already been
pledged by outside. donors, but a full
fundraising campaign will be launched
once the total cost has been determined.
Construction will take up to five months,
and cannot begin until after any given
fall football or soccer season. Murphy
said he hopes that fund-raising will be
complete in time for construction to
begin in December 1998.

The track itself will be a resilient,
durable polyeurethane poured 400-
meter surface with a lifetime of about
10 years before: it needs to be resur-
faced. In order to fita full 75-yard-wide
soccer field inside the track, its radius
will be a bit wider than tracks built
around football fields.

Some other facilities for track
meets, such as jump pits, will probably
be located in the stadium. However,
events requiring more space, such as
hammer throw and, javelin, might be
held on other athletic fields.

The new track will not only im-
prove the College’s chances of recruit-
ing better runners, but will also allow
Davidson to host the Southern Confer-
ence track championships.

Main Street bank robbed

Town police has suspect, charges pending

By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

The BB&T on Main Street — for-
merly United Carolina Bank — was
robbed Thursday at 9:06 a.m. Accord-
ing to the bank teller, the thief held his
hand in his pocket to indicate the pres-
ence of a weapon. He escaped with an
undetermined amount of money, which
has not been recovered.

Bank robbery is a federal offense,
and the case is consequently under the
scrutiny of the FBI. |

“That’s just fine, considering we

are slightly under-equipped to handle

this type of case,” said Hank McKiernan,
chief of the Davidson Police Depart-
ment.

McKiernan said that a suspect was
picked up on Thursday based on eye-
witness descriptions and video from
surveillance cameras inside the bank.
He was interviewed by town police and
the FBI, but the suspect has not yet been
charged with the robbery.

“Additional evidence will be come
to light within the next few days,”
McKiernan said. “It will either warrant
charges of or eliminate the current sus-
pect.”

In particular, the FBI will enhance -

clarity of the footage taken from the
bank and resubmit it with still photos of
the suspect. The photos should conclu-
sively identify the thief.

As of now, any evidence is purely
circumstantial, and McKiernan was not

at liberty to discuss all of it. The suspect
is free at present, but charges will be
brought in the near future.

The Davidson branch First Union
was also robbed four months ago dur-
ing summer vacation, apparently
Davidson’s first bank robbery.

“I’ve ‘been here 14 years,”
McKiernan said. “We’ve done some
research, and to the best of my knowl-
edge, prior to the First Union robbery,
there have been no bank robberies in
Davidson.

When asked if the relative rash of
robberies was attributable to anything
in particular, McKiernan said no.

“Davidson was simply a victim of
bank robbery,” he said. “No place has
immunity.”
