20 THE DAVIDSONIAN | B AC KPAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997,

After preparing
for her Wednesday lecture,
Sarah Weddington

discussed her supreme success.

Maxcu 26, 1997 ©

JS: When people hear of Roe v. Wade, they
think of more of a personal stance on it, and
personal opinions about it, but the legal as-
pects of it are so fascinating, and that’s what
really matters in the government, from what
I understand. Can you just describe briefly

some of the major arguments and how you

defended them?

SW: If you look at the legal papers in Roe v.
Wade, there were three key.issues. The first
was, is there a right of privacy in the US
Constitution? The second is, is pregnancy
fundamental? And the third is, does the state
have a compelling reason to regulate?

The first issue really goes back to the fact
that there are both enumerated and implied
rights. By that we mean that the right to travel
is not in the Constitution, but the Supreme
Court has interpreted the right to travel to be
one of the'rights of American citizens. The
word “privacy” is not in the Constitution, but
certainly the people who wrote the Constitu-
tion were trying to draw lines between things
that the government wanted to make the
decisions, and things where government was
kept out of the business of citizens. In the
Fourteenth Amendment, it talks about liberty
—no person can be deprived of liberty with-
out due process of law — so we were arguing
that to deprive women of the choice of abor-
tion was to deprive them of liberty. We were
also using the Ninth Amendment, that says
those rights not specifically given to the gov-
ernment are reserved to the people, and a
wide variety of others. The Supreme Court
decided that there was a right of privacy,
which included the decision of whether to
_ continue or terminate a pregnancy.

The second issue is one which we don’t
talk much about anymore, and that is, is
pregnancy fundamental? Now, the Supreme
Court will not normally overturn a state stat-
ute, unless it has to do with something very,
very basic, and the legal magic word is “fun-
damental.” We were arguing that pregnancy
was fundamental, because nothing affects a
woman’s life more, in terms of her education,
her employment, her. physical and psycho-
logical health, her family size, family financ-
ing, that out of all the issues a pregnancy has
the most dramatic impact on a woman’s life.
And the Court agreed, and actually, I think
even the opponents pretty much concede that
today. |

The third issue has to do with the fact that
even if you have a Constitutional right, if the
government can prove acompelling reason to
regulate, it essentially trumps or overshad-
ows that Constitutional right. So we have a
right to free speech, but the government can
limit that, in terms of pornography, in terms
of libel; there are ways in which we recognize
the government’s right to regulate our Con-
Stitutional rights. In this case, the state was
arguing that it had a compelling reason to
regulate, and that was to protect what the
Attorney General called the unborn child.

We were arguing that the state had not
- tried to protect the fetus as a person in any

other way, and neither had the federal gov-
ernment, that every place in the Constitution
’ the word, “person,” is used, does not apply
prior to birth. If you do an income tax filing,

you don’t get a deduction until the year of
birth. Pregnant women leaving the country
do not get two passports. Murder in Texas
was the “killing of one who has been born.”

So the state could not say, “We’re gonna

protect fetal life,” when they hadn’t tried to
protect itin any other way, and this one would
interfere with women’s right of privacy. Now,
the dissent, which was Rehnquist and White,
basically said that there is no right of privacy
and the state has proven a compelling reason
to regulate.

JS: To follow that up, since Roe v. Wade and
now, people are trying to attack it from differ-
ent angles in different statutes. How is that
going to affect the right to abortion, and in
what other ways besides access are people
trying to control this right?

SW: There are a number of ways in which
people have tried to undermine Roe v. Wade.
Certainly, if you look at the appointments
made by Presidents Reagan and Bush, we
were at a point before the election between
Bush and Clinton when there were five jus-
tices saying leave Roe v. Wade alone, four
judges saying get rid of it, and Justice
Blackmun, who had written the opinion, say-
ing, “I cannot last forever.” If George Bush
had been re-elected, instead of Bill Clinton
being elected, Blackmun would have left as
he did, and then Bush could have appointed
someone opposed to abortion, and that would
have made the vote five to four against Roe v.

Wade. So the first way of attack has been
through the election of those opposed to
abortion of anti-choice presidents, who then
have appointed anti-choice judges.

The second way people have tried to
undermine Roe v. Wade is to try to make
abortion hard to get, even if it’s legal. The
case of Planned Parenthood of Southeast
Pennsylvania v. Casey was a case where
Pennsylvania did not make abortion illegal,
but they erected hurdles and road-blocks for
women trying to get an abortion. Now, part
of that was to say that minors must have
parental involvement, or else get a judge to
agree, and what it tried to do was to keep
minors from having access.

The regulation said that women must
wait 24 hours after they are counselled about
abortion before they can have one. If there
were an abortion in every town easily avail-
able, that doesn’tseem very difficult. But the
problem is, most counties don’t (I think they
now say only 16% of counties in the US) have
an abortion provider. So for most women,
that means a lot of delay, extra expense,
“Who’s going to keep the kids while she’s
gone,” etc. To me, it really is a major hurdle
for alot of women. So what some legislators
have tried to do is say, “Well, we can’t make
abortion illegal, so let’s make it as tough for

distinguished as one dedicated to defending
and furthering the rights of women.

She is most well-known for having ar-
gued the winning side of Roe V. Wade in
1973. Additionally, in 1972 she was the first
woman elected from Austin to the Texas
House of Representatives.

President Carter tapped her to lead the
fight to extended the ratification time for the
Equal Rights Amendment. Weddington help

Sarah Weddington's career has been

Weddington told the
crowd gather in the
900 Room Wednesday
night of her historic
Supreme Court battle
and prognosticated on
the future of abortion
law in America.

Meagan Mitchell

reform Texas rape statutes. She battled for
an equal credit bill for women and success-
fully led several initiatives to block the
passage of anti-abortion legislation.

Weddington is the president of the Bob
Marshall Foundation.

Planned Parenthood awarded her the
Margaret Sanger Award and Ladie's Home
Journal gave her its Woman of the Future
Award.

— information from Oak Row Report

anyone to get as we can.”

Another way they’ ve done thatis through
funding restrictions, so if a woman is very
poor, she will be on Medicaid. If she gets
pregnant, Medicaid will pay for her to carry
the pregnancy to term. Those who have been
able to pass restrictions have said, “The gov-
ernment will not pay for you to choose abor-
tion. We will only pay for you to carry the

pregnancy to term.”” Many women are not
financially able to get an abortion because
they are poor and because of the restrictions
on Medicaid. They keep her from having her
choice.

Another way that people have sought to
undermine Roe v. Wade is by targeting the
doctors and the providers of abortion to such
an extent that there are fewer and fewer
doctors willing to perform abortions, and
fewer and fewer young doctors willing to

help. Some of that has been the killing of.

abortion providers, harassing abortion pro-
viders — a whole series of ways.

So I’m first worried about keeping the
President pro-choice. Second, trying to make
sure the people elected to Congress and state
legislatures are pro-choice. Our numbers are
decreasing right now, which is a major con-
cern. We try to pass new laws; for example,
in Congress we passed a bill called the Free-
dom of Access to Clinics, FACE bill, which
was trying to impose federal penalties for
keeping people from having access to clinics.

That is in effect, but clearly we need more
than that. :

Both sides have looked at the possibil-
ity of passing Constitutional amendments,
either to make abortion illegal or to make
privacy a part of the Constitution, but I
don’t think either side has the votes either
in Congress or with the necessary 38 states,
so I don’t think that’s going to happen. I
think the issue’s going to be fought out in
elections and in Congressional and legisla-
tive bodies.

ML: What sparked your passion for women’s
issues? Was there a specific incident in your
life where you decided that this is the cause
that I’m going to fight for, or is it because,
these issues simply affect you asa woman? —

SW: I think it was because, growing up, -
people always said, “Women don’t. Women
can’t. Women shouldn’t.” SoI think for me,
there was a whole group of women who came
of age in the 1960s, and who were fighting
against restrictions based chiefly on the fact
that we were women.

We came together ina lot of different
ways. Some of us because we’d been told that
women could only be secretaries, nurses, or
teachers, and we wanted to be something
other than that. Some was because our sports
opportunities were so limited.. We didn’t
have Title IX then; we passed that in the
1970s. We had been told that if you ever
become a public school teacher, you have to
quit if you ever become pregnant. That made
no sense; we thought women should be able
to work and to be pregnant, all at the same
time. SoI think it was that the injustices were
so clear, and then when you started talking
about the fact that so few women had access
to birth control, abortion was illegal, many
women ended up with illegal abortions, that

seeWeddington on page 7

