10 7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

se Cupboard a good deal

Anna Judy
@ The Village Cupboard, the newst eatery on Main Street, attracts profes-
sors, students, and townspeople. The food is fresh and the price is right.

ArtTS & LIVING

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997

ao \>.

By Katic PALMER
Staff Writer

I’ve dined at the Soda Shop many times I no
longer need the menu. I always order the same thing:
Veggie Pita, Cottage Fries, Diet Coke.

So, naturally, when I heard that another casual
restaurant was opening on Main Street, I was skepti-
cal.

Six weeks ago, the Village Cupboard joined the
shops of Main Street, occupying the now defunct
Cosmic Coffee’s old space. That restaurant was
Davidson’s shortlived attempt at having a student
friendly coffee house.

The Village Cupboard is three stores in one: An
upscale deli which sells meats as well as lunch and
breakfast, a winery, and a gourmet grocery.

Kathy Montbleau, co-owner of both the Village
Cupboard and Les Trois Faisans, created the restau-
rant with the idea of a place with good, fresh food
which was also affordable and fast.

The menu reflects her inspiration. The Cupboard
offers bruschetta, soups,.a Quiche of the Day, pasta,
and melts along with standard lunch fare like salads
and hamburgers. The deli sandwiches have been
popular with both eat-in and take-out customers for
good reason — Montbleau relies on Thumann’s a
company known for the exemplary quality and fresh-
ness of their meat. It is rumored that Ruth Anne Vagt
is a fan of their potato salad.

This week, I had my first lunch at the Village
Cupboard. It is almost the antithesis of Cosmic Coffee
with its bright, blue table cloths and‘yhomey wooden
chairs replacing Cosmic’s stark metal furniture to
create a cozy atmosphere.

And, unlike Cosmic Coffee whose owner was
forced to declare bankruptcy, business is booming.
When I interviewed the owner, she said that she
served 300 people each day for lunch and was selling
her gourmet groceries faster than she could restock
them.

At-11:30a:m., the restaurant was basically empty,
but before I had finished my drink, almost all the
tables were filled with professors, students, towns-
people, and several mothers and fathers with their
young children.

I ordered the Veggie Lover’s individual pizza
($5.95) and my lunch date tried the Quiche and Cup 0’
Soup Combo ($4.95) with Shrimp Bisque. Sitting in
the front restaurant by the window, we watched people
scurry by in the rain while waiting for our food. The
entire front of the restaurant is glass, making for
excellent peoplewatching.

My pizza arrived hot on a pretty white and blue
ceramic plate (a welcome change from a plastic bas-
ket). Montbleau proudly claims that she avoids pro-
cessed foods at all costs and almost her food is fresh
and made from scratch.

The vegetables on my pizza were colorful —
presentation is important to me — and my crust was
fresh, not tasting like it had been in the warmer since
the morning. My lunch date also enjoyed her shrimp
and quiche, although she admits not to be a “quiche
connoisseur.”

Most important, the price was reasonable for the
quality of our food — affordable as an occasional trip
to the Union Cafe.

For those Soda Shops enthusiasts who fear that
the Village Cupboard will force the Soda Shop out of
business, think again. Perhaps the addition of another
Main Street restaurant will help to give Davidson the
reputation of being a great place to grab lunch.

The Soda Shop is a Davidson institution, and I
doubt that a new restaurant will permanently lure
away long-time Soda Shop cuStomers. Besides, the
Soda Shop’s Cottage Fries are in a class by them-
selves.

\rke | Hour Photo, lac.

Complete Photo Finishing For The Amatoer & Commercial Markets

*24 Hour Drop Box
*Commercial Accounts
* Instant Passport Photo
* Enlargements in t He

*Copy Service
*Fax Service

* Computer Imaging
* Restorations

*E.6 Slides and B&W - 3 Hrs

‘2 892-5400 io:

fav $92-S460

Hwy 73 & 1-77 Exit 28 :
Southlake Shopping Center, Cornelius
Mon - Fri 10-8

Saturday 10 -5

All Frames 20% Off
Now through January 1, 1998
Just in time for the Holiday Season!!
Ask About Our Photo Club For Even Bigger Savings

ok ok of
FREE Photo Club Membership
To All Davidson College Students and Staff!!!

Q

P1117°

| COMMERCIAL |
PHOTOGRAPHY

e COMMERCIAL © INDUSTRIAL © PRODUCT

e AERIAL ¢ ADVERTISING ¢ PROMOTIONAL

e BROCHURES °¢ CATALOGS ~ « DISPLAYS

e ML JALS ¢ PUBLISHING ¢ STUDIO ON-SITE

INSTANT wrens WEDDING SUPPUES
FOR EDDINGS OF

me OAK ST. CORNELIUS
Darkroom space available for rent.

Grade: A
The Village Cupboardi is open Monday through
Saturday from 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Call 892-5992 to

find out their Cookie of the Day.

Davidson College presents a Black Box Production

‘Two Rooms’’

A play by Lee Blessing, directed by Benjamin W. Summers
Lighting and set design by Ronnie Higdon

Stage Managament by Lee Robison

Costum Design by Tuyet Linh Tran

Sound Design by Josh Gaffga

Wednesday through Saturday at 7:30 p..m. and Sunday at 2:00 p.m. in the
Black Box Theatre, Cunningham Fine Arts Building
Tickets $3 for students and seniors, $5 for adults

On the Scene ar Davipson COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Coffee. Donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:30

p.m, in 900 Room.

B &l focus. Dean Shandley will be there. 7:00 p.m.-
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Photography Club. Join it. 7:00 p.m.-8:00 p.m. in
the Wilson Room.

DC Chamber Singers. It’s aconcert. 8:00in DCPC.
Jumpin’ Java. Be there. 7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00
p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

National Smokeout Day. Your
lungs are malignant lumps of tar.
Do something about it. But only
today. Tomorrow you can return to
your disgusting habit of committing
slow suicide.

Kayak rolling. Roll some more
kayaks. 7:30 p.m. in Cannon Pool.

Coffeehouse. Sugar. Fat. Bring it
on. 8:15 a.m-11:15 a.m. in the 900
Room.

Friday Afternoon Club. The FAC
is back. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Nothing. Make your own
plans.

Jumpin’ Java. Free Triscuits! 7:30
p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Piano recital. Aaron Lescher tick-

les the ivories. 8:00 p.m. at Hodson
Hall.

: FRmpay

Sey ee

SUNDAY
Monpay

Climbing Wall. Grapple the outler lim-
its and attack your fears. 7:00 p.m.-9:00
p.m. in Johnston Gym of all places.
Amnesty International speaker. 7:00
p.m. in the Hobbie’s home away from
home — the 900 Room.

Winter Solstice Concert. Contempo-
rary Celtic group Nightnoise performs
with special guest Andy M. Stewart.
8:15 p.m. at Love Auditorium. ~

Speaker.
orate in Chambers Gallery. 7:30
p.m.

“The English Patient.”
Naresh’s novel on previous
page. Then watch the movie.
9:30 in the 900 Room.

Kristine Stiles. will

See

~“English Patient.”

Watch it.
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. -
Naresh will probably be there
again.

Davidson Outdoors. Van

‘Whitehead and his crowd are

hanging outin Erwin Lodge. Join
them.

Nothing. Dig yourself a hole
in Little Library anddon’tcome
out until after exams.

Jumpin’ Java. No quesadillas.
7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. at the Out-
post.

Climbing Wall. For more informa-
tion, contact Van Whithead.
Thanksgiving looms. You get to
Stop studying for once and eat in-
sane amounts of food. Sounds like
a good time to me.

