MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997 9

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor
RANDY HARTWELL

Business Manager

JEFFERY CROMARTIE CAROLINE BYNUM

TERESA WHITE

Sports Editors Advertising Managers
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW JOHN EARLY
MATTHEW EIRICH MICHAEL KRUSE PETER MARTIN
News Editors Photo Editor Circulation Managers
ANN CULP ANNA JUDY CHLOE BROOKE
NARESH NAGELLA McNEIL CARSWELL
Copy Editors ;

Opinions Editors BETH BACON Web Page Managers
KRISTEN BARTCH PENNY WALL CLAY LENHART
DAVID SANTSCHI BRAD CHASE

Cartoonist ERIC PENDERGRASS
Arts & Living Editor CHRIS MOORE ;

HEATHER LARSON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

eal

Tae

CULT LEADER

, MARSHALL APRLEWHITE

Rier

BENNY WINN

y ANY CU

we

RUSH Rysed. LIMBAUGH

Lees one

LETTERS

Never Pass Up a Learing Experience

The Pavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Davidson must do better than Charlotte

President Kuykendall signed a Resolution of the Colleges and Universities of
Mecklenburg County urging the rejection of the proposal to end the funding of the Arts and
Science Council. The proposal aimed to stop the promotion of immoral and illegal activity
that it says the Council supports in the works it brings to Charlotte, like Tony Kushner’s
“Angel’s in America.”

The proposal means to quiet any vocal celebration (including recognition, it seems) of
homosexuality. Yet the cessation of funds would terminate not only plays like “Angels in
America,” but also educational programs like the presentation of “The Wizard of Oz” free
of charge to over 3000 elementary school children. The program seeks to familiarize the
students with the Charlotte arts community and make learning more interesting by integrat-
ing the play into nearly every aspect of their lessons.

The proposal, although it only meant to purge one kind of art in Charlotte, would affect
the community in ways the originators never foresaw.

We applaud President Kuykendall for his clarity of vision, but question if he and the
College will retain the same foresight when it considers how to handle the recent resolution
of the Presbyterian Church (USA).

The resolution prevents those who engage in extramarital sex from becoming elders,
deacons, and ministers unless they repent. The wording forbids every unrepentant “sinner”
regardless of sexual orientation, but since the Church does not allow gay marriage, the
resolution was designed to shut gays out of leadership positions within the Church. The
resolution, although it does not actively condemn homosexuality, effectively ostracizes
every homosexual, leader or not. By not considering gays morally qualified to lead unless
they are virtually castrated, it practically denies gays’ existence.

Like Charlotte’s proposal, however, the Church’s resolution has impacts that reach far
beyond original intentions. Recently, [VCF used the resolution as one of its main arguments
as to why it should be chartered, despite the fact that it denies homosexuals leadership roles.
The writers of the Church proposal probably never imagined that their own discrimination
would be used to validate another’s.

And beyond that, how will Davidson, an affiliated college, respond to the resolution
passed by the Church? What does the resolution imply about Davidson’s support of its gay
community, as small as it may be?

Among the reasons the schools rejected the Charlotte’s arts funding proposal is that the
proposal will “present Chariots as an intolerant city that discourages discourse about
complicated societal issues.’

The FLAG Sexuality Forum was canceled because four of the five students who had
volunteered to speak decided not to because Davidson is too hostile for them to talk openly
about their sexuality. The reason for FLAG’s formation was to support, to recognize and to

. affirm homosexuals on campus. The Church’s resolution seems to condemn not only the
lesbians and gays involved, but their friends who celebrate their sexual liberty as well.

The same resolution President Kuykendall signed comes to the conclusion that “the
ultimate loss will be to those students who entrust their education to our institutions.”

Davidson College is our institution, not the Presbyterian Church, no matter how tightly
bound we are in Presbyterian theology. We trust our education to Davidson College, not the
Presbyterian Church. That’s what enables the College to accept Muslims and Jews among
its community. Because we are a community, not a congregation.

As such, the College must make a conscious effort to include those members whom its
Church condemns. What makes Davidson better than Charlotte is that it is a largely tolerant
place.

Riding the momentum of President Kuykendall’s courageous stand against intolerance
in Charlotte, Davidson must now decide how it will react to the intolerance expressed by its
own Church.

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monts during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
- Bavidgonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

I am gratified by the in-
vitation and the attention I
received as Health Care Pro-
fessional in Residence last
week at Davidson College. I
am at some risk of being ac-
cused of trying too hard to be
young again when I say how
comfortable I felt around you
energetic students (those who
jogged with me on the cross
country track have objective
proof, however, of my chro-
nological age).

If you could day dream
for a moment that you are a
few decades older (and I am
tempted to say “and wiser’),
you would be in a position to
reflect on the Davidson ex-
perience from my perspec-
tive. I have the benefit of:

1. Proximity to the cam-
pus (I practice medicine in
Charlotte);

2. Frequent dialogue
with students (I am blessed
with regular visits from stu-

dents interested in the medi-
cal humanities, medical eth-
ics, and careers in health
care);

3. Personal treasure in-
vested there (My daughter is
a Davidson senior);

4. A long family tradi-
tion of unconditional love for
Davidson (My father, Class
of 1935, was actually editor
of the Davidsonian).

Now that you see
Davidson from my shoes,
consider these reflections.
Davidson is not just a colle-
giate experience. It is the
beginning of a life experi-
ence, and incredibly capable
of inspiring thought and en-
hancing learning forever.
Central to this is teaching.
Among you are some of the
brightest, most gifted educa-
tors on the globe. Not the
least of these are you, the
students. Aren’t we all teach-
ers? ‘To teach is to learn
twice.” “See one, do one,
teach one.” “Live and learn

and pass it on.” All around
you are learning experiences
that stretch your mind, liber-
ate your mental energy, and
catapult you into a world beg-
ging for solutions. If I could
suggest a simple thought in
this regard: look around you,
education is not bounded by
sight or sound, brick walls or
classrooms, computer
screens or book pages, and
certainly not by four calen-
dar years. The ideal student
is defined not by his answer,
but by the questions he or she
asks, and I suggest one for
you is “have I taken advan-
tage today of the learning
experiences awaiting me in
this academic haven called
Davidson College?” You will
always be a student, and in
many ways a teacher, even
after graduation.

Thank you for letting me
be part of that experience last
week.

K. D. Weeks, Jr. ‘69

The Easter Bunny
didn’t forget to deliver
your Bavidsonian
t-shirt — he left it in
our office for you.
You can come pick it
up as soon as you send
$10 to his Davidson
P.O. Box 219.

