“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly
Happy Houipays

”

It’s official for Ferris.
Davidson grad takes over NEH.

NEws 3

Sororities — what else?
O'Neill has her say.

OPINIONS 10

“Mortal Kombat, anyone?

Dissertation on annihilation.

A&L 14

Women blanket Jackets. -

Hoopsters earn biggest win ever.

SPORTS 20 |

Amber Worrell

@ Santa Claus came to town as the featured guest in the 15th Annual North
Mecklenburg Christmas Parade which took place Saturday on Main Street. As

finals neared, the town and College took time out to celebrate the Holiday Season.
See stories, pages 2 and 12.

Service Council
to receive charter

By Liz NEIHEISsEL
Staff Writer

The Student Government Asso-
ciation will vote on a proposal for the
creation of a new Service Council at
Davidson.

Chaired by Ann Culp, the Council
will serve to “promote solidarity be-
tween the organizations on campus
which endorse service, guide the cam-
pus towards a unified community at
large and the Davidson campus.”

The proposal was scheduled for
presentation and debate on the Dec. 2
SGA agenda, but was tabled in order to
provide all Senators an opportunity to
review the written proposal. Liz
Boehmler reported that the council has
fulfilled all qualifications to receive a
charter, including the preparation of
extensive by-laws.

Prior to 1988, the Y-Student Ser-
vice Core acted as the umbrella organi-
zation for service components at David-
son, but was replaced on recommenda-
tion of the Task Force on Service by
Reach-Out, which received its charter
through the SGA in that same year.

Reach-Out currently provides or-
ganizational and training resources for
the student coordinators of 21 direct
service programs, but does not include
13 additional service-related organiza-
tions formed in the past decade.

“Tt’s important to understand that
many other service components need
direction,” Culp said. “And the council
will allow more effective managing of
the service components.”

In 1997, the Task Force once again
recommended an additional organiza-
tion which would represent all service-
related groups at the College. The Ser-
vice Council is an active response to
that recommendation.

The formation of the Service Coun-
cil was prompted by a desire fora “‘com-
mon vision for service at Davidson,”
and the work of a former service coor-
dinator Katherine Turner.

After housing the Wildcat Habitat
House Project through her office in
1996, Turner saw a need for a larger
council capable of undertaking any
larger projects that did not fall under

one of the existing special organiza-
tions.

Turner approached Assistant Dean
of Community Service Ruth Pittard with
the idea of a new all-encompassing or-
ganization, and the Service Council was
begun. External reviewers were brought
in to analyze and critique the problem
and agreed that a Service Council was a
firm solution.

The Council is currently headed
by a small committee, including Culp
as chairperson, secretary Sonya Hagler,
and a treasurer yet to be named, and is
advised by Pittard and service coordi-
nator Bill Abrams.

The Service Council will be avail-
able as a resource to students and fac-
ulty in the coming months. Faculty
may choose to involve service compo-
nents in the classroom and locate op-
portunities through the Council.

Students looking to become in-
volved may also search out upcoming
events through this office. Several or-

“ganizations chartered through the Ser-

vice Council will receive their funding
and budgets through the council, and
seek assistance with those budgets _
therein.

Perhaps more importantly, the
Service Council will be available to
already existing or newly-formed orga-
nizations which are looking for volun-
teers to undertake and promote a ser-
vice project. The Council will in this
way provide a place to share volunteers,
publicity, and information in hopes of
reaching a more clearlydefined course
of action toward service at Davidson.

The Service Council is composed
of the steering committee plus advisors,
as well as representatives from the fol-
lowing organizations: Alternative
Breaks, Into the Streets, Reach Out,
Service Ambassadors, and Service Sat-
urdays, which are all financially depen-
dent; Bonner. Steering Committee
Monthly Meetings, Chapel Committee,
Dean Rusk, InterVarsity Christian Fel-
lowship, Patterson Court Service Com-
mittee, Project Life, and SGA, which
are’ all financially independent; and
Common Ground and Service Learning
Representatives, both of which are with-
out a budget.

Budget makers try to find daylight in a tight squeeze

College Relations

As college officials work ona very
tight budget for the 1998-99 fiscal year,
President Bobby Vagt hopes they can
drive a tiny wedge between income and
expenses to allow budget room for new
initiatives.

Vagt has met regularly with the
Budget Working Group in its prepara-
tion of a draft to present to the Advisory
Council for Finance, Personnel and

Developmental before Christmas.

He said the biggest challenge in
preparing his first Davidson budget is
trying to drive a wide enough wedge
between income and expenses to gener-
ate some room for “program potential.”

In the past, the small amount of
new resources left after compensation
increases were funded was divided
among several different projects with
none ever being fully funded.

“If Icould wave a magic wand, we
would have, through cost savings and

revenue increases, a lump left over to
undertake a new initiative or a needed
addition to an existing effort, rather
than layering that money over several
projects,” Vagt said.

“The problem has been that in the
past few years we haven't been able to
isolate a pool big enough to make a

significant impact on any one project.

“It’s important that a budget pro-
cess which requires savings and cut-
backs-also allows for a new program
that gets employees excited. But our

expenses and revenues have been mov-
ing in lock step for many years. This
year, we’ re hoping to create that wedge,
but it’s not in the bag yet.”

The budget working group in-
cludes all the members of the Principal
Executive Staff — the president and
vice-presidents, Dean of Admission and
Financial Aid, and the Director of Ath-
letics — plus the chair and secretary of
the Advisory Council for Finance, Per-

See Budget on page 6

SSR a RSS ES SS RR SR SR SESS SS SS SRM SS EIDE Sa SSS SET EE RAEI SES

66 ; ; 3 99
It made us question what we stand for. There are other ways to have fun besides getting drunk.
KA PRESIDENT CARLO REYNOLDS ON RECENT ALCOHOL-RELATED SANCTIONS HIS FRATERNITY RECEIVED

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

