MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997 ‘3

The Dabidsonian —

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

JOHN COPENHAVER JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
Sports Editors Advertising Managers
Associate Editor 5 WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
News Editors Photo Editor Circulation Manager
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
RANDY HARTWELL
Copy Editors Web Page Managers
Opinions Editors ‘CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
NINA BLOUNT DANIEL MOTZ BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN RICHARDSON ERIC PENDERGRASS
Cartoonist
Arts & Living Editor GREG GARRISON
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

- —

or rea = x pax ye
A ny 3 Si Ve Sa
SS SP Ai f \
ome, a] GS
| Alo ral
\
> aud ‘
tb ear tegen (It

Rarsine theCeibin )

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Alternative Success

No more excuses

After several SGA votes Tuesday, the charge that back room politicking
and inside or privileged connections determine involvement no longer justifies
apathy. The confidence of one’s fellow students will determine who represents
them to the trustees. With its vote, the SGA has issued a ringing call to action.

The SGA vote also shows the constant need for enthusiastic participation.
Without students showing a keen and reasoned interest in the direction of the
college, no one will extend more responsibilities tous. This is the snowball
effect of involvement: to the degree students are active in campus life and
organizations, to the same degree they will have the right to petition the
administration and trustees for increased influence: ‘

Many students complain that the SGA does nothing. Those looking for
major changes, such as in curriculum or overriding philosophy of the school,
may find themselves appropriately disappointed in the tangible results of SGA —
action. However, those who are looking for day-to-day changes — in quality
of living at Davidson — often find that their requests and concerns are consid-
ered openly.

A few freshmen discovered this recently when they took concerns about
Commons to their class president, Foster Hazelden. After some meetings and
compromises, Commons staff agreed to make some changes.

We urge students to bring concerns to the SGA, and senators to bring them
forward. In the last two years we have seen senators move farther and farther.
away from presenting individual proposals. Officers have pushed most
legislation forward, and senators have sat back and debated those issues at
hand. Even more legislation will result should senators take a more active role
in putting it through.

This next week students will have the opportunity to vote in an important
election. They should make the effort to seriously consider who they are
voting for; then possibly they will pay more attention to what their student
government does.

To the Editors:

We are pleased to re-
port the success of the Alter-
native Gift Market for the
fourth consecutive year.
Thank you to all the organi-
zations and volunteers who
participated as well as ev-
eryone who purchased gifts
at the Market.

The December event
raised $5914 for service and

social development projects
all the over the world. This
year, the projects receiving
the most donations were
Creole pig repopulation in
Haiti, milk cows for tribal
women in Bombay, India,
and the AIDS Service Cen-
ter which assists children
with AIDS in the United
States. Over $200 was also
raised for the Ada Jenkins

Center here in Davidson.

It is exciting to see the
community support the Al-
ternative Gift Market and
celebrate the holidays by
giving gifts of life andhope.
We hope this tradition can
continue for years to come.

The Chapel Committee
The Chaplain’s Office
Bonner Scholars

Fun

The Wavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The

Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

It will come as no sur-
prise to many of you, but we
don’t have enough fun here.
Now, don’t get me wrong. I
love this school, I love my
friends, and I would never
think about going anywhere
else. But, life could still be
better.

Right before Thanks-
giving, 2nd and 3rd center
Belk had a hall meeting with
Georgia Ringle. In it, the
most amazing thing hap-
pened. A group of guys was
sitting around, eating pizza,
and talking about how they
would change the social life
if they were king for a day.

There’d be more all
campus parties. Fraternities
would shed their stereotypes.
The court would be a fun
place and not have the meat
market feel it sometimes
does. People would hang out
more. Dating wouldn’t be
all-but-on-heard of. More
people would be smiling,
laughing, holding hands, sit-
ting out in the sunshine un-

der trees. Maybe we’d be
skipping, I don’t know, but
it sounded like a pretty nice
place to live.
About this time, Geor-
gia Ringle said something
that has become more and
more confusing to me. She
said these are the same things
she hears every time she talks
to a group of students. We
all want the same changes.
Yet, somehow we never af-
fect these changes. Why not?
Right before Christmas,
I met with Dean Shandley,
relaying many of the ideas
that came out of our original
meeting. We talked about
the possibilities of a social
council within Patterson
Court to help improve par-
ties and cater to student
tastes. We talked about put-
ting the issues and topics
discussed on the CCRL
agenda for next semester.
Weeven talked about chang-
ing student behavior and
plans to do that; but we
reached a quick and simple
conclusion. We can’t. As

__Students, we are all respon-

sible for making ourselves
happy. The administration
can do very little to help.

During a road trip ear-
lier this year, a friend of mine
told me something very wise
she had gleaned from her
mother. “If you’re going
some place and you want to
have fun, you have to bring
a little fun with you.” As
Davidson students, maybe
we need to step away from
our work alittle, andremem-
ber to have a good time.

This Thursday at 7:30 .
p.m. a core group of people
from the meeting with Geor-
gia Ringle will be in the 2nd
East Lounge to plan a cam-
pus wide forum on having
fun. I urge you to come and
participate. Make your voice
heard. If we all really want
the same things, thenit seems
like all we need to do is
support each other and start
making those things happen.
Now is the time.

Will Bradshaw 99

After Christmas special!

IF you still feel the need to
pamper yourself, then do it in
style. Buy a Babvidsonian
t-shirt for $10.00.

0
