M1 BON. DA i: LU x. UB.

“The South's Foremost |

College Weekly”
a

Now ON TUESDAYS

Minor adjustment. Baskiden
creates ad hoc committee.

NEws 2

Vigilante justice. - Waddell wants
the campus freak — dead or alive.

OPINIONS 9

Anna Judy
@ Paul Dryden, Elections Committee Chairman, fixes his burger
at SGA Day Tuesday on the Union patio. The annual event gives
students a chance to mingle with their SGA representatives,
sign up for committees and councils — and eat some free food.

Ns0

ORTA -LiB BRTAS

}Q

By MIcuaeL J. Kruse
Editor in Chief

What’s Bobby Vagt’s formula for fun?

A bottle of dishwashing liquid, two buckets of
water, and, most importantly, students.

At least that’s what it was a few weeks ago when
Vagt, who will be inagurated as the College’s 16th

Thursday. Campus-wide dinner at the Com-
mons Terrace at 5:15 p.m.

Friday. Inaugural ceremonies on Chambers
Lawn at 11:00 a.m.

, president Friday, was the ready and willing guest of
- honor at a slip-and-slide party on 4th Little.

In “a little social event” set up by hall counselor
Marshall Tyler — Tyler advised the rookie president
in a last-minute note to “wear something you don’t
mind gétting wet” — Vagt, a 1969 Davidson graduate,
relived his days as a student in Sentelle.

“When we did, we simply flooded the hall,” Vagt
said yesterday in his office. “I mean, there was water
in the hall and it cascaded down the steps. People were
upset about it, but it was great‘fun.

“T used it (the 4th Little experience) to illustrate
a point, which is that, while things change — not to be
trite — things stay the same.’

But why? Hurtling down a detergent-slickened
dormitory hall is simply nota traditional practice from
the president of a nationally-acclaimed liberal arts
school. |

“It was a great opportunity to see students in a
way that you don’t see them very much.”

In the first two months of his tenure, and in the six
weeks since students arrived for the academic year,
Vagt has visited freshman halls to meet students who
are going through the same first-time-around anxi-
eties he is, attended as many sporting events as pos-
sible, and gotten pies thrown into his face at the Lunar
Luau — all in an effort to develop quality, close

Everything and more. Up-and-
coming Everything to play SigEp.

A&L 10°

Surging. The volleyball team stands
at second in the league.

SPORTS 15

ll Gid
@ Bobby Vagt will be inaugurated ve

as. Davidson’s 16th president
Friday. Festivities start Thursday
night with a campus-wide dinner at
the Commons.

relationships, as he has developed an early reputation
for being a hands-on, out-and-about president.

“I came here desperately wanting to have as
much direct contact with students, and also faculty,
and also staff,” hé said. “In a situation like this, in a
community like this, the most important thing you can
create is relationships. And you can only do that if
you’re out and about.”

And this process is ongoing, as Vagt points to his
inability to meet every student, every faculty member,

See Vagt on page 3

Sororities put on hold: CCRL and CEWOD delay decision

By Jessica GOODSON

News Editor

The decision to bring sororities to
Davidson has been postponed for at
least two weeks after a meeting be-
tween the Committee for Expanding
Women’s Options at Davidson
(CEWOD) and the Counsel for Cam-
pus and Religious Life (CCRL) Thurs-
day.

“We decided that we need to fur-
ther study bringing sororities to
Davidson in the context of ongoing
debate on Patterson Court,” said pro-
fessor Mary Thornberry, the faculty
liason to the trustee committee of CCRL.

“Because bringing sororities to
Davidson has implications for the cam-
pus at large, the process has been tem-
porarily postponed to survey student
and faculty interest,” Thornberry said.

In response to Thursday’s confer-
ence, the Union will hold an open fo-
rum for students to voice their opinions.
Sororities will also be discussed at the
next faculty meeting, and the SGA will

conduct a more inclusive student sur-
vey to replace the evaluation adminis-
tered last spring.

Greek advisor Jim Barber said,
“The need for sororities can’t necessar-
ily be gauged by a majority voice,”

“A minority of women may havea
valid argument to bring sororities to
Davidson,” he said. “What it comes
down to is that people didn’t realize
how quickly this process moves.”

CEWOD had already narrowed a
list of 19 sororities to 5 compatible
organizations. The committee felt that
these pan-Hellenic sororities fit best
with Davidson tradition and women’s
eating houses: Alpha Delta Pi, Chi
Omega, Delta Delta Delta, Kappa Al-
pha Theta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma.

A timetable is already in place,
and Thornberry noted that the screen-
ing process will continue as planned —
the five sororities will deliver their pre-
sentations in November. That way, if
the decision is made to ultimately bring
sororities to Davidson, it will be known
in advance which ones are compatible.

The women who have spearheaded
the campaign, seniors Bonner Mead
and Cristina Rodriguez, had hoped so-
rority pledging would take place at
Davidson by the spring semester, but
that calendar may not be feasible now.

“We can’t let their desire to have
sororities, however understandable,
drive this through,” Thornberry said.
“We have to ask ourselves: ‘By offer-
ing this option, what other options are
we foreclosing?’”

Thornberry also said the College
should look at the truth of self-selection
and ask if Davidson is honest about
men’s options on the Court as we pre-
pare to add sororities. She suggested
that the most recent self-study presented
workable guidelines for improving the
Court and that these should be consid-
ered.

Every ten years, the Southern As-
sociation of Colleges and Schools reac-
credits member institutions of higher
learning through the self-study, which
takes about two years to complete. In
addition to the expert testimony, statis-

tics, and justification of policy that all
schools are required tosubmit, Davidson
conducted a study of the “undergradu-
ate experience” in 1995, including the
role of Patterson Court in the lives of
students.

The study found that, while “the
self-selection process currently works
successfully for women’s groups, men
can only self-select a fraternity for so-
cial membership. This seldom if ever
occurs in practice.”

Debate continues over whether
self-selection is a misnomer and sorori-
ties would only augment exclusivity.
The selection process for sororities is a
“mutual selection” process by which a
woman picks her two preferred sorori-
ties.

If, when cross referenced with a
list from either sorority, they have se-
lected each other, she becomes a sister.
Barber admits, however, that this pro-
cess is not particularly “mutual,” as the
name suggests. A woman can select
whichever sorority she chooses, but if

" she is not selected she cannot become a

“It’s not a celebration about Bobby Vagt. It’s a celebration about Davidson College.”

PRESIDENT BOBBY VAGT ON THE UPCOMING INAUGURATION

member.

The study also found that “based
upon the physical limitations of the
buildings and the large number of
women involved with the Court, the
available eating houses are inadequate
to serve the women.”

Sorority supporters have indicated
the inequity in the number of Court
options for women as a primary consid-
eration of their campaign.

But the study does not recommend
bringing sororities to Davidson per se.
Strategic planning stressed that the
College should support any efforts to
pursue a fourth women’s eating house

See Sororities on page 3

BPMOIE ES. ssscseccavsovsincysecct 15

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

