_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Anonymous student reactions and Davidsonian poll results

The following is a sampling of excerpts from what students wrote on
the Davidsonian poll, conducted in the Union and around campus
Wednesday and Thursday.

Yes
189 (49.4%) 193 (50.6%)

361 (96.8%) 12 (3.2%)
56 (14.8%) 323 (865.2%)

No

DID YOU GO TO THE TRIAL?

Do you AGREE WITH THE HONOR COUNCIL'S VERDICT?

Do You AGREE WITH THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE'S DECISION
TO CHARGE Gist wiTH A CODE OF RESPONSIBILITY VIOLATION?

“Has my faith in the Honor Code lessened?
You assume it was strong to begin with.”

Do YOu THINK THE PRINCIPLES OF THE HONOR CODE SHOULD 70 (19.7%) 285 (80.3%) |
SUPERCEDE THOSE OF TOWN, STATE OR FEDERAL LAW? “Our deans need to figure out whose team they're on.
BASED ON WHAT YOU SAW AT THE TRIAL, READ IN Qhe Davidsonian, 177 (47.9%) 192 (52.1%) | had always believed them to be on ours. | found out
OR HEARD AROUND CAMPUS, HAS YOUR FAITH IN THE Honor Cope from this trial that the deans are not on our team.”
AND/OR Cope OF RESPONSIBILITY LESSENED?
. _ oie ; , ; “The trial was a sham. It was an absolute joke, an
The a a ‘
ministration is far too anal..Witch hunts ensue. ond t own. tote not embarassment to the school. | thought it was poorly
"I think , Honor code ist nciden' sno handled. It just didn’t seem like the people on the
Stang he Many Den, none — its Ol ce. Wm Council knew the rules. ‘| think Dean Jeffries should be
the Ho idso “EAC — nas! Her ut on trial.”
AUestions that wer OF. as jj Udeny federal IO na college me e P ,
nal), Were as "strate Phe UNder. nove pee
Uring th a) Many Code do supercede
TEQk Cin “The Honor Council's verdict upheld iacipies of the Hone ingisnot
the “the principle deral law. LYING u're
moderation and common sense.” those of town. state, or fe lie to your professor, yo .
+ if yOU
. , the law. But ”
One of the most absolutely frustrating things about the Honor Code is its blinding vision agains an Honor violation.
of black and white. Real honor is not black and white.” guilty
ayy, BU “Ltr Yes No
wn. | tried to get in, but it was too ,
ain goo? weld packed.” 9 Those who attended the trial:
por he dN ve dia” (et0\ we BASED ON WHAT YOU SAW AT THE 112 (59.3%) 77 (40.7%)
gone \N asioly: a os We ie) ot. why de TRIAL, READ IN Che Bavidsonian,
er) ove cred res? «ine aia) de? aa most not co xow™ OR HEARD AROUND CAMPUS, HAS
. ane ig ne? tno! ae Won aA gy tno o 5 or ine mare YOUR FAITH IN THE HONOR CODE AND/OR -
we options: Sond gor one coul inten -e prin’ ne gto® Cope OF RESPONSIBILITY LESSENED?
\ \ason Or’, n. . N’ WN: ; ;
St povidsor eit eee 9 with O gould par 2aeO \o Those who did not attend the trial:
we ever was hone: BASED ON WHAT YOU SAW AT THE 72 (37.3%) 121 (62.7%)
é yeni TRIAL, READ IN Ohe Dabidsonian,
- ; OR HEARD AROUND CAMPUS, HAS
Ryan shouldn't be prosecuted for upholding his duty to our country. YOUR FAITH IN THE HONOR CODE AND/OR
Davidson beuracracy superceded everything good.” Cope OF RESPONSIBILITY LESSENED?

Trial from page 1

sors, and Gist entered the room at approxi-
mately 9:30. .

Student Solicitor Virginia Fisher be-
gan the trial by reading the statement of
charge: “Violating Section III of the Code
of Responsibility, Social Responsibility.”
When asked if he accepted or denied the
charge, Gist said bluntly, “Deny.”

Fisher then made the prosecution’ s
opening statement, which included read-
ing part of the preamble to the Code of
Responsibility, as well as Section III.

“Mr. Gist effectively took the law—

into his own hands,” Fisher said, ‘and
removed federal property from the post
office.”

In the defense’s opening statement,
Colbert said that, because of his “tremen-
dous sense of patriotic duty, Ryan Gist, as
avadet inthe United States Armed Forces,
felt compelled to remove” the flag, which
was flying in violation of Section 1748 of
the U.S. Code.

“Mr. Gist’s actions were not detri-
mental to any persons or institution, nor
were they executed with malicious in-
tent,” Colbert said, “If he had acted im-
properly, he would be subject to federal
prosecution; he is not.

“The defense fervently believes, in-
viting the circumstances surrounding this
situation, that Mr. Gist’s actions were
conducted in good faith.”

Gist was then called to the stand and
sworn in. The defense questioned him
first — asking Gist to relate the events of
the night he removed the flag from the
post office — then read the police report,
which found that “Mr. Gist took the flag
down and folded it with intentions of
returning (it) to post office authorities the
following morning.”

The Student Solicitors questioned
Gist next. Hoover asked Gist how his
actions hadn’t caused trouble, since the
police had become involved, saying, “I’m
just trying to understand how what you
did wouldn’t affect anybody.”

Gist countered Hoover’s argument,
saying, “I hope it affected a lot of people.”

Fisher revealed that Gist had known that
bringing the flag onto College property
made it a College matter. To which Gist
responded, “Are you implying that I dis-
respected the flag?”

“Sure,” Fisher said.

When the questioning opened up to
the Council, Asa Hercules, the Council's
Secretary, asked Gist if there were other
ways he could have handled the situation,
and if Ryan was intoxicated at the time of
the incident. While Gist admitted that
there were other things he could have
done, he said that he was not intoxicated at
the time.

Upon requestioning Gist, Fisher re-
peated a point brought up earlier by Honor
Council member Matt Ellis, who asked
what Gist felt was more important — his
ROTC oath or the Honor Code.

“My oath,” Ryan said. “I believe
supporting and defending the Constitu-
tion is more important than my college
career is — not to belittle your proceed-
ings at all.” “They're making a judgement
on my values, basically,” Gist said later.

“And who’s to say. their values are
better than mine? I believe my country is

_more important than the school, but I

didn’t want to belittle their points.” Two
conflicting definitions of larceny were
presented during the time for rebuttal evi-
dence. The Student Solicitors read the
Webster’s Dictionary definition. The de-
fense advisors countered with the official
North Carolina definition, saying, “This
supercedes that.”

The main difference in definitions is
that the official state definition mentions
intent, while Webster’s does not. When
the Student Solicitors objected on the
grounds that the Council wasn’t to con-
sider the incident in any context other than
the Code of Responsibility, Colbert ob-
jected —“‘Weare in North Carolina” —to
the raucous applause of the audience.

“What we’ re looking at right now is
the Code of Responsibility,” said
Hildebrand after regaining order. “We’re
not looking at state laws, Davidson laws.”

After the rebuttal period, a 10-minute
recess was called so that the Student So-
licitors and Defense Advisors could pre-
pare their closing statements.

Hildebrand allowed the break to
serve as a question-and-answer period for
the audience, and also to explain what was
to come in the hearing.

One audience member asked if the

decision had to be unanimous to convict,
or.if only a simple majority was required.
Hildebrand said that the Council needed a
majority to convict, but the decision had

. to be unanimous for suspension.

“Why,” another asked, “is Dean
Jeffries not present?” “Actually, in his
defense, the administrators tend to stay
out of student business because the Honor
Council is student-run,” Hildebrand re-
sponded. “He did leave a number. If we
have questions, we can contact him.”

“It’s a board of peers,” said Ernest
Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Students and
Director of Minority Student Affairs. “And
generally people in the Dean of Students
Office really don’t get. involved unless
specifically called. And there were some
questions that I did get called on.” After
the hearing resumed, the Student Solici-
tors and Defense Advisors made their
closing arguments. |

“Yes, we might commend Mr. Gist
for his patriotic intentions to protect the
American flag,” Hoover said. “However,
Mr. Gist’s patriotic intentions are not on
trial here tonight. Tonight, you, members
of the Davidson College Honor Council,
are here to decide whether Ryan Gist’s
actions, consisting of removing federal
property from the town of Davidson’s
post office, isa violation of the Code of
Responsibility, according to Davidson
College. Ryan Gist did choose to-act
freely and with liberty. He removed the
American flag from Davidson’s post of-
fice, Now he must be ready to accept full
responsibility for his actions.”

~ Defense Advisor Wesley-Hart said:
“Mr. Gist believes whole-heartedly that
his actions were necessary, and right.
Seemingly, the federal governmentagrees,
as officials saw no purpose in pursuing
any form of reprimand. Gist’s actions
harmed neither any persons or institu-
tions. Is Mr. Gist aware of Section III of
the Code of Responsibility? Yes, he is —
and he acted properly. There is evidence
of no violation. Therefore, there should
be no sanctions.”

At approximately 10:30, the Honor
Council then went into executive session
tomake their decision. Most of the crowd
dissipated; a few stayed to await the ver-
dict.

“T think Damon and Wes stole the
show,” Gist said of his defense advisors
while awaiting the verdict. “They did an
incredible job.”

“If I win,” he continued, “then, at its

core, the Honor Council works. Thehonor |

system works. The Code of Responsibil-
ity works. ,

Even if I win though, there’s still
some serious problems with the way my
case was handled — being taken into a
room and told that I was guilty over and
over again, that kind of stuff. “The Dean
of Students Office needs to be, maybe not
your friend, but an impartial observer, and
in this case, they weren’t.

“If I am vindicated, then it will re-
store my faith in the system, but there are
still some really serious problems. I be-
lieve in the Honor Code, but I’m just real
fuzzy on how they can judge on such
subjective matters.

“I don’t think it should have gone
this far. The Code of Responsibility is so
ambiguous. “Students should go through
and read it; read my case, read Section II],
and try to figure out what I’m really being
prosecuted on. Because I’m still not 100
percent sure.”

“T think there was a misunderstand-
ing between Gist and the administration
as to his options,” Colbert said. “I believe
[the case] could’ ve been prevented from
coming. This was just a special circum-
stance. “Some people would say that he
shouldn’t have been charged at all,”
Jeffries said. ;

“It’s gust a matter of personal opin-
ion. He was charged because it was a clear
violation of the Code of Responsibility.
The thing I am very careful to do every
time is just take it as itis. Because I think,
in doing that, that I’m consistent with
everyone that comes through. “Being
consistent is something that’s very impor-
tant to me. Look at the action, the behav-
ior, because if you look at the Code of
Responsibility, the Code of Responsibil-
ity deals with behavior. Totally.”

Almost two hours later, the Council
returned to announce its verdict.

“The Council will now read the ver-
dict,” Hildebrand said.

“Because there was no clear and
convincing evidence, the Honor Council
found Ryan Gist not guilty of violating
Section III of the Code of Responsibility.”

The small group that had stayed for
the end broke into applause, and Gist was
almost immediately surrounded by friends
and well-wishers.

“It (the decision) shows that our ju-
dicial system does what we want it to do,”

Jeffries said. “You had a situation where
a student didn’t feel that they were justly
charged, and the beauty of the honor sys-+
tem here at Davidson is that there’s av-
enues in it for. A student to address those
concerns, and there’s a forum for those
things to be heard.”

Said Hoover: “The Honor Council
did their job, and what they say is what’s
right.”

“For the four of us, it’s not a win-or-
lose thing,” Fisher said. “There is some
amount of that, because we’re usually —
just by the nature of the system — on the
winning side. But itisn’t a ‘win’ because
it’s not about us.”

“I was really impressed with the
preparation of the defense,” Kamath said.
“Their whole defense was flawless. They

‘were really well prepared, and so was
Ryan. He was really well-rehearsed.”

Kamath added that the decision.was
based on two things: “There was no clear
and convincing evidence that he violated
Section III of the Code of Responsibility,
specifically, and.we were only able to take
into account what we saw at the trial.”

“Basically, we just got his side of the
story,” said Colbert of preparing Gist’s
defense. ‘The Defense Advisors also
talked to the postmaster and looked over
the U.S. Code that prohibits flying the
American flag at night without proper
illumination. According to Hart, the de-
fense also spoke with the Dean of Stu-
dents and ROTC. ;

“We had a tough time trying to fig-
ure out what was really at stake,” Hoover
said of building their case against Gist.

“But we knew basically, it just boiled
down to Ryan took something that wasn’t
his, and the fact that it was federal prop-
erty makes it even worse.”

Hoover said that the Student Solici-
tors prepared themselves by conducting
interviews and holding discussions, both
with each other and with Shandley.

“We worked very closely with
Damon and Wesley,” Fisher said.

“We support each other.”

“‘Atits core, the Honor Code works,”
said Gist, whose faith in the Code has
been more of less restored since the deci-
sion.

The proceedings “were handled in a
good manner. Charlotte took control.”

Added Gist: “I was really lucky to
have such a good defense.”
