6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

At inauguration, Clinton urges cooperation

Congress started their sessions
again as Bill Clinton was officially
inaugurated for his second term as
President.

In his speech, Clinton called
for an end to racial divisions and a
new “community of spirit.”

He stated that he and the Re-
publican Congress would try to
work together to and follow the
words of the late Joseph Cardinal
Bernardin when he said, “Life is
too short to be filled with acrimony
and division.”

In other activities, the Senate
quickly approved the selections of
Madeline Allbright as Secretary of
State by a vote of 99-0.

Allbright said, “The Senate
vote signals a new era of foreign
policy and I can’t wait to get
started.” She will be the first fe-
male ever to hold the post.

The Senate also confirmed the
appointment of Bill Cohen to head
the Defense Department. He also
was voted in on a 99-0 result.

Cohen wants to expand

NATO, while consulting Russia,
encourage more cooperation with
Congress and the executive branch
on military affairs, and will also try
to “find a new focus” to security
rélations in the Asian Pacific arena.
He is the first Republican to be part
of a Clinton cabinet.

Finally, mostnews sourcesin- -

dicate budget gaps are narrowing
between Congress and the Presi-
dent, meaning a balanced budget
by the year 2000 is all more the
likely. -CNN

Chickens may go nuclear

Those problems of nuclear
waste could be finished with the
help of our friends from the poul-
try world.

According to Acres USA, “Sci-
entists at South Carolina’s Savan-
nah River Ecology laboratory have
been studying chickens foraging
at a nearby nuclear weapons plant.
It seems that certain types of poul-
try have a high metabolism that

reduces radioactivity in birds as
they grow.”

The scientists hope the birds
could forage contaminated areas
and then be taken somewhere else
and eat normal food. The radioac-
tive material would pass through
their system and after ten days
their meat and eggs could be fit for
human consumption.

They are worried about what

to do with the radioactive manure
and consumer doubts about eating
the meat. :

Lehr Brisbin, one researcher,
said, “If the meat is cheaper, and
you call it “radioactively cleaned”
meat, and you put it on the shelf for
half price, I bet people in this coun-
try would eat it.” The FDA has yet

to even consider this possible new

product. -The Nation

Seinfeld features expensive actors

They say that an average life
of a sitcom lasts about 8 seasons.
Seinfeld is going on its ninth.

While Jerry says he will re-
turn to his #1 rated show, his co-
stare..will.also, but.at.star.prices.
Each is demanding $1 million per
episode, earning $22 million for
the season.

The show earns $250 million
from commercials each year and
NBC’s profits expect to be $100
million. The early signs look as if
NBC will agree to the

unprecendented terms, but indus-
try analysts say that it will lead TV
to succumb to the outragous bid-
ding prices that have taken over
movies and professional sports.

Hit shows .have demanded
such prices most of the time. Ted
Danson received $800,000 an epi-
sode for Cheers and the cast of
Friends fought for and received
almost the same amount.

TV has been loosing viewers
to a burgeouning cable and movie
rental industry rapidly. Only the

word of mouth shows can ensure
they will get enough viewers to
stay successful. TV networks are
realizing that only star power can
guarantee a strong viewership.

Seinfeld continues to win
Emmys and Golden Globes and
receive decent appreciation from
the critics. It has filmed some 200
episodes.

At least the world will be able
to see millionaire actors perform
in their living room each night.

-Slate

ELS EWHERE Ménont, JANUARY 27, 1997

Che Dauidsontan

a

Bevond Davidsol

International ...

Swiss agree to compensation fund for Holocaust victims

Banks in Switzerland are now ready to put up the money to help pay
the surviving members and family of Holocaust victims who placed
their money in Swiss banks during persecution by the Germans. No
details of the fund or the about the amount of money that will
reimbursed have been stated yet, but Jewish groups see the announce-
ment as a breakthrough in sometimes difficult relations with the
Swiss. d

National ...

O.J. Civil Trial Closes, Jurors Begin Deliberations

Closing arguments ended in the O.J. Simpson civil trial as the defense
used the same strategy that helped win the criminal trial. They attacked
the evidence as untrustworthy. Lawyer Robert Blaser said the police
investigation of his client was one of “corruption and contamination.”
The prosecuting attorney points to Simpson's shaky testimony and
claims the evidence overwhelmingly proves Simpson is guilty.

Ebonics issue goes to Congress

Students, educators, and members of congress were able to hold a
debate on the Ebonics issue as it went before a panel that controls
school aid. Senator Arlen Specter (R - Pa.) said there appears to little
agreements on whether Ebonics is a “bridge” to learning standard
English. Congressman Peter King (R - N.Y.) said Ebonics is “a verbal
slew of street slang and bad grammar,” and that no federal money
should be used in programs that insist it is a language. Students and
teachers said they need all the help and training they can get to achieve
their ultimate goal of being able to speak better English.

Clinton and U.N. Leader agree to cooperate

President Clinton and U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan of Ghana
traded vows to try and pay back $1 billion in back dues owed by the
government to U.N. operations. Annan said that both the U.N: and the
U.S. want the same thing in a “reformed United Nations.” Clinton said
Congress had no excuse to pay the dues if such progress occurred.

Local ...

S. C. House wants a referendum on Confederate flag issue

The South Carolina House rejected Rep. Governor David Beasley’s
compromise plan on the flag voting 85-32 in favor of a referendum to
allow the voters to decide what to do with the flag. South Carolina is
the only state to fly the Confederate flag on its capitol. The Senate can
still accept Beasley’s plan or design a referendum of its own.

THE Crossword
ACROSS TT 13
1 Field's yield
5 Flat hills
10 Cook
14 The best
15 Of fleecy beasts 9
16 Patriot Nathan
17 Box
18 Peruses
19 Gaelic
20 Makes taut
22 Voided court
case
24 French
department
26 Debtor's
promise
27 Reacts in an
angry manner
30 Circles the globe
34 Tom
35 Intended
37 New Deal org
38 Common abbr.
39 *— my brother's
per?”
41 Avail
SIGNE Sa; ry hated oRieamnre: a
tat.
DAR URE WS 44 Metric measure
USA 46 Rather and ANSWERS
Duryea :
2 47 Sutherland of 7 Variety of cat alviilsMmalilalal vie
movies 8 “The King—" [ashi 1/3/alojmpmalals|1
EGALIZING 49 Apple dessert © 9 School terms
52 Obtained 10 Heavenly being [4714 ORME 3 01H) Eta tito
"WiE MEDICAL USE 53 Writer Asimov 11 Mata— Ce HOUOG c
OF MARIJUANA Bos een hres ‘Ala|mlolalwlvlafmaltivinjoja
\s OVFRAGEoUS! 62 Press 13 Touch s 3
g 63 River in France 21 Superlative sul- |S n FY
““ 8 65 Swear word fix vig niv N
i 66 Words of 23 Cake Sjilt ° 1 1
= Ps at 25 Send payment 1
aragon Raise
69 Tablets 29 Of a Peruvian
; 70 Like a fat people ajalv WIiTA Niolv
71 Cabbage salad 31 Relative by PEE) GE) CE
one marriage :
1 The players 59 crperarent 46 Physicians 56 On in
years
2 Lasso 36 Atmospheres 48 Jibes ~ 57 Old pronoun
3 — even keel 39 Apportion 50 To wilt © 59 Frozen rain
4 Continue 40 Certainexams 51 “Haveanico—" 60 — girl
5 Bit of food 45 Series ‘ 54 Witticism 61 Masticate
6 Holiday time installment 55 — Major 64 After deductions
54 > .Prand are, ready to clip out and paste up... Halftones are screened $5, lines to the inch.

