THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHN KUYKENDALL MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997 i

ROBERT WILLIAMS

Dean of Faculty, Vice President of Academic Affairs, and Professor of History

HOW DOES A LEADER
in this age. of hyperbole get along in a
‘life without curriculum vitae? Without
biodata? Without a resume? Without a
paper trail?

Amazingly, John Kuykendall
— who needs no introduction — also
needs no c.v. His is a life lived in hu-
mility for the cause of servanthood —
service to God, his church, his family,

additional resources for Davidson Col-
lege. Few people (except Denise
Howard and Missy) know how full his
calendar is, how often and how far he
travels, and at what cost to his personal
and family life. For thirteen years he
has lived Davdison College. The result
is $160 million for Davidson. The fund-
raising method is simple: John
Kuykendall simply represents the very

political winds, and culture wars. He
teaches by example and listens to all
with an open mind. This would not be
on his c.v. — even if there were one.
Being a college president is
an incredible balancing act in an envi-
ronment of many constituencies. One
must have the heart of a lion, the poli-
tics of a fox, the diligence of a beaver,
the wisdom of an ow] and the speed of

and his college. To most people

a greyhound. If the Dean of

on this campus he is “Dr. J came to Davidson because I felt at home Faculty herds cats, the President
Kuykendall,” or “Captain in a liberal arts college and because I of the College manages a zoo.

Kirk,” or simply “John,” and we

are all his friends. We know Wanted to work with John Kuykendall.

Davidson is a lib-
eral arts college. It is not a busi-

the man through his life and
daily presence and influence in our
lives, not his record in the file. Not his
c.v. He has none.

I came to Davidson because
I felt at home in a liberal arts college
and because I wanted to work with John
Kuykendall. Little did I know that on
that first February 1986 meeting where
we made waffles together at Vail Com-
mons (he spilled as much batter as I did)
that I would come not simply to admire
him as an academic leader, but to love
him as a brother. That morning we
dreamed dreams for Davidson together.
Many have become reality. But not on
his c.v.

I once teased the President
about him being a “mendicant flier,” an
airborne churchman ever in search of

best virtues of the college and its State-
ment of Purpose. The man was never
trained to raise funds. You meet him
just once and you want to help his cause
forever. But don’t wait for the c.v.
John Kuykendall is above all
a teacher and a leader. Year after year
he persists in teaching students in the
classroom that he cannot resist in spite
of the schedule he cannot control. He
has spent his life in the calling of higher
education. He is a teacher and a scholar
first, and an administrator second. He
has the highest academic credentials,
the respect of the Faculty, and the ad-
miration and love of all those: who know
him. He defends tenure as the essen-
tial bulwark of academic freedom
against the vagaries of trustee moods,

WARREN BUFORD

Former President of the SGA, Class of 1997

IT IS JUST AN AC-
CEPTED FACT that when a basket-
ball game nears a point when one team
so dominates the other that the ending
is a foregone conclusion, fans leave. So
when Wildcat fans, confident of doing
their job to help the Wildcats crush the
opponent, began filing out of Baker on
that December night, months ago, few
of us who stayed off even noticed.

We did take notice, however,
of Davidson’s president, John
Kuykendall, sitting as he had all game
in his regu:

Of course he came over and of course
our crew still cussed. Of course he
cheered with us, and clapped when we
clapped, and shouted as we did, “Go
Cats!”. And of course, on this occa-
sion— just like the times when he
teaches his religion class, or when he
advises freshmen, or when he counsels

students after a crisis in their lives, or ..

when he speaks to student leaders, stu-
dent athletes, and incoming freshmen,
or when he eats barbecue with the com-
munity, or when he attends a Davidson

student’s fu-

lar behind- ° ee

ho ria, And as those of us Phi Delts, each of 2°." an¢
the-rim : the list goes
seat. As al- whom cherished the fact that on— he was
ways, he Kuykendall was one of ours, not just our
was atten- . A president,
tivecotreds watched the minutes tick away, it also om
ery play, Whispers of speculation surfaced as friend. That
clapping is why we
for the suc-

were just as

cesses and sighing at the mistakes. And
although he interrupted a clap or a sigh
to wave to someone heading home, we
knew he was sad to miss the action on
the floor. We knew he wanted to turn
his attention, as he had for 12 years,
back to those student-athletes and
coaches who represented Davidson.
We knew he was proud, like us, that
the Wildcats were close to victory, and
we knew he would stay until the bitter
end, fulfilling no promise or obligation,
just the desire to see Davidson win.
After all, he had done so ever since
1984,

And as those of us Phi Delts,
each of whom cherished the fact that
Kuykendall was one of ours, watched
the minutes tick away, whispers of
speculation surfaced as to whether or
not we could get Dr. Kuykendall to
come and join us to cheer for another
Phi Delt, “Stec,”’ to enter the game.
Some said, “No, don’t even ask,” while
others said, “Sure, but can we still
cuss?” and those more confident, “Yes,
he’ll come—he is one of us!” But re-
gardless of our guess, each of us would
have gladly sacrificed our seat for him
to join us. ,
-_ The mystery was short lived.

proud to have him join us as he was to
be there. :

That one gesture, on that De-
cember evening, represents thirteen
years of goodwill demonstrated by John
Kuykendall for Davidson students. But

Ihave come to admire him for more than _

just his genuine desire and willingness
to be a friend and supporter of Davidson
students. Other students might agree
that his goodness or his “‘value” to our
Davidson experience, extends beyond
any deliberate action or speech he
makes.

We know and accept that the
Davidson student is expected to excel
in everything he or she does; to respect
and tolerate others; to honor and trust
others; to serve others; to have the con-
fidence to lead others; to be kind, loyal,
and honest; and to challenge one. an-
other to be all of the above and more.

No wonder, then, that we look
up to Dr. Kuykendall with such admi-
ration. He embodies those values for
which we strive. :

He is all that we ought to be. I’m:
glad the Wildcats won on that night in
December and during the past twelve
years, and I’m thankful to have been a
part of that victory.

ness, not a sports camp, not a
church, and not a counseling center.
Davidson’s mission is to educate stu-
dents widely and humanely for service
in the world. John Kuykendall embod-
ies that mission. :
John has modestly said that
the secret to his success at Davidson is,
to paraphrase a famous baseball pitcher,
his “fast outfield.” I am honored to have
been in the outfield for eleven years and
to continue to be a member of this Fac-
ulty — who are outstanding in their own
fields.
The great existential philoso-

pher Woody Allen once said that life is

terminal. So is John Kuykendall’s
presidency. We will not see his like
again. Nor his c.v. But his example of
humility and service is forever.

Don’t forget!
May 6 is JWK day!
At 4:00, Dr.
Kuykendall will
give a Presidential
address, his last
public lecture, in
Belk arena. Open
to all, free of
charge.
Immediately
following will be a
staff, faculty, and
student tribute to
him. Then, free
BBQ for everyone
in Belk arena!

