6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ” () Pp —_ } D

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

The Dabtdsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors Opinions Editors Arts & Living Editors
JESSICA GOODSON KRISTEN BARTCH WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
NARESH NAGELLA DAVID SANTSCHI CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor Sports Editor Web Page Manager
RANDY SKATTUM JAY CANTRELL HENDI FINK

Photo Editor Advertising Managers Business Manager

ANNA JUDY SCOTT REEDER CHLOE BROOKE

MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
Copy Editors DAVID JOHNSTON Circulation Managers
WHITNEY BLAKE CHLOE BROOKE
ANNA ERIKSSON McNEIL CARSWELL

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Lorry Nearfoot heard the rumors of a

“Party Monster” who roamed campus
at night, but he never considered that
this midnight trip to the library would
change his life forever.

Cartoon by Alan Hyder

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR _

Poll was flawed, unscientific
To the Editor:

‘Read The Dabidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

Constructively critical, Zac set standard

I didn’t know Zac Lacy very well, a fact which now seems like a terrible mistake.
But [always admired the professional, constructive public persona he displayed during
his time as the editor of Libertas and in his other activities.

As I see it, there is a large group of students who dislike the same things about
Davidson that Zac did, but rather than affecting a disinterested and apathetic attitude as
so many do, Zac tried to make Davidson better from the inside.

He spoke on panels, served on Union projects — including operating 21-year-old
night, something for which I will be eternally grateful — and edited Libertas with great
nuance, sensitivity and professional acumen.

What always impressed me when I saw Zac in these different public capacities was
how he blended casualness and seriousness, a great sense of humor and razorsharp
analysis. He always seemed to be having fun, enjoying being involved, recognizing that
by helping to direct the process he was creating a better result.

Three specific instances from last semester come to mindas I write this. First, when
FLAG’s Sexuality Forum failed to happen on its original date, Zac agreed (0 sit on the
panel for the rescheduled date. The continuation of the dialogue, the process of
reconciling differences through an exchange of ideas, was paramount, and Zac would
not let it stop.

And he did not “go negative,” as our politicians say, but gave honest answers about
being gay at Davidson, which were a mix of bitter and sweet experiences. He was not
consumed by the institutional obstacles and personal hatred he found along the way.

Second, last semester Zac wrote a piece for Libertas, “Seven Davidson Myths.” It

stands as the most sensitive and persuasive evaluation of the Davidson social scene I -

have ever read. Perhaps it will seem redundant at this point to say that, while the piece
was critical of several sacred Davidson institutions, it was never mean-spirited or cruel.
He intermingled criticisms and solutions into a blue-print to solve all of the problems
he saw.

And third, in his last editorial, he found himself fighting for “the very existence”
of Libertas and still did not go negative. Considering his opponent, Zac would have had
ample precedent, if not actual right, to be nasty, but he did not. As he wrote: “But I have
no choice here but to claw tooth and nail to defend the very existence and importance
ofa publication like Libertas, somehow without being sappy, melodramatic, masturba-
tory, or raucously angry. I wilt choose an approach based on fact.”

He wanted to write on a host of other subjects which would have been far more
fruitful than the one that was forced onto him: “I wanted to make some grandiloquent
speech about the trials and tribulations of producing a student publication at Davidson,
or about the plight of publication staffs at this school, or student apathy, rampant anti-
intellectualism, pasts, futures, the present.”

In retrospect, it is regrettable that we did not have the opportunity to benefit from
his thoughts on these other topics. ’

This is the last edition of the Davidsonian in which my name will appear in the staff
box. The demands of a thesis call me away from what has been my primary
extracurricular time commitment since freshman year.

And as I reflect on the things I have done well and the things I have done poorly
in my time as an editor, I think a good standard for judgement would be Zac’s: to write
critically and constructively; to have as one’s goal making things better, and not more
antagonistic; to recognize the process as an integral part of the result.

Zac Lacy raised the bar for campus media and their relations to this contradicted,
conflicted college.

I hope we can always proceed with the same dignity and insight he did. For this
example, we are all indebted to Zac. ,

Iread with considerable interest the Davidsonian’s Sept. 23 coverage of the Ryan Gist trial, but
I’m dismayed at the unfortunate and arguably irresponsible use of the poll of Davidson students.

Readers might conclude that the survey represents the views of the Davidson student body,
especially given the presentation of the date in a front page story and in two tables on page 5, each
of which convey a “scientific” precision normally associated with reputable surveys of randomly
selected samples within a population.

This misperception is encouraged further by the large number of respondents. Readers might
conclude that a sample of 302 students in a relatively small population of about 1,600 students is
representative of the student body as a whole.

A careful reader would not, however, that the sample methodology does not conform to any
occupied standard of survey design. The poll was apparently “conducted in the Union and around
campus Wednesday and Thursday.”

It is difficult even to list the number of flaws in this methodology since we know so little about
how the survey was done, but it seems clear that self-selection biases, at the least, create a sample
that is unrepresentative of the student population as a whole.

Should the Davidsonian therefore not conduct such “unscientific” surveys? No — that is not
the point, for such polling may, under some circumstances, offer intriguing insights into what some
students are thinking. '

But, at a minimum, the Davidsonian should tell its readers how a survey was conducted, and
offer an unambiguous disclaimer when the poll is not generalizable to the entire student body — as
this survey clearly was not.

To create the impression that a survey accurately represents the views of the student body —
whether the editors intended to create that impression or not — is irresponsible, especially when the
survey concems issues of real importance to the life of the College.

Tom Kazee
Professor of Political Science

An Inaugural thank you

To the Editor:

_ My thanks toall of the wonderful Davidsonian staff for its splendid coverage of the Inauguration
of President Vagt.
You covered history-in-the-making at Davidsonian in a way which made us all proud, and

reminded us of not only the specialness of the day, but also of our good fortune to be a member of
the Davidson College family.

Leland M. Park ‘63
Library Directory
Chairman of the Inaugural Committee

To submit letters to the editor

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by
Thursday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to Editor in Chief Michael Kruse
at mikruse @ davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in
WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words. - :

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space
requirements mandate.

a
