TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998

Journey into the Scorching Hole

By Mitcu Suores
Staff Writer

Picture this: It is Sunday night, and it’s the
only night that you have ever had all your work
done (or in my case, maybe you didn’t).

Anyway, you get really bored and you are
just itching to go out and have some fun. Well,
climb on in the Big White Cam, ‘cause we’z goin’
fo’ a ride.

It was two Sundays ago around 11:00 p.m. I
was getting all ready to go out to a queer bar in
Charlotte, and I was psyched! It was not my first
time going, and certainly not my last. It was alittle
tradition I had started my freshman year which had
stuck with me — I was going to the Scorching
Hole (better known as Scorpio to those one-time-
gay-bargoers).

You see, Sunday night is truly the night to go
to Scorpio if you want to have some fun, because
that is when you can see the faces of all the good
girls like Tiffany Storm, Tracy Morgan (“The Sex
Kitten of the South”), Kerry Nichols, and Boom
Boom LaTour. These girls are the stars of the

Sunday night drag show at Scorpio.
The night that I went happened to be the
night before Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, and the

place was packed. I was accompanied by one of.

my gay friends who lives in Charlotte and some
kids from our hometown (Mayberry, or Mt. Airy).

* They had been dying to experience our side of the
- fence so we told them to come on down. Well,

they had a treat waiting for them when we arrived.

The shows normally do not start until mid-
night, so we. made a lap around the place and
joined the mass on the dance floor to bump and
grind. We danced and had a good time until about
12:15, because the shows never start on time.

We heard the show music starting up, and
we herded our friends to the side so we could get
a good seat. At that point, the night only got better
and better.

The show started unlike most. Usually Miss
Brooklyn Dior emcees and cracks on everybody,
but tonight there was a treat for everybody. Miss
Brooklyn herself was in the show. Out came the
black goddess herself with a puppet. She was all
dolled up in a Cher outfit, and that little puppet

was a replica of Sonny Bono. Well, they did the
little “I Got You Babe” number that was hilarious,
and after Sunny managed some obscene gestures
with the help of Miss Brooklyn, the show pressed
on. :

The next act to follow was hideous, but a
good laugh, no doubt. Now, [have always wanted
to be a surgeon of some type, but when that ugly
thang came out, I knew I was destined to be a
plastic surgeon. We just laughed at her ‘cause she
was ugly!!!

Butafter that, the show was impressive. There
was one drag queen who came out and shocked the
to come out and play, and our friends’ mouths
dropped to the floor.

They all turned to me and said, “How did he

get those?” I explained to them that many drag ~

queens either have some implants or they are on
hormone treatments to get their feminine garden
growing. So we dealt with that and the show
continued.

The show proceeded with an impersonation
of Tina Turner. Now, that was impressive! The
lady who did that act was amazing. She had every

move down to an art. And to top that off, we had
The Three Black Queens come out and do the
Supremes. '

There was a big line of people waiting to tip
those girls, and I can tell you they made some good
money that night. They toy with the audience and
tell them that the tips are their lunch money, but I
would be buying a whole lot more than a 59-cent
cheeseburger at Burger King with the assload of
money they get shoved down their cleavage every
night. Lunch money, my ass!

Well the. show ended, and it was indeed a
night to remember. It provoked a lot of conversa-
tion and questions from our friends, but it is
something you all should experience.

If you have never been to Scorpio, you should
go. You will have a great time just dancing and
being with your friends. You might even see
something your mother warned you about as a kid,
but that will never stop me from going.

If a little group of Chi Omegas from UNCC
can make it, you can, too. The Big White Cam (the
gay Vamanos Van) will leave most every Sunday
night and take you for no fee at all.

FLAG Fashion Show arouses Chambers Gallery
“skinfest” holds nothing sacred — and rightfully so

By Wes ey H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

The Chambers Gallery received its annual
feast of fashion and eroticism this weekend.

The 4th Annual FLAG (Friends of Lesbians
and Gays) Fashion Show did not fail to disappoint
its standing-room-only crowd Saturday night. An
estimated 450 people attended this year’s install-
ment, with spectators continuing to fill in the
Gallery’s cracks until the haven of glitter, glam-
our, and painted torsos was bursting at the seams.
FLAG co-president Irene Middleton was thrilled
with the overwhelming turnout at the event, which
brought FLAG an estimated $1,250 in sponsor-
ships.

Manning the microphones for the evening
were co-emcees Josh Gaffga and Iva Taylor, who
arrived for the occasion dressed to the nines.

The evening’s opening act featured a seven-

member troupe representing the Seven Deadly
Sins, among which included gluttony, vanity,
lust, avarice, greed, sloth, and wrath. Maggie
Avery’s portrayal of “lust” involved the swift
removal of a tiger skin pattern dress revealing
an array of lacy black lingerie, flooring several
front-row audience members. From my own
personal tour of duty as “sloth,” I must attest
that participating in the event can give a prime
adrenaline rush, suitable even for.those not
accustomed to exhibitionism or “dressing out.”
The fashion show is as much fun for the partici-
pants as it can be for the audience.

Amongst the near-70 student models, those
modeling the least amount of clothing seemed
to gain the most campus attention. Several
women took to the circular runway with a mere
layer of paint separating their “au naturel”
selves from the crowd’s collective eyes. Par-
ticularly memorable were the so-called “Blue

People” (Buster Burk, Annie Carr, Anna Judy,
and Jeremy Tarr), whose stage act was accompa-
nied by the creation and distribution of several
blue art sculptures across campus, affectionately
known as “those blue things.”

“So that’s what those things were,”
Davidson realizes. The group aimed to show
that, like the inert blue sculptures, the human
body is but a material art form, as well. Although
the brave foursome appeared to have painted
themselves blue from head to toe, they may have
missed some spots, according to a few audience
members.

Another act that helped rock the stage down
to its plywood foundation was put on by
Davidson’s own student health advisors (Mitch
Shores, Lindsey Meyers, Eric Borgstrom, and
Amy Marks), accompanied by an enthusiastic
Georgia Ringle. - The quintet pranced
rambunctiously about the runway, heaving hand-

ful after handful of latex condoms into the electri-
fied crowd.

This year’s fashion show included a jazz
interlude performed by Chad Diamond on “up-
right” bass and Derek Kverno on saxophone.

While last year’s FLAG extravaganza tipped
the clocks at two and a half hours long, this year’s
show, expected to eclipse the two-hour mark, was
much shorter, lasting less than 90 minutes. Unlike
last year’s show, Saturday’s event was devoid of
the band performance and professional drag queen
appearances which contributed to last year’s show’ s
enormous length. Said queens had been scheduled
to appear on Saturday, but canceled their visit on
Friday.

The 1997-98 FLAG Fashion Show was an
indisputable success. If the-event’s notoriety and

~ attendance continue to grow, and they should,

they'll be lined up out the door at sundown to get
front row seats.

By WILSON BunTIN
Staff Writer

Avoid the temptation; don’t waste your time
on “Great Expectations.”

_ I was at the movies a couple of weeks ago
and saw a great preview for “Great Expecta-
tions.” You have charming Ethan Hawke, beau-
tiful Gwenyth Paltrow, Bobby DeNiro, and a
famous literary classic all wrapped in one. How
could you go wrong?

Well folks, they took a wrong turn and never
looked back. Ihave never read Charles Dickens’s
book, so I was not able to get involved in the
whole “the book was better than the movie”
argument, which, as it turned out, would not have
been a problem anyway.

The movie is set largely present-day Florida,
where we watch Finn (Ethan Hawke) grow up.
He has a pretty depressing life because a) he has
no parents and b) he lives with his very unexciting
uncle and troubled sister. en

pretty weird run-in with an escaped convict (Rob-
ert DeNiro), and yes, the hits just keep oncoming,
as he mysteriously falls in love with Estelle
(Gwenyth Paltrow), whom he visits at her cra-

“Great Expectations”
less than expected

If things were not bad enough, he has a —

zier-than-hell aunt’s house (Anne Bancroft). And
you think you have it bad! ;

Sounds sort of strange? Well, it’s not only
strange, but painful to sit through. As I was
watching the movie, I could not put my finger on
exactly what bothered me about this movie so
much. After several hours of digesting, I figured
it out. My conclusions: The movie script was
poorly written.

On top of this, the movie did not flow very
well, and it even seemed at times that the director
was rushing through scenes without really think-
ing or caring about how they connected to one
another. Other than Hawke’s' and Paltrow’s
pretty faces, beneath the skin this movie was
extremely hollow, lacking any love, passion,
excitement, or suspense.

For those of you who are dying to see this
movie in spite of my merciless criticism, I'll give
you asmall morsel of a reason to go. The movie
was at times very visually interesting, with the
director exploring different angles and capturing
the delicate landscape of southern Florida —
and, later, the bustle of life in New York — very
skillfully. But that’s as far as the praise goes on
this one.

Grade: C-/D+

WHEN:

- Belk Basement

SEMESTER LOOKING LIKE IT WAS BUILT BY THE
WHITE STAR LINE?

BEST INTENTIONS HIT AN ICEBERG OF
DISORGANIZATION?

TITANIC PROBLEMS WITH PROCRASTINATION
GIVING YOU THAT SINKING FEELING?

Time Management/Procrastination
Workshop Series

3 Wednesdays - Feb. 4, 11, & 25, at 3:30 p.m.
WHERE: New Residence Life Conference Room

DR. STATON of the STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER will address: common traps
in which efforts to avoid procrastination actually cause it; the FREEDOM of using
scheduling; finding what best motivates you, personally; tips on GETTING STARTED;
special issues about getting papers written on time (without ‘ALL-NIGHTERS’); et
cetera!! Emphasis on making something HAPPEN!

Free.
Class Limited to 20.
Call x-2451

YOU CAN DO THIS! CALL NOW!

