This is another in a series of articles focus-
ing on the people and programming of the Col-
lege Union, its traditional prominence on this
campus, and its mission to foster greater unity
among students, faculty, and staff.

AES

UNION

\ 4

AT THE UNION

By MIcuac- J. Kruse

Most student-run organizations suffer from
a detrimental inevitability: Whether in one-year
cycles or four-year cycles, students come and
students go, leaving most all clubs and groups in
a state of practically constant flux.

Not so at the Union.

Thanks to a staff of full-time, well-trained,
professional administrators who serve as advi-
sors to students on the Union Board, the Union
functions with a common and continual purpose
rarely seen in most organizations on a college
campus.

“We have an ideal situation,” said Matthew
Hobbie, who presided over the Union Board

before Cintra Pollack took over in February.
“There’s a continuity that they provide that is
essential. It is their job. They have contacts.”

Sherry Malushizky agrees.

“Tt lends to continuity,” said the Assistant
Director for Programs, who worked six years at
UNC Charlotte before coming to Davidson five
years ago. “That’s what helps from year to year,
that you’re not reinventing the wheel.”

Malushizky and Program Advisor Angela
Crisp-Sears are the Board’s primary advisors.

“Their job is to help stu-
dents be successful,” said

what he or she is doing.”

Still, it is the students who devise and pro-
duce the Union programming while the advisors
take an-important back seat.

As Brown pointed out, “There are lots of
times that leaders can do more harm than good.
They just need to stay back sometimes.”

“Students plan the program, produce the pro-
gram, and make the decisions. It’s just as though
students have a professional staff of advisors. To
some extent, it’s a little bit like writing a good

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1998

Professionals help students accomplish uniting goals

expects you to do something important. You are
allocated resources, volunteers, so many great
folks around you, and a professional staff that is
here to help you succeed,” #3"

“T like to empower students to make deci-
sions,” Malushizky added. “I’m here to help
facilitate — pushing students to have vision and to
help them think what they’ re passionate about —

* not to tell them what they should be doing.

“The students that run the Board are really the
ones who make it happen. I couldn’t make it
happen without

them.” ~

Director of the Union Will-
iam Brown.

“T take that role very
seriously,” said Crisp-Sears,
who was president of the
Union as.a student at Chapel

“There are lots of times that leaders can do more harm than good. They
just need to stay back sometimes.”

Said
Hobbie: “We
were blessed in
the past year with
incredible indi-
viduals who have

—wWilliam Brown .

Hill. “It’s my job to ensure
that the chairs are thinking about everything, that
this event is something the entire community wants
to do. It’s often the logistical things, contractual
things. That’s the easy part. The more important
part of my job is making sure the process is there,
making sure that the chair and the committee has
thought through the event.

“T ask the chair questions so the chair knows

paper and calling on a faculty member before you
turn it in.

“You may consult somebody before your
research. But the advisors are very much in the
background. Students make the decisions. Advi-
sors are much more enablers than anything else.

“This is one of the best opportunities you’ ll
ever have in your life. The campus elected you and

done incredible

things, taken programs to new heights.”.

And listen up, leaders and members of other
student organizations with offices in the Union.

The best part of the Board’s set-up?

“Other organizations can come to us, too,”
Crisp-Sears explained. “William has really made
an effort to get that word out. We're here as
resources for other organizations as well.”

Patterson Court Games coming together

_ By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

The fine points of Jason McMullan’s big idea
are slowly but surely becoming final. The Patterson
Court Games (formerly known as PCC Week) will
be held from Monday, Mar. 30 to Sunday, Apr. 5.
Events will be suspended Friday, Apr. 3 due to the
Union Board’s Spring Frolics and the production
of the musical “Hair.” The Games will run from 4-
6 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. Monday through Thursday,
from 1-3 p.m. and 4-6 p.m. on Saturday, and from
1-3 p.m. on Sunday, with an awards ceremony to
follow.

There will also be a service project on Satur-
day morning dealing with campus and town rela-
tions.

McMullan said that he is still looking for
faculty and independent teams.

Sign-up forms are available in the Residence

Life Office, the library, and the Union. The
deadline to sign up is tomorrow at noon; if there

are problems, contact McMullan as soon as pos- .

sible.

The events of the week are as follows: the
Black Student Coalition will sponsor a bat-spin
relay; Connor will sponsor a tug-of-war; Kappa
Alpha will sponsor a horseshoe throw; Kappa
Sigma will sponsor a free-throw and three-point
basketball shooting contest; Phi Delta Theta will
sponsor a ping pong tournament; Phi Gamma
Delta will sponsor an egg toss; Pi Kappa Alpha
will sponsor a fussball tournament; Rusk will
sponsor relay races; Sigma Alpha Epsilon will
sponsor a cake- or pie-eating contest; Sigma Phi
Epsilon will sponsor a bus-pull; and Warner Hall
will sponsor a lip-synching contest. The dates and
times for these events will be decided today.

McMullan encourages those who do not par-
ticipate in the Games to be spectators.

Take Back from page 1

President of the Rape Awareness Committee,
spoke on education “to give everyone a chance to
breathe.” She began by defining rape as “any
unwanted sexual contact.”

“It’s about power and control,” she contin-
ued. An earlier speaker stated this, as well,
saying, “Rape is sexual violence. (It) is about
social values. It is not a women’s issue.”

Three-fourths of rape victims are women,
according to Kanter, and a rape occurs every five
minutes.

Kanter reminded the audience that the Rape
Awareness Committee now has a pager, and a
First Responder is on duty 24 hours a day, seven

victims to talk and will take them to the hospital
if they want to go, but there is no pressure, and all

Sharing experiences helps
healing process —

days a week. The First Responders will allow.

First Responders are non-judgmental and com-
pletely confidential. The pager number is 356-
3126.

Kanter also suggested methods to help pre-
vent becoming a victim of rape, including taking
a self-defense course, not feeling inferior, having
a plan, helping friends, communicating limits,
and challenging sexist attitudes.

Five more speakers followed Kanter’s talk.

The.900 Room then slowly emptied in si-
lence broken only by the occasional sob. On the
way out, audience members and speakers picked
up strands of red ribbon and wallet-sized cards
bearing the First Responders’ pager number.

Take Back the Night ended with members
of the audience and the speakers tying the red
ribbons on a fichus tree set up outside the front
steps of Union, one for each person they know
who has been sexually assaulted.

~ Dr. MAXINE SINGER

Henry Lewis Smith Lecturer

Tonight at 7:30 p.m.,

Dr. Singer will speak in Chambers Gallery.

A biologist and Director of the Carnegie Institute, Singer
will give a lecture entitled “Dealing with Genes.”

A reception will follow.

