fter the racial slur appeared on a campus

advertisement, things were never quite

the same. As one African American said
soon after, “The black students are tired of this
stuff. We've been antagonized by our police,
ostracized by our classmates, patronized by our
faculty, and utilized by our administration. Why
should we keep trying to fit in here when it is
obvious no one wants us around?” This student’s
frustration was shared by all black students, and as

new prospective blacks came to visit the current .

group convinced them with sincerity and passion,
“Don’t come here!”

Five years later, the last black student gradu-
ated from Davidson College.

Where was the administration during this
crisis? Oh, they were around, crying out that “there
really is diversity at Davidson, you just have to
look around,” and, “We welcome minority stu-
dents with open arms.” They even changed the
mission statement and put diversity in bold print,
italicized.

But they never even thought about adding
more courses about Minority History, Culture,
Leadership, or Theory, nor did they try to hire vocal
young minority professors. Indeed, as African
American enrollment decreased, the administra-
tion forced out the current black faculty saying,
“You no longer have an audience here.” As inter-
national students and other minorities followed
black students to more welcoming educational
settings, the other minority professors were shown

own great satisfaction; continued the longstanding
trend of maintaining a high minority employment
by giving blacks more and more janitorial posi-
tions. Davidson, though, as a body of students and
faculty, was 99.5 percent white, and increasingly
male.

drummers, ethnic dance troupes, minority speak-
ers, writers, and poets, Black History Month ac-
tivities, and the like were all replaced with coun-
try singers, Radical Republicans, and weekly
Longneck/Redneck parties. The former BSC
building was annexed by anewly revitalized KA,

No one seemed too concerned.

Oh sure, there were a lot of changes at the old
College. Women found themselves silenced more
and more, now that they had no other activist
minorities with whom to share a voice. Those who
came now truly came to get that MRS degree.
Classes about Africa, Asia, and Latin America, or
its descendants in the United States, were elimi-
nated due to lack of interest. For the same type of
white students who packed classrooms before,
thoughts of Civil Rights, Eastern philosophies,
and Latin American politics never really crossed
their minds.

There were other changes, too. The African

the same door. However, the Administration, to its 2

Get out your tiki doll

ello again folks, I’m back and this time I’m mad. Actually I’m not, I’ve just always
wanted to enter into aroom, have a director zoom in fora big head shot and have some
gruff sounding announcer say, ‘“Cort’s back and he’s pissed off!” Ah well, I can
dream can’t I?
All right, I realize I am only a little freshman peon (as if that hasn’t been debated in the
Op-Ed section at great length), so therefore I should naturally be confused by this whole
course selection bonanza. However, does it seem right that you must have a post-graduate
degree in order to understand how to sign up for undergraduate courses? When | first got that
tree (the day before it was due), I stared at it like — well I don’t know what I stared at it like.
I would presume though that I looked like some big, confused, staring-type thingie. I can’t
always come up with witty analogies and similes off the top of my head, okay?
Regardless, I did eventually figure out what the hell was going on and I feel fairly
confident in the fact that I managed to sign up for: underwater basket weaving 101 (counts
for both my water credit and fine arts), biology of the Yeti, Advanced time wasting 326, and
Math for Poets 110 (since I probably failed it the first time through). So what I am going to
do now is give yowa simple step by step guide to filling out your course selection sheets, which
you can use next semester to take the myriad of helpful courses that Lam. By the way, with
these courses, I’m on the fast track to graduating in the year 2047.
1. Get out your Tiki doll and pray to your Tiki God like never before.
2. Take your first choice for a class and completely forget about ever getting it. Itis my belief
that the people in the Registrar’s Office are clairvoyant, and they know what you want and
know how notto give it to you. (Ihave a friend who managed to get 13:in the draw for courses;
he was happy until I pointed out the fact that, as a freshman, he’s actually number 1213.)
3. Now that you have forgotten about what you would like to take, choose a course and divide
the three numbers at the end (eg, Rocks for Jocks 103) by Tina Yother’s age and finally
multiply by Oprah’s total weight change over the last five years.
4. The number you receive should correspond in no way to any number on the tree sheet. You
should then write this course in the space designated for your I.D. number. Trust me, this is
the double secret course selection spot. The registrars love to try and decipher what you’re
doing; it makes their job less stressful.
5.'Now, take your second choice class and write it in boxes 1a through 32q. Don’t worry about
if the class is full; if you write it in enough, I’m sure they’ II feel compelled to squeeze you in.
6. Now, you should have exactly 376.42 spaces left to fill in on your tree. Your next step
should be to choose four courses at random, cut them out of the course catalogue, and paste
them onto the tree in any way you see fit. Use crayons, too; the registrars love crayons!
7. Finally, crumple it all up into a small ball and throw it directly at the head of the woman
in the office. She used to be a catcher on her college softball team and always appreciates a
quick game of catch. : <
Well, that’s all from me for this week. Take it easy and I'll see ya’ll ‘round.

whose membership had tripled. And in a move to
invoke a sense of Southern pride and honor the
Administration decided to fly the good ol’ Stars
and Bars above (not below) the Stars and Stripes
in front of Chambers.

But all in all, no one minded. The new
president, when asked, said, “I think it’s great that
Davidson is returning to its roots as a Southern
Presbyterian school. All those years we tried so
hard to become diverse, we lost our sense of
tradition and the ideal of teaching our students
values to go along with their knowledge”

When alumni returried for Homecoming,
they applauded the new Southern Life Center and
with heartfelt passion sang “Dixie” before the

Wildcat football team was trounced again. Every-
one laughed when a male member of the Home-
coming Court introduced his four dates as “well- -
inspected specimens.” The Black student at
Davidson was a long-forgotten nightmare in anew
Southern dreamland.

In an age when the country eliminated affir-
mative action because it gave blacks an upper hand
in the job market, even when in reality the largest
beneficiary was the white woman; when many
schools abolished their minority admissions guide-
lines to allow in more legacies and rich white
students; when across the South one could hear,
distinctly audible underneath the empty rhetoric
about diversity, the shouts of “Heritage not hate,”
Davidson’s transformation was the rule rather
than the exception. It seemed that the United
States was beginning to say more and more what
it had felt all along — “Blacks not welcome here.”

On Thursday, the Union Speakers Commit-
tee and the Black Student Coalition will present an
evening with Derrick Bell, beginning at 7:30 p.m.
in Love Auditorium. Bell (seen the bells around
campus?) is one of the leading voices in the na-
tional debates around race. He has tried over 100
civil rights cases as a lawyer, taught at several
universities including Harvard, and written sev-
eral books. His speech will be entitled “Racial
Liberation Day.” As he has been one of the most
influential voices in my education, I would like to
personally invite each person who reads this ar-
ticle — student, faculty, staff, alumnus/a, or con-
cerned reader — to join me Thursday night.

The Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN
News Editors Op-Ed Editor
“LIZ NEIHEISEL Business Manager ERIN McKINLEY
CARRIE ARTHUR SCOTT REEDER
Arts & Living Editors
Sports Editors Circulation Manager MELISSA ANN de
ALISON KALETT EUGENIA LEATH CASTRIQUE
MIKE ANDERSON WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Advertising Managers
» 4 News Layout Editors PETER CLARK Op-Ed Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY DAVID JOHNSTON JOHN DUNWOODY
ence ai EVAN McCORMICK
opy Editors W
, WHITNEY BLAKE : paHARKER
Sports Layout Editors CINDY CLARK Aris& Living Lay itors
g Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON, — JOHN DUNWOODY CGaTHERINE CORNWELL
CADER HOWARD “4 EPHANIE- ERICKSON =X AREN SWEENEY
OLLY MARKARIAN
> AILEEN WATERS
Ad Designers JUSTIN MONROE
BEN COVINGTON JAY SCANLAN Photo Editor
CADER HOWARD SALLIE McMURRAY

‘Founded in 1914 _
_ “The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

