_ THE DAVIDSONIAN —

Youth groups worship, listen,

and eat in Johnston Gym

By LypiA WILSON
Staff Writer

Wednesday evening, Davidson’s
Athletic Department, in conjunction
with the Fellowship of Christian Ath-
letes, InterVarsity, and Young Life chap-
ters, hosted their
second annual

how their relationships with Christ have
helped them through the trying times in
their lives.

There were many aims of the rally,
according to Sapp, whois also the former
FCA president. One of the most basic
aims was to encourage support for the

to meet each other and to talk.

The rally also allowed Davidson’s
FCA, InterVarsity, and Young Life
chapters to work together and interact.
“We like to do anything we can with the
other Christian groups,” said Sapp of
the FCA chapter. “It helps create a
consolidated
Christian commu-

S: . : it s.”
community-wide @ Church youth organizations from the ©) te sw-
barbeque dinner SUITOUNdINg area Converged at Davidson to rally dent tumout re-
inJohnstonGym. for religious committment and men’s basketball. eee ee

pants from almost

kicked off at 5:30
p.m. and was ca-
tered by Ford’s BBQ on Highway 21 in
Cornelius.

Because of a sponsorship by Bur-
gess Supply Company, the dinner was
free for Davidson students. The cost for
non-students was $7.00, but the price
included a ticket to the Davidson-UTC
basketball game.

Dinner was followed by a brief
program at 6:15 p.m. that included a
group of seniors from InterVarsity who
led everyone in the singing of worship
songs.

Three Davidson students gave per-
sonal testimonies during the program.
Senior David Williams, junior Stan
Baker, and senior Eric Sapp, all told of

men’s basketball team.

Approximately 500 people at-
tended the dinner and rally and then
went to cheer the Wildcats on to vic-
tory, half to three-quarters of which
were non-students.

The large turnout of people from
the community was a realization of an-
other of the rally’s goals. FCA mem-
bers called over 400 churches in the
Charlotte, Concord, and Cornelius ar-

“ eas to invite their youth groups to the

event. Of those called, 40 churches
attended.

Social time was worked into the
beginning and end of the dinner to al-
low students and community members

all of Davidson’s
Christian organizations.

The final goal of the rally was to tie
Christian activities with having fun.
Though first and foremost there was a
strong focus on worshiping and learn-

‘ing more about God, those present did

their fair share of laughing.

Both Williams and Baker spoke of
their experiences rolling houses in high
school and senior Katie Palmer kept the
crowd entertained by dancing while she
helped lead more worship songs.

The informal program allowed all
present to feel comfortable and to enjoy
themselves. “We like to show people

» that you don’t have to be a somber

Puritan to be a Christian,” said Sapp.

LOOKING FOR BACK ISSUES OF THE DAVIDSONIAN?

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

Fourth eating house?

Eating House from page 1

perfect alternative.

At this point in time, there are no
plans to make the fourth eating house
a co-ed institution. :

The establishment of a new eat-
ing house would be in direct response
to the pressing need to alleviate the
problem of overcrowding in women’s
eating houses.

The three houses that are cur-
rently present cannot continue to ac-
commodate the large volume of
women who are choosing to self-se-
lect. Hence, if another eating house is
to be established, its first and foremost
purpose would be to provide more
room for women on the Court. After-
wards, if there still exists a great deal
of interest in establishing a co-ed eat-
ing house, the Outpost could be con-
verted into a fifth eating house.

Judging by the large number of
women who attended the information
session, itseems possible that Patterson
Court may havea new addition by next
fall.

In order for this to happen, how-
ever, RLO does need to have a mon-
etary commitment from at least 40
women by the end of the semester.

As of now, there only exists a
preliminary planning committee, but
eventually acommittee of women will-
ing to serve as board members for the
new house must be formed.

Besides the opportunity to oc-
cupy administrative positions, these
founding women would be afforded
the chance to create a whole new set of
traditions on Patterson Court.

Anyone who is interested or has
questions regarding the fourth eating
house may direct them to Claire Sisco
or Hope Henry (x6572).

Pick one up at the office (Sat.-Mon.)

TIRED OF FLOWERS?
BUT YOU STILL DON’T WANT TO BE ORIGINAL?

Buy your crush an orange-flavored, carbonated
beverage all next week.

$1 — send a Crush® to your main squeeze
$1 — find out who’s stalking you
$3 — remain the anonymous donor of cola
Proceeds donated to Ada Jenkins Center
Come on! $1 and you can
7 embarass your roommates!

business.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 7 - 8 P.M.,
Morrison Room, COLLEGE UNION

@ Mr. Ketner’s presentation is open to the public.

¢ Sponsored by the Premanagement Committee.

a

Mr. Ralph W. Ketner — Entrepreneur

A presentation about the life of an entrepreneur: the
rewards, the responsibilities, the headaches

Mr. Ralph Ketner, co-founder and chairman emeritus of Food Lion, Inc.

@ Hear the life experiences that led to the formation of Food Lion and its ultimate
transformation into one of the leading grocery chains in America.

®@ A nationally recognized entrepreneur, his radical ideas changed forever the grocery

Dinner at 6:00 in the Dupont Room; sign up at 321-G Chambers (seats are limited.)

