“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
EstaBLisHeD 1914

Rubber boas live on.
Dorcas speaks.

NEws 3

Britton Taylor sucks.

Bennett bashes the complainer.

OPINIONS 8

Libido-icide.

Mitch discusses sex drive.

A&L 10

Cats claw their way to the top.
Men’s b-ball wins regular season title

SPORTS 16

Tay Cae se Emily Smith
@ As part of Alcohol Awareness Week, Ann Strauser ‘99 participated in a demonstration on the effects of drinking, which required her to
receive a breathalizer test from an N.C. highway patrolman.

Ringle pleased with outcome of Alcohol Awareness Week

Week of speakers and events ends with positive results

By Carrit ARTHUR
Staff Writer

For many students, alcohol is a
normal part of college life. As Assis-
tant Dean of Students and Director of
Minority Student Affairs ErnestJeffries
admits, “underage drinking is a prob-
lem on campus.” Alcohol Awareness
Week, which began Thursday, Feb. 12,
highlighted this problem.

The week began with a program
by two speakers from MADD (Mothers
Against Drunk Driving), who spoke
about their own personal experiences
with drunk driving. The first speaker
was a father whose 18-year old daugh-
ter died in a jet-ski accident when her
friend ran into her after he had been
drinking. The other speaker was a col-
lege-age girl who killed her best friend
when she drove drunk. Not only must
she live with the guilt for the rest of her
life, but she is also a convicted felon.
The talk was open to the entire campus
and the Davidson community, and new
members of Patterson Court were re-
quired to attend. After the talk, the
speakers passed out MADD ribbons

and met with individual students, and’

ice cream was served. One of the points
Health Educator Georgia Ringle found
most interesting is that approximately
15 percent of the audience had lost a
family member or loved one in an acci-
dent involving a drunk driver,

On Friday, Feb. 13, the BAT Mo-
bile came to campus. Ringle said that
the talk was “very popular” because
students were interested in seeing how
the sobriety tests, DWI checkpoints,
and the machine for testing blood alco-
hol level work. In the van, there were
also goggles which simulated the ef-
fects of a 1.6 blood alcohol limit, which
is twice the legal driving limit. Outside
the van, the student group SHOCK
served mocktails, traditional alcoholic
drinks without the alcohol.

Then, on Friday evening, a N.C.
highway patrolman performed a sobri-
ety test with real alcohol in the 900
Room. The highway patrolman served
three students vodka and tonic, cham-
pagne, and beer respectively. Ringle
said that the variety of alcohol demon-

strated that “it doesn’t matter what,

you’re drinking; your blood alcohol
level will rise.” He served the students
enough alcohol to make them close to

the legal driving limit of .08. After a
movie about drunk driving, the patrol-
man performed sobriety tests on the
students. Ringle said, “The students
did confess that they were feeling fairly
buzzed and they probably should not
drive.” Ringle said the purpose of the
program was “to really demonstrate that
there is impairment pretty much early
on in the drinking situation.”

The last program was on Monday,
Feb. 16. Judge Vic Fleming —a David-
son alumnus and author — spoke about
his experience as a traffic court judge in
Little Rock, Ark., and responsible drink-
ing. Ringle said that he had “a good
sense of humor” and at the same time
“gave wonderful information about
what alcohol does to your brain, to your
liver, to your reflexes.” Fleming em-
phasized the importance of drinking
responsibly and of not binge drinking.
This talk was mandatory for new
Patterson Court members, but other stu-
dents and members of the Davidson
community attended, as well.

While Ringle said, “I hope thatit’s
not just a week in people’s lives,” she
plans: to continue with programs
throughout the year. Ringle hopes that

Alcohol Awareness Week increased
awareness about the whole issue. Ringle
knows there are “certain realities of
college campus life I’m not going to be
able to eliminate, but I certainly want
(students) to be more thoughtful about
their drinking and to be more moderate,
and to stay away from the outer edges of
driving drunk or getting to the point
where they are reaching near toxic lev-
els, such as alcohol poisoning.”

Ringle emphasized that there are
meetings for Alcoholics Anonymous
on Mondays at 8 p.m. in room 205 of
Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
Alanon also meets inroom 205 of DCPC
on Wednesdays at 9 p.m. for friends and
loved ones of alcoholics.

On a more positive side, Ringle
added that there is “less drinking than
people perceive.” In an alcohol and
drug survey conducted last year, 15 to
20 percent of Davidson students said
that they do not drink or rarely drink,
which mean one to two drinks per year.
Within the population that does drink,
the majority does not binge drink, which
is categorized as drinking five or more
drinks in one sitting.

Ringle knows many people “that

“1 think it’s terrific, the amount and the level of programming at the Union, because it’s a student-driven and student-directed program.”

PRESIDENT BoBBY VAGT

are perfectly capable of having a fantas-
tic,. goofy time without a drop.of alco-
hol.” She said, “We need to have more
of that good time.” Ringle encourages
students “to be brainstorming and look-
ing at ways to make our campus a safe
and healthy environment.” She said, “I
welcome ideas and volunteers.”
Patterson Court Advisor and Resi-
dent Life Coordinator Jim Barber agreed
that they are trying to “continually edu-
cate students about the risks involved
with alcohol and alcohol abuse.” He
was happy with the results of Alcohol
Awareness Week: “I was really pleased
with the programs — the benefits to the
students that attended.” He added that
he was “glad Patterson Court was a part
of that.”

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

