THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1998

VAC Attack shows student support

BY JoHN A. Dunwoopy II
News and OP-ED Layout Editor

On Thrusday, Oc. 22, the Visual Arts Center
hosted what has now become kriown as the VAC
Attack. The art students banded together, planned,
and orchestrated the evenings’ events, which oc-
curred from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. The purpose was to
raise awareness and support against closing the
Visual Arts Center (VAC) between the hours of 1
a.m. and 6 a.m.

President Bobby Vagt attended the events
and entertained a question and answer session,
which allowed students to voice their opinions,
comments; and concerns. Following this informal
discussion, there were live performances that
ranged from dramatic interpretations to dance,
poetry readings, drumming, and guitarists.

In tandem with the other events, the Studio

Art majors had arranged a selection of some of

their current works for a viewing in the student
gallery. About 400 students and faculty attended
some portion of the three hours of visual and
auditory events.

As items stand right now, the outcome for the
VAC remains the same as all of the other build-
ings; it will be closed between the hours of 1
a.m.and 6 a.m. President Vagt’s take on the

closing focused on the issues of fairness and
money for financial aid. Closing the VAC and the
other buildings will allow more money to be
placed in the hands
of students in need
of financial aid. The
money saved will al-
low many financial
aid recipients the
ability to continue on
with their education
at this institution as
wellas providing in-

coming students
with: the same
privelges.

The students
raised many ques-
tions in rebuttal to
this line of thinking.
One student ques-
tioned, “In support-
ing the students of tomorrow, shouldn’t the presi-
dent be supporting first and foremost the students’
needs of today? We are here now and we need
these things now; you should be supporting the
rights of student education right how and not
making cutbacks for tomorrow by hurting the

@ President Bobby Vagt answers
students’ questions at the VAC Attack.

students of today.”

President Vagt also took a strong stance on
maintaining fairness across the board, if one build-
ing will be closed
from | to 6 a.m. all
the buildings
should be closed
from 1 to 6 a.m.
Students countered
President Vagt’s
fairness outlook
with the fact that
no viable alterna-
tive will be made
for art students in
the new 24-hour
Union. Vagt,
standing by his
equality of majors
stance, cited the
psychology, chem-
istry, and biology
majors who will not be able to access their experi-
ments during these same hours as a way of showing
that he was not singling out one group students.
One Studio Art major made the point that
“oftentimes we cannot pick up what we are work-
ing on and take it home or to the Union to work on

Sallie McMurray

it.” Studio Art major Melissa Otis made the
statement that, “It would almost be like telling
students that at 1 a.m.they cannot take any of
their libray books home or anywhere else.” Presi-
dent Vagt stood by the idea that the closing of the
buildings was for the greater good of the students
and that in the future when more funds are
available the possibility remains to revert these
actions.

One student in opposition asked, “Is it re-
ally fairto close all the buildings and back the arts
into a corner, should we really be limiting the
trué potential of the art students?” Jesse
Smallwood questioned, “Exactly how much
money will closing the VAC really save, and will
these expenses justify these actions?”

Despite the length of the discussion, many
students left with more unanswered questions
than answers. The evening’s events ended with
the raising of a banner in front of the VAC that
stated, “Life is short, Art is long.”

This statement comes from the Latin in-
scription on the seal of the Visual Art Center.
And more importantly as Otis stated, “This is
only the beginning, we will continue to work
against this action. It is evident by the student
support that this issue is larger than President
Vagt seems to think, If this many people at-
tended, then we are not alone!”

SGA in

By AMANDA Britt

orms student body with update

Independent Senator

In case you grabbed a hot dog
between classes or savored 4
gardenburger on the Union patio amid
friends and faculty, SGA thanks you
for supporting its biannual interactive
galaheld Monday, Oct. 19. Aftermuch
preparation and rescheduling around
dreary weather, SGA Day harvested
great success. Whether you signed up
for an SGA committee, mingled with
members, or simply sank your teeth
into a char grilled beef burger (sorry
we ran out of ‘dogs), your participation
played a part in helping SGA keep in

touch with the people we represent.
On Tuesday, Oct. 20, the SGA
resumed its weekly session after Fall
Break with President Ann Harriott
Fisher’s call to order and welcome,
followed by newly appointed Chan-
cellor Laurie de Vegter calling role.
Each committee chairman in charge of
working on one of our year’s goals
then gave a report on how their com-
mittee was progressing. The commit-
tee working to improve environmental
awareness emphasized recycling.
Many feel a great lack of education and
promotion of recycling lingers in
Davidson’s halls and houses. (Blue
trash bags are for recyclable products,

and white trash bags are for “wet”
wastes.) Problems also addressed in-
cluded the overloaded trash dumpsters
at the senior apartments, which often
attract curious, skunk-ish specimen.
Environmental awareness information
will be coming soon.

It is official that the Union will be
open 24 hours for an alternate study
vicinity to Chambers and other educa-
tion buildings that will be closed for
energy conservation. Not to worry,
President Vagt assures those who burn
the midnight oil that no building will
close after 1 a.m. until the Union is
prepared to function ‘round the clock.
Union Board President Cintra Pollack

informed the SGA “Lights Out” Com-
mittee that she and her committee will
propose to the ATC to reinstate longer,
more consistent Cafe hours as well as
funds to cover the additional cost of
labor and maintenance. These costs
in total promise to be around $7,500,
not including the actual finances en-
tailed in keeping the building running
24 hours. Also noteworthy are the
expenses for enhancing study facili-
ties, such as installing dry erase boards
and desk lamps. Several members of
the “Lights Out” Committee are seek-
ing ‘hard’ evidence on how much
money is being saved from each edu-
cation building that will close between

1 and 6 a.m.

Finally, members voted to appoint
junior Marie Sharp as a Davidson
Marshall. This honor is given to stu-
dents who characterize Davidson
through their contributions of service,
leadership and character. Congratula-
tions, Marie!

Last chance: This week will con-
clude the Annual Fund Raiser,
Phoneathon. Come any time from 6 to
9 p.m. to the Student Health Center’s
basement and call Davidson alumnae.
Your help will be greatly appreciated.

The SGA meets every Tuesday at
9:00 p.m. in the Union Conference
Room.

You’re all invited to the...

SGA Phonathon!
Sun.-Wed. nights
6-9 pm
Oct. 24-28 & Nov.1-4
Student calling center _
(below the student health center)

PRIZES! FREE FOOD!
**The person who raises the MOST
MONEY wins a free plane ticket!!

Homeruns for Habi-
tat raises over $1000

BY BurGINn HARDIN

Staff Writer

College kids up at 6 a.m ona
Saturday morning? I think not.

While it sounds like something
out of a freaky “Twilight Zone” epi-
sode, early Saturday morning, Oct.
17, many of our classmates did in-
deed stumble out of bed early and
head to Moore Park to participate in
the annual Homeruns for Habitat soft-
ball game. The charity event spon-
sored by Kappa Sigma and Rusk got
underway at 6 a.m., and the bats didn’t
stop swinging until 6 p.m. that
evening.

Through the sale of t-shirts and
the sponsorship of local businesses,
the event raised over $1,000 for the
local Habitat for Humanity program,
a nonprofit organization that con-
structs housing for needy area fami-
lies.

Habitat for Humanity is actually
an international organization that was
founded in 1976 and has built over
70,000 homes worldwide. The local
chapters rely completely on volun-

teer efforts in everything from build-
ing to administration to fund raising,
which is why efforts of Davidson stu-
dents are so admirable.

Student participation was the key
to.the event’s success, and the enthu-
siasm of all those who came through-
out the day to play was proof that
Davidson students are concerned
about the community.

Also, the fact that the game of-
fered students a chance to be active
was also another big draw. Freshman
Adam Rocap summarized the event’s
success, saying, “It was a great fund-
raiser because it raised money for a
good cause, and everyone got to en-
joy a great day playing America’s
greatest sport.”

Much thanks to everyone who
came out and played a few of the 100
innings that filled the day. Also,
thank you to all the businesses who
lent their time and support to the
event. If you wish to become in-
volved in Habitat for Humanity and
give some of your time to others,
contact Anna Katherine Clemmons
or Mary Kathryn Ross.
