hen I was young, my mother always
W« me, “Make sure you know the

entire story and all the details before
you try to share it with someone. For if you have
only half the story and fill in the gaps with facts
you think you know, then share it with someone
else, when the whole story comes out and your

thoughts were not actualities, you will be left

STUDENT OPINION

Charlie Shaw

looking asinine and fatuous.” Remembering her
words, I wanted to clear up a few items pointed out
in the Davidsonian opinion “Successful dorm liv-
ing requires diversity, not segregation” (by Eric
Sapp) so that a correct story is told.

The theme living houses proposed were open
to the entire campus, and anyone interested in
participating in these activities was invited to join.
Flyers were plastered all over campus, but only
two groups of people responded. Not until it was
announced that one of the halls was for black
people did opposition to the idea rear its ugly head.

Nevertheless, one did not have to be black to
participate in the African American Studies Hall,
and one did not have to be a saved, sanctified, holy
ghost-filled, three-version bible-toting, scream-
ing, “Repent I say, repent you sinner, for Jesus is
coming like a theft, and if you are not saved, you
shall be cast into hell,” 24-hours-a-day person to
participate in the Christianity and the Teachings of
Jesus Christ Theme Hall (not Christian Studies, as
stated in the Sapp’s article).

Second, neither one of these two theme halls
will be in the basement of Sentelle or Cannon.
(Too bad: I really wanted my own kitchen.) The
halls are also required to perform service projects
and design programs and activities to which the
entire Davidson community is invited. Indeed, it
is the dream and desire of both halls that the
community will elect to participate in every func-
tion, :

With fewer than two semesters down, the
Davidson hope of making myself a better thinker
has already started guiding my judgements and
actions. If I had a concern with a new idea, such
as theme living, the Davidson thing to do would be

to visit the chairs of the theme halls and investigate
why they felt Davidson needed these living ar-
rangements before making any pro or con deci-
sions.

If asked, one would have been told that the
African American Studies Hall was designed to
help elevate on campus the awareness of the con-
tributions tendered and struggles endured by blacks.
The statement was made in Sapp’s article that this
study does not even exist at Davidson as an
official academic focus, and I concur completely.
That’s the problem. For students to learn about
African Americans in history, they have to form a
hall and do independent study on the subject.

' If non-black people were truly interested in
increasing diversity and stopping segregation, then
a couple of events would be transpiring. Students
would be in Dean Robert Williams’s office urging
increases in the number of black faculty members
(currently four) and demanding the addition of

awareness, not se

amounts of time to contributions of black and
whites. Oh, but I guess the courses titled United
States to 1877, since 1877, and United States from
1900 to 1945, since 1945, are just wise political
decisions to keep them from being called White
Male Activities through 1945. We need to recog-
nize that blacks did more in history than just be
slaves. And if the whole-Davidson family were
interested in diversity, it would not have stood for
allowing a noose to be slipped around the head of
a black male employee in jest.

“Blacks should make the first move in help-
ing to diversify the campus; you have the most to
gain.” Not true. When black: students decided to

attend Davidson, they were making the first move. ,

Blacks have always and will always have to inter-
act with whites. When we want corporate jobs, we
have to deal solely with whites. When we want to
attend graduate schools and professional schools,
99.9999% of the time we will have to deal solely

“That’s the problem. For students to learn about African Americans in
history, they have to form a hall and do independent study on the

subject.”

black male professors. Admissions wonders why
over half of their black applicants never select
Davidson. I suggest that black prospectives’ real-
izing that only four members of the Davidson
teaching family look like them has a role in their
decision.

If increasing the diversity really were an
issue, the Patterson Court fraternities’ presidents
would be in President Bobby Vagt’s office de-
manding that a black Greek organization be in-
vited on campus immediately, not sometime in the
unknown, unclear future. If it were an issue, the
Student Government would be demanding that
more than two or three classes be taught dealing
with African American History and Literature.
(Yes, blacks made achievements in history, and a
few have even written a book or two.)

Better yet, if the SGA were dedicated to
helping black students feel like part of the commu-
nity, they would inquire why American History
and Literature professors do not devote equal

with whites.

Yet some Davidson students’ first experi-
ences and interactions with blacks occurred when
they stepped on campus. The first time they have
been taught by a black teacher was when they
signed up for a course taught by one of the four
pioneers. Blacks and other minorities help ‘the
Davidson experience represent real world experi-
ence.

Why do we sit together at lunch and dinner?
Or better, why do Jim Crow Laws go into effect at
Vail, as Phil Julian has said? I was born into a
family with a black father and a black mother. I
had black sisters. My uncles, aunts, and cousins
who lived near me were black, anda few neighbors
in the neighborhood were black. Living at home,
I was accustomed to living around blacks. Why
should I not desire to be around blacks at college?

I can count on one hand the number of black
classmates I encounter attending all four classes in
one day. So if I grew up for 18 years accustomed

to blacks, why in four years would the longing to
hang around and eat with people who look like me
and talk like me for a least three hours a day cease?
Nothing and no one forbids whites from eating at
the so-called “black people table,” and if you want
to improve diversity, do it. When white students
eat lunch together, why is it called eating lunch,
and when blacks students eat together, why is it is
called segregation? I suggest that if there were
more blacks enrolled, then we would fill more than

one table and be considered part of the main-

stream.

-[am reminded of “The Cosby Show” (which
I learned from Phil Julian is considered cultural
diversity) in which Bill made a statement about
presentation. He asked his family to imagine a
meal of T-bone steak smothered in onions and
peppers, with a stuffed baked potato, and fresh
broccoli witha light cheese sauce on the side. Now
put this same meal on a dirty old trash can top, and
the appeal is less desirable. The points in Sapp’s
article about the possibility that the halls will be

stereotyped with the thoughts like, “They think
they are better than others” could cause discord
between the participants and other Christians if all
are not abiding in the spirit and will of the Lord.

But the reality is, this will occur in any
situation in which individuals try to be different
when everyone else stands for principles rooted in
Jesus’s teachings. How can it be okay for Chris-
tians to cluster, yet if you call it a hall devoted to
learning about Christ, it becomes not okay?

I have trouble following this logic. The
Disciples slept together in the same houses and
fields, and their abilities to spread the Gospel of
Jesus Christ were not hindered. So why should our
abilities to share the teachings of Jesus be hindered
because we spend six hours (or less if you have a
paper due and a review to study for) on the same
hall?

I challenge you, if you believe that the fears
expressed by Sapp are valid, to pray for the hous-
ing and ask for understanding of its purpose,
because the Father will not hold back understand-
ing from his children if they ask in His Son’s name.
My bible tells me that prayer is a powerful weapon
and will cause things to change. So instead of
destroying the idea with the tongue, use that same
tongue in prayer to help build it up and make ita
positive tool to help others at Davidson unearth the
Teachings of the Word of God.

Lint memories of the chili kind

Filling an insatiable desire

‘aving just returned from Spring
H Break, the fact that this year is
rushing by was illustrated with
emphasis. It seems that just the other
day it was August, and I was in a new

place that was strange, fantastic, and
terrifying. The months stretching be-

tween then and now are a blur full of
laughter, tears, fear, and certainty. I felt
new emotions and met new people.

Life is acontinually changing pan-
orama of emotions, situations, and
memories. With luck, the events and
people that bring

destiny than an existence bobbing along
on the unalterable tide of time would
suggest. There is a line from a movie
that comes back to me, out of context,
but applicable: “I make my own luck.”

The quote, I think, applies to a
more personally controlled view of life.
We can’t wait for life to hand us friend-
ship, opportunity, love, or luck. There
are too many people as it is who are
waiting for their due and complaining
that life has treated them unfairly. We
must go out and control our life; we
must “make our own luck.”’ No one was
born lucky; it takes work, just like any-
thing else worth having.

- Sometimes the things that we do
have are not the things we would like to
remain with us. I would be more than
happy to see some of the experiences of

not to talk to me for two and-half years
and to drop a dirty glare my direction
whenever she saw me. So saying that it
worked out badly may be an understate-
ment, but I'll be optimistic.

While at home over break, a friend
of mine managed to drag me kicking
and screaming into a coffee house. I
had never been in one before and was
always curious why not. I got there an
I remembered. ;

I won’t go into the details so as not
to offend coffee drinkers and coffee
house patrons of the world. Suffice it to
say it involved an anemic looking ska-
funk-jazzblues-bebop-country band, a
Frappicino, an unusually small serving
of apple strudel, and a woman of some-
what dubious intentions named Rosa.

The girl who had been the object

of my affections

us the greatest joy

so many years be-

stay fore white It’s easy to drop something delicate and precious, but it [Or Pascibyout
and reappear 4s nearly impossible to flick that annoying piece of life’s _ hettotomy friend,
throughtheyears. int from your sweater.” lookedrightatme,
T  h-6.8-¢ and walked away.
friends and fondly I’ve seen the way
remembered that people look at

events are the things around which we
build our lives. Time moves fastenough
that we need these rocks to anchor our-
selves to in order that the great flow
doesn’t claim us and sweep us away.
We tie ourselves to these people and
float through life in small groups guided
by the unalterable tides of time.
Reading over what I just wrote, it
seems to be a pretty grim, deterministic
view both of life and our place in his-
tory. I would like to think that we have
more control over our surroundings and

my life just drift away into that bound-
less sea of time. Some things you just
can’t get rid of.

It’s easy to drop something deli-
cate and precious, but it is nearly im-
possible to flick that annoying piece of
life’s lint from your sweater. I have
acquired a few lint-like experiences in

.my life. One of them happened over

Spring Break.

Early in high school I had a disas-
ter with a crush. A disaster in the sense
that the object of my affections resolved

abig chili stain ona white shirt, wishing
it would either never have happened or
would just vaporize out of the universe,

or maybe both. For a few seconds that _

night, I was the world’s largest chili
Stain, :
These wonderful memories and

experiences just keep coming back to.

haunt us.

Time moves quickly, but some
things are clinging on to us for dear life.
I hope most of yours are as unlike lint
and chili stains as possible.

‘| break down on

A dancer’s response to Cintra Pollack

hen I dance, I like to be
with a good amount of
people, but not too many

because then there just isn’t enough
space to get down and boogie. I actu-
ally wentto the Union-sponsored Disco
Nights once last semester with a friend
with hopes to

some new ter-
rain; however,
there were only
two people danc-
ing there, and a
handful of people total.

It was kind of a buzz kill, to tell
you the truth, because I was sporting
my new polyester butterfly collar with
bell bottom corduroys and platforms,

cause I try to dance somewhere every
weekend if possible, the two Outpost
parties didn’t mesh very well with my
demanding weekend dancing agenda.
If I only went dancing twice a semes-
ter, the DJ dance parties at the Outpost
would be ideal, but my insatiable thirst

to dance needs

to be fulfilled

every weekend.

: I must

' : also comment
hues on the inad-

equate advertis-
ing that represented the two dance
parties at the Outpost. I didn’t even
see a single flyer up during those
weeks, but that’s probably because I
was too busy opening up my mouth

“Because I try to dance somewhere every weekend if
possible, the two Outpost parties didn’t mesh very well
with my demanding weekend dancing agenda.”

of course. My friend was wearing a
tight dress shirt witha thin black leather
tie (loosely knotted), and he, too, was
disappointed with the turnout. The
fact that we did not hear one disco
song the entire hour we spent there
was also anticlimactic. The space was
excellent, but the missing element was
a decent turnout.

The DJ dance parties at the Out-
post were definitely hype. However,
there were only two of them over the
course of the whole fall semester. Be-

instead of my eyes.

Ihave investigated my resources
and conclude that the only place on
campus that provides an equilibrium
of space and an ample amount of
people is Patterson Court. I’m not
“whine(ing) left and right,” and“I’m
not writing about “all this school
doesn’t have to offer.” I’m simply
writing about what it does have to
offer socially on Patterson Court, and
that’s slamming dance parties with
kicking people and booming tunes.

lata att lies ae had a ak

