2. -—_—sC THE DAVIDSONIAN

end « Seta Ved Sr een aaron tr eee Se arenes maintain
counseling for Fall *97 semester, and a recommendation that student
ee een ere

‘Sanction ; Social probation from Patterson Court Fall ‘97, including all
house meetings and meals for Fall ‘97 semester: a written statement to the
Dean of Students explaining why wearing a wristband under 21 isan Honor
Code violation and why It deserves sanctioning. ©

Ricci: ‘Cheating
Plea : Guilty”
Veraict : Guilty

‘Sanction: “F* in Biology 111; "WA." authorized withdrawal from other three
classes; one term suspension for Spring *98.

Infraction: False use of a wristband
Plea : Gullty
Verdict : ‘Guilty

Sanction ; Social probation from Patterson Court Fall ‘97, including alll
house meetings and meals for Fall ‘97 semester.

Infraction: Stealing
Plea : Guilty
Verdict :. Guilty

Sanction ; 250 hour community service to be completed by May ‘98, 10

hours fulfilled each week with the following guidelines: service must be in

Davidson area and must involve interpersonal relationships with lower

economic classes, service must be completed independently of the other

two students charged, hours must be accumulated, siicied with same
organization if possible.

Infraction; Stealing ©
Plea:: Guilty
Verdict : Guilty

Sanction: 250 hours community service to be completed by May *98, 10
hours fulfilled each week with the following guidelines: service must be in
Davidson area and must involve relationships with lower economic classes,
service must be completed independently of the other two students
charged, hours must be accumulated, working with same organization if

Infraction: False use of wristband
Plea : Guilty
Verdict’: Guilty

Sanction : Social probation from Patterson Court Fall °97, including all
house meetings and meals for Fall °97 semester; a written statement to the
Dean of Students explaining why wearing a wristband under 21 isan Honor
Code violation and why it deserves sanctioning.

Infraction: Stealing
Plea : Guilty
Verdict : Guilty

Sanction: 250 hours community service to be completed by May *98, 10
hours fulfilled each week with the following guidelines: service must be in
Davidson area and must involve relationships with lower economic Classes,
service must be completed independently of the other two students
charged, hours must be accumulated, working with same piganization if
possible.

Infraction: Stealing
Plea : Guilty :
Verdict : Guilty

Sanction : Write a letter of apology to facility manager; 300 hours
uncompensated: work in the facility where the violation took place,
completed at the end of '97-'98 school term with ten hours completed
each week; this sanction will begin the first week of Spring ‘98 semester.

Infraction: Plagiarism -
Plea : Guilty
Verdict : Guilty

Sanction: “F” inEconomics 325; three authorized withdrawals; Uneacaral
for the Spring “98 SOMNESIr.,

Z : Prysics 118) Guihorzed withdrawal fom other three
clases: one term susperaion for ne Sprig ‘98 semester,
—COomPiLeD BY SARAH OGDEN

News

By Manpy Lauria
Staff Writer

Some students are choosing to
spend their spring breaks doing some-
thing quite different this year. Members
of Alternative Breaks have planned three
trips that are unlike any “vacation” stu-
dents have ever experienced. Sopho-
mores Liz Clasen and Anna Judy are
leading a trip to Washington D.C. to
work with AIDS patients. Doug
Penhallegon, a junior, is leading a trip
to the Emmaus House in Harlem. Jesse

‘ Montgomery, a freshman, is leading a

trip to Washington D.C. to participate
in the Urban Plunge and work with
issues of homelessness. These three
trips are ones of service that are bound
to make an incredible impact on the
participants.

The group, led by Clasen and Judy,
will work with HIV-positive and AIDS
patients. This work will consist of
delivering meals to patients and help-
ing social workers care for the patients.
Many Davidson students know very
little about the AIDS virus. The goals of
this program are to learn about how this
virus affects people spiritually and so-
cially and to share the information with
other students who did not participate.
The group will work with AIDS pa-
tients for four to five hours a day. The
rest of the day will hopefully be used to
help build a habitat house. The group
will stay at the Center for Creative Non-
violence, one of the largest homeless
shelters in Washington D.C. There
they will spend time doing activities
with people who live on the disabled
hall. The group will attend AA meet-
ings where they will learn about the
situations that afflict Washington’s

FUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

ns Not your traditional Spring Break

homeless. The group will leave: Sun-
day, March Ist and return Saturday,
March 7th. The maximum number of
participants for this trip is ten, and the
maximum cost is around thirty dollars.
The group will be doing some fund
raising to help with costs.

Montgomery’s group will take part
in the Urban Plunge for the first 48
hours of the trip. The Urban Plunge
program is designed to allow “economi-
cally-privileged people dress down,
empty their wallets, and spend time on
the streets as ‘poor’ people.” This pro-
gram is sponsored by the National Coa-
lition for the Homeless who define its
goals as the following: “To familiarize
and sensitize middle class people with
the realities and hardships of inner city
life; to gain first hand knowledge of the
growing crisis of homelessness; to bring
homelessness to a very personal level;
and.to see the world through the eyes of
a homeless person.”

The group will receive guidance
from Michael Stoops, who is in charge
of this program. Then the group will
split up and get a taste of what it is like
to be homeless. Members of this pro-
gram are encouraged to dress. down,
beg, look through trash cans, talk to
homeless people, make signs, sleep on
park benches, eat cereal out of dog or
cat food containers, donate plasma for
money and many other activities that
make up real homeless peoples’ days.

There are many questions of safety
surrounding this program. Penhallegon,
who participated in the program, said,
“The most dangerous thing I encoun-
tered last year was a hooker, so I turned
around and left.” Participants have to
use their best judgement and avoid get-
ting into dangerous situations. The

plunge is open to an unlimited number
of students who want to participate, but
the second part of the program is lim-
ited to five students. For the remainder
of the week the group will stay at the
Calvery women’s shelter in the section
designated for volunteers. Here they
will help with the shelter and work at
some of the nearby soup kitchens.

Penhallegon’s group will be spend-
ing the week at the Emmaus House in
Harlem. This house is for former drug
addicts who receive three meals a day
and a stipend of 25 dollars a week: Here
the residents gain self esteem and the
skills to live independently. Some of
the duties of the volunteers include paint-
ing, hauling trash, working in the soup
kitchen and’even working with emer-
gency meals on wheels. Within the
house the group will have a great oppor-
tunity to interact with the residents.
Penhallegon said, “I want people in my
group to come away with areal sense of
the gravity of poverty.” The group is
donating $600 to the Emmaus House
for the cost of their stay. Ann Nickel
stayed at the house last year and de-
scribes it as an “incredible emotional
experience.” She went back to the
house in the summer and found that the
residents that she met in the spring were
no longer there because they found jobs
and are living on their own. The group
will also have time to see New York.
Last year they visited Grenwhich. vil-
lage and Manhattan.

Alternative Breaks is growing and
hopes to offer additional programs for
the summer. These three trips offer
students a way to provide services for
others during their spring breaks.

ommunity Work Opportunities

By Carrié ARTHUR
Staff Writer

The Community Service Office has received the follow-
ing requests from the Davidson community. If anyone has
the time and energy to meet these demands, please contact the
designated people.

The Children’s School House needs students to help with the
development of their playground facilities. Contact Susan
Yaguda at 948-4547.

A paid tutor is needed for Christina McElroy’ s child. Refer-
ences are needed. Contact Christina at 664-4369.

A mentor is needed to tutor and establish a relationship with
a little girl. Call 895-9403.

A Big Brother is needed to spend one or two afternoons a
week witha fifth grader in Cornelius. Call Linda Nutt at 892-
1959.

A tutor is needed for an 11-year-old girl. Contact Deborah
Ihle at 947-9191,

A math tutor is needed for a young girl. Call Debbie Barnett
from the Controller’s Office at 892-2067.

A tutor is needed for a high school senior. Call Helen Smith
at 892-9962.

Pre-school teachers are needed for the mornings at Bethel

Presbyterian Church. Contact Candice Tritle at 896-3103.

A tutor is needed to supervise and help a nine-year-old child
anda ten-year-old child with reading and math. This position
is paid at $8 to $10 per hour. Contact Mr. or Mrs. Dominic
at 662-6544 after 6:30 PM.

A Big Brother is needed for a five-year-old boy.
Pamela Young at 895-8450 after 6:30 PM.

Contact

A Big Sister is needed for Tia Killbrew, a 15-year-old from
Cornelius. Contact her at 895-0267.

David Brandon needs help with Calculus. Call him at 896-
8027.

An Algebra tutor is needed for Candy Cox, a 23-year-old
community college student. Contact Candy at 895-8987 at
home or 590-4752 at work.

A tutor in Biology and English is needed fora 15-year-old girl
(home-schooled) two to three times a week. Cali Bonnie
Smith at 895-8733.

Someone is also needed to spend time working Bonnie
Smith’s daughter. This job includes tutoring, working with
horseback riding, and horse care. Contact Bonnie at 895-
8733.

A coordinator is needed for the Humane Society’s Spring Pet
Parade. Contact Catherine Page at either 377-0536 or
cathy .juno@juno.com.

EARN $750-$1500/WEEK

Raise all the money your student group
needs by sponsoring a VISA Fundraiser
on your campus. No investment & very
little time needed. There’s no obligation,

so why not call for information today?

Call 1-800-323-8454 Ext. 95

HELP WANTED

Be a business success before you
graduate. Avon,needs savvy sales
reps.

Call Gloria (609) 871-0542

1:45-3:15 p.m. $10 a day
Call 896-3570

HELP WANTED

Do you like to drive? Here is an easy way
to earn money. Driver needed to pick up 4-
yr.-old at pre-school in Charlotte, Right
person likes kids, too. Monday, Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday: any or all of these days.

HELP WANTED

Men/ Women earn $375 weekly process-
ing/assembling Medical I.D. Cards at
home. Immediate openings, your local
area. Experience unnecessary, will train.
Call Medicard (541) 386-5290
Ext. 118M

