THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Or-

D

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6,

aa Feed us (every night)

“You know, it’s sad when you can’t even get a cup a coffee on campus after
midnight,” one of my professors said last week. And you know, it’s true. Now that
the Cafe closes earlier, there really is nowhere to find a cup of coffee past 11 or 11:30
most nights. Well, some nights, anyway.

Some nights, though, we have this wonderful little thing called the Union
Outpost. And it’s open from Wednesday to Saturday, feeding the masses as they
break from studying or partying.

But I’m wondering, why isn’t it open the rest of the week, too? Well, I can think

' ofacouple of reasons. First, everyone needs a day off once ina while, and the Outpost
people probably need a break more than most. The hours they work are late, and the
customers incapacitated to varying degrees (either by alcohol or too many all-
nighters). It’s got to be relatively rough work.

Second, it costs money to keep the place open, an issue that seems to be of great
concern lately.

But if the Outpost were to stay open all week (as it does during final.exam time),
wouldn’t it ultimately serve as a great source of revenue for our apparently ailing
College? I mean, it’s difficult to buy anything at the Outpost for under $5 (unless you
stick with the water), and the sheer number of people who come in and purchase these
rather expensive goods could probably contribute enough bonus bucks to pay for food
costs, electricity, and labor without too much difficulty. (Hey, there may even be
enough money left over to light Chambers.)

Not only that, but we would have a.place where we could relax and find
sustenance during the week, even after the Union closes. Now, wouldn’t that be
pleasant? ;

marak £. Opdlar.

@ LETTERS TO

Freshmen want to keep
tradition alive

To the Editor:

In response to Kristen Taylor’s insulting article, I would like to praise all the freshmen (Cort
and Jimmy rule!) who are bold enough to actually write for the paper. Why are the freshmen being
criticized for participating in a school activity? I would think that the upperclassmen would be
thrilled that freshmen have taken an interest in writing for The Davidsonian. After all, is that not
how The Davidsonian is able to continue year after year? All the writers for The Davidsonian were
freshmen once, and they wanted to write for the paper. The freshmen just want to keep the tradition
(since that is apparently so important to some people) of The Davidsonian alive. However, if the
freshmen continue to piss certain sophomores off, just tell us what to write. That way the paper
will be exactly what one person wants.

David Stroupe ‘02

Ashamed of Davidson

To the Editor:

Once again, another police officer has given his life in “our world” of the Charlotte area. Once
again, the antipathy of Davidson College has shown. When it happened last Christmas, the majority of
the people who I heard talk about it felt that it was the blame of society and-.economics (the “other side
of the tracks” syndrome) that precipitated the murder of Officer Swaney, and not the fact that Damon
Kerns was a habitual criminal.

Last Tuesday, Anthony Stancil, a captain with the Mecklenburg County Sheriff's Office, an
agency which is, in part, responsible for Davidson and Davidson College, was shot and killed over a
package of crab legs that Samuel Mahatha was trying to steal from a Harris Teeter.

Stancil, father of two and with a third on the way, had been with the Sheriff’ s Department for eight
years. In the days following the shooting, radio stations, newspapers, and other organizations started
to collect money for his family. One of the radio stations even made national news by raising over
$200,000 by Friday afternoon. To everybody else in the area, this was an obvious tragedy. At Davidson
College, it went unacknowledged. Few people mentioned it. The College made no donation to the
family, at least none that I am aware of. Another police officer died, and we couldn’t even fly our flag
at half-mast.

Almost everybody here, professors and students alike, feel that college is not just the place to learn
about academics, but more importantly, to learn about life. I think many people of this college have lost
that vision. We have become so concerned with hugging trees and feeling good about ourselves that
we have lost sight of the fact that there is life beyond Davidson College, and at times, it’s not pretty. We
have lost sight of the fact that there are real heroes in this world, and that we are not them. In the midst
of our attempts to enter noble professions, like doctors or lawyers, we have forgotten that there are
people who are out there every day making sure that we have the chance to pursue our goals. Thad hoped
that maybe we had seen just a glimpse of that with the tragedy that happened at Christmas. I guess we
haven't.

I am ashamed and embarrassed to be associated with this college.

Greg Filak ‘00

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by
Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably
saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no
longer than 500 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for
space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

THE EDITOR @

Tell us what you really think
Miss Taylor

To the Editor:

Ouch... ouch... ouch... thank you, Kristen, for pointing out the error of my ways, but really, don’t
hold back, tell us what you really think. It really was ironic that my worst, and not to mention longest,
column got printed in last week’s paper. Look, Kristen, I’ll be straight with ya. I have no life as one can
clearly tell from the length of my weekly columns. I apologize if my observations on life at Davidson
are trite and overused. However, as you noted, it is not my fault that only freshman opinions are being
put in the paper. I’m sure that Erin (my mysterious editor who I’ ve seen as often as you see Charlie on
Charlie’s Angels) would much rather put something other than my tawdry attempt at humor in this fine
publication.

If you want to see more upperclassmen write columns, then encourage them to do so. Eventually
there will be enough “good” columns to force mine out of circulation. One final point, Kristen, I believe
you wrote in last week’s paper about smiling and greeting people you see on the street. I thought it was
a very relevant and kind article; I hope to one day reach your level of consistency in the way of courtesy
to people both on the street and in print. I do throw stones and, contrary to popular belief, I do not live
in a glass house. I can take a hit and I appreciate your criticism of my column. This doesn’t mean that
I give a flying flip about what you say, but it was definitely nice of you to express your opinion. By the
way, I will be sending you my bill for therapy. I apologize to all students on campus for having to read
two columns of mine; the second article will be written as if I still had some self-esteem left. En garde.

Cort Heroy ’02

We should take strides in being
globally responsible

To the Editor:
~

For weeks now, I’ve been reading the outcries of various students over the issue of Chambers (and
now the VAC) being closed in the wee hours of the night. In the Sept. 29 issue, I finally heard an opinion
that I could whole-heartedly “Amen.” I will now attempt to toss:in my own two-cents-worth without
inviting the wrath of any defensive upperclassmen.

I admire Chris Pearson for bringing to our attention an important responsibility that we have as an
economic elite. Here in the U.S., we are used to wasting energy. It’s a.sad fact, but a fact nonetheless.
As acampus that is making significant efforts to be globally-minded (our Dean Rusk program is part of
what has attracted many of us to this school), we should also take strides in being globally responsible,
which includes conserving energy.

Now, as a freshman who has yet to take advantage of late nights in Chambers, I may not be in a
position to make suggestions, but I’! take a stab at it anyway. I understand how important 24-hour access
to a quiet, distraction-free study environment can be. I don’t think that completely closing and locking
Chambers during hours that students rely on it is right. I do believe that a school should make decisions
that meet the students’ needs. But lighting and climate-controlling an entire building the size of
Chambers for the sake of a few students in a few scattered classrooms is not right, either. Ideally, a
campus full of intelligent problem solvers like ourselves should be able to reach a compromise. Aren’t
there lights that could be turned off and not missed at 3:00 a.m.? Could the thermostats be adjusted (the
air-conditioning is usually too cold, anyway) to save on energy during hours of limited use?

These are just suggestions from a concerned newbie who will leave it up to the veterans to make
a decision.

Sarah Schmidt ’02

Dangerous Club Cars

To the Editor: -

Hi. I read an article in last week’s Davidsonian about club cars. Fast club cars. I live nearby on
Lake Norman and often take nice long strolls and roll around in the grasses of this wonderful place with
my young children and their friends.

One time we were playing gentle games, and a club car burst through the surrounding bushes and
underbrush and almost crushed my head. If I hadn’t been somersaulting, I would have been very badly
injured by this vehicle.

My children began crying, and I was a little shaken as well. We did not go back to play on the lawn
for several days because of this horrible incident. Please stop this chaos before someone is maimed or
very badly scared.

Cyrus Smith
