TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

_THE DAVIDSONIAN .

“Why did you bother my peaceful mind slumber?”

urprise! It’s me again. And you

thought it was not my week to

write. Well, truthfully, it is not my
week, but the editors and layout managers
were kind enough to accommodate me.
How can you say “no” to someone as cool
as Crabbie anyhow? Not only that, but I
also feel I have a social obligation to write
for the youths of Davidson. Next week is
fall break, and will also be a week off for
The Davidsonian. Can the underclassmen
who actually read my column make it three
weeks without Crabbie? Incidently, that is
a rhetorical question. The answer should
be obvious. So without any further adieu,
get ready for the Crabster.

(Oh wait! Before I start — crazy cool
points go out to Kristen Taylor for quoting
Crabbie in her column... You go, girl!)

Most of us here at Davidson-go to
class... and let’s face it, sometimes we
would just rather not be there (for any
curious professors reading, I never have
that feeling). Even when we want to be in
class, however, it can be difficult to
maintain our full attention for 50 or 75
minutes straight. It seems to me a com-
mon imperfection among such a superior
student body as Davidson’s. And yes, this
imperfection even infects Crabbie.

Last week I was suffering from one of
those common “tuning out spells” during a
class not to be named. Do you know what

I’m talking
about? My
attention,
instead of
being on |
the
wonderful
and
interesting class, slipped into the world
only familiar to Crabbie. I believe some
may call it day dreaming. I prefer to say
that I was “exploring my cooldom.”
Whatever you call it, I was not paying
attention.

During these spells, many of you know
it is difficult to be “awakened.” One
common way to be awakened is for the
professor to call on you by name. This is
when I like to use delay tactics, such as,
“What exactly is the question, Dr. so and
so?” I think this is an Honor Code viola-
tion, however. What I really mean to say
is, “Why did you bother my peaceful mind
slumber, you inconsiderate piece of trash?”
Regardless, these situations are always
slightly embarrassing.

Last week I came to the conclusion
there is another way to be awakened.
Sometimes, it is not just your name, but
certain phrases that bring your attention
back to class. Let me take you back to my
exact thoughts at the time. It goes some-
thing like this: ““deeba, dabba, dubba...

“An utter WASTE OF
SPACE and TIME”

or the Ram -
Fe - bling?”

three ‘ Sus aust s should just
weeks Ihave Curis Murray give you
been dili- and the stu-
gently read- Student Opinion dent body a
ing my ’ clue — no-
Davidsonian, where do
a paper that you make

represents the opinions and beliefs of our
prestigious students. I am fed up, however,
with the lack of ingenuity and intelligence in
most of the articles. It takes a lot for me to
become enraged, and recently, the articles I
have read in our fine institution’ s newspaper
are making smoke fly out of my ears. I can
take three tests and two papers in a week,
along with lectures in class that cause drool to
slide over my notes. However, I cannot take
any more articles on the Union Café.

Although it may be a little different from
last year, it offers better food from the grill
and longer hours. Those who want Tylenol
and Tampax, ride your Huffy to the CVS and
buy those essentials there. If it is salt and
vinegar chips you are looking for, my per-
sonal favorite, drive your automobile to Har-
ris Teeter and buy a large bag, with a bag clip
so they won’t get stale. So stop writing
articles on the Café or I will hunt you down
and burn you!

The next order of business: Cort Heroy.
I am appalled at The Davidsonian for letting
this fool ramble on about the most ridiculous
nonsense. Cort, you are spitting juice out of
' your#@%. The article comparing cats, dogs,
and Corvettes made the entire Davidson cam-
pus less intelligent for reading it. And most
recently, your article entitled “Why am I

any rational sense. I mean, “Michael, Bobo
the chimp, and five year olds,” what is that?
I'll tell you what it is — an utter WASTE OF
SPACE and TIME. Maybe you could con-
centrate your efforts in some other aspect of
improving Davidson. In the meantime, write
articles for your friends on your hall and save
you and the campus paper the embarrass-
ment. ee

Thirdly, I figure I have the floor to
employ some of my ideology. I would like to
propose that the entire student body of
Davidson a Backpack Awareness Week cul-

minating in NO BACKPACK Saturday. I°

propose that everyone wear backpacks on
the weekdays, but in protest to the insane
workload hear my creed: No one, and I repeat
no one, should wear a backpack ‘or a knap-
sack on Saturday. Please, let’s all just put our
backpacks down and enjoy the finer points of
college without toting novels and lab manu-
als all over campus. Go to the Lake Campus,
shoot some pool, watch a sporting event, or
drink beer. Be forewarned, however; that I
am personally setting up a sniper position
armed with a pellet gun on the roof of Belk
dormitory. If I see anyone passing by witha
backpack, be ready for a sharp sensation and
a tinge of pain, because I will shoot you
down.

dubba
deeba....
dida dadda
dee- ‘dikes
and
lesbians’ -
dubba
deeba...
uuuuh?” J realized something was not
right. Quickly retracing my complicated
thought pattern I came to the conclusion I
had not thought, “dikes and lesbians,” but
someone had actually said it during class.
Woo hoooo! My attention made an about
face. Now we are finally going to have a
real discussion. I have never been more
studious at Davidson than I was in the next
30 seconds that followed.

Tuning in again, I found out that the
class was talking about floods. You know,
when it rains really hard and rivers over
flow their banks. Like you, I am not sure
how dikes and lesbians relate to floods, but
I have had to create relationships to ideas
far more unrelated than lesbians and floods
on review essays before, so I thought
anything could be possible. It only took

close enough. Anybody could make that
mistake, right? Actually, who am I

* kidding. I guess I should just dig out that

number for Georgia Ringle because man,
do I have some sexuality issues. And by
the way, if you are wondering, underclass- ,
men, what lesson there is to be learned

from all this? It is just what you think: pay
attention in class! Not only may it do you
some good, but you will not walk around
campus thinking you need a psychological
evaluation.

For those of you who have read my
column just to see who the winner of the
Golden S.A.G.T.A.S.S. award, I have some
disgruntling news. President Vogt has yet
to return the rotating S.A.G.T.A.S.S.
trophy. Regretfully. I inform you there can
be no new award until it is returned. If
anybody has seen it, I beg you to let me
know. One suggestion — do not bother
looking at the Lake Campus. _I tried to
find it there a week ago Saturday only to
find Davidson decided to rent out our lake
campus to a car convention of about 100
cars and 500 people. Nonetheless, my
friends and I were somewhat upset that the

me a few more seconds to realize that I
may have misinterpreted what was said.
Call it a Freudian slip, but I’m pretty sure
what was really said was, “dikes and
levies.”

Levies, lesbians, levies, lesbians —

athletic directer suggested we “‘call ahead”
next time we bring a large group. Hope
Davidson got another big pay check at our
expense... because if President Vogt does
not return my S.A.G.T.A.S.S. trophy soon,
I might just have to sue.

Editorializing anything
and everything

here to tell a brief vignette which will express how I feel about the quality of the majority

of the recent editorials in The Davidsonian. This is an actual story, but the identities of those
involved have been concealed to protect the innocent:

Imagine if you will a bunch of teenage boys sitting around in a common room in a boarding

Pp eople can editorialize almost anything, as the past few issues of this paper has proven. Iam

"school in a time not long before now in a state not far from here. (If you did not attend boarding

school, imagine the Sentelle lounge without the TV and with nowhere to go, no girls, and limited
access to alcohol or illegal drugs on a Friday night.) Imagine a full smattering of Myers-Briggs
personality types. .

Desperate for something to bide the time, someone starts a conversation about a deep
philosophical issue, whether God is dead, perhaps. As conversations do, this debate quickly shifts
from one topic to another, each one inching closer toward the absurd. One young man says, what
would it be like if you had a chicken with an infinite number of feathers?

Now, this dilemma is a fascinating one, because there are so many nuances to debate. One
asks what the surface area of a chicken would be. Could a chicken with an infinite number of
feathers move around, live at all? What sorts of biological factors would enable a chicken to have
an infinite number of feathers? What climate would this poultry survive in? What would the
texture of the feathers be?

This discussion goes on for about three-quarters of an hour, the science minded chaps in
opposition to the humanists, the analytical sorts challenging the intuitive minds. The debate is
heated, the arguments wielded like fine sabers by teenage samurai of rhetoric. Finally, a youn g man
looks at his crowd of friends and utters in amazement, Wow, that would be one fluffy chicken!

All of the sudden, everyone who has just been so entrenched in the excitement of the debate

recognizes the utter ridiculousness the argument has evolved into, and they have been going strong
for the greater portion of an hour! Thus, they dub this sort of argument, the kind that takes a long
time and energy but sheds no light on anything relevant to anyone’s life, a fluffy chicken. This term
may be used forever more to stop a pointless argument short to save effort and face.
Well, folks, that’s my take on the slew of recent editorials in The Davidsonian.. Please, my fellow
Davidson students, just because something CAN be argued, that does not necessarily justify the
wasted time writing, reading the article, or even the prodigal use of ink and paper required to do
so. Asa former editor of Libertas and my high school paper, I recognize that the only value of these
editorials is to fill space that others are not creative or interested enough to fill.

If you wantto whine about something, praise your hometown honeys, brag that you are getting
some in your lofted bed, rake Auxiliary Services over the coals without offering suggestions other
than going back to the way we were (sniff), it is your prerogative, but PLEASE do it artfully.

On that note, the Union Board will soon be sending a survey out to students to evaluate how

- we are doing as a board and whether our programming is the sort you all want to see. Please, take

your time to tell us what you really think about the role of the Union in your life and what your ideas
are, If you have any opinion about what we are doing, write about it on this page! I want to see it.
I want to know. Of fluffy chickens I have had my fill.
