By Carrie ARTHUR
Staff Writer

While most students welcomed the end of last
year and exams with relief, some students could not
completely enjoy a carefree summer because they
did not know where they would be living this fall.

Other students were surprised when they
found that Pax would not be Turner House but
rather student housing.

Susan Edwards, a member of Turner House,
said, “When I first got the letter, I felt like some-
thing had gone wrong, but once I found out we were
getting a new house, everything was okay.”

‘Uncertainties about housing and the new plans
for Turner House were effects of the housing short-
age earlier this summer. In June, 74 students were
without housing.

Kurt Holmes, Director of Residence Life
(RLO), explained that four factors contributed to
the problem. The numbers of freshmen accepting
offers of admission “peaked at 491” earlier this
summer, but that number later declined to 475.
Also, in order to avoid “peaks and valleys” in class
numbers, the College accepted ten transfers.

Holmes added that fewer students decided to
study abroad or somewhere else for the semester
and that requests to live off campus were “very low
compared to where we thought they’d be.”

The problem began last October, when
the administration began to make projections for
this September.

The Enrollment Management Committee,
Residence Life, and other offices anticipate condi-
tions 10 to 11 months ahead. Holmes said that
“anything up until May looked like everything was
fine and we would have empty beds.”

Holmes and Residence Life try “to project our
occupancy at 98 percent full, so we plan on having
a few empty beds.”

Instead, Holmes said, “‘as it turns out, we’re
probably at 102 percent full.” .

Some students had uncertain plans until
August, and this uncertainty also contributed to the
discrepancies. Holmes said, “If we had perfect
information ahead of time, we wouldn’t have a
problem.”

Each year, 10 to 20 students do not notify
Residence Life of their plans until the second half

of August for-various-reasons:—financial-diffieul-—

ties, personal leave, and study abroad, among oth-

ousing crunc

ers. Therefore, Holmes said, “RLO must go with
the idea that everyone needs a bed.”

To solve the housing dilemma, RLO
decided to use Pax, two off-campus houses for
upper-classwomen, and triples, including a
freshwoman triple. Holmes said that the girls in
the freshwoman triple “are not upset” and that the
rest of the triples were “self-selected during lot-
tery.”

Housing conditions have improved: Holmes
said, “At one point this summer when we were at
that peak number of freshmen, it looked like we
might have 20 triples, with 60 people in triples.
That was just unpalatable.” Still, Holmes said,
“even one student who gets pinched is bad.”

RLO made more room for freshwomen
by moving upper-classwomen off Third West
Belk to off-campus housing. To have a unified
freshwoman hall, upper-classwomen on the end
of the hall were shifted to the center. On the
Second and Third West Belk halls, 16 freshwomen
live on Second West Belk, and eight freshwomen
live on Third West Belk.

Holmes believes that the hall is doing well
and “that the freshwomen on Third West aren’t
missing out.” Holmes said that the hall counse-
lors are treating Second and Third West Belk “as
one hall.” .

Holmes could have placed only four
freshwomen on Third West and used only one
off-campus house, but Holmes choose to put
eight freshwomen on the hall so that the women
“didn’t feel alone.” Also, RLO left four vacant
rooms in case of roommate conflicts.

The move to off-campus houses was
voluntary. Holmes described the upper-
classwomen houses as being on the “perimeter”
and “very nice.” Each house has hardwood
floors, a kitchen, a living room, a driveway, and
low bathroom ratios.

Some students question the need for
singles in the face of the housing shortage. Sopho-
more Ashley E. King said, “Being someone who
was on the waiting list before, I don’t understand
why they put one person in a room where there
could be two.”

In response to the criticism of single
rooms, Holmes explained that RLO tries “to have
a certain number of singles, anyway, so those are

-what we réfer to as the natural singles and in-most

cases are the much smaller rooms.” Only three

upper-classmen and six upperclasswomen vacan-
cies exist; all other singles are natural. As evident
from the freshwomen triple, all freshwomen rooms
are filled, and at least one freshman room is half-
filled. Holmes said that “there’s some sporadic
empty beds.”

These upper-classwomen vacancies
have occurred within the last month because of the
two off-campus houses. Despite the vacancies,
the off-campus housing was necessary. Holmes
said, “A monthago, we were looking at 17 (upper-
class) women and six bedspaces.”

The students in unplanned singles may
not be alone by the end of the semester. Holmes
said, “The only good thing about having those
vacancies is if we have a roommate problem, we
might split up the roommate pair and give a room-
mate to someone who doesn’t have one.”

Still, Holmes realized it is “so indi-
vidual.” He knows that “you can’t take two people
who are having a roommate problem and just
assume that it’s going to work with the next
person. It may not, and you don’t want to shift
somebody’s roommate problem to the next room.”
Holmes does “hope we can solve it (roommate
conflicts) with that (vacancies). We tell them at
any time to be prepared to take a.roommate.”

Holmes added, “Clearly by January, they’ll
be getting a roommate.” Students will be con-
sulted before they are given roommates; however,
Holmes said they “do not have a veto option.”

Looking to Spring Semester, when stu-
dents return from abroad, Holmes admits, “I don’t
know” what the situation will be, but there should
be “very close to the same number going abroad
that are coming back.”

Unfortunately, three or four years out of
Holmes’ seven years here have not been “so pre-
cise” so that “we either end up with a whole lot of
vacancies or not enough vacancies.”

Holmes said, “we have done a couple things
to try to minimize that. The last couple years, the
College in general and RLO in particular have
made a commitment that we will take a hit finan-
cially to make sure that it’s a better experience,

' because it just isn’t worth a housing rate, a room °

rate, to get a student on campus for them not to
have a good experience when they come back.”
RLO now tells students in May whether

—they-ean-tive off-campus when they returnso that

they can find housing. In the past, students return-

_TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1998

ing from abroad were not told until December.

As for the future, the Admissions office may
accept fewer students. As Holmes said, “We’re
getting more popular.”

The last four years have been ones of growth,
although Holmes said, “Admissions targets are
right on track for 1600 students by 2000.”

Each class has steadily increased, and the
Class of 2002 is Davidson’s largest class ever. To
reduce the size of classes, Holmes said, “it may be
time to be a little more selective in whom we offer
acceptances to, knowing that we’ll get a class
that’s as little smaller than the growth of numbers
we’ ve had.”

Also to tackle the growth, Holmes be-
lieves that a new dormitory is necessary. Ideally,
Holmes said, “what we would like to do, working
with the Facilities Planning Committee, is to over-
build a residence hall anywhere from a building of
one hundred to a building of two hundred so we
could take student rooms off line and make study
rooms and social rooms.”

Holmes wants a large amount of student
input before the residence hall is built. He began
to receive feedback when Hall Counselor and
Resident Advisor candidates last year designed
their ideal dormitories.

Holmes suspects that students want a resi-
dence “much nicer than the traditional dormitory
with more amenities, but not a full apartment.”
Junior and sophomore suites with single bed-
rooms or a shared bed room and a common space
are needed. Holmes also thinks that students want
halls where only, four people share a bathroom.

Holmes added, ‘“‘We have other needs,
like an elevator in Belk and in the Row buildings,
but to do it without putting an ugly addition on the
side of the buiidings would mean taking a stack of
rooms.

“There are lots of things that would take away
bed ‘space, not to mention, we would like to have
some vacancies,” Holmes continued, “and house
1500-1600 students here on campus.”

Until a new building is built, Holmes
plans to “work within the system of juggling
numbers.” Upperclassmen should not worry about
not being able to live on campus. Holmes’s goal
is “to never squeeze upperclassmen out.” Housing
has been available to all upperclassmen who want

‘it for the past 10 years, although, Holmes said, “it~

has been close.”

Honor Code

Sexual Misconduct Code clarified

By Laura McCanbLisH. -
Staff Writer

The Honor Code as written under
College Governance in this year’s Red
Book appears to be significantly dif-
ferent from the Code’s old version.

However, Honor Council presi-
dent Asa Hercules said, “basically, the
Honor Code itself hasn’t changed at
all. The wording of the document is all
that was really changed, while the
spirit of the Code remains the same.”

Last spring, the Honor Council
formed an Honor Code Revision Com-
mittee, headed by Honor Council mem-
ber Joslyn Ogden.

The Committee published re-
drafted versions of the Honor Code in
| The Davidsonian for students to read
and then respond to with their input.

Hercules said that

ideals of the Honor Code “more clear
to Davidson students.”

The old version of the Honor
Code opens by saying, “Every student
shall be honor bound to refrain from
cheating (including plagiarism*).” The
newly drafted version is a more con-
cise document and opens without even

the .
Committee’s goal was to make the *

language revised

mentioning plagiarism, saying, “Each
Davidson student is honor bound to
refrain from stealing, lying about col-
lege business, and cheating on aca-
demic work.” .

The old version follows the open-
ing with a lengthy description of pla-
giarism, while the new version only
describes it as “representing another’ s
ideas or words as one’s own.”

The new draft leaves additional
guidelines on plagiarism up to the
discretion of Davidson professors for
their classes.

The new version of the Honor
Code is also more simplified when it
comes to the Honor Pledge.

The old version contained two
pledges, one for self-scheduled exams
and one for other work. The new
draft’ s official Honor Pledge combines
the essence of both statements, so it is
appropriate for all work.

_ Inresponse to the new version of
the Code, Honor Council representa-
tive Lindsay Meyers said, “I’m just
glad that the Code is always a work in
progress. Students can live by and
respect the Code, and yet always have
to power to make improvements upon
it.”

By SHERRY LEVERETT
Staff Writer

Murmurs concerning the “‘confi-
dential” sexual hearing could be heard
on the sidewalks, in between classes,
and on the halls. The confidentiality
of this hearing was not as secure as the
accuser and accused might have liked
and the policy not as clear. _

Fortunately, students and faculty
alike stepped up and recognized the
dilemma. Within the 15 years that
Associate Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano has been administering on
campus, she has heard of only three
sexual misconduct hearings, two last
year and one the previous year. Al-
though the hearing was undoubtedly a
painful process for those involved, it
presented a clear need for change.

President Bobby Vagt appointed
acommittee to study Davidson’ s policy
in comparison to that of both similar
and different colleges. “The policy
needed to have guiding principals for
it to be educational, clear, and fair,”
said Marsicano.

One-important change includes
the appointment of faculty members
on the board for three to six years
rather than the previous one-year in-
volvement. “The new policy, which
allows faculty appointees a three-year
‘Stay on the committee, ensures conti-

nuity and fairness,” Marsicano contin-
ued. “We-also decided to beef up the
training for those students involved in
hearing different cases.” :

The committee chosen to revise
the policy also intended to clarify the
choices for victims and to tighten up
procedures for making complaints. Ann
Harriet Fisher, President of the SGA,
was chosen to sit in on some of the
committee meetings. Fisher “totally
agrees” with the new policy. “Students
know this (sexual misconduct) is going
onin the country. In a sense, Davidson
is behind the times.”

She feels that there will be no
strong reaction to the new policy.
“Davidson already calls us to live ac-
cording to higher standards, exempli-
fied in both the Honor Code and Code
of Responsibility. The new policy fits.”
Prior to publishing the final policy in
the new Red Book, the committee sent
out a number of rough drafts and re-
ceived very positive feedback, espe-
cially from females.

Meredith Beattie, President of the
Rape Awareness Committee, also had a
great deal of involvement in the new
policy changes. She mentioned that
while Rape Awareness was pushing for
revision, simultaneously, the faculty was
also looking into the issue. Beattie
found the last option in the 1997-98 Red
Book for harassed victims particularly

disturbing. The last option, “Take no
further action” (pp. 21), she feels told
victims to do nothing. This and other
unclear policy definitions placed
Davidson in the lower half when com-
pared to other colleges with a Sexual
Misconduct Policy. Beattie is hap-
pier with the new policy, although she
feels it can always be improved upon.

Perhaps the sharpest change in
the Sexual Misconduct definition is
concerning those actions when in-
toxicated. Marsicano noted that 100
percent of the sexual misconducthear-
ings on campus involved alcohol.

“Here at Davidson, sexual bat-
tery will not happen without the pres-
ence of alcohol, “* Beattie said. “ We
do drink. We do party. And with that,
communication goes down.”

The Rape Awareness Commit-
tee is pleased that this new policy
gives the victim a sense of control.

In short, the new policy not only
presents a clearer definition, but also
clearer procedures. It is important
that such an issue is not sidestepped
or avoided simply because there are,-
stereotypically, only good people with
only good intentions here at Davidson.

Sexual misconduct did occur and
with it, the campus as a whole learned
that there is always room for mistakes

‘ andalwaysroom for positive improve-
ment. ee

