seed with win over Ga. Southern

By Micnaet J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

LEXINGTON, Va. — Showered
by taunts from hostile cadets, the men’s
basketball team delivered a near-flaw-

less
perfor-
mance
last
Mon-
day at

Hall,
dismissing the Keydets 90-66 in what
coach Bob McKillop called “without a
doubt” the team’s most complete effort
this season.

Mark Donnelly scored 21 points
on 7-for-8 shooting, including 3-of-3
marksmanship from three-point land,
as the Wildcats won their seventh
straight game and ninth consecutive
league bout.

Davidson worked the inside-out-
side game to perfection from the get-go,
posting a 29-10 lead just eight-and-a-
half minutes into the contest.

The Wildcats shot a blistering 62. 1
percent from the floor in the first half,
and held VMI to a paltry 30.4*mark,
staking a commanding 48-27 halftime
advantage.

The Keydets sliced the Davidson

lead to 14 with 15:08 remaining, but
never got any closer. The Wildcats’
biggest lead was 26 — 90-64 in the final
minute.

“T’m thrilled with ourinside game,”
said McKillop, referring to another set
of solid showings from Stephen
Marshall, Landry Kosmalski, and Ben
Ebong, whotallied 18, 13, and 12 points,
respectively, and teamed for 22 re-
bounds.

Davidson’s defense wasn’t half-
bad, either.

The Wildcats, who are holding
conference opponents this season to 39
percent shooting, limited VMI to 37.9.

And Keydet guard Jason Bell, who
averaged 25 points in his four games
prior to Monday, went for only nine in
a thoroughly unproductive outing.

“That team played as well as any
team we’ ve played this year,” said VMI
coach Bart Bellairs, whose Keydets fell
to 7-6 in the Southern Conference and

13-11 overall. “That’s the level we
want our program to be at.”

Said Donnelly: “Comparing this
game to when we played VMI a month
ago” —a 61-58 loss in which Davidson
blew a 14-point second-half lead — “it
shows how much we’ ve improved.”

Wildcats 75, Georgia Southern 58

Down 36-27 at halftime, the Wild-

cats went on a 16-0 run to start the
second period to better Georgia South-
ern Saturday at Belk Arena.

With the win, Davidson clinched
the top overall seed in this weekend’s
Southern Conference tournament.

Seniors Mark Donnelly, Billy
Armstrong, and Chris Stec, playing in
their final home game at Davidson,
were honored in an emotional pregame
ceremony.

Donnelly paced the Wildcats with
15 points, hitting 5-of-7 shots from the
floor.

Ben Ebong, after sitting on the
bench with foul trouble for all but three
minutes of the first half, tallied 13 in the
second.

Stephen Marshall and Landry
Kosmalski notched 11 and 10 points,
respectively, as Davidson overcame hot
three-point shooting by the Eagles, who
went 11-for-24 from beyond the arc,
including 8-of-15 before intermission.

After a relatively poor first-half
showing — perhaps caused by Senior
Day jitters — the Wildcats outscored
Georgia Southern by 26 in the second

half to win their 11th straight confer-:

ence game. —

“Coach came into the lockerroom
(at halftime) and gave us a good kick in
the butt to get us out of that emotional
fog,” Donnelly said. “That showed in
the second half.”

Marshall named conference Player of the week

BY BRATTON HOLMES

Stephen Marshall, a sophomore center from

Richmond, Va., was named the Reebok/South-

. erm Conference Men’s Basketball Player-of-the-
Week for week 11 of the basketball season.

During this week, Marshall scored a com-

Sports Editor

' during the week. Without regard to a minimum

bined 38 points in two games against UNC-
Greensboro and VMI. In the second of these two
contests, he matched his season high of 20 points
and also grabbed eight rebounds.

Against VMI, Marshall tallied 18 and was a
perfect six-of-six from the line.

Marshall was also 1-2 from three-point range

number of attempted three-pointers; Marshall is
among the top three-point shooters in the confer-

Y, FEBRUARY 24, 1998

———__— —_—— Re: _— $$ ee 8 a

Wrestling squad easily defeats

Longwood, loses to Campbell in

final dual matches of season

Squad finishes season at .500, the best
finish by a Davidson team this decade

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

Thoughitis seldom givenenough
credit for its achievements, the wres-
tling team has achieved more this sea-
son that most any other team on cam-
pus. With a defeat of the Longwood
Lancers in the final match of the sea-
son on Saturday, this season’s squad
became the first to post a .500 regular
season this decade. The team finished
the regular season 9-9-1,

If not for an unfortunate tie early
in the season with Anderson, the ‘Cats
would have posted a winning record
for the year.

Davidson opened the match
against Longwood by taking forfeits
in the first two weight classes, and
then giving up another at 134. Of the
remaining seven weight classes, the
‘Cats won another two by forfeit, three

ampbell 43):
ildcats 10

Andy

Ster-

ling won the first decision 5-2 at the

142 weight class. Ronald Williams

won 158 as well with a dominant 9-1

decision. Jeff Libersat followed Wil-

liams in the 167 weight class. He won
with an 18-12 decision. °

The highlight of the match came

in the final weight class of the day.

Senior Bill Cameron took the place of

Ben Wall, who normally wrestles

heavyweight for the ‘Cats, and found

himself facing an opponent who out-
weighed him by sixty pounds.

Cameron pinned his opponent,
giving the team a total of 40 points in
the match. Longwood scored only 12
in the match.

In the second match of the day,
the grapplers faced Campbell and had
a chance to finish the season with a
winning record. That chance quickly
vanished as Campbell won four of the
first five weight classes.

Dan Carman won by forfeit in the
first class. Davidson then lost one
class by forfeit and three by decision. |
Ronald Williams posted his second
win of the day with a 13-3 decision to
give the ‘Cats ten team points.

The hopes for a winning season
disappeared as Campbell swept the
remaining four weight classes with
two decisions and two pins.

Davidson’s top two wrestlers, Ian
Kaplan and Ben Wall, are preparing
for the Southern Conference and did
not wrestle in either of the matches.
Last season, Wall reached the finals of
his weight class, a feat not accom-
plished by a Davidson wrestler in many
years. :

Kaplan finished the season with
an astounding 26-4 record and was 5-
0 against Southern Conference teams,
who are the toughest opponents on
Davidson’s schedule.

He was the only wrestler in the
conference to post a perfect record at
his weight class.

Wall’s success last season and
Kaplan’s impressive record this year
are encouraging signs. This season,
Davidson couldeasily come away from
Greensboro with two conference cham-
pions.

Ever see the Union in the Dark?

o Marshall, aunine the last game against Duke.

ence.

son.

Marshall is the first Davidson player to
receive the Player-of-the-week award this sea-

Join layout.
Call Bratton Holmes (x6725) or William Moretz pees for
seer sass in layout.

Baseball team loses Friday, splits double-header Saturday

Baseball from page 16

double.

After a Bowers strikeout, Coley O’Donnell
doubled down the first base line past a diving
Sloan, scoring O’Keefe. O’Donnell moved to
third on a wild pitch, and then scored when Paul
Costello singled.

The score remained tied at two as both start-
ing pitchers calmed down. In the bottom of the
fifth, Brian Joyce reached second on an error by
Providence leftfielder Jason Hairston.

Using his great speed, Joyce was able to
reach second. Goodwin followed Joyce with a
walk. As DeSimone:stepped to the plate, no one
was prepared for what occurred next.

DeSimone, one of the best hitters on the team,
hita long, high fly ball to deep leftfield. The crowd
waited anxiously to see if the ball would clear the
fence. Confident that it was ahome run, DeSimone
inadvertently passed Goodwin on the basepaths. '

Goodwin was waiting to see if the ball was

going to be caught so he could tag up. As the ball -

cleared the-fence, the crowd went wild.
Unfortunately for the Wildcats, the umpire
called DeSimone out and only two runs crossed
the plate.
This mental lapse proved to be very costly as
Coley O’ Donnell tied the game at four with a two-
run homer, to shallow right field off Bowers.

Later, Goodwin preserved the tie when he
made a diving catch at the warning track.

Still, had DeSimone’s run counted, Davidson
would have won 5-4. Instead, the game went to
extra innings after a Wildcat rally failed in the top
of the seventh.

With one out, DeSimone reached first ona
throwing error by Friar third-baseman Angelo
Ciminiello. Making a heads-up decision,
DeSimone advanced to second.

As Providence intentionally walked Marshall
Tyler, Davidson surprised the Friars by having
DeSimone steal third. Providence’s pitcher, Mike
Staurt, ended the threat by getting the next two
batters.

Bowers had been relieved with two outs in
the top of the seventh by DeSimone. In the top of
the eighth, Providence’s Keith Reed opened the
inning with a single.

DeSimone came back by striking out
O’Donnell.. Paul Costello came to the plate next.
Already with an RBI on the day, Costello homered
to left-center putting the Friars up 6-4.

The Wildcats would not concede defeat.
Sophomore catcher Chris Cox was clutch as he
came up with his first hit of the season. He was
followed by Dom Talvacchio, pinch-hitting for
Drew Williams. Talvacchio also singled.

Ben Brown loaded the bases on a perfect bunt
base hit. The tension mounted as Mike DeSimone

stepped to the plate with the bases loaded and two
outs. This was his chance to go from goat to hero.
He made the most of his opportunity as he ripped
a single to leftfield.

Tworuns scored, and the game was tied. The
next batter, Marshall Tyler, continued his hot
hitting as he won the game as he drove home
Brown on a single.

DeSimone and Tyler accounted for all seven
RBIs in the game. Fittingly, DeSimone was the
winning pitcher.

In the first game on Saturday, Providence’s
ace pitcher, Marc DesRoches, managed to hold the
Cats to one run on four hits. This was their lowest
offensive output of the season. DesRoches showed
great control as he pitched a complete game sur-
rendering only one walk and earning six strikeouts.

The only inning he struggled in was the
bottom of the first. He gave up a lead-off double
to Ben Brown. With two outs, Marshall Tyler
singled Brown home giving Davidson a 1-0 ad-
vantage. The only other hits for Davidson was a
double by Stewart Sloan in the second, and aDom
Talvacchio single in the fifth.

After getting the Friars to go one-two-three in
the first, Davidson starter, Wes Self faced trouble
in the second. In his first at bat of the season,
Providence rightfielder Keith Reed crushed the
ball for a home run.

Providence scored two more the next inning

when catcher Scott Friedholm singled home both
Jason Hairston and Bryan Tamul. The Friars
added one more in the fifth when Hairston scored
on an Angelo Ciminello sacrifice fly to leftfield.

While Davidson struggled at the plate in
game one, they played well defensively. The most
notable play came in the seventh when Drew
Williams made a great over the shoulder catch,
saving a definite run.

The rubber game of the series was easily won
by Providence 13-3. Coming off his excellent
debut, freshman Ryan Stroker only lasted four and
a third inning against the Friars. -

Providence jumped out to an early 8-1 lead as
Stroker gave up eight runs on eight hits. Stroker
was not helped by his defense as there were three
errors. As a result, he only gave up three earned
runs, The other Wildcat pitchers didn’t fare much
better. Providence’s Scott Friedholm homered, as
did Keith Reed.

For Davidson, Luke Goodwin hit his first
home run of the season. On Sunday, Goodwin
went 3-5, with all three of Davidson’s RBIs.
Marshall Tyler had a good day at the plate going 2-
5. Also, freshman Tom McGintee, had a strong
showing in his’first start, He had a single and a
double, and he scored a run.

Davidson will try to rebound when they play

next at home on Wednesday against Winthrop at
3:00.
