Scott Rachanoa! Aaron Stiadetronn
Conservative/Liberal Perspective
Scott Buchanan’s Perspective
Topic 1: The Imminent Energy Crisis -

OK, anenergy crisis? Whatever. It’s all
a bunch of lies. I see no energy crisis. Saudi
Arabia’s still pumping oil by the billions of
barrels. Alaska has more oil than any place
really should, and more telling than that, gas
prices are incredibly low. To me that just
seems to indicate that there will not be a
major “energy crisis” anytime in the near
future. Even if such a crisis ever does arise,
as someone once said “necessity is the mother
of invention.” If we ever start to run out of
oil, gas, or petroleum then we will at that
point figure out how to deal with the prob-
lem. -

Guess who will then solve our problem.
That’s right, private enterprise. Not govern-
ment. Everyone is whining about how we
should pour all sorts of public funding into
random, wasteful research programs that are
seeking out “alternative energy solutions.”
Well that’s just stupid. The only way to find
new ways to solve these so called energy
problems is to let big business deal with it.
When and if our oil and gas supplies begin to
run low, private companies will all be clam-
oring to be the first to solve the problem and
thereby make a huge profit. Leave it to them
to deal with.

Of course, this all presupposes, as I have
already mentioned, that we are actually run-
ning low on fuel. Foohey, I say. Itis actually
probably a Democratic ploy to get liberals
elected to office by spreading paranoia. I
mean, Al Gore needs something to run around
and hoot and holler about. Without environ-
mental issues such as this he would have
nothing constructive to dither on about. Thus
I choose to write off this whole issue. So
there.

Topic 2: Ben Cooper

Let me begin by stating that Ben Cooper

is a psychopathic loser. Ok, if you don’t

actually know him, well first count yourself -

lucky, and then realize that you have prob-
ably at least seen him sleazing around the
campus once or twice. He’s the big burly
Alaskan who normally is sporting the huge
beard, which, by the way, went out of style
about the time C. Everett Coop was Surgeon
General.

Enough description. I mentioned that he
was psychopathic, but what is of most impor-
tance is that he is aloser. Mr. Cooper pretty
evenly divides his time between drinking
and whining. A dynamic combination in-
deed. He dresses poorly. His demeanor is
unfriendly. You’ve probably seen him at
Court parties: he is always THAT guy on
pretty much any given Friday night.

Solution to the Ben Cooper problem on
this campus? Steer clear. Avoidance is the
key. Imean, nothing will destroy your social
standing more than being seen with Mr.
Cooper, so freshmen, take note.

At least, that’s the way I see it.

Aaron Sundstrom’s Perspective
Topic 1: The Imminent Energy Crisis

When I look the to future of the human
race and of the planet Earth we live on,
perhaps the most frightening vision is that of
a devastating world energy crisis. And the
scariest part is that it’s going to happen. As
humans, our modern existence relies heavily
upon the inventions of previous generations,
and these inventions have learned to rely on
limitless power production. But as our gad-
gets have become more advanced, more nifty,
more complex, our consumption of the once
plenty fossil fuels has increased. But people
are beginning to realize that there isn’t a
limitless supply of oil. Nor is there an end-
less coal mine or natural gas pocket. Some
people propose that further drilling and ex-
ploration will continue to unveil more sources
of oil and other fossil fuels. But what hap-
pens when the environment has been de-
stroyed to discover these fuels, and what

happens when these new discoveries run
out?

The answer lies in the certain devasta- —
tion that our power-hungry and power-ad-
dicted society would see. So what we need
to do is to begin aggressively seeking alter-
native power sources and alternative power
consumption methods. Solar energy, hydro-
electric energy, wind-generated energy... the
list goes on. Some might even argue for
nuclear fission sighting its safety if con-
tained. Perhaps an even better option would
be nuclear fusion, which is now being re-
searched as an even more effective source of
energy than fission, and without the harmful
waste products. Our consumption must be
checked, too. Electric cars, solar-heated
houses, and :
energy-saving measures on computers and
other devices are all good first steps toward
an energy-efficient society that will survive
the energy crunch.

So whether the attack on the imminent
energy crisis begins with alternative meth-
ods for production or reduced consumption,
the attack must be made. Our society needs
to find some other means of survival. If we
don’t, modern living, society, and our very
existence as we know it will not continue.

Topic 2: Ben Cooper

Let me begin by stating that Ben Cooper
is a psychopathic loser. However, I feel that
Ben’s psychosis is the more relevant aspect
of his social maladjustment. I mean, have
you seen the look in his eyes? He’s a
madman, for the love of God.

His putrid sense of humor and delight at
other’s dismay is purely sickening. Now,
I’m no psycho-analyst or anything but let’s
look at the facts. Ben is from Alaska. It’s
cold there. People don’t get out much. Have
you heard of cabin fever? Well, big brother
igloo fever has been known to strike the
native population with devastating profi-
ciency. So my advice to all you kids out
there is to steer clear of Mr. Cooper and his
wacked-out way of thinking.

And that’s the truth to me.

Unique Abroad Program Invades Davidson

David Rosenberg
Sophomore Perspective

So I went abroad yesterday.
Yep, I went on a one day foreign ex-
change study, though it bore no relation to the
"Dean Rusk Program. In fact, the program I
went on was a lot less hassle than any of the
formal programs at Davidson. No papers to
fill out, no plane tick-

their tables.

I found safe haven in Africa-America, a
different and kind place. I sat down, began
eating my food and attempted to join in on
the conversation. I did have a few questions
about the cultures of the surrounding lands,
so I asked the gentleman next to me about
the table that was laughing and cackling in
the back corner of the cafeteria. He ex-
plained politely that that region belonged to

the so called swim-

the ice cream machine. Some even returned
to the machine two or three times. Iasked my
wise friend about this phenomenon and he
said, “The females of each clan must add on
several layers of fat before the winter months

to keep watm.”

Its only natural that people associate
with those they have most in.common. But
we cannot ignore the fact that our cafeteria,
a microcosm of our school, is divided. Stu-
dent Government

ets to reserve, not

even anew language the Davidson cam- tango,’ ” and it’s awfull hard
: i ly har
to kari Africa-America,, a different... The young gent #9 da hile clued tn ch
: and kind lace 0 dance while glued to chairs
“aE Bad erates a Brees sounded wise, sol in @ divided cafeteria
journey. inquired more of this :

I found safe haven in

ming cult, a strange

I traveled by foot to the Vail Commons
Cafeteria, a long and arduous trip from my
homeland of the Belk.dormitory. Finding
shelter from the outside winds, I hung up my
trenchcoat and put aside my walking stick.
The program was so convenient that it even

_accepted my declining balance in exchange
for food.

As I walked the short trail I passed
Jockville to my right, the population which
inhabited the three or four tables in the right
comer of the eating room. Large athletes,
men and women alike, ate with cutoff sleeves,
and grunted at each other between food
swallowings. They appeared to me a savage
bunch with their gruntings and barbarous
hee-hawing. One large hairy beast of a man
winked, then laughed at me’as I walked past.

. Their mere size and strength intimidated me
as I tried to avoid eye contact and shuffled by
Paes ‘

Dec secnsencdale oa

andisolatedgroupof AS they say, “it takes two to

may insist that for
one luncha year we
randomly eat with
random people to
increase our so-
called awareness.

strange following. “They
move in flocks,” explained the wise man,
“and are never caught alone. They socialize
only by themselves and it is rumored that
they sacrifice animals.”

I shuddered and continued with my
meal. . :

Curious again about the athletic sect I
had seen when I entered the cafeteria, I
asked the friendly student what those mon-
grels did with their time. He answered,
“Some lace together the dried skins of pigs
and run with them in a mad frenzy to cross
a designated line without being dragged to
the ground. Others fill cow hides with air
and attempt to toss them into metal baskets.
They are of a strange breed.”

The three cultures did have one thing in
common, however. There was a. steady
procession from the females of each tribe to

People are comfort-
able with those they have similarities with,
whether it be acommon sports team or color
of skin. It only makes sense that we are
attracted to those with similar characteris-
tics. We are safe where we are.

Should we be concerned? Should we
notice these obvious integrations? Maybe it
is just ok. Maybe there is nothing wrong with
racially isolated theme halls and eating
houses. People feel more comfortable with

' those that they have most in common. But

as they say, “it takes two to tango,” and it’s
awfully hard to dance while glued to chairs
in a divided cafeteria.

After I had finished eating, I left the land

. with fond memories and retired to my Belk

quarters.
Thus ended my so-called abroad pro-
gram.

