Candidates give their reasons for running and share their opinions of the current revisions

Name: Wilson Buntin ‘99

Major: History

Hometown: Greenville, Miss.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I wanted
to be more involved in making sure that the Honor
Code remains an integral part of Davidson Col-
lege.” _

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “From what I have read about
the proposed revisions, I support them.”

Name: Kelly Carter ‘00 :
Major: Biology with a Medical Humanities con-
centration

Hometown: Ablemarle, N.C.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for
the Honor Council because I believe the Honor
Code to be the foundation of Davidson College.
_ The freedom that comes from the responsibility of
the Honor Code is precious, and I hope to maintain
that freedom by serving on the Honor Council.”
What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I agree with not requiring
students to turn in Honor Code violations they
become aware of by word of mouth. I think we all
know how stories are distorted as they are passed
around! Inregards to the police compliance clause,
any possible Honor Council violation has to first
pass through the Dean of Student’s Office, which
would be effective in checking any rampant abuse
of power by Davidson’s police force. Compiling
the Honor Code statements into one sentence and
explicitly defining the parameters of plagiarism
should make: the Honor Code guidelines more
clearly defined.”

Name: Brew Davis ‘01

Major: undecided

Hometown: Nashville, Tenn.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran
because I wanted to represent our class, and be-
cause I wanted to uphold this fundamental aspect
of our college.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I agree with the revisions.

Clarifying the wording is important to prevent
misunderstandings.

“I also agree with the revision that only
witnessed violations should be reported as this
will reduce false and incorrect accusations. As for
the proposed Honor Code Pledge, it seems neces-

sary.”
Name: Paul Eubanks ‘00

Major: Political Science
Hometown: Muscle Shoals, Ala.

_ Why did you run for Honor Council? “I had a

desire to contribute to the preservation of a tradi-
tion that has been and is still at Davidson College.”
What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “The proposed revisions present
a terse yet clear depiction of the Honor Code that
still appears faithful to the ideals expressed in the
original version.”

Name: Elizabeth Fraser ‘00

Major: Religion

Hometown: Bluffton, S.C.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for
the Honor Council because I was on a similar
council in high school and I missed being an active
part of what makes this school special. I wanted to
represent the Honor Code and do my best to
uphold it and make Davidson the best school it can
be, which I think includes first and foremost,
honor.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I support the proposed changes
to the Honor Code because I think they make it
more clear for students and faculty, especially the
section about plagiarism. It is important for stu-
dents to understand and respect the authority of he
Davidson police as well, and I think the proposed
changes promote our honor in every aspect of our
life, which includes more than the classroom.”

Name: Carter Grant ‘01

Major: undecided

Hometown: Charleston, S.C.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for

Honor Council because I felt like it would be a
great opportunity to get involved in student gov-
ernment and to work for something. that I really
believe in, the Davidson Honor Code.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I am very much in favor of the
new revisions to the Honor Code, based less on the
specifics than on the principle. I think it is ex-
tremely important as a student body that we are
constantly reevaluating the structure of campus
life. The Honor Code, as a central part of our lives
here, deserves the attention. I am very excited to
be apart of a governing body that has the ability to
react to student concerns and get things changed.”

Name: Sam Kuykendall ‘00

Major: English and Pre-Med.

Hometown: Columbia, Tenn.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for
the Honor Council because I think it is the founda-
tion and hallmark of Davidson and I really want to
be a part of it and watch and make it work. I was
amember of the Honor Council at my high school,
Montgomery Bell Academy, and really enjoyed
it.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I really support the proposed
revisions to the Honor Code. I think the Code is
well intended, but also very vague and poorly
written. I patticularly support the new Pledge with

‘the exam and regular Pledge included. I think that

we should use the same integrity and honesty no
matter what kind of work we are involved in. I
don’t really understand the article by Ben Wolff in
The Davidsonian about his argument against the
revisions, but I guess that can be explained.”

Name: Laura Morriss ‘00

Major: Art History

Hometown: Dallas, Texas

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for
Honor Council because the Honor Code is one of
the main features that drew me to Davidson. I went
to a public high school where stealing was not a
major problem, but cheating was an everyday

phenomenon for some people. Many of my friends
here at Davidson went to private schools with
Honor Codes and don’t think too much about it.
Coming from my background, I really appreciate
the environment created by the Honor Code and
wanted to be a part of what makes Davidson
special to me.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to
the Honor Code? “I am in support of the new
changes in the Honor Code, especially the clause
specifically stating that one is honor bound to turn
in a student if the offense is seen first-hand. This
clears up a hazy point of whether someone should
turn a student in if he or she heard about an offense
second hand since the second hand information
may or may not be true. I am a little distressed
about the removal of the word plagiarism. |
understand they did it because teachers have dif-
ferent definitions of plagiarism, but it seems they
should try to standardize a definition for both
teachers and students to follow. However, the
Honor Code has always placed the responsibility
of knowing a teacher’s policies on the student so
the revision is not out of line by asking students to
learn about each teacher’s definition of plagia-
rism.” ,

Name: Lee Ann Petty ‘01

Major: possibly Political Science

Hometown: Birmingham, Ala.

Why did you run for Honor Council? “I ran for
the Honor Council because I want to get involved
in activities outside academics at Davidson and J

have a great respect for the students on the council

who are dedicated to and responsible for adminis-

tering justice and upholding the Honor Code. |

have known since freshman orientation that I:
wanted to be a part of this distinguished group of
student leaders.”

What do you think of the proposed revisions to

the Honor Code? “I think the revisions will

enable students to better understand and be more

aware of the numerous facets of the Honor Code.

and will allow them to feel more confident about

supporting and respecting the Honor Code.”

Elections bring new and old to SGA

By RACHEL WIPPOLD
Staff Writer

On March 23, the student body elected new
senators and class presidents for the Student Gov-
ernment Association. Rising sophomores Monica

_ Martinez and Jehan Shamsid-Deen were reelected
from among six candidates. Dane Erickson; also
currently a freshman, served this year as a senator
and was reelected as sophomore class president.
Erickson ran for SGA because he “‘would like to
help mandate the centralization of Student Gov-
ernment at Davidson.” He states that the goal of
his term is to “‘provide opportunities for the class
of 2001 to learn from each other.”

Rising juniors Foster Haselden, Julie Cheva-
lier, and Beth Wilson also were elected to serve the
student body for the next year. President of the
Class of 2000 and two-year veteran of SGA,
Haselden believes “a senator’s main responsibil-
ity is to his or her peers and voice their concerns.”
New member Wilson hopes to add “new, positive
suggestions and opinions that will benefit how the
school is. run and how future classes will see the
SGA.” ;

Rives Moore, Mike Harmon, and Fahd Gul
will represent the Class of 1999 as SGA senators.
Gul represents his class for the first time in SGA.

Gul, Harimon, and Chavalier were not avail-
able for comment.

CCRL last hurdle for Turner

Turner House from page 1

realize that it’s going to be different, especially at
first, and with the financial situation,” said Brosche.
“We’re not going to be able to do everything the
other houses to during those years we’ re getting on
our feet.”

“] think that we have a lot of opportunities to
do things with other houses on the court,” said
Sisko. “I would love to see all four houses come
together to sponsor a function.”

As the house seeks to establish itself as a
member of the Patterson Court community, the
house will establish an independent identity as
well.

Turner stipulated in agreement with the use
of her name that mandatory service be eliminated
for members, though house’ members are elected
to maintain the positions of service coordinators
on the executive board. Additionally, Turner
required that the house formulate a mission state-
_ ment in the fall.

“This will be a chance for the girls to come
together and voice their feelings about the house
and what we aim to accomplish by starting a fourth
house,” said Sisko. “It’s something exciting that
we can all work together on, not only as members,
but members with a goal in mind and hopes for the‘
future.”

With a strong freshmen representative body
in Turner, members expect the house to thrive with
increased freshmen self-selection.

_ “I think with the amount of freshman interest
that we have in the house, the house will havea
really good survival rate,” said Sisko, “There are
so many girls joining houses and taking an active
role in the house, we have a great chance to
continue with a strong and active membership.”

“We really have a chance to be a unifying
force among the houses because we are drawing
from all of the current houses,” said McKinley.

Turner House will commence as an eating
house with full privileges and responsibilities in
Fall 1998, pending the approval of CCRL.

.

Davidson alumni.

$$ NEED EXTRA CASH? $$
WE CAN HELP!

Has a busy Spring semester left you
penniless? Are you planning to stay in the
Davidson area for the summer? You may
need us and we definitely need you! The
Davidson College Annual Fund needs in-
dividuals interested in working as student
callers for the 1998 and subsequently 1999
Annual Fund Campaigns. We are seeking
individuals who are able to communicate
articulately and cordially over the tele-
phone. This position offers substantial pay
and flexible evening hours throughout the
summer. In addition, students will benefit
from this unique opportunity to speak with

If interested, contact J enny Reinoehl at
| x2113.

