very year, the Residence Life Office de-
lights in sending numerous students on
this campus to a fate worse than organic
chemistry class. One night out of the year, we all

line up like little ducks in Chambers, crossing our
fingers and looking at our lottery numbers with
emotions that I don’t dare repeat within this text.
Yes, Lottery Night, how much fun. Thank you, sir;
may I have another?

But do you know that RLO will stick it to you
twice in one year? Yep, that’s right. Extra helping
of abuse at table one, please! If RLO doesn’t get
you in the lottery system, they will later play acard
that few students realize exists in that office’s
powerful deck. And, oh, do they have some
winning cards.

[refer to the fact that RLO must give permis-
sion to any student who wishes to remain on
campus for graduation services. Betcha didn’t
know that one, did you? Technically, each student
must leave the residence hall within 24 hours of

finishing his or her last final. If a student wishes

a pre- )

to stay in the residence hall to attend graduation
ceremonies, then that poor soul must march down
to RLO and actually request the authorization of
the Office or face some fun penalties. It’s not like
getting that last room in Knox didn’t punish you
enough, right?
Nokidding! Now, then, I know that Davidson
College tries to create this image of a community
joined by the Honor Code and strengthened by a
small student body. Every tour guide learns to tell
prospective students that the campus is like a
family, and everybody supports their fellow stu-

of making each student submit a detailed explana-
tion of why he orshe would like to stay after exams
in order to watch best friends and significant
others finally complete the educational tour of
duty represented by that little sheet of paper? And
not just any explanation will suffice for RLO!
Unless a sibling is graduating or you have a job to
complete on this campus, you had bétter just pack
those bags and leave your key on the dresser.

So people want to hang out for a few days
after melting their brains over a finite math exam.
So they just want to say goodbye to a friend that

“Judging from the way RLO treats the student body sometimes, I think
maybe that office doesn’t really want students on this campus in the first

place.”

dent. For the most part, the cliche does not miss the
mark. [usually go to concerts and plays to which
a team of wild horses couldn’t drag me, simply to
see a friend’s 15 minutes of fame.

Therefore, I cannot exactly understand the
reasoning behind RLO’s policy. What’s the point

may have totally changed their lives with friend-
ship and inspiration over the last four years. So
graduation should bea “family event.”” For $26,000
a year, I think we deserve the right to stay in our
rooms for a few days and attend the ceremonies.
Get a hotel room for a few days? Sleep on a

on eviction

friend’s floor? Yeah, right. Our minds don’t
function until a few days after exams, anyway, so
why not stick around and rebuild all that gray
matter we burned up finishing that last essay on
why hell is exothermic?

Let’s face the facts, kids. Judging from the
way RLO treats the student body sometimes, |
think maybe that office doesn’t really want stu-
dents on this campus in the first place. Maybe we
should just throw in the towel and turn this place
into condominiums. I mean, the administration
will probably kill the Court in a few years, and then
that land will be perfect for a new suburb of
Charlotte. Hell, let’s sell out now and get rich!
Welcome to the Davidson Projects!

Of course, if we don’t want to give in to that
monster, then we can fight now. We can all march
down to RLO and demand housing for gradua-
tion. If they deny us permission, then we get tents
and cardboard boxes and camp out. Fires in oil
drums in front of Chambers! Sounds funny?
Well, it’s probably the only way half of us will get
to see some of the most important people in our
lives complete their college years.

So please, fight the RLO monster. Wouldn't
you want your friends to have the right to see you
escape this place, without having to vie for a space
on your couch?

Singer-Barnum incorrect, IVCF not responsible for crosses

in last week’s Davidsonian, Ansel
Singer-Barnum blindly attacked a

- group that involves almost ten percent
of the student body, without stopping
long enough to examine the facts. The

I nhis article about the Easter crosses

crosses are not sponsored by any orga-
nization. They are the property of a
student — not involved with [VCF —
who-announced the display at an IV
meeting approximately an hour before
the crosses were put up.

Less than half of the 90 students
on the list of sponsors of the display are
involved with IVCF in any way. Those
90 students included members of every
campus Christian organization regis-
tered with the Chaplain’s office and

represented every major Christian de-
nomination at Davidson. I fail to see
how Ansel can use this display to char-
acterize IVCF as “narcissistic,” “self-
ish,” and “commercial.”

The purpose of the crosses is not to
“convert the atheist” or to spark a re-
vival. They are a memorial to an event

‘ which is, according to the church, the

most important in human history.

As the sign under the display said,
the crosses quietly remind Christians of
the amazing love for us that Christ
showed 2000 years ago, a love that is
very easy to forget in the craziness of
life at Davidson. The flowers placed on

~the cross after break represented and

celebrated the new life Christians be-
lieve comes from the cross. As Ansel
said, the crosses are only potent to those
who believe in them. Why can’t. our
community, which continually pro-
fesses a desire for diversity, respect the
celebration of faith of some of its mem-
bers?

A list of supporter’s names was
placed under the crosses to encourage
discussion between those of different
beliefs. Had Ansel talked to one of
these 90 people, he would have had a
chance to share his opinion and hear a
different one. But he chose to make a
stereotyped judgement and attack ev-
ery member of one of the largest student
organizations based on something he’d
heard.

As a community of scholars, we
hope to learn from each other. Differ-
ent perspectives, including Christian-
ity, can be the basis for this learning, but
only if we take advantage of the oppor-
tunity. Ifthe reaction to displays of this
type was open dialogue, we would come
away with a greater understanding of
each other’s opinions and sensitivities,
and our community would be the better
for it. Instead, we attack and retreat
back into our cliques. We shun each
other because we can’t get past our
stereotypes. Then we surround our-

selves with those who share them. How
are we supposed to have a harmonious
community if we aren’t willing to learn
from each other?

Non-Christian friends have com-
plained to me about the attitude of Chris-
tians on campus. They say the Chris-
tians are egocentric, do not respect other
religions, and primarily aim to convert
rather than listen. If this perception
exists, open dialogue between people
of different faiths is very difficult. When
we spend all of our time defending our
own beliefs, we can’t see the validity of
others. The responsibility to prove this

perception untrue lies with Christians

on campus.

Sharing the love of God with our
campus does not necessarily involve
trying to make a Christian out of every
nonbeliever. We can show Christ's
love when we are willing to serve oth-
ers, respecting them, listening to them,
and learning from them.

Non-Christians are not heathen to

be avoided, just as Christians are not a
group of Jesus-freak wackos dedicated
to self-promotion through “saving
souls.” We are all people whose core
beliefs influence every action. There is
no way for us to respect each other as
people if we can’t respect the validity of
those core beliefs and the actions that
come from them.

Davidson will be a harmonious
community only when we are willing to
set aside our stereotypes, humble our-

selves, and listen. If this is our ideal.

then we can’t destroy it by blindly at-
tacking each other. If something of-
fends you, talk to someone who sup-

~ ports it. Share what it is you find

offensive, and listen to their reasons for
doing it. Talk to me! I'd love to hear
your opinion on the crosses, IV, or
anything else that occupies your wan-
dering mind. If we are willing to re-
spect each other and learn a little, the
closed-minded atmosphere of campus
we all complain about may disappear.

CO avidsoncommits itself
; to a Christian tradi-
tion that recognizes

God as the source of all truth, and
finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of
that God, a God bound by no church
or creed. The loyalty of the college
thus extends beyond the Christian com-
munity and necessarily includes an
openness to and respect for the world’s

various religious traditions. Davidson
is dedicated to the quest for truth and
encourages teachers and faculty to
explore the whole of reality, whether
physical or spiritual, with an unlim-
ited employment of their intellectual
powers. Faith and reason must work
together in mutual respect if Davidson
is to realize and maintain its particu-
lar vision of academic excellence.”
As the faculty of this fine institu-
tion are wont to say, ignorance is no
excuse. The above passage is from
page six of the Davidson College Hand-
book. Davidson was founded by Pres-
byterians and has, in fact, prided itself
from its foundation on a tradition of
_ | Spirituality within an intellectual com-

Expression, not suppression |

munity. In recent years, an increased
effort has been made to attract a diverse
population to this campus, and
Davidson’s Christian roots have been
downplayed in this process. But the

administration has never attempted to ~

hide the fact that Davidson is first and
foremost a Christian college. Although
the school embraces all religious be-
liefs, there is an understood respect for
the traditions that Davidson was

founded upon-and that each student

agrees to abide by when enrolling.

As we move toward an increas-
ingly secular society, the College con-
tinues to require a religion course as a
graduation requirement. Why is this?
Many other schools were founded by
religious groups. Harvard, forexample,
was formed as a school of divinity.
Davidson is unusual in its decision to
uphold its Christian tradition. :

Ansel Singer-Barnum implied in
his article that! VCF overstepped bound-
aries by displaying crosses on campus
for the days surrounding Easter. I could
argue that I find the rubber rafts
Davidson Outdoors uses to advertise its
rafting trips offensive because I am
forced to recall a traumatic experience
as a five-year-old in a water park. . .

The article also includes a refer- -

ence to “flaunting fanaticism.” I ama

_Christian. Ieven wear a bracelet with _

. ing my spiritual path? No, instead it is

__we make it.

the acronym WWJD which represents
the phrase “What Would Jesus Do?”
Does this make me a “fanatic,” flaunt-

a personal article I choose to wear that
defines my faith and means something
to me on a spiritual level.

Inmy opinion, aharmonious com-
munity promotes diversity while stand-
ing for truth, but to Ansel, in a harmo-
nious community, “conflict is antici-
pated and avoided before it emerges.”
Hmm, maybe we could all live in little
bubbles and walk around with rose-
colored glasses on. These methods
logically make a lot of sense, don’t
they? I don’t think so.

College is about awakenings —
sometimes in powerful paradigm shifts,
sometimes in pleasant revelations, and
sometimes in painful jolts. The
Davidson community’s toleration of
beliefs. may -be a painful jolt, but I
believe expression and not suppres-
sion is a more productive and progres-
sive solution. Perhaps the crosses
raisedafew eyebrows. Fabulous. From
a religious standpoint, we have many
bridges to cross on our path to height-
ened spiritual awareness on campus;
the three crosses should be used as a
beginning to bridge these differences
because Davidsonis only as utopian as

@ LETTERS TO THE EpiTors #

_ Crossses justified but misunderstood

To the Editors:

Having read last week’s article by Ansel Singer-Barnumi entitled “IVCF
crosses offensive,” I feel compelled to shed some light on the subject. First, it needs
to be known that Intravarsity Christian Fellowship had nothing to do with erecting
the crosses. Rather, the crosses were supported and raised by nearly one hundred
Christian individuals in the Davidson community. The fact that the crosses were
accredited to 'VCF exhibits that Christians on this campus cannot make a statement
without being categorized into a group. Second, we put the crosses in the heart of
the campus because that is where the administration told us to put them. Third, the
crosses were not meant to be a “publicity stunt,” nor were they meant to be an
aggressive attempt to convert people to Christianity. Their only intention was to
remind all of us why we have Easter Break. I apologize if we offended anyone, but
we feel the crosses are justified due to Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage.

4

Thank you,
Brew Davis ‘01

