Coed Eating House from page 7

women at Davidson,” that after women came to
this campus, there were five coed eating houses

here which “helped to create unity...” As almost :

every student knows, each of those five houses
closed down eventually as the involvement in
fraternities and the new women’s eating houses
increased. I don’t think I'll ever understand why
this happened, I mean, I wasn’t here at the time, so
personally, I can’t comment on it. The only expla-
nation that I could see as making. sense as to why
such institutions might have failed consists of two
separate but equal events that occurred in
Davidson's past. The first comes from the fact that
women did not have a single gender option like the
men did in the fraternities and thus they formed
their own counterpart, the first, of which there
would eventually be five (only four ever on the
campus at one time), was Rusk. ..

The second was because of the creation of the
largest coed eating house on campus, Vail Com-
mons, which was built in the early 1980s. (Believe
it or not, I could see how they might have actually
served food that could have tempted people away
from thé eating houses at that time). Both of these
events led to the downfall of the coed eating house

Skattum discusses pros and cons of coe

at Davidson. Did this mean that students didn’t
want to have the coed eating houses around?

Maybe at the time while thing were still in their
trial stages that answer could have been a definite
yes, but right now, as I’m sitting here writing this
article, I can tell you that the answer is no longer
“yes.”

While it’s nice to know that there are people
around campus who would be interested in the
creation of a coed eating house, the question still
remains as to where the heck it would go. As I see
it, there are four different options that are avail-
able, some a lot better than others.

1, Wait for a new dormitory to be built, thus
allowing for the conversion of Pax back into a
coed eating house. Pros: The last remaining
coed eating house would be welcomed back to
campus with open arms and it wouldn’t cost too
much (aside from the cost of the new. dorm).
Cons: The only way that anyone here would be
able to eat in the house would be if they came back
for their fifth reunion.

2. Build a new eating house somewhere
down by the sophomore dorms. Pros: The house
would be done sometime before the end of this
year (if the started now). Cons: People wouldn’t

Don’t trash Davidson

ersonally, I am insulted by the im

plication in an article in last week’s

Davidsonian that the Op-Ed sec-
tion is lacking in opinion. Granted, I have
taken issue with the subject matter and
writing style of certain columnists, but
never have I discounted the validity or
sincerity with which they have expressed
their opinions.
Racism, religion,
and capitalism are
viable subject mat-
ter for discussion,
but I venture to say
perhaps we could
write more conclu-
sively about campus issues such as, say,
the trash collection in the senior apart-
ments.

In the last issue of The Davidsonian,
Mr. Ross discusses the long-debated and
even longer unanswered question of edu-
cational inequality in America. Although
movies are not real, I offer Hollywood’s
most recent attempt at the nature vs. nur-
ture question. In “Good Will Hunting,” a
movie about “unprivileged” people, we
see a brilliant young man who, in the
absence of outside opportunity, has taken
the initiative to learn-on his own. ‘Will
struggles with the priorities in his life;
and yes, he has conditioned himself to
think he will keep on working at the site
with his best friend the rest of his life. But
what does Ben Affleck’s character tell
him? Essentially, that Will’s gifts extend
beyond the realm of the construction site,
and he is destined for a different path than
the other workers at the site.

My pointis that although there should
be a balance of fairness, many people
want things other than “higher” educa-
tion. That three out of four people do not
complete college is staggering, but for
some people college and graduate school
is not the ultimate goal. Many famous
figures commonly considered “success-
ful” did not go to college. Some choose
to work for a while, others take time off,
and many go back to school later in life.

l agree wholeheartedly with Tommy

Ross that Davidson is a privilege, but I
would not go so far as to say the students
here are undeserving. My family moved
when I was in seventh grade, solely for
the reason that my parents wanted my
sisters and I to have the advantage of
some of the best public schools in the
state. It wasn’t financially possible to
send us.to private
high school and a
“good” college.
Many students
here are on some
form of financial
aid whichexplains
the friendly faces
of fellow students behind the Union desk,
game room, Baker Sports front desk, and
insundry other offices on campus. Many
people I know also work in the town of
Davidson, and I personally worked two
offcampus jobs last year. In my case and
for many other students I have talked to,

their families have worked very hard to

send them to Davidson because their
parents strongly believed in the impor-
tance of education and the opportunities
it brings. Inhigh school, all the Davidson
students I know took advanced level
courses, played multiple sports, and led
many student organizations in the hope
of becoming an individual that colleges
such as Davidson would welcome. Per-
haps we were receiving the benefit of
good schools, but we still worked to
ensure our admission by requiring excel-
lence of ourselves academically and in
extracurricular activities.

Many solutions have been proffered .

in the attempt to level the playing field,
so to speak. In recent years, Capitol Hill
has toyed with the idea of government-
issued vouchers for high school and col-
lege. Also, academic institutions have
adopted need-blind admission and in-
creased opportunity through affirmative
action policies. America as.a nation
should continue taking these baby steps
in the right direction, but this process
involves a great deal of time. .

Can we change the system? Are

ay

be ‘able to complain about parking in Satellite 2
anymore because that is all the space that is left.
Also, where would the money for it actually come
from?

3. Convert the Union Outpost into the coed
eating house. Pros: Instant eating house; you
even havea kitchen. Cons: Even I would protest
joining this eating house, I mean, you can’t take
away people’s cheese quesadillas or their bagel
pizzas and then expect them to be happy about it.

4. Take a current women’s eating house or a
current fraternity and convert into a coed eating
house. Pros: No loss of options for either gender
on the Court, everyone still has the same number
of choices. Depending on the situation, you
wouldn’t even have to change the name either.
Cons: Some fraternity or eating house would
have to be willing to say that the only way for them
to survive on this campus (at least in spirit) would
be to open their house up to theother gender. You
try to convince someone of doing that.

So granted, in one way or another it would be
possible to bring a coed eating house to Davidson.
While it might take some effort on the part of
others, it is an available option. However, what
would happen if there was a coed house at

d eating house

Davidson, again? Would it fail like the ones
before it? To be honest I can’t answer that ques-
tion, I think only the rest of the campus as a whole
can answer it. I guess the only thing I can do then
is leave everyone with the following. Every per-
son on this campus, at some point, has had to eat in
the Commons. Freshmen, you’re all eating there

‘right now; Independents, you all ate there at some

point and some of you still do; everyone else, you
either joined a fraternity, an eating house, or you
cook for yourselves, but you still had to eat at the

“Commons at least once while you were here.

During that time, you were eating in a coed eating
house, a place where a group of guys could discuss
classes over manicotti with a group of girls. Now,
looking back upon that time (or for freshmen,
think about it right now), would you like to do that
in a place other than the Commons, be part of a
group that wasn’t Independent and thus have the
ability to actually throw a party? Well, then maybe
you’d be able to answer the question for yourself
as to whether a coed eating house would survive or
fail on this campus. Think about it when you get
the chance.

Heck, you might even want to discuss it over
dinner.

because of the urine in the water).

Oceanic dealers of
death

hat really sucks about the beach — fearsome sea-born critters, that’s right, I’m telling
y’al’ asa virile, powerful young man that I am scared shitl#ss of the ocean and I’d rather

go through a root canal without the nitrous than engage in oceanic activities. Do not
feel bad for me, please, I know where to place the blame — “Jaws.” Isaw PREVIEWS for “Jaws”
when I was young, and I didn’t swim for several months. It:was funny because I wouldn’t swim
in swimming pools even though I knew damn good and well that sharks don’t like pool water (it’s

BUT! WHAT IF THE BASTARD CAME FROM UP UNDER THE DRAIN!!! So, if I

swam, I kept a keen eye on that drain, and if I felt any kind of shift in the water tension, I’d put
the breast stroke in first gear and aim for the shore. I’d then wait to see the bloody carnage unfold,
but alas nothing of the sort ever happened. Imagine the “Baywatch” gang dealing with that one,
“Old ‘Knight Rider’ guy! Save me,” screams the anatomically impossible bleach blonde, and as
“’Knight Rider’ guy” jumps into the water, he is devoured by the irritated and ravenous shark —
that would be,pretty cool! : .

Iknow what you are thinking: “Jimbo is one boogered up dude,” and you are right, but sharks
aren’t the only problem, Other savage ocean critters include the dreaded jellyfish. Those little
blobs of strawberry Jell-O are so inherently malicious that they can still hurt your naked rump after
they are dead! Doesn’t that brother anybody else? The little gooey glob stinks up a storm rotting
on the beach, you kick him out of the way, arid then you yell, “THAT LITTLE PIECE OF
STINKING MONKEY SH%T!!” This is all followed by some crying. A good thing about this
happening is you can then make up a really cool story on how you were “attacked” by a “swam”
of “rabid, man-eating, demonic, jellyfish from the bowels of hell itself,” but gloriously defeated
the jellyfish and saved a bus-load full of children, all while reciting “Othello” in Italian —
backwards. C’mon, it’s not like you wouldn’t do it!

I’m not even going to discuss all the other savage critters that inhabit our oceans; I mean if
Thave to live in fear of being consumed by some vicious fish in the ‘“‘safety” of my own swimming
pool, what has the world come to? The next thing you’ll tell me is that the President isn’t faithful
to his wife or O.J. Simpson is the killer! Oh well, what can you do? So I guess now that everyone
thinks I’m a paranoid freak-show I'll go, but be careful when swimming! You never know when

those damn swamin’ jellyfish will jump you, or when Jaws is going to burst outta your drain and
eat your community pool.

vouchers a viable solution? I feel every-

qualify the money Mommy AND Daddy

one is, in fact, self-motivated to make the
most of their individual talents and gifts.
This might take form in a community
college, eight years of medical school, or
still other roads. As with anything, you
get out of education what you put into it.
We cannot subject ourselves to guilt
because of the blessings we do have. It
is enough to constantly use these bless-
ings to improve the world around us and
not lose sight of how fortunate we are.
If anything, I feel compelled to

have invested in my future through my
education. I am thankful I am able to
attend a school where I have the freedom
and privilege to grant me opportunities
such as writing for The Davidsonian. As
I walk by the giant sandbox formerly
known as Chambers Lawn, instead of
being saddened by my lack of Internet
access and the Baker Weight Room

‘Closet, remember the people whohelped

me get to Davidson and choose to count
my blessings.
