THE DAVIDSONIAN

It’s all about balance

When I became Co-Editor in Chief at the beginning of this semester, I promised myself that I would
never write the dreaded Kruse editorial: no time, no respect, etc. Not that [don’t think Mike has a valid
point; he does. But one can only play Chumbawumba for so long before it becomes repetitive and
irritating, and yet another editorial complaining about how little time students who are engaged in
extracurricular activities have just seems, well, stupid. You go to Davidson, so you know that most
people here have a lot to do — too much to do, even (some call this ““overcommitted”).

So I’m just not gonna’go there. What I will say is that lately, I have seen very few people for
extended periods of time. In fact, I think I spend more time with Randy than my roommate. Some of
my friends are buried in the library; others are at play practice, or PCC meetings, or tutoring, or any
number of other endeavors.

Is this bad? Of course not. Davidson students seem to take almost as much pride in their activities

_as their studies. But did anyone notice that it was nearly shorts-weather last Saturday? Moreover, did
anyone enjoy that perfect Saturday weather? Does anyone else see spring approaching with Schnellzug
quickness? It seems as if the semester — life, even — is flying by, but I barely notice; I’m too involved
trying to keep up with everything else to I can “get somewhere.” Somewhere: for me, journalism school;
for others, law school, business school, med school...

In pursuit of the future, I’m missing the present. And the sad thing is, I can’t see things changing
anytime soon. Where will I go from here? Graduate school, I hope, and from there to some dream job
I’ve wanted since I was in kindergarten. Always, there will be the need to accomplish, to do, to fill my
time with stuff. :

But at what cost? Will I look up from my computer screen one day and suddenly realize that my
life is half over? When I look back on my accomplishments then, will they seem nearly as important
as they do now?

I’m not saying that what we do here is aimless, or worse, meaningless; I understand that this is what
we have chosen to do. I just need to remember what it’s like to have a free day — or even a free hour
— when I’m not working or procrastinating.

It’s all about balance. What we — or at least / — need to do is restore equilibrium. Work, play,
“do good.” Sit.and stare at the walls; remember what it’s like to think without constraints. Slow down.

Because, as it’s been said, “What matters in life is the journey, not the destination.”

sora f£. Opdler.

Wigan

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17

ee : :
Reminisce much?

- [have received numerous comments concerning my previous editorial. For those who have yet to
read the piece, I can summarize the article in two words: khaki pants. I have been able to file the the
comments I received into three different categories based loosely on their underlying theme: 1) “I
understand how you live, my khaki comrade; my life is like yours; my wardrobe is complete,” 2) “Why
didn’t you talk about something relevant to my life, like the Iraqi conflict or the Commons’ chicken.
parmigiano?”, 3) “Hey, Randy, what color is this?” All I have to say, to respond to each individual
category, is the following: “I like khaki pants, and when I’m stuck for an editorial at two o’clock in the
morning, I write about what I like.”

And now onto more pertinent editorial comments,

Whenever my train of thought seems to miss the station, I often find myself pondering the standard
unanswerable philosophical questions of our world. This week, when my train of thought derailed
somewhere near Kalamazoo, Mich., I found myself thinking about all aspects of time: the past, the present,
and the future. -

Now, a number of you will say that thinking about the past is a waste of time, worrying about the
present only makes it become the past sooner, and planning for the future is a futile attempt at averting fate.
I can only respond with that fact that you’re right.

While analyzing my past, I found myself remembering good times with the Transformers, M.A.S.K.,
the Shirt Tales, and the Blue Falcon. My friends agreed with me, and for over 45 minutes we found
ourselves discussing the cartoons of yesteryear and their significance in our lives. Some of us talked about
the toys we owned, while others became extremely animated and demonstrated how Turbo Teen, upon
being doused with water (which a friend accomplished by pouring the clear beverage upon himself),
changed from his human state into a firey red convertible. All in all, it was another memorable experience
of my life that, fortunately, has now become part of my past.

The present is a little harder to look at, primarily because it is only around for a brief moment in time.
So, I'll try to make this quick. During a time of profundity, I have come up with the following recap of
the present: Only you can affect the present; however, you won’t notice that you actually did something
until it already has been incorporated into your past.

Finally, what do I have to say about the future? Well, I guess I should express to you my position on
fate. Until recently, I always believed that if you thought something was meant to be, it would happen on
its own — no matter what. However, isn’t it true that if you really want something to happen, anyway,
you’ ll do whatever you can to make it happen? Think about that. You’ ve got time.

Conch, Bafta)

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

Davidson grads to speak on Feb. 24

To the Davidson Community:

I want to urge everyone to save an hour on Tues., Feb. 24, at 7:30 p.m. to hear “One Black Woman’s
Journey.” Mary Leazer Rogers ‘92 will speak in the College Union’s Morrison Room about her
childhood, her struggles here at Davidson as an African American student, her initial academic
difficulties and her eventual achievements. A graduate of UNC Law School and married to Mike Rogers
‘92,. Mary is now an Assistant District Attorney in Charlotte. Previous talks Mary has given here have
been most inspirational. She is funny, blunt, wise, and wonderful. I hope you will come hear her— you
will not be disappointed. This is a great way to celebrate Black History Month at Davidson.

Sally McMillen
Department of History

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

News Layout Editor Photo Editor Business Manager
MIKE GILLESPIE SALLIE McMURRAY CHLOE BROOKE
Sports Editors ‘ Copy Editors Circulation Manager
DOUGLAS CUTTING WHITNEY BLAKE MERRITT ABNEY
BRATTON HOLMES CINDY CLARK
BRIAN MAYERHOFER ANNA ERICKSSON Advertising Managers
LYNSAY MADLEY MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
Sports Layout Editor DAVID JOHNSTON
WILLIAM MORETZ SCOTT REEDER

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

To Susmir Lerrers To THE Epirors

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon.
Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian @ davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either
WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements and
clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

Practical jokes cause pain, grief
To the Editors:

I have recently played a role in a very serious matter, which I feel it is my duty to warn others in
our community about. On the surface, it appears to be merely a practical joke gone wrong. When one
digs deeper, however, one quickly realizes that it is much more than simply a joke when it involves the
emotions of another person.

The incident to which i am referring is an incident in which I personally sent a mass e-mail to
another person repeating the same derogatory message. In hindsight, I can easily see how stupid this
was and how easily I could have hurt the feelings of the recipient of these e-mails. I stress the word
hindsight because I feel it is at the base of the issue which concerns me. Many times people act without
considering at all of the possibilities of their actions, and my prank was no exception. I did not stop to
think before I acted. I never considered that the person I was playing this joke on could possibly take
it seriously and be very much hurt by it.

Unfortunately, the person did get hurt badly by what I said, and I am truly sorry. I never set out
to hurt anyone, but I did.

Don’t put yourself in the position to seriously hurt someone else just for a laugh; it isn’t worth it.
I know I can never make up for what I did, but if someone is spared emotional turmoil because of this
letter, then it is at least a step in the right direction.

And as a final note, to the person I put through all of this unnecessary grief, who shall remain
nameless, I truly am sorry for what happened.

Thank you for taking the time to consider what I have said.”

Matt Williams “00

Drawing a crowd
To the Editors:

Weare writing to hopefully gain support for an idea we have been discussing recently. We believe
our suggestion will 1) increase student support for the Davidson football team; 2) increase school spirit
which is eternally a victim of complaints; and 3) provide a promising weekend social function which
would not be located on the court.

Throughout the Southeast, many schools — some much smaller than ours, have tremendous
turnouts for their football games.

These turnouts are not due to an overabundance of football fans, but rather to the stressing of a
football game as a social event. Subtle compromises allow these small private schools to successfully
appeal to the desires of student spectators as well as local ticket buyers.

Allowing fraternities, eating houses, and any other community organizations to set up tents either
in front of Johnson Gym, on the track below the score board, or on the road running adjacent to Jackson
Court and Richardson Field could enable more participation in the weekly games. These tents could
serve refreshments, finger foods, and isolated alcoholic beverages. These tents and their service could
draw a wide range of students to watch the game or socialize.

If these tents were inside of the stadium, ticket sales would increase as well as fan support. Placed
out of the stadium spectators’ view, these tents would not disrupt the enjoyment of the game. And, if
isolated well, alcoholic beverages could be served to students with proper IDs. Without sacrificing local
support, this method could increase both student and alumni ticket sales.

Many other schools, for example Hampden-Sydney College in Farmville, Va., have adopted and.
embraced this practice, which has quickly grown into tradition. ;

Though our idea is premature and undeveloped, we feel that with a little organization and a lot of

support, a positive change could be made for all parties involved. If anyone is interested or would like

to help please contact us at 896-6386.

Sincerely,
David A. Parker ‘01
McNair Evans, Jr. ‘01
