By Ep Pace
Staff Writer

In their new movie, “The Big Lebowski,”
Joel and Ethan Coen bring us the story of “The
Dude.” These are the same brothers who have
written, directed, and produced such excellent and
intricate (but wacky) stories as “Raising Arizona”
and “Fargo.” [ama huge fan of both of these films
and was looking forward to this one. The Coens
are not ones to get stuck in a rut with their writing

and “The Big Lebowski” is pretty far. from the —

stylings of “Fargo.” ;

This time, the Coens have swapped the snowy
wastelands of North Dakota from the sunny cli-
mate of Los Angeles. Here they have developed a
complicated story involving two bowling-loving,
beer-swilling losers —Jeff Lebowski, better known
as “The Dude” (Jeff Bridges), and his best friend,
Walter (John Goodman). (Also appearing was a
ravishing Juliette Moore.)

While the Coens’ unpredictable, ridiculously
complex, and consistently funny plot line is one of
the film’s greatest virtues, most of its pleasures lie
within the cast of colorful characters.

Standing first and foremost is the easily ex-
citable Walter, prone to violent outbursts and
suspicious of just about everyone. John Goodman,
in the film’s standout performance, brings him to
life with appropriate bluster without going too far;
he has a very quick temper, but he’s a very loyal

I

confuses and amuses

Great story, not much plot

and helpful friend.

There are, difficult as it may be to believe,
two Jeff Lebowskis living in the greater Los Ange-
les area. There’s the rich, shady one (David
Huddleston) esconced in a Pasadena mansion,
who gives “The Big Lebowski” its title. His
unemployed counterpart is “The Dude.” The
Dude is a burned-out beach bum whose mental
clock stopped sometime in the “70s. When some
nihilist thugs, mistaking him for his namesake,
invade his pad, beat him up, and, worse, ruining
the rug that ties the whole living room together, he
seeks redress. Or at least some replacement
carpetry.

Permit me to quote the official “Big
Lebowski” web site (www.lebowski.com) forsome
inspiration about the role marijuana plays in the
film. “A nice, round, well-packed, evenly burning
joint is like a divining rod to the subtle nuances
behind reality — an eternal flame dedicated to the
resplendence of chemically enhanced leisure.”
The Dude is king of the relaxed lifestyle and reaps
the benefits of a chemically induced indifference
to the world.

This is a movie I enjoyed; even without a
serious plot, it is an enjoyable tale. As long as you
can sit back, marvel at the characters the Coens
have concocted and enjoy a good story, you’ll
probably be able to enjoy the movie. Better yet,
taken as one giant trip, it’s actually quite good.
Grade; B+

@ Bridges (left) and Goodman

_TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998

Woodwind and Jazz Ensembles infuse Love Auditorium

By Lee ANN PETTY
Guest Writer

While Davidson choral students
were traveling on a choir tour to New
York and Davidson Outdoors partici-
pants were sunning in the Keys, the
Davidson College Symphony Orches-
tra and Jazz Ensemble were enjoying
their annual spring tour. This year,
conductor William Lawing, chair of
Davidson’s Music department, guided
his musicians on a tour of South Caro-
lina and Georgia, performing classical
music and jazz concerts in churches in
Columbia and Charleston, S.C.. and
Savannah and Augusta,-Ga. The or-
chestra and jazz ensemble concluded
their spring tour Wednesday night, Mar.

Physical Plant meeting. All day long. 8:00 a.m. -
6:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room. :
Reading by Edwidge Dandicat. Edwidge D:
reads aloud. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Slide show. For more information, contact Ed
Daugherty. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Wilson Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Triscuits ‘n’ all ing
long, cost-free. 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. atthe Outpost.
Aphrodisiac Break. Oysters and whatnot.
9:00 - 10:30 p.m. in the Morrison Rm.
21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00
Pp.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

SGA Phonathon. Free food and prizes fora
lucky few. 6:00 - 10:00 p.m. inthe Chambers ©
Gallery.

“Sex and Stuff.” Check it out. 7:30 p.m. -
9:00 p.m. in the Home Room.

“Our Town.” It’s a Thornton Wilder play, and
it's showing at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
SGA Polling and Response. Help out your
SGA pals. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Wilson
Room.

“Heathers.” As in, more than one Heather.
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

11, in Love Auditorium.

Lawing began the performance
Wednesday night by commenting that
this concert was the “most enjoyable
concert because it comes after spring
tour.” He preceded to tell the audience
that the first half of the program would
feature folk songs, which included “Sea
Songs” by Ralph Vaughan Williams
(conducted by senior music major Erika
Rissing), “Netherlands Suite” by Hank
van Lijnschooten, and “Songs of the
West” by Gustav Holst.

The orchestra rose to the chal-
lenge of performing these intricate
musical works, engaging the audience
with strong dynamics, arich tone, anda
beautiful blend of sounds and instru-
mentation. Also impressive was the

sr

harvest, sow some friends. 11:30
a.m. - 1:30 p.m in the 900 Room.
Philosophy speaker. 4:30 - 5:30
p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Thaddeus Kelly, M.D. Speaker.
7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

Project Life Tournament. Sing ‘I

love it when you call me Big Papa” when you
play the Ace of Spades. Drives the opposition
nuts. 7:00 - 10:00 p.m. at the Outpost.
Take Back the Night. Rape victims speak
out. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. at the Vail Commons
Patio.

Liederabend. At Davidson, that’s German
for “Voice recital.” 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. at the
Guest House.

CROP Lunch. Reap the bountiful Cheap Donuts. A great use for spare

orchestra’s confidence as they played
the pieces and their understanding and
interpretation of the music as a whole,
which they communicated well to the
audience.

The second half of the concert
featured the Davidson Jazz Ensemble
playing nine jazz selections from the
Swing Era. The jazz portion of the
program was very enjoyable, as the
ensemble played with a definite rhythm,
aclear, vibrant sound, and an enthusias-
tic demeanor.

The ensemble was composed of a
strong brass section and a dynamic
drummer, bass player, and electric gui-
tarist, who each helped maintain the
jazzrhythm. Jazz pieces included “The
Amazing Dr. Cold Nut” by Dick

change. 8:00a.m-5:00 p.m. inthe Union
Lobby.
Tye-dye with Ada Jenkins. | hear she

can tye-dye like achampion. 3:30-5:30 ~

p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Friday Afternoon Club. Beer, on a
Friday afternoon? Why not? 4:30 - 7:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

IVCF Bible Study. Bring your
NRSV. 4:30 - 5:45 p.m. in the
Wilson Room.

“Heathers.” Even better the sec-
ond time around. 9:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Vernal Equinox Experience. The

Garretson, “Birdland” by Josef Zawinul,
“Blues Dance” by Al Cobine, and “No
Mystery” by Chick Corea.

Soloists showcasing their excel-
lent musical skills were Derek Kverno
and David Rissing on sax, Andrew Oster
and Anna Hathaway on trombone, Tom
Vanderbloemen on trumpet, Chad Dia-
mond on bass, Ross Hagan on guitar,
Brenda Bondessen on keyboard, and
Aaron Patton on drums/percussion. The
jazz selections were an excellent con-
clusion to the concert. As freshman
John Kenyon summarized the evening,
“The performance was superb. To try
to articulate the experience is near to
impossible without witnessing it first-
hand.”

In addition to the Davidson stu-

Multicultural Kids’ Day. Does
“multicultural” refer to the kids-or to
the day? We'll have to go to find out.
10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. at Johnston
Gym.

Room in the Inn. An overnight,
“Hoosiers” style. Starting at 4:00
p.m. in Johnston Gym.

event with the coolest name this
week. 9:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the
Outpost.

‘ Juggling. The only class where you can |"

- 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. *

dents in the orchestra and jazz ensemble,
professors Greta Munger, David Grant,
and Mauro Botelho were a welcome
addition to the performance. The pro-
fessors also toured with the students on
the spring tour.

Lawing commented on the talented
freshmen in the orchestra, remarking
that they are full of “energy and enthu-
siasm.” He also mentioned that this
hard-working group of students does
not receive enough recognition for their
wonderful playing. Students and fac-
ulty who missed the concert on Mar. 11
will be able to hear the Davidson Col-
lege Symphony Orchestra on Apr. 9 at
8:00 PM in Love Auditorium. Addi-
tionally, the Jazz Ensemble will be play-
ing the night before graduation.

S

throw things at the teacher. 3:00 - 5:00
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

St. John Passion. That's all they told us.
4:00 - 5:30 p.m.'in the DCPC Santuary.
Jumpin’ Java. Without cheese bagels or
quesadillas, it’s the Outpost “au naturel.”
7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

Dr. Phillip Pomper. Speaker. 7:30 - 9:00
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

oe pee Le ae
Dr. Parisi. Speaker. 4:00 - 5:00 p.m. in|
the Morrison Room.

Phi Beta Kappa Initiation. 6:00 p.m. in
Phi Hall.

Oscar Party. See the ad on page 2 for
more information. 7:45 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
in the 900 Room. ¢

Wissam Boustany. He plays the flute; he
is a flautist. He is Wissam the Flautist.

x

