Men

By ANDREW FuLForD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats went down to Spartanburg on
Sunday after a well deserved week of rest. It
showed.

The ‘Cats demolished the severely over-
matched Wofford
team 7-0. In fact,
not a single set
was lost all day.
“We played
alright,” senior Ted Kaplan said, “but they weren’t
very good.”

#1 Jon Pastel won 6-1, 6-2. Sophomore Brett

s Tennis Downs Wofford 7-0 (/

Talacci, #2, won 6-4, 6-3. #3 senior Jeff Tonidandel
took straight sets 6-2, 6-3. Alex Okulski at #4 won
6-2, 6-4. Kaplan had a strong performance at #5,
winning 6-0, 6-3. And finishing off the singles’
sweep, junior Scott Briggs made it look easy with
a 6-2, 6-1 victory.

The doubles’ point was captured by the ‘Cats
with a 3-0 sweep. Kaplan and junior Judson
Sutherland took #1 8-6. Pastel/Briggs had little
trouble in an 8-1 win, and Tonidandel and junior

» Tyler Epp rounded out the #3 seed with an 8-3

score. The Wildcats finish up the-tegular season
this Thursday at UNCC at 2:30. After that it is on
to the Southern Conference Championships held
April 17-19 at Furman University.

By Davip ROSENBERG
Staff Writer

I have a problem.

One month ago, an unassuming freshman
girl with an unassuming name asked me an
unassuming question.

“Would you like to join our coed softball

mine were joining the team as well and assured
me an IMAC championship. I immediately said
yes, anticipating'a season of fun, success, and

Lady Wildcats tennis squad
edges ETSU, falls to Furman

By ALIson KALETT
Staff Writer

Saturday was definetely a great day to be a
Wildcat, especially if your a member of the
women’s varsity tennis team. The Wildcats started
off their weekend with a win against Southern
Conference rival
Eastern Tennes-
see State Univer-
sity. The match
was extremely
close, but
Davidson pre-
vailed by a 6 to 3
margin. The
Wildcats hoped to
pull another conference upset on Sunday when
they played Furman; however, they fell just short,
losing 6 matches to 3.

The ETSU match was one of the toughest of
the season thus far. Nearly all the singles matches
were extremely close two or three setters, while in
the decisive doubles matches all three eight game
pro-sets were closely contested. At #1 singles,
Junior Dana Casner beat Paty Vega of ETSU 6-1,
6-4, while Davidson freshman, Kristen Koenig,
had a slightly harder match at #2 singles, winning
7-6, 6-4. ETSU managed to win at #4 and #5
singles, but victories by Amber Bradford (#3) and
Brenda Tindall (#6) gave Davidson a narrow 4 to
2 match edge heading into the doubles. The
decisive doubles matches proved to be some of the
closest of the season. At #1 doubles, Dana Casner,

Wildcats = 3
[Furman 6

Koenig’s usual partner, was replaced by #3 player,
Amber Bradford. Despite the new ‘pairing, the
team triumphed 8 to 6. #2 doubles proved the
closest match of the day, as Brenda Tindall and
Claire Cheatwood, normally the #3 team, edged
Gastright and Edwards of ETSU by a9 to.7 score.
Lastly, Clara Marks and Lynne Shore improved
their season record to 5 and 5 by winning by.an 8
to 5 margin. The wins in two of the three doubles
matches, combined with the four singles victories
gave Davidson the win 6 matches to 3.

Undoubtedly exhausted, Davidson then trav-
eled onto take on another conference foe, Furman.
On Sunday, Koenig and Casner switched posi-
tions. At #1 Koenig lost 6-1, 6-2, while at #2
Casner triumphed 7-5, 6-2. Also winning for
Davidson was #3 seed Amber Bradford (6-3,6-1).
Despite these two wins, Furman swept the
reamaining singles mathches, and two out of the
three doubles, giving them an overall 6 to 3 vic-
tory.

Despite Sunday’s loss to Furman, the win
against then 4 and 1 ETSU helped Davidson’s
conference standings while giving them
confindence that that could beat higher ranked
teams. The Lady Wildcats now own a 3 and 3
Southern Conference record, which places them
sixth in the standings. Overall, they are 8 and 9 on
the season.

Looking ahead, Davidson takes on Radford
at home on the seventh and travels to Chattanooga
on the fourteenth. Both matches are important
steps to the Southern Conference Championships
which begin on April 17th.

| COMMERCIAL |
PHOTOGRAPHY

© COMMERCIAL » INDUSTRIAL

© ADVERTISING
° CATALOGS

© PUBLISHING

¢ AERIAL
¢ BROCHURES
¢ MURALS

¢ PRODUCT
e PROMOTIONAL
e DISPLAYS
e STUDIO ON-SITE

WARREN STUDIO

INSTANT PASSPORT
FOR

APPOINTMENTS

WEDDING SUPPLIES
eee OF
eee

es OAK ST. CORNELIUS
Dark room space for rent

Baseball wins one versus GSU

Baseball from page 12

It was Talvacchio’s second homer of the season.
The score was now 10-9.

After Case pitched a one-two-three inning in
the ninth, the Cats looked to finish what they
Started. Yother bared down as he struck out
Goodwin and got DeSimone to fly out to deep
centerfield. Still, hope was not lost as Sloan
walked on a close 3-2 pitch. Then Marshall Tyler
singled into very shallow rightfield, just past a
lunging Jody Pollock. Sloan advanced to and
rounded second base. Sloan went a bit too far, and
struggled to get back to the base. He was called out
on a very, very questionable call as firstbaseman
Joe Dawson threw out Sloan at second. It was a

very tough way to lose.

While the Cats only won one out of three this
weekend, several positives were presented. The
performances of both Wes Self and Jeff Case were
top-notch. For the most part, they completely
dominated GSU. With more performances like
that, Davidson will surely win more conference
games.

Also, Davidson ran all over Georgia South-
ern catcher Jimmy Alexander as they stole ten
bases ineleven attempts. Lastly, Davidson showed
a great deal of heart in coming back against Geor-
gia Southern on Sunday afternoon.

Davidson takes a break from the Southern
Conference schedule as they travel to Duke to take
on the Blue Devils on Wednesday.

slamming softballs out of the IMAC fields.

Unfortunately, I had not educated myself in
the complexities and sweet intricacies of coed
softball. Things went downhill fast. While
gender-blind competitive may appear-as “fun”
on paper, coed sports — softball in particular, just
don’t work.

Let me tell you of my experience. The story
is long, but educational.

Upon officially joining the softball team, I be-
came immediately aware that all the buddies that
the captain had promised me amounted to a
measly number of one other friend. I became
uneasy as a minority in such a gender based
environment. It would be like the Jackie Robinson
story. We were men in a woman’s world. A
teaspoon of testosterone in sea of estrogen.

However disappointed I was by the slight truth
bending of my team captain, I moved on in hope
of better things. Nonetheless, when the team
struck down my idea of the team name “2 Pimps
& Their Ho’s” in exchange for a fruitier, more
pleasant name resembling a small, cute animal, I
began to realize the true nature of coed softball.

We trudged through debates on the color of
our uniforms, as well as a spirit dinner, all for the
hope of one day stepping to the plate and whack-
ing a softball to oblivion and rounding the bases
in celebration. Guys don’t have spirit dinners.
We play. We win. Then we go out and eat. We
don’t need a preliminary excuse for calorie in-
take.

Now, I am not degrading a female’s com-
petitive nature. recognize any Davidson athlete’s
prowess in their sporting field and understand
that many girls at this school may have a higher
internal competitive drive than guys. We just do
things differently. However, I felt my experience
“worth sharing.

The spirit dinner made me realize how bleak my.
softball dreams were. Several times during the
spirit building activities, which included games
with music of the Indigo Girls harmonizing in the
background, my gaze rose slowly to meet the
distressed eyes of my one remaining buddy. I
saw his hurt. He felt my pain. Us guys continued
through the spirit meeting in silence, the repeated
music of the Indigo Girls drowning out any
rebellious thoughts we might have had. We hurt
bad. We were playing softball with girls and it
wasn’t going to be fun.

Our first game arrived. I dreaded the coed

competition so insanely much that I finally

Coed softball: not the way to ae

team?” She explained that eight of my friends of

chickened out and called claiming my spleen was
inflamed, Icould not bring myself to sing “Build-
ing a Mystery” by Sarah McLaughlin in the
outfield. I recognized that I had forfeited my true
allegiance to my one remaining buddy who would
have to bat play alone. But alas, I could not find
the strength inside me to compete alongside the
opposite sex.

I thought the least I could do would be to support
my comrade in a battle filled with spirit chants
and spirit chatter. He looked so lonely out there,
one man with a leather glove and ripped shorts,
placed among 21 females clad in matching soft-
ball outfits. He was the Last Mohican, a man
misplaced in a world of which he wanted no part.
I hid my sulking, guilty self behind a tree out by |
left field. Onehalf inning passed fairly quickly; as
each batter flied out to the second baseman. As
my remaining gender representative trotted in
from the field, I caught a hint of life in his step as
he ran to the sidelines to grab his bat. As the 10
other girls performed cartwheels of exuberance
after collecting the three outs, he realized with a
smile that he would have the opportunity to
wallop a softball to Godknows ends of the earth.
He was the first batter to the plate and he stepped
up with a newly inspired vigor. The fire came
back to his eyes. This was going to be fun.

His somewhat immediate delight even
brought a slight grin to my face as I watched from
afar and even imagined for a second that I stood
in his shoes and prepared myself to let all my
frustrations loose on one globe-like object. How-
ever, both our tides turned when the opposing
catcher politely instructed my comrade that be-
cause he was of the male gender, he must abide by
the coed rules and bat with his opposite hand.
From 300 feet away, I heard the sound of his heart
drop into his appendix and echo throughout the
IMAC fields. He awkwardly and halfheartedly
hit a dribbling ball to the shortstop who threw
him out at first base. I cried — alone and helpless,
my distress paralleled with marks of guilt for
leaving my comrade.

After the game, my lone buddy and I hurried
down to the trainers at Baker, him complaining of
knee pain and me complaining of discomfort in
my shoulder in hope of escaping the cruel heart-
ache of coed softball. They diagnosed us both
with bursitis in our respective body parts.

Now, some sunny afternoons, while you play out
on the IMAC fields smacking away at softballs to
your heart’s delight, think of my buddy and me
just once, who never had the opportunity to
perform such an operation. Hit one out to left
field just once or go talk ‘to those who first
thought that guys could play alongside girls.
They took the fun away from a decent sport in
which playing gn the same field hindered com-
patibility. Girls and guys are just different. So
for all future guys who might get sucked into a
coed team, remember that old saying from’Armold
Schwarzenager’s movie Kindergarten Cop, “Boys
have penises, girls have vaginas.” We're just
different, that’s all.

4,

Lacrosse from page 12

the early going as they jumped out to a quick 5-0
lead with 21:50 left on a Brooke Morgan goal.
This lead proved to be all American needed as they
maintained the five goal margin for a 12-7 victory.

For the first time since their loss to Duke,
Davidson struggled offensively. Davidson man-
aged to get on the scoreboard when freshman
Stephanie Hunter scored with just over nine min-
utes remaining. While American led 6-1 with
twenty minutes left in the half, both teams could
only manage two goals apiece the rest of the way.
Also adding goals for the Cats were Linda
Rothemund and Rachel Bowen.

Davidson played American to a stalemate in
the second half as both teams scored four times.
Davidson cut the lead to four when Rothemund
scored her second goal of the afternoon off a
Lauren Kenchington assist.

Kenchington. had a strong second half as she
totaled three points on two goals and an assist. She
finished the game with four points, as she had an
assist in the first half. Davidson also received a
contribution from newcomer Kim Taylor. Taylor,
who also plays basketball, saw her first action of

Lacrosse drops three on road trip

the season, Playing attack, Taylor scored her first
collegiate goal late in the second half.

Davidson faced Monmouth College of New
Jersey on Sunday afternoon. The Cats were here
hampered before the game as leading goal scorer
Katie Williams was sidelined due to a recurring
injury. Another important change was made as
Kim Taylor started in goal in place of Lisa Ben-
jamin.

The final score was 16-9 in favor of Monmouth.

Even though the Cats lost, history was made
as Amanda Fleck scored two goals to break Sarah
Hogan’s career scoring record. With her two
goals, Fleck increased her total to 126 points. Just
a junior, Fleck has a year and a half to improve on
this mark. Davidson also has to be optimistic
about the future because the freshmen continued
to contribute well. Rachel Bowen capped an
excellent week with a game high total of three
goals. Lacy Garcia added two goals against
Monmouth.

After a disappointing week, Davidson falls to ©
3-6 on the season. The Cats next match is against
the Buckeyes of Ohio St. on Friday afternoon.
Then on Easter Sunday, Davidson visits a very
tough Vanderbilt team.
