8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Op -ED |

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998

The ultimate college fun: Road tripping

few days ago my friend and I experienced a

very important aspect of the collegelife. . that’s
right, we went on a road trip. Can I have a “hell
yeah”?! Road trips bring to mind Route 66 and
finding one’s self; this road trip was not about that.
For this very vital excursion we went in search of
civilization’ s staple, the greatest invention of man-
kind, (no, nota Styrofoam cooler)— a Sega. Now,
I’m talking about a good old Sega Genesis, not a
new fangled Playstation with all it’s buttons, or a
Nintendo 45 or whatever. I’m talking about a
better age when we were all young. Mind you, a
Sega is not an ultra-modern machine, but it has the

I have a very important event to discuss— a

essential qualities: Madden football and Golden
Axe.

So, we hopped into my thundering steed and
high tailed into the big city of Charlotte, looking for
a Sega. We looked high (Best Buy) and low
(pawnshops) desperately searching to quench of
our video gaming needs. You see, video games are
a bonding issue for men, they establish the domi-
nant member of the hall by laying down who’s the
biggest stud at computer football. It seems childish,
and itis, but it’s real damn fun. After all, what’s the
point of video games if you can’t brag, gloat, and
make Deion Sanders look like a choirboy? I played
high school football, but I blocked so I never got a
chance to score a touchdown in real life....BUT!!!!
In Madden, I can run up the score and do all the
celebrating I want. Apparently my funky chicken
and Lambo-leap are average, but my Icky shuffle is
magnificent. Oh well, that’s what college is about,
getting better.

Oh, back to the road trip... Well, we ended up
spending less than $80 and got a Sega, controllers,

9 games, and a large Jolt cola. So any correlation
between my grades dropping and the Sega is of
course, completely coincidental and no fault of
my own.

What makes road trips so fun is the complete
lack of planning, “Dude, we need a Sega.” To
which I answer, “Hell Yeah! Let’s go,” and we’ re
offon I-77. Come to think of it, all male decisions
are made like this: the President says, “Let's
bomb Terrorists,” to which his advisors answer,
“Hell Yeah! Hurry up though, it’s BBQ tonight.”
Driving is the fun part of the road trip, although
the guys with the NASCAR stickers are generally
alot more fun to ride with— just ask my compan-
ion. Nothing annoys me quite as much as having
a Dale Earnhardt fan pass me. Why? Because I’m
a die-hard Jeff Gordon fan and I’ve gotta defend
that sticker on the back of my car. After all, if you
don’t know where you’re going, you might as
well be going fast and having fun.

Another thing about road trips— a radar
detector is a must. Without it you’re prey to some

Davidson-hating, donut-munching, state trooper,
who’ s— for all practical purposes— only mean-
ing in life is to run your insurance up. Anyway, it
makes you look cool to have an electronic gizmo
hanging out of your car, especially ones that go
“beep...beep...BEEP!!!” Another must have on a.
road trip is the correct music; R&B, Jazz, and soft
rock aren't allowed. You need energy pumping
tunes such as classic rock by titans of the music
industry like Guns&Roses. “Welcome to the

Jungle” on I-85, it’s just great, although the music

you listen too is directly proportional to your
speed. If you're listening to a slow, sad George
Strait song, you won't be violating any laws, on
the other hand, if you’re cruising down the road
jamming to Metallica, be prepared to make some
new friends in the state law enforcement area.
Well, that was my first college road trip. I
can’t wait for more, but one thing’s for certain:
You just got to have some fun, after all what's
college about? ....that’s right... SEGA!!!

Bleacher seats and the ability of a worthy idea

cushion to sit on for the remainder of the game.

piteigioe phate,

Will Rock You” blaring in the background.
- However, at this particular base-
ball game, the nationally, and probably —
internationally-known phenomenon of j
“arm-waving exuberance began as the

visited Boston this summer and had the opportunity to

_ attend a sweltering, August night game at Fenway

. Park—the home-standing Red Sox versus the visiting _
Minnesota Twins. As the humidity enveloped me.I was
struck with few profound thoughts beyond my desire for a

The Red Sox, my favorite baseball team, were win-
ning handily while the Twins attempted to mount a late-

At every sports event I have been to recently, and
therefore those that I can remember, the crowd has per-
formed “the wave” — you know “THE WAVE.” It begins
small, usually during a lull in play, fueled by Queen’ s“We

unfolding on the field. _

; “Ok few Yand thelidocide io follow atoog --peobably the
guy *s family— standing and throwing their arms up while
screaming “whooooooo!” But after two or three attempts,
each one tapering off several rows away, these people, t too,
transferred their attention back to the game.

Later, after the game, I got to thinking how common
the “wave man” truly is, How timing is everything and how
eer nnd ts Peeoeay eee,

specific environment.

In baseball, for deainglt:
there just are not that many instances |
where the most dominant hitter on a
team comes to bat with the bases

-Red Sox’s lumbering, power-hitting
first baseman stepped up to the plate
with the bases loaded. Although the

-batter-was saddled-with two outs (and-—
eventually struck out to end the inning)

team.

?

that was not what I noticed. Rather, I began to cast looks
over my shoulder, amused by the feeble attempts the
“bleacher bums” were making, over and over again, trying
to produce a stadium-wide show of support for the home

One man stood apart from the rest of the fans for he
stoodin front of several thousand people, repeatedly crouch-
ing and then throwing his entire body skyward, finally
TR AR Ie Re SOE Hk voleet eae in a drawn out
“whoooo000

This man had the charisma and definitely the energy

quickly died out.

vation and presentation. -
Even better the Red Sox won.

to lead the entire stadium in a “wave,” but his timing could
nothave been worse. The sell-out crowd, less a few hundred
fans like me who. were watching this incredible display,
"stared intenily at home plate'and at the drama that was

n e

passed in 1964,
establishing the
right of all people
to. equal justice

] ast week retired Supreme Court
Justice Louis Powel died of
monia at the age of 90. I will
always remember Justice Powel as the
swing vote on the Court that was re-
sponsible for one of the greatest injus-

tices in the history of this country.
Since the civil rights laws were

and white males who are denied such
rights. .

Today discrimination against
white males is rampant throughout
our society. From school admis-
sions, to scholarship awards, to busi-
hess recruiting policies, to job pro-
motions white males are routinely
discriminated
against. We
have grown so
accustomed to
this that itis hard

u

under the law,
there have been
those who have
attempted to use
these laws as a

to imagine our
country without
affirmative ac-
tion.

In interviews taken since the

loaded and two outs. Sure, that’s the
situation you want with two outs, but
it just doesn’t happen that way.

o ~ And that is also not to say

' that the “wave man” wasn’t persis-
tent. He must have tried a half-dozen times or more. Each
time he went through his routine fewer people responded so
that just like a brilliant idea which doesn’t receive proper
attention or publicity, the ‘iinet of energy and ambition

Alright, I admit this analogy between antics occurring
in the bleacher seats and the ability of any worthy idea to
reach fruition is tenuous indeed. Anyway, it got me
SR SF eel SURENG 3a the ignpor tance of tea:

cover for inflicting racism and dis-
crimination against white males. Qui-
etly, programs and policies began to
sprout up all over the country giving
preferences of one kind or another to
women and minorities. Even though
such policies flew in the face of the
civil rights laws, they were allowed to
continue.

What judge Louis Powel and the
Supreme Court did in.1978 (through
the Bake decision and later through the
Webber decision) was to give legal
sanction to these racist policies. The
Supreme Court basically established
two classes of individuals in this coun-
try, women and minorities who are
accorded unconditional protection from

discrimination in all facets of society,

1978 rulings, Justice Powel expressed
surprise that these affirmative action
decisions caused so little uproar
among American white males. I
suppose he felt we accepted them
because we knew we were guilty and
deserving of punishment. It is time
that this complacency end. Ameri-
cans of all classes who believe in true
justice should stand up and demand
that discrimination be ended once
and for all.

Through the political process,
through political protest, and through
organizations such as the American
Civil Rights Coalition based in Sac-
ramento, we must stand up together
and demand an end to this filthy
legacy of “Justice” Louis Powel.

Phrases from our modern culture

hile sitting in my _ English
class the other day, my pro
fessor, Tim (who I still want to one day

come into class and say, “I am a professor, but
there are those who call me Tim.”), said something
that struck me as strange. I suddenly realized that
there are a myriad of things that people say without
ever considering where they come from or what
happened to them.

The phrase that Tim the Professor said was,
“Well, there’s more than one way to skin a cat,”
and it suddenly dawned on me, who skins a cat?
There is no time in history that I can think of where
people needed to skin cats either for warmth or
food.

Come to think of it, most cats are fairly
scrawny and although their coats are soft, are only
large enough to make a bonnet for a small child.
Understand that when I say small I’m talking
about if Mary Lou Rhetton and the guy who played
Willow were to have a kid. Well, I have decided
that in this week’s column I will explore possible
originsand endings of some of our favorite expres-
sions that we have all grown up with over the
years. 4

I think the phrase from our modern culture
that I miss the most came about in the mid-
eighties. I have often wondered what has hap-

pened to the poor woman
who soeloquently put the
‘spirit of the eighties into
one simple saying. I’m
sure you all have guessed
who I am talking about;
she’s my friendand yours,
the ““Where’s the Beef?”
lady from the Wendy’s
commercials. Ido of course have my own theory as
to what happened to this icon of the past decade.
My guess is that she finally did find out where the
beef was, and that it was a lot like Soylent Green. I
think she is also to blame for the disappearance of
another eighties’ icon, Spuds MacKenzie. I think
she probably kidnapped Spuds and is now running
through the streets of some small Kansas town like
Alice from the Wizard of Oz after eating some
Alice B. Tokeless brownies screaming, “It’s people,
the beef is people!”

My next favorite quote also came from that
great decade of lines and luxury, the 80’s, Who else
out there remembers the little mousy looking guy
who would stand steadfast in the toiletries isle of the
supermarket, ever vigilant for the ruffian or two
who would have the gall to squeeze the Charmin.
Can you imagine having your entire career based on

saying, “Don’t squeeze the Charmin?” My theory —

on Mr. Whipple’s demise
is that, seeing how human
nature is intrinsically cruel,
people would repeatedly
squeeze the Charmin right
in front of him. He even-
tually lost it, grabbed an
uzi, which by the way can
be found in your finer
pawning establishments, and went postal in a Bi-
Lo, killing 30 people. I think he took Morris the
Cat out with him. Whatever happened to good
ole Morris the cat? He fell off the face of the Earth
at a speed faster than Gary Coleman chasing
Webster. I swear, I have nothing against verti-
cally challenged people, please don’t lop me off
at the knees.

Finally, I must inquire as to the origin of a
word that I did not encounter until I came to the
South about ten years ago from Ohio. Seeing as
I am now farther South than I was in Virginia,
maybe someone here can help me out. What in
the world is a “yea” and is it truly the most
ambiguous form of measurement in the world? I
have been told that everything from a fish to a
Buick is, “Oh, about yea big.” How big isa yea?
Can. it be broken down into milliyeas and
centiyeas? How about for really long distances,

can you have kiloyeas? Of course I do have a
theory as to the origin of the measurement “yea.”
Back in the early nineteen hundreds a man by the
name of Goober lived at the fork of a lightly
traveled road in Western Virginia. Now Goober
looked as if the kid on The Porch from Deliver-
ance and Boo Radley had had a kid, and needless
to say his verbal skills made Stallone look like
Shakespeare.

Well, when people would come up to him
an ask, “How far is it to (insert your own back-
woods locale, welcome to the interactive portion
of the column)?” To which Goober would reply,
“Bout’ yea far.”

Eventually the travelers would take this
new found measurement out of the woods and
use it in their everyday lives. So that now when
a traveler in Tennessee asks a local how far is it
to Nevada, the local can pointa finger off into the
distance and say, “Oh, it’s ‘bout yea far away in
that direction.” The traveler can then be sure that
he now knows exactly how far he has to travel in
order to reach his destination.

Well, I guess it’s time for me to wrap this up
so that I may get a good head start running away
from both Gary Coleman and everyone from
Tennessee. Take it easy folks, and I’ll see ya’ll
‘round.
