Davidson vs.

othe big game arrives: Davidson vs. Duke.

This game presents our student body with

some great difficulties. Not only are we
favored to get demolished by a couple of touch-
downs, but our fallback smugness of intellectual
superiority does not apply, either (“That’s all
right, that’s OK, we’re gonna be business partners
someday!” just doesn’t have that same bite). Much
has been written about the Dookies’ alleged supe-
riority on the basketball court. However, no one
has bothered to dissect the key differences be-
tween the two schools. Therefore, after much
research and preparation, I present an itemized
scorecard analyzing the key match-ups between
the two schools.
CRAZINESS:
Duke has the
Cameron
Crazies, who
strike fear in the
heart of opposing
players.
Davidson has
Crazy Joe, who
strikes fear in the
hearts of every-
one. CRAZINESS EDGE: Davidson.
PUBLIC PERCEPTION:
The rest of North Carolina views us as a bunch of
spoiled rich kids who spend the majority of our
time justifying our attending a non-Ivy league
school. The rest of North Carolina thinks Duke is
a spoiled bunch of Yankees (said with appropriate
scorn) who spend the majority of their time justi-
fying their attending a non-Ivy league school.
IMAGE EDGE: Davidson.
PRESIDENTS:
Davidson claims Woodrow Wilson as our own
even though everyone else thinks he went to
Princeton (which, coincidentally, is the name on
his diploma). Richard Nixon is Duke Law School’s
most notable alum. OVAL OFFICE EDGE: Duke.
CELLULITE:
Duke has the World Famous Duke Weight-Loss
Center where prominent porkers from all over the
world go to watch the pounds disappear. Con-
versely, Davidson has the freshman 15, where due
to VailCommons’ exclusive deep-frying process,
young men and women watch their dreams of
social acceptance disappear. CELLULITEEDGE:
Duke.

%
MASCOT:
Davidson has the ubiquitous Wildcat: a name

shared with over 20 different colleges and univer-
sities. Conversely, Duke has the more original
Blue Devil. However, what the heck is a Blue
Devil? My grandfather always talked about the
carpetbaggers, scally-wags, and other blue devils
that came in and took away the family farm.
Seeing as Duke is known as the University of New
Jersey at Durham, one must wonder. I’m putting
my Virginia heritage over originality this time.
MASCOT EDGE: Davidson.

NAMESAKE:

_ Duke’s most famous namesake is David, Klansman

turned political hopeful. During the ‘94 election
when David was running for governor of Louisi-
ana, I would often see Duke bumper stickers and
- wonder if the per-
son was ignorant
(as in a supporter
of David) or just
ignorant (as in a
Graduate of the
University of
New Jersey at
Durham).
Davidson has
Jaye, transsexual star of “The Crying Game” and
“Stargate.” Both individuals rather frighten me,
butat least Jaye isn’t seeking public office. NAME-
SAKE EDGE: Davidson.
ATHLETIC HISTORY:
Iknow we had some solid basketball seasons in the
early ‘70s, but this one isn’t even close. ATH-
LETIC HISTORY EDGE: Duke
SAY WHAT??? Duke has Coach Mike
Krzyzewski, he of the most unpronounceable name
in all of college basketball. Davidson has Mark
“The Mad Hungarian” Czikszentmihalyi. Gonna
have to go with my Polish heritage and Coach K
this time. UNPRONOUNCEABILITY EDGE:
Duke.
GOOD TASTE:
Duke flatly denied my attempts for admission.
Davidson, however, gave me a firm maybe which
metamorphosed into a yes by mid-August. Not
that I’m bitter, but Davidson clearly was on the ball
this time.
FINAL TALLY: Davidson 5-4
PREDICTION: The pieces all fall into place as the
young and Ee Wildcats stun the #1 ranked Dirt

Katuy Buex

Student Opinion

you take from sei aonial nape 6 survivor :

Why don’t you cry about it?

, too, am a disgruntled individual
I much like Jake Fischer. My frustra

tion stems from people who com-
plain about trivial issues that they have
complete control over. Jake is frus-
trated because of his $50 parking ticket.
In my opinion, anyone whois too lazy to
find a legal parking spot and decides to
hop a curb and park on the grass de-
serves a $50 parking ticket. Jake com-
mented that he did what every other
four-wheel drive vehicle owner would
do. Yeah, Jake, I’ve really noticed a lot

noon. If you don’t want a $50 ticket,
don’t be lazy. Drive a few minutes out
of your way and find a legal
spot; that way you won’t be
crying about it the next day.
I’m also glad you’ve no-
ticed a number of cars on cam-
pus that are notregistered. You
asked, ‘“‘Are the campus police
ever going to ticket them?”
Probably now that you’ve
brought the campus’s attention
to this matter.

Do you want other

fellow schoolmates out because of your
frustration which exists because of your

own laziness. We’re all on the same

jump on the band wagon.

for your action.

out consequence. That’s poor. Don’t
If your
buddy jumps off a bridge and
survives, are you going to give it
a try, too? Come on, don’t be a
follower. Accept the truth of the
matter and take responsibility
You parked
illegally and got caught.
actions always have conse-
quences and we should evaluate
those consequences before mak-
ing decisions we may regret.

it bothers you so much. . .transfer to
Virginia Tech and finish your final se-
mester there, or move off campus so
“you can park illegally all you want and
only get charged $10 per curb hop. You
could have had five illegal parks on the
town green for the price of one grass
parking job here on campus. Now
that’s what I call a bang for your buck.
Bottom line: You are complain-
ing about a fine that came about be-
cause of your own laziness.
Resolution: Transfer to Virginia

Our

of people hopping curbs and parking on
grassy areas over the past four years. In
fact, I saw a bunch of 4x4’s parked on
the football field just yesterday after-

students: to get $50 tickets, too, just
because you didn’t get away with your
smooth parking job? Don’t sell your

team, chief. Remember that.

You also say the only reason you
parked illegally on the grass was be-
cause you'd seen it done before with-

Virginia Tech charges $15 for a
parking ticket and the town of Davidson
charges $10. So here’s what you do if .

Tech or move off campus, but don’t
complain about consequences that you
could have prevented with a little ef-
fort.

JERRY! JERRY! JERRY!

hat’s the best show on television? I’m
sure y’all have asked yourselves this
queétioh over and over again. Well after years of

research, I have an answer: The best show on TV -

is not “ER,” or “NYPD Blue,” or even “The
Simpsons.” The best show on TV is none other
than “JERRY SPRINGER”!

Notice I said -“‘best” and not most award
winning, or educational. I’m talking about Prime
Time television entertainment, and that my fellow
Wildcats, is Jerry. How could I say this, you might
ask? Easy, when one watches the “Jerry Springer
Show” one sees what makes foreigners scared of
Americans. In my humble opinion, I think that if
we sent copies of the “Jerry Springer Show” to,
say, Iraq and China, both of these evil nations
would surrender to us. - Now lemme tell you why
this would happen.

First off, we'd label. all of “Jerry’ s Too Hot

eee ee eae

*

For TV” tapes as American NAVY SEAL train-
ing videos and send those puppies over, “losing”

do that, I’d hate to see what they would do to me!”
But that’s not all; the CIA should make sure

them in between UNICEF food supplies. Then, as
Saddam popped “Too Hot For TV XVI” and saw
a 347 LB redneck women pick up some drag-
queen and throw her out into the crowd, Saddam
would think, “Aw, crap! If American women can

to send a tape of Jerry’s show in which the women -
use their shoes as weapons of deadly force. I tell .

you what, once you see a high-heel flying towards
some dude’s head, you’ ll understand why women
own so many shoes — it’s like gun-racks for men

only a little more concealed.

But the most important aspect of the “Jerry.
Springer Show” is very simple. I’m sure everyone
is having some SERIOUS woes about going home
to see their families for Thanksgiving. If this is
true of anybody, I highly suggest watching Jerry’s
show. After watching “Hot Lesbian Love Tri-
angles” or “Bitch, You Took My Man: IT’S PAY-
BACK TIME,” you’ll think, “Hey, my family
isn’t so bad.” “Hell, we could be going onto
Jerry’s show, we are damn near perfect!” Well, I
want to leave y’all with one more happy thought:
the next time you see a fight break out start
chanting, “JERRY! JERRY! JERRY!” It'll make
the experience much more enjoyable. Well, Ineed
to go, I’ve gotta go kill the playboy that stole my
ex-girlfriend from me. .. OH MY GOSH — ~He’s
a SHE!!!
