Buuck and Williams win R, Wind

By. Carrie ARTHUR
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, Mar. 25, poet and author
Robert Hill Long presented the R. Windley Hall
Writing Award for First Year Students. The first-
place winners were Christiane Buuck for fiction
and Melissa Williams for poetry. Jennifer Carlyle
received second place for her fiction, and Scott
Geiger and Paula Davis won Honorable Mention.

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award was
established in memory of Ramsey Windley Hall
‘63 by his friends and family. Hall died while he
was a graduate student at Vanderbilt University,
and the contest, with a monetary award, began in
1969.

The English department originally judged
the award, but Professor of English Tony Abbott
said that with several judges, it became hard to
decide upon one winner. After the department was
unable to choose a winner in 1986, Sheri Reynolds’s
freshman year, the department decided to have
independent judges.

Abbott and Assistant Professor of English
Annie Ingram both like the award because it en-
courages young writers. Ingram feels that if the
contest were open to everyone, many freshmen
would not submit their work. Abbott believes that
recognition is beneficial to growth: “I think that
Davidson is a very demanding school, and some
encouragement is good for the self-esteem.”

Previous winners include junior Jason
Reynolds Ferris, junior Richard Victor Brand, and
sophomore James Daniel Stuntz, who are all
Cornwell scholars, as well.

Buuck is from Bedford, Texas. Buuck said
that she has always loved to tell stories, even
before she could write. She won writing awards in
high school and wrote for her high school literary
magazine. At Davidson, Buuck has taken three
English classes: Creative Writing, Modern Drama,
and English 220. She will probably. major in
English and possibly double major in French.

Buuck focuses on short stories with “some ground-
ing in the truth.” She said, “I like the perspective
of characters who are real people.” Reflecting her
interest in art, light and dark imagery and detailed
descriptions appear throughout her work. Long
said that she “accomplishes what I consider the
fiction writer’s primary task, to become another

person.” As freshman Lee Ann Petty said, Buuck .

“writes with such feeling and emotion. She has a
natural gift.”

Williams is from Henderson, N.C. Impressed
by the maturity of her poetry, Long said that she
“writes beyond her years,” and “the poems guard
their core, their heart with a tough guided wit with
a diction that seems to be scoured clean of adoles-
cence.”

Strangely, Williams just began to write this
year. Before then, she said, “I never wrote because
I was scared that nobody would like it.” She
started this school year when “I felt like I had a
poem to write.” She wrote the poem, enjoyed it,
and decided to continue.

Williams does not schedule times to write.
Instead, she writes whenever “I get the urge (to)
spit something out.”

Although she may change a word, Williams
does very little revision to her work. Williams
does not see herself as ‘‘a confessional poet;”
instead she said her “stories completely come out
of her head.” She has “no ambitions of being a
writer,” but she plans to continue writing for fun.

Williams may not have written before, but
she has been an avid reader. Poetry is her genre of
choice for reading as well as writing, but her
favorite writer is James Joyce, whom she feels
writes “very poetic novels.” Williams prefers
modern writers whose work is surreal. This inter-
est in the surreal is reflected in the “surreal, fantas-
tic” poetry she writes. Williams said she writes
this way because of her reading preference and “I
don’t take myself seriously.”

Williams calls herself a “dabbler.” She also
loves art and music. In high school, she worked on

ley Hall

the editing board and for the layout of the literary
magazine. She has continued this interest at
Davidson by working on the Libertas staff and by
joining the Literary Arts Society. Three of
Williams’s poems have been published in the
Libertas. She plans to major in English and
German. Williams sees the award as an “affirma-
tion of what I do.”

Long is a Davidson alumnus of the Class of
1974. The Robert Hill Long Spring Book Tour in
North Carolina information gives the following
biography: He grew upin Wilmington, N.C. After
graduating for Davidson, Long received a M.F.A.
from Warren Wilson College.

In 1984, Long served as the founding director
of the North Carolina Writer’s Network. After
teaching at Clark University, Smith College, and
the University of Hartford, Long currently teaches
at the University of Oregon. The North Carolina
Arts Council, the National Endowment for the
Arts, and the Oregon Arts Commission all have
given him fellowships. “Best American Poetry
1995,” “Flash Fiction,” “Poetry,” the “Hudson
Review,” and many other journals have published
his work.

Long has published three books: “The Power
to Die,” “The Work of the Bow,” and “The Effi-
gies.” Both “The Power to Die” and “The Work of
the Bow” are collections of poetry. “The Work of
the Bow’ received the 1995 Cleveland State
University Poetry Center Prize. His latest book,
“The Effigies,” is a collection of flash fiction, a
new genre of which Long is a “favorite example.”

When describing the judging of.and the pro-

cess of writing, Long said, “It’s kind of like learn-

ing to fly an old-fashioned airplane. There are not
lots of instruments. There’s something about
altitude and oil pressure. There are a couple of
rudder pedals on the floor, and there’s a stick and
everything else you feel.”

For poetry, Long’s analytical categories in-
clude diction and imagery. Long questions whether
“diction is fresh, does the diction seem like it was

invented for the occasion, is it spontaneous, pow-
erful, or does it have a whiff of old books.” He said
that young writers make mistakes when they “rely
on abstractions to be diffuse or vague” and when
“they are great readers, and when they begin to
write, they sound derivative.”

In contrast, Long said “someone who has a
talent for that (diction) sounds as though the lan-
guage has just come out of her mouth and it hasn’t
been anywhere else. It sounds entirely personal.”

Long said that imagery is similar: “Does it
seem to be secondhand, or does it seem to have
come from the writer’s perception?” He looks “to
be surprised by metaphors.”

With prose in the contest, Long noticed “how
well the writer vanished into his or her characters.”
He contrasted “the power of empathy” with
Hemingway’s statement, “for a young writer just
starting out, you get 100 percent of the kick and the
reader gets nothing.”

Long said of the power of empathy, “I admire
fiction writers who don’t interpose themselves
between the reader and the characters. They really
disappear into their principal characters and their
minor characters.” To Long, the power of empa-
thy is the “idea that one writes something and once
it’s down there when the reader reads it, you’ re not
looking at it as the work of a particular person.
You're looking at it as the story of some real
people you just don’t happen to know.”

In Buuck’s and Carlyle’s work, Long also
liked that “neither one of them was verbose.” He
felt that in place of the ornate style, “both of them
used the simple, straight-forward style without
drawing attention to themselves.” Long thinks
that the ornate style “is more apt to break down in
young writers.”

Long’s advice for young writers is “if you
want to be able to write at this point in history and
to be able to express the most complex, serious
thing you feel capable of doing, you need to be
aware of your place in literary history.” He ad-
vises young writers to read profusely.

Arias discusses demilitarization and poverty in Love

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

An Honorary Degree Convocation was held
for Dr. Oscar Arias Sanchez, former President of
Costa Rica and Nobel Peace Prize winner, in Love
Auditorium last Wednesday. During the convoca-
tion, Arias delivered the 1998 Cornelson and Wearn
Distinguished Lecture. He spoke on the need for
demilitarization in Central America and around
the globe, and the possibility that the end of the
arms trade could eliminate poverty by permitting
more money to be spent on social issues.

In his speech, Arias decried the arms trade as
wasting vital resources that could be better used to
help the world’s poor.

According to Arias, ifonly arelatively small
percentage of the money spent on arms worldwide
in 1985 was given directly to the people, no-one
would have been below his or her country’s pov-
erty line.

He pointed out the flaws in several arguments
in favor of arms trade. For example, he suggested
that the desire of arms by a leader, especially one
who has not been democratically elected, does not
necessarily reflect the will of the people, who may
very well prefer adequate food and housing to
arms .
During the question-and-answer period, Arias
also described the contradiction between the United
States’s policy on the arms trade and the United

States’s policy on drugs. The U.S. justifies the sale
of arms to other countries as simply meeting a
demand that would otherwise be filled by some
other country. However, the U.S. blames other
countries for meeting the U.S.’s demand for drugs.

In his speech, Arias pointed out many of the
current world problems such as war, poverty,
homelessness, and lack of adequate health care
and suggested that great progress, including the
eradication of poverty, could be achieved if de-
militarization occurred. Arias suggested that de-
militarization and the’ eradication of poverty are
attainable world goals.

Arias served as president of Costa Rica from
1986 until 1990. He received the Nobel Peace
Prize in 1987. Arias used the Nobel prize money
to- create the~ Arias: Foundation for Peace ‘and
Human--Progress. This organization works. to
create opportunities for women in Central America,
promote philanthropic change, and encourage dis-
armament.

President Bobby Vagt, speaking in both Span-
ish and English, welcomed Arias, and Chair and
Professor of Economics Clark Ross introduced
Arias. Vagt and Dean of Faculty and Vice Presi-
dent of Academic Affairs Robert Williams pre-
sented Arias with an honorary Doctor of Laws
degree.

Arias’s visit was sponsored by the Wearn
Lectureship, the Cornelson Endowment in Eco-
nomics, and the Dean Rusk Program.

Eco-Fact:

Harvesting waste paper in cities creates five times as many jobs as does
harvesting the raw material from the forests. (source: GDS, nc.)

REMEMBER, ONLY TWO WEEKS UNTIL EArtH Day!

- WRITE FOR NEWS...

eal Far

Ain
9 Dj
SOrde,. Awa
Tene
SS Wy
ek

S
Pp €a Keng

S
Fw N pcone

ence, please apply.

due April 10, 1998.

AIDS Awareness Week

gam’? WEB PAGE
Hall Programs

Are you interested in helping with these
events? Georgia Ringle, Health Educator,
is now accepting applications to fill four
Health Advisor positions for the academic
year (98-99. Health.Advisors will be paid
a stipend at the end of each semester.

If you have an interest in being a peer edu-

cator, designing and putting on hall pro-
grams, or have a special talent or experi-

To pick up an application, come by the
Student Health Center. Applications are

Questions? Call Georgia Ringle at x2902.

Deprece; |
Pression Screen;
Nin

alcohol AY

