THE DAVIDSONIAN

On Sept. 21, COMA, the Council on Minority
Affairs, had its first meeting. Carrie Arthur spoke
first with co-chair Allen Lee, and then co-chair
Rachel May joined them.

The Davidsonian: First of all, what are COMA’s
goals for the year?

Lee: COMA naturally wants to address minority
affairs on this campus, but looking at the member--
ship of minority affairs action groups on campus,
they tend to be just outlets of the BSC and the ISA.
No social movement has ever been successful
without the support of members of the majority.
Therefore, COMA’s first objective is to pull to-
gether those majority members of the Davidson
community who are able and willing to support
our causes and to empower them to join in the
fight.

So, the first thing is to get all the people who
may be scared to speak up or unwilling to speak up,
just timid, or thinking of other things empowered
and joining in with everyone else. Then, once we
see the warm bodies and spirits that want to help
and are for the same cause, then we begin to tackle
specific issues on this campus, like the classic
argument of why the campus still has such a small
number of minorities.

We feel like this campus gets labeled as a
very conservative institution; however, there are
many students who do not fit the stereotype. The
Council on Minority of Affairs wants these stu-
dents who are willing to stand up.

The majority of what we want to work on to
begin with is actually getting people to the table
together to pass the superficial images and to talk
truthfully about emotion on this campus on the
issue of race relations and minority affairs. Once
we get people to the table, then this new group, this
larger mass, will decide the direction that COMA
takes. ;

A Tot of times, we set lofty, long range goals
of what we would like and overlook the immediate
gains that can be made. I think that’s been our

Lee, May discuss Council on Minority Affairs

problem too many times, We’ re looking for a final
outcome without looking at the steps to get there.
This year, we’ re focusing on the steps, and the first
step definitely is to get everyone together.

D: In response to your goals, how was the atten-
dance at the meeting?

L: Not including Rachel and me, there were about
seven,

D: What does COMA do?

L: The Council on Minority Affairs was created to
be an advisory agency
to the SGA to find out
what minority concerns
were and to work as a
watchdog and a consul-
tation group in the area
of minority affairs. Now
that we have a co-chair
and a committee, we’re
supposed also address
the concerns.

One of the prob-
lems of looking at our
committee, except for
afew exceptions, is that
it’s still just an outlet of
the ISA, BSC, and
OLAS. Most of our
members are already
active in one of those three organizations. So the
question arises, What is COMA’s responsibility?
What is COMA in relation to this campus?

(May then joined the discussion.)

D: So do you have any short term goals besides
getting people to the meetings?

L: We’re right in the middle of a big planning
stage.

May: Catching people’s attention might be one of
our goals.

L: We want to wake up the campus. In our
meeting, it was said that the campus tends to be too

GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION.

~The Homeroom
College Union

7 p.m.-

9 p.m.

with Allen Lee and Rachel May

superficial, and truth and emotion don’t come out.

.D: What did COMA do last year?

L: Last year, the chair at the beginning of the year
and the committee wanted the same thing that we
want, to shake up the campus and to bring people
together. They decided that the second week of
January would be called Diversity Week.. Once
we got back to school after Christmas, we began to
advertise. Articles were written in The
Davidsonian. As the week progressed, the turnout
was significantly less
than expected. Some of
events only drew atten-
dance by COMA mem-
bers.

After the week,
there was a following
week of discussion as to
why that happened. It
was .a learning process
for the Council, and that
is why this year, instead
of focusing on the entire
campus, we really want
to gauge the support of
those on the campus that
are willing first, because
then, like now, the mem-
bership and the driving
force behind COMA was campus minorities, with
a few exceptions. .
M: But that doesn’t mean we’re not still trying.
L: We still want to work, but we realize that we’ ve
got to find another way, a more effective way.
D: What’s your solution or your more effective
way? How are you going to reach out to the rest of
the campus?

L: One of the problems that we have run into:
With just minorities focusing on minority affairs,
you don’t know how to reach out to the rest of the
campus. So by getting members of the majority
interested and working with us, they will have a
very needed contribution and link, one that we
didn’t have before.

M: I think also being one of those goals is making
our presence Known, talking about the issues,
letting people know it’s there, and being a stronger
presence on campus.

L: A lot of being a stronger presence has to do with
the size of membership and the type of member-
ship.

D: What do you think is the largest concern facing
minority students at Davidson today?

L: Personally, balancing or finding out how to
make this school and this campus somewhere that

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

I love to be a part of, not just like, not just attend
because of some name on a diploma or some
scholarship, but actually love being a Wildcat and
love going to Davidson College. That’s a chal-
lenge for any student, but particularly one in such
adistinct minority. That was my biggest challenge
coming into this school, and I was very fortunate
to be able to find that early.

D: Gauging from your work with COMA, do you
think that some minority students find Davidson to
be unreceptive and unwelcoming? —

M: I don’t know if it’s unreceptive, but definitely
there are problems, but a lot of things at Davidson
need to change so that it’s a good place for every-
one to be, and the campus works better together.
L: In addition to what you said, this is a special
place. It’s not representative of larger society.
Being a special place, it takes an unique mind set
or set of abilities to deal with it.

Not all people come here with that. Some
students and some minority students are better
equipped from their past 18 years or so to deal with
a place like Davidson than others. And for those
who are not quite as equipped, there will be COMA.
M: Even for the ones who are dealing with it. . .
L: ...and need a little extra support, the Council
on Minority Affairs is there for them, too.

D: How is the theme hall for African American
Studies affecting COMA’s work, or is it?

L: The theme living hall fills a part of Davidson’s
campus which is lacking. At any other liberal arts
institution, African American Studies is a valid
and legitimate major for graduation; however, at
Davidson, some individuals seem to think that the
study of African American society and culture is
ludicrous, absurd, unnecessary, and inherently
separatist.

_ D: Has the negative criticism of the hall hurt

COMA’s work at all?

L:. Those who negatively criticize the hall tend to
do so among themselves, and COMA will not
allow such an issue to interfere with greater cam-
pus issues. :

D: Do you have any other comments?

M: I encourage everyone to get involved, to talk
about the things that need to be talked about, and
to be open about dealing with issues.

L: We just want people to stand up for what they
believe and to understand that silence is consent.
When you do decide to open your mouth to ex-
press your opinion, then we implore you to open
your mind as well and be receptive to others’
opinions and beliefs.

M: If you want to say it, then also listen to what
other people have to say.

New Students!

FREEBIE!
Class of 2002

New Transfer Students
Drop by front desk at

Student Counseling

Student Health
before Oct 10, pick up your

FREE!
Study Highlighter

