THE DAVIDSONIAN

Don’t freak

“The year is almost over,” a friend of mine gleefully told me the other day. I had,
until that point, avoided thinking about how close my final sophomore days at
Davidson are, but that remark made me realize that “the end” is, indeed, near — and
that not everyone is as upset about this as I am.

Now, I tend to be a no-stress kind of person, but too many others around me begin .

to get this crazed look about them when exams come into view on the horizon. These
are often the people who live in the basement of the library during the rest of the
semester; how they manage to cram in even more study time is beyond me.

Part of me, of course, admires and almost envies the discipline that these
studyholics have. Another, larger part, however, wonders what on earth they’ re doing
to themselves. No wonder they’re ready to get out of here; they’ve spent their
semesters here as slaves to the academic machine.

I guess it could be argued that I, too, slave — just under a different machine (some
of us affectionately refer to it as The Davidsonian). And I want to say to that, That’s
different; I enjoy this. Which makes me realize that some people enjoy spending
hours preparing for reviews the same way I enjoy overseeing the paper. This is good,
right? We should all enjoy our classes; college is, after all, a voluntary endeavor for
most.

This love of academics backfires, though, when people lose sight of what they’ ve
started to work for (love of academics) and become part of the machine, striving
towards some distant job without deriving any real enjoyment from the process. This
is when the resentment begins, when the “Get me out of here!” mentality starts. This
is when “Davidson” starts to get to people.

Of course, I’m not suggesting that we stop studying or working or striving for
excellence; that’s what Davidson is supposed to be about, right? This isn’t meant as
a stop-and-smell-the-roses message, either, really.

Well, okay, yes, it is. There’s nothing wrong with studying, but being able to
enjoy life and participate in other things (eg., writing for Arts & Living — hint, hint)
is key: Well-roundedness, we like to call it. And I’m still convinced that it’s a happy
thing — even during exams, when everything nonacademic easily falls by the
wayside. Believe it or not, those scary people who may or may not admit you to grad
school or hire you know this, too. After all, who wants to work with someone boring?

“Less is more” is one of the tenets of Dr. Annie Ingram’s opinions article this
week. To that I only need to add, “Variety is the spice of life.” Doing less of a variety
of things {though not too many: then you run into an entirely separate problem of
overcommitment)’is key. It’s sort of the idea behind the FDA’s food pyramid.

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

The concept of a coed eating house

At the end of the first semester in the 1990-91 school year, Pax, the last surviving
member of a series of coed eating houses, closed its doors. With only the vote of the
CCRL blocking the acceptance of Turner House to the Court, we can only assume that
we’ ll see what remained of the last coed eating house being fitted for a kitchen early next
year.

I, like a number of others, can’t help but notice that the Court is greatly unbalanced
when it comes to choices for men versus those for women. To the casual observer, it
would seem that the options are alittle one-sided. However, when you actually think
about. the entire process of self-selection and examine the differences between the
fraternities and the eating houses, it seems that those with the greater options are getting
the short end of the proverbial stick.

For the longest time, the myth behind male self-selection at Davidson has been
somewhat of a problem for me. While the women on campus have the option of choosing
the eating house that they want to belong to, be it Connor, Rusk, Warner Hall, or the newly
formed Turner, men need to receive a “bid” from their fraternity of choice to truly be

considered a member. If you don’t receive a “bid” from a fraternity, guys can still “join”

a fraternity through self-selection forms which are passed around freshman halls.
However, this method only allows men to join a fraternity for the eating privileges and
excludes them from the full membership that being a brother entitles.

So, with all of this self-selection for men nonsense floating around, what else would
you expect a group of guys to do but complain about it? And that is exactly what
happened. My friends and I found ourselves discussing how it was an unfair process, and
while we agreed that we wouldn’t want to join a fraternity anyway, we still felt that the
process could use alittle work. This, of course, led to some brainstorming of ideas, which,
in the end, led to the feeling that there was a need for a coed eating house on Davidson’s
campus. However, what we didn’t realize at the time (until it was pointed out to us by
afemale friend at the table), was that we were already members of the largest eating house
on campus, feeding both sexes: the Commons.

When you think about it, the Commons is a lot like the fraternities and eating houses
on the Court, just without the parties or alcohol (that is, except when a group reserves half
of the Commons for a social function; then both parties and alcohol are present). It is the
place where all of the independents and freshmen can go to have fairly good meal with
one group of friends and then talk with other friends when they put their trays away.

So, while self-selection seems to be completely unfair for the men, when it comes to
the options, getting your meals at the Commons, the most prominent coed eating facility
on campus, really isn’t all that bad. I mean, where else can a large group of guys eat with
a large group of girls all in the same room? You won’t see that at a fraternity or an eating

It’s almost exam time. Live it up. house.
Sianah £. Ogden Ceanhg Bea Starr
Th PS DB av iD SO nt an @ LETTERS TO THE Epirors
. A thanks to Zac Lacy and to the cast of “Hair”
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS wo the Edina

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE

Business Manager
» CHLOE BROOKE

Sports Editors
BRATTON HOLMES
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

Circulation Manager

Arts & Living Editor MERRITT ABNEY Sports Layout Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY : WILLIAM MORETZ
Advertising Managers
Op-Ed Editor MICHELLE BOUGDANOS Photo Editor
ERIN McKINLEY DAVID JOHNSTON SALLIE McCMURRAY
, SCOTT REEDER
Copy Editors Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE ANNA ERICKSSON
CINDY CLARK LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914 ~
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly q

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. hinl.

As a member of a “former generation,” I would like to express my appreciation for all those
involved in the production of “Hair” last weekend. But for the lack of a Davidson degree, I am able to
conjure up only such rudimentary adjectives as “delightful,” “earthy,” “incredibly funny,” “well done,”
and “thoroughly enjoyable” to describe the production.

My heart goes out to Zac Lacy’s friends and family for their (and our) obvious and striking loss.
Thanks to his vision, however, I-was able to briefly eseape the ordinary of my life (which-seems only
to include breast milk, Life cereal, car seats, and which might this week (month?) include having sex).
For two hours, I was treated to a humorous and thoughtful revisit of a year where hopes died repeatedly
and power turned darker than its usual shade of ugly.

As a mom, there is a sort of in-your-face satisfaction as you teach your two- and four-year-olds
motions to “Good Morning Starshine” or hearing them chant “LBJ!, IRT!, LSD!, FBI!,” as the station
wagon cruises toward the pediatrician’s office for the 10,11 1th time.

Thanks to Zac Lacy for his dream and all of you who worked hard to make his dream come true.

Sincerely,

Dawn Franchina
Suburban Housewife
Davidson, N.C.

. Misquoted by The Davidsonian

To the Editors: : ‘

At the “What is Feminism” dinner discussion, we offered a two-part, broad definition of feminism.
Our definition was reported rather differently in The Davidsonian. Jeanne O’ Neill did not say a feminist
was someone “whose real concern is to look at the interests of women,” but someone “for whom the
interests of women are a real concern,” which is different. The first suggests a kind of tunnel vision, the -
second doesn’t:

Rob Spach’s sequel was that feminists, precisely by making the interests of women a real concern,

“thereby also promote the best interests of men, so that we all can together live out our full humanity,”

the point being that there is a direct connection between the best i interests of women and the best interests
of men, since we all share a common humanity.

Sincerely,
Jeanne O’ Neill, Classics
Rob Spach, Chaplain

LETTERS TO THE EpiTors continued on next page

'
lie ee ee oe ce Pee Cree oc oe a rr ee a
