s __THE DAVIDSONIAN

ang places second in both state and regional NATS competitions

By Carriz ARTHUR
' Staff Writer

Freshman baritone David Kang recently
placed second in the state and regional NATS,
National Association of Teachers of Singing, com-
petition. NATS is an international organization
which has chapters in every state nationally. There
are statewide and regional competitions for 20
different categories of male and female students
from high school to postgraduate school.

Studio Teaching Associate Diane Thorton
said NATS is “‘a way for voice teaching to have
standardization.” Thorton continued that it pro-
motes “sharing of ideas, both for performing and
teaching.”

Kang began singing his freshman year of
high school in his school choir. During high
school, Kang made the All-District, All-State, and
All-Regional choirs. He did not compete in NATS.
Kang’s first formal voice training has been at
Davidson, where he studies under Thorton. He
takes one half-hour voice lesson and an one hour
master class weekly. Kang also performs in the
Concert Choir and Chamber Singers.

In addition to singing, Kang has played the
piano for 14 years and the clarinet for five years.
He played the clarinet in his high school band. At
Davidson, Kang plans to major in pre-medicine
and music. He plans to be either a doctor or a
college choir director. Kang has already taken

Theory I and II.

Davidson students have been competing in
NATS for five years, since Thorton came to
Davidson. Thorton said that a small handful of
students have been participating in NATS each
year. She feels that it is a good way for students to
test themselves because most of the competitors
are music majors from large conservatory settings.
The Mid-Atlantic Region, in which Kang com-
peted, includes North Carolina, South Carolina,
Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia.

In the past five years, a Davidson student has
made it to regional every year. During Thorton’s
first year, Garnet Smith won first place at state and
third place at the regional competition. Senior
Abigail Showalter won third place at the state level
her freshman year and first place at the state level
her sophomore year. She did not compete in the
regional competition because it was too far away.
Sophomore Kate Scibal went to regionals last
year.

Thorton feels that the success of these stu-
dents reflects the “growth that has occurred in the
vocal program during the past five years”: “the
level of performing has risen sharply.” When she

' first came to Davidson, Thorton worked part-time.

Now there are two voice teachers, Thorton and
Alicia Purcell.

Thorton also said that the success is “‘a reflec-
tion of not only the talent that is on campus but also
(that) students have more opportunities to grow

and to test themselves.” She thinks that “it is
important to know that anybody who teaches an
applied instrument on campus comes from a major
conservatory and has proven himself as a per-
former.”

Thorton had her Carnegie Hall debut this
year, and she was a soloist with the Kansas City
Symphony.

According to her resume, Thorton “made her
debut at the Lincoln Center” last year. Thorton
sings with Symphony Orchestras and opera com-
panies nationwide. Her resume says that she
“participated in two world premieres of American
operas: Joseph Summer’s Hippolytus for the
Contemporary Opera Company of America and
Sam Dennison’s Rappacini’s Daughter with the
Institute of American Music.

Purcell’s biography says that she “is well-
known as a consummate artist and recitalist.”
Purcell has sang in Europe, at the Lincoln Center,
and at the Grant Park Festival in Chicago. In
addition, Purcell has been successful in opera.
Purcell was a district winner in the Metropolitan
Opera National Council Auditions three times.
She received the McCracken-Warfield Young
Artist Award.

To explain the approach of Davidson’s music
faculty and staff, Thorton said “when we’ re study-
ing music, to go to aclass and read about it, listen
to it...it is extremely important. But what creates
a full picture is the performance of music. Perfor-

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

mance of music and study need to-occur to truly
understand the impact of music.”

Thorton also emphasized that it is “not neces-
sary to be a music major or minor to decide to get
serious about singing, etc.” In fact, most students
are not majors who participate on serious levels.
Nonmajors even have recitals. Thorton added,
“Whether music major or not, students accom-
plish lots of things.”

To Thorton, NATS is an indication of the
musical ability of Davidson students. Kang agrees,
“Davidson students’ success at NATS shows the
quality of the music education happening here.
And the education happens not only in the class-
room, but in the ensembles and studios as well.
Whether in an instrumental or vocal ensemble,
students work together to achieve acommon goal.
I think that needs to happen more often.”

K’Nesha Maddox, a senior music major and
Power 98 DJ, said NATS was a “learning experi-
ence (which) helped a lot.” She feels that she
improved every year. Freshman Doug Santschi
also participated in NATS this year. He said it was
“stressful” but an “excellent experience.” Of the
opportunities at Davidson, Santschi said, “voice
lessons at Davidson are a great way for me to
express my creative side. They give me the
opportunity to become better at an activity that I
really enjoy.”

As Thorton said, “we have talent on this
campus.”

or many. 895-3230

CASH PAID FOR
Any antique items, pottery, china, jewelry,
dolls, anything old & unusual. Buy 1 piece

Project LirE Car WAsH

Admissions Office Parking Lot
Sunday, April 26th ¢ 10:30 a.m.

INSTANT CREDIT

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits:
Up to $10,000 Within Days

STUDENTS

You Can Qualify To Receive
Two of the Most Widely Used
Credit Cards in The World Today!

No CREDIT, No JoB, NO PARENT-SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!

no credit ¢ bad credit ¢ no income?

Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards ?

YES!

ORDER FORM

| I want CEUs aee ae) Credit Card immediately.
GACC, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Name COOOSOOOOO OOOO OOOO OOO OOD OOO OOOO OOOO OOOOOOOO OOOO OOOO OOO OG OOOOO OOO OOO DOOD OOOO OOOO OOOO OOGOOOOOOOOOOOO8O0000000000000000000000000000000000000008

EEE ouanccsicdcaniiinscsunissatebddetadavaseosenteessevoasiaiciobouedossivedesdcescasessedagonsconpaiodcodecceréoiconcceec ccc ocnc chee cs

CLY ...s.scseccsccsscersecsersecsersncesccsecsecsccssceccecsessessecsscosseseassesaceccescecceces SEALE sccscescsecs Lip) scoscescecceceeses

ROUMERTACLIL'O s,s scovsaeienssiisednivcscevdssseapludneavdsuinnstesucesenssecseposensbeseedsonspasnnisuonansnstnssvoesassoacecesececcoo esse scecececco

Bt of Being Turned Down?

Guaranteed RU In Credit! |

LSS EH eT MO WE mw ee

posbinenlecwensuinic es ee eka ce ot
