DAVIDSON COLLEGI

“The World's ia
Foremost College Weekly” F—

s
EstABLISHED 1914

Straight from the Pampas.

Steigenga joins the ranks.

48ND Ao dot x. Ald

NEws 3

Tommy talks trash.
RLO should clean up its act.

OPINIONS 9

A&L10

Better than McDonald’s.
Mickey & Mooch opens at Exit 25.

Guys rock, too.
Men’s soccer takes three of four.

SPorTs 15

Celebration marks 25 years of coeducation

By Carriz ARTHUR
Staff Writer

From Monday, Oct. 19 until Sunday, Oct. 25,
Davidson will celebrate the 25th anniversary of coeduca-
tion. The celebration will officially begin Friday, Oct. 23
with programs featuring Davidson women and a dinner
addressed by Rhodes Scholar Letitia Campbell ‘96, but
other programs including Gloria Steinem’ s speech and the
Delilahs and Generals’ singing duel will build up to the
celebration.

Although Davidson has reached an “important mile-
stone,” Associate Director of Alumni Relations Allison
Wright ‘94 said, “It(the celebration) is tonotonly celebrate
the accomplishments of Davidson women, itis to celebrate
the myriad of ways women have enhanced the Davidson
experience for everyone involved.”

Thefocusofthecelebrationis Friday, whenDavidson
women from the areas of education, business, literary arts,
home education, and the church, as well as current stu-
dents, will lead and participate in programs. A luncheon

with students’ discussion of women’s roles at Davidson
today will begin Friday’s programming. After the lun-
cheon, alumnae will present sessions about a variety of
women’s concerns. At 4:30 p.m., Associate Professor
of English Elizabeth Mills will moderate a discussion
between best-selling authors Patricia Comwell ‘79 and
SheriReynolds ‘89. AFLAGreception; dinnerandaddress
byLetitia Campbell ‘96, Davidson’s 22nd Rhodes Scholar,
and the Letty & Georgia Concert featuring Letty Stoneman
‘92 will complete the day.

_ Of Friday’s programming, Wright said, “the point is
to feature Davidson women — students, faculty, staff, and
alumnae — and what they’ re doing out in the world today.
Theoverriding themeis where we’ ve been and where we’ re
going.”

On Saturday, a breakfast, an alumnae field hockey
game, and a Chickspeare performance will augment the
normal Homecoming activities. Chickspeare is an all-
female Shakespearean, theater company, whose founders
are Davidson alumnae Anne Lambert ‘86 and Katie Oates
‘86.

Then, on Sunday, the celebration will close with an

openhouseat President Bobby Vagt’shouse,a worship
service by Dr. Frances Taylor Gench “79 at DCPC, and
the women’s volleyball game.

Thursday’s speaker, Gloria Steinem, is a writer,
editor, journalist, lecturer, and activist. A leader of the
feminist movement, Steinem belongs to the Women’s
HallofFame. She has helped to found “Ms.” magazine,
the Women’s Action Alliance, the National Women’s
Political Caucus, and the Coalition of Labor Union
Women. Steinem serves as president for both Voters for
Choice and Ms. Foundation for Women.

In addition to writing many books and articles,
Steinem serves as one of ten Intemational Working
Group members of “Beyond Racism” for the Southern
Education Foundation. Amonghermany achievements,
Steinem received “Parenting” magazine’s Lifetime
Achievement Award and made World Almanac’s “‘25
Most Influential Women in America” list.

Initiated by the Alumni Association, a committee
of 25 students, faculty, staff, and alumnae/alumni volun-
teers (men as well as women) have organized the events.
Wright calls the celebration “very much a group effort,

and sections of the campus have really jumped to get
involved (and) to program things.” 5

Elisabeth Malphurs, committee memberand chair of
the Women’s Issues Committee, feels, “The intention is to
celebrate 25 years of coeducation at Davidson and to bring
women who might not come back otherwise.”

Wright summarized the aim of the celebration: “to
appropriately celebrate the true coeducation of men and _
women at Davidson. . ‘

“A lot of it is looking at where we stand now versus
where we were back in 1973 when women were first
admitted. A lotofit iscelebrating the accomplishments and
thecontributions of females at Davidson and what women
have brought to the plate, and that can combine with the
coexistence of the sexes here. Part of it is to pay tribute to
these women who did go through and continue to go
through some obstacles to make sure the balance contin-
ues.”

According to Wright, the Coeducation Celebration
aims to recognize the struggles and achievements of past
Davidson women and to anticipate the accomplishments
of future women.

The integration of women at Davidson

By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

Despite the 25th anniversary of coeducation,
women have been at Davidson long before 1973.
Local young women, professors’ wives and daugh-
ters, and students’ wives have attended Davidson
for years, but they were unable to receive degrees
just as male students could not receive degrees at
women’s schools.

President John Kirkpatrick’s five daughters
enrolled during the 1860s to fill vacancies created
by the Civil War. Since 1871, women were listed
as “special students,” along with pre-med, scien-
tific, graduate, and other students.

Although Annie Brown completed all of the
requirements for an A.B. degree in May 1901, she
did not receive a degree but a certificate instead.
Gladys Summers followed Brown’s example and
completed the-requirements for a B.S. in 1906.
Summers not only received a certificate but also
heard her accomplishments recognized at com-
mencement. Letitia Currie ‘28, the daughter of an
economics professor, also studied at Davidson
before she transferred to Salem College.

Women were sometimes granted permission
to study during times of low enrollment, such as
the Great Depression and World War II. Ten or 12
female students from Davidson High School took
classes during the 1934-1935 school year, and the
College allowed seven local women to enroll
during World War II so that seats left vacant by
soldiers could be filled. Yet, none of these women
could earn a Davidson degree, live on campus,
participate in sports, or have a faculty advisor.

The beginnings of change in Davidson’s
policy came with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
‘40. Professor of English Tony Abbott considers
Spencer to be “the person,who was really most
responsible” for coeducation. The former presi-
dent of Mary Baldwin College, Spencer “knew
that if Davidson was going to- maintain its excel-
lence, it had to go coed” according to Abbott.

Although the majority of students and faculty
supported the move, objections to coeducation did
exist. German Professor Hansford Epes said that
some people felt coeducation “would be too costly
to adapt the campus” because of “clichés about

what women would be interested in.” The fear that
coeducation would hurt alumni relations and
Davidson’s endowments because “alumnae didn’t ,
give as much to their own colleges as men” was
resolved when the decision was made to “keep the
basic number of men and add women to it.”

Fears of declines in Davidson’s selectivity
also found voices. Despite these objections, Epes
feels that generally “few arguments against coedu-
cation and no hostility” existed, except for a few
professors who refused to teach women.

Spencer created an advisory commission on
coeducation and then followed what Abbott called
“a very carefully thought-out plan” of three stages.

Spencer’s plan began with the introduction of
one year exchange students to the campus. The
students came from seven Virginia colleges, and
Davidson men went to those colleges for their
junior year. Still, the women could not receive
degrees. Abbott said, “They weren’t allowed to
stay. A lot of times what happened was that they
came, liked ita lot, and wanted to stay.” During the
first year of exchange coeds in ’70 and ’71, the
women did not live on campus but instead in
private homes in Davidson. For the second year of
the exchange, ‘71-’72, the women lived in the
Grey House.

. After the exchange program, the trustees de-
cided to admit junior and senior female transfer
students, but four-year students were still to come.
Abbott explained that freshmen women were not
yet admitted: because “we needed to have hall
counselors and role models for the freshman women
entering in 1973.” From the classes of ‘74, ‘75,
and ‘76, a few women graduated each year as full
members of their classes. The first woman to
graduate from Davidson was Missy Woodward,
the wife of a Davidson student, who earned her
degree in 1973. Finally, the first freshman class
including women was admitted in 1973-1974.

As Epes said, the process of coeducation
occurred over a period of years, and it was not a
sudden change: “It unfolded over a period of time,
and I think any attempt to portray the move to
coeducation as a victory over significant odds
would be a lie. It was a natural progression.”

f Davidson’s first full-fledged female stu-
dents, Abbott said, “They had tremendous respon-
sibility, and I think the most interesting thing about

‘eating houses helped to create unity

grew, the coed eating houses folded

these women was how strong they were.” Abbott
continued, “They were choosing to be pioneers,
choosing to change a lifestyle that had been at
Davidson for a century and a half. They had to be
strong and directed.”

Still, the numbers of men greatly outnum-
bered the women for many years. From a three-to-
one ratio of men to women, the numbers gradually
fell to two-to-one and then one-and-a-half-to-one
until the ratios were equal. The Class of ‘96 was
the first class in which the women outnumbered
the men.

Over this time, Abbott feels relations be-
tween men and women on campus have changed.
Abbott was excited about the initial change-be-
cause coeducation “made Davidson a more cul-
tured, more civilized place.” He added, “I think
that women bring to the study of literature a
perspective that is absolutely essential.”

In the beginning, Abbott saw an “alliance
between the women and the upper-class men.”
The late ‘70s and early ‘80s were what Abbott
called “the heyday of coeducation in terms of men
and women enjoying being together” whereas
before coeducation, “the campus only
saw women in social situations and
therefore women were basically dates.
They weren’t people that you ate with,
studied with, and did extracurriculars
with.”

Abbott explained that five coed

until the creation of Rusk, the first fe-
male eating house, led to the founding
of Warner Hall, Spencer, Connor, and
now Turner. According to Abbott,
“When the women’s eating houses

one at a time” and there was “more
separation as you find that no one wants
to join a coed eating house anymore.”
Abbott explained, “Since it was
an experimental time, everyone was
trying to learn gender relations; it was
a more relaxed atmosphere.” ‘Now,
Abbott feels that “‘society is just a lot
more structured and self-conscious.”

Also along with the increase of

EDITORIAL. «cies coussess yet benbienc desea 6
LETTERS
OP-ED. 5... ceubigerden sslotaiiasek 6
ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS. ccs ane ie US endl

female students came the increase of female fac-
ulty and attention on women’s achievements.
Abbott said, “The whole thing bégins to expand
one’s perspective.”

Since the first female graduates, Davidson
has produced prominent women in different fields:
Rhodes scholars, doctors, lawyers, writers, scien-
tists, military officers, teachers, ministers, and
others.

Abbott captured the spirit of the coeducation
celebration: “Going coed was an absolutely es-
sential step in Davidson being the kind of school
itis today. Certainly you can tell by looking at the
women who are coming back: They have been
clearly among the most exciting students Davidson
has ever had. They’ ve broughta lot of pride to this
institution.

“T think what we want is a place where men
and womenare absolutely, genuinely equal. Equal
doesn’t mean in any way that we’ re not aware that
there are differences, but they should receive
equal treatment.” :

Today, the student body is almost equally
represented between men and women.

Peewee eeeesseeeeeeees

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
. Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

