—

U

Cats swamp Guilford

. By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After playing great for one half
last week, the Davidson defense put
together their best total effort of the
season to lead the Cats to a 24-7 win
over Guilford College last Saturday

Spivey and Wes Thornton, had a great
game as they combined for six sacks.
While the offense was sloppy at times,
the defense kept the Quakers from scor-
ing as they produced an amazing seven
turnovers. The defense held Guilford to
-2 yards on 35 rushing attempts.

On the offensive end, Eric
Ferguson was the star as he carried 25
times for 140 yards. Ferguson’s efforts
vaulted him to sixth on Davidson’ all-
time scoring list with 116 points. He
also moved from tenth to’sixth in career
rushing as he now has 1,487 yards in
just over two years.

The Wildcats first drive of the night
was all Ferguson. After senior quarter-
back Tommy Dugan got things started
with an impressive fourteen yard run,
Ferguson carried the ball five straight
times as he moved the ball to the Guilford
25. Then Dugan completed: his first
pass of the evening to Corey Crawford
on a crucial fourth down. After the
conversion, the Cats settled for a - 22

as Pp @ hk TF 2S
) E S_ D A

yard field goal to take a 3-0 lead.

The Cats defensive intensity was
present from the start. Right after
Guilford made its first first down, line-
backer Sam Fraundorf, who’s having
an excellent freshman year came up
with yet another big play as he caused a
fumble. After two Davidson turnovers,

TROON night. The _ it appeared that the Quakers were about
-f Ss 24 frontseven, to score as they had the ball on the
“7 |led by se- Davidson 10. On third and goal from

niors Ben __ the 2, senior linebacker Wes Thornton

made a great play as he stuffed
Guilford’s running back for a two yard
loss. After a pass interference call
against the Cats, Thornton came up
with another big play as he sacked the
Quakers’ quarterback for a nine yard
loss on third down. This sack proved to
be crucial as Guilford missed a thirty-
one yard field goal attempt.
Davidson’s only defensive mis-
take came with 1:37 left in the first
quarter. One first and ten from their
own 30, Guilford’s quarterback threw a
screen pass to senior running back David
Heggie. Using speed and good blocks,
Heggie took the pass for a touchdown.
After this point, the defense, but espe-
cially the secondary, completely shut
the Quakers down. DiSregarding the 70
yard pass, the Cats defense only yielded
61 more passing yards the entire night.
Wes Thornton led the defense all
night. He finished with seven tackles
(one sack), an interception, anda forced
fumble. It was Thornton’s interception

that led to the Cats second score. Early
in the second quarter, Thornton picked
off Hardy’s pass and ran it back all the
way tothe Guilford 8. Three plays later,
Dugan ran in for the score from one
yard out.

The second half was all Davidson.
Sophomore Ryan Hutto played a great
game on special teams. On Guilford’s
first second half possession, Hutto
blocked Heggie’s punt. While Davidson
recovered at the Guilford 26, Davidson
wasn’t able to take advantage as they
fumbled the ball back on the next play.

Guilford was now deep in their
own territory. On third and seven from
the Guilford 8, senior Ben Spivey had
his second sack of the game, this one for
a seven yard loss. Guilford had to punt
out of their own endzone, and the Cats
had great field position. Unfortunately,
Guilford wasn’t the only team turning
the ball over as Davidson did for the
fourth time. Thornton, once again came
to the rescue, as he forced a fumble on
Guilford’s next play. Senior Wes Jones
recovered, giving Davidson excellent
field position. Jones, a former tight
end, continued to play well at defensive
end. Inaddition to recovering a fumble,
he had six tackles (one sack). This time,
Davidson took advantage as Corey
Crawford caught a twenty-two yard
touchdown pass from Dugan. Davidson
now lead by ten.

Another turnover lead to the Cats
final score of the evening. After a punt

> @

by sophomore

Jeremiah Parvin, | DAVIDSON 24, GUILFORD 7

Guilford fumbled, ae

and: Davidson re-. | oullford 7 0 0 oO 7
Davidson 3 7 14 oO 4

covered on the

Quakers 25. After
Corey Crawford.
had a twenty yard

DC— FG Langley 22

GC— Heggie 70 pass from:Foulks (Southam kick)
DC— Dugan | run (Langley kick)

DC— Crawford 22 passs from Dugan (Langley kick)

runtothe 2 yard line, :
Eric Ferguson DC— Ferguson 2 run (Langley kick)
: GC DC
rambled in on first First downs 9 17
d goal. Crawford, ;
an Bon rawiore’ | Rushes yards 35 (-2) 63-226
like Ferguson, also Passi ds 131 112
had an outstanding assing yards _
game. He had a Return Yards 23 33
. . Comp-Att-Int 8-22-5 9-17-0
game-high five
Punts 6-29 5-31
catches for 73 yards,
Fumbles-Lost 5-3 7-4
and he rushed for 41 :
+, Penalties-yards 1-14 3-12
yards on 5 carries. — —
While Individual Statistics

Davidson rested
many of their start-
ers in the fourth
quarter, neither the
offense nor defense
let up. Freshman
Ryan Pagan,
Ferguson’s eventual

RUSHING— Guilford, Heggie 10-39, Davis 2-4, Cherry
13-4, Hardy 2-(-13). Davidson, Ferguson 25-140, Pa-
gan 14-49, Crawford 5-41, Kern 1-4

PASSING— Guilford, Foulks 7-18-2 131, Hardy 1-4 3
0. Davidson, Dugan 7-15-0 67, Crawford 2-2 0 45.
RECEIVING— Guilford, Cherry 4-30, Heggie 1-70,
Denton 1-15, Porter 1-8. Davidson, Crawford 5-73,
Pagan 2-(-5), Williams 1-29, Kern 1-15

successor, had 12 carries in the quarter.
He ended up with 49 yards on 14 car-
ries. Backup quarterback Shaun
Tyrance played well in limited minutes.
Also, the defense recorded two more
interceptions. One was by junior Donnie
Johnson, his second of the game. Se-
niors Wes Jones and Tom Ting both had
sacks.

With the two hardest games be-
hind them (Jacksonville&Emory and
Henry), Davidson football has reason
to be optimistic about the rest of the
year. If the defense plays like they did
on Saturday, you can expect a lot more
wins this season. The Cats next game is
against rival Washington&Lee this Sat-
urday at 1:30 on Richardson Field.

Davidson women’s volleyball dominate

By PETER Gross
Staff Writer

Coming off back-to-back losses to
Chattanooga and South Carolina,
Davidson volleyball entered last week-
end at a crossroads. With an 8-6 record
overall, and 3-2 in the Southern Confer-
ence, the women had reached a decisive
point in the season. Two tough confer-
ence matches on the road would display
the team’s mental toughness as they
headed into conference play.

Thanks to a stellar effort, the la-
dies were triumphant in both contests,

as they defeated the College of Charles-
ton 3-0 on Saturday and Georgia South-
ern 3-2 on Sunday. Charleston, a new

addition to the Southern Conference
this year, could not withstand the Cats’
constant pressure. Davidson dominated
on both sides of the net, leading Charles-

ton in both kills (46-29) and blocks (7-
3). Senior Gina Lawrence led the of-
fensive attack with 12 kills, and Sopho-
more Mara Mordini set the defensive
standard with 22 digs. Though Charles-
ton competed well early in the match, as
Davidson claimed victory by narrow
margins of 15-12 and 15-11 in the first
two games respectively, the ‘Cats even-
tually wore their opponent down and
easily won the third game, 15-4.

On Sunday, Davidson traveled to
Georgia Southern for a key Southern
Conference match. Georgia Southern,
tied with Davidson for third place in the
conference rankings, held home court

advantage. The ‘Cats, however, jumped
out to an early lead and won games one
and two by scores of 15-4 and 15-13.
Georgia Southern battled back to tie
Davidson at two games apiece by win-
ning games three and four in decisive
fashion, 15-5 and 15-7.

While Georgia Southern appeared
to have the momentum as both teams
headed into game five, Davidson ral-
lied. The ‘Cats were victorious in the
fifth and final game, 15-6, and thus
secured third place in the conference.

In this key match, Davidson re-
ceived outstanding performances from
several players. Senior Janet Duncan

dominated the middle (again) and led
the team in blocks, while setter Ginny
Quis had 38 assists. Sophomore sensa-
tion Mara Mordini, however, stole the
show. As defending “Athlete of the
Week,” Mordini led Davidson in both
kills and digs, with 13 and 12 respec-
tively. She exemplified the excellent
play of each of the players, as the ‘Cats
continue an impressive run early in con-
ference play.

Davidson next plays conference
foe Furman on Wednesday, October 8,
at 7 p.m. at Belk Arena.

Men’s soccer loses three matches on the road

By Ben CoviINGcToN

Sports Layout Editor

The Davidson Men’s Soccer Team, after three difficult matches, came away with three losses this
week. The Wildcats faced UNC Greensboro on Tuesday, losing 4-1. Friday’s game against 18th ranked
Wake Forest ended similarly, 4-1. The final game of the week against College of Charleston resulted

in a 2-1 loss.

All three of the matches this week saw the most action in the second half. UNC-G went out of the
first half with a 1-0 lead over the Wildcats, scored by senior All-American Siggi Eyjolfsson. In the
second half, there were three goals scored in only two and a half minutes, Wildcat freshman Chris
Norbet’s first collegiate goal among them. The Greensboro Spartans closed out the game with a goal

from a penalty kick and a final goal by freshman Mike Dunaway.

Following, the loss to UNC-G, the Wildcats faced Wake Forest on
Tuesday. The Demon Deacons were ranked 18th by Soccer News and had
defeated no. 1 ranked Washington the week before. Wake Forest led 2-1 at
half time; the Wildcats’ goal was scored by a header from Demon Deacon
Kaweesi-Mukooza which flew astray. The Davidson offense could only
manage two shots on goal during the game, while the Deacons hammered 14

at goalkeeper Brad Streble.

In the final game of the week, Davidson faced College of Charleston on
Sunday. College of Charleston entered the game with a record similar to that

of the Wildcats at (1-8). Freshman Jeremy Kilburn scored Davidson’s lone goal with less than 10
minutes to play in the game.

This week the Wildcats face Furman on Wednesday and Duke on Friday: Both games are away.

: Wildcats 1 Field Hockey 4

Miosieotd C. Charleston 2. Wildcats 1 Brent Ferrell
Ms . Volleyball App. St. 2

pues Wildcats 3 Wildcats 0 ry :
psoas 2 C. of Charleston 0 Wake Forest 9 Cross count

spn Wildcats 3 Wildcats 1 Ferrell, a junior, broke a

GHCO 4 G.Southen2  American6
Men’s Soccer Football : 21 year old school record
be seal Wildcats 24 in the 8K with a time of
Wild 1 Guilford 7 25:11
Wake Forest 4

“DSS GAME OF THE WEEK °
Men’s Soccer @ Duke
October 9th 7PM

Women’s Soccer VS. Georgia
October 9th 4PM at home

Men’s Soccer

Oct 7th @ Furman 7pm

Oct 9th @ Duke 7pm

Oct 13th VMI 10:30 am

Oct 16th @ Wofford 7pm
Women’s Soccer

Oct. 9th Georgia 4pm

Oct 12th @ Clemson 7pm
Oct 16th UNC Ashville 4pm
Oct 18th @ Chattanooga 2pm
Volleyball

Oct 8th Furman 7pm

Oct 10th Wofford Ipm

Oct 13th @ The Citadel 3pm
Field Hockey

Oct 9th @ Virginia 2pm

~ Oct 18-20th @ Cothran Inv

Oct. 10th @ Columbia TBA
Oct 12th @ Villanova 4pm
Oct 17th @ D& Elkins 4pm
Oct 18th @ Richmond 12pm
Football

Oct 10th Wash& Lee 1:30
Oct 17th @Methodist Ipm
Golf ~

Oct t1-13th @ Chat. Invit,

Cross Country

Oct 10th @ Furman

Oct 17th @ N.C, Champs.
Swimming & Diving

Oct 17th @ William & Mary

LPL 2pm
