THE DAVIDSONIAN-

Rise in bookstore prices displeases student:

By AsHLEY KinG
Staff Writer

Every student at Davidson col-
lege is here to learn.

There are countless bits of infor-
mation that students must juggle, cat-
egorize, and ponder, and — try as they
might — not all students here can re-
member all that they should. Many
times information is forgotten or lost
somewhere in the jumble of psychol-
ogy definitions, political theories, and
chemistry formulas.

There does, however, seem to be
one piece of information that no David-
son students can erase from their minds:
what they paid for their books.

Whenasked how much he paid for
his books this semester, freshman Trey
Davis responded without hesitation,
“452.46.”

Although most other students were
not quite as precise in their answers,
they were all able to respond to inquir-
ies about their book costs for this past
semester with at least a ballpark num-

ber. With the prices of books being
such a weighty concern for all the stu-
dents here at Davidson, some were sur-
prised to find that the prices in the
bookstore this semester had increased
by a significant amount.

While many books increased by
three or four dollars, some increased by
up to six or seven.

The reasons the already demand-

most students did not notice the price
increase of last semester, they were all
aware of their costs which ranged from
$200 to $550.

Gardener was equally frustrated
with the increase in price at the book-
store. Throughout the interview, she
reiterated her feeling that students at
Davidson already have enough stresses
without having to deal with the “shock”

for Spring term this year was simply
because the publishers have decided to
elevate the prices of books once again.

When reached for comment, the
publishers did not give any concrete
reason as to why their prices had sud-
denly increased.

Besides paying for the books them-
selves, the money that students spend
on. books and other items in the book-

ing store
prices goes
ee ue Steadily increasing prices for books leave students perturbed. aaa
store sala-
have vies of

increased since this fall, however, are
far more practical than some students
would think.

“The cost of course materials is
probably the number-one college stu-
dent complaint,” said Gwen Gardner,
manager of the Davidson College Book-
store. Out of 20 randomly polled stu-
dents in an informal survey, an over-
whelming majority said that they felt
that their books were overpriced. While

of paying for textbooks.
Unfortunately, students do have to
pay for their textbooks, and even more
unfortunately, so does the Davidson
College Bookstore. In most instances,
the exorbitant prices seen on textbooks
and all mark-ups of the past semester
are due to the policies of the publishers

who sell the books to the bookstore.

The reason that the tab for the
average student at Davidson was larger

its employees and the operating costs of
the store itself. These costs, however,
were not the cause of the recent increase
in student book expenditures, and they
seem too essential to be cut in order to
help the students.

In fact, the margin that the book-
store uses is about the same when com-
pared with the margins used by other
bookstores across the country. As
Gardner pointed out, “The main reason

the bookstore is in business is to pro-
vide course materials for students.” In
other words, the employees of the book-
store do not profit for overcharging
students, despite some student feelings
to the contrary.

So, is there anything that can be
done to help the students who must part
with hundreds dollars to have the es-
sentials for their next four classes?

Gardner’s answers to these ques-
tions are keeping in contact with the
students and the promotion of used
books.

If the bookstore receives orders
from professors in time for finals, then
the college bookstore can buy books
back from the students, selling those
books to another student at a reduced
price.

Gardner hopes that the promotion
of this program will help to lighten the
load that the cost of books has thrown
upon students. She also hopes that if
students have any suggestions or com-
plaints about the bookstore they will
come in and. talk with her about them.

Monroe receives car and standing ovation at Belk

By Micuact J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s basketball team could
have used alittle of Bill Monroe’s magic
Thursday night — not to mention his
shooting touch.

Monroe, a sophomore from Char-
lotte, hit four straight shots — layup,
free throw, three-pointer, and halfcourt
heave — to win a Ford Explorer at
halftime of the Wildcats’ loss to Massa-
chusetts.

The converted 50-footer, which ,

went in with 16-seconds left on the 30-

“second clock, sent the crowd of 4,417

into a frenzy — and made Monroe an
instant campus celebrity, as all the net-
work affiliates in Charlotte showed the
amazing footage in full.

“It’s been a lot of fun the first day
or so,” Monroe said when reached Fri-
day, “To say the least.

“Back in high school, I’d do it just
messing around before practice,” added
Monroe, who played three years on the
varsity team at Providence Day. “And
I’ve done it a couple of times in Baker,

so I knew I could do it.

“I was just lucky enough to be able
to do it when it counted.”

According to Monroe, the first
contestant to have won in the
promotion’s twoyear existence, once
the first shot — his free throw — went
in, the pressure was off from there.

“T felt like I had a good chance to
make the first three,” he said.

' And the last one?

“That was the one I was least ner-
vous about. I knew I had plenty of time.
I caught my breath and threw it up there.

I could tell it was on target.”

And when it went in? “I don’t
think I’ve ever jumped that high.”

To run a season-long promotion
such as this one, the Athletic Depart-
ment had totake out an insurance policy.
The insurance company now has to
check the videotape to verify Monroe’s

_performance.

According to Director of Promo-
tions Alec McAlister, Monroe will re-
ceive official word — and a $25,000
check — in a couple weeks.

“They’ ve got to make sure he’s not

standing on any lines, thatkind of stuff,”
McAlister said. “I’ve looked at the
tape. He’s good.”

After taxes, Monroe will walk
away with approximately $17,000.

Already an owner of a 1994 Honda
Accord, Monroe thinks that he will
keep the money. “I don’t need a new

car,” he said, “ll just keep the money

and do something with it in the future.”

Monroe does, however, have one
complaint. ‘The only bad thing is that
Ican’t play NCAA sports anymore,” he
said.

“The Changing Role of Management
in the Changing Workplace”’

A Panel Discussion Featuring:

Mr. John Ford, President of Leading Well

Dr. Pierce Howard, Head of the Center for Applied Cognitive Studies

Dr. John Kello, Professor of Psychology

Monday, February 2, 4 - 5 p.m., 900 Room, College Union

¢ These panelists have a breadth of experience in the contemporary organizational
world, and their perspectives on changing trends in management should be of
interest to all students who are considering management careers.

¢ Light refreshments will be served.

¢ Sponsored by The Premanagement Committee.

