Press RELEASE
College Relations

Two winners in the eighth annual
educational software creation contest
sponsored by “Computers in Physics”
(CIP) magazine represent Davidson
College.

John Cowan; a 1997 cum laude
honors graduate now enrolled at Johns
Hopkins Medical School, was one of
two winners for his software program
entitled “Cool.”

Davidson physics -professor
Wolfgang Christian received an honor-
able mention forcreation of “Physlets,”
a set of Java applets designed for use in
Web-based curricular material.

That success in an international
competition might surprise outsiders,
but it didn’t surprise the editors at CIP.
Entries from Davidson students and
Christian, a leader in the field of com-
putational physics, have been winners
in the contest for the past four years
straight, and for six of the eight years it
has been held. No other college or
university anywhere has done as well.

Christian credits their success to
curricular innovation. Students at
Davidson learn to write software for
scientific purposes during their fresh-
man or sophomore years in a “compu-
tational physics” course that spurs some
of them to produce prizewinning work
before they graduate. Christian said
most schools teach computational phys-
ics as an upper-level course and as a
specific skill, rather than teaching it
early and urging students to apply it
throughout the curriculum.

“The course really did spark my
interest in computers,” said Cowan, who
took it in his freshman year and infor-
mally wrote some programs during the
next two years that simulated physics
problems.

During the fall of.his senior year,
he undertook laboratory work on laser
trapping and cooling of atoms as an
honors thesis with Professor Robert
Cline. As part of his thesis, he decided
to create a computer simulation of the
experiment so he could share it with
others interested in the field. ‘The
experiment looks pretty ominous on a
lab bench, but on a computer screen it
looks friendly,” he said. “The equip-
ment is expensive and the setup is very
complex, so very few students ever
have achance to experience this branch

TEE DAVIDSONIAN.

of physics. Using the computer simula-
tion, though, many more grad school
and college students can gain a better
understanding of what laser cooling is
all about.”

Cowan noted that.the innovators
in this new area of physics, called
“atomic optics,” won last year’s Nobel

simulates this laser cooling and trap-
ping of atoms. It allows the user to
monitor and record the progress of single
or multiple neutral cesium atoms in a
magneto-optical trap formed by crossed
lasers in a magnetic field. Users can
change variables and parameters of the
experiments, and see how those changes

Davidson physicists garner win in major software con

the half of it: Cowan was also a four-
year starter on the football team and
won the Tommy Peters Award for the
male athlete “best typifying the
Davidson spirit in athletic competition
and campus leadership.” He was presi-
dent of the College’s Patterson Court
Council of fraternities and eating houses,

‘ollege Relations

@ Winning Davidson physicist John Cowan (right) with his advisor, Professor

Robert Cline, in the laser lab

Prize in physics. Laser cooling, he said,
is an ingenious, counter-intuitive pro-
cess in which laser beams are used to
cool, rather than heat up, atoms. They
can be cooled almost to absolute zero,
at which temperature they can be iso-
late and studied. “It’s pushing the enve-
lope of what you can do experimen-
tally,” said Cowan, “You're cooling
atoms well beyond what scientists have
been able to do in the past. Once they’ re

‘that cold, they begin acting in different

ways, and you can study and measure
them in new ways.”

Cline said the process may have
eventual application in creating smaller
integrated circuits and manipulating
biological cells and their components
such as DNA.

Cowan’s program, written in Vi-
sual Basic and “C” computer languages,

affect the results.

The program presents two main
screens that display points representing
atoms, and shows their distribution in
both position and velocity space over
time as they are affected by the lasers.
Several short instructional movies il-
lustrating the principles of atomic cool-
ing are provided, and the graphs can be
printed when the simulation is paused.
Cowan also provides his thesis at the
web site where the mathematical basis
for the simulations is explained.

The judges were obviously im-
pressed with Cowan’s academic initia-
tive. They wrote in the article, “If the
author completed this program in addi-
tion to setting up a working experimen-
tal magneto-optical trap, his senior year
must have been busy indeed.”

The judges don’t actually know ~

and traveled extensively through Eu-
rope, Pakistan, and China. He was
elected to the Phi Beta Kappa academic
honor society, the Sigma Pi Sigma phys-
ics honor society, andthe Omicron Delta
Kappa leadership honor society. He
also won the Goodwin-Exxon award
for outstanding character and leader-
ship, andreceived an NCAA postgradu-
ate fellowship to attend John Hopkins
School of Medicine.

His knowledge of computer pro-
gramming has already proved valuable
in medical school. Johns Hopkins has
employed him to write software to help
streamline the patient records process,
with medical personnel entering data in
the patient room.

He is also working on a “pet rock”
project on the side — creating a cook-
book program that creates shopping lists

17, 1998

and menus for those interested in the
culinary arts.

Christian’s “Physlets” are small
programs that simulate 11 principles of
physics, including the Doppler Effect
and pendulum motion.

He posted them to the World Wide
Web so that physics teachers every-
where can download them and adapt
them to their own curricula. The judges
wrote, “We encourage other physicists
to follow Christian’s example of mak-
ing high-quality physics-related applets

‘and their source code freely available

on the Web.”

Christian believes that computa-
tional physics represents a major change
in the way the discipline is taught. He
said, “The technology and the way we ~
do this puts students on equal footing
with faculty. They soak up the tech-
nique and technology as fast as faculty
can, so our projects are much more a
cooperative venture than the traditional
relationship. I learn from them as often
as they learn from me.”

He said computational physics has
value for anyone who needs to use com-
puters, and that only about half the
students enrolled are physics major.
“The course is about much more than
programming,“ he explained. “It’s
about learning to send me your home-
work with FTP, about researching on
the Web, about designing a good inter-
face that’s understandable to the user,
about anticipating user difficulties, and
about mathematical problem-solving.”

He continued, “Most learning in |
the course happens from students work- .
ing on projects among themselves and
consulting with the professor on the

solution. You:learn by doing rather
than by studying your notes, which puts
it very much in the mainstream of re-
cent trends in science teaching.”

“Our biggest departmental chal-
lenge is to convince students that phys-
ics isn’t an esoteric activity with no
connection to what you might do pro-
fessionally. Computational physics al-
lows us to challenge that mindset.”

Christian presented his program to
colleagues nationwide recently at a
meeting of the American Association
of Physics Teachers, but Cowan was
unable to attend because of the de-
mands of medical school. Cowan also
received a $500 prize check from the
magazine, and Christian received an
honorable mention certificate.

Davidson promotes four faculty members to full professor rank

Press RELEASE
College Relations

Davidson’s Board of Trustees have approved
promotions to full professor for four Davidson
associate professors — Ruth F. Beeston of the
Chemistry department, Irwin Goldstein of the
Philosophy department, Sally G. McMillen of the
History department, and William M. Ringle of the
Anthropology/Sociology department.

Beeston, an inorganic chemist, teaches
Davidson’s advanced integrated lab course for
chemistry majors. The course integrates experi-
mental techniques from various areas of the disci-
pline, teaching students how to use many different
analytical tools.

Last December, the “Journal of Chemical
Education” published an article on an experiment

she designed for the course that helps students -,

learn synthetic methods, NMR spectroscopy, and
chromatography.

For the past 14 years, Beeston has conducted
research to synthesize new transition metal com-
plexes with enhanced excited state properties,
making them potentially useful for solar energy
conversion. That research has been supported by
grants from the National Science Foundation and
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research

Fund. It has also involved 22 students as summer
lab assistants, and 13 of them have gone on to
graduate school in chemistry or related fields.

Beeston received her B.S. from Bucknell and
Ph.D. from UNC-Chapel Hill. She joined the
Davidson faculty in 1984 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1990.

@ Beeston @ Goldstein

Goldstein studies and publishes in the areas of
philosophy of mind, ethics, and philosophy of
language. He is primarily interested in how con-
sciousness is related to the brain, arguing that
consciousness is not just the physical material in
the brain, but is composed of non-physical proper-
ties as well. He teaches courses in philosophy of
mind, ethics, humanities, and introductory phi-
losophy. He earned his B.A. from Carleton Uni-

versity in Canada and received his Ph.D. from the
University of Edinburgh in 1979. He came to
Davidson in 1983.

McMillen specializes in Southern history,
and has written books entitled “Southern Women:
Black and White in the Old South” and “Mother-
hood in the Old South.” A new book she wrote,

@ McMillen @ Ringle

entitled “To Raise Up the South: Black & White
Sunday Schools in the New South 1865-1915,” is
scheduled for publication by Harvard University
Press in 1999. She is also serving as co-editor of
volume one of a D.C. health and Co. two-volume
series entitled “Major Problems in the History of
the American South.”

McMillen graduated from Wellesley Col-
lege and had a career in library science before

earning her Ph.D. from Duke University in 1985.
She joined the Davidson faculty in 1988.and was
promoted to associate professor in 1991. She
teaches American history, women’s history, and
Southern history.

William M. “Bill” Ringle specializes in ar-
chaeological research of ancient Mayan cultures.
He has conducted annual summer field surveys of
the ruins of Ek Balam in the Mexican Yucatan
since 1984, usually accompanied by three or four
Davidson students. His work there has been funded
by grants from the National Geographic Society
and National Science Foundation, and has led to
published papers about the formation of urban
areas and states in Mayan culture, as well as the rise
of agriculture and Mayan linguistics. He has a
special interest in applying computer technology
to mapping the sites that he has investigated. He
teaches classes in human evolution, world archae-
ology, Mesoamerica, and statistics, and leads his
introductory archaeology class in field research at
the historic Torrence House in northern

~ Mecklenburg County.

Ringle received his B.A. from Johns Hopkins
University and his Ph.D. from Tulane. He came to
Davidson in 1986 as assistant professor of anthro-
pology, and was promoted to associate professor in
1992.
