8 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

Closing the buildings on campus from 1-6 a.m.:

Darkness soon to envelope our buildings

nother building faces closure from one to
A six a.m. As if the news of closing Cham

bers did not strike a nerve, I have recently
learned that the VAC (for those of you not familiar
with this affectionate term, the Visual Arts Center)
has also made it on the list of buildings to be
locked-off from students between the hours of one
and six.

I feel personally attacked with this most re-
centnews. The news of Chambers closing was bad
enough (many nights have been spent writing
papers for classes related to my major in English),
but since Iam also a Studio Art major, I rely on the
art facilities that can only be found in that building.

I believe I can safely say that anybody that has had
aclass atthe VAC (Art History or Studio) has been
in that building during the hours of one and six. I
know that many — if not all
— of the Art Majors (His-
tory and Studio) spend a
good deal of the wee hours
inthe morning there. [know
this because I see them there.

Why allow Studio Art
Majors the privelege of hav-
ing a studio if they cannot have access to their
work on a 24-hour basis? What will the etching
and lithography students do when the doomed

closing hour comes around and they have not yet -

finished their work? What about the Art

History Majors whowant to study slides? How
about the sculpture students as well as majors
whoneed to utilize the machines that only exist in
this one area on campus? To
say that nobody uses the
building between the hours
of one and six is to admit
that you have not been there
yourself during those hours,
because if you had, you
would know that the VAC
remains humming with activity.

One of the most amazing items about
Davidson, when I looked at schools and up until
recently, centered on the fact that many of the
buildings had 24-hour accessibility. I would like

the people wielding these decisions to listen to the
student voices that are rising in opposition to this
proposal. I want these same administrators to visit
Chambers the night before a review or paper due
date and also to swing by the VAC the night before
the Art History Comps, or the days before a
painting, drawing, étching, lithograph, or sculp-
ture assignment is due.

I think it is a travesty that this unique quality
of our school lies on the cutting board and may
soon be severed by the knife of the administration.
I understand that thousands of dollars could be
saved by closing these buildings, but may I ask
where this money will be going and at what cost?

Hear, little froshie

\ , Jel, at first it wasn’t too bad. I mean, I could

stomach it. It was alittle annoying but kinda

cute in its own way. ButI just can’t deal any

more. You hear me? I JUST CAN’T TAKE IT ANY-
MORE!

I am, of course, referring to some of the opinion

columns in this fine publication. First of all, please learn
how to edit. You do not need to write, nor do we desire
to read, half a page of your philosophies on life. Second,
hometown honeys are great. We’re happy for you, but
it doesn’t add anything to our ongoing g Seven Degrees of
Davidson Game.

Third, you have been here for less time than it takes
to find a non-Baker parking spot. You are not the
definitive authority on Davidson. Fourth, ripping on
Commons is wrong. Yes, I’m sure the utensils amuse
you (how do you think we pick out frosh so easily?), but
instead, focus your attentions on the massive amounts of
time you will spend in conversations here. By the way,
moving food comments went out of style with grade B
80s movies. Furthermore, you will come to appreciate
the lighting after consecutive all-nighters, weekend morn-
ings and the tuition hike that adding track lighting would
occur,

Fifth, tradition is probably one of the reasons you
(and perhaps your parents) decided to come to Davidson.
So we call them reviews. To quote Crabbie, “DON’T
SCREW WITH MY SCHOOL.” The fact that tests are
called reviews makes Davidson all the more endearing
and absolutely impossible to explain to anyone back
home.

Sixth, catch the clue bus. Scott Buchanan and
Aaron Sundstrom’s topics last week were the Million
Youth March and hooking up in a lofted bed. Sketchy,
yes, but definitely original.
“dawgs”, and cars —I think they’ve been done before.

Upperclassmen, I think it’s about time we as a
whole contributed more to the campus voice. Our apathy
has caused chunks of this paper to be filled with articles
by freshmen when we comprise 75 percent of this
student body. College newspapers are traditionally
understaffed and overworked, but if everyone would
take a little time and contribute something occasionally,
there would be no blank spaces and poor Seth Davis
wouldn’t have to write an article on every sports team
every week. Davidson existed for 140 years before the
incoming class arrived. We don’t need them imple-
menting every idea that worked as student body presi-
dent in high school.

With that thought in mind, this sexy “Corvette” is
leaving you boys with your hometown honeys, Sega
Systems, Dodge Ram trucks, and revolutionary ideolo-
gies in the dust.

Hmmm, baseball, cats, ©

hat’s going on here? “Club cars” are
taking over ourcampus. Demand your

I know
plugs.

\ , y ho’s better than you? ... Nobody!
Go crazy. Let it all hang out. It’s the only way to go. The
sand in the hour glass is running out. You'll regret not asking
that girl in the sundress to dance with you. So ask her. Now. There
is no better time. What are you waiting for?
Spend your time in a worthy cause. But
don’t be afraid to spend a Saturday afternoon

drinking beer and playing wiffleball with your

Play as much as you work

they are still around, and don’t forget about the girl i inthe sundress, She
may like you. Be confident. Be a leader, not a follower. Realize you
have the potential to change things and impact someone in a positive
fashion. Be pround of who you are. Call your mom. She loves you
and most likely misses you dearly.

Take chances. Try new things. Don’t
accept the status quo and don’t regard those who
defy your aspirations. Endure through the tough

best friends. Those are the times you will remem-
ber 50 years from now. Go out ona week night.
Meet people. Become engaged. Trust is the
foundation of all relationships. Don’t be afraid to
give your heart to someone.
their loss. Don’t forget that.
control your own destiny.
Work hard, but don’t forget to play hard. Balance. Your time here
belongs to you, and no one can take that away. Do what you want to
do. Don’t get arrested. Enjoy the green grass and the blue skies while

If their sentiments don’t concur, that’s
You are you: an individual who can

times. Realize they will pass and you will be a
stronger person when they do. Dance. Youdon’t
look stupid. It’s the guy with his back against the
wall making fun of you who looks foolish. Read.
Exercise your mind. Learn how it was done back in the day. Don’t
complain. Your action is the only remedy for a problem.

Spend time by yourself on occasion. Step outside of yourself and
realize how much people give to you. Realize, also, how much you
have and what you can give to others. Lastly, don’t forget to ask the
girl in the sundress to dance. Trust me on this one. She may like you.

Honoring Women:
In response to Adeleide K. Leitzel

least. Criticizing the plans to commemorate Davidson’s admit
ting women, she states, “Steinem’s contributions to the Davidson
community are unclear to me; she did not open Davidson to women.”
She posits that Steinem’s presence is per-
haps intended to evoke the era in which
Davidson was opened to women but sug-
gests Sandra Day O’Connor or Jeanne

T he point of Adelaide K. Leitzel’s article is elusive, to say the

politics does not necessarily exclude a concern with the politics of the
bedroom. Sandra Day O’Connor has been a swing vote on abortion,
emphatically a matter of the bedroom.

Equally confusing is Leitzel’s belittling of FLAG’s planned pro-
gram, saying “the constituency of the Friends
of Lesbians and Gays reception is determined
by the bedroom, not the boardroom.” In
dealing with women’s issues, we simply must

Kirkpatrick, “productive, influential ladies,”
would be better choices.

First of all, I fail to see how Sandra Day
O’Connor or Jeanne Kirkpatrick are any
more intimately entwined with Davidson’ s history than Gloria Steinem.
Second, while one may say many things about Gloria Steinem, regard-
less of how one feels towards her work and politics, one cannot say she
has not been productive or influential. In 1971, Ms. magazine made its
debut as an insert in New York magazine. Steinem was its co-founder
and editor and went on to become a leading journalist and media
personality for the “Second Wave” of feminists.

Leitzel continues, saying that “Kirkpatrick and O’ Connor were not
concerned with the bedroom but with the ballot box.” I’m not entirely
sure what she means by this statement. While both of these women did
indeed have to wrangle for votes in their early political careers, the
positions they held with most fame, that of Ambassador and Supreme
Court Justice, respectively, were appointments. Furthermore, a life in

deal with issues of sex. The topic of sex
includes gender, sexual orientation, and (hor-
rors!) the bedroom. Leitzel’s problem with
the all-women acting group seems to stem
from the fact that it is sponsored by an-organization whose “constitu-
ency” — gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transsexuals — is unimportant to
the festivities, being determined by the bedroom, not the boardroom.

Leitzel- repeatedly expresses her concern for how women are
viewed. This concern is undercut, however, by her numerous referrals
to herself and her-classmates as “girls.” Her discrimination between
matters of the bedroom and the ballot box fails to acknowledge that
women have been/are oppressed in both the public and the private
sphere. Just as women have not always been able to vote or attend
college, neither have women always had access to birth control or even
the right to divorce. It hardly makes sense to glorify only women who
have had success in the public political sphere when matters of private
freedom are equally important.

Club cars storming the campus

way? I’m serious; these things come out
of nowhere, tearing around corners and
rumbling off after fouling your airspace.
And they’re loud! Like a lawn mower’s
justrolled over your head. Funny, anyone

the situation.
working ‘near a lawn mower wears ear

Davidson College Police show us that they’re
really interested in our personal safety and go after
those speed demons in their club cars?

Maybe the College should take advantage of
Davidson could pioneer a new

real fast for no reason. (I don’t know about you,
but I personally think it’s pretty cool when some
guy, or girl for that matter, blows through campus
in a tank with the music blaring.) So, we’ve got
the players. Now, what about the place? Well,
what else are we gonna use that useless track for?
“Whew, dawg! Look at those suckers run!”’

rights, demand your sidewalk space
and your peace of mind.

Now I know that the South, and North Caro-
lina in particular, has an obsession with NASCAR.
But I don’t think we should tolerate the turning of
our quiet campus and arboretum into a racecourse.

How many times have you been innocently
walking along, only to have to dive out of the way
of a physical plant golf cart that’s barreling your

If you live in F, Ryburn, or Flowe, you might
want to think twice about stepping into the street.
Rush hour starts before six or seven a.m., as the
physical plant workers speed by on their way to
work, behind the senior apartments.” Then around
seven or eight, the races begin.

Is anyone else with me on this? I’m all for golf
cart speed limits and yield (to students) signs on
campus. And I’m all for ticketing. Shouldn’t the

college sport — Speedracing. The physical plant

workers are primed and ready. And I happen to
know plenty of seniors who like to drive around

Or maybe we should all take advantage of the
situation. I mean, what are you thinking, paying
$80 to keep your car on campus. Hell, sell your
car, Stop paying insurance. Go the cheaper,
easier route and get a golf cart. You can park
anywhere you want to. You can drive your lazy
ass to class. ;

Investigate your options. And don’t let
Davidson College drive all over you,

ts

Mii Acasene ase viene

See er ee Re eS Se ee ee
