THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998 _

Baseball drops in SoCon standings with two losses to VMI

By Brian MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

The baseball team seems to have the habit of
either raising or dropping their level of play
based on their opponent. Last week, the Keydets
of VMI rolled into town. Before Wednesday’s
doubleheader, the team was optimistic about
their chances of winning since VMI stood near
the bottom of the
— conference at 5-
ae 11] 13. Still, by
iideate ~ Q]  week’s end, the
team could only
manage to take

lid aaa 9] on out of three.
= I n

Mi 7). Wednesday’s
opener, VMI

starter Wes Bar-
row turned in his
performance of
the year. He
pitched a com-
plete game shutout and yielded only three hits. It
was only the second time this year that the Cats
had been shutout. Barrow only allowed five
runners on base all day. The three hits belonged
to Ben Brown, Brian Joyce, and Luke Goodwin.

For Davidson, Ryan Stroker was on the
mound. Stroker pitched rather well for the first
five innings. He gave up three runs on six hits.
After yielding three more in the top of the sixth,
Jeff Case came in. Case had an extremely rare
bad outing. He gave up four runs in just an inning
of work. While the final was 11-0, the pitching
staff had one bright spot in the performance of
Garland Yarborough. Yarborough pitched a
perfect inning with two strikeouts.

For the Keydets, centerfielder Ed Pearson
and catcher Mike Goldman had strong perfor-
mances. Pearson was unstoppable, going 5 for 5
with a homer and 4 RBIs. Goldman had two hits
and 2 RBIs, including a homerun.

The Wildcats fared much better in the sec-
ond game as they won a tough come-from-be-
hind 9-7 decision.

The Keydets jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead
when the hitting tandem of Pearson and Goldman
continued to trouble Wildcat pitching. Pearson
led off with a double, and he was driven home by

Wildcats win

By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

VMI 10
Wildcats 4

First place UNC-Greensboro came into town
on Spring Frolics weekend attempting to in-
crease their lead in the Southern Conference.
They entered the series with a 18-3 record in
conference.

~—Fhe- Wildcats were at the other end of the
spectrum as they needed to win at least a game to
stay in the driver seat to qualify for the postseason
tournament.
‘The Cats played

IUNCG 7] well in all three
Wildcats 1]} = games, and did
come away with
a win.
|Wildeats é Samay: first
|UNCG 5]. game, UNCG
led 7-0 after four
innings. The
IUNCG 5| crucial inning
|Wildcats - QI] was the top of

the second when
they scored four
runs off Wildcat starter Fritz Porter. With the
bases loaded and two outs, Marshall Tyler made
an.untimely error which kept the inning going.
Afterwards, Porter seemed to lose his composure
as he walked three consecutive batters.

Porter, who is generally a reliever, still gave
the Cats a decent outing. He went a full six
innings, allowing the exhausted relievers to rest.
All four runs given up in the second were un-
earned. Other than a homer given up in the third,
Porter pitched rather well. Garland Yarborough
and Mike DeSimone combined for three perfect
innings in relief.

At the plate, the Davidson hitters were often

a Goldman single. Mae

The Cats then did something they couldn’t do
in the first game, score arun. Ben Brown reached
first on an error by the shortstop. When VMI
pitcher Grayson Craun tried to pick Brown off, he
threw the ball away. Brown advanced to third. He
then scored when Mike DeSimone drove him
home with a sacrifice fly.

VMI continued to hit Wildcat pitching hard
in the second and third innings. The Keydets led
off again with a double. .This time it was
secondbaseman Ben Bradford. He later scored on
an Eric Walker single. Walker also scored to make
the score 3-1 VMI. In the third, Scott Thompkins
homered to centerfield, just beyond the reach of
Luke Goodwin.

The Cats got back in the game in the bottom
of the third. After Brian Joyce reached on a
fielder’s choice, Luke Goodwin singled to left.
Mike DeSimone was then hit by a pitch to load the
bases. Stew Sloan stepped to the plate and hit the
ball to centerfield in the air. What appeared to be
a routine play was misplayed, and Sloan cleared
the bases with triple. He then scored on the same
play when the relay throw hit him on the helmet
and bounced away. Davidson was now up 5-4.

\VMI quickly answered the next inning. Af-
ter Pearson singled, Chris Brooks was hit by a Wes
Self pitch. An excellent bunt by Chris Catanzaro
gave the Cats only a play at first and both runners
advanced. Coach Cooke then brought in Fritz
Porter to replace starter Wes Self. After an inten-
tional walk which loaded the bases, Porter came
up big when he struck out Thompkins. Porter then
lost some of his control as he walked the next two
batters. The Cats left the inning down 6-5.

After scoring again in the fifth, VMI was up
by two. To lead off the bottom of the fifth, Luke
Goodwin hit his fourth homerun of the year to cut
the deficit to one.

After the fourth inning, two Wildcat pitchers
turned.in clutch performances. Over the last three
inning, the combination of Eric Bowers‘and Mike
DeSimone allowed a combined one run on one hit.
Bowers, the eventual winner, struck out two. These
performances ensured that Davidson would be
close the rest of the way.

Davidson seized the lead in the bottom of the
sixth. VMI was now going with a new pitcher,
Brannon Howle. Howle walked his first batter,
Kurt Davis. Davis was forced out at second on a

one against UNCG

stymied by Spartan starter Jonathan Jackson. Jack-
son improved his record to 4-3 as he held the Cats
to one run on five hits in five innings. UNCG’s
relief corps were just as able as their Davidson
counterparts were. In the last four innings,
Davidson managed only one hit. The UNCG
pitchers combined for nine strikeouts.

" Brian Joyce had the best game offensively for
the Cats as he hadthree hits: In the'fifth inning, he
produced Davidson’s only run. With two outs, he
doubled home Kurt Davis. Davis, DeSimone, and
Stew Sloan were the only other Davidson players
to get hits.

The second game on Saturday was a nice
change of pace for the Davidson fans. While the
Cats have often had to rally for victories this
season, they were in complete control of this game
the entire afternoon.

After surrendering the first run of the game,
the Cats came back with three in the bottom of the
second. UNCG pitcher walked Sloan to open the
inning. Ryan Conaster then smacked a single to
rightfield. Then Davis loaded the bases with a
single.

Freshman Mike Torres then had his most
important hit as a collegiate player so far. He
doubled down the rightfield line, scoring both
Conaster and Sloan. A sacrifice hit by Ben Brown
drove in Davis to complete the scoring.

Leading 3-2 as they started the bottom of the

fifth, the Cats wanted some insurance against the
dangerous UNCG lineup. Brown singled to lead
things off. After Joyce moved Brown to second on
asacrifice hit, centerfielder Luke Goodwin singled.

With first and third and one out, Goodwin
stole second to take away the chance for a double
play. With two outs, Sloan gave the Cats the
insurance they needed by hitting a single to center.
Singles followed off the bats of Conaster and

@ Third Baseman Marshall Tyler takes a cut during Davidson’s series

Sallie McMurray

against VMI. Marshall split time this week with senior Ryan Conatser.

Drew Williams fielders choice. With one out,
Brown advanced to Williams to second ona single.
Brian Joyce scored Williams and moved Brown to
third on a single to rightfield. Ben Brown then
scored the winning run on a very daring double
steal. Brown stole home while Joyce went to
second. With two outs, Mike DeSimone provided

. his own insurance as he scored Joyce on an RBI

single.

While the Cats had hoped to win at least two
against the Keydets, VMI had other plans when
the two teams took the field on Thursday after-
noon. These plans included some serious hitting
as VMI exploded for eight runs in the first two
innings. Several players did most of the damage
for the Keydets. Ed Pearson had ariother strong

game as he went 2 for 5. Robert Riley homered
for the second time this year on his way to a3 for
4 day. Chris Catanzaro added 3 RBIs, while
Michael Landberg had two.

For Davidson, Mike DeSimone homered
for his team leading seventh time. Freshman
Jeremiah Parvin continued to hit well as he also
homered. Luke Goodwin also had 2 RBIs when
he doubled in the first inning.» Whereas the
Starting pitching continued to struggle, both
DeSimone and Case pitched well in relief again.
DeSimone pitched two perfect innings, while
Case gave up only two runs in almost six innings.

Davidson still has two crucial series left to
determine whether they will travel to Charleston
in early May.

Southern Conference Standings
(through 4/19 games)

The score was Conference Overall
ahaa Team w LL PCT W L_~ PCT
Le a aon UNC-Greensboro. 20 4 _ .833 32 15 .681
from injury, | The Citadel 16 5  .762 25 20 .545
pitched well in | Western Carolina 15 5 .750 33 11 .750
his start. The | Wofford 9 8 .529 13 25 .342
Spartans only | Furman 10 11 4.476 17 23 .425
managed three | Georgia Southern 8 13°” «£381 16 23> 4107
runs on three | VMI 7 14 .333 14 32. .304
hits in his five | Davidson 7 14 = .333 10 32 .238
inningsofwork. | Appalachian State 6 14. 300 12 24 .333
Bowers got the | East Tennessee State5 15 .250 15 26 .366
win, and his

record im-

proved to 3-3. If Bowers can remain healthy,
Davidson’s chances in succeeding in the Southern
Conference greatly increase. At their best, the
tandem of Wes Self and Bowers has proven hard
to beat.

While UNCG threatened in the last inning,
Mike DeSimone was able to end the threat. The
final out was made when DeSimone got Brandon
Weber to fly out to rightfield. The final score was
7-5.

Davidson had to deal with both inclimate
weather and tough pitching on Sunday afternoon.
In the end, the weather won when the game was
stopped in the middle of the sixth inning. Unfor-
tunately for Davidson, the game lasted long enough
to be official as they lost 5-2.

Davidson starter Ryan Stroker gave a good
performance. He is pitching again with the confi-
dence he had at the beginning of the year. His
pitching nemesis for the day was Lance Surridge.
Surridge was a formidable opponent.  Surridge
held the Cats to just four hits in the game. His only
trouble really came in the first inning.

Ben Brown led off the inning with a single.
With one out, and both Brown and Brian Joyce in

scoring position, Mike DeSimone singled Brown
home. The Cats took a 2-0 lead when Joyce
scored on a wild pitch.

Other than a double by Jeremiah Parvin
and another single by Brown, Surridge cruised
the rest of the afternoon.

UNCG tied the game at two in the fourth.
They claimed the lead for good in the fifth.
Shortstop Brandon Weber singled to left to
begin the inning. Weber then stole second and
advanced to third on an error. He later scored.

The Spartans scored their final two runs
just before the skies opened up. The key hit
came when firstbaseman Corey McDonald hita
bases loaded single. UNCG added on one more
when Weber walked in a run. With the down-
pour of rain, they game was called, and the Cats
were forced to swallow another tough loss.

This weekend the Cats proved once again
that they can hang with the class of the Southern
Conference. They just need to pull together a
solid series, instead of just one or two games.
Still, if the Cats can continue to mature and

recover from injuries, they could still prove to
be a force this season.

Jeremiah Parvin. Parvin’s single scored Sloan.

ee the eh ee RK Oe ee OS

ee ee eee ee eee ee

