THE DAVIDSONIAN

McKillop one of four candidates for vacant Virs

By Micuact J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

After leading the men’s basketball team to its
first NCAA tournament berth in a dozen seasons,
could ninth-year coach Bob McKillop be moving
onto bigger and better things?

In a report in yesterday’s Washington Post,
McKillop was named by Virginia athletic director

@ Coach McKillop, who in his nine seasons at Davidson has changed the

tends beyond the court as well, as a number of
players have been arrested in the last several years.
The NCAA is also investigating possible recruit-
ing violations.

Holland told the Associated Press that this
season was “like watching a train wreck in slow
motion”. He added, “All athletic programs are
built on hope and the future and the ability to sell
that future. And at this stage, we saw we could not

Rach

Wildcats basketball squad from a losing team to the premier force in the
Southern Conference, may soon be headed to the University of Virginia.

Terry Holland as one of four candidates for the

vacant head coaching position at UVa.

Holland, a former basketball coach and ath-
letic director at Davidson who actually hired
McKillop to guide the Wildcats before the 1989-
90 season, told the Post that the four candidates to
fill the hole created by Jeff Jones’ resignation on
Sunday are McKillop, Oklahoma’s Kelvin
Sampson, George Washington’s Mike Jarvis, and
Old Dominion’s Jeff Capel.

Jones had been the top man at Virginia for
eight years, but the Cavaliers struggled to a miser-
able 11-19 mark this season — the program’s
worst season in 35 years,

The negative situation in Charlottesville ex-

do that any longer.”

When reached at his home last night, McKillop
said that he had not been contacted by Holland.
When asked if he would accept an offer to coach
the Cavaliers, he declined comment.

“I don’t wrestle with decisions until a deci-
sion has to be made,” McKillop explained. “I’m
not going to spend energy thinking about some-
thing unless I have to think about it. That’s just the
way I am.”

In an interview in his office on March 3,
though, McKillop said, “I’m a competitor. I like
to compete as intensely as I possibly can. I would
like to have the opportunity to compete as in-
tensely as I can. I have invested a tremendous

amount of myself in what we do here, and I want
to be able to go to the highest level possible.

“The question is: Does that have to be in a
marquee conference or can that be at Davidson?
That’s a very intriguing question. If that’s done at
Davidson College consistently, it would be a na-
tional story.

“Let’s say someone goes to Indiana to re-
place Bobby Knight and wins the national cham-
pionship. That’s wonderful, but it’s at TU, and
they’ ve done it before and they’re expected to do
it, and it’s a big university, and the have the
resources to do it.

“If someone at Princeton or Davidson does

that, at a place that has the academic reputation we
have and the limited resources we have, that is a
challenge that very few people can conquer.”

When asked if winning consistently at
Davidson would mean more to him than simply
landing a job in a top-flight conference, McKillop
responded, “There are trade-offs in everything. I
want to be as competitive as I possibly can. I want
to be in a position where I can be passionate.

“T want to take a program to the highest level
possible.”

In taking the Wildcats to the NCAAs last
week, McKillop filled in what had previously
been one of few missing links on an otherwise
superlative smallconference coaching resume.

The Queens, N.Y., native has compiled a
138-120 record in almost a decade on the Davidson
sideline, including three 20-win seasons, two ap-
pearances in the NIT, and the most recent invita-
tion to college basketball’s preeminent postseason
party.

Also, the coming year marks a transition in
McKillop’s family life. His daughter Kerrin, a
senior at North Mecklenburg High School, will
attend either Notre Dame or Georgetown next
year. His older son, Matt, is a freshman at Char-
lotte Catholic, and his younger son, Brendan, is in
third grade.

Capel, the father of former Duke standout
Jeff Capel, Jr., and UNC-bound prep star Jason
Capel, has compiled a 73-52 record in four years
at ODU. His Monarchs went 12-16 this season,
including an 8-8 performance in the Colonial
Athletic Association.

In 15 years as a collegiate head coach,
Sampson is 257-192 overall and 81-44 with the
Sooners. Oklahoma lost to Indiana at Washing-
ton, D.C., in the first round of this year’s NCAA
tourney.

Jarvis is 253-141 in 13 years, including 152-

Overall Record - 138-120
Division Champion - 1996, 1998

Southern Conference North ©
Division Co-Champions - - 1997

Southern Conference Coach of
Ape You 1004, 1996, 1997

NCAA Appearancas 1098, 18
seed versus Michigan —

90 at George Washington. The Colonials lost in
the first round of the NCAAs, falling to Oklahoma
St. in Lexington, Ky.

According to Holland, a successor will be
named within a month.

\

mwww.aecrotek.com=

On campus

Representative to sig

Take the first step on an
incredible career journey.

Aerotek; a nationally recognized leader in the contract services industry, is actively recruiting @
diverse community of college graduates. Contract services is a thriving industry that has been spurred
by global competition and rapid technological change. It's no wonder contract services has grown to
a $100-billion-a-year industry! And Aerotek is leading the way—since 1983, we've been the fastest-
growing contract services firm in the U.S.

Hundreds of graduates have launched their careers as sales recruiters, “selling” the market's top .
professionals on working for Aerotek...then selling them on providing their services to our Fortune 500
clients such as Motorola, IBM, AT&T, Lockheed Martin, and Sprint. Our sales recruiters interview, mar-
ket, and develop client relations. And Aerotek will make sure you have the tools you need to succeed.

Our Sales Recruiters enjoy:

° A great salary plus bonuses and comprehensive benefits
Career planning to support advancement into sales and management
* Opportunities nationwide—130 branch offices across North America

interviews

c.. rf ae c. :
wee Caree VWervic

March

25tn.

