DAVIDSON COLLEGI

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
EsTABLISHED 1914

Party el espaiiol.

Hola, OLAS.

NEws 4

_ Jim says his piece.
Reflections on the big night.

OPINIONS 7

“Rounders.”

It’s worth shelling out for.

A&Lil

You’ve seen the picture.
Now read the story.

SPORTS 16

Theme halls
take their
first tentative
steps at

Davidson

By ASHLEY. KING
Staff Writer

’ Last year, the first signs of the theme halls
that would cause such controversy in the last few
months of the 1997-98 school year went largely
unnoticed by the student population. Students
walked right past the tiny flyers plastered on the
walls of Chambers and in the halls of dormitories
across campus that advertised the possibility of
bringing onto one hall a group of students who
held the same interests. Soon, however, RLO
accepted two theme halt proposals: a “Christian-
ity and the Teachings of Jesus Christ” theme hall
and an “African American Society and Culture”
theme hall.

- With the realization that theme halls were, in
fact, to become reality, an outpouring of objec-
tions arose from a significant portion of the stu-
dent population, while others defended this new
idea as a positive force in the Davidson commu-
nity.

Since last year, the controversy has suffi-
ciently died down, and the theme halls have begun
their efforts to accomplish their goals. With these
new developments, Davidson students can begin
to see the actual effects of theme living on campus
and to decide for themselves whether or not they
feel it is beneficial to campus life.

With seven members living ‘on the “Chris-
tianity and Teachings of Jesus Christ” hall in first
Duke, the Christianity hall is the smaller of the two
theme-halls.now on campus. The mission state-
ment of the Christianity hall reads, “Our mission is
to learn, through study of the Bible and related
readings, the teachings of Jesus Christ and be able
to apply these teachings to our everyday lives. By
living a Christ-like life, one will have a better
understanding of the role of Christians in this
world and on the Davidson College campus.”
Mirroring this statement and adding the idea of
campus wide involvement, Charlie Shaw, the co-
ordinator of the hall, said that the main goal of the
hall is “to heighten awareness of the teachings of
Jesus Christ so that the whole campus can become
involved. We would be going to the college by
reaching outward.”

Already, the Christian theme hall has decided
upon a few programs through which it hopes to
“learn the teachings of Christ” and to “reach out”
to the campus. All members of the hall attend a
weekly Bible study meeting, frequent prayer group
sessions, and meetings every Sunday at 6:00 in
which they plan and discuss any upcoming pro-
grams for the next week. They have decided to
focus on different themes throughout the year,
their first theme being salvation. With each new
theme, cards with candy attached will be set out in
Chambers to explain to the campus the ideas that
the hall wishes to express. Members of the Chris-
tian theme hall will also be involved in service and
will sponsor programs such as a dinner at the

Victory Christian-Center-for-all Davidson stu- -

A oh og
> eggs

eee
Sallie McMurray

@ The men’s soccer team battled UCLA last Wednesday on Richardson Field. Davidson fell 3-0.

dents.

Shaw also responded to the criticisms offered .

by those opposed to the present theme halls. One
criticism is that-the people involved in theme
housing get popular housing options, such as rooms
in Duke, regardless of their lottery number. To this
criticism, Shaw responded that it was RLO that
decided the location of the theme hall, not the
members of the program, and that this dorm had to
accommodate both male and female participants.

A disruption in the arbitrary lottery system is
not, however, the most significant reason as to why
many students are opposed to the theme halls
initiated this year at Davidson College. Many
students who have protested the idea of theme
housing say that the members of the halls are
sectioning themselves off from people with differ-
ent views and interests.. Replying to this concern,
Shaw said, “I don’t see it as sectioning ourselves
off. I see it as creating a foundation for us to reach
out to the campus. We have the potential of being
areally positive force in Davidson. The members
of our hall are really motivated and want to share
what they know about Jesus. We hope the campus
will embrace our efforts, be willing to attend our
activities, and not let denominational lines prevent
anyone from attending.”

A little bit larger than the Christian theme
hall, the “African American Society and Culture”
theme hall has fifteen active members, eight of
whom are African American and five of whom are
Caucasian. When asked what the original purpose
of the African American themed living was when
it was first conceived last year, Allen Lee, coordi-
nator of the African American theme hall said that
there were two motivations for creating the hall.
“We hoped to establish the hall as a bonding tool

" clude movie discussions, dinners with

and an outlet to express African American society
and culture in a comfortable setting,” said Lee. He
went on to say that the hall was also intended to be

a “living discussion piece in an ongoing discussion ~

about race and society,” and that the programs
launched by the hall would hopefully “provide a
way to have positive discourse” on the subject.

So far, Lee feels that the hall has been ex-
tremely successful in the attainment of what he
calls its “social goals.” These social goals are to
create unity among the members and to provide an
outlet for its members to discuss Afri-
can American issues. He does admit,
however, that extending what propo-
nents of the theme hall see as the posi-
tive benefits of the African American
theme hall to the rest of the campus will
take a little more than the past three
weeks of school because such a project
is “naturally more difficult.”

Among the hall programs that will
affect the Davidson community, the
members of the hall will work with the
youth of the town of Davidson because,
as Lee puts it, “Youth in the Davidson
community need to be affirmed, like
many African Americans, in the value
of their culture.” Other projects in-

professors on African American issues,
and the bringing in of speakers such as
James Cone and Derrick Bell. James
Cone will speak this Wednesday, Sept.
16.

Being just as aware of the turmoil
caused on campus by the theme hous-
ing as Shaw, Lee too had his responses

EDITORIALS 025.3 cccccdprsscsssen 6
LETTERS

to criticism: “It’s a shame that simply because the
interests of the individuals on this hall are the
interests of a minority, they are counted as unim-
portant by certain individuals,” Lee said. “With
eight African Americans and five Caucasians on
a hall...how are we separating ourselves? I don’t
understand why some think it’s not the majority’s
obligation to outreach to the minority, but rather
they think it’s the minority’s obligation to stretch
itself out to the entire campus.”

First Class Mail
_ U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

