|DAVIDSON COLLEGE COLLEC

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”

EstaBLisHED 1914

ALENDA

They live to serve.
° Court members discuss service.

NEws 4

| Oe, Cae OER» I

To close or not to close?
That is still the question.

OPINIONS 7, 8

The Bavidsonia

O.B TA... Ll BE Ret AS:

A&L12

Discover the magic.
We'll give you a hint: It’s in Charlotte.

Girls kick ass (again).
Women’s soccer flogs three in a row.

‘SPorRTs 19

Davidson dedicates Belk Visual Arts

9 3 or
Bi. oe vie S.

Center

Sallie McMurray

@ The Visual Arts Center, which was dedicated last Friday, was named in honor of Katherine and Tom Belk.

CoLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Press Release

Davidson College formally dedicated its arts
building as the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts
Center on Friday, Sept. 25. Although faculty and
students have occupied the center since fall 1993, it
had not been named.

The dedication ceremony began with a recep-
tion at 11:30 a.m. Faculty members Herb Jackson,
Deidre Prosen;and Russ Warren talked about their
work, currently featured in the Center’s galleries, at
noon. In addition, art history professors Shaw
Smith, Nina Serebrennikov, and Larry Ligo pre-
sented works from the College’s permanent collec-
tion. The official dedication ceremony began at
12:30 p.m.

Ed Crutchfield ‘63, chairman and CEO of First
Union Corporation, spearheaded the effort to name
the building in honor of his longtime friends,
Katherine and the late Tom Belk ‘46. Joined by
other corporate leaders, Crutchfield raised gifts to-
taling $2.5 million from Nations Bank, First Union
Corporation, the Dickson Foundation, the Belk Foun-
dation, and Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Spangler, Jr., to
create a permanent tribute to the couple’s long and
faithful service ‘to Davidson College.

For Katherine Belk, the ceremony was an
exclamation mark to her service in the early 90s as
chair of the Arts Facilities Planning Committee

whose work led to construction of the Visual Arts
Center.

The Katherine McKay Belk Sculpture Center
has already commemorated her commitment to the
project and recognized a gift made by Katherine and
her late husband, Tom. Katherine Belk is one of
Davidson’s most active trustees. She represented
the Charlotte Presbytery for a three-year term before
joining the executive committee of the board, and
she has most recently served as a member of
Davidson’s presidential search committee. She is a

member and past chair of Davidson’s Board of

Visitors.

Tom Belk was a member of Davidson’s Class
of 1946. He served the College as a trustee and led
the Charlotte region’ s suc-
cessful effort during The

ment noted, “That says a lot about how much this
school values visual art.”

The building’s instructional spaces surround a
magnificent 45-foot tall central atrium, awash with
light from a huge sky-lighted ceiling. It is con-
structed primarily of brick, accented with stone and
concrete exterior details and a copper roof that
recalls nearby historic buildings. The ground floor
houses the William H. Van, Jr. Gallery and the
Edward M. Smith Gallery, open seven days a week,
featuring top national artists, and providing a public
attraction in downtown’ Davidson. Also on the
ground floor are the 50-seat Mary D.B.T. Semans
Auditorium with state of the art audio-visual equip-
ment, full stereo and video capacity, the Lou and

Allen Post Seminar Room, and a computerized
slide collection. Across the atrium, the Armfield-
Sherrill Printmaking Wing adjoins the Katherine
M. Belk Main Sculpture Space, which is equipped
for work in wood, stone, metal, and clay. The Duke
Endowment Collection Storage Facility provides
climate-controlled space in the basement specifi-
cally designed for the storage and conservation of
art, including the college’s own 2,500-piece perma-
nent collection.

The art curriculum at Davidson offers students
more than 40 courses in art history and studio art,
including classes in Asian art, the Gothic Cathedral,
and Modern Painting, as well as studio instruction
in etching, drawing, and sculpture.

Campaign for Davidson.
His unexpected death

early in 1997 was a shock
to his family, friends, and
the business community.

Located at the cor-
ner of Main and Griffith
Streets, the Katherine and
Tom Belk Visual Arts
Center is the first campus
buildirig people see as they
drive intotown from I-77.
Professor Herb Jackson of
Davidson’s art depart-

LETTERS

BDITORTAL .....6sscevcsseess ror e 7

PRO Oe LIVING ois ccccesevcs edd
RED 6 sass sesyssesscsnasnesicse eissahoae

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

