THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts &AAIvING

“As You Like It” enchants audiences

Resolved: Shakespeare can be fun

By Wes Ley H. Go_psBerry
Arts & Living Editor

Last weekend, the Chambers Gallery was
transformed from: a cavern of linoleum into a
colorful forest of painted fabric and chiseled
styrofoam. This picturesque backdrop served as
the set for five performances of the Shakespearean
comedy “As You Like It,” which ran from April
17-22. The play’s run included a Sunday after-
noon open-dir performance at Pian del Pino, the
residence of Dr. and Mrs. T.C. Price Zimmermann.

The production was the culmination of En-
glish professor Cynthia. Lewis’s Performing
Shakespeare seminar, a.k.a. English 452, which is
offered triennially. The play featured a cast of
fifteen English and/or theatre majors, and two
small children.

Like most Shakespearean comedies, “As You
Like It” has its share. of zany plot twists and
dramatic irony, keeping all of its characters on
their toes. The synopsis is too long for me to
recount, and even after sitting through five perfor-
mances of the second half as a musician in the
wings, parts of the plot still confuse me. So add
“As You Like It” to your summer reading list, and
come back and. finish reading this review after
you're done. That’s one option.

One thing that I can say in good faith about
this performance: it was very well done. Ask
anyone you know who went; they'll tell you the
same thing. Even I, the cynical musician, enjoyed

it, andI’ma pretty tough sell on plays of
any sort.

All members of the cast gave ener-
getic, inspired performances, be they
experienced thespians or no. There
were more love montages than one could
count on a single hand, which were
portrayed well enough to keep the aver-
age audience member clear on the issue
of “who wanted who” throughout the
whole masquerade.

Orlando (Nathan Raley) and
Rosalind (Carrie Van Deest) spend the
majority of the play pining away after
one another, although certain political
circumstances keep them apart. Or-
lando spends most of the play’s second
half practicing his wooing skills on who
he thinks is a young: man named
Ganymede, but is actually Rosalind
dressed up in a Robin Hood outfit. We
(the audience) find their characters ex-
tremely likeable and are thrilled when
Hymen (Donna Gribble), the god of
marriage, finally hitches them at the
end.

Three other couples are enjoined at the end,
including two quite amusing relationships.
Silvius’s (Tripp Franklin) undying efforts to win
Phebe (Jess Robblee) garnered their share of laugh-
ter. But it was the antics of the court clown
Touchstone (Billy Roberts) that stole the show.

Sure, his character had the best lines and the best
costume (his “Tide” detergent shirt provided an
amusing anachronism), but his portrayal of the
eccentric jester was classic.

A small chamber music ensemble added an
authentic flair to the production with their perfor-

Jenny Noller

@ The cast of “As You Like It” in Chambers Gallery. |

mance of William Brade’s “Pavane” in the play’s
last act, which served as accompaniment to a
dance in which most of the cast participated.

As Shakespeare goes, English 452’s perfor-
mance of “As You Like It” was pretty entertaining
stuff. Impressive set design, costumes, and prepa-

“City of Angels” overdone but tastefu

thing the whole college could enjoy, and. did.

I

Nicholas Cage and Meg Ryan star in “UN QUESROTERE film

By Ep PaGe
Staff Writer

So here’s my problem with this movie: it’s
overdone. It’s the great, tender steak you were
expecting, thrown into the oven for several hours
too long. So when you think the waiter is bringing
you an excellent piece of meat, you find that the
meat is so overdone that it’s hard to swallow. And
then they tell you, “Sorry, the kitchen is closed and
we don’t offer refunds.”

I had been looking forward to seeing this
movie for several weeks. Since I first. saw the
previews, I thought it looked good and thought it
was going to have a good story. I feel let down, but
not crushed.

The story is good, but I have two intrinsic
problems with this movie.

First, the love story is too sappy and too
unquestioning for my simple, male mind. Sec-
ondly,1-think Nicholas Cage went tittle too-far
when trying to be an angel.

Cage takes this role and early on establishes
that he believes this is a very serious role and he
must do all that he can to make it perfect. It’s.
almost as if he feels that no human can really play
an angel and that’s why he goes over the top trying.
Meg Ryan does a good job as the other half of this
love story. She is believeable as the doctor and
does well with the part.

The guy from “Homicide” (André Braugher)
is excellent as is Denniz Franz in their supporting
roles. In fact I found Braugher’s understated angel
much more believeable than Cage’s overdone
version.

I will say this though —I enjoyed the movie

for its story and its treatment of angels overall. I
left the theater happy with the movie as a whole.
Several seenes- were especially poignant and made
the movie for me. I don’t want to give much away
here; you maybe have already heard about the
story, but if not, I’m not going to be the one to spoil
it now.

This movie may be worth the student price at
Movies at the Lake, “America’s Palace of Cin-
ema,” but almost anywhere else I would recom-
mend you wait for it on video. Grade: B.

Brief note; My second favorite movie from
last year, “L.A. Confidential,” as well as one of the
strangest movies I saw last year, “The Game,” are
now both out on video. I would recommend that
if you have yet to see either of them, that you check
them out.

@ Cage (left) stars mn “City of
Andels”

On the Scene AT Davipson COLLEGE

Cc Or literally, C Room. 8:15, a.m. -
11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Junior Class meeting. Y'all have some issues to sort
out. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m.m in the 900 Room.

Service coordinator meeting. Bill Abrams has some
issues to sort out with y'all. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Home
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Nice and quiet, and smoky. 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Senior Horn Recital. Erika Rissing being the senior in
question. 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Halll.

Twenty-one Year Old Night. This one's for you, (Must
be 21 and have two valid IDs to participate. Void where
prohibited.) 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Volunteer Afprectation Day.
Be there. 5:30 - 7:00 p.m. on Cham-
bers Lawn.

Coffeehouse. Mmmm, donuts. 8:15
- 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Indoor Hockey. | heard some NHL
scouts will be there. 2:00 - 3:30 p.m.
in Johnston Gym.

Piano tuned. Someone tunes the
900 Room piano. 2:00 - 3:00 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

Senior Voice Recital. 8:00 p.m. in Hodson
Hall.

Tentative F-CREW Event. Just tenta-
tive, though. Evening/night in the 900
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Help it live up to its
name, go drink free coffee. 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m.
Voice Recital.
Hall.

8:00 p.m. in Hodson

_ Frmay

IVCF. Ahhhhh. 6:45 p.m. inthe Morrison
Room.
Climbing Wall.
while you can.
Johnston Gym.
A.C.E.S. Senior Banquet. A banquet
for senior aces. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the
Chambers Gallery.

Get your climbing in
7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in

Kayak Rolling. Time’s running out to
roll kayaks. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. in Baker
Pool.

Sig Ep Jeopardy. Sans Alex Trebek.
7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Diane Krause farewell concert. Ev-
eryone should go see Diane's concert.
Be there. 10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the
900 Room.

Acoustic/folk music. “Does anybody
know the words to ‘Jet Plane?’"10:15 -
11:45 p.m. at the Outpost.

Second Annual Neglected Arts Night.
Music, poetry, dancin’. . . Acts that are
both neglected and artistic. 8:00 - 10:00
p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Priorities Planning Group. Plan some pri-
orities. 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. in the Union Confer-
ence. Room.

Project Life meeting. Chill with Mitch. 7:00
- 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Unlimited free caffeine and
Triscuits. Who's notinterested? 7:30.p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost. .

Senior Recital. 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

