- THE DAVIDSONIAN_ -

First Night Down: The community correlation

Ee his Friday evening, a Davidson
College tradition will once
again take place—First Night
Down. The Class of 2002 will descend
en masse upon Patterson Court for their
first introduction to the social system
that they’ve heard about for the past
three weeks. It will be the Patterson
Court organizations’ chance to make a
first impression upon their future mem-
bers, and first year students’ first op-
portunity to come to their own conclu-
sions about our fraternities and eating
houses. Without a doubt, it will be an
exciting night for all those involved.

It’s my hope that while some sus-
picions and expectations about

Patterson Court are confirmed by this
introduction, others are dismissed. This
first entrance to the world on the other
side of the Commons windows will be
celebrated with a night of music, danc-
ing, laughter, meeting new people, and
along with that; drinking. I often think
that it’s a discredit to the fraternities
and eating houses that the most hyped
up of these activities is the drinking.
Don’t get me wrong. Without a doubt,
drinking is a part of the Patterson Court
environment, our campus culture, and
many students’ college experiences
nationwide. However, drinking is only
one part of a much bigger picture of
daily life on the Court.

Eating meals together, develop-
ing leadership abilities, participating
in community service, and forming
lasting friendships are all activities that
happen on Patterson Court on a daily

basis, and I would argue just as much a
part of the Patterson Court experience as
the parties that take place on the week-
ends. I have the opportunity to work

with Patterson Court members and lead- °

ers everyday, and I realize the important
role that these organizations play in the
lives of many students at Davidson Col-
lege. Isee the conversations about classes

- that happen over dinner, the successful

and meaningful service projects that are

undertaken, and the strong friendships .

that are formed. I consider myself lucky
to have this opportunity because I get to
see some amazing things that happen on
Patterson Court when the bars are closed
and the bands have packed up.

I could highlight the accomplish-
ments and activities of the Patterson
Court groups for this entire article, I
would be remiss if I didn’t also talk
about the role that alcohol plays in our
system. Alcohol is a part of many social
activities on the Court; we all know that.
Patterson Court houses spend a great
deal of time, money, and energy dealing
with issues related to alcohol use—ev-
erything from event registrations to li-
ability insurance, and even our familiar
wristbands and PCC stickers are all tied
to the use of alcohol at events. But these
issues are not unique to Patterson Court
or Davidson College. Institutions and
Greek systems across the United States
are grappling with these same issues
related to alcohol use.

Alcohol related deaths of frater-
nity members at Louisiana State Uni-

_ versity and the Massachusetts Institute

of Technology last year caught the at-
tention of students, administrators, and
parents across the nation. These deaths
are truly tragic because they could have
been easily prevented by an action as
simple as taking someone back to his or
her room. By cutting him off when he’s
clearly had too much. By making sure

that she’s not in danger. These are all
easy things to do, yet somehow in the
cases of Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge
Benjamin Wynne, 20, at LSU, and Scott
Krueger, 18, a new FIJI member at
MIT, they didn’t happen. Somehow,
these young men slipped away.

Individual responsibility is cer-
tainly something to be taken into ac-
count when making choices about alco-
hol. Is it your responsibility if you
decide to drink eight shots and get sick
on your hall? Yep. Are you responsible
if you head down to the Court, choose to
drink ten beers and hurt yourself trying
to get home? Of course you are. How-
ever, you’re not alone in that responsi-
bility. Is an organization responsible
for knowingly serving someone under-
age or intoxicated? State law says so.
Aré those around you, your hallmates,
friends, teammates and fellow students,
responsible for keeping an eye out for
your safety? Most definitely; just as
you have a responsibility to look out for
them.

We can’t forget that this is a com-
munity. In fact, Davidson College is an
exceptional community; that’s the very
reason that many students choose to
come to Davidson. In many instances,
our collective or community responsi-
bility becomes more important than the
individual choices that we make.

I’ve heard too many times from
students that an alcohol-related death
“couldn't happen at Davidson.” As
much as I'd like to believe that state-
ment, it’s not true. Like, any other
college campus, Davidson is not im-
mune to such an incident. Just because
an alcohol-related death or serious in-
jury hasn’t happened at Davidson does
not mean that it can't. However, I have
to believe that the strong sense of com-
munity that we share insulates us (if
even a tiny bit) from that grim possibil-

ity. The bottom line is that each of us
has the power to prevent alcohol-re-
lated incidents and injuries from hap-
pening to others and ourselves. But if
we let a fellow student slip away, as in
the cases at LSU and MIT, we'll be
faced with areality that an Honor Code,
160 years of history, and even a strong
community such as ours cannot reverse
it. In that situation, Davidson becomes
no different from the rest.

The Patterson Court houses have
done an increasingly good job in recent
years of taking on responsibility for
making their events and their commu-
nity a safer place. Our risk manage-
ment system is one that is almost en-
tirely student-run, and well run at that.
As a result of the effectiveness of the
system, risk management elements have
been added to more events on Patterson
Court this year, in hopes of increasing
student safety.

Last spring, the Patterson Court
Council unanimously adopted a set of
social event guidelines, which clearly
outline the elements of a safe party.
When houses do make mistakes, the
student-led Judicial Board holds them
accountable for their actions and issues
swift and just reminders of the impor-
tance of safety and risk management.
Safety and community are two beliefs
that are increasingly important to the
existence of Patterson Court organiza-
tions.

In fact, just last week the leaders of
the Patterson Court system created a
mission statement, in which they affirm
their commitment to a safe and respon-
sible community on Patterson Court. I
think that they’re already on their way
to achieving that goal.

In this spirit, First Night Down
1998 promises to be the best ever in the
number of options that are offered to
students: The Union Board, Patterson

Court Council, and Project Life, among
others, have cooperated this year to
make this coming weekend a campus-
wide event called “Fall Fest.” The
weekend activities will get rolling with
a Project Life spaghetti dinner
fundraiser in the middle of Patterson
Court at 5:00 p.m. on Friday. There
will be five parties happening on
Patterson Court Friday night, two of
which will be non-alcoholic. Saturday
promises to be a big event with four
live bands playing throughout the day
on Patterson Court. A funk band will
play from 2:30 p.m.- 4:00 p.m., a jazz
band from 4:30 p.m.- 6:00 p.m., and a
free community dinner will be served
on the Commons patio from 6:00 p.m.-
7:00 p.m. A swing band will continue
the music from 7:00 p.m.- 9:00 p.m.,
followed by a band in one of the frater-
nity houses beginning at 10:00 p.m.
The entire Davidson community is
welcome to come out to any or all of
these events.

When it comes down to it, this is
our community, for better or worse.
Each individual has the opportunity to
enjoy Patterson Court, each individual
has the responsibility to make that en-
vironment a safe place, and each indi-
vidual has the responsibility to care for
yourself and your fellow students. Edu-
cate yourself and your friends on the
facts about alcohol use and abuse, and
make responsible decisions. This
weekend, enjoy yourselves. Celebrate.
Make friends. Dance. Take pictures.
Laugh. Make memories. It’s yourCourt
and your community, take care of it
and make it even stronger.

Remember that each of us con-
tributes to the community, and each of
us shares in the community responsi-
bility. Be careful this weekend, take
care of each other, and have a great
time!

Pity the poor pitcher

ark McGwire has hit his 62" homer of the season, and I applaud him for such a magnificent
M feat, but the man who deserves some sort of acknowledgment is Steve Trachsel of the Chicago

Cubs. This poor man has the dubious distinction of being in Major League Baseball’s record
books for one sole fact. I wish it could be strikeouts, ERA, or most batters hit, but alas it isn’t, because
Big Mac hit his 62" homer off of him.

He’s gotten trashed on Sports Center over....and over...and over.

In his defense, I sure as hell wouldn’t want to pitch to McGwire. McGwire is easily 6’S and weighs
a solid 2501b; he looks like a raging rabid bull when up to bat. I don’t know what the pitchers are thinking,
but I know what I'd be doing; I’d grab my ankles and kiss my.... elbow... good-bye. ;

I suppose-it- could-be-worse; Big-Mac could be-a real bastard if he-wanted. T-hate to say it, but if t
were McGwire, I'd be apunk. I’dsit in the on-deck circle and heckle the opposing pitcher, “Hey! Baboon-
ass! What the hell was that pitch? Is that the best you can do?” ...followed by unprintable comments about
his mother and other members of his family. Of course, once I hit the homer I'd walk real slowly around
the bases. None of this jogging business, the whole time singing an annoying tune, such as “Gettin’ Jiggy

Wit It” or
“Aloha” or
Touch This”
the televi-
and much
Gilmore I'd
camera and
“YOU LIKE
G O T

MORE WHERE THAT CAME FROM!” At which point I’d‘do the “donkey riding dance.”

Anyway, back to Trachsel, I mean how can you not feel bad for this guy! He’s going to be on every
highlight reel on ESPN until it becomes Lifetime 2 (a.k.a. the men-suck channel). Seriously though, what
could he have expected? McGwire had already hit 61, so it was going to happen sooner or later, and poor
old Trachsel got screwed in the Cub’s rotation. Oh well, to quote a personal hero of mine, Forrest Gump,

(Poop) Happens,” and poor old Stevie had a whole truck-load fall on him.

Y’ all know, we’ll watch that clip over and over again, “The pitch from Trachsel. ...hit deep deep to
left field....it’s outta here!” So there’ s poor Stevie Trachsel getting the poop beat outta him forever...and
all I have to say is.... Good job. Mark, from what I saw on ESPN, Trachsel’s a dipstick anyway.

about.”

Sucks.

perhaps fj mons.

“U Can't

Then I'd find }] overs and reno-

sion camera, }] vations of de-

like Happy jf] fenseless cafes ,

run up to the fj that people actu-

starthollering 9] ally like. You

THAT! I fj] have made

PLENTY} many, | many
people very un-
happy. We

hind this one.

week.

52%: Sucks

WE KNOW YOU’RE OUT THERE.

es

"Write for Op-Ed. Call Erin (x6064).

6 & We test products for the Davidson student
because that is who we are and that is who we care

This Week: The New Union Cafe.

This, of course, was our initial reaction;
however, upon further review, we concluded that
it still sucked. Somehow our highly over-priced,
product-deficient convenience store with
wretched hours got worse. Everything remains
over-priced, and-the convenient new. hours-are
eclipsed by the fact that there is nothing to buy.

The change was due to the acquisition of the
Union Cafe by the company that owns the Com-
We recommend that they concentrate
more on culinary improvement than hostile take-

would love to meet the marketing geniuses be-
We took a poll among the students this
Q: What is your opinion of the new Union Cafe?

37%: Couldn’t get any worse
11%: What is the Union?

Let us support our argument with some
complaints that we received. First, the sand-
wiches haven’t changed; however, the prices
have increased. Second, what have you done
with all the toiletries? Hypothetically speaking,
I am conversing with one of the many drop-dead
gorgeous girls on this campus, and I become
nervous and begin to perspire. In the past, I had
the option of going to the Union and buying a $12
stick of Right Guard, butI can’t do that now. This

frustrates me.
Third, there are no 20 oz. bottled soft drinks, only
fountain drinks. How are we to play ridiculous

Cafe continues to disappoint

In fact, this frustrates me a lot.

under-the-cap games? Is there nojustice? Granted,

one of us has a better chance of winning the bronze

in women’s gymnastics than winning any of these

games, but it keeps us buying. Now, we have no
reason to take senseless study breaks and must
resort to writing bad articles for the paper.

_ We realize that this particular article. may
aggravate some people. If this is the case, don’t
read this again. It will just make you more upset
and then you will make some irrational decision
like writing a rebuttal article. This is our-opinion
and the opinion of those that we have talked to
about it ( that would be us too). Granted, we could
be mistaken, but what are the chances of that. We

have
n te)
ideas
on im-
prove-
ments.
Our
aim is
simply

to convey the real feelings of the students (see

poll), Ifanyone actually likes the “improvements”

made to the Union Cafe, please grab the largest

‘blunt object near you and beat some sense into

yourself.

For the record, this article is about two weeks

late.

week.

We apologize.
shipping errors of the weapons necessary for our
necessarily violent liberation of the Cafe this Thurs-
day night at ten. And to make matters worse, our
contact man on the inside drowned while watching
a women’s soccer game.

Coming in Two Weeks: The Official Malt
Beverage Report and “Why Davidson Guys Don’t
Measure Up,” according to Davidson girls. Also,
have dry skin? If so, we'll supply you with the
Wes Roach and Rich Kleiman lotion tip of the

The tardiness is due to
