THE DA VIDSONIAN

PORTS

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

Women look to bounce back from WNIT loss

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Winston Churchill once pro-
claimed, “Never give in. Never, never,
never, never, never—in nothing great
or small, large or petty. Never give in
except to convictions of honor and good
sense.” If there was a lone beacon of
light in the women’s basketball team’s
crushing defeat at the hands of South-
west Missouri State, it was this: the
British statesman would still have been
proud of this Wildcat squad.

Davidson 65
SW. Missouri State 120

Davidson matched up against a
nationally-renowned team in SMS, and
had to do so in one of the most difficult
away arenas in the nation. And it wasn’t
pretty. In fact, SMS’s Lady Bears ran
away with the game. But head coach
John Filar found consolation in the fact
that, “The greatest thing about it was
that we never stopped working. One of
the sportswriters there told us, ‘John,
your girls never stopped playing. You
never stopped working. I’ ve seen teams
come in here and have ten times the
meltdown you had Friday night.’”

But it was nonetheless a trying
evening. Southwest Missouri State en-
tered this game just outside the NCAA
Top #25 rankings. To make matters
worse, the Wildcats had to play in front
of over 6300 screaming fans at SMS’s
Hammons Student Center in Spring-
field, Missouri. Coach Filar said, “It

was at times deafening. Kerry Brown
said that there was a shrill in her ears the
whole time she was on the court.” By
contrast, the Wildcats had played two
games earlier this season, both at Belk
Arena, averaging barely 300 specta-
tors.

SMS combined a high-pressure
defense with a 41-point performance
from sophomore Jackie Stiles to defeat
Davidson by a final score of 120-65.
Stiles racked up 30 points in the first
half (a total equivalent to that accumu-
lated by the entire Davidson team),
knocking down 5 of her 7 shots from
behind the arc. A 5’8” sophomore from
Claflin, Kansas, Stiles led all freshmen
in scoring last season and is considered
a top candidate for All-American rec-
ognition. Said Filar, “She was on fire.
Even when we went with a chaser on
her, she just pumps you up, goes by you,
pulls up, and hits shots. Every time she
touched it, you wanted to close your
eyes.”

The Lady Bears.came out with a
high-pressure defense early, and never
turned down the heat. SMS broke out to
a 14-0 lead in the first four and a half
minutes of play, and forced the ‘Cats to
commit 27 turnovers over the course of
the evening. In addition, SMS controlled
the boards, out-rebounding Davidson
47-24.

Led by the outstanding play of
Stiles and Roshonda Reed, Southwest
Missouri shot over 60% from the floor,
and 63% from behind the 3-point line
on their way toateam-record 120 points.

The picture wasn’t entirely bleak
for John Filar’s ‘Cats. Freshman Janna

Magette came off the bench and accu-
mulated 24 minutes of court time on her
way to a team-high 16 points. South-
west Missouri’s radio broadcaster ex-
pressed great regard for the Wildcat
guard, “What a great college entry for
the 5’8” freshman. She’s ‘got sixteen
points so far. Magette leads this team in
scoring, and that’s a freshman out there!
She’s very impressive, she does great
things.” Filar commented, “I was very
impressed with Janna’s poise. In her
first real game in front of that many
people with that much pressure on you
in front of your family and your high
school coaches, I was really pleased.”

Jessica Heath, a 6’3” sophomore
from Monument, Colorado, also played
well. “Jess wasn’t hesitant to bang with
them inside,” said Filar. “She bodied up
people and grabbed some big rebounds.”

The Wildcat team came home
ready to rebound from the decisive de-
feat.

Filar predicts his team will re-
spond well, “Practice on Sunday was
one of the best we’ve had all season.
The important lesson they learned Fri-
day night: Just when you think you’ re
being intense, somebody will come out
and play against you with a degree of
intensity that you’ ve never seen in your
life, and that inspires you to kick your
own intensity up another level. It’s one
game. If it helps us somewhere down
the line, then it’s okay, it was worth
going there and getting kicked.”

The Wildcats travel to Wake For-
est tonight but return to Belk Arena on
Saturday to face Georgia Tech at 7:30.

Senior Jessica Montrella,

@ Sports Information Department.

who racked up 25 points against Ft. Bragg,

prepares for a jumper.

‘Cats volleyball team splits final pair of regular season

Press RELEASE
Sports Information

A four-game loss to Furman on
Wednesday evening and a four-game
victory over Wofford on Saturday put
the Davidson (21-10, 13-5) Wildcats in
atie for second place with the Western
Carolina Catamounts in volleyball. Due
to the tiebreaker system, the Wildcats

Ale NORMAL,
HEALTH ALUB

will be the third seed in the Southern
Confer-
ence
Tourna-
ment
which be-
gins this
Friday at
Boone,
N.C.

Furman 3
Wildcats 1

Wofford 1
Wildcats 3

STUDENTS! wular's

youre. RATE!

MINIMUM 3 MONTHS
discounts on initiation feel!

VOTED LAKE NORMAN'S.
BEST GYM!
896-2582

at Exit 28, behind Wendy's

PERMONT

Davidson had plenty of opportuni-
ties to win the Furman match as the
Paladins committed 21 service errors.
But while Furman had its problems
serving, the Wildcats struggled on the
attack, committing 41 errors to go with
just 44 kills for a .016 attack percent-
age, their worst this season.

After losing the first two games,
Davidson came back to take the third
and held acommanding 12-6 lead.in the
fourth. The ‘Cats broke
down, however, as the
Paladins reeled off nine

straight points to take the victory, 15-9,
15-5, 12-15, 15-12.

Both sophomore Mara Mordini and
junior Gina Lawrence had double-
doubles, but also committed 21 errors
between them.

Atpractice on Thursday, Davidson
suffered a serious blow to the team as
sophomore Brooke Bentley collided
with another player and came away
with a dislocated right elbow. Her heal-
ing time is projected to be four to six
weeks, knowing her out for the rest of
the season. The good news is that she is

expected to make a full recovery.

Without Bentley on Saturday,
Davidson defeated Wofford, 15-12, 15-
9, 13-15, 15-6. Freshman Jacqueline
Ortega stepped up to fill Bentley’s shoes
and had 13 kills. Mordini had an excel-
lent match with 21 kills and just four
errors to go with 11 digs, giving her 19
double-doubles on the season. Lawrence
also had 13 kills for the Wildcats.

As the third seed in the tourna-
ment, Davidson will face the sixth-
seeded Georgia Southern Eagles at 7:30
p.m. on Friday at Appalachian State.

In fact, as a cession, I ‘Vacad
myself an avid Davidson basketball fan —o

the men’s and women’s teams. I’m not critiq

the Davidsonian Sports Section either because |
every article in the section was well written and
comprehensive; I truly feel the abundance of men’s
basketball articles was directly reflective of the -
overwhelming interest of the student body. But
basketball season just officially began, and al-
_ready we’ ve completely forgotten our beloved fall
sports. Do any of us realize the magnitude of the
football team’s win last Saturday? By beating
Centre College two weeks ago, they tied the record
for most number of wins in Davidson history. But - Davidson —

‘Give credit where credit i is due

Letter to the ator

rousislihe toes aie cage tates eae is °
football at Davidson by recognizing their accom-
_plishment, as the crowd that gathered Saturday
night at Richardson Field to welcome the team
home did. To paraphrase the Davidson Fight Song,
this season the red and black machine was out to
fight and looking mean, and with the help with
their dedicated coaches and managers, the 1998
Football Team really did win for the honor of Old,

