SPECIAL FEATURE

Budget cuts force College to

eliminate staff positions

om aii. eg 3

Vagt, administrators balance 1998-99 budget

Personnel cutbacks facilitate cost-cutting efforts

By Micuact J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

In an effort to balance the budget for the
1998-99 shool year and pointing to “fiscal reali-
ties,” President Bobby Vagt eliminated or halved
“Jess than half a dozen” jobs at the College in the
past two weeks.

Vagt declined to mention names, but Lt.

: David McLaurin and Ray Liguori of the campus
police department were fired, while some admin-
istrative assistants — including Ruth Ann Swart of
the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies and Ann
Callahan of the Physics Department — were de-
moted from full-time to part-time. :

There are also some positions currently open
that will not be filled. According to Dean of
Students Tom Shandley, occupations in academic
departments, the Athletic Department, and Stu-
dent Health Services were affected.

Overall, according to Shandley, over half a
million dollars worth of cuts were made.

“We're going to do more with less,” Vagt
said in his office last week, “‘so we can go forward
in what I call managed growth.”

Vagt stressed that the recent personnel
changes were not the beginning of a massive series
of layoffs.

There are still some holes in the budgets for
1999-2000 and 2000-2001, but those will report-
edly be filled ‘on the revenue side.”

“As far as we can see now, we have done what
we think needed to be done,” said the business-
man-turned-college-president. “This is not the
first of two shoes.”

Of the $46-million-dollar budget set for 1998-
99, $27 million will be spent directly on people —
nearly 60 percent of the College’s total expendi-
ture. ;

“That verifies, quantitatively, how important
people are,” Vagt said. “But it also means you’re
not going to modify the budget without effecting
people, and we’re going to do that carefully.”

Tuition and the-number-of~ students have

steadily gone up in the last 20 to 25 years. In 1975,
Vagt explained, 14 percent of the average house-
hold income was used to pay college bills. In
1995, that number had skyrocketed to 20 percent.

“That growth cannot continue,” he said. “To
be the kind of community we say is important,
arguably we are too far already, but we can’t go
beyond where we are right now.”

In recent years, Davidson’s tuition has in-
creased by as muchas 13 percent annually. Thanks
to some changes in the budget for the coming
school year, including the personnel cutbacks,
College administrators are expecting just a four
percent rise next year — the lowest such number
in 21 years.

“We looked at the budget and, quite honestly,
ways we could lower the tuition increase for stu-
dents,” Shandley said. “It gotextremely hard todo
that and not look at ways we could cut back.”

The budget modifications will also allow the
school to continue its commitment to technology

in the dorm room and classroom; provide expen-

sive lab equipment in the soon-to-be-completed
Life Sciences: Building, which will have a
$300,000-dollar operating expense; and facilitate
the recruitment and on-campus experience of in-
ternational students.

The College will also pay particular attention
to methods of greater energy conservation; it will
soon install new light fixtures in Chambers which
will reduce lighting costs to 60 percent of the
current level.

“There are some exciting things in the budget
made possible by the kind of budget recisions
we've made,” said Vagt, referring also to a three
percent increase in the salary pool for 1998-99.

“Davidson’s not in dire shape,” Shandley
said. “But with the student body staying constant
and tuition not going up like it used to, there’s not
new revenue coming into the College.” ,

» “We're in a good vantage point right now,
and we want to maintain that,” Vagt added. “We
don’t have to cut back to the bone. It’s better.to
have a little hurt now than a big hurt later.”
