ait ir

Studen

By Asu_ey E. Kinc
News Editor

At 7:00 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 2,
students convened in the 900 Room of
the College Union to celebrate the Day
of the Dead, aholiday observed in Latin
America as a way of honoring the de-
ceased and of connecting with loved
ones who have died.

Walking into the College Union
this past Monday, students were con-
fronted with an altar erected for this
event. The altar displayed an eclectic
collection of objects meant to show
reverence for the dead. Included in this
collection were illustrations, photo-
graphs, flowers, food, drink, letters, and
cigarettes. Photographs of Elvis and
other famous deceased figures laid
amidst pictures of anonymous people

. of the Dead in Latin American culture and

who happened to be dear to someone at
Davidson College. The illustrations rep-
resented both religious figures such as
Jesus and the Virgin Mary and figures
appropriate to the holiday such as skel-
etons. Also strewn on the table were
marigolds, the flower of the dead, and a
small round bread decorated with a skull
and crossbones, the bread of the dead.
Next to a plate of cookies, a sign read,
“Take a cookie, eat, remember, and com-
mune with returning spirits.”

The program in the 900 Room not
only celebrated the Day of the Dead, but
also Latin American culture and language.

Dr. Luis Pena of the Spanish depart-
ment gave an introductory speech in which
he explained the significance of the Day

its origins with the indigenous inhab-
itants of Mesoamerica, the Day of the
Dead draws from both pre-Hispanic
culture and Catholic religion. Creat-
ing what Pena described to be an
“atmosphere of joy,” people remem-
ber their lost family and friends and
are thought to meet them in the grave-
yard on Nov. 1 and 2. “Each soul is
remembered with a recitation of
memory and song,” Pena explained,
as “thousands of candles illuminate
the way of the departed” in the final
ceremony during which people walk
by candlelight to the cemetery.
After Pena’s speech, Irania
Marcias Patterson, a native of Ven-
ezuela who has lived in the United
States for four and a half years, re-
lated several Latin American folk
tales. Accentuating her words with

also the different ways people have tradi-
tionally celebrated this holiday. Finding

‘

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998.

. participate in Day of the Dead celebration

sharp gestures, song, and dance,
Patterson dedicated her stories to her
father whom she said is “alive in my
heart.” Almost all of her stories were
told in English, although Patterson
elected to tell one in Spanish, asking
those who did not understand the lan-
guage simply to enjoy the sound of the
words.

Intertwined in most of her stories
was a theme of death which was often
depicted as a positive force in life.
Commenting on her stories, Patterson
said that one of her favorites is “La
Muerte” because the character of death
“is a person that has power and brings
justice and mercy.” Each narrative also
carried with it humor, irony, and some
higher moral which revealed itself as
the story unraveled. For example, her

you don’t look in your heart first, you’ Il
never know anything.”

At the end of the program, stu-
dents took candles from the altar down-
stairs and carried them to the graveyard,
Once there, students could pray and
communicate with those whom they
had lost. During this ceremony, people
also traditionally do what their loved
ones enjoyed in life, such as telling
jokes that the deceased used to appreci-
ate.

The Day of the Dead celebration
was sponsored by the Anthropology
department, the Spanish department,
the Dean of Students, the Office of
Minority Affairs, Dean Rusk, OLAS,
ISA, the Photography Club, and the
Union Board. Summing up the experi-
ence, Pena said, “It’s a way to compare
different perceptions of death and dy-

last story ended with the instruction, “If
. ing” in different cultures.

Students
plan for
grad school

Grad School continued from page 1

designed to be representative of all the
many graduate programs out there, but
to give students the opportunity to gather
information and become informed about
graduate programs in which they might
be interested.

The Professional and Graduate
School Fair benefits the schools repre-
sented as well as students. Reverend
Jim Hubert, Director of Admissions for
Louisville Seminary, explained that fairs
typical of Davidson’s give schools the
opportunity to get their name out, direct
their advertising at a specific group —
undergraduates. More importantly,
Hubert said, was that school fairs give
institutions the chance to scout students
and see if students they would fit that
institution’s graduate program. The
representatives learn which colleges are
producing the best undergraduates, and
the graduate school uses that informa-
tion throughout the admissions process.
Michael Patrick from the University of
Florida said that admissions people from
graduate schools learn a lot about a
school just by talking to its students at
such fairs. Hubert commented that in
talking with students, he felt a “high
sense of integrity” among the students.
“The students are very engaging. Even
if they aren’t. interested in what I’m
offering, they will
still talk with me
and thank me for
my time as they
leave.”

Other re-
sources of infor-
mation about
graduate and pro-
fessional schools
are still available.
The Office of Ca-
reer Services has
a library for stu-
dents to use in re-
searching post-
graduate options.
Also, Butchello
explained that the
Office of Career
Services is very
anxious to get stu-
dent feedback
about the fair. For
comments about
the fair, contact

.the office at 892-
2132 or via e-
Nee eh se
careers@davidsonedu,

WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail
national company! Free
supplies, posta
ing! Bonuses! Start imme-

diately! Genuine opportu-
nity! :
Please rush Long Self-
Addressed Stamped Enve-
lope to |

MPC, SUITE 391

2045 Mt. Zion Rd

Turner christens new house in ceremony

Davidson College’s newest Patterson Court house is open for business

By Carrif ARTHUR
News Editor

On Saturday, Nov. 7, Turner House opened its doors to the campus for the first
time. The festivities began with a ribbon cutting ceremony at 3 p.m. and then
continued into the night with a guestlist reception and then open party.

At the afternoon ceremony, Katherine Turner, namesake of the house,
performed the honors. The house also presented Turner with a plaque. Turner
House President Mary Shell Brosche ’00 and Social Chairs Hope Henry ’99 and
Claire Sisco ’99 spoke. Henry and Sisco were instrumental in the creation of the
house. Turner House members, freshwomen, faculty, administration, and staff
were all invited to the ceremony. Katherine Turner’s family also attended.

Although “it’s been hard not having a house,” Henry said, “I don’t think that
it’s put a damper on our social schedule.” Brosche added, “We’re definitely
making the best of it.” For example, the members of Turner held their semiformal
on the Vail Commons patio. Despite the unique location, Henry said, “our
semiformal ended up being really great.” Turner House has already cosponsored
parties with other houses. Henry feels that even without a physical house, “it’s
been amazing,” and Brosche said that they’re “having a good time because
everyone enjoys each other’s company.” Even without a house, Brosche feels that
Turner has been able to reach freshwomen with the hall dinners, cosponsored
parties, and the semi-formal.

Before the opening of the physical Turner House, the social organization-had .

been eating at the Outpost, but members could not hang out there or go there at
times other than meals. Brosche thanked the Union for the use of the Outpost, and
Henry said, “I’m thankful to the Outpost cooking crew” for letting theni use the
Outpost. For the semester; Turner has been sharing a cook with Kappa Sigma, but
Brosche said-the executive board is looking for a new cook because their current
cook “feels slightly overworked.”

Turner House officially opened on Saturday, but it hosted an alumni party for
Katherine Turner’s class during Homecoming and an open house for parents
during Parent’s Weekend. As of last week, Brosche was hoping to be eating at the
house as of yesterday, The delivery of tables and plates was holding back the
members’ movement-into the house. Henry added that a stereo, sofas, and TV
would be coming this week.

Organizational plans for Turner began last semester, and Turner officially

for

e! No sell-

24 hours.

Commons

24 Hour Computer Lab

Information Technology Services is pleased to announce that a new
24 hour lab is available on the ground floor of Belk East. The new
lab offers six Windows computers, six Macintosh computers, and
laser printing. Card access is required at all times in this facility. You
can enter the lab from a door outside of Belk East across from Vail
Commons. The ResNet Office is also in this space, but is not open

Door to
) Belk 24

began at the beginning of this semester. Henry said that the former size of Rusk,
250 members, made some people search for an alternative. At one time, according
to Henry, a possible cap for the number of members in Rusk was being discussed.
Henry feels, “It’s just not feasible to have an eating house with 250 people”
because members “couldn’t really get to know that many people.” . Henry
explained that some people became “discouraged” and explored the option of a
new house. Other people simply wanted an alternative to the existing three eating
houses. Henry sees “the reason for doing it (creating Turner) is to support Self-
Selection and offer more options.” During the planning period of Turner, Henry
said that the administration has “been really great” by basically “catering to
whatever we’ ve needed.”

The original home of Turner House was planned to be Pax, but housing
problems foiled the scheme. Therefore, plans for the construction of the house
began on June 3, and. construction physically began in July. The house was
officially finished on Homecoming weekend. Wilbur and Associates of Cornelius
served as the architects for the house, and TK Brown Construction Co. of Charlotte
built the house.

David Holthouser of the Physical Plant estimated that the house cost a little
more than $300,000, approximately $90 to $100 per square foot. Similar to the
other Patterson Court houses, Turner House has 3,522 square feet. Despite its
“comparable square footage,” Turner House has a different layout: it lacks an
apartment and a basement.

Holthouser explained that the kitchen is a “little larger” and “better” because
for other houses, “the kitchen is kind of a weak spot.” Also in the kitchen is what
Holthouser called an “anteroom” for serving food and keeping the cooking
equipment separate. Holthouser described the physical house as being “equal but
slightly different” because the Physical Plant worked to eliminate other Patterson
Court houses’ problems in upkeep and life safety issues. Because of life safety
issues, the house lacks a basement and has a larger first floor instead.

Of the different set-up and location somewhat off of Patterson Court, Brosche
said, “It’s kind of neat to be set apart.” She likes that the extra first floor room
makes the 21-year-old area “not as secluded.” Henry echoed Brosche’s senti-
ments: “The new house is wonderful,” and “it’s going to be cool being different.”

Turner House raises the total of Patterson Court eating houses to four: Turner,
Rusk, Connor, and Warner Hall. Another previous female eating house, Spencer,
failed in the early ‘90s.

Belk

Chambers
Eas

oer | '

