By Bratton HoLmes
Sports Editor

At the tail end of the most successful season
in two decades, the Davidson wrestling squad
received a major wake-up call this past week as
they squared off against three of the best teams in
the Southern Conference.

Despite having the momentum of a big win
over Anderson and an avenging victory over Nor-
folk State last week, the Wildcats could not hold
their ground against the conference powerhouses.

Davidson was closest in the Appalachian
State match, which was held in Baker last Wednes-
day.

Davidson had to give up forfeits at 118 and
also at 34, and also lost the 126 and 142 classes
by technical fall, giving Appalachian a quick 22-
0 lead.

The next class was 150, filled by Davidson’s
most successful wrestler this season, Ian Kaplan.

Kaplan defeated his opponent by decision
with a score of 9-4. Rookie Ronald Williams
followed Kaplan at 158 and also won his match by
decision, 5-2.
Libersat, at 167. Libersat won his match by injury
default.

This brought the team totals to 22-12 in favor
of Appalachian with the Cats threatening to make
a comeback and upset the Mountaineers.

Unfortunately, Appalachian responded by

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Grapplers lose three in con

Next was another rookie, Jeff

sweeping the remaining three classes with two
decisions and a technical fall, bringing the final
score to 33-12.

Davidson’s conference woes continued with
a trip to Charleston to face the Citadel and UT-
Chattanooga.

In the first match of the day, the Citadel
defeated Davidson with a final score of 35-9.
Three wrestlers had wins for the Wildcats. Andy
Sterling won with a 3-1 decision at 142. Kaplan
continued his hot streak with a win by major
decision, 20-10. Gray Broughton also registered a
win at 190 with an 8-4 decision.

The’ two decision gave three team points

‘each, and the major decision netted four. Davidson

was penalized one team point for unsportsmanlike
conduct to bring the total for the match to 9.

In the final match of the day, Davidson nar-
rowly avoided a sweep at the hands of UT-Chatta-
nooga. Davidson’s sole victory came from, once
again, Ian Kaplan. In what Kaplan modestly
referred to as a “quick match”, he pinned his UTC
opponent in eighteen seconds, an unbelievably
quick victory.

To put this achievement in perspective, there
were six other pins in three dual matches that day.
The fastest pin of those six was in 2:35. Kaplan’s
pin took nearly a tenth of that time. The slowest
pin of the day was in 6:45, and the victor in this
match took over twenty times as long to pin his
opponent as did Kaplan in his match.

Sean Lutmer

@ Rookie Dan Carman prepares to attempt an escape during his
matchs last Wednesday in Belk Arena.

Lady Wildcats dominate ETSU

By Bratton HOLMES

tournament.

Claire Cheatwood and

Sports Editor

In one of the most dominant dis-
plays by any Davidson team this year,
the women’s tennis team played six-
teen matches against conference rivals
East Tennessee State and Wofford in
the Davidson Doubles Tournament, and
lost only one.

ETSU was expected to be the Wild-
cats’ main competition for dominance
in the Southern Conference, but this
weekend did not seem to even be on the
same level. If Davidson continues to
dominate ETSU, then few obstacles
will remain in their path to the confer-
ence championship.

Dana Casner and Kristin Koenig,
playing at the #1 doubles spot, swept all
four matches that they played in the

Amber Bradford filled the #2 spot for
the Wildcats, and they won three of
their four matches in the tournament.

The #3 doubles spot varied be-
tween several different members of the
team. Clara Marks, Lynne Shore, rookie
Brenna Tindall and Anna Holland ro-
tated in throughout the tournament.
However, one thing remained constant-
the #3 doubles spot always won. For
that matter, so did the #4 spot.

Neither of the opposing teams
posed any threat to the Wildcats in the
tournament. These results are very
promising for the women’s conference
schedule. Shore commented on the
team’s performance, “We played re-
ally, really well... This is a good indica-
tion that our doubles will be stronger
that they have been in the past.”

Sean Lutmer
@ Amber Bradford sets up
for a volley. against ETSU.

~ DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS.
BECAUSE THERE IS NO OFF-SEASON

Call Bratton Holmes or William Moretz for layout opportunities.

Men’s tennis team proves to
be tough at South Carolina

By WILLIAM-MoretTz
Sports Layout Editor

Over the weekend, the men’s ten-
nis team posted some impressive vic-
tories. Francis Marion University and
the Southeastern Conference giant,
University of South Carolina, faced
the Davidson team at the USC campus
in Columbia, South Carolina.

Coach Jeff Frank led the Wildcat
team to a perfect 5-0 match record
against Francis Marion, with wins from
all four singles matches and the top
doubles team. Brett Ialacci and Alex
Okulski handily defeated their oppo-
nents, while John Pastel played an-
other near-perfect match of his in-
credible season. Jeff Tonidandel was
also able to defeat his opponent with
his aggressive tennis style. Ted Kaplan
and Judson Sutherland were the
doubles winners against the Francis
Marion team.

The Wildcats also played the Uni-
versity of South Carolina tennis team

on Sunday. Though the team was not -

able to defeat the Gamecocks, the third
seed doubles team and John Pastel,
Davidson’s top tennis player, were
victorious. Jeff Tonidandel and Ty
Epp used their doubles experience to
triumph over the tough South Carolina
doubles team. Scott Briggs and fresh-
man Billy Boykin also joined the top
Wildcat singles players against South
Carolina.

Backed by a home crowd,
Vladimir Pavicevic, the top player of
South Carolina, entered the court with
John Pastel. Ranked fifth in the na-
tion, Vladimir was the overwhelming
favorite to win the match. Pastel de-
feated Vladimir Pavicevic, the fifth
ranked tennis player in the nation, in
straight sets, 6-3, 6-2.

John Pastel’s roommate, Matt
Gaughan, noted that “He is an under-
rated player; he could beat... any player
he wanted”.

The Davidson tennis team, led by
Coach Frank, left South Carolina with
an optimistic attitude about the rest of
the season.

Skattum (x6667).

WHAT, DO WE HAVE.
TO TWIST YOUR ARM?

The Davidsonian Staff is still looking for a few
students to fill vital positions within the orga-
nization. If you are at all interested, please
contact either Sarah Ogden (x6508) or Randy

WEB PAGE MANAGER
PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF
News EpITor
Arts & LivinG EpITor
GENERAL LAYOUT STAFF

SPORTS WRITERS

