THE DAVIDSONIAN

A resolution from the SGA:
Diversifying curricula

Resolution

_ The Student Government Association and the Black Student Coalition of Davidson College
April 26, 1998

Submitted by:

Wesley Hart, Black Student Coalition President,

Benin Ford, Chair of Black Student Coalition Publicity Committee,
Marie Sharp, Black Student Coalition SGA Senator,

Ann Harriott Fisher, Student Government Association President

Whereas Davidson College portends diverse conditions;

Whereas the students of Davidson College recognize the importance of diversity;

Whereas Professor Barbara Ballard and Professor Judith Robey instructed courses representing
diverse aspects of Davidson’s current curriculum; ‘
Whereas the elimination of such persons eliminates the conditions necessary for diverse discourse;
Whereas preserving the current amount of diverse discourse offered requires the instruction of these
courses;

Whereas several courses currently listed in Davidson’s Courses of Instruction are not regularly
offered;

Whereas diverse discourse in the form of instructed courses is a sine qua non for diverse conditions;
Whereas more professors and students of diverse backgrounds are essential in order for this
condition to take flesh;

Whereas the responsibility of the fostering of these conditions rests on all members of the Davidson
College Community;

Therefore, let it be resolved that the Student Government Association and the Black Student

Coalition of Davidson College demand the Trustees of Davidson College, President of Davidson °
College Robert F. Vagt, Dean of Faculty Robert Williams, Office of Academic Affairs, Office of

Admission and Financial Aid, Faculty of Davidson College, and Dean of Students Office, to create

the conditions necessary for a diverse environment to materialize by replacing the professors who

instructed courses of diverse discourse, to offer courses. currently in Davidson’s Courses of
Instruction which foster diversity frequently, and to increase the number of professors, courses, and

students of diverse origins.

This resolution was approved by the Senate on April 28, 1998.

The Premanagement Committee presents:

presiden
"Gobh

Davidson College President Bobby

Vagt discusses “How his Davidson
education has enabled him to excel
in diverse business and leadership

positions.”

Morrison Room ¢ Grey College Union
Wednesday, September 2, 1998
7:00pm

Everyone Welcome!

Refreshments provided

News
Wall Street at Davidson?

By Matr CuiFrorD

TUESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1998

Staff Writer

Seven hundred miles north of the little village of Davidson, hundreds of sweaty men and women
are headlong into a daily ritual on Nassau Street in New York City. It’s the New York Stock Exchange,
where high pressure and high stressed traders buy and sell dreams in a matter of minutes. Traders make
motions with their hands to “push” stocks away and grab at yellow slips of paper in a dire attempt to buy,

. buy, buy. With the founding and solidification of Davidson’ s first investment group occurring over the

summer, the hustle and bustle world of New York may not be so far away.

Atleast five Davidson sophomores think that “opportunities abound” in today’s stock market.
These five individuals, led by Andrew Nash- Webber, have consolidated their common confidence in the
market to form the DC ‘01 Investment Partnership. Nash-Webber encourages that now is the time to

‘buy and that he and his board have the knowledge and capability to educate Davidson students about this

unique opportunity. Nash states, “It’s foolish to earn a dollar a month in a bank account when there are
opportunities elsewhere.”

Opportunities have existed in this “bull” market for nearly seven years, since the 1991
recession, but not until now have Davidson students decided to capitalize on them as a functional campus
organization. Nash had the idea around exam time last semester after talking to friends at Dartmouth
and other institutions which had similar investment partnerships. After making some calls to fellow
freshmen, an executive board was established during exams last spring. During the summer Nash and
the board had to trudge through a “magnificent bureaucracy” to get the partnership established. There -
exist “fairly ominous liability issues when one manages money”; therefore the group had to file a
partnership agreement for federal and state tax purposes. Nash, quick to praise the other four founding
members, calls the DC ‘01 Investment Partnership’s board “stellar. . . enthusiastic. . . a real God-send.”
The executive board members, Peter Clark as Chief Financial Officer, Jason Hild as Chief Executive
Officer, Ben Gates as Chief Financial Analyst, and Jesse Montgomery as Membership Chair, remained
in close contact over the summer so that they could make sure the group could be on its feet by the start
of school. In addition, Davidson faculty and administration, especially the Economics department, have
been especially “positive and responsive” regarding the inception and growth of the group.

DC ‘01 Investment Partnership does not officially have any affiliation with the college right
now. It represents an independent “general partnership” which cannot use the name of the college or
use funds. The board has drafted and plans to submit a constitution to the Union so that it can be
recognized as an official club and have meetings as such. From word of mouth and the Activities Fair
booth, Nash estimates the group has seen interest from fifty students from all walks of campus and
encourages others to attend'the group’s first meeting at 7:00 pm on Thursday, September 3 in the Home
Room of the Union. _

Nash fears that the financial investment may drive membership down, but he is still positive about
turnout. The minimum investment for the group “will most likely be two hundred dollars.” The board
is in no way taking any commission of sorts from this, as the group is primarily an “educational tool”
for students to learn how to analyze and evaluate equities on their own. Accordingly, the DC ’01
Investment Partnership would like to stress that no experience in stocks, asset management or the like
is necessary. The group will be taking a “full team approach” to equity purchases, and the board has no
executive voice in the matter. Nash voiced that as a partner he was at the hands of students’ minds as
to which stocks will be purchased; “Everyone is expected to contribute to the investment process and
analysis.” Stocks will be introduced and debated at meetings with research done by all partners, and final
decisions will be “based ona voting system that mirrors each persons financial share in the partnership.”
More money put in equals more say in what should be bought.

Nash mentioned that the CFO of DC ’01, Peter Clark, plans to begin a similar group that requires

- no financial commitment. Clark is “heading an effort to manage a portion of the endowment via student

committee. This separate and unrelated group offers students the opportunity to learn many of the same
things [about equity management} without the financial commitment.” This, moreover, emphasizes the
educational rather than profit-sharing angle of DC 01. In tandem with this educational approach, the
executive board foresees speakers from the area that would come in to speak with the group. Nash plans
to tap the Davidson Alumni pool and Charlotte’s national banking center in order to bring in portfolio
managers, equity analysts, and the like. Nash states that the strength of the partnership, “is based on the
efforts of the individual partners. We can only improve the strength of the partnership by improving the
knowledge of the partners.” Nash hopes the educational strength of the group can help to balance against
the college which “comes short in offering students opportunities to study business and particularly
finance in the curriculum.” :

Both Nash and Clark worked jobs this summer at nationally recognized financial institutions. All
of the board members are experienced with the equity markét and beginning at the first meeting Thursday
are prepared to bring in a number of stocks for debate. Nash would like to see the group as a value
contrarian investment group. This means that DC ’01 will look for stocks that have solid balance sheets,
philosophies and management, but which have, for some reason, had underperforming stocks. The bull
market has “rewarded the momentum investor rather than the value investor,” but Nash sees that
changing soon. He does not envision the partnership investing in any brand name or large capital
equities, but reaffirmed that due to the makeup of the decision-making process for purchases, he really
has no authoritative voice in the matter. “If people want to buy Disney, McDonald’ s, and Philip Morris,
that is. what we will buy regardless of what I think.”

’ Regardless of whether you write your check to DC ’01 Investment Partnership, Nash encourages
everyone to attend the meeting in the Home Room at 7:00 pm on Thursday. The executive board just
may convince you that this is something you should learn about.

Goodbye, BTI. Hello, AT&T.

By CarriE ARTHUR
Staff Writer

In addition to the Dentyne cups, Red Book 5, and the new catalogue, Davidson students have

-also received new phone cards. The College choose AT&T once its contract with BTI, the former

campus telephone service, expired.

Marsha Mak, Director of Networks and Systems, explained that the switch was made because
“‘we knew we were looking for much lower prices, especially for international students.” AT&T ACUS
service offers flat rates for both domestic and international calls. Domestic calls start at 15 cents per
minute, and international calling plans are available.

AT&T was chosen because its ACUS service has high ratings. Makl said she “wanted
someone who would give good support to the students” and who “would understand the students.” She
had received complaints about the support services of BTI, especially with its billing process.

Mak sees the new service as having many benefits and no disadvantages, despite a few rough
transitions, The pause before the request for the PSC, Personal Security Code, needs to be shortened
because of difficulties for modem and fax dial-outs. Also, Makl said she had hoped to retain the same
dialing patterns, but the patterns were changed.

For students wishing to use another service, a calling card is necessary. Makl said the only way
to make long distance calls from campus is to use a PSC or an 800 number. Long-distance plans such
as 10-10321 are unavailable, but students can use calling cards of other long-distance carriers.

The AT&T ACUS service will be around until most-current Davidson students graduate; the
contract with AT&T lasts three years.
