feel that it is time to dismiss the myth that
benevolence governs U.S. foreign policy in
Latin America. History has proven that good-
will is at best only a secondary objective in our
dealings with our neighbors to the South. On the
contrary, U.S. foreign policy in Latin America

during the last half-century has largely centered
itself around the objective of maintaining eco-
nomic dominance in the hemisphere. Let there be
no mistake, the myth that imparting democratic
values and a respect for human rights in Latin
America is a priority for the U.S. only highlights
the double standard which has characterized U.S.
dealings in the region. Human rights violations
are only an issue when a country dares to not
cooperate with corporate America’s imperialistic
world order. On the other hand, when gross
human rights violations occur under an economi-
cally “friendly” country, we either turn our heads
or justify the atrocities as “necessary trade-offs.”
Examples of this American hypocrisy are shame-
ful.

\merican ¢

ream,

In Guatemala, in 1954, President Jacobo
Arbenz, democratically elected in 1951, instituted
a program of agrarian reform intended-to improve
conditions for the rural poor. Meanwhile, the
U.S.-based United Fruit Company had. become
increasingly fearful that Arbenz’s socialist poli-
cies would adversely affect their substantial in-
vestments in Guatemala. As a result, the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency helped organize a
counter-revolutionary army to destabilize Arbenz’s
regime, and Arbenz was forced to resign. A series
of repressive and intolerant governments followed
Arbenz, but the U.S. made no attempts to inter-
vene.

This scenario foreshadowed Chile’s situa-
tion of the early 1970s. Salvador Allende, the
Socialist candidate, was elected democratically in
Chile in 1971. However, when he began to nation-
alize Chile’s copper mines, the U.S.-based Inter-
national Telephone and Telegraph Corporation
panicked. Allende’s reforms were seen as a sig-
nificant threat to their highly profitable Chilean
multi-national. Again, the CIA intervened by
helping sponsor a violent coup in which Allende
was killed. Subsequently, the U.S. supported the
rise of Augusto Pinochet, a military dictator and
“economic ally” who has been cited for thousands
of political killings and human rights violations.

Conveniently, our government has failed to recog- |

nize the atrocities committed by Pinochet. In stark
contrast, our government constantly reminds us of
Fidel Castro’s transgressions in a feeble attempt to
justify the inhumane embargo which treats the
people of Cuba not as humans but as political
tools.

Perhaps our greatest source of shame, though,
is alittle closertohome.

Just a few hours south of Davidson, at Fort
Benning in Georgia, the U.S. Army School of the
Americas (SOA) has trained some of the worst
human rights violators in the hemisphere: 19
Salvadoran officers accused of the 1989 murder of
the Jesuit priests; ten cited for the El Mozote
massacre in which over 800 civilian men, women,
and children were brutally murdered; two cited in
the assassination of Archbishop Romero; six Pe-
ruvian officers who conducted the killings of nine
students anda professor in 1992; Mexican General
Juan Lopez Ortiz, whose men conducted the 1994
Chiapas massacre; and former Panamanian dicta-
tor Manuel Noriega.

Founded in 1946 and originally located in
Panama, the school’s official mission is to “de-
velop and conduct resident training for Latin
American personnel, encourage multi-national
military relationships, and enhance the Latin
American armed forces’ knowledge of U.S. cus-
toms and traditions.”

Instead, graduates of the School of the Ameri-
cas have left a trail of blood throughout the hemi-
sphere. So much for imparting democratic ideals
in Latin America. Nor is the School of the Ameri-
cas an historical issue. Every year the SOA
continues to train.900 to 2000 soldiers from Latin
America and the Caribbean in military intelli-
gence, counter-insurgency operations, psychologi-
cal tactics, and even torture techniques. Mean-
while, attempts in Congress to close the school
have narrowly failed. What message are we send-
ing to the world by supporting such an overtly
undemocratic institution?

By now some of you have probably labeled
me an idealist and have judged me as clearly too
“naive and impressionable” to understand that it
was the Cold War, and that we had to make some
trade-offs. So be it.

What I clearly understand is that a govern-
ment which considers a human life as a trade-off is
a government that I am uncomfortable supporting.
We have a responsibility to be critical of our
government, the actions it chooses to take, and the
consequences of those actions. As Dr. Oscar
Arias, the 1987 Nobel Peace Laureate from Costa
Rica, remarked in his Wednesday night lecture,
the United States “may be an economic super-
power, but it is not a moral superpower.” Which
is more important to you?

Goldeneye: a way to bond, a way to live

e all have our reasons for not getting
better grades. Some of us have to
watch “The Simpsons” twice a day.

Or maybe it’s “Party of Five,” “South Park,” or
even “90210.” Others can’t resist the Lake Cam-
pus in spring. On top of that, there’s the Court
scene and computer Solitaire. For a while, I
thought I had overcome my procrastination addic-

tion; then I bought “Goldeneye: 007” for my
Nintendo 64. It has become a widespread addic-
tion as Fourth Rich, Third Little, and I don’t know
how many more halls have “Goldeneye” cliques.
“Goldeneye” has two distinct versions to
play. First, there’s the single-player mode in
which you go on different missions to save the
world and Bond’s current flavor of the month (in
this case, Natalia). While it’s fun to use your
watch laser and shoot Russian soldiers, it’s much
more fun to shoot .
and yell at your

blaring “OK Computer,” we finally decide on the
library instead of the temple, and player four gets
to be Mishkin, not Xenia.

Once we’ ve passed the set-up stages, it turns
into a free-for-all as we all frantically try to get the
best gun available. Unlike Doom and other first-
person shooters, holding the trigger and firing
constantly won’t do you much good. Success in
“Goldeneye” requires strategy and skill: pinpoint
accuracy with any weapon, knowledge of when to
use the Sniper Rifle instead of the Klobb, total
recall of the different levels — falter or hesitate
and you get to watch your best friend grin while
you grimace and your on-screen persona writhes
in a pool of pixel blood.

There’s no comraderie at all; heckling and
punching below the belt aren’t just okay, they’re
encouraged and rewarded. Mock sympathy and
expletives flow freely until the end of the game.
Superlatives like “Most Deadly” and “Most Cow-
ardly” pop up on the screen and evoke whining or
high fives all around.

Then we go through it again. And again.
Two hours and a $30 Outpost order later, one of us
manages to turn the damn thing off and we make

our way over to

friends in the game-induced -
multiplayermode. “In playing, we return to our pre-teen _ haze.

side's teow roots of selfishness. Courtesies are cast o. iay,
people to go at Side as four 20-year-olds push and shove «Goideneye"
each other with- forthe bestcontroller, character, and space __ isn’t just another
out having to on the couch.”’ form of procrasti-
WwoOITy about com- nation, it’s an es-
pleting missions cape from
_or finishing tasks. Davidson life.

Each player is assigned a quadrant of the screen
along with a little radar that lets you know where
the other guys are. Except for house rules (in my
room — No shooting a guy if he doesn’t have a
gun), there are none. There are several different
options about the specifics of the game, but to my
knowledge, the campus-wide standard is one shot
and you’re dead; first person to kill five wins.

In playing, we return to our pre-teen roots of
selfishness. Courtesies are cast aside as four 20-
year-olds push and shove for the best controller,
character, and space on the couch. The ritual
begins: Through a jungle of cords and over a

Maybe it’s nostalgia of a time when I had “Super
Mario Bros.” on my eight-bit Nintendo, or maybe
it brings back memories of those days when my
mom made my lunch and I never had any home-
work. Or maybe it’s because, in a world full of
maybes and shades of gray, this game is full of
certainties — you kngwW exactly what to do and
how to do it, and there’s always a clear winner and
loser. But I saw “Contact,” so I know about
Occam’s Razor. Maybe we play because the game
is simply alot of fun. Besides, there’s an addictive
quality about shooting your best friend in the back
with a Moonraker Laser from across the room.

the library in a -

efore I start writing, or discussing what I
B want to say this week, I need to get a few

basic points cleared up. I am a guy, and
therefore women are the most confounding things
in my life. And any guy who claims to have “the
ladies” figured out is dangerously mistaken —
sure I might sound like a sell-out now, but read
on.

I was reflecting recently on how college, for
most of the first semester, overwhelmed me and
how I desperately searched for the schoolwork,
activity, and social-life balance. Then it dawned
on me; I had never discovered the secret to
balance, rather it found me, sadly at an indetermi-
nate point. While I thought about this something
else entered my mind, that my usual approach to
women — seeking — has usually not worked
out, for when I look, I very well might miss
something laid plainly, or more obviously, be-
fore me. In any case, when I search I become
critical, desperate, and try to convince myself
that what I might find is the best when my “gut”
tells me something entirely different — this ap-
plies to any situation. What I am getting at is that
trying too hard often ruins an opportunity, forc-
ing me into a position I may not be entirely
comfortable with.

Seek and ye shall find |

Looking for love at Davidson

‘knock you over. Furthermore, most people get

consider entirely different.. Finally; when the

That statement has no specific reference
point in my life but is rather a generalization of all
those women I so desperately sought, and found,
and later realized were entirely wrong for me, a
month, or more, or less down the road. I should
have acknowledged that fact much earlier — that
she was not “right” for me at the time — but
dammit, if I didn’t have myself convinced that
she was nearly as perfect as a person can get. I
have a feeling this applies to women as well as to
men.

Okay. So then what is the alternative to
searching? Waiting patiently. However, the
whole problem with waiting to be hit, as if by
lightning, is that you never, never, never know
when “‘it” — you know the feeling — is going to

tired of waiting, Davidson students included.
We are self-starters and are highly moti-
vated. We don’ tsit and wait for inspiration to hit,
to find us. We go in search of, we create. But all
too often we don’t realize that the “glasses” we
desperately seek are perched atop our heads.
Now, I am not saying that searching does
not reap benefits in most cases, as in looking for
that late paper or vital sheet of data, but what I am
saying is that this approach needs to change in
regard to relationships. You are not looking for
a lost possession but a person — two things I

smoke clears from before your eyes, for crying
out loud, act with fervor, with unrestrained vigor.

Now where did I put my machete? The
search is on!

WANT TO IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS?
Get a column in the Davidsonian.

Call Erin(x6306) for more information.

‘ ial
‘G0, WHAT ARE
You Guys

Sahin

O

i You Now, THE USUAL.
WE'LL TAKEIN A MOVIE,
(10 To THE LAKE, WAATEVER.
ww WANNA Come?
/

MUST FALL

by Katie Mittich
“Thane Well Spent *

