TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

ackup to special guests Round Midnight

Magnum Mysterium.” This interpretation involved forcing
the choir to sing the sacred work at ludicrous speed, culmi-
nating in a disturbing accelerando (adding no uncertain
damage to the choir’s ensemble problems), hastily making
way for the grand entrance of "Round Midnight from stage
left.

By Wes.ey H. Go.psBerry °
Arts & Living Editor

Last Thursday evening, a landmark event was held in
the sanctuary of Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The
Davidson College Chamber Singers, a 12- to 18-voice select
ensemble whose repertoire emphasizes music written both
before 1750 and the more difficult choral literature of the
19th and 20th centuries, were blessed to have been afforded
the opportunity to perform with ’Round Midnight, a talented,
dapper, 12-member male a cappella choral ensemble from
Charlotte. Both groups were directed by David Tang, interim
choral director.

The Chamber Singers, poised and eager to begin an
unusually eclectic program, took the stage at approximately
8:10 p.m. EST. They opened with performances of an Italian
madrigal (Vecchi’s “Fa una canzone’’), a Mexican lullaby
(Susa’s “A la nanita’), and an alto aria from Handel’s
“Messiah,” performed by junior Jen Wilbur. The opening
portion of the program was brought to a close with an
unorthodox reading of Victoria’s most famous motet, “O

Comprising the core of the evening’s musical festivi-
ties, "Round Midnight performed six works totaling 20
minutes in length, in addition to joining the DCCS for the
program’s grand finale, “Ride the Chariot.” "Round
Midnight’s repertoire included choral favorites “Under the
Boardwalk” and “Midnight Train to Georgia,” among others.
However impressive their collective set of pipes may have
been, Round Midnight’s commanding if not overshadowing
presence at this, what was billed to be the Davidson College
Chamber Singers fall concert, was intriguing to say the least.

“T would not have minded missing out on twenty minutes of

seeing my friends sing,” spoke one audience member, “had
it not also meant missing out on twenty minutes of a program
with an emphasis on music written before 1750.”

The remainder of the program suffered from a profound

dearth of authentic modal counterpoint. The audience was,
however, treated to a stiflingly slow rendition of “He’s Got
the Whole World in His Hands” featuring a solo by sopho-
more soprano Kristen Hillyer. “Ev’ry Time I Feel the Spirit”
(featuring tenor Sean O’ Reilly) and Copland’s arrangement
of the traditional “At the River” rounded out the Chamber
Singers’ portion of the evening.

“Ride the Chariot” nearly brought the church crumbling
down to its very Presbyterian foundations. The two groups
took a bow at the end of the evening, with Round Midnight
standing front and center on the stage, positioned such that
the other group could hardly be seen.

*Round Midnight brought their own unique, quasi-
Boyz-II-Men showchoir performance style to the sanctuary
Thursday night, complementing the Chamber Singers’ por-
tion of the concert in a most bizarre and unprecedented
manner. For all those who are interested in seeing Davidson
students sing music written both before 1750 and the more
difficult choral literature of the 19th and 20th centuries, the
next chance of this happening will be at the Christmas
Vespers service next month at DCPC.

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra to
perform Copland, Shostakovich, Williams

By Wes Ley H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

This Wednesday night at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium, the Davidson
College Symphony Orchestra will present its 1998 fall concert. The program
will include John Williams’ s “Olympic Fanfare and Theme,” “Piano Concerto
No. 1” by Dmitri Shostakovich, and the suite from Aaron Copland’s ballet
“Appalachian Spring.”

The piano concerto will be performed by Davidson’s Cynthia Lawing,
instructor of piano, and will feature Music Department chair Dr. William D.
Lawing on trumpet.

The Shostakovich and Copland pieces are two of the most challenging
works that the Symphony Orchestra has undertaken in his brief four-and-a-half

20816 N. Main St.,
Cornelius, NC 28031

year existence at the college. Wednesday night’s concert promises to be a specatular event and
should not be missed. Admission is free.

(3/4 mile from Davidson College)

Phone 895-1774
Fax 895-1647

CALL AHEAD FOR FASTER SERVICE

SE ea it hE OR ap ene EG es Ve aes C4 8 AN Te

Announcing Auditions!

on: Friday, November 20
3:30 - 6:00 p.m.
Oak Row South

for: Musical Theater/ Opera Scenes
to be performed
April 30 - May 2

_ bring: an opera aria,
musical theater selection,
or any song which you can sing with
confidence

Sign-up sheet for auditions will be posted on
Music Office door (Room +58) | in
Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Accompanist i is provided.

ab én Sr aes Se ee Oe al a CePA eS

