THE DAVIDSONIAN

By NaresH NAGELLA
Senior Staff Writer

Knoxville, here they come!

The team from Eumenean Hall won
Davidson’s own College Bowl tournament on
Feb. 9.

A total of 32 teams challenged for the right
to represent Davidson in Knoxville, Tenn., where
the regional tournament will be held.

The format of the tournament was double
elimination, but the Eu Hall team did not even

victory. They beat the team from FIJI for the final
victory ina match attended by some 40-50 people.

Junior Andrew Marvin, sophomores Adam
Soltys and Andrew Campbell, plus freshman
Mike Newnam comprise Eu’s team.

Newnam is anticipating the regional tour-
nament.

“The regional competition is just one step
before nationals,” he said.

Regarding how they decided to form the
team, Newnam says, “We are mainly a group of
friends and we have metat the Eu Hall meetings.”

He also says the four did not practice for the
matches.

Still, he felt the competition would be easily
pushed aside.

“Weare very lucky to get where we are. The
other teams gave us challenging andclose games,”
he said.

Senior Britton Taylor decided to start Col-
lege Bowl after he attended the ACY nationwide
conference and listened to a seminar called “Have
a College Bowl at your school.” He found out a
college bowl could easily be done at Davidson,

32 teams participate in
Davidson College Bowl

Eumenean Hall team to represent Davidson at regionals

have to experience one loss on their way to’

and decided on the day before the semester began
to hold one at Davidson.

He did not anticipate such a large response
from the student body, though.

“I thought we might get 15-20 teams, but
there were a total of 32. We had to extend the
tournament brackets to a double elimination for-
mat,” he said.

When asked why he decided to do it, Taylor
answered, “My number one goal was just to have
students participate (in a college activity).”

Davidson won the national college bowl in
1979, defeating Harvard in the last round. There
has not been team sent for the last couple of years,
however. :

Overall, it seems as if everything ran
smoothly.

“We did not have any big problems except
for a couple of glitches, but that is expected. The
competition was fierce, and sometimes people
got really angry over losing,” Taylor said.

Senior Bryan Davenport, who attended many
of the College Bowl matches, said, “Most of the
teams seemed like they would do well in the
regional tournament. We have a lot of smart
people on campus, and it was neat that everyone
could meet each other and compete in a healthily
competitive environment.”

The cost of the whole tournament was about
$300.

The Union and Student Government were
both able to find room in their budgets to cover
the cost.

Taylor found the whole experience very
rewarding, adding, “I hope a freshman or sopho-
more who was in the College Bowl this year
wants to do it next year.”

Haverford profess

causes of the conflict in Bosnia’

By Laura CRAVER

Staff Writer

Last Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 10, Haverford
College Professor Michael Sells discussed the
background and current state of Serbian and
Croatian relations in Bosnia.

Sells, a professor of Religion and specialist in
Slavic Literature, used his extensive research to
convey the chronology.of the Bosnian conflict to
an audience of approximately 30 students, staff,
and faculty members. :

Sells finds the Bosnian wars to be far more
than a simple civil war or a “feud of age-old
adversaries.” Rather, he argues that it is a system-
atic genocide perpetrated by those who believe it
to be acontemporary Christian Holy War.

In the minds of the most aggressive Serbian
leaders, the conflict dates back over 600 years to
the death of Serbian Prince Lazar at the hands of a
sultan. The collapse of ancient Yugoslavia fol-
lowed and the people suffered under the oppres-
sive rule of the Ottomans.

Sells draws on Balkan literature and unpub-
lished United Nations Reports, and, present con-
tacts in the region to reveal the central role played
by religious mythology and age-old stereotypes.
Intellectuals and clergy created a “Christoslav”
nationalism that viewed converts to Islam as trai-
tors to the Slavic race and marked out their descen-
dants for destruction. Literature in the 19th cen-
tury portrayed Prince Lazar as a Christ figure,
complete with a Last Supper metaphor.

This view was revived in the Late 1980s and
was particularly powerful during the 600th Anni-
versary Passion Play commemorating the death of
Prince Lazar. Following this emotional event,
Serbian nationalists rose to power and labeled the
Croatian population as “Christ-killers.”

Serbians also began to feel that their culture
was threatened by the rapid growth of Albania’s

population and others. As Serbian militia groups
ethnically “cleansed” Croatian villages, they quoted
19th Century literature that reinforced their ethno-
centric views.

Yugoslav President Sloboda Milosevic, the
self-proclaimed savior of Serbian nation, gained
international fame, while pictures of emaciated
concentration camp prisoners circulated around
the world.

Once America began to realize the horror that
existed in Bosnia, public opinion supported Ameri-
can action. However, both the Bush and Clinton
Administrations avoided active military interfer-
ence for fear of loss of American lives.

Economic sanctions and arms embargoes did
not produce the desired effects because the brunt
of the sanctions fell on the ordinary citizens and
the Muslims. | Meanwhile, Croatian militants
began their own ethnic cleansing in Herzegovina
after seeing Serbian war criminals go relatively
unpunished.

However, a two-week bombing of Serbian
positions around Sarajevo led to the Dayton Peace
Accords in 1993. For many spectators of the
crisis, the Dayton Peace Accords are limited in
their effect due to their relatively weak enforce-
ment.

Sells, himself of Serbian-American descent,
believes that the United States have an obligation
to interfere. Furthermore, Sells strongly believes
that the Dayton Accord can work if the enforcers
take an active role.

The discussion ended with a question-and-
answer session. The questions focused on the
reactions of other European nations, the role of the
United States in the conflict, and the designation
of blame. .

Sells has recently published “The Bridge
Betrayed,” a study of the religious basis and politi-
cal implications of the Bosnian conflict. It is on
sale in the Union Bookstore.

The lengthy process of integration at Davidson

By Becky LATANICH
Staff Writer

When the Davidson Board of
Trustees held their annual meeting in
February 1958, the members agreed to
“study the question of admitting black
applicants.”

A year later, the same board of
trustees declared that “it was not in the
best interests of Davidson College to
integrate at (that) time.”

By 1960, the College’s stance had
once again changed, this time voting to
eliminate race and color as a qualifica-
tion for admission. Ironically enough,
however, this decision was legally
meaningless, since Davidson’s charter
had “never set race, nationality, creed,
or class as a condition for admission.”

It was this historic non-decision
that was eventually to provide for the
gradual integration of Davidson Col-
lege, a process which has been very
gradual indeed.

The Board’s decision to begin con-
" sidering black students as candidates
for admission came on the heels of an
inquiry led by the Board of World Mis-
sions of the Presbyterian Church.

President of the Board of Trustees
at that time Dr. J. McDowell Richards
admitted that the reversal of their anti-
integration stance was both inconsis-
tent and unprecedented, but that in re-
gard to this matter, the committee felt
obliged to back the Board of World

Missions.

Therefore the advent of the 1961-
62 school year brought not only a new
integration policy, but two Congolese
students to test it. Davidson College,
like many Southern schools, was jump-
ing on the integration bandwagon, which
had slowly but surely been making its
way across the states of the deep South.

Any minorities who had thereto-
fore been on campus had primarily
served as janitorial staff, not as aca-
demic peers. However, if the editorials
of The Davidsonian can be permitted to
serve as quasi-public opinion polls, then
it would seem that many students both’
welcomed their admittance and la-
mented the fact that integration had
been so delayed. :

Aside from these select comments,
however, there appears to be little else
written regarding their arrival and sub-
sequent experiences on campus.

Meanwhile, the tense race rela-
tions within the town of Davidson —
and ultimately the entire Charlotte area
— continued to be a source of anxiety
and concern for the student body.

In March 1964, for example, an
anonymous letter written by a member
of the Davidson community was sent to
a student who, along with six of his
friends, had dared to bring several Afri-
can-American women to a Sunday ser-
vice at Davidson College Presbyterian
Church,

The letter read, “Just a note to tell

you how much we enjoyed having your
son, Joe, in our church Sunday with his
negro date. We hope they will come
back to. worship God the next time —
maybe after their date to demonstrate
on the streets of Charlotte March 2.
Hope he isn’t devoting too much time
from studies to women.”

The letter was addressed to the
father of the college’s YMCA presi-
dent, whose son was planning to lead
Davidson’s Civil Rights Group on a
march to Charlotte the following week.
It was clear from this letter that African-
Americans were not to be tolerated on
campus.

_ There were no African-American
students on campus until the fall term of
1964, perhaps because that would have
constituted a greater, more pressing
threat than the presence of foreign ex-

‘change students from the Congo. In

any case, the student body continued to
remain involved with the surrounding
black community, offering tutorial help
to the local schools, as well as by form-
ing awareness groups like the Congress
of Racial Equality (CORE) and the
Civil Rights Group.

Finally, on May 1, 1964, The
Davidsonian’s headlines announced in
enormous, boldface type that Negroes
were to enroll in the fall.

.The Admissions Office had re-
vealed that three students’s applications
had been accepted for admission, but
only two of those three African-Ameri-

can students had decided to enroll.

All of the applicants were highly
qualified and well prepared to com-
pete academically with their white
peers. (Leslie Brown, one of the newly-
accepted was valedictorian of his class,
president of the Student Council, presi-
dent of the National Honor Society,
co-editor of the Yearbook and a mem-.
ber of the Debate team.)

Then-president D.G. Martin com-
mented on the decision, stating that
“Davidson’s doors are open to all quali-
fied students without regard to race,”
and that he “hope(d) there will not be
de facto segregation within the stu-
dent body against these young men
and that they will become full mem-
bers of the student body in every sense
of the word: intellectually, politically
and socially.”

The two African-American stu-
dents who arrived on campus that fall
received no attention from The David-
sonian. Perhaps it was because the
idea of their presence was more of an
issue. than their physical presence.
Perhaps. any problems. the. students
and faculty faced regarding integra-
tion were overlooked in favor of less
controversial topics.

Whatever the reason, these two
African-American students were
ground breakers; they boldly and ad-
mirably stepped forward to take those
first long overdue steps on the path
towards integration.

~ WOULD YOU RATHER PUT UP A WEB PAGE THAN LAY OUT A NEWS PAGE?

_- Be the Davidsonian Web Page Manager. For more information call. Randy (x6667).

