ry

THE DAVIDSONIAN

If you can’t take the heat...

I read somewhere once that humans become more aggressive during the summer months because
of heat. J think that if that were the case, though, most of the-staff would have been killed off by now.
The Davidsonian office (located at the tippy-top of the Union, for those who have never ventured up
those ominous-looking stairs in the TV Lounge) is hotter than a roofer in August — all the time. It
doesn’t cool offin the evening after the sun quits glaring through the (unopenable) windows, but the heat
doesn’t worsen much during the day, either — and it’s a dry heat, which I’ve been told makes all the
difference.

In any case, at least four days a week I and any number of others (including Randy, of course) toil
up here in climates tropical enough for several species of hot-house flowers to thrive. And it’s hard,
especially now, when I usually wear two layers of clothing and a jacket to combat the weather outside
—and then am forced to strip off the top layers the moment I enter the confines of our happy little abode.

7 Op-

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

The power of the press

As one of the Co-Editors of the Davidsonian, I feel that it is my duty to explain myself concerning ©
certain matters. Recently, friends, hallmates, and even members of the Davidsonian staff (who will
remain unnamed), have approached me with the notion that they feel I often over-dress for a given
situation. Be it breakfast on a Saturday or a trip to Target for miscellaneous supplies, I have been cited
with a number of violations from the various statutes of the fashion police. The primary culprit: my
khaki pants.

Now, I know a group of you will say that I should just throw on a pair of blue jeans and be done
with it, but unfortunately, I can’t. If you look at the drawers in my dorm room, you will find khaki pants
and — for the summer — khaki shorts. Why, you ask? Because I think they’re comfortable. You can
lounge around in a nice pair of pleated khakis just as well as any pair of blue jeans.

Finally, khaki goes with everything. The khaki color is a blessing for coordination, allowing an

It’s times like these when I look forward to the coming of my favorite season, spring, if only to end
thé real world/office temperature discrepancy that threatens to upset my homeostasis.

Sanah. fk. Cpdarr

unskilled fashion engineer to create a combination of clothes that actually looks okay.
I guess I really can’t say too much concerning my khaki conundrum, so let me leave you with this
ending thought. There is nothing in the world of clothes as great as a perfect crease in a pair of khaki

pants.

Caney 0 Babtawr

Check your milk cartons: Have you seen Bob?

I should say, I owned a computer. On Satur
day, Feb. 7, 1998, at approximately 11:30
a.m., Bob was kidnapped. Bob and I were close.
I acquired Bob after a long summer of employ-
ment as a legal secretary in an attorney’s office.

I ownacomputer. His name is Bob. OrI guess

Not the most physically tiring work, but certainly
not a.day in the park. On Saturday, after a cox-
swain training session in Chambers, I took Bob to
the conference room in the Union. I set him down
with my bookbag and a few other things while I ran
down to the bookstore and up to the newspaper
office. When I returned to the conference room 15
or 20 minutes later, I noticed that the door on the
other side of the room was open, although it had
been Closed earlier. I thought nothing of it.

We had the meeting, I went to edit, and not
until I returned to my room did I realize Bob was
gone. Assuming I'd left him in the office, I called
Sarah and Randy, but Bob was nowhere to be
found. It was about that time that I realized $15.00
was gone from my bookbag. My coxswain coach
had just given the money to me that morning. I had
put the money in the smaller pouch of my bookbag,
with pens and pencils and change, and now it was
gone. I checked my pockets, the rest of my
bookbag, and my desk. Then I told Sarah and
Randy I was on my way over.

In the frantic five minutes that followed, the
realization came upon me that Bob had been
kidnapped. Someone stole Bob. After checking a
classroom in Chambers, the conference room, the
newspaper office, and the Union in general, in-

cluding the front desk, I accepted the fact that he
was gone. And that’s when the tears started to fall.
I realize Bob is just a computer, a material posses-
sion that can be replaced. Although the financial
implications of this loss are significant, no harm
was done to my person or my family. I should be
pleased. The reason for the tears was something
more than the knowledge that $3000, or $3015 I
should say, was gone. The reason for the tears was
threefold.

Bob is ahome for many of my memories. He

houses hours of academic research, carefully
crafted newspaper articles, my resume, a gift for
my best friend, and makes possible hours upon
hours of procrastination via solitaire. Plus, Bob is
my link to my family and friends. Both my modem
and ethernet card were installed when Bob was
taken, the accessories which made in-room internet
and e-mail a reality. I’ ve spent countless numbers
of hours writing to Mark, a friend at Georgia Tech,
recently Josh, Mark’s roommate, Kim at UNC-
Chapel Hill, Mom and Dad and my sister in
Charleston, my brothers at Appalachian, and friends
here at school. It’s a great way to avoid uncomfort-
able conversations!

Bob was my world. He and I formed close
ties through these activities. [knew I could rely on
him in a squeeze, and he knew I would take care of
him with those extra RAM, gigabytes, megahertz,
and software.

Another fact that continues to wear at me is
the $15.00. I can understand taking the computer,
but why the money? And why not my wallet?
There was money there, too. If someone really
needed that money, so much so that they needed
$15.00 as well as acomputer, why not just ask? I
would gladly have helped where I could. While I
may not have “donated” a computer to their cause,
I certainly could have spared the money. It makes
me wonder about the world we inhabit.

The Bavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Sports Editors

News Editor Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
LIZ NEIHEISEL WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY CHLOE BROOKE
News Layout Editor Photo Editor Circulation Manager
MIKE GILLESPIE SALLIE McMURRAY MERRITT ABNEY

Copy Editors

DOUGLAS CUTTING WHITNEY BLAKE DAVID JOHNSTON
BRATTON HOLMES CINDY CLARK SCOTT REEDER
ANNA ERIKSSON
LYNSAY MADLEY

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Advertising Managers

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at —
hitp:/www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

The thing that bothers me the most about
Bob’s disappearance is that it happened here at
Davidson. When I was deciding on a computer to
purchase last summer, my father urged me to buy
a mainframe computer and avoid the worry of
having a laptop stolen. But when I decided to
attend Davidson, we agreed a laptop would be
safe. The tour guide who showed my mother and
I around said it would be safe, and everyone I
talked to seemed to agree it would not be a big
danger. They, apparently, were wrong. Lknow.my
father will be disappointed when I tell him what
happened, which I haven’t yet. It reveals my own
naivete and denial of reality. I thought that by
attending Davidson, I could protect myself from
the dangers of the “real world.”

This past semester, I haven’t taken Bob out
much. We’ve gone to the library, the Union, and
Chambers together, and no one has ever bothered
him when [left him sitting alone. I take great pride
in our HonorCode. It is something I believe in. It
is something I believe works. So this incident was
merely a hard shake back into reality, a not-so-
gentle reminder that not everyone believes in this
code of honesty and fair play.

This is my reminder to all of you — Davidson

is not perfect. Itis far from it. Although I have lost
a fair amount of money, I have lost something far
more precious: my peace of mind. I do not know
that I will continue to leave my door unlocked or
leave my wallet and bookbag sitting unattended in
the Union. The knowledge that an individual from
outside the school may very well have been in-
volved in this incident makes me hope that the ©
Honor Code and Code of Responsibility do still
serve their purpose. But I don’t know that for sure.
All I know is that Bob is gone, and tears are not yet
all cried out.

So if in your travels around campus you meet
a little black laptop Sager computer who answers
to the name of Bob, please let me know. It will
restore a great deal. more confidence than you
know. If you are the person who took Bob, I beg
you to return him. No questions asked. And if
you're out there, Bob, reading this article from
dear old mom, I urge you to come home — ‘cause
I sure do miss you. :

My thanks to the members of the Davidson Police
Department who helped me with this crime and the
many friends and family who have supported me
through an emotional frustration.

Openness regarding sexuality key

two masters: FCREW and myself. FCREW

generally sponsors events meant to entertain.
We are not a sexuality awareness committee. But
through our programming, we hope to influence
the campus atmosphere. Our aim is to encourage
disclosure and attitudés free from stifling taboos
— especially the taboo about discussion.

FCREW and I share the same purpose: to
discuss what we perceive to be a problem at
Davidson College — a lack of dialogue among

I nwriting this article, I must admit] am serving

students concerning sexuality. This, we believe, is
a manifestation of the “blinder syndrome,” which
involves the avoidance of uncomfortable subject
matter in discussion, though people participate in
it in action. When people fail to even acknowl-
edge sexuality, it makes coversation on the topic
difficult.

It seems that in the pursuit of a degree, we
cannot simultaneously pursue an exploration of
our own sexuality. So basically, Davidson stu-
dents are expected to be adrogynous in public, no
matter their personal behaviors. As if in the devel-
opment of our minds, we must ignore the develop-
ments of another faculty we possess — the capac-
ity to love and to enjoy the company of another in
a sexual relationship. There are a wide range of
views regarding sexuality, ranging from apathetic
to extremes. Everyone is perfectly entitled to his/
her opinion. We are not advocating a campus of
debauchery. We are, in fact, encouraging you, the
student body, to express the opinions that you
hold. Then ask, why.do you hold them? Is it the
truth according to you, or automatic acceptance
from some outside agent?

I have always believed that testing your be-

liefs does not automatically resultin abandonment
of those beliefs. Rather, in cutting away all the
excess baggage that surrounds our opinions, our
acceptance becomes tempered, which produces a
stronger foundation to back up personal beliefs, or
sometimes leaves us with a whole new perspective
regarding our convictions. This said, I encourage
more individuals to “test” their.beliefs.

We also support the increase in tolerance
toward people of other sexual orientations. Ac-
cepting lifestyles that differ from our own does not
necessarily indicate that we participate in that
same behavior — apparantly the greatest fear felt
consciously or unconsciously at Davidson.

Disagreement does not equal a right to alien-
ate or persecute others. Admittedly, there is a very
low gay population at Davidson College. But that
is not necessarily because gay and lesbian indi-
viduals do not attend our college. Rather, they
usually do not choose to publicly identify their
orientation, perhaps from personal choice, or from
areaction to the environment towards homosexual
individuals at Davidson. This makes a provoca-
tive statement, that part of “fitting in” with others
at Davidson means suppressing the self-truths of
some,

We are not attempting to shove our morality
onto your value system; to be honest, there is not
total agreement about morality versus sexuality
within our own group. Although we do not all
share the same views, we do share a commitment
to encouraging an environment where these views
can and will be expressed. Perhaps many will feel
uncomfortable doing so, but let them scrutinize
the why of the uneasiness. In short, we challenge
each of you to talk to others and learn their opin-
ions. We invite you to join us on a trip to explore
your depths, to examine your beliefs, and to truly
engage yourself in a journey that will lead you to
new destinations. Once there, you can stay and
visit, move on, orreturn to where you were before.
It’s your choice.
