religious

By Buran Harbin
Staff Writer

Introduced as a “passionate woman who can speak the truth,” Ellen Verhaagen
spoke to Davidson students on Wednesday, Nov. 18 in the Morrison Room.
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship sponsored her talk, but a group including people
unaffiliated with InterVarsity gathered to hear Verhaagen speak. After her wel-
come by the audience, Verhaagen began her talk by saying that she felt privileged
to be speaking at Davidson again.

Her topic for Wednesday evening was “What Godly Women Should Look for
in a Godly Man.” She emphasized that a “*Godly man” loves God above all else and
that he is able to communicate openly about God. Also, she commented that she
thinks women put too much pressure on men to be the spiritual leader in a
relationship. Verhaagen added that the “Godly man” must love his girlfriend for
who sheis, insisting that “he has to accept youas youare.” Todrive home her point,
Verhaagen related a personal story about a time when she was dating a man, and
he said that he could no longer date someone who might have trouble controlling
her weight.

Verhaagen is a professional speaker with years of public speaking experience
— she started at the age of twelve. Although she was not a professional at twelve,
she continued speaking in front of crowds from that age all the way through her
college days at N.C. State. She graduated from State with a degree in mechanical
engineering, and she admitted that she received many job offers that would have
made her plenty of money had she accepted. However, during her senior year at
N.C. State, she felt called to work with InterVarsity on campus. She obtained an
intern position with InterVarsity right out of college and did not look back.

After her internship with Inter Varsity, Verhaagen continued her education at
the University of Virginia. Just recently, she became full-time speaker and started
her own business, “Well Said.” Now, aside from raising two children in her
Charlotte home, Verhaagen travels the lecture circuit, speaking within the context
of Christianity. She conducts marriage seminars, holds counseling sessions, and
speaks with students on college campuses.

To continue with the relationship theme, InterVarsity will be sponsoring
another speaker on “What Godly Men Should Look for in a Godly Woman” soon.

SST performs skits
on current issues

By KELts HETHERINGTON
Staff Writer

At 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 16, SST Communications presented an hour-
long series of short skits entitled “The Next One Up” inthe 900 Room of the Student
Union. Each skit was performed with the intent of building an awareness about a
particular problem in collegiate societies or problems plaguing today’s society at
large. Among the issues addressed by the company were eating disorders, alcohol
abuse, drug addiction, depression, hate crimes, and rape.

Support for SST Communications, an organization acclaimed for its efforts to
bring about a greater tolerance of differences through education, came from the
Residence Life Office, the Student Health Center, and several student organiza-
tions. Aside from Davidson College, the cast has performed at colleges such as
Bowdoin, Dartmouth, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and Yale. The resources of
SST Communications have been solicited by the corporate world as well. Their
skits’ themes revolve around issues such as good public relations. In fact, SST
Communications is more established in the corporate world than in the collegiate
world. The group has performed for American Airlines, AT&T, General Motors,
General Mills, M&M Mars, and Quaker Oats.

In the Business Section of the Oct. 23, 1997 issue of the Lexington Herald-
Leader, the group was given high marks for its “different approach to customer
service training” at Kentucky Utilities: “Three actors from Chicago-based SST
Communications starred in ‘Managing the Moment of Truth,’ a presentation
designed to show, among other things, the five factors and 10 ‘deadly sins’ of
customer service. Using a’blend of humor and instruction, the presentation drove
home its message of service using scenes and vignettes drawn from real experi-
ences.’

The presentation by SST Communications here drew a primarily female
audience.

By Laura McCanbDLisH
Staff Writer

Law professor, writer, and civil rights activist, Derrick
Bell came to speak at Davidson on issues of race and class in
American society. His lecture, entitled “Racial Liberation
Day,” was held on Thursday, Nov. 19th and was open to the
general public. The event was cosponsored by the Union
Speakers Committee and the Black Student Coalition.

Tommy Ross’ 99, chair of the Union Speakers Commit-
tee, gave Bell’s introduction. Ross talked about how he had
discovered one Bell’s books, “Faces at the Bottom of the
Well: The Permanence of Racism.” Ross said, “I read it and
became completely mesmerized. I’ve been hooked ever
since. He’s become one of my personal heroes.” When Ross
looked further into Bell, he learned that he had relinquished
both a tenured position at Harvard Law School and a deanship
at the University of Oregon Law School after both schools
failed to hire minority women faculty members. Ross said he
discovered that Bell “carried out his ideals with action, always
standing up for his principles.”

Bell began his speech with some cracks on President
Clinton and how the past presidents in general have failed to

« address the issues of race in the U.S. Then Bell told the

audience that his civil rights thinker, the fictionalized Geneva
Crenshaw, had written a speech on racism that President
Clinton should give. ‘He asked the audience, “Can you
imagine if the President were to do such a thing?” He began
to read the fictitious presidential address, which stated its
purpose as “‘a public dialogue on the problems of race in our
society.” Bell said that American society is committed to a
free enterprising economy but it is “losing the compassion
race.”

Bell asked the audience, through the President’s words,
“Why are we so behind in our own country that we are more
willing to reach out to countries across the globe than to those
in our own society?” Bell stated that the effects of racism
cannot be ignored because the fact that “black Americans
were enslaved for over 200 years is beyond denial.”

Through the President’s speech, Bell raised the key issue
that “racism is. the system of advantage in our society that
benefits all whites, whether or not they seek it. It’s not only
open bigotry, although overt racism is reappearing.” He sees
that “whites come to rely and expect the wages of whiteness,
even those without money or power. There is also a political
advantage extended to whites. It’s more than just an economic
problem.” However, Bell believes that this form of advantage
has a cost to whites that results from relying too much on the
power of their whiteness instead of on their own strengths as
an individual person.

Idealistically, Bell said, “we want to believe that we live
in a meritocracy, where anyone who works hard can succeed,
but the system of whiteness continues to expose blacks.”
Through the President’s voice, he said, “There is no easy
answer to the problems of race in our society, but basic work
must be done by every white person. We can no longer afford
whiteness as an unacknowledged force.”’. He suggested the
formation of anti-racist white groups, called “Race Traitors,
who are committed to rejecting loyalty to whiteness and
taking up the cause of humanity.” Although Bell believes that

dating advice Liberation Day” address

plenty has been done to study the effects of racism on
African Americans, he shared the sentiments of Martin
Luther King, Jr. that “we need to study the effects of racism
on whites,” He said, “We need to ask ourselves, if blackness
doesn’t mean subordination, then what does it mean to be:
white?” Bell concluded the President's address by saying,
“The issue is not whether or not we are or aren’t racist. It’s
a question of if we whites have enough love and respect for
each other to remain a stable society without using black
people as the glue.”

Rhetorically asking how the country would react if
President Clinton really gave such a speech, Bell answered
that all would pretty much “agree it would be political
suicide.” Following the President’s address, Bell read a
response from his fictional character, Geneva Crenshaw,
who represents the black voice in civil rights. . Through her
words, Bell said that “black people have waited for a long
time for whites to become enlightened about race.” Bell

. said, “The deprivation of black people will continue, as long

as we blacks give more credence to whites’ property rights
than to our own.” ~

Through Geneva’s voice, Bell dismissed the notion of
a meritocracy because “being smart enough and working
hard doesn’t insulate one from racial abuse in a land where
white is regarded as the norm.” He also added, “If whites
must give up their property right to whiteness, blacks must
also give up their blackness,” Bell said, “We must realize
that our salvation, not in heaven, but right here on earth,
comes from our recognition of our self-worth. Gandhi knew
that power and freed India. Martin Luther King, Jr. knew
that power, too.”

Bell’s lecture was followed by a brief question and
answer period. A reception after the talk was also held for
Bellin Chambers. Earlier in the day, Bell had gathered with
student leaders for a caucus on activism. Bell told students
that “college is here to provide you with training to deal with
problems in the world.” He also explained to the group not
to be discouraged, though “it’s seldom that you will find
many other people that are committed to the thing that you
are.” Ross helped to organize the caucus and hoped that it
would becottte aregular occurrence to “organize activists on
campus.”

Ross was also very pleased witty Belf’s speech. “I think
people underestimate the power. and radicalness of his
message. The message is that not only is white privilege
morally wrong, it also has bad effects for whites. His
message for African Americans is also radical, in that they
should refuse to recognize the white privilege system.”

Bell is currently a visiting professor at the NYU Law
School, where he has taught since 1991. Before he taught at
Harvard, he had served as Executive Director of the Western
Center on Law and Poverty and the University of Southern
California Law School, Counsel for the NAACP Legal
Defense Fund, and Deputy Director of the Office for Civil
Rights in the Department of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare. > ‘
He has written several books and has been widely
published in legal journals, national magazines, and news-
papers. His fictional heroine, Geneva Crenshaw, appears in
series of allegorical stories he wrote.

An exercise in cultural studies

By Car.os Lacayo
Staff Writer

Last Monday evening, Jose Li-
mon gave a lecture

After the entitled “Yo quiero
company had Taco Bell.” Limon is
concluded its a Phi Beta Kappa
presentation, scholar and has pub-
the actors lished several books
fielded ques- about cultural studies
tions from and literature. He is
the audience. pebars currently professor of
a AW Sagi The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) English and ‘Anthro-
pease ay and Duke University offer a field-oriented, iil a eer a
Qhiiry into ex: science based undergraduate course in fg
actly why a Tropical Ecology, May 30 — June 28, 1999. “Yo quiero Taco
Sear aes _ CREDITS MAY BE TRANSFERRED FROM DUKE UNIVERSITY, ith . lites
been cast a For information on the summer course or the line articulated by
certain way ‘semester abroad program, contact OTS = 919 684-5774 Dinky, the talking
to a question e-mail <nao@acpub.duke.edu>« httpyiwwwots.duke.edu Chihuahua, in recent
segues af Summer Course application deadline is February 26, 1999. Taco Bell commer-
firmative ac- ee oe : pret hes. cials. Limon ex-
tion. Nig : plained that this ad-
_ vertisement relates to

~cultural studies. As

suggested by Professor Limon, TV
shows, commercials, and magazines
are all part of a branch of culture called
“mass culture.” Mass culture is the
culture of the ordinary citizen, the con-
sumer, who is a product of industrial
capitalism and corporate marketing
think tanks.

Its drive is mass consumption, yet
in promoting consumption ittells people
something about the world in which
they live. This aspect of the Taco Bell
commercial interested Limon. Even
though the theme of the commercial is
consumption of Taco Bell products
(Taco Bell sales have increased 42 per-
cent since the release of the commer-
cials), it tells the viewer something
about Mexican-American cultural life
in the United States.

In reference to the commercial,
Limon related how at first he could not
help but laugh. But, as he thought
about it, he distinguished that the Chi-
huahua, the Mexican image, is small
and rodent-like. Ina way, the commer-

_ cial was saying was that Mexicans were

like small animals. But, as he thought

of the Chihuahua he again began to
crack up. He then listed all the positive
aspects displayed by Dinky. He pointed
out that the phrase “Yo quiero Taco
Bell” is pronounced ina clear and good
register of Spanish that is not false or
stereotypical. Limon thought that it is
also a statement of desire, “I want Taco
Bell,” devoid of pleading or demeaning
undertones. Dinky stands upright, is
clearspoken and assertive and knows
what he wants.

On the other hand, the American
“white” world around Dinky seems to
be falling apart; the people around him
are befuddled, confused and do not know
what to think or understand.

Limon interpreted these “30 sec-
onds of affirmation” as a reflection of
an emerging discourse in American
society, of Hispanic Americans stand-
ing up. Of course, he remarked, this is
only acommercial, but the reality is that
by the year 2020, Hispanic Americans
are expected to be largest minority
within the United States. Dinky, being
clearspoken, assertive and small, may
represent this emerging minority.
