THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pacifica Quartet delights audience

By Lauren BECTON
Staff Writer

Monday night, September 14 proved to be an exciting night for the Davidson Music Department as well as for
the college at large. The Pacifica Quartet, hailing from Los Angeles, performed several works for string quartet in
Hodson Hall. The performance was the first of the 1998-99 Davidson College Concert Series.

The four young musicians performed works by Haydn, Ravel, and Brahms for a mixed audience of Davidson
students and

commu-
nity supporters of the se-
ries. The three works pro-
vided welcome contrasts
in musical style as they
were each from a different
time period. The first piece
was the Haydn. Though
young, it was obvious
that the string players
had a good un- derstand-
ing of the Clas- sical style
the manner in which the
quartet should be played.
It is not only impera-
tive that cham- ber groups
interpret per- formed
works as a cohe- sive unit,
but they must maintain a
tight ensemble as well.
Much rehearsal time is
necessary to ‘ ae : achieve
this affect, and e Pacifica Quartet although
the four have only
played together for a few

years, they perform as an ensemble better than many.

The next piece was a quartet by Ravel. This piece was more interesting than both the Haydn and the Brahms
given its modern status and propensity to “break the rules” set forth by previous periods of music history. Inner voices
(second violin and viola), for example, were often brought to the forefront of the texture. This technique is used more
sparingly in earlier works. The cello, though it many times has quite interesting parts in Baroque and Classical music,
was more thoroughly featured as well. Because of this passing about of the melody, Ravel’s “String Quartet in F
Major” sounded more like an equal group of four rather than a solo violin accompanied by three supporting
instruments.

All in all, the performance was a good one. Even considering minor obstructions such as having to retune

midway through a piece, the program went smoothly, ending in applause that lasted long enough for the musicians
to return to the stage for a bow three times. All those who missed it missed an enjoyable performance, and should
make a note not to miss the rest of the series. The next concert features Anne-Marie McDermott, pianist, on Monday,
November 2.

1 WwW :
~ Sg
q ny

zs ’
Avy,

C4
a

FOR KIDS OF ALL AGES!
AT

THE SODA SHOP

104 South Main Street, Davidson
Open # Days SatThur &8 Fri 89

Shirley Temple - Slushie - Smoothie
Black Jack - Brown Cow - Big O
Hot Dog - Hamburger - Hoagie

Citrus Cooler - Cherry Cimeade
Corn Dog : Chicken Finger

Pita Pisza - Potato Skin
Grilled Cheese - Grinder
Sweet Potato Fries

Shake - Soda

Z Teurus (April 20 - May 20)
You'll check your post office box later this week, upon which
- you'll exclaim, “Looky here, a Home Depot flyer.” College “
students just love spending their workstudy checks on lumber. —
Lucky Davidson pharmacy: CVS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1998 1

Gemini (May 21 - June 20)

You head down to Charlotte for a night on fers town. “Hey, let’s
go stare at some banks!” Lucky Wal-Mart Penge Diet Fat
Burner (with chromium picolinate)

Cancer (June 21 - July 22) ;
Two words: Lunar Luau. “Night of Inflatable Toys” becomes
most fun you’ ve had in weeks, except for suffering a bitter defeat
in the boxing ring at the hands of your former roommate. It will ©
be a public affair. Others will be pissed too. Lucky Davidson
gym: Johnston

Leo uly 23 - . August 22)

Take your cues from Wesley Willis: “Rock over Painters yee:
rock on Cornelius — this week will be bad to the max.’ ” Lucky
house of waffles: Waffle House.

Virgo (August 23 - September 22)

You’ll manage to make it to breakfast on Thursday morning.
Congrats, although you go buckwild eating Crullers, managing to
snarf down about 15 of these so-called “circular” doughnuts. As
a result, you mutate into a giant Cruller during your first class of
the day. You'll get some strange looks, but it’1] make a great story
for the grandkids! Lucky Maggie Valley (N a tourist trap: Ghost
Town in the Sky.

Libra (September 23 - October 22)

Dying from thirst, you stop on your way back from the post office
for a sip of water at the Old Well. The force of the fountain, which
rivals Old Faithful in its magnitude, blows your head right off
your torso. Academic year’s over for you, buddy: That’s right —
$27,000 down the drain! Lucky Davidson practice room: C

Scorpio (October 23 - November 21)

In an act of lunatic daring, you: take an axe to the Davidsonian
“Tree of the Week” and use its royal lumber to construct a
campfire on Chambers Lawn, burning a holein the grass three feet
in diameter. Smooth move, plant killer. Lucky Davidson gnome —
sanctuary: Tom Clark Museum

