THE DAVIDSONIAN

ro en _ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998

This is how we doit .

Recently, the Op-Ed section has been bombarded by criticisms of The Davidsonian’s work —
specifically, the quality of its writing. I think that much of this criticism stems from a lack of
understanding; so this week, I’m going to explain how we do things around here.

The part of The Davidsonian that is most often attacked is the Op-Ed section itself. We receive
(and print) letters telling us that the opinions we print are pointless, opinionless, and uninteresting. Print
more worthwhile pieces to improve the quality of the paper, people write. Weed out the useless pieces.
Be more selective.

But in our defense, I'd like to point out that we print almost all opinions submitted by students,
alumni, and community members, with very few exceptions. When our space is limited, pieces that
won’t fit into the layout go into the next issue. This is how we work, and while this may lead to a few
issues with one too many “personal” or reflective pieces, I think it works well.

Why do we not edit pieces for content? First of all, I don’t believe it is our place to edit others’
opinions. If the ideas expressed are offensive, I expect that the authors will be held accountable for those
ideas by their. readers in the next Op-Ed section. Allowing the Opinions section to regulate itself allows
a wider array of ideas to be expressed than if we were to summarily squash something deemed
“offensive” before others have the opportunity to read, ponder, and (inevitably) judge it.

And since these op-eds were submitted for publication, I have to think that the authors have created
their masterpieces with care. After all, who wants to put their name to something bad, especially when
it will be seen by countless colleagues, professors, and family members?

One might argue that larger newspapers, such as The New York Times or the Charlotte Observer,
edit opinions pieces for content — or cut them altogether — every day. But while this may give them
an Op-Ed section of (arguably) “better” quality, the editing and cutting is also an effect of space
constraints. . .

In this case, The Davidsonian has the upper hand. Because we are such a small paper with a
relatively small audience, we have more latitude when it comes to space. We're willing to fill as many
pages as possible/necessary with readers’ opinions — something a larger paper can’t do. Because of
this, I would argue that our Op-Ed section is more representative of our readership than a larger paper
can reasonably hope to be. We give a voice to almost everyone who wants one, whereas a larger paper

may be the case with self-promos (hey, we have to make it look pretty), it is certainly not the case with
articles. Think about it: if someone took the time to write about an event, or to voice an opinion, or to
talk about a movie, they must have cared about it. And I have to imagine that others will care, as well.
This goes for the News section, the Op-Ed section; the Arts & Living section, and the Sports section.

We do our best to address issues and report on events that we believe will be of interest and service
to you. And, as in most newspapers, there are bound to be articles that readers skip over or skim. (As

_ if you don’t do that when reading largerscale newspapers. ..) We realize that not everyone will find all

of our articles interesting, but we do our best to ensure that everyone finds at least a few articles that they
want to read — and if you don’t, let us know what we should be writing about. This is your paper, too,
you know.

Which brings me to my next point; quality of writing in sections other than Op-Ed. While we try
to alter opinions pieces as little as possible, we take more liberties with articles in other sections. It is
our job to ensure that the newsy articles presented are correct, both in grammar and content. At the same
time, though, it is not our job to completely overhaul articles because of writing style (although News
articles written in the first person are generally either extensively edited or rewritten by the original
author). Our goal is to print articles that are correct, but not devoid of personality.

Articles that are not well written are sometimes a painful read, but the most efficient way for writers
to improve is through practice, experience. And in order to build the experienced staff that will
eventually take over editorial positions, we must work to train writers, not discourage them from
continuing to write. (For copy editing errors, there isn’t really a viable excuse. Our copy editors are
human, and no matter how many editors read over a section, we are bound to miss something
occasionally — sometimes more “occasionally” than others. But the more copy editors we have, the
fewer mistakes we make — hint, hint.)

One of the things that attracted me to The Davidsonian in the first place was the open atmosphere
that the editors encourages. Sure, they were desperate for staff members, but their openness also allowed
me to write and to advance through various editorial positions in a way that isn’t possible at larger
schools — or at larger-scale newspapers. And though such openness does have its drawbacks, I think
that the positives outweigh the drawbacks. And so I continue.

is more limited in the opinions it can represent.
We have been accused of printing articles simply to “fill space.” While I agree that filling space
is a happy thing, I have to take issue with the idea that we print things only to fill space. Though this

Sanak £. Cppelar

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR @
Embarrassed by the quality of The Davidsonian

To the Editor: o

Nobody cares to read columnists who use their forums, which would ideally be considered a privilege and is considered so in many other colleges publications, to make fun of their friends who I don’t even
know (Dave and Erich). Nobody cares to read poorly written News articles rife with grammatical errors that a simple proofreading could prevent. Nobody cares to read ongoing debates between two or three
voices, each saying the same things over and over again from week to week. Nobody cares about what fills many of the pages of The Davidsonian each week. ‘

While I regard Ms. Ogden and her colleagues with the utmost respect for their time commitment and dedication, I wonder if the editors of The Davidsonian are so strapped for articles that they fail to read
and judge the worthiness of publication of the works submitted by their writers? At times I’ ve been embarrassed at the quality of The Davidsonian this fall; this is the paper we send as a representative of our
level of intelligence and scholastic worth to prospective students, to our parents, and to alumni? ;

Perhaps Ms. Ogden and the editors working under her do, in fact, read the submissions, but I’m guessing that not enough time is spent considering their value to the Davidson community as a whole, and
more attention is spent to how much of a page each article would fill. If only a few submissions are worthy each week, why not shorten the newspaper? Perhaps the ““World’s Foremost College Weekly” would
truly be the world’s foremost college paper if it were a biweekly. That way, twice the time and twice the effort could be put into each and every sentence in the paper, and the editors would have twice the opportunities
to squeeze quality submissions out of their columnists.

David Rosenberg’s “Sophomore Perspective” column (Nov. 3 issue) is a recent example of an unnecessary article. His topic is one that’s been addressed in the same venue in years past: the segregated
state of Vail Commons. Rosenberg mentions a number of exclusive social groups who eat together and forbid others from outside their circle to eat with them. One of the groups mentioned was the swim team.
I would be remiss if I failed to mention that I am a captain of this team, but this really has little to do with my disappointment with the article.

In fact, I long ago understood that many Davidson students have trouble understanding the intensity and closeness of relationships formed in a group that spends over 20 hours each week all-but-naked
and torturing themselves. We don’t sacrifice animals, as Rosenberg claims; instead we sacrifice ourselves. I accept our “cult” status, yet I insist upon.having a life away from the pool, and my teammates do
as well. I don’t even eat with the team at the Commons. I stray from my main point. Rosenberg advocates the integration of Vail Commons in an article that perpetuates the stereotypes thrust upon the very
groups he wishes to integrate — an interesting approach, but perhaps not the most effective.

I wish to address one passage of Mr. Rosenberg’s article in particular: To explain why the female members of the swim team, the jock table, and the table of African Americans all make two or three trips
to the ice cream machine at each‘and every meal, Rosenberg writes, “The females of each clan must add on several layers of fat before the winter months to keep warm.” I believe that there are enough eating
disorders and unhealthy attitudes towards food on this campus without our official school publication printing drivel such as this. I’m appalled that Ms. Ogden didn’t find the passage unacceptable. It adds nothing
to Mr. Rosenberg’s argument and in my view is completely unnecessary.

1 am proud to be a Davidson student. I only wish I could have the same pride in the college publication. .
J. Rosenquest *99

Davidson Outdoors camping again
To the Editor:

Davidson Outdoors is back from sabbatical and ready to play. The cries heard echoing from Johnston Gym are merely work study students carrying their tumpline loads of ropes and carabiners, helmets
and kayaks. The effortful splashes and yells of triumph out of the pool in Baker are not just the swim team but.also the diligent students and instructors of the coveted Eskimo kayak roll.

During the week the climbing wall is open (enter under the red fire stairs on the back of Johnston Gym) Monday through Thursday 7-9:00 p.m. Learn to roll a kayak or just come get wet in the pool in
Baker Thursday nights 8-9:30 p.m. The office of Davidson Outdoors is located in the basement of Johnston Gym — enter by the Duke side service entrance — open weekdays 8:30-12:30 and 1:30-5:30 p.m.;
equipment rental and trip resource center are available now. Call extension x2623 with any questions.

The weekend of Nov. 7 we sent out a climbing trip, a two-night backpacking trip, and a caving experience for a freshman writing course on the heroic quest. Needless to say they were all. . .well, needless
to say.

"AB far as 1999 is concerned, we’ ve set up the Christmas Break Everglades canoe trip (Jan. 2-10), a Wilderness Advanced First Aid course (Jan. 6-9), and the Wilderness Leadership Skills Course — the
WAFA and WLSC are requirements for aspiring Trip Leaders. Dates for WLSC forthcoming. Spring Break trips are in the works; on the books already is sailing in the Florida Keys with Hurricane Island
Outward Bound. ‘

So here’s the news: keep an eye on the Davidson Outdoors bulletin board outside the Registrar’s office for information on trips and services as they become available. We're ready to go to the big woods,

so come along.

Billy Roberts
Davidson Outdoors

Disturbing implications
)

| applaud Ernest Jeffries and others who, in the Nov. 3 issue of The Davidsonian, expressed revulsion against the recent racial incident on campus and advocated an ongoing commitment to equality and
justice. However, I found the apparent implication behind one of Dean Jeffries’ points disturbing. After saying that we should “keep the discussion of race in the forefront,” Jeffries added that we should “keep
asking questions like why Davidson College has such a poor representation of minorities, specifically African-American men, on the faculty.” Apparently, he is suggesting that negative racial attitudes account
for a relatively low number of African American faculty members. I grant that there may be something to this point, but the situation, in my view, is much more complicated than that.

One might also note that the demand for African American Ph.D.s in particular fields often exceeds the supply. One should also realize that small, relatively isolated colleges are at a competitive disadvantage
when it comes to attracting and keeping such faculty. I agree that ideally we should have a more diverse faculty. Nevertheless, it is misleading to suggest that racial prejudice is the primary obstacle in the way

of achieving this goal.

To the Editor:

J. Russell Snapp
Associate Professor of History
