1. I’ve been an SGA class senator since my freshman year. I co-chair two SGA
committees; the Public Relations Committee which is responsible for events like
SGA day every semester and the Town Relations Committee where I act as a
student voice at Town Council meetings. .I am also the House Manager of Warner
Hall. I’ve been in a leadership position every semester that I’ ve been at Davidson.

4. I see the SGA moving toward a more unified and concrete direction. I
hope to encourage the committees to solidify and meet more regularly and for
Senators to better meet the needs of their constituents. Because the SGA is defined
as the major representative body, I would like to see it better fulfill this purpose.
The SGA should energetically and enthusiastically address every need of the

students. :
2. The Vice President has an important connection not only to the Senate, but to

the students, via the SGA committee system, which the VP works closely with 3. I see my position as essentially a more responsive, intense, SGA senator.
through the Intercouncil. I plan to basically listen, watch and ask question among As a voting member, I will try to represent the entire school, and I assist with the
the Senate and the student body, then relay what I learn to the President. Julie Chevalier President’s duties. The VP.is distinct from a Senator and the President as random

but very important duties often befall on the VP. I feel that I’m qualified to occupy
3. think that the majority of the campus is aware that SGA exists, but not aware of just how many __ this position. [know the needs of the students, whether through my eating house, or through committees.
of the needs of the students their representative body can address. The SGA can channel student input __ I will exercise the opinions of the students. I know the SGA. I know how it works. I know what it needs
throughout the school, and I intend to encourage students to exercise their opinions. to serve the students better.

1. [have almost two full years of SGA experience, as independent senator and
Junior class President. I have been on numerous committees, chair of the
Roundtable Committee, and most recently co-chair of the SGA Rides Committee.
I am also a Hall Counselor on 2™ Rich.

4. I have seen the SGA take a lot of positive steps during my time serving
in it. :

Student involvement, even in the last year has dramatically increased,
especially on SGA committees. I think those elected in the next year have a
wonderful opportunity to continue this growth. I feel that I have the energy and
enthusiasm to be able to get out and really promote the SGA and build upon the
foundation built by previous administrations.

2. Ihave a lot of SGA experience, so I know the process very well. I am a
member of the Student Executive Committee (SEC), so I have seen a lot more of
the detail work and daily interaction that occurs outside of the meetings on Tuesday
nights. I feel. that I have excellent communication skills and work well with almost . 5. The Vice President has to know and be able to help the President and the
anyone, Chris Tuttle SEC. But I feel the SGA Vice President’s most important duty is the chairperson

of the Intercouncil.
3. I feel that right now a number of issues will determine the fate of the SGA in the future. Town It would be my job to supervise the chairpersons of all the SGA committees, where I feel most of

Relations (and the response to the Christmas Day tragedy) are very important, as well as the level of _ the real work of the SGA is done. This would be a great chance to truly be able to steer the direction
student involvement. I feel our voice among the faculty is growing, but still has a long way to go. If | SGA goes—building student involvement and increasing accountability. [know how the system works,

elected, Ihave a lot of plans to further organize and increase accountability among the committee system, have a lot of quality experience, and have a concrete vision for how important and influential the SGA
as well as promote discussion between campus groups and the SGA in order to make our campus better can be.

UNION BOARD PRESIDENT

wa

With plans for a new Union underway, it is crucial that the Union Board not
only continue their excellent programming, but also have the vision for how the
new. Union has to be constructed, physically and philosophically, to serve the -
Davidson community. I find it exciting to contribute to this vision. Since freshman
year, the Union and the events planned by the board have been an important aspect
of my education because they taught me and entertained me, helped me get to know

a wide range of people and kept me sane as a break from academic life.

I have served on a number of Union committees since freshman year, and on
the board before the current one held the Literary Arts Chair position. Because
separation anxiety was so great when leaving my Union family for China, I hung ' Cintra Pollack
around last summer and worked for the Union part-time. More important than my
experience, although it is a vital part of my qualifications to head the Union Board, is my love of what _ forward to an educational, busy, fun (because above all that is what the Union is) year. From here on

the Union is all about and the people who work there. Some think the Union is just the café, ora place —_ out, in case you are wondering, those bags under my eyes aren’t fatigue, they are bags of joy...See you
to pick up packages, but these people are really missing out, and I want to show them why. at the Union!

Tam not out to dazzle with shiny new proposals, Iam there to contribute
to other board members’ ideas and make them come to fruition.. I serve as a
collective student voice when discussing what the new Union building will
contain. If I do my job right, people never have to think I am.doing anything,
because the work of the President is in a Jot of cases is behind the scenes, and only
when things don’t run smoothly is it evidenct that the Union President has had a
hand in it. [am committed to being open to the ideas of everyone in the Davidson
community and encourage those with gripes, praises or visions for the Union to
talk to me any time.

It’s not an easy role I assumed, and I know this. But my job can be a lot
easier and productive with a strong Union Board and student support. I look

