THEDAVIDSONIAN.. sg £A INI

DCSO brings Beethoven to life

By Cary PHELPS
Guest Writer

With concerts in the last two weeks
by the Davidson College Symphony
Orchestra, the Concert Choir, and the
Chamber Singers, the musical en-
sembles at Davidson have once again
given all of us in the community the
privilege of hearing masterpieces of
musical literature performed live. On
Thursday, Apr. 9 at 8 p.m. in Love
Auditorium, the DCSO presented their
Spring Concert with a performance of
Mozart’s Horn Concerto No. 2, K. 417
and Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, Op.
67 .

The concert began with the horn
concerto featuring senior music major
Erika Rissing. As conductor Richard
Prior explained, a concerto involves a
dialogue between the orchestra and the
soloist, achieved through the
conductor’s role as mediator. The piece
was typical of Mozart, very straightfor-
ward and lyrical, and played beautifully
by the orchestra. Erika’s intrinsic mu-
sicality was evident in her passionate
performance, clearly demonstrating her
potential-for success at one of the sev-

eral prestigious graduate schools at

which she has been accepted in perfor-.

mance. ‘In paying a compliment to all
the soloists who have performed with
the orchestra, Dr. Prior said, “In my
experience working with Davidson so-

loists, Erika was typical in her flawless -

and detailed preparation, her musical-
ity, and her maturity of presence. Hav-
ing watched her grow as a musician
over the last four years, this perfor-
mance marked the pinnacle of her un-
dergraduate career.”
After intermission
changed drastically with the tension
and energy of Beethoven’s Fifth. ‘The
orchestra met the challenges of this
hallmark piece with great success, es-
pecially that of stamina. Not only is the
symphony ahigh energy piece through-
out, there are no extended solo passages
to give the majority of the ensemble a
break. When asked about the audience’s
overwhelming familiarity with the open-
ing motive, but the potential unfamil-
iarity with the entire symphony, Dr.
Prior compared it to a chapter of a book.
“People benefit from hearing the whole
symphony just as they do from reading
the whole book. It is terribly hard to

_ with that context.

,, the mood —

understand context with just a chapter
or just a theme.” And the orchestra did
a great job of providing the audience
As the. orchestra
began, the auditorium was alive with
energy upon hearing the infamous short-
short-shortlong motive that pervades
the entire first movement. After the
lyrical second movement, the ensemble,
highlighted by the lower strings, built
effectively throughout the third move-
ment. But the ultimate moment came as
the third movement led into the fourth
(without the traditional break between
movements). Here, the soft timpani
strokes and tension-building violin
phrases led without warning into the
triumphant explosion of sound that

marked the beginning of the fourth -

movement. It was the musical climax
of the evening. People were moving in
their seats at the overwhelming power
of the moment and broke into rousing
applause when the 45-minute work came
toaclose. It was a great success for the
members of the orchestra, for Dr. Prior,
and for the many members of the com-
munity who take such pleasure in hear-
ing and witnessing the orchestra’s
progress.

Agosin’s poetry reflects past injustices

By Sara GEBHARDT
Guest Writer

On Tuesday, Apr. 7, in the 900
Room, Chilean-Jewish author Marjorie
Agosin performed bilingual poetry from
her work “Dear Anne Frank” in the
afternoon and then lectured on Latin
American Jewish Autobiography and
read from her work “A Cross and a Star:
Memoirs of a Jewish Girl in Chile.”

A Chilean poet, prose writer, and
human rights activist, Agosin’s writing
focuses on the injustices caused by po-
litical repression and on the unhealed
scars left by past wars and persecutions.
Her tales often depict women who are
immersed in their own private worlds
as a means of surviving the horrors that
surround them. She uses recurrent
themes of femaleness, Jewishness, and
Chile, and has written several works
that concern the deaparecidos (“disap-
peared ones”) who were tortured and
executed by the Augusto Pinochet dic-
tatorship in Chile (1974-1990). Her
works: also include “Scraps of Life”
(1987), “Women of Smoke” (1989),
and “Happiness” (1991).

Inher poetry performance, Agosin
underlined the importance of justice

and respect for humankind, and de-
clared that the Holocaust was not just a
Jewish event but that such suffering
affects all of us. Her poetry directly
addressed Anne Frank, who Agosin
wants to remember as a heroine instead
of a victim. Agosin discussed how
there are many Anne Franks in the world,
linking Anne Frank to all suffering chil-
dren. She related the recent killing of
the children in Arkansas, the Holocaust,
and the United States’s slavery as his-
torical moments of severe cruelty that
killed many children and many child-
hood dreams.

In her lecture about “A Cross and
a Star,” Agosin spoke on Jewish-Latin
American literature. Latin American-
Jewish literature exhibits the diversity
of the Jewish population of Latin Ameri-
can nations. Especially in Argentina,
Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and Peru, where
the Jewish American populations are
the largest because they approach one
percept of the total population, the Jew-
ish people have constructed a blended
identity as they have integrated with
other Jews throughout different stages
of immigration. Tens of thousands of
Jewish migrants and refugees escaped
to Latin America at three crucial mo-

ments: after the lat 1 5th-century expul-
sion of the Jews from Spain and Portu-
gal, during the late 19th-century crisis
of pogroms and famine in Eastern Eu-
rope, and at the time of the Holocaust.

In Agosin’s “A Cross and a Star,”
she writes through her mother Frida
Halpern’s autobiographical, adolescent
voice and illustrates Frida’s struggle to
reconcile her Jewish and Chilean back-
grounds in the aftermath of the Holo-
caust. Agosin read fragments of her
work, which depicts her family’s immi-
gration from Eastern Europe to Chile
and their settlement into Osorno, Chile,
a region with a majority of German and
Nazi immigrants, some poor natives,
and three Jewish families. Her stories
focused on the sensory imagery of the
Chilean landscape and on the vision of
discrimination as the narrator looked at

- portraits of Adolf Hitler throughout the

town.

Agosin’s talented writing and her
passionate desire to make the world
more humane and just made her visit to
Davidson special and important. She
touched the audience with her words,
especially by first saying the she loved
life and then declaring that we all need
to fight for human rights.

Aries (Marcu 20 - Apri. 19)
“All you need now Is intellectual intercourse, a soul to dig the hole
much deeper” —AM

Taurus (Apri: 20 - May 19)
*“,.and they‘re only gonna change this place by killing everybody
in the human race and they would kill you for a cigarette but you
don’t even want to die just yet” —TP

Gemini (May 20 - June 20)
“The answers are getting harder and harder, .but there ain‘t no
way to bargain or to barter. Every challenge could have paradise
behind it” —BT :

Cancer (June 21 - Jury 21)
“There’s no political solution to our troubled evolution have no
faith in constitution there is no bloody revolution” —TP

Leo (Juty 22 - Aucust 22)
“If nothing can be done you'll make the best of what’s around.
Turns out not where but who you’re with that really matters and
hurts not much when you’re around and if you hold on tight to
what you think is your thing you may find you’ re missing all the rest”
—DM

Virco (Aucust 23 - Sepremser 21)
“Slip inside the eye of ourmind. Don’t youknow that you might find
‘abetter place to play?. You said that you’d never been, but all the
things that you’ve seen are going to fade away” —O

Lira (SeptemBer 22 - Octoser 22)
“You follow your feelings, you follow your dreams, you follow the
leader into the trees and what's in there waiting, none of us knows

— you gotta keep one eye open the further you go” —TP

ScorPio (Octoser 23 - ‘Novemser 21)
“It’s so easy to make an empty heart your home. Life can lift you
up, it can drag you down. Life don’t have to be no bed of roses”
—Tl

Sacnarius (Novemser 22 - December 20)
“Yeah, you were so cool back in high school, what happened?
You were so sure not to have you sprits dampened. But it’s wake-
up time — time to open up your eyes and rise and shine” —TP

Capricorn (Decemser 21 - January 19)
“You spend your life dreaming, running ‘round in a trance. You
hang out forever and still miss the dance and if you get lucky, you
might find someone to help you get over the pain that will come”
—TP

Aauarius (JANUARY 20 - Fesruary 17)’
“Why are you different? Why are you that way? If you don’t get
in line someone will lock you away. It all comes down to nothing”
—DM

Pisces (Fesruary 18 - Marcu 19)
“You got a pothead mama and a cokehead dad. You are an
ultramodern version of the American (wo)man. You don’t feel
good, but you don’t feel bad. Because you are nothing!” —EH

On the Scene ar Davipson COLLEGE

Yearbook Picture Retakes. Because you blinked last
time. 8:00 a.m.- 6:00 p.m. in the Motrison Room.
Coffeehouse. Or literally, Coffee900Room. 8:15. a.m. -
11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Thomas Mallon. The novelist speaks. 4:30~- 6:00 p.m. in
_. [the 900 Room.

Kelly Lecture. For you history folk. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in Phi
Hall, upstairs.
Jumpin’ Java. Nice and quiet, and smoky. 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost
“As You Like It.” Last showing, y'all knaves. 8:15 p.m.
in Chambers Gallery,
Twenty-one Year Old Night. This one’s for you. (Must be
21 and have two valid IDs to participate. Void where
prohibited.) 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m, in the 900 Room.

. Senior Art Major Exhibition. There's

one going on right now and all week.
10:00 a.m.- 6:00 p.m. at the VAC.
Health Fair. Georgia will be there.
10:30 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. on Chambers
Lawn.

“The Color of Fear.” A film, spon-
sored by the Council of Student Lead-

ers. 5:00-8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Reunion Weekend. Expect cam-
pus to be crawling with alumni.
Coffeehouse. Mmmm, donuts.
8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Reunion Weekend speakers.
Porter Halyburton ‘63 and Prof. Sam
Maloney ‘48, at 3:00 p.m. and 4:00
p.m., respectively, in the Home
Room.

Class of ‘78 Slide Show. 10:30 - 11:30
a.m. in the Chambers Gallery.

Alumni Luncheon. Alumni experience
Davidson's famous “Lunch Under the
Trees.” 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. on Chambers
Lawn.

“Madness Rules the Hour.” Music by
Richard Prior, libretto by Rupert Barber,
based upon the French Revolution. $4
students, $6 adults. 3:00 p.m. in Love
Auditorium.

Environmental Action Committee. CFCs
bad, ozone good. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Help it live up to its name, go
drink free coffee. 7:30 p.m. -12:30 a.m.
SeniorPiano Recital. Ivories to get tickled.
8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall. -

_ WEDNESDAY

‘THURSDAY

Frmay

‘

Walsworth Publishing Co. Your guess is as
good as ours. 8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. in the 900
Room. .

Spring Convocation. Convocators convocate.
4:00 - 6:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Meditation Class. Ahhhhh. 5:30 - 6:30.p.m. in
the Home Room.

Vietnam Bike Tour Forum. Two Davidson
grads discuss their two-week ‘Nam cyclin’ tour.
7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“The Full Monty.” The entire monty, completely
uncut. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room |

Patterson Court Council. Off the
Court and on the record. 7:30 - 9:00
p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Kayak Rolling. You only have a few
more weeks to roll some kayaks. 7:30
- 9:30 p.m. in Baker Pool.

The Michael Karne Trio. Three
people play music. 10:00 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Friday Afternoon Club. Because hand-
eye coordination is so overrated. 4:30 -
7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Pres. Vagt speaks. 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.
Home Room.

“Madness Rules the Hour.” Coopera-
tive effort by Davidson's‘music and the-
‘atre departments. WORLD PREMIERE!
8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Class of ‘78 Party. 9:30 in the 900
near

‘Class of ‘73 Gathering with live music.
3:00 - 5:00 p.m. at Richardson Field.
Class of ‘78 Dinner and Party. 8:00 -
11:00 p.m. at Johnston Gym.

“The Full Monty.” More laughs than
“Titanic,” and at a fraction of the produc-
tion cost. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Tamra Carhart. Comedy ‘n’ whatnot.
10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Jumpin’ Java. Unlimited free caffeine and
Triscuits. Who's not interested? 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Senior Violin Recital. Elizabeth Parker be-
ing the senior in question. 8:00 p.m. in
Hodson Hall.

Jeff Hwang — Acoustic Live. Jeff can play
guitar really well, so everyone should come
see him. 9:30 -11:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

feeveeee renee ean ene?

