TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1998

5 ___. THE DAVIDSONIAN EA! ATURE
| Take the first step on an
, incredible | career r journey.

Aerotek, a nationally recognized leader in the contract services industry, is actively recruiting a
diverse community of college graduates. Contract services is a thriving industry that has been spurred
by global competition and rapid technological change. It’s no wonder contract services has grown to

a $100-billion-a-year industry! And Aerotek is leading the way——since 1983, we've been the fastest-
growing contract services firm in the U.S.

Hundreds of graduates have launched their careers as sales recruiters, “selling” the market's top

professionals on working for Aerotek...then selling them on providing their services to our Fortune 500

clients such as Motorola, IBM, AT&T, Lockheed Martin, and Sprint. Our sales recruiters interview, mar-
ket, and develop client relations. And Aerotek will make sure you have the tools you need to succeed.

Our Sales Recruiters enjoy

* A great salary plus bonuses and comprehensive benefits

¢ Career planning to support advancement into sales and management
© Opportunities nationwide—-130 branch offices across North America

On campus interviews March 25th.
See Career Services

Representative to sign up!

Aerotek/HR

7301 Parkway Dr.

Hanover, MD 21076
1-800-927-8090/fax 410-579-3005
E-mail: coucho@aerotek.com

INSTANT CREDIT
Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
GUA Up to $10,000 Within Days

No CREDIT, No JoB, NO PARENT-SIGNER, No SECURITY DEPOSIT!
no credit ¢ bad credit ¢ no income?

STUDENTS

You Can Qualify To Receive
Two of the Most Widely Used
Credit Cards in The World Today!

Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?

a Www aecrotek.com=

i ) =a eke
! ORDER FORM
YES? CGO Credit Card immediately.
GACC, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321 L
Be  TNERIAD oc csascscscaacets seeideseasasssuecteecs sicceosdeceeacexesienccoihisisccobcscsccseusdlessalicveasdesooetcoehccieccc. Gocco kok
MMMMRDOMN cccecsacscacscanssciascacecsnsrscsosecesahssssacesscevsuiesdscoasi0hiacenieapUsNGVavGsik du ciipsvicosd SAAD ELS lo ek chochcc,.
; GEN sisbassencsssssessvenvasncvecsssdacessaatcscoacsevadeadsabsacdseccsecscaicieanserciccatosece: State ........c00 IND jcacsbccvesescosce i
BPMN EADS csscsecsnsssssssonsucacscnsesscassuacasusesiceasscosbcssneceeas iusesasveass ciNAluses facie asks et Cadios lceoebcovkcchcck :
, I
Tired of Being Turned Down? 1
5 |
; Guaranteed $10, 000 In Credit! !
ql |
