Catamounts sweep Davidson over weekend

By BriAN MAYERHOFER

Sports Editor

Going into this weekend’s series with West-
ern Carolina, expectations for any Davidson victo-
ries were pretty low. Western Carolina, the favor-
ite in the Southern Conference, entered the series
with a 16-6 record. Even more impressive is the
fact that the Catamounts have been nationally

ranked in recent
- years, and that
they have com-
peted in the Col-
lege World Series
in the 90s. Given
Western’s suc-
cess, the Cata-
mounts presented
quite a challenge
for the struggling
Wildcats. At the
end of the week-
end, Western was
extremely fortunate to win all three games. For
two out of the three games, Davidson gave the
Catamounts all they could handle.

One area’‘in which the Wildcats showed im-
provement was starting pitching. Two freshman,
Ryan Stroker and Wes Self, both gave strong
efforts against Western Carolina. Stroker, in his
best outing since his debut against Cincinnati,
allowed just two runs on three hits in his first five
innings of work. In Sunday’s second game, Self
pitched well during the first six innings. Backed
by strong hitting, the Wildcats led 7-4 after six.
Unfortunately, both pitchers were left onthe mound

too long. In the later innings, the Catamounts hit
the Cats hard. :

In Saturday’s game, Western jumped out toa.
quick 1-0 lead. Davidson answered in the bottom

- of the first. Ben Brown led off the game with a

single to leftfield. Brown then stole his eighth base
of the season and advanced to third on an error.
Brian Joyce drove in Brown on a sacrifice hit.

After Western regained the lead in the top of
the third, Davidson tied the game at two in the
bottom of the fifth. Catcher Kurt Davis singled to
get things started. When it looked like Davis
would be stranded at first, leftfielder Joyce reached
first on an error by the Catamounts Jeff Sziksai.
Taking advantage of the mistake, centerfielder
Luke Goodwin singled Davis home.

The Catamounts took the lead for good in the
following inning. Three runs were scored on three
hits. Jeff Sziksai, Dave McKay, and Jeremy Bruce
all singled in arow. Still, it could have been worse
as Stroker was saved when catcher Frankie Ward
lined out to second for a double play.

Still, the Wildcats were not done scoring.
Mike DeSimone continued his torrid hitting as he
doubled down the rightfield line. With one out,
thirdbaseman Ryan Conatser singled and
DeSimone advanced to third. DeSimone scored
ona slow roller to thirdbase. Then Kurt Davis got
his second single of the game. Conaster scored,
and the score was now 5-4 Western.

The nail in Davidson’s coffin occurred when
Western’s DH Chuck Koone hit a grandslam
homerun. Koone had an awesome day from the
plate as he went 4 for 5 with 4RBIs. After the

~ homerun, Stroker was finally taken out.

both the seventh and ninth. The final score was 11-
6. Mike DeSimone was the star for Davidson as he
went4 for 5 with 2 RBIs. Marshall Tyler and Kurt
Davis both had two hits and an RBI a piece.

In the first game on Sunday, Davidson could
only manage two runs on four hits. Catamounts
ace pitcher Mark DiFelice improved to 5-0 on the
season as Western Carolina won 12-2. DiFelice
went five innings, surrendering only two runs on
three hits. He also struck out six Davidson batters.

Davidson began the game well as they scored
two runs in the bottom of the first. After a Ben
Brown triple, Luke Goodwin homered for the
third time this season.

After a Stewart Sloan single later in the
inning, the Catamount pitchers completely domi-

«nated the rest of the game. The only other Wildcat
hit of the game was a single by pinchhitter Tom °
McGintee in the seventh. For Western, Jeff Sziksai *

had a strong performance as he went 3 for 4 with
4RBIs.

The most disappointing loss of the weekend
came in the finale as Davidson couldn’t hold on to
a three-run lead in the seventh inning. The final
score was 9-7. It was an ugly game as the two
teams combined for fourteen errors.

The Wildcats took advantage of these errors
as they turned two errors into two runs in the first.
After Ben Brown was hit by a pitch, Brian Joyce
reached base on an error. Luke Goodwin then hit
into a fielder’s choice with Brown advancing to
third. After Goodwin was caught stealing,
DeSimone tripled to centerfield, scoring Brown.
DeSimone scored when Stewart Sloan reached
first on an error by the pitcher.

second, the Cats came back with two more in their
half of the third. Both Goodwin and DeSimone
walked. Then with two outs, Marshall Tyler
doubled down the leftfield line. Both runners
scored.

Davidson increased their lead to 7-4 in the
bottom of the fifth. Goodwin opened the inning
with a single. DeSimone then reached first on one
of the Catamounts eight errors. Sloan drove in
Goodwin with a single to rightfield.

The errorfest continued when Western’s new
pitcher Chris Waters pickoff move resulted in an
error by the secondbaseman. Both Sloan and
DeSimone advanced on the error. Marshall Tyler
picked up his third RBI of the game when he drove
DeSimone home. Sloan later scored the Cats final
run on a wild pitch.

After this point, it was all down hill for
Davidson. Inthe inning, Davidson committed two
costly errors which led to two unearned runs.
Doing the damage for Western were rightfielder
Charles Thomas and leftfielder Chuck Koone.

With the game knotted at seven, Western
Carolina scored the winning run in the top of the
eighth. New pitcher DeSimone was greeted with
a double by Frankie Ward. Tracy Biggs pinchran
for Ward. Biggs proceeded to steal third. After a
DeSimone strikeout, Charles Thomas had the
game winning RBI as he singled to leftfield.

... Davidson almost came back in the ninth as
both DeSimone and Sloan had singles. Yet, the
comeback would fall short. Davidson lost 9-7.
DeSimone, Sloan, and Tyler all had strong games
at the plate.

Davidson hopes to bounce back against UNC-

Davidson managed to score one more run in

After giving up two runs in the top of the -

Asheville on Tuesday afternoon.

Golf squad’s play improves
at East Carolina Invitational

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

The finishes are almost meaning-
less to the Davidson golf team. It would
be difficult to find another team whose
place in the standings so poorly re-
flected its performance.

Inthe past two weekends, the squad
played two tournaments against a total
of 31 teams. The first of these two was
the UNCC/Birkdale Invitational in
Huntersville March 13-15, The second
was the East Carolina Invitational in
Greenville, NC, this weekend.

At Birkdale, none of the players
had exceptionally good days, and the
team finished poorly, shooting 70 over
par for the tournament for a 15th place
finish. At East Carolina, the team im-
proved significantly to finish 37 over
par. As for the place in the standings?
The improvement and hard work earned
the team a 17th place finish. What
gives?

Facing tough competition at
Birkdale from Kansas, Virginia Com-
monwealth, Virginia Tech, North Caro-
lina, and others, the team finished last
after a disapointing outing. Leading the
pack for Davidson was freshman Aus-
tin Ziegler,-who shot a 231 in the tour-

namentto finish 15 over and tie for 39th
place.

* Jason Lina and Dave Alexander
finished a stroke behind Ziegler to tie
for 43rd. Senior Andy McDaniel shot a
241 on the day for 72nd, and freshman
Sean Davidson shot 243 to claim 74th.

The Columbus golf squad won the
match, shooting 11 over par, 59 strokes
better than the Wildcats.

In Greenville, Davidson’ entered
the same five golfers in the tournament.
The results were much more pleasant.
Of the five Wildcat golfers in the tour-
nament, four shot better than Ziegler’s
team-best 231 at Birkdale a week prior.
The--fifth-was-Sean-Davidson,- who

‘missed the mark by a single stroke to

finish 232, which gave him sole posses-
sion of 86th place.
Previously, Ziegler’s 231 had

given him a tie for 39th place. In

Greenville, Dave Alexander led the way
for Davidson with a 224 for the tourna-
ment, and tied for 56th. Lina and
Ziegler shot 227 for the tournament to
tie for 73rd. McDaniel was a shot
behind them to tie for 78th. This was
the story of not only the Wildcats, but
every team at Greenville. Their scores
were low, and everyone was amazed
that their names were not higher in the

rankings.

Thatis, everyone except for Mary-
land, which ultimately won the tourna-
ment by shooting a miraculous three
under as a team for the tournament.
Davidson shot 901 as a team, 37 over
par. This is one of the best finishes in
recent Davidson history, but it could
have been even better.

According to Alexander, the ‘Cats
main problem has been consistency.
This is reflected in the scores from
Greenville. Davidson was 11 over after
the first round, and then four over after
the second. The final round was made
more difficult by a different course setup

~and-changing winds, but probably not

enough to justify the team’s drop to 37
over par.

Alexander stated, “‘We’ve been
routinely playing two good rounds of

golf and then one bad one. If we're’

going to be at the top, we have to play at
the same level in all three rounds.”
The scenarion was scarcely differ-
ent at Birkdale, where the team played
two rounds of average golf and one

‘poor round. The upside to the perfor-

mance at the East Carolina tournament
is that two of the rounds were good.
That ideal third round is what the team
has to strive for.

Kaplan’s season ends after

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

Davidson goes to the NCAA tour-
nament. First time in in years. Press
coverage and roadtrips with people
painting themselves red and white.
Basketball, right? Wrong. Wrestling.

That’s right. Davidson has sent
two athletic representatives to the
NCAA tournament. The first, the men’s
basketball team. The second, Ian
Kaplan.

Kaplan, the star wrestler of the
Wildcat squad who went 28-5 this sea-
son and the only wrestler in the 150
weight class to go undefeated in the
Southern Conference this year, headed
tothe NCAA tournament this past week-
end. ;

The basketball team did one thing
that Kaplan did not do - they received an
automatic berth. Kaplan did not. He
came in third in his class at the confer-
ence tournament, which meant that he
was not assured a spot on the confer-
ence team going to the tournament.

After the Southern Conference
Tournament, the winner of each of the
ten weight classes is given a spot in the
NCAA Tournament. In addition to
these ten spots, wild cards are also
awarded. The conference wrestling
coaches convene to vote on the players
who did not win their classes.

trip to NCAA tournament

Those who receive the most votes
may have a chance to go to the NCAA |
tournament as a wild card. This year,
the coaches voted to send three South-
ern Conference wrestlers to the tourna-
ment in addition to the ten who won
their weight classes. Kaplan was one of
these wrestlers.

Kaplan essentially did what the
basketball team of two years ago, upset
by Western Carolina in the finals of the
conference tournament, had hoped to
do. He did what this year’s basketball
team would not have done. He received
an at-large bid. That’s something we

“don’t around Davidson too much.

It is clear from the resume that he
put together this season that Kaplan
was very deserving of this recognition.
He lost only six matches through the
regular season and tournament play.
He lost only one Southern Conference
match all year. Unfortunately, he picked
a bad time for that loss, and it cost him
a Victory in the conference champion-
ship.

Kaplan placed in each of the five
tournaments in which he wrestled this
season, a feat which no other Davidson
wrestler was able to accomplish. Rook-
ies Jeff Libersat and Anthony Albert
were the closest, both placing in three
different tournaments.

see Kaplan on page 13

Baseball

Western Carolina 11, Wildcats 5.
Western Carolina 12, Wildcats 2
Western Carolina 9, Wildcats 7

Golf

Fifteenth at UNCC/Birkdale Inviatational
Seventeenth at East Carolina Inviatational
Women’s Tennis
Wildcats 8, App. State 1

AILS INSIDE. > °
DSS Wrestling Awards, p. 13
DSS Men’s Basketball Awards,
p. 14

DSS Women’s
Awards, p. 13
Women’s tennis beats App.., p. 15
Track teams compete at Wake
Forest Invitational, p. 15

Basketball

_ Smyta Birrer
Women’s track & field

Bitter, who has been a solid
runner for the track team as well as
the cross country team in the fall,
broke the school record in the 800
meter run this weekend by running

a 2:18.79.

Weanentsy @ Wake Forest (3;

(3:00)
Petal vs. Appalachian State (200
Mea'y a & Women’s Track “at Fela
Fp @ Emory Track Classic

‘omen’s
men virgia Wea gn
Tuesday @ Westen (BA)

Men’s Tennis vs. UNCG
Wednesday « 2:00

The men’s tennis team has been
onatearrecently, and senior Jon Pastel
recently defeated the #2 player in the
nation after defeating the #5 player
earlier in the season. The team
continues its conference-schedule this
week with matches against UNCG,

