aE DAVIDSONAN,
@

Fue of eninism disused at forum |

By Brian Cooke
Staff Writer

What is feminism, and how is it addressed at
Davidson? These were the two main questions
that the “Pot Luck Dinner and Discussion: Defin-
ing Feminism Today” discussed last Tuesday night
in the 900 Room. The Women’s Issues Commit-
tee sponsored this concluding event of the celebra-
tion of Women’s Month.

After eating a lasagna dinner in small groups,
Margaret Lumpkin, 1997-1998 Chair of the
Women’s Issues Committee, began the open fo-
rum by describing March as “‘a fantastic month”
for the women’s activities on campus. She read to
the group of about 50 students and faculty mem-
bers several interpretations of feminism, One
bumper sticker adage read, “Feminism is the radi-
cal notion that women are people.”

Various students and faculty members raised
their voices and opinions. Some searched for pur-
pose; others searched for companionship. Assis-
tant Professor of Classics Jeanne O’Neill and
Chaplain Robert Spach offered their two-part defi-
nition of feminism as 1) “it is to be a person whose
real concern is to look at the interests of women”

(O’Neill) and 2) “promoting the best interests of
n. . .leading to full humanity” (Spach).

Cindy Thomson, coordinator of the Charlotte
Chapter for the National Organization for Women
(NOW) stated that the most commonly ,accepted
definition of feminism is simply “the belief in
equality between genders.” Thompson agreed
that this is not a new debate but “an idea whose
time has come.”

A common interest was the main issues that
feminism must address.

As the definitions of feminism have devel-
oped, so have its goals. Thomson answered that
NOW is currently focusing on racism, reproduc-
tive rights, the workplace campaign, the Promise
Keepers (a fundamentalist Christian group who

believe that the man is in charge of the family), and
military misconduct. She alsoemphasized that the
only actual right women own is thé right to vote.
NOW is continuing to lobby for the Equal Rights
Amendment. Would reaching that milestone of
constitutional equality be the end of feminism?
That question was left unanswered.

Students also expressed concern over the
views of feminism at Davidson. Elizabeth
Malphurs, Chair of the Women’s Issues Commit-
tee, was happy with the large attendance at the
forum but upset that more students did not attend
more of the activities this past month.

Other students were pleased with attempts
for equality through the gender studies concentra-
tion and the rape awareness program at Davidson,
but some felt an overall apathy towards feminism
on campus. One student said, “When you take a
stance for feminism, people want to attack you.
It’s hard to get things done on campus.” Junior
Tommy Ross felt that students “just don’t care
enough (about feminism). It interferes with our
fun. .. The Pimp and Ho Party is fun.”

Many agreed that the label of feminism bears
negative connotations. Said one audience mem-
ber, once you name yourself a feminist, people are
taken aback and tend to distance themselves from
you. This occurs because society still relates
feminism to the radical behavior of the ‘60s and
‘70s. According to many who attended the forum,
although feminists cannot even agree on what it
means to be feminist, many desire to be separated
from “old feminism.” This was quite evident
when loud and long applause followed Lumpkin’s
bellow, “Calling it girl bonding is wrong!”

Chair Malphurs concluded the forum, reiter-
ating that students and faculty “need to think more
of feminism at Davidson.” Future plans for the
Women’s Issues Committee include further pre-
paring for a Women’s Resource Center and an
Untraditional Career Fields Forum for Women in
April.

TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1998

Press RELEASE
College Relations

Davidson College announced today that
Charlotte businessman John M. Belk has made a
gift of $500,000 to be added to the endowment
for the John Montgomery Belk Scholarship, es-
tablished by Belk in 1993. The Belk Scholarship
is awarded each year to first-year students from
the Southeast whose leadership in academics,
student government, athletics, or service distin-
guish them as capable of the highest achieve-
ment. The Belk Scholarship offers full tuition
and fees for four years and is one of just two such
programs at Davidson.

A member of Davidson’s Class of 1943,
John Belk has served Davidson College in nu-
merous ways. He is a member of the Board of
Trustees and the Davidson College Athletic Hall
of Fame, and served as a National Honorary
Chair of The Campaign for Davidson, which
raised over $160 million for the four-year liberal
arts college.

“A man devoted to his family, achurchman,
philanthropist, public servant, and businessman,
John Montgomery Belk is admired and respected
for his lifetime of leadership and his career that
serves as a model for business success, civic
accomplishment, and humanitarian service,” said
Davidson President Bobby Vagt. “We are grate-
ful for all he has done for his alma mater, and we
are proud to have such remarkable students here
as John Belk Scholars.”

The first John M. Belk Scholar was John
Eric Sipling from Raleigh, a member of the Class
of 1999. Jonathan was joined by Jennifer Rice
Hillmann from Wilmington in the Class of 2000
and Henry Lee Davis III from Winston-Salem,
Class of 2001. Belk’s most recent gift and the
growth of the endowment will now enable
Davidson to select two Belk Scholars from each

Gift bolsters Belk Scholarship

John M. Belk adds $500,000 to endowment

_ Davidson goes head-to-head for these outstand-

entering class, beginning with this fall’s entering
Class of 2002.

Since establishing the scholarship in 1993
with gifts of more than $1,000,000, Belk has
steadily strengthened this fund with additional
gifts. Today, the John Montgomery Belk Schol-
arship endowment is valued in excess of
$4,000,000.

In making his original gift, Belk was re-
sponding to the College’s critical need for re-
sources to attract and enroll some of the
Southeast’s most able high school seniors.

Top students have remarkable scholarship
opportunities at colleges and universities across
the nation, often making it unrealistic for them to
choose a school that does not offer them an award
that honors their accomplishments and potential.

ing students against programs such as the
Morehead Scholars at UNC-Chapel Hill, the
Jefferson Scholars at the University of Virginia,
and the Angier B. Duke Scholars at Duke Univer-
sity.

“Tt is not possible to measure the value of a
gift such as Mr. Belk’s,” said Dean of Admission
and Financial Aid Nancy J. Cable. “Our John
Belk Scholars energize the campus, challenging
their peers and their professors, and providing
leadership in the classroom, on committees, and
on playing fields. And they will continue to
guide and lead the College as alumni! It’s very
likely that many of them would not have come to
Davidson without the offer and the honor of such
an award. We’re very grateful.”

Davidson College is a highly selective pri-
vate liberal arts college for 1,700 students. Since
its establishment in 1837, the College has gradu-
ated 22 Rhodes Scholars and is consistently
ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the
country by U.S. News & World Report maga-
zine.

INSTANT CREDIT

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits

Up to $10,000 Within Days

STUDENTS

You Can Qualify To Receive
-Two of the Most Widely Used
Credit Cards in The World Today!

No CREDIT, No Jos, NO PARENT-SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!
no credit ¢ bad credit ¢ no income?

(jo eo ea aT NYO NO GEG ED A SY GEE ED ED ad Gna Hd Cd Gg GD ENT GH ERED AD nt A A) EN FM GAS) GER GY EN SD MD ED UH RAR Md RD ED ES

ORDER FORM

YES!

I want GUARANTEED AXON Credit Card immediately.
GACC, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Name SOOOOOOHS SOS OHODSOSSSOGO GSO SOGOG ODS GOOG OSHS OSS OH GOOG SOOS GSO GOGO GHGS OSOOOSHGSOS HG GGHGS OOOH OS OSOOESHOOGOOSOSOO0OS050000800 0000000000000 0000S8

PMRMETOAG, scccocccuskuaccuasgsacusdesssesacseecseccsedouseeesberaayecexsouccurcsceecdoueeecece: eCeLiisasieaboeclucskinstln cc ikec hhc

CILY ..srersoroserererssscsesersrscseresessrscscseseracarsesecacoreesesessssesesscsssesssseseceeres SEALE sevsscssceee Lil) sosssssscesscssees

SPE ERANEMLETS scsccacocaseieaessssndausssssqedtinsesesepneaicdasesasescnanensssosscensastascabibhied ou Gils Gabiosaehs :asSLiisdotice iocescoeennes

Tired of Being Turned Down?

Guaranteed $10,000 In C redit!
