THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

A polls students on quality of book

TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1998 _

store

204 students submit their opinions on shopping satisfaction

By SAnpy NEBLETT
Guest Writer

At the beginning of Spring semester, Gwen
Gardner of the College Bookstore asked the SGA
to help her gather some students’ opinions about
improving bookstore service for both the present
and the future. After collaborating with Gardner
in designing survey questions, the Polling and
Response Committee conducted a non-random
poll during the first week of February.

Two hundred four students responded by
filling out paper surveys at stations in the Com-
mons, Chambers, Union Cafe, Baker, and the
bookstore.

This report summarizes selected results from
the survey; for a complete presentation of figures,
see the SGA bulletin board at the south end of
Chambers’ first floor. It must be.emphasized that
results are biased toward students who found the
opportunity and were motivated to fill out a sur-
vey.

Since it was not random, the opinions of the
204 students who responded cannot be general-

ized to represent the views of the entire student
body.

¢ Of 204 students responding, 195 declared
their class: 15.4 percent senior, 14.4 percent
junior, 32.8 percent sophomore, 37.4 percent fresh-
man.

¢ Students were asked to rate their satisfaction
with the bookstore (on a scale of one to five,
with one being “least satisfied”) in several catego-
ries: overall, friendliness of staff, service, selec-
tion of Davidson College clothing/gifts, availabil-
ity of other products, textbook distribution, book
buy-back, and prices. The average rating of “over-
all” was 3.1. Notably, “service” and “friendliness
of staff’ categories each received average ratings
of 3.8 and 4.0 respectively, whereas “book buy-
back” and “prices” were at the lower end of the
spectrum with averages of 1.7 each.

¢ Another question focused on students’ per-
ceptions of changes in length and speed of
check-out lines during the text purchasing rush.

Although the bookstore sped its credit card pro-
cessing this s¢mester, 57 percent of 180 respond-
ing students answered “no change” for length of
lines; similarly, for speed of lines, 51 percent of
145 marked “no change.” Of those who noticed
some kind of change, more perceived that lines
were shorter and faster: 24 percent “shorter”
versus 19 percent “longer,” 31 percent “faster”
versus 18 percent “slower.”

¢ On whether or not one would prefer self-
service for textbook distribution, 60 percent of
180 who answered the question responded “yes,”
and 40 percent said “no.”

Several questions probed student interest in used
books:

¢ One hundred eighty-seven students rated the
importance of being able to buy used

textbooks (ona scale of one to five, with one being
least important): 73 percent answered the maxi-
mum “five” and 97 percent gave either a “three,”
“four,” or “five.”

¢ — Of 175 who declared whether the availability
of used books was adequate, 75 percent said

“6. »*

no.

* — Sixty-three percent of 184 students said that
they had sold back used books before at least
once.

¢  Eighty-two percent of 192 students asserted
that, in response to higher prices, they buy
used texts if available.

Again, keep in mind that this is not a random
survey and so it should not be assumed that it,
represents the views of the student body as a
whole. Thanks are due to Gwen.Gardner for her
collaboration and for her interest in student opin-
ion and also to members of the Polling and Re-
sponse Committee for their efforts in distributing
and tabulating surveys. Next time you enter the
bookstore, ask for an informational flyer if you are
interested. If you have questions or suggestions
about the bookstore, talk with Gwen Gardner at

x2349.

Student panel discusses the Goddess Movement

By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

Last Thursday, about 20 people
gathered in the 900 Room for the God-
dess Forum, one of the programs held
as part of Women’s Month. Five panel-
ists answered questions from the audi-
ence about the Goddess Movement for
about an hour, then demonstrated a
ritual.

The panel was comprised of two
Davidson students, Alexandra Lorenzin
and Maggie Avery, and three students
from Queens College in Charlotte,
Amanda and Steven (who did not vol-
unteer their surnames), and Ailora
Raven Silverfoot, who is also President
of the Young Pagan Organization.

In their introductory statements,
the panelists discussed why they chose
Goddess worship. Lorenzin’s interest
in Goddess worship began, she said,
when she read about it in Greek mythol-
ogy. She is a part of the Goddess
Movement because she feels it “gives

women a little more credit than they’ re
given” by. other religions.

Avery has spent her life rejecting
Christianity, she said, and finds God-
dess worship “a very beautiful way to
embrace everyone.” Amanda’s intro-
duction ran in the same vein; she chose
the Goddess Movement so she could
“be free and open to love everybody.”

Silverfoot has been practicing
Celtic Shamanism for two years. ‘The
Goddess is very eminent in my life,”
she said.

Though he did not contribute to
the introductory statements, Steven later
described himself as an eclectic wor-
shipper, not concentrating on one spe-
cific form of Goddess worship.

When asked about these varying
forms of Goddess worship, Silverfoot
replied, “That’s the freedom with God-
dess worship. You do it any way you
want.” Silverfoot believes that there is
one Goddess, seeing the different forms
of worship as parallel to different de-
nominations of Christianity. “‘What-

ever feels comfortable for you,” she
said, “is what’s right for you.”

In the apparently easy-going style
of the Goddess Movement, some wor-
shippers choose to name their goddesses.
“There are a wide range of names,” said
Silverfoot, “and you can invoke which-
ever ones come out to you.”

Amanda believes the Goddess is
within her. “I think women are very
powerful,” she said. “If there wasn’t a
Goddess, women wouldn’t have the
powers they have.” Amanda has re-
jected Christianity because she does
not agree with the Bible’s views of
women.

Actual worship of the Goddess
involved praying and ritual, consisting
of such things as chanting and dancing.
“Just talking like this is worshipping
the Goddess,” added Silverfoot. “For
us, it’s a way of life. It’s the way we
live.” Lorenzin does not limit her wor-
ship of the Goddess to religious wor-
ship, either; she considers reading about

the past a form of Goddess worship.

“It’s a balance between masculine
and feminine powers,” said Steven.
Goddess worship, he said, is a means of
equalling out the masculine and femi-
nine powers within himself.

“Tt’s all from the same source,” he
continued. “There is one energy.”
According to Steven, Christians call
upon an outside force (God), while
Goddess worshippers draw from within.
“Whatever face you want to put on it,
it’s all one energy,” he said.

Unlike many other religions, the
Goddess Movement does not have just
one text; many are available, and they
differ according to the form of Goddess
worship people practice.

Goddess worshippers celebrate
eight Sabbaths; the next is on Saturday
in honor of the Vernal Equinox.

Silverfoot said that the “goals” of
worshipping the Goddess are individual.
“Follow your own path,” she said.
Lorenzin’s goal, for example, is fulfill-
ment and happiness. For Steven, God-
dess worship is simply “acelebration of

* life.”

Goals of Goddess worshippers are
“more organic” than Christians’ goals
of reaching heaven, said Avery.
Silverfoot agreed, saying that most who
worship the Goddess believe in reincar-
nation and so do not believe in heaven.

Amanda admitted that she does
practice magic and cast spells, but
warned the audience that “what you
send out come back at you three times
over.”

One audience member criticized
the panel for being “anti-Christian.”
Steven explained his sentiment toward
Christianity by saying, “I think we all
have had bad experiences with Chris-
tianity,” but continued, “I'll let you
believe what you want to as long as it
makes you a better person.” Steven
said that he has “been burned” by Chris-
tianity, but that Goddess worship heals
him.

The forum ended with a demon-
stration of a ritual, which the audience
was invited to participate in or watch.

working.

THANKS FROM THE LIBRARY!
Last summer’s inventory of the collection showed the
lowest loss rate in over. 20 years! 191 books missing:
that’s over 100 fewer than in the past two decades. . .

and out of 80,000 books loaned. It’s a real tribute to
you. Thanks for your part in keeping the Honor System

—Library Staff

P.S. Pick up a copy of the missing list and see if you can help locate those still out.

