2___THEDAVIDSONIAN__

'

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

On Saturday, September 4, 1998, officers of the Patterson Court fraternities, eating houses, and the
BSC gathered at Grey Union for the fall Patterson Court Leadership Retreat. The retreat served a
threefold purpose, as described by Patterson Court Advisor Jim Barber. “The first (goal), obviously, is
to have a leadership training session for each individual set of officers to give the students the tools that
they need to do their jobs better.” The retreat aspect, said Barber, was “to make the whole process more
efficient. The way that it’s been done in the past, we would randomly, on different nights at the beginning
of the semester, have a meeting for the treasurers one night, a meeting for the social chairs on another
night. This really condensed it all down to one day.” Finally, officers got a chance “to meet the people
who share their office in other houses” and “see a broad spectrum of all the leadership on Patterson
Court.” Following a brief welcome in the 900 room, officers split into groups according to their positions
to meet with members of the Patterson Court Council, Service Office, Physical Plant, and Residence Life
Office for group sessions.

Presidents, Patterson Court SGA representatives, and social chairs met with Jim Barber and Conner
Eldrige, Patterson Court Council president, to review court policy. Discussion focused on policy
changes in Red Book Five, most of which deal with alcohol and risk managing. Eldrige spoke on an
addendum to Appendix A, Section V. Item number 4 reads, “In keeping with Davidson College’ s desire
to promote personal responsibility and self-governance, organizations that sponsor social events at
which alcohol is present shall assume the responsibility and accountability for enforcing guidelines and
the College Alcohol Policy.” Eldrige drew specific attention to the sentence which follows: “This Policy
recognizes the accountability of individuals for what they consume before arriving at the organization’s
event” (Red Book Five 28-9).

Eldrige reminded officers that although this does not take away responsibility for house guests from
Patterson Court, it does place more individual responsibility on the guests. And although it does not
eliminate all responsibility from the host house, it will be taken into consideration in J-board hearings
should one arise.

Another policy brought to attention was item 15, which reads, “Each organization shall maintain
a standard operating procedure for safe transportation for any off-campus event. Further, each
organization shall work in conjunction with the Vamonos Van to ensure that safe transportation is
available to all guests of any kind” (30). Barber and Eldrige encouraged house representatives to use
the Vamonos Van as a transportation resource for off-campus events, a plan which Travis Barton and
Lindsey Vagt, committee chairs for the Vamonos Van, wholly support. Much of the discussion during
this session focused on detail. “It’s important that the presidents and the social chairs both understand
the alcohol policy, the risk management system that we have, and really the reason why we do it that way.
A lot of students don’t really realize the reason behind some of the things that we do, like why there’s

AmeriCorps embodies the
good of community service

By Laura McCanbDLisH the community and in positions of responsibil-
Staff Writer ity.”

~ Senior Allison Hobgood and sophomores —

Davidson can be proud of the fact that ap-
proximately 400 of its students go out. into the
community to volunteer each semester. The enthu-
siasm and dedication that Davidson students.char-
acteristically exhibit in the classroom or on the
playing field is carried with miany of these students
as they venture into the community to give of their
time and themselves. ,

Students have developed extended relation-
ships with Ada Jenkins Center kids, adopted grand-
parents, constructed a Habitat for Hu-
manity home, and organized a cam-

Kathleen Shields and Bryan Deaton coordinated
a summer literacy program for students at
Davidson Elementary who were behind in grade-
level literacy. In addition to planning the pro-
gram for next summer, Shields and Deaton con-
tinue to volunteer at the Ada Jenkins Center.
Shields said, “I wasn’t sure how the program
would work, but it was awesome. The other
AmeriCorps participants were a great group to
work and live with together for the summer.”
Deaton said, “I really enjoyed the summer.
The best thing was to get out

pus-based Bone Marrow Registry drive,
to name just a sampling of Davidson’s
many accomplishments in community
service.

Yet with the rigorous demands of
academics and other extra-curriculars
during the semester, time is always a
challenge to the amount of impact these
volunteers can make. The AmeriCorps
Leadef$ Program, initiated at Davidson

the

and

The AmeriCorps
Program has raised
level
responsibility,
degree of challenge,

commitment

in the community without
other distractions. It was great
just to focus on one thing.”
Sophomore Terrence Gairy,
of
for the Love of Learning
Camp held at Davidson, re-
ferred to service in general as
“not only a reasonable agent
for change. It is the only

time

last May, has provided 14 Davidson a mechanism powerful enough
students plus two other volunteers from students CAN BVE TO 1 reverse global, moral, and
the local community with the opportu- their volunteer social degradation.”

nity to raise their impact through ser- work. Sophomore Ann Schmidt

vice to a higher level.

Davidson was awarded a consor-
tium grant from the Bonner Founda-
tion to recruit both Bonner Scholar
students and others to begin the pro-

-Service
Coordinator Bill
Abrams

worked as a Davidson El-
ementary Summer Camp As-
sistant, and will continue to
volunteer her time at the
school during the year. Other

gram this summer. Service Coordina-
tor Bill Abrams said, “Valuable man-
power was provided this summer for community
organizations. The AmeriCorps Program has raised
the level of responsibility, degree of challenge, and
time commitment students can give to their volun-
teer work.”

The program requires students to complete
750 hours of community service work and 150
hours in enrichment/training activities within the
16 month period running from May of 1998 until
September of 1999. Sophomore participant David
Farnum, who interned with the Davidson Housing
Coalition, noted that, “AmeriCorps helped fill the
summer void in Davidson by keeping volunteers in

students worked with groups

like the YMCA,) Davidson
Parks and Recreation, and Habitat for Humanity.
Service Coordinator Bill Abrams said, “I feel that
Davidson’s AmeriCorps is one of the best. Most
programs only recruit Bonner Scholars, but we
recruited all students at large, and even two from
outside the college.”

Abrams and College Chaplain Rob Spach
developed a motto for Davidson’s AmeriCorps
Program, which reads, “As we go, love.” Abrams
explained the motto as a reminder to the partici-
pants that “‘as you do this service, remember that
caring for other people, that loving others, is the
bottom line.”

who worked as a counselor *

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

PCC reviews fraternity policies at retreat

arisk manager, why we have PCC stickers, and why we use wristbands.” Consequently, the session not
only walked officers through the red book, but also provided some history on how policy at the College
arose.

While treasurers met with Davidson’s Certified Public, Attorney Helen Coley, Director of
Residence Life Kurt Holmes and J-board sergeant-at-arms Megan O’Brien led a session for members
of the judicial board in the conference room of RLO. Members reviewed J-board policy, procedures,
and precedents for the upcoming year. Changes to Patterson Court Council by-laws led the agenda to
be sure all representatives were aware of and understood the implications of the changes. “The changes
were made to close loopholes and make sure everyone was on the same page, including houses, J-board
reps, and student solicitors,” said O’Brien.

Next, J-board members took part in a mock trial, to reacclimate old members to trial protocol and
introduce new representatives to procedure. The mock trial helped to “clarify details early instead of
during the actual trial,” said O’ Brien. The board also added a statement of rights for houses, and viewed
the hearing checklist. The checklist was “one of the best moves we’ ve made,” said O’Brien. “It makes
sure the process is succinct.”

Rush chairs and vice presidents met with RLO professional staff member Dani Hiar and Patterson
Court chaplain Aaron Rice to “discuss changes in the alcohol policy and go through calendars to start
setting up rush schedules,” said Hiar. Fraternities and eating houses then split to discuss rush for men
and self-selection for women. The women mainly discussed “giving press to all the eating houses —

’ promoting joining somewhere instead of one particular house,” said Hiar. Across the room, house and

kitchen managers met with Director of Physical Plant Bob Collins to discuss house maintenance and the
role of the physical plant on Patterson Court.

Service chairs met with Assistant Dean of Service Ruth Pittard and community service coordinator
Bill Abrams, joined by Patterson Court Council service representative Christine Larned, in the
conference room to study service on Patterson Court. The group reviewed a vision statement for
Patterson Court service, which reads, “To provide meaningful and valuable services for the local,
regional, nation, or global community while exploring ourselves and strengthening connections with
others in one’s house or others involved in Patterson Court.” Representatives read an article for US News
& World Report which recapped “the truth” of national service. The article prompted discussion among
officers about recreational versus transformational service. The difference, said Pittard, is in the focus.
While recreational service focuses on fun, transformation service places fun in a secondary role to
change. “View service as a partnership,” said Pittard. Representatives then set goals for the fall, both
courtwide and house-specific, and discussed ways of networking between houses to support service on
the court.

Group session were followed by lunch, mission statement revision, and standards discussion.
Following the retreat, Barber led a TIPS training session for Patterson Court house members. Overall,
said Barber, the retreat served its purpose. While some fine tuning will take place based on feedback
from evaluations, the one-day retreat format and leadership concept will be maintained in coming years.

Family ties form with Big
Brothers and Big Sisters —

By Amanpa L. MorDAvsky
Staff Writer

After the excitement of the first weeks of classes winds down, the Class of 2002 can find new |
thrills and chills with their big brothers and sisters. This program was developed several years.ago
to help freshmen meet their upperclassmen peers and to make that tough adjustment from high
school to college easier. Each freshman hall relies on their hall counselors to match them with
sophomores and juniors of the opposite sex. The hope of the program is that these upperclassmen
will advise their younger siblings, keep an eye on them at the most famous First Night Down, and
perhaps even give them a present or two.

Each year, freshman hall counselors select sophomore and junior acquaintances to act as big
brothers and sisters for their freshmen residents. Junior Bob Magnussen, a hall counselor for
Basement Richardson, commented, “Our big sisters are mostly friends and people who ask us if
we need big sisters. For the most part, we try to match up personalities that will be compatible with
our freshmen.” ;

Although the program is generally successful, there are a few problems that students
encounter every year. One anonymous sophomore commented, “I met my big brother at'that first
mixer and didn’t see him again. Ever.” Junior Shana Byers stated, “We remained friends, but we
never went out of our ways to see each other.” Part of the secret of a successful relationship is for
both siblings to make an effort to see each other. Both younger and older siblings can help in this
process.

This year’s families have already begun to form. Although not every freshman hall has met
their respective older siblings, there is excitement in the air from Fourth Watts to Second West
Belk. Freshman Bjorn Wickstrom exclaimed, “I can’t hardly wait to meet my big sis!” The
upperclassmen big brothers and sisters have the same eager attitude towards their little brothers and
sisters. Sophomore Jennie Gold commented, “I am very excited to finally meet my little brothers.
My friends and I have already been planning what activities we can do with them.” Such
enthusiasm from the upperclassmen virtually ensures a successful venture for this year. ;

Freshmen who have already received their older siblings have enjoyed some good times
together. Freshman Hilary Dack reflected, “Even though I’ ve only known Dave [Rosenberg] for
a week, I feel like he is the nicest guy on campus. He has gone out of his way to make me feel
welcome at Davidson.” Although Dack‘s experience has been good so far, other freshmen have
not had the same luck. Freshman Anne Thompson commented, “I think the idea of a big brother
is great; I just wish I would see him more often.” 3

Overall, the prégram has been a successful tool at Davidson. Junior Mauricio Sauma, a hall
counselor on Basement Richardson, reflected, “The big brother/big sister is a really cool system
that is a great way to settle into college life and break the barriers between the classes.” What the
program comes down to is simple: you make it what it is. Any/and every effort put into the program
will make it a better experience for those involved.

News. WE’RE NOT MAKING THIS UP.
Co Gale (x6016) for details.

