DAVIDSON COLLEGI

“The World’s
Foremost College Weekly”
s
EstaBLisHeD 1914

LOE ES RET Ce or a en ne

Top Guns,
The few and the proud trek to UNCC.

NEWS 4.

TIT

(a)

Strip tease.
FLAG Fashion Show shows skin.

A&Lil

She’d dine on children, too.
Diversity through the eyes of a trustee.

OPINIONS 6

Shatas shares.
Q&A with Asst. Head Coach.
SPorTs 15

Patricia Fuller speaks about
public art at VAC lecture

By Amanba L. MorDAvsky
Staff Writer

On Thursday, Nov. 5, the small lecture hall of Davidson’ s
Visual Arts-Center filled up as the time approached 7:00 p.m.
Students, faculty and townspeople alike gathered at the Belk
Visual Arts Center to hear Patricia Fuller speak about public
art on college and university campuses. In an effort to
discuss ways to both modernize and beautify Davidson’s
campus, Fuller spoke about the history of public art, as well
as current campuses which have accepted this art form.

Gallery Director Perry Nesbitt began the evening by
introducing Fuller and her extensive resume. Currently,
Fuller is an independent consultant for Public Art design
projects. In the past, she has served as curator for the
“Percent for Art” project at MIT and worked on a public art
project for Harvard. She has also served as a consultant for
the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta and the North Carolina
Museum of Art and was the coordinator for the National
Endowment of Arts in Washington, D.C.

Fuller’s presentation began with a brief history of
public art in the United States. Although public art is quite
popular in European and Asian nations, the United States did
not begin to explore public art until the post-World War II
era. Beginning in the 1950s and 1960s, the United States
began to recognize the need for the urban development of art.
The architecture that began to emerge was a combination of

abstract art with modern architecture, creating the first real
public art displays. To further help the public art movement,
the government passed the “Percent for Art” program in
1968. This program allots a percentage of the funds for
constructing federal buildings to create public art. Since the
creation of this program, public art has become a unique and
vital part of college campuses and federal land.

Fuller further explained the importance of public art on
college campuses: “Ideally, the university already has ele-
ments in place —a climate of investigation and interrogation,
involving changing, growing, and expressing — a fertile
place to explore ideas.”

Fuller gave examples of colleges and universities that |
have fully unutilized their resources for public art, including
Clemson, MIT, and the University of California San Diego at
Lahoya. Fuller showed slides from all these campuses,
explaining the drastic change in the campus with the addition
of public art throughout the campus. ‘

Although there has been some criticism of public art,
most people have accepted its importance to the appearance
and atmosphere of the college campus. According to Fuller,
those who do criticize public art tend to come full circle with
their views and begin to support public art within a few years.
If you are interested in supporting public art at Davidson,
contact Gallery Director Perry Nesbitt at the Visual Arts

Center. : ‘ stacey a
yy z ites ON ee RMR edo

@ Patricia
Fuller
addresses
a crowd of
students |.
and faculty
on public
art. Public
art is the
term
referring to
outdoor
sculptures
and other
art forms
that are
publicly
displayed.
Sallie McMurray

Students go ‘Into the Streets’

By Laura McCanDLIsH
Staff Writer

As Davidson celebrates Into the Streets this
week, members of the college community are
asking themselves, “What can I do?” Into the
Streets is anational program designed to introduce
students to meaningful community service. It’s
goal is not only to encourage one-time service
opportunities but also to funnel students into exist-
ing service projects.

Along with Tommy Ross 99, Soosan Calhoun
’00 is also serving as a program co-chair. In
addition to the co-chairs, there are seven other core
members, called “stars,” who each have a team
that has planned service and enrichment activities.
The seven stars are Ida Wainschel ’01, John Bell
°99, Brian Deaton ’01, . Clark Scalera 01, Ann
Culp 00, Katie Keith 00, and Dalia Abu-Dayyeh
’01. In addition, mathematics professor Dr. Rob-
ert Whitton serves as a faculty star this year.

Calhoun said, “This year, our’main goals
were to have more hands-on service activities and
to involve a more diverse group as far as students,
faculty, and community members. We want ath-
letes, Patterson Court-goers, independents, basi-
cally everyone to get involved.”

_ In respect to Into the Streets purpose, Ross
said, “Into the Streets is a week-long community
service drive designed to involve as many people
as possible in at least one meaningful service
experience, with the hope that this will lead to a
long-lasting commitment to community service.
We want to show people that service, aside from
being fulfilling and purposeful, is really just a lot
of fun.”

Into the Streets began Saturday morning with
a kick-off breakfast and will continue through this
Sunday, with a bonfire and closing ceremonies to
conclude the week. Volunteer opportunities avail-
able during the week include working at the Ada
Jenkins Center or the Arosa House, cleaning up a
Lake Norman island, or participating in a variety
of organized service events such as Habitat for
Humanity, the CROP Walk, and the Kannapolis
YMCA Field Day.

On Monday night, Dave Mullinnex, from the
Urban Ministry Center in Charlotte, gave a talk
entitled “Who is Your Neighbor,” which dis-
cussed homelessness in this area. © Colman
McCarthy, a Washington Post columnist and the
director/founder of the Center for Teaching Peace,
will speak on Wednesday about “How to
Radicalize Your Life.” The event, co-sponsored
by Dean Rusk and the Union Speakers Commit-
tee, includes informal discussion from 3:30 to 5
p.m. in the Union Homeroom and a lecture at 8
p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Thursday is Ben and
Jerry’s Project Life Day, during which a portion
of the proceeds from all ice cream sold goes .
toward Project Life. On Friday night, Michael
Stoops, from the National Coalition for the Home-
less, will speak in the Union at 9 p.m. Then at
midnight, abox sleepout will be held on Chamber’s
Lawn, as students will form a drum circle and
sleep in boxes as the homeless would. Stoops
plans to bring real homeless people for the event,
so they can demonstrate to students a typical night
for someone who is homeless.

Ross’s hope for the week is twofold: “We
hope that students who are not currently involved
will see how meaningful service can be and that
those already involved can come out for a week
and help us make a huge difference in the commu-
nity.”

Into the Streets t-shirts, designed by senior »
Jenny Nolan, are being sold
this week for $10. The back —
of the shirts summarizes the
theme of the week. It quotes
Mother Theresa; “Love
cannot remain by itself. It
has no meaning. Love must
be put into action, and that
action is service.”

This year’s pr is “7
eran eae ae OP-ED Cecccvccccereceesevecceccccecceeseoceeee 6 Permit #1
rate o the S s ef- :
Tee ee | ARES dt LIVING \..i...c.s600000 oe) Davidson, NC 28036

that, but it basically RNY GG od ES ESR

flopped,” said Into the :
Streets student co-chair
Ross.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid

