‘. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Conference offers campuses
various service opportunities

COOL Conference attracts service-minded students

By CarriE ARTHUR
Staff Writer

On Mar. 12-15 at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia, the annual COOL (Campus
Outreach Opportunity League) Conference will
be held. This national conference meets every
March to “bring together college students who are
active in their community,” said community ser-
vice coordinator Bill Abrams.

Students come from approximately two to
three hundred colleges and universities. Meredith
Benke, a participant in last year’s Conference,
said, “In my opinion, it is the largest conference of
its kind.” Abrams said that “by far, it is the most
educational national conference for students in-
volved in community service.”

The Conference consists of three workshop
sessions per afternoon, evening presentations, a
State of the League Address about service, and
information sessions similar to the volunteer fairs
at Davidson, where students can find out informa-
tion about service opportunities.

Atthe sessions, volunteer organizations such
as the Peace Corps present information. Students
can also learn about summer internships and se-
mester study programs. Presenters of the work-
shops have iticluded Michael Stoops from the
National Coalition for the Homeless, and college
students such as Meredith Benke for Davidson’s
Project Life.

Perhaps the most important aspect of the
Conference is the students’ exchange of ideas,
Brian Williams, a participant in the Conference
for the past two years, said that it is “really energiz-
ing to meet people from all over and to see how
(they) are doing the same things.”

Seeing what other campuses are doing for
service and how they accomplish things helps to
improve Davidson’s service programs. Two pro-
grams brought to Davidson from the Conference
include Into the Streets, which is a COOL pro-
gram, and the Urban Plunge, a National Coalition
for the Homeless program.

Campbell said that the “little things, learning
about how another college’s service program is
organized” are also important in improving
Davidson’s programs.

Abrams and Campbell agree that the Confer-
ence reveals the size and range of the National
Service Movement. Campbell feels that it is
“pretty powerful to meet all those people” and to
see how many people participate in service.

Students interested in attending the Confer-
ence this year should contact Abrams (x2460) by
Thursday, Feb. 12. The registration deadline for
the program is Feb. 15. There are already a
number of people going, and Abrams said the
program is “cool.”

Abrams “strongly encourage(s) anyone who

wants to broaden (his orher) ideas abouthowtobe .

involved in the life of the College” to attend.

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1 0, 1998

students
who prepped for the
Kaplan.

JUNE LSAT
TEST TAKERS
CLASS
STARTS
February 17th
Call
TODAY
to RESERVE
YOUR SEAT
SPACE IS
LIMITED

proven results

KAPLAN

1-660-KAP-TEST

www.kaplan.com

"EOAT is of the Law School Carel.

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up to $10,000 Within Days

No CREDIT, No JOB, NO PARENT-SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!
no credit ¢ bad credit ¢ no income?

STUDENTS

You Can Qualify.To Receive
Two of the Most Widely. Used
Credit Cards in The World Today!

Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?

Gua

Pe MMRS ccc chcctcotcneds ivicsusdussoidaeaseianssvesessesalacssns tenia cacoisaseessasacetonsesochchaseiuiiak os Gcihistdiciocc. cco mck cooceccs

CILY «...sssrereossverereesnsnsorascvesscscsscacscsececescncserecacsesacessesoesscsesesseseseesesees DLALE seserecseees Lip

Signature Ceccccecccssssssssioccdoccccccccccocesccdccccccecc ce corcc coe ce eco cce cco see ce cece eco cee coo cc ecole eco ecccc cco cccecccccccccccoccocccoce

Tired of Being Turned Down?

anteed $10,000 In Credit!

ORDER FORM
Y F ) gS! % | want (ERAS Soe aed veg Credit Card immediately.

GACC, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

Name ©0000 00 0000000000000 0008000898000 0SOOOSO OO OOOSOO OOOO OOOO OH OS OSS O00 90 0800000000000 08 0008000 000000000000000 00000 OCC COCO OOOO Oe CCC OoeCeoCeeCe

