sprained my ankle the other day
[= dancing with Cintra Pollack

and Max Nelson. It turned over as
I transitioned from the moonwalk to the
worm — a deadly, freak-daddy move
that really gets a crowd going if done
correctly.

Unfortunately, I came down the
wrong way on the cardboard, twisting
my ankle in a never-before-seen way.
I’ve been out of commission ever since.

Now all I can do is sit around and try to
think of all the characters in Breakin’ I,
Breakin’ II, and Breakin’ III. So far,
though, I can only come up with Turbo
and Special K.

This physical impairment, how-
ever, led me to a few philosophical
meanderings that will really blow your
socks off.

1) Something has got to done
about parking on campus. | pulled out
of a parking spot in front of Hart the
other day on my way to the Union and
ended up parking at the nearest avail-
able spot somewhere in downtown
Mooresville.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Break dancing injury caus

There’s only one real solution to
this problem: Freshmen should not be
allowed to have vehicles on campus.
That would make life for the elders a lot
easier. We could actually park next to
the building we wanted to go in.

I guess I can sympathize with those
freshmen who cringe at the thought of
college life without a set of wheels.

Wait, no, [can’t. Freshmen don’t
need cars. What the hell do they need

them for, anyway? They eat all of their -

meals at the Commons and they can’t
go into the ABC store. They can’t even
loiter at the ABC: store.

Personally,.I need to go to the
ABC store at least four times a week. I
tend to get angry, though, when I have
to walk to Kannapolis just to get my car
whenever I need to purchase some li-
quor before class.

And I really get angry when I have
a sprained ankle and I have to walk to
Kannapolis just to get my car so I can
booze it up before class.

Take away their cars. Take them
all away. Please give this alkie a break.

The College, of course, couldcom-
pensate the carless ones by buying them
all one of those ridiculous-looking scoot-
ers like that one guy rides to class. That
would be great. It would be funny, too
— a whole lot of S cooter McGooters.

2) Have you ever thought exten-

sively about baking soda? The sh*t is
crazy! I don’t think there has ever been
such a multi-talented product.

You can put out fires with baking
soda. You can scrub the stove with
baking soda. Youcan keep your freezer
fresh with baking soda. You can brush
your teeth with baking soda. You can
make a dumb little volcano with baking
soda. You can clean your carpet with
baking soda. You can even bake with
baking soda! Unbelievable!

If you were stranded on a small
island in the Pacific, you could prob-
ably survive with just a large box of
baking soda. No fresh water? Just
drink the baking soda. Nothing to eat?
Eat the baking soda. Smelly teeth?
Baking soda. Nothing to do? Play with
the baking soda. Etc.

3) Did you know that the Acad-
emy Awards are a woman’s version of
the Superbowl? In football, you have a
pre-game show in which announcers
debate the outcome of the game, the
tactics that will be used, and the scores
that might be settled. The AA’s has a
pre-game too, except it’s a lot dumber.
Instead of score predictions, we get
outfit predictions from all these editors
of stupid fashion magazines.

We hear stuff like, “Oh, my God,
last year Cher made a huge mistake by
wearing this long-cut, twin-collar,

C

double-breasted sequin dress by Armani
when everybody knows she looks bet-
ter in a two-fisted, lace-trimmed, green
corduroy gown by Dior. I don’t think
she’l] make the same mistake this year!”

Instead of good-to-know facts like,
“Green Bay has won 12 games in arow
against AFC teams,” we get worthless
gossip and hearsay from forecasters who
have the nerve to say things like, “Ti-
tanic will definitely win “Best Picture,’
‘cause Leonardo is the heartthrob of
more than threequarters of the world’s
population — that’s close to eight bil-
lion people. . . and that Celine song. . .
it’s sooo000 good!”

The AA’s, like the Superbowl, end
up lasting over six hours, and most of
that time is spent giving out worthless
awards like “Best Performance by a
One-Legged Midget in a Dramatic
Role.”

As in football, the only truly im-
portant moment is the end. The film
that steals that award makes some sort
of a symbolic last-second field goal.
The director, or the coach, comes up for
his acceptance speech, which inevita-
bly becomes an exercise of inarticulate
ranting, chanting, or supreme elation.

In both cases God is usually and
often unnecessarily invoked. We hear
stuff like, “God was with this team
tonight” or “I’m just glad God gave me

s Taylor to re

re

the chance to make this film.”

James Cameron seemed to think
he was the greatest man alive when he
got up on stage. I say anybody could
make a “Best Picture” film for $400
million, or however much it cost to
make that atrocity.

4) Ajob —I need one. It’s gotten
to the point now that I spend more time
trying to think of excuses than really
looking for an interview. My latest
response to the “Do you have a job?”
question is, “I think I’m going take at
least a year off and travel. After that I'll
probably go to law school. . . or med
school. . . or become a banker or some-
thing.”

What the hell is a banker, anyway?
Do you have to have a bank to be a
banker? Man, that’s one of those words
that sounds funny when you say it a
whole bunch of times. Banker. Banker.
Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker.
Banker. Banker. Banker. Banker. . .

So that, in a nutshell, sums up the
extent of my intellectual pursuits since
I injured myself. When I do finally get
off the disabled list I plan on walking to
Huntersville (to get my car) so I can
drive to the ABC.store and see if they
are hiring.

If that doesn’t pan out, I guess I'll
be doing the worm for the rest of my
life.

Davidson in need of Women’s Resource Center

here was not a whole lot that I agreed with

| in Sarah Ogden’s editorial about Women’s
Month. As a male, I have felt welcome at

every Women’s Month event, except for those
where gender specificity inheres in the nature of
the event (i.e., Women’s Sexual Esteem Work-
shop, R.A.D.). As a-member of the Women’s
Issues Committee, I am offended by the insinua-
tion that all of our committee schedules are events
during the month of March. But our esteemed

Women’s Issues Chairperson, Elizabeth Malphurs,
can express more eloquently and factually these
claims, so I will leave that to her (see her opinion
piece in this Davidsonian edition).

Ogden did have one thing right in her article:
that “every day should be women’s day”; that “we
should work constantly towards creating a society
that celebrates and nourishes our wonderful
women.” So what? — Do something about it. Do
something about it, Sarah. Do something about it,
students, staff, and faculty of Davidson College.

The time has come for this campus to make a
conscious, focused effort to provide resources,
support, and facilities enabling both women and
men on this campus to deal with that which we
have lumped together under one title, women’s
issues, :

The time actually came 12 years ago, when a
proposal was made for a Women’s Resource Cen-
ter, stating needs hauntingly appropriate still to-
day. Twelve years ago, the proposal failed to
come to fruition. But who can now deny that this
campus needs such a place?

Who can walk by the bulletin board in our
Union, take notice of the map of our campus
covered with symbolic rapes, and deny our student
body a place of support? Who can attend “Take
Back the Night,” come to understand that rape and
abuse have -damaged lives of so many students
before attending Davidson, and deny our student
body a place for counseling? Who can read
syllabus after syllabus overwhelmed by male au-
thors and deny our student body a place of educa-
tional and faculty resources? .

Now that plans are beginning for a new
Union, now that we have seen how little difference
the current coed living scheme has made in gender
relations, now that we have heard testimonies of
the problems throughout Women’s Month and
most poignantly at “Take Back the Night,” it is

apparent that the time for action has come. Dia-
logue about a Women’s Center has begun with
students, faculty, and staff across campus.

I am writing to ask each one of you to partici-
pate in this dialogue, this action. And do not be
deceived, this action is not just important for
battered women. This action can be nothing but
beneficial to all women and all men across cam-
pus.

A Women’s Resource Center can provide a
number of benefits. There are many possibilities,
but such a center could include a library, meeting
space, TV and video equipment, a co-organiza-

tional calendar, archives, offices, a gathering space,
and a center for crisis support.

Gender studies faculty members could hold
office hours there. It could house on-sight coun-
seling. Such a space would allow complementary
committees to pool information and resources to
enable more effective planning. Most impor-
tantly, such a space would be a refuge, a support
system, a statement. ~ .

What can you do?

Most importantly, you can think and talk
about what a Women’s Center could mean to you.
Talk to your friends. Talk to your professors. Talk

to the people who can help this vision become a
reality: President Vagt, Director of the Union
William Brown, Dean Shandley, Dean Marsicano,
and all the rest. And: if you are interested in
developing and working for this vision, join us this
Thursday at 7:00 p.m. The meeting will be held in
the Home Room, and all of you, male and female,
are invited to attend.
Before us is achance to create here at Davidson
an atmosphere that nurtures and celebrates all
students, regardless of physiological distinctions.
‘As Ogden wrote in her editorial, let us not
pass up this opportunity to “fight for ourselves.”

VESDA

WELL JACKS, THIS
ZS UNUSUAL, I'VE
NEVER SEEN SUN

ITE, AND
UMONIA ALL AT
THE Same TIME!

WEDNESDAY |

—

MY

ALITTLERAIN MUSTEALL,..

by Katie Miltich

‘EINKRO Hits Davidson"

