In their first three games of the season, the
women’s lacrosse team
showed that it has a bright future, but also that they
have a long way to go to becoming a premier team.

In’ the
season opener,
Davidson
thrashed the Uni-
versity of Denver
17-9, before drop-
ping their nexttwo
games to Duke
and the University
of Richmond.

Against
Denver, the Wild-
cats got out to an
early lead and never relinquished it. After surren-
dering the first goal of the game to Denver’s
Kingsley Howe, Davidson scored the next seven
goals. Junior Linda Rothemund opened the scor-
ing for the Cats.

For the next twenty minutes, Davidson’s
defense completely dominated the match. The
defensive pressure created turnovers and offen-
sive opportunities. This span proved to be crucial
as Davidson was able to jump out to a large lead.
At halftime, Davidson led 9-3.

. are first-year players.

nver in opener, loses to Duke and Richmond

In the second half, Denver applied more-

pressure as they were able to cut into the Davidson
lead. With five minutes left in the game, Davidson
helda 13-9 lead. The Wildcats ended the game by
scoring a string of four unanswered goals to win by
eight.

Even with the departures of graduating se-
niors Sarah Hogan and Allison Rhoads, Davidson
is not short on experience. Juniors Amanda Fleck,
Katie Williams, and Linda Rothemund lead a
strong attack unit. All three players scored three
goals against Denver. Fleck, who led the team
with sixty points last season, had four assists to go
with her three goals.

In its fifth year as a varsity sport, Davidson
lacrosse might have its strongest class of freshmen
ever. Against Denver, four out of twelve starters
Stephanie Hunter and
Lauren Hancock are both members of the defense
who effectively shut down the Denver attack.

Other first-year starters include Lauren .

Kenchington at midfield and Rachel Bowen at
attack. Kenchington had an excellent debut as she
tallied three goals and two assists. Hunter scored

two goals in her collegiate debut, as did Lacy ©

Garcia, who came off the bench.

Davidson faced a much stronger challenge in
their second game. On Wednesday, the 4th ranked
Duke Blue Devils came to Richardson field. In
their previous game, Duke had beaten Maryland,
the top ranked team in the country, by a score of

' 10-6. Duke is currently ranked second in the
lacrosse power rankings. Davidson faced a very
stiff challenge.

Unfortunately for Davidson, Duke did not
have a let down after beating Maryland. Two
minutes into the match, Duke senior Kristin
Lonergan beat Davidson goalie Lisa Benjamin for
the first goal of the game. Duke led 2-0, before
Katie Williams scored her fourth goal of the sea-
son at the 21:15 mark.

Davidson managed to stay competitive in the
first fifteen minutes. Duke quickness and crisp
passes caused problems for the Davidson defense,
but Lisa Benjamin kept Davidson.in the game by
making several excellent saves in the early going.
Amy Noble put Duke up 3-1 on a onetimer at the
19:32 mark. Still, Katie Williams scored again
and closed the gap to one again.

Duke dominated the rest of the half as they
scored seven goals unanswered. In the second
half, it was more of the same as Duke continued
maintained their strong attack. By this time, both
teams also had to deal with snow and a brutal
windchill. Duke’s goalie tandem of Shannon
Chaney and Erin Miller played very well, making
atotal of eight saves and holding Davidson to three
goals. 'Davidson’s final goal was scored by senior
Katie Nelson at the 26:46 mark. In theend, Duke’s
quickness was the deciding factor. The final score
was 17-3.

Davidson met the Spiders of the University

of Richmond on Sunday. The Cats got off to a
strong start as they scored twice in the first four
minutes. Juniors Katie Williams, Amanda Fleck,
and Linda Rothemund all continued to have strong

seasons, Williams scored four goals against Rich-

mond. She currently leads the team with nine
goals. Fleck tallied four points (three goals, |
assist) to lead the team in points with eleven.
Against Richmond, Rothemund led the team with
four assists.

Richmond managed to keep the Cats score-
less for nearly twenty minutes. Davidson then
responded with four goals in the final seven min-
utes of the half. They trailed 9-6 at half.

In the second half, Richmond continued to
stifle the Davidson attack. Davidson only scored
one goal before the final minute of the game. In the
end, Davidson dropped to 1-2 as,they fell 15-9 to
the University of Richmond.

Katie Nelson and Lauren Kenchington each
scored a goal. Nelson also added an assist. For the
Spiders, junior Anne Heine scored four goals,
while freshman Lacy Pica scored three times.

Even though they lost twice, Davidson has
showed signs of great promise. With their
upperclass leadership and the developing fresh-
men, this year’s lacrosse team might be the schools
best ever.

The lacrosse team’s next game is at Lehigh
on Wednesday. The next home match is against
Drexel on Tuesday. ’

Women’s tennis finishes 2-2 in four matches this week
Squad drops to 4-7 on the season

BY ALISON KALLET
Staff Writer

Two weekends ago the Lady Wildcats tennis
team .took on
Wofford College
at home. The
Wildcats steam

opponents in one
of their easiest
matches of the
season. The Wild-
cats won the over-
all match by a
score of 9 to 0,

set in all nine
matches.
Indi-
vidually, Junior,
#1 Dana Casner
cruised to a 6-1, 6-1 win, while at #2 singles
Freshman Kristn Koenig also only dropped two
games winning 6-0, 6-2: Also enjoying outstand-
ing victories were Amber Bradford at #3 singles,
#4 Claire Cheatwood, and #5 Clara Marks, Lastly
#6 singles player Brenda Tindall dominated her
-opponent without dropping a single-game. The
trend continued in the doubles matches as the #1
team of Koenig and Casner defeated Wofford 8-6
and #2 doubles Cheatwood and Bradford enjoyed
an easy 8 to 3 win.

The victory over Wofford gaye Davidson a3
and 5 record heading into their match against Ball
State.

Ball State proved a much tougher opponent
than Wofford, but the Wildcats won
tough, close matches and came away
with a 6-3 victory. In singles, #2
Kristen Koenig, #3 Amber Bradford,
and #6 Shore enjoyed close straight
set victories. However, Davidson
losses at #1, #4 and #5 singles meant
that the match was tied headed into
the doubles. The #1 team of Junior
Dana Casner and Freshman Kristen .
Koenig wonaclose, and undoubtedy
exciting match by a score of 9 to 7.
Meanwhile, the #2 team of Bradford
and Cheatwood and the #3 team of
Marks and Shore earned 8-0 and 8-
2 wins respectively. Davidson’s
sweep of the doubles matches gave
them an overall 6-3 victory.

After the Ball State victory the
Lady Wildcats tennis team owned a
4 and 5 sesaon record, and seem-
ingly had momentum heading into
their upcoming road matches against

rolled over their.

dropping only one —

. #3 Amber-Bradford, and #6-Brenna- -

5, 2-6, 6-2 score. Down by a score of 5

Georgia Southern and the College of Charleston.

The team traveled south this past weekend
for those matches, hooping to gain two much
needed victories against Georgia Southern Uni-
versity and the College of Charleston. Although
the Lady Wildcats played well in both matches,
they were unable to come up with overall victo-
ries. §, :

Against a strong and talented Geor-
gia Southern team, the Wildcats lost
four of their six singles mathches. How-
ever, a three set win by Clara Marks at
#5 singles and aneasy victory by Brenna
Tindall at #6 singles kept Davddson in
contention heading into the doubles
matches. The #3 doubles team of Marks
and Holland defeated GSU by ascore of
8 to 4 in their match; however, losses at
both #1 and #2 doubles gave GSU the
overall victory by an overall match score
of 6 to 3.

After this tough loss to Georgia
Southern, the Wildcats hit the road again,
this time to play the College
ofCharleston. Once again, Davidson:
encountered a strong and talented team.
All six ‘of the singles matches were
extremely close, with #2 Dana Casner,:

Tindall all having to play tough three
setters. Both Casner and Bradord lost
their first sets, rebounded to claim the
second sets, but unfortunately both fell
short in the third. Tindall proved to be’
the only singles victory of the day for
the Wildcats, winning her match by a7-

Sean Lutmer
@ Junior Claire Cheatwood in singles action during
Davidson’s 9-0 rout of the Wofford Terriers

matches to | heading into the doubles, the best
Davidson could hope for was a tie. The Wildcats
played well, with #1(Casner and Koenig) and #2
doubles (Bradford and Cheatwood) earning re-
spective 8-4 and 9-7 victories. However, a hard
fought Davidson loss at #3 doubles gave the Col-

lege of Charleston a narrow 6 to 3 overall victory.

After this past weekend the Lsdy Wildcats
record dropped to 4-7 for the season. The Wildcats
will be looking to make up for their recent losses
when they play the Appalachian State Mountain-
eers on March 21.

