Wildcats face UCLA Bruins

regarded that he is still considered one
of the best players in the country. He
backed up this claim with three assists
in UCLA’s opener, a 7-0 rout over Cal

By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After a rough opening week, things
do not get any easier for the men’s
soccer team. On Wednesday night,
Davidson hosts the defending National
Champions and preseason favorites
UCLA Bruins. Even though the Bruins
fell to #8 South Carolina on Sunday,
UCLA brings a loaded attack to
Richardson Field. Davidson Head
Coach Charlie Slagle said, “They are
probably the most talented team in the
country.”

UCLA is led by four preseason
All-Americans and two Hermann Tro-
phy finalists. The Hermann Trophy is
awarded to the top collegiate player in
the country. One of these candidates is
Steve Shak, the leader of the Bruins
defense. Shak, a junior sweeper, is a
former walk-on who started all of
UCLA’s games last season. He an-
chored a defense that had fourteen shut-
outs last season. Shak is one of three
Bruins who play for the U.S. Under-23
National Team. Sasha Victorine, ateam-
mate of Shak on the U-23 team, is
UCLA’s second Hermann candidate.
Even though Victorine only played in
seven games last season, he is so highly

State Dominguez Hills. Seth George
and Pete Vagenas round out UCLA’s
list of All-Americans.

George, a senior striker from Mis-
sion Viejo, California, was UCLA’s
hero inthe NCAA Championship Game.
George scored goals in the 80th and
82nd minutes to defeat UVA 2-0.
George has compiled 35 goals and 20
assists in his career. The Bruins final

All-American is defenseman Pete *

Vagenas. Vagenas is also a member of
the U-23 team. In arecent match against
the practice squad of the legendary
Manchester United, Vagenas hada goal
and an assist in a 4-1 win for the U.S.
Shak and Vagenas present a very tough
challenge for the already struggling
Davidson attack.

One possible bright spot for
Davidson is that they are facing a rela-
tively inexperienced keeper in sopho-
more Nick Rimando. Rimando
struggled a bit against South Carolina,
managing only three saves. With that
said, Rimandois still anexcellent keeper
as he plays for the U.S. Under-20 Na-
tional Team. Four other Bruins join

him on this team. They are defender
Carlos Bocanegra, midfielder Shaun
Tsakiris, freshman midfielder Ryan
Futagaki, and sophomore forward
McKinley Tennyson, Jr. Last season,
Tennyson scored the only goal in a
triple-overtime win against previously
undefeated and top-ranked Indiana. In
just two games this year, Tennyson
already has three goals. Regarding the
Bruin attack, Coach Slagle said, “As
much as we can, we can’t let them
(George and Tennyson) get the ball.
We must make sure they are always
marked, and we’ ll have to doubleteam
them at times.”

While Davidson is certainly a big
underdog in this contest, victory is not
impossible or unthinkable. Still, Coach
Slagle and the team know they are fac-
ing a very tough challenge. To win,
Slagle said, “We need to take UCLA
out of their rhythm, take advantage of
any opportunities we might have, and
be aggressive. We can’t give them too
much time or space. We must play our
game, which is pressuring the ball, and
cutting down angles. We’ ve been suc-
cessful doing this so far, but we’ ve had
problems scoring.” If we can break
through on the offensive front, an upset
is a real possibility.

Volleyball celebrates four decisive wins

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The volleyball team opened their
season on an impressive note this week,
racking up four decisive victories against
North Carolina A&T State, South Caro-
lina State, Elon College, and High Point
University.

’ ‘The girls defeated N.C. A&T in
front of a crowd of 122 at the home
opener last Tuesday night. Davidson
swept the match in three games, with
scores of 15-8, 15-12, and 15-11.

Head Coach Lisa Marston ex-
pressed reserved confidence in her
team’s play. “You're always happy with
awin. But in terms of, ‘Do I think we’re
where we need to be in order to reach
our goals?’ We’re not quite there. But I
think we definitely are ahead of where
we were last year at this point.”

Mara Mordini (’01) echoed her
coach’s sentiments. “We played pretty
well for our first game. There were
definitely jitters that we had to get out of
our system. But a win’s a win, and you
can’t argue with that.”

A’S’11” sophomore from Lake
Bluff Illinois, Mordini led the team
with 11 kills and 14 digs on Tuesday
night. Said Coach Marston, “We knew
she was a great defender last year, we
used her as a defensive specialist. But
this year she really has turned it on
offensively, and is doing a lot of the
things that we wanted her to do.”

Coach Marston also had high praise
for Katherine Lorenz (’01). (She) prob-
ably impressed us the most (on Tuesday
night). We didn’t know exactly what to
expect from her. She tore her ACL last
year on the first day of practice. She’s
been working so hard to get back, and

Women’s Soccer Volleyball
Davidson 0 Davidson 3

USC 0 NC A&T 0°
Davidson 8 Davidson 3

East Cafolinal South Carolina 0
Men’s Soccer Davidson 3
Davidson | Elon College 1
UNCC 2 Davidson 3
Davidson 0 High Point 0
Rider 2

she really didn’t think she was ready.

Statistically, she came up with all
nine of her digs in the last game, which
was absolutely amazing. The top de-
fenders in the conference are getting
four digs per game, she had nine. That
was a pretty spectacular game.” Brooke
Bentley also hada strong showing, with
11 digs and 7 kills in Tuesday’s match.
Junior Ginny Quis accumulated 35 of
the team’s 38 assists.on Tuesday night.
Mordini had plenty of high words for
her teammate, “Quis ran the offense
very_effectively...She-made-excellent
decisions at all the right times.”

Another highlight of the game on
Tuesday night was the play of junior co-
captain Gina Lawrence. ‘“‘Gina’s pre-
season was absolutely amazing,” ac-
claimed Marston. “In practice yester-
day she hit a ball so hard I couldn’t even
see where it landed. She is such a pow-
erhouse, and if she has an ‘on’ match

oShe is absolutely unstoppable.”

This year’s freshman class is ex-
pected to inject some punch into the
program. says Mordini, “All the fresh-
man girls are very, very talented. The

-Ortega-girls are great, but I could say
that about all the freshmen. They all gel
well with the team, and offer their own
unique talents.”

One freshman in particular, Jenni-
fer Ortega, is seeing quite a bit of court
time early on. Jennifer’s twin sister,
Jacqueline, is also expected to be a

» major contributor this season and in the

future. “We heavily recruited them,”
said Coach Marston. ““We knew that if
they came here that they could contrib-
ute pretty early....Jennifer has a start-
ing position...Jacqueline has amazing
athletic ability.”

The Ortega twins come to
Davidson from Westminster Christian

more great
stuff

Academy in Miami, Florida. The girls
have awed the Davidson community
with their athletic prowess, but moreso
with their tight-knit friendship.
Jacqueline and Jennifer have played
together from the beginning. And al-

‘though they shared a room. at home,

they chose to travel 750 miles to
Davidson and room together again.

The twins’ relationship is but a
microcosm of the camaraderie shared
by the entire team. “That’s probably
one of the strengths of our team is that
they-are-such-good-friends on and off
the court. It’s a very good atmosphere,
Coach Marston explains.

The ‘Cats host Radford University
at the Baker Sports Complex tonight at
7:30.

By ALIsoN KALETT
Sports Editor

The 1998 Lady Wildcats soccer
team has come out of the starting gate a
little slower than they would have liked.
Unfortunately, Davidson has opened
its season with 5-0 and 8-1 losses to the
University of South Carolina and East
Carolina University respectively.

Last Tuesday night in their sea-
son-opener against USC the Wildcats
hung tough throughout the first half.
Sophomore goalie, Winnie Corrigan
made five outstanding saves while only
surrendering one goal about fifteen
minutes into the game. Davidson also
had several shots on goal including one

by junior Ginny Dye, last season’sleader -

in goals scored.
The Wildcats optimistically

. headed into the locker room at half time

only down 1-0, but unfortunately the

‘DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK.
Mara Mordini
Volleyball

29 kills and 29 digs in
Dvidson’s four straight
volleyball victories
this week.

‘second half USC increased their lead to

Women’s soccer team looks
forward to challenging season

By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

There is good news and bad news concerning the 1998 Davidson women’s
soccer team. The bad news is that they have started out the season with
consecutive losses to South Carolina and East Carolina Universities and were
out-scored 13 to one in the process. But, as promised, there is good news. The
games against their Carolina rivals were only the. first of eighteen matches,
including the post-season, on this year’s schedule- giving the lady wildcats
sixteen more opportunities to improve their play and capture victories.

Specifically, the Wildcat’s most important games this season include their
first Southern Conference match-up on September 12th against Georgia South-
erm University. Last year, Davidson lost a one-goal heartbreaker to their
conference rivals. The loss proved significant as Georgia Southern finished only
one win ahead of the Wildcats in the end-of-season conference standings. Other
key conference games include Furman, Appalachian State, The College of
Charleston, Woffard, and East Tennessee State.

Judging by last year’s results Furman and Appalachian State could be the
Wildcat’s toughest Southern Conference foes. Intwo match ups against Furman
last year Davidson either tied or lost in overtime. The Wildcats also fought
Appalachian State to a scoreless tie.

Head coach Kevin Hundley anticipates that games against big-name, out
of conference programs such as Clemson, the University of Georgia, UNCC,
and Wake Forest will also present tough challenges for his team due to the fact
that most of those opponents have a legitimate chance at qualifying for the
NCAA tournament.

On a individual basis Hundley says that the team does not possess one star
player but rather he counts on his veteran players, including two seniors and nine
juniors, to rise to the occasion.

“We don’t have one star player,” Hundley said. “We have quite a bit of
experience and look to all of them to do the things.they do well.”

Despite Hundley reluctance to point to specific players, early individual
standouts for the lady Wildcats include juniors Kate McKnight and Kelly
Rennick who each have three shots on goal in the first two games combined.
Also, freshman Carolyn Stumpf of Virginia Beach, VA scored Davidson’ s lone
goal of the regular season thus far against East Carolina University.

Also, with the graduation of last season’s points leader Amy Kanoff and
AllSouthern Conference tournament goalie Ally Nozensky, the Wildcats will be
looking even more to players such as junior Ginny Dye, the 1997 leader in goals
scored with four, and senior Rhina Roberts who finished second to Dye in goals
scored last season.

The Wildcats also have eight new freshmen additions to the team and,
according to coach Hundley he hopes to gain significant contributions from all
of them as the season progresses. Hundley says he is pleasantly surprised by the
freshmen talent, especially with the play of Carolyn Stumpf, Natalie Cox, and
Penn Graves who all made significant contributions in the team’s pre-season
scrimmage or opening games.

“We just hoped they could fit in and give us more players.” Hundley said.
“They played really well.” -

Looking ahead, the Wildcats must first get past Wake Forest on Wednes-
day night before meeting conference rival Georgia Southern next Saturday.

Soccer team suffers defeats

one-goal margin was as close as

; . : saves by goalie Chesley Garrett.
Davidson came. Ten minutes into the

Head coach Kevin Hundley had
mixed feelings regarding his team’s first
two regular season games. On the one
hand he was disappointed with the per-
formances, yet remained confident in
the team’s ability to learn from the
losses and improve their play in upcom-
ing games.

“The losses were tough for a num-
ber of reasons,” Hundley said. “The

2-0 and a miscommunication on the
part of the Wildcats’ defense led to
another USC score a few minutes later,
South Carolina also added two more
goals late in the game giving them a 5-
0 victory.
On Saturday the wildcats headed ~

to East Carolina University in hopes of

‘improving their play and earning their

first win of the season; however, East
Carolina proved an extremely difficult
foe and Davidson fell by a score of 8 to
1. Freshman Carolyn Stumpf scored
the lone-goal with about 10 minutes left
in the game and East Carolina already
up by a score of 6-0. Stumpf scored the
goal off a penalty kick.

Other individual standouts for the
Wildcats included three shots on goal
by junior Kelly Rennick and eleven

Men’s Soccer
Sept. 9 UCLA (7:30 pm)
Sept. 11 Yale @ Brown (5 pm)
Sept. 12 Brown @ Brown (2:30 pm)
Women’s Soccer
Sept. 9 Wake Forest (5 pm)
Soe oe} Georgia Southern (11 am)

olley
Sept. 8 Radford (7:30 pm)
Sept. 11 Winthrop @ N.C. State (5:30 pm)
Sept. 12 East Carolina @ N.C. State (10 am)
Sept. 12 N.C. State @ N.C. State (7:30 pm)
Field Hockey
Sept. 9 Radford (4:30 pm)
Football

Sept. 12 @ Jacksonville (1 pm)

Saturday, 1 pm

scores were a disappointing way to start
the season. We hada very good pre-

‘ season and didn’t anticipate that’s how

the game would finish. We hopefully
learned through these situations to bet-
ter prepare for games in the future.”

Upcoming games include a home
game against Wake Forest September
9th at Spm and a September | 2th match-
up at conference rival Georgia South-
ern University.

DSS GAME ‘OF THE WEEK >
Men’s Soccer takes

on UCLA
Wednesday, 7:3@ pm

Football opener at
Jacksonville -

