1. In response to student interest in the Union, I believe that a major issue that
needs to be examined is extending the Union to represent the entire student body.
I would like to see a more active interaction between the Union and Patterson Court
to create more interest in the supporters of both of these organizations. I also
believe that a better system of advertising events needs to be cultivated to increase _
student awareness of what is happening around campus. Options in this area could
be a consolidation of event fliers to provide one source of information, or even the
development of an electronic information system like a college events web site.

3 Along with the new ideas that I have already stated about advertising, I
think that as the Co-Curricular Vice President I would try to introduce new ideas
into Solidarity Week to create more campus involvement as well as campus and
community interaction. Also, I would be more than willing to listen and include
any other ideas students might bring to me.

4. I believe my biggest weakness is that I have been fairly inactive with the
Union Board so far. However, my inexperience should serve the student body well

2. The experiences I have had so far have been my involvement on the 900 room

because I believe I can bring new ideas and insights to the board.

Tyler Aycock

committee and the Artist Series committee. From these committees I have received

a glimpse of the work required to run a successful Union. However, I believe it is my strong desire to
make a long term commitment to the Union that best prepares me for the job. I enter this election
knowing that this post will require a great deal of time and effort, but I look forward to the challenge that
it offers and feel certain that I can do a good job. ,

5. My job as Co-Curricular Vice President will involve working along with
the Union president and the other vice president in order to fill the Union Board, and then working with
those committee chairs and members to carry out the business of the Union. I believe I am the best
candidate for the job because I have the leadership, teamwork, and support skills that it takes to get
everyone moving towards the common goal of a smooth functioning Union..

eee

1. I think that the key to student interest in the Union is an exciting and diverse
schedule of events and activities. For the most part, these activities are planned by
the committee chairs, who are appointed by the Union Board President and Vice
‘Presidents. My role in helping shape the board will be crucial to the success of the
board when it comes to student involvement. If we have a group of dynamic,
enthusiastic committee chairs, this will ensure active student interest in the Union.

2. During my almost three years at Davidson, I have served on several Union

to make sure that they have the support and recourses they need to carry their
activities out successfully. If I can help the Union Board Committees to do their
jobs more effectively, then this will create an atmosphere where Committees
themselves become forums for innovation.

4. While Iam a member of Union Board Committees, my lack of experience
serving on the Union Board itself is probably my biggest weakness. This means
that I will need to actively seek out the input of more experienced people and my

Board Committees. [have been on the Artists’ Series Committee, and am currently
a member of the Films Committeé and the Woman’s Issues Committee. I am also

Elisabeth Malphurs

fellow Union Board members.

an avid attendee of Union events. I feel I am qualified for this post because of my

organizational ability, and my commitment to the mission of the Union. Just this past weekend, I was
responsible for the overseeing a group of volunteers, procuring food, managing set-up and clean up, and

doing crowd control. This sort of organizational experience is what I will be able to draw on when
planning events such as Solidarity Week.

3. My jobas Union Board Vice President is more of a coordinating position that itis a ae to develop
new ideas. My function will be to encourage committee chairs to pursue new and excitiff¥ ventures, and

This flow of communication can be a real asset to the development of the
Board. :

5. The Co-Curricular VP is responsible for presenting a diverse array of enriching speakers, activities
and events forthe college community. The job of the Union Board Co-Curricular VP entails maintaining
open lines of communication between the committees I oversee, ensuring that the Board itself functions
smoothly, and planning next year’s Solidarity Week. I feel 1am best qualified for this position because
of my organizational ability and my commitment to providing diverse social options for the students of
Davidson.

@ SOCIAL @

“rion Board? :
2. We essa rcttewh aay vevk bacon? ar
32 Wet eo cao gs waa ee ea? ee

1. I. would like to increase campus-wide awareness of Union Board events
through more aggressive advertising, especially on a personal level or word of
mouth. Also, I think often members of Patterson Court feel removed from Union
Board events, as if the North-Campus and South-Campus social events took place
separately. I would like.to include these students by. having more co-sponsored
events in order to allow everyone to become more familiar with social options.

2. Although my official experience is not as elaborate as most Davidson
students, I feel | make up for that in enthusiasm. I have been involved in thé

teams would consist of students from all classes and willing professors. ‘There is
nothing like a little physical activity to draw members of our community together
and get people excited about being back at Davidson.

4. My biggest weakness is a lack of self-assurance. This causes me to seek
recognition and assurance outside myself. The student body will benefit from my
weakness because I will'apply myself whole-heartedly to my position in attempts
to satisfy and surpass the expectations of the Davidson College Community.

Executive Board of Warner Hall House which has helped me learn how a student-

Thirza Sayers 5; A Union Board Vice President has the challenging job of trying to attract

run organization works. Also, in participating in several Leadership Universities
and retreats, I have come away with invaluble skills in motivation and communication which will allow
me to be a better leader in the community and involve more students.

3. The event that I will focus my energies on’‘is a campus-wide Field Day to start the year off. The

students from all areas of interest to become more involyed in our community
activities. The Social VP should make the student body aware of the amazing opportunities that
Davidson has to offer, not only in its acedemics, but also within our diverse student body and
personalities. I am the best candidate for the job because I have enthusiasm, energy, and humor to
motivate people. Also, my ears are always open to any concerns or suggestions.
