THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bonner program is about indivi

McCarthy reflects on her goals for the Scholars

Liz Neiheisel of The Davidsonian re-
cently sat down with Laura McCarthy,
Coordinator of the Bonner Scholars
program.

Davidsonian: What made you come
back to Davidson after graduating from
here in 1994?

McCarthy: I probably would not have
taken this job if I had found out about it
right after college, but during my year
out of college, I traveled in a program
called “Up with People” that balances
cross-cultural education, service learn-
ing, community building, performance,
and multi-culturalism. It’s justan amaz-
ing program. I went and learned how to
perform a two-hour musical and then
traveled around the United States and
Canada and Europe. I lived with fami-
lies everywhere I went and did commu-
nity service in all the communities that
I visited. ;

I lived on the road and out of a
suitcase for a year and traveled every
four or five days, living with this cast of
people, about 150 people from about 26
countries, and lived that way for a year
or so. It was amazing.

I grew up in Lynchburg and came
to Davidson, which is even smaller than
Lynchburg, and so all the sudden I was
out there in the world and doing all this
service. I was totally hooked. When I
came home, I knew I wanted to change
directions. I loved the field of experien-
tial learning. I thought that community
service was amazing in the things that it
taught you and that you could learn
about yourself when you were out in the
community. And so I wanted to find
something that balanced experiential
learning and community service.

I ran into Katherine Cook, who
was the coordinator before me, at a
random Christmas party and knew this
job was for me. Things that are meant
to be, are meant to be. I feel like you just
kind of fall into your path in life.

D: What were your main expectations
when you came into this job, and do you
feel as if they have been fulfilled or
altered?

M: I think my expectations have been
met. Icame inexpecting that this would
be a really creative position and a really
hands-on position, and just a lot of
“being in the middle of it all.” You’re
kind of the connection to the students.
There was Ruth (Pittard) and then me

and then the students. SoI knew my job
would be extremely varied, and it defi-
nitely has been. I’ ve gotten to know this
community really well. I also expected
the job to challenge me, which it has.
It’s made me go far outside my comfort
zone, which is a good thing.

D: If you could make’ a general state-
ment about Bonner Scholars, how would

you characterize them?

M: I think what I find in Bonners is that

with Laura McCarthy

they come in and have already had the
experience of trying to balance school
and work and that type of thing, In that
respect, they come in a little more ready
tobalance things. Although, every fresh-
man has always been shocked by the
work load. Ihaven’t meta freshman yet
that wasn’t shocked. But] feel like they
take it in stride.

They are involved not only with
their schoolwork and sports, but they’re
also doing community service and some
of them have jobs. They’ re just doing a
lot of different things and really involv-
ing- themselves. I wouldn’t call any
student here at Davidson one-dimen-
sional, because I know that everybody
is really busy, but the different dimen-
sion that I see for Bonners is that they
have a real way to balance their aca-
demic life here at Davidson and get a
taste for what is outside the walls of
Davidson and outside your classrooms
and outside tests and stress.

You’re seeing what’s out there
when you’re graduated and working
and that’s a great way to balance what
you're learning, and that’s the balance
that I see is different for Bonners and
really for any student that’s doing ser-
vice. I’m glad that they have that op-
portunity. It’s experiential.

-ECO-FACT

A recycled aluminum can is typically re-melted

and back in the store within six weeks.
(Source: EarthWorks Group)

Remember, only four weeks until Earth Day!

D: As far as the program itself, what do
you think are some of the greatest
strengths of the Bonner program at this
college?

M: One of the greatest strengths of the
program at this college is the individual
nature of the program. I think that’s
really key. And also the opportunity
that it gives students for. outside experi-
ences and for growth experiences: con-
nections for international service and to
trips and to conferences and to net-

working, if you really want to get into
the service field.

I don’t feel like there’s a big push
for that in our career services office.
It’s very business career-oriented and
graduate school-oriented, and we have
this whole other section of work that
you can get into, sol feel like that’s a big
advantage. As far as the individual,
that’s vital. Students need to have their
own place and need to be able sit down
and say, “This is who I am and this is
where I want to go and can you help me
do that?” We do have frameworks and
things like that which the program fol-
lows somewhat, but I think there’s lee-
way for people to bump around in. And
at times it doesn’t always feel like that.

When we presented the (Bonner
Scholar Four-Year) plan, people reacted
and said they didn’t want that (much
structure in the plan). People are able to
respond and tell us what they want. So
we'll work on that and backtrack. We
feel that students have a voice in that,
and sometimes I don’t know if that’s
spoken up as loudly as it could be.

I think the student’s voice is defi-

nitely a big part of the program, and I
think Ruth is a big part of maintaining
that quality. She’s the continuity, and
the interns get to benefit from that, from
her wisdom. We have time down here
and our focus is the individual. Our
focus is not academics, but personal
growth. That’s different from other
places on campus, because service is
such a personal thing.

D: As far as learning about the town,
what are areas you have identified where
the community needs growth, and how
has your perspective toward the town
changed in transition from student to
staff member?

M: When! was a student, what I knew
about the town of Davidson was ex-
tremely limited, and my realm was
mainly Davidson. Now, having lived
in Davidson, that communication (be-
tween the town and students) needs to
be improved, and I think that’s being
worked on. A big problem for Davidson
is going to be growth — it’s a good
thing and a bad thing. So many of the
neighborhoods are building up as people
from Charlotte move in, and the tradi-
tional small-town structure of Davidson
is quickly disappearing. You getmoney
and town buildup, which is good, but on
the other hand, people get on top of each
other and things get displaced.

Unless you have good communi-
cation and strong community ties within
the various areas, you’re going to-have
problems, and I think we saw that over
Christmas, The town is making the
attempt to establish that communica-
tion, and it’s a great thing. The college
of Davidson could have a really big

hand in that. If we really make the effort

to be there for the town, to appreciate
our personal investmentas students and
faculty and residents, we could be in-
volved. Davidson can choose to shove
itself offto the side or really throw itself
in there.

We've got some problems, but
we've got some amazing people in this
town, and the community is based on
small-town values. People do care about
where they live, and if we could build
on that, it would be a great thing. This
office is wildly creative about that, and
the faculty and staff have super ideas

about it. If people here could come
together about that, and put that out into
the town, it would be great stuff. That’s
what I’ ve seen and never even noticed
as a student. I never even recognized
the dynamics as a student.

D: What advice would you give to the
Bonner Scholars who will remain after
you leave, and what advice would you
give to your predecessor?

M: Tothe students, I would say that this
program is expanding quickly, and the
Bonner Foundation is expanding
quickly and establishing so many ties.
The number of opportunities out there
blow me away; it’s amazing. The stu-
dents in this program, the students at
Davidson, are so bright and creative,
and can go so far. To not take those
opportunities is an injustice to the indi-
vidual. There are so many wild and
amazing opportunities that can be had
at this stage in life, it would be crazy not
to take them.

From the students I’ve worked
with, they do seek those experiences
out. Keep continuing to seek them out.
and really raise your voices in this pro-
gram. This program was originally cre-

‘ated to be student-run, and it’s getting

there. Students can have such a bigger
hand in this program to run things and
create things, to make their voice louder.
It’s really up to the Bonners to say those
things and tell what they want to create
and to do. This program is a blank slate,
and it will remain so. That’s what it was
created for.

To the new coordinator, I would
pretty much say the same thing. This
job is open for creativity, to whatever
their dreams are and what they want to
do. They have a ready and willing force
behind them in the students who want to
have the experiences and to create, and
that’s a great thing. I would tell them
that they have 80 amazing students to
getto know, andit’s wonderful. They’ ve
got these 80 children to take of, and
only four cars! .

I would tell them to make the most
of their experience. Every experience
you have is to be learned from, good or
bad, and that’s something you shouldn’t
lose sight of. Life is just a series of
experiences from which to grow.

By Buster Burk
Guest Writer

The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is
getting ready for a big fundraiser to
save African Elephants with the Save
Valley Conservancy Trust Fund.

Michael Schenk, a PiKA brother
who lives in Zimbabwe, has instigated
PiKA’s program to help out his
country’s animals, and the first thing
that he and his house are going to do is
sell T-shirts, with all of the proceeds
going to the Conservancy.

The Conservancy was established
just a few years back as an answer to
the growing problem that Zimbabwe
faces concerning their wildlife. The
country is very poor, and threats such
as overpopulated areas of elephants
that lead to starvation and poaching

PiKA to raise money
for African Elephants

have depleted the African Elephant
population rapidly.

Although the government of Zim-
babwe has established national parks
for these animals, funding to protect
them from poaching is hard to come by,
and open grounds for tourists in the
daytime turn into killing grounds for
poachers at night. The Save Valley
Conservancy, however, is a privately-
run enterprise made up of wealthy land-
owners who see the value of
Zimbabwe's wildlife.

The interesting concept here is that
PiKa’s fundraiser does not want to give
its T-shirt profits to these wealthy land-
owners, but to the villages surrounding
the conservancy. Under this system,
which has just been initiated in some
areas of Zimbabwe to help better pro-
tect the animals, money is given to the

people around the parks. The village
municipalities buy the elephants and
pay to have them shipped from over-
populated areas to hopefully protected
areas, such as the Save Valley.

The wealthy landowners actu-
ally lease the elephants from the vil-
lages so that they can have the el-
ephants on their land and bring in
tourists. This system has proven to
work better than other systems in the
past because poachers are less likely
to kill animals that actually help out
their villages, most importantly their
schools and hospitals.

Each year that the landowners
lease the elephants from the villages,
money is kept for public use.

T-Shirt sales going on this Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday from 9-11
a.m. in the Union.

