_ AE DAVIDSONIAN.

Bobby Vagt, President

Bobby Vagt, who has developed a reputation during his first seven months in office as a peoples’
president, maintains that the recent layoffs do not violate his original pledge to Davidson.

“People are the most important asset we have at this college,” Vagt reiterated in
his office last week. “We have gotten the recognition we have because of their
qualities.

“I don’t think it goes back on the pledge at all,” he continued. “Our pledge is to
have the very finest institution in the country. We can only do that if we have
sufficient funds for academic progress second to none and the faculty that attracts the
best students.

“And you can only do that with some modifications.”

Tom Shandley, Dean of Students

Dean of Students Tom Shandley expressed similar sentiments.

“People do make the place,” Shandley said. “He (Vagt) doesn’t feel any
differently about that. We’ ve tried to do this as humanely as we can. This has nothing
to do with the two officers who were affected. They have served this college well.

“T’d love to be in an organization where we never had to do this, but our economic
circumstances forced us to make some tough choices.”

CompiLeD BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE

|
The “business” that is Davidson College

A Center major attempts to understand the recent cutbacks

avidson College is a business, and we’ re
going to have to start managing it like one

to keep our heads above water. Or so the

Humanities and Physics) and our secretary. A
part-time secretary will mean a step backwards for
the Center.

So you’re not a Center major — what does

administration seems to think.
; this mean for you? It means alot. As I said, we’re
not the only department getting cuts. The “higher-
ups” are focusing on decreasing the number of
personnel as a means to cut-the costs of this
school’s existence and tuition. Is it me, or is that
the wrong place to focus?
Even if you argue that Davidson isa business,

I wholeheartedly disagree. I am a Center

We need to cut out the fat, not the muscle.

I met with Dr. Robert Norfleet, Vice Presi-
dent for Business and Finance, last week. He said
that these personnel cuts were necessary because
an institution should look at its area of highest
expenditure if it wants to cut costs, and personnel
is our area of highest expenditure. That may work
fine in the corporate world, but here our area of
highest expenditure makes up what we are.

Norfleet was quick to assure me that other
areas would be looked at. Look Harder. We have

major, and this whole issue has come to my atten-
tion recently because of a departmental announce-
ment made last week: as a part of the budget plan
for this year, our secretary’s job is to be cut from
full-time status to part-time with no benefits. She’s
not the only one, and some people on campus will
lose their jobs completely.

“Even if you.argue that Davidson is a business, the fact remains that its
purpose is not to make money — its purpose is to broaden our minds and
give us a high-quality education. If we start cutting back in areas vital
to this purpose, we start burying Davidson.”

Not only is our secretary's job important to us
(Center majors) because we care for her as a
person, she is vital to the functioning of the Center.
The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies — the
department with the highest GPA and 26 majors
who are all required to do a thesis — is run by two
people: Dr. Bob Manning (also a professor of

the fact remains that its purpose is not to make
money — its purpose is to broaden our minds and
give us a high-quality education. If we start
cutting back in areas vital to this purpose, we start
burying Davidson.

a good endowment here; we are not destitute
enough to start hacking away at Our core.

As I said, cut the fat, not the muscle. But
where’s the fat?. Don’t bother trying to come up
with an answer for that one. Norfleet said, “I hope

the students aren’t entertaining the idea that the
budget and finances of this school are any of their
business, because it’s not their business.”

Well, it might not be our job, but it’s our
business: Our money pays the bills.

Norfleet’s main concern was for the kids who
want to come here every year and can’t because of
the tuition — it’s just too high. So he and others in
the power positions here want to use this
downsizing to lower it.

I’m sorry, but we’re already here; we’ ve paid
our $27,000, and as selfish as this may sound, we
come first.

Don’t take away from our education to ben-
efit people who aren’t even here.

We are a school known for its academic
excellence and small-school environment. We're
not supposed to be a number here; we’ re supposed
to count.

If President Bobby Vagt, Norfleet, and others
start running this school like a corporation, we can
kiss Davidson’s academic excellence and closely
knit environment goodbye. And we can kiss our
school goodbye, because it won’t be Davidson
College anymore. It'll be just another place to get
a degree.

@ LETTERS TO THE Epitors @
A train wreck at Davidson

To the Editors:

It has been more than a week since my husband, Emory McLaurin, was involved ina train wreck.
The engineer of the train was a pen, the engine a piece of paper, the steam a human.

I’m sure that, by now, anyone who knows and cares realizes Emory is no longer at Davidson
College. On Feb. 3, 1998, he was hit full-force by the train’s engine. Yes, itran right overhim. He didn’t
even see it coming. The bottom line of my analogy: Emory’s position as Detective/ Lieutenant was
eliminated. :

“Heartbreaking” can’t begin to describe how both of us felt. Maybe the impact would have been
less devastating if the train’s light had been seen down the track, but it wasn’t. I was with my husband
when he grieved and cried over the passing of his dad, and I’m with him now as he — as we — experience
a pain and hurt almost as traumatic.

His job of 12 years has been rewarding and, yes, even fun for Emory. How many people do you
know who could say the same thing? Can you? The main reason for my writing this letter is to ask,
“Why?” Did someone, anyone, talk with Emory before this happened? Scary thing, isn’t it?

“To Protect and Serve.” I guess that doesn’t mean a great deal anymore, does it?

In closing I'll say the pain, hurt, and total disbelief Emory and I feel will ease. We have our faith
in God, our family, and friends. We will survive. Thanks to those who know and love Emory.

His loving wife,
Cynthia

Che Dabtdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL

News Layout Editor
MIKE GILLESPIE

Sports Editors

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

: ‘Arts & Living Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Photo Editor
SALLIE McCMURRAY

Copy Editors

DOUGLAS CUTTING WHITNEY BLAKE MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
- BRATTON HOLMES CINDY CLARK DAVID JOHNSTON
BRIAN MAYERHOFER ANNA ERICKSSON SCOTT REEDER
LYNSAY MADLEY
Op-Ed Editor
ERIN McKINLEY

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Circulation Manager
MERRITT ABNEY

Advertising Managers

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

below.

This pull-out is the second in a series of in-depth reporting on events which shape and
change our campus and the greater Davidson Community. It is the goal this publica-
tion to address the concerns of our loyal readers both here in Davidson and around the
world. Suggestions from students, faculty, townspeople, and alumni are welcomed,
as are criticisms or concerns. Please submit all Cotrespondesices to members of the

editorial board at davidsonian@davidson.edu or through the address listed in text

