By MIke ANDERSON
Sports Editor

In the women’s basketball team’s
second and final exhibition game on
Sunday, the opposing team: from Ft.
Bragg was tied up on I-77 and arrived at
Belk Arena almost half an hour after the
scheduled tip-off time. But when the
game finally did get underway, it was
the ‘Cats that looked like they barely
showed up.

Despite some impressive indi-
vidual performances, the ‘Cats headed
to the locker room at half-time trailing
the Ft. Bragg Lady Dragons 45-38.
Coach Filar noted after the game, “Not
exactly how you want to play in your
last exhibition game. You want your
last exhibition performance to be better
than your first, and unfortunately it
wasn’t. Maybe it was Fort Bragg get-
ting here so late that took us out of our
routine. It was nice to just come out
after half-time and see people still in the
stands.”

But the ‘Cats returned to true form
in the second half, and outscored their
opponents 48-28, eventuating in a 86-
73 victory over the Lady Dragons. Se-
nior center Jessica Montrella contrib-
uted a team-high 25 points, scoring ina
variety of ways—racking up numerous
points off the fast break, going six for
seven from the free throw line, andeven
knocking down a three-pointer.

Filar called a momentum-shifting
timeout with about nine minutes re-
maining in the game and his team still
down by six. The:starting five of Jamie
& Kerry Brown, Jen O’Brien, Katy

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kamp, Montrella returned to the floor
following that timeout, and led the ‘Cats
on a 27-8 run that sealed the victory.
For the second consecutive game, four
different ‘Cats scored in double digits
and a fifth added nine points. “That's
the way it should be,” praised Filar.
“We should have anywhere from five to
six players in double digits. We have
such a balanced team, that’s one of the
biggest problems we pose to other teams.
If you concentrate on shutting any one
of our players down, there are always
four others just as dangerous on the
floor.”

One of the challenges facing the
‘Cats, and all women’s basketball teams,
this year will be the increased strin-
gency adopted by the NCAA officiat-
ing crews. Officials called 49 personal
fouls in the season opener against Aus-
tralia-Victoria and fifty-one in the Ft.
Bragg exhibition game. “I’ve talked to
the officials,” said Filar. ““They’ ve told
us to expect this all year long.”

Filar’s ‘Cats ought to be the ideal
team to capitalize upon the stricter offi-
ciating that will lead to more players in
foul trouble and increased free throw
attempts. “It’s got to be a benefit. We
know our five starters can match up
with anybody out there, that’s how much
confidence I have in those five. What’s
gonna determine a lot of games for us,
is how well we can use our bench.
When they come off the bench, they’ ve
got to make the most of their opportuni-
ties. With our depth, we should be able
to see eight to ten players in double-
digit minutes every game.”

Among those contributing off the

bench will be a spectacular incoming
class of freshmen. Commenting on
Sunday’s game, Filar said, “Bethany
Schott did areally nice job on the boards.
Janna (Magette) really stepped up to, as
did Kelly Copland.” Filar also predicted
great things from D’Erica Taylor, and
Leah Uhernik, who will begin practices
on Thursday after recovering from an
ACL-injury.

Magette, in particular, has been
racking up aton of spectacular numbers
early. The freshman guard from Bir-
mingham, Alabama knocked down three
shots from behind the arc Sunday night
while adding four steals and seven re-
bounds. Magette seems to complement
so well the play of junior star point
guard Jen O’Brien. Says O’Brien, “It’s
so nice to be able to pass to somebody
that’s so confident in themselves. She
can really knock ‘em down, it’s great to
have her.”

The ‘Cats leave town this week-
end for their first big test of the season,
a showdown with national powerhouse
Southwest Missouri State in the first
round ofthe WNIT pre-season tourna-
ment. “It’s not only going to be such a
challenge to handle a team as good as
Southwest Missouri State,” commented
Filar, “but to handle the atmosphere
that’s gonna be there, is going to make
this team grow up awfully quickly. It’s
going to make any crowd or any gym
we see in the Southern Conference seem
awfully small in comparison. It’s going
to be exciting. Who knows, we came
close to Vandy last year. Hopefully we
can catch them (Southwest Missouri
State) looking ahead a little bit.”

Women’s Baketball comes back to defeat Fort Bragg

Sallie McMurray

@ Kerry Brown draws a foul during the ‘Cats 86-73

victory over Fort Bragg.

Football win ties school record for single season wins

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As Senator/Astronaut John Glenn
spent his ninth and final day in orbit on
board the space shuttle Discovery last
Saturday, one man-made structure was
visible from his bird’s eye view above
our atmosphere: the Great Wall of China.
From the perspective of the Richardson
Field spectator stands on Saturday, one
entity loomed every bit as large as that
storied Wall: the Wildcat defense.

Defensive coordinator Tripp
Meritt’s squad continued their season-
long dominance on Saturday, deliver-
ing arecord-setting victory over Centre
College to the 1,900-plus students and
fans in attendance on the blustery but
sun-kissed autumn afternoon. With the
21-6 win over Centre, the 7-2 Wildcats
have made their mark as among the best
teams in 101 years, tying the record for
wins in a season. Head coach Tim
Landis, who guided this football pro-
gram out of the depths of despair into a

©

Division I-AA national powerhouse,
was recognized for his efforts Saturday
when his players hoisted him upon their
shoulders and carried him across the
field. The team will journey to
Bridgewater College in Virginia this
weekend with a chance to become our
winningest team ever.

Entering this weekend’s action,
the Wildcats claimed one of the top
defenses in Division I-AA football. They
were tied for first in pass defense, ranked
second in scoring defense, and second
in total defense (allowing but 231 yards
per game).

On Saturday, the Wildcats: held
Centre College to only 184 yards and
one scoring drive, while recovering two
fumbles and picking off 3 passes.

In the 4" quarter, the Davidson
defense delivered what radio announcer
Frank Santore called “One of the great-
est goal-line stands in Wildcat history!”
The Centre College offense had taken
control of the ball on Davidson’ s 6 yard
line after a Wildcat fumble. On four
straight plays, the Wildcat defense

To the Davidson Students:

March.

' Sincerely,
The Men’s Basketball Team

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Although the emotions of the 1997-98 men’s basketball season have long
faded, we continue to have flashbacks that provide memories which we will
cherish forever. We can vividly see the student section and the painted faces
and the bare chests as well as the artfully crafted signs. We can also clearly hear
the carefully orchestrated cheers and shouts of encouragement and inspiration
that were with us from the opening tap of November to the final seconds of

The greatest joy of success is being able to share it with others. For us, you
became the perfect partner in the wonderful experience of last season. We
realize the vital role that you played in cheering us on in many of the close
victories that we had last year. Now, we ask for your support and inspiration
again. Our quest for excellence begins on Tuesday, November 17 at the
Charlotte Coliseum against Duke University. The Blue Devils claim to be not
only the #1 rated men’s basketball team in America but also have the #1 fans
in America. Join us on Tuesday and show a national television audience what
kind of students and fans we have at Davidson. Join us all season long and be
part of what can become another very special season.

stifled Centre’s offensive thrusts—cap-
ping it off with a 4" down pass deflec-
tion by Donnie Johnson, to give the
‘Cats possession.

But on the ensuing play, Eric
Ferguson coughed up the football, and
Centre’s offense had a second chance,
this time from Davidson’s 8. Yet again,
the Wildcat defense was impenetrable—
sophomore sensation Bo “The Bronco”
Henderson stuffed a 4""-and-inches run
with a punishing tackle on the goal line.
Santore called: “Bronco! Bronco! Big
Bad Bo!!!”

The ‘Cat defense was tested thrice
more that half, and all three times, Cen-
tre College came up with nothing, seal-
ing a 21-6 victory.

When asked about the team’s he-
roic effort, senior captain Tom Ting
described it as: “Business as usual. We
told each other before the game: “This is
our house.’ Centre College happened to
be the unfortunate opponent in between
us and our goal. And they weren’t going
to do it in our house.”

‘The Herculean performance of Tripp

Merritt’s defensive unit inspired a Wild-
cat-variation on a fabled football joke
Saturday:

Q: Why couldn’t the Centre Col-
lege team bus cross the state line on
their trip home to Kentucky on Satur-
day night? :

A: Tripp Merritt painted a goal
line there.

Ting was among those offering
praise for thé leadership and perfor-
mance of Head Coach Tim Landis and
Defensive Coordinator Tripp Merritt,
who worked intently at improving the
defense squad for this season. “We trust
the coaches. We trust ‘em every bit.
They told us they were going to make
changes. We have faith in our coaches
and our teammates. We have unlimited
faith and confidence in our coaches and
ourselves.”

Though he insisted that the unit
has functioned as a team from day one,
there seemed to be a special place in
Coach Merritt’s heart for senior defen-
sive back Clif Henry, the nation’s lead-

ing pass interceptor. “Clif Henry is the
heart and soul of this defense. He re-
fused to lose today. He’s carried us all
year long. Big plays. Big hits. The rest
of the defense thrives off of the things
he does. I’m as proud of him:as I can
be.” ; ,

Saturday was a particularly spe-
cial day in particular for the veterans of
this Wildcat squad. A class of seniors
that won but one game in their freshman
campaign brought home a record sev-
enth victory on Senior Day a
Richardson Field. ‘
Ting suffered a concussion on
Wednesday’s practice—but refused to
sit out of his last home game as a Wild-
cat. After the game, he said, “Words
can’t describe the feeling I have. I told
the guys Friday night: “It wasn’t that the
team needed me to play. But that. I
needed the team, to be able to play.’
Every one of these guys is my brothers,
and there’s nothing in the world I would
trade for this feeling, the feeling that we
have this year.”

New kids knock off Men’s Soccer

By Linpsey Vact
Guest Writer

The Davidson Wildcat men’s soc-
cer team finished its season last Tues-
day, losing in the first round of the
Southern Conference tournament 5 to 2

: 2
Coll. of Charleston 5

to the College of Charleston, compet-
ing in the Southern Conference for the
first time.

Starters for Davidson were Brad
Stroble, Hart Roper, Andy Lanoha,
Andrew Holbrook, Lawrence Cann, Pat
Miller, Dave Buehler, Dane Erickson,
Chris Murray, Derek Kilburn, and Jer-

emy Kilburn.

The first goal for Charleston came
at 17:26 off a penalty kick by Tim
Sparks. Goal number two was scored at
32:37 by Charleston’s Vladimir Suite,
assisted by Michael Dobbs. The final
goal of the half came at 40:57 by cougar
Chris Imfeld with the assist by Mark
Henley. Davidson and Charleston were
evenly matched with five shots a piece.
The wildcats dominated in corner kicks
Sto l.

In the second period, Stroble,
Kleiman, Lindsey, Lanoha, Holbrook,
Harrell, Cann, Miller, Buehler,
Erickson, and Tyler started off. The
Cougars put in two more goals at 48:40
and 63:08. Davidson’s two goals came
at 63:41 and 83:01 by Dave Buehler and
Andrew Holbrook, assisted by Dane

Erickson and Drew Lindsey.

The final score did not paint the
full picture as Davidson had 16 total
shots on goal to Charleston’s 12. The
‘Cats put up a good fight and played a
skillful game, but just weren’t able to
convert the shots to goals.

The semi-finals and final of the
tournament were played at Davidson
and UNCG was victorious over Furman.

