By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

First of all, I like the Spice Girls. In fact, I'd
almost go so far as to say that I Jove the Spice Girls
— and dammit, I’m not afraid to admit it.

Knowing this, it may come as less of a shock
that I trekked to Movies at the Lake this past Friday
to see “Spice World” on its opening night.

My evening began with a semi-lengthy pre-
Spice fest at home, during which my friends and I
all got into “the mood” with beverage and “Romy
and Michele’s High School Reunion” — the fun-
niest chick flick since “Clueless,” if you ask me.
Around nine..the six of us piled into the spacious,
surprisingly cushy Vamanos Van for the short ride
to Cornelius.

By the time we’d had our tickets torn by the
elderly usher who has created such high standards
at the Lake, run to the Ladies’ one last time, and

filed into our seats in an order pleasing to most, the
Sea of Cola and Popcorn Volcanoes were already
flying by on the screén. I settled back into my
(stadium) seat, preparing for the coming entertain-
ment.

I should interject at this point that I didn’t
have highexpectations for “Spice World.” Imean,

I love the Spice Girls simply because of their
vacuous lyrics and contrived personalities — for
the very lameness that sets the teeth of everyone
but pre-pubescent girls (and certain post-pubes-
cent guys) on edge.

Despite my low expectations, however, I was

‘prepared to laugh at the Spice Girls until my

spleen migrated.

And laugh I did, sometimes to the point that
the middle schoolers occupying the row in front of
us turned around to glare menacingly. (Obvi-
ously, to them the Spice Girls are no laughing
matter.)

Color me intoxicated — by Girl Power, of
course — but I found almost everything in “Spice
World” highly amusing.

The flick did, however, contain a few minor
faults, the first being an attempt at a plot. The
action (for those with low thresholds of excite-
ment) basically consisted of Scary, Baby, Posh,
Sporty, and Slutty — I mean, Ginger — Spice
running around in scanty clothing (most of Ginger’ s
ensembles were limited to Sports Illustrated Swim-
suit Issue-esque leotards) and shoes even the most
hard-core fashion maven wouldn’t be caught dead
in.

The girls alternately fight with their manager,

Momix to

field

help their non-Spice friend as she labors to deliver
a baby that has to be about six months old at birth,
and foil James Bond’ snot-so-slick, far less attrac-
tive, evil twin as he attempts to “expose” the Spice
Girls through a series of airbrushed photos and
quotes taken out of context: tabloid journalism at
its sleaziest.

Let me ruin the ending for you: the Spice
Girls make up with their manager, cause Evil
Bond to realize the errors of his ways, and spend
just enough time with the half-grown “baby” be-
fore they careen off in their double-decker Spicebus
(which bears a remarkable resemblance to the
Vamanos Van, by.the way) and arrive, only slightly
tardy, to their first big live performance. What a
shocker. ,

Like any bad movie trying for a degree of
depth, there are a few subplots, including Evil
Bond, the pregnant friend, and an ill-conceived
love affair between the girls’ manager and his
mousy assistant, which apparently culminates with
the two engaging in a drunken one-night stand
(off-screen, of course, so as not to actually add
anything to the movie).

Amidst all of this meaningless maneuvering,
though, is the real gem of the movie: the music.
The Spice Chicks almost glow as they prance

TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

pice World” empty, but entertaining

around a small cafe and “improvise” the lyrics to
“Wannabe” for what is apparently supposed to be
the first time. “Say You’ll Be There” and a few of
the group’s lesser-known tunes (ie, the five mil-
lion other songs that haven’t yet hit radio play-
lists) were also peppered artfully throughout..  ~

The finale, of course, was the new Latino-
esque “Spice Up Your Life,” sung during the girls’
very “first” concert at the movie’s conclusion.

Despite its low-IQ, accidental humor and
psychotic energy, “Spice World” ultimately left.
me cold (though my friends and I did irritate the
Vamanos Van driver the whole way back with
nerve-grating lower-class British accents, cour-
tesy of the Spice Girls).

Now, four days after seeing the flick, very
little that I didn’t make note of Friday night (with
pen and paper the moment I returned to my room)
remains in my memory: the movie was, on the
whole, simply not memorable.

Though I wouldn’t rule “Spice World” out
for.a fun, Friday-night flick, | wouldn’t necessar-
ily pay the newly-inflated student rate of $4.50 —
plus the $2 round-trip Vamanos Van fare, if you
really want to enjoy yourself — to see it at the
Lake, either.

Rated PG.

Kanengiser thrills Hodson audience

By WeEsLeY H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Momix, a creative seven-mem-
ber team of dancer-illusionists, will
present the third
installment of
the 1997-1998
Davidson Col-
lege Artists Se-
ries on Wednes-
day, Feb. 4.

The  16-
year-old dance
theater troupe
will perform
their acclaimed
choreographed
show, entitled
“Baseball.” The show was completed,
ironically, just prior to the August
1995 cancellation of the remainder of
the Major League season.

Momix is masterminded by ar-
tistic director and founder Moses
Pendleton, who also helped. found
Pilobolus, a dance ensemble which
performed in last year’s Artists Series.

@ Momix

Love Auditorium
Stage |

In “Baseball,” Pendleton, accord-
ing to Time Magazine, “revives the
buoyant, untrammeled spirit of what
playing and watching the game has
been and ought to be. Pendleton, a
lifelong Red Sox
fan, seems to be
the ultimate
choice to have
choreographeda
work of this na-
ture. He strives
to represent all
aspects of the
game, from its

formative stages
through the
present, with

: several scenes

mocking obnoxious fan behavior.

Momix is comprised of dancer/
athletes Dawn Cargiulo, Sandy Chase,
Celina Chaulvin, Kevin Kimple,
Suzanne Lampl, Cynthia Quinn, and
Brian Simerson.

Tickets for next Wednesday’s
show cost $8 for general admission, $5
for students.

Guitarist gives one of the year’s most enthralling performances

By Wes.tey H. Go_psBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

The guitar, despite its overwhelm-
ing popularity, among college students
and adults alike, is less often associated
withclassical music than the more main-
stream instruments of the symphony
orchestra. Wednesday night, guitarist
William Kanengiser demonstrated gui-
tar technique rarely found in popular
music, suchas that of bands like Tool or
the Pixies.

Kanengiser’s two-hour. perfor-
mance before a packed Hodson audi-
ence featured a variety of musical styles
and genres, with the second half featur-
ing “Music of the Caribbean.”

The first piece, Sonata in D Major
by Santiago de Murcia (a native of
Mexico), was believed to have been
written around 1732. From the first
measure on, spectators were entranced
with the girth of Kanengiser’s technical
proficiency, his hands effortlessly danc-

_ing about the frets. As many notes as he

was able to play at one time, it seemed
that he must have had at least eight
fingers on his right hand.

The “Six Balkan Miniatures (for
World Peace)” by Dusan Bogdanovic
were especially challenging, with one

of the movements utilizing an 1 1-beat
meter (as opposed to the more ubiqui-
tous square or triple meters). Several of
these miniatures, which did indeed leave
the audience pining away for world
peace, incorporated percussive effects
that included Kanengiser beating the
face and end of the guitar.

In what was debatably the apex of
his performance, Kanengiser performed
his own arrangement of Mozart’s fa-
mous Sonata in A Major, K. 331. Origi-
nally written for keyboard, the guitarist
was required to pluck four notes at a
time throughout the piece, and perform
many melodic affectations that were
never intended to have been played on
guitar. The sonata was on the edge of
“playability,” as Kanengiser admitted,
but he pulled it off with plenty of flair.

The remainder of the program con-
sisted of tunes with a Caribbean flavor,
featuring compositions by Manuel
Ponce, Ernesto Garcia de Leon, Ernesto
Cordero,. and Louis Gottschalk.
Cordero’s “Dos Piezas Afro-Antillanas”
featured several fascinating effects in-
volving the use of harmonics.

Although everyone in the audi-
ence wouldn’t have thought it possible,
Kanengiser did continue to outdo him-
self until the very last string had been

plucked. Gottschalk’s ‘Marcha de los
Gibaros,” one of the last tunes that the
guitarist performed, was the only one in
which he made observable mistakes.
These were, of course, negligible errors
and did not at all detract from the crowd’ s
awe.

Kanengiser performed a short Cu-
ban piece for an encore.

William Kanengiser, in addition
to his solo career, performs in the Los
Angeles Guitar Quartet and is on fac-
ulty at the University of Southern Cali-
fornia. There he performed at a 1981
master class given by classical guitar
great Andres Segovia.

He has also appeared in a motion
picture, “Crossroads,” starring Ralph
Macchio (of “Karate Kid” fame), in
which he performed the Turkish March
from the Mozart sonata that he tran-
scribed.

Kanengiser has also made a few
instructional videos for aspiring classi-
cal guitarists. “Classical Guitar Mas-
tery: William Kanengiser” can be pur-
chased for the rock-bottom price of just
$39.98,

Kanengiser’s guitar recital was
undoubtedly one of the most entertain-
ing of the year, and will likely be long
remembered.

Coffeehouse. Doughnuts are 25 cents each. Even for the little
Sweet Sixteen kind. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in 900 Room.
Yearbook picture retakes, You had your eyes closed again this
year, didn't you? 10:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. In the Morrison Room.
McCormick Seminary. Check it out. 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. In
the Union Lobby.

Leaders Discuss
11:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m. In the Home Room.
Diversity Week. Selected event will ensue. 7:00-9:30 p.m. In
the 900 Room.
Jumpin’ Java, Play Scrabble. Hoard blanks and use all your
letters for 50 extra points. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Atthe Outpost.
State of the School Address. Buster speaks. 8:15 p.m. in the
Morrison Room.
21-¥ Beer on a Tuesday night? Why not? 10:00
p.m.-12:20 a.m. In the 900 Room.

ing leaders.

D Week. More diverse stuff. 5:00-7:00
p.m. In the Home Room.
tation Class. Ommmmm. 5:30-6:30 p.m.
in the Union Conference Room.
ting Disorder Awareness. ‘Said awareness
be found in the 900 Room from 7:00-9:00
p.m. ;
‘Anchors Away. For more information, contact
the Union. 7:30-8:30 p.m. In the Home Room.
onty Python’s: The. of Life.”
= sperm is sacred. 9:30 p.m. In the 900
oom.

College Bowl.. Because you
know that the capital of Burkina
Faso is Ouagadougou. 4:00-
6:00 p.m. In Phi and Eu Halls.
Diversity Week. Continued.
6:00-9:00 p.m. At the Outpost.

Viadimir Pechatnov. Bring your
balalaika. 7:30-9:00 p.m. Inthe
900 Room.

Rape Awareness Meeting.
8:00-9:00 p.m. In the Morrison
Room.

Coffeehouse. Except it’s

oe

really just the
900 Room in disguise! 8:15-11:15 a.m.
In Juan Valdez’s home away from home,
the 900 Room.

FAC. Beer ona Friday afternoon? Why
not? 4:30-5:30 p.m. In the 900 Room.
Chili Cook-Off. “This stuff’s made in
New York City!” Today it’s being made
in Davidson, 5:30-7:00 p.m. In the 900
Room.

wage

Dennis Adrian. He's an art

critic, and he criticizes art at the
VAC from 7:00-8:30 p.m.

“Monty Python’s: The Mean-
ing of Life.” It’s funny. Go see
it. 9:30 p.m. In the 900 Room.

the 900 Room.

information, contact Ben Klein.
9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. In Love
Auditorium.

Diversity Week. “Persistence
and determination alone are
omnipotent.” 1:00-5:00 p.m. In

Math competition. For more

Jumpin’ Java. Nothing else is
happening. Grab some free
caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.
At the Outpost.

F.L.A.G. Fashion Show. Sec-
ond time’s a charm. 8:00-10:00
p.m. In the Chambers Gallery.

TJ Reddy Exhibit. Art exhibit. All
day long, all week long. At the
VAC.

Jumpin’ Java. Because those
quesadillas need more time to di-
gest. 7:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m.

Live Monday. Live music on Mon-
day. Free water available at the
bar. 9:30 p.m.-12:00 a.m.

