\ Rob Haeke\

Senseless Acts of Hate

David Rosenberg
Sophomore Perspective

In all truth, a bigot did not write those
words.

I know who wrote it.

Just some drunken kid who thought
he’d amuse his friends by disrespecting a
public figure in a chilling way.

He doesn’t wear a white robe with a
pointed cap. He doesn’t carry a noose in his
left hand and a cross in his right. He shops
at JCrew and dances on Patterson Court. He
studies on the first floor of the library and
when he goes to the Outpost for a study
break he orders a Chicken Caeser Bagel.

He is not a ficticious character dreamt
up as a sociology project to study racial
relations at Davidson. He is one of us, a
smiling comrade’ who upholds the same
morals each of us calls Davidson standards.

Thank goodness he scribbled. It shows
us where we are.

One can argue that this is one insignifi-
cant case of random racism. But ask any
minority student, and they will tell you of at
least one instance in which they have felt
discrimination because of their skin color.
Go ahead, ask them. “One instance,” white
students say, “It’s just one.” But ask enough!
people and add one and one and one. .. That
number soon becomes disgustingly large.

Many spoke at the Student Forum of
demanding a full holiday for Martin Luther
King, Jr. Day. They also insisted that the
honor council insert racial discrimination
clause into the Code of Responsibility.

It’s a start. These are both arguments
that we need to address and follow up.

But its only a start. It does not accom-
plish more than put a fancy prom dress on a
dateless high school senior. It pretties her up
abit and makes her feel good, but in the long
tun she finds she still can’t go the party.

How can we deny that prejudices exist

Debunking the DC Bubble

President Bobby Vagt

“I think the clarion call to action
_ was great - and I hope that those

actionsd do not limit their focus
only to race, but extend to all those
areas of inequity which may exist
in this community . . . I hope that
our continuing conversation
sensitizes all of us to the reality of
these actions as well.”

Dean Ernest Jeffries

“I challenge each member of this
community to silence the doubter.
Keep the discussion of race in the
forefront. .. . Hold this institution
and all members of the community
accountable when it comes to
diversity.”

Dean Tom Shandley

“The dicussions that have stemmed
from the incident have restored a
sense of community that had been
damaged and affirmed for some
students that they truly belong here.
But those are just first steps and
can’t be forgotten as we look inside
and outside the classroom.

when the only openly gay student on the
Davidson campus withdrew his attendance
because he found the social enviornment too
uncomfortable? Why does this not embarrass
us? Racial and sexual orientation discrimina-
tion are not things that we can dismiss.
Weare cheating these students from their

college experience. No student can possibly -

fathom what courage it must take to attend a
school with a majority of a different race. If
one believes that he or she can imagine what
courage it takes then I encourage them to
enroll ina semester at Howard University and
be one of 180 caucasian students in a univer-
sity of 9,000.

I encourage them to picture themselves
there. Think about it.

This cannot be left untouched. The mo-
mentum from this incident must be used to
inform the white population of Davidson
College that we do have a problem here and
they are part of it. It takes an effort to change.

Students must understand and accept that
racism exists here. Though the SGA spon-
sored student forum last Tuesday was impres-
sive and needed, those who attended were not
those who needed to. Those who attended
were the concerned, not the ignorant. Manda-
tory programs won’t do the changing and
neither will the implication of aracism policy.
The simple empathism, understanding, and
recognition that racism exists can bring about
change.

Some might say that this is an insignifi-

cant practice of random prejudice and a

sensless act of hatred.

And it just might be. But at the same
token, it is just that: a random act of prejudice
anda sensless act of hatred. This is not an
issue that the nervous butterflies of SGA get
strung up about and eventually dies down.
This is real.

So are men with white robes and pointed

-caps.
What they feel is real.
Empathize.

‘Carrie Arthur
Sophomore Perspective

We, Davidson students, live in a pro-
tected bubble, an utopia of sorts, where we
believe that the common ailments of ordi-
nary, real society do not affect us. Many of
us have no.clue about the events in the
outside world. When was the last time you
read a newspaper or watched the news (how-
ever flawed it is)? Can anyone tell me

* something about current events (not includ-

ae)
JR

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1998

of Chambers, the VAC, and other buildings,
were the real Davidson. Yes, our community
is probably safer and more honest than most.
Similar to many people, I have a great Honor
Code story where someone returned to mea
lost pearl earring two weeks after I lost it. I
still leave my door unlocked, take reviews in
my room, and enjoy a library without detec-
tors, but the Honor Code and Code of Respon-
sibility which we follow do not pertain to the
outside world, a world which the College
cannot escape. Not even every student fol-

lows these codes all of the

ing political science majors)
otherthan Clinton and Monica?

time (if everyone did, the

Unfortunately, real society The time has come preahiinees nea a
and its problems do exist here. f or us to confr ont gece sank: world
We are not immune to real prob- openly what is wrong . .

‘ : ° ‘ where everyone is honest is
lems despite our comforting with Davidson as well ne
laims that “Davidson isn’t lik pas iaet wonderful as a vision for
aes: . ete gia: ‘ © as what is right. We what we would like society
Sriatee: "Although We: cal Should destroy the _ tobe, butitis nota realistic
pretend that Davidson is an ideal Sup erficial umage of a pci We nad ra
world in itself these delusions happy, cheery wor Id mest reali with an ‘open
cannotchange the reality of what because our feelings ™°"" ty n OP

. . : A mind instead of rejecting
Davidson is. Ignoring problems of superficial safety

does not make them disappear;

ignorance merely comforts us.
Bad things do happen at

Davidson. Girls (and possibly

and comfort do no
good; they serve us
an injustice.

any comment about the im-
perfection of Davidson, the
most common response.
Just because someone says
that our school is not per-

guys) are raped, computers and
bikes are stolen, and strangers do come on
campus with ill intentions from which the
Honor Code or Code of Responsibility can-
not protect us. Last year, two police officers
and one teenager died too close to our be-
loved school in the town of Davidson. Cap-
tain Stancil of the Mecklenburg County
Sheriff's Office gave his life in the line of
duty this year. Just tonight, I heard stories of
people from off-campus chasing students,
and last year when I went to Dance Davidson
(in the town hall) a strange man hung out by
the exit and harassed students.

I wish that our vision of the ideal
Davidson, where our only concerns were the
selection at the Union Cafe and the closing

fect does not mean that he ~
or she is trashing it.

If we pride ourselves in our ideals we also
need to accept the truth as well. By discussing
instead of hiding our problems we can better
face them.

The time has come for us to confront
openly what is wrong with Davidson as well as
what is right.

We should destroy the superficial image
of a happy, cheery world right next to Smurfs
and Carebears because our feelings of super-
ficial safety and comfort do no good; they
serve us an injustice.

If we accept our actual environment, we
will find it to be not as horrible as it seems and
we will be better prepared for it.

, Solu

ons to Racial Friction

the same thing, let’s get down to the real
issue athand. Iam young, white, and liberal.
I have little in common with Mr, Dylan
Glenn, but that does not mean that I will

