“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
EstaBLisHeD 1914

AL. BoN. D Aigo US... UB I

Save the elephants.
Help PiKA buy Dumbo.

NEws 3

Randy sucks.
And he’s.a potential rapist, too.

OPINIONS 9

O.R.T.A....L.1 B.EB.R.T.AS

All the world’s a stage.
Methinks I see a drama approaching.

A&L10

DSS award winners.
Our picks for the best of the best.

SPORTS 13,14

Room.

Christina Biedermann was one of the organizers and the first speaker at this year’s Take Back the Ni

allie McMurray

ght, held last Thursday in the 900

Take Back the Night provides a forum for assault victims

By SARAH OGDEN
Co-Editor in Chief

Last Thursday, the 900 Room filled to capac-
ity and people had to be turned away for Take Back
the Night, a nation-wide event during which people
speak out about sexual assault.

This year, ten women:spoke of their experi-
ences with rape and sexual assault at ages ranging
from seven years old to college-age. Of those, an
overwhelming majority talked about their own
experiences, and in most cases, alcohol played a
role in the assault.

As’ people filed in, greeters handed them
pieces of red string to tie around their friends’

wrists as areminder of the bond among women and
as promise to watch out for each other.

The evening opened with Diane Krause’s
singing; she accompanied herself on guitar. Krause
said that for her, Take Back the Night is “‘a great
time of healing, and I hope that happens tonight for
individuals and the community.”

Christina Biedermann, who organized the
event along with-Hallie Pitkin, began Take Back
the Night with some statistics: 80 eighty percent of
rapes are acquaintance rapes, where victims know
their attackers. Fifty percent involve drugs or
alcohol.

Only four percent of all reported rapes are
false.

“Rape is an act of violence, not a misunder-
standing,” said Biedermann. “Bad choices do not
give permission for rape.”

Two women who spoke had taken their cases
before the Honor Council. In one case, the defen-
dant was found not guilty due to lack of evidence.

In the other, one defendant was sentenced to _

social probation from the Court and community
service hours; the other defendant was found not
guilty. ;

“I didn’t feel very satisfied (with the ver-
dicts),” said the second woman.

She is glad she took her case before the
Council, though: “I know I did everything I could
do. And that makes me feel strong and good.”

Her case also helped point out holes in Col-
lege policies, she continued.

Some of the women offered advice for cop-
ing with sexual assault. For parents whose chil-
dren have been molested, one woman said, “Don’t
be afraid to support them. Don’t be afraid to talk
about it. Just listen; be open.”

“Take your time, use your own words, and
surround yourself with friends,” advised another,
“and it'll be okay.” Several of the other speakers
echoed that sentiment, remarking on the impor-
tance of support from their families and friends.

After five women had spoken, Tina Kanter,

See Take Back on page 4

Two Davidson seniors win Watson Fellowship

Press RELEASE
College Relations

Kenneth J. Howard from Char-
lotte, N.C. received a fellowship from
the Thomas J. Watson Foundation.
Howard will graduate in May 1998 with
a Bachelor of Science in Biology from
Davidson College.

Katherine Palmer from Salisbury,
N.C. also received a fellowship from
the Thomas J. Watson Foundation.
Palmer will graduate in May 1998 with
a Bachelor of Arts in Art History from
Davidson College.

Howard and Palmer are two of 60
Watson Fellows chosen in a national
competition among graduating seniors

from America’s leading liberal arts col-
leges. Each Watson Fellow will receive
$19,000 to travel on a wanderjahr to
explore a topic of his or her own choos-
ing outside the United States.

The Watson Fellowship Program
was begun in 1968 by the children of
Thomas J. Watson, Sr., the founder of
IBM, andhis wife, Jeannette K. Watson,
to honor their parents’ long-standing
interest in education and world affairs.

The Foundation selects Watson
Fellows based upon each nominee’s
character, leadership potential, willing-
ness to immerse him or herself in new
cultures, and the creativity and personal
significance of the project proposed.

More than 1,000 graduating col-

lege seniors from 51 participating lib-
eral arts colleges vied for the Watson
Foundation’s 60 $19,000 grants this
year.

In 1998-99, Watson Fellows will
visit more than 60 countries, including
Australia, the People’s Republic of
China, Burkina Faso, Namibia, and
Poland.

Howard’s independent study
project, “Stalking the Army Ants” will
take him to the Philippines, Kenya, and
Panama. Although the ants he wants to
observe are all considered “army ants,”
they will represent three genera or spe-
cies.

He will be studying the interac-

_ tions between these army ant colonies

and other species.

Palmer’s independent study
project, “Oh, What A Tangled Web I'll
Weave” will take her to Finland, Ger-
many, Ghana and Crete. Palmer pro-
poses to communicate not with her voice
or her eyes, but her hands. The craft of
weaving is practiced as a trade or a
hobby throughout the world and is of-
ten a cultural indicator of a particular
region or ethnicity.

Through her travels she hopes to

understand and learn from the weavers .

in each region. She will examine varia-
tions in weaving methods used in each
culture and observe how these differ-
ences affect the final handwoven prod-
uct.

“Rape is about social values. It is not a women’s issue.”
A SPEAKER AT TAKE BACK THE NIGHT

The Watson Foundation hopes that
a life-changing year spent pursuing
dreams and passions overseas will re-
sult in the Watson Fellows enriching
business, science, the arts, academia
and other fields when they return to
America,

EDITORIALS ................. 6
PEEP TERS osc ssc csetsacscees 6,7
ED yc crcsscactessiessnseeees 7
ARTS & LIVING ......... 10
ROR TES rccinccssscssietserens 16
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC-28036

