THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6,1998 = 5

Election provides fresh faces for Honor Council

BY ASHLEY E. KING
Staff Writer

As an integral part of life at Davidson Col-
lege, the Honor Code guides the thoughts and
actions of students on campus. Students leave
backpacks lying on tables, take our exams when-
ever we want without a supervisor, and leave dorm
rooms unlocked with laptop computers and color
TV sets waiting vulnerably inside. In short, stu-
dents trust each other. Although this system al-
most always works , there are a few times when
students are accused of violating the trust that
pervades the campus. In these cases, the Honor
Council, a trial court run by students themselves,
is called upon to resolve the matter. Because the
Honor Council impacts Davidson College in such
a critical way, the people who make up the honor
council are also a crucial influence in the identity
of our school. With elections just over, there are
many new personalities who will be contributing
to the Honor Council and thus to the life and
definition of Davidson College.

Among the new members are senior Nurica
Good, juniors Janice Baker and Robert Hawk, and
sophomores Chris Cho, Eric Knoche, Justin
Perkinson, and Lydia Wilson. All of them share
opinions about the Honor Code and its importance
at Davidson, while each one offers a unique per-
spective and personality to bring to the Honor
Council proceedings.

Nurica Good was elected from a group of
four seniors who were hoping for a spot on the
Honor ouncil. Jokingly saying that she first found
inspiration in Judge Wapner from the People’s’s
Court, Good also pointed to her trip abroad as an
influential factor in her decision to run for an

Honor Council position. “When I went abroad, it
was as if you couldn’t trust anybody. You always
had to watch your back. At Davidson, it’s almost
an ideal society. To be involved in something like
that is new and unique for me.” In joining the
Honor Council, Good said she hopes to help allay
some of the concerns that students may have about
the Honor Code. “The only thing I’d hope to
promote,” Good said, “is that the Honor Code isn’t
something students should be afraid of. It is their
friend.” Good said in closing, “I’m looking for-
ward to this because I’m a senior.and because it is
something néw. I’m also looking forward to it
because of the responsibility it entails.”

Janice Baker and Robert Hawk were elected
out of seven possible candidates to fill the posi-
tions open to juniors on the Honor Council.

Baker shared Good’s enthusiasm for her new
place on the Honor Council. “An overall sense of
honesty on campus is important,” she said. When
asked if she had ever had any experience with a
program that resembled the Honor Council, Baker
pointed to a high school court system in which she
participated, although she emphasized that this
court system was only “‘sort of similar” and “not as
large scale” as its Davidson counterpart. She says
that, in the course of this year, some of her goals
are simply “upholding the Honor Code and help-
ing it to continue to work for the school.”

In defining the Honor Council, Hawk re-
vealed what he considered to be his duty in the next
year as an Honor Council member. He said that the
honor council works to “uphold the rules that are
the Honor Code. It makes sure that every student
is playing by the same rules, and that it’s an even
playing field.” He wishes to “be as fair as possible
and try to consider all aspects of every case”
before rendering a decision.

The largest contingent of new mémbers inthe
honor council come from the sophomore class.
Elected out of 19 people, the new sophomores on
Honor Council this year are Chris Cho, Eric
Knoche, Justin Perkinson, and Lydia Wilson.

Like the other new members of the Honor
Council, Chris Cho emphasized the uniqueness
that the Honor Code adds to Davidson college.
Comparing her past experiences to her experi-
ences now, Cho said, “I did mock trial in high
school, but it wasn’t anything I was passionate
about. I am passionate about the Honor Council.”
Describing why she felt so inspired by the honor
code, she went on to say, “I believe strongly in the
integrity of our school. One of the things that
attracted me to Davidson was the base of trust
among faculty and students, and I desired the
privilege of taking an active part in helping it
continue.” Speaking of her aspirations for this
next year as an honor council member, Cho said
“What I really want to achieve is having compas-
sion and trying to understand where people are
coming from, and at the same time trying my
upmost to preserve the integrity of the honor
code.”

Echoing the other members feelings that the
most attractive aspect of being an Honor Council
member was upholding the Honor Code, Eric
Knoche also added that he felt joining the Honor
Council would be “a great opportunity to get into
the leadership at Davidson College.” In high
school, he participated in mock trials as well as
youth in government, but he admits that those
experiences were “nothing like this.” When asked
what he hoped to bring to the Honor Council this
year, Knoche responded, “I hope that what I would
be bringing, like any of the other members, is a
respect for and a belief in the honor code.”

When Justin Perkinson was asked what had
first attracted him to the honor council, he pointed
to an experience that he had as a Davidson student.
“I was walking back to my dorm froma flickerball
game, and there was this five dollar bill just sitting
there. It stayed there for days. I just wanted to be
a part of that because it seemed like such a central
aspect of the school.” Another reason why
Perkinson was so inspired by the ideas engendered
in the Honor Code was the contrast between
Davidson and his public high school where
Perkinson said, “there was a lot of cheating and no
student run outlet such as the Honor Council.” In
the next year, Perkinson hopes that.the students
will “have more of a union with the Honor Coun-
cil.”

Coupled with an interest in law, Lydia Wil-
son also cited her dedication to the ideals of the
Honor Code as the main reason why she decided to
run for the Honor Council. “I think the honor
council and the Honor Code itself are what the
Davidson community is built around.” Wilson
feels that the honor council is unique, saying “I °
think what is most important is that when a student
commits a violation, they’ re not directly subject to
the discipline of a dean or a faculty member who
may be out of touch. Students know you better and
can relate to you and thus judge you more fairly.”
Feeling much as Perkinson does, Wilson also
added that she hopes that she can hetp to make
students more knowledgeable about the Council’ s
proceedings. “A lot of students don’t understand
the process because a lot of it is closed sessions. I
would like to see students kept more aware of what
the Honor Council does and why.”

On the whole, the new Honor Council mem-
bers seem to share a strong commitment to the
underlying principles found in the Honor Code.

Well done! PORE 4 ABE i pe ONAP” sais

RE

wh amr

Congratulations to all the MS bike-a-thon participa

The Davidsonian eee eee eee ee eee oe eee ee Bach participant ried a minimum of $300 and pedsled a total of 150 miles.

Pe ARN lag ihe + See oat aL APOE ROE LM 8 IRM

Bruce Bell ‘01, Kenry Brophy “99, Ed Daugherty (Co-Director of D.0.), Sara Ehinger ‘99, Carley Goodnoe ‘01, os ee ‘00, Joanna Parker ‘02, Adam Sanders ‘00, and Julie Summersgill “00

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas.

It's all about making an impact.

Andersen Consulting Information Session

You know you're more than a piece of paper.
You're bursting with ideas and insights that can
change the world of business. And at Andersen

Consulting, we want them.

As a leading global management and technology
consulting organization, we bring our insights and
ideas to world-class clients to help them achieve

©1998 Andersen Consulting. All rights reserved An. equa! opportunity

profound change. After all, it takes powerful ideas to
align strategy with people, processes and technology.

We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and

expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All

employer

of which builds a solid foundation for your future.
Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself,
and most importantly, your ideas.

—Wednesday, October 21, The Chambers Gallery, 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.

Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

’

Andersen
Consulting

