THE DAVIDSONIAN ona

for this next semester to once again

challenge ourselves with all of our
brand-new nurture-away-fromschool
armor (beards and
goatees).. Along Es
with the New one SHIR a
Year’s armor and
the New Year’s
classes and the

I *m glad that we have all come back

should have. Go vote.

Now, elections are all about
change, and change is usually good
(and always inevitable).

Yester-
day we celebrated
Dr. King, a man
who took charge
of making change,
and he changed

New Year’s reso-
lutions come New
Year’s elections!

This issue of
the Davidsonian is coming out right
after election sign-ups have ended, but
there is still a good and very vital way to
be involved with the student body elec-
tions (which are coming up next week),
and that is by voting.

We are having elections for of-
fices in the Union, the SGA, the Honor
Council, important student councils, and
the ATC, the group that decides how
much money student organizations

how we live today
for so much the
better. Last week
I discussed a po-
tentially radical move with a buddy of
mine,. who really wanted to speak out
about something on campus. We dis-
cussed the possible negative and posi-
tive effects of his actions, and why I
bring this up with elections and Dr.
King Day is because it’s all about want-
ing change and having initiative.

The people who are going in front
of you this week, campaigning and com-
peting for these offices, are people who

are slaves and masters of change, slaves
in the way that there is going to be an
election whether they want one or not,
and masters in that they are throwing
themselves into the event of change.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was a slave
to white supremacy and racism, but
made himself a master of his fate by
doing nothing but doing.

Now I express this “doing” in a

SGA president calls for student involvemen

tween what these student organizations
do, and what Dr. King did, except in the
respect that they were and are about

change, initiative, and making the world —

better, more fun, more free.

Take the initiative to vote.

Read up on your candidates in the
special issue of the Davidsonian com-
ing out this week. If you think that none
of the people represent you or don’t

“Tf you think that none of the people represent you or
don’t stand for what you stand for, take the initiative to do

something yourself.”

way that makes it sound easy, and in
some respects it.is, but it is also the
hardest, for it is “to do”; it is “the do.”
Dr. King brought black Americans
closer to equality and changed the world.
I’m not trying to draw a parallel be-

stand for what you stand for, take the
initiative to do something yourself. Even
if you do think they represent you, still
take the initiative, saying “I’d do it
better,” and do it.

Get involved in a SGA committee

TR Ere ee IE eS RPE

or a Union Board committee. Partici-
pate in Reach Out or Service Council
programs, and work your way to the
top. These positions up for replacement
are incredible and lifechanging, and
school-changing, and they are what you
want them to be. And you are what you
want to be.

So vote; respect yourself and the
school.

I know I sound like a PEC
but I’m leaving this office now, and I
only want things to be better, and I’m

_counting on you to make things better.

I leave you with something that a friend
of mine sent me about taking the initia-
tive, and hopefully you will.

“Far better is it to dare mighty
things, to win the glorious triumphs,
even though checkered by failure, that
to rank with those poor spirits who
neither enjoy much nor suffer.much ,
because they live in the gray twilight
that knows not victory nor defeat”
(Teddy Roosevelt, 1899).

Abolishing the Davidson stigma

ell, Martin Luther King, Junior Day
came and went. How many of us will
remember the seminars and the dis-

cussions that took place in the Union? More
importantly, how many of us missed the seminars
and the discus-
sions that took-

the chance to enlighten ourselves and appreciate a

pivotal part of United States history. Where were
we?

Maybe we were studying for that review

tomorrow (probably not - since it’s only the sec-

ond week of classes), maybe we

were trying to get ahead in class, or

maybe we were using the extra free

place in the
Union?
Davidson

College canceled
afternoon classes
on Monday, Jan. 19, so that students and faculty
could attend the day's celebrations in the Union.
We, the always knowledge-thirsty students, had

time to continue the recovery pro-
gram from last weekend. What is a
justifiable excuse for missing such
an interesting and beneficial pro-
gram?

Is it possible that many of us don’t consider
the Civil Rights Movement to be an important part

that I am running desperately low

on excuses. So many people around me
seem prepared to move on with their lives after
they graduate, whether it be law school, teaching,
painting, banking, or consulting. Hell, a young
woman living next door to me has already ac-
cepted
a
great
job in
Mem-
phis.
One
of my
roommates is going into the army. Another is
going to grad school in Europe. And then there’s
my sorry self in a conference at the Career Ser-
vices Office thinking, “Gee, I bet I could make a
lot of money as a crack dealer.”

I: occurred to- me just the other day

my strange incapacity to perceive any sort of a
career calling. My attempts at rationalization,
however, often end up with the “I guess I’m just
not smart enough” response, but that sort of self-
pity only leads me toward an unbearable state of
depression — a condition that results when I
approach a precipice otherwise known as the
truth. I’d rather not go there.

And so here I am, like the little boy whose
homework was eaten by a dog, racking my brain
for a means to justify 1) my lack of direction and
2) the mere thought of wanting to be a crack
dealer.

Well, I think I have found the answer. At
first, it may be somewhat surprising, but I assure
you it will all make sense by the time I am
finished. I have decided that nobody could ever
disagree that my problems are due to none other
than El Nifio. That’s right, I am worthless be-
cause of El Nifio and for no other reason at all.
Like the fires in Malaysia, the ice storms in
Maine, the typhoons in Siberia, and the gangrene
epidemics in Peru, my unbearable state of immo-
bility can be attributed to a seasonal warming of
the world’s ocean currents. Makes perfect sense

Blame it on the rain

Believe me, I have diligently tried to reason .

to me.

And so the next time my parents call, asking
what I am going to do with my life, I will tell them
that I shall remain undecided until the waters
have cooled. When they laugh at me, I’ll tell
them that it’s not nice to mock EI Nifio. I'll warn
my parents that he could strike them at any time,
for El Nifio is capable of many magical, yet
potentially dangerous things, among them being
the uncanny ability to lure even the noblest of
mento the undesirable occupation of crack dealer.
I'll have countless newspaper and magazine ar-
ticles to prove it. That will shut them up.

Now that I think about it, this El Nifio thing
could turn out tobe an extremely economical
tool. Instead of the taking the GREs,.I’ll send a
letter to graduate schools informing them that I
was unable to take the test because El Nifio broke
every last one of my No. 2 pencils. How could
they possibly argue with such irrefutable logic? I
amaze even myself.

Even now I am starting to realize the full
potential of this phenomenon. I mean, this could
be used. by any person in any given dilemma.
Hugh Grant could have benefitted greatly from
my discovery, for Divine Brown (Iam absolutely
sure of it) was really El Nifio dressed like a
prostitute. He’s tricky like that sometimes, the
little devil.

What about Black Monday, one of the big-
gest stock market crashes of all time? That was
El Nifio, too. He invested — heavily I might add
— in artichokes, grain, toilet paper, lead, Apple,
and Toyota, a portfolio that drove the economic
world to its knees. Only El Nifio could do sucha
thing.

Take Chris Farley, for instance. How did he
die? It was the fatal mixture of alcohol, cocaine,
and just a touch of El Nifio. Such a concoction
would kill any man.

Iconclude this article by giving the power of
EI Nifio to you. Be extremely delicate with him,
I warn you. Use him to your advantage, but do so
with discretion. It takes a wise man to rationalize
the irrational. Now if you'll excuse me, I’ve got
to go sell some crack...

of our lives? Is it possible that we consider it to be
something that happened before us, or as Erin
Smith said, “something we can thank someone
else for doing?” If we think discrimination and
segregation is over and done with, we are sadly
mistaken. One only needs to-open his or her eyes
and take a look at this campus.

Why can’t Davidson attract more minorities?
The small number of minorities on campus re-
flects an attitude of complacency and a willing-
ness to let the Davidson stigma prevail. Could it be
due to the fact that we appear to be a school for
upper-middle class, J. Crew-clad, Caucasian stu-
dents?

In the Union, I attended a seminar given by
Dr. Sally McMillen entitled “Women in the Civil
Rights Movement.” Dr. McMillen asked the
group (of about 50) if we think we are moving
forward or backward in relation to the ‘SOs and
‘60s. Many students felt that we are not moving
backward, but instead, we are not moving at all.
Maybe we take the Civil Rights Movement for
granted, and we are simply reaping the benefits. I
have to wonder if our generation would have the
courage and the determination to lead a similar
movement, could we be leaders like Dr. King and
Rosa Parks?

Some might say that there’s no need for such
enthusiasm, because everything is just fine. Be-
fore I attended Dr. Russ Snapp’s and Dr. Barbara
Ballard’s seminar entitled “RACE: Shaping Our
Perceptions of Ourselves and Others,” I might

have agreed with this complacent attitude. How-
ever, during the discussion portion of this seminar,
more than a few Davidson students said that they
felt uncomfortable being a minority on this cam-
pus.

Many African-American students said that
they think of themselves as being African-Ameri-
can before they think of themselves as being
simply American. Does it also follow that they
think of themselves as African-American students
at Davidson College, as opposed to thinking of
themselves as Davidson College students? If we,
as students, can’t think of ourselves as being equal
on this campus then how can we pretend that we
don’t have a problem with diversity and equality?

As students, we always hear about the need to
ignore the color of people’s skin and search for
their character. Since elementary school, we have
been taught about the good of equality and the evil
of discrimination. Yet, in reality, we still have
trouble applying these classroom lessons. The
only way we will remember and utilize these
lessons is through extra effort.

Bit by bit, each seminar, lecture, and celebra-
tion reminds us for an hour, a day, or a week that
we still haven’t fully matured in our views toward
racism and equality. We are reminded that even
Davidson College is not a perfect place, but if we
engage ourselves in thinking about the problems
of discrimination and racism, we may find that we
grow more tolerant and more wise, and this will
benefit everyone on campus.

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR @

The tale of a stranded passenger

To the Editor:

When people ask me how I manage without a car in a town as small as Davidson, I tell them that
Davidson provides transportation via the Vamanos Van for those car-less students who dare to venture
off campus for an evening away from studying. Not having a car has not bothered me thus far, because
I know that there is always something I can do on campus during the weekend. However, I decided that
I would enjoy going to the movie theater Saturday night. My friends and I decided to rely on the
Vamanos Van, since we knew it would provide our transportation at a minimal fee and that it would be
there to pick us up after the movie — or so we thought. Upon disembarking the Van, we told our driver
what time to come back for us after the movie. The driver said that she would advise the driver of the
next shift of our plans. When it became 11:45 and the Vamanos Van had yet to arrive, my friends and
[resorted to calling my roommate and disrupting her plans so she could come pick us up. Perhaps what
is most amusing about this episode is that my roommate had seen the Van sitting outside Richardson
about the time it should have been picking us up. What happened? Was it acommunication problem?
Are the drivers of the Vamanos Van so irresponsible that they cannot remember who they drop off and

who they are supposed to return for later?

One of the movie theater employees informed me that he had taken Davidson students back to
Davidson on a previous weekend because the Vamanos Van had forgotten them, too. I do not think that
the Vamanos Van is doing its job efficiently. Perhaps drivers need to develop a system of writing down
whom they drop off so they can return these transportationless people back to Davidson. How can
students rely on a service that is so unpredictable? Although our driver told us who to call if we had a
problem, nobody answered when we called his room. Maybe the Van needs a car phone so stranded
students can call and remind the driver to come get them. Maybe the Vamanos Van program needs some

revamping.

This is definitely an issue that needs to be addressed. I do not plan on using the Vamanos Van again,
and I hope that those who continue to use this service will have better luck and a more enjoyable evening

. than we did.

Sincerely,
Lee Ann Petty ‘01
