| et’s talk about school, and work, about

smoking pot, about vasectomies, about

breast implants, and about how last week-
end, students witnessed head basketball Coach
Bob McKillop reveal the true wildman in himself
by running naked around Richardson field at one
o’clock in the morning with warpaint on his chest

and face, screaming lines from “Braveheart” at the
top of his lungs. He is a crazy man.

Not really, I’m just kidding. I just want you
to read this.

But let me tell you a story.

I stuck around for Easter Break.

And it was pretty fun, too. The lacrosse team
played at home and the track team had a meet in
Charlotte. The five day forecast predicted nothing
but sunshine and North Carolina blue skies. Sure,
[had stuff to do, but four days of clear, 75-degree
weather are not quite proponents of healthy work
habits.

The girls team struggled against Big 10 pow-
erhouse Ohio State. Twentyplus slightly enthusi-
astic students, some spirited professors, and maybe
arelative or two sat in the home stands to cheer on
their fighting Wildcat underdogs. We all sadly
witnessed the powerhouse Buckeyes soundly de-
feating our Wildcats, but we still cheered.

So it wasn’t the best game in terms of com-
petitiveness. But it was better than working.

Working was nota thought that came close to
entering our minds. And as our lone group of
Easter Break stragglers snuck away from the la-
crosse blowout, we passed the 12-foot windows of
the library that overlook the back of the Richardson
stands. A gentle calm set over me, knowing that
the library would not call my name for at least a
few days. I had tests to study for and papers to
write, but this was the first Friday of vacation. No
one works on Fridays, not even on regular week-
ends. It’s kind of like the Amish on Sundays.

I glanced up at the windows and expected to
see a beautiful site at Davidson, an empty library.
But instead, I saw movement. There were people,
lots of people. And they were studying, research-
ing, turning pages, biting their nails, and typing
madly on laptops.

Ithought to myself, “Wow. What dedication.
I only wish I felt that way about my studies.”

Then I remembered it was Friday of Easter
Break.

And I began to think why I should respect
such a feat. And as I thought, I remembered a
couple of stories some friends had told me. Now,
I don’t pledge either of these to be facts, but they
do come from reliable sources. Rumor has it that
in an interview with Rolling Stone afew years ago,
a reporter asked the band Live for the best and
worst places that they had ever played, before they
grew to huge nationwide popularity.

They answered, “Stanford University.”

Dare I reveal the worst audience that Live

ever played before? Maybe those people I saw in
the library could answer that.

USA Today ranked Davidson College as the
hardest working academic institution in the na-
tion, clocking in with 4.2 hours of studying per
day.

I am so proud.

Because this means that, instead of support-
ing our friends and our teams and our budding
actors and actresses, we can study. Every college
has something it can call its own, something dis-
tinctive. Davidson has its work. But in truth, I bet
it ain’t all that bad. Most people just talk it up a
good deal. Idon’t go by a day without hearing how
late people stayed awake the prior night on
Cappucino and Frappecinos, studying for their
tests. For some unknown reason, we pride our-
selves in the amount we study.

What would happen if our grades went down?
What if we didn’t work so hard? Would the world
end? Would teachers understand this? Teachers
were our age once — they understand why we cut
class once ina while. They’re human. They sit on
the toilet just like we do. They were our age once
and, heck, most of them probably smoked pot,
drank too much, and went to a huge school where
attendance wasn’t mandatory. I’m not saying we
should all go smoke pot every night; just that we
should loosen up a little.

Now I’m not calling to engage in countless
acts of complete debauchery and inebriation five
days a week. No one came to a small liberal arts
school expecting that. Everyone has their own
versions of fun, whether it be watching a movie or

playing ping-pong — it’s all a personal prefer-
ence. Butit just seems like people around here do
work just for the sake of doing it.

Sooner or later in life, everyone finds a pas-
sion, where the word “work” is as indifferent to a
person as fun. I admire those who find their
passion early and then desire and work titanic
amounts to achieve their dreams. I take my hat off
to and salute those whose dreams interfere with
their sleep, whose work finds its way to prioritize
itself before their rest.

Let’s say you have dreamed since third grade
of being a pediatrician, and that you work inces-
santly in your biology studies only to reach that
goal. Countless late-nighters are only motivated
by your dream and your drive. The reward lies at
the end, you say, so the work seems meaningful.
And it is. But to those whose passion is not their -
schoolwork, I must say this:

To my knowledge, upon graduating from
Davidson, no one ever said, “Damn, I wish I had
spent more time in that library.”

Find a passion. Work for your dreams. Re-
member your friends. Everything else seems
inconsequential. But be sure your dreams are
yours, and the ones you want to follow. Don’t
busy yourself with work that isn’t there.

So maybe this isn’t the best topic to bring up
before finals. Those things are damn tough. And
maybe this whole thing sounds a bit cheesy, and I
admit, itis. Butat least, if the weather is nice, study
outside. And.when you can, take a breather.
College isn’t all about work, though we have a
tendency to believe otherwise.

With the dangers of alcohol, BYO could prove to be a bad idea

few weeks ago, I attended a
Aw that addressed the alco-
hol policy of Davidson Col-

lege. As a freshman, it is not something

Tam well acquainted with. Outside of
freshman orientation and conspicuous

hospital visits, it does not seem to gar-
ner much attention. I left’ the forum
feeling somewhat well-informed, and
somewhat disturbed.

Evolution of policy in recent years
has seen the dismissal of the keg, and as
everyone now knows, the possibility of
a BYO policy. This obviously raises
many points, questions, and concerns
as was evident at the forum. It was
generally agreed upon thata BYO policy

poses a threat to the dynamics of
Patterson Court. Insurance risks,’ li-
abilities, lawsuits, and a slew of other
menacing terms convinced me that this
is something more people should start
thinking about, if they have not already.

Aside from the legal implications,
a change in policy would dramatically
alter drinking logistics. My experi-
ences prior to coming to Davidson led
me to believe that an ample amount of
alcohol and a suitable girl-to-guy ratio
are the ingredients for a successful so-
cial scene. The forum, however, re-
minded me of just how important the
“how, when, and where” elements of
drinking are. A change in policy would
potentially shatter the patterns that make
for such a good time down on the Court.
As much as I am concerned with pos-
sible alterations of drinking policy, Iam
more concerned with the general atti-
tudes that seem to prevail on this cam-
pus.

During the forum, priorities wa-
vered. The discussion shifted with ease
from talk of lawsuits to the dream of
beer trucks appearing on the Court. The
unusually high number of alcohol-re-
lated hospital visits this year was cast
off as merely a weird trend. The pri-
mary focus, though, was how a change
in policy would infringe upon current
drinking habits. What was lacking in
the discussion was an evaluation of the

habits themselves. Alcohol undoubt-—

edly is a source of enjoyment and re-
lease around here. Unfortunately,
though, itis also a source of disaster and
the fuel for potential disaster. In the
case of alcohol, disaster does not just
refer to unconsciousness or some other
form of bodily harm. It just as easily
takes the form of regret.

By nomeans am I raising the battle
cry for a dry campus. I am simply
calling for a heightened sense of re-
sponsibility on the part of individuals. I

have heard it said before that “alcohol
makes a good servant and a bad mas-
ter.” I could not agree more. Alcohol
can be a catalyst of a good time — but
only if we are dictating the terms.

_ Nearly every student here stands
as an example of an exceptionally re-
sponsible adult. But when alcohol en-
ters the picture, many students exhibit a
level of self-control comparable to that
of children. For responsible individu-

_ als, alcohol provides a gentle shove —

onto the dance floor and a green light
for socializing. Yet each weekend and
some weeknights, you can always pick
out the people who have exceeded their
alcohol carrying capacity. They are
lucky they can stand, much less get
their dance on, and could not carry a
coherent conversation with the aid of
cue cards.

Our student body is comprised of
individuals with unique ideas, beliefs,
and experiences. It is a group of

hardworking, driven people who have
created an indelible identity for them-
selves. Iam grateful for the enrichment
this community has provided me, but I
am saddened by the members who seek
to erase their identity and find common
ground with others through an exces-
sive blood-alcohol level.

Alcohol awareness should not be a
mere week in February but a state of
mind for all students. It is an accep-

“tance of responsibility, a realization that

we all share in the benefits of alcohol,
but at the same time we all bear its
burden. Probations handed out to the
different fraternities and eating houses
attest to this. These probations are
nothing more than parties, conversa-
tions, and memories precluded by a
select few who had no idea of when
enough was enough. Before we address
the campus-wide alcohol policy, I think
it would be wise if each and every one
of us addressed our own.

@ LETTERS TO-THE EDITORS
A thanks to those involved with diversity

To the Editors:

Thanks to those of you who visit the BSC and support its activities. Thanks
‘to.those of you who seek to educate yourselves and others by confronting the issues
of race and diversity at Davidson College and beyond. Thanks to members of the
Council of Student Leaders, Conner, Ann Harriot, and others for their work in
producing last week’s successful initiatives. Due largely to their efforts, we have
managed to bespeak the first few words of a campus dialogue that will hopefully
become ongoing. This only hints at the beginning. We still have much more to do.

Sincerely,
Wes Hart ‘98
Ainsley Natta ‘99, BSC President

Davidsonian web site shows improvement

To the Editors:

Ienjoy.reading yournewspaper online. Ithas shown great improvement since
the first of the year. It is definitely the most interesting way to find out about
campus happenings and opinions without the filtering effect of the alumni office.
I urge you to continue timely postings of new issues. I hope you will consider a
hot link directly from the college’s opening home page rather than burying access
on another page (“Student Organizations”), making potential readers guess where
to find it or fail to realize its existence. I’m certain alumni and prospective students

would love to have a look.

Best regards,
Wade Powell

LETTERS TO THE Epitors continued on page 10

the Grey Union like the inside of
my eyelids. Its nooks and cran-
nies, secret stairwells, and storage ar-
eas are imprinted in my mind like an
internal road map. By the end of next
year, I'll probably be able to tell, blind-

I ’m not trying to brag, but I know

folded, which room I am in by the
temperature, smells, and echoes, A
scary proposition. If you want to find
me, you’d best start at the Union. If I
am not in a meeting there, I am prob-
ably awaiting one, or taking a break
from another while desperately trying
to get my reading for Dr.
Kuzmanovich’s class done.

Which is why I wantto share a bit

of Union knowledge few people know, |

~The libraries of the Union
Green Room houses texts on student leadership
and women’s issues

but all of you should. There is a library
in the Union. [realize some of you may
note the backwardness of this state-
ment, those of you who know your
history and that the Union is situated in
aformer library. Buttake a trip up to the
third floor, and indeed the library is
there.

Inside the Green Room (huh, where
is that? Is it that room next to the cafe?
No, go up the stairs next to the SGA and
Union Board offices) lives a virtual
treasure chest of resources for student
leaders, and a separate library of
Women’s Issues materials. The Stu-
dent Leadership Library and the
Women’s Issues Committee’ s Resource
Library are open to all, and each have an
honor-based checkout policy.

The Student Leadership Resource
Library has anything a student leader
(or one trying to develop leadership
skills) could want. Everything from
books on historical leaders’ lives to.a

there. j

guide to leadership styles to a book on
Zenlie within, just waiting to be tapped.
The library holds videos and activities
to help foster more productive meet-
ings, as well. If you are interested in
honing your leadership skills, I en-
courage you to peruse the selection in
the Green Room.

For the time being, the Women’s
Issues Resource Library is housed in
the Green Room, too. The check-out
policy for this library is separate and
different from the Leadership Library,
but it is also a collection available to
all the Davidson College community.
In the library, you’ll find books per-
taining to women’s health, political
issues, and even women’s sexuality.

I encourage everyone to make
the climb and see what resources
abound. If you can’t find your way to
the mysterious Green Room, just look
for me, and I'll be happy to guide you

