i U
“It’s. a

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

It’s not uncommon around the
Davidson College athletic scene to hear
someone relish, “It’s a great day to be a
Wildcat.”

On Saturday, that expression had
some special meaning in the hearts of
Davidson football fans.

The Wildcats improved their

|Wildcats 30
Randolph-Macon 16

record to an impressive 5-2 while de-
feating Randolph-Macon in convinc-
ing fashion to deliver a thrilling home-
coming victory for the thousands of -
students, parents, alumni, and friends
on campus this weekend.

The ‘Cats recent history against
this Randolph-Macon team has been
anything but pleasant. The Yellow Jack-
ets have ‘defeated the ‘Cats in five
Straight seasons, including three last
minute come-from-behind victories.
Last year, Randolph-Macon converted
a touchdown and two-point conversion
with 35 seconds left for a seven point
victory. The year before, R-MC scored
24 points in the fourth quarter to claim
a 31-24 victory.

But this year was a different story.
Randolph-Macon led 10-7 at the half,
but the ‘Cats stung the Yellow Jackets
with three second-half touchdowns to

-win 30-16.

At the Helm

It must have been a wonderful day
for Davidson coach Tim Landis, The
victory against the Yellow Jackets puts
his team at 5-2 with 3 games left in the
regular season. And, Landis posted his
first ever win against his Alma Mater,
Randolph-Macon.

“I don’t remember when the last
time we were 5-2 was,” Landis said. “‘It
was probably pretty far back. I’m ec-
static. We wanted to come out today
and take my personal views of wanting
to beat your Alma Mater and put those
aside and focus on winning the next
game—that game just happened to be
against Randolph-Macon.”

Landis was atwo-sport star athlete
for the Yellow Jackets in the 1980s. On
the football field, Landis was selected
as a first-team all-ODAC quarterback.
On the baseball diamond, Landis set
schoot records for career pitching vic-
tories (22) and shutouts (5).

preat day to be a

- Z

S

T S

@ Wildcat football players run toward the action during Saturday’s game.

In 101 seasons, Davidson has never
had a team win 8 games, and only three
times in that century-long span has a
Wildcat team accumulated 7 wins. In
fact, only 6 Wildcat teams have posted
winning season in the past forty years,
Landis has coached two of them.

The scoring

The Yellow-Jackets scored first,
on a 3-yard pass from freshman quar-
terback Patrick Bates to Clint Sullivan.
Bates, filling in for injured junior quar-
terback Brian Partlow, set a school
record last week with 61 pass attempts.
Kevin Cherwa kicked the PAT for
Randolph-Macon, giving the Yellow
Jackets a 7-0 lead with 8:44 in the Ist:

Davidson received the kick-off and
answered with an 8-play 71-yard scor-
ing drive. The option was running like
clockwork. Three consecutive plays
racked up 47 yards: a 13-yard on an
option left by Crawford, a 26-yard on
an option-right by Bryan Kern, and a 9-
yard keeper to the left off the option by
quarterback Tommy Dugan. The drive
ended with an 11-yard touchdown run
by Corey Crawford—the slick-footed
sophomore sidestepped one tackler,
hurdled another, and lunged for the
corner of the end zone to score. A PAT
by Brian Langley tied the game 7-7.

But Randolph-Macon’s Cherwa

knocked through a 34-yard field goal
with a minute left in the second half,
and the Yellow Jackets went to the
locker room with a 3-point lead.

The Wildcats opened the second
half with a bang. Linebacker Wes
Thornton scooped up a Randolph-Ma-
con fumble and returned it to the 18-
yard line. Four plays later, the ‘Cats
scored on a 3-yard touchdown run by
Dugan. Langley added another PAT,
giving the ‘Cats a 14-10 lead.

Randolph-Macon answered with
their final scoring drive of the game,
going 70 yards on 13 plays to take a 16-
14 lead. It was Davidson from then on
out.

Crawford took the kick-off back
29 yards to Davidson’s 35. The ‘Cats
marched down field, ending with a spec-
tacular catch by Roland Williams:
Dugan lofted the ball into the left side of
the end zone, and a short throw was
deflected by the Randolph-Macon de-
fender. But the ball came down into the
hands of the ‘Cat receiver for a 36-yard
touchdown pass and a 20-16 lead.
Marcus McFadden extended the lead to
six with a two-point conversion recep-
tion. .

Davidson and Randolph-Macon
exchanged defensive stops and. punts
for about the next fifteen minutes of

play. Davidson punter Jeremiah Parvin
earned praise for helping to keep the
‘Cats in the game by dropping two key
punts inside Randolph-Macon’ s ten yard
line.

The Wildcats scored one more
time, ona 46-yard touchdown pass from
Dugan to Williams. “It was supposed to
be a slant,” explained Williams, “but I
saw the safety rolled up, so I ran deep
and Tommy saw me and we connected.
When I caught it I knew it was a touch-
down ‘cause there was nobody back
there.”

Much of the credit for today’s of-
fensive performance belongs, to the
Wildcats offensive line, including start-
ing center Matt Berry, guards Jerry
Saunders and Jamel Wynn, and tackles
Brian McGee and Rowan Driscoll. On
the last touchdown pass to Williams,
Dugan must have spent six seconds in
the pocket watching the play develop,
before motioning to Williams to go
deep and getting of a picture-perfect
pass. Through all this time not a de-
fender came within spitting distance of
the Wildcat quarterback.

Landis praised his blockers, “The
offensive line really has improved im-
mensely. We’ ve got some young guys
out there, and they’re not real big, We
run a very complex offense: they’re

A

Jildcat”’

ze

busy learning our runs, and we’re ask-
ing them to pass-block too. They really
came on strong last week against Meth-
odist—that was a big, physical football
team. Our guys held their own, and we ©
really played well. They’re coming
around really, really well.”

The Wildcat defense also came through
with a stunning game. Defensive coor-
dinator Tripp Merritt had to prepare his
squad for the 12th-ranked passing of-
fense in the nation. The Yellow Jackets
are averaging over 285 yards per game
in the air, but the Wildcats held them to
only 170. Despite attempting twice as
many passes as Dugan, Yellow Jacket.
quarterback Patrick Bates could only
rack up 170 yards to Dugan’s 190. The
Wildcats did a superb job of rushing the
passer while covering sometimes as
many as five receivers.

A record-breaking career.

Play stopped in the middle of the
second quarter so that quarterback
Tommy Dugan could be honored for
breaking the all-time Wildcat record
for total offense. In his years at the helm
of the Davidson offense, Dugan has
been the most productive player in the
history of the school. He broke the total
offense record with 5,322 yards passing
and rushing, and continues to. build to
his total.

Said Landis, “I can’t say enough
about Tommy. He is so deserving of
whathe’s accomplished. He’s dealt with
a lot of pressure throughout his career
and there is no one more deserving of
this honor. Standing out there with him
and (Athletics Director) Jim Murphy,
giving Tommy that game ball, I was
never prouder of any player I’ve ever
coached. He’ll go down in Davidson
history.”

“T love you man.”

Reflecting on the game, sopho-
more Corey Crawford beamed, “It was
huge! It was huge! It feels so good to be
5-2. It’s so exciting. Last year was re-
ally hard. It seemed like every: week
was the same thing: disappointment,
disappointment, disappointment. This
year it feels so great to be able to come
out and win. Everybody’s so confident
in the program, and confident in each
other. There’s a special love in this
team, and it’s going to carry us the rest
of the way through.”

Volleyball team shuts out two more, improving to 14-6

By SetH Davis
Staff Writer

The Wildcats volleyball team had
a series of away games this past week,
one on Tuesday, October 20 and an-
other on Friday, October 23. Both road
trips were a success, as the Wildcats
continued along their path of domina-
tion of the Southern Conference. The
first game in the week was against the
Spartans of UNC-Greensboro, who had
already fallen once to the Wildcats at
Belk Arena. Entering into the game the

Wildcats had a 14-6 overall record with
a 7-2 record in the Southern Confer-
ence. ;

Head Coach Lisa Marston used a
smaller rotation against the Spartans
than is usual for most matches. Seven
Wildcats saw action in the match, in-
cluding Jennifer Ortega, Katherine
Lorenz, Mara Mordini, Janet Duncan,
Ginny Quis, Brooke Bentley, and Gina
Lawrence. These seven Wildcats met a
solid Spartan squad who provided an
early challenge. The first game of the

match was hotly contested, ending 16-
14 in favor of the Wildcats. -
Game two was less of a challenge

for the
Wildcats 3 Wildcats,
UNGG 0] who won
15-10. The
Spartans re-
Wildeats _3 | taliated in
ETSU 0 the third
game, once

again extending the Wildcats to 16-14

in order to close out the match. Key

contributions were made by all the Wild-
cat players inthe game. Jennifer Ortega,
with 9 kills, also led the team in. kill
percentage, with a 36.8% total. Mara
Mordini and Gina Lawrence led the
team in total kills, with 16 kills each.
Ginny Quis had 52 assists in the match.
Both Ginny Quis and Janet Duncan had
two service aces while Brooke Bentley,
Katherine Lorenz, and Gina Lawrence
each had one service ace. Defensively,
Mara Mordini led the team with 15 digs
while Janet Duncan had six total blocks.

After the win at Greensboro the
Wildcats moved on to meet the Bucks
of East Tennessee State. The Bucks are
having a tough season, and the surging
Wildcats made short work of them,
winning the first game 15-5. In the
second game the Bucks were a tougher
challenge, but the Wildcats won 15-13.
The match ended with a 15-7 total in
favor of the Wildcats.

At the end of the week the Wild-
cats stood at 16-6 on the season, with a
9-2 record in the Southern Conference.

ag may ici BS Edu . . —_ ee
Wildcats 0 F ey Wildcats 3 y T D Oct. 28th @ North Carolina 7pm an: @Hampden-
Wildcats 3 i ommy ugan Cross Country Oct. 31st The Citadel 2pm Sydney 1:30 pm
UNCC 1 UNCG 0 App. St. 0 ’ Con fe rence Cham S Novy. 3rd SC Tournament Golf ee
Wildcats 5 Wildcats 3 F ootb all ps. hosel kine Nov. 1-3 Davidson Fall In-
ETSUL eraty fi Sat. Oct. 31st @ home Volleyball OO
Football Dugan, a senior, broke the school’s Ore e PLUNGE 7ptn Slat SC Champion-
Wildcats 2 % Oct. 31st @Chattanooga Spm Och aise seeChampipa
App. St. 4 Wildcats 30 record for total offense with 5, 322 Field Hoc key Nov. Ist @ W. Carolina 2pm rena sabre
oe 2 . ; Field Hocki : Pegi
Randolph-Macon yards passing and rushing in his Deep South cha pail South Chainplonships Oct. 31st Emory 12 pm
16 career. Dugan was key in the Champtonshi Nov. Ist SC Championships
‘Cats’ 30 to 16 homecoming Pp SALpS
victory. :

