By Carrit ARTHUR
News Editor’

On Wednesday, Nov. 11, Colman
McCarthy spoke.about the peace move-
ment as part of Into the Streets.

' McCarthy gave his speech, entitled
“How to bea Peacemaker,” to a middle-
sized audience in Chambers Gallery.

After his introduction by Tommy
Ross’99, McCarthy, whom Ross named
“the only pacifist columnist in
America,” began by defining peace as
“the result of love.” He then named the
three essentials of true peacemaking: “a
sense of prayer, a sense of service, and
a sense of exorcism.”

To McCarthy, prayer transcends
all religious boundaries. Instead of the
traditional prayer asking for aid,
McCarthy defined prayer as “asking
the Creator ‘what do you want from
me?’” This question constitutes
McCarthy’s “great joy in life.” He
described risk as necessary because “if
your. religion has no risk, it’s religios-
ity.. It stays on the surface.”

McCarthy then continued to de-
fine service. He described it as “how
you want to serve society when you’re
ready.” For McCarthy, service is “the
soul of the campus” and “where the
spirituality goes on.” Deriding schools
that teach students only academics and
not service because grades are the most
important aim, McCarthy praised
Davidson’s commitment to service:
“Davidson teaches folks not only how
tothink butalso how to care.” McCarthy
explained his view: “You can make all
A’s and go and flunk in life.” He sees
many teachers as making students “idea
rich and experience poor.”

McCarthy reiterated his belief in
service and its application for college
students by saying, “The joys in life,
the things that they will remember about
their college years, is taking care of a
person in pain.” For McCarthy, every-
one can make a small difference: “Very
few of us are asked to do great things,
but many of us are asked to do small
things.” McCarthy said that the highest
praise of one’s life work is “if I wasn’t
doing this now, then it wouldn’t be
happening.”

Evaluating his home, McCarthy
urged his audience on their next visit to
Washington, D.C., to “skip the fake
city and look at the real city.” Accord-
ing to McCarthy, seven homeless shel-
ters exist between the White House and
Capitol Hill. He said that there is Cae-
sar on one end and Pharaohs on the
other, and in between is the forgotten
poor. In reference to the capital,
McCarthy stated, “All laws represent is

' the failure of love.” Although dona-
tions of clothing, food, and other sup-
plies are important, McCarthy com-
mented that “hardly anyone ever talks
to the poor.”

Together with prayer and service,
exorcismcompleétes McCarthy’s vision
of true peacemaking. By exorcism,

McCarthy meant to “drive out evil.”

He declared, “Every human heart longs
for (peace).” McCarthy used his high

icCarthy promotes
eace movement
hrough ‘Into the
treets’ address

school radical nonviolence class in an
inner city school as an example of how
peacemaking can be taught. From a
demonstration where he showed that
only two or three people in the audience
had taken peacemaking courses before
college, McCarthy stated, “We all gradu-
ate from high school peace-illiterate.”

McCarthy then continued with
some statistics. According to McCarthy,
the average American family has a con-
flict every eight minutes when they are
together. For dysfunctional American
families, a conflict occurs every three
minutes.

He further stated that Congress
gives the Pentagon $1.7 million per day,
which breaks down to $9,000 per sec-
ond. From. this statistic, McCarthy
claimed, “The Pentagon spends more in
one day than what the Peace Corps and
Americorps spend together in one year.”
McCarthy believes that the “war ma-
chine” has been busy targeting “the poor
and people of color.” Selling arms to
142 nations, the U.S. is what McCarthy
called “the world’s largest arms seller,”
with wars being “the poor killing the
poor.”

For McCarthy, war is “legalized
violence.” He claimed that more than
78 million people have died in wars
since 1900. The Vietnam War served as
one of McCarthy’s examples. Because
the Vietnam Veterans’ Memorial Wall
includes only Americans, McCarthy
feels that it excludes many Vietnamese.
He said that if the Wall included the
Vietnamese casualties, it would stretch
from the Lincoln Memorial to the Capi-
tol building. Two and a half million
Vietnamese people were killed during
the war. McCarthy also added that,
since the war, the same number of Viet-
nam veterans have committed suicide
as the number killed in battle.

McCarthy also derided the death
penalty. He said that 38 states currently
have inmates on death row, inmates
whom he called poor and ignorant of the
law.

Along with the “legal violence” of
capital punishment, McCarthy com-
mented upon domestic violence in the
U.S. “The leading cause of misery of
American women is being beaten at
home,” McCarthy said. Directly relat-
ing domestic violence to Davidson stu-
dents, McCarthy claimed, “If statistics
keep going the way they’re going na-
tionally, a certain number of women
here will be beaten by at least one man
by. the time they’re 35. A certain num-

ber of men here will have done the .

beating.”

He explained that abusive men beat
their wives, girlfriends, and significant
others “not because they’re evil, but
because they’re ignorant.”

The other war that McCarthy saw
going on in the United States is the “war
on animals.” He said that the U.S. “kills
twelve million animals” each year.
According to McCarthy, 500,000 to a

million animals are killed each year for.

cosmetic testing. He added that since
1860, 300 vertebrate animals have be-
come extinct. McCarthy declared, “Ani-

~ to this question was, ‘

mals may not think as we do (or) reason
as we do, but they feel pain as we do.”
-To prevent cruelty to animals, he told
his audience to question their diets:
“Do I have a cruelty-based diet or a
cruelty-free diet?” McCarthy’s answer
‘If it had a mother,
don’t eat it.”

In response to the problems
McCarthy presented, he challenged his
audience to question the abuse of power.
He claimed that those in power direct
Americans to “keep believing in vio-
lence” and that the media is “brain
dead.” Encouraging people to question
authority, McCarthy said, “One rule in
most of my classes is no one is allowed
to come into my class and ask ques-
tions.” Instead, they must “question the
answers.” The sources of McCarthy’s
answers included the government,
churches, and the media.

McCarthy then spoke about teach-
ing peacemaking. “It takes a bit of time
to learn nonviolence,” he said. Want-
ing to “radicalize people,” McCarthy

urged his audience to read the works of ~

such as
“the greatest person of our

the “great peacemakers,”
Gandhi,
century.”
Referring specifically to Davidson,
McCarthy encouraged the creation of a

-peace studies degree program at

Davidson to “make it a peace school.”

After his speech, McCarthy pre-
sented a 25-minute slide show. To-
gether with slides of flowers, smiling
children, and couples were juxtaposed
images of a young boy carrying a ma-
chine gun, a Vietnam. War cemetery,
dying American soldiers, the Vietnam
Veterans Memorial Wall, mangled parts
.of dolphins spread along a beach, a
smiling boy holding up a dead dolphin
fetus, and a drawing of an extinct bird.
Quotations. and pictures of famous
peacemakers completed the show.

To conclude his presentation,

_ McCarthy urged his audience to read —

the works of peacemakers and to attend
graduate schools that teach peace. To
students, McCarthy said, “Do it on your
own. Don’t wait for the teachers.
They’re probably behind.” McCarthy
urged the students to question the exist-
ing order: “If you care about beginning
orexpanding the commitment (to peace-
making), there’s only one word that
matters: start.” He continued, “If you
care about prayer, service, and devo-
tion, you need not worry about chang-
ing the world. Just don’t let the world
change you.”

Colman McCarthy is a college pro-
fessor, high school teacher, and Wash-
ington, D.C. journalist. He teaches at
Georgetown University Law Center and
the University of Maryland as well as
Bethesda-Chevy Chase High School.
Teaching at American University for
two years, McCarthy won the Adjunct
Professor of the Year award twice.
Writing for the Washington Post since
1968, McCarthy has nationally syndi-
cated columns. In addition, McCarthy
founded and serves as director for the
Center for Teaching Peace in Washing-
ton, D. Cc.

The following

—— who le

sponded like a ‘jects Phone a few academic ee, get their

readings and then I'd have my answers. ‘But after phoning the
experts and listening to them talk much and say little, I decided to
do the kind of legwork and personal involvement that truly gets at
the truth. I went to the school nearest my office i in downtown
Washington, D.C. and offered my services as a volunteer teacher

of peace. ;

The principal and faculty welcomed me, as did the students. .
That semester, 25 juniors and seniors enrolled in my course
“Alternatives to Violence.” They were able to grasp intellectually
what they already had absorbed emotionally: the haunting aware-
ness that their future is threatened, their present enswamped by
excessive military, environmental and family violence, and their
nation’s past record of nine declared wars and 135 undeclared
wars like Grenada, Libya, Panama and the Gulf. The students
loved the course, and I cherished their company.

Since that happy beginning, I took “Alternatives to Violence”
to four universities — American, Georgetown, Marviand, and
Georesiews Law eee a aoa two more high schools. In 12
vith all of aod ue

highs, and peace i in our r schools, where teenage suicide i is rampant,
and peace in ou

‘ighborhoods, where 25 million U. . house-
