THE DAVIDSONIAN

Local politician addresses College Republ —

Vinroot discusses current campaign

By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

Richard Vinroot, former Mayor of Charlotte
and potential candidate for North Carolina gover-
nor, spoke to a gathering of Davidson’s College
Republicans last Tuesday. Vinroot spoke of his
tenure as mayor and the ideological beliefs he
hopes will help win him the governorship in 2000.

Vinroot’s main concerns for the state and
nation reflect his background. Vinroot, a Char-
lotte native, attended UNC-Chapel Hill on the
. prestigious Morehead Scholarship and played on
Dean Smith’s first basketball teams.

Although Vinroot turned down a basketball
scholarship here, he said that he is still “very loyal”
to Davidson.

Following his graduation from UNC’s law
school in 1967, Vinroot joined the Army, where he
earned a bronze star. Vinroot developed his inter-
estin politics while working on the 1964 Goldwater
campaign for the presidency and a local county
commissioner’s campaign. After serving on the

Honor Council subcommittee revising Code

Charlotte City Council, Vinroot was elected Mayor
of Charlotte, serving from 1991-95. In 1996,
Vinroot ran a tough race in the Republican guber-
natorial primary, eventually losing to Robin Hayes.

Vinroot and his wife Judy have three chil-
dren, Richard, Laura, and Katherine.

Vinroot finds education and citizen protec-
tion to be the most important issues facing the state
and nation. According to Vinroot, the government
must protect its citizens while providing them with
a quality education.

In line with Republican ideology, Vinroot
believes in a limited government that leaves the
majority of governing to the local levels. A
supporter of competition, Vinroot would like to
see government programs like education run more
like a competitive, efficient business and less like
a monopoly.

As Mayor of Charlotte, Vinroot implemented
several programs that garnered national praise for
Charlotte. Charlotte has retained its wealth in the
city and built up a strong tax base. Vinroot also
headed a program known as “rightsizing” that

reduced the size of the city’s administration by 10
percent by shifting workers and resources out of
less important departments to more important ones
and privatizing municipal services.

Vinroot also established the first Drug Court
committed to, prosecuting all drug-related crimi-
nals. He supported “community policing” where
police walk among the communities in an effort to
make themselves visible and approachable. Such
civic programs led a national magazine to name
Vinroot as America’s Number One Mayor.

Vinroot strongly supports economic devel-
opment in North Carolina. The economically
successful Carolina Panthers were introduced un-
der Vinroot’s tenure. Vinroot’s efforts to promote
Charlotte in the national arena won the city a
number-one ranking for Economic Development
by Financial World Magazine.

When asked of his “core beliefs,” Vinroot
responded with a list of four: best government is
least government, local governing as much as
possible, competition in education, and the resto-
ration of character in government. Vinroot is an

advocate of charter schools, where citizens are
given a charter and are able to run the school as a
business. He believes that giving the public school
system worthy competition from charter schools
will improve the public system.

Further, Vinroot promises to increase fund-
ing and reform the criminal justice system if elected.
Currently, he says, courts only have the resources
to prosecute about half of the cases before them.

While early polls and local support seem
promising for a Vinroot victory in 2000, Vinroot
still recognizes that there are major obstacles for
the Republican Party to overcome.

Among these are the “gender gap,” where
women are far more likely to support Democratic
candidates, and the lack of minority support in the
Republican Party.

Vinroot also points to a local problem for
North Carolina voters, a sense of resentment di-
rected at Charlotte from other regions of the state.
Nevertheless, Vinroot hopes his message of im-
proving education and citizen protection will reso-
nate among North Carolina’s voters.

The following are Phi
Beta Kappa inductees

By Becky LATANICH
Staff Writer

A large part of Davidson’ s unique
learning atmosphere can be traced di-
rectly back to the successful enforce-
ment and respect of the Honor Code.
The Honor Code was created with the
intention of stimulating “academic and
personal dedication to honest and fair
dealing with other members of the
(Davidson) community.”

Nevertheless, this time-honored
tradition has recently been subjected
to an overhaul by a four-person sub-
committee of the Honor Council.

The revisions came in response
to an increase in concern among the
Students and faculty regarding the ef-

fectiveness of the Honor Code. Addi-
tionally, there was some question of
whether or not the students were aware
of all the facets and intricacies of the
Code.

The discrepancies inherent in the .
original Code tended to result in differ-

ences of interpretation, which in turn
led to misunderstandings.. Therefore,
the proliferation of such comments and
concerns led to the Honor Council’s
review and eventual revision of the
Code.

Although many of the changes in-
volved merely a clarification of word-
ing, some of the proposed revisions
have larger implications. For example,
due to the fact that every professor has
a different interpretation of what pla-

giarism actually entails, the word pla-
giarism has been removed from the
Honor Code. Instead, for simplifica-
tion, plagiarism has simply been incor-
porated into the definition of cheating.

Then there was the question of
whether students were honor-bound to
report violations that they had heard
about only by word of mouth. The new
Code proposes that students are required
to report such infractions only when
they have witnessed the violation first-
hand.

Perhaps the most noticeable
change is the consolidation of the Honor
Code pledges into a single statement:
“On my honor, I have neither given nor
received unauthorized information re-
garding this work, I have followed and

will continue to observe all regulations
regarding it, and I am unaware of any
violation of the Honor Code by others.”

The revision of the Honor Code as
proposed by the Honor Council: sub-
committee must now be approved by
two votes of the Student Conduct Coun-
cil.

The new Code has already received
the first of the two necessary votes, and
is up for final consideration on Apr. 9.
Once it passes this board, the new Honor
Code will be submitted to President
Bobby Vagt for final approval.

The Honor Council subcommittee
hopes that the Davidson College com-
munity will be supportive of the new
Code, for it is the “cornerstone of
Davidson College.”

whose names were
accidentally mis-
spelled or omitted:

Amy Catherine
Whitmire

David Reed |
Williamson

We regret any inconvenience

this may have caused.

LOOKING FOR A SUMMER JOB’?

WANTED: SUMMER CONFERENCE
ASSISTANT FOR RESIDENCE LIFE OFFICE.

Enhance your resume work experience
@ Free housing at Martin Court

@ Meal allowance

@ Work with in-house athletic and academic camps, out- = $6.50 per hour.varied 40-hour per week schedule
of-house athletic conferences, reunions, etc.
Improve your customer relations skills

@ Commitment from approximately May 19-August 12
@ Weekend work mandatory —

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT RLO — Due April 6, 1998

The World’s Leading Provider

Workplace Solutions

