Police Blotter |

"Student Assaulted at Sig Ep Party

ce ek 23, campus police officers responded to a call
at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house around midnight and found a

back of his head. —

“The student had apparently been on his way out of the Sig Ep

Pajama Party via the porch when he brushed up against a

member of the house. His “excuse me” was responded to with an
“excuse you!” and a shove. A group of fraternity brothers, Includ-

ingupperclassmen and the house’s former president, then moved

in around the freshman.

A fist fight between the freshman and one of the brothers then
ensued, but was broken up quickly. As the sides were held apart,
another member of Sig Ep struck the freshman from behind on the
back of his head with a beer bottle. (Beer bottles are prohibited
at Patterson Court parties for this very reason.)

EMTs provided immediate care for the student at the scene,
while the Risk Manager and police officers attempted to sort out
the situation. Representatives of Sig Ep refused to deliver the
individual who had struck with the beer boitle, although some of
those who had been in the fight came forward, Since alcohol was
a factor on both sides of the fight, and the injured student was
extremely enraged toward the Sig Ep representatives, officers
asked him to return to. his dorm.

‘Despite the fact that the EMTs told him his injuries were minor,
the freshman went to the Mooresville ER, where he received four
staples to close the wound. The student has filed a complaint with
the Dean of Students Office.

Elderly man dies on Watson Street

Also on the night of Jan. 23, police interrupted an off-campus
party at 514 Watson St. A group of students spotted an older man
fall to the pavement as he walked toward Main St. A call was
made from the house of the party.

Police inquired to find a name for the man, who had suffered
cardiac arrest and was dead upon police arrival at the scene.

Thieves Raid Chambers Equipment Locker

Two Pioneer videodisc players and two Pioneer barcode
readers were stolen from Chambers 216, an equipment storage
-| locker, on Jan. 19. Sophomore Erica Thorson discovered the
equipment missing when she unlocked the room, but does not
recall whether or not the door had been effectively locked before
she opened it. The total loss is estimated at $3600.

—Scott GEIGER

freshman male under the care of EMTs, bleeding heavily from the 4

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998.

Speaker Pechatnuv discusses

Russian-American relations

Shares Russian point of view on cooperation

By AsHLEY KING
Staff Writer

Calm and confident, Vladimir
Pechatnuv stood behind the podium in
the 900 Room last Thursday at 7:30
p.m., poised to enlighten Davidson stu-
dents about the current state of Russian-
American affairs.

Pechatnuv is chair of the depart-
ment of European and American Stud-
ies at the Moscow Institute of Interna-
tional Relations and chief researcher at

the Institute of the United States of

Americaand Canada. His other accom-
plishments include prominent positions
inthe Russian embassy and the publica-
tion of three books about the U.S.

The topics of Pechatnuv’s speech
ranged from a historical perspective of
U.S.-Russian relations to the current
perceptions, problems, and sentiments
involved as these two former adversar-
ies attempt to deal with each other ina
drastically changed world.

With each topic of his speech,
Pechatnuv tried not only to present the
facts to his American audience, but also
to reveal to them the Russian point of
view.

Pechatnuy believes that compre-
hending the past of Russian-American

_ relations is important in understanding

the situation that exists today. He char-
acterized this relationship throughout
most of history as being “remarkably
harmonious,” as both countries were
only enemies for a small part of
America’s existence.

After speaking about the “smooth”
relations of the 19th and half of the 20th
centuries, Pechatnuv. began to,touch
upon the “aberration” in U.S.-Russian

relations: the Cold War. During this
period, the United States began to per-
ceive Russia as being anew hegemonic
power. This time of ideological and
political separation was relatively short
in Pechatnuv’s eyes, and he said that the
Soviet Union “lost by attrition in the
end.”

With the end of the Cold War, the
new Russian Republic and the United
States’ entered what Pechatnuv called
the “romantic phase” of their relations.
The ideological and political gap was
narrowing, and both sides were almost
euphoric in their sentiments for each
other. They each thought of their future
relations with high aspirations.

For Americans, “Russia was seen
as the key to all post communist rela-
tions,” because if Russia were friendly
toward the U.S., others would follow its
lead. Likewise, Russia saw America as
the “golden key” to its success. The
Russians believed they could emulate
the American example as ‘the leading
free-market economy, rely on America
for financial support, and trust that
America would do anything for the
Soviet Republic, as they felt the U.S.
would be forever indebted to Russia for
ending the Cold War.

Pechatnuv then began to describe
how these hopes for an auspicious fu-
ture soon faded into the background as
new problems arose and Russia found
that some of its basic assumptions about
the U.S. were incorrect. First, the tran-
sition from a communist to a capitalis-
tic society was not as smooth as either
side had predicted or hoped. As the
economy grew worse, Russians began
to blame their financial woes on the
United States, the model which they

had used for their failing system. The
aid that the U.S. gave to the struggling
country was largely ignored, and re-
sentment in Russia grew.

An unwanted dependency on the
United States also added to Russian
resentment of its new ally. Before the
end of the Cold War, there had been a
balance of power between these two
political leaders. With its disintegra-
tion, however, Russia saw its power
disintegrate as well. As Pechatnuvy said,
“Russians are used to doing things their
own way. They don’t want to be depen-
dent, but can’t afford not to be. Their
irritation shows in their relations.”

Another problem that Pechatnuy
emphasized was the recent movement
by the U.S. toward accepting other coun-
tries formerly under the Soviet sphere
of influence into NATO. Russia feels
that if NATO were to expand, they
would be isolated from the rest of the
worldand their security would be threat-
ened, since a foreign alliance would be
nearby.

Many Russians also feel that the

‘U.S. is taking advantage of Russian

retreat by “filling the vacuum” left by
the absence of their influence. They
feel that the U.S. should respect their
“right to a sphere of interest.”

Pechatnuv’s speech ended with a
prescription. He said that the U.S. and
Russia are in a “pragmatic relation-
ship” right now, but he feels that this
relationship could become worse. He
believes that with sensitivity, strong
leadership, and an appreciation for our
current state of affairs, Russia and the
United States can work toward ending
hostility and creating stronger ties with
one another.

Rape Awareness Committee takes a stand

By Manpy Lauria

Staff Writer

When Kate Koestner came to Davidson last
fall to talk about date rape, many students realized
that bad things do happen at good colleges like
Davidson. After her presentation, students ex-
pressed interest by signing up for the Rape Aware-
ness Committee.

The faculty advisors for this program are
Health Educator Georgia Ringle and DeWitt

Crosby, who is a psychologist at the Counseling ~

Center.

There are over 75 Committee members, 20
percent of whom are male.

“This new group is full of energy and is a
Health Educator’s dream come true,” said Ringle.

At their first meeting, Mary Ross, who works
at the crisis center in Charlotte, spoke. Crosby also
spoke to the group. They learned how to become
good listeners and how to respond to a friend who
has been sexually assaulted.

The group also learned about what kind of
help is available.

The group decided what they wanted their
focus to be during their second meeting and also
formed three subcommittees — the Policy, Educa-
tion, and First-responder Committees — which
will function independently.

Sophomore Ann Nickel heads the Policy
Committee, freshman Meredith Beattie and senior

Kelly Taylor head the Education Committee, and
senior Tina Kanter heads the First-responders
Committee.

The Policy Committee wants to change
Davidson’s current sexual conduct policy, which
is laid out in the Red Book. The Policy Committee
wants the policy to mention alcohol, as well as oral
sex. Members of the Policy Committee also feel
that Davidson’s policy is too vague, and is unhelp-
ful to victims of sexual assault and harassment.

The Policy Committee has also researched
the policies of other schools, looking for ideas that
Davidson can adopt.

President Bobby Vagt has appointed a com-
mittee to review the Red Book. This committee,
headed by Associate Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano, is made up of faculty members and two
students, senior Tripp Franklin and sophomore
Joslyn Ogden.

The Policy Committee plans to submit their
own proposal of what should be in the Davidson
College Handbook.

Thus far, the review board-has been very
helpful and open to the Policy Committee’s ideas.

The sexual misconduct board has already
tried one case this year, and the Policy Committee
would like to see the results of such trials printed
after the trial has ended, so that students can
remain informed.

The Education Committee’s two main objec-
tives are to develop a hall program for freshman

and sophomore halls, as well as programs for new
members of fraternities and eating houses. They
also want to host a human sexuality week the week
of Apr. 6-10. ;

Take Back the Night, when rape victims
come to Davidson to speak, is scheduled for Mar.
19 at 8:00 p.m.

The Education Committee gave its first pro-
gram to the pledges of Phi Gamma Delta, To
break the ice, the group gave out condoms and
explained that their purpose wasn’t to treat them
like future rapists, but help them prevent rape. “It
is a prevention effort not a persecution effort,”
said Taylor.

The Committee stressed the importance of
looking out for friends and making sure that sexual
acts — especially those involving alcohol — are
consensual, ‘The lines ‘are blurry for what is
consensual and what takes it too far,” said Beattie.

The Committee suggested that if the pledges
see a friend go off with a girl, they should simply
ask the girl if she is all right’ before the situation
could turn dangerous.

The Education Committee is looking to start
an orientation program for in coming freshman
next year.

The First-responders Committee ensures that
rape victims are aware of the right steps to take.
One of the Committee’s goals is to get a beeper so
they can be available to victims. They have made
a duty list so they can be available at all times for

emergencies.

The Committee also posted green laminated
sheets on every bathroom kit in every resident hall
bathroom. “The sheet includes.information and
phone numbers about testing for Rohypnol (a date
rape drug), the morning-after pill (which must be
taken before 72 hours have passed to be effective),
the Rape Crisis Center in Charlotte, and an STD
hotline.

The First-responders Committee also stresses
that victims should not take a shower, change
clothes, or alter their physical appearance after an
assault. A victim of rape should go to the hospital
and request a rape kit
(which does not mean that the victim must press
charges).

The members of the First-responders Com-
mittee are going to Charlotte to be trained by Ross
as certified first-responders. They then will be
able to teach others how to react toa friend who has
been raped.

* The Rape Awareness Committee is working
toward recognition as an official committee at
Davidson with a budget. They have created their
Own constitution and currently are able to use
some of Ringle’s funds.

Anyone interested in joining the Rape Aware-
ness Committee should contact Tina Kanter
(x6502). :

The next meeting will be held Wednesday,
Feb, 11th in the Morrison room.

EVER SEE THE UNION IN THE DARK? JOIN Layout.

Call Randy Skattum (x6667).

