THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & Livinc

Project Nim resuscitates 900 Room

Collegiate rock band grooves into the night

By Wes.ey H. GoLpsBerry
Arts and Living Editor

Saturday night saw one of Davidson’s best
concerts of the year in the 900 Room,
“Mecklenberg County’s Forum for Indie
Rock.”

Project Nim, all of whose mem-
bers (according to lead vocalist Jenn
Howard) are “about to graduate,” played
a two-hour gig at the Union, bringing
some vitality back to the campus enter-
tainment scene and welcoming several
hundred fiesty Davidson students back
from spring break.

Project Nim’s five members (lead
vocalist, lead guitarist, bass guitarist,
drummer, and keyboardist) created a
familiarly harrowing sound at times,
although distinct comparisons to larger
bands were tough to come by. The lead
vocalist had sort of a Natalie-Merchant-
on-acid thing happening. Someone said
they sounded like Pearl Jam, but Eddie
Vedder et al foster a brighter, more upbeat sound
than the Nimsters.

All in all, their music was very “groovy,”
without the funk elements that tend tocomplement
grooviness. Most of the students in the crowd,
Dave Matthews Band lovers and haters alike,

seemed quite pleased with the performance. Nim’s

www.projectnim.com

@ Project Nim smiles for the camera.

McGee” was most well-received.

As for beverages, the water at the bar was at
its tastiest on that fine evening.

Project Nim’s members, all of whom ap-
peared to be somewhere in their 20s,
hail from Columbia University, Yale
University, and elsewhere. Rumors
that one of the band’s members was a
Davidson student have gone uncon-
firmed. They play shows up and down
the Eastern seaboard, and have opened
for The Nields (of 1997 Spring Frolics
fame) on several occasions.

The band’s name was derived
from the name of an obscenely expen-
sive, federally-funded chimpanzee
study, allegedly run through Columbia
University.

Project Nim has been dubbed
“the. best band in the world” by one
Columbia student. A debateable as-
sessment, yes, but one cannot deny
Project Nim’s impressive reception on
Saturday night; they deserved it. They

were all pretty good instrumentalists, especially

cover of the Janis Joplin classic “Me and Bobby __ the keyboard guy.

Hodson hosts “Our Town’ this week

Press RELEASE

College Relations

Davidson.College invites the public to share
in the 60th anniversary of Thornton Wilder’s clas-
sic American drama, “Our Town.” The Davidson
theatre department will present this Pulitzer Prize-
winning play Mar. 18-22 in Hodson hall of
Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Show times are 8 p.m. Wednesday, Mar. 18
through Saturday, Mar. 21. The Sunday, Mar. 22,
matinee will begins at 2:30 p.m. Ticket prices are
$6 for adults and $4 for students and seniors.
Tickets can be reserved by calling the ticket office
at 892-2350 from 2-5 p.m. starting the week of the
show. Tickets may also be purchased at the door.

“Our Town” continues to be regarded as one
of the best representations of American life, and
remains a landmark of theatrical craftsmanship.

This heartening, compassionate play con-
cerns the lives of neighbors and friends in a small
New Hampshire village before the Great Wars. It
focuses on main characters Emily Webb and
George Gibbs, childhood playmates who become

romantically interested in
each other as they grow
older. Their happiness is
intense, but, ina twist that
gives “Our Town” the in-
tense pathos that has
caused it to become one
of the most emotional ex-
periences in all of drama,
their joy is short-lived.

Director Ronnie
Higdon has combined
theatre, music,anddance .
(choreographed by Dance
Davidson’s Terilynne
Knox) in the production
to add strength and emo-
tion to Wilder’s theme of
the simplicity anduniver-
sality of the human expe-
rience.

The show features senior Nathan Raley as
George Gibbs and freshman Rosalie Esteves as
Emily Webb. Senior Sarah Hankins provides the

@ Rosalie Esteves (left) and Nathan Raley

narrations as the omniscient stage manager.
For more information on the production, call
the Theatre department at 892-2361.

PAedsttat A MARCH 1 7. 1998

Poet Robert = po
to read latest works

Press RELEASE

College Relations

Davidson College welcomes the return of
alumnus and poet Robert Hill Long to present
the College’s 1998 R. Windley Hall Writing
Award for first year students and read from his
newest book of poems, “The Work of the Bow.”
The public is invited to this free reading and
awards ceremony on Wednesday, Mar. 25, be-
ginning at 7:30 p.m. in the College Union 900
Room.

Long, who graduated from Davidson with
aB.A. incomparative literature in 1975, was the
founding director of the North Carolina Writ-
ers’ Network in 1984. He has taught at Clark
University, Smith College, and the University
of Hartford, and now teaches at the University
of Oregon. His poems and short prose pieces
have appeared in anthologies including “Best
American Poetry 1995” (Touchstone) and “Flash
Fiction” (Norton), and in the “Hudson Review,”
“Iowa Review,” “Kenyon Renew,” “New
England Review,” “Poetry,” and many other

@ R.H. Long

magazines.

Thomas Lux, faculty member of the War-
ren Wilson College master’s degree writing
program, said of Long’s “The Work of the
Bow,” “There are poems here that are so human
and alive they will break your heart and end up
leaving it better.”

The R. Windley Hall Writing Award is
presented of first-year students for excellence
in works of fiction, poetry, or non-fiction prose.

For more information on Hill’s presenta-
tion at Davidson, call the English department at
892- 2254.

“Let’s boogaloo ‘til we puke”: Woodwind and Jazz Ensembles put on great show

By JosHuA BENNETT
Staff Writer

Admittedly, walking into the
Davidson College Woodwind & Jazz
Ensemble concert last Wednesday night,
I was not envisioning myself having
loads of fun. Back me up, when the
word “oboe” pops into your mind, do
the words “rockin’ music” simulta-
neously come with it? Not for me,
either. Fortunately for me, because I’ ve
experienced a costly liberal arts educa-
tion which has made mea well-rounded
individual, I am now able:to own up to
the obscure occasion when I am incor-
rect. So I am now admitting that my
preconceived notions of what I was to
see were wrong. ‘Cause I heard some
damn good music.

Playing the last show of a spring
break tour which had taken them through
South Carolina and Georgia, the Wood-
wind & Jazz Ensembles gathered in
Love Auditorium to delight the audi-
ence with melodic phrases produced by
their ample lungs. The first half of the
show was comprised only of the wood-

winds, which began with a medley of
sea songs conducted by music major
Erika Rissing. Music Department chair
William Lawing then came out to con-
duct the rest of the show, with the en-
semble playing the “Netherlands Suite”
and “Songs of the West”. This half of
the concert was quite entertaining and
well-performed. The song selections
were varied enough to keep my interest
and attention, which, after years of MTV
and Nintendo, is almost impossible to
do. The musicians had obviously put in
their practice time and played the music
flawlessly (or at least if they didn’t, I
wasn’t slick enough to figure it out). It
was also an enlightening experience for
me to hear an ensemble made up exclu-
sively of woodwinds. I was impressed
with what a unique and harmonious
sound they can produce.

The second half of the show
brought out the Jazz Ensemble, and I
found to my dismay that the expected
two-drink minimum was not enforced.
They performed nine jazz pieces such
as crowd favorite “What’s Up Chick
Corea” and a revised version of the

~Duke Ellington standard “Take the A-

Train”, all introduced and explained by
Dr. Lawing. Various works featured
solos by guitarist Ross Hagen, drum-
mer Aaron Patton, and saxophonist
Derek Kverno, who, like the proverbial
fat lady in a Baroque aria, all demon-
strated their virtuosity to a wide-eyed
crowd. Although I had really never
listened to much jazz music, the concert
was anice introduction for me, showing
the audience old, famous pieces along
with the not-so-well known.’ I truly
enjoyed the show and was sorry to see
it end. It changed the way I think about
jazz music, changing it from something
that just “artsy” and “deep” people lis-
ten to into a widely accessible musical
genre.

So now that I’ve finished my
Woodwind/Jazz love-fest, I feel the need
to rage on something, just to level out
the chemicals in my brain. Here is the
one thing that disturbed me about
Wednesday ‘night: I counted about as
many people on stage as I counted in the
audience. Turnout wasn’t that bad, but

it was far from stellar. Now I could:

make a plea for to people come and
support the hard work of their fellow
students, but if you’re anything like me,
you're fairly self-centered and prob-
ably don’t give a happy damn about
anyone else’s hard work. So I'll put it
like this: it is in your own best interest
to go to concerts like this one. You'll

| COMMERCIAL |
PHOTOGRAPHY

° COMMERCIAL © INDUSTRIAL © PRODUCT

learn stuff. You’ll experience new
things. And it is one of few edifying
experiences at Davidson that is abso-
lutely free. So come on, put down your
chemistry book, quit surfing the ‘net,
stop playing your Nintendo 64, and go
to the next concert that comes along. It
won’t hurt a bit, I swear.

