12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Op-ED

TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

Davidson mom reflects on being a spectator

h, the smell of chlorine and the sound of
water splashing on the deck! As far as
I’m concerned, there is no better place to

be on a Saturday afternoon than pool side, watch-
ing fine athletes ply through the water to an excit-

ing finish.

Being with me at a meet, listening to me
scream, and watching me wave at swimmers that
can neither hear nor see me, one would wonder if
I am a fan or a fanatic, but I can’t help being a
swimming enthusiast.

My love affair with sports started at a young
age. My father was an avid fan of all sports and
every weekend was like a mini sports seminar. In
the fall I learned about linebackers, screen passes,
and shot gun formation. Through the winter, it
was man-to-man defense, ABA, and Dr. J. The
spring brought lessons in the squeeze bunt, the
slider, and the steal. It wasn’t till ] was grown with
children of my own that I discovered the exciting
sport of swimming.

Ten years ago, my daughter made the an-
nouncement that she was joining the neighbor-
hood swim team. That sounded like fun. We were
at the pool all the time, anyway. Little did I know
what I was getting into! Before the summer was
over, I had learned about IM, DQ, underwater
cycles, and official whites.

And I was hooked on watching young people
move through the water, some like dolphins, oth-
ers like drowning rats, but all giving their best to
get to the other side of the pool — fast. I had
watched many people hit and throw and kick some
type of a ball or run races around a track, but it was
all done on dry ground — humans’ normal habitat.

But this athletic competition, requiring skill,
strength, endurance, and breathing was done in
water!

As our family remained involved in competi-
tive swimming, I came to realize what fine athletes
swimmers are, and how committed they must be
to stay competitive.

Practices are hours of endless laps in the pool
— drills with a kick board, drills with leg buoys,
drills with paddles and fins, and just plain stroke
and kick up and down the pool. I get tired just
thinking about how they practice.

Because many competitive swimmers are
students, practice is arranged around school hours
— meaning 5 or 6 a.m. start times for the morning
session and several hours again after class. While
most people are finishing their night’s sleep, these

aerobic workout, not a sport. There are so many
aspects of competitive swimming. How much
forward motion can a swimmer get as he thrusts
himself of the starting blocks? Is every part of his
stroke and kick completely efficient to get the
most forward movement with the least energy
expended? How quickly and powerfully can he
get himself turned at the wall and headed to the
finish? Is the final reach for the finish made close
enough to the wall that momentum is not lost?
Any little hesitation or mistake in any portion
of the race can give advantage to the competition
or cause disqualification from the race. I love to
see how a coach puts together the relay teams. Do
the faster swimmers go first and last or is it slowest
to fastest? It is especially exciting when a swim-
mer is going as fast as his body ‘will go, but the

“As our family remained involved in competitive swimming, I came to
realize what fine athletes swimmers are, and how committed they must

be to stay competitive.”

athletes were grabbing a bagel and heading to the
pool. Along with time in the pool, training con-
sists of stretching, running, and weight training.

And this is year-round training. There is little
“off-season” for a competitive swimmer. During
vacations or holidays, the swimmeris going through
intensive training, sometimes called “hell week(s).
The only time swimmers might feel like they are
on vacation is during “taper,” when practice is cut
back to reserve energy and strength for the most
important race of the year — like a championship.
Then they are so full of energy they can be difficult
to be around. But I like swimmers, and I love to
watch them compete.

Some may say that there is not much to a
swim meet, but they only see swimming as a good

competition is an arm’s length ahead, so he reaches
down somewhere inside himself and somehow
strokes and kicks just a little bit faster and harder.
The water flies so high that the outcome of the race
can only be determined by the electronic touch
pads on the wall.

With all of the meets that I’ve watched, I’ve
come to realize all the many positive outcomes in
aswim meet. Any swimmer has the opportunity to
win the races in which they compete. A swimmer
who places in a race will win points for the team
score. And no matter win or lose, all the swimmers
have the opportunity to improve their times over
their previous races.

Now some will say that I’m prejudiced to-
ward swimming because I have aswimmer and am

not involved in other sports. Not true! I have had
family members and friends compete in just about
every kind of sport there is.

At the moment, I have a son that is involved
in collegiate football, and I have no one involved
in competitive swimming. Then why would:]
choose to go toa swim meet and sit through several
hours of chlorine burning my nose and humidity
frizzing my hair?

I guess it’s the swimmers themselves. You
see, they do more than swim at a swim meet.
Before, during, and after the meet, they are their
own cheerleaders and swim cheers are very unique
— you have to hear them for yourself. And
swimmers have motions to their cheers, but I’m
not sure if they realize they do. You'll see them at
the end of the pool, moving their arms as they
cheer, to get a backstroker to kick harder. Or they
will walk the side of the pool, motioning a swim-
mer on, pointing to the position of the competitor.

After expending all that energy cheering one
would think there would be little left for swim-
ming. Butafter the cheers, they don their caps and
goggles and head for the starting blocks ready to
score points for the team. .

After their races, they become both the fans
in the stands and the food vendors. The dripping
swimmers towel off, pull on a T-shirt, pull out
bagels or power bars, and with their mouths full
become the obnoxious fan on the sideline.

I mean really — have you ever seen a football
player lead cheers, put on his helmet, and go in for
a series of plays, then come out and get food and
yell at the referee (well, some of that!). Swimmers
do it all!

So next weekend, when there is a meet down
in your beautiful aquatics center, walk on down
there and discover this great sport of swimming.
It’s quite a thing to experience — the excitement,
the fine competition, super athletes, a lot of school
pride. There’s no better place to be! Andif I’m not
there, yell for me!

Thrown off the Court without a trial

et me begin with an apology. To
those of you who have ever pa
onized me with any respect, I

can only offer you an “I’m sorry” for
my previous disingenuousness. Allow

me to exhume my honor and clarify my
platform: This place is rotten.

How it took me so long to confront
what I despise about Davidson, I don’t
know. I’m an old man here. I’m the
only person in my anthropology class
who was born in 1975. What does that
say about me? Decide for yourself.

Anyway... Much griping occurs
on our campus, and this is a good thing.
But I’m afraid we haven’t taken our
complaining seriously enough. Why

does this thought occur to me?

Please, allow me to explain.

My parents have sacrificed their
lives’ work to enable my education here.
This was an offering of their cumula-
tive efforts (to privilege their children
with all the opportunities they were
capable of providing) in confidence
that this institution would deliver a cor-
respondingly appropriate experience.

Why am Iso outraged that much of
their commitment was robbed? As a

second semester senior here, would the’

reader please quickly figure the math
on where my current Davidson “tab”
stands...

That cozy figure in mind, let’s
continue.

Enjoying myself in the pleasant
atmosphere of Patterson Court refuge,
an honorable little droog demanded my
departure from the occasion. He noted
that a) I was not equipped with a PCC
sticker, and b) my papers were not in

order.

Alright, the second charge was my
excited imagination and/or ego, but you
get the idea... had to leave.

This kind of occurrence says a
great deal about our school and its stu-
dents, so I will allow you to draw your
own conclusions as to its significance
and why I found it so disgraceful.

On with the story... Was I bellig-
erent? No, thank you. Was I compro-
mising Davidson’s integrity? Was my
bubbly, peaceful presence in that base-
ment such a threat to my school that I
should have been commanded to leave
— under threat of police involvement?

I would have thought not.

As this fellow intimidated me with
adim Snakelight (all legal props here to
Black & Decker, folks), I quietly left
the premises.

Hey, I was tired, and this chap
wasn’t worth it.

But I’ve put up with too much of

this place’s crap. I’m tired of feeling
exploited and unappreciated by a school
we relinquish so much to attend. News
Flash, brothers and sisters: We have a
few too many procedures, regulations,
and fees, as well as a few too many
students who actually care to enforce
them all.

For God’s sake, what kind of lib-
eral arts school have I been at for four
years? I would kill to be able to con-
tinue my relationship with the blessings
this college offers — brilliant profes-
sors, exceptionally gifted friends and
colleagues, and beauty — but it stops
there. Somehow, the rest of it has come
to make me irritable and bitter.

Why does the part of me that hates
this place still go for ten-mile runs at
four o’clock in the morning when deer
cover the Concord Road lawns? And
why does that other part of me (respect-
ful to this institution and my ancestors
who attended before me) compel me to

waste away my final days in contempt?

I’m man enough to admit that I
have squandered some of my opportu-
nities here. However, my often thought-
less reverence to this school’s nonsense
was that which most needlessly wasted.
Honestly, I have always had the strang-
est feeling that it was my insolence that
kept me here. And no, I don’t really
understand it, either.

Quick summary for those who
aren’talready quite depressed: The last
ten dollars this school has yet to quarry
from my body waits patiently for its
removal. You know where to find it. If
you_want it, come and_get it. ‘

Until then, anyone who thinks I
will hand over more money to legiti-
mize my presence at the only sorry
excuse for fun this place offers can hold
their breath. To all you feigned lawyers
and determined regulation enforcers,
perhaps I'll see you out and around.
Until then...

SAIN we

MN
! ‘f \

aA
HIN
Mt

iii

2
i

{

\Gi

me Vt Xo take h

BOW a2 Smell loan

Alenda Lux Ket on weekends

f c oY ' _
A Ty } Ve Za aA
Say — —_ :

Kory ff
i

i

Gendt
ti

sae } tee ONS os

ae

paca) oS @ i
uty, = EE Hello? arte
’ have ion Smo\ doc = ss ne | at

