THE DA VIDSONIAN

Internship: Part I

0, what did you do last summer? Did you
have a completely fulfilling experience?

Did you test your limits? Did you delve
into yourself and answer a bunch of questions that
you never really get around to answering while

er

ririviae site lpr iced

you are carrying the Davidson workload on your
shoulders?

Maybe a few of you did, but my guess is that
at least some of you are open to new ideas with
’ what to do during the break, and I have a sugges-
tion: the Stapleton/Davidson Internship. Patricia’s
going to tell you about the details, but I'd like to
tell you about the not-so-detailed part of the sum-
mer, the experience part.

I was placed at The Relatives, a teen crisis
shelter in Charlotte. Teens come in by their own
accord or with the police. Most of them are
runaways or out-of-control teens. It is a short-term
shelter, so they can only stay for up to two weeks;
the average stay, however, is only six days.

During their stay at the shelter, they are
responsible for minimal chores and for attending a
daily “session.” That’s where I came in. I did at
least one (sometimes two) sessions a day. Each
child also has a family session, so I did a few of
those too.

short-term therapy based on re-directing the client
to best fulfill his or her needs. So, I would meet
with one of the residents and talk about what was
going on in his or her life, and sometimes a little
about what was going in mine, too.

It is amazing what the kids whom I grew so
close to endured. Daily, I would hear things that
took my breath away. Really. Any type of crisis
you can imagine, and I saw it. Pregnancy, rape,
gangs, shootings, drugs, physical abuse, sexual
abuse, emotional abuse, sexuality issues, suicide,
homelessness, neglect — and that’s just the begin-
ning. :

The workers there are people to talk to; they
use common sense to help these kids get exactly
what they need, which includes an overwhelming
amount of referrals. I learned so much about the
web of service agencies in Charlotte.

So, hear I am facing life-changing and life-
threatening issues with these kids. By no means
would any of us qualify ourselves as counselors in
the formal sense of the word. But these kids can’t
get to counseling. They need a safe place to stay
and someone to talk to. Their families need help.
These are the people who have fallen through the
cracks and have nowhere else to turn. (I am
beginning to sound like a Sally Struthers commer-
cial, aren't I?)

A crisis hotline also runs to the office, so we
dealt with all of these issues over the telephone,
too.

Yes, this was an extremely intense and taxing
summer. I spent long hours questioning my place,
my blessings, and my faith.

The Specifics:Part I

he Stapleton/Davidson Internship is sup
ported through an endowment created by a
giftin 1988 from George Donnell Davidson

‘39 and his wife, Anne Stapleton Davidson.
The internship intentionally examines the

Proved, Onivol

role of faith and service and whether they are
mutually exclusive, specifically, through contact
with the Chaplain’s office at Davidson and two
Charlotte Presbyterian Churches, readings oncom-
munity, faith, and volunteerism. The interns gain
a sense of how service might be an important
component of faith and how faith in turn could
lead one into service ministry.

As an intern for the summer of 1997, I was
placed at Family Center, Mecklenburg County’s
only non-profit organization devoted solely to
prevention and treatment of child abuse and ne-
glect.

I worked with the development office in FC
and did several projects that included setting up a
data base of gifts in kind and planning a large fund-
raiser party at the beginning of the summer.

For the event, I solicited Charlotte restau-
rants for food and beverage donations. ' I also
worked two mornings a week at Arosa House, the

residential services division of FC.

In working with the profoundly abused chil-
dren, I realized the value of trust and of limits, for
those whose limits and trust had been exploited
were not as willing to trust me (a stranger) coming
into what is essentially their home.

Coming to meetings with Rob Spach, the
Davidson Chaplain, and the two ministers at Cov-
enant and First Presbyterian Churches gave me a
way to process my experience from a faith-based
perspective. ‘Many times, the meetings evolved
into joking around or sometimes into serious con-
versations that would lead us all to a restaurant
close by. My involvement with the Church gave
me a stronger sense of direction in my life and
made it impossible not to integrate my service and
faith.

With a stipend of $3000 this summer, the
Stapleton/Davidson Internship provides what I
think is the best opportunity around to question for
asummer. The stipend allowed me to serve others
without the stress of having to save Summer money.

Housing is provided by families who belong
to the two churches, which was the route I took —
free of charge I might add — or you can live at
Davidson in the senior apartments. If you are

thinking at all about a change in summer experi-

ence, I would tell you to consider the Stapleton/
Davidson.

It will change your life in the best possible
way.

For more information, contact Rob Spach at
«2420, or call Patricia at x6733. Applications are
due the first Friday in February.

The role of death in life

| ast week, I read some very
moving articles. They were
filled with loss and hopes, ig-
norance and loyalty, and most of all,

they were saturated with opinions. And
now it’s my turn.

I met Damon during the Love of
Learning program in 1995. That was
my first year as a counselor-mentor,
and I wanted to remember everyone’s
name and something special about each
student.

That sum-
mer was one of

put their trust in me. I gained strength
in what I call life traits, such as love,
caring, and patience. I developed-.a
better sense of who I was and where my
spiritual walk should be headed.. I
learned how to make compromises —
and not necessarily sacrifices. A part of
me that had never been challenged was
awakened and brought to light, and I
have the many Damons, Telecias,
Malus, Anithras, Shans, and Herberts
to thank for this.

Now, as I have written, I hope I
have given you the idea that I know
Damon. But I don’t want to mislead
you. Damon and I did not stay up late,
talking every night about his dreams
and aspirations that summer. I didn’t
call weekly to check on him or his

Love of Learning and Damon

One student’s abbreviated experience with Kerns

that same agape love for his family
that you or I take for granted. But
don’t get me wrong; he was not an
“angel” in its most commonly used
connotation, and I’m not trying to.por-
tray him as such.

But as Della Reese might say, he
was one of my “Angels Along the
Way.” He was not “evil”, nor was he
without a soul. I don’t excuse what he
did in any way, form or fashion. I
simply ask you to not see the incident
in a vacuum; as it may have been
portrayed. There were occurrences
throughout Damon’s life leading up to
this moment.

He lived each day, and we do not
know all of the people he met, or those
who had the greatest influence on him.

We are only
aware of that

the hardest yet
most pleasurable
times of my life.
It was hard, be-
cause I was
working and liv-
ing with students

which is told to

“I’m only suggesting you take this incident out of the »s.
plastic bubble it has been placed in and understand that
Damon’s purpose at the start of his Christmas morning
was not to kill Mark Swaney.”

Well,
I'm telling you
more. I’m tell-
ing you about a
young man who

near my age to

whom I was act-

ing as a mother, sister, role-model,
best-friend, confident, disciplinarian,
assistant dreamer, and much, much
more. You see, my job as a Love of
Learning counselor was/is not just to
keep “those” kids out of trouble while
they’re on campus and try to educate
“them.” I saw myself as someone who
would help students to smile when
they had no reason to and who tried to
hug the hurt away sometimes.

I did my damnedest to reverse the
idea that they had not even come close
to fulfilling their God-given potential.
I “played the role” of rule-enforcer
and traveled their schedule with them.
I made sure they were in bed early
enough to get sufficient rest. I prayed
for them nightly. I tried to keep in
contact with some during the academic
year. But now reflecting on that grand
summer, I also took much more than I
gave.
I found students like Damon, who

family. At that time, he was just one of
the many blessings (and headaches) I’d
received during the month of July in
1995. ;

When I returned the following se-
mester, [saw Damon from time to time.
I may have seen him on campus or at the
mall, and [usually said hello. But it was
not until the Fall and Spring semesters
of 1997 that a true friendship began to
develop.

We talked on the phone occasion-
ally, and he frequently visited me at my
apartment. Earlier last year, I would see
him at Love of Learning or college
events and make it my business to find
out what was “going on” with him. We
talked regularly, and I learned more
about him in a few months than I had in
a couple of years. I thank God for that
little bit of knowledge

To me, Damon was a sweet soul.
He wanted to “do right” and oftenended
up the victim of circumstance .’ He had

was growing and
striving. A high
school dropout who; despite the odds
against him, wanted to go back to
school, and took the steps to start the
process. A person with feelings, jokes,
love for others, and more than you
would have ever known about from an
article entitled ““‘Teen-ager with gun
slaughters police officer.”

I’m not asking for your forgive-
ness or sympathy. I’m certainly not
requesting any empathy from the loved
ones and friends of Mark Swaney or
Sgt. Charles McLean.

I’monly suggesting you take this
incident out of the plastic bubble it has
been placed in and understand that
Damon’s purpose at the start of his
Christmas morning was not to kill
Mark Swaney. ?

I didn’t know Mark Swaney, nor

did Ihave first hand information about
his relationship with Damon. ButIl am
still in prayer for his loved ones, just as
I am for Damon’s.

Te weekend I saw a man die.
Well, more specifically, I think
I helped a man die.

I assume that by now, most people
have learned of the death of the elderly
gentleman on Watson Street this past
Friday evening, as a raging party took
place blocks away.

When my friend and I saw him
collapse, we called out to other party;
goers, hoping for assistance. It was

dark, almost midnight. The street was
not very well lit. We must not have
looked like much more than dark heaps
in the middle of a road, seeing that they
were about half a block away from us.
Despite the lack of visibility,
though, these fellow students heard our
cries. They slowly turned to look at us,
and then continued on to the party.
My two years here at Davidson
have been incredibly enriching. Of all
the things I have learned here, though,
there are two lessons that have been
extremely poignant to me: 1) despite
my inability to control many of the
situations I am placed in, one thing I
‘always have control overis my attitude.
Idon’t care how lonely or overwhelmed
7 may feel — at any moment I have the

ability to turn a negative situation into
something positive, if | want to. Those
with the biggest hearts always have the
greatest potential to alter the world they
live in. ,

2) People-can always change.
Every day is new, with no mistakes in it.
“What good will it do you to think, ‘Oh
I have done evil, I have made many
mistakes!’” an old proverb states. “It
requires no ghost to tell us that. Bring
in the light, and the evil goes out in a
moment.” .

The distant sounds of the party,
coupled with the eerie silence that fol-
lowed the man’s last sporadic gasps,
will always haunt me. I cannot imagine
what it would feel like to be his
brother...or child...or wife right now.
But I will try.

I will always remind myself that
someday the man lying face down on
the cold pavement in the middle of the
night, his blood mixing with the tiny
pieces of gravel cutting into his flesh,
could be me.

Herman Melville reminds us, “We
cannot live only for ourselves. A thou-
sand fibers connect us with our fellow
men; and among those fibers, as sympa- -
thetic threads, our actions run as causes,
and they come back to us as effects.”

When death comes to us,,all we
can hope for is the comfort of loved
ones. More specifically, all we can
hope for is the comfort of loving ones.
All we have is each other.

