THE DAVIDSONIAN

By PuiLuie STEWART
Staff Writer

“One True Thing” is as depressing a movie as
I have ever seen, but it stands as a wonderfully
acted movie and character study.

Meryl Streep plays Kate Gulden, the wife of
George Gulden (William Hurt), an English profes-
sor at a New York university. Their daughter
Helen (Renee Zellweger) comes home from New
York City for a surprise birthday party for her
father. She is a writer and stereotypical New York
inhabitant; she wears black all the time and she has
an attitude. Helen has been unnerved by her
mother her entire life.

Her mother Kate is a housewife, a member of
the Minnes (the town’s decoration committee),
and nothing like Ellen. Ellen’s father, however, is
a great writer and teacher, so she worships him.
She asks of him his opinions on her articles, and he
always finds something wrong— “less is more,”
he says.

It is at home that Ellen learns that her mother
is sick with cancer. Her father asks her to take off
work for a while and take care of her mother. Of
course she is appalled, but she does submit and
becomes a nurse for her mother. The rest of the
movie deals with the slow decline of Kate’s physi-
cal state until she finally dies.

Ihave bashed many movies for manipulating
emotions. “Armageddon,” for example, changes

“One True Thing” proves
depressing but well acted

it’s tone as often as it is cut. “One True Thing” is

. the polar opposite of “Armageddon”. It lets you

know from the beginning that Kate is going to die,
and you know the movie is two hours long, so she
is going to die slowly. Unfortunately, there really
is no comic relief in the movie— in fact, the other
plot points are almost as depressing. George turns
out to be unfaithful, Ellen’s boyfriend cheats as
well, and Ellen loses her job.

Watching the film is like being strapped
down in front of a boxer, unable to move as he
pounds your face. :

But there are some very good things about the

movie. The performances are all good, but
Zellweger and Streep are mesmerizing and de-
serve Oscar nominations. Also, the complex de-
velopment of George and Ellen makes the charac-
ters deep and full.

One scene in particular shines in the movie.
The Gulden family is all standing around the
community Christmas tree singing “Silent Night,”
and the camera shows us all their faces.

The emotion comes through, and that is why
the acting is so good; a facial expression tells us
more than any language can. But thinking about
this scene, I also have to think about another; when
Ellen sits on Santa’s lap and looks over to her
mother on the park bench as her mother collapses
to the pavement clutching her chest. It’s moments
like those that make “One True Thing” truly im-
possible to watch again. Grade: C+

When talking moderation, less is more

Ep Diccins
Student Health Advisor

Well, it is official now. With the passing of
First Night Down, life here at Davidson kicks into
full swing. Everyone is now free to run the court,
to drink freely, and hook up sloppily. What more
can you ask for?

What more, indeed. Both hooking up and
drinking are great, fun-for-all activities; however,
I have one simple tip for improving the Davidson
social scene- MODERATION.

With moderation, not only are you in more
control during prime party hours, but you also
remember it all the next day.

No more of those embarrassing moments in
the Commons when your friends point out the
lizard-lipped beast you hooked up with the night
before. No more bumming Tylenol from your
neighbor so that you can make it through Sunday
Mass.

Maybe best of all, you might actually talk to
that special someone you have been checking out
all semester.

Okay, enough of the maybes. Let me give
you some facts. Moderate drinking not only

makes cheesy TV pickup lines sound like gold, but
also heightens arousal and increases the quality of
orgasms!

That’s right guys, a couple of quality drinks
will have you spouting like Vesuvius. And yes,
women, a little liquor does add more motion to the
ocean.

Just remember that the key to opening up this
new world of excitement is moderation. Too
much alcohol will get you caught in some bear’s
room with a pistol full of blanks (you know what
I’m talking about!). Worse yet, you may end up
in the hospital.

So let’s all look out for each other and have a
little fun. Moderation is the key!

Tips and reminders for having a safe and fun
weekend:

-moderation is the key.

-check out the new Alcohol Policy in the Student
Handbook.

-Use the Buddy System

-Condoms are your friends, use them!

-If it doesn’t feel right, don’t do it.

-Do unto others as they do unto you.

-Be Safe -

-Have Fun

@ Herb Jackson, Williamson Professor of Art, gives a
talk on his paintings, which are up in the VAC as part
of the faculty show, last Wed., Sept. 16 at noon.

Anna Hathaway

New life for the Dawn Redwood

By Brian CAMPBELL

Staff Writer

Our college’s arboretum proudly displays
seven Dawn Redwoods (Metasequoia
glyptostroboides), a species. which flourished in
the time of the dinosaurs, was thought to have
disappeared, and is now being resurrected in arbo-
reta throughout the world. This tree is a close
relative of the Bald Cypress, which was last week’s
featured tree. Both are of the family Taxodiaceae
and have similar color and texture. The Dawn
Redwood is another deciduous conifer, its bright
green leaves turning orange-brown and dropping
in the late fall.

The most interesting thing about the Dawn
Redwood is its history. The species has been
growing and reproducing for over 50 million years.
This same species which dots our campus was part
of the landscape at the time of the dinosaurs!
Dawn Redwoods have stood witness to the rise
and fall of civilizations and the emergence and
disappearance of species. They have weathered
ice ages, el ninos, and la nifias. Their countless
cycles of creation and re-creation have been the
constant through the ages. Of course, isn’t it the
creative process that keeps all of us alive, keeps us
rooted, and allows us to branch out as the world
changes around us!

Not long ago, scientists were sure the species
was extinct, and knew of it only through fossil
evidence. In 1941, a Japanese paleobotanist cre-
ated the genus Metasequoia for. some Pliocene

fossils. That same year, Dr. H. H. Hu, a Chinese
forester, discovered an ancient but still living
Dawn Redwood in the village of Modaogi, in
central China. In 1944, Dr. Hu collected seeds
from the surprising specimen and cultivated them
at Harvard University’s Arnold Arboretum.

A few years later, a team of botanists con-
firmed that the tree was the same genus as the
fossil Metasequoia. The trees on our campus and
at arboreta worldwide trace their lives back to the
serendipitous discovery and recovery of their Chi-
nese elder.

Dawn Redwoods are distant relatives of the
towering Redwoods of California. Their name
bears the Greek prefix “meta-” that means “to-
gether” or “near,” because of their taxonomic
similarity to other Sequoia. Dawn Redwoods
grow quickly (up to 50 feet in 20 years, and
eventually up to 120 feet), and their trunks can
exceed 10 feet in diameter. Just to compare, the
Coast Redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) can reach
heights of over 360 feet,-and the huge trunk of the
Giant Redwood (Sequoia giganteum) make it the
largest living thing on the planet!

Dawn Redwoods are sprinkled along Con-
cord road, with a cluster behind the Martin Chem-
istry building and one beside the construction
entrance near the Union. Two more line the path
near the music practice rooms. For all you frisbee
golf enthusiasts, itis the broad branches of a Dawn
Redwood that interrupt the tee shot on the 18th
hole! Visit these trees this week. Your encounter
with the Dawn Redwood is the culmination of
more than 50 million years of life.

pede os ee bons ine adade

Coffeehouse. Because you 1.) slept through
breakfast, and 2.) have change toburn. Shazzam!

“Giving Up Their Country.”

For

Coffeehouse. A great excuse to

Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival. It

8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Art Studio Faculty Exhibit. All week long. 10:00
a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Visual Arts Center.
Turner House meals. We're still homeless! 5:00
- 7:00 p.m. at the Outpost.

Jumpin’ Java. Clean some mugs. 8:00 p.m. -
12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

Bio Society speaker. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Drink, because
youcan. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. inthe 900 Room.

more information, contact Nancy
Fairley. 4:30 - 6:00 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Into the Streets meeting. (The Dow
Jones needs you!) 9:00 - 10:30 p.m.
in the Home Room.

hang out in the 900 Room. 8:15 -
11:15 a.m.

VAC Dedication Ceremony. 11:30
a.m. - 2:30 p.m. at, where else, the
VAC.

Continued glorification of trauma. 9:00
a.m. - 12:00 p.m. on the Village Green,
next to the town library.

Drug Education Program. Drugs =nota
good idea. 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. in the
900 Room and in the Chambers Gallery.

won't go away. 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 pm. at
Johnston Gym.

Chess Club info meeting. 7:00-8:00p.m.
in the Union Conference Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Wear your coffee-drinkin’
clothes, shoes in which you can get wet,
anda big smile. 7:30 p.m. -12:30 a.m. at
the Outpost. é

Amnesty International. All students wel-
come! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

Meditation. Ommmmmm. 4:30 - 5:30
p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
“The Blues Brothers.” Showing at
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“The Blues Brothers.” Again. 9:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

- structive natural

Hurricane: Hugo Juggling Festival.
Juggling to honor one of the most de-
disasters that
Mecklenberg County has ever seen. 5:00
p.m. - 12:00 a.m. ;

Lunar Luau. “Inflatable Toy Night.” 9:00
- 11:00 p.m, at Richardson Field.

Nothing. Nothing else is happening.

Dr. John Esposito. Speaker speaks.
7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Jumpin’ Java, not featuring poetry
reading. For a night of caffeine and
unbridled angst, it’s 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
at the Outpost.

Ekaterina Souvorova. Talented musician
tickles the ivories. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in
Hodson Hall. :

OLAS meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the
Union Conference Room.

