_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

udget Cuts. The administration says they

are necessary; those who were affected by

* them obviously don’t. And then there is

an incensed student who worries that Davidson is
becoming a business.

I think it is important to see the budget cuts

from a middle ground. The budget does need to be

rethought, but the administration may not neces-
sarily be on the right track.

Though it may disturb Ms. Thomas (see
Thomas’ commentary in the Special Feature sec-
tion in the Feb. 17 issue of The Davidsonian) and
others, Davidson College is inescapably a busi-
ness. People are important, but in the long run, the
purpose of the college is, as Ms. Thomas writes, to
broaden minds and provide high-quality educa-
tion. Often it is necessary to make business
decisions, like scaling back the budget, in order to
achieve these aims.

As students we must do no less than demand
that our school be run as a business — operating as
efficiently and productively as possible. How-
ever, I think Davidson, like many other colleges
and universities, has to some extent forgotten that
its product is a well-educated student. With such
a product in mind, the administration should seek
to direct operations and funnel resources to focus
specifically on the development of each student.

The recent budget cutbacks do not seem
world-shattering by any means. Though I do not
know any of those affected, I definitely respect
their work; however, I trust that the administration
made informed, intelligent decisions. Though the
Campus Police are wonderful people, one cannot
justify such a large presence on a low-crime cam-
pus with an honor code. Administrative positions
were over-abundant as well.

President Vagt’s assertion that Davidson is
made great by people is called to question by his
decision, and I’m sure those affected will disagree
with his decision. The one way to make the
decision correct is to ensure that the cuts were
worthwhile. Hopefully, the changes were not
made to decrease tuition inflation in the short run
but to help Davidson better fulfill needs of stu-
dents in the long run. The sacrifices of certain staff
members will seem ridiculous if the only effect is
a financial break for one class of students. The
challenge for President Vagt is to use this money
to improve Davidson College as an institution. —

Without question, more money is needed
than the budget currently supplies. Lieutenant
McLaurin is right — one of those needs is not a
new elevator. The new money should instead
work to provide better teaching, better activities,
and better facilities.

The Sociology department that will hope-
fully endorse my diploma has three professors.
The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies does not
even have one professor focusing on it exclu-
sively. Other departments (such as Education and
Classics) face similar conditions. Few professors
means few classes — how many of us in these

” . Gee

Mfoney from budget cuts should benetenfre Cal

departments have been forced to take an unappeal-
ing class just to fulfill an elective major require-
ment? That is inexcusable!

In addition to professors, Davidson needs
better activities. Every other school — larger and
smaller — that I have visited seems to have more
“big name” performers, speakers, etc.

Though activities here are superb in both
quantity and quality, I still lament returning from
a semester at the University of Chicago where in
one semester Mike Dyson, Jocelyn Elders, Toni
Morrison, Milton Friedman, and uncountable oth-
ers spoke; where in one year Beck, Koko Taylor,
and A Tribe Called Quest performed; and where

each night a different movie played in the Dolby-

SurroundSound-endowed student union theater.

Finally, though we are building a new student
union and science building, we still lag behind in
student housing, faculty facilities, and athletic
facilities students can use (any pick-up basketball
player can tell you about the troubles of finding an
open court).

The conclusion is clear: the number one
priority for the newly-freed money should be to
contribute it to the greatly needed continuing de-
velopment of Davidson College as an institution.

As far as lamconcerned, you can raise tuition
eight percent instead of four percent as long as the
money works to provide classes I want for my
major, living conditions that meet the standards
set by their price, better entertainment, etc.

If the true purpose behind decreasing tuition
inflation is to attract more students, and indeed
what else could it be, then one question must be

attract students — a smaller tuition hike for one
year or improvements in faculty, facilities, and
activities that would make Davidson more attrac-
tive for all subsequent prospectives?

There is one final thing in her commentary
that elicits comment. Christina Thomas quotes
Robert Norfleet as saying, “I hope students aren’t
entertaining the idea that the budget and finances
of this school are any of their business, because it’s
not their business.” I don’t know if this is taken out
of context, but I hope there is some explanation for
his words. This scares me. I do not want to go to
a school where students are treated as infantile
inmates who should not concern themselves with
the school’s operations. It is not only the right of
each student to participate in the administration of
our school, it is our responsibility. I am no one to
make demands, but I would hope that Dr. Norfleet
can and will explain his words.

Otherwise, let him work out finances without
my money.

I said earlier that I think a view from a middle
ground is necessary on the issue of budget cut-
backs. I think we must show patience as well.

If the administration proves that it is using the
money to enrich Davidson as an institution, then
the cuts made, though painful on the receiving end,
are justified and good. If, however, gains made are
temporary, money is misused, or needs are ne-
glected, then President Vagt — you have made a
mistake.

Though Dr. Norfleet might disagree, finan-
cial decisions the administration makes are my

_ business.

Prove to me that you did the right thing:

asked, Over the long run, which is more likely to

There are alternatives to layoffs and cutbacks

( Neti over the College
budget inevitably calls into
question this institution’s val-

ues. In order to continue to provide an

excellent college experience while pro-
viding opportunity for students from all
socioeconomic backgrounds to attend

Davidson, the College must create a

budget consistent with these goals. In
the zeal to cut costs, the institution must
avoid undermining the values that char-
acterize Davidson.

Davidson’s community atmo-
sphere distinguishes it from schools of
similar academic quality. This charac-
teristic is. embodied in the personal at-
tention that comes with a high faculty-
to-student ratio and caring staff. Some
may say this college is overstaffed, but
if budget cuts continue to. eliminate
staff, Davidson will gradually lose the
unique factor that attracts quality appli-
cants.

Since the college is struggling with
the quandary of how toallocate its funds,
anew union should not be on the agenda.
The present Union adequately serves -

the students, and its location is advanta-
geous, unlike the proposed site. More-
over, Davidson does not need a build-
ing that would further isolate the Col
lege from the town. A new union would
eliminate the only contact some stu-
dents have with the town: waving at
cars when they stop to let the students
cross to the post office or ATM.

As for the issue of keeping up with
other colleges, the student Davidson
wants to attract is concerned with the
substance of the College, not by its
physical struc-
tures.

into preparing a lecture, or extra time
they stay to talk with students, creates
the a chance for students to be inspired
and expand their boundaries. Why
should faculty be loyal to a place where
they don’t feel valued? A caring staff is
also anintegral part of the College com-
munity by helping students cope with
the stresses of Davidson life. If their
morale is low, they won’t put their
hearts into their jobs.

In last week’s Davidsonian, in “The
Business that is Davidson College,”

staff, should have input on these deci-
sions which shape this institution.
Ideas stemming from the minds of
those people who know ‘the College
best need to be considered in order to
cut the budget without incurring unde-
sirable effects. Phasing out the laundry
service is an example of how the Col-
lege could save money without firing
anyone or undermining the goals of the
College. Granted, the laundry does
make Davidson special. If you leave
money in your pockets, it miraculously
returns to youina
little envelope, or

What mat-
ters at Davidson
is learning, made
real through the
faculty, staff, and
students.

“Some may say this college is overstaffed, but if budget
cuts continue to eliminate staff, Davidson will gradually
lose the unique factor that attracts quality applicants.”

ifa button is about
to pop off, it is
magically sewn
on. My mom
doesn’t even do
those things. If

When the .
College lays off employees, when staff
and faculty take cuts in pay or benefits,
or when important services are ne-
glected, the extent to which the faculty
and ‘staff is willing to give of them-
selves is paralyzed a little more, and
everyone suffers repercussions. Each
time a professor goes beyond what is

- expected, a student is motivated to dig

deeper, challenge his or her precon-
ceived notions, and to explore new pos-
sibilities. Extra effort professors put

Robert Norfleet, the College’s Vice
President for Business and Finance,
commented that the College budget is
none of the students’ business, Stu-
dents, as well as faculty and staff, are
the ones directly affected by the budget.
Students dedicate their efforts to learn-
ing, while many of them and their fami-
lies sacrifice into order to attend this
College. Faculty and staff devote their
livelihoods to Davidson. For these rea-
sons, students, as well as faculty and

you sheepishly
make it known that you are leaving in
ten minutes to catch a plane, and all
your socks are currently in the dryer, six
laundry ladies will fold and wrap 12
pounds of laundry in 30 seconds, while
asking you what the weather in Wis-
consin is like this time of year.

On the other hand, money needs to
be channeled into areas that function to
educate students.

Students who want the service
could pay an extra fee. If demand

exceeds capacity as staff retire, alottery
could determine who can use the ser-
vice.

Other changes to cut costs at David-
son are fitting. Students could pick up
their own litter. Reorganizing staff jobs
would allow them to work more effi-
ciently and avoid having to lay them off
or cut hours. The College could spend
less onentertaining. Financial aidsome-
how could be restructured so that fami-
lies no longer have the incentive spend
in order to qualify for aid: Contests
between residence halls could conserve
energy. The most important thing is for
administration, faculty, staff, and stu-
dents to unite in brainstorming sessions
in order to devise ways to cut the bud-
get. Two students sitting on a commit-
tee can’t do it alone.

Davidson should treat its students,
faculty, and staff like individuals, and _
the College must’ take care to avoid
trampling on this primary value when it
creates its budget. Just as an applicant
is not acomposite of test scores, a GPA,
and a list of extracurriculars, the value
of an item in the budget, such as an
employee or a program, cannot be seen
on an accounting sheet. The people
who have the biggest stake in the Col-
lege, the faculty, students, and staff,
should play an important role in deter-
mining how the budget is reshaped.

Alenda Lux eKE,X on weake nds

W'sue Bloke?

J] We digcussed bio-

withoud heads and
Leathers a. Wee
chicken muggers.

engneeced chickens .

n Wa
big |F

Con's ive o

\ ras Yercible! Mon
ti SNoulda't play God
One Serelmring
AWork an Grimol

nodural he!

oy Noke Loteze

t P2008 he
Qrestion 4,
Gn we clone
Svoke ® Boke? ft

Rorkhebic, Damian,
(

ee

oes

.

