undying gratitude to Student Opinionator

Britton Taylor for ending his extended and
much-maligned “hiatus” and deigning to bestow
upon us, the idiot citizens of the Davidson commu-
nity, yet another articulate and well-thought-out
Op-Ed piece. Without obtaining Britton’s enlight-
ened opinions concerning everything from jour-

I would like to be among the first to express my

nalistic prioritization to “literary merit” to the film
“Titanic” to the Career Services Office, I wouldn't
know what to think about anything. Iam referring,
of course, to his half-page-long rant on page six of
last week’s Davidsonian. And I am being, of
course, extremely sarcastic.

Britton begins his diatribe by complaining
about the fact that The Davidsonian spent too
much time covering the alleged “donnybrook”
(nice vocabulary, by the way) at the Sig Ep house
and no time covering his College Bowl competi-
tion. Now, I.went to some Bowl matches, I have
some friends that competed, and IJ think that it was
a quality event. But I have to tell you, most
conversations and debates in my dorm did not
revolve around who knew which piece of arcane
trivia. To say that The Davidsonian owes Britton
Taylor an apology for reporting on a topic that
people were interested in is absurd, not to mention
a bit pompous. And after Britton finished writing
his: vindictive words, it turns out the paper pub-
lished a nice piece on the College Bowl (as they
should have) and even gave him a quote on the
front page. Looks to me like they did a decent job

after all. '

He ends with this stellar piece of logic: “For
all know, (the alleged Sig Ep incident) could have
been something The Davidsonian made up en-
tirely.”” Okay, let’s ride this train of thought to its
logical conclusion, shall we? Apparently what
he’s saying is that anything in the paper that he
doesn’t personally witness can never be trusted
and is quite possibly a lie. So “for all I know,” the
American Revolution, the Second World War,

.and the Kennedy Assassination are all BS too,

because I didn’t see any of those things, either.

Britton also takes issue with the Momix nar-
rative I wrote, saying that I possess “a 13-year-
old’s mentality.”

While that may or may not be true, that was
also the point — and hopefully the reason that it
was funny, or at least amusing (except for Mr.
Taylor, I’ve only heard good reviews). It’s also
impressive that Britton is able to make such a
blanket statement about someone while knowing
little or nothing about them. He also asserts that a
quote I put in the article had “no literary merit.” I
guess he’s qualified to make such a statement due
to the fact that he’s a well-respected and tenured
professor of literature and journalism here at David-
son College. Oh wait, he’s not. My bad.

He then proceeds to recount the day when he
wiped his ass with a copy of The Davidsonian.
Nice.

Whether you like the paper or not, there’s no
denying that a lot of people spend a lot of time and

’ effort putting it out (for FREE!). So to show his

appreciation, Britton decides to usethe product of
their unpaid hard work as toilet paper and then
publicly boasts about it. Real mature. So refresh
my memory, I seem to have forgotten: Who was
it that has the mentality of a 13-year-old?

And as if all that wasn’t insulting enough,

Britton then has the brazen audacity to command
that The Davidsonian apologize to him, again for
the lack of College Bowl coverage, or he won’t
“Jet them off.the hook.” Oh, and then he calls
himself “a nice guy.” Well, that may be true, but
you couldn’t prove it by reading his article.

I really wish I could stop at this point, but
unfortunately I’m just getting started.

Britton then begins a quest to prove how
pathetic and shallow the members of the female
species are due to the fact that some of them cried
during “Titanic.” He gives testament to his “man-
liness” by bragging that he gave high fives and
didn’t care when the ship sank or when all the
people died, unlike the feminine “emotional
wrecks” with whom he had been forced to view the
movie. I wonder what his reaction was when the
Jews got carted off to the concentration camps in
“Schindler’s List.”

He then goes on to further insult his compan-
ions by saying that their reasons for crying during
the movie were, as tested by his superior abilities
of judgement, inadequate. He implies that it was
only he who understood the true meaning of the
film while his idiot girlfriends missed it entirely. I
find it hard to be sympathetic to Britton on this
point. Britton had already established that they
were intellectually vacant idiots compared to him
because they cried when there was obviously no
good reason.

Knowing this, how could he possibly expect
their feeble minds to comprehend the film on the
same emotional level that he could, being the
analytical genius that he is? Sarcasm again, by the
way. Maybe I'll stick with it.

So at this point in our story, Britton is already

pretty pissed off. But wait, even more horrible -

indignities await him around the corner, care of the

interview, and due to the fact that he is The One-
and-Only Britton Taylor, he is extraordinarily
overqualified for any and all positions they are
offering. But for some odd reason, surely not due
to anything Britton did, something goes awry
during the interview, and our hero doesn’t get the
job. Now, I'll cede the point that if Britton’s
version of events is accurate (I wasn’t there, so I'll
have to assume it’s a lie), the interviewer was very
harsh on him. But Britton doesn’t stop at just
blaming the interviewer. Of course not —it seems
there were others conspiring against him as well,
such as the Career Services Office (who didn’t
prepare him well enough) and Almighty God (who
won't help him get a job).

As I think about it, that might be a good tactic
to take up in my life as well. Every time I screw
something up, I'll just blame everyone else but me.
Wow, will my self-esteem be high then! Probably
high enough to allow me to trash other people’s
hard work and insult the intelligence.of my friends.
Or not.

If you’ ve read this far without having the urge
to race to the hardware store for torches and
pitchforks, it’s possible you’re wondering what
exact point I’m trying to make with all this. Britton
gave a “moral” at the end of his piece, so at the risk
of sounding pretentious (although it didn’t seem to
bother Britton), I'll try to give one in mine. Here
goes:

Sometimes the world is not as clear-cut and
black-and-white as you think it is. Sometimes
people will disagree with you and be right. And
sometimes, when people unwittingly annoy you,
you should just let it go.

All that being said, however, there is one
thing Britton wrote that I do agree with. He stated
that he was “being disgustingly disagreeable.” No
argument there.

ever-so-stupid human race. He goes in for a job

rdinarily, I devote my col-
umn to anecdotes I find per-
sonally amusing or insightful

with the hope that others will enjoy it,
too. This week, I actually have an
opinion. Over the past several weeks,
I’ve become increasingly disgruntled
with life at Davidson. I’m bored,

overworked, and frustrated with the

supposedly “elite” population of stu-
dents in attendance at this college.
Sound familiar?

During my senior year, I visited
Davidson and fell madly in love with
the school. I :

lege.

My choice example for the week:
the newspaper. Since arriving at David-
son last fall, I’ve heard only criticism
and slams to The Davidsonian. Even
the most carefully-crafted, objective
articles are labeled as “one-sided” by
those who disagree. Articles objected
to by the student population go unno-
ticed, rather than prompting vocalized
student reaction. When I started writ-
ing opinions last semester, I was wor-
ried my articles would insult someone
and cause a scathing reaction in the
next issue. Hasn’t happened yet. My
favorite example. with The Davidso-
nian, case in point, is the individuals
who whine and complain in every issue
about the limited or inaccurate cover-
age given to events, speakers, commit-
tees, teams.

Ican understand being angered by

(Juit your cryin’ and do something

ing here is used as a euphemism for
formal bitching.) What he wouldn’t
know is that an article on the College
Bowl was assigned, but not turned in,
or at least not on time. A review, by
the way, is a criticism of an event by
the author, reflecting his/her own opin-
ion. If you didn’t like the Momix
article, complain to the author, not the
paper, who probably didn’t have any-
one else to write it. But hey, at least
Britton is writing. At least he’s giving
us something to print. (And, hope-
fully, all of you sitting there right now
complaining about this article will
write a letter to the editor, again help-
ing us fill space.) If The Davidsonian
were to respond to all of the criticism

we receive — if we were to hire only |.

experienced writers, to fire those who
failed to turn assignments in on time,
to print only “pro-Davidson” articles

of my academic
career. Every-

week with meaningless routine.”

— THERE
knew, or be- WOULD BE
lieved, this was ~ NO NEWSPA-
whereIwasdes- (Students) carry four to five ‘Davidson-level’ classes, PER ON THIS
tinedtospendthe and somehow manage to fill the other 156 hours of the CAMPUS.

next four years To

qualify, [am not
saying that The

one seemed so.
friendly. (Little did I know they left
voice mail for the students, tactfully
instructing them to “make (the
prospectives) feel welcome.”) I con-
tinue to believe that Davidson is a
college of outstanding credentials. My
faith in the faculty, administration,
and Honor Code (despite Bob’s recent
disappearance) is firm. My faith in the
students, however, is another story.
Davidson College students are
an interesting group. They carry four
to five “Davidson-level” classes, and
somehow manage to fill the other 156
hours of the week with meaningless
routine. I myself am guilty of this.
What amazes me is the way so many
students can manage to do absolutely
nothing and yet constantly complain
about all that is wrong with this col-

inaccurate coverage — every article
should at least be accurate. But if you
want to learn a little more about the
“limited” coverage of the news or sports
section, talk to one of the editors. Try
showing up for a news staff meeting
Sunday night. The 25 writers from the
beginning of the year has quickly de-
pleted to ten, and many of them are still
finding their way in newswriting. But
at least they’re still around to write, to
do something. At least they’re not
‘sitting on their lazy butts for two-hour
meals at the Commons complaining,
‘once again, about the crappy issue of
The Davidsonian.

In last week’s issue, Britton Tay-
lor devotes one and a half columns to
espousing his dissatisfaction with
Davidsonian coverage. (Note: espous-

Davidsonian isa
perfect paper. On the contrary, my
experiences as news editor give me
even greater insight into what needs
improvement, and I’m doing my best
to make those improvements. It does,
however, take time anda lot of help. I,
too, have a life outside of the paper,
and as much as I would like to write
the entire news section alone, it’s just
not gonna happen. g

Davidson houses the potential to
be a truly great college, fueled by an
amazing studentbody. Unfortunately,
at the end of the day, potential means
nothing. It’s another political theory
that looks great on paper but fails to
materialize in reality. The moral of
my story: If you’re not gonna be part
of the solution, quit whining about the
problem, oe

Inner resources and
tripping the light fantastic

There is more to dancing than the Court

ast week when I read The David

| sonian, I was disheartened to
learn the student Max Nelson

felt that the Court,was the only place to
dance. Now, I take no issue with his
defense of the Court parties. I fully
acknowledge they are much more than

a place to get drunk and find people
with whom to “hook up.” But his asser-
tion that these parties were the only
place on campus where he could dance
with his friends was just dead wrong. In

this se-

gripes without basis here at Davidson. I
am guilty of this kind of laziness, too. I
think we all are. We think we know so
much about this school and life and
have sufficient reasons to whine left
and right before we’ ve investigated our
resources. I amreminded of a Berryman
poem from his “Dream Songs,” in which
he writes, “Life, friends, is boring. We
must not say so./ After all, the sky
flashes, the great sea yearns,/ we our-
selves flash and yearn,/ and moreover
my -mother told me as a boy/

- (repeating)’Ever to confess you're

bored/ means-you have no/ Inner Re-
sources.” I conclude now I have no/
inner resources, because I am heavy
bored.” ,

I am asking Max and myself and
the rest of this campus to reaffirm the
inner resources we have within this

parties on Saturday nights where a mot-
ley mix of folks were tripping the light
fantastic till the wee hours. While I was
not here last semester, I also know that
every other Thursday night last fall the
Union sponsored Disco Night in the
900 Room.

Max, defend the Court all you like.
It is a valuable social arena for much of
the campus. But if you are going to

_ argue that the Court is all that is offered

to you, I wish you would open your eyes
before you open your mouth.
—-Folks;-Max-is-not alone in his

com-

mester Ss

alone, ary

(he BME if you are going to argue that the an d

cose Courtisallthatis offeredtoyou,Iwishyou in

our-

h a s Would open your eyes before YOU OpeN caves,

-spon- your mouth.” cue
sored Baie

two DJ 2.8

ie need

be “heavy bored” here. And if what you
want is not-here, ask around, and it is
likely you will find a way to bring what
you wish, or discover it was already
here. This is one of the joys of a small
school: While what you like may not be
analready-established reality, this place
is pregnant with possibility. We need to
Step out of our rooms and our minds
sometimes, ourcomfy circles of friends,
to make this place fulfilling in every
way, so we don’t have to read any more
editorials about all this school doesn’t
have to offer. : *
