THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

Ferrell breaks school record; men continue fabulous season

By KerrH Gorpon
Staff Writer

At first glance, the Davidson men’s
cross-country team finish of 33rd (out
of 42) at this past weekend's Paul Short
Run at Lehigh University (Bethlehem,
PA) is incredibly deceiving. Granted,
the men ran against the some of the
fiercest competition on the east coast,
including seven nationally-ranked
schools. Upon further inspection, how-
ever, one will see the results of one the
greatest team performances in the his-
tory of Davidson College cross-coun-
try.

Coach Gary Andrew reflected on
Saturday with a smile: “This has to the
best overall performance in my 13 years
at Davidson. It was very exciting and a
great opportunity to race with teams of
a great caliber.” Andrew cited the fast
course and excellent weather with his
team’s showing. “The guys rose to the
occasion, witnessed in all the PR’s (per-
sonal records).”

Junior Brent Ferrell immortalized
his name in the Wildcat harrier record
books with his time of 25:11 over the
8K course, breaking the previous school
mark set by Coty Pinckney in 1977.
Ferrell has continued his dominance
since the first meet of last season, only
now with the goal of individual confer-
ence champion more clearly in sight.
One of the most committed runners on
the team, Ferrell has used a great sum-
mer of training (aided by a study abroad
trip in France) coupled with incredible
early season practices to establish him-
self as not only one of the best runners
in Davidson history, but now the fast-
est. Like the runners before him, Ferrell
has set a benchmark of excellence for
himself and the team that will hopefully
continue as the men race towards the
conference meet.

An annual meet showcasing some
of the best talent in NCAA Division I
cross-country, this year’s Paul Short
Run (being the 25th anniversary) was
no exception. Michigan and Michigan

State tied for the meet title, with 90 -
points. Georgetown finished third (145
points), while James Madison narrowly
took fourth (183) and Princeton claimed
fifth (186). The men, despite their fin-
ish, left the meet claiming victories
ever Division I scholarship schools
Delaware and Pittsburgh, and were
barely defeated by Florida International
and Syracuse.

Todd Snyder of Michigan won the
individual crown in 23:44, while estab-
lishing anew meet record in the progress.

For the Wildcats, Lehigh proved a
PR dumping ground for all but one of
the men. Junior William Isenhour ran a
breakthrough race, following Ferrell in
an explosive 25:48. Isenhour had hov-
ered in the low 28’s for the first two
meets of the season, but rallied in spec-
tacular fashion reminiscent of his races
as a freshman. His time is now one of
the school’s top ten fastest ever on any
course, joining Ferrell and senior Josh
Cookson on the list. Although the only
member of the squad to not register a

Women’s cross country makes history

By KELLy KIEFER
Staff Writer

Last weekend, the top half of the
women’s cross-country team travelled
to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, for the 25th
annual Paul Short Invitational Run.
Although new in the field of 39 teams,
the Wildcats made an impressive debut,
finishing 24th, beating such schools as
Georgetown, Lafayette, University of
Pittsburg, and Lehigh.

Individually, the wildcats found the
cool temperatures and gently: rolling
grass course to be a superb setting to
showcase their talent. Sophomore
Smyth Bitter led the team with atime of
18:37 for the 5K, her personal best at

amsterdam
atlanta
ingkok
rcelona

Davidson. Senior Suzy Burr followed
with a time of 18:45. Freshwoman
Caroline Little ran an impressive 19:06
to finish third for the squad. Sopho-
more Clare Frey and freshwoman Lucy
Billingsley closed out the top 5 for the
team at 19:23 and 19:25, respectively.
Jill Neumayer and Kelly Kiefer both
ran personal bests of the season, finish-
ing sixth and seventh for the squad.
Reviewing the times, it must be noted
that history was made during this race.
This is the first time the top seven
runners have all finished under 20:00.

Due to race restrictions, Davidson
was only able to run 7 in the first race,
leaving Jenny Klotz, Rhiannon Ollis,
and Beth Brewster to compete in the

open race. Each ran a season personal
best, attesting the benefits of 6 weeks of
intense training.

As for overall feelings about both
races, Coach Thomas Cason states,
“This was the best team effort we have
had since I have been coaching here.
Everyone ran great, and.we accom-
plished our goal by finishing in the top
25. This is without a doubt the most
talented team Davidson has ever had.”
In addition, Smyth Bitter sums up the
race well. “ The weather was perfect for
running, which definitely contributed
to everyone running so great. Overall,
it was a successful trip for the entire
team, and we had tons of fun, too.”

McKinsey is an international

management consulting firm that seeks

bright, creative men and women to
participate in its North American
Business Analyst program

candidate

the s
OPPORTUNITY.

PR, Cookson still ran a solid race and
finished in 26:30, further providing his
constant support as one the top runners
on the team. Juniors Pat Burchett and
Thomas McElveen once again closed
out the top 5 scorers, running 26:47 and
26:49 respectively. With the weekend
behind them, the top 5 look poised to
lead the team to an incredible finish as

the men crossed the midpoint of the’

season.

Ferrell commented on the
weekend’s meet. “This has to be the
best level of competition we’ve ever
seen. It was aanother great step towards
our goal of finishing well in the South-
ern Conference.” He added, “We now
have even more confidence that we can
run with the best in the conference,
because we just competed with the best
in the nation.” Rounding out the top 7
for the team were freshman Dan Gibson
(26:56) and senior Keith Gordon
(27:08). As both were not far off the

’ times of Burchett and McElveen, the

core of the: group can only hope to

improve. Gibson and Gordon both set
PR’sas well as lowering their time from
the home meet by well over 1:30, fur-
thering providing evidence of the team’s
incredible performance Saturday.

Due to limitations in the number
of entrants for the first race, two Cats
also competed in the Open division at
Lehigh. Juniors Steve Hutchins (27:34)
and Steve Johnston (27:55) did not sway
from the trend, setting PR’s in the
progress and continuing their role as
top 9 runners for the team.

The men next travel to East Caro-
lina University (Greenville, NC) for the
North Carolina Intercollegiate Cham-
pionships held October 17. There they
will again see how they stack with con-
ference foes Appalachian State and
Western Carolina. With the first half of
the ‘98 season behind them, the men
brace themselves for, the future with
confidence—bolstered by the results of
the first three meets and the strength of
the individuals forming the backbone
of the team, Wildcat cross-country could
experience an unprecedented season.

EOPLE. WRITE,
PHOTOGRAPH,
WHATEVER.

PRETTY PLEASE?

McKinsey &Company

Challenge ’

This international firm is seeking college graduates from all
disciplines to participate in the Business Analyst program.
Analysts work for 2 to 3 years in one of our

20 U.S. offices as full members of our consulting teams and

receive financial assistance for graduate school after

completing the program

We seek candidates with exceptional records of
academic achievement, strong analytic and quantitative

skills, demonstrated leadership, and excellent

communication skills who are comfortable working in
teams

CAMPUS EVENTS > Tone

Information session Oct. 15, 7:00 p.m., The Guest House

Resume drop deadline

On-campus interviews

Sv NG

Kellie Turley

1-800-525-9910

133 Peachtree Street, Suite 4600
Atlanta, GA 30303
http://www.mckinsey.com

(casual attire appropriate) _

scores, and copy of transcript):

Oct. 30, 1998

mexico city
miami
milan
minneapoll
monterrey
montreal

mMmoscoyv

Oct. 16, 12:00 noon (please include cover letter, resume, SAT

