THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

5

Diversity Week
promotes tolerance

Diversity continued from page 1
®

lition for a Unity Party. The party will showcase
international music and ethnic dancing. Soda and
chips will be available.

The, culmination of the week will be Satur-
day, on which the Preconceived Notions Forum
willbe held in the 900 Room. Those attending will
be assigned colored nametags and be divided in
various ways into separate groups based on race,
economic background, experience with HIV, and
experience with homosexuality, among others.

Then small groups will be formed by nametag
color in order to discuss the experience before the
open floor forum to be led by Rev. Brenda Tapia.
“On Saturday we will begin by looking inside and
then expand the scope to encompass the Davidson
Community,” Lee says. “It promises to be an
extremely eye-opening event.”

Later Saturday, the Chambers Gallery will
house the FLAG Fashion Show. Postponed from

Fall of 1997 in order to improve the entertainment
and advertisement aspects, the show was resched-
uled into Diversity Week and will allow the week
to focus one specific event on the varying sexual
orientations in the community.

It will feature men and women modeling
their finest, weirdest, and most shocking apparel.
“The Fashion Show,” says Irene Middleton, one of
the Co-Chairs of Friends of Lesbians and Gays
(FLAG), “is the single most diverse event sched-
uled. We have everything from BSC members in
tin foil underwear to Charlotte drag queens.”

After the fashion show, FCREW will be
sponsoring a Post-Fashion Show Throwdown in
the 900 Room.

Allen Lee strikes a poignant chord as he sums
up the importance of the week: “Look within
yourself and across the hall or the classroom or
Vail, and let us learn how to be sensitive and
understand the differences that make us all beau-
tiful.”

pers

Buster bids farewell

Buster continued from page 1

office. But the impetus has come under his
administration.

And behind Burk’s urging, the SGA elimi-
nated its own so-called five percent cap, which
mandated that student government automati-
cally receive five percent of a particular year’s
ATC budget — no questions asked. “I didn’t
think that was right,” Burk explained.

And, according to the Greenville, S.C., na-
tive, there were little things, things the average
student doesn’t usually see — “lighting on cam-
pus, recycling to some extent, the basketball
courts behind (Martin Court Apartment) F.”

But for those who worked side by side with
Burk during his administration, the excitement
and commitment he brought to the office will
always stand out.

“The one thing Buster really brings that the
SGA always needs is unbelievable enthusiasm,”
Sophomore Class President Foster Haselden said.
“His creativity can’t be matched.”

“He never sleeps,” Tuttle said. “It’s amaz-
ing.”

Added Fisher: “He knows the way to sneak
out of the Union” after hours.

Yet many students have complained
throughout Burk’s term that the SGA was — or
had become — stagnant and did not accomplish
much of anything.

To which Saintsing responds: “My question
for them is, What did they expect? ‘He fulfilled
every single campaign promise he had. He just
told us that he was going to listen to everybody.
And he did it.”

“He has an amazing ability to say something
in an off-hand and casual way,” Vagt said, “which
upon reflection, | would realize contained un-
usual wisdom and insight.”

“T enjoyed sitting under him,” Haselden
said. “I’m going to miss him.”

“It’s a different SGA than when I started,”
Fisher said.

In a good way or a bad way?

“In a wonderful way.”

e Archives...

The term of the Student Council President

By Me tissa ANN DE CASTRIQUE
Staff Writer

The beginning of spring semester
at Davidson College is definitely a time
for change. ‘In addition to the climate

new classes, and the self-selection pro-
cess, spring semester also brings SGA
elections. The selection of SGA offic-
ers greatly impacts the progress of the
next school year. Just as important as
choosing new representatives, however,
is taking time to reflect on the major
issues with which the outgoing SGA
has been faced.

Thirty years ago, reflecting on the
term of the outgoing SGA president
would have been quite an involved pro-
cess. Tom Earnhardt, who served as
Student Council President for 1967-
1968, faced some of the heaviest
changes in Davidson’s history. At the
beginning of his term, Earnhardt stated
his seemingly moderate goals to a
Davidsonian interviewer. He expressed
a desire for a new, more workable stu-
dent constitution, an expansion of the
educational planning program, restora-
tion of Monday chapel services, and the
appointment of more students to fac-
ulty committees.

The first issues tackled by the Stu-
dent Council included delegating Coun-

changes that occur, the excitement of

cil members to study the possibility of
keeping classrooms in Chambers open
at night for study and tutorial purposes
and researching the increase of prices at
the Union snack bar. Earnhardt also
addressed the possibilty of an open-
ended forum for students to question
President D. Grier Martin. One of the
early problems presented to the Student
Council involved married housing. The
council sent questionnaires to all mar-
ried students to determine the need for
more housing, resulting in the decision
to construct apartments to replace the
inadequate housing for married students.
The student council also demonstrated
aneed for greater finances and was thus
able to more than double its budget
from $1500 to $2500.

The Student Council’s other con-
cerns were decidedly more complicated
than its budget and committees. The
question of whether or not to change
Davidson's curriculum was the biggest
issue on campus. The new curriculum,
known as the Blue Sky proposals, in-
cluded the implementation of a trimes-
ter calendar, the end of compulsory
ROTC, the formation of an honors col-
lege, a non-Western program, and, a
learning center for independent study
and career services. The Blue Sky
curriculum also entailed area require-
ments (core courses), achievement ex-

ams at the end of sophomore year, and
the completion of 32 courses for gradu-
ation. A Blue Sky subcommittee called
for strengthened extracurricular pro-
grams, more support for intramurals,
renovation of dormitories, and the reor-
ganization of social life (including the
end of the prohibition of on-campus
drinking). Earnhardt played a key role
in voicing student opinion on the Blue
Sky committee. Also, the Student Coun-
cil wrote a letter endorsing the pro-
posal. The College’s trustees unani-
mously approved these changes, with
the exception of the ROTC issue.
Progression of the Blue Sky pro-
gram was delayed, however. Martin
resigned from office, citing a need for
personal change and dispelling any ru-
mors of problems with the trustees,
students, and faculty. Martin’s depar-
ture added a new dimension to
Earnhardt’s presidency when he added
advising the selection committee for a
new college president to his already
long list of presidential duties.
Concurrent with the Blue Sky de-
cision and the resignation of Martin
was the Student Council’s evaluation
of Davidson’s punishment rules. A
Committee on Student Responsibility
combined student input along with the
opinions of faculty members to formu-
late a new student constitution. This

document established a Bill of Rights,
a23-member Senate, and required that
the president of this Student Govern-
ment Association (SGA) be a rising
senior.

The constitution, which passed a
vote by the student body on Feb. 13,
1968, also included the earliest ver-
sion of the Code of Responsibility.
Although many students lambasted
Earnhardt for buckling under pressure
from the faculty for such a document,
Council and Committee members sup-
ported the Code, maintaining that it
would improve safety and encourage
good conduct. The Code of Responsi-
bility was adopted on May 1, 1968,
and is still the basis for daily life at
Davidson.

Just as Buster Burk will leave his
mark on Davidson, when Tom
Earnhardt left office in 1968, his im-
pact endured. Earnhardt’s successor,
Joe Murphy, began his term with a
new College president, a new curricu-
lum, and anew SGA. The need for
change experienced by Davidson stu-
dents at the beginning of this semester
is nothing new on this campus. As the
presidency of Earnhardt illustrated,
the determination to make such
changes happen is necessary for the
constant advancement of the David-
son College community.

EXAMPLE:

Name
Smith, John

Class Status
SOPH

Attention All Students!!

Between now and February 6", the Residence Life Office would like all students to check to make sure that their class
status is correct. Lottery numbers are based upon class status and not upon class year, thus it is imperative for students
to check the class rosters that will be posted outside the Registrar’s Office, by the Union Desk, in the Library, or in the
Residence Life Office, for any errors that may be present. It should be noted, that some students may have enough credits

-to warrant a different class status.

Class Year
00

ALL CorRECTIONS SHOULD BE Mabe Prior TO FEBRUARY 6™

