THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17,1998 3

‘Dreamworlds” provokes discussion on music videos

By Jog BLAck
Staff Writer

“Dreamworlds,” a documentary
examining “desire, sex, and power in
music video,” was shown in the 900
Room on Tuesday, Nov. 10. Bol-
stered by the film’s strong response
when it was first shown at Davidson,
students gathered to discuss what they
see as the implications of sexual con-
tent in music videos.

Editor/Director Sut Jhally pre-
sents various examples of music vid-
eos that depict sexuality and behav-
ior as manifested in the “dreamworld”
of music video. Pointing to the fact
that over 90 percent of music videos
are directed by men, the film tries to
reveal the implicit comments on sexu-
ality. Music videos tend to create a
sexual dreamland where anything is
‘possible as women’s behavior is
modified to fulfill these men’s fanta-
sies.

Presented as fans, story charac-

ters; band members, or simply as
decoration, the women of music
video often share some disturbing
traits.

The film’s evidence supports
the conclusion that the women tend
to be interested

submit to the video’s men are treated
harshly and often ostracized from
the party that is the video’s setting.
Several videos also tend to employ
women as prison guards, police of-
ficers, exotic dancers, and prosti-

tutes, alluding

in sex all of the
time and willing
to engage in sex
with nearly any-
one.

T h e
women’s uncon-
trollable desires
lead them to “at-
tack men _ be-

Music videos tend to create
a sexual dreamland where
anything is possible as
women’s behavior is
modified to fulfill these
men’s fantasies.

again to what
have been
deemed as com-
mon male fanta-
sies.

While
the videos of
male artists are
often the easiest
to blame for the

cause of their

sheer lust.” Fur-

ther, females’ sexual desires often

lead them to fight one another for the

attention of the video’s males. When

men are absent from their lives,

women are depicted as morose and

lonely, as well as physically broken.
Women who are unwilling to

misrepresenta-

tion and distor-
tion of sexuality, female artists are
not guiltless. Female artists, like
males, find themselves subordinate
to an industry that sells music
through attractive videos. Females
who avoid the common video mold
risk alienating the interests of their

industry and their audience, Choos-
ing Janet Jackson as an example of
such a female artist, the film con-
tends that she had to return to the

traditional video role for females in -

order to transcend simply being
“Michael’s talented younger sister.”
The film argues that Madonna has
become a spokeswoman for female
autonomy but then allows herself to
fall back into derogatory conventional
roles in her videos.

The techniques of filming
women in music videos was another
subject examined in the film. By
focusing on one part of the body, the
director succeeds in dehumanizing
the woman.

Such techniques, the film argues,
objectify women and detract from
women’s intellect and emotions. The
abundance of nearly identical women
in music videos further adds to the
illusion that women are essentially
all the same and interchangeable.

Finally, “Dreamworlds” juxta-

7

posed violent rape scenes from the
movie “The Accused” with scenes
from a typical music video, reveal-
ing the blurred lines between an atro-
cious crime and acceptable video be-
havior.

The film argues that the
plentitude of sex, desire, and power
in music videos has implications in
the “real world.” Such music videos
teach that “the invasion of the female
body is welcome.”

Rape statistics and studies of
school-age children’s views of sex
and violence reveal an unhealthy |
trend in the way men and women
think about sex and each other, and
provide evidence of correlation, if
not causation, between the dream
world and the real world.

After the viewing, many stu-
dents stayed for a discussion of the
points presented by the film. The
evening was sponsored by Into the
Streets and the Women’s Issues Com-
mittee.

New public safety director begins work

report to Tom Shandley, Dean of Students and Vice President for Student Affairs. Shandley praised

COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson’s new Director of Public Safety, Sam McKelvey, wants to encourage a close relation-

Press Release

ship between his department and the students.

“Because of the small size of the school, it’s possible to know most people by their face, if not their
‘name,” said McKelvey. “I want to emphasize community policing at Davidson.”

McKelvey comes to Davidson froin eight years service in a similar position at Dickinson College
in Carlisle, Pa. His resume includes a total of 26 years in campus law enforcement, including jobs at
Lycoming College and Princeton University. A New Jersey native, he majored in safety education at
Central Missouri State University and took his first job at Princeton following graduation there.

McKelvey will supervise a police force of six officers and one administrative assistant ‘and will

McKelvey for meeting several stringent requirements of the position. He said, “We wanted someone with

_ experience in campus law and how it’s different from municipal enforcement, and someone who knows

the health and safety side as well. His responsibilities will include attention to details of regulations in

academic labs, OSHA matters in our physical plant and EPA standards across the entire campus. That’s

a large job, but McKelvey has the experience to handle it.”

McKelvey was attracted to Davidson for several reasons. “The reputation of the college and area

~~

were certainly draws,” he said. “I heard. good things for years about Davidson and its students. When
I first visited, I was overwhelmed by the aesthetics of the campus. But I was also highly impressed by
the personnel, both in the police department and other offices.”

McKelvey also says that the warmer climate of North Carolina was a lure for him and his wife,
Kathleen, who will be moving here around Thanksgiving. The couple has two grown sons and a daughter.

la

ot

>

VISA

mmc ge ee

aco Guaran

YES!

Sigmatare.....esccsecssesesrsesesvecsneecsneesssscnnssennecennseesunecesecanscnsssenasceescganssesgeassenssenens

‘Tired of Being

ee el

INSTANT CREDIT

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

o Crepit, No Jos, No PARENT SIGNER, No Security Deposit!

no credit ¢ bad credit * no income? _

If You Think You
Cant Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

sterCard Credit Cards’

ems Coenen venene wemsah canuan NON ANNE SHEED RENTON SHOES UNO SereeH SnNH ont SEE CNY GUNA NR SEND NN oe Oe Se GS al, A Se ND AD Oe a

ORDER FORM

I want Credit Cards immediately. QeQZSZaNusseetexZN'

CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

aoe ee eee sre ces er eeee neces eerees cece nseeer nse AASOPPPESSOEDTSOOOHECOEHS ORES U SERS OOEEESOOERESEOOEE THORS wer enSe eens OOPESOOODE

Turned Down? :

Master Card

ee
