THE DAVIDPHONIAN

“It’s a great day to bea...”

It has now been about a year since I first arrived here. During that time, I have had the Opportunity to
form a number of opinions about the way this campus is run, although I never really shared them in my
editorial space in The Davidsonian. So now, in my last editorial of the year, I have decided to share with you
my most cherished opinion.

Now, it is not concerning the fact that the Independents have no parties, which might have been a direct
result of a conspiracy formed by the Patterson Court Council in an attempt to get more money through PCC
sticker sales. It also has nothing to do with the fact that Chambers may be closed during the evening rather
than remain open 24 hours a day. Instead, it concerns our mascot.

Almostevery other nondescript, small college or university has the wildcat as their mascot. If Davidson
is supposedly better than all of these no-name state or private schools, then we should have a better mascot.
A mascot that is worthy of our school, worthy of the students that it represents. So, after serious thought and
contemplation, I have come to the conclusion that our new mascot should be the toothbrush.

Why the toothbrush, you may ask? Well, there are a couple of reasons.

The first is the toothbrush’s great history. The bristle-type toothbrush, which is the precursor to the
version that we know of today, was first invented by the Chinese centuries ago. It was not until the 17th
Century that this marvelous invention arrived in Europe. Since that time, it has established itself as a tool
that everyone uses, crossing age, race, gender, and economic boundaries, a feat that few other devices can
lay claim to. ;

The second is the commercial quality that the toothbrush brings to our Davidson teams. Companies like
SmithKline Beecham and Warner-Lambert Consumer Healthcare (the distributors of Listerine) would love
to shower a team with their money and adoring fans with their dental hygiene products, something that our
teams would love and make our breaths minty fresh.

In the end, if we changed our mascot from the overly used wildcat to the underrated toothbrush, not only
would we make a name for ourselves in the nation, but we would also be making a statement. We would put
an end to the wide-scale abuse of mutual mascot mishandling and let everyone know that we will not stand
for uncreative mascot choices.

So, my fellow Toothbrushes, let us unite and hold our dental instruments up high, for it will soon be a

great day to be a Toothbrush.

TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1998

é

““Hey, Randy, what time is it?”

As one of the Co-Editors of The Davidsonian, I feel that it is my duty to explain myself concerning
certain matters. So whenever my train of thought seems to miss the station, I often find myself pondering
the standard unanswerable philosophical question of our world. Two words: khaki pants. Now, I know
a group of you will say that I should just throw on a pair of blue jeans and be done with it, but
unfortunately, I-can’t.

You see, [have a red-green color deficiency, often referred to as colorblindness. However, while
a number of people seem to think that I am jealous of my non-color-blind counterparts, I can honestly
Say that I’m not. There is no better way of introducing oneself than with the phrase, “I am a potential
rapist. All men are potential rapists.” I’m not going to try to prove that this statements false; that would
be impossible. Quotes that involve, “Hey, Randy, what color is this?” seem to have the uncanny ability
to always be true. : ;

That would be where a statement like “all men are potential rapists” comes into use. We each have
a story to tell; we told it during orientation and we will tell it at future job interviews. Even now I
somewhat regret my decision to forego meeting future classmates for a test in my AP Calculus BC class. °
In classrooms, each student shares his or her feelings or interpretations of a certain historical event,
mathematical function, or literary masterpiece. When other students leave that class, they have learned
something new, something that was brought to them by one of their peers, by one of their friends.

To the casual observer, it would seem that the options are a little one-sided. However, this event
did not end with the last turkey on a poppy seed bagel; no, it did not. Well into dinner, I noticed ravenous
Davidsonians take a moment from their scarf-fest to show their friends the now-famous knife and fork
trick. I’m not saying that I can’t drive; I’m just saying that the green looks white, and the red sometimes
flashes in and out. But I figure if everyone else is stopped, I might as well, too.

Finally, khaki goes with everything. However, isn’t it true that if you really want something to
happen, anyway, you'll do whatever you can to make it happen? Let me leave you with this ending
thought: There is nothing inthe world of clothes as great as a perfect crease in a pair of khaki pants. You
won’t see that at a fraternity or an eating house.

Sah. k. Cpdarr

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

Keep up the good work Davidsonian

Two thee Editers:

Eye wood liche to complimint ewe on a job well dun this sumester. Sins ewe fyred Michael Kruse,
the paper hus reely improovd. Sarah, eye now ewe r gowing to dew a grate job neckts sumester. Keep
up the good werk. Randy, eye feel for ewe. I two am color-blynd and love to ware my kaky pants (often

withowt ever washing them for weeks at tyme). So just ignore those peepole hoo rite in and complayne
abowt the paper. It looks grate. Oh, and feel free to edit this letter for grammer and spelleeng.

Sincerely,
Educated At Harvard

The Davidphonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM

Business Manager
CHLOE BROOKE

Sports Editors
BRATTON HOLMES
BRIAN MAYERHOFER

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE
Circulation Manager

Arts & Living Editor MERRITT ABNEY Sports Layout Editor
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY : WILLIAM MORETZ
Advertising Managers
Op-Ed Editor MICHELLE BOUGDANOS Photo Editor
ERIN McKINLEY DAVID JOHNSTON SALLIE McMURRAY
SCOTT REEDER
Copy Editors Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE ANNA ERICKSSON
CINDY CLARK LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Third Worst College Weekly”

Read The Bavidphonian on the Internet at
http://www. ifyoureallythinkthisexists.com/youneedhelp.html

Davi ne copy per student. Pleas all correspondences to: The
Bai , Davidson, NC 2: 2148 or -2

149. B-
e Union.

— really will try hard. — —

Words from a future Wildcat
To the Editors:

As the year draws to a close and exams approach, I would like to extend my congratulations to The
Davidsonian. You guys have done a wonderful job keeping the newspaper in its place as a high quality
publication. Of all the schools I have visited this past year, only Davidson had a newspaper that I could
truly appreciate and call glorious. Randy, you are-a god to me; you are a freshman with power. Sarah,
you’re amazing; if you weren’t already involved in a relationship, I’d try to win your heart.

In the fall of this year, I applied to Davidson and, thankfully, was accepted. Since the day I got that
letter in the mail, I knew full well that I was going to work on The Davidsonian one day. Hopefully; it
will happen sometime next year. You can be sure that I will try my best to do a good job and that I really,

Thank you for everything, especially your time in reading this letter.

Sincerely,
P. Ross Pective ‘02

Davidsonian lacks a lot more than just tact
To the Editors:

I am normally a very reserved type, so it is with great trepidation that I approach this article.
However, my mother always said honesty is the best policy, so here goes. To begin, The Davidsonian
really sucks. It is the most slack-ass, second-rate, my-90-year-old grandma-could-write it-better-
herself, you-call-yourself-a-newspaper, piece of birdcage paper-lining I’ve never read. I’m sorry, I

__know that’s improperly punctuated.

The News section has been spiraling towards extinction this entire semester, second only, of course,
to the Arts and Living section, which frankly, has been dead for quite some time. Maybe if you actually
covered some of the important events on campus, rather than regurgitating what every single visiting
speaker says, people would like you more. And hey, have your writers ever heard of a thing called
quotes? — You’d be amazed at what they add to an article.

There really isn’t much to say about the A & L section, since it really doesn’t exist. And just because
you have absolutely no staff writers in that section is no excuse for Wes Goldsberry not to write the entire

~ section himself (like Mr. Holmes does with the Sports section). Maybe next year you all can invite some

freshmen to join your publication. Mind you, they should not be running the paper, like this year.

The Opinions section has been especially lovely this year with all the controversy. Perhaps you
should establish a committee on campus to stir agitation and hard feelings among students in order to
continue the strong showing you’ve had this year. My favorite was the week that Randy (er, Mr.
Skattum) actually solicited Letters to the Editor in order to stir hard feelings. Now that’s dedication.

I've been highly impressed with the Sports section. Maybe because there wasn’t one in the first
edition this semester, it appears to have shown real improvement. Bratton Holmes appears to be the only
editor capable of turning out an entire section — himself.

Thus, I vote that we rename The Davidsonian “Sports and Some Other Stuff” (note the alliteration).
This would do away with all other sections, relieving their worries about staff writers, and awarding
Bratton full reign of the paper. After all, Sports is where it’s at. And now that you’ ve gotten rid of that
pesky Kruse. . . .

_ Sincerely,
I. Jusskim Hedlynes

To Supmir Lerrers 10 THE EDITORS —_

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon.
Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian @ davidson.edu. :
Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in eithe:
WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words.
The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements
and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

