THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, ocr ‘OBER 27, I 998

at: Clad

Davidson’s own Day of
the Dead draws nigh

Latin American holiday
“supplements” Halloween

By WiLt BrapsHAW
Guest Writer

Two years ago, it was my buddy’s birthday,
and a few of us went to get him a card. We found

a card we loved after half an hour of reading and .

searching. The front had the Grim Reaper beckon-
ing with his long, bony finger, and the inside had
one simple phrase: “Oh yes, come to Papa.” We
thought it was hilarious. At dinner, we proudly
presented the treasure to our friend, bragging that
we had found the perfect card. He tore into the
envelope with a wide smile on his face. When the
Grim Reaper confronted him, the smile disap-
peared. Reluctantly, he peeked inside, and after a
moment’s pause said, “Oh, thanks guys.” °

We all wanted to curl up and disappear right
then, but the worst was yet to come. His whole
family wanted to see the perfect card we had
purchased. The heinous thing was passed from
hand to hand around the table — grandmothers,
uncles, cousins, parents — one by one they looked
on the card with smiling faces. One by one the
smiles drooped. With the help of Death, we had
succeeded in killing the whole room.

Looking back, this story is more than a hu-
morous memory we hope never to relive. Now, I
am struck by the traditionally Latino attitude at
work in the card. Whereas U.S. culture hides away
from death and its images, Latin American culture
embraces them. From the famous drawings and
etchings of Posada to the bloody, suffering Christs
in churches and the papier-maché dolls exploded
each year in celebration, Latino life is ripe with the
trappings of mortality. This is never more appar-
ent than during the Latin cousin of Halloween, The
Day of the Dead.

During this celebration, colorful and elabo-
rate altars are decorated with flowers and skel-
etons, skull candy and bread in the shapes of bones
are prepared and eaten, families, friends, and strang-
ers come together to celebrate each other and the
people they have known by prancing death into the
open. Together, they drag the Reaper out of the
shadows and laugh at him for a while. Day of the

Dead becomes a celebration of life in the face of
the inevitable.

The attitude toward death that characterizes
Day of the Dead may be a more novel idea than
if first appears. Octavio Paz points out the
disconnections between life and death in the
modern West. “The century of health, hygiene
and contraceptives, miracle drugs and synthetic
foods, is also the century of the concentration
camp and the police state, Hiroshima and the
murder story. Nobody thinks about death, about
his own death . . . because nobody lives a
personal life” (“Labyrinth of Solitude” 57). We
have made uncanny advancements in extending
our days, but we have lost touch with the sanctity
of life and death as an inseparable duality. We
extend life at all costs, and we block death from
our minds, but Day of the Dead tries to reconnect
the two. This holiday reminds us that life and
death are two sides of the same coin, and it
provides us with an opportunity for reflection —
an opportunity to embrace our own mortality and
to be invigorated by the embrace, and an oppor-
tunity to remember loved ones who have died and
to heal some of the wounds left by their depar-
ture.

Thanks to the extraordinary efforts of a few
individuals, we will celebrate a Davidson Col-
lege version of Day of the Dead on Nov. 2 this
year. It will come complete with an altar, tradi-
tional food, and a candle-lit walk to remember
the people who have passed through our lives.
We are all invited to participate in these events,
and all invited to expand our perspective. Taste
alittle skull candy, peer fora while at the intricate
beauty put into the creation of the altars, and
walk, candle in hand, in memory of someone who
has died. The most wonderful part of the celebra-
tion is that it serves as a reminder that we will all
experience the same ultimate fate, but the distin-
guishing factor in our deaths will be the way we
have lived. We may all be “going to Papa,” but
we all have the opportunity, perhaps the charge,
to leave something beautiful behind before we
go.

‘106 SOUTH

DAVIDSON,

‘GIVE US A HAND!

CaLL WEs or MELISSA FOR MORE
INFO.

By Brian CAMPBELL
Tree Writer

This week’s trees of the week, the Pecan,
Hickory, and Walnut, are the final in a Series
on fruit and nut trees. These nut trees were
planted long ago by homeowners, and they
grow in abundance around historic buildings
on our campus and in town. The height of nut
harvest would have been around October, and
children, college students, and townspeople
likely hurried to gather the precious gifts from
above. The houses now filled with the offices
of admissions, financial aid, careers, alumni/
ae, and development years ago were filled
with the smells of pecan pies, pralines, and
hickory smoked meats.

All three trees are of the same family,
Juglandaceae, and share many common char-
acteristics. They have deep taproots, the cen-
tral shoot perpendicular to the ground, and
consequently, they are quite sturdy and diffi-
cult to transplant. Saplings generally start

small, but these trees become quite large, reaching
100 feet or more. All three have leaves arranged
pinnately, in two parallel rows along each stem,
with a single leaflet at the tip. They all produce
strong and beautiful timber and are commercially
grown for wood in addition to their oe

The pecan (Carya illinoensis) ig one of
the most consumed nuts in Americp. Nts Sweet
flavor is popular in pies, candy, icé. Cream, arid

coffee. Throughout the Southeceatet thin «shelled
varieties are harvested on orchards and from wld /3

trees. Georgia produces about a ig
nations crop, while Alabama, , Mississippi
ana, and Texas have many “growers;

eres

The wood of the pecan is et rags

flooring, veneer, and charcoal for wage ne
Native Americans are thought to have etilt

the tree for some time, spreading it shépaghigu i
Mississippi River Valley, eee peee
Algonquin origin. The tree did not make its way
east until much later, and was planted by the likes
of Thomas Jefferson, who enjoyed them so much
he shared pecan seeds with his friend George
Washington. Pecans are the oldest trees ‘at

use

Washington’s Mount Vernon home, though they

have never acheived the fame of the storied cherry
tree.

Closely related to the pecan is the Shagbark

areas (Carya ovata), with its gray bark that

any gars to be shedding in large strips. Settlers

yayeliow dye from the inside of this bark and

fa e strong wood for making tool handles,

e iq bows. Important to our region is its use

itt e, singe 60 percent of the nation’s furni-

ed within 200 miles of Hickory, N.C.

p our seventh president, Andrew

amed “Old Hickory,” praised as

ess of this timber. The wood is

Fchaeeoal as well, and adds flavor to

ts, like “Hickory Hams.” It was the

yp A wever, ‘that were most popular with Native

name hickory derives from

get hickory milk made froin

j oe \s sin S taling water, and used to
Ecorn cdkes Sand hominy. ;
 Thoug fit lacks much of a presidential past,

the Black Walnut (Juglans nigra) rules when it
comes to timber value. One of the scarcest and

Tree of the Week: Three Nuts

most coveted native hardwoods, it is used for
cabinets, furniture, gunstocks, and veneer. In-
dividual trees fetch such attractive prices that
“Walnut Rustlers” have devised sophisticated
techniques to remove trees, such as midnight
uprootings with helicopters! Like the other
trees, this one grows straight and tall and often
its branches are high from the ground. Falling
from high above are its pale green fruits.
Inside the leathery outer skinis a layer of black
endocarp, once used to make dye. Be careful
examining the nuts, or you’! henna your hands.
Inside is the familiar thick-shelled walnut,
used in a variety of cookies, cakes, and breads.

Relive the magic of Davidson’s past this
week by visiting these historic trees along
Glasgow and Main Street from Lingle all the
way to the Post Office and beyond. Celebrate
their varied uses, and collect some nuts for
yourself. But also this week, reflect on the
things that are not so obvious. These trees
reach deep into the earth for their nourishment,
giving them amazing strength. Take time to

. Toot yourself in the depths this week.

