_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

a classic

By PHitup STEWART

“Pleasantville”

Staff Writer

Disclaimer: If you want to get full enjoyment from
“Pleasantville”, wait to read this review until after you have seen the
film. Just look at the grade at the end of the article and take my word
for it.

I only wish that I could describe all of my emotions during my
viewing of “Pleasantville.” It’s a rare movie going experience
because you don’t want the movie to end, and when it does you wish

 projectionist would rewind the reel so that you could watch it
gain to.catch everything missed the first time.

I also wish that I didn’t have to spoil some of the Surprises to
Tite a review, but it simply must be done. David (Tobey Maguire)
d Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) are twins, one a loser, the other a
ut, We are shown their world as tumultuous, unhealthy and
dangerous. The only thing that makes David smile is watching
Pleasantville reruns, a black and white Father Knows Best-type
tcom. The show presents a world with no problems, no fighting, no
in. He looks to that world for comfort from his parent’s recent
vorce while Jennifer “does the slut thing” to escape from the pain.

When their mother leaves town for a date with her new boy-
“friend, David and Jennifer get ina fight over the television remote and

break it. After all, David has to watch the Pleasantville marathon and

remote and there is a knock at the door. It’s the television repair
Man (played by 50’s TV superstar Don Knotts), and he has a new
emote. It’s a unusual kind of remote control, though, and when they
bush a big red button, David and Jennifer are transported into the
elevision.

David and Jennifer are now Bud and Mary Sue, the main
"characters in the Pleasantville sitcom. They are stuck there, so David
| (as Bud) is on cloud nine. He’s popular in this world, and he is happy.
Pa ennifer, of course, can’t stand it. But they both make the best of the
Situation. Jennifer, as Mary Sue, corrupts the boys by taking them
Up to “lovers lane” and having sex with them (they usually don’t even
Vhold hands). David has fun just by living as Bud. But Mary Sue’s
_ Sorrupting of the boys makes the world less ideal and more danger-
"us, prompting strange occurrences in Pleasantville. The basketball
© team starts losing, teenagers start using unheard of words like “cool”,
|2nd most obviously things start appearing in color.

Sound ridiculous? I thought so too, and the first 45 minutes is
a traight comedy; comedy so funny that I thought the film would be
e funniest of the year. But one soon starts to recognize that when
people and their surroundings start changing from black and white to
olor, it is not just a gimmick to warrant the 1,700 special effects shots

n the film, more than any movie ever made (“Independence Day”

ised about 400). “Pleasantville” sneaks up from behind you and

Starts becoming a social commentary, metaphor, and very complex

Satire all at once.

In the midst of coeducation week at Davidson, “Pleasantville”

»Pecomes an even more powerful critique of our society. In one scene,

e mother of the 50’s family (Joan Allen) is taught to do something

or herself for the first time in her life. She finally recognizes that her

ife can be more than servitude to her family, and she then appears in

olor. In addition to women’s issues, “Pleasantville” explores

liscrimination, hate, race relations, and many others.

This film is eye candy. It’s a movie that finally uses it’s special

ffects to advance the plot rather than replace it. But more impor-
antly, it makes everyone think and nod in agreement with everything
tt has to say about our society. It’s a magical movie written by Gary
Ross who wrote “Big” and “Dave”, two other movies about people
put into unrealistic circumstances. The Script is amazing, the direct-
g Original; and the art direction and cinematography are out of this
world,
The land of Pleasantville may seem happy all of the time, but
ren’t we happier now with a little uncertainty, a little danger, and a
ittle rain in our lives? Watch this movie and be proud of what our
orld has become and think about how far we have to go. It makes
ou feel great, but it also makes you think hard. “Pleasantville” is
film making at its highest level. Grade: A+

__ PLACE AN AD.

von and Peter Clark at x6575.

FLAG Fashion Show returns on Saturday

By Kim BieMULLER

your solar plexus. (What is that exactly?)

I say to entice you?

of modern art; shining silver musicians; Adam and Eve, in onl
milking — only at the FLAG Fashion Show can you find eccentricities of such high caliber.
I can’t imagine a better place for anyone to unleash that oppressed wild side, daring to be different. With sliding

imaginations, burning music, and twisting lights, you find yourself caught up in a chorus of banshees — and I’m not even talking
about how great a time the performers have. Nowhere else will

collegiate youth. Beyond all else you see, you are filtered into a room filled with eye-popping. . . ideas. What makes this such
a special event is its ability to expand the mind. You see what confuses your expectations, challenges your credos, and taps on

Student Health Advisor

Dresses made of Saran Wrap; blue naked people; Buster in briefs yet again; nude girls transformed into a bright spectrum
y ivy garb, chucking apples:at innocent onlookers; and live goat

you find on this campus such a wickedly sultry display of

The fashion show, coming up on Saturday, Nov. 7 at 8:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery, is calling you — it wants you,
desires you, and depends upon you. And you, trusty student of khaki and gold, need it just as much. SoGO! What more can

“Music Department Showcase”

dazzles parents

By Saran E. OGpEN

Editor in Chief

Last Friday, hundreds of students, parents, and assorted others
gathered in Love Auditorium to hear the 1998 Parents Weekend
Concert. The concert featured the DC Concert Choir, Chamber
Singers, Wind Ensemble, and Symphony Orchestra. Although the
Symphony and the Concert Choir did collaborate in a performance
of the Mozart Requiem in April 1997, Friday’s show marked the
first program to feature all of Davidson’s concert hall ensembles:
The landmark event drew a capacity crowd that had the fabled venue
bursting at its seams.

The evening began with the Concert Choir’s performance of
Bloch’s “Yimloch Adony Leolom” and Biebl’s “Ave Maria,” which
included brilliant solos from senior Ralph Morehead and junior
John Moore.

The Chamber Singers followed with Dorsey’s “Precious Lord.”

The “big choir” then stepped back up with a rousing rendition
of the spiritual “Precious Lord,” in which senior Samantha Balsam
charmed the audience with her vocals during several solos. They
finished the evening with the “Gloria” from Argento’s “The Masque
of the Angels.”

Interim Choir Director David Tang conducted with great
enthusiasm, even leaping into the air at one point during the

performance.

After a short intermission allowing the Wind Ensemble
to set up, they began their concert with two movements from
“The Folk Song Suite,” by Ralph Vaughan Williams. The
ensemble showed its skill during the two movements, which
were entitled “My Bonny Boy” and “Folk Songs from
Somerset.” Music Department chair William Lawing con-
ducted.

The concert concluded with two pieces from the Sym-
phony Orchestra’s repertoire, the Overture from Mozart’s
“The Marriage of Figaro” and “Hoe Down” from Copland’s
“Rodeo.” As conductor Richard Prior noted, it was a “meaty”
program, with both pieces having been used as soundtracks
for pork and beef ads, respectively.

Prior himself was a sight to behold, clad in an ivory-
colored jacket as he flailed his arms furiously, however
rhythmical and in time to the music,

“Head Tuning Guy” Wesley H. Goldsberry received
almost as much applause as Prior when he took the stage just
before the orchestra’s performance.

The hour that the concert lasted Virtually flew by,
concluding with long, thunderous applause from an as-
tounded audience, clearly impressed with our tiny institution’s
ability to stage such an immense amount of, talent.

xe ~

