WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1999

pas

NEH will fund study of motivation
by prodi

ious Davidson philosopher

underpinnings of human actions, including self-
control, self-deception and intention. He be-
lieves that his new NEH funded research will
forge a link between many of his previous ideas
throughits studyofmo- :
tivation,

He ‘said, “there’s
been a dispute for hun-
dreds of years over
whether judging that
you have a moral obli-
gation to do something
entails having the mo-
tivation to do it. Iclaim
that you can believe that
you should do some-
thing and still have no
motivation at all to do
it, that motivation isn’t
intrinsic to moral judge-
ments. But you can’t
really settle the issue
until you have a clear
idea of what motivation
is. In 2,500 years, no
one has proposed a
comprehensive theory.
of motivation that’s ac-
ceptable to me!”

By posting a co-
herent theory of moti-
vation, Mele believes he can unify many differ-
ent areas of philosophy—including ethics, self-
deception, action theory and free will.

The details of his ideas, as written down in
his fellowship application, rely on technical lan-
guage far beyond the comprehension level of
most armchair philosophers. For instance, he
writes, “an essentially motivation-constituting
attitude constitutes motivation not only in the
agent’s actual situation but also in all possible

College Relations

Despite centuries of philosophical discussions
around campfires, in late-night dorm rooms and in
halls of justice and state, questions in field persist
and debate rages on. The essential question of
humanity’s purpose on earth continues to con-
found and fascinate lay people, but few probe the
depths of the subject with the tenacity and enthusi-
asm of Davidson College philosopher Alfred R.
Mele.

In recognition of his eminence in the field, the
National Endowment for the Humanities recently
granted Mele $30,000 through its Fellowships for
College Teachers and Independent Scholars pro-
gram so that he can construct a unified theory of
human motivation. The grant will allow Mele,
Davidson’s Vail Professor of Philosophy, to take a
full year’s sabbatical during the 1990-2000 aca-
demic year to write a book that he has tentatively
titled, “Motivation in Action and Belief.”

Mele was one of just 86 individuals approved
for NEH fellowships among 807 who applied. It is
also the third NEH fellowship he has received in his

19 years at Davidson, in addition to five other NEH
summer stipends and seminar grants.

The agency, and colleagues in the filed, rec-
ognize that Mele’s appetite for philosophical in-
quiry is outstanding and his academic productivity
is staggering. His five previous books were all
published by Oxford University Press, the. most
prestigious namie in the business. He has also
written about 90 journal articles, as well as scores
of reviews and entries for academic journals, ency-
clopedias and dictionaries, and has traveled world-
wide as an invited speaker at professional meet-
ings. This year also he lectured in Finland, Sweden
and Portugal. ;

Mele’s work focuses on the philosophical

197 women & 120 men self select

CARRIE ARTHUR
News Editor

On January 15, much of the campus awoke
before 6 am to the cheers of eating house members
as they welcomed their new members. Self Selec-
tion had begun.

Patterson Court advisor Jim Barber reported
that 197 women and approximately 120 men joined
eating houses and fraternities for the first time. Of
the new members, four women and twenty men
were upperclassmen. Seventy-six percent of the
women and fortysix percent of the men in the Class
of 2002 self-selected. Barber happily noted that the
number of new members had increased since last
year when 177 women and 108 men joined Patterson
Court. Barber exclaimed, “it’s awesome.”

Of the women joining eating houses, seventy-
four percent received their first choice house while
twenty-six percent of the women did not. Barber
did not see these numbers as a downfall of the
system; instead, he explained, “I think it is a neces-
sary part of the system to maintain a different
number of houses. Every year, there are one or two
houses that people tend to gravitate towards for
whatever reason. It really protects the eating house
system by not allowing any house to become too
large.” Barber added, “I think it’s important to
remember that even if someone does not get her
first choice, she always has the option to switch
[next semester].” The maximum number of women
joining any one house was one fourth of the self-
selecting women plus four. This year the maxi-
mum number was fifty-two, which Turner House,
Warner Hall, and Rusk House all reached. ‘Connor
House welcomed thirty-five womer.'

Unlike the eating houses which are not al-
lowed to rush, the fraternities held their traditiqnal
rush during the fall semester. The men then turned
in their self selection forms once they returned for
the winter. Barber said that women’s system for
limiting the distribution of new members was un-
necessary because the men have a “pretty even

distribution.” Kappa Alpha’s pledge class of
twentyseven was the largest, and it was followed
by Kappa Sigma’s class of twenty-one.

Encompassing members from inside and
outside of the fraternity and eating house system,
the Black Student Coalition gained seventeen
new members. Two of those members are also
members of a fraternity, and six belong to an
eating house. :

To join a house, new members had to meet
several standards. A 2.0 grade point average was
required. Although grades hurt some people,
Barber said that they were not too big of a

problem. New members must also attend four of }.

five programs in January and February, with the
presentation by. Judge Vic Fleming ’73 being
mandatory.

Several changes have affected Self Selec-
tion this year. Barber said, “definitely the big-
gest change was that the amount of women self-
selecting was divided by four” due to the addi-
tion of Turner House. Instead of turning in their
forms during winter exams, men waited to self-
select in January this year. Barber explained that
the Patterson Court Council voted for the change
because it is easier to process the men’s and
women’s forms at the same time and it relieves
men from the pressure of deciding during exams.

Another change was the new alcohol policy.
Barber stated, “Self-Selection is probably the
biggest night that has been affected by the changes
that went into effect this year.” Due to the new
policy, this year was the first which formally
required risk managers, iders, and bartenders to
attend all of the houses’ parties. Barber felt
confident in the leadership and planning ofall the
houses: “all of the. groups have done a great job
in organizing events and making sure that every-
thing was safe.” He continued, “we’ve worked
really hard this year to give people the informa-
tion they need to make smart decisions.”

Barber thanked the houses for their efforts.
Participants in Self Selection reported that they
enjoyed the event.

scenarios in which the agent has the attitude.”
His application outlines ten distinct chapters
he will use to construct a coherent picture of moti-

vation in our lives. Among many other points, he |

will explore the dis-
tinction between at-
titudes that are es-
sentially motiva-
tional and ones that
are contingently mo-
tivational, whether
judging that you
have a moral obliga-
tion to do something
entails having the
motivation to do it,
and the influence of
motivation on free
will and belief.

It’s not a
book intended for lay
audiences, but
should be well re-
ceived by his fellow
philosophers of mind
and action, metaphy-
sicians, moral phi-
losophers, some psy-
chologists and stu-
College Communications dents. :

Though
few non professionals can understand his argu-
ments, his enthusiasm for the work is easily recog-
nized. “I love it, it’s true,” he said. “I’m excited
about doing it every day. I really like solving these
problems.”

His childhood friends might be shocked to
hear that, though. Mele was an all-state linebacker
in Michigan in high school, and attended Wayne
State University with full intentions of continuing

his athletic career. But early in college he became
enchanted with exercising his mind, and the only
remnant of his athletic career now is his fierce
competitiveness on the racquetball court. Mele
graduated from Wayne State with high distinc-
tion, and went on to earn his Ph.D. In philosophy
from the University of Michigan in 1979. He has
spent his entire teaching career at Davidson.

Mele now spends his days surrounded by
books. He carries a notebook to the office and
home and jots down ideas as they occur to him.
The notes resolve themselves into problems that
he attacks through thought and research during
most of his waking hours. The problems become
fruit for journal articles or essays, and as he
discovers links between several problems he be-
gins creating the outline for a book.

He relishes the opportunity the NEH fellow-
ship will allow to concentrate on his ideas day and
night, uninterrupted by the timeconsuming duties
of collegiate teaching. Though he will write it in
Davidson, he will travel this coming summer to
the Australian National University in Canberra as
a research fellow to study with Professor Michael
Smith, another leading international motivational
theorist.

Not that he has anything,against teaching.
though. Mele could easily hold a position at a
graduate institution that carries a far lighter load
of teaching than his Davidson load. But he has
remained at Davidson because he enjoys watch-
ing undergraduates gain a more profound appre-
ciation and understanding for the social science
that they all practice on an amateur level. He
teaches his specialty, the history of ancient phi-
losophy, every year, as well as the first-year
“Humanities” course that introduces students to
the history of Western thought. He also teaches a
colloquium for senior philosophy majors and a
course in the philosophy of religion.

Noted pianist Ruskin
Cooper will present recital

Press RELEASE

College Relations

Distinguished chamber musician and solo recitalist Ruskin Cooper will present a free piano recital
at Davidson College on Thursday, January 21. The recital will begin at 8 PM in Hodson Hall of the
Cunningham Fine Arts Building at Davidson College. :

Cooper’s program will include
Mozart’s Sonata in C Major, KV 309 and
15 Variations and Fugue “Eroica” by
Beethoven. It will conclude with Robert
Schumann’s Carnival, Op. 35.

Cooper is currently on the piano
faculties at Davidson and Salem Col-
leges.* He is a native of Savannah, GA,
who received musical training at the
Oberlin Conservatory and University of
South Florida, In 1981, he received a
Fulbright Grant for study at the
Hochschule fur Musik in Frankfurt am
Main, Germany, where he studied solo
piano, chamber music, and song inter-
pretation. In 1984, he received the Di-
ploma with High Honors in Frankfurt.

From 1985-1991, Cooper was on
the faculty of the North Carolina School
of the Arts, and in 1996 he received his
Doctor of Musical Arts from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Greensboro.
His doctoral dissertation on Robert
Schumann's colleague and friend Ludwig
Schuncke received the Outstanding Dis-
sertation Award at UNCG in 1996. He
published the dissertation in 1997 under
the title Robert Schumann's Closet
‘Jugendfreund:’ Ludwig Schuncke
(1810-1834) (Fisher & Partner, Hamburg).

ollege Communications

Cooper returns to Europe on a regular basis for performances. In 1989, he recorded a program of

‘sonatinas for the Sudwestfunk in BadenBaden. His interpretations, particularly of American music, have

been enthusiastically received in Germany, Italy and Poland, as well as in the United States.
