THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Tapp BEvAN
Staff Writer

Matt Hurt, Lauren Schultz, and Pat Burchett
have just finished another typical day of their
Davidson College experience.

The day started unusually early for a college
student—at the crack of dawn, with physical train-
ing (affectionately referred to as “P.T.”) at 6:30
AM. P.T. lasted an hour, and was followed by a
short breakfast, shower (hopefully), and then two
to three hours of class.

With buta few minutes interspersed for lunch
and their studies, the three complete their morning
and early afternoons before heading to three hours
of practice with their respective Division I varsity
athletic teams.

By the time the trio can call it a night, the day
has run easily sixteen to eighteen hours.

This grueling schedule has become all-too-
familiar to Hurt, Schultz, and Burchett who have
been for the past few years balancing their partici-
pation in Army R.O.T.C. and varsity athletics at
Davidson. This balancing act, rigorous as it may
be, has forged three invaluable contributors to the
college’s community—as athletes, cadets, and
individuals.

Hurt (pictured below), a junior theatre major
from Greenwood, Mississippi, will be starting at
left tackle this season for the varsity football team.
This summer, Matt attended and graduated from
the United States Army Airborne School at Fort
Benning, Georgia.

The airborne course last three weeks, and the
last week culminates with five jumps from a dis-
tance of twelve hundred feet. Matt credits his
training this summer and his participation in ROTC
with strengthening his mental toughness and in-
creasing his self-confidence.

Hurt states, “It takes a lot more to faze me
now.” This increase in self-confidence has
strengthened the confidence Matt’s teammates
have in him. Hurt feels that the reliance on
teamwork that is inherent in both football and
ROTC have forged in him a true sense of the value
of collaboration. Head football coach Tim Landis
agrees.

Landis’ tenure has seen a great number of
players participate in the Army ROTC program.
While Davidson has no football scholarships to
offer—the collaboration of an ROTC program and
a position on the football team is an attractive
option to many a recruit. Past participants in
Davidson football and ROTC include Chris
Frederick, Tom Dugan, and Ellis Boyle.

Landis describes Hurt as “very disciplined,
self-motivated, and one who manages his time as
well as anyone I’ve ever coached.” Continuing,
Landis praises, “I know, that as a staff, we all

admire what Matt does.”
The seventh-year head coach cites Hurt’s
mental toughness as the factor that allows Hurt, at

only 218 pounds, to excel as an offensive lineman.

The women’s volleyball team enters this year
ranked #1 in the Southern Conference coming off
a second-place finish in the conference last year.

A steady contributor to the success of the
volleyball team has been cadet-athlete Lauren
Schultz (pictured at bottom-left).

Schultz, a junior French major from
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, attended and gradu-
ated from the United States Army Airborne school
this past summer. Enforced in part by the training
and experience offered by the combination of
athletics and ROTC, Schultz has been forged a
manifest leader.

Coach Lisa Marston — Davidson’ s Coach of
the Year in 1998-99, and the 98 Southern Confer-
ence Coach of the Year — cites Schultz’s leader-
ship as an important factor in helping young play-
ers adapt to the high standards of Division I volley-
ball.

“Lauren has born leadership skills. She has
been doing a good job with leading the freshmen
and showing them the expectations of the pro-
gram,” says Marston. “Lauren is very pleasant,
very easy to work with and has a great personal-
ity.”

The men’s cross-country program is on the
rise, and a major contributor to this ascension is
senior Pat Burchett.

Burchett, a senior religion major from Co-
lumbia, South Carolina, returns to the squad this
year as one of the tri-captains. This past summer
Burchett spent five weeks at Fort Lewis, Washing-
ton at Advanced Camp.

Advanced Camp is the culminating experi-
ence for Army ROTC cadets, where these aspiring
officers are evaluated on three years of cumulative
training. A mentally and physically demanding
experience, “Camp” runs five weeks during the
summer between a cadet’s junior and senior year.
Burchett’s leadership was plainly recognizable
both at camp (where he was placed in command of
over forty fellow cadets) and on the cross country
course (where Burchett has selected as one of the
team’s three captains this season).

Coach Gary Andrews cites Pat as a one of the
contributing factors in the program’s recent up-
surge, “Pat is one of the core group of seniors who
has helped turn the program around and help take
it to the next level.”

Looking forward to this season, Coach
Andrews says Burchett has looked great in pre-
season and has been very focused in practice.
“ROTC has helped Pat hone his leadership abili-
ties and has made him tougher mentally and physi-
cally.”

An important factor stringing. together the
lives of these three student-athlete-cadets is Cap-
tain William Geiger, the Assistant Professor of
Military Science at Davidson College. Captain
Geiger encourages his cadets to embrace the chal-
lenges of varsity athletics at David-
son, “Athletics gives the cadets the
team concept. That’s what the army
is, a team.”

SPORTS

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

@ A Davidson R.O.T.C. cadets fires an M-16. Captain William Geiger

Jon’t call them lucky

By Serx Davis
Arts & Living Editor

Ideas move through my mind, each one a seeming starting point for this column.
But, as I can not latch onto one with full vigor, I bes simply speak on each of them.

Davidson soccer wink over Clemson

‘When the Davidson Men’s Soccer team walked off the field in South Carolina,
hearts fresh and alive with the energy of victory, the day became marked as a moment
in history. True, all days and all plays occur in moments in time, but that night in
Carolina saw an outcome of events that few analysts may have expected: Davidson
won.

When the day began, Davidson was ranked lower in the Southern Conference (at
fifth) than Clemson, their opponent, was ranked in the nation “temo Did David(son)
slay Goliath? The Bible tells its teaders that the boy did so. com NnA RARETEA*

Sports writers are in love with using this story as an analogy fora team that wins
over a much higher ranked opponent. If those underdogs have a stellar season, then
they are called a “Cinderella squad.”

- Davidson is no David, and the members of the team would, I think, not be happy
with being called Cinderella. Davidson’s defeat of Clemson was no mu AREYE
slingshot, it was a 2-0 win.

Don’t call them the little, lucky guy. The Men’s Soccer team has more than one
Goliath wearing Davidson’s colors.

(Editor’s note: After this article was submitted on Saturday, the men’s soccer team added
to their heroic week by knocking off U.S.C. Nice call, Seth!)

ee Nila

Soccer in general

Soccer (football), as many of you may know, is the world’s sport. It is a language
that crosses international and cultural barriers. It is followed with fervor that goes
beyond simple support of one’s favorite team. In Ireland, Catholic and Protestant
based professional teams face off in contests that carry all the weight of a religious and
political feud.

Summer ends and Sammy has 57

I think about the history made a few nights ago in South Carolina and my mind
jumps back to last year, when Maris’ time in history was surpassed by one crack of
Mark McGwire’s bat.

Sitting on the porch of my fraternity eo merday, someone announced that Sosa has
57 homeruns now. Though the discussion then moved into whether or not the Mets
have the best infield in history, I stayed stuck on that number.

Sih :

It is not record-setting, but it marks a repeat of the power displayed in last year’s
season. How many can he hit in one year? Will progress ever stop? I don’t know, but
I’m waiting in anticipation to see.

Editor’s note (again!): As a resident of suburban Chicago, I can't forgo this opportunity
to revel in the success of one the truly great men in professional sports. If only his team
weren't 25 games out of first place...

History is marked.in many different ways, but the times we remember most are
those days where the day to day trend of life is broken by something extraordinary.

I have mentioned history-making twice in this column, punctuated by some
general comments on soccer. We find extraordinary events in those things that we
value in some measure.

Though: it is not true for everyone, some of us remember days in sport. The day
our father first put a golf club into our hands.

The day when that first free throw fell through the basket with only the slightest
whisper.

ee 0 ON the coms, aed ee
volleyball clear across the net.

‘The day in South Carolina when that shot sailed into the back ofthe goal.

