THE DAVIDSONIAN

A peek into Martin: One chemist’s research at Davidson College

By Saran SCHMIDT
Guest Writer

Every day, lab-coated, goggled research sci-
entists perform significant chemical research right
here at Davidson College. This article is a simple
exploration into the work of one faculty member,
Dr. Erland Stevens.

Stevens is a recent
addition to the chem-
istry department fac-
ulty. He completed
his undergraduate
education at Duke
University and went
to the University of
Michigan at Ann Ar-
bor for graduate stud-
Stevens joined
the Davidson com-
munity in Fall 1998.

ies.

i
@ Dr. Stevens

This series of articles, which will appear over the next four weeks,
focuses on the research activities of faculty members in the Psychology,
Physics, Biology, and Chemistry departments. One faculty member
from each of these departments will be interviewed.

His specialty is organic chemistry, and his re-
search focuses specifically on heterocyclic com-
pounds. ~ .

Heterocyclic compounds are literally all
around (and in) us. They are in sugars, hemoglo-
bin, and everywhere in our DNA. Stevens’s re-
search focuses on developing new methods of
creating heterocyclic compounds in the hope of
finding a compound that is biologically active.
Being biologically active would make the com-
pound a candidate for drug development.

Stevens’s research ts part of a current trend in
drug development called combinatory chemistry.

This is an approach that emphasizes the explora-
tion into new methods for creating chemical com-
pounds; the aim is to create a vast number of new
molecules, one or some of which may become
useful in the discovery of.new drugs.

Until the combinatory chemistry approach,
drug research was a slow and tedious process. The
concept was to start with criteria: “this is how we
want our drug to interact with these other com-
pounds, and thus, this is what it should look like.”
Then the chemists would labor for months (or
years) attempting to create a molecule that looked
right, and testing it for biological activity.

As Stevens explained, if this old method was
the “sniper-gun approach” then combinatory chem-
istry is the “shot-gun approach,” to drug develop-
ment. By developing efficient methods for creat-
ing many new compounds, more and more new
molecules are being generated. Every new com-
pound is a legitimate addition to the testing pool.
Once a new molecule is created in a Davidson lab,
the method is shared with other scientists in the
country, and testing is done to determine its bio-
logical activity. Davidson can contribute to the
national drug development effort by including the
compounds discovered here to the testing pool.

Because he is still relatively new to David-
son, and in the process of settling in, Stevens
conducts most of his research on his own. He did
have two students helping last year and one over
the summer. Since chemistry majors are strongly
encouraged to do at least one semester of research,
he expects to continue to have students involved
this year and in the future.

Pre-Law Society to sponsor round-table discussion tonight

By Drew Devorr
Staff Writer

Every year, 20-30 members of the graduating
class at Davidson decide to attend law school
immediately after college. The Pre-Law Society
exists to help these and others to both decide if law
is right for them and to prepare them for law
school.

According to Tony Butchello, with the Of-

Career Services, the
Pre-Law society works together with Career Ser-
vices to help students answer the question, “is law
really what I want to do with my life?” They do
this by sponsoring special events and by bringing
programs that relate to the law field. According

fice of

’ Anita Keteku °00, a member of the society's

executive committee, “this semester has been a
real exciting one for the Pre-Law Society.” This is
because of some of the events that they have
managed to bring to Davidson, including a meet-

ing of the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,
the creation of a mock trial team, a number of
speakers, and several panel discussions. This past
Wednesday, a panel was held featuring represen-
tatives from Berkeley, Duke, and University of
Southern California.

Tonight, the society will sponsor a round-
table discussion featuring college admission rep-
resentatives from the University of Florida,
Samford University, and the UPenn. They will
answer frequently asked question about law school

admissions. Furthermore, on Tuesday, Nov. 2,
there will be the annual Law School Fair, featuring
representatives of 48 of the nations best law schools.

The Pre-Law Society, which has between
two and three hundred members, is run by an
executive committee of five students, and is ad-
vised by Dr. Thornberry of the political science
department and Dr. Wertheimer of the history
department. It is not a formal society, but instead
a loosely organized association which is kept
informed via e-mail and voicemail.

INNER HAIR CARE

997 Beli, Drwsion 225, Darien, CT 06820-1005

candidate: for this position.

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS

SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM

~—~—.-—-

/ AVIDis « oe we i

'_ @ program designed
‘\ to prepare middle

\ achieving students in

| Grades 6-12 for four-
year college
and university -
-entry and
SUCCESS.

If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a

NDMDUAL DET

—

ERMINATION)

Hair i You must be:
Expert Services MM Enyolled in a college or university with good academic standings
i Manicu: H Mi Able to work in a supportive manner with middle level and high schoo! students and teachers
Relaxing icures & Pedicures Y Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
Soothin Facials M Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
$ M Willing to receive three hours raining in the AVID teaching methodologies
H M Anexcellent roie mode! for motivated, organized and successful students
Complete Wax Hair Removal Representative of a balanced academic background

Total Body Massage  ~
Hydro-therapy room
Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5

895-0404

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $7.50 per hour
For additional information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotre-Meckienburg Schools
AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street Suite S06
Cnarlotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975
SQSOSSHSEPUAFSSHEHSKRKSHSHSSSFHSSKSSCHSSHSHSSSHSSHHSSSHRESSSSSTSFT SHES FeeessuBseseseseseseseucesseansen

POTENTIAL AVID TUTORS
(Personal Information}

Name:
20430-2 Norman Crossing Mailing Adress:
Shopping Center — Telepnoire: ee ee
Corner of I-77 & Exit 28 College University:
Cornelius Midis ot AG ool Pras

