~ - §GA VIC

__ FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1999

(;

1, What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
_ 2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do

you plan to best bridge this gap?

3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What

is your stance and how will you deal with it?

1. Ihave represented the Class of 2000 as an SGA Class Senator since our
freshman year, I’ve co-chaired two SGA committees (Public Relations and Town
Liaison), I’ ve been on the Activities Tax Council, and I’ ve been the House Manger
of Warner Hall. I have been in a leadership position every semester I’ ve been at
Davidson.

2. The Vice President serves as both an indispensable assistant to the President,

~

4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or
help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate
for the job? :

and numerous conferences and diversity discussions. I also know that this issue
needs lots more work, and that an SGA that is highly accessible to students will
continue to improve the situation.

4. I see the SGA moving toward a more unified and concrete purpose. I will
encourage campus committees to solidify and meet more regularly and the
Senators to better meet the needs of the their constituents. Because the SGA is

and is also a liaison to the students through the Intercouncil system, which the VP

is in charge of. The VP clarifies and reinforces points made by the President, and \ JULIE CHEVALIER } fulfill this purpose. The SGA should energetically and enthusiastically address

also serves as another leader that both the Senate and the students the Senate &&

= the needs of the students.

represents can look to. In the three years that I’ve served as a Senator, I have
interacted with both the President and the Vice President extensively, and I think that the best way I could
serve the students would be to use this experience to do my job well.

3. [think that most Davidson students are aware of all the problems on campus, but don’t know how
to act on them. The SGA is the voice of the students, it gives them a powerful outlet to let their opinions
and solutions be known and implemented. A good example would be the current state of race relations
on campus, Although the problem is in no way solved, the hard work of the Senate, reflecting a caring
student body, was able to make huge strides, including the first recognized Martin Luther King, Jr. Day

5. One of the most important ways that things get done on this campus is through the commiittee
system. The SGA Vice president oversees this system, which means that responsibly for committees
from the Council on Minority Affairs to the Lights Out committee falls on the office. This is the most
important aspect of the office. Iam extremely familiar with the way the Senate works. I’ ve chaired and
sat on committees, so I know both sides of tat street. I am very comfortable with the B y-Laws (which
doésn’t’ mean I don’t think there are changes that can be made) and Parliamentary Procedure. But most
importantly, I have wanted this opportunity since I was a freshman. I have the experience and I have the
desire to do a really good job.

la

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do
you plan to best bridge this gap?
.3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What
is your stance and how will you deal with it?

1. Iwas an SGA senator for Connor House during my sophomore year. I co-
chaired the Solidarity Committee which focuses on bringing the Davidson
community together. I have also worked on the Polling and Response Committee
where I helped poll the student body on issues from sororities at Davidson to the
quality of the DC bookstore.

2. I hope to bridge this gap by communication. My vision as a vice president

~

4; In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or
help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the. best candidate
for the job?

semesters I have seen the SGA actively trying to work on the issue of diversity by
sponsoring various events, and I hope that they will continue to deal with the issue
by addressing it openly and working toward finding solutions.

4. I see the SGA playing a more active role with the concerns of the student
body. My vision is to help this progression by encouraging senators to keep in
constant communication with their constituents. As the vice president I would try

will be to get to know each member on the senate and the president by talking with ANA ROSA my best to be a model for other senators by communicating openly with the senate
each individual, but primarily by listening. I feel that by doing so I will be able \ GARCIA DE LATORRE as well as the student body.
to keep the president updated on the concerns of the senate, and in turn the

concerns of the student body.

3. I believe that the most pressing issue facing the SGA now is the issue of diversity. I have seen
many students express to the SGA their concern with diversity issues on campus. Over the past few

5. I enjoy people. I want to work closely with the president and the senate
to listen and address the concerns of the student body. I want any vote that I cast on any given issue to
represent the best interests of the student body. Iam an enthusiastic, hard working individual who would
love to serve each Davidson student and I feel that the vice presidency would allow me to do so.

. : 2. I plan to brid bi i ildi
defined as the students’ major representative body, I would like to see it better ‘ pian to bridge the gap between the Senate and the President by building

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

19

PRESIDEN

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do
you plan to best bridge this gap?

3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What
is your stance and how will you deal with it?

1. Ihave extensive experience in the SGA. Ihave been a senator for two years,
serving as a freshman senator and as sophomore class president. My most recent
efforts have involved initiating and co-chairing the “Lights Out” Committee. I
also chair the Building Services Committee, which acts as a liaison between the
Physical Plant and the student body.

relationships with the Senate body. Many times the president envisions a goal and

the responsibility falls on the VP to make that goal a reality. By building \ DANE I

relationships in the Senate and knowing each senator’ s individual qualities, I will
be able to delegate the right jobs to the right people.

3. One of the most pressing issues facing the SGA right now is increasing the output of all its voting
members. A large majority of the work done in the SGA is accomplished by less than one-third of the
senators. Recently, the SGA passed a resolution requiring more participation from senators in SGA-

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do
you plan to best bridge this gap?

3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What
is your stance and how will you deal with it?

1. I served as a co-coordinator of Habitat for Humanity and am currently a
Service Ambassador and the publicity chair of Reach Out. [| am also a hall
counselor where I deal with communication issues, problem solving and organi-
zation on a daily basis.

2. , From serving many organzations, I understand how different groups work.
This will help me unite the students and the SGA, especially on the Intercoucil
where, as chair, the Vice President's job is to bring students together on various .
committees. I love interacting with others, listen and communicate well and have AINSL)
a ton of energy.

|

3. Davidson’s lack of awareness about different groups and interests on campus

seems to be the latest issue challenging the SGA. I would love to see this issue tackled by making each
week a different awareness week. Organizations could sponsor a week, heightening their exposure and
increasing others’ knowledge.

UNION BOARD PRESID

(a

1. How do you propose to keep the student body motivated in and involved in
the agenda of the Union Board? :

2. What experiences and interests qualify you for this post?

3, What new and exciting things would you propose for your term?

1. believe that the Union must continue to bea resource that is readily available
to everyone in the Davidson community. This means several things. Having
worked on the Union Board, I feel reasonably qualified to say that involvement
and enthusiasm for Union events is a direct function of three basic elements: an
interesting and exciting variety of activities, the hard work and visibility of a
dedicated Union Board, and effective advertizing and promotional work. These
are all things that the current group does very well, but as with any organization,
the Union Board has tremendous potential for growth and improvement.

1

4. What is the biggest weakness and how do you feel you can use this to best
serve the student body?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate
for the job?

i
3. I think that any group of Union officers must carefully consider the desires
of the students that the Union represents. After all, the Union Board does have
control of considerable funds drawn from the student body. To this end, I will
endeavor to address the concerns of the student body as recently articulated by
such media as the Davidsonian, the Union survey that was conducted last fall, and
the general perception of Union events. For example, the Union survey showed a
strong demand for bigname bands, aconcern that is currently being addressed and
that the,Board should continue to pursue in the coming year. I hope to draw

2. [have spent the past year as a member at large of the Union Board. In this

WILL THOMPSON

together a diverse Union Board representing all elements of campus to help
effectively serve the entire student body.

capacity, I have been privileged to work with many of Davidson’ s administrative

and student leaders: One of my responsibilities as a member at large was to serve

4. My biggest weakness is one that is bound to beset any Union Board president.

as the liaison between the Union and the Student Government Association. In addition, I have worked
on occasion with Auxiliary services and the Dean of Students Office. Also, I spent this summer working
in the Union as an operations assistant, greatly enhancing my knowledge and understanding of Union

events and programming. I strongly believe that these experiences have taught me what is required to
run a successful Union.

This is a big job, and no one has the energy or the patience to do it alone. This will force reliance on my
fellow officers and on the committee chairs. Such reliance is crucial to the activities of a healthy board.

5. The job of Union Board President requires a great deal of behind the scenes work that relies on a
thorough familiarity with the workings and interactions of Union Board, both within itself and in its place
among other campus entities. I believe that my experiences with these various organizations make me

the best candidate for the job.
