_THE DAVIDSONIAN

“these Davidsonian sports pages. Tinvested liter-
ally countless hours over those months follow-
ing Wildcat athletics, hours that could have been

or just plain ol’ relaxing. And I have not been
alone in these efforts—approximately a dozen
people at any given time over the past year have
contributed time to detailing the happenings of
our twenty varsity athletic teams.

Itseems that Dr. Denham—and a very slim
but outspoken minority of the faculty—would
think that those hours were wasted.

Education is, and should always be, the top
. priority at Davidson College—or at most any
institution of higher learning. The academic
curriculum at Davidson is exceptional, and we
are eternally grateful to the commitment our
professors make each and every day in bestow-
ing knowledge and wisdom upon our questing
young minds. Butit would be foolish to embrace
the notion that academic work—or even scho-
lastic philosophizing—is sufficient to educating
“the whole person” that Davidson strives to
produce.

George Leonard once said, “A large part of
[the, purpose] of education may well be what
men have most feared and most desired — the

Pov is last your ‘cadarccuee.

spent studying, “philosophizing,” socializing, |

afternoon of Rebrussy 27, 1999. "After Davidson’ s
leading scorer, Jess Montrella, went down with a
‘blown-out knee in the waning minutes of the
Southern Conference semi-final contest against
top-seeded UNC-G, Heath came off the bench and
hit a buzzer-beater to cap a miraculous upset.

...the image of 60+ Wildcat football helmets
held high in elated celebration on November 14,
1998. Davidson upended Bridgewater College to
deliver the program’ s,best season in its 100-year
history. As tears welled in the eyes of players,
coaches, and fans, the young men of our football
team engaged in a triumphant, but dignified, sing-
ing of the alma mater, honoring the years of blood,
sweat, and tears that forged a champion.

...the looks on the faces of Appalachian
State’s field hockey team on October 31, 1999.
Davidson’s Kim Ceci and company captured the
Deep South Tournament after a hard-fought, even
nasty at times, tournament. Rather than engaging
in an arrogant display of conquest, the Wildcats
humbly invited the Lady Mountaineers to share in
a prayer at mid-field after the game. The Wildcats’
tears of joy and the Mountaineer’s tears of despair
melted into one communal thanksgiving to God. I,
for one, was moved.

. Ican understand a professor’s defense of his

itself a embracing | “the whole person.” I sus-
pect that is why our college’s president, and one
of our most decorated professors, have been on
hand at nearly every home volleyball game this
fall as Lisa Marston’s Wildcats swept through
the Southern Conference.

When I give tours of campus, I explain to
people that I came to Davidson because “‘it is a
place where academics are top-rate, but they
were not an end in and of themselves.” This is a
place that recognizes the importance of academ-
ics, but with the hope that the knowledge and
wisdom we obtain may empower our young
minds toward “useful lives of leadership and
service.”

Forsome individuals, the realms of academia
are an all-encompassing world. Many individu-
als achieve the aforementioned “moments of
ecstasy” while embracing the fascinating fields
of study on this campus. . But for the sake of
totality, or at least tolerance, may we never
deprive a full 25% (including a projected vale-
dictorian, and a recent Love of Teaching award
winner) of this campus the opportunities to find
these “moments of ecstasy” in the educational
arenas that lie a few hundred yards behind Cham-
bers.

Women’s

By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer |

The Davidson Wildcat swim teams started
their dual meet season two weekends ago in At-
lanta, Georgia, where they met Emory and Geor-
gia Southern. The men’s team dropped both of
their meets, but the women left the pool with
victories over both teams, improving their record
to 4-0 following previous wins over NCA&T and
Wingate. Winners for the Wildcat women were

senior Mary Shell Brosche, who captured the 200-

yard individual medley and the 200-yard back-
stroke. Senior co-captain Britta Toleman won the
200-yard breaststroke, and sophomore Starr Daniell
was victorious in the 200-yard butterfly. Fellow
sophomore Liz Nugent won the diving competi-
tion on both the one-meter and three-meter boards:
On the men’s side, junior Kurt Hirsekorn was the
lone individual winner, capturing the 200-yard
individual medley and the 200-yard breaststroke.

The following weekend, the Wildcats hosted
the William & Mary Indians, but both teams came
up short as the women lost 127.5-114.5 and the
men fell 123-107. Nugent was again victorious on
the boards, winning the one-meter and three-meter
diving competition. Brosche captured the 200-
yard freestyle and the 200-yard backstroke. Indi-
vidual event winners for the men were Hirsekorn,
who won the 400-yard individual medley and the
200-yard breaststroke, and senior Mark
Medendorp, who captured first in the 200-yard
butterfly.

Most recently, Davidson took on the East
Carolina University Pirates, and both men’s and
women’s teams lost, 134-103 and 153-84, respec-
tively. The women’s team individual winners
were Brosche in the 200-yard individual medley
and Nugent in the one-meter diving competition.
For the men, Hirsekorn again scored victories in
the 200-yard IM and the 200-yard breast. The
men’s 400 medley relay team won, and the Wild-
cats swept the top 4 finishing spots in the 200-yard
butterfly. Senior co-captain Sam Kuykendall led
the group, followed by Medendorp, senior co-
captain Scott Harper, and sophomore Jon Small.

“ECU has very strong teams, so we knew
going into the meet we’d have to adjust our goals,”
said sophomore Kendra Berner. ‘Today was
challenging, but also a good opportunity to swim
well in our last team meet for the semester.”

A team of about 10 swimmers will travel to
the NIKE Cup meet at UNC “Chapel Hill this
weekend to close out competition for this semes-
ter. After the NIKE meet, Davidson will focus on
training and conditioning, which will include the
team’s annual training program in Ft. Lauderdale.

e

Swim team undefeated.

® Senior Rick Clary and his fellow Wildcats will end the fall semester

of competiton at the NIKE Cup this weekend in Chapel Hill, N.C.

Senior co-captain Britta Toleman has cheered her teammates on to
four victories in six events. The women’s swim team is 4-2 going
into this weekend’s NIKE Cup meet.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1999

Golfers finish

fall schedule in
Charleston

By Dave MoncurE
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golfers hit the links for the final
time this fall season last week in Charleston, South
Carolina. Amidst a tough field, which included
Charleston Southern (the host team) and Elon
(winner of 4 of the previous 5 tournaments this
fall), Davidson rounded out the fall season.

The Cats featured their sixth different lineup
in as many tournaments for their final match of the
Fall. These continuous lineup changes have given
many guys on this young team tournament expe-
rience for the spring.

This tournament featured senior Aaron Watt,
sophomore Tyler Reed, freshman Mark Pustay,
freshman Morgan Croney, and freshman Dan
Carlson. Davidson played well in this tournament,
considering Watt was the only starter with signifi-
cant competition experience.

The golfers have also gained lots of experi-
ence this fall from their new assistant coach, Bryce
Wallor. He came to Davidson at the beginning of
the season from Providence, Rhode Island, to help
Coach Mark guide the team towards their goal of
making it to the NCAA tournament in the spring.
Wallor was a college player himself in Providence
only two years ago, and he also played profession-
ally for a little while before coming to Davidson.
Ben Friedell said that Wallor’s coaching has added
a lot to the team this fall being that ‘“{Wallor] is
very familiar with the competitive environment.”
Oliver Cross added, “[Wallor’s] knowledge of the
college game has helped the team a lot this fall,
especially with mental toughness.”

Wallor was also an instructor in Florida after
finishing college and “is able to offer so much
technical advice,” Friedell said. Cross mentioned
that Wallor has implemented Saturday morning
drills this fall to give the golfers extra help with
their swing. “The technical knowledge that Wallor
adds to his coaching, especially in putting and
swing drills, has helped the team immensely this
fall,” added Cross.

Wallor will continue to help thegolfers with
their swings and overall knowledge of the college
game throughout the winter in preparation for the
spring season. The Wildcats open the spring
season at home in the Birkdale Collegiate Golf,
Classic on March 10.

Ferrell runs to
top 25 finish in
NCAA regionals

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

The Wolfpack of North Carolina State won
the NCAA Southeast Region men's cross country
championship Saturday at Furman. Davidson’s
Brent Ferrell finished 24th overall in the field of
194 competitiors.

The Wildcats scored 466 points to place 16th
at the event which included 25 teams from Vir-
ginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, and South Caro-
lina.

Ferrell has finished first for the Wildcats in
each race he has competed in this season and has
captured three individual titles this season.

Seniors William Isenhour and Pat Burchett
finished second and third respectively for the
‘Cats. While Jimmy Swansbrough and Dan Gibson
rounded out the Davidson top five.

In addition to NC State, William & Mary
earned the second men's bid. Individually, James
Madison University's David Spiller and Benjamin
Cooke, UNC Charlotte's Kenneth Svendsen, and

‘Eastern Kentucky's James Mutuse were awarded

automatic individual bids. Matthew Lane of Wil-

liam & Mary captured the individual title. He
comleted the 10K course in 29:37,

Top Wildcat Runners

24. Brent Ferrell 31:07
110. William Isenhour 33:28
121. Pat Burchett 33:43
142. Jimmy Swansbrough — 34:09

146. Dan Gibson 34:23
