Role of
religion
discussed

@ Story continued from Front page

selves, meaning that they should not accept the
tenets of any religion purely on blind faith. Fi-
nally, he holds a deep mistrust of “wealth, status,
popularity, and record” in religion. Dr. Foley asks
his.students to have a similar suspicion of institu-
tionalized Christianity.

Dr. Yukich brought a fresh perspective on
faith from a physicist’s point of view. While he is
a self-proclaimed “Bible Christian,” Dr. Yukich
admitted that he knows very little about the Bible.
Having been a Christian for only about “five or six
years,” he is interested in questions about religion
and welcomes any religious discussion with stu-
dents. Dr. Yukich maintains that studying physics
gives him “a greater appreciation for [the com-
plexity of] God's creation.” He also pointed out
what he sees as an “arrogant” attitude to studying
in academia and seeks to impart into his students
respect of the pursuit for knowledge.

Dr. Levering spoke last. Dr. Levering was
raised by influential Quaker parents. Dr. Levering
asserts that “one should not worship the intellect.”
He believes that pride is a great sin, that we can
realize only some of “the glory of God.” Dr.
Levering discussed two temptations of teachers:
the sin of pride and the abuse of power. He
believes in the “inherent worth and quality in
every student and of teachers and students,” and he
seeks to uphold this tenet in the classroom. While
he does feel that a certain amount of respect must
be paid to one’s elders, according to Dr. Levering
this should not impede free and candid learning
between teachers and students. If he were not

learning every day, Dr. Levering noted, he would’

not teach.

The meeting then opened up to the students,
who contributed with a productive question-and-
answer session.

Students

join in
thanksgiving
with Hispanic
community

By ANNA KvaANviG
Staff Writer

In an effort to bring two cultures and commu-
nities together, Patterson Court Council, in con-
junction with the Huntersville Parks and Recre-
ation Department, hosted a Thanksgiving dinner
for Hispanic families and Davidson students at the
Huntersville Farmer’s Market on Sunday, No-
vember 21, from 3 to 6 pm.

A caterer provided a traditional American
Thanksgiving meal. In addition, the Hispanic
community members brought potluck Spanish
foods. After the dinner, Mauricio Sauma ’00 led
the group in Latin dancing and each fraternity and
eating house on Patterson Court sponsored an
activity booth. Approximately 300 members of
the Hispanic community members and 100 David-
son students were expected to attend the event.

According to Desirae Haylock ’00, Patterson ~

Court Council Service Co-Chair, the event, which
was open to all Davidson students, was organized
in an effort to “establish lasting relationships among
the college and its surrounding community.”

Several businesses sponsored the event, includ-
ing Huntersville Parks and Recreation, Carolina
Cones, Olé Olé, Summit Coffee, El Cancun, Winn-
- Dixie, Coca-Cola, California Juice Company,
Harris Teeter, Bellacino’s, and First Charter Na-
tional Bank.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

4000 prospective students visit Davidson each year.
The average visit lasts 3 hours.
Half of that time is spent with 1 person.
| The tour guide.

Tour Guides Make a Difference.
Become a Tour Guide.

All those interested in becoming a Davidson Ambassador/Tour
Guide next semester should contact Cathy Spencer in the Office of
Admission and Financial Aid. Please call (2702) or email
(caspencer@davidson.edu) by December 3
to schedule an interview.

Or check out the Ambassador Website at

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/Davamb/DavAmb

Interviews for tour. guides are December 6 and 7 from 4—7 pm.

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS
SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM
(ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

/ AVID is e es es es ea
(a program designed

\ to prepare middle
\ achieving students in
| grades 6-12 for four-
year college
and university
entry and
_Success.

If you are, enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a
candidat: for this position.

{

You must be:

Enjolied in a college or university with good academic standings

Abje to work in a supportive manner with middie level and high school students and teachers

Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress

Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
Willing to receive three hours raining in the AVID teaching methodologies

Aniexcellent role model for motivated, organized and successful students

Representative of a balanced academic background

HESRaga

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic schoo! year
Salary: $!?.50 per hour
For additianal information, please complete and return to the following:
Charlotte-Meckiendurg Schools
AVID Office

_ 700 East Stonewall Street Suite 506
" Cnarioue, North Carolina 28202

(704) 343-6975
SSSOSSHSSTORPSSSTKAESHHHHSHSSAKHTHERSSHSKSARHHKESSSTSSKSHSessesessvesesssseussssssacesseaoneend
ENTIAL AVID TUTORS
(Personal information}
Name:
Mailing Address:
Telepnone: Message Telephone:
Coliege/ University:
Middie or High Schoo! preference:

