4___THEDAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE RELATIONS

Davidson’s Ben Klein says that good teach-
ers must demonstrate a personal interest in their
students and their students’ academic achieve-
ments. He adds that good teachers also try to
convey to students a sense of excitement about
their courses.

Klein, the Beverly F. Dolan Professor on
Mathematics, clearly practices what he preaches.
He has won two previous teaching honors and has
now received the 1999 Distinguished Teaching
Award from the southeastern section of the Math-
ematics Association of America (MAA). About
350 of the 2,000 members of the section, which
covers five states, were gathered for its annual
meeting in Memphis when the award was pre-
sented on March 12.

Klein responded to the award modestly, say-
ing, “It’s humbling to be recognized by the asso-
ciation, particularly at a place like Davidson where
there are so many good teachers. I prefer to
consider myself not as an individual in this case,
but as a representative of my department and the
entire institution.”

An awards committee of the section selected

Klein based on his collaborative approach to learn-
ing. His citation noted, “The student who simply
wants to be told how to work a problem quickly
learns that is not going to happen. Ben will gently
prompt the student to define the concepts in-
volved, to state relevant theorems, and to take ever
larger steps in the process. The reward is a
mathematical idea acquired, and some good cheer-
ing from Ben along the way.”

The citation also noted Klein’s leadership
both onthe Davidson campus and in the MAA. He
has been a member of the MAA’s southeastern
section since coming to Davidson in 1971. He
served on many of its committees, and he was its
chair from 1993-95. He currently co-edits the
problem section for its “College Mathematics
Journal.” He has also been vice president for
colleges in the western region of the North Caro-

lina Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

(NCCTM), and he is a frequent speaker at NCCTM
meetings.

He not only teaches math at Davidson but
also holds the title of Interim Chair of the college’s
Department of Education, based on his long-time
service as chair of the Teacher Education Com-
mittee. This position follows a distinguished

Professor Ben Klein wins a top teaching

record of other college service that includes De-
partment Chair, Vice Chair of the Faculty Pro
tem, and Interim Dean of the Faculty.

His teaching has been previously recognized

ay a

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

ey

@ Professor Ben Klein (I), in class with senior math students

‘

award

with Davidson’s 1990 Thomas Jefferson Award
and the “North Carolina Professor of the Year”
award in 1991 from the Council for Advancement
and Support of Education.

Giduz Photo c/o College Communica-

Sara Ehinger (c) and Laura Barron (r), won a top teaching award

Costa and

Continued from previous page

Some people are in it to showcase themselves, but
Joe serves the play and doesn’t let his ego intrude.”

Highlights of Gardner’s work include
Davidson's “The Madwoman of Chaillot,” “Mis-
alliance,” “Hedda Baggler,” and “Rashomon;”
Charlotte Repertory Theatre’s “The Elephant
Man,” “Talley’s Folly,” “The Foreigner,” “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and “Angels in
America, Parts I and II;” Children’s Theatre of
Charlotte’s “The Year of the Perfect Christmas
Tree” and “Stranger on the Bus; Tarradiddle
Players’ “Pinocchio,” “Step on a Crack,” and
“Androcles and the Lion;” N.C. Shakespeare
Festival’s “Tartuffe;” Spirit Square’s “A Christ-
mas Carol; CPCC Summer Theatre’s “Show-
boat,” “Carousel,” “Metropolis,” “Into the Woods,”
“Chess,” and “Camelot.” .

Gardner pointed out that one of the most
valuable products of the professorial association
with Charlotte Repertory Theatre is the opportu-

Gardner

nity it opens for students. Davidson theatre stu-
dents regularly intern at the Rep, and two °98
graduates, Sarah Hankins, and Tuyet-Linh Tran,
are now working there.

In addition, 1997 Davidson theatre major
Josh Gaffga has taken the Charlotte stage by storm
this year. Gaffga has acted in starring roles for
several Charlotte companies, including the Rep,
and was recently named “Actor of the Year’ by
Creative Loafing. The paper’s reviewer, Perry
Tannenbaum, wrote, “At times during his awe-
some breakout year, young Gaffga seemed limit-
less.”

Several other recent graduates are also find-
ing success in quality professional programs across
the country. For Gardner, that’s the best possible
payoff for his efforts. He said, “Since we are first
of all teachers, it’s especially gratifying to see our
students take advantage of the preparations, guid-
ance and support we try to offer so that they land
on their feet when they leave here.”

Campus Police Blotter
3/12/99 to 3/26/99

3/14/99:

At 4:00 AM, Mecklenberg County received a call
from a female student reporting two suspicious
persons in Rusk House. She said the two males
were not Davidson students. Campus Police Of-
ficer Ramsey was dispatched to the house, and he
checked the house and surrounding areas. Ramsey
cleared the call after nothing was found.

3/18/99:

A maintenance employee reported that several
items of lawn equipment had been taken from the
Maintenance Shop located on Ridge Road in David-
son and from the club cars outside the shop. The
reporting person had first noticed the missing
_ items on Monday, March 15, and last remembered
the items being secured on Friday, March 12. He
also knew that several items had been taken before
March 12 but couldn’t remember the dates. The
items taken were entered into the NCIC, and they
include four chain saws, two hedge trimmers,
three weed eaters, and three backpack leaf blow-
ers. The total value of the stolen items is $5070.

3/19/99:

A student reported a stolen laptop computer at

11:36 AM. The victim had last seen the laptop at

4:30 PM on March 18, and he discovered the loss

at 6:30 PM on that day. The student had left the
‘computer in his personal carrel in E.H. Little

Library when he went to dinner. When he came
back, his computer was gone. The computer is
listed as a Macintosh 1400CS Series. It is gray,
and its serial number is 1 PM5287LL/A. A David-
son Fire Sticker is also attached to the computer.
Its listed value is $2,500.

3/23/99:

Four suspects were caught damaging the location
sign near the front entrance of the Carnegie Guest
House at 3:50 AM. When the suspects saw
Officer Stanley Moore approaching them, they
fled on foot. After a brief foot chase, Officer
Moore subdued one of the suspects, an eighteen
year-old, white male. That subject was then
arrested and charged with damage to real property
and resisting a public officer. The estimated
damage to the sign is $150.

3/25/99:

At 3:36 PM, Officer Laney received a call from
the Charlotte Mecklenberg Dispatch Center con-
cerning a working fire at the College Laundry. He
went to the scene, where he met the Davidson and
Cornelius Fire Departments. With the firefighters,
Officer Laney found that some-mop heads had
caught on fire in one of the College dryers. Laun-
dry Director John Cherry had successfully put out
the blaze with an extinguisher. Besides the ruined
mop heads, there was no monetary damage.

Service conference:

Davidson students travel to Salt Lake City

By AMANDA L. Morpavsky
Staff Writer

Many students at Davidson are involved in
various’service activities, ranging from adopting
a grandparent at the Pines to tutoring a young
child-at Davidson Elementary. One of the con-
cerns of the Service Council, a student-run orga-
nization that promotes service both on and off
campus, is how to encourage students to maintain
these activities all four years at Davidson. The
Council sends representatives annually to the
Campus Outreach Opportunity League (COOL)
Service Conference. This year, the conference
was held in Salt Lake City, Utah, and the Service
Council sent two representatives; Jonathan Hill-
Alto, a freshman Bonner Scholar, and Lee Ann
Petty, asophomore who acts as both secretary and
treasurer for the Service Council.

These two students spent three days in Salt
Lake City attending various conferences that cov-
ered ways to improve the quality of service on
college campuses. Wayne Meisel, who also
founded the Bonner Scholars program, founded
the COOL Conference in 1984. This year, over
2,000 college students attended the conference
from both the United States and England. Stu-
dents bonded with each other over the period of
three days, all sleeping in the University of Utah
gymnasium. As Petty explained, “It was just like
a giant slumber party.” Using each other as re-
sources as well as using the input of various
speakers at the event, the students were able to
gather ideas about how to improve their existing
programs and how to create new ones on their
respective campuses. Students were able to choose
from a variety of workshops, ranging from how to
run an effective meeting to reflections upon ser-

vice activities. The workshops were held daily
and featured organizers of service organizations
such as Americorps and speakers from colleges
and universities throughout the United States.
During these workshops, students were given sug-
gestions and participated in activities dealing with
the subject matter. They also had the opportunity
to interact with the speakers and the other students
in order to gain new perspectives on the respective
subjects.

In addition to the workshops, students at-
tended panel discussions about Social Security
and homelessness that featured homeless people
speaking about their situations. These panel dis-
cussions allowed forthe students to address the
speakers directly with both their questions and
comments. :

Petty attended many of the workshops and
participated in an activity called “Tree Utah” in
which students planted local trees. Petty enjoyed
her experience, saying, “The highlight for me was
the interaction with other students and learning
what they are doing at their schools. The confer-
ence is about learning about other service projects
from other schools.”.Petty continued by explain-
ing that many of the ideas discussed at the confer-
ence would be implemented at Davidson in order
to improve the existing service activities. “We
hope to encourage more student involvement as
well as make the existing programs better and
stronger,” she said.

One of the speakers at the conference said,
“Question not what power you hold, but how you
wield the power you have.” Petty hopes that with
these new ideas, Davidson students will be en-
couraged to participate in more service activities
both on campus and in the community.

Watson Fellowship

Continued from page 1

Setina, an outstanding scholar majoring in
English, is writing an honors thesis on the influ-
ence of photography on American modernist poet
Marianne Moore, who was a fervent admirer and
friend of noted photographers like Richard Avedon
and Alfred Steiglitz.

At Davidson, Setina was awarded the Alumni
Association Award from highest grade point aver-
age in her freshman year. She is also a member of
the Honor Council, Reach Out service organiza-
tion, and is a Senior Admission Fellow.

Founded in 1968, the Thomas J, Watson
Fellowship Program. gives exceptional college

graduates the opportunity to participate ina year of
independent study and travel abroad. It was
founded by the children of Thomas J. Watson Sr.,
the founder ef IBM, and his wife, Jeannette K.
Watson, to honor their parents’ longstanding in-
terest in education and world affairs. The founda-
tion selects fellows based on each nominee’ char-
acter, academic record, leadership potential, will-
ingness to delve into another culture, and the
personal significance, of the proposed project.
Since the foundation’s inception, it has granted
nearly 2,000 Watson Fellowship awards with sti-
pends totaling approximately $22,000,000.
