THE DAVIDSONIAN

| wo weeks ago, Phil Reed wrote an article
to The Davidsonian entitled “Lowering
Our Standards for Sex” in which he criti-
cized the casual attitude towards sex so prevalent
in our society and at Davidson. Kevin Zvargulis
answered Mr. Reed’s article with one of his own,
claiming the latter had no right to impose his
values on anyone or pass judgment on the lives of
others. This article questions the logic of Mr.
Zvargulis’ claim, concluding that it contradicts
‘itself. :

Mr. Reed ends his article with this exhorta-
tion: “We must stop lowering our standards to
make life easier and more convenient for us; we
must regard sex as the significant and invaluable
engagement that it truly is.” One can easily draw
the moral imperative from this statement: “One
ought not trivialize sex” (that is, one must not treat
it casually or thoughtlessly, as Mr. Reed believes
random hook-ups and “sex as conversation” indi-
cate). Those who follow this maxim are more
morally laudable; those who do not follow are
morally reprehensible.

It is this statement of a moral imperative that
Mr. Zvargulis opposes. He retorts to Mr. Reed that
he has “no right to impose his... values on anyone.”

He later states: “Some people choose to live their
lives differently than you do, Mr. Reed, and you
have no right to pass judgment on them.” The
message is quite clear. Mr. Reed cannot impose his
values or pass judgement on anyone else.

Since it would be silly to assume Mr.

statement of a moral imperative is not an imposi-
tion of his values on us, Mr. Reed’s statement is
such an imposition. Clearly there is no difference
between the two imperatives; each begins with a
“one ought” or an “one ought not.” Therefore Mr.
Zvargulis, by couching his opposition of moral

This article questions the logic of Mr. Zvargulis’ claim,
concluding that it contradicts itself.

Zvargulis’ argument applies only to Mr. Reed, one
can draw a moral imperative from Mr. Zvargulis’
article as well: “One ought not impose one’s views
upon others or pass judgement on them.” Those,
who do not pass judgement and impose values
upon others are morally commendable; those who
do pass judgement and impose values on others are
morally culpable.

There are here two articles, each stating a
moral imperative for others to follow. But Mr.
Zvargulis would have us believe that while his

imperatives in terms implying moral imperative,
has nullified his argument.

But he does not stop there. Rather he states,
right after his assertion that Mr. Reed has no right
to impose his values on others, that “Feeling
superior to others breeds exclusivity and at its
most dangerous level leads to holocaust.” Mr.
Reed does make a moral stand in his article,
branding certain sexual actions and attitudes su-
perior and others inferior.

Buthas Mr. Zvargulis not done the same? He
has stated what should and should not be done,
thus designating morally superior actions (not
imposing values) and morally inferior actions
(imposing values).

Mr. Zvargulis also uses much stronger lan-
guage in his article to refer to the moral reprehen-
sibility of certain actions and attitudes. Mr. Reed
calls the sexual conduct of the President “inappro-
priate.” Mr. Zvargulis, however, calls the feeling
of moral superiority he believes inherent in one’s
imposing values on others “evil,” a rare and force-
ful word ina culture where the opposite of “good”
is “bad.”

Thus while Mr. Reed might be said to assume
the “appropriate” attitude in his article, Mr.
Zvargulis would assume the “good” attitude (as
opposed to evil). In as much as the gulf between
the good and the evil exceeds that between the
appropriate and the inappropriate, Mr. Zvargulis
has taken a position of moral superiority greater
than that of Mr. Reed.

Perhaps he should be more attentive to his
own warning.

Dan G. GIBSON

Clearing up a few misunderstandings

rising from among the ranks of Davidson

College, I feel it of the utmost importance to
respond to the letter from the last issue of The
Davidsonian written by Kevin Zvargulis regard-
ing Phil Reed’s moral condemnation of mankind
(sarcasm).

I must begin by clearing up a. few misunder-
standings Mr. Zvargulis had about Phil Reed’s
article. The notions of moral superiority, of the
imposition of fundamentalist beliefs, and of the
labeling of individuals as evil appear nowhere in
the text or the tone of Mr. Reed’s article.

Furthermore, Mr. Zvargulis’s insistence on
answering claims that were never there only dis-
plays his own insecurity with his inability to form
a sound argument (which he aptly demonstrates).
Don’t put words in people’s mouths, Kevin. It’s
not cool.

He instead chooses to attack Mr. Reed’s
personal beliefs rather than his argument, which is
ironically the very thing that Mr. Zvargulis claimed
that no one has the right to do.

In reference Yo the Clinton issue, I would
simply like to point out a few “errors” that were

[: order to dispel any fears of the next Hitler

made by Kevin. He quite nicely demonstrates
Phil’s argument for him, when he argues that
getting a blowjob from an
intern is something that we have no authority to
judge as right or wrong.

That is simply Phil’s point: that the moral
relativism that per-
vades American soci-

concerned that someone might think it wrong that

I cheat on an exam, or steal someone’s calculator,

or lie about my age to get alcohol. Oh yeah, that’s
right; there’s an honor code at this school. Damn! °

Mr. Zvargulis unfortunately fails to realize

that if we all embraced his convenient, free,

liberal, uncon-

strained and

ety today is evident in

morally void

our condoning and
complacent attitudes
towards sex. Wedon’t
have to condemn the

President to feel
strongly that what he
did was wrong; but itis

I am reminded of something that
Edmund Burke once said: “The only
thing necessary for the triumph of
evil is for good men to do nothing.”

approach to life,
then people
would have no
right to chal-
lenge what any
other person
believes or

that lack of feeling

does. No, I'm

among Americans that
is troubling to Mr.
Reed.

However, the Clinton issue aside, one quote
from Mr. Zvargulis really caught my attention:
“Some people choose to live their lives differently
than you do, Mr. Reed, and you have no right to
pass judgment.”

How convenient for me since I was a little

not saying that
sex should be an
honor code violation (ia case Kevin writes an-
other letter); I’m merely stating that Mr.
Zvargulis’s view of the world lacks any delinea-
tion between right and
wrong.

Unfortunately it is this view, and not that of
Phil Reed, that ;

threatens the fabric of society. Under Kevin's
interpretation of right and wrong, even Hitler
should not be judged as wrong, since he merely
“chose to live his life differently” than the rest of
us. We have no

right to judge his actions, right Mr. Zvargulis?

Which brings me to my final point. Sorry
Kevin, but now I’m going to pass judgment on
something you wrote. Equating Phil Reed’s ar-
ticle to a potential harbinger of the next holocaust,
and him to Adolf Hitler is one of the most disre-
spectful and unacceptable statements that I have -
ever encountered.

By abusing the memory of those who have
suffered genocide and acts of ethnic cleansing
delegitimizes and trivializes what they experi-
enced to a degree that I can neither condone nor
ignore. I hope, Mr. Zvargulis, that “for the sake of
humanity,” you never find yourself in a position of
authority until you can find the maturity to respect
those who have gone through more than you could
ever hope to comprehend.

I am reminded of something that Edmund
Burke once said: “The only thing necessary for the
triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.”
Kudos, Phil Reed.

KRISTEN TAYLOR

You’ve come a long way, baby

Rosenberg raised a battle cry for a re-state

ment ofthe honor code. Inthe immortal words
of our alma mater, “Our founders loved thee/ gave
their best to thee.”’ And the best that they could do
was to begin the legacy of honor. The Honor
System officially began in 1910, but the self-
governing of the student body has existed since the
beginnings of the college. It has always been the
contention of the administration that the student
body is responsible enough to maintain order and
justice on this campus. According to The History
of Davidson College, in 1870 the students voted to
police their living quarters themselves as opposed
to the faculty visiting each week. In former DC
librarian Cornelia Shaw’s book Davidson Col-
lege, she points out that the Honor Council does
not legally run the school. However, the decisions
of the Honor Council are powerful enough to
sentence students to suspension or expulsion. Asa
student body, we need to remember the power we
have given to the Honor Council, and work to
redefine that power if it does not exemplify its true

purpose.

l n the last issue of the Davidsonian, David Bly

In his article, I think Mr.Rosenberg raised
some very good points about the-ridiculous nature
some trials last year bordered upon, such as the
Ryan Gist trial. Yet I wonder if a strong, active
code does not always verge on the ludicrous at
times. Can any institution last this long without

always enthralled me. For free, the United States
Government gives you, the citizen, a library card,
which doubles in the real world for an ID. In our
campus library, there are no sensors or security
devices and only about a hundred books are
floating at the end of the year out of our collection

In traditional Davidson style, as a community we have one-
upped the systems of trust in America.

significant revision? The Honor Code seems en-
trapped in rules from another generation, to the
detriment of the current population of Wildcats it
is intended to serve.

In traditional Davidson style, as a com-
munity we have one-upped the systems of trust in
America. For example, the vast, under-appreci-
ated wilderness of the public library system has

of over 400,000. Not only do we one-up the
government but we also feel compelled to im-
prove upon private industry. In an age of self-
defense classes, alarm systems and hidden cam-
eras, everyone goes to the movie store to rent
videos. These huge movie rental conglomera-
tions exist upon their merchandise circulation.
True, for most, you must fill out an application

form so the company can track you down, but hey-
they trust that you will eventually return the movie,
motivated by fines if nothing else. For $1, a
fraction of the real world price, any Davidson
Student can rent a movie from the limited selec-
tion at the Davidson College Union Game Room!
All you need is your dollar and to sign your name.
Why do these systems work? Because at heart, we
still believe in the virtue of trust.

A Native American proverb
states ‘ the earth is not given to us, it is borrowed
from our children.’ Davidson is not ours, but it is
entrusted to us while we are a part of this commu-
nity, to improve and make better until it is en-
trusted to those for whom it had been entrusted for.
Fellow loyal sons and daughters of Davidson,
let’s give the Honor Code the makeover it so badly
needs. According to official college literature, this
school has been built upon the tradition of trust
and honor. We have the solid foundation to begin
this renovation as the new millenium: beckons.
The Honor Code has come a long way, but its
greatest challenge will be effectively adjusting to
accommodate the students of today and tomor-
