2._—_—_—_‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson hosts annual volunteer fair

Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

Davidson College’s annual Volunteer Fair was
held Wednesday, January 17th in the Chambers
Gallery with representatives from various campus
service organizations attending. The Fair was
designed to make students aware of Davidson’s
service projects and also to help the various pro-
grams recruit volunteers. From 11 am to 3 pm
students roamed the gallery floor, talking to various
people, perusing the offerings, and signing up fora
wide variety of programs.

Some of the groups represented at the Fair
came from Charlotte, while others were campus
organizations anxious for new volunteers to help
make second semester projects a success. The
Davidson Department of Parks and Recreation, the
Lake Norman YMCA, and the Ada Jenkins Center,
a popular place for Davidson students to offer their
service, were all present. Also, there was a variety
of elementary schools from the surrounding area
that. were looking for students to ‘tutor or help

during after-school programs. Senior citizens cen-.

ters, such as The Pines, were also looking for
energetic Davidson students.
The YMCA was looking for basketball refer-

®

ees, gymnastics assistants, scorekeepers, and —

daycare workers. If athletics did not appeal to

some, one could stroll tothe nexttable andsignup |

to help pregnant teenagers. Other opportunities
included a chance to build for Habitat for Human-
ity, aid students as medical volunteers, work with
children, get active in the community, or fight
hunger.

Many of these programs are sponsored by

Reach Out, a student organization that “seeks to _

promote awareness of the needs of others and to
provide opportunities to address those needs.”
Reach Out, a member of the Davidson College
Service Council, played a crucial role in organiz-
ing the Volunteer Fair and welcomes comments
and inquiries from students about service oppor-
tunities. Reach Out can be reached via the
Davidson College home page or by contacting
any of the Reach Out Officers, including Presi-
dent; Emily Setina; Vice-President, Britta
Toleman; Treasurer, Gee Muwwakkil; Secretary,
Kerry Brophy; Publicity, Ainsley Hines; or Mem-
ber-at-Large, Jill Williams.

Student involvement in the organizations
was high, and there was also a variety of opportu-
nities, which afforded every student the chance to
serve in one capacity or another.

Community Policing Program

Laura McCanDLisu
Staff Writer

The typical Davidson student’s contact with the
campus police occurs only in times of crisis, when
the student is in trouble or needs to report a criminal
incident. Davidson’s new Community Policing
Program, initiated by the head of campus police,
Officer Sam McElvey, should assist in developing
more of a partnership between the student body and
the police.

McElvey, the Public Safety Director, was
instrumental in starting this program which paral-
lels a similar initiative the local police department
is launching in the town of Davidson. The campus
police will divide Davidson’s campus up into sec-
tors, and a particular officer will be assigned to a
zone to achieve closer contact with the students
living in the designated area. Zoning was based on
a breakdown done by the Residence Life Office.
For example, Duke, Cannon, and Sentelle dorms
make up one area. The assigned officer will orga-
nize crime prevention programming for students in
his designated zone, working with hall counselors

‘and resident assistants to arrange meetings that
discuss issues of interest to that particular living
area.

McElvey hopes the program will establish
“less distance and closer, more personal contact
between students and their community police offic-

H The Office of Admission and Financial
| Aid would like to thank all those students and

professors who helped our office in numerous
ways last semester and during the winter

break.

Special thanks go to the outgoing tour
guide coordinators, Jesse Smallwood and Jay
Scanlan; outgoing host coordinators, Erin
Fitzgerald and Pete Thomson; our host coordi-
nators, Brian Cooke and Cashion Drolet; all of
our work study students; and Page Griffen,
Priscilla Bannerman, Anita Keteku, and Sibeso
Yeta for their help over the winter break.

We look forward to continued campus-
wide support. Warm wishes for a great se-

mester ahead!

The Office of Admission

and Financial Aid .
Davidson College

ers so they can share concerns for public safety.”
This sort of public safety initiative has been
implemented in cities across the country, so
McElvey looks for success from the program both
on Davidson’s campus and in the town itself. “It
is a proactive approach to crime prevention and
law enforcement,” he said.

The officers plan to do a survey of their
designated zone early in the process so they can
assess the safety concerns of the area. The Com-
munity Policing Program “will piggyback other
things, such as the Rape Aggression Defense
(RAD) program,” McElvey explained. “We're
trying, with the Davidson police, to do some
cooperative training and share resources. We
hope to continue that and maintain a relationship
with the town police as we go along.”

Officer Dickie Fleming is in charge of the
zone that includes the Irwin, Acres, Knox, Pax,
and Lingle residences. Fleming hopes to accom-
plish what has not been achieved in the past. “It’s
not that we can solve every problem, but we
would at least like to go to bat for the students to
see if we can help them,” he said.

According to McElvey the essential build-
ing blocks to the program will be in the relation-
ships it will build. “Our purpose is to have officers
out of cars and solving problems in the commu-
nity through a partnership,” he said.

+ Coen ns
Launch YOUR CAREER! .

© Learn From and Network Among
“Woshington Insiders”

© Produce Radio and TV Advertisements
in Campaign Simulations

© Compete as al ei
on Strategic Lobbying Plans

® Live 3 blocks from the White House
and Monuments

© GW’s central location can put you on
Capital Hill or the K Street corridor of
lobbyists & Interest groups in minutes.

‘The The Graduate
rge School of

18) Political
HIVE! ° sity Mana gement

__ GWis on equal opportunity affirmative action instition

f More Information. And To Re ve An Ar ' i

(800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6

edd

hey say it only takes one
J person to make a differcuce...

,
Become il

January 18

January

February |

davidson

collese

Artis ts Moliere's Tartuffe

a eres.

union

Dinner and a Moule

Come watch "Shall We Dance"
and eat Chinese food from Lotus
Friday, 7pm 900 Room

The Acting Company will
perform this satirical comedy
on Tuesday at 8:15 in Love Auditorium

free!
THURSDAY JAN. 28
TUESDAY FEB. 2
kayak rolling SATURDAY JAN. 30
8:15pm Baker pool ' ke iia
WEDNESDAY JAN. 27 || Movie: Dr. Strangelove || F-Crew: MONDAY FEB. 1 be ie m
9:30pm Home Room, free! || Saturday Night Live)
Davidson Reads: more details coming soon || Senior English Artist Series:
poetry andfiction | FRIDAY JAN. 29 Majors Reading || Moliere's Tartuffe
readings by faculty Outpost 8:15pm Love Aud.
writers coffee house SUNDAY JAN. 31 Anes
7:30pm 900 Room 8:30am-11:15am Paes miavitinideg Wall oe any
. 900 room umpi on-Thurs . 8pm-12:30pm
Movie: j ne a Jave 7-9pm Johnston Gym Outpost. .
Din d a Movie: 8pm-12:30pm
Dr. Strangelove ner and a Movie: 0
9:30pen Home Room, free! || _snall We Dance” wine jumpin java 21 year old night
:30pm Home Room, free! 7pm 900 room 8pm-12:30pm 10pm-12:15pm
' Outpost 900 Room

ts
