THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & Livinc _ 19.199
Dance Ensemble stands out during Fall Concert

TUESDAY, OCTOBE

Iwo 900 Room performances offer variety of choreography

By Set Davis
Arts & Living Editor

Under the red light shone from overhead, the
dancer moves. For her, the soul and body are one.
Emotion is reduced and heightened by the move-
ment that expresses it. It seems as though her body
wants to speak; to cry out in its language an
inexplicable message. But it only seems that way,
because, for the dancer, her body is not the speaker
but the vessel through which the soul cries out.
Cries out, and then movement stops. The lights
fade away.

When the dancer dances she celebrates her-
self. On front of the program for the Davidson
Dance Ensemble’s Fall Concert there is a quote
from Samuel Taylor. It reads, “The one read leaf,
the last of its clan/That dances as often as dance it
can.” The women of the Davidson Dance En-
semble truly are individuals—the few red leaves
amidst a sea of green. Above all else, their Fall
Concert in the 900 Room on Thursday, October 14
and Friday, October 15, was a celebration of
dance.

For the dancer, her body is not the
speaker but the vessel through
which the soul cries out.

The Fall Concert was also a look at what it
means to dance. Between dances, members of the
Ensemble would read quotes about dancing. The
theme of celebration was bound, hand to hand,
with this idea of looking at the nature of dance.
The first piece in the Concert was entitled “The
Promise.” Performed to the music of Tracy
Chapman, this piece combined the talents of Joy
Gerdy and Emily Oldham. The music and the
dance paired off beautifully, and though this is
only conjecture, I would have to say that the title
of this first piece had particular significance for the
themes of the concert.as a whole. When a dancer
_ chooses to-unlock the artistic spirit inside her,
dance makes a promise back to her. It promises to
be the means by which she can express in move-
ment all her imagination, creativity, emotion—in
short, her humanity.

The second piece, entitled “The Pool,” had its
own special theme. This dance was performed by
Julia Philpott and Emily Snyder. The overriding
sense of the piece was one of the two dancers
working together. Cooperation between the two
dancers brought out the beauty in the piece, and
was an important theme. Aesthetically, however,
it was very impressive how Julia Philpott’s move-
ments at the beginning of the dance suggested the

movement of water in a pool, She began on the
floor, and, subtly moved herself across the floor in
an manner that suggested the movement of ripples
across a pond or pool.

Piece number three was a highly charged
performance danced to the music of Janet Jackson.
Entitled “If,” this piece was performed by Stephanie
Courchesne, Joy Gerdy, and Emily Oldham. The
piece was an in-your-face celebration of dance as
an overflow of spirit and emotion. The dancers’
movements were very much like the dances in one
of Janet Jackson’s videos, and from the smiles on
their faces, the dancers themselves seemed to
enjoy being under the spotlight.

In the fourth piece of the night six dancers put
their talents together for a sort of tour de force.
Entitled “Walzer In Der Dammerung,” this piece
was performed by Kate Bedinger, Amanda
Mildner, Laura Crim, Emily Snyder, and Joy Gerdy.
The choreography used the tight space in the 900
Room well, as all the dancers meshed together
without seeming strained for space.

“The Other Woman” was the fifth piece dur-
ing the night. It was an improvisational work by
Amanda Lanier, and was set to the music of Nina
Simone. The song’s lyrics had particular impor-
tance in the tone and meanings of the dance. The
song, “The Other Woman” is sung by a wife whose
husband is having an affair. The wife muses about
the other woman in his life, and she acknowledges
that the other woman may have him now, but she
will never have his love. One of the most interest-
ing facets of Amanda’s dance was the questions it
raised. Which woman was Amanda representing?
Or did she, in her movements, represent both at
different times in the dance?

The concert ended with another large piece,
this time performed by Carey Arvin, Julia Philpott,
Kate Bedinger; Emily Snyder, Laura Crim, and
Nicole Foreman. Entitled “Cerulean,” this piece
combined the use of candles with dance. All the
dancers worked together, again emphasizing the
theme of cooperation expressed in “The Pool.”
The candles added an extra thematic dimension to
the piece. Used towards the end of piece, the
candles were, I think, a physical reminder of the
notion of a creative spark in each human being.
When the candles were blown out, it didn’t signify
the death of the creative spark, but, simply, the end
of the audience’s experience of the artistry of the
Fall Concert.

For the audience, the dance may have ended,
but, for dancers, all movement can be an artistic
expression, as suggested by Shirley Maclaine. I
hope that you all will be fortunate enough to again
witness these artists at work, when they perform
later this semester. Though the leaves on the trees
in Davidson are turning red and falling to the
ground, there still remains the few red leaves that
refuse to fall, choosing, rather, to dance.

Carey Arvin

CROSSWORD SOLUTIONS

T

if

On the Scene at DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Caffeine, all morning from 8:15 -
11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

FLU VACCINE DAY!

11:00

Erwin Hinson Exhibit. College

Erwin Hinson Exhibit. All day in the Union
Gallery.

Michael Gordon Own and “Across State Lines”
Exhibits. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the
Belk Visual Arts Center.

National Depression Screening Week, From
11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.

Stephanie Orringer. 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. in the Home
Room.

21-Year-Old-Night. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. inthe
900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse isn't enough, we
have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

a.m. -.5:00 p.m. on Chambers
Lawn (rain location is Cham-
bers Gallery).

Crop Lunch. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

Union Gallery.

Coffeehouse. Caffeine, all morn-
ing from 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the
900 Room.

Zip.
Zilch.
Nada. |

Classical Indian Concert. 2:00 -
5:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Frisbee Golf. 2:00 - 7:30 p.m. in
Vail Commons Patio.

‘Eyes on the Prize’ Video. 7:00 -
9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Chess Club. 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the
Union Conference Room.

Jumpin’ Java. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00
a.m. in the Outpost.

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY |

‘THURSDAY

FRIDAY

SATURDAY

Te
_ Monpay

Peace Corps. 11:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. in the
Union Lobby.

Honor Council Trial. 8:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. in
Love Auditorium. This isn'ta real trial, buta fake
one intended to show the students how the
process works.

“Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.”
Starts at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Todd Brewster. 7:00 p.m. -

8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Kayak Rolling. 8:00 p.m. - 9:00
p.m. in Cannon Pool.

(Don’t Forget about the art ex-
hibits atthe VAC! They’re free.)

Friday Afternoon Club. 5:00 -
7:00 p.m. inthe 900 Room.
“Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid.” Starts at 9:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

Saturday Night Live.
9:30 p.m. - 11:55 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

THE REDUCED SHAKESPEARE
COMPANY! The year's first Artist
Series event starts at 8:00 p.m. in
Love Auditorium.

‘Eyes on the Prize’ Video. 7:00 -
9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Juggling. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the
Morrison Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Same as it ever
was.

