Fr

Ww E

By Burin HARDIN
The Wildcat Report

Even though they took out him out of New
York, they just couldn’t take the New York out of

‘Coach Bob McKillop.

Invoking two quintessential Empire State
traditions, McKillop articulated his hopes for the
1999-2000 season not only in terms of posts,
zones, and lane match-ups, but also in the lan-
guage his home state’s two largest icons—Broad-

. way and Yankee baseball.

“If there was ever a better team for us to look
at in terms of what we need, it’s the New York
Yankees,” McKillop mused. “When they step up
to the plate, they have confidence in their players
to take a pitch and not jump on the first one. That’s
the perfect example of a basketball player—he has
to be confident enough to pass up that first shot,
realizing he may get a better one.”

That confidence will be the foundation to
support the Wildcats’ 1999-2000 campaign to
claw their way back atop the Southern Confer-
ence. As McKillop made no excuses at the end of
last season for the way the Wildcats’ struggled to
maintain point leads and to finish games, the
players, too, realized the need for a more consis-
tent level of play, and they responded, eager for the
respect that comes with consistency.

“I think we’re an improved team,” said
McKillop at the Southern Conference Media Day
Oct. 13 in Greenville, S.C. “Once we get experi-
ence, we have the opportunity to be significantly
improved.” :

@ Michael Bree, following a year-
long apprenticeship under Ali
Ton, is prepared to take over at
the point. ©

Gina Lawrence, the outiside hitter who
captured Southern Conference Player of the
Week honors for Week 8 and has played a
significant role in Wildcat Volleyball’s 16
consecutive wins.

Sports Information Department

D N

The Frontcourt

When Wildcat seniors donned black gowns
and mortarboards last May instead of their tradi-
tional mesh shorts and Nikes, a void appeared in
the roster, and nowhere was it more noticeable
than in the frontcourt, which retained only two of
its four experienced players—Landry Kosmalski
and center Stephen Marshall.

Kosmalski returns to lead the frontcourt in
his final season as the Wildcats’ marquee 6-foot-
7 senior forward and two-time All-Southern Con-
ference player. After a ’98-’99 season of averag-

ing 8.6 rebounds per game, scoring a career-high .

25 points against Elon, and leading the team in
scoring with. 13.9 points per game, Kosmalski
enters the 1999-2000 campaign rated by Lindy’s
College Basketball as one of the top twenty small
forwards in NCAA Division I.

Kosmalski’s leadership. will be critical this
year, but McKillop is confident in his three-year
starter whose command on the court is reminiscent
of Mark Donnelley, a 1998 graduate and one of a
select few to score over 1,000 points in his Davidson
career.

“I’m really excited about being a leader, and
I think Ican doa good job,” commented Kosmalski,
cooling expressing the kind of confidence
McKillop likes to see in all of his players. “I’ve
worked hard to stay in shape for the season, and
I’ve improved the mental aspects of my game. I’m
a lot more relaxed this year.”

His role in the offense will vary slightly this
year as Kosmalski shifts from his traditional post

and perimeter positions to
the small forward spot that
he will be expected to fill
much of the season. Hav-
ing adjusted well to the
change, McKillop insists
Kosmalski is potentially
one of the best players in
the Southern Conference.
“He’s gotten
quicker and stronger,” said
McKillop at the Southern
Conference Media Day.
“He’s positioned himself
for his best season yet.”
Marshall, a 6-8 se-
_nior, has been preparing
for the 1999-2000 cam-
paign to be his breakout
season and the Wildcats’
coaching staff is looking
forward to nothing less.
“Stephen is shoot-
ing well, he’s quicker, and
he’s more confident in his
ball handling,” said
McKillop who claims
Marshall has had the best
: off-season of his career.
& Marshall’s com-
mand of his low-post game
A should make him on of the
j Southern Conference’s
best, but also look for
; McKillop to capitalize on
Marshall’s outside shot, often swinging him to the
perimeter to keep defenses honest. A triple threat,
Marshall is the best free throw shooter on the team
with a 76.4 career percentage.

Volleyball at Winthrop

Wednesday, November 10

Men’s basketball vs. Charlotte Royals (exhibition)

Saturday, November 13

Men’s and Women’s swimming & diving vs. East Carolina

Football vs. Austin Peay
Volleyball vs. Appalachian State

Sunday, November 14

Women’s basketball vs. Team Champion (exhibition)

E

7 > © Rk Tt S

D
LL a ee ee |
Men’s hoops 1999-2000 Outlook: Confident and versatile

S

A second-year Marshall protégé, sophomore
Martin Ides will see some time in the center this
season as Wildcat coaches are anxious to increase
the 7-foot-2 middleman’s game experience.

Complementing the frontcourt will be 6-foot-
9 sophomore forward Chris Pearson, a redshirt
freshman whose highly anticipated talents will be
seen for the first time by _
someone other than
McKillop & Co. Having
only begun playing bas-
ketball at age of 12, and
only then in casual pickup
games, playing experience
and knowledge of the
Wildcats’ system have
been goals for Pearson, and
McKillop has been im-
pressed with his develop-
ment.

“He is far more ad-
vanced than a typical first-
year player,” lauded
McKillop. “Having an
extra year to embrace the
system has been a plus for
Chris.” ;

True freshmen for-
wards Michel Lusakueno
and Jason Dickens already
promise great things to the
future of Davidson basket-
ball. Lusakueno, a 6-foot-
10 native of The Congo,
brings to the program the
ability to “do things we
haven’t had many players
doin recent years,” accord-
ing to McKillop. His size
and athleticism are tailored
for the power forward role
where he can be an impos-
ing defender and aggres-
sive rebounder.

McKillop’s favorite
term to describe the 6-8 Dickens is “hard-nosed.”
He brings size, strength, and talent to the roster and
will add further depth to the Wildcats’ lineup.

At the Point
In the backcourt, it’s déja vu for McKillop.
Two years ago, when McKillop graduated point
man Chris Alpert with the Class of ’96, concerns
immediately arose about the future of the program
without Alpert, the Wildcat’ s career assist leader.
Ali Ton, an unproven talent, took over at the point
in 97 aftera year under Alpert’s tutelage and went
on to lead his team to the NCAA tournament a year
later for the first time in over 10 years. By the close
of his senior season Ton ranked third nationally
and first in the Southern Conference.in assists.
The ‘scenario replayed itself, only with a
different cast, following the graduation of Ton last
May. Michael Bree, the 6-foot Irish guard, ap-
prenticed under Ton for a season, preparing him to
succeed Ton at the point. But could Bree really
compensate for the loss of Ton, people wondered.
“Yes,” McKillop answers emphatically and with-
out hesitation. “Iam very confident with Michael.”
“Coach McKillop recruited me to do a job
and has confidence in me, arid I have confidence in
myself,” said Bree, responding to the speculation

7:30 p.m.
7:00 p.m.

12:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.

7:00 p.m,

_only this season, but also over the

A wG

surrounding him heading into the season. “I don’t
worry about what other people say.”

Enter anew character: Fernando Tonella, a 5-
foot-11 sophomore transfer from New Mexico
State, who will challenge Bree for playing time
and will supply needed depth at the point position.
After sitting out his first season at NMS, Fern

4

Prerarnnh Depa ig:

@ Six-foot-7 senior forward Landry Kosmalski

came to Davidson with a chance to prove himself,
and has done so thus far by quickly picking up the
nuances of the Wildcat offense.

The shooting guard spot boasts the flexibility
that McKillop loves as seniors Davor Halbauer
and Jeff Bergman can pull duty at the small for-
ward spot as well fulfilling their traditional guard
assignments. -

“They have confidence in our system,” said
McKillop of his two most versatile guards. “And
I’m very impressed by the way they are embracing
and coaching the younger players.”

Halbauer, a 6-3 native of Croatia, got his first
start in the third game of his sophomore season and
has developed into the Wildcats’ premier three-
point threat, having connected on 59 triples last
season, which was more ‘than double any other
player on the roster.. Even when. Halbauer isn’t _
scorching the net, he creates shots with slashing —
drives and an excellent view of the field.

Jeff Bergman is a 6-4 senior who earned a
place in the Wildcats’ regular rotation as a junior,
averaging 4.3 points in 21 games. Quick off the
dribble and a shooting threat from the outside, the
only questionable aspect of Bergman’s game is his
health. Over the last three seasons, Bergman has

See Preview, page 14.

.. Io the Wildcats’ men and
women senior’ soccer players,
who ended thier college careers
this past weekend in their respec-
tive Southern Conference tourna-
ment games. :

Thank you for all you’ve given
to the Davidson community not

last four years.

