THE DAVIDSONIAN

.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

Davidson helps the victims of Hurricane Floyd

Drew DEvorE
Staff Writer

When Hurricane Floyd hit the southeastern
United States on September 15, it did monumental
amounts of damage, mostly caused by the flood-

fort to help some of the 55,000 residents there.
The first part of the drive, according to Rosie
Molinary, Community Service Coordinator, was
the raising of money for the Red Cross efforts in

Rocky Mount. “The students, faculty, staff, and

friends of the college raised $5,380” said Molinary,
“which was matched by :
Carolina Power and

Working with North Carolina Wesleyan
College, locatedin Rocky Mount, North
Carolina, the college quickly established
a three-part relief effort to help some of

the 55,000 residents there.

donated linens. These were used to outfit some of
the 400 mobile trailers that were moved in to
provide housing for residents in Rocky Mount.
In addition to the effort put forth by the
college to help those in Rocky Mount, some stu-
dent took their own initiative. Led by Taylor
Herbert ‘01, 7 students
traveled to flood ravaged

center that serviced a three county area, unloading
trucks and handing out food.

The third part of the college relief effort will
include trips to the Rocky Mount area to help with
the clean up and rebuilding effort. October 29-31
will be spent rebuilding a house that was home to

Light.” That money
was given to the Ameri-
can Red Cross, and ear-
marked for the victims
in Rocky Mount.

The’ second phase. of
the drive was the gath-
ering of clothing, per-

ing it brought. Thousands of people were forced
out of their homes, businesses were closed, and
millions of dollars of damage was done. The
Davidson College Community was. quick to re-
spond to the needs of those that had become the
victims of Floyd.

Working with North Carolina Wesleyan Col-
lege, located in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, the
college quickly established a three-part relief ef-

sonal and household
products, and furniture.

Franklin Virginia over
fall break. Franklin is a
town of about 8,000
people, located on the
Virginia-North Carolina
border, about an hour
west of Virginia Beach.
The students lived with
local residents and spent

Residence Life donated used
furniture, and area hotels and inns
donated linens. These were used to
outfit some of the 400 mobile trailers
that were moved in to provide housing
for residents in Rocky Mount.

three days helping clean

The pit of the union was set up as

a collection point, and was filled through the
generosity of the Davidson community. Accord-
ing to Ms. Molinary, two tractor-trailers of goods
have already been sent to Rocky Mount, and a
third is currently being loaded. ‘We received
donations from tons of businesses in the area;” she
said, “they were really great.” Residence Life
donated used furniture, and area hotels and inns

up the town. The first

day was spent working in-the
basement of a flooded church. The second was
spent, according to Herbert, “gutting City Hall.”
“Because of the threat of contamination,” he said,
“everything had to be thrown away. We spent the
day with sledge hammers and shovels, breaking
down desks and cleaning up.”” The third day was
spent working at a Salvation Army distribution

o

five generations of women. The trips will con-
tinue on November 5-7, 12-14, and 19-21. These
weekends will be spent working with Habitat for
Humanity, and other projects in the area. About
75 students have expressed interest, according to
Molinary, and others who are interested are en-
couraged to call x2298.

Davidson professor’s stories

By CoLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

dents to write fiction, he figured it was only fair to
try his own hand at it.
So ten years ago he began writing short

English stories, and
professor t h e
Nelton cor. “..€an translate this into something that helps rite orn
siders him- my Students in the classroom. That’s why I write.” Lasater
self a teacher . Irvin Pro-
rather than a fessor
writer. But turned out to

when he began teaching Davidson College stu-

be very good at it. Though he views his writing as

The December 4th LSAT
is approaching!

Get the score
that gets you in!

Classes Start in Davidson on 10/26!

Don't miss out! Limited spaces left!

Call today to enroll!

KAPLAN

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com AOL keyword: kaplan

“LSAT ta u rogiotored redemark of Ihe Law Schoo! Admrieaion Coureil

Kaplan gets you in.

an excruciatingly painful compulsion, his efforts
have recently been rewarded with two of the top
prizes in Anferican fiction. Story magazine, the
leading journal
of short story lit-

receive major literary prizes

ous woman, a sunken barge and a rare fetish.
Nelson said his grandmother dubbed
him a great liar and storyteller, but he hasn’t found
those

erature, named
Nelson as the
winner of its top

I have a pretty strong conviction that you don’t
have much business teaching someone how to

qualities
particu-
larly help-
ful in writ-

Lemaitre write unless you occasionally get outside the eee
cCullers ° . “It’s in-
Award, in its /Othouse environment of the academic presses. ,,..\,.,.
1999 writing ing,” he

contest. said. “It’s

His story, “Cutters,” was selected from
5,700 entries and will appear in the De-
cember edition of the magazine.

In addition, Descant magazine named
him winner of its Frank O’ Connor Award
for the best submission to that publication
in the past year. His entry, “River Story,”
was selected from among about 1,000
others. Earlier in his academic career
Nelson had published books, reviews,
and scholarly articles on literary history,
but he felt compelled by his responsibility
as a writing teacher to attempt fiction.

He explained, “I have a pretty
strong conviction that you don’t have
much business teaching someone how to
write unless you occasionally get outside
the hothouse environment of the aca-
demic presses. It’s like making sure that
the guy who’s
designing your

spooky to call up a blank screen and try to fill it.”
His writing technique reflects early training as a
landscape architect. He builds plot and character
with graphs, note cards, scrapbooks, arrows and
circles. Each story comes together in a binder
filled with articles, notes, and ideas that gradually
get reconstructed as prose on his computer. He
often spends his lunch hour alone in his office
trying to figure out a few more sentences. It takes
him about six months to finish a5,000-word story.

His teaching technique relies equally on
mechanical metaphors. In his 19th and 20th cen-
tury American literature classes he describes writ-
ing as “an engineering problem.” He poses ques-
tions such as “If you could graph a person’s
personality, what would it look like?” He draws
prodigiously on the board in class and relies on
unconventional techniques to help students see
writing as a puzzle they can solve like any other.
Nelson asked stu-
dents in his “Short

house has actu-
ally built one,
rather than just

Though several
of his previous

Though he views his writing as an
excruciatingly painful compulsion,

American fiction.

Fiction’”’’ class to
build bridges with
toothpicks and

itt ab ° g 2 2 -
i his efforts have recently been &¥¢ ‘© demon
p fi strate “elegant so-
rewarded with two of the top prizesin \utions” to prob-

lems. He said, “An
elegant solution

stories were
published, and
some were rejected, “Cutters” and “River
Story” were the first that he submitted to
contests. They both reflect what Nelson
calls his “dark cast of mind.” “Cutters”
refers to its main character, a woman who
cuts herself with glass. She is a newspa-
per photographer visiting a holiness
church in the mountains with a writer
companion. In compact, sober sentences
Nelson tells of their encounter with the
parishioners and the snakes they handle
in worship. He explained, “The point is
that everyone is a cutter in one sense or
another.” :

“River Story” adopts the same somber
tone. Its main character suffers sleeping
sickness in an African jungle river port,
and stumbles dream-like through a busi-
ness transaction that involves a mysteri-

uses up all the

available material
and requires no more. Short stories should be
elegant in the same way, using up only the words
required and requiring no more.”

Though he’s pleased for the recognition on
the national literary scene, Nelson finds scant
satisfaction in his prizes because they aren’t mak-
ing his current two story projects any easier. “This
is very nice, but it’s over and I have to get on with
the next story,” he said. “The ultimate question is
whether I can translate this into something that
helps my students in the classroom. That’s why I
write.”

Nelson received an undergraduate and
master’s degree from N.C. State University, and
earned his Ph.D. at Princeton University. In addi-
tion to his current publications in Story and Des-
cant, Nelson’s fiction has been published in North
American Review, Kenyon Review, Shenandoah,
African American Review, Gettysburg Review,
and American Way.
