ALE ON. DA... U.X....U..B.]

DAVIDSON COLLEGI ‘ TUESDA

‘The ‘Soundproof’ Practice
Rooms’ Foremost

College Weekly”

®
EstaBLisHeD 1914

What’s up with Kosovo?
Pechatnov discusses the Russian perspective,

NEWS 4

ablosont

CONNOR HOUSE
RENEWED!

OPINIONS 7

Concerts galore
DCSO, Ani DiFranco, P-Funk reviewed

A&L8

Spring season near conclusion
End-of-season reports, summaries, profiles

SPORTS 15

By AsHLey E. KinG
News Editor

With the accompaniment of the Davidson
College Wind Ensemble, Spring Convocation be-
gan at 4:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium on Wednes-
day, April 21. The ceremony honored select
students with awards for excellence.in such areas
as athletics, service, leadership, and academics.

At the beginning of the ceremony, there was
a procession of professors and members of the
senior class, who all wore caps and gowns. The
1998 recipient of the Charles Malone Richards
award, Sherika Nicole Allen °99, delivered the
invocation. Foster Haselden ’99, president of the
Student Government Association (SGA), then
welcomed those who attended, and College Presi-
dent Robert Vagt delivered some opening re-
marks.

Following these brief remarks, Thomas
Shandley, Dean of Students and Vice President of
Student Life, presented the leadership, service,
and general awards. After the presentation of
these awards, James E. Murphy, the Director of
Athletics, presented two athletic awards. Follow-
ing the athletic awards was the long list of aca-
demic awards. Encompassing all areas of aca-
demic life from the sciences to the arts and hu-
manities, these awards honored the diverse aca-
demic pursuits of the Davidson student body.

After the academic awards were presented,
Clark Grant Ross, Vice President for Academic
Affairs and Dean of the Faculty, announced some

NC Poet Laureate Fred

Davidson's Nature Day gave junior Mary Perrin
Anderson the rare opportunity and honor of painting
a blue flower atop the head of President Bobby Vagt.

writing awards, which had been given to their
recipients at a previous date. The conferring of a
named.professorship and the ODK teaching award

By Carrig
ARTHUR
News Editor

On Tuesday,
April 20, Fred
Chappell, the North
Carolina Poet Lau-
reate, presented the
Vereen Bell Award
and read his work.

Chappell’s
presentation and
reading was held in
the 900 Room of
the Union at 7 p.m.

Professor
Alan Parker of the
English Depart-
s ment introduced
* Chappell, saying,
“Fred Chappell the
poet is a writer of
spectacular inti-
macy.” Parker

then took place. Finally, the ceremony ended
with a benediction delivered by Robert Clendenin
Spach, the Davidson College Chaplain, and the

: Giduz photo, c/o College Communications
recessional.

See Spring Convocatiort on page 2

Chappell visits campus

commented on “linguistic transformation” in
Chappell’s poetry and stories about “quintessen-
tial North Carolina.”

Born on May 28, 1936, Chappell grew up in
Canton, North Carolina. From there, he went on
to. study at Duke University, where he earned
bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 1961 and
1964, respectively. He then began teaching cre-
ative writing at the University of North Carolina
at Greensboro, where he continues to teach.

Although poetry is Chappell’s preferred form,
he has also published six novels, two collections
of short stories, critical articles, and “Plow Na-
ked,” a volume of essays on poetry in addition to
his numerous books of poetry.

Chappell thanked Parker and the College for
the invitation, claiming that Davidson is “one of
the most beautiful places in the world.”

Saying that he was “honored” to judge and
present the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writ-
ing, Chappell then commented on the quality of
the entries, mentioning how very many excellent
entries there were. He then awarded honorable
mention to junior Rebecca Hazelton and senrior
Jason Ferris. Senior Will Bradshaw received
third place for his story, “Saint’s Station

Barcelona.”

Describing her poetry as “strong but lean” and
“always fresh,” Chappell gave Elizabeth Wade °99
second place. Finally, he announced that Emily
Setina °99 had won first place for her story “Rip-
tide,” which Chappell described ‘as “extremely
powerful and very strong” as well as “unexpected
but extremely believable.”

“The interesting part of the evening is over,”
the poet laureate said, after handing out the awards.
He then read some poems responding to art work,
explaining that “poets like to write about painting
because it’s so extremely visual.” His poems,
Chappell. said, asked, ‘“‘What does a work of art
have to do with the rest of the world, and what is its
relationship to reality?”

In addition ‘to his seridus poems, Chappell
read some shorter poems about baseball because
“one often writes about a grace right beyond your
own reach.” He finished with some humorous
anecdotes about an old couple and a sex book.

The English department awards the Vereen
Bell award each year for creative writing by sopho-
mores, juniors, and seniors. The Vereen Bell fund
provides for an established writer to judge each of
he entries and present the award each year.

-

INDEX

Anna Judy

BDITORIALS ooo. oiak ease 5
TIES 8. oc socicsndcseivecete 5
CINIONS oo vaeicshcs 6
ARES & LIVING «ie cesicccoiiecie 7
BRORTS ccc eed ane © 10

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 :
Davidson, NC 28036

