THE DAVIDSONIAN —

DaviID ROSENBERG _

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

End the sergeant’s suffering

whimpering outside above every other of
nature’s noises, you don’t have to worry

that he might be a hungry stray.” If you think a
howling dog might be outside your window, don’t
worry about calling the dog catcher. The shrill,
high-pitched whining is not an animal. For that
student whom you see bent over and grabbing his
right hand, you don’t have to call the infirmary. It
is most likely Scott Buchanan groveling in pain.

Officially, he is the Sergeant-at-Arms of
Patterson Court Council. He writes up the sanc-
tions for the Judicial Board when they decide ona
fraternity’s punishment. These days, his hand has
been doing some serious cramping. He has been
a busy guy. Last week, it was Sig Ep and KA. This
week it is SAE. Next week, it will be Kappa Sig
and KA up for sanctions again.

Poor guy, he must be exhausted.

Get him some treatment — or some disability
compensation for when he is older. Maybe acu-

S o late at night if you think you hear a kitten

‘himself as

» Shandley: avenger of

puncture would be enough, but at least stop by his
room and give him some ice.

Many see Dean Shandley as the culprit of
Buchanan’s suffering. Some students believe
Shandley thinks of
the

rather have the drinking age changed back to 18,
for it would make his job a lot easier. He under-
stands that without Patterson Court, Davidson
has little else for entertainment. He is. on the
students’ side.

SuperDean of stu-
dents: a superhero
regulator of every as-
pect of student life at
Davidson. Dean

With his supersonic hearing, even three
miles away, they say he can hear the
sound of a pledge being blindfolded.

It’s those trustees
and the faculty.
They breathe down
his neck like the
Godfather and his
cohorts. To them,

fun and protector of a
non-social environment. With his supersonic hear-
ing, even three miles away, they say he can hear the
sound of a pledge being blindfolded. Rumors
claim he is faster than a Pika on speed, more
powerful than the local policemen, and able to end
a fraternity’s charter with a single stroke.

But he’s not.

He just does his job. As a matter of fact, he’d

it’s all about reputa-
tion. Not only do
they feel The Court takes away from the academic
focus of the college, but they fear a small frater-
nity incident might bring embarrassment to their
community. And with them, reputation is every-
thing.

Late at night, it is rumored Dean Shandley
hears intimidating knocks at his door as he re-
views outrageous J-Board sanctions. They step

GEOFF EVANS

in and command with their Italian inflections, “It’s
either your brains or your signature on this con-
tract. Anddon’tyou disrespect us! You disrespect
us, you disrespect the Davidson Family.” With this
past week’s happening, SAE finds itself stuck in a
prototypical Catch-22, To meet stipulations, the
fraternity cannot return to campus until they have
paid off all of their debt. But SAE is also forbidden
to meet and without an official meeting, brothers
cannot pay dues. Without payment of dues, SAE
will never climb out of debt. Most likely, we will
never see SAE on the Davidson campus again. The
school has taken away a college experience of
thirty brothers for an inconsequential violation.
So please, end Buchanan’s suffering. Stop
the sanctions. With hope, the faculty and trustees
will put enough trust in the Honor Code to allow
students to decide what deserves punishment and
what does not. That way, they would save money
not having to pay for Buchanan’s hand masseuse.

Get down with the 70s in E.H. Little

he walk...
| No, not the walk of shame, not the walk
across the stage, not “The Walk of Life”
(Dire Straits), and not the walk up four flights of
stairs at four in the morning just to get to your soft
bed. I’m talking about the walk into the E.H.
Little Library.

The gust of hypoxia hits as you walk through
the double doors, immediately sucking and squeez-
ing the energy out to the netherworld. It drips,
even pours, from the soles of your Birks as you are
immediately confused as where to go next. Wait,
your name is called; the walk begins.

You begin to circle the floor, first by the
Internet computers and then by the copy machine

hour, and now you're ready for the pollux com-
puters (a good break before you get to the rest of

An hour after you crossed the threshold you are back where you
started— at the front of the stairs. Up or down?

ina clockwise loop. Your body tells you the clock
is wrong. Shouldn’t it be three hours later? You
begin to languish. You've socialized for a half-

your round).

An hour after you crossed the threshold you

are back where you started— at the front of the

stairs. Upordown? Your legs say down. You find
a carrel, sit, and take out your planned work. It's
enough to occupy at least twenty-four hours (per-
fect for the dungeon downstairs).

The first book is cracked, and that’s all you
can say for your eye-lids. You try one elbow, then
two connected to the tabletop, supporting your
head with eye-opening thumbs. Your fleece is soft,
the greens, oranges, and reds of the seventies have
ironically put you to sleep.

The gust of hypoxia hits as you walk through...

Ros SPACH

Solidarity with gays: a Christian perspective

ot all Christians believe that the love
N= by two homosexual people is

wrong. That statement seems to me like
a commonplace, so obvious that it hardly bears
writing down. Yet several conversations I’ ve had
over the past few months have convinced me that
many people in our community don’t realize that
devout Christians strongly disagree about this
issue.

At the FLAG meeting last week,

church and society, is one way of living out faith-
fully our discipleship to Jesus.

Of course I’m aware that many Christians
view homosexual relationships as wrong. I respect
their point of view even though.I don’t agree with
it. Most, if not all, of my sisters and brothers in
Christ with this view base their convictions not
upon homophobia, close-mindedness or prejudice,
but upon a considered reading of the Bible which

conclusions. In dealing with this issue, and more
importantly, with the ways we respond to gay and
lesbian people in this community, we ought not
focus primarily on the seven biblical verses that
make negative reference to same-gender sex and
selected other passages like the creation narra-
tives. Careful interpretation of such verses sug-
gests to many scholars and belieyers that these
passages are finally irrelevant to contemporary

institutions. Lesbians and gays can certainly be
counted among those for whom we should all be
working for justice. Moreover, this same gospel
also calls us to righteousness, which means that our
most intimate relationships, whether they be het-
erosexual or homosexual, should be characterized
by mutuality, fidelity, kindness, respect, integrity,
and commitment for the long haul. For heterosexu-
als, this happens in marriage. Culturally and reli-

giously, we haven’t yet given rec-

we discussed why Davidson does not
feel like a place where gay and lesbian
students, faculty and.staff can be forth-
right about their sexual orientation.
Much of it has to do with our wider
cultural ambiance, of course, so in a
way it is no surprise. One student, how-

Most, if not all, of my sisters and brothers in Christ with this view base their convictions
not upon homophobia, close-mindedness or prejudice, but upon a considered reading of
the Bible which convinces them that the genuinely honest and loving stance to hold is that
homosexual practice is destructive to people and also sinful.

ognition to how this happens for
homosexuals — and that, it seems
to mé, is a terrible indictment
against us. .

So back to Davidson. Of
course this article won’t change
what this place feels like for gays
and lesbians. My hope, however,

ever, remarked that whenever she is
around her Christian friends on campus
and the topic of homosexuality arises, they in-
variably speak of it in condemnation. What a
contrast to my own experience here! The vast
majority of Christians with whom I come into
contact, whether they be students, faculty, staff,
area clergy who work with students, or chaplains
at other colleges, have a vastly different perspec-
tive, one that is affirming of gays and lesbians.
These are not simply “cultural Christians,” people
who would list a denomination as their religious
preference just because they grew up in it. These
are people who take the Bible seriously, worship
God with depth and passion, think about their
faith in Christ and how it should shape their lives
ona regular basis. For us, being supportive of our
gay and lesbian friends and acquaintances, who
are so often pushed to the margins or excluded by.

convinces them that the genuinely honest and
loving stance to hold is that homosexual practice is
destructive to people and also sinful. Many main-
line denominations, including Presbyterians, Meth-
odists, and Catholics, have explicit church policies
to that effect. Among the members of those de-
nominations themselves, however, there is tre-
mendous divergence of opinion, and there are
signs of increasing support for gays and lesbians.

When legislation condemning homosexual rela- -

tionships was voted on by Presbyterians in the past
few years, it passed by only a small majority.
‘My own reading of Scripture, and that of
many of the Christians that I come into contact
with on this campus, leads me to the following

discussions about homosexuality, just as verses
about slavery used in church debates about that
issue in nineteenth-century America are Clearly
recognized as irrelevant today. Rather, we need to
listen to the broad message of the Bible, to the
coherent center of its proclamation about God’s
abiding, life-giving love for all of creation. Chris-
tians believe that this good news has been pro-
claimed and incarnated most fully by Jesus, whose
life, death, and resurrection reveal to us vital
truths about God’s loving kindness and grace
which embrace all people.

This same gospel calls us to have a particular
concern for justice on behalf of those who are
oppressed, excluded, pushed to the edges, and
hurt deeply by prejudices in society and religious

vik

is that we can move beyond think-

ing that there is “‘a Christian point
of view” on the issue of homosexuality on this
campus; there are a variety of them. I also hope that
lesbians and gays here will be aware that there are
many people of faith who want to stand beside
them in solidarity, and to stand there because that
is where we believe God stands. I want this to be a
campus where gays and lesbians don’t just feel
welcome, as if they were guests, but where they
belong, because it is their place as much as it is
anyone else’s place. From my perspective’ as a
Christian, their belonging arises from the same
source as my belonging: God. I believe that this
place is finally not ours, itis God’ s, and God’s love
extends to all, and therefore we all belong together.
