THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, AUGUST 30,1999 19

Wildcat field hockey opens competition this Saturday

By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

Most of us returned to campus just over a
week ago, but for the members of the 1999
Davidson Wildcats Field Hockey team, “‘back-to-
school” was actually a bit earlier...they’ve been
inhabiting the lawn behind Baker since August
16th.

The team, comprised of 25 women, returned
to campus a week early to start their pre-season
training in preparation for their season opener on
Saturday, when the ‘Cats host Catawba College at
1 PM. \

Jennifer Halliday is optimistic about her 3rd
season as the Wildcats’ Head Coach. This year,
Halliday—and Assistant Coach Megan
Umberger, who played hockey while at Central
Michigan University—have added some new op-
ponents to the Wildcats’ schedule, making their
opposition a bit tougher than in years before.

“I wanted our team to compete against schools
that had similar academic programs to the one we
have here at Davidson. This year, we're playing
Wake Forest, Duke, and Stanford, among

others...It’s a tough schedule but our team can step
on the field and be competitive in every game we
play.”

Since 95% of all NCAA Division I field
hockey games are played on Astroturf fields,
Davidson (with only grass surfaces) is forced to
spend most of its season on the road, which “‘can
really wear on you” says Halliday.

California dreaming.

This year, the UNC-Chapel Hill alumna has
decided to take the team to California over fall
break to play three games against the University of
California at Berkeley, University of the Pacific,
and Stanford.

To help subsidize costs for the trip. to the
West Coast, Halliday came up with a unique
fundraiser that will run from September 9th through
the 17th: an e-mail auction where participants will
bid on various prizes like gift certificates to area
restaurants and movies or even professional foot-
ball, NASCAR, and Kentucky Derby tickets.

“This is the first year we’ ve done something
like this. The girls deserve a trip. A few of my
players are from California and they’ ll finally get
a chance to play near home.”

@ Junior Jennie Gold aye it-on the line during © Sports Information Department.
competition last season. Gold was second on .
the squad last season with eight goals and three

assists, for 19 points:

e Jen Halliday’s ‘Cats warm up for an early-season

Jake Harrington

practice. The team opens competition on Saturday.

Leading the Pack

Back on the East Coast, however, the Cats are
ready for a competitive season. This year’s cap-
tains are seniors Kim Ceci, Shana Byers, and
Kate Schoening.

Halliday feels that the team has “phenomenal
chemistry due to the upper class sense of commu-
nity and team bonding” and adds that each captain
brings a unique leadership style to the team.

“The freshmen have made the transition eas-
ily and our seven seniors will do a great job leading
the team.”

Schoening and Ceci especially will be called
upon as the top players on the team, not only
physically, but emotionally as well. The team lost
four seniors last year, but gained nine freshmen,
adding depth to all positions on the field. It is this
depth that the Cats will rely upon as their greatest
strength for the 1999 season.

“We have some very intense, aggressive fresh-
men who are not settling for a typical freshman
role on the team. We are challenging all of our

players to get out of their ‘comfort zone.’ Because
of our depth, those players who push themselves to
do so will be the ones who get the opportunity to
play,” comments Halliday.

She also adds that vast summer improvement
made by many players, including juniors Jennie
Gold, Lauren Hancock, and Ashley Hart, will
contribute to the Cats’ successes on the field.

Senior Captain Kim Ceci said, “I’m really
excited about this year. The freshmen have brought
anew energy to the team and after only two weeks
of practice, things have begun to really click. Our
first game is (Saturday) and right now, we’re
especially focused on that.”

The team is not affiliated with any particular
conference, but their championship at the end of
the season is the Deep South tournament against
other non-affiliated schools like Appalachian State,
Radford, and Catawba, their opponent later this
week. Halliday says, “We'd love to have a great
crowd out to support our season opener against our
Deep South rival Catawba.”

Let them eat cake! Freshmen

By Davip MoncurE

Sports Writer

The smell of cake filled the air as the class of
2003 lined up this past Wednesday afternoon for the

start of the 62™ annual Cake Race.

About 175 runners eagerly participated this year
The odds of
winning a-cake were the best ever in 62 years of the
race because of the record showing of 109 cakes being
donated by various members of the Davidson: com-

in hopes of taking home some cake.

munity.

The town of Davidson showed remarkable sup-
port for the College this year with such a turnout of
cakes. The cake bakers also exhibited one of the key
elements about being a member of the Davidson
College community — an eager volunteering spirit.

Freshman Ryan Ferrier stated, “It’s cool to.see
the town get involved with the college’s activities.

That doesn’t happen at other schools.”

Finishing times for the winnerswere rather fast
Apparently
overwhelmed by the enticing cakes at the finish line,
nineteen of the women runners misread the course
markings and found a shortcut through campus. In-
stead of circling Patterson Court, the hungry fresh-
men bee-lined for Baker along the walkway in front of
“The Row.” The innocent mistake provided for some

this year, especially for the women.

good-natured quibbling at the finish line.

The men’s winner of this year’s cake race was
Jimmy Swanobrough from Signal Mountain, Ten-

nessee, with a time of 8:42.

The women’s winner was. Caroline Bennett
from Augusta, Georgia, with an unofficial time of .
8:04. The first-woman to finish running the complete
course was Roberta Quis from Southern Pines, North

Carolina, with a time of 11:46.

This year proved just as exciting as always, with
many spectators watching the race for cake. Gayle
Jones remarked that “it was especially encouraging to

4

donated this year, there surely wai

compete in D.C. tradition

watch our teams cheer us on so they could eat our cakes.”
With the record setting number of 109 cakes being
nough for everyone.

u Left: Britta Toleman (farthest right) and other Davidson swimmers cheer on their freshmen team-
mates in the cake race. Right: Freshman Caroline Bennett holds her cake proudly.
