_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dave and Erich
The return of the only column you ever need to read

fe o all the juniors returning from
your wonderful and exciting
experiences abroad or to those
that have been oblivious to our unpar-
alleled journalistic talents, we would
like to warn you about the unnecessar-
ily crass and immature nature of this
article. If you are easily upset by
irrelevant issues that most likely don’t
concern you or if you are a sheltered,
anal individual looking for something
to spark or re-spark your sincere ha-
tred for us, STOP READING! It is not
worth it. We know it is crap.

Over the break and during our first few
weeks back, we received a myriad
(none) of letters begging us to come
out of retirement. (We were forced to
resign). So, we are back. Why do this?
(Not that you care anyway). We care
about the Davidson student (lie), and
feel the need to inform you about im-
portant issues concerning our school
(another.lie), We don’t write because
.it strokes our (already massive) ego;
we really care about you (yet another
lie).

Note: The opinions expressed in this
article are not those of Davidson Col-
lege, the faculty or staff, nor those of
the the Davidsonian staff; hell, they
aren’t even ours. So, get out your pens
and pads and get ready to jot down all
your inane ideas for a rebuttal article.
You will do this because you have
nothing better on which to spend your
time.

This weeks topic: Self Selection ‘

As we awoke alone once again, in our
beds on a beautiful Saturday morning,
we realized how great a time everyone
‘on campus had the night before. Think
about it: naked guys, drunk girls, and
fun in a completely consequence-rid-
den environment. Any taboo acts that
you were involved in are rapidly spread
across campus or appear in the news-
paper. You are now considered easy,
a jackass, or a stud. (Somehow your
authors always seem to wind up in that
middle category. Go figure.)

With the help of our campus wide net-
working and extensive investigative
team, we have compiled some informa-
tion and some suggestions regarding
incidents that occurred on self selection
night .

First, we have been in deliberation with
the PCC and have come the conclusion
that a bi-law must be passed making the
women’s houses join in on the festivi-
ties. Either that, or get some sororities
around here. Girls are too conservative.
Second, every girl on Friday was look-
ing to get some action. No joke. Some
even talked tous. Why does this occur
solely on self selection night? The
answer: the girls drink like guys. Why
is this the case ;

Meet someone that you think is cute but
make sure that they don’t .find out ,
because they will play with-your mind.
Stalk. Be psycho. Build up your de-
fenses and go for the jugular. Take no
prisoners. Stoop lower than the other
guy to get what you want. Pull the
trigger. Hook up with his/her friends
before he/she hooks up with yours. Re-
bound quicker than he/she does. Be
insincere.

We have compiled a list of what
Davidson students wanted this holiday
season. This can be translated into,
“Parents, buy me this, or I will bitch for
a year.”

Our New Year’s Resolution: not to lie
as much and to talk about relevant is-
sues (already broke it.)

To ensure the complete and random
nature of this article, as well as frustrate
and annoy as many people as possible
we have some thoughts from us to you;
not you, the cute one®.

Many of you have noticed that virtually
all the structures on campus are red
brick, including many of the sidewalks
and stairs. Also, many of you have
noticed the construction that took place
all last semester due to the fact that
some genius forgot to put in boiler pipes

. for the Watson

only oncea year?

Science Com-

Ladies, strap one
on and join the
rest of us.

Third, to anyone
that went to the
hospital: you are
a moron and

With the help of our campus wide networking and
extensive investigative team, we have compiled some
information and some suggestions regarding incidents
that occurred on self selection night .

plex. All things
considered, the
front side of
Chamber’s is
relatively pleas-
ing to the eye, but
this will change

should take it

upon yourself to

admit that it was solely your fault and
not that of the house at which you were
drinking. Know your limits. This is
what high school is for, people. If you
cause your house to get reprimanded
for your stupidity, you don’t deserve to
be in that house. Don’t let something
like this happen again.We seem to be a
bit hard about this issue, but it is some-
thing that happens multiple times each
year to freshmen and never upperclass-
men. Sit and drink in your rooms and
find out how much you can drink every
night. We don’t care, but stop ruining
the social scene on campus for some-
thing that you could have prevented!
Sigh.

Motivational Thoughts Max Nelson
Style ®Copyright Dave and Erich
&Co. Enterprises Inc.

Take advantage of your time at
Davidson. Don’t be the typical student,
go out more than once a week. Go for
the gold. Don’t compromise. You can
always do better. Don’t be judgmental.

1. North Face, North Face, North
Face!!!! Shoes, hats, backpacks, jack-
ets, who cares? I am materialistic and
must have this to fit in here.

2. Ugly shoes with big heels. For God’s
sake, the girls here are only taller than
80% of Kappa Sig.

3. Some type of new vehicle that costs
about $20,000 more than it should. If
you can’t make friends at Davidson,
you can buy them!

4. Black “sex pants,”
own 7 pairs right now.

because I only

New Year’s Resolutions: stop smoking,
lose weight, start working out, learn to
drink in moderation, date Op-Ed au-
thors, get a sense of humor.

New Year’s resolution that have al-
ready gone bad: stop smoking, lose
weight, start working out, learn to drink
in moderation, date Op-Ed authors, get
a sense of humor.

soon.

The completely
functional asphalt road that runs from
Watson past Little and the President’s
house (not the one in D.C.) to main
street is to be torn up in the near future.
Why? This road will be replaced by a
red brick road that will cost a mere
hundred thousand dollars.

Are you joking? The yellow brick road
to Oz had to cost less and looked a lot
better. Where are we importing the
bricks from, the Union Cafe? Bobby
really got a deal on those. We are not
contractors, but we are pretty sure that
putting a boiler in Watson would have
cost less.

In addition, we could have avoided rip-
ping up the campus a half a dozen times.
Honestly, the new brick road makes no
sense. If we are that strapped for cash
that we can’t have the lights on in Cham-
bers at night, why the hell are we build-
ing a hundred thousand dollar road?
What’s next? Marble tile in the senior
apartments? Or maybe a free computer
to all incoming freshmen? Better yet,
we could buy a Leer jet to replace the

Vamanos van so students can go wher-
ever they want on weekends. Come on
people. Use your heads.

Toconclude on this subject, please don’t
begin laying the road yet. Chances are
you will have botched something up
and will have to dig it up again.

A small note to David Rosenberg: Our
sources inform us that you are the
epitome of a frat dog; therefore, you
understand your mistake. You only
gave the faculty a couple more reasons
to hate the court. Way to go Dave! By
the way, do you even know where the
court is?

However, you do make two important
points.

First, we agree that the Phi Delt pledges
did outwit the KA pledges. They are
obviously much smarter. They proved
this when they decided to pledge Phi
Delt.

He also pointed out that the plain and
indisputable fact that no one goes to KA
parties. Maybe if KA is lucky, when
Phi Delt goes dry in 2000, someone ©
might accidentally walk into the KA
house. They realize that any effort
previous to this date would simply re-
sult in complete and utter failure.

The brothers of KA have had Jan 1,
2000 marked on their calenders for quite
along time. They are currently round-
ing up as many black lights, chicks that
like to box, and lewd, chauvinistic com-
ments as they can.

Inside the Numbers:

9. Number of eating houses and frater-
nities on Patterson Court,

3. Number expecting probation after
one weekend back on campus. RLO,
thanks from all of us.

17. Age of Britney Spears. You know
who she is.

36,Temperature in degrees Fahrenheit,
the night of self-selection.

41. Percentage of actual size.

Coming intwo weeks: How to have fun
at Davidson by ruining the monotony of
what is here. Plus, RLO: We attempt to
explain the laziness and stupidity. *

Phil Reed

Lowering our standards for sex

very attractive; will you go to bed
with me? So go the only lyrics ina
song by the band Touch & Go.

There is no evident relationship
here. Nocommitment. NO marriage or
love. All that exists in this case is an
attraction between two people, and then,
of course, sex follows. Perhaps this is
all it takes anymore.

Today, sex holds a lighter role
than ever before in America. We have
come to a position in our society where
it is commonplace for two people to
commit fornication or adultery. Mar-
riage is often meaningless and most
relationships hold little value. One-
night-stands and “random hookups” are
accepted and even condoned. We have
lowered our standards for sex to a posi-
tion where its prevalence drowns any
remaining trust and integrity. This was
something that sex was never intended
to be, and the Davidson campus serves
as a perfect witness to this tragedy.

Just two weeks ago, condoms were
made available to us on self selection
night. Surely we did not receive them to
make water balloons. Rather, they were

[« noticed you around; I find you

offered in order to protect us from STDs
and unwanted pregnancies. But in what
context was this protection recom-
mended? Only on one of the senseless
and imprudent nights of the semester,
where drunkenness reaches its peak
and sexual attraction accompanies it.
Thus by passing out condoms when
such activity is likely to happen, we
only promote taking any sexual rela-
tions one step further.

We read in the Libertas about dis-
pelling the myth of sexuality. The
author argues in the December 3rd is-
sue that within the Davidson student
body, “There are pregnancies (and abor-
tions), there are diseases, rapes and
drive-by quickies.” These occurrences,
he argues, are a reality that exists on the
Davidson campus. But it almost seems
as if the author is proud of this fact.
How can we honestly think to ourselves
that having a‘‘drive-by quickie” is some
sort of unthinkable goal we can become
satisfied with by acknowledging its re-
ality? Congratulations, we have now
lost all sense of decency. The author
also mentions the myth that at Davidson
“we choose our sexual preferences de-

liberately and soundly,” and goes on to
ask why we cherish this “absurd” fal-
lacy. It is true that some of us sleep
around on a regular basis, but to ques-
tion the cherishing of good moral char-
acter is absurd.

I am not arguing that sexual pro-
miscuity and fornication cannot exist in
a place as “perfect” as Davidson, rather
I challenge the notion that because they
do exist we should consider them justi-
fied or excusable. When Gloria
Steinem came to.campus last semester,
she spoke of sex as “an act of commu-
nication.” Now, I may be considered
extreme, but if someone were to ask me
to name an act of communication, sex
would not come to mind. A handshake?
A hug, maybe. I don’t know, perhaps
talking? But sex? When we put sex on
the.same level as, say, conversation, it
is no wonder that we have pregnancies,
diseases, and rapes. Steinem believes
in a convenient approach to sex. We
want to make sex this trivial engage-
ment because it is easier for us this way.
We can gratify our pleasures and we do
not have to be accountable to anyone. .

Of course it would be impossible

for me to write this article without men-
tioning the impeached President. But
perhaps what concerns me more than
Clinton’s inappropriate conduct is our
reaction to it. “What’s at stake in the
Lewinsky scandal is not the right to
privacy,” says columnist David Frum,
“but the central dogma of the baby
boomers: the belief that sex, so long as
it’s consensual, ought never to be sub-
ject to moral scrutiny at all.” We insist
that the whole trial is about sex, and use
this for a reason to dismiss his conduct.
We just don’t care if he has sex with
White House interns half his age. It’s no
big deal; everyone commits adultery.
The truth, however, is that sex is
more than that. Adultery eliminates any
concept of trust upon which our culture
depends. William J. Bennett, editor of
The Book of Virtues, says this: “In mar-
riage, one person has been entrusted
with the soul of another. That power,
freely given, is unlike any other human
relationship; so, too, is the damage that
can be done. This ought not to be made
light of, shrugged off, or made fun of.”
Yet we still see no problem with our

president’s conduct.
Our view, then, is that sex is gradu-

_ally becoming a meaningless action. It

is ordinary and prevalent, and there is
nothing we can do about it. Who cares
if you partake in a one-night-stand?
Who cares if you have sex with a
prostitute? It’s no one’s business but
your Own and you have the right to
have sex with whomever you please,
married or unmarried. You could
merely be a Davidson College student
participating in an act of communica-
tion with a condom given to you by the
college; or you could be the President
of the United States receiving oral sex
in the White House by an intern young
enough to be your daughter. It simply
doesn’t matter.

However, I urge you to carefully
consider your sexual relationships and
the implications that they will have.
The true myth lies in considering sex
trivial. We most stop lowering our
standards to make life easier and more
convenient for us; we-must regard sex
as the significant and invaluable en-
gagement that it truly is.
