THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS __

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

*Cats win fourth straight with defeat of Randolph-Macon

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

For just the ninth time in Davidson football
history, the Wildcats have won four straight games
in one season. On a blustery Saturday afternoon,
Davidson (5-3) defeated Randolph-Macon (3-4)
on the Yellow Jackets’ own turf by a score of 24-
16.

The Wildcats struggled to get things going
offensively in the first half, gaining just 72 yards.
Meanwhile, Randolph-Macon more than doubled
Davidson’s offensive output with 151 yards. But
due to big plays on defense and special teams, the
‘Cats took a 15-3 lead into the locker room at the
half.

“We stuck with our game plan,” said Head
Coach Tim Landis. “We knew they would come
out passing, so we just wanted to keep them from
getting the big gains. They moved the ball pretty
well between the 30-yard lines, but when they got
close, we tightened up.”

Tightened up, indeed

Eight times in the game, Randolph-Macon
got inside the Davidson 30, and six times inside the

15. But the Jackets had just two touchdowns and

as cS wee ie st
@ Landis led the ’Cats to victory
Saturday over his alma mater

one field goal to show for all their threats.

The defense set up the first score of the day as
junior Kevin Strange picked off a pass at the RM
33 and ran it back to the three-yard line. It took
Davidson four running plays, but the “Cats finally
got into the end zone as freshman Paul Nichols ran
a one-yard quarterback sneak in for the score.
Freshman Daniel Hanks added his 18th consecu-
tive successful extra point for a 7-0 lead.

On the Yellow Jackets’ next possession, they
marched down to Davidson’s 10-yard line. But a
bad snap in the shotgun formation put RM all the
way back at the 29 for fourth down. Randolph-
Macon let the clock run out to end the first quarter
in order to have the win at its back for a 46-yard
field goal attempt. The strategy worked, as Kevin
Cherwa drilled the long kick,.making the score 7-
3. .

The next threat by the Yellow Jackets came in
the middle of the second quarter, as they lined up
for a 27-yard field-goal. Sophomore Chris Kramer
got a hand on the kick, though, and junior Ryan
Crawford picked up the loose ball at the 31 yard
line. He scampered uncontested down the middle
of the field 69 yards for the touchdown. On the

. extra point attempt, sophomore Mike Tarver suc-

cessfully rushed into the end zone for two anda 15-
3 Davidson lead.

With a minute left in the half, Randolph-
Macon threatened again.

On a third-and-five from the Wildcat 14,
senior quarterback Brian Partlow threw another
interception to Strange, who returned it 76 yards to
the RM 19

“T lost my legs at the end of the run,” said
Strange after the game. “I was kind of in the right
place at the right time on each of those pickoffs. I
don’t think (Partlow) saw me at all.”

Davidson got down to the one-yard line ona
completion from junior Shaun Tyrance to junior
Corey Crawford. But on the quarterback sneak,
Tyrance fumbled the ball and Randolph-Macon
recovered.

In the third quarter, RM put another score on
the board on a 26-yard pass from Partlow to Sean
Eaton. The PAT was good, bringing the score to
15-10. ,

Davidson responded early in the fourth quar-
ter as Hanks kicked his longest field goal of his
career, a42-yarder. He is now four-for-four on the
season in field goal attempts.

The Yellow Jackets did not stay down for
long. On their next possession, they marched down
the field for another touchdown as Clint Sullivan
carried it in from four yards out. It was just the
second rushing touchdown of the season for
Randolph-Macon. The two-point attempt to tie the
game was unsuccessful, leaving the score 18-16.

Women improve in SoCon

From Press RELEASES
Davidson S.1.D.

In a match rescheduled to avoid the wrath of
Hurricane Floyd, Davidson women’s soccer was
unable to fight off South Carolina in a match
which felt the effects from Hurricane Irene and
lost 4-1 last Tuesday in Columbia.

After the Gamecocks scored the first goal,
Sophomore Carolyn Stumpf drilled a 22-yarder
over goalkeeper Carrie Warner’s reach to tie the
score at the 30:49 mark.

It is the second consecutive match in which
Stumpf has scored from outside the box, as she
netted Davidson’s lone goal in 1-1 tie vs. Brown
Friday from 25 yards out.

South Carolina scored 35 seconds into the
second half and exactly 12 minutes later, both
goals by Jennie Ondo. The Gamecocks added the
final goal at the 88:30 mark, when Leslie Lamb
made the score 4-1.

Freshman Mary Ellen Schaefer sustained an
ankle injury in the first and did not return for the
Wildcats. Schaefer, who is second on the team in
goals (4) and has two assists, is listed as day-to-
day.

Two days later, Stumpf scored her third goal
in as many games, this time a game winner at the
111:51 mark in the second overtime, giving the
Davidson Wildcats a2-1 victory over UNC Greens-
boro at Richardson Stadium.

The Spartans struck first when Kate Dylag
made a nice move, freeing herself of defender
Amy Balsinger, and netted a goal at the 47:28
mark. Megan Bynum was credited with the assist.

“This is anexteremly emotional win for us, as
the girls have never beaten Greensboro,” Head
Coach Kevin Hundley said. “To get it in a come-
back fashion, just makes it even more memo-
rable.”

The loss marks only the second Southern
Conference loss for the Spartans since they joined
three years ago.

Freshman Amy Johnston tied the game at 1-
1 after she deflected a goal off of a Spartan de-
fender 74:59 into the match. Senior Ginny Dye
and Angie Boyer tallied an assist on the play.

Davidson took five shots to UNCG’s one in
the first overtime. In the second overtime, Dye
recorded her 70th career point with an assist on
Stumpf’s game-winner. Dye moves into sole pos-
session of third place in Davidson’s history. Pre-
viously, she was tied with Amy Kanoff (’94-’97)
at 68.

The Wildcats next went on the road to play
College of Charleston Oct. 24 in their final road
conference match of the season.

Sophomore Natalie Cox scored her first goal
of the season to defeat the Cougars 1-0 and im-
prove the ‘Cats record to 10-6-2 overall, 7-1 in the
Southern Conference.

The ’Cats return home to face Western Caro-
lina Oct. 31 in their final SoCon match this year.

@ Junior Ryan Crawford (#2) recovered a fumble for one of the ’Cats’

scores this past Saturday.

Davidson came right back with an impressive 91-
yard drive in | | plays, capped by sophomore Ryan
Pagan’s 34-yard TD run. The PAT would have put
the game nearly out of reach, but a low snap led to
a wide kick by Hanks, his first miss this season.
Once again, Randolph-Macon passed its way down
the field. After completing his first five passes of
the drive to get down to the Davidson 18, Partlow
found the pickings slim near the goal line. He
completed just one of his lasteight passes, the final
pass being intercepted in the end zone by none
other than Strange, his third pick of the game.
Partlow’s numbers for the day were incredible, as
he completed 40 passes in 71 attempts for 382
yards. Buthis undoing were the four interceptions.
Both Michael Becker and Eaton had mofe than 10
receptions and 100 yards.

For the Wildcats, Nichols led all rushers with
78 yards on 21 carries and one touchdown. He also
completed six-of-eight passes, including his last
six in a row, for 48 yards. Pagan contributed 54
yards and a touchdown on nine carries.

The wind wreaked havoc on both teams’
kicking game all day. All but one of the five punts
in the game were into the wind. Hanks averaged
just 18.7 yards on his three punts, while Cherwa
averaged just 16 yards on two punts.

The time of possession for the game was
more than two-to-one in favor of Randolph-Ma-
con, as the Jackets’ had the ball for 40:15

“We really wanted to possess the ball and
keep it out of Partlow’s hands,” said Landis. “We
still need to protect the ball better. Despite our four
fumbles, I think we played well overall, I'm proud
to bring this team back to my alma mater and show
them off. They're a great bunch of guys who work
their tails off, and anybody would be proud of
that.”

Davidson will attempt to win its fifth straight
and sixth of the season next week at home against
Hampden-Sydney on Parents’ Weekend. A win
would assure the Wildcats back-to-back winning
seasons for the first time in 41 years. Game time
is 1:30 p.m.

VOTE NOVEMBER 2nd

RE-ELECT
Bruce
McMillen

Town Board

Proven Leadership Race

. . working for ALL of Davidson

VOTE NOVEMBER 2nd

