THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19,1999

George Lawrence Abernethy gift agreement

Purpose of fund:

The George Lawrence Abernethy strengthens the
intellectual life of Davidson College by funding
programs and projects related to the areas of
George Abernethyis principal interests and life-
long work fi philosophy, ethics, politics, econom-
ics, public health, world affairs, and comparative
religion. Such programs and projects shall con-
sist of collaborative research by students and
faculty, cross-cultural study opportunities for stu-
dents during the academic year or the summer,
and public lectures.

Process:

Applications will be reviewed and evaluated by a
committee composed of a senior student, Robert
Abernethy, and assistant professor, a full profes-

sor, the dean of the faculty, and the president of the
college. Facutly appointments will be made by the
president for terms of three years. Initial appoint-
ments will provide for staggered terms. Commit-
tee members will not make applications for
Abernethy Endowment funds during their term of
service nor will they participate in the evaluation
of proposals in which they have perceived interest.
Following adequate publicity, applications will be
submitted by November 15 of each year, with
announcements of awards no later than the follow-
ing January 15.

Awards:

An amount consistent with the Endowment spend-
ing rates set by the Board of Trustees will be
distributed annually to successful applicants. Funds

not utilized in one year will be available for distri-
bution in subsequent years. The committee will
make multiple awards in each annual cycle. Pro-
posals will be evaluated on the quality of the
project impact, the level of student participation,
and the potential for successful implementation.
Awards will not be made to the same project in
consecutive years, nor will they be made to the
same applicants(s) in consecutive years. No more
than twnty-five percent of an Abernethy Endow-
ment grant will be utilized for the purpose of
equipment, hardware and software. A written
description of funded activities will be submitted
tothe president within ninety days of each projectis
completion.

Management Fund:

The fund, although separately named and identi-
fied, shall be managed as part of the Davidson
College Endowment under guidelines established
and reviewed annually by the Board of Trustees.
At no time shall endowment. principal be ex-
pended.

Clark Ross went on to say: “With the
Abernathy funds, Davidson College students can
puruse individual initiatives that complement their
on-campus education and also students can work
directly with faculty on challenging research
projects. To me, the use of these funds demon-
strates the excellence of a Davidson education and
the opportunities that we are able to afford stu- —
dents, thanks to the commitment of our faculty and
to the generasity of our donors.”

Davidson graduate obtains prominent appointment

By Kim JoHNson Counts
Hunton & Williams Public Relations

The Charlotte branch of the Hunton & Will-
iams law firm announced
last Wednesday that attor-

firms and corporate law departments in the Caro-

linas and across the country,” said Cottingham,

head of the Litigation and Labor Team for the
Charlotte office.

As part of his leadership responsibilities,

Cottingham’s commit-

tee will plan meetings

ney T. Thomas
Cottingham, III, Davidson
College Class of ’69, has
been appointed to serve as
Co-Chair of the Trial Evi-
dence Committee of the
American Bar
Association’s Litigation
Section. Cottingham also
joins the Litigation Sec-

T. Thomas Cottingham, III,
Davidson College Class of ’69,
has been appointed to serve as
Co-Chair of the Trial Evidence
Committee of the American Bar
Association’s Litigation Section.

and seminars for the
entire membership. His
first challenge will be
organizing the group’s
co-sponsorship of a pro-
gram for the Litigation
Section’s spring meet-
ing in Seattle. In addi-
tion, the group is
charged with co-spon-

tion leadership group that
oversees the nationwide membership of 55,000.
Cottingham, the only appointee from North
Carolina, is not the only Hunton & Williams
lawyer in the Litigation Section leadership group.
He joins fellow Hunton & Williams attorney Alan
Rudlin of the Richmond, Virginia office, who
serves on the Council in the Litigation Section.
“This leadership position will give me the oppor-
tunity to work closely withsome of the best private

soring a program at the
ABA annual meeting in July in New York.

A long-time member of the ABA, Cottingham
previously served as co-chair for the Southeast
Region of the Business Torts Committee of the
Litigation Section.

In addition, Cottingham has been appointed
to serve as co-managing partner for the Charlotte
office with David E. Johnston. Johnston joined
Hunton & Williams in 1995 and was a key figure

in opening the firm’s Charlotte office. Cottingham
and Johnston will work together to continue the
strong growth of the Charlotte office.

Bangkok, Islamabad, Warsaw, Brussels, and
Vienna and in more than eighty countries on six
continents in all major practice areas. Hunton &

Founded Will-
in Rich- iams is
mond, . age . the onl

vi, . Along-time member of the ABA, Cottingham previously 5...
giniain served as co-chair for the Southeast Region of the  castern
1901. Business Torts Committee of the Litigation Section. la w
Hunton ; firm
& Will- with of-
iams fices in

employs 650 lawyers in ten U.S. offices including
New York, Washington, Raleigh, Charlotte, At-
lanta and Miami. Overseas, Hunton & Williams
lawyers serve clients in London, Hong Kong,

New York, Washington and overseas. The firm’s
Charlotte office is located on the 35th floor of
Bank of America Plaza at 101 S. Tryon Street.

Information Table

Grey College Union
Lobby

It takes
special person -
to travel halfway
around the earth
to preserve a couple
square miles of it.

- Wednesday, 10/20, 11.a.m. -3 p.m.

a

a

PEACE CORPS. |
How far are you willing to go to make a difference?

Pe ear geet ee SOME Yes i Jae Wee Aa SSI oh aie URE ggg ai eA IR Ya yas eg aly

Info ‘mation Session

Grey College Union: -

Conference Room :
Davidson College )
wwwepeacecorpS.gov = “1-800-42i4-8580- :

Wednesday, 10/20, 7 pam. -

festivities.

@ Carl Knobloch and his daughter Emmy ’82 at the groundbreaking

| @ The K
Sseeepanett

ert Russ, Al tiloni, and Steve
