THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Pre-Law Society hosts members of the
US Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals

By RICHARD VINSON

College Communications

On September 24th, the Pre-Law Society
was proud to host three members of the US Fourth
Circuit Court of Appeals, two of whom are David-
son alumni. The Honorable William Wilkins 64,
the Honorable William Traxler 70, and the Hon-
orable Margaret Seymour heard two appeals cases
in Chambers Gallery. Following the cases, the
three judges answered questions from students
and faculty. Both events were open to the public.

Tadd Bevan *02, a member of the executive
board of the Pre-Law Society, played a central
role in organizing this historic visit. He said that
the purpose of the event was primarily educa-
tional. “Our main goal is helping students decide
if law is what they want to do,” he said. To this
end, they invited the judges to hold
court at Davidson.

Bevan said that public re-
sponse to the court session was
encouraging. Although the cases
took place during times when many
students have class, he was pleas-
antly surprised at just how many
students decided to pay a visit.

The Q&A session gave stu-
dents a chance to ask the judges
about various aspects of their ca-
reers and the US court system in
general. One question raised the
point that the wealthy are perceived
as being able to “escape” justice by
virtue of having better representa-
tion. All three judges agreed that
while that may be the popular view-
point, in reality most public de-
fenders are very competent.

Another audience member
asked Judge Wilkins and Judge
Traxler how their education at
Davidson had prepared them for
their careers. Both agreed that their
time Davidson was excellent prepa-
ration for law school. Judge Traxler
emphasized that a liberal arts edu-
cation cultivates students’ analyti-
cal and writing skills. According to
him, these are essential for lawyers
and judges, as they must read count-
less cases in order to prepare them-
selves for future ones.

Bevan said that the process of
bringing the court to Davidson was
a long and involved one. He said
that the idea of staging such an
event had been discussed by the
Pre-Law Society as early as April
of last year. Bevan.was able to
contact Kearns Davis a’91 David-
son grad and Greensboro lawyer,
through Dr. Mary Thornberry.
Davis had clerked for the late Judge
Samuel Ervin, III, a respected
Davidson alumnus and long-time

Police
Blotter

By CurisTOPHER LOUVET
Staff Writer

On September 22, an un-
known and unseen person took an
Apple G3 Powerbook and its
power cord from the library. If
anyone has any information relat-

_ ing to this incident, please report it
to the campus police.

federal justice of the Fourth Circuit. Davis in turn
was able to help Bevan contact Judge Ervin.

Judge Ervin was eager to help and proposed
a date early in the court’s schedule, which begins
in September and last for nine months. With that
in mind, Bevan began to make the necessary
arrangements, which he said cost him countless
hours of planning and making phone calls.

Tragically, Judge Ervin was not able to see
the fine results of his cooperation. He passed away
on September 18 in Morganton, NC.

Having now been through the process , Bevan
is enthusiastic about bringing the court back again
next year. He said that the experience of organiz-
ing it and the strong response this year convinced
him that the Pre-Law Society should work to do it
again.

Put the money

ya save on this
% into CDs.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5,1999 ss §

Speaker to discuss gradu-

ate admission strategies

By Tony BuTCHELLO

Career Services ‘

On Tuesday, October 5 at 7:30 in the Morrison
Room, Don Asher will present information from
his book, Graduate Essays: What Works, What
Doesn't and Why. This event is co-sponsored by
the Office of Career Services, Pre-Law Society,
Pre-Management Committee, Union speakers com-
mittee and the Bonner Program Office.

The program consists of strategies for gain-
ing admission to the most competitive programs in
the nation, both graduate and professional, and is
appropriate for all classes. Mr. Asher is a nation-
ally known speaker and writer on the topics of
careers and education, and travels across the U.S.
speaking on college campuses. In addition to
speaking at Davidson last year, some of the schools

he has spoken at include Brown, Penn, Rutgers,
Swarthmore, Stanford, Reed, Wabash, Emory,
Centre, Franklin and Marquette. ~

In researching his book, Mr. Asher, president
of Asher Associates, a consulting and resume-
writing firm in San Francisco, studied over 1,000
admissions essays, interviewed hundreds of gradu-
ate’ students from Oxford to the University of
Arkansas, and spoke with admissions oficers at
top schools. He gathered their advice on tech-
niques, writing tips, and strategies for getting into
highly competitive programs, building an edge
over equally or better qualified applicants, and
lobbying your way into a program even after an
initial rejection.

Mr. Asher’s presentation, followed by a ques-
tion and answer session, received great reviews
from students last year.

@Wathovia Corporation; 1989

/
