THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CInTRA PoLLACK
Union Board President

Last fall, the Union conducted a students’
needs and interests survey in order to establish
what students felt the role of the Union could and
should be in their lives. By examining the survey
results, we intend to accomplish a multifaceted.
achievement: we aim to better use facilities and
resources we already have to meet student needs,
to re-evaluate our current programming to main-
tain events students really enjoy, to plan new
events which better reflect student demands, and
to project what future needs and interests might be
while planning the new Union facility. *

We wanted to share some of these results
with the entire Davidson College-community to
demonstrate not only what changes we have al-
ready implemented in response to the survey, but
to invite your specific suggestions as to how we

student satisfaction rate. We were pleased to learn
that 10.5% percent were very satisfied, 66.6%
were satisfied. On the
other hand, there were

to the Union is for food, which was the most
popular answer for why one goes to the Union, but
other important
reasons to goto the

19.3% of students who

Union included to

were dissatisfied, and
3.6% were very dissat-
isfied with the social ac-
tivities. and opportuni-
ties Davidson has to of-
fer. This indicates that
while Davidson offers a

Men were less satisfied with their
social options than women, witha
72.2% satisfaction rating versus
an 81% satisfaction rate.

gofor meetings, for
events, or just to
hang out. Some
students com-
plained about the
shortened cafe
hours still in effect

fruitful social life to
many, some students

as of the time of
the survey.

still feel their options are

insufficient. Demographically, far and away the
most dissatisfied students tended to be African-
American students, with 76.2% of the African-
American respondents either dissatisfied or very
dissatisfied, and only 23.8% satisfied. The sample

can satisfy size of Afri-
more of our can-Ameri-
community. can students
We encour- was 21.
age all com- 96.3% noted that a reason they come to the | Other stv.
ments an - oe . .
tock forward Unionis for food, which was the most popular color, the
to an: even answer for why one goes to the Union, but | Hispanic
better-| otherimportant reasons to go'to the Union ee -
lanned ' . and inter-
P hahieaa | wteluded to go for meetings, for events, or | ational
more accom-' J ust to hang out. communities
modating fa- e for example,
cility in the tended to be
months and more pleased
years to with the so-
come. cial options offered at Davidson, even surpassing

Some basic information to know in consider-
ation of our survey results is that the sample size of
our group was 410 Davidson students. The re-
spondents were exactly split 50/50 between
Patterson Court and non-affiliated members, many
of whom were freshmen. The surveys came from
44.4% male and 55.6% female students. The class
breakdown turned out to be 24.4% freshmen,
34.1% sophomores, 19.3% juniors and 22.2%
seniors. 93.7% of the respondents live on-cam-

pus.

One of the numbers we have scrutinized is the

the survey average of 77.4% satisfied.

Men were less satisfied with their social
options than women, with a 72.2% satisfaction
rating versus an 81% satisfaction rate. Also, those
who were affiliated with houses were slightly
more likely to find their social options sufficient,
with an 82% satisfaction rate versus the 71.3%
percent satisfaction | rate held by independents or
freshmen.

When asked how frequently they come to the
Union, 65.1% remarked they come more than six
times a week. 96.3% noted that a reason they come

83.9% of
students polled said they go to the Outpost at least
once a week. The Outpost is also a part of the
Union facility, despite the fact that many do not
realize it. While the Outpost is most frequented by
late night visitors in dire need of some quesadillas
after a rigorous:night of dancing on the court or
studying, many students go to the Outpost just to
hang out, to attend events, or to study.

While a number of students wrote comments
on the survey indicating that one of the reasons
they choose not to attend Union events is because
alcohol is seldom offered, 16.1% of the respon-
dents said that one of the reasons they do attend
Union events is because

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1999

State of the Union A

Spring Frolics, Lunar Luau, the International Fes-
tival, the Campus Christmas Party, and this year’s
introduction, the Fall Festival. Some of the other
programming received high scores, but a good
number of respondents had no opinion, which may
indicate that they have never been or are not aware
of the events,

When it came to publicity, most people felt
that they were relatively well informed, but that
the Union calendars sent out are not the place they
get their information. Word of mouth, voice mail
and e-mail, as well as the old stand-by posters and
fliers, were all methods with which people noted
the Union could alert them to our events.
Overall, the survey indicated to us that we are
doing a competent job in meeting students’ needs,
but there are many ways in which we can improve.
Some of the efforts we have already made to
bridge the gap between what students want and
what we provide them with include: 24-hour ac-
cess to building facilities, reinstated longer hours
at the cafe, a campus-wide e-mail and voicemail
network to alert all students to big events, plans for
a big name band in Baker in the spring (no, we’re
not leaking who that might be yet!), a campus-
wide formal in February, and of course we look
forward to our traditional favorite events such as
Spring Frolics.

We still wish to

there is no alcohol offered.

improve upon the number

Events where alcohol is
served to legal-aged drink-
ers, such as at 21-Year-Old
night, ranked very highlyas
events pedple wanted us to
continue.

The surveys came from
44.4% male and 55.6%
female students.

of students who feel that
their social activities and
opportunities are fulfilling:
Our drive for this spring is
to work on further diversi-
fying and improving our

The major ways sur-
vey respondents wanted the

programming to enrich the
lives of the Davidson Col-

Union to change included
that people wanted more big name bands, better
food, more opportunities to interact with faculty
and staff, more dance parties, and more social
connections to things away from the Davidson
College campus. A good number of students,
11%; also remarked that they thought the Union’s
hours at the time of the survey were too limited.
The Union events people most want us to
continue include the films series, the hypnotist,

lege community, but we
need community support and communication in
order to achieve our objectives: If you have any
ideas on how to make the Union a better place and
our programming more complete, please let any of
the Union staff or Board members hear what you
have to say. If you want to make a difference
yourself, sign up in the Union lobby for a Union
Board committee chair interview RIGHT NOW!

Honor Council reviews first semester

By Lee ANN Petry AND AsA HERCULES
Honor Council Member and Honor Council
Chair

The Honor Council has been very active
during the 1998-99 academic year. During Fresh-
man Orientation, Honor Council members pre-
sented the Honor Code to freshmen and answered
their questions in small-group settings. After the
Fall elections, all Honor Council members partici-
pated in an intense mock trial training session. The
Student Solicitors, the Defense Advisors, and the
Honor Council members practiced in a simulated
Honor Council trial in which a student was charged
with cheating on anexam. Members of the Smith,
Helms, Mullis, and Moore Law Firm, located in
Charlotte and Greensboro, presented the session.
The mock trial was especially beneficial to new
Honor Council members who were inexperienced
in trial procedures.

Honor Council committees have also been
active. The Red Book revision committee, chaired
by Richard Wright’00, has been working to im-
prove a section in the Red Book pertaining to open
and closed trials. The Faculty Relations Commit-
tee, chaired by Grace Robinson’ 99, has been inter-
viewing Davidson professors from eight depart-
ments to gain a faculty perspective on the Honor
Code. A faculty-Honor Council reception will be
held on Tuesday, February 9, in the Chambers
gallery from 4-5:30 PM. The reception will allow
the faculty and Honor Council members to discuss
the Honor Code and address any concerns or
questions the faculty might have regarding the
Honor Code. Finally, the Campus Forum Com-
mittee is working on a campus forum to be held in
March. The goal of the Forum Committee is to
encourage a dialogue between students, faculty,
and the administration regarding the Honor Code,

Finally, the Honor Council is proud to an-

nounce’ the
new Chair and
Secretary.

Honor Code Violations—Fall 1998

Feo:s lyn

Ogden’00will {Hearing Date Infraction Verdict Sanction
succeed Asa - - ;
Hercules’99 [September 30, Cheating Guilty A written letter of apology to
as Chair. Kara 14.998 professor of course in which
Baker’00 will . air
replace Paul cheating occurred an “F” on
Eubanks’ 00as the quiz
Secretary. Ad- ; - - ;
ditionally, |October 8, 1998 | Using false Guilty Social probation from
Jo. ht identification to Patterson Court for
Bottini’00 and ; . ‘
Joseph obtain alcohol at a remainder of Fall ‘98
McElveen’00 Patterson Court semester and Spring ‘99
are the new nA
Deieiee Aasik function semester
eae November 10, Cheating Guilty An “F” in course with
anda Mauncid 1998 authorized withdrawals in
pean other three classes
the new Stu- § ;:
senioaeniiie Suspension for the remainder
tors. The of Fall semester and Spring
Honor Coun- ‘99 semester :
cil wishes to
ane its |November 16, Plagiarism Guilty An “F” in course, authorized
gratitude to A A
‘Aga’ Heicules [2 9ee withdrawals in other classes
and Paul suspension for the remainder
Eubanks: for of Fall ‘98 semester and
their leader- A ;
ship andorga- Spring ‘99 semester student
nization over appealed sanctions, they
eves Dent ve were changed to: suspension
semesters. ;
of the remainder of Fall ‘98
semester

