\

2 _.. THE DAVIDSONIAN |

NEws.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999

Fire department joins community and college

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

As the college prepares to demolish Lingle
Manor and to build a new residence hall, specula-
tion exists that the Davidson Fire Department may
set fire to it for training purpases. Although Lingle
would be an optimal structure on which the depart-
ment could set a controlled blaze, its proximity to
existing residence halls will most likely preclude
the fire from occurring. Kurt Holmes, Director of

’ Residence Life, and Chief WifSon Sadler have
discussed the possibilities of using Lingle for a
structure burn, but have concluded that the amount
of smoke produced would be hazardous.

Even if the department does not use Lingle as
the sight of a structure burn, it is being utilized for
other training purposes. Firefighters have used the
vacant building to practice fire investigation tech-

niques; these skills include cutting into walls and
are demonstrated after a fire has been extinguished
in order to make sure that no small, hidden flames
exist within a structure. Lingle is an especially
valuable resource for the department, since the
interior of the building provides opportunities for
destruction. The department also uses, Lingle to
conduct other training classes, including those in
ventilation and extension.

Members of the college play active parts in
the activities of the department; of the thirty-
member staff, seven are part of the Davidson
College community. Librarian Frank Molinek is
a captain in the department, and math professor
Dr. Todd Will is also a volunteer. Davidson
students have frequently served as firefighters,
many of them having participated in volunteer
departments in their hometowns. Currently, there
are five students serving in the department: Adah

Walker ‘01, Anna Gabela ’02, David Farnum ’01,
Jesse Montgomery '01 and Natalie Eft ’02.. Stu-
dents undergo the same extensive training as ev-
ery other firefighter. Sadler commends the stu-
dents for being “important pieces of the depart-
ment. They are most helpful and make wonderful
members.”

Sadler describes the training course as “a six-
module program which provides instruction in
fire suppression.” Even after firefighters com-
plete this initial course, instruction is ongoing.
Will estimates that members of the department
devote about six hours a month to additional
training. Firefighters carry pagers and are con:
stantly on call; since the department is strictly
volunteer, however, firefighters respond to each
call at their own discretion. Despite this leeway,
the volunteers are expected to consider the calls
high priorities.

The department has a close working relation-
ship with the college, and Sadler often coordinates
the activities between the department and the col-
lege. In the past, Sadler and his staff have sched-
uled fire drills and conducted fire extinguisher
training with the members of the Residence Life
Office. This strong affiliation is especially impor-
tant since many of the calls the department receives
are from the college.

Chief Sadler encourages all interested fresh-
men and sophomores to contact him at the Town
Hall about a firefighter training program which
begins in November. In a small town such as
Davidson, where the college plays an exceedingly
active role, the fire department offers many oppor-
tunities for community service. Will echoes Sadler’ s
call for students and cites his time with the depart-

‘ment as “a wonderful experience which provides

many opportunities to see a different side of the
Davidson community.”

Pictures omitted from the 2003 Wildcat Handbook
di

Emity McCown

Resecca McDevitt

MIcHAEL McDoNALb

SHANNON McGuire

ANDREW McKain

Eric McKay Bronwyn McKnew

RosBert MCLEAN

WILLIAM McMurray

Rosert MCSWEENEY

Campus Police Blotter

By CurISTOPHER LOuUveT
Staff Writer

The campus police are now actively ticket-
ing non-registered vehicles parked on campus.
Non-registered vehicles may be parked only in
the rear sections of Baker parking lot and in
satellite parking near the sophomore apartments.
The police are periodically monitoring all other

areas. Students should register their vehicles as
soon as possible to avoid any misunderstandings.

Due to the demolition of Johnston Gym, the
campus police headquarters have been relocated
to Building #2 of Jackson Court, just off Concord
Road. Students should go there to register their
vehicles. The registration fee for students is $80,
but it may be charged to their accounts.

FAMILY CUTS
Hair Salon
Cornelius Town Center
896-8440
Haircuts - Color — Styling - Perms - Waxing

No Appointment Necessary
(Recommended for color and perms)

Hours: Mon-Fri 9am-8pm,
Sat 9am-Gpm, Sun 12pm-5pm

FAMILY CUTS
$5.00 Haircut

With this coupon

Offer good through 10-08-99
Not valid with other offers.

FAMILY CUTS
$5.00 off

Color or Perm
With this coupon

Offer good. through 11-12-99
Not valid with other offers.

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

‘ WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager

LAURA McCANDLISH PETER CLARK MELISSA ANN_ .-
ANN GREGORY deCASTRIQUE
Photographer Advertising Manager
JAKE HARRINGTON PETER CBARK ARTS.& LIVING
Senior Editor BEN COV INGTON 5 . .
MIKE ANDERSON CADER HOWARD Photographer
By ADAM SOTO
Photographer Circulation Managers
ANNA JUDY CINDY CLARK Copy Editors
Layout Editors INA SPECHAR WHITNEY BLAKE
BEN COVINGTON cee ol ANNA ERIKSSON
CADER HOWARD Circulation IRENE MIDDLETON
DEREK. K VERNO ALLISON SISK
Web Editor REO RON
STEPHEN GAMBOA = PAN WING AAT

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor

; Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

pa a A SPS SS A ESL CASI I ali Ta ELE SE TIS NIT SAAITA

3 request.

The Davidsonian is published Mondays (with this week being an exception) during the
academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address
all correspondences to: The Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone
(704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu. Our offices are located
on the third floor of the Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The
Bahidsonian, Suhcrinions cost $40.00 per year. ia rates are © available upon

