_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

Japanese Flowering Crabapple
flourishes as the Tree of the Week

By BriAN CAMPBELL
Tree Guy
Over the next several weeks, the campus will
be filled with the colors of blossoming plants.
Spring is the time that these plants proudly display
their full beauty. The flowers are soft and fragile,
yet they explode with color. Their fragrant per-
fumes fill the air and draw us near. This week, we
celebrate the Japanese flowering crabapple (Malus
floribunda), Dozens of these trees surround the
library and embrace it with white and pink blooms.
The crabapple family is richly varied, with
approximately 500 varieties in this country alone.

Letus celebrate the small ways
we are blossoming this spring.

These trees cross-pollinate more easily than most,
and new cultivars are constantly developed as
diverse parents spread their nectar. The Japanese
flowering crabapple is recognized as the variety
against which all others are measured. It grows
well in a range of climates and soil types and is
slightly more resistant to disease than other
crabapples. Consequently, the Japanese flower-
ing crabapple is particularly popular in the South,
where fireblight and woolly aphids are prevalent.
Davidson’s trees are quite healthy thanks to the
attention and care of the Physical Plant.

The crabapple is indeed a close relative of the
apple tree. Both share the same genus, Malus, and
generally, the type is‘determined by the size of the

-and other campus critters.

fruit. If the fruit is less that 2" in diameter, it is a
crabapple, and if it is more than 2" in diameter,
then it is classified as an apple. The fruits of the
Japanese flowering crabapple are quite small, as a
result, they are quickly eaten by birds, squirrels,
Compare these tiny
fruits to the plum-sized crabapples that hang in
large bunches on the trees at the entrance to cam-
pus near the Baker Sports Complex.

Of course, it is the beautiful flowers of the
crabapple that are the focus of our attention this
week. Their buds are deep pink, rich with antici-
pation, and as they open in full bloom they radiate
with soft, white petals. Notice the range of colors.
Behind the library, the trees bloomed earlier and
are more pink in color. These displays of floral
color are enhanced because they contrast with the
light green of emerging new leaves. This tree’s
branches are crowded and irregular, creating a
dense crown of color reaching upward from the
scaly-barked trunks.

Spring is a season to celebrate the blossom-
ing of trees and plants and the colorful transforma-
tions in all of life. Too often, we measure our gifts
within common categories. We seek success, but
seem to fail. We seek perfection, but fall short.
We seek affirmation, but feel criticized. We do not
always bear plump fruits, and we feel like
crabapples in a world that values Granny Smith
and Red Delicious. Yet even the crabapple is
gifted with colorful blooms. Rather than measure
the size of our fruit, let us celebrate the small ways
we are blossoming this spring. Give thanks for the
flower opening in all life.

preakfast

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Breakfast Burr
Omelets
Pancakes
Fr
ench Toast

| soda Open 1 Days

{tos

WS

“AR

\

S
~ 2 2 SSic Burger (

‘hilkshakes

104 $.Main St. Bevidcen. NC

Eat-in Take-out

Humor, fun,

and good ol’
Rock ’n Roll in
the 900 Room

By Setu Davis

Arts & Living Editor

The lights in the 900 Room were dim, the
stage lit in a wash of red. It was Monday, March
22 and Dan Bern was in town. By 9:00 PM the
audience was assembled. Dan Bern entered fif-
teen minutes later to a generous applause. Clad in
asleeveless shirt, head shaven, he did not immedi-
ately call up images of Bob Dylan, appropriately,
for many fans often draw comparisons between
the two artists’ music. Bern was composed as he
picked up his guitar and began to play. Nothing in
his early demeanor suggested the antics that were
soon to come.

After a few songs Bern began to play to the
crowd. The first part of the concert was laced with
humorous comments ,about himself, his music,
Davidson, the audience, anything which occurred
tohim. One of the highlights the show came when
Bern introduced a new alma mater for Davidson
College. Few members of the audience actually
knew the alma mater, but those who did provided
a stirring rendition for everyone else. Bern had
written the new alma mater during his day at
Davidson and it went a little something like this.

Davidson’s New Alma Mater

Who is David?

Who is David’s son?
And why does he have a
college named after him?
I have never had a college

named after me,
after me.
Davidson College ,
Oo (repeated)

-Dan Bern

Though this alma mater will probably never
be adopted by the college, Bern used it to get the
audience involved in the concert. His greatest
talent—beyond his musical ability—was his abil-
ity to get the audience involved and having fun.
The whole audience learned Bern’s new alma
mater. After everyone had learned it, he divided
the audience along even and odd birthdates. One
section of the audience sand the first three lines
while the other sang the last four lines. Once the
melodies were harmonized (or as close as pos-
sible), Bern invited a number of people to learn the
dance that accompainies the singing of the David-
son alma mater. The dance should never appear -
again. Anywhere.

Unless it appears in conjunction: with the
Davidson alma mater. Bern encouraged the audi-
ence to sing it at football games in order to enter-
tain the alumni. That might, or might not, back-
fire. It certainly would be funny.

Dan Bern was certainly funny. His on-stage
comments, in conjunction with the crowd involve-
ment, were all very entertaining. Most humorous
of all were his lyrics—not to say that his song-
writing was poor, rather, his songs dealt with their
subject matter in innovative and satirical ways.
From his asssertion that Einstein was wrong, to his
suggestion that human beings are the offfspring of
monkeys and aliens, Bern brings a unique point of
view to highly complex and controversial issues—
from the value of science to the issue of evolution.
In one of his most unusual songs, Bern describes
a meeting between a human being and God. In this
meeting the human being discovers that Moses
changed the Commandments, leaving out the com-
mandment regarding moose. Bern’s sense of the
satirical is certainly and individual one. Inthe end,
however, his song writing is not as compelling as
his delivery. His words are not as strong as his on-
stage performance capabilities.

On stage, Dan Bern shined. He may have
played for bigger crowds before, but the small size
of the 900 Room and its.audience did not seem to
deter him in the slightest. He is not graced with a
traditional voice, but his voice does have a power
in its uniqueness. The greatest portion of Dan
Bern’s artistry lies, however, in his ability to
engage an audience in the moment which he fills
with a unique brand of music.

On the Scene at Davipson COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Keep that coffee flowing. .8:15
m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

CROP Lunch..: Eat crop. 11:45 a.m. -

Senior Art Major and Naoto Nakagawa Ex-
hibits. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the
Belk Visual Arts Center.

Jumpin’ Java. If the coffeehouse wasn't
enough, we have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at
the Outpost.

Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Seth Alley
should be there. What more reason do you
need? 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. inthe 900 Room.
Concert with Joe Robin. Go see Joe in
Hodson Hall from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

Climbing Wall. Go climb. ‘7:00 - 9:00
p.m. in Johnston Gym. *

Kayak Rolling. Stowe will be there,
rolling, rolling, rolling; getting them
doggies rolling! 7:30 -9:00 p.m. at Baker
Sports Complex.

Go Home!

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY

FRIDAY

Sa
Mownpay —

SATURDAY

Amnesty International. Keep an eye
‘| out for these good people doing good
things. 9:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. in the first
floor of Chambers. They'll be there
tomorrow, too.

“Annie Hall” Good movie. Go see it.
Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
SGA Phonathon. 2 slots-- 5:45 p.m. -
7:30 p.m. and 7:15 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. in
the basement of the Student Health
Center.

FILM--” ANNIE HALL” End your
week here at Davidson ona bang!
Go see Annie, in her hall! Show-
ing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

‘It

saholiday!

