DAVIDSON COLLEGI

“Mecklenburg County’s

Foremost College Weekly”
®

EsTABLISHED 1914

ALE NDA. 3LU xX...U Bl

O.R.T A... ELBE R.T.ACS

317 freshmen self select

NEws 4

Impeachment ‘and more new
Davidsonian Members

' OPINIONS 7, 8

Chili Cookoff!

A&L 9

Wildcats some, some.
Winter sports recapped.
SPorTs 11

Davidson fully honors MLK Day for the first time

College Communications

By Asuey E. KinG AND CarrIE ARTHUR

News Editors

For the first time in the history of
Davidson College, the classrooms sat
empty for the entire duration of January
18th to honor Dr. Martin Luther King
Jr. and his accomplishments in the pur-
suit of equality. Instead of classes, the
College sponsored various programs
aimed at raising awareness about what
Dr. King had achieved in his lifetime
and what we can do today to further
promote his famous dream.

Many individuals and organiza-
tions were integral in getting the Col-
lege to suspend classes for all of the
Martin Luther King holiday. The mo-
mentum towards acknowledging the
holiday began with a proposal made by
Dean Jeffries in the Fall semester of
1998. Since the initial proposal, Jeffries,
the SGA, the BSC, and a large contin-
gent of the student body worked to
convince those in the administration to
give students a full day off instead of the
traditional half day dedicated to cel-
ebrating Dr. King’s accomplishments.
Classes that would have been held on
MLK day are now scheduled during the
exam period at the end of the semester.

Many of those involved in bring-
ing about this change felt that the de-
mand to recognize MLK day gained
force when several women discovered
a racial slur written on a poster in Ist

Center Belk. This incident heightened
student awareness of racial issues that
existed on campus and focused many
students’ attention on the fact that MLK
day was not observed by the College.
Chris Tuttle, Vice President of the SGA,
commented that “The poster just
brought to our attention a problem that
already existed.” Ann Harriot Fisher,
President of the SGA, agreed with
Tuttle’ s sentiments, saying that the stu-
dents had “turned something negative
around” by using the poster to promote
the acknowledgment of the MLK holi-
day. The SGA also helped to change
the College’s policy by writing letters
to faculty and sending around a peti-
tion which, according to Fisher, re-
ceived “hundreds of signatures.”

Although there were no classes
on the MLK holiday, the College of-
fered many optional programs which
were meant to enrich students’ under-
standing of Dr. King and the ideas he
embraced. The events started on Sun-
day, January 17th and lasted through
the end the holiday on Monday, Janu-
ary 18th.

The first program was held on
the patio of the Union at 9:00 both on
Sunday, January 17th and on the fol-_
lowing Monday at the same time.

FLAG abandons fashion show

Jim STUNTZ

Guest Writer

Davidson’s Friends of Lesbians and Gays (FLAG)
has decided to abandon sponsorship of its annual Fash-
ion Show. The Fashion Show, a part of Davidson’s
social life for the past five years, was addressed in
Libertas’ November feature on sexuality. The feature
consisted of three personal narratives describing the
Davidson experiences of a bisexual, a heterosexual and
a homosexual student. Discussion arising from the
Libertas piece prompted. a reevaluation of the Fashion
Show’s message in relation to the concerns and objec-
tives of FLAG, with the result being a vote’ to discon-
tinue sponsorship of the event.

Members and visitors, students and faculty. pre-

EDITORIAL 3 hc 7
Pets a
ORED 3) hace a
ARTS & LIVING ...5.c:cccccaccn 9
S SPORTS bc soiccce Ll

a

sented arguments for and against the idea of discontinu-
ing the Fashion Show. Those arguing for keeping the
event under FLAG’s name cited the massive attendance
figures and the large amount of money raised for charity
as great benefits to FLAG. Supporters of the Fashion
Show also named the visibility the event provides.
Arguments for discontinuing the Fashion Show
were put forward by several students, as well as by
faculty members Suzanne Churchill, Richard Kaye, and
Russ Snapp. Echoing sentiments expressed in the
Libertas, the critics said that the event is essentially
heterosexual in nature — acted out by heterosexuals for

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

