Picks and Pans of 98: ‘The year in films

BY PHILLIP STEWART

Staff Writer

The past year was a very average one as movies go, but the notable movies this year were for the
most part amazing. Saving Private Ryan will no doubt go into the history books as one of the best war
pieces ever made. It was a big year for animation too, with the dazzling Prince of Egypt, the wonderful
Disney creation Mulan, and the more adult- oriented and often hilarious Antz.

Along with the great movies came the inevitable action movie disasters like Armageddon and
Godzilla, (At least one action movie, The Negotiator, with Samuel L. Jackson and Kevin Spacey, gave
that genre a good name.) So, here are my picks for the best ten and worst five movies of the year. They
all came out in 1998 somewhere in America, even though my number 10 pick, A Simple Plan, has not
opened in Charlotte yet.

lam going to try not to reveal too much plot so that you can enjoy these films as much asI did. You
can agree or disagree, but remember, it’s just my opinion.

1. Saving Private Ryan- My grandfather is probably why this movie was so amazing to me. He
will never talk about WWII, but whenever I ask him a question about it, he gets very quiet and his whole
demeanor changes. The movie is like color war footage. It is, Steven Spielberg’s best movie since
Schindler’s List, and it reconfirms my love for his direction, after selling out for The Lost World:
Jurassic Park. He does things with the camera in the opening twenty minutes that almost make you feel
like you are in the battle. The audience’s response is fear and pain, and I know for the veteran next to
me, impossible to watch without having flashbacks. “The only thing missing,” he said, “is the smell.”

2. Shakespeare in Love- The script was co-written by Tom Stoppard, who penned the great play
Rozencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead. The wit that permeates that play shows up constantly in
Shakespeare in Love, a film that Shakespeare himself could have written. The two leads, Joseph Fiennes
and Gwyneth Paltrow, have an unparalleled chemistry. When they look into each other’s eyes, the love
they feel seems so real, it almost hurts. I have never seen anything like it. In the film, a playhouse puts
on “Romeo and Juliet” after a wager that a play cannot show true love. Shakespeare i in Love gets closer
to romantic love on the screen than any other movie I have seen.

3. Dark City- The Truman Show got a lot of critical praise this year, but the critics seemed to
discount Dark City as a weak movie for comic book readers. In truth; Dark City is much better than The
Truman Show in many ways, even though the two movies deal with very similar ideas. A man wakes

up in the bathtub and gets a call almost immediately; “You are confused, aren’t you, frightened...you ©

have lost your memory...there are people coming for you. You must not let them find you. You must
leave now,” the caller says. He hangs up, and the confused man then finds a dead body on the floor. The
movie grabs you with this dialogue from the beginning, and keeps you guessing until the end. Visually,
it is as amazing as anything I have seen. Dark City is a whole new world where nothing makes sense,

and much of ‘it is masterfully based on Rene Magrite’s art. Revelations come periodically until the
climax when all is explained. The climax is one of the best ever filmed. Dark City is the years most
exciting and complicated movie.

4. Pleasantville- First of all, Pleasantville would make a good silent movie. The contrast of color
on black and white is astounding for the majority of the film. I could lean back witha nice classical score
on and be completely content. But everything about the movie is right: the acting, directing, editing,

‘and Randy Newman’s score. Much like Dark City, Pleasantville creates a different world and has lots

of surprises up its sleeve. The movie is a victim of getting compared to The Truman Show, but itis much

. more enjoyable, optimistic, and interesting. Joan Allen, as the 50’s mother, turns in an Oscar caliber
performance. And those visuals...

5. The Spanish Prisoner- Here is yet another movie with lots of twists and turns, but also a stellar

DRAMATIC performance by Steve Martin. For some reason, the title reminds me of The English

. Patient, but the two movies could not be more different. It does not take place in Spain, and there are

no prisoners, at least in the legal sense. Basically, the movie is a complicated mix of The Game and The

Usual Suspects. The screenplay is intelligent and the direction is taut. The best part about it is the almost

unbearable, subtle suspense that runs throughout. I found myself asking, “What’s going to happen

Maya Ceramics Exhibition

now,” and, “Oh my God,” at every turn. It holds you in its hypnotic grip and won’t let go. And like The
Usual Suspects, the last line is great.

6. Life is Beautiful- When I was told I was being taken to a comedy with the Holocaust as the
background, I was less than enthusiastic. But this Italian (yes, it has subtitles, but they do not diminish
the enjoyment) story is so touching and good- hearted that it is hard not to see beauty init. A Jewish father
and his family are taken away to a concentration camp, and the man’s son is hungry and worried and
wants to leave. The father, not wanting to reveal the horrors that surround them, makes the child believe
that he is ina game. He does everything in his power to make the Holocaust fun for his child. Roberto
Benigni (writer, director, lead) is magical on the screen and can be compared to Charlie Chaplin in this
performance. And the Italian makes it better.

7. Happiness- Not for the fainthearted. This is the blackest of black comedies, dealing with
pedophilia, among other such sexually deviant activities. But it is more than that. The brutal honesty
with which this story is told is its appeal. Many scenes are hard to watch, but we are spared the worst.
It is the most critically acclaimed movie of the year, and even though it is rated NC-17, it did better than
expected at the box office. I wouldn’t recommend this to everyone, but for people who liked Todd
Solondz’s first movie, “Welcome to the Dollhouse,” his second is better, more challenging, and
perplexing. If you don’t like it, at least you will have lots to talk about. I promise you that much.

8. The Opposite of Sex- Lisa Kudrow and Christina Ricci deserve some sort of medal for their well
delivered lines in this movie. Opposite is a very different movie and is also dark in its comedy, but it
is light compared to Happiness. The screenplay is my pick for the Oscar.

9. Return to Paradise- For its intelligence and great handling of tough issues, Return to Paradise
is the best movie of its kind since Dead Man Walking. Three guys have too much hash on a foreign island,
and two leave the country while the third plans to leave later. The police catch the one remaining man,
and he is sentenced to death, unless the other two men come back to the country and serve their time as
well, in one of the worst prisons in the world. It is a great philosophical movie.

10. A Simple Plan- A dramatic-action movie, a lot like Fargo without the comedy. But I think that
more people would like A Simple Plan because it is not as offbeat, and it is more mainstream. Three men
find over four million dollars in the snow and decide to keep it, setting off lots of problems. The ending
is great.

Let me plug one more great movie. Gods and Monsters, for its flawless performances and difficult
complexity, is a good show. It is a fictional account of the life of the director of Frankenstein.

Now for my worst 5. It is hard to say too much about these, so I will quote some of my favorite
reviews that I agree with 100%, but I have to make my own comment about the worst:

1. Armageddon- Please. Can I see ONE MORE shot of the American Flag. And, oh yeah, am
I supposed to cry now, or be excited. Not that it really matters, because whatever I am doing now, I will
be doing the opposite in a split second. So contrived and manipulative.

2. I Still Know What You Did Last Summer- “Ah, some things never change. Chief among them:
the out-and-out stupidity with which knock off slasher flicks like this. are mindlessly thrown together,”
-Larry Worth, The New York Post

3. Patch Adams-. “This movie is shameless. It’s not merely a tearjerker. It extracts tears
individually by liposuction, without anesthesia,” -Roger Ebert, The Chicago Sun-Times

4. Dirty Work- “If you thought the Asian economy was bad, try assessing the state of film comedy
on the basis of Dirty Work. Phrases like terminally stupid and brain dead leap readily to mind,” -
Lawrence van Gelder, The New York Times

"5. 54- “Flat, logy, and amateurish—a Scotch-tape-and-balsa-wood job that takes us into the fabled °
nightclub and then strands us, through sheer ineptitude, on the sidelines,” -Owen Gleiberman,
Entertainment Weekly

There you have it. Watching movies is my hobby, my obsession. I love them, and I hope that you will
see some of these great examples of the art form, and skip the awful ones.

Opens at Davidson College

By Racuet CockRILL
College Communications
_ The William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at

creator (many of whom were lesser nobility), its
contents, its owner, and its place of origin.
The exhibit also provides additional back-

Davidson College will host an exhibit of Maya ground Ane
pottery January 21 through March 19. formation
“Table to Tomb: Ancient Maya Ceramic by means
Masterpieces from the Collection of the Mint of informa-
Museum of Art” will feature over 40 ancient tional pan-
Maya ceramic vessels dating from the Classic els. Topics
Period, A.D. 300-800, many never before exhib- _include the
ited. All of these pieces, which come fromthe = US® of
collection of the Mint Museum of Charlotte, chemical
were created in ancient Maya workshops in the analysis to
southern lowlands of Guatemala, Belize and identify the
Mexico, and are painted with images of impor- Source and
tant rituals, deities and everyday life. manufac-
The “Tableto Tomb” exhibit, co-curatedby ture tech-
Michael Whittington, curator of Pre-Columbian = "Ques of
artat the Mint, and William M. Ringle, professor @nc1ent
of anthropology at Davidson, presents ancient Pottery.
Maya polychrome pots not only as notable ar- Others de-
chaeological artifacts, but also as clues to a so- scribe the
phisticated aesthetic and intellectual cultural tra- Maya
dition. The study of these pieces revealsacom- [© 4 l m,
plex story behind their manufacture and use, and Maya writ-
the cultures that created them. ing, the
Since the wet tropical climate long ago Maya cal-
eroded most of the civilization’s muralsandallof ©" dar,
its painted books, these ceramics yield unique Problems
insights on Mayaculture and religion. Scenes on of archaeo-
the pots depict tribute presentations, human sac- logica 1
tifice, wildlife, biographies of underworld gods looti ng,
and goddesses, and daily palace life. Some and ethical
images are accompanied by hieroglyphic texts. _'Ssues SUF
rounding

- The writing often records the type of vessel,] its

the sale of such priceless pieces of history.
The exhibit is on display at Davidson's
Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center, and

cludes a catalog of exhibit pieces, images of the
ceramics, textual interpretations of their signifi-
cance, and links to the other sites of related

i n interest. The address for the site is:
‘Obayae «= www.davidson.edu/academic/anthropology/
on the — tbl2tomb/tbl2tomb.htm or follow the link on
associ-  Davidson’s News and Events page.
ated This unique exhibition has been a collabora-
web __ tive effort between the Mint Museum and many .
site. A people in the Davidson community. “The help we
com-__ received has been tremendous,” said Perry L.
puterat Nesbitt, Davidson’s gallery director. ‘Anthro-
the ex- _ pology students assisted in the exhibition re-
hibit search. Several offices on campus provided fund-
will ingandthecollege’s carpentry shop built many of
pro-__ the display cases. The campus really worked
vide together to create this exhibition.”
addi- This exhibition has been supported in part
tional — with funds from the North Carolina Humanities
infor- Commission, A state agency, and the Davidson
ma - __ College Office of Academic Affairs, the Dean -
tion. . Rusk Program, the Van Every/Smith Galleries
T he andthe Department of Anthropology at Davidson
general College.
public “Table to Tomb; Ancient Maya Ceramic
canac- Masterpieces from the Collection of the Mint
cess it | Museum of Art” is free and open to the public in
at any - the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery of the
time Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center at ’
from __ Davidson College. Gallery hours are weekdays
home 10-6 and weekends 12-4. For additional informa-
com- _ _ tion, or to arrange a tour for your group or class,
puters. _ please call (704)892-2519 or (704)892-2344 or
The. email the gallery’s director at
College Ponimunications ie in- _ penesbit@davidson.edu.
