THE DAVIDSONIAN

Props from Seventeen

Did anyone else see the ink that Davidson got in the July 1999 issue of Seventeen? Call up your
younger sister and ask her to sift through her personal magazine stash for you, and hopefully she'll be
able to find it — it’s on page 62. This article, as my friend Bob would say, “must be seen to be*
disbelieved.”

Perhaps Seventeen’s “Focus On” Davidson College came as a direct result of Davidson’s
marketing initiative, of which we’ve so recently become aware. This column wasn’t the only
documentable exposure that Davidson has received in this adolescent journal. A November 1985
spotlight on “12 best college buys” lists Davidson, quite surprisingly, at #12. A comparison of the 1985
blurb with its 1999 counterpart probably reveals more about the evolution of teen magazine journalism
than about Davidson, although the older one reveals some fascinating facts and figures that have been
brushed under the carpet since the Reagan Administration. “A big endowment.and loyal alumni keep
tuition, room, and board under $10,000.” Ten thousand dollars!?!?!? You can be sure this past July’s
spotlight made no proud mention of Davidson’s virtually $30,000 pricetag.

The 1985 column begins by asking, “What do you get if you combine northern academic rigor with
southern charm? If you answered, ‘Davidson College,’ you obviously know your stuff.” Fourteen
years later, it reads, “If you want to get a stellar education and learn how to get in touch with your

’ spiritual side, Davidson might be the place for you.” It hurts me to say so, but the more antiquated ’85
blanket statement wins more accuracy points than the latter. The fact that Davidson requires all students
to take at least one religion course does not necessarily imply that Davidson is “big” on students finding
their spiritual side. I can’t imagine ever being compelled to make such an assertion about Davidson

~ not because the college doesn’t care about the spiritual welfare of its students, but because Davidson
students more often find their “spiritual sides” in imbibing a case of Stroh’s than in studying sacred
texts. How did Seventeen come to such a conclusion that the two central components of Davidson’ s
essence were getting |.) a stellar education, and 2.) in touch with one’s spiritual side? I invite anyone
to argue that Seventeen’s rendition of Davidson is accurate, for I would like to think that it is. Given
available evidence, however, I cannot blindly take Seventeen’s word as fact.

Unlike the 1985 column, the 1999 feature makes no mention of the honor code or our formerly
all-male status. It also says nothing about being highly selective, or having produced 22 Rhodes
Scholars since 1837, or our ranking in U.S News and World Report. Seventeen editors know what 17-
year-olds really want to know about colleges.

“You might think of college as a place where you can saunter into class wearing almost anything,”
July’s article reads, “but that’s not the case here. Students refer to Davidson as a J. Crew campus.”
Although khakis are pervasive enough, there are several black t-shirt-wearing quasi-goth-oriented-
hippie types running around, if you look hard enough. I know this doesn’t make Davidson diverse —
not hardly. Even if Seventeen misses the mark in other areas, I give it credit for not stretching the truth
about our diversity, or the lack thereof. ‘...If you’re looking for diversity, you’re not going to find it
here. Almost 85 percent of the student body is white.”

The article makes a few more key assertions — that Davidson students are “close-knit”
(debatable), that we don’t use Charlotte’s resources as often as people might think, that frats and eating
houses throw “huge parties” on weekends, “and a// are invited.” Our other leisure activities (none of
which I’ve ever participated in) apparently include hitting Charlotte's Club 2000, jet-skiing, and
playing volleyball at Lake Norman. Jet-skiing. Actually, I have recently been informed that there are
more jet-skiiers per capita at Davidson than you'll find at your average liberal arts college. Still, how
can you list jet-skiing and not frisbee golf?

“An independent college, Davidson was founded by Presbyterians, and those ties are still visible
today.” Seventeen speaks the truth here — just ask any given professor.

Regarding our eating options, “[s]tudents. . . like to eat at Davidson’s dining hall, The Commons,
where they can make their own waffles.” I haven’t had a Commons waffle since my freshman year;
maybe I should start again. I just noticed this weekend that they’ ve invested in a couple of brand new
Belgian waffle irons. This plus the Thursday morning doughnuts might be reason enough to start doing
breakfast there more often.

Being a Davidson student, it’s easy — probably too easy — to poke fun at any outside attempts
to describe the college. I can only assume that Seventeen set out to compose a realistic yet flattering
piece on Davidson, and if that meant stretching the truth here and there, or making generalizations out
of one person’s testimony, then so be it. If and when Davidson receives a few applicants as a result of
this article, I only hope it’s not because they’re looking for a spiritually sensitive, “séancy” environ-
ment, replete with jet-skiing and waffle-making enthusiasts. If they are, they'll be so disappointed.

WOES

-MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

mortar, stone and tension, stretching
mighty ebbs collapsing

linearity colliding

destination—

traversing

self

Cause You Gotta Have

- to express our desire for mutual strength and pro-
tection. Similarly, my head briefly bows before a
meal and reveals my secret beliefs; eliminating
these expressions of private importance would be
unnatural. Entrenched in Christianity, American
history explains our present-day green photographs
of dead presidents E Pluribus Unum-ing and the
National Pledge of Allegiance’s line “One nation,
under God.” Darn those Framers, mixing religion

rom the days I craned my neck and stood

tiptoed to see the minister, I have searched

in my faith. Faith is a funny thing—the
related labels extend even where there is no faith.
But between worshipping the porcelain god, as
Mr. Heroy and Mr. Stroupe mentioned last issue,
lay moments of desperation and grief, of looming
reviews and hurricane evacuations that require
strength beyond the self.

I attended my family’s church until high
school. It made my parents proud; I was a good
kid. But their church wasn’t the right fit for me.
My parents didn’t understand for a long time after
I left. They ask me these days whether I’ ve found
what I seek; I grow closer, but I never expect to
stop looking.

We talk about faith at home, but almost
never at school. Replanting our worldly belong-
ings here in August, Davidson’s red-bricked arms
encircle us; the campus becomes our home, our
roommates and friends family. Why isn’t faith
discussed frequently at home with our Davidson
family? Spirituality refuses to hide under the rug
that needs vacuuming, the moldy refrigerator, or
the dirty laundry; voiced or not, outward actions
speak for a silent, unacknowledged inner spirit.
My team prays before every game, and yes, we
pray to God with a capital G, This prayer is not an
attempt to’exclude anyone, but the very real need

up in everything. Education’s inclusion of spiritu-
ality parallels America’s relationship with Chris-
tianity: the natural outcome of two overlapping
concepts results in a partnership between them, as
separately neither fully exists.

Bobby explains in the Summer 1999 Davidson
Journal:

“Spirituality is a component about which we
need to be as deliberate with students as we are
about their classroom learning. For us to let them
come and leave this campus without plumbing the
richness of their spiritual beliefs would be acrime.”

The Big Cat compares a spiritually unaware
campus toa punishable offense. Our leader speaks:
an intentional exploration beckons this commu-
nity. Spirituality will rise from the ashes of taboos,
embarrassed silences, and indifference.

Kristen Taylor ’01

Classifieds

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS
SEEKING PAID TUTORS :
THE.AVID PROGRAM
{ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)
aN

AVIDis «ee wee

i

\ achieving students in
| grades 6-12 for four-
year college
j and university
entry and
j———___ SUCCESS.

! \ to prepare middle

if you are enrolled at a college of university. in good standing and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a
Candidate: for this position.

You must be?
Enrolied in a college or university with good academic standings
Adie to work in a supportive manner with middie level and high schoo! students and teachers
Willing to confer with teachers reguiany about students’ progress :
Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one ciass period during the schoo! day
Willing to receive three nours raining in the AVID teaching
An excellent role mode! for motivated, organized and successful students
academic background

gagsaes

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $17.50 per hour
For additional ir

1. please complete and return to the following:

Schools
AVI Office
700 East Stonewall Sreet Suite S06
Cnariotte, North Carolina 28202
(704) 343-6975

PrP Iris iriiriiiiiiiiiiiiy)
POTENTIAL AVID

¥ (Personal information)

