14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

For the overwhelming majority of athletes at
Davidson College, graduation marks the end of
the line. Their Senior Day marks the final
time these gifted men and women will don
a uniform and take to their respective
fields, courts, courses, pool lanes, and
diamonds. a

But for a very lucky few, the dream
continues into the arena of professional
athletics. That exclusive and celebrated
ist from the Class of 1998 includes the
likes of Billy Armstrong and Mark
Donnelly—Wildcat basketball greats who
have taken their games to Belgium and
Italy, respectively. And that list includes
another name, the name of Brad Preston.

Unlike’ Armstrong and Donnelly,
Preston was not a recruited athlete out of
high school. He never received a single
scholarship dollar from the College. But
he is today earning a full-time living as a
New Jersey Devil. Actually, notsas a New
Jersey Devil, as the New Jersey Devil.

After entertaining thousands of
Davidson football and basketball fans as
the Wildcat mascot, Preston now earns his

cheerleading squad at Davidson in the fall of his
freshman year. “In the back of my head when I was
alittle kid at games,” recalls the popular Davidson
alum, “I always thought it would seem like fun.
The possibility of being the mascot here excited

SPORTS

participant in W.A.L.T. and the Big Buddies pro-
gram. But it was performing as a mascot that
captured his heart, “I was happier doing that when
I was on campus than when I was doing anything
else.”

Photo courtesy of New Jersey Devil:

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999 -

98 srad Brad Preston goes pro

Another incident, Preston recalls with mixed feel-
ings. “I can’t really say I’m proud of this one,” he
says with an embarrassed laugh. He goes on to tell
the story of “the brawl” against the UNC-Char-
lotte 49" mascot. Though the 49° was a casual
friendly acquaintance of Brad’s, the
two engaged in an epic scuffle during
one of the games for the “Hornet’s Nest
Trophy.”

“It was a UNC-C time-out-
during the second half, and he came out
with a little horse head on a stick and
started riding it around,” recalled Brad.
“I ran up behind him and pulled the
horse away from him, and just kind of
held it at arm’s length to taunt him. I
figured I'd hold on to it until the end of
the time-out. I still thought we were
joking around and the next thing I knew
he hit me, and knocked my mascot head
sideways.

“T couldn’t see anything, it
was dark in there. And I'll be honest, I
got nervous,” Brad admitted. “I was out
on the floor, couldn’t see, and their pep
band was closed in around me. He was
pushing me and it felt physical, it felt as
if he wasn’t kidding. So. I hit him once
just to kind of get him off of me, and he

dollars skating around the rink of Conti-
nental Airlines Arena inside the jocular

caricature of the New Jersey Devils’ mascot.
Preston was recruited by Jeanette Scire’s

¢ Brad Preston in character on the sideline of

me.

Preston took over as the full-time mascot for
football and men’s and
women’s basketball after the
fall of his freshman year.
Immediately, he experienced
the thrill of Division I athlet-
ics. “The first basketball
game I ever did here sticks
out a lot in my memory, it
was against Wake Forest at
Belk Arena.” In that game,
Preston saw future NBA star
Tim Duncan compete in front
of nearly 6000 Wildcat fans.

Other high points
ofhis careerin Davidson ath-
letics. included a trip to
Hamilton, Bermuda to cheer
on the 1994 Wildcat football
squad as they toppled
Sewanee 28-14, and a trip to
the NCAA Tournament with
the 1997-98 men’s basket-
ball team. Head men’s bas-
ketball coach Bob McKillop
recalled with a chuckle,
“Brad was such an integral
part of ourteam that year...he
was our sixth man out on the
floor.” In amore serious tone,
the coach: continued, “The
guys really did respect Brad
and the job he did each and
every night.”

A sociology major,
Brad.kept active outside the
sphere of athletics, too, as a

the ‘Cats victory over Sewanee in Bermuda.

Looking for Summer
Employment-—

Best Foods is looking for a reliable, hard
working person to run releif routes for
distrubutors in the Charlotte Lake Norman
area this summer. Compensation package
including training approxoximately $4,000
for 12 weeks of work.

info. 663-2665.

Call PETE for more

After his freshman year, Preston attended a
summer mascot camp with Davidson’s
cheerleading squad. There he met mascots from
schools such as Georgetown, Virginia Tech, and
the University of North Carolina, and began to
realize that he could keep up with the “big time”
mascots. “You start to realize that the world is alot
smaller than you think, and just because I’m at a
small school doesn’t mean that [big time mascots]
have anything that I don’t have.”

Preston’s career, though illustrious, was not
without some embarrassing moments. He recalls
the foremost of them from his senior year, “I was
doing the Domino’s pizza give-a-way during a
time-out. I was going from section to section and
holding the pizza out to tease them, and. then
pulling it back.

“Theld it out at one section, and then quickly
pulled it back. As I turned to run toward the next
section, the box felt lighter. I didn’t get to see it, but
the people who saw it said the pizza slid out and
flipped in the air end-over-end, staying in tact,
until it landed on the stairs.

“Some freshmen came and actually asked me
for the pizza, I think they ate it. The cheerleaders
gave me a hard time for, well, about two months.”

hit me back, and it was on.

“It was for real, the police
came over and broke it up. I thought I was going to
get arrested. I really did worry about that after-
wards, I knew that I had let down Jeanette and I
shouldn’t have gotten into that kind of thing.”

But once tempers cooled, all sides couldn’t
help but laugh at the memory of the historic
heavyweight bout between the Wildcat.and the
49". Brad’s career survived the ensuing contro-
versy after the brawl, and he finished his Davidson
career in a Wildcat uniform before going on to his
new job as the New Jersey Devil.

“It’s not something I want to do for my whole
life. I hear that people burn out, but I think people
burn out from anything if they’re not having fun.
I’m thrilled to have the job with the Devils, and I'd
love to do it as long as I can.”

His professional career has come with some
exciting perks, among them meeting New Jersey
Nets star Jason Williams. But far more meaningful
to Brad is his ability to continue in the tradition of
service instilled in him at Davidson.

“I love doing the hospital visits,” says Brad
with a smile. “Four of the players from the Devils
and I go to visit sick children. It’s such a fulfilling
part of the job, it’s really why you do the job.”

“Brad not only portrayed Mr. Cat physically...

he helped develop

a Wildcat personality all its’ own. I know it is going to be difficult
to fill his shoes or should I say “Paws” but surely there is someone
on campus that would really like the opportunity to bring Mr. Cat

into the next century.”

—Cheerleading Coach Jeanette Scire

Okay all of you avid frisbee players out there on Davidson’s vast
campus. Here is what you have been waiting for: the tournament to end all
tournaments. Most of you may have never played in a tournament—but it
will be a blast. The answers to most, if not all, of your questions shall be
appearing here in the Davidsonian each week leading up to the tournament.

When: April 24, 9:00 am to the end of the tournament (hopefully

- before sundown)

What: A 4-on-4 frisbee tournament with five on each team (one

substitute)

‘on the IMAC fields

Why:

to do Anynayt, 4

Who: _ Any Davidson student, faculty, staff, and alumni

‘Why not? It is SDERE 8 ant you won’t have e anything better

