Stop vandalizing the trails

his past weekend, someone vandalized

the Davidson College cross country trails

by pulling all of the posts with direc-

tional arrows and the college’s green
“Private Property” signs out of the ground. Addi-
tionally, all of the white posts with directional
arrows were cut in half, most likely with an ax.
Most of the signs and destroyed posts were left to
the side of the trails, with one on the back, men’s
loop strewn across the

and track and field coaches, vandalism puts an
enormous financial and time-consuming burden
on these coaches who end up repairing the dam-
age. Moreover, the cross country and track and
field teams are already limited for practice facili-
ties—they share the field hockey and. practice
football fields with those respective teams as the
new track is under construction on Richardson
field—and they cannot afford to lose the trails to

vandals as another practice fa-

trail approximately 200
meters fromthe women’s
two mile: marker. Most
likely, the vandalism oc-
curred late Saturday night

Now, the trails attributes are
temporarily ruined not only
by Duke Power’s annual

cility option.

It is frightening that anyone.
would consciously commit a
premeditated act of random vio-
lence and destruction by van-
dalizing the signs on the cross
country trails. It is even more
frightening that the perpetra-
tors of this crime were probably
a group of intoxicated Davidson

orearlySundaymoming. ynderbrush cutting, but by
Asa four-yearmem- °

ber of the Davidson Col. the senseless vandalism of

lege women’s cross coun- the Signs and arrow posts.

try team, Iam deeply sad-

dened and angered by the

vandalism on the trails.
Hundreds of Davidson athletes, coaches, other
students, faculty, staff, and local residents regu-
larly run, bike, or walk on the trails for exercise
and recreation. Normally, the trails are a place of
scenic, natural beauty and a stress-relieving refuge
for those seeking to escape the rigors of college
life without leaving campus. Now, the trails’
attributes are temporarily ruined not only by Duke
Power’s annual underbrush cutting,-but by the
senseless vandalism of the signs and arrow posts.
The white sign posts were newly constructed
and painted before this school year’s cross country
season because they were old and needed to be
replaced in preparation for the college’s hosting of
this year’s Southern Conference Cross Country
Championships. Since the cross country trails are
almost entirely maintained by the cross country

males who, knowing the exact
locations of all of the signs,
would go out on the trails at night with axes or
sledgehammers and vandalize a varsity sports
team’s practice and racing facility. This incident
is more than a college prank; it is a serious crime.

I implore the campus police to regularly
patrol the cross country trails in order to protect the
safety of the people using them and to prevent any
further or future vandalism on the trails. Addition-
ally, anyone having information regarding the
vandalism should contact the cross country and
track and field coaches and the police, because this
crime should not go unpunished. Meanwhile,
keep your cars, shovels, sledgehammers, and axes
off the cross country trails; they don’t belong
there.

Laura Wolfrom ’99

have a new pet peeve. Maybe it’s not explic-
itly in the Honor Code, but I just know it’s in
there somewhere. Thrice in the past two
weeks have I gone to
the library to doresearch. Two

Check it out

TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1999

discover possible books on the computer, I hur-
riedly write down the Dewey Decimal number and
rush to grab the books [have so painstakingly found
through my extensive searches.
Imagine my chagrin when the

large research papers loom
before me this month, and
frankly the thought frightens
me more than a little; so I
have packed my trusty book-
bag and trekked off to the
library. Ready to roll up my
sleeves and dig in to the pa-
pers, I diligently situate my-
self in front of aCHAL com-
puter and begin browsing
through the electronic index.
After coming up with no hits,

the word

For the sake of the Honor
Code, have the courtesy to
check your books out - do
not abscond with them to
your carrel. I get a small
thrill when I actually see
‘Available’
underneath the book Ineed
on the computer screen.

~ book is not in its rightful place.
Now this is a small school and
an even smaller library. Idon’t
want to search all the carrels to
find the book I need, but I
WILL do it out of sheer des-
peration.
For the sake of the
Honor Code, have the courtesy
to check your books out—do
not abscond with them to your
carrel. I get a small thrill when
I actually see the word ‘Avail-

the computer’s equivalent of
“try a new topic, moron” I
finally uncover a topic with possibilities, or at least
some potential. I’m not knocking our library—for a
school with a student body of 1788, I think it’s
almost adequate. But frankly, I don’t always have
the time to do inter-library loans for papers and
presentations, due to the fact that our library may
have one book on a topic for which I need seven.

But that’s not my pet peeve. When I finally

able’ underneath the book I
need on the computer screen.
To then not find it on the shelf, because OF COURSE
it must be in the library as there are no sensors on the
doors (Honor Code), is incredibly frustrating. So all
of you book thieves out there, you had’better change
your errant ways-I want my books, and no carrel is
safe in the meantime.

Kristen Taylor ’01

You can learn a

wake up late every day. It doesn’t matter
what time I go to bed because inevitably I
wake up late. Something about sleep just
stimulates my neurons, and I seem to dream
well. I walk across a campus to visit an old friend.
She seems to always have my sausage patty well
heated and my biscuits soft and flaky—those bis-

cuits are to die for. A mixture of coffee, cocoa, and «

hazelnut jazz and my first thoughts are upon me.
I stumble into mid-morning sunlight and

notice something to

my left. “Deja vu

lot from bricks

better in brick, and maybe even that path over
there, | think it needs more brick. You ask your
friends and all agree that brick is cheaper-and it
costs only five percent more than wood. Brick
lasts longer, too. A wooden road would be inter-
esting, but rather impractical and splinters hurt
like hell. Back to the bricks.
Bricks represent the movement through life.
One more brick stacked onto the template of life is
analogous to the movement through life. As
society, your parents, and
this school stress, the move-

again,” I mutter to
myself. Well, maybe
not deja vu, because
that sixty-year old fat
man lounging half-na-
ked in a lawn chair
with the Diet Moun-
tain Dew has been
there all week. “What
is he doing?” I ask
myself half-inquisi-
tive, half-jealous.
Maybe you have
noticed him, too. He
looks at the bricks all
day long in the beauti-

and more

Life, in a way, is like Davidson
College’s bricklaying. You must
keep attaining; higher and higher
and
accomplishments
credentials. You think you have
gotten it all taken care of, you
think everything is in place and
that nothing else needs to be
changed. ... But halt, there are
a lot of bricks yet to be laid!

ment up the social ladder
into the higher echelon of
economic stability and free-
dom determines your suc-
cess. Maybe you agree with
my stereotype or maybe not.
I don’t care, regardless.
Next time you step
outside and see the edifices
and structures of bricks,
think of my analogy. Is
your direction fulfilling, is
it your soul? Is what you
are doing enjoyable to the
very last drop, or have you
caught a ride on your

more
and

ful Carolina sun. He
looks at bricks all day
so I guess he must be the supervisor. Boy, would
I like to have that job. I bet he says stuff like,
“Move that one here,” and “That’s a bit much
adhesive compound. Lighten the load, soldier.”
He probably has some great stories to tell about
life. I think I might go talk to him.

Speaking of bricks, I think I may have
stumbled on to something. Life, in a way, is like
Davidson College’s bricklaying. You must keep
attaining; higher and higher and more and more
accomplishments and credentials. You think you
have gotten it all taken care of, you think every-
thing is in place and that nothing else needs to be
changed. .

But halt, there are a lot of bricks yet to be laid!
' Shee-it, we could cover the campus in brick.
Wouldn’t that perfectly nice road yonder look

parent’s bandwagon? Do
you want to stack another
brick on the curve ball of life, or do you want to
ride the curve ball? I don’t think a lot of us live.
Replace that brick with mashed potatoes. There’s
plenty left overin the KA kitchen, but just imagine
how much fun walking on a road of mashed
potatoes would be!

Life ain’t all that complicated, but we have
mastered a way of complicating it, We have a way
of pissing ourselves- off, of creating stress and
misery. It doesn’t have to be that way. Don’t read
that boring History book; read a book you enjoy
and from which you will truly learn. It doesn’t
matter what you are going to be in life as long as
you are participating in it fully, Walk around the

bricks and tear up the grass. Spit on yourself and

laugh. Make your own path!

Chris Murray’ 01

BEF ORG te aces

