THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

Body

Depression: Have you noticed it?

By Ep DicGins AND YOLANDA Kirsy
Student Health Advisors

As health advisors, we are expected to in-
form the student body of important health issues.
Weare also an option of support, in addition to our
wonderful counseling center. In this respect, we
are often called upon for personal, informal coun-
seling sessions with other students. Here is an
example of one such happening.

Earlier this week, we Health Advisors had
our weekly meeting, during which I was informed
that it was my turn to write the article. Fear
immediately seized me as I began to consider
possible topics to write about. In search of atopic,
I wandered around campus looking for something
worth writing about. Unfortunately, our campus
didn’t seem to motivate me much, so I decided to
head for the Union and cheer myself up with a
steaming cup of Starbucks pre-brewed coffee. On
the way, I noticed some signs advertising the
National Depression Screening Day Thursday
October 7. Depression seemed to fit my feelings
about writing this article, so I figured why not
write about something I know. I thought it appro-
priate to focus on the signs of depression, but then
what would I say? Maybe I could get some help
from other students. So I continued on my path to
the Union, trying to stage the depressed student.
In the Union, I was surprised by some of the
comments I received from passers-by.

“Lighten up, Yo!” someone said while pat-
ting me on the back.

“Why can’t she just be normal?” I heard
someone mutter.

“Get a life, loser,’ a couple yelled as |
slumped pass.their booth,

Now I really was frustrated because I still
had nothing to write, and the world seemed to be
turning against me. So I got my steaming cup of
Starbucks pre-brewed and sat outside the Union,
being annoyed by all of the seemingly happy
people walking around with no work to do. After
a while, I ran into Ed: Diggins, an old friend and
ex-health advisor. I decided to share my problem
with him and see what help he might give.

“Looky here Yolanda, you gotta either [exple-
tive] or get off the pot. You have [expletive] to do,

[have [expletive] to do, we all have [expletive] to.

do. So don’t come [expletiving] to me cause you
can’t hang, okay?” And with that he walked off.

“Hey Ed,” I called after him sensing that
maybe he had a problem bigger than mine.

“You think you:have problem!” he shouted.
I sat back down sensing a possible end to my
article topic search. “What's wrong with you?” I
posed.

“This school sucks,” he responded half-
heartedly.

“Oh, is it really that bad? What seems to be
the problem?”

He sat down next to me, chugged at his own
hot mug of pre-brewed and began. “Nothing’s
goin’ right,” he said. “I just got a paper back and

scrawled across it was the biggest, reddest “D”
I’ve ever seen. On top of that, I haven’t had a
decent meal in two days because of this stupid
paper. Sleep — sleep is non-existent, and I don’t
see that changing since I have two more papers and
an exam due this week. I just don’t want to be here
or anywhere else anymore”.

“You're right, that does sound like a heavy
load. Have you talked to anyone about this? Are
you close to your roommate?” I asked.

“My roommate!! David isn’t helping atall. I
told him about all the work I had to do, and he told
me that I whine too much. [asked him to help me
study, and he asked if I had PMS!! [really knew
I was worthless when he told me that life’s not fair
and I need to get a hobby or something.”

“Sounds like you might benefit from a trip to
the counseling center for a confidential meeting.
As a matter of fact, did you know that there is a
Depression Screening happening at the Union
next Thursday, October 7?” Ed kind of listened
for a minute longer and then excused himself.

I didn’t realize that depression would show
its ugly face at Davidson like that. The occurrence
of depression amongst college students is actually
rather high. The National Institute of Mental
Health, estimated 17 million adult Americans suf-
fer from depression during any one year period.
Depression is often mistaken for occasional sad-
ness, which] am sure we have all experienced here
at Davidson. The difference is sadness usually
doesn’t last long, whereas one sign of depression
is when sadness lasts more than two weeks. Some
other telling signs of depression are changed sleep-
ing patterns (this may be hard to identify in a
Davidson student, especially around the time of
finals), speaking or moving unusually slowly or
quickly, fatigue and loss of energy, feelings of
worthlessness, and thoughts of death. Some
people who suffer from depression stop participat-
ing in activities they used to enjoy. Others blame
themselves for these feelings of hopelessness;
some experience thoughts of death and suicide.

If you notice these things in a friend or
yourself, the best thing to do is talk to somebody
about it. Depression has biological and psycho-
logical components, and seeking help will help
identify these symptoms properly. As I mentioned
before, the Health center is a great place to go. The
worst thing you could do is assume that the situa-
tion will take care of itself. Depression can be a
scary situation but it can be treated successfully if
you seek professional help. I would encourage
everyone to take the depression screening test this
week. It can be taken in the Davidsonian, on the
Web, at the Student Health Center, or at a table in
the Union.

For those interested in more depression read-
ing material, there are pamphlets available in the
health center and numerous sites on the web(afew
good ones are listed below).

@ www.something-fishy.com
@ www.blarg.net
@ www.psycom.net/depression.central.sites.himl

dents, and free for members

Chihuly exhibit at the Mint Museum

10am-9pm and Sunday 12-5pm. For information
or programs at either Mint Museum, call anytime
at (704) 337-2000.

Continued from previous page

before moving back to the Pacific Northwest a
decade later to pursue glass production full time.

Glasswork tra-
ditionally has been
conceived by a de-
signer, and then fab-
ricated' by a master
craftsman. The stu-
dio glass movement
changed that by al-. _
lowing the artist to
work directly with
the material.
Chihuly works with
a team of highly
skilled glass blow-
ers, but no longer
blows glass himself
as he lost depth per-
ception in an auto ac-
cident in 1976.

“When I was
the gaffer, I had must
less control than I do
remarked
Chihuly. “I compare
my role to that of a
film director. Hav-
ing the best camera-
man allows me to
move in and around
the set.”

“Lused to think
that it was the glass Pg
that was so mysteri- P me

j | © spark
ous, and then I dis- eel iy
covered that it was ;
the air that went into
itthat was so miracu-
lous,” state Chihuly. “I often
wonder how anyone ever
though of the idea of blowing
airinto molten glass. It doesn’t
work with any other mate-
rial.”

The majority of Dale
Chihuly: Installations will be
presented in the 6,000 square
feet of gallery space on the
second floor that housed both
the previous Harvey Littleton
and White House Craft exhibi-
Chihuly blown glass
will also be installed in other
public areas, including the
messanine and lobby.

The Mint Museum of
Craft + Design is located at
220 North Tryon Street, Char-
lotte, NC. Admission is $6
adults and $4 seniors and stu-

now,”

tions.

and children 12 years and un-
Hours are Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and
Saturday 10am-7pm; Friday

der.

On the Scene at Davipson COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Caffeine, all morning from 8:15 -
11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room

Faculty Art Exhibit. 10:00 a.m. - 6 p.m. all week
at the Belk Visual Arts Center. See works by Herb
Jackson, Russ Warren, and Cort Savage
William Tucker Exhibit. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all
week at the Belk Visual Arts Center

National Depression Screening Week. From
11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.

Stephanie Orringer. 1:00-3:00 p.m. inthe Home
Room.

Don Asher.
Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Ifthe coffeehouse isn't enough, we
have this! 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison

Harvard Divinity. 4:00 - 6:00
p.m. in Union Lobby.
Campus Center Ground-
breaking. 5:30 - 11:00 p.m.

Erwin Hinson Exhibit. College
Union Gallery.

FALL

"TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

"THURSDAY

FRIDAY

SUNDAY
MONDAY

SATURDAY

National Depression Screening Week con-
tinues.

Judy Goldman, Novelist. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in
900 Room.

Pecum Umani Theatre Group. 7:30 - 9:00
p.m. in Hodson Hall.

“Dead Man Walking.” Starts at 9:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

“Dead Man Walking.” Starts.at
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Don’t Forget about the art ex-
hibits at the VAC!

Break

