THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999 9.

Men’s hoops falls short in season opener

By Micuaet J. Kruse
The Wildcat Report

The men’s basketball team met a familiar
opponent here Tuesday night — the game’s final
four minutes.

Demonstrating a disturbing trend that plagued
the Wildcats throughout last year’s disappointing
16-11 season — an uncanny inability to come out
ontop in winnable games — coach Bob McKillop’s
troops squandered a 77-76 late-game lead in los-
ing 89-79 to Siena in the first round of the Pre-
season NIT at Pepsi Arena.

“This was a great effort,” McKillop said, “but
it was an unfinished performance.”

Rookie starter Wayne Bernard gave the Wild-
cats that precarious one-point advantage ona stop-
and-pop jumper from the foul line with 3:20 to go.
Afteran ensuing Davidson defensive stand, though,
Landry Kosmalski’s semi-breakaway layup was

blocked.

Saints’ sharp-shooter Isaiah Stewart used a
fortuitous rim-to-glass-to-hoop bounce in nailing
a go-ahead three-pointer from the top of the key
seconds later. Siena led the rest of the way, closing
on a 13-2 run.

McKillop called Stewart’s shot “the game’s
biggest momentum shift.”

To be honest, though, Davidson had already
exceeded expectations just by being in a position
to win. The Wildcats — talented but inexperi-
enced — entered the game as 10-point underdogs.
And Siena is a chic mid-major pick this season.
Coach Paul Hewitt’s Saints ranked No. 26 nation-
ally in Sports Illustrated’ s preseason rankings and
are currently getting votes in the Associated Press
and ESPN/USA Today polls.

Using its helter-skelter full-court press, Siena
forced 27 Wildcat turnovers. Davidson’s five
starters — Michael Bree, Davor Halbauer, Ber-

@ Sophomore transfer Fern Tonella has already become quite a

presence on the Wildcat hardwood, having already logged 37
_minutes in two games. Tonella and fellow guards Michael Bree and .

Wayne Bernard combined for 20 assists in the Wildcats’ win over

Guilford Saturday night.

Ides leads the way in Guilford win

Micuac_ J. KRUSE
The Wildcat Report

No fair.

Playing against Division II Guilford, a team
woefully undersized even for small-college com-
petition, sophomore 7-footer Martin Ides scored
the first eight points of the game in an 86-59
Wildcat rout Saturday night at Belk Arena.

“They were at a disadvantage,” the humble
Czech said. “I had the shots. So I didn’t think it
was anything special.”

Nothing special? In his first regular-season
start, Ides finished with 14 points, six rebounds,
and five blocks — all career bests. He played a
team-high 26 minutes,

The Wildcats jumped to an early 15-4 lead en
route toa 49-26 halftime margin. They coasted the

rest of the way.

Senior post man Stephen Marshall posted 17
points and seven rebounds, both team bests. Davor
Halbauer had 12 points, and Jeff Bergmann and
Brian Turner each added 11.

Young guards Michael Bree, Fern Tonella,
and Wayne Bernard combined for 20 assists. The
Wildcats also came up with 14 blocks and 19
steals.

“We were better tonight than we were yester-
day,” coach Bob McKillop said. “We're showing
progress. But we’re still rough on the edges.”

The Wildcats face D-III Haverford tonight.
Tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a
monthly newsletter that covers Davidson basket-
ball.

nard, Kosmalski, and Stephen Marshall — com-
bined for 22 of those.

Siena bult a 44-38 halftime lead and sat on a
five- to nine-point cushion for most of the first 10
minutes of the second half. Yet there the Wildcats
were — up a point at 7:30, 5:00, 4:53, and 3:20.

“There are a lot of positives'to be taken from
this game,” McKillop explained. “Wayne played
well in his first collegiate game, we hit our free
throws as a team, and a lot of guys had the
opportunity to contribute.”

After a pair of exhibition games in which he
averaged 29.5 points and 12.5 rebounds, Southern
Conference Player of the Year candidate Kosmalski
kicked off the regular season with 24 and 10. The
6-foot-7 forward also added six steals and three
assists in a 38-minute performance.

Fellow senior post player Stephen Marshall
came back from a nagging back injury to contrib-

ute 20 points and nine rebounds. Bernard was
steady with 12 points on 5-for-7 shooting from the
floor.

And sparkplug Brian Turner had a career-
high 11 points.

The Wildcats shot just 38.7 percent from the
field — but dominated at the free throw line with
a 27-of-32 showing. That kept it close.

“Davidson played exactly as expected them
to,” Hewitt said. “Bob McKillop is an excellent
coach. If you’ ve seen them play, you know one of
their trademarks is they play hard all the time.
They battle and they’re tough.”

All true. But just not quite tough enough
down the stretch.

Kruse is the editor of The Wildcat Report, a

monthly publication that covers Davidson men’s
basketball. ,

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

For almost 15 months Wildcat hoops fans
have been waiting for a breakout porenmance
from Martin Ides.

On Saturday night, Davidson’ s .7-foot-2
center delivered.’

The Czech cracked the Wildcat Starting
lineup for the first time in regular season play,
and made his presence felt immediately.

Ides won the opening tip over a hopelessly
dwarfed opponent, Guilford’s 6’5” Brad Cress,
and never looked back.

The sophomore darted down-court and ac-
cepted a feed from freshman Wayne Bernard.
Ides spun around and went strong to the basket
for his first two points of the contest.

The second time down the floor, Davidson’s

_ If it ain't broke, don’t fix it. Davidson went
to Martin again on their third possession, and the
Czech-er Wrecker dropped in a hook shot from
the baseline.

Martin Ides 6, Guilford 0.

As Davidson trekked down court for the
fourth time, Guilford coach Butch Estes’ bristled
the instant Ides received the ball. His worries
were well-founded—Ides proceeded to drop in

He Knows How to Make an Entrance
Martin Ides’ breakout performance

. that span, he set career-highs with 14 points, 6

Goliath accepted a pass at the top of the key and...
. | turned around to sink a jumper.

his fourth consecutive nothing-but-net basket
and Davidson extended its lead to eight.

In under three minutes, Ides had eclipsed
his previous career high of 7 points in a game.

“Martin is getting better and better,” said
Head Coach Bob McKillop. “People have to get
him the ball; they did. He has to finish by convert-
ing down low; he did: He poses match-up prob-
lems for all the teams in the Southern Confer-
ence, We’re just trying to get him the experience
to have him prepared for the conference sched-
ule.”

Ides was none short on experience Saturday
night, logging a career-high 26 minutes. Over

rebounds, and 5 blocked shots,

“| didn’t think it was anything special,”
mused Ides with soft-spoken humility. “Obvi-
ously they hada little disadvantage size-wise, so
Ton’ shink Iwas anyshing special. L wanted te,
play well

ides spent this past surmmer playing with the
Czech Republic national team. “He got a lot of
great experience and confidence while playing |
with the Czech team this summer,” explained
Wildcat point guard Michael Bree. “He came
back really ready to play. He’s made enormous
progress from last year.”

“Martin knew that this game was a great
opportunity for him to show what he could do,”
said Bree. “He made the best of it.”

people in their names.

learn to read

a roof over their heads

Alternative Gift Fair

Sunday, December 5th
. in the Union
2-4 PM

Honor your friends and family by giving gifts to needy

* enough food for hungry familes everyday

¢ clean water that guards children from preventable diseases

* planned trees that protect top soil from erosion for new harvests
¢ essential medicines for the sick who have no medicine

* an opportunity for orphans to gain an education or for adultts to

* a secure, safe shelter for street kids and homesless people without

“Never doubt that a small group of thoughful, committed persons can change the
world; it’s the only thing that every has.” :

-Margaret Mead

