DAVIDSON COLLEGI

“Your Foremost
College Weekly”
5
EstABLISHED 1914

Good-bye Pollux, hello Outlook.

NEWS 4

Lets slam Wes, shall we?

OPINIONS 8

Davidson trio release
their first CD

A&Lil

i

Eliza Shuford ’01 beats
Olympic silver medalist

SPORTS 14

Junior dies in accident abroad

@ David Farrington.

By Ketitey Cantrett, LINDSAY MEYERS, AND
CarriE ARTHUR
Guest writers and News Editor

On April 4, Junior David Farrington tragi-
cally died in Queensland; Australia. Two other
Davidson students, Jay Cantrell 00 and Lee Hardee
’00, were with Farrington at Cedar Creek Falls, a
popular swimming hole, where they were jumping
off a waterfall.

Farrington was studying abroad for the spring
semester at the University of Queensland in
Brisbane. He had been in Australia since late
February and had planned to return in July. He
visited the park during his spring break from the
University. ;

A biology major from Oakdale, Connecticut,
Farrington was a SigEp brother, and he was in-
volved in intramural sports at Davidson. He took
flickerball particularly seriously, and his flickerball

team has won the championship for the past three
years. He also coached the Second Center Belk
team during the fall semester.

. A memorial service was held on Thursday,
April 8, at Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
Austin Rice-Stitt 00, Aaron Dunham ’00, Tim
Laramy ’00,.and Scott Herr ’00 shared memories
and reflections of their friendship with Farrington
here at Davidson. Michael Fresina, Farrington’s
cousin and a Davidson alumnus, represented the
Farrington family and provided insight about
Farrington’s childhood. A reception was held in
DCPC after the service, where those close to
David had a chance for further support and reflec-
tion. Services in Connecticut are still pending,
and the University of Queensland will also hold a
service for Davidson students studying abroad
and other friends he had met there.

More information about Farrington’s life
will be included in the next Davidsonian.

Jason Prince receives
Smith Scholarship

.
By Carvos-ANprES LACAYO AND ASHLEY E. KING
Staff Writer and News Editor

The first student to earn such a distinction;
Jason-Prince ‘99 received the recently created
Smith Scholarship designed for post-graduate study
in a foreign'university. Davidson alumnus Tom
Smith ‘48 founded the scholarship with a million-
dollar gift to the school, in order to acknowledge
one graduating senior’s exceptional academic ac-
complishments, service, and leadership. This year,
the scholarship will finance Prince’s academic
efforts at the Cambridge Masters of Philosophy
program in American Literature, where he will
study for two consecutive semesters.

Distinguished by numerous accolades, Prince
was chosen for the scholarship by the Smith Schol-
arship Selection Committee. His honors include
being one of 20 national USA Today “All USA
Academic All-Americans” and being a regional
finalist for the Rhodes Scholarship. His list of
scholarships also includes the McGaw Scholar-
ship, the John I. Smith Scholarship, the National
Honor Society Scholarship, the Tylenol Youth
Scholarship, and the Discover Card Gold Tribute
Award Scholarship.

As a student at Davidson, Prince has been
extremely active in life on and off campus. He was
involved as both a hall counselor and resident
advisor. Serving as co-captain for the team for the
last two years, he has been very successful through-
out his four year commitment to swimming at
Davidson.

Off-campus, Prince carried his involvement
‘in swimming even farther, becoming vice presi-
dent of the athletes’ executive committee of United
States Swimming. He also edited that committee’s
journal entitled “United States. Swimming Ath-
letes’ Quarterly.” In the Davidson community, he
founded the Davidson Special Needs Mentoring
Program, the main purpose of which was to pro-
mote interaction between Davidson students and
mentally and physically handicapped students at
Mooresville High School and North Mecklenburg
High School. In Charlotte, Prince has participated
in service projects in Hispanic communities.

Prince decided upon the Cambridge program
because he is an English major who aspires to

_ Hemingway, having dedicated his

become involved in law where he
would be “looking toward civic lead-
ership roles.” From his career in law,
Prince has considered several differ-
ent career options including politics
and the non-profit sector. “Wherever
I’m most useful is where I want to
be,” he said. Prince, who wrote his
senior thesis on Hemingway’s early
literary career, also wished to con-
tinue his study of the work of Ernest
Hemingway in Cambridge. Even
before his senior year, he had ex-
pressed an avid interest. in

junior. year to studying the presti-
gious author.

After choosing his program,
Price worked vigorously to obtain
the scholarship, submitting a written
proposal that included his future goals
and his motivation for wanting to
study abroad. Offering advice to
students applying for scholarships,
Prince said, “students interested in
applying for scholarships and fel-
lowships need to treat the application
process like a fifth course. The time
you put into writing personal state-
ments, crafting yourresume, and pre-
paring for interviews should equal
the time devoted to writing
academic papers, preparing

Giduz Photo c/o College Communications

Women’s
Month
celebrated

By AMANDA L. MorDAvsky
Staff Writer

Every March, Davidson celebrates women
for thirty-one days during Women’s Month. This
year, the official programming began on March 11
and ended on March 31. It included some new
activities as well as traditional events from previ-
ous years.

Women’s Month kicked off with an opening
ceremony featuring performances by the Delilahs
and the Dance Troupe. The Women’s Issues Com-
mittee then hosted activities for nearly every day of
the month, ranging from discussions on sexuality
to lectures from women on campus and alumni.
Alumnae Lauren Smith and Mary Kinkaid as well
Dr. Mary Thornberry were among the. featured
speakers.

The events included a bonfire on March 17
and Take Back the Night on March 18. The bonfire
allowed students to destroy articles they felt were
confining to women. These oppressive objects
included paper, bras, and make-up. The annual
Take Back. the Night gave survivors of sexual
assault and rape an opportunity to share their expe-
riences with the community. This year, the event
featured three women who spoke about their per-
sonal experiences with violence and included a
speech from Meredith Beattie 01 about Rape
Awareness. Following the official event, students
tied red ribbons to a tree and then met for refresh-
ments. Dr. Annie Ingram, one of the coordinators
for this year’s events, commented that the refresh-
ments in the 900 room after Take Back the Night
offered.a great way for the audience to process the
information with the speakers. This year was the
first time that a reception in the 900 room followed
the event so that students could relax and try to
process all the emotions from the night.

Women’s Month officially endedon Wednes- .
day, March 31. Students and staff gathered outside
the Gender Resource Center for the Lighting the
Darkness closing vigil. After a few opening words,
the Dance Troupe performed for the audience, and
then the walk began. Deya Murray ’00 led the
crowd to the first point on the walk and planted a
stake outside Richardson dorm. She spoke about
sexual abuse and rape, citing many of the emotions
a survivor goes through: “Was it what I wore?
What I didn’t wear? Was it what I said? What I
didn’t say?” Murray spoke about the importance of
recognizing the problem of sexual assault and rape
in the community in order to alleviate and solve the
problem.

See Women’s Month reviewed on page 3

for .classroom presenta-
tions. . . . Even if every-
thing doesn’t work out, the

application process allows
for personal growth that is
worth as muchas any schol-
arship.”

Awarded to Prince
for the first time this year,
the Smith Scholarship will
continue to provide excep-
tional Davidson students
with an opportunity to con-
tinue their studies abroad
in years to come.

EDITORIALS
LETTERS
HUIS ccc scticsrnssssrtsntserssssnen 9
ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS

Pee ee eee reer ween eereeeeeeeesenere

First Class Mail
-U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

