News

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

cations

College Com

@ Fox TV political analyst
Tony Snow ’77.

By Jim SWANSBROUGH
College Communications

National political analyst Tony Snow ’77 will
speak at Davidson during the college’s Homecom-
ing festivities on Saturday, Oct. 2, headlining ac-
tivities that will appeal not only to alumni, but to
the public as well. In addition to traditional recep-
tions for returning alumni and a football game,
Davidson’s Alumni Office has scheduled Snow’s
lecture, a children’s festival, and a concert by
national recording artists “The Indigo Girls.”
Alumni Director Eileen Keeley said, “We always
‘try to program groups and activities that appeal to
the alumni. It’s just that this year these groups are
nationally prominent.”

Snow’s lecture is free and open to the public,
beginning at 10 a.m. in Love Auditorium of Cham-
bers Building. Snow is a 1977 Davidson graduate
who majored in philosophy. After receiving his
master’s degree in philosophy from the University
of Chicago, he traveled abroad to Africa and Mos-

cow. Snow then wrote for several different news-
papers across the nation, culminating in 1987 with
his appointment as editorial page editor of “The
Washington Times.” While in D.C. he took part in

a political panel discussion on Fox-TV’s “Off the

Record.”

In 1991, he was recruited to be chief White
House speechwriter for then President George
Bush. After Bush’s failed bid for reelection, Snow
resumed his newswriting career. He also became
involved as writer, correspondent, and host of the
successful PBS news special “The New Militant
Center.” This led to numerous appearances on
shows such as “The McLaughlin Group,”
“Crossfire,” and “Good Morning America.” Snow
currently hosts the Sunday morning “Fox Morn-
ing Show,” hosting guests from across the politi-
cal spectrum. :

Following Snow’s address, Davidson invites
parents and children to The Dogwood Dell Festi-
val from noon-2 p.m. behind Martin Chemistry
Building. The festival will feature a bluegrass

band, stickers and face painting, acaricature artist,
magic show, and a wide variety of food.

The Wildcat football team will kick off against
Guilford College at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium,
adjacent to the festival.

The day’s activities will conclude with a 9
p.m. performance by the nationally recognized
band, “The Indigo Girls,” in Belk Arena of the
Baker Sports Complex. “The Indigo Girls,” a.k.a.
Emily Saliers and Amy Ray, originated in Decatur,
Ga. in 1987, and received a 1989 Grammy for
“Best Folk Recording.” The two musicians have
played for the last three summers on the Lilith Fair
tour, and are currently playing across the nation on
an independent fall tour.

Tickets for the football game are $8 for adults
and $4 for children. “The Indigo Girls” concert
costs $25. For questions about the lecture or festi-
val, contact Eileen Keeley at 892-2422. Call 1-
800-768-CATS for football and concert informa-
tion and tickets.

Davidson alumnus questions Vince Foster’s ran

By Aaron Houck -
Staff Writer

When Dr. Gary David Martin °65 was a
senior at Davidson, he wrote a letter to the
Davidsonian criticizing. the fraternities as
“Davidson’s unique caste system.” While the
situation at Davidson may have changed, Martin’s
rejection of the status quo has not. “I was an
independent then, and I’m an independent now,”
he told me last Thursday evening when I spoke to
him.

Martin, an
economist in Wash-

the power is on the side of the official story...except
the truth.” Martin contends that Vince Foster was
murdered, and has done considerable research to
support his claim of a crime and subsequent cover-
up. Martin makes no accusations and does not
claim to know who killed Foster or why it was done,
but he adamantly rejects the idea that it was a
suicide.
Significant peculiarities of the case suggest
that there is more to this case than the suicide of a
burnt-out Washington insider. For example, there
was significant less blood than usually results from
a shot to the head, no bullet was ever found, and
Foster’s finger-

ington, D.C., accepts
being labeled a radi-
cal, but “in the best
sense of the word.”
He holds strong be-
liefs, is largely un-
concerned by the

A massive government cover-up ensued
immediately following the death, even
involving major components of the
media, Martin believes.

prints were not
found on_ the
weapon. Martin be-
lieves a massive
government cover-
up ensued immedi-
ately following the

general public’s
opinion of him, and
wants people to pursue the truth and think for
themselves. Martin has written many articles and
poems criticizing the government and media for
trying to mislead the American public. He writes
' these under the name DCDave and they are avail-
able at his website http://thebird.org/host/dcdave.
One of his principal causes is the search for truth
in the case of the death of Vince Foster.

Vince Foster 67 was the second ranked
person in the White House legal office in the first
year of the Clinton administration. He died of a
gunshot wound to the head under mysterious
circumstances on July 20, 1993 in Fort Marcy
Park in Washington, D.C. Though the death was
officially ruled a suicide, Martin protests that “all

death, even involv-
ing major compo-
nents of the media, Martin believes. A note suppos-
edly written by Vince Foster before he died, which
officials and news organizations point to as evi-
dence that Foster was depressed was found to be a
forgery by handwriting experts, Martin told me,
“and a poor forgery at that!” Questions also circu-
late concerning the placement of Foster’s body, his
mood in the days and hours before his death, the
location of papers from his office, and the autopsy.

More important to Martin than what names
some might cali him is that people look at the facts
and come to their own conclusions. He urges
everyone to look at the website www.fbicover-
up.com from which you can download a report by

TS COMMUNITY FUND TIME!

STOP BY THE COMMUNITY SERVICE
OFFICE (DOWNSTAIRS IN THE
UNION) AND PICK UP THE
APPLICATION WHICH
COULD MAKE THAT
SPECIAL SERVICE PROJECT OF
YOURS A REALITY.

THERE'S $4000 JUST ITCHING
TO BE PUT TO A GOOD USE!

QUESTIONS? CONTACT ROSIE
MOLINARY X2298 OR MIKE BRADY
x6810

Patrick Knowlton, John Clarke, and Hugh Turley
refuting the

It never ceases to amaze.me that
the people
at the .col-

Martin writes, “

conclusions of
the Starr inves-
tigation regard-
ing the Foster”
death. He feels
that exposure to

Vince Foster ’67 was the second ranking person
in the White House legal office in the first year
of the Clinton administration. -

lege where I
went would
just sit on
their hands
when the

the facts of the
case will con-
vince anyone that this is not a case of suicide.

political
murder of
one of their more illustrious graduates i is shabbily
covered up.”

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDL

getter

BEN COVIN
CADER HOWA'

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

AEE AA IGP a

Pr a “Bec benaec

— OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
IG We ms MELISSA ANN
» we? WECASTRIQUE
\ &

ay fg

+ Copy » Kaito s Extraordinaire
~ WHIPNEY BLAKE

_“ IRENE MIDDLETON

we Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

academic ‘year by the uae of
all to: The
2 or -2149. E-

