Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

The Davidson Wildcats opened with a 17-3
lead at the half and never looked back in a 31-12
victory over the visiting Hampden-Sydney Tigers
Saturday afternoon at Davidson’ s Richardson Sta-
dium. The victory assures Davidson of consecu-
tive winning seasons for the first time in 41 years.

It's been so long since the 'Cats had back-to-
back seasons above .500, current radio color an-
nouncer and two-time former Davidson coach
Dave Fagg was actually playing for the Wildcats.

THE DAVIDSONIAN :

That was in 1957. Actually, Davidson had a
winning season in each of Fagg's years on the
team.

“This is just a culmination of our hard work
over the past two years,” Head Coach Tim Landis
said after the game. “Everybody in the program
has worked tirelessly to make this team as good as
it can be. To finally have back-to-back winning
seasons proves that we are starting a winning
tradition.”

The Wildcats got off to a quick start as junior
Corey Crawford returned the opening kickoff 58
yards to the Tiger 33. Three plays later, freshman

Red & Black Meet a success

By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

They've been training since the first day of
school, waking up at six in the morning for prac-
tices that are almost as long.

And they do it all wearing barely any clothes.

They’re the Wildcats’ Swimming and Div-
ing teams, and on Saturday, Oct. 23, they held their
intra-squad Red & Black Meet to kick off their
season, which concludes in late February when
Davidson hosts the Southern States Champion-
ships, a qualifying round for the Eastern Colle-
giate Athletic Conference Swimming and Diving
Championships.

In the Red & Back Meet, the ’Cats divide
forces for the only time during the season and race
each other in preparation for the Wildcats’ upcom-
ing meets. This year’s Red & Black competition
set a positive tone for the season as new meet
records were set in many of the events and a few
individual swimmers swam their personal bests.

On the men’s side, sophomore freestylers
Mike Warner and Graham Gravley set new meet
records in the 100-yard and 1000-yard freestyles,
respectively. Senior co-captain Scott Harper set a
new meet record in the 200-yard butterfly with a
time of 1:58.28. Junior Kurt Hisekorn started out
his season with three new meet records in the 100-
yard breaststroke, 200-yard breaststroke, and the
200-yard individual medley.

Wildcat Mascot!

he
The Davidson Athletic Department and President Vagt
request the assistance of the student body.. Ensure that
the NEW Davidson Wildcat has a better name than

The women’s team, led by its senior class,
broke records as well. Senior Mary Shell Brosche
set a new meet record in the 100-yard backstroke
with a time of 1:02.09 and also set a new 200-yard
individual medley record with a time of 2:12.89.
Co-captains Britta Toleman and Beth Wilson domi-
nated the breaststroke, setting meet records in the
100-yard 200-yard races, respectively.

The following Tuesday, the Lady Wildcats
hosted North Carolina A&T and Wingate in a tri-
meet at Cannon Pool. Davidson was victorious,
beating NC A&T 53-29 and Wingate 61-24.
Brosche and fellow senior Rachel Horak each
swam personal best times while winning the 100
fly and 100 freestyle, respectively. Brosche also
won the 100-yard breaststroke, while Toleman
won the 50 freestyle, sophomore Starr Daniell
won the 200 IM, and senior Suzi Bozzone won the
100 backstroke. The Lady ’Cats also triumphed in
the 200 medley and 200 free relays.

The Wildcat divers benefited from a much
larger team than last year thanks to the addition of
three freshman women and two freshman men.
The team expects this added depth to help the
*Cats tremendously, adding to the experience of
senior Elizabeth Fraser and sophomore Liz Nugent.
The ’Cats traveled to Atlanta last Saturday to take
on Georgia Southern University and Emory, and
the men’s team even added a meet Georgia Tech to
their weekend schedule. This Saturday at 1 p.m.
the ’Cats host William & Mary at Cannon Pool.

Name the

Win a $100 +
Prize package!

these unfortunate Southern Conference mascots:

VMI Keydets — Moe the Kangaroo
Appalachian State Mountaineers.— Yosef
Georgia Southern Eagles — Gus

Win a $100 + prize package!

~ Submit your ideas to Mamccann@davidson.edu
Deadline November 11, Midnight.

There comes a time in the eighth life of every cat when
he must plan for celebrating his ninth life — taking it
We at Davidson regret that
Mr. Cat has reached that juncture, but are eternally
grateful for all that he has done to “fan” the flames of
competition at sporting events. We approach with some
trepidation the selection of a new Cheer-cat, but we are
confident that. the college community will bend every
effort to assist in this task.

easy, chasing slow mice.

-President Vagt

a SPORTS ee
Victory over Hampden-Sydney seals winning season

quarterback Paul Nichols found Crawford open
for a 24-yard TD strike, just 1:22 into the game.

A seven-yard TD run by junior Jon DeBord
on the first play of the second quarter pushed the
score to 14-0. On Hampden-Sydney's next posses-
sion, freshman Mike Chase blocked a punt on
fourth-and-27, giving the Wildcats the ball at the
Tiger six-yard line. That field position led to a 27-
yard field goal by freshman Daniel Hanks and a
17-0 Davidson lead.

In the third quarter, the Tigers' quarterback,
senior Walt Bondurant, connected with sopho-
more tight end Matt Niemaseck on a 29-yard
touchdown pass. But the extra point attempt was
blocked by junior Andre Carelock to sustain the
eight-point margin.

Nichols was replaced by junior Shaun Tyrance
in the second half due to a shoulder injury. Tyrance
found his grooved late in the third quarter, orches-
trating a quick three-play, 41-yard drive which
culminated with him scoring on an eight-yard run
and a 24-9 lead.

A Hampden-Sydney field goal in the fourth
quarter brought the Tigers within 12, but senior
Donnie Johnson sealed the victory by returning an
interception 53 yards for the final score of the
afternoon with just 4:42 on the clock.

“Everybody had a hand in winning this game
today,” stated an elated Landis. “Special teams

MONDAY, NOVEMBER be

rhs

had some big plays, the offense had some long,
sustained drives, and the defense did a great job in
keeping Hampden-Sydney down. It was simply a
true team effort.”

Statistically, no one stood out in this game
offensively. Davidson did not have a rusher with
more than 50 yards and, as a team, threw for just 94
yards. Meanwhile, Hampden-Sydney had just 228
yards of offense, more than half of which came in
the final quarter. On defense, Wildcat junior Bo
Henderson and sophomore Sam Fraundorf each
had 13 tackles, two for losses, and one sack. The
'Cats also picked off three passes.

For those fans in the Lake Norman area, the
game was televised by Prestige Vision Cable
(Channel 4) and will be aired on the evening of
Monday, Nov. | at 8:00 p.m.

Next Saturday, Davidson will try to improve
upon its current five-game winning streak at Cen-
tre College. The Wildcats have not lost the previ-
ous four contests at Centre. Davidson has won six
consecutive games in one season just twice -- in
1917 and last year, 1998.

Game notes: Davidson as a team has blocked
11 kicks this year ... senior Roland Williams
moved into eight place on the Wildcats' career
receiving yards list with a seven-yard reception
(1,089)... Corey Crawford is 1 1th on that list with
1,072 yards.

Wildcat Volleyball notches
14th consecutive win

By Brab STEVINSON
Staff Writer

Withtwo dominating victories over the week-
end, Davidson’s volleyball squad extended their
winning streak to 14 games, the longest streak in
the program’s history. By defeating the College of
Charleston and The Citadel on Friday and Satur-
day, respectively, the Wildcats improved to 23-2
overall and, more importantly, to 15-0
in the Southern Conference.

In both matches, the Wild-

cats showcased their impressive
depth with strong performances
from the starters as well as from
the bench.
“A lot of girls got to play,” said
junior outside hitter Mara Mordini.
“We used a couple of different
lineups, and the team adjusted re-
ally well.”

Davidson needed only three
games to defeat the College of
Charleston Friday, as they swept
the Cougars 15-6, 15-7, and 15-
10. Sophomore Erica Schwartz
directed the Davidson offense,
pounding 40 monstrous assists,
while Mordini and junior outside
hitter Brooke Bentley punished
the Cougars with 10 kills each.
Meanwhile, junior Katherine
Lorenz was the cornerstone of the
Wildcats defense, recording 10
digs.

On Saturday, the squad re-
lied on its depth as it handed The
Citadel a decisive 15-8, 15-1, 15-
9 loss. Schwartz recarded yet an- —
other strong performance, deliv-
ering 26 assists, and sophomore
Jacqueline Ortega led the team
with six kills. In fact, seven Wild-
cats registered four or more kills
as Davidson earned its fourteenth
consecutive victory and stayed per-
fect in the Southern Conference.

“Overall, it was a great week-
end,” commented Mordini. “We

Turnberry Place-Cornelius
(Next to Sushi at the Lake)

the second Wildcat to earn the award this season.

In the coming weeks, the Wildcats will fight
to maintain their perfect Southern Conference
standing with home matches against UNC Greens-
boro on Tuesday, Nov. 2 at 7 p.m. and Georgia
Southern on Friday, Nov. 5 at 7 p.m. Then they
will travel to Furman before wrapping up their
conference schedule by hosting Appalachian State
and East Tennessee State next week.

Your image is

everything. How

much it costs can

be our little secret.

Me PRA ie

W. Catawba Ave.

had a lot of solid performances.”
Solid performances have char-
acterized the Wildcats’ play this
season. Last week, senior Gina
Lawrence was named the South-
ern Conference Player of the
Week. Averaging four kills and
3.5 digs per game last week,
Lawrence led the team in kills in
the Oct. 22 match against UT-
Chattanooga with 13. She joins
Mordini, who received the honor
in the first week of the season, as”

S

OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99

Ea

Exit 28

987-0607

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

Not valid with other offers.
Limit one coupon per
customer. Good at
Turnberry location only.

6.99
