“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”
Sd
EsTABLISHED 1914

‘ Th Mg ie

ALLEN DA

Lots o’ luminaries
AIDS Awareness pervades campus

NEWS 2

LUX

Jabvidso

UBI Lice pot AS

The End
Editors-in-Chief on their way out

OPINIONS 5

ORTA

Brechtfest 99
Black Box features unique production Wildcat Volleyball returns from NCAAs

A&L 8

Cornhuskers 1, Wildcats 0

SPORTS 9

Coed eating house fast

By MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

After almost a decade in hibernation, the co-
ed eating house seems on the brink of a come-
back.

The Council on Campus and Religious Life,
a powerful advisory board to President Vagt,
overwhelmingly endorsed a coed eating house
proposal at Wednesday’s meeting.

The Council— comprised of 7 faculty mem-
bers, 8 students, and 2 deans — voted 16-1-1 in
favor of the endorsement. The proposal now
goes to President Vagt for consideration.

Juniors Dane Erickson and Ben Carter,
members of Sigma Phi Epsilon, have spear-
headed the effort to revive the co-ed eating house.
Both expressed delight at the endorsement.

“It was really gratifying to receive such
overwhelming support for an effort that we really
believe in,” Erickson reveled.

“It was awesome,” Carter agreed. “There
was almost no question at the meeting that it was
a good idea and that it was going to pass. It was
rewarding after the response we got from Patterson
Court Council.”

Patterson Court reaction

PCC recently refused to endorse the pro-
posal by a vote of 9-7 (with 2 abstentions).
Speaking on behalf of the Council, PCC Presi-
dent Megan O’Brien stated, “Some of the big
concerns were that the current buildings need to
brought up to standard—people wished that the
college would flood money into that rather than
a brand new house.”

Adam Boyd, president of Sigma Phi Epsi-
lon, accounted, “We didn’t feel that the Court

was ready right now.”

Boyd cited the recent addition of Turner
House as reason to stall the installation of anew
house, “They haven’t really had a chance to
establish themselves.”

Ed Bonapfel, a Kappa Sigma, offered a
similar argument, “I think it would be detrimen-
tal to the Court scene because it would take
potential female members away from eating
houses. There are already two strong eating
houses and two weak ones.. I think those eating
houses need to be revamped before we add
another house on the court.”

Nonetheless, demand for the co-ed eating

* house is overwhelming.

According to a survey administered under
the direction of the SGA’s Polling & Response
Committee, 32% of the student body indicated
they were “likely” or “very likely” to join a co-
ed eating house.

A mere 16% of respondents expected a co-
edeating house to negatively affect the Patterson
Court scene.

Daniel Hodge, an active member of Phi
Delta Theta, insists, “I don’t see it as a threat to
the fraternity system. I don’t think it’s some-
thing that would necessarily pique my interest,
but it’s not something that I would be opposed
to for somebody else.”

Hodge feels that the coed eating house
would broaden the options available to stu-
dents, “The strength of the fraternity system at
Davidson is that they pull in people that nor-
mally would not be interested. I think (a coed
house) is a viable option for the 50% of guys
who don’t join fraternities.”

+ See Coed Eating Houses, page 2

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Hunt wins Rhodes Scholarship

Press Release

Hunt is the 23rd Davidson Rhodes Scholar.

Brenda Wilkinson Hunt.

the weight. It moved the class to tears.”

Christian M. Hunt, a Davidson College senior
from Kannapolis,N.C., has won one of undergradu-
ate education’s highest honors, a Rhodes Scholar-
ship for study at Oxford University in England.

Hunt and three other winners from mid-Eastern
states were selected in Washington, D.C., on Satur-
day afternoon, December 4, and are among 32 win-
ners nationwide. A double major in English and
German with strong interests in music and literature,

He is the son of William H. Hunt and the late

He began taking violin lessons at age 3, and now
plays. several instruments in college musical en-
sembles. His English honors thesis covers musical
structures and forms in James Joyce’s novel, Ulysses.

He is president of the Philanthropic Literary
Society, editor of the Hobart Park literary magazine,
was instrumental director for the student production
of Hair, and works for radio station WDAYV as announcer and producer.

Hunt said he was grateful to Davidson for helping him achieve the best possible education,
and added, “I am particularly indebted to many individual professors and student friends who
have helped me in this endeavor and many other things.”

His academic adviser in German, Scott Denham, called Hunt “an incredible stylist with
tremendous intellectual and artistic power.” Denham recalled a moment during his “Holocaust”
course study of the Anne Frank story last year. Hunt and other students were to reflect on a slide
of a Dutch storefront bearing a sign,”No Jews Allowed.”

Denham recalled, “Christian wrote in ten minutes a perfectly formed lyri¢ poem, almost a
sonnet in structure, in the voice of one of Anne’s cals, ate cat knew too much and couldn’t bear

@ Christian Hunt ’00

+ See Rhodes Scholar, page 4

ite.

*y

tee
|

approaching

1990 Quips & Cranks

@ This 1990 scene might once again be a reality in the near future.

“Alternative gifts” available

Can’t think of what to buy your aunt who has
everything? Or maybe you wish your money
would go to a more worthy cause than the local
mall this Christmas. If you want to give a different
gift this holiday season the Alternative Gift Fair
has just what you are looking for.

The Alternative Gift Fair, organized by Sanc-
tuary, a service-centered Christian fellowship pro-
vided Davidson College with another option for
Christmas Gifts. On Sunday from 2-4 p.m., $5,608
was raised to benefit 29 projects worldwide. Tables
were manned by 14 school organizations to give
descriptions for the different gifts available.

Alternative Gifts International (AGI) is a
non-profit mission that operates globally to pro-
vide gifts for “those who aren’t on anyone’s gift
list.” The idea of an Alternative Gift Fair was
started in 1980 as Harriet Prichard, the director of
Children’s Ministries at Pasadena Presbyterian

seeeeee ~

Church in California. Prichard began an alterna-
tive gift market to “teach children about giving.”
The concept has grown into a worldwide mission
raising almost eight million dollars since its
incorporation in 1986.

The gift fair operates under the principal
that the gift serves as a “double gift” for both the
recipient and the beneficiary of the service. The
money goes towards various causes in over 20
countries. They provide services such as
Women’s Rights and Health training in Mexico
to fresh water in Kenya toa piece of the rainforest.
A small amount goes a OnEIWaY in changing the
recipient’s life.

If you missed Sunday’ gift fair, they will be
in Chambers on Monday and Tuesday and also at
DCPC’s Wonderful Wednesday program. For
more information on specific gifts go to AGI's
website at www.altgifts.org,

MUS LTMIBANDD sccscgsshcoassarerneds
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
EDETORIALS 0.05, cccsssssccesseuss
CORTINTOING cicssysdcsniesceesousatens
ARTS & LIVING j...csccins
SPORTS (5.25085 Gidacabnisssaantiness

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

seteees 5 Davidson, NC 28036

