THE DAVIDSONIAN

The first of many. yy.

Here I sit at 3:55 in the morning at a computer called Ed. In fact, all of the computers
in the office have affectionately received names from various characters and sources, but that
is besides the point right now. I am here to write a meaningful and insightful editorial that
will probe at the deepest and darkest corners of the subconscious. Alright, well one can
always hope to have such insights during the earlier morning hours.

Anyways, back to the convoluted rhythm of my mind. I never imagined that I would be
sitting where I am right now (for those of you that are interested, it is a burnt orange chair in
the ante chamber to what some former editors may refer to as the gateway to hell). Though,
what I am really saying deals with my disbelief that I have just finished my first issue of the
Davidsonian as an Editor in Chief.

Like most students at Davidson during their Freshmen year, I signed up for way to many
activities and then actually tried to perform the Herculean task of participating in every one.
I learned rather quickly that when the worked piled up another activity fell off my long list
of things to do. Yet, I managed to stick with a few of the activities that I signed up for that
Sunny August day back in ‘96. ;

Yup, you probably already guessed that the Davidsonian was one of those activities.
Gosh you are all so bright!

My career at the Davidsonian began writing for Kirsten Recknagel and Randy Hartwell,
the News Editors at the time. I learned one lesson rather quickly from these two, always make
sure you know what you are getting into before you blindly nod your head and smile. I
enjoyed writing off and on as a Staff Writer for three semesters, but did enjoy the break while
I studied abroad during the Spring of ‘98. I came back this past fall ready and willing for
something new and challenging. I continued to write off and on, but focused more of my
attention on learning the art of layout. Now, four months later I find myself sharing the apex
of the publication. WOW!

For those of you that know me and those that don’t, I am an extremely determined
individual. If I say that I am going to-do something, more than likely I am going to do just
that. So when I say this next statement, believe me. I want to make the Davidsonian the best
that itcan be. We have an extremely talented and dedicated Editorial board and I hope that
together we make the Davidsonian the best that it can be!

The ’s Foremost
College Weekly

What it is. .

Our fair century’s penultimate calendar year has drawn to a close, and a new adminis-
tration has taken the reins at Davidson’s college weekly. While I am merely the protegé of
Kruse, Randy, and Sarah, I share several similarities with them. One is that I ended up at the
top of the masthead not because I somehow “won” the position, but because I have assumed
it out of a sense of duty. “Qualified and willing” describes far too few of us.

It is not grudgingly, however, that I accept this responsibility. I look forward to seeing
what we can accomplish this semester, and with John Dunwoody’ s invaluable assistance, we
should have more than a solid shot at making marked improvements in the Davidsonian this
year. For starters, I would like to see all typographical errors (such as “DAVIDON”) meet
a swift and callous death. To quote one forward-looking Davidson student, “That is what I
seek to change.”

_And when I refer to what “we” can accomplish, that is not the royal “We” or “We, the
Davidsonian Editorial Board;” I mean theentire student body. The newspaper is dependent
upon student input, support, involvement, and last but not least, constructive criticism.
~ Before the Davidsonian can meet the demands of the student body, it must first actually have
demands to meet.

Oftentimes these demands come in the form of angry rants or Letters to the Editor. Are
we now or have we ever really been the “World’s Foremost College Weekly” as our front
page formerly suggested? Maybe not. But these petulant complaints do show us that 1.) at
least several students care whether or not their college newspaper is trash, and 2.) if they care
so much and have the answers that we must so clearly lack, shouldn’t they join the
Davidsonian staff and reform the system from within? Consider this a cordial invitation to
impart your wisdom upon us. The point is that as far as our audience is concerned, it is
indifference and not criticism that is our worst enemy.

So let us know what’s important to you. If your student Sica ieee is making news,
tell us. If there’s something out there that you’d like to write about or make sure that we don’t
miss, tellus. Whether we become “Mecklenburg County’ s Foremost College Weekly” or the
“World’s Foremost College Weekly” depends entirely upon everyone’s taking an interest in
the Davidsonian and maybe even becoming involved. |

We

@ Lerrer To THE Eprtors ‘

RELIEF AID TO CENTRAL
AMERICA

To the Editors, Davidson Students, Faculty, and Staff:

I want to thank all of you who donated money for the victims of Hurricane Mitch in Nicaragua and
Honduras. As you may know, the rain, flooding, and mud slides devastated parts of these countries,
destroying roads and bridges and burying many thousands of Nicaraguans and Hondurans.

With the help of Community Service Coordinator, Bill Abrams, and the Organization of Latin
American Studies (OLAS), we raised a total of $2,196 from faculty, staff, and students. Of that sum,
$1,023 was donated to the Church World Service, and $1173 was donated to the Red Cross’ International
Response Fund.

However, the need for relief is far from over. Even with the massive amount of aid that has poured
into the region, Honduras and Nicaragua have ahead of them many years of recovery and reconstruction.
IF YOU WOULD STILL LIKE TO CONTRIBUTE, you may contact Bill Abrams (x2460) or myself
(x6120), or you may mail a check to one of the following organizations (You may also can donate on-
line):

American Red Cross Church World Service
International Response Fund OR ‘Hurrican Mitch Relief
P.O. Box 37243 P.O. Box 968

Washington, DC 20013 Elkhart, IN 46515

The Red Cross directs 93% of dollars directly to relief efforts and Church World Service directs
100% of dollars to refief efforts. I encourage you to give if you are able.

Once again, I thank all of you who contributed to this cause last December. I would also like to thank
those members of OLAS who took the time to collect money for the effort.
Have a great semester!

Sincerely,’
Carlos-Andrés Lacayo ‘02

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
News Editors SCOTT REEDER Op-Ed Editor
CARRIE ARTHUR » MELISSA ANN
ASHLEY E. KING Circulation Manager deCASTRIQUE
; EUGENIA LEATH
Sports Editors Arts & Living Editors
ALISON KALETT Advertising Managers SETH DAVIS
MIKE ANDERSON PETER CLARK
: DAVID JOHNSTON ,
News Layout Editors Op-Ed Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK Head Copy Editor BURGIN HARDIN
ELDER GWIN WHITNEY BLAKE EVAN McCORMICK
Sports Layout Editors” Ad Designers Arts & Living Contact Manager
BEN COVINGTON BEN COVINGTON KELLS HETHERINGTON
CADER HOWARD CADER HOWARD
Cartoonist
NATHANIEL LOTZE

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Look for The Bavidsonian on the Internet soon,
the current site is in the process of being updated and brought back online.

