masterful, almost perfect performance.
He made only one mistake: He forgot his
manners,

“Gracious victor” would not ex-
actly be the most fitting way to describe
Sedric Webber on January 30th, 1999.
After the final buzzer sounded, Sedric
moseyed his way over to the Davidson
student section of the stands, located
directly behind the visiting team’s bench,
and proceeded to verbally berate all the
fans seated there. His particular choice
of words are not of the utmost impor-
tance. Suffice it to say that they were not
exactly Hallmark material. C of C, That
stands for College of Class, right Sedric?

There were little kids in attendance,
Sedric (kids who wear Wildcat basket-
ball t-shirts when they shoot baskets in
their driveways and backyards). There
‘| were senior citizens there too (senior
citizens from the Pines who proudly dis-
‘play red and black on the front doors of
their residential apartments), Heck, there
were even a handful of ministers at the
game. For forty minutes you showed
them what you’re all about as a player,
Sedric, then you walked over to the
Davidson student section after the game
and showed them what you’re all about
as aman. You must be very proud.

Everyone in Belk Arena really en-
joyed that extra special dose of “Big
Sedric Style” you dished out during the
post-game. Know who probably en-
joyed it most of all? Ben Ebong. He was
ina suit and tie at the time, sitting out the
game due to a back injury, but he saw it,
nonetheless. Ben tends to remember
those sorts of things, especially when
they happen on his own homecourt. He
'| likes to make little mental notes, Ben
might strike you a little bit differently
when you see him in uniform next time,
Sedric. Just wait, you'll love it.

At Davidson, Bob McKillop’ s play-
| ers operate according to a slightly differ-
ent standard. Coach McKillop and his
troops believe in something called integ-
rity. (Don’t worry, we'll send along a
dictionary, Sedric). Both on the court
and off the court McKillop’s players
conduct themselves in a manner which
well bespeaks the institution they repre-
sent. Davidson didn’t become the pride
of the Southern Conference just by its
win-loss records (though they’ re impres-
sive), and certainly not by its trash talk-
ing.

The Davidson Wildcats have an-
other little conceptthey believe in, Sedric.
It’s called “team.” So important is it to
them, in fact, that they’ve made one of
their goals this year: “To live, work, and
play together like a team.” Nope, there’s
no “I” in team, Sedric. Seems we at-
tended different schools when we were
younger.

What a brilliant idea to run your
mouth off after such a hotly contested
game againsta team you re gonna square
off against again in under.a month’s
time! Nothing like letting lying dogs lie,
huh Sedric? Well, let’s hope all that
smack talk was a comfort to you, and
that’ ll be acomfort to you down the line.,
We're all glad you had your say. We’ll
all have ours, too - at the Southern Con-
ference tournament -when it really mat-
ters. Yeah, you may ‘still be dancing
when all is said and done, Sedric, but
unfortunately you’ llhave todo yourdanc-
* ing “at large. ae es

_ Here at ‘Devideon. we're taught to

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

With less than three weeks re-
maining in regular season confer-
ence play, Davidson’s Wildcats have
put together the beginnings of what
could be one final run at the regular
season conference title.

After losing three out of four
games to close out the month of
January, February is beginning to

Can of Chaleur 67 on 57

[Davidson 78
Western Carolina 70

take shape much like December did,
when the ‘Cats streaked to win seven
consecutive contests.

Davidson opened the month
with a five-point victory at the Col-
lege of Charleston on Monday night.
Junior point guard Jen O’ Brien paced
the ‘Cats with 20 points, while add-
ing 6 rebounds. Janna Magette and
Jessica Montrella contributed 11
and 10 points respectively. Kerry
Brown turned in yet another strong
performance, tossing in nine points
and leading the team with eight re-
bounds,

Freshman Leah Uhernik again
started for injured senior Jamie
Brown (torn meniscus). Uhernik
pulled down six rebounds, nearly
matching the per game.average of
Brown, the second-best defensive
rebounder in the conference. Another
freshman, Magette, came off the
bench to knock down three of her
five three point attempts.

The real news, though, was on
the opposite end of the floor, where
the ‘Cat defense held the Cougars to
a pitiful 25% (6-24) shooting from

Women’s
By SmyTH Bitter
Sports Writer

Another weekend has flown by,
but not before Davidson’s women
track team once again enjoyed out-
standing performances and set mul-
tiple personal records.

On February 5th and 6th, the
Wildcats joined 25 other teams, in-
cluding Clemson, South Alabama
and Western Carolina, at Clemson.

Kicking off the weekend for
Davidson were three sensational se-
niors, co-captain Beth Brewster,

the field in the first half. Charleston
improved only slightly in the second
frame to bring their final clip to a less-
than-stellar 32% on the night.

“T feel that after our game on Mon-
day night, we’ re on the right track again,”
said Montrella. “We know that when
we need to step it up we can play better
and things will come alive for us.”

Things came alive again on Satur-
day, as the Wildcats rolled over West-
ern Carolina to earn their second con-
ference victory of the week. Katy Kamp
returned to top form and O’Brien con-
tinued her solid play—both juniors con-
tributed 18 points on the night. O’Brien
added another seven rebounds and seven
assists.

The teams shot equally well from

the field, but Davidson excelled behind :

the three point arc (led by O’Brien and
Magette with two a piece) and the free-
throw line (the ‘Cats sank 21 of their 29
free throw attempts from the charity
stripe) to outscore Western Carolina
78-70 on the afternoon.

Ten different Wildcats saw court
time in the contest, including sopho-
more post players Jessica Heath and
Kim Taylor. Taylor completed a spec-
tacular play converting a behind-the-
back pass from Jamie Brown into a lay-
up.

Support from the bench is proving
invaluable to Coach John Filar’s Wild-
cats. “It’s great to have the bench re-
spond like that. It helps so much to have
them enthusiastically behind the girls
on the court,” said Kerry Brown.

But their collective role has not
been limited to cheerleading. A number
of reserves have stepped up recently to
make meaningful contributions on the
court, including freshman Leah Uhernik
and sophomore Jessica Heath.

“With Leah in the starting lineup
(forthe injured Jamie Brown) and Janna
continuing to come off the bench, the

Jenny Klotz and Katie Lannon, who
ran awesome races in the 3000 meters.
Earning her personal best by 15 sec-
onds, Klotz ran an incredible time of
11:44.

Representing the Wildcats in the

mile run were sophomores Smyth Bit-
ter and Clare Frey and freshman
Caroline Little who placed Sth, 13th,
and 17th overall, respectively. Run-
ning a PR of 5:10, Bitter had the second
fastest time in Davidson’s history. With
atime of 5:25, Frey raced a remarkable
eleven seconds faster than her indoor
personal best from last year. Little also

Women string together two conference vi :

e saris Brown drives to the hoop.

bench has been playing so well,” praised
Jessica Montrella. “Jessica Heath has
done the same thing—they’ve pulled
out games for us. If they don’t come out
and do what they do, we don’t win.”

The ‘Cats still find themselves in
the middle of the pack in the Southern
Conference with just weeks until the
tournament.

When asked about the most men-
acing opponent standing between
Davidson and a Southern Conference
championship, Kerry Brown immedi-

Lady Wildcats set personal records,

earned a PR (5:29).

Three fab freshman, Lucy
Billingsley, Hannah Grimes, and Julia
Kudravetz, showed great intensity in
the 800 meters, which was evident in
the fact that all three raced personal
bests of 2:26, 2:40, and 2:36, respec-
tively. Billingsley earned Davidson’s
7th fastest time for an indoor 800 meters.

Topping off the meet were senior
Tab Combs and freshman Rhiannon
Ollis racing the 500 meters in 1:33 and
1:31, respectively. Both times landed a
spot on the 500 meters Top Ten Perfor-
mances list for Davidson’ s running his-

Anna Judy

ately replied, “Us. We have the poten-
tial to kill teams, but sometimes we’ re a
bunch of head cases. We struggle when
we get down, and in turn we continue to
play poorly.”

“Our biggest opponent is ourselves
rightnow,” agreed Montrella. “We have
so much talent, and it’s us standing in
our way, not our opposition. I’m not
afraid of playing other teams, because I
know when we put it together we can
beat anybody out there.”

rack

” proud of the meet’s outcome and
optimistic about the future, Coach Tho-
mas Cason commented, “This was a
great meet for us as a team and certainly
proved that we can make a strong show-
ing at the Southern Conference Cham-
pionships in two weeks.”

The indoor championships will be
held in Lexington, VA, at Virginia Mili-
tary. Institute on Feb. 19th and 20th.

Coach Cason also raced this week-
end in Salisbury, NC. Running the
men’s 8K, Cason placed second out of
250 runners.

davidson college union

Solidarity Week Keynote Address:-| * Danielle Howle *
Mike Dyson - "Race Rules" live performance
Satruday, February {3
Sunday, Feb. 14 7:30pm Love Auditorium 9pm 900 Room ne
* *
] ; oe
Wednesday Feb. 10 | | Friday Feb. 12 SOLIDARITY WEEK: FEB. 14- FEB. 21 | Tuesday Feb. 16
Movie: coffee house coffee house
' ; 11 } 8:30am-11:15am
ee Rete. at a. LSundoyied..14 | |. Mongevfeb.15. | Sian
NY Poets vf Common Ground cit New Year
Workshops: K Ad H : ion
feng fee | oe Sl Sn or
yuan conenee 3:30 Home Rocin — Tom D.C.P.C. Fellowship Hall sya aetornee,
& ‘Vietnam: A Long 4:30 Outpost "Should I Break U;
Time Coming' Valentine's Day jumpin java es, ne
! * a nd 8pm-12:30pm My Diet?’
oe ‘onsen Dramatic Readings Outpost Te## 900 Reem
kayak rolling 9pm Balcony of Phi Hall Poetry Reading jumpin java
8:15pm Baker pool | Saturday Feb. 13 | 10pm Outpost @pm-12:30pm
win: jumpin java —§ ED cimbing wait
fve's Danielle Howle Spm-12:30pm Huse argh Soe
9:30pm Home Room, free! ‘Spm 900 Room Outpost 7-9pm Johnston Gym 900 Room

