@ LETTERS @—

Shame on you, Mr. Goldsberry:

Responses to “Shame on all of you” from the March 30th Davidsonian

To the editors:

Fourteen enlargers, five rooms dedicated to
photography, one of the county’s most decorated
and distinguished visual arts teachers, and twenty-
seven years of excellence in photography. This is
the environment from which my photography
passion was born four years ago. My high school
program in Charlotte was a hotbed for learning
and producing black and white visual art in the
burgeoning field of photography. When I left high
school, I had only greater visions in mind for my
photography career. The University of the South,
a comparable institution to Davidson, had an en-
tire floor reserved for photography education.
Even UNCC had the financial resources to feed to
photography that my high school could not rival.
Surely, Davidson would match my dreams of
higher-level photography, especially with the new
Belk Visual Arts Center. Dreams that cost money
find little fruition at small schools, I was to find
out.

This letter may seem to be an advertisement
for photography at Davidson, and it is meant tobe.
After two years of hard work scrapping together
funds and members, three members of the class of
2001 brought photography to Davidson. Although
the transition from fourteen to two enlargers, from
three rooms to five was difficult, I felt that I could
finally jump back into my black and white world.
Amber Worrell, Matt West, and myself, the naive
freshmen who started the Davidson Photography
Club in 1997 have much more lofty visions for
photography at Davidson than are feasible, but at
the beginning of this school year in September, we
all pledged to see at least one insurmountable
vision hatched. A portrait photography exhibit of
Davidson students was the perfect press release

for the club. Amber, then our president, proposed
to expand our press release to reach other parts of
the student body. We decided to ride the curtails of
the Coeducation at Davidson celebration and the
opening of the Gender Resources Center to spread
the word about photography:

Three students hatched the idea for an exhibit
featuring both text and photos of Davidson women.
Amber Worrell was liaison between the Photogra-
phy Club and the Women’s Issues Committee,
helping to:coordinate our display with Women’s
Month in March. I modeled the project after a
similar project done more professionally by Brian

Lanker featuring only African-American women. -

We presented the project to the club and began the
seven month long organization of the endeavor.
Tremendous hard work went into the project and
when it opened March 14, photography at David-
son had achieved something that my high school
program had not. We had reached above our capa-
bilities and announced to the campus that David-
son Photography was an organization that could
bring arts and awareness.

When I read Mr. Goldsberry’s belated re-
marks in last week’s Davidsonian, I was saddened
that our press release had failed. Shame on all of
you, his headline read. I was expecting the greatest
of criticism for the project, for the idea of choosing
representative women to photograph is such an
arbitrary and subjective task. Shame on Davidson
Photography, maybe, but not shame to the mass of
students who gave us the backdtop of Women’s
Month on which we displayed our work.

Mr. Goldsberry falsely addressed his criti-
Cism to the Women’s Issues Committee, when it
was the Davidson Photography Club that headed
the project. I felt slighted when reading the edito-

rial that we had failed even when being criticized.
The project was the inception of the Davidson
Photography Club. The Women’s Issues Commit-
tee gave us the opportunity to hop on the back of
their work on Women’s Month. Shame on none of
the Women’s Issues Committee. Rather, thanks to
them for the ride.

Mr. Goldsberry, in a fit of journalistic bra-
vado, wrote his editorial hastily and irresponsibly.
Hopefully his lack of professionalism is not a trend
of our college weekly. As already mentioned, the
Women’s Issues Committee did not, as Mr.
Goldsberry claims, seek to recognize twenty-four
Davidson women. The Davidson Photography
Club sought to recognize both our own photo-
graphic merit and the merit of twenty-four David-
son women in the “Skipping Stones” project. I
recognize that selecting only twenty-four students
poses issues on subjectivity. To those women
slighted by our selection, I am sorry. To Mr.
Goldsberry, our dues are twenty dollars for paper
and other supplies and we gladly welcome new
members. I am always enthusiastic to teach new
students about photography.

Mr. Goldsberry’s claims that he did not get a
chance to vote on the process went without proper
research on his part as well. For a more than a
month, there was a board in Chambers across from
the Gallery that asked for nominations of women
to be represented in the exhibit. I would have loved
to have echoed one of the nominations that read,
“all of them, of course.” Believe me, I would like
to have the members, the funds, and the resources
to photograph fifty or more, but there comes atime
when the crunch of funds and resources becomes
too great. There comes a time when two enlargers
and a closet-sized room shackle your ability to

produce. Shame on apathetic Davidson students
who passed by your opportunity to vote. Shame on
you, Mr. Goldsberry.

We gathered more than half of the twenty-four
selections from the board of nominations. Mr.
Goldsberry’s claim that the selection was biased is
a personal attack on three members who filled the
rest of the selections. Adah Walker, Laura Morriss,
and myself took it upon ourselves to help apportion
portraits to represent female faculty, students, and
staff. Mr. Goldsberry’s claim that those represented
in the exhibit benefited from knowing the right
people is preposterous. None of the three that made
the final selections are members of Libertas or
Women’s Issues Committee and we did not receive
kickbacks from students who were selected. Shame
on you for asserting that the Women’s Issues Com-
mittee wanted to pat themselves on the back. Adah,
Laura, and myself on behalf of the Davidson Pho-
tography Club, made the selections and gave the
names to the Women’s Issues Committee so that
they could write the text.

Shame on you also Mr. Goldsberry for your
editorial that smacks of condescension to the art of
photography. We have spent two years trying to
promote arts on Davidson’s campus in the form of
black and white photography. Two years, and still
people call photography “artsy.” I thought we had
worked harder, but I guess we will have to send out
invitations to closed-minded individuals who have
yet to accept photography as a viable art form.
Shame fell not on me when I read Mr. Goldsberry’s
editorial, but rather I felt shame for the readers who
were misinformed. Shame to all those who fail to
give both praise and criticism where it is due.

Matt Clifford *01

To Co-Editor in Chief, Wes Goldsberry:

First of all, the members of the Women’s
Issues Committee were not the “masterminds”
behind the photo exhibit. Notice Wes, that the
exhibit consisted of pictures and essays. Did you
wonder perhaps where the pictures came from?
Well, let me enlighten you-the exhibit was planned,
constructed and ‘carried out instead by the David-
son Photography Club. While your editorial im-
plies a-rather unplanned, slipshod effort that in its
haste forgot to include your friends, the ‘Skipping
Stones’ project has in fact been in the works since
the beginning of fall semester. ;

I’m sure you failed to notice the board i
Chambers that allowed students, faculty and staff

to nominate women for this exhibit. After all, it
was only up for a MONTH and of course no
academic classes are held in Chambers. Unfortu-
nately, you also seem to have missed the voting in
Chambers by the entire student body for the ex-
hibit in October. The list was then evaluated by a
group of more than twenty, only five of which are
involved with the Women’s Issues Committee-
clearly not a “majority.” Then the list was nar-
rowed by a panel of three, completely independent

_ of the Women’s Issues Committee and the Libertas.

You will feel even more comforted to know that
one member of this panel was in fact one of your
own gender, Wes.

As to the interviewers, who better to inter-
view these women than those who already know

them the best? This is a small school, and under- .

standably there was an overlap in the women
chosen for the exhibit and those writing about
them: By the way, Britta Tolman [sic] and Mary
Shell Brosche are both varsity athletes and Meredith
Beattie is an accomplished violinist, just in case
you want to make any more unsubstantiated claims
about representation in this exhibit.

It’s just too bad, Wes, that you chose to abuse
the power of your editorial pen. By wielding it to
degrade a well-planned celebration of the female
gender, you undermined the extensive work of the
Davidson Photography Club and the twenty-four
essay writers. I personally feel honored to have
been included in the exhibit and asked to write
about my good friend Erin Smith. And while the

exhibit’s purpose was to highlight twenty-four out-
standing women at Davidson, it was never the
exhibit’s message to imply that these women are the
only outstanding women at Davidson. There isn’t
enough wall space in the Union, or Chambers, for
that matter, to exhibit all the outstanding women at
Davidson. ; .

In the editorial above yours in the last issue,
John A. Dunwoody encouraged the student body to

‘remain involved and active in the final part of the

spring semester. Perhaps you should take the advice
of your fellow editor-in-chief — the exhibit was
entitled ‘Skipping Stones’, not throwing them.

Kristen Taylor ’01

