THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jacksonville edges Davidson 20-15, Wildcats fa

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As Davidson fell to 0-2 following Saturday’ s
loss to Jacksonville University, the prospects of
matching the magical spectacle of '98 are seeming
increasingly distant.

The bad news? The ’Cats’ find themselves
winless, behind the proverbial “eight ball” in mid-
September *99.

@ The Dolphins ran over David-
son on Saturday’s home-opener.

And the good? Just last season, the ‘98 Wild-
cat football team converted their 1-2 “eight ball”
scenario into an eight-win, record-setting season.
The question whispering around Richardson Sta-
dium after Saturday’s 20-15 loss to Jacksonville
University: Can the °99 edition recreate the magic
that ignited the program just a few short months
ago?

Quarterback Shaun Tyrance has faith that

they can; “The guys played hard today. Everybody
understands that we’re not out of it. We've got
nine more games, and we know that something
positive will come of this season.”
Unfortunately, the preponderance of the posi-
tivity fell to Jacksonville on Saturday, as the
Dolphins outlasted the ’Cats to earn their first
season victory. bes ‘

Head coach Steve Gilbert employed a bal-

anced, and potent, offensive attack to put 20 points
on the board — double the aver-
age scored against the Wildcat
defense last season.

After the Wildcat offense
went three-and-out in their open-
ing possession, Jacksonville con-
verted a crucial 4"-down con-
version to sustain an eventual

.10-play, 72-yard touchdown
drive.

~ But Davidson bounced right
back—with freshman quarter-

Dunwoody” Nichols at the helm,
the Cats answered with an 8-
play, 66-yard scoring drive of
their own. Senior Eric Ferguson
punched the ball across the goal
line, giving the Wildcat offense
their first touchdown of the sea-
son. A failed two-point conver-
sion left the score at 7-6 at the end of the first
quarter.

After consecutive illegal blocking penalties
with about eight minutes*to go in the second
quarter, the “Cats found themselves backed up
against their own end-zone. Nichols dropped back
to throw but was hit by an oncoming defender as
he released the pass—the errant pass was picked
oft.by Jacksonville safety Julio Izquierdo on the
Davidson 25. -

On the very next play, running back Jon
Underhill porpoised through the ‘Cats defensive
front and then exploded for a 25-yard touchdown

back Paul “The Demon of

. fun, putting the Dolphins up 13-6.

The teams exchanged punts for the
duration of the first half, and the ’Cats hit
the locker room down by a touchdown.

The second half was marked by the
return of Shaun Tyrance at the helm of the
Wildcat offense. Three different quarter-
backs took snaps for the ’Cats in the first
half — and though both freshmen back-
ups (Nichols and Graham Watson) put
together impressive series, their shuffling
through the lineup made the Wildcat of-
fense every bit as dissociative as it was .
productive.

“The plan was to start with Shaun,
and if things didn’t get going early, we'd
goto Paul,” explained Coach Landis. “Dur-
ing the first half, Nichols played really
well, and we tried to ride his hot hand. [In
the second half,] Shaun did a lot to prove
himself. We expect him to lead us this
year, but it is so nice to have a couple of [&
talented young guys that can fill a role,
too.”

Just under six minutes into the sec-
ond half, freshman kicker Daniel Hanks
tallied a trio of points for the ’Cats with his
first field goal of the season, a 32-yarder
that split the uprights.

Jacksonville added another touchdown in the
third quarter, to put the Dolphins up 20-9.

.Withhis team suddenly deep inahole, Tyrance
responded with force, marching his offense on a
79-yard scoring drive. The junior captain rushed
for 50 yards, and passed for 22 more on the scoring
drive, to close the gap to 20-15.

Davidson's defense held firm, shutting out

the Dolphins in the 4" quarter. But the Jackson-,

ville defense was able to smother the Wildcat’s
final offensive gasp — leaving Davidson stalled
27 yards shy of a touchdown as the-clock expired.

“We played a bigger, stronger, and faster

football team today,” said Landis. (Indeed,

Jacksonville’ s offensive line outmassed their Wild-

Men’s hoopsters to open season at Siena

Press RELEASE
Davidson SID

Last year, Davidson's women took a:shot at

the preseason NIT. In 1999, the men are getting

’ their chance at the most prestigious preseason
basketball tournament in the country.

The pairings for the preseason NIT were
announced this afternoon, and Davidson will play
at Siena in the first round on November 16. The
time of the game is yet to be determined.

Davidson is coming off a 16-11 season with
an 11-5 record in the Southern Conference to
finish second in the North Division. The season
ended ona sour note, however, as the Wildcats fell
in the conference tournament in the. second round
after earning a bye in the first round.

Commentary |

By Burain HARDIN
Staff Writer

Usually I marvel at
all the traffic I en-
counter whenever
I’m making my way
along Interstate 77
towards our beloved
Exit 30. Itis always
fun to watch the driv-
ers in: front of me
jockey for position,
each captain deftly

. maneuvering his
Beamer or Explorer
around the others in
an attempt to take the
lead.

And, inevitably,
riding with me is al-

ways at least one human speedometer — a buddy

Who gets his kicks by announcing the speed of

every car that whizzes by.
“They’re doing at least 80 or 85,” my pal

declares. “Maybe even 90.”

Four starters return, including second-team
all-conference performer Landry Kosmalski, who
averaged 13.9 points per game and 8.6 rebounds.

Siena had a terrific season in 1998-99, fin-
ishing with a 25-6 record and a berth in the NCAA
Tournament. As the 13th seed, the Saints hung
tough against the fourth-seeded Arkansas Razor-
backs, losing 94-80. All five starters return for
Siena, including four players who averaged double-
figure points, led by senior guard Marcus Faison at
14.7. ;
The two teams have met twice -- first in the
1996-97 season in Davidson as the Wildcats won
73-64, with Kosmalski grabbing nine boards. The
next season, on January 8, 1998 at Siena, the Saints
outscored Davidson, 103-89. Three current Wild-
cat seniors made significant contributions in that

game. Kosmalski scored 10 points, shooting guard
Davor Halbauer had eight and center Stephen
Marshall chipped in seven.

The winner of the contest will square off
against the winner of the game at Ohio State
between the Buckeyes and Notre Dame. Other
first-round action on the I6th includes Hofstra at
New Mexico State and Kansas State at Arizona.

On the 17th, four more contests will take
place: Arkansas State at Utah, Pennsylvania at
Kentucky, San Francisco at Maryland and Fordham
at Tulane.

The second round will take place on the
November 18-19 at home sites as well. The semi-
finals and finals will.be played in Madison Square
Garden on November 24 and 26.

And _ you think I-77 is

On most days, I would take notice of some-
one driving 90 miles per hour and make a mental
note of the make and model of the car so I'd know
what to look for next time I’m on a dealer’s lot.

But today, 90 mph looks to me like slow
motion instant replay. For the last three days I
have been in the thick of a battle so heated and fast-
paced that anything below 100 mph reminds me of
those tiny die-cast toy cars I used to race on my
mom’s kitchen floor when I was five.

This weekend-long battle is what-I call an
intense, adrenaline-pumping explosion of power.
I call it the “Whoo! Motivator” —a deafening roar
that rattles your bones and tweaks your every
sense until all you can do it let out a long resound-
ing “WHOO!” to keep from exploding.

The rest of the world just calls it NASCAR.

NASCAR, a tidy acronym for the National
Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, just cel-
ebrated its 50" Anniversary last year, a testament
to Americans’ enduring fascination with cars and
their love affair with going fast.

One of the stops on the NASCAR circuit-is
the venerable Darlington Raceway, a 1.336
superspeedway located in my hometown of
Darlington, South Carolina. It was the first race-
track of its kind in the country, built in 1949 on an

old cotton field by a local businessman named
Harold Brasington, who set the standard for the
next half-century of racetrack construction.
“This Labor Day weekend I had the privilege
and pleasure of being a part of a milestone event at
the Darlington Raceway — the 50" running the
country’s oldest superspeedway stock car event,
the Southern 500. It was a milestone in the history
of stock car racing as well as sports in general.

After all, when an event such as the Southern
500 can successfully draw tens of thousands of
spectators to the track year after year and millions
more through television, I think there is.cause to
recognize it as having a significant impact on the
sports culture of our country,

I was on the clock this past Southern 500
weekend, capping off what had been an incredible
summer experience at the track. During race
weekend, when I punched out for the day, some-
times I would hang around the track for a while,
soaking up all the sights and sounds that have been
the lifeblood of NASCAR fans for 50 years.

Tnot only learned about the sport and its fans
from some of the best in the business, I learned a
bit about myself and found what I think is my
niche. There is nothing quite as exhilarating as
knowing you are a part of the success of a sporting

Jacksonville SLD.

@ Three Dolphins celebrate a
touchdown over the ‘Cats.

cat counterparts by an average of over 42 pounds.)
“But our guys played hard, and I’m not dissatisfied
with our effort by any stretch of the imagination.”

Landis’s ’Cats face the University of Sewanee
at home on Saturday ina game the head coach calls
“a gut check for us.”

But retired Davidson football coach Dave
Fagg, for one, trusts that the “Cats will come
through. “I believe in Tim Landis, and I know that
this is going to be a fun season. The ’Cats are going
to get started soon, and it’s gonna be a roll as good
as we've ever seen them on.”

STUDENT
SURVEY

Which of the following
Wildcat squads has been the

most exciting to watch so
far this fall?

A) Men’s soccer .
B) Women’s soccer

C) Volleyball

D) Football

E) Field Hockey

E-Mail your response to:
mianderson @ davidson.edu

rough...

event that will entertain millions. No matter what
size role you play in the production, it is exciting
just to be part of the show.

I realized that for all the fun people make of
NASCAR fans, there really is no other sport in this
country with sucha fiercely loyal following. People
invest their lives in their favorite drivers, purchas-
ing luxurious (and sometimes not so luxurious)
recreational vehicles and hopping from track to
track each week just to keep tabs on their beloved
drivers. Fans buy whatever cereal or motor oil is
advertised on the hood of their favorites’ cars. And
I thought how amazing it would be if we all lived
life as completely as NASCAR fans devote them-
selves to their favorite drivers. S

So don’t discount NASCAR. Next time
you're clicking through the channels and find a
NASCAR battle, don’t be so hasty to keep surfing.
Think about the extremely high level of.concentra-
tion it takes to pilot a machine at 190 mph for 500
miles; think about the technology invested in the

- development of a car like that; think about the

engineering feats required to keep it running in top
form.

The world calls it NASCAR. I call it
amazing.

‘

‘
