THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Caper Howarp
Guest Writer

The Preministerial Committee will host a
Theological Education Day at Davidson Thurs-
day, November | | and representatives of 16 theo-
logical schools from around the country will be
present to talk to students. From 2:00 p.m. until
4:30 p.m., an Open House will be held in Cham-
bers Gallery, providing the opportunity for stu-
dents to speak with the representatives of the
various seminaries and divinity schools and gather
information.

From 4:30 to 5:30, Admission officers for the
theological institutions and recent Davidson gradu-
ates attending a seminary or divinity school will
comprise a panel to discuss “Theological Educa-
tion in the Next Century.”

Dr. John Kuykendall, President Emeritus and
religion professor notes the importance of the
Theological Education Day, “These are institu-
tions which send representatives to the campus
each year. We have asked them to come on the
same day this year to provide students with the
opportunity to visit with several schools at the
same time, and to provide for the sort of interaction
about theological education—both practically and
theoretically—that the panel discussion will pro-
vide.” The theological schools that will be repre-
sented include Austin, Candler (Emory), Colum-
bia, Drew, Dubuque, Duke, Gordon-Conwell,

Hood Seminary, Johnson C. Smith Seminary,
Lousiville (Presbyterian), McCormick, Pittsburgh,
Princeton, Union/PSCE, Vanderbilt, and Yale.
In fact, there are a number of faculty and staff at
Davidson College who have received theological
training and some have been ordained. These
individuals include President Bobby Vagt, profes-
sors Ed Palmer, Larry Ligo, Karl Plank, Trent
Foley, William Mahoney, John Kuykendall, and
David Kaylor, deans Leslie Marsicano, Ernest
Jeffries, and Leonard Satterwhite, Robert Norfleet,
Julius Melton, and of course Chaplain Rob Spach
and Assistant Chaplain Brenda Tapia.

Some faculty and staff members have ex-
pressed their views on the importance of a theo-
logical education. Davidson College Chaplain
Rob Spach comments, “At a time when we are in
a world where people of many religious traditions
are living side by side and trying to get along, my
own theological education gave me a lot of per-
spective on the many forms the Christian church
has taken over the years, and it helped me to realize
that we always have to approach people who
believe differently or worship differently than
ourselves with respect and appreciation, realizing
that we are inheritors of a long tradition that often
looked very different from how it looks today.”

Dean Leslie Marsicano reflects, “my theo-
logical education impacts everything I do in my

job because it shaped my understanding of myself,

others, our relationships to each other and our
relationships to God. These views directly shape

NEws
Theological Education Day arrives Thursday

how I do my job.” When dealing with students in
disciplinary matters, Dean Marsicano begins with
the viewpoint that “we are children of a reconcil-
ing and renewing God who works for good in all
things.” She seeks to “find the hope and chance for
renewal in the situation.”

Dean Ernest Jeffries added, “My theological
education has brought me to réalize that what I do
at Davidson is very similar to ministry. At David-
son, my job is to work with students on a personal
level in a way that effects and shapes them as
people. I see that being very similar to,the Pastoral
vocation in that a Pastor also is responsible for
pouring into the lives of people in that same way.”
Dr. Ed Palmer, a psychology professor at David-
son, has graduate training in bom theology and
psychology.

“That privilege has given me a deep respect
for the commonalities found within these two
backgrounds,” Palmer said. ‘For example, in the
study of personality, mental health is equated with
elements such as social interest. Theology, at its
best, finds this component in spiritual health as
well.

Palmer continues, “Beyond such common-
alities, the blend of educational backgrounds has
given me an ecumenical appreciation that reaches
well beyond denominations, factions, and ‘isms.’
It also gives me a deep respect for the individual’ s
spiritual journey, wherever that may lead. In the
final analysis, ‘tis ‘by their fruits that we shall
(truly) know.’”

candidate: for this position.

You must be:

RRRRRAA

Salary: $17.50 per hour

AVI Di is e s . a e e

achieving students in

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS

SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM

(ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DET TERMINATION).

a program designed |
to prepare middle

grades 6-12 for four-
year college
and university
entry and
SUCCESS.

If you are enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a

Envolled in a college or university with good academic standings
Able to work in a supportive manner with middie level and high school students and teachers
Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress
Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching methodologies

An:excellent roie model for motivated, organized and successful students
Representative of a balanced academic background

Term of Fmployment: 1999-2000 academic schoo! year

For additianal information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte-Mecklenburg Scnools
AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street Suite 506
Cnarlotte, Nortn Carolina 28202

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999

Davidson
Outdoors

presents
Into the Woods
Day today

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The Davidson Outdoors program is planning
several events for Wednesday, November 10, in
recognition of a special Into the Woods Day. What
would have been an Into the Woods Week was
postponed until next semester in hopes that stu-
dents would. have more time early in the spring
semester to enjoy a full week of activities, said
organizer Kurt Yusi ’00.

Nonetheless, Wednesday will be full of op-
portunities for students to take a break from their
studies. First, Davidson Outdoors is cosponsoring
a trio of Southern nature writers along with the
Environmental Action Coalition and the English
and Biology departments. The authors will par-
ticipate in a panel discussion at 3:30 in the Union
followed by readings at 7:30. Both are open to the
public.

After the readings, there will be a reception
and book signing in the Homeroom. Following
the reception, Davidson Outdoors will provide an
“outdoor coffee house” on the front lawn of Cham-
bers. Students can listen to stories and music from
campus talents while sipping cider, hot chocolate,
&r coffee. Finally, all interested participants can
spend a night out on the lawn. Students are invited
to camp out under a tarp provided by Davidson
Outdoors. Some sleeping bags will be provided,
but anyone wishing to use one is advised to call
ahead and reserve it.

Wednesday also marks the beginning of the
community bike program. In an effort to provide
healthy, environmentally friendly transportation
to members of the college community at no cost, -
Davidson Outdoors will begin keeping several
bicycles outside of the Union. These bikes will be
painted red and can be used by anyone on campus.

(704) 343-6975 Mon-Thu 9-8
aoe e ee eee te es 5 ROPER MA OER ne ene Fri 9.7
(Personal Information} Sat 9-5
Neos: $95-0404
Mailing Address: 5
Telepnoite: Message Telephone: 20430-2 Norman Crossing
Shopping Center _
Ca ey Corner of I-77 & Exit 28
Middle ar High Schoo! preference: Cornelius

INNER HAIR CARE

1997 BeZI. Onision ZZ1, Oanen, CT 06820-1005

Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage
Hydro-therapy room

