8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

Decoding the Global

The Futon

icture the scene: the camera focuses on a
P blank, empty space under the lofted bed.

The music begins (the introduction to “2001:
A Space Odyssey”) as it pans left, then right:
nothing, a vacant hole in existence waiting, wait-
ing to be filled. In slow motion the two soldiers of
liberation approach. They march with deliberate
precision and purpose towards the black hole. In
their hands they carry the answer, the solution to
this puzzling physics quandary. It is The Futon. It
has arrived.

It all began over. Parent’s Weekend. The
black hole was vacuumed and cleaned to convey
the feeling of vast emptiness. When the parents
arrived, they were asked to take a seat, but there
were not enough seats available. With that seed
planted, we went to dinner. At dinner, it was
casually mentioned that many students had futons
and enjoyed them toa great degree. Plan A: “Futon
Shield” was put into action.

Alas, it was to no avail. The dinner pro-
gressed without further conversation about seat-
ing. It was time for Plan B: “Futon Storm.” “Dad,
I need a futon.” “No.” “Mom, I would really like
afuton.” “No.” “Butall the other kids have futons.”
“If all the other kids jumped off a cliff, would you
jump offa cliff?” “Yes.” “Damn it, Andrew, that’s
not funny!” “Oh, sorry.” “I really would like a...”
“No.” “OK, fine, I will just be a social outcast with
bad back problems and have to go to a chiroprac-
tor.” “And who is going to pay for the chiroprac-
tor, not us.” “Oh.” “But...” “No.”

So ended Plan B. After discussing the situa-
tion with my roommate overnight, we decided to
enact Plan C, the mother of all plans, the plan to
end all plans. It was time for “Futon Fox.” When
the targets (I mean parents) arrived the next morn-

ing, a tour was given of selected rooms (all of them
just happened to have an excess of seating de-
vices). “Wow,” said my mother, “lots of people
have futons.” “No,” replied my father. Despite all
of my planning, all of the careful work and ma-
nipulation, The Futon was doomed to remain a
figment of my imagination.

Then, when all seemed lost, it was as if Ethan
Allen stepped out of the heavens and intervened. A
nearby furniture store was having a sale. (For
those of you who come from another planet, it

. Should be noted that the word “sale” has a very

powerful impact on people of the baby boomer
generation). It was dumb luck, but in the end it
resulted in the procurement of The Futon. Now
that black hole of desperation beneath the lofted
bed has been filled with people, activity, and life.

I became popular. People came to visit and
stayed for the atmosphere. The room was a virtual
central station of studying, partying, and every-
thing in-between. Yet, a disturbing trend began
with the advent of The Futon. People came to the
room to sit on The Futon, to lounge on The Futon,
to sleep on The Futon even when I wasn’t there.
Everyone except me was using my Futon.

Oh, woe is I! So my love affair with The
Futon did not last long. I look at it warily now.
When people come to my room, I wonder. Do they
come to see me or to visit The Futon?

Note: Many thanks to the Good Value Furniture
Corporation of California (producers of The Futon)
and the gnomes that have taken up residence in the
tiny space behind The Futon. Also, it should be
noted that The Futon folds out into a full size bed...

Andrew MacDonald ’03

A few words
about cheerleaders

short skirt; I shake pom-poms; I shout at
athletic events. Cheerleaders are easy targets
for jokes, but Cheerleaders are a necessity here at
Davidson. YOU NEED US. Here’s why:
1. There isn’t a whole lot of attendance at many
athletic games. No one has figured out this phe-
nomenon of sparse support. We’ ll keep you posted.
2. When students actually attend athletic events,
they magically become mute, not understanding
why they should cheer. Not only are football
games a place to chat and sit on the comfortable
bleachers, but halftime is a time to stretch and
probably leave the stadium. Nothing happens in
the last two quarters, right?
3. The athletes aré forced to cheer for themselves
to drown the silence from the crowd. Yes, David-
son is small, but c’mon, we’re nota bunch of losers
who sit in our rooms and study all the time (no
matter what our workload is ranked). Students like
to relax.on weekends and not work until Sunday
night. This, obviously, does not compute with a
nice, two-hour study break.
Other Davidson Cheerleading notions that need
dispelling include our budget. Although it seems
that the cushy Baker Sports Complex has $$$ to
_ throw around, it’s not coming our way. We borrow
locker rooms to change in. This is the first year that
we have not paid, (OUT OF POCKET), for our
team t-shirts, shoes, and socks. Seems trifling, but
I wrote a $100 check last year for these three
things-I paid to cheer. More importantly, our bud-
get can only afford an instructor to come and teach
once a week.
Why do I cheer? Because frankly, this isn’t high
school. We aren’t a group of petite sprites compet-

I ama cheerleader. I freely admit this. I wear a

ing for titles. We don’t care whether we are the best |

squad in the region, state, nation, or world. Our
sole purpose is to support Davidson Athletic teams,
and I think we do that by focusing on the teams we
cheer for, not our own competitiveness...

On that note, let me add that we are asked to be, as
Jim Murphy puts it, “ubiquitous.” We cheer three
separate sports: football, women’s basketball, and
men’s basketball. The seasons overlap. We actu-
ally have the longest season of any team. In an
ideal world, we would have scholarships and
wouldn’t have to drive ourselves to away games.
There wasn’t enough money to send us to

Georgetown with the football team, to cheer them
as they won by one point on Georgetown’s Home-
coming Game. Don’t you think we'd have liked to
be there? And yet, we are criticized for not being
everywhere. We can’t be. It isn’t humanly (or
financially) possible.

We're not complaining. We love it—otherwise it
would never be worth the three practices a week,
4 cardio sessions and 2 team lifts. Plus games.
With this schedule, I think we are roughly on par
as an athletic team. We are serious about
Cheerleading, and take it as a sport-so no allusions
to Waterboy cheerleaders please. Oh, and to ad-
dress one freshwoman’ s incorrect notion, we have
to be stone-cold sober to throw free tosses and
basket tosses 50 feet in the air. That rumor is an
insult to her intelligence and our integrity as a
team. '

It is not fun to cheer to stone faces. Many games
are almost humorous as we look out on a sea of
gargoyles, wondering what could make you clap,
stand up, or even alive. The chants really aren’t
that difficult, especially when the middle 50% of
student body SAT scores here are oh, between
1280-1410. A few to practice in your room in front
of your mirror: “Here we go Wildcats, Here we go
[clap twice].” “We are [clap twice], D.C. [clap
twice].” “Let’s Go Cats!” “De-fense, [clap twice]
De-fense [clap twice].” Feeling bold? Shut your
window, close the door, and actually smile when
practicing. Look enthusiastic. (Perhaps lock your
door to preserve your reputation.)

Itall comes down toresponse. You know how hard
‘it is to be an athlete here at Davidson, with prac-
tices and games on top of the workload. Your
roommate, your neighbor down the hall, someone
you know plays on a DC team. The Admissions
Office states that 1 out of every four of us is a D-
I athlete. Support them. And you will be helping
yourselves. My team structures new stunts, dances,
and cheers in the hopes that the crowd will re-
spond. What else do we have to do? We are your
cheerleaders. The players give us something to
cheer for, now give us something to cheer to.

Kristen Taylor ’01

_ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999

Climate Coalition

Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a panel of

more than 2,500 scientists from around the
world, issued a report which stated that “the
balance of evidence suggests a discernible human
influence on global climate.” Despite this broad
scientific consensus, an organization called the
Global Climate Coalition (GCC) refuses to accept
any limits on greenhouse gas pollution. Fred
Palmer, president of GCC-member Western Fuels
Association, had the audacity to say, “Every time
you burn fossil fuels, you are doing the Lord’s
work.”

Don’t be fooled by the GCC’s innocuous-
sounding name. Spending millions annually to
block national and international political action on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the GCC is
merely a front group that propagates misinforma-
tion about global warming issues. Despite its
deceptively scientific name, the GCC is no more
than a lobbying group for automobile and petro-
chemical corporations who see environmental leg-
islation as a stumbling block for their profits.

The Davidson College endowment holds
shares in several GCC corporations. Should we,
the students of Davidson College, through our
college’s investment dollars, help to further the
GCC’s misguided agenda? Cool the Planet, anew
Environmental Action Coalition committee, joins
students at Stanford, Harvard, the University of
Washington, and dozens of other colleges across
the nation in encouraging divestment from corpo-
rations that are members of the Global Climate
Coalition. Cool the Planet encourages trustees to
divest from corporations like Exxon, General Mo-
tors, and closer to home, Duke’ Energy, thereby
making a powerful economic statement. Cool the
Planet seeks to encourage the big oil, coal, and
auto companies to take responsibility for reducing
the threat of global warming and to withdraw from

I n 1995, the United Nations Intergovernmental

their misinformation machine, the GCC,

The GCC, however, does not reflect the

entire business community’s stance on global
warming. The Pew Center on Global Climate
Change, a coalition of corporations including
Toyota, Boeing, British Petroleum (BP), and
Lockheed Martin advocates a proactive corporate
response to global warming: “We accept the views
of most scientists that enough is known about the
science and environmental impacts of climate
change for us to take actions to address its conse-
quences.” These corporations are making a con-
scious effort to reduce their greenhouse gas emis-
sions without jeopardizing profits, proving clearly
that no fundamental conflict exists between envi-
ronmental stewardship and capitalism.
Cool the Planet’s symbolic message: withdrawing
financial support from corporations whose ac-
tions we deem immoral has significant precedent.
During the 1980s, Davidson undertook a similar
economic protest against South Africa’s racist
Apartheid regime, showing the trustees’ past will-
ingness to balance financial and ethical interests.
We anticipate equally fair consideration for Cool
the Planet’s objectives. Cool the Planet does not
take an adversarial approach to working with
Davidson’s trustees and administration. Rather,
we want to form a united front-in the college
community against the GCC’s destructive agenda.
For more information, please visit the Cool the
Planet table in the Union from 10am-2pm Tues-
day-Thursday to learn more about Cool the Planet
and the GCC. You can also contact co-chairs
Sarah Cottrell (sacottrell @ davidson.edu) or Arthur
Gillett (argillett@davidson.edu).

Sarah Cottrell ’01]
Stephen Gamboa ’00_

The first frost
killed the kudzu

you have ever gone for a quick jog that

urned into a marathon run/walk because you
lost your way on the complex trail system com-
monly referred to as the crosscountry trails, you
are probably familiar with the section called Kudzu
Fields. You will eventually find this spot if you
enter the trails beyond Martin Court F, behind the
women’s soccer field and bear right at every
intersection. In this far loop, the trail opens into a
field with sparse trees, but the unique feature, the
feature that gives the spot its unique name, is the
dense drape of Kudzu. In the spring, the carpet of
vines blooms, and the purple flowers are well
worth the sweat to.see. This past week, however,
it was not the deeply hued, O’Keefe-like flowers
that left joggers-by awe struck; it was the
unescapable odor of underarm. The first frost
killed the kudzu, and all last week, the leaves lay
baking. If you have ever wondered what it would
be like to sit in a sauna with the Incredible Hulk,
you may have missed your chance to find out. I, of
course, the self-proclaimed pre-olympian, surged
through Kudzu Fields for four consecutive days
before sparing my nostrils and heading to the
pavement. I could have turned around the first
time I smelled the fumes, but for some reason, I
continued running.

On day one, when I realized that I was sprint-
ing away from my most obvious escape, my
thoughts turned to a story that my uncle divulged
several Thanksgivings ago. As the traffic thick-
ened around his home in northern Virginia, he
became increasingly concerned about the safety of
the three family dogs who had the tendency to
wander toward the road. After researching his
options, doggy discipline school, retaining walls,
and zoo-sized pens, he decided on an invisible
electric fence. The installation involved planting

l f you frequent the cross-country trails or if

posts on the property’s corners. These posts pro-
jected invisible electric waves that sent small shocks -
through the dogs when they tried to exit the yard.
The dogs had a couple of acres for roaming and
rarely entered the zapping range of the fence. My
uncle thought that the dogs had completely accli-
mated to the fence until the day the oldest of the
three dogs charged down the length of the quarter-
mile driveway, yapping all the way. The dog was
in the zapping range of the fences bordering both
sides of the drive. My uncle, who was working in
the yard at the time, said that he never figured out
why the dog didn’t just turn around and head back
toward the yard, He couldn’t understand why the
dog seemed so bent on his destination and suffered
the shock for so long. Upon recalling this story, I
realized that my pre-olympic, Davidson brain func-
tions much like that of an overweight, middle-aged
beagle. ;

The beagle and I had developed tunnel vision.
We both ran mindlessly toward some far off finish
line totally unaware of discomfort and ignoring
more enjoyable routes.

Thought for the Week: It may be November 1", but
it’s still too early in the semester to develop aca-
demic tunnel vision. Oh yeah, and don’t take your
Davidson brain too seriously.

Note: Don’t let the part about Martin Court F get
you confused, I was referring to the Five-Man

senior apartments. You know, that’s what the F
stands for, five.

Schaap Freeman ’00
