6 . THE DAVIDSONIAN

reetings and
Salutations.

As I stood in

the lunch line today at
the venerableVail
Commons, a recurring
thought came to me.
The person ahead of me
in the line (their iden-
tity and gender shall re-
main unknown) re-
quested the turkey sand-
wich sans turkey. A
similar episode was re-
peated at dinner when I
was forced to tell the
food service employee
that I wished to have
the meat lasagna, as if

OPINIONS

there is any other kind...

What is this thought you ask? Well, to put it
simply, there are many vegetarians. I have long
lamented the declination of the carnivore and
even the omnivore in American society. This
offends my sensibilities. I find it necessary to
explore my distrust of the “vegetarian elite” in
order for you to understand my reservations.

I think the mistrust stems from my fear of the
end of a way of life. The neighborhood barbecue
that ideally summed up American life in the
1950’s and early 60's no longer exist. It is not the
fault of vegetarians; they just represent another
fragmentation of American society. I miss these
icons of better times and happier people that I was
inundated with it the forms of The Brady Bunch
and Happy Days re-runs. They created an impres-

sion of life where the largest problems were how
they wore their hair to the prom and whether

anyone could ever emulate the Fonz.

The Fonz couldn’ t exist in today’s society. He

would be labeled an insensitive chauvinist and

wouldn’t get play for the life of him. Were we
better off back then? I say “we” in a liberal sense

since my only experience of this ideal was lived

vicariously through my parents’ 19" Sony Trinitron
TV. That generation was cloistered in suburban

shells and fed sugarcoated lies. Government was ,

supreme and the commies were the only threat.
Even the Great Communist Threat was a farce. The

drills with little kids cowering under their desks to

protect them from a nuclear holocaust were in
themselves a 50's sitcom. We all know that they
would have been toast-desks or no. But these drills
made them feel better. Just like Mr. Brady made us
feel secure in an insecure world.

MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 1999

And I don’t eat meat cause I’m a veterinarian...

On second thought, I am glad there are veg-
etarians. Well, at least I am willing to accept them.
The fragmentation of our society has liberated us. I
want my MTV. I want the 106 channels of sex,
drugs, and violence. Most of all, I want the ability to
make my own choices. It is better that we can
choose the turkey-less sandwich or the vegetable
lasagna, it is through our choices that we live and
learn and grow as human beings. So be sure to
include some Boca Burgers at the next neighbor-
hood block party.

Editor’s note: Upon further investigation we dis-
covered that Andrew’s girl friend is an ardent veg-
etarian and his brother has recently given up eating
red meat.

Andrew T. MacDonald ’03

elcome back

to school,
and let me be
the first to tell you how
happy Lam to be back at
school. Actually, | haven't been this happy since
I got my driver’s license. I’m not kidding either.
BUT that’s not what this first column is about.
This first column is about a sport that requires
physical stamina, athletic prowess and requires
attractive women to jump around in tight clothing.
What sport is this one might ask? (Cardio)

SUOTU(Td)O

kickboxing. In the new kickboxing class that the
college is sponsoring for us, lam the ONLY male
amongst 30 girls and one instructor guy. Needless
to say, I feel...well...like that one white guy
who's always at Def Comedy Jam. It’s not that the
class isn’t fun or a good workout, because it is, I
just feel so damn out of place. ;

I mean, I was HIDING from other males
playing B-ball, hoping against hope that I’d blend
in, even though that’s about as effective as hiding
a grizzly bear in with a herd of deer.

It's not that I’m worried that anyone willthink I’m -

Kick-Boxing: It is Damn Manly

gay or feminine. I consider myself pretty manly,
I watch football, | drink...coke, leat red meat raw.
Tuse a system of grunts when I communicate with
my fellow man. Not, “Hey Bradley, please pass

the salt” but “urrr” followed by “hrrrm” and point’

ing. It’s highly effective actually, I suggest more
people should try it.

But, back to my main point. I take Cardio
kickboxing. Lamamtan. And now...I need to ice
my back and try to rearrange my knee. I'll talk to
yall later.

Jimmy Burford '02

A warning to
(Or rather, Tarik

ctually tips. Welcome to the best college

inthe South. Here are a few pointers that

may help you get off to a good start at

Davidson. Or it will leave you worse than you

started. To be‘completely honest, I’m not gay, but

before I knew RuPaul was a man I found her (him)
attractive. I had no idea. ”

1. Be. careful of JFK look-alikes: Some of

your classmates may remind you of a good friend”

back home or a type of person that you've always
wanted to know. But be careful of opening your
heart to them, no matter how normal-looking or
rich they may seem. They may be the type of
person who treats people nicely and then stabs
them in the back. Turn a promised ride home into
a last-minute. scramble for transportation. Stand
you up for a double date. Or even force a fellow
classmate out of a senatorial race for a minor
campaign technicality. Trust your instincts here,
as you would anywhere else.

2. Don’t piss off the staff. Whatever you'do,
darling freshmen, do not make the mistake of
snapping at a staff member or pissing him or her
off. Whether they are a Commons employee or a
Union worker, chances are they are going to be
here longer than you are. Four years is a long time
to avoid someone, especially on a campus the size
of Davidson’s.

3. Remember people’s names. One of the
most endearing qualities that you can possess is
the ability to remember a person’s name. You are

“undoubtedly meeting dozens of students a day.
Your classmates know this and if you are able to
remember a few of their names, you’ ll make and
retain friends easier. (I once forgot this tip on a
date. I did remember her roommate’s name, but
she got mad when I called her it. Girls are funny
like that.) Use the trick of. association. For in-
stance, if her name is Harriet and she has a mous-
tache; just think hairy. . . Harriet. . . have no sex
with Harriet. . .

4. Don’t look for your soulmate. These are
not your only options. The pickings at Davidson
are very slim, especially if you can see. Do not
lower your standards because you will end up
miserable. There are also a bunch of skanky girls
and slimy guys in Charlotte, so porn is a good
investment. Guys two words: Traci Lords. Girls,
two words: Cannon 209

5. Don’t get cocky. ;

6. Do a bunch of crazy hall stuff, but just not
too late at night. Especially if you live above me
on 3rd Cannon. “Take advantage of those in your
hall, and welcome them into your lives like family.
Just know that more than half of them are dorks
and aren’t worth losing sleep over. Honestly. So

all freshmen
flaps his mouth)

have as much fun as you can without getting into
trouble or academic probation, but sleep MUST
come first or else you'll spend two or three valu-
able days recovering. I try to never to fall sleep
later than | a.m. on a weekday and later than 2:30
or 3 a.m. ona weeknight. If you ever call or knock
on my door later than this, especially if you have
read this article, I swear to God, I'll kick your
@$$.

7. Don’t get behind in work. This may be the
most valuable advice that you can get as a David-
son student. Davidson is a wonderful experience
when you’re ahead of the work, but if you get
behind, it will kick your @$$ like daddy used to
do when you broke a dish, or left your cage after
8 p.m. So get in the habit of staying ahead of your
work right now. Whatever they happen to be,
early habits will last throughout the semester. Go
tothe library in the morning, if you aren’t already
studying in your room, and also make trips on
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday afternoon. Don’t
think you need to spend all day there. Take it slow
and do what you need to do. But don't go crazy
and wait for the last minute. The class will kick
your ass, and then I'll come over and kick your ass
myself. If you are daring enough; try to stay 3-4
assignments ahead of the class.

8. Take classes without checking out the
professors first. This will be a particularly impor-
tant bit of advice to you taking “important” intro
classes like Calculus, Chemistry, Spanish, and
Psyh. 101. Some teachers are as personable as
flight attendants, while others may not know how
to teach. A professor once told me that you take
courses because of the teacher, not because of the
actual class. Some teachers who are wonderful,
but are rigid in their grading, may be worth taking
pass/fail. I strongly recommend taking as many
pass/fail courses as possible. So do most upper-
classmen who have taken pass/fail and who aren’t

_ gay. (Sorry, just kidding).

9. Never take just one person’s advice. Even
though this is Davidson College, idiots are every-
where. Ask for people’s advice; get a consensus,
and make up your own damn mind. By the way,
here’s a bit of advice you can take. If for some
reason you're at this point in your life and you
haven't started shaving yet, do us all a favor and
give the face a once over with arazor. Guys, same
advice to you. Hey girls, after you do, stop by
Cannon 209. We'll trade war stories and I can
show you what else you can do with a razor.

10. Don’t sell-out. You know what I mean
and you can feel it in your heart when you do. It’s
about the worst thing you can do, and will lose you
more friends than it can ever gain you. So keep it

real.

11. Never take yourself too seriously. The
work here may seem intense, but in the big picture,
it’s very trivial. And ignore those who take
themselves too seriously. (By the way, I could
kick both of your @$$es.)

12. Don’t criticize people or argue with them.
Although the school may put everything in an
academic atmosphere, avoid turning discussions
at the Commons into debates. Feel secure with
your opinions and don’t feel that the future of the
universe depends on your changing someone else’s
viewpoint. At Davidson there is a ton of stress,
and venting is one of the ways that students deal
with pressures. So let your friends and roommates
bitch. Don’t interrupt or criticize them. They
want you to listen, not to be told that they are
wrong. They'll subconsciously resent you for it.

13. Do not pull any all-nighters! I don’t care
how much you need to get done for the next day,
or how much studying you have left to do. The
productivity curve flattens out almost to a straight
line, and your brain will retain less and less infor-
mation. Without much sleep, you will take a test
confused and lose motivation to do well on it.
Often, Davidson students fall into the trap of
staying up all night. They end up mentally wacked
for the entire week and usually end up doing
poorly on the exam. Avoidall-nighters at all costs.
Unless you’ re staying up late for another reason :).
(Girls, Cannon 209).

14. Don’t neglect to workout. Baker and/or
the Lake Norman Y should be your allies for all 4
years here. Working out and exercising for an
hour or so 3-5 days a week will make you feel
wonderful, give you a more attractive body, and
will make you a better student. Beside, almost
everyone here is in shape because they’re mostly
athletes. I don’t want to have to kick your @$$,
but by not working out, it just makes it easier for
me.

15. Make sure you visit the Career Services
Office. Exploit this building like Snoop Dogg
exploits women. This summer I got hooked up
with two unbelievable internships in LA because
Career services was so helpful. I wish I had started
going there before last year as a junior. There are
so many opportunities, right up your alley to be
found there. Go to Hollywood and work around
your favorite celebrities? Go to Hawaii for the
summer to and build houses?, Work in Indonesia
in a sweat shop? Act in'asummer league? Assist
researchers looking for cures for cancers and
STD’s?. Work at the White House and have sex
with the President? Do both and be completely
safe? Set up an appointment with career services
and they’ II happily put you on the road to success.

Tarik Khan ’00

