THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘ , if hy do we push ourselves? Why do we

stay up all hours of the night, develop

caffeine addictions, insomnia, and un-

healthy Waffle House habits? Are these the neces-

sary by-products of education or the manifesta-
tions of learned perfectionism?

‘I heard DMB’s ‘Ants Marching’ yesterday
on the radio and I wondered to myself, “am I an
ant?” Why do I march? What am I marching
toward? Am I blindly following, placidly obeying
the will of society, my parents, er my own mis-
guided intentions? Can I ever march fast enough to
reach the place I want to go, or do] only see the ants
I march beside?

I don’t have the answers to these questions,

nor do I expect to find them any time soon. But I
know that I will do the very best I can right now

KRISTEN TAYLOR

In pursuit of excellence

to the sense of peace for which I am always

reaching.

“Am I an ant?” Why do I march? What am I marching toward?
Am I blindly following, placidly obeying the will of society, my
parents, or my own misguided intentions?

because hindsight is 20/20, and my philosophy is

» to look back with no regrets. For me, this means

doing an insane amount of activities. Strangely
enough, this self-imposed chaos brings me closer

That doesn’t mean I think this is the best or only
way-it simply means it is what works for me right
now. I'll do the best I can and accept the grades
that are never quite as high as I’d like. I came to

Davidson to be pushed, and what doesn’t kill you
makes you stronger, right?

So when I finish my work, or at least part of
my work, I’ll go to the Lake Campus. I’ll call
home and tell my parents how much I’m learning
even if my grades may not reflect the amount of
time I have invested in the class. I will trust in a
plan larger than I am, and that in the long run what
I learn here will take me where I want to go.
Maybe the old expression is right, and it’s not all
about what is learned in the classroom. No matter
what, I’ll be a well-rounded individual after I
leave this place. If I die tomorrow, at least I lived
today. Go. Be merry. For that is what we are called
to do. And so it is.

DAVE AND ERICH

isclaimer: Since we both know Kristen
D Taylor’s mother and take to heart every

thing that she may say, we will not begin
our article in our usual apologetic tone. Instead,
we have decided to begin this week’s article with
a factual preamble using a small amount of paren-
thetical phrases.
We (meaning Dave and Erich, not the people who
actually write this column) assume all responsibil-
ity for our (their) actions and anything stupid you
may do after reading this. Everything that you read
is true. We actually did some research this week
and did not make up any of the names you will read
about. The quotes are actually quotes. We (once
again, Dave and Erich) did not use our extensive,
networking and research team, which coinciden-
tally do not exist.
The offensive sections are intended to ridicule and
emotionally scar you. We are vindictive, over-
confident jerks who derive pleasure from generat-
ing ill will and utter hatred toward us, solely
because we are better than you. Any attempt to
knock us off our egotistical pedestals will be
scoffed at. Are we clear?
Kristen, we hope that you are happy now. This is
not a disclaimer; we don’t care what it says at the,
beginning of the paragraph. It simply provides a
nice transition into the another one of our cocky
and preposterous articles that we have become
famous for this year.

This Week’s Topic: Kristen Taylor (hereinafter
KT)

Note: In case you were wondering (you weren’t),
our column has changed from “The Only Column
You Ever Need to Read” to the title above. This
has resulted due to the advice of KT, who sug-
gested that wé substitute some other word for
“need”. Well, as you can see, we have taken your.
suggestion to heart and have granted you your
wish, Miss Taylor. Or did you get married over
break to your shiny, new boyfriend that you deemed
relevant and necessary to mention in your last
attempt at an interesting article (that was really
cute, by the way)? You don’t have to rub it in our
faces that we are currently between boyfriends.
In her article, KT posed the question of (and we
will quote because she is exactly the anal type who
would get her panties in a bunch if she was mis-
quoted) “‘are there issues addressed in their col-
umns?” Our response is simple. Of course there
are no issues addressed in our columns because
they’re crap. Can you imagine how long they
would be if we addressed issues? Addressing
issues takes research, knowledge, and literary skill,
none of which we possess. We are just hilarious.
Also, you caught us: we admit to using Max
Nelson’s name simply because our column is
“positively boosted by his popularity.” Honestly
KT do you know Max or are.you trying to feed off
his popularity like we are? The “10 free sessions”
commentis simply overused, stupid and carries no
comedic value not to mention that some of the
Prozac-popping wackjobs on campus might get
offended by it. Lastly, KT was correct in saying

that she would be alluded to in our next column
(see above, if you missed it).

Let’s do a little comparison. We (D&E and KT)
both write for the paper. We both have opinions.
We both like to.complain about things here at
Davidson. We (D&E) are funny; KT is not.
People look forward to reading our articles. People
dread it when your name appears in bold letters.
It is coming clear now: KT is trying to feed off our
popularity in the hopes of gaining an audience for
her column. Or could she have a secret crush on
Max Nelson? We hope we have not exposed the
truth here; what would Mr. Wonderful do? Well,
KT, you are finally in the spotlight. Enjoy! Now
that KT has had her 51 seconds of fame...

This Week’s Real Topic: Spring Break
We sincerely hope that everyone had an outstand-

ing Spring Break 1999. Actually, we have more
interest in the incoming freshmen, but we thought

The only column you should read

What do I have to tell her to make her come home
with me? Why is everything in Spanish? Should
I use SPF 30 or 50? Did she say she was a lesbian
to get me to leave her alone? Why isn’t he looking
at me? Do I look like a slut in leather? Why do
they play the KA mix tape over and over? Is it
4:00 p.m.? Is 10:00 a.m. too early to start drink-
ing? Why shouldn’t I try the Top Gun pick up
approach? Hey baby, got any Irish in ya?, Want
some? Why did she hit me? Do you wanna
dance? Where the hell am I?

If you gathered any information from the previ-
ous paragraph, we want some of what you are on.
We were trying to convey that every guy on the
beach is twice the size of anyone here, the girls are
complete and utter morons and don’t respond to
anything but “Yo, yo, yo baby, you wanna dance,
yo!,” and we suck more than we thought.
These are a list of actual quotes that we heard
while on Spring Break: “That water is salty”
(referring to the Gulf of Mexico). “Iam a fashion

We (meaning Dave and Erich, not the people who actually write
this column) assume all responsibility for our (their) actions and
anything stupid you may do after reading this.

that we would be cordial. While most of you were
gamboling on a beach, playing shuffle board ona
cruise ship, sitting in the Belk computer lab, or
laying down to cheat, we conducted countless
hours of research with (oddly enough) our re-
search team to answer the age old question of why
all fun-loving people don’t attend Davidson. We
of course don’t have an answer, but we have a
hypothesis: our Spring Break occurs in the middle
of winter when it is cold and no other schools have
break. As we are still trying to piece together the
happenings of our Spring Break, we will attempt
to offer a more thorough answer to this question”
by the end of this page. (Don’t count on it.)

We (D&E) decided that we deserved a little sun
because we had enslaved ourselves to deliver
Pulitzer Prize winning material for you, the pub-
lic. So, we headed to South Padre Island, Texas,
with some of our highest paid friends. We do
apologize for not producing an article last week
and know many of you skipped Spring Break just
to read it. You will be compensated generously.
Some insights from Spring Break: We have taken
seventh grade grammar, which is currently being
offered as a major at a number of state schools in
Michigan, so we know it is incorrect to answer a
question with a question. We figure this could get
to some of those anal people that we always talk
about. These are the most commonly asked
questions that we received at our website
(www.teenporn.com, actually www.D&E.org):
Are those real? Where is his neck? Do you think
that he could beat up all of us? Should I have
another shot of tequila? Why did I pay $9.50 for
that drink? Why is she running away from me?

merchandising major and plan to go to grad
school for the same thing....I don’t know what I'll
do, maybe design stores.” “When the sun is out
it is really warm, but when it isn’t, it’s much
cooler.” Our favorite: “I have never felt this way
about some one so quickly, I think I love you.”
Comeback of the week: Guy (not Wes Roach, we
promise): “Do you want to dance?” Girl: “No,
you can keep dancing by yourself.” Guy: “No, I
said you look fat in those pants.”

Spring Break Motivational Thoughts Max Nelson
Style(c), Dave and Erich Enterprises & Co. Inc.
1999 ( Don’t you like it better now that Max’s
name is in it? Thought so.)

Don’t be those guys. No one knows you; first
impressions are crucial. There are hundreds of
attractive people looking for someone like you,
so make your move. Don’t be afraid to drink
during breakfast. Don’t fear rejection. Be faithful
to your loved ones, they are worth more to you
than a one-night stand (exception: someone fa-
mous). You can lie a lot and not get caught, so do
it. Tell them you are Max Nelson. Be persistent.
Cheat on loved ones, they’ II never find out. Erase
all video footage and destroy incriminating pic-
tures. When they say, “leave me alone,” they are
just playing hard to get. Don’t be too overbearing,
as it may get you into trouble. Cheat. Take advan-
tage of their stupidity and manipulate them. Get
around. Cheat again, you have nothing to lose
now. There are hundreds of girls, and you only
need to fool one.

Inside the Numbers Spring Break Style

2. Number of weeks that our Spring Break should
be delayed so we can experience what everyone
else does.

75. Percent of actual size that a Davidson guy is
compared to anyone on Spring Break in Texas.
26. Average size of guys’ necks from Western
Michigan University. (Often higher than I.Q.)
0. Number of girls that approached us all week
long.

0. Number of girls that have approached us in our
long, pathetic existence.

9. Number of times the line “They call me the
Roach” was used unsuccessfully during Spring
Break.

2.1. Average number of Circle K hot dogs that
were consumed daily after 12 a.m. by your au-
thors.

_83. Average temperature on South Padre Island.

50. Average wind speed on South Padre Island.
30. Percentage of senior class who has given for
the Senior Gift. (One dollar qualifies as giving.)

Pet peeve of the week: The purpose of getting new
Cat cards last semester was not only to spend a lot
of money, but to make everything simpler. There
would only be one stripe to do everything. Now the

-school can hire monkeys to swipe cards around

campus. Maybe this will lower costs. These cards
will (one day) also be accepted by vending ma- —
chines, a topic that has been discussed since our
fathers went here. Not only do we not understand
why we all had to get new Cat cards last semester,
but why no one has changed the damn card readers
on Chambers and at Baker. This is an incredible
inconvenience. If I forget my old card on my way
to Baker, that woman always makes me go back
home and get it. Aahhhhhhh! And for the love of
God, please fix the damn clocks on campus. -

A moment for us: (Sound: ocean waves crashing
onabeach.) Relax, take a deep breath, stop clench-
ing your teeth. You are happy and in a world of
sheer bliss. Enjoy and revel in it. Remember, it
doesn’t have to go away. There is a tranquil breeze
blowing all the hatred out of your life. Feel your- -
self being overcome by the positive energy around
you. Cherubic (angelic, we know an English ma-
jor) images of Dave and Erich float freely around
you and lay you down into a peaceful sleep on a
cloud of ecstasy.

Coming in three weeks:

We expose Davidson's Achilles heel for the 1999-
2000 school year. It’s not where to buy all the
performance enhancing drugs so the football team
can have another winning season, or the “millen-
nium bug,” or even how to attract more smart
students with even less social skills than this years
freshmen, but rather....

Also, we explain why the paper’s name should be
changed to The Erich and Davidsonian.

The release of our action figures, our book signing,
and new eau de toilette: Vex.

Senne ee ee eee
