THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, oo 25, 1999

Demerson discusses Roman Catholic sodality in Brazil

By Laura McCanpbLisu

News Editor

When West African women were enslaved in
Brazil, they transformed their Y orbua-derived re-
ligious practices under a Roman Catholic dis-
guise. ‘Last Monday night in the 900 Room of the
College Union, an Ethnic Studies Lecture Series
explored this topic in a discussion en-
titled, “The Sisterhood of Our Lady of

ship is composed of women of African descent.
This sodality, Demerson explained, provides an
opportunity to examine how “the folk” in North-
eastern Brazil have transformed some aspects of
the Catholic Church to conform to their social and
spiritual needs.

Demerson highlighted the annual mid- Au-
gust festival that the sisterhood sponsors in the

Good Death: The African Face of a Ro-
man Catholic Sodality in Northeastern
Brazil.”

Dr. Brenda Flanagan, English pro-
fessor and chair of the Ethnic Studies
program introduced the evening. Carla

Demerson outlined the historic roles
played by religious associations among
enslaved Africans in Brazil.

Bullock °02, who has an Ethnic Studies
concentration in Latin America presented the
speaker, Dr. Bamidele Agbasegbe Demerson, the
Curator for Education at the Charles H. Wright
Museum of African American History in Detroit,
Michigan.

Demerson began his presentation on ‘a per-
sonal note, explaining that he and Dr. Flanagan
had been friends since they were students together
at the University of Michigan, as they met “over a
quarter of a century ago.”

Demerson has conducted anthropological
field research in West Africa, South America, and
North America. His research reports on compara-
tive families and visual arts have appeared in
numerous journals and anthologies. Demerson’s

town of Cachoeira in the state of Bahia. This
festival appears to honor the Virgin Mary, known
as Our Lady of Good Death, for her victory over
death and her Assumption into heaven. However,
the sodality’s women, by remembering the his-
tory of slavery in Brazil, use the festival to also
celebrate the liberation of their foremothers from
bondage. This ceremony appears Roman Catho-
lic on first glance, with its sacral acts, liturgical
vestments, and sacred foods, yet the rituals are
permeated by the Sisterhood of Candomble, a
West African Y oruba-dervived religion practiced

in Bahia.
In this presentation, Demerson outlined the
historic roles played by reli-

“7 focus on myself and the society we live in as I go
to study a different society, so as to understand our

similarities and differences.’’

gious associations among
enslaved Africans in Brazil.
He discussed a disturbing
image of the of the woman,
Anastasia,
women painted by Afro-

as enslaved

focus is on Brazil, and when he does field work, he
said, “I focus on myself and the society we live in

as I go to study a different society, so as to
understand our similarities and differences.”
Through the use of slides and personal obser-
vations, Demerson gave the audience an inside
view of The Sisterhood of Our Lady of Good

Death, a Roman Catholic sodality whose member-

Brazilians were often de-
picted with a iron mask, rep-
resenting their “obligatory baptism into the reli-
gion of their enslavers. As the slaves were ex-
posed to new values and gods, they began to meet

in private to continue their African religious ritu- }j}}
They worshipped their }}

als,” Demerson. said.
Yoruba gods, Orixas, in the disguise of the Catho-
Allen Lee *01, who has an Africana
Ethnic Studies concentration and plans to study

lic saints.

abroad in Brazil, thanked Demerson at the close
of his presentation and introduced the debate
portion of the evening’s lecture. Lee introduced
Davidson Spanish professor, Dr. Luciano Cam-
pos Picanco, who has his Ph.D in Francophone
Caribbean Literature and specializes in Brazilian
Culture and Society.

Demerson and Picanco then engaged in a
debate on the religious practices in Brazil, specifi-
cally whether the sisterhood presents a Brazilian
or African appearance of Catholicism.

Following the debate, Jenny Corke '00, who
also has an Africana Ethnic Studies Concentra-

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS
SEEKING PAID TUTORS

tion, closed the program.
1

THE AVID PROGRAM
(ADVANCEMENT VIA INDMDUAL DETERMINATION) }
( AMDis

a program designed | fe)
to prepare middle
, achieving students in
| Qtades 6-12 for four-
| year college
j and university
entry and
SUCCESS.
SS

if you are, enrolled at a college or university. in good standing and meet the qualifications listed beiow. you are a
Candidate: for this position

You must be:

Envolied in a college or university with good academic standings

Ad|e to work in a supportive manner with middie jevel and high schoo! students and teachers

Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress

Availatie to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during tne schoo! sey
Willing to receive three nours Training in the AVID teaching methodologies

An excellent. role mode! for motivated, organized and successful students

Representative of a balanced academic background

SaRsaga

Term of Employment 1999-2000 academic schoo! year
Salary. $'7.50'per hour

For additional information. please complete and return to the following

Cnanotte-Meciiendurg Scnoo's
AVID Office

700 East Stonewail Sveet Suite S06
Cnanote, Norn Carolina 28202 }
(704) 343-4975 |

BOSOOHAHU RP STEERE EHH EHH HHORHTHOTIRETHEEST OOOO RED SESK EKER EEE SEE E OBE Bessa TeAHhHeeees

POTENTIAL AMID TUT
(Personal information)

Name

Mailing Address

Telepnove: Message Telephone ___ eo

Coltege/ University.

Middle or High Scnoo! preference

Classifieds/Help Wanted

® Spring Break 2000 with STS;

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Cruises, and Florida. Now
hiring on-campus reps. Call 1-800-648-4849 or visit online @ www.ststravel.com.

@ Ashton Adams, a consulting firm, is looking for part-time help with market research or data entry.
$10-12 per hour. Good communication skills are required. Call Ben at 895-7770 or fax resumé to 895-
7989,

@ Cake Designs Pastry Shop needs part-time help Saturdays and weekday afternoons. Flexible
hours, ideal for students. If interested, call Heather at (704) 895-4540.

Lake Norman’s
Best Mexican Food!

s00B Lhe

| | rie MEXIC ED BY)

CHEFS

Meet with the admission deans from these law schools to learn
more about legal education and the admission process.

University of California, Berkeley
Duke University School of Law

University of Southern California Law School

Be sure to bring your questions!

Thinking About
Law School?

Wednesday
October 27, 1999
12:30 p.m.

Davidson College
College Union
Morrison Hall

- Boalt Hall

Sqye

