“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”
.
EstABLISHED 1914

Will Davidson College recycle again?
E.A.C. has new program in the works.

UB

NEWS 4

The debates continue
Seott Denham’s Libertas article and Griffith Street!

OPINIONS 6

abidsont

ORTA

LIBERT

Grace and elegance
NCDT Shines on stage!

A&L 8

AS

Moving the H’O
Parting the water for another victory!

SPORTS 10

@ Buddhist monk Palden Gyatso, with his interpretor.

Anna Judy

By JessicA MERING
Staff Writer

Buddhist monk Palden Gyatso

spoke at Davidson College on Mon-

_ day, November 8. Gyatso is a Tibetan
who was imprisoned by the Chinese
for twenty-four years because he re-
fused to acknowledge China’s claim
on Tibet. Gyatso was released in 1992
“partly due to efforts of Amnesty Inter-
national.

Gyatso addressed the audience
last week viaa translator; he described
the conditions of Chinese internment
camps and commented on his and fel-
low prisoners’ reactions towards them.
His descriptions of Chinese torture
devices and methods were especially
vivid; he sought to convey to the audi-
ence the price that Tibetans are willing
to pay in order to resist Chinese occu-
pation. Gyatso described how, at any
point during these tortures, the pris-
oner only had to admit Chinese to
officials that Tibet was a part of China
in order to end the abuse. That many
prisoners were unwilling to do this

demonstrates the Tibetans’ determina-
tion to preserve their national identity at
any cost. More than one million Tibet-
ans have sacrificed their lives rather
than submit to Chinese rule.

Gyatso was released eight years
ago and now seeks to publicize the plight
and perseverance of the Tibetan people.
Gyatso smuggled a 33-kilo bag of tor-
ture devices out of the Chinese prison;
he uses them to illustrate to audiences
what he went through. Although Gyatso
has escaped the horror of Chinese rule,
many prisoners remain subject to the
torture that continues in Chinese pris-
ons. Last week, Gyatso encouraged the
audience members to educate themselves
about the oppression occurring in Tibet
and to use what resources they had to
make their disapproval heard. He -rec-
ommended involvement with organiza-
tions such as Amnesty International and
college-based Tibetan advocacy groups.

Davidson’s Students for a Free Ti-
bet co-hosted Gyatso along with SGA,
Amnesty International, and the Campus
Forum group. Students for a Free Tibet

@ See Tibetan Monk on page 4

Snazzy red bikes for all

By Branpt MCMILLAN
Staff Writer

Aside from an in-Union ATM anda hot soup
kettle, the Community Bike program is the new-
est addition to Davidson College. You might
have already noticed red bikes with a yellow tag
in various locations around campus. If you see
someone cruise up to Chambers on one of these
red bikes, then witness someone else hop on the
bike‘and roll to the P.O., don’t chase after them
with a heartfelt recitation of the honor code. It is
their bike, and its yours too. Six bicycles, dis-
tinctly painted bright red, are now available for all
students and faculty to use at their convenience.
The bikes are owned by the college community,
and are here for the enjoyment of everyone.

The idea of having community bicycles is
not anew one. A couple of schools out west have
community’ bikes, and the city of Seattle has the
“Yellow Bike Program.” This idea has been in
Davidson fora while, and now itis areality, Dean
of Students, Thomas Shandley and Ed Daughtery

of Davidson Outdoors worked with the campus
police to acquire the bikes. Every year the David-
son Police Force auctions off bicycles abandoned
by graduating seniors. This year, instead of an
auction the bikes were given to the college commu-
nity to the start the bike program.

The work-study students of Davidson Out-
doors have put in a lot of hours getting the bikes
ready to go. Rob Mckeehan ‘00, the D.O. bicycle
repair guy, has tweaked and honed these bikes into
riding condition over the last several weeks. ‘He
painted them red all over, adjusted each one to fit
an average sized’ person, and made sure all the
components were functioning. Now they are ready
to ride.

When you are out zipping around on one of

the snazzy red bikes just remember a few things.
First, the bikes should be treated with respect and
appreciated as property of the community. Sec-
ond, when you park it make sure someone else can
find it, and don’t be surprised if it isn’t there when
you come back. Thirdly, these are Davidson Col-

@ See New. Bikes on page 3

@ The Wildcats finish with Mackie back owin seasons powered bya

dazzling defensive lineup. Story in Sports, page 12.

’ your life’s

Professor Herb Jackson to receive
N.C.’s highest artistic honor

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Governor Jim Hunt will present the state’s
highest civilian honor, the North Carolina
Award, to Davidson College teacher and
abstract painter Herb Jackson on Monday,
Nov. 15.

Jackson will receive the award in Fine
Arts in a ceremony that also honors eight
other outstanding North Carolinians for
their lifetime achievements in public ser-
vice, literature, and science. Jackson is a
1967 Davidson graduate who has taught at
the college since 1969. He served as chair
of the art department for 17 years, and
currently holds the title of William
Williamson Professor of Art.

Jackson responded, “I’m deeply hon-
ored. What can you feel but humility when
work is recognized so publicly?”
Others receiving awards are Frank Daniels
Jr. for Public Service, Julia Jones Daniels
for Public Service, Allan Gurganus for Lit-
erature, Frank L. Horton for Fine Arts, Jill
McCorkle for Literature, Robert G. Parr for
Science, Knut Schmidt-Nielsen’ for Sci-
ence, and Gen. Hugh Shelton for Public
Service.

Doris Betts, Durham interior designer Carolyn
Collins, Asheville attorney John S. Stevens and

@ See Davidson Artist on page 3

The awards committee was chaired by
Dr. Christopher Fordham, and included
novelist and UNC-Chapel Hill professor

MAG TIA) oss csscsscsosssesossesotenstss
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR......
EDUTORIALS ©. kosnne
Opes re es
ARTS. & LIVING 45....c0cic0scccscves
GR GOES soils cceitecscsdcsccecn Ajessoed

e Professor Herb Jackson stands
amidst a plethora of paint.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

G0: s1 ON OV WN

