Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

Davidson took the field at Emory & Henry
hoping to break its eight-game losing streak against
the Wasps. But the Wildcats (1-3) remained winless
at Fullerton Field in Emory, Va., dropping a tight
17-13 game to Emory & Henry (3-1).

The outcome looked promising early in the
game as junior Bo Henderson forced Wasp quar-
terback Matt Olexy to fumble at the E&H 37 yard
line. The loose ball was scooped up by fellow
defensive lineman Andre Carelock.

That turnover set up an eight-play, 37-yard
touchdown drive, capped by Corey Crawford's
four-yard scamper into the end zone. The pitch
from junior QB Shaun Tyrance actually bounced
to Crawford, but that didn't faze him as he scooped

up the ball and evaded the defense for the touch-

down.

The defense held the Wasps on their next
possession, but on Davidson's first play from scrim-
mage, senior fullback Eric Ferguson fumbled the
ball right back. That led to a 25-yard TD pass from
Olexy to Nathan Tuck. The extra point tied the
score at seven.

After the ensuing kickoff, the 'Cats fumbled
on their second play from scrimmage, putting the
defense back on the field again. Emory & Henry
gained just 23 yards on its drive, but managed to
score on a 23-yard field goal, taking the lead, 10-7.

Deja vu happened again after the kickoff. On
the first play from scrimmage, Davidson once

THE DAVIDSONIAN

again fumbled the ball away, giving the Wasps
possession on the Davidson 19, The Wasps moved
inside the 10-yard line, but were foiled when an
Olexy pass was picked off by junior lineman Blake
McNaughton in the end zone.

Three plays later, Davidson was forced to
punt. It took the Wasps five plays to cut through an
exhausted Wildcat defense and get into the end
zone, putting the score at 17-7.

Another three-play drive had the 'Cats punt-
ing again, and freshman Daniel Hanks got every
ounce of the ball. His 56-yarder (all in the air) was
the longest of his brief collegiate career, which
helped keep E&H from having better field posi-
tion than expected.

With time running out in the half, the Wasps
attempted a 41-yard field goal. A streaking Ryan
Crawford dove in front of the kick and blocked it,
however, and Davidson took possession at their
own 41 with 18 seconds remaining.

The 'Cats weren't content to let the clock run
out. Tyrance found Corey Crawford near the right
sideline and connected. Crawford scampered
downfield to the E&H 25 for a 34-yard gain. With
8.1 seconds left, Tyrance hit Crawford again for 16
yards, leaving just over two seconds on the clock.
Hanks made good on the 26-yard field goal at-
tempt, breathing life back into Davidson's hopes.

The offense began the second half in tremen-
dous fashion, pushing the ball 71 yards down the
field to the Wasps' nine-yard line. Hanks came
through again on another 26-yard field goal, put-
ting the Wildcats within four, 17-13.

C.C. teams capture VMI Inv.

Press RELEASE

Davidson S.1.D.

The Davidson College men's and women's cross country teams captured the men's and women's
titles at the VMI Invitational held Saturday at Rockbridge County High School in Lexington, Va.

The Davidson women's team finished eight points ahead of VMI, who finished in second place,
followed by the College of Charleston, who finished third. Sophomore captain Lucy Billingsley
completed the 5K course in a time of 18:35.6 to earn her second individual title this season. Caroline
Bennett finished 4th for the 'Cats, and Brooke Kittinger was in seventh place. Hannah Grimes (10th)
and Caroline Little (1 1th) rounded out the Wildcat top five.

Meet Summary Women's Results

Division I Team Scoring

1. Davidson 33 points

2. VMI 41 points

3. College of Charleston 48 points

Top Wildcat Runners

1, Lucy Billingsley 19:35.6
4. Caroline Bennett 20;19.5
7. Brooke Kittinger 20:56.8
10. Hannah Grimes 21:15.2
11. Caroline Little 21:26.9

Meet Summary Men's Results

Division I Team Scoring
1. Davidson 46 points

2. VMI 52 points

2. James Madison 52 points
4. College of Charleston

Top Wildcat Runners

1. Brent Ferrell 26:33.9

5, Pat Burchett 27:36.6

7. William Isenhour 27:38. 1

14. Jimmy Swansbrough 28:16.4
19. Steve Johnson 28:38.8

SPORTS
Wildcats unable to break Emor

The best chance
Davidson had to score after
that was in the middle of the
third quarter. Freshman Jim
Carney picked off a pass and
returned it 25 yards down to
the E&H 25. Unfortunately,
the Wildcats coughed it right
back up on the second: play
when Tyrance's pass was
picked off.

The Wasps just pinned
the ‘Cats deep in Davidson
territory during the entire
fourth quarter. All four Wild-
cat drives started inside their
own five-yard line.

The defense did a phe-
nomenal job in holding E&H
to 17 points. Consider this fact:
the Wasps held possession of
the ball for more than 40 of the

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999.

y & Henry spell, lose 17-1:

60 minutes in the game. Also,
Emory & Henry ran 20 more
plays from scrimmage than
Davidson. To keep E&H from scoring time and
time again took extraordinary effort from a weary
bunch. ;
The last time Davidson knocked off Emory &
Henry was the first time the two squared off
against each other in 1990, as the 'Cats took a 31-
27 game. Since then, the Wasps have stung
Davidson every other year in this decade, winning

@ Senior Eric Ferguson is the ’Cats
leading rusher.

Anna Judy

nine in a row, including all five in Emory.

Davidson looks to get back on the winning
track next Saturday as the Wildcats welcome
Homecoming weekend. The opponent will be
Guilford College, a team Davidson defeated 24-7
a year ago.

The game will be played in Richardson Sta-
dium and will begin at 2:00 p.m.

Wildcats split week’s compe-

tition, sustain record to 5-2

By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

The week for the Wildcats field hockey team
was a bittersweet one, filled with great excitement
but equal disappointments.

The ‘Cats started the week on the road last
Sunday with a 4-0 shutout over Davis & Elkins
College of West Virginia.

Ball control was a key to the Wildcat victory,
with Davidson taking 22 shots on goal, compared
to Davis & Elkins’ four attempts.

_ _ Senior Lisa Holthaus scored the first goal of
the game and her second goal of the season just ten
minutes after the opening face-off.

With fifteen minutes left in the first half,
freshman Amanda Bateman scored her first goal
as a Wildcat, assisted by classmate Amanda
Strickland. ,

Eight minutes later, Strickland scored off a

pass from Bateman, giving the ‘Cats a 3-0 lead
going into the half.

Bateman struck again with only 32 seconds
of play, notching her second career Wildcat goal.
Goalies Nancy Livingston and Amanda Mordavsky
each played a half, contributing to Davidson’s
third shutout of the season.

The following Wednesday, the ‘Cats trav-
eled to Wake Forest to play a game originally
postponed from the threat of Hurricane Floyd.

Wake Forest, ranked 9th in the nation, de-
feated Davidson 10-1. The Demon Deacons lead
7-0 at the half, until the lone Davidson goal was
scored by freshman Alex Rogers at the beginning
of the second half.

The week inched Davidson's record to 5-2 as
they entered Sunday’s action against Virginia Com-
monwealth. The Wildcats trek to the nation’s
capital this weekend, with games scheduled against
Georgetown and American Universities.

Southern Conference teams shall be supported with enthusiasm
and dedication, for strong spectator support is a vital part of the
experience of college competition. We expect good sportsmanship
from players and coaches and they have the right to expect the |
same from spectators. Therefore we urge Southern Conference
students, alumni, and friends to cheer their teams to victory while
upholding those ideals our colleges and universities have > nurtured
during the long history of the Southern Conference. Our s spectators
should be courteous, and judicious in choice of expression, and
should exhibit good manners and kindness in others. The
scoreboard will reflect the quality of the teams in competition; the
kind of support given by the spectators will reveal the character of
Southern Conference fans.

