__THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

The birds and the bees: One facet of research in biology at Davidson

By SarAH SCHMIDT
Guest Writer

What do bluebirds in Davidson have to do
with evolution? Dr. Mark Stanback, a behavioral
ecologist on faculty in the Biology department,
finds plenty of associations. He is engaged in
research to explore the evolutionary significance
of animal behavior, and bluebirds are his current
study subject.

Stanback is a 1984 Davidson graduate. He
did graduate studies at U. C. Berkeley in coopera-
tive breeding in woodpeckers as the subject for his
disgertation. At the University of Washington in
Seattle, Stanback took his post-doctoral research
into the lab to investigate the hormonal basis for
woodpecker behavior he observed in Berkeley.
Following Seattle, he went to Namibia on a
Fulbright fellowship to conduct post-doctoral re-

search on the unusual reproductive biology of

hornbills. .
Although his research has an obvious con-

This is the third in a series of four articles focusing on the research
activities of faculty members in the Psychology, Physics, Biology, and

Chemistry departments.
departments will be interviewed.

One faculty member

from each of these

centration on birds, Stanback does not identify
himself as an ornithologist. He feels that his role as
a researcher is “not defined by his study subject,
but by the questions he asks.” His current research
is centered around the issue of how behavior
influences evolutionary fithess. Stanback consid-
ers birds to be useful tools to approach these
questions.

Bluebirds, like all animals, make decisions
that either help or hinder their fitness (survival and
reproduction). Stanback and his students perform
tests to discover what decisions take priority in the
evolutionary fitness of bluebirds.

For example, Stanback and his students found
that if a bluebird is given the option of nesting in

a low nestbox or a high nestbox, the bird will tend
to choose the higher one, presumably because this
is safer from predators. If the bird is given the
option of a clean or dirty nestbox, it will usually

choose the clean nest, because such nestboxes ,

contain fewer blood-sucking parasites After iden-
tifying this pattern, Stanback and his students gave
the birds an option of either a high, dirty nest, or a
low, clean nest. The bluebirds were then forced to
prioritize, Overall, the birds tended to choose the
high nest, despite the parasites. Avoidance of

predators is a higher priority for their fitness than

is avoidance of parasites.

For the upcoming breeding season, Stanback
will take his research to a new level with DNA

fingerprinting. With this technique, he hopes to
identify the paternity of chicks within nests in
order to explore the decisions female bluebirds
are making in their mating choices. Females of
many bird species (including bluebirds) are now
known to pair socially with one male, but “cheat
on” their mate and have another male (usually of
hfgher quality) father some of the offspring. In
2000, Stanback and his students will be manipu-
lating the timing of breeding in bluebird neigh-
bors to test the influence of this on “extrapair
paternity”.

Stanback relies on students to help with his
research. Lastsummer David Lamar ’01, Suzanne
Moore *00, and Annie Welsh ‘OI stayed on
campus to help with the study. For spring
semester, Catherine Walsh °00 will be working
with the bluebirds and a purple martin project
Jenny Roberts ‘01 will be spending the summer
at a biological station in California performing
the DNA fingerprinting.

Student Health Advisors sponsor Diversity Dinner

Press: RELEASE
Student Health Advisors

When the doors finally closed in Chambers
Gallery on Tuesday, November 16, night was
already well underway. The Gallery had played
host to the Health Advisors’ Diversity Dinner—
a program designed to bring students together for
discussion and appreciation of the diversity here
at Davidson. Originally scheduled from 6:00 -
7:00 p.m., the discussion portion of the program
lasted an hour and a half longer than planned.
The purpose of the Diversity Dinner was, in the
words of sophomore program director Seth Davis,
to celebrate the diversity here at the college and to
be “a small step in the effort to create a true sense
of community here at Davidson.”

The idea of a Diversity Dinner began in late
August, at the first Health Advisor meeting. It
sprouted from an idea proposed by sophomore
Seth Davis. Seth, a Health Advisor, proposed
that diversity programming should be done on the
freshman halls in order to inform the freshman
about diversity at Davidson and to engage them in
the community. From this proposal sprang the
idea for a Diversity Dinner geared toward pre-
senting information and engendering discussion
in the freshman class. Eventually the Health
Advisors decided to open the dinner to a larger

audience than just the freshmen, in the hopes of
affecting a whole range of students here on cam-
pus,

Jenny Hapgood, also a Health Advisor, was,

instrumental in making the dinner program a real-
ity. She refined the structure of the program and
worked out many of the details, including funding
and discussion leaders. |The Diversity Dinner
wouldn’t have come to fruition without the contri-
butions of RLO, the Office of Auxiliary Services,
and Campus Forums. Laura Battle, the cook at

; Rusk, prepared all the food for the event.

The dinner program was loosely structured, al-
lowing all the participants to voice their views.
After a few opening remarks the individual discus-
sion leaders introduced themselves to the group of
students that came. The dinner atmosphere allowed
for intimate discussions at each of the tables. Dis-
cussion leaders, both Health Advisors and RLO
staff members, mediated the discussions at each of
the tables. The discussion leaders were able to
present questions for discussion. For example, one
questions discussed was, “Is there is a cohesive
sense of community at Davidson?” Unlike a forum,
the Diversity Dinner allowed groups of 10-15 stu-
dents to discuss issues of diversity and inclusion
within a very intimate, human setting.

Response to the dinner was significant. Due to

limited seating, only so many students could join in
the dinner and discussion. Seating was more than

ORNELIU

Plaza . Cir.

Lake Norman’s
Best Mexican Food!

MEXICAN FOOD COCGKED BY
AUTHENTI<¢ MEXICAN CHEFS

RESTAURANTE
MEXICANO

“
K
X
X
q

© ®
MOORESVILLE
Port Vill . Cr,
482 € River Hwy. (Hwy 150)

664-6363

full — approximately eighty students showed up
to the program.

Students who came to the dinner entered into
discourse about their experiences at Davidson and
elsewhere, their beliefs about the current state of
diversity at Davidson, and practical ways in which
to deal with issues. of diversity and inclusion. At
some of the tables students debated as to what sort
of programs would promote inclusiveness on cam-

pus. One solution suggested that Patterson Court's
importance in the social scene could be used as a
means to bringing together all students for events.
Student response to the Diversity Dinner was
strong, with more students coming thanwere an-
ticipated. Moreover, once they were engaged in
discussion, many students expressed their desire
that the steps toward a truly diverse and inclusive
community would continue to be made.

Che Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
ANN GREGORY

Photographer

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager

PETER CLARK

Advertising Manager

JAKEHARRINGTON —- PETER'CLARK ARTS.& LIVING
Ad Desien Senior Editor
SPORTS a esigners *
ORES TY BEN COVINGTON SETH DAVIS
Senior Editors PAétogtaphers
MIKE ANDERSON CADER HOWARD Sray ;
BURGIN HARDIN . JESSICA BOGO
— Circulation Managers ADAM SOTO
Photographer CINDY CEARK
ANNA JUDY INA SPECHAR Head Copy Editors
Layout Editors 3 Extraordinaire
BEN COVINGTON : Cixculasion WHITNEY BLAKE
CADER HOWARD DEREK KVERNO IRENE MIDDLETON
IRENE MIDDLEZON _
DAN, WINGATE” Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

» OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Sentor Editor
MELISSA ANN
deCASTRIQUE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

fc RSS SSS CS

ine Se

The Davidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-
mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, Subscriptions cost $40.00
per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

