THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Jopy HEARN
Guest Writer

A Look at Watson: Psychological Scientific
Research at Davidson

With the recent conversion of a bachelor’s
degree in Psychology from a B.A. toaB.S., it can
now Officially be seen as‘a science. This article is
a look at one professor in the Davidson Psychol-
ogy department and his current scientific research.

Dr. Mark Smith is an Assistant professor of
Psychology at Davidson. He joined us last year,
and he is quickly blossoming as a member of the
community. Home is Hickory, NC, where he also
received his bachelor’s degree in Psychology from
Lenoir Rhyne College. He then went on to gradu-
ate work at UNC Chapel Hill where he received
his Ph.D. in Behavioral Neuroscience. His spe-

‘cialty is behavioral pharmacology, which exam-

ines the effects of drugs on human and animal
behavior. He has done extensive research in this
field both in graduate school and also at Davidson.

Dr. Smith is particularly interested in the
variables that influence a subject’s sensitivity to
drugs that interact with the central nervous sys-
tem. There are a number of these variables, and
they include characteristics of the user (biologi-

@

NEws

This series of articles, which will appear over the next three weeks (as
well as in the 11/1/99 issue), focuses on the research activities of faculty
members in the Psychology, Physics, Biology, and Chemistry departments.
One faculty member from each of these departments will be interviewed.

@ Dr. Mark Smith

cal), characteristics of the drug (pharmacological)
and characteristics of the situation in which the

drug is administered (environmental). He exam-
ines these various variables in animal models of
behavior, to determine how the variables influ-
ence a particular behavioral response, and how
they interact with one another to modulate that

‘response. The goal of such focus is to predict what

the specific effects of a drug will be under a wide
range of clinical and experimental conditions.

Such research is very important for the clini-
cal application of drugs. The fruits of this research
could very easily increase the efficacy of adoctor’s
prescribing power. Knowing the exact variables
that contribute to a particular drug effect in a
patient, the doctor can be better able to prescribe
the correct type of medication that will produce
the strongest therapeutic response, but with the
least amount of side effects.

Dr. Smith is currently working on a number
of research projects with seniors who are working
on their Psychology senior theses. In one particu-

lar project, he is working with Jason Gray ’00 on
whether or not age (a biological variable) affects a
subject’s sensitivity to pain medication. Their
most recent findings suggest that “‘as an organism
ages, they become more sensitive to the analgesic
effects of these drugs.”

In another study, Dr. Smith is working with
Bill Stoops ’00 to examine the development of
tolerance to the effects of some Central Nervous
System depressants on motor coordination. Find-
ings obtained in this experiment will reveal if the
speed and magnitude to which tolerance develops
to the motor-impairing effects of these drugs is
influenced of the difficulty of the behavioral task.
In yet another study that Dr. Smith is about to start,
he will be examining the effects of environmental
variables like social support and environmental
enrichment on a subject’s sensitivity to pain medi-
cation. He will begin that research early this
coming spring.

The students who usually work with Dr. Smith
on his research projects are Psychology majors
who are collecting data for a senior thesis. He
actively recruits students from all majors for most
of his research projects.

Dr. Smith’s current research is funded by David-
son grants and funds. He has recently submitted a
grant to the National Institute of Drug Abuse.

New bikes

@ Story continued from Front page
lege community bicycles and should be kept on
campus. Soif you wantto goto the post office, just
ride to main street, park the bike and walk across.

It will say alot about Davidson College if this
program is successful. If people seem to be
enthusiastic about it, and treat the bikes respect-
fully, we could get more bikes in the future.
Shandley is even considering purchasing a few
tandem bicycles for the enjoyment of all. He
thinks tandem bikes would improve the dating
scene here. He also said he wouldn't mind people
who like the idea of having a few tandem bikes
around emailed him and told him so. So if you
think tandems would spice up your love life, or
they just sound like fun; email Shandley and let
him know.

Have fun with the new bikes. If you find
anything wrong with one of them take it to David-
son Outdoors in the Union. Rob will fix it up and
have you back on the road before you have time to
take out ten bucks and get a bowl of soup.

Davidson artist
to be honored

@ Story continued from Front page

Joseph Rowand of Somerhill Gallery in Chapel
Hill.

The awards committee noted that Jackson is
considered by many to be the state’s most noted
current abstract painter. The citation said, “His
textured, multihued and layered paintings hint at
an inner life while his creative talent and energy
inspires students. Through mythical and poetic
landscapes, the painter explores the South's psy-
chic roots.”

Jackson, a Raleigh native, says he can’t re-
member atime when he didn’t paint. As ateenager
he won his first award at a juried exhibition held at
the N.C. Museum of Art and held his first one-
person show in 1964. Following his Davidson
graduation, he received a M.F.A. in painting from
UNC Chapel Hill in 1970,

He has had more than 100 one-person exhibi-

tions in the U.S. and abroad, along with group
exhibitions. His work is in over 80 museum collec-
tions including the British Museum in London and
the Brooklyn Museum in New York. He recently
collaborated with N.C. Dance Theater director
Pierre Bonnefoux on a unique ballet piece that
featured the evolution of one of his paintings. The
painting in its various stages of completion was
projected onto the stage of the Blumenthal Center
Belk Theatre in Charlotte, with dancers in white
unitards moving through the image.
Jackson is listed in “Who’s Who in American Art”
and “Who’s: Who in America.” In addition to
creating his own artwork, he teaches five studio
classes each year. One of his outstanding accom-
plishments at Davidson was to lead the college in
planning for construction of its state-of-the-art
facility, the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts
Center which opened in 1993:

Carnegie Mellon accuses 71 students of
music piracy, unplugs their intranet links

*Reprinted from the Charlotte Observer

By Perer SCHMIDT
Charlotte Observer Staff

In light of the recent events at Carnegie
Mellon University, The Davidsontan staff would
like to reprint the following article by Peter Schmidt
from this past week’s “Charlotte Observer.” De-
spite the fast pace of technology, the law has its
ways of catching up to those that bend it at will.

Carnegie Mellon University has disciplined
71 students for allegedly posting copyright-pro-
tected music on their sites within the university's
computer network.

The university said it.discovered the copy-
right violations last month, when it conducted
surprise inspections of student computer files at
the behest of the Recording Industry Association
of America.

“It is not our practice to actively police our
own intranet,” Paul G. Fowler, the university's
associate dean of student affairs, said in an inter-
view Sunday. “But,” he added, “when somebody
says to us, ‘We have a problem with members of

your community violating copyright laws,’ we
have to do something.”
Carnegie Mellon is one of about 300 colleges

that have received letters from the association.

warning that they could be sued if their students
use campus computer networks to violate copy-
right laws. The association is concerned mainly
about lost sales as a result of students’ copying
compact disks: onto MP3’s — a form of high-
quality digital audio file —and then posting them
onto World-Wide Web sites where others can
download them.

On October 18, Carnegie Mellon randomly
checked the public portions of 250 students’ com-
puter accounts, mainly “to find out whether we
had a problem on our campus,” Mr. Fowler said.
It determined that 71 students had posted MP3’s
with copyright-protected songs on Web sites ac-
cessible to about 11,000 users of the university's
computer network.

The university accused the students of violat-
ing its policies requiring computer users to respect
copyright laws. It punished them by suspending
their home-computer access to the university net-
work, thereby forcing the students to go to one of
the campus’s computer labs whenever they needed

Tuesday,

leukemia,
cancer.

Project

of its drive.

What’s your Type?
Find out.

10th Annual Project
Life Bone Marrow
Typing Drive

Wednesday,
9am-3pm

In the Morrison Room of the Union.

-Bone marrow transplants are critical
saving the lives of people suffering from
over sixty fatal diseases

aplastic anemia,

-To type one person costs $75.00, but
Life will absorb the full cost

-If you have already been typed,
encourage others who have not...freshmen
and anyone else who iss part of the
Davidson community!!!

Nov.16th &
Nov.17th

in

including
and breast

please

network access.

“We had to hold the students accountable
for violating university policy and copyright
law, and the source of that violation was their
computer,” Mr. Fowler said.

Several students criticized the university's
inspections as an invasion of privacy.

“There was a good bit of uproar,” Mr.
Fowler acknowledged. “The fact that the uni-
versity had not actively enforced these policies
up to this point caught a lot of students off
guard.”

The students’ home computers were to
remain cut off from the university’s network for
the rest of the semester — unless the students °
agreed to attend a 90-minute class on copyright
rules, in which case their home-computer access
to the network would be restored in four weeks.

cramer

CAVVY

sate + Mary 299

INNER HAIR CARE

91997 Ged, Crvision 171, Carian, CT 06820-1005

Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage _

Hydro-therapy room
Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5

895-0404

20430-2 Norman Crossing |
Shopping Center
Corner of I-77 & Exit 28

IL =

