THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Romantic Comedy” laughs its way through love Vibrating

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

The cast and crew of “Romantic Comedy”
proved that love can be a laughing matter and that

@ Jason (Dan Cooke) gets a
backrub from P.J. (Andra Whitt)

success doesn’t have to be based on experience.
Opening night - Wednesday, February 17 — was
filled with comic and entertaining performances.
Five members of the six person cast were making
their Davidson mainstage debut; it was certainly a
success, This success was enhanced by the com-
mendable efforts of the production crew. Sitting
in Hodson Hall before the opening of the play, one
was struck by the stage itself. All the action of the
play was staged in the study of Jason Carmichael’s
(Dan Cooke) penthouse. From the predominant
greens and browns in the room to the backdrop of
the New York skyline, the stage seemed to be a
professional setup.

The stage lighting deepened as the action
began with music. It was an inauspicious begin-
ning toa good play, as the happy, bouncing melody
was instantly irritating. With a ring of the tele-
phone, the stage burst into light and the story
began. The first two appearances were made by
Blanche Dailey (Lee Robison), a forty-two year
old agent, and Carmichael, a thirty-four year old
writer on a downward ebb. Carmichael answers
the telephone with a short, angry conversation
with his ex-writing partner.

From this point the romantic comedy begins.
Jason needs anew partner. Coincidentally, Blanche
has received a manuscript from a young writer
named Phoebe “P.J.” Craddock (Andra Whitt).
Even more coincidentally, P.J. decides to visit
Jason that very day to talk about the manuscript.
The day she visits is the day of Jason’s wedding to
Allison St. James (Ann Strauser).. The storyline,
with its tug and pull between Jason and Phoebe,
examines a host of issues including the nature of
the love and friendship.

One of the most compelling issues touched

Giduz BRA evo College Communi afions
@ Two playwrights in a romantic
tangle

upon by the play is the relationship between con-
strained passion and creativity. Jason and Phoebe
work as writing partners for a number of years
while Jason stays married to Allison. During this

see Stellar performances on page 11

Mardi Gras comes to Davidson

Campus-wide formal reinstated

By Ketts HETHERINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Even the snowfall of the previous day did not
keep the spirit of New Orleans from coming to
Davidson on Saturday, February 20th. The cold
night surrounded the tent set up in Richardson
Plaza. Inside the climate was as warm as the
bayou. This campus wide formal, the Mardi Gras
Masquerade, was arranged by the Social Contin-
gency of the Union Board, headed by Thirza
Sayers ’99. The Social Contingency, whose chairs
include Kirk Willingham, Eric Arnold, Jenny
Nolan, Nureya Namaz, Kurt Yusi, Christopher
Brantley, and Thornwell Simons, is pleased that
more than five hundred students attended the event.
The Board only expected the event to sell between

three and four hundred tickets.

The dance was a community event, drawing
support from several professors and their families.
The celebration began at 9:30 p.m. on Saturday
night and continued until 2:00 a.m. Sunday. The
high turnout can be attributed to the committee’s
creating of an event that had nearly ubiquitous
appeal. Chip Plybon, who was recently featured in
Chambers Gallery, acted as DJ for the first hour of
the dance. Plybon was followed by the Flipped
Fedora Orchestra. Well known in the South for the
swing music, the band played on Sunday the 21" at
Swing 1000, a popular dance club in nearby Char-
lotte. Additional entertainment included a carica-
turist and a fortune teller.- _

A campus wide formal was an annual event at
Davidson until North Carolina raised the drinking
age in 1984 to twenty-one. In fear that students

would not support a dry event, the campus wide
formal was canceled. Although a growing pres-
sure exists for a dry campus, the Union Board
decided to reinstitute the dance with alcohol for
those of legal age. The reason for bringing back
the campus formal is that many students com-
plained that Saturday nights at the Student Union
paled in comparison to Saturday night events on
Patterson Court.

A great effort went into the arrangment of the
formal, and, by all appearances it was a success.
Carried on independently of Patterson Court, the
Union-sponsored formal broke the mold for a
Saturday night at Davidson. The reinstatment of
the campus-wide formal may prove to reempha-
size Union social events. Substantial student
attendance and enthusiasm about the event will
hopefully ensure the event’s return next winter.

cellular
forms

By Joun A. Dunwoopy I
Co-Editot in Chief

This past Friday was more than just another
example of the freakish nature of the Carolina
weather system, it also marked the beginning of
Michael Miga’s student show, titled “A Collec-
tion of New Paintings,” in the Smith Gallery at the
Visual Arts Center (VAC). The odd assortment of
lightening, sleet, snow, and rain seemed strangely
appropriate for Miga’s show. It is not that he has
‘attempted to explain the secrets of our random
weather patterns, but that he seems to see the
beauty deep within or even beyond the external
surfaces of nature.

The work that Miga has done possesses an
underlying vibrating quality. They are alive and
animated. Each painting seems to be a reflection
upon the most microscopic reality that makes up
life-the cell. His work appears to be an intense
study on the body, but not in the traditional exter-

He probes beneath the surface
to reveal the internal
complexities and beauties of
the microscopic.

nal form. He probes beneath the surface to reveal

.the internal complexities and beauties of the mi-

croscopic. The colors on the paintings resonate
with a sense of power which heightens the overall
movement within each of the works.

In order to achieve the cellular aspects within
his paintings, Miga incorporates various dyes,
washes, encaustics, oils, acrylics, and solvents.
When examined closely, the combination of these
mediums and chemicals reflect the cellular quality
of the work. Much like the thin layers that exist
within the cellular realm, Miga’s work possesses a
sense of depth where the foreground and back-
ground blur. The cellular images float on and
within the multiple layers of paint on the canvases
and linens. Each painting becomes akin to the
universes seen only through a magnifying lens—a
beauty achieved through the mounting cells be-
tween two thin sheets of glass. Miga captures this
unique beauty and enlarges it to a scale rarely seen.
This collection of work will be on display through
the remainder of this week.

Qn the Scene aT DAvipsON COLLEGE >

Publicity — Eating Disorders. 8:00
a.m. - 11:00 p.m. at the Conversation Pit
Wall.

Video — Eating Disorders. 8:00 a.m. -
11:00'p.m. at the Conversation Pit.
Coffeehouse. 8:15 - 11: 15 a.m. in the
900 Room.

Romantic Comedy. Two thumbs up! 8:00
- 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.
Twenty-One Year Old Night. What could
be more fun? 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in
the 900 Room.

Art Exhibits. “Table to Tomb” exhibit all
week. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the
Belk VAC.

CROP Lunch. 11:45 a.m. -1:30p.m.in
the 900 Room.

Wellness Seminar. Go there. Listen.
Get well. 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room. ;

Free Play Basketball. Once again, it's
free. 2:00 - 6:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym.

Coffeehouse. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the

Spr

ing Break!

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY

Fray

Eating Disorder Awareness contin-
ues. 8:00 a.m - 11:00 p.m. at various
locations on campus.

Girl Scout Cookie Sale! You know you
gotta buy at least one box. 3:30 - 5:00
p.m. on the College Union Patio.

“The Opposite of Sex.” Showing inthe
900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

More Girl Scout Cookies! on sale at
the College Union Patio from 3:30 - 5:00
p.m.

Indoor Soccer. From free play basket-
ball to indoor soccer, its prime time,
baby! 9:00 -10:00 p.m. inJohnston Gym.
“The Opposite of Sex.” Showinginthe
900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

Ww

e

5 RRR Ss

‘re free!

