10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS.

LIVING

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1999

The “Wheel of Time turns” while
Robert Jordan visits Davidson

By Setu Davis
Arts & Living Editor

The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and
pass, leaving memories that become legend .. :

SRR Se .
MO Hs i po at Be EL

@ Best-selling author Robert fordan

I remember correctly—in one day. I bought the
next several novels in the series and fell into the
adventures of Rand al’Thor each time. Staying up
all night was, I guess, good preparation for life at
Davidson. But that is another story entirely.
Thave not been the
only one enthralled by
Jordan’ s stories—his Wheel
of Time series is a bestsell-
ing one. With all the stories
that have been developed in
the series, I still remember
The Eye of the World as my
favorite. Thinking back, I
am not sure exactly what
the power of that book was.
Reading it now is not the
same. It is not as satisfying
or engaging, but, then again,
the Wheel of Time turns and
‘ I changed with it.
For those familiar
with Robert Jordan’s best-
selling Wheel of Time se-
ries, this phrase—The Wheel
of Time turns—is not a new
-one. It is incorporated into
each of the novels in the

‘Amanda Lanier

with Arts & Living Editor Seth Davis

I remember the first time that I read about the
Wheel of Time. It was on the back of Robert
Jordan’s The Eye of the World, which I bought
when I was fifteen. It is a mammoth book, with
thin, tenuously bound pages that have been worn
weak by my hands. I read it—about 900 pages, if

The best-selling author came to Davidson on
Monday, March 19. He spoke in the 900 Room in
front of a small crowd composed of Davidson
students, faculty, and enthusiastic fans. The first
thing that I noticed about him was the horn-topped
cane that he carried. It seemed suited for a writer
of fantasy, or, perhaps, an old and wise Merlin.
But the imagination can create analogies which
have no basis in reality. Imagination is funny that
way.

After setting down his horn-topped cane and

Jordan also spoke about the craft of writing,
which has, incidentally, endured longer than The
Epic of Gilgamesh. His words were directed at any
hopeful writers in the audience. He said, to begin,
that he knows no writer who had a “Norman
Rockwell” childhood. I wonder, though, if he has
met anyone who had a “Norman Rockwell” child-
hood.

Jordan then told any would-be writers that
the craft of writing is a difficult and discouraging
one. He said that the heart of a writer survives

I have not been the only one enthralled by Jordan’s stories — his Wheel

of Time series is a bestselling one.

getting the right pair of spectacles, Jordan spoke
about two topics—fantasy as a viable medium and
the craft of writing. For the first topic he answered
the question of whether or not fantasy is a viable
medium simply--“Yes!” Jordan cited examples of
the popularity and growth of the fantasy genre as
reasons for his answer. He then suggested that
fantasy is timeless and a great deal more broad a
genre than is commonly thought. In Jordan’s

view, the earliest

written story, The

series, including the first
chapter of Robert
Jordan’s new story The

Jordan believes that humans have
a need for fantasy and myth.

Epic of Gilgamesh,
and another epic,
Beowulf, fall under
the genre of fantasy.
These fantastic tales

Path of Daggers. Re-
cently released, The Path
of Daggers continues the epic which Jordan began
Ages ago.

have endured, and
their lasting power is one reason that Jordan be-
lieves that humans have a need for fantasy and
myth.

through the discouragment and continues the life
of words. Ego, the willigness to try again and
again, is vitally important fora writer, according to
Jordan. He also offered three pieces of advice to
any aspiring authors. First, writers write. Seems
simple enough. Jordan’s second piece of advicew
was, writers read. Jordan’s final piece of advice
was equally no-nonsense and simple. Writers
should write what they like to read.

He certainly seems to be doing just that. He
has written eight novels in the Wheel of Time
series, a handful of Conan stories, and is planning
a new fantasy series. Showing no signs of stop-
ping, Robert Jordan seems to be a man who loves
his craft and the medium of fantasy. Regardless of
one’s opinion of fantasy or his series, it seems that
his novels entertain and engage many people.
Perhaps humans have a need for fantasy and myth,
and we enjoy, as Robert Jordan says, “dreams...
glimpsed to the mere half-waking.”

“How the indenesont
Counsel Law Has
Poisoned Washington”

Jim Hamilton ’60

Ethics Committee

Partner, Swidler Berlin Shereff Freidman, LLP

Assistant Chief Counsel, Senate Watergate

Committee; President's Foreign Intelligence
Advi sory Board; Chairman, D.C. Legal

2:30 p.m. ¢ 900 Room

Jim Hamilton is perhaps best known for his recent vigor-
ous defense of the attorney-client privilege. In 1995,
Hamilton refused to release handwritten notes from a
meeting with the late Vincent Foster, deputy White House
counsel, to Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr, arguing
that the notes were protected by the attorney-client privi-
lege and the work product privilege after Mr. Foster's
death. In 1998, Hamilton made his case before the
Supreme Court, which held that the notes are posthu-
mously protected by the attorney-client privilege (Swidler
& Berlin and James Hamilton v. United States).

A CELEBRATION OF

THE GEORGE

LAWRENCE

Abernethy

Memorial Concert

Joseph Robinson ’62,

Principal Oboist, New York Philharmonic

with
Yang Gao, oboe
and
Pedja Muzijevic, piano

7:30 p.m. ¢ Hodson Hall

FREE, but tickets required.
Call 892-2467 for info.

Sonata in D Major for Two Oboes and Piano
G.E Handel

Petite Complainte Pour Hautbois et Piano
E Martin
Sonata for Oboe and Piano (1962)
F Poulenc

; ' Introduction, Theme and Variations for Oboe and Piano

J.N. Hummel

Aria and Quodlibet for Oboe and English horn *

A. Running

ABERNETHY

a

George Lawrence

