THE DAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Davidson College students will present the
rock opera, “Jesus Christ Superstar,” on stage
April 15-18. The production will be in Love Audi-
torium of Chambers Building, beginning at 8 p.m.
on Thursday, 4:30 p.m. on Friday, 8 p.m. on
Saturday, and at 2 p.m. on Sunday.

Admission is $7 for adults and $5 for students
and seniors. Proceeds will benefit the Zack Lacy
Book Fund in the college library. Tickets can be

NEws
‘Jesus Christ Superstar’ to be per-
formed in Love Auditorium this week

reserved by calling the college ticket office at 892-
2135 from 2:30-5:30 p.m. weekdays.

“Jesus Christ Superstar” was the first musi-
cal to incorporate rock music, and launched the
careers of the young songwriting duo of Tim Rice

“and Andrew’Lloyd Webber. It is based on the last

seven days in the life of Jesus Christ, arid follows
him and his disciples from the beginning of Judas’
disillusionment with Jesus to the crucifixion it-
self. It presents a non-traditional perspective of
Christ in which he is as unsure about himself as

Judas, and hints at a relationship
between Jesus and Mary
Magdalene.

The show features seniors
Steven Meriwether as Jesus and
Austin Rios as Judas, and fresh-
man Anna McDonaldas Mary. The
show is being produced by sopho-
more Amanda Lanier and directed
by junior student Chase
Bringardner.

and Austin Rios plays Suda in “Jesus
Christ Superstar” April 15-18

State’s poet laureate plans appearance

By CoLLeGeE RELATIONS

North Carolina’s Poet Laureate, Fred
Chappell, will give a reading at Davidson College
on Tuesday, April.20. He will also present the
college’s annual Vereen Bell Memorial Awards to
students for their original works of poetry, fiction,
and drama.

The presentation begins at 7:30 p.m. in the
900 Room of the College Union, and admission is
free. Chappell’s appearance is funded in part by
the North Carolina Arts Council. Chappell was
appointed by Gov. Jim Hunt toa five-year term as
the state’s Poet Laureate in December 1997 in
recognition of a long and distinguished literary

career.

Born in Canton, N.C., and educated at Duke

‘University, Chappell has written a dozen books of

verse, two volumes of stories, one volume of
criticism, and seven novels. His latest works in-
clude the novel, “Farewell, I’m Bound to Leave
You” (1996), the book of poetry entitled “Spring
Garden,” and a nonfiction book called “A Way of
Happening: Observations of Contemporary Po-
etry.” ” Chappell has taught at the University of
North Carolina at Greensboro since 1964.
Among the awards and honors Chappell has
received over his long career are the Sir Walter
Raleigh Prize (1973), the North Carolina Award
for Literature (1980), Yale University Library’s

Bollingen Prize in poetry (1985), a literature award
from the National Academy of Arts and Letters
(1968), the best foreign book prize from the
Academie Francaise (1972), and the Aiken Taylor

"Award in poetry (1996).

He also received the O. Max Gardner Award
of the University of North Carolina system in
1987, which is the highest teaching award the state
university system can bestow. His duties as poet
laureate include serving as “ambassador of North
Carolina literature past and present, and of all
North Carolina writers —-especially living writers.
The poet laureate serves as a voice for literature,
affirming the potentially transforming value of
poetry in our lives and carrying the message to the

DISC@VER

00 0000 0

_

000

|
4

people of this state and beyond.”

Chappell has interpreted this through an em-
phasis on the importance of reading, writing, and
literacy in his personal appearances around the
state. He is the fourth North Carolinian to hold the
title of Poet Laureate, succeeding Sam Ragan
(1982-1996), James L. Pearson (appointed in 1953)
and Arthur T. Abernethy (appointed in 1948).

Davidson’s Vereen Bell Memorial Award is
presented annually to students submitting out-
standing creative writing. The award memorial-
izes author Vereen M. Bell, a member of the
Davidson Class of 1932.

