THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS/EDITORIALS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, a : Z

LETTERS TO THE EDITORS

In response to “Co-Ed social clubs” by Scott Denham in
the November 4 issue of the “Libertas”

To the Editors:

Professor Scott Denham has certainly succeeded in injecting a little bit of controversy into this
“anti-intellectual,” anti “political discourse,” and just plain apathetic campus that he described in his
Libertas article on Co-ed Social Clubs arid Davidson life in general. Rarely have I seen certain students
so livid about an article written in any Davidson publication. But after watching one of my friends pull
out her personal soap box, ranting and raving to an extreme potentially dangerous to her physical well-
being, I knew this article was not to be missed.

Honestly, I think few people on campus would assert that the Court is perfect, that there are no
problems whatsoever. Still, I must question the accuracy of what Dr. Denham’s sees as the.social life
of the average Patterson Court member. One would hope that, since his wife attended Davidson, the
eating houses and fraternities have abandoned some of their more distasteful activities. For instance,
the last time I gathered at Rusk on a rainy Friday night to “{ giggle my} way through a porn-flick” with
fellow “peer-pressuring” Ruskies was, well, never. (We don’t even have a VCR). And as for the
misogynistic nature of men running around naked, a rare occasion, I think the majority of females on
campus would admit that the guys are harassing themselves much more than they are participating in
any kind of “women hating” demonstration. So let’s not overstate the case. ;

But I’m equally interested in what Dr. Denham describes as this campus’ so-called “crimes against
thinking.” He is correct in stating that Davidson is in somewhat of an usual position, being such a small
liberal arts school yet having Division I athletics. Though I’ ve only played intra-murals, it seems to me,
from what my “big time sport” involved friends say, that coaches are really good about realizing that
academics come first at Davidson. This isn’t to say that athletes don’t ever have to make sacrifices and,
sometimes, skip a class. In general, however, academics are top priority. (Much more so than at a lot
of other schools in this country). In fact, when I think of my good friends who play field-hockey or
soccer or lacrosse, I have to say that they are some of the most studious people I know. What is the reality
of doing away with “big time sports” at Davidson? Does one honestly believe that high school seniors
around the United States are going to perk up and think: “Wow, they just abolished the best sporting
events on campus, but I still want to go to that college because everyone knows it’s just as much fun
to watch 2™ and 4" Cannon play flicker-ball as it is to watch Davidson basketball play Duke.” And if
that doesn’t seem to resonate with you, just erase about 80% of your “big time” athletic friends from
your consciousness because, they probably wouldn’t even be here without the sports programs we have.
But, hey, we're probably better off without them, right?; because, after all, they're bringing down the
intellectual level of this school. \

Surprisingly, I actually agree with Dr. Denham’s assertion that this campus can be rather anti-
intellectual. I’m sorry, but the last time I read a really thought provoking editorial (from someone other
than the newspaper’s staff) in The Davidsonian was a long time ago. This is a work-hard, play-hard
campus. And sometimes I feel that our goal, as students, has become for us to finish the work so that
we-can go out and become part of the big, bad, booming corporate world in Charlotte. It’s all just a
means to an end; it doesn’t matter if you learn it, just get through the reading. Yet in all honesty, I’m
a little confused over what Dr. Denham sees as the best future for this school. Is everything to be
sacrificed for the sake of academics? I remember one of my best friends telling me last year how, during
a particularly tough spell, she called her dad to complain about school. His reply was that “college isn’t
always supposed to be fun.” How true. And I think a lot of students realize that. Dr. Denham wonders
why students are “so often over-extended, over-committed, or just plain tired.” As one of my friends
recently replied when I asked a similar questions: “Um, what school do we go to?” Enough said. I
would assume that the reason the majority of people are tired is because there’s a heck of a lot of work
to do at this school. And I would guess that the. reason people are “over” extended and committed is
because most normal human beings need to find some kind of non-academic activity in which to
participate, other ways of channeling what energy they have left so as to achieve a well-rounded
lifestyle. (And, yes, Davidson students are interested in extra-curricular activities outside of drinking).
In High School, I admit that a lot of people did Service as a way of being extra attractive to colleges and
universities. But I do not see the same trend at Davidson. At least the people I know who are involved
in community service activities participate because they love it. True, most eating houses and
fraternities have a certain number of required hours. Yet would one prefer that Paterson court members
do nothing at all? Sometimes a requirement like this can introduces people to activities they had never

thought of or even imagined liking.

Personally, I think that this whole “anti-intellectualism” has a lot less to do with the court (I mean,
hey, if the court wasn’t there, some of us would have experienced a nervous break-down before
Thanksgiving Freshman year; and, no, I’m not just talking about going down there and getting wasted)
and a lot more to do with the fact that Davidson believes that “getting its name out there” is synonymous
with “making those business contacts.” We don’t compare ourselves to the Ivy-League schools by saying
“Hey, guess what, we don’t have grade inflation; we don’t have a politically ideological crazed campus;
and, yes, we really can call our professors at home.” Instead, we produce numbers showing how many
Davidson graduates head banks.in the Southeast. But that’s another article.

Ifully appreciate Dr. Denham’ right to state his opinion, and I’ m glad he has done so. Idon’t assume
to believe that he speaks for the entire faculty, but it’s always interesting to know what some of your
professors may think about your social life. I do, however, have a problem with the rather condescending
belief that “students don’t know what they want, they just want what they know.” Well, if that’s the case,
why should we even bother encouraging any kind of intellectual conversation on this campus? I mean
it doesn’t seem like the students are in much of a position to argue about anything since they don’t even
know what’s best for themselves. Unfortunately, we, Patterson Court members, are “wannabe
hedonists.” (Interesting how, in Dr. Denham’s view, it seems one would have to participate in Berlin’s
annual Love Parade in order to qualify for true hedonism which would, what, then be condoned? I mean,
heaven forbid that Davidson graduates lower themselves to compete in this corrupt, capatilistic,
corporate world where they “market” themselves, trying to “hit hard and hit fast” in order to achieve,
gasp!, financial prosperity. But heck, if we’re going to do hedonism on this campus, let’s at least get it
right, O.K.?) Anyway, enough is enough, and I have certainly written more than my fair share. I’m not
here to criticize co-ed eating houses, nor laud the noble establishment of Patterson Court. I just wanted
to make sure that we got, well, a student perspective on student-life.

Ashley Brown ’00

*For the complete version of this article, please see the next edition of Libertas

Clarifying and edification:
More on Cort and Dave

To the Editors:

I feel that I have a responsibility to shine a light into the darkness. With regard to “Cort and Dave
exercise questionable reasoning” I feel it necessary to enlighten those who read the aforementioned letter
to the most unappreciated editors of our weekly paper. I challenge anyone to edify me by bringing to my
attention any fundamental difference between homo sapiens and the rest of the animal kingdom (to
which, if i am not mistaken, we still belong) that makes homosexuality a matter of nature in one species
and a matter of morality in another. In addition, anyone who believes that humans do not “condone” the
killing of one another and, yes, even infants, is ignorant not only of history, but of the present state of
affairs on this planet. I base my argument not upon relativism, but upon observation. OPEN YOUR
EYES! We as a species are not as damned smart as we think we are.

“Give a monkey a brain and he’ll swear he’s the center of the universe.”
-Fishbone

Best wishes from Oxford,
Chad Diamond ’01
chdiamond @ davidson.edu

HEY, COULD :
YOU PLEASE TAKE IT OFF THE
PORCH? YOU'RE MAKING ME AND
THE NEIGHBORS S/CKt

ere

Sex S-
=~ USI a=

LOVE MAKES THE WORLD
GET NAKED.

WHAT ARE YOU POURING x
SACALAMINE LOTION DOWN YOUR £:
PANTS FOR? :

TAKE A WORD S&
OF ADVICE, NEVER .
EVER HAVE SEX IN

THE Woops?

rn)

