THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

Davidson theatre department scores big in Charlotte

By Lorraine SHERBINE
College Relations

Members of the Davidson College theatre
department have gotten rave reviews in recent
months on the Charlotte stage. A major highlight
of the spring theatre season was a Davidson direc-
tor/stage designer collaboration in the Blumenthal
Center’s Booth Playhouse. Ann Marie
Costa, associate professor of theatre,
directed the Charlotte Repertory
Theatre’s premiere performance of
“Sister Calling My Name,” and Joe
Gardner, department chair and profes-
sor of theatre and speech, designed the
set.

Costa and Gardner have worked
together on campus productions, but
this is their first collaboration in pro-
fessional theatre. Charlotte Observer
reviewer Tony Brown called the play
“a truly collaborative wonder,” and
heaped praise on director, actors, script,
and staging alike.

Costa came to Davidson in 1994
and immediately established her di-
recting niche with “The Heidi
Chronicles,” her first campus collabo-
ration with Gardner. He commented,
“Thave always been impressed by Ann
Marie’s insight into dramatic work
and by the energy she brings to the
team effort. Working with her is a joy,
partly because of her buoyant person-
ality, but also because she nurtures and
challenges her partners to bring their
very best effort to the work: I see this
affecting other student actors and other
designers as much as it does me.”

Costa is no novice to professional
theatre. She has directed “Mrs. Klein”
at Victory Gardens in Chicago, “A
Coupla White Chicks” at the Theatre Projects Co.
in St. Louis and “Make It Happen” in the Berkshire
Theatre Festival Children’s Theatre. She debuted
at the Charlotte Rep directing “The One-Eyed
Man is King” and “Shadow War” in the New Play
Festival.

Costa said that having Gardner design for her
is “a director’s dream.” She continued, “As we

Jav

work together with the scripts, the metaphors
become visual. He’s the most accommodating
designer I’ ve ever worked with. He brings out the
best in me as a director.”

Referring to her direction of “Sister Calling
My Name,” Gardner said, “It was a very delicate
play, a journey backward through. painful memo-
ries which leads to a vital discovery of self. Most

ommunications

Giduz Photo c/o College

son theatre protessors

Ann Marie Costa and Joe Gardner.

of the actions was confined in small spaces or
happened in memory. The mood of the piece was
relentlessly dark and serious. It took exceptional

directing skills to guide actors through such a»

narrow and brooding landscape and hold the dra-
matic interest without being emotionally self-in-
dulgent. Ann Marie managed to do just that —
keeping her actors on a steady course and shaping

the work toward a powerful, revelatory conclu-
sion. All of Davidson should be proud of her work
on this play.”

Working together outside the Davidson Col-
lege venue helps faculty members and students see
each other in a new light. Being evaluated and
judged first-rate by the standards of professional
theatre is testimony to the integrity and the quality
of the work they bring to the theatre department.
Costa credits department chair Gardner with an
attitude of mutual support which pervades every
college production. She said, “Joe is all about
empowering his colleagues, allowing each mem-
ber ownership, the opportunity to grow in their
own special areas. He has always fostered the idea

that everybody in the department has a voice. He
is open to ideas and encourages staff to use their
talents fully.”

Gardner has a long-standing reputation as the
premier set designer in the region, and has the
portfolio to prove it. With more than 100 set
designs to his credit, professionals like Steve
Umberger, founder and artistic director of the
Charlotte Repertory Theatre and lead actor in
“Sister Calling My Name,” agree, “Joe’s the best
there is.”

Umberger said, “Each play has its own world,
and Joe taps into that easily. He’s also very much
a servant to the project, and not everyone is.

See Costa and Gardner on next page

Gay judge addresses Davidson

By AMBROSE TUSCANO
Staff Writer

On Wednesday night, a group of about 50
students and faculty gathered in the 900 Room to
hear a talk given by North Carolina Superior Court
Judge Ray Warren entitled “Straight Talk from a
Gay Judge.” As a young man, Warren met with
early success in politics. At age 29, shortly after
graduating from law school at the University of
North Carolina, Warren became the majority leader
of the state House of Representatives. His politi-
cal career advanced again in 1995 when he was
elected as a Superior Court judge. Warren, a
native of Charlotte, is one of only two openly gay
elected officials in North Carolina and holds the
distinction of being the only openly gay republi-
can. ,

Speaking confidently and in a straightfor-
ward manner, Warren related to the audience the
series of events that led to his current position. He
willingly discussed many personal situations, in-
cluding the breakup of him and his wife less than
ayear ago following his announcement that he was
gay.

Warren also spoke at length about the situa-
tion of homosexuals today, comparing the dis-
crimination that they face with aspects of that
imposed on the African-American community in
the segregation era. “It is important,” he said, “
that gays show themselves as real flesh and blood

people.” He argued that as long as a majority of
gay persons hide their sexual preferences, there
will continue to be a general invisibility of the gay
community.

On the other hand, Warren stated firmly that each
individual’s decision to come out of the closet
should be a personal one, occurring only when that
individual is prepared for the change. Indeed,
much of what he said pertained to the changes that
he noticed in himself after his public announce-
ment that he was gay. While he was quick to point
out that becoming open about his homosexuality
did not solve all of his problems, Warren says that
he does not regret the decision.

The sort of discrimination and homophobia
that he might have expected to suffer in the profes-'
sional realm never materialized. despite the fact
that he now works primarily in the more conserva-
tive western part of the state. Warren attributes the
lack of negative reaction to the announcement to
the fact that he had been in the courtroom for four
years prior to his coming out. Because his co- |
workers already had a favorable opinion of him,
they were forced into the realization that his sexual
orientation had not made him'a different person.
“The best lobbying strategy,” Warren claims, “is
for everyone to know a gay person firsthand.” He
thinks that this will help to dispel the feeling of
“otherness” that is in large part responsible for
homophobia.

See Gay Judge Straight Talk on page 5

Domestic

By Derek POLItzEr
Staff Writer

Saturday, March 20:

In an effort to curb gun-related violence,
President Clinton demanded that his administra-
tive officials study local initiatives, which have
proven effective in fighting illegal firearm sales.

Western embassies evacuated their non-es-
sential .staff from Belgrade Saturday after the
collapse of the Paris peace talks. Serb forces
intensified their attacks on ethnic Albanians in the
restive Kosovo region of Yugoslavia.

A war crimes tribunal in the Hague found the
Croatian army guilty of “ethnic cleansing” of
Serbs in a 1995 offensive.

Malaysian troops began their operation to
kill 300,000 pigs over the next ten days to stop the
spread of the deadly Japanese Encephalitis virus
that has claimed 10 lives. Mosquitoes transmit the
disease to humans.

Sunday, March 21:

As the longest Academy Awards show ever,
this year’s Oscars marked a significant drop in
public interest. Its audience fell from a high of 87
million last year to 70 million this year.
“Shakespeare in Love” won best picture and six
other Oscars. Steven Spielberg was awarded best
director for his epic film “Saving Private Ryan.”
This World War II drama picked up another four
Oscars. Roberto Benigni, in the Italian film, “Life
is Beautiful,” set a record as the first actor in a
foreign language film to win the Oscar for best
actor. This film also won the Oscar for the best
foreign film.

and international news briefs

Bertrand Piccard and Brian Jones went down
in history Saturday as the first people to circle the
globe non-stop in a hot air balloon.

Although Israel refused to extradite an Ameri-
can Jewish teenager accused of killing and dis-
membering another youth, the Israeli Justice Min-
istry has assured the U.S. that he will be charged
for his crimes in Israel.

Monday, March 22:

After a New York policeman fired on and
killed an unarmed African immigrant there earlier
this year, Attorney General Janet Reno promised
to review police brutality cases.

An avalanche, which swept down Turnagain
Pass in Alaska, killed two snowmobilers.

Jack Kevorkian defended himself against
charges that his assisted suicides constitute mur-
ders on the opening day of his trial Monday. .

U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke made a last-
minute trip to Belgrade in an effort to convince
Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic of the
inevitability of NATO airstrikes if the Serbian
leader refused to sign the Paris peace accords.
Meanwhile, the U.S. Senate debated committing
U.S. military forces to any NATO-led attacks on
Serbia Monday.

Tuesday, March 23:

According to a news report released by the
Office of National Drug Control Policy, snorting
heroine is becoming more. popular in the United
States, especially among women, the affluent, and
suburbanites.

By a narrow majority, the U.S. Senate voted
Tuesday to support President Clinton’ s decision to
launch air strikes against Serbia:

Russian Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov
turned his plane around in mid-flight on a course
back to Russia because of NATO's imminent
strikes against Yugoslavia. Primakov had been
scheduled to participate in talks with U.S. officials
on the state of the Russian economy.

Wednesday, March 24:

NATO attacked Yugoslav military targets
Wednesday in an attempt to prevent a humanitar-
ian crisis. Clinton justified the allied response,
declaring it a “moral imperative.” He cited the
geopolitical significance of Kosovo, which is situ-
ated ona potentially explosive fault line. Yugosla-
viaresponded vehemently to the attacks, denounc-
ing them as “naked aggression.” The NATO
attack marks the first of its kind against a sover-
eign nation in its 50-year history. Germany’s
participation in combat made history as the first
since World War II.

Russia and China lashed out at the United
States today for its operations against a sovereign
country. Yeltsin asserted that it has the right to act
militarily against the alliance and claimed that the
U.S. has reverted to “barbarism.” Russia ended all
cooperation with NATO.

Reverend Jesse Jackson said Wednesday that
he would not run for president in next year’s
presidential election.

Thursday, March 25:

NATO launched another “massive aerial as-
sault” against Yugoslavia Thursday, as Milosevic
refused to sign the Paris peace accords.

Anti-NATO protests rocked Skopje,
Macedonia Thursday as rioters attacked the U.S.,
British, and German embassies with firebombs.
Protesters outside the U.S. embassy in Moscow
burned American flags and hurled ink bombs and
beer bottles at the embassy compound.

~~ Belgrade ended diplomatic relations with

NATO members and ordered all foreign journalists
out of the country. Meanwhile, Russia toned down
its anti-Western rhetoric. The four New York City
police officers who shot an unarmed African immi-
grant were indicted today on murder charges.

Flames and thick black smoke billowed into
the sky Thursday after a massive explosion at a
Chevron Corporation oil refinery in California.
Local residents were urged to keep their windows
closed.

Friday, March 26:

NATO launched a third attack against Serb
targets Friday in broad daylight. Reports from
witnesses in Kosovo indicated that the Serb army
has begun “ethnic cleansing” of Kosovar Alba-
nians, indiscriminately killing civilians and burn-
ing their villages.

Two Yugoslav MiGs were shot. down over
Bosnia today as they attempted to target NATO
ground forces there. :

A new scientific study indicated that the vi-
ruses that causes measles, AIDS, Ebola, and influ-
enza may all be related.
