C

“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”

*
EstaBLisHeD 1914

he

AL BN

Honor Code violations documented
See what they were for!

D A Als x ee)

Shame, shame, shame...
Stealing at the Union Café/?/

OPINIONS 7

ORTA

Get spooky.

A&L 8

LIBER TAS

Try your hand at the Halloween crossword.

Take that, Yellow Jackets.
Wildcat football wins fourth straight!

SPORTS 11

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

Brewster offers new perspectives on “The Century”

On Thursday, October 21, in the 900 Room,
Mr. Todd Brewster delivered a presentation both
summarizing and interpreting the events of the
past century. Brewster is senior editorial pro-
ducer for the ABC News documentary series
“The Century” and, along with Peter Jennings,
co-author of the companion book to the series.
The audience was treated to a combination of first
hand accounts and a stunning visual record of key
events of the twentieth century, both compiled by
Brewster and Jennings. Brewster told the story of
the century through the words of those who lived
it. This gave rare insight into the perspectives of
those who helped shape the era. Moreover, many
of the pictures shown were chosen specifically
because they were obscure. They too provided a
new image of the past hundred years.

Brewster addressed the choices that he and
Jennings faced when making the series. Perhaps
most importantly, they had to choose the central
theme around which they would construct the
narrative. The twentieth century could easily be
dubbed the Technology Century, the Killing Cen-
tury, or even the American Century. Brewster
explained that they ultimately chose the Century
of the Common Man as their theme for several
reasons. First, much of the scientific advance-
ment that was compressed into such a short time
had a very direct effect on the lives of ordinary
people. Second, the two political ideologies whose
conflict framed most of the twentieth century,
liberal democracy and communism, advocated
taking power away from the state and giving it to
the common people. Finally, the culture that
emerged from this epoch was not one dictated by
the educated elite, as in previous times, but rather
popular culture.

Another big aspect of this series was its
emphasis on recurring themes throughout the
course of the century. Though the narrative was
chronological, Brewster made it clear that certain
conflicts pervade the past hundred years and help

NEWS 4

i

= ey

@ Author Todd Brewster addre

ah Ee

the observer to frame the flow of events. He
highlighted three in particular. A great enthusiasm
for the advancements made in technology charac-
terized much of this century. However, this enthu-
siasm was accompanied by much uncertainty and
doubt about what these changes would bring. In
addition, since lifestyles changed so greatly in
such a short period of time, people’s desire for a
new, better life collided with their intense fear of

Af

ssed a packed 900 Room last Thursday evening.

losing traditional values. Finally, much of the

political activity of the century pitted the indi- .

vidual, the “common man,” against the state.
This last struggle defined many episodes of the

century, including the destruction of fascism, the

eventual downfall of communism, and the fight
for social equality in the United States and in
other countries.

In conclusion, Brewster offered a few per-

‘Jake Harrington

spectives on the future. Besides the admonition to
expect the unexpected and the anticipation of con-
tinuing rapid technological change, he quoted
Salman Rushdie in warning against. those who
preach a doctrine of “purity.” If the history of the
past century teaches anything, it is that concepts
such as racial or ethnic purity “lead straight to the
gas chambers.” One must be willing to accept “a
little dirt.”

Wildcat Soccer continues
Southern Conference ascent

@ Davidson’s Women’s Soccer goes 2-

aay Sy ihe Rss

1 to improve upon

lake Harrington

its impressive SoCon standing. Story on page 10.

BGLAD comes out

By ANN GREGORY
News Editor

The former FLAG group on campus has
recently changed its name and focus. In conjunc-
tion with National Coming Out Day on October
11", Friends of Lesbian And Gays celebrated its
new.name, BGLAD (Bisexuals, Gays and Lesbi-
ans At Davidson). This name change, which was
voted on by members of the club, signifies the
changing philosophy of the club.

When FLAG reconvened this year, mem-
bers decided to take the club in a different direc-
tion. New elections. made co-presidents Alexis
Boehmler ’(02 and James Everett 02 at the fore-

front of the change. Co-president Boehmler ex-
plained the reason for the new name by saying, “We
changed the name because we wanted to change the
spirit of FLAG, and the first place to start is with the
name.” BGLAD symbolizes the philosophy that
Boehmler verbalizes: “We are not just friends of
lesbians and gays. We are a group of people for all
sexual preferences, being friends in secondary.”
The club hopes to become more of a support
group and gathering place for people of various
sexual preferences. They celebrated Coming Out
Day at Davidson last week, but Boehmler admits,
“We didn’t really expect anyone to come out, so

+ See BGLAD on page 5 for continuation

DEADLINES & AD RATES
BIDITORIAUS oo: cccccccsccseszss
OBINTOINS c.5icsssyssencesesspessees

ae 7

eee eeeee

seeseees 8 Davidson, NC 28036

First Class Mail
U:S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

10

