‘12... THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tree of the Week

The Flowering Dogwood blooms this spring

ARTS SE. LIVING.

The EAC does
more than recycle

By Brian CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

The Flowering Dog-
wood (Cornus florida) is
in bloom all over our cam-
pus this week. Although it
is a common tree, many
people know little about it.
These trees are spectacular
year round, with scarlet
leaves in the fall and showy
red fruits into the winter,
but dogwoods are most
striking in early spring.
Surprisingly, the beautiful
white petals that are so dis-
tinctive of dogwoods are
not, in fact, petals at all.
The four true petals are yellowish-green and tightly
crowded in a head less than an inch across. Sur-
rounding this head are the large, eye-catching
“bracts,” which are 3-4” across and white or some-
times pink.

In addition to its beautiful presence year-
round, the dogwood has a yariety of interesting
uses. The hard wood is extremely shock resistant
and useful for making weaving shuttles. In addi-
tion it is used in spools, pulleys, mallet heads, and
jeweler’s blocks. Native Americans used the
aromatic bark and roots as a herbal remedy for
malaria, and they extracted a red dye from the
dogwood’ $ roots.

The dogwood, like many trees is captivating
beyond its beauty and utility. It has found its way
into the stories of our culture. There is a legend,
that at the time of the Crucifixion the dogwood
was the size of the oak and other forest trees. So
firm and strong was the tree that it was chosen as
the timber of the cross. To be used thus for sucha

@ Flowering Dogwood

Anna Judy

cruel purpose greatly distressed the tree, and Jesus,
nailed upon it sensed this, and in His gentle pity for
all sorrow and suffering said to it: “Because of
your regret and pity for My suffering, never again
shall the dogwood tree grow large enough to be
used as across. Henceforth it shall be slender and
bent and twisted and its blossoms shall be in the
form of a cross .. . two long and two short petals.
And in the center of the outer edge of each petal
there will be nail prints, brown with rust and
stained with red, and in the center of the flower will
be a crown of thorns, and all who see it will
rémember.”

Take acloser look at the Flowering Dogwood
this week. The campus has several clusters: in the
planters in front of the library, amidst the azaleas
behind Martin Science Building, and beneath the
Magnolias in front of Sentelle and Duke. Like the
dogwood, shine with the joy of spring while still
remaining sensitive to the suffering so close at
hand.

DCSO spring concert to feature
outstanding sophomore cellist

By Wes.ey H. Go_LpsBeRRY
Co-Editor in Chief

On Thursday, April 22nd , the Davidson
College Symphony Orchestra will present its spring
concert at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The
ensemble, directed by Dr. Richard Prior, will be
giving a warm-up performance of the program at
The Pines this Thursday afternoon. The program
will include Mozart’s overture to “The Marriage
of Figaro,” Beethoven’s Symphony No. 1, and
Eduoard Lalo’s Cello Concerto.

The concerto will be performed by sopho-

more cellist Lauren Baird, a native of Temple,
Tex. and winner of the 1998-99 DCSO Concerto
Competition, which was held on January 30 of this
year. Lalo’s Concerto is a marvelous work, a
remarkably well-conceived, adventurous, three-
movement excursion into the unique aural realm
of the cello, where depth and lyricism magically
collide. The work presents its soloist with fre-
quently difficult passage work, which Baird tack-
les most impressively. The concert should be a
fitting spectacle to conclude a dynamite year for
the DCSO. Admission is free for all, so everyone
should plan to attend.

By JT ToLentino AND Betsy NosLe
Staff Writers

At Davidson College, where green lawns and
trees coexist with beer cans and plastic bottles,
there is an organization that is dedicated to envi-
ronmental awareness.

For several years now, the Environmental
Action Coalition (EAC) has been active in pro-
moting environmental awareness in the college
community. The traditional “big” project of the
EAC has been, and indeed remains, recycling.
The EAC has undertaken several new projects to
help Davidson College tackle some of its current
environmental problems. ;

In early February, the EAC hosted the ACS

At Davidson College... there is an
organization that is dedicated to
environmental awareness.

Sustainable Campus Development Conference, a
workshop in which 12 Southern private colleges
participated. The participants worked on finding
new ways of adapting college facilities to become

more “earth friendly.” As a result of the work-
shop, the EAC formed the Sustainable Campus
Committee, consisting of students, faculty, and
maintenance staff. The goal of this committe is to
implement into Davidson’s campus what was dis-
cussed at the workshop, such as ways to improve
energy and water conservation.

The newest EAC project, the Adopt-A-Stream
program, which is under the direction of JT
Tolentino, has recently adopted the South Prong
Rocky River. The program’s mission is to combat
pollution, in area streams and to promote aware-
ness of the sources of stream pollution. Currently,
the program is still in the developing stages.

Right now, the EAC’s main focus is Earth
Day, which will be celebrated on Thursday, April
22 from llam - 2pm. Earth Day’s goal is tq
educate the media, the political arena and the
public by drawing attention to environmental is-
sues.

On Earth Day, the EAC will be sponsoring a
number of activities, including crafts, a letter-
writing campaign, and the “recycling game.” The
EAC has expanded the Earth Day celebration into
an “Earth Week,” which will include environmen-
tal speakers and a clothing drive. Anyone inter-
ested in helping with Earth Day is invited to attend
an organizational meeting Tuesday, April 12 at
8:00 pm in the Union Morrison Room, or contact
the EAC co-chairs, Sara Massie and Jason Todd.

Menu “44h 11230

The Soda Shop |

SINCE 1951

Breakfast BU
Omelets
Pancakes

rritos

104 ‘S.Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

On the Scene ar Davison COLLEGE

Coffeehouse, Come drink caffeine. 8:15 a.m.
- 11:15.a.m. in the 900 Room.

Senior Art Major. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all
week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Jumpin’ Java. More caffeine. You'll be jump-
ing around. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the
Outpost.

iTwenty-One-Year-Old Night. About 1/4 of the
school can go. 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the
[900 Room.

Rebecca Radcliff. Go see Rebecca in the 900
Room from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.

CROP Ieuan They, grow ‘em, you eat
them. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Shane Windmyer. Go see him in the
Morrison Room from 6:30 - 9:30 p.m.
Naoto Nakagawa. The artist speaks
from 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the VAC.

Scholarship Weekend.
So it begins. On campus
all day.

Coffeehouse. You know
what it is. 8:15 - 11:15
p.m. in the Home Room.

Decision Davidson. They’llbe
deciding. Be on your best be-

havior...

George Clinton. See News
press release for times.

Chess Club. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in
the Conference Room.
Jumpin’ Java. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00
a.m. in the Outpost.

Amnesty International. Meet-
ing in the Wilson Room from
8:00 - 9:00 p.m.

TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

‘THURSDAY

FRIDAY

SATURDAY

SUNDAY
MONDAY

Professor Lance K. Stell. He is a professor
and he will-be in the 900 Room from 4:00 -
5:00 p.m.

Chess Club. Concentrate! Checkmate!
7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

Irene Kacandes Lecture. She'll be speak-
ing from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Death Penalty Forum. An interesting topic.
In the Home Room from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

J Alfred Broaddus, Jr. Go see him in
Chambers Gallery from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m.
“The Last Days of Disco” It's a movie.
9:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Kayak Rolling. Its fun! 7:30 -9:00 p.m.
at Baker Sports Complex:

FLAG Meeting. in the Wilson Room
from 9:00 - 10:00 p.m.

College Republicans. The GOP. Its
fun! 9:15 - 10:15 p.m. in the Union

Conference Room.

“The Last Days of Disco”
Showing at 9:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Concert Choir/Chamber Sing- DON’T FORGET JESUS

ers. inthe DCPC Sanctuary from
8:00 - 9:30 p.m.

African Drums. A performance
at the BSC from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m.
Eddie From Ohio. ‘Nough said.
Performing in the 900 Room from
9:30 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.

CHRIST SUPERSTAR! See ar- the Morrison Room.
ticle in Arts & Living for times.

Juggling. from 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in

Piano Recital. from 8:00 - 9:00
p.m. in Hodson Hall, -

Jumpin’ Java. Same time and
place as Sunday.

