12. THE DAVIDSONIAN’

September 26, 1999:

By Ross HaGEN
Guest Writer

GROUND ZERO, SPARTANBURG, SC — This
was truly one of the better shows I’ ve seen ina long
time, and one that won’t come near Davidson
anytime soon (too much pain, not enough khaki).
I wasn’t all that familiar with any of these bands
prior to the drive down, so these reviews are more
or less based on first impressions.

Amen. Amen, a pretty standard new-wave
metal band from Los Angeles, did not have a good
night. They quit playing after five songs, the
singer proclaiming himself to be “sicker than
normal.” I felt sorry for this guy because he didn’t
seem to be able to find a microphone that worked.
They would cut in and out or just stop altogether,
after which he would throw them or otherwise
destroy them because, as a rock star, all that can be
done when equipment breaks is to punish it for
embarrassing you. Other than that, he was pretty
animated; climbing up on things, hanging from
rafters, etc., in such a way as to give Austin Rios
arun for his money. One thing I didn’t understand,
though, was all the anti-Christian imagery they
had on stage. I couldn’t understand the words of
their songs very well, but it didn’treally seem to fit
in anywhere with their image except as a shock
tactic.

Slipknot. These guys were probably my
favorite band of the evening; just based on the fact
that I have never seen anything quite that deranged
before, with the possible exception of the Jim Rose
Circus. That and they absolutely rocked.

For those of you unfamiliar with Slipknot,
they are a nine-piece band from Des Moines that
made a name for themselves on this summer’s
Ozzfest. In addition to the regular lineup of drumis,
two guitars, bass, and vocals, Slipknot adds a

sampler, turntable player, and two percussionists.

who played bass drums and beer kegs mounted on
platforms, one with springs and the other with a
hydraulic lift. The “extra” members of the band
alternated between actually playing, crowd surf-
ing, fighting with each other, and just adding to the
overall weirdness.

Did I mention that every member of Slipknot
wears a matching jumpsuit and some sort of gro-
tesque mask? These guys are like heavy-metal
Muppets from Hell. They remind me a bit -of
GWAR, except they don’t use any big cartoon-ish
set pieces and costumes.

However, none of these psychotic visuals
mean anything if the music is lacking. Luckily,

@ Coal Chamber is staring at you.

Slipknot definitely delivers the goods and they
whipped the audience into an absolute frenzy from
the minute they launched. Their music is in the
same vein as much of the current rap/metal stuff,
except Slipknot leans towards faster tempos and
more emphasis on unrelenting bang-your-head
crunch than Korn-y groove. A definite recom-
mendation. :

Machine Head. Machine Head, one of the
headlining bands of the night, has the distinction
of being the only band whose songs stuck in my
head after the show. Rather than channel their
energy into a furious assault, they center more on
a big, heavy, mid-tempo groove . One song in
particular was very reminiscent of the old Public
Enemy/Anthrax tune ‘Bring the Noise.” They
have also learned, in the words of Butthead, that
the quiet parts make the loud parts seem even
louder. Their songs are very well put together and
could conceivably “break” one day. Overall an
excellent live band.

Highlight — getting some Coke & Absolut
from the singer. Lowlight — one of our friends got
suckered into helping the stage crew tear down,
thinking he’d get to meet Machine Head. One
hour later, after they’re done with him and the
band has done all of its meeting and greeting, the
crew sends him out to wait by the bus with the rest
of the fans. Highly uncool in my book.

Coal Chamber. It’s easy to.see why Coal
Chamber is such a popular band. They look very
goth, play metal, and have a secret weapon that I'll
discuss in depth a little later. Coal Chamber’s
studio recordings have never done much for me,
but they do indeed rock it out live. The name of the
game so far had been “Everybody in dropped-D,”
but Coal Chamber took it further, going all the way
down to B (yay 7th string!). One result of this is
that the guitar tends to blend with the bass and get
lost in the mix, but that’s okay if you’re going for
that big heavy groove sound.

Visually, Coal Chamber is pretty engaging,
as any good goth band should be. The singer
looked sort of like Alice Cooper from way back in
the day, the drummer had black electrical tape X-
s over his nipples, and the guitarist looked like he
belonged in Orgy. Now we get to the secret
weapon: the bassist. There’s been some debate as
to whether the person we saw Monday night was
the same as the person regularly associated with
the band, but whoever she was, she’s definitely in
the running for Queen of the Undead. The girls
idolize her, the guys fall in love with her, and Coal
Chamber’s fan base grows. Needless to say she
was a hot topic for conversation during the ride
home.

One beef I have with Coal
Chamber is that I feel that they
don’t extend their image far
enough into their music. When

- a band comes onstage to the
main themes from “ A Night-
mare Before Christmas” and
“Halloween” (techno mix!!), I
expect some good cheesy scare
music in the same veinas Type
ONegative or Alien Sex Fiend;
especially with that much fish-
net onstage. Instead we get
Korn worship. The kids liked
it, though, and it did rock pretty
hard, so I guess I should trust
that Coal Chamber knows what
they are doing. My only com-
plaint is that the sound setup
blocked the exits from the area
between the barricade and the
stage, leaving no where to go
if somebody gets passed up to
the front. The security guards,
therefore, were pushing crowd
surfers away from the stage to
an uncertain fate rather than
collecting them when they got
to the front and sending them
back in one piece. Hopefully
Ground Zero won’ find itself
in court over this because it
seems to be a very nice venue
with a tightly knit group of
patrons. Cheers!

ArTS & LIVING

Pad

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

IdnEgo — Relationship advice for
Four bands get freaky on _friends and family, foes and lovers
Stage in Spartanburg

AskIDNEGO @ HOTMAIL.COM

IdnEgo are Freud's psychoanalytic voices
that influence all relationship decisions. Id, who
represents the unconscious and licentiousness in
all of us, rarely agrees with Ego, who touts the
conscious and morally-aware course of action.

Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about
your relationship dilenma? Or have any com-
ments about their advice? Send your questions
and thoughts to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. All
inquiries will be kept confidential. (Please note:
All advice offered in. this column is purely for
entertainment purposes and should not be consid-
eréd professional clinical advice.)

Dear IdnEgo,

Help! A good friend of mine recently set me
up on a blind date with someone who was “per-
fect” forme. She goes toa nearby school and since
Thad to go up there last weekend to use the library,
I figured I'd meet her for a drink. Well, one thing
led to another and I ended up staying at her place.
The problem? I come back to school and in two
days I’ ve already gotten 8 e-mails from her! Stuff
like “how right our friend was about how perfect
we were for each other,” “what a great time she
had,” “that she misses me,” and “plans to come
visit next weekend.” Can you believe this?! Look,
I thought she was cute and I enjoyed hooking up
with her. ..but that was it! How do I let her know
that I’m not interested in any kind of relationship
(although I wouldn’t mind hooking up with her
again)? I’m afraid of really pissing off my friend
who set this whole thing up. It would have been
nice if she had mentioned that her friend was a
little obsessive.

Signed, In deep.

Dear “In deep,”
Id loves these sorts of weekend diversions—

* but hates the aftermath. (Id just doesn’t under-

stand why women have to be so clingy about one
night stands.) First of all, chill out about the e-
mails. She’ll get the picture pretty quickly once
you give her a clue. Try sending her an 8x10
glossy signed with the message, “Something for
you to remember me by—since you'll never see
me again.” Or, send her a nice poem; “Roses are
red, Violets are blue — hey, leave me the hell alone
you freakin’ psycho.” Sodon’tstress. Believe me,
you'll have this problem in the future and probably
in much worse scenarios. Regarding your friend
and fear of her getting mad—did you ever think that
maybe she had a thing for you and decided to set
you up with psycho to show you how good she
was? Uhmm...

In your best interest, Id
ok of ok ok ok ok ok ok

Dear “In deep,”

Ok, so you got a little carried away and now
you're stuck fending off someone who might be
boiling rabbits before long. So the trick is to break
things off without getting your friend angry and
without offending the girl too much.. Basically,
you need to tell Id to shut up so you can exercise
a little more restraint and be a little more tactful,
suave, and subtle. Simple stuff, such as, “Listen,
I thought you were great—I hada really good time,
but I’m just getting out of a serious relationship
and need my space.” Keep in touch with her, let
her know you don’t think she’s a slut for sleeping
with you, and be really nice to her friend. Oh, and
one final piece of advice: give up on trying to hook
up with her again. Ego already thinks you're a
schmuck for hooking up with her once.

Your friend, Ego.

" Served in a Contemporary
Rock & Roll Atmosphere ! "

.@ Tae

Wy
Carr

GY

" Wed. College Night "

10% Off
with Student ID.

_ Lake Norman, NC

Business Hours

€

%
oe

"Early Bird Special"
from
5pm - 6pm Daily
10% off ail food item.

i

Lunch: Monday - Friday 11:30am - 2pm
Dinner: Monday - Thursday Spm - 10pm
Friday, Saturday Spm - 11pm
Sunday .S5pm - 9pm

Located Exit 28 off I-77, in front of
Bi-Lo Shopping Center, Cornelius, NC

(Tel) 704-987-8080 (Fax) 704-987-8030

The Soda Shop

Since 1951

Breakfast Burritos
Omelets
Pancakes

sic }
alas bers Yries

Milkshakes

104 S.Main St. Davidson, NC

Bur gers

Eat-in Take-out

