_THE DAVIDSONIAN

A closer examination of Goldsboro and NC drivers

_ I had the pleasure (hope you caught the
sarcasm in that statement) this past Friday to drive
to one of Money Magazines top 10 cities to live in
for 1993, Goldsboro. No, I did not make a typo, I
am not talking about Greensboro, but Goldsboro,
NC. If you are wondering how acity receives such
an honor, join the crowd. I have only had the
opportunity to visit this small bastion of good
living once prior to Friday. I did not understand
how it won such an award then, and I still do not
understand now.

Granted, I have been told that the residential
areas are quite nice, but the majority of the city
center reminded me of a scene from the movie
“Children of the Corn.” Creepy! I wanted to make
my way through this area as quickly as possible!
I saw no signs of any vitality in any of the shops or
storefronts. Most of the buildings were either
gutted, vacant, or in extreme disrepair. During
this drive through town, the only sign of life I saw
was the occasional stray cat. Quite eerie, I felt as
if I had entered a time warp. I imagine you might
be asking yourself: 1.) Why am I telling you this
and 2.) Why did I make a trip to Goldsboro in the
first place?

I entered an art competition about a month
ago which happened to take place in Goldsboro.
The show’s duration was from February 20th to
March 19th, i.e. the show was over and I had to go
and pick up my work. But, the real reason for this
article is to address the driving practices of those
that reside in the Carolinas.

I will admit before I go any further that I am
not always the safest of drivers. Ihave a tendency
to be impatient when I drive and I speed, alright
and I weave, ok, I am pretty bad sometimes. But,
I can drive normally when the situation arises! I
promise! So, on my trip to Goldsboro, I found
myself in the bind that I only had 3 hours and 15
minutes to make a minimum 3 and a half hour trip.
Oops, way to go preplanning. I knew one thing
and that was that I only had Friday to go and pick
up this painting, so I was bound and determined
to accomplish this task.

Despite my own need to haul butt, I encoun-
tered even scarier people on the road that put my
own driving to shame. Now, if I remember
correctly from Drivers’ Ed, the fast lane on the
highway is always the left most lane. Did some-
body change this rule in the Carolinas? I would

make my way over to the left lane in order to
increase my frenetic pace, yet did this happen?
NOPE! Time and time again, I encountered the
slow individuals on the road in this lane.

And what about semi’s? Is there some secret
ploy between semi’s that they need to pace one
another, essentially clogging both lanes of the
highway? Then there are those early eighties
economy cars, those old Hondas and Toyotas.
Honestly, these cars vacillate more on the high-
way than a sine or cosine wave. It seems as if all
it takes for them to shimmy and blow into the
other lane is a strong gust of wind. God forbid a
semi pass them! These little economy cars make
me nervous. You have no idea when they might
just take off from the road and careen into your
vehicle. Yet the true display of horrendous driv-
ing came when J hit the four and five lane portions
of 1-85 and I-40, [honestly felt as if I was at a stand
still in comparision to these people.

Let me outline just three stereotypical cases
that I encountered: A.) the housewife in her
hulking Navigator, Expedition, or any large sport
utility vehicle on a mission from above. (multi-
tasking careers, dinner, soccer practice, and the

location of their 14 year ald), B.) the teen who
whizzes past you as if you (who are currently going
90 something m/h) are standing still and my per- °
sonal favorite C.) the corporate executive on their
way home from work where nothing stands in their
way (congested highways, cops, or lack of road)! It
seemed as if everybody had 100 miles to go and
only an hour to do it in!

So after contemplating everybody’s rush, I
want to end with two questions: 1.) Exactly what
does Money Magazine look at when they are choos-
ing the top U.S. cities to live in, because it certainly
doesn’t have anything to do with aesthetics, and 2.)
For a state that places such an enormous emphasis
on how wonderful their highway system is, why is
it that nobody in this state can drive, including
visitors?

{fool mae I

Alenda Lux

Recah oh veekerdo

hel Vick ios uk koe Wok Rak Keke
ore bik, ide He RR ck
‘a Fick WK MOA Lak ek kek

/ Kk aie © ’ tl Woke Wek ek WA

hie vi l Hoe earn Mok Bea Far a bck

ving Bar A bok ak Ba Re Hele
ire ‘ nt KA Ree RQ Rk EL idk de
we CRRA Kok patho Bo ck bok

Rae Kick Bek Vie her Ow Wek Ba Kok
ko Mee BARGE ch Kak Fok Ke
hak ek beak &, kh

Lick. ek. Bek hy

‘ \uk Kick Aig
\: N ick Ke’
i Hu hel

Lick nw arene

sO ek Bek hk

PHIL REED |

_ March Madness taken too far

nspring break I sat on a double bed at the
O Sugar Beach Motel (sugar white beaches

at sugar sweet prices) in Panama City,
Florida, merely trying to escape the confines of
my North Carolina life, when I was quickly brought
back to reality.. CNN covered a story that sur-
rounded much controversy in Asheville, NC. A
local high school was being challenged to change
the nickname of its sports teams. The Erwin High
School “Warriors” for the‘male sports teams and
“Squaws” for the female sports teams are_ not
politically correct.

Some people take offense to Native Ameri-
can mascots used in sporting events because they
believe it has a particularly degrading demeanor.
Says Joseph Oxendine, chancellor of UNC Pem-
broke, “the manner in which the Indian is por-
trayed in sports tends to dehumanize and trivialize
awhole culture.” He questions the Atlanta Braves,
Kansas City Chiefs, Florida St. Seminoles, and
other teams that use Native American names or
tribes as their mascots or nicknames. “Generally,
mascots are programmed to do funny, even outra-
geous, things,” he writes, “They boastfully in-
timidate opposing players and fans; the tease and
clown around with children; and they rally their
fans to support the team.”

I do not see how such things, done by all
mascots, trivialize an entire culture. It is true that
many such nicknames do not accurately represent
the essence of Native American Culture, but that
is not to say that it makes their culture any less
valuable. The Dallas Cowboys are a very good
counter example. Representing a group of people,

acommon stereotype of cowboys is that they wear
cowboy hats and boots, ride horses, and lasso
whatever cattle are hanging around yelling, “ride
‘em cowboy.” Now, anyone in their right mind
knows that “cowboys” do not tend to do such
things; rather, they have a legit profession. How-
ever, the professional Dallas football team does
not offend most cowboys, to my knowledge. They
know that football is merely a sporting event, not
intended to offend anyone. In the same manner,
the Erwin Warriors do not intend to be derogatory
to Native Ameri-

cans.

problem that, I argue, should not even be a prob-
lem.

Intoday’s culture, it is all too common to find
something offensive, something as-even insignifi-
cant as sports teams. Worrying over ideas such as
these have made a strong impact in America. Just
acouple weeks ago, Crayola decided to change the
name of the “indian red” crayon. The color had
nothing to do with Native Americans, but was
named so because of a reddish-brown pigment
often found near India. Nevertheless, some people
found the name of the
crayon offensive be-

Why is it that
some people are so
offended by some-
thing sotrivial? Do
religious rights ac-
tivists think that the

In today’s culture, it is all too common
to find something offensive, something
as insignificant as even sports teams.

cause they thought it
referred to the color
of Native American’s
skin.

Iam also reminded
of a similar incident

Duke Blue Devils

threaten their convictions? Do animal-rights ac-
tivists believe that the Davidson Wildcats de-
animalize the endangered mammal? Such mas-

cots do not intend harm. On the contrary, Indian *

mascots are implemented to display honor and
respect to the Native American. The truth is, in
fact, that the majority of Native Americans do not
find sports names troubling. The few that do,
however, find nothing better to do but complain.

“Butif this is not a big deal, why don’t we just
change the name?” you ask, Doing so would only
magnify the problem even more, causing every
Native American mascot across the Nation to be
abolished. Thus it would place emphasis on a

that took place in
Washington just a couple of months ago. David
Howard, a white aide to Mayor Anthony Will-
iams, correctly used the word “niggardly” in speak-
ing with his staff. The word, which means “stingy”
but sounds much like another word, was taken as
offensive. Howard apologized and defined the
word, but the rumor quickly spread that he had
used a racial slur. He was so overwhelmed with
complaints that he resigned. How insensitive of
Mr. Howard: participating in the heinous and
offensive act of using vocabulary properly. This,
I believe, clearly displays the travesty that politi-
cal correctness has created. Leonard Pitts, a black
columnist for the Miami Herald, responds: “the

onus for this mess is properly borne by the aides
who blew a minor understanding out of proportion,
and the members of the black community who

* jumped on Howard for no good reason. .. If some

people feel this illustrates how hypersensitive we’ ve
become on issues of racial insult, I have to agree
with that.”

In both examples, people took a simple mis-
understanding and blew it into a significant prob-
lem, a problem that never even existed. Society
tells us that we should always be aware of people
who are trying to offend us. Therefore, we are so
quick to take offense today that we do so to issues
that only verify our ignorance.

People can be offended by almost anything.
People can be offended if someone introduces
himself as Randy. I know those of us at Davidson
who are offended by our Honor Code. However,
does that mean that we should abolish it? We are
emotional people with sensitive characters; for us
to go through life expecting no one to insult our
integrity or challenge our convictions is unrealis-
tic.

I am not suggesting that we become immune
to all types of offense. Rather, we should evaluate
whether or not such offense is truly intended and
what the results of it will be. Doing so will only
better solve genuine problems of racism and sex-
ism that truly degrade people. So in this world of
the Common Era and the vertically challenged,
let’s take notice of what we find offensive and
how, if it all, it will genuinely impact our society.
Go Warriors. -

a

a eaaaaaaamcaamaaaaaaamaamacaaammmaaaa
