BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Writer

The most successful senior class in Davidson lacrosse history played their final
home game on Saturday against Limestone College. The ‘Cats played a great all-around
game in route to a dominating 15-2 victory. All three seniors scored at least two points
as they increased their standing on the school’s all-time scoring list. The three seniors,
Amanda Fleck, Linda Rothemund, and Katie Williams currently rank 1‘, 2", and 4"
respectively.

Davidson set the pace early as they jumped out to a quick 2-0 lead. At the 27:18
mark, Linda Rothemund scored her first goal of the day. Following the goal, Katie
Williams won the face-off, ran down the field, and made a great pass to Amanda Fleck
who scored to make it 2-0 at the 27:08 mark. While Davidson dominated play in their
offensive zone in the following minutes, they did not manage another goal until Fleck
notched her second at the 19:12 mark. Less then two minutes later, Rothemund scored
her second to make it 4-0. Davidson continued the offensive pressure as Liz Hoekstra
had an excellent scoring opportunity when she had a free shot with about 16 minutes to
go. Hoekstra made an unselfish play as she passed behind the net to Stephanie Hunter.
Hunter then passed toa cutting Lauren Kenchington who made the score 5-0. Rothemund, ~
Fleck, Kenchington, and Molly Cherington all added goals before the half to give the Cats
a 9-0 halftime lead. .

Davidson’s defense and ball control was excellent as Limestone only entered
Davidson’s defensive zone six times in the half. While Lisa Benjamin wasn’t challenged
much, she was up to task stopping all four shots she faced.

The hope of a shutout was dashed when Limestone’s Becky Buppert scored with
25:42 remaining in the contest. Davidson then ran off four straight goals to take a 13-1
lead. One of the highlights of the afternoon came when Katie Williams scored off a
Stephanie Hunter feed. Williams, one of Davidson’s best players ever, has been hurt for
the greater part of this season. Against Limestone, she played through her pain, and
managed to notch both a goal and an assist in her final home game. While Limestone
managed one more goal when Gina Authement scored with 12:42 left, Davidson scored
the last two goals of the game to win 15-2.

Davidson’s record now stands at 7-8. Their final game of the season will take
place at 5" ranked Duke this Wednesday at 7:00.

ALL LIBRARY BOOKS ARE
DUE MAY 12TH.
REMEMBER TO RETURN
THEM BEFORE YOU LEAVE.

‘THANK YOU.

