[DAVIDSON COLLEGE GOLLEGI

“28036’s Foremost
College Weekly”
@
EstaBuisHeD 1914

1999 tenure decisions announced.

NEWS 4

Stop vandalizing!

OPINIONS 6

Fun facts for Earth Day!

A&L7

Two men’s track members set
PRs at ASU!

SPORTS 11

Davidson College celebrates the Earth

By Betsy Nose AND JT ToLeNtINO
Staff Writers

On Thursday, April 22, Davidson College
will celebrate Earth Day from 11:00 a.m.- 2:00
p.m. on Chambers Lawn. Included in the Earth
Day celebration will be a variety of “representa-
tives of national, local and campus groups with an
environimental interest,” according to Earth Day
chair Nathaniel Cook. Representatives from the
Charlotte Humane society, Mecklenburg County
Waste Reduction and Recycling, Catawba Lands
Conservatory, and the Sierra Club, along with 16
other organizations, will have information booths
at the celebration. A free CROP lunch and free Ben
and Jerry’s sorbet, as well as musical entertain-
ment, will be provided at the event.

This year’s Earth Day celebration has been
extended to encompass this entire week, entitled
“Earth Week.” Among this week’s activities,
there will be a photography show of,natural won-
ders in the Union Café, with works by Amber
Worrell and Bruce Bell, and a clothing drive in the
Union Pit that will both run throughout the week.
Dr. Annie Ingram’s students will present an envi-
ronmental poetry reading on Tuesday, April 20 at
9:00 p.m. at the Outpost. .

The featured speakers of Earth Week will be
Ron Altman and Dane Kuppinger. Altman is the
director of the Catawba Lands Conservatory and
will be speaking about conserving natural habitats
through the use of landtrusts on Tuesday April 20
in the Morrison Room of the Union at 7:00 p.m.
Kuppinger is from the Southern Appalachian
Biodiversity Project, and will lecture on their cam-
paign to end commercial logging on public land on
Wednesday in the Homeroom at 7:00 p.m.

Cook says that the purpose of Earth Day is to
“stress ways of living that are more environmen-
tally responsible.” Earth Day offers the opportu-

nity to address local concerns here at Davidson as
well as national environmental problems. Ac-
cording to the
(www.sdearthtimes.com), Earth Day has grown
to be one of the largest grassroots movements in

Earth Day - Network ~

US history since its inception in 1970, when over
20 million Americans around the country partici-
pated in the celebration. The Earth Day move-
ment has been effective in raising environmental

awareness, even prompting legislation such as the
Clean Air and Clean Water Acts.

The EAC and the SGA are sponsoring this
year’s Earth Day and Earth Week celebration.

The Class of 2003 is offered admission

By HEATHER HITE
Staff Writer

The Davidsonian apologizes for the errors in

admissions article in the March 30 issue. This
article should correct thosé mistakes, and such
carelessness will not happen again.

The Ad-
missions Of-
fice has ac-
cepted the
Class of 2003,
and those pro-
spective stu-
dents are cur-

geted number
of students for

= rently in the
|S process of de-
 — ciding where to
= enroll.

Q

aes The tar-
=<

=

is

Ss

the class is 465. This year 197 students were
accepted in the early. decision process. Of those
students, 111 were women, and 86 were men. The
Admissions Office has also offered admission in
the regular decision process to 840 students com-
ing from 46 different states and 24 foreign coun-
tries. The college accepted 36.8% of the appli-
cants, the same rate as last year.

For the students accepted in the spring deci-
sion process, the median SAT range is 1320-
1460. Out of those 840 accepted students, 136 are
valedictorians of their high school class, and 496
have a high school GPA of 4.0 or better.

Also, 25% of the 840 students are recruited
athletes for Davidson’s 21 intercollegiate sports.
Therefore, Davidson coaches have played an
important role in the admissions process.

The Faculty Admissions Committee has
also played a vital role in admissions. It advises

the admissions staff on cases that are not clearly
admissible. This committee is chaired by Profes-
sor Peter Krentz of the Classics Department. Other
members of the committee include Professor Dan
Boye of the Physics Department, Professor Lou
Ortmayer of the Political Science Department,
Professor Magdalena Maiz-Pefia of the Spanish
Department, Professor Bill Lawing of the Music
Department, and Professor Cole Barton of the
Psychology Department.

Many endeavors are being made to enroll
the targeted number for the Class of 2003. For
example, a special web site exists for admitted
students. In addition, the Admissions office is
sending letters from various campus figures to
these students. While President Vagt is writing to
some, departmental faculty are contacting the top

Please see Admissions on page 4

TREE eOREE SECT ECOSE COU CCSTOCOOL OSE

LLORAS: os esyesiseasivpentesepptenns 5
MNO UEIR GY sis eie iccesyoedessascace(shbeeesans 5
CRENIONS 5c csvessexevenssverisceuascniess 6
ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

