_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reduced Shakespeare Troupe
will review the millennium

By Jim SWANSBROUGH
College Communications

The four-member Reduced Shakespeare Com-
pany will visit Davidson College on Monday, Oct.
25, to perform “The Millennium Musical: Abridged
to the 21st Century.” This comic musical presen-
tation has received rave reviews for its hilarious
rendition of “1000 years in 100 minutes.”

The performance begins at 8 p.m. in Love
Auditorium of Chambers Building, and is pre-
sented through the College Union’s Artists Series.
Tickets are $14 for adults and $10 for senior
citizens, or by Artists Series season ticket.

Blending a broad array of physical humor
with irreverent satire, the quartet of actors adopts
numerous accents, costumes, and fashions of fa-

cial hair to depict the more famous (and infamous)
people of the millennium. They depict characters
as varied as Leif Ericsson, Joan of Arc,
Michelangelo, Howard Stern, Monica Lewinsky,
and John Glenn. The wit and topical humor of the
troupe has been compared to that of the Marx
Brothers and Monty Python.

The Reduced Shakespeare Company was
founded in 1981 by Daniel Singer, an eight-year
performer with the company, and is based in
California. The troupe has been on the road ever
since, and currently consists of Reed Martin, Aus-
tin Tichenor, and Dee Ryan as performers, as well
as Nick Graham, who plays keyboard and guitar
and who wrote the original music for the produc-
tion. The “Millennium” production is written and
directed by Martin and Tichenor.

lege Compmam@ications

@ During homecoming weekend, the installation of the new Tucker
sculpture between the E.H. Little library and Duke Dorm occurred.

The Century author
Todd Brewster will
speak at Davidson

By Jim SWANSBROUGH

College Communications

Todd Brewster, co-author of the number one
New York Times bestseller The Century, will
speak at Davidson College on Thursday, Oct. 21.
The presentation will review the most impacting
events of this century, from the arts and technol-

‘ ogy to race relations and
war. It will include a se-

a... ld
Thinking About
Law School?

a

Duke University School of Law

Wednesday
October 27, 1999
12:30 p.m.

Davidson College
College Union
Morrison Hall

Be sure to bring your questions!

cee, AE

Meet with the admission deans from these law schools to learn
more about legal education and the admission process.

University of California, Berkeley - Boalt Hall

University of Southern California Law School

lection of unused photo-
graphs taken for the
book, as well as video
clips from the 27-hour
ABC television series
based on the book.

Six years of re-

search by the staff of ABC News went into the
production of The Century, a book which delves
into the past with analysis, pictures, and eye-
witness interviews with people who experienced
the events first-hand. The television series, hosted
by Peter Jennings and based on the book, was
broadcast this year on ABC and the History Chan-
nel.

Brewster wrote and edited for Life magazine
for 10 years, and witnessed many of the events
depicted in his book. He was in Czechoslovakia in
1989 when the communist government was toppled
by Vaclav Havel. He also witnessed the enactment
of martial law in Poland to drive off the Solidarity
trade union, and he ran Life’s Washington bureau
during the Persian Gulf War. He is currently a
senior editorial producer for the ABC network
television and History Channel series.

Health Educator

P.O. Box 1719
Davidson, NC 28036

(704) 892-2615 (FAX)

Georgia Ringle, M.P.H.

(704) 892-2902 (Office)

FLU Vaccinations
this Thursday,
October 21st in
the tent in front

of Chambers

Flu Vaccines will be given on Thursday, October 21st on the front
lawn of Chambers from | 1 -
account. This is an important vaccine to get this time of the year. There
is a noticeable difference in the degree of winter illness in those students
who have been vaccinated. The rain location will be in the Chambers
Gallery. For questions call Georgia Ringle x2902.

5. There is a$7 charge which is billable to your

Davidson College Student Health Center
