SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_. TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1999

2-14.
When Southern Conference Tournament week-

the Southern Conference and proud owners of col- = *
Could a loss to a 2-14 team even before that
Despite the ‘Cats’ near upset of the Cougars in

long shot that Davidson could fell Sedric Webber and
Butit was considered an even /onger shot that we

Saturday’s contest.

On the books and in the papers, the debacle on
‘onthe history of Davidson basketball, and an abashing
When the buzzer sounded at the end of Friday’s
ball fans sunk to lows unseen over the careers of Ali
But as a fan of Davidson basketball, my spirits
teary-eyed Western Carolina head coach, Phil Hopkins,
praise God for Bob McKillop. When we played them
struggling. And he wrote me a letter, and he called me,

God for Bob McKillop.”

The thoughtfulness of Bob McKillop helped de-

ill son and a basketball team in the depths of despair.
Two months later, Hopkins’ fortunes on the basket-

triumph against the very coach who had picked him up off
A reporter asked McKillop if he regretted that this act

tournament play.
“Well, it was the right thing to do,” commented

“And I'd do it again. If that letter brought a loss to Davidson

were already bracing for the impact of Saturday’s vs

Praise God for Bob McKillop

That was the pitiful regular season conference record of Western Carolina’s Catamounts. What the hell is Catamount anyway?

end rolled around, fans of Davidson men’s basketball games
expected clash with the College of Charleston, newcomer to |

lege basketball’s longest-running win streak.
match-up have been any more painful?

late January at Belk Arena, it was still considered a
the mighty Charleston.
could be knocked out of tournament play before

the floor.

Black Friday appears as an embarrassing blemish
smudge on Bob McKillop’s record.
quarter-final game, the hearts of Davidson basket-
Ton, Ben Ebong, and Chadd Holmes. ._
were lifted at the post-game press conference. A
sat down at the table and said, “First of all, I have to
over there at the first of the year, we were really
and helped me get through this, and I want to praise

liver Phil Hopkins from the trials and tribulations of an
ball courts were reversing. And he came back to
of kindness eventuated in his team’s elimination from

McKillop, the SoCon’s reigning Coach of the Year.
College today, I'd still do it. That’s what this business is’

yj

about, helping people.”

@ McKillop earned Coach of the Year
honors last year while guiding
Davidson to the NCAA Tournament.

re
Sports Information

As I watched Phil Hopkins humbly thank God for His
tion and joy unmatched by any final score.
Friday was a disappointing day for Davidson’s men’s basket-
fan or a member of the College’s community.

grace and that of Bob McKillop, I felt a sense of satisfac-

ball team. But I have never been prouder to be a Wildcat

Wes Self selected
pitcher of the week

Bro Krirr
Staff Writer

After Wes Self’s brilliant pitching
performance on February 27, the South-
ern Conference awarded him with the
honor of Southern Conference pitcher-
of-the week.

The right-handed sophomore shut
out the Appalachian State Mountain-
eers 4-0 in the second game of a double-
header. The win was Davidson’ first of
the season.

Over seven complete innings, Self
scattered four hits, while striking out
five. Self simply dominated the usually
heavy hitting Mountaineers throwing a
remarkable low 80 pitches.

Self allowed only one base runner
to reach third base in the seventh inning
when the Wildcats already held a four
run lead.

The Virginia native maintained the
pinpoint accuracy he had shown in ear-
lier outings. In21 innings, Selfhas only
walked two batters this season, In
Saturday’s performance he continued
that commanding control, never allow-

Wildcats meet stiff competition early |}

Bro Krirr
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team en-
tered the weekend match-up with con-
ference foe UNC-Greensboro onadown
note, yet the Wildcats were able to
leave with a hard-fought 14-9 victory
under their belt.

After earning their first victory

last weekend against Appalachian State
in grand fashion, the Wildcats appeared
to take a huge step forward.

But they then traveled to Alabama
for difficult match-ups with Auburn
and Samford. Davidson couldn’t con-
trol the nationally-ranked Auburn Ti-
gers and Samford proved to be com-
petitive as Davidson lost all three, being
outscored 42-7,

But their past performance had no

Wes Self baffled batters
with a complete game
shutout last week.

ing a free pass,

The complete game shut out was
Davidson’s first since Eric Bowers, as
a freshman in 1997, controlled Holy
Cross for a 10-0 victory.

bearing on Saturday’s outcome.

Though an overwhelming under-
dog to the conference-favorite Spar-
tans, Davidson out-hit Greensboro on
their way to a 14-9 triumph.

Davidson scored their 14 runs on
18 hits, both season highs for the team.
Freshman Tim Frend led the Wildcats
with five hits including two doubles.
Stewart Sloan and Ben Brown each
added three hits and three run batted in.
Sloan and the powerful Jeremiah Parvin
swatted home runs in the victory.

Unfortunately for Davidson (2-14),
the hitting did not continue at such a
torrent rate for the weekend’s remain-
der as the Wildcats. lost the last two
games of the series 13-2 and 7-4.

In Saturday’s second game, the
Spartan’s Jonathan Jackson controlled
Davidson’s hot bats for two runs on

<.
Ss
is

seven hits. In his complete game  per-

formance his struck out eight Davidson
batters. Brown, Brian Joyce and Ryan
Stroker all had two hits.

Lead-off hitter Brown currently
leads the team with a .344 average.

On Sunday, the infield committed
four costly errors, forcing four unearned
runs in the three run loss. Frend again
shined despite the loss. He ripped three
hits driving in three runs.

hs

ee

2 és

Frend, after his nine for 13 perfor-
mance this weekend, raised his aver-
age to .293. Frend along with Parvin
lead the team with 10 RBI’s.

Garland Yarborough pitched solidly
for five and one-third innings only giv-

. ing up 3 earned runs.

His relief, freshman Mark Wells,
was just as strong. Wells allowed only
two hits over two.and two-thirds. The
Spartans did not score in the last two

a\a

innings as Wells lowered his team lead-
ing ERA to 5.40.

In Sunday’s loss, Joyce placed
himself in the Davidson record books.
Over the weekend, the senior stole five
bases pushing his career total to 65
swipes. He is now the number one
Wildcat speedster on the base paths.
He surpassed Billy Masse’s 63 steals
from 1985-87.
