TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

Prof. Ahrensdorf receives Fulbright Fellowship:
Latin ambivalence toward liberalism to be studied

COLLEGE RELATIONS

As Latin Americans seek to integrate them-
selves within the modern world economic and
cultural order, must they also lose their souls? If
the population embraces an Anglo-American-style
work ethic and market-driven competition, will

ambivalence within the same individual. The same
people who encourage their kids to go into eco-
nomics. and get a business degree abroad are
worried that this somehow changes the pace of
life, the cohesiveness of family and social life, and
the vitality of intellectual life. To a certain extent
it’s aconcern about becoming culturally indistin-

&
X»
=
Ss
8
=)
S
i
$

1a:

@ Professor Peter Ahrensdorf received a
Fulbright Fellowship for the 1999-2000 year.

family and intellectual life break down? Will
siestas be forsaken for greater efficiency?

Peter Ahrensdorf, associate professor of po-
litical science at Davidson College, has received
a Fulbright Fellowship to spend a semester.during
the 1999-2000 academic year in Argentina exam-
ining those questions.

His proposal, entitled “Alternatives to Liber-
alism or the End of History?” will investigate the
provocative thesis set forth by Francis Fukuyama
that liberalism has
become the only

guishable from the United States, especially at a
time when American culture does not seem so
very attractive.”

He continued, “For example, grandparents
are an important center of Latin American soci-
ety, and people are concerned that modernization
might mean that the family no longer gathers any-
more every Sunday at the grandparents’ home.
They would lose more than just a social fabric,
because those gatherings are also an occasion for
intellectual debate.
Similarly, the si-

viable political
ideology in the

At the same time that he is teaching in

estaisn’tjustanap,
it’s also a big,

ee epee Argentina, Ahrensdorf will be studying pace
bf ° e dy, e e e .
ist in political Latin America’s history of liberalism. Traditions like go-

theory,

Ahrensdorf be-
lieves that study in Argentina will be particularly
instructive to his interest in liberalism, because
Latin Americans exhibit a thoughtful and incisive
ambivalence toward liberalism. On the one hand,
they are increasingly convinced that there is no
choice but to adopt its tenets. On the other hand,
they fear that modernization will undermine or
destroy much of what they cherish about their
culture, including family, moral and religious life,
and. that it will impoverish their extraordinarily
rich intellectual life, one which has produced,
among other things, much of the eat world
literature of the 20th century.

“Tt’s an interestingly complicated time to go
down there,” Ahrensdorf commented. “This isn’t
a debate between two political parties. You find

ing to church and
spending time in
cafés are arguably inefficient economically, but
those are the stuff of life in Latin America.”

Ahrensdorf plans to enter the debate by teach-
ing a course about “Liberalism and Its Critics” to
students at the University of Buenos Aires. He has
a long-standing academic interest in such ques-
tions of political philosophy that is demonstrated
in articles he has written for professional journals
and in his forthcoming, co-authored book, “Jus-
tice Among Nations: On the Moral Basis of Power
and Peace.”

As a traditional intellectual center of Latin
America, Argentina has a rich history of debates
about the strength and weaknesses of liberalism,
as well as a relatively recent experience with a

variety of regimes, from liberalism and undemo-

cratic to liberal and democratic.

In addition, Argentina will hold presidential
elections this year, and its citizens are in the throes
of debate over such issues as term limits and the
relation between civilian and military authority. In

‘his. course, Ahrensdorf will teach Argentinean
students how political philosophers through the
ages have approached those issues.

He will also bring considerable personal ex-
perience to his project. He belongs to a Spanish-
speaking parish
of the Catholic

Protestant churches. Ahrensdorf believes that the
shifting nature of religions there is a key feature of
the theoretical debate about liberalism in Latin
America.

He hopes to use his studies as their basis for a
journal article in the subject. In the end, he hopes to
explore the possibility of versions of liberalism
which might successfully address the concerns
Latinos raise, especially since those concerns are
widely felt throughout the modern world. He said,

“Perhaps
there’s an al-

Church in Char-
lotte, and has
witnessed the
concern over
liberalism
among Latinos

As a traditional intellectual center of Latin
America, Argentina has arich history of debates
about the strength and weaknesses of liberalism

ternative to
the contempo-
rary American
model for a
liberal society.
that’s not so

in this country.

“They under-

stand the drawback of not t having economic ad-
vancement, but they’re worried about the cultural
price they may have to pay to get it,” he said.

In addition, his wife is Bolivian, and he has
spent a great deal of time in Bolivia over the past
few years. He also grew up in a Spanish-speaking
household (his mother is Filipina), spent two years

in Paraguay as a child, studied at the University of

Valencia in Spain, and speaks fluent Spanish.

At the same time that he is teaching in Argen-
tina, Ahrensdorf will be studying Latin America’s
history of liberalism, One outstanding consider-
ation will be the role of religion in Latin American
politics. The growth of liberalism there is being
accompanied by the weakening of Catholicism
and an outstanding growth in the wide variety of

individualistic

or materialis-
tic, a model not only for Latinos but for all human
beings, which would permit a society to thrive
intellectually and spiritually while also prospering
economically.”

Ahrensdorf is a summa cum laude political
science graduate of Yale University, and received
his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1989.
He began teaching at Davidson that same year, and
currently holds the title of Associate Professor of
Political Science and Humanities, as well as Ad-
junct Professor of Classics. He has published widely
onthe subject of ancient Greek political theory, and
teaches in the areas of classical and modern politi-
cal theory, contemporary political ideologies,
American political thought, religion and politics,
and theories of international relations.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Pail

Sports
MIKE AN
ALISON K

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBO

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY HGOLDSBERRY

LOB —
Pl - gavinesy Manager’ “y oY
News Editor, 4 ee SCOTT,REEDER NY
wa xy So “S" Op-Ed Editors
het EY Hh TR / Cc irculatio® Manager ‘, SEYH ALLEY
ip “EUGENIA LEATH MEL SA ANN

Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

nA Ay Ph to Editor

y ANNA JUDY
/

Cartoonist
ATHANIEL LOTZE

Founded in 1914
“Oak Row’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read Whe Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

