6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999

Professor X: Take a guess, just one more issue this semester!

hanks again to all of you who submitted

guesses last week. Unfortunately, ‘there

can be only one winner: Dan Wingate.
Dan demonstrated his shrewd intellect by cor-
rectly stating that last week’s professor was Dr.
Jeanne O’ Neill of the Classics department. Thank
you Dr. O’Neill for participating. He wanted me
to give a shout-out to his frisbee-golf partner,
Derek Kverno. Derek, there’s your shout-out.
Dan knew exactly whom he wanted me to inter-
view, and after two hours with the man I knew
why. I hope you find his life as interesting as I
have. Hold on to your hat!

One of the first things we talked about in the
interview was that this man has worn many official
hats: various school uniform hats, as scout and
scout master, a soldier’s hat, an officer’s hat, and
five progressive academic caps.

He was born on a Mediterranean island in
December of 1952, the third child of a shoemaker
and ahomemaker. Famagusta, his hometown, is a
coastal resort which has recorded history dating
back to 1500 BC. His father instilled in all his
children a deep appreciation for knowledge and
learning. His older brother and sister, Panos and
Maria, are both teachers in Athens, Greece.

Asa child he was somewhat of a natural born
leader. Sometimes this led to trouble. Once he and
some friends were chasing a large lizard through a
Mediterranean thistle patch. The lizard evaded
capture and eventually burrowed down under an
imposing thorn bush. On his suggestion-actually
he did point to the bush and bellow ‘charge!;” his
friends rushed in. His mother received many

phone calls from angry mothers that night, who
were up nursing numerous cuts and scrapes their
sons had received while playing with him. These
leadership skills would be crucial to survival later
when he commanded troops.

During his junior year at the First Gymna-
sium for Boys, he applied to the American Field
Service exchange program, and was accepted. He
was proud of this accomplishment; being the only
student in his school who was able to travel to
America for study was quite an achievement. The
next year, at the age of seventeen, he moved in
with the Eshelman family of Lititz, Pennsylvania.
He formedatight bond with Dr. and Mrs. Eshelman,
and their four children, which continues today.
This year he spent in an American high school not
only increased the size of his world immensely,
but changed his life irrevocably. He would return
to Pennsylvania, but only after another senior year
of high school in Famagusta and a mandatory
conscription of two years in his country’s National
Guard.

For his intellect and leadership skills: he was
selected to go to officer's training school. These
six months weren't exactly fun. Officers training

school was basically composed of a few months of

being hazed (2:00am wake-up calls to go wash in
a freezing river, dancing like a duck in the early
morning hours etc...) by older students and then a
few months of hazing. Once commissioned an
officer he was in charge of an artillery unit in his
hometown. This was serious business for atwenty-
year-old: Mandatory conscription started to make
a lot more sense when he had to return home a year
later.

As soon as he could, though, he was on a
plane back-to the Eshelmans and Franklin &

Marshall College in Pennsylvania, where he was
to double major in Physics and Classics. His
freshman year of college wasn’t frat parties and
sleeping in. While he had free room and board at
the Eshelmans, he had to work to pay his own
tuition. In his first semester, he worked at a
Christmas card factory until Christmas, and then
as a waiter at a restaurant. After battling through
his freshman year he was looking forward to going
home for the summer to see his family and girl-
friend. On the day he was to return to Pennsylva-
nia Turkey invaded his island home, and he was
immediately called back into service.

The entire summer was spent commanding
an artillery unit on the front lines of the conflict
that ensued. He was very lucky to survive. The
War Story- Atone point his unit was outnumbered
severely. They had no air support, and the Turkish
airforce was raining a firestorm of incendiary
devices down on the hill they were defending.
When the Turkish tanks and ground troops started
pressing in from three sides, he was waiting for an
evacuation order from his superior. It wasn’t until
after the battle that he heard his commanding
officer, located five miles behind his unit, had fled
thirty minutes before. He was firing an old anti-
tank cannon at the advancing tanks. When it
became too obvious they would have to retreat, he
gave the order, but was wounded in the knee by the
recoil of the cannon. He limped into a ditch and
was calling, to no avail, for someone to help him
get to the only truck. When he heard the truck
taking off, he pulled himself out of the ditch and
ran wildly on his cracked knee after it. He jumped
over the wall of the truck-bed followed by a
barrage of machine gun fire splattering its side. He
barely made it. (Puts that term paper in a new

perspective doesn’t it?)

He was recommended for a Medal of Excel-
lent Acts and Bravery, but he had to get back to
Franklin & Marshall for the start of fall semester.
In his remaining three years at college, he would
have to work still another job to pay tuition and
send money home to his family, who were now
refugees. He was working two jobs and fulfilling
a double major. When graduation time came, he
had to leave the ceremony early to work at the
restaurant serving his classmates and their fami-
lies in the big post-graduation dinner. This gradu-
ation was only the beginning of his higher educa-
tion.

He went on to receive an MA from Loyola
University of Chicago, then spent seven more
years getting a second masters and a Ph.D. from
Bryn Mawr right outside of Philadelphia. So,
when he jokes that he did not get his degrees
through correspondence school-take his word for
it. He was offered a job here at Davidson College

just before completing his doctoral work. I think

he deserved it, don’t you. He is married with two
sons and a thirteen-year-old daughter.

The only battle he is currently involved in is with
President, Bobby Vagt. They email each other
back and forth as to which cola is superior. Presi
dent Vagt is of “the new generation,” Professor X
is all for “the real thing.”

Send your guess as to identity of the above profes-
sor and the choice of who you would like to read
about next week to brmemillan@davidson.edu

Brandt McMillan ’01

‘On the Davidsonian Office
at 2 A.M. Monday Morning!
(this is a true story)

osh, the crayons
melted in the box.
Exactly how hot is it
in here?

hermastat says it’s
around a 100 de-
grees!

atan’s lair, not a bad

comparison, but more

of a moist and sticky
kind of oppression!

Stick World
takes a stand!

| KNOW
(MIN TROUBLE
WHEN | TALK TO
MYSELF AND
STILL, NOBODY'S
LISTENING!

OBVIOUSLY

THEIR HAPPY PILL
THIS MORNING.

“Well, here’s your chance, leg or breast?”

SOMETHING TELLS

ME THAT | PICKED

UP THE ING
LAUNDRY.

lest StickWorid Apparel, {
& Accessories, Visit Us at: w

Cards, Games
rid.com

