as

6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Aesthetic commentary:
Griffith Street and the gnomes

In light of the recent controversy over the Griffith Street issue, I feel it would only be fair to
address the unsightly nature of the buildings surrounding the Tom Clark museum. In no way am I
trying to diminish or inflate the feelings surrounding the Griffith Street Controversy. A great deal of
information has been thrown out to be digested about the Griffith Street Controversy, and two campus
forums later seem to not have created any greater lucidity on the issue. If something is awry on Griffith
Street, then a good deal of red tape has been applied to the wounds in order to seal the knowing mouths.
Therefore, it seems only appropriate that if the Griffith Street neighborhood has suffered under the
scrutiny of the unpleasant aesthetics eye, then I feel it only fair that these “aesthetic police” take a good
long look at the town’s beloved Main Street. .

I am not suggesting that the Tom Clark Museum pack up and leave town, but instead I feel that
some thought should be focused on possibly revamping or renovating the decrepit and unsightly nature
of the surrounding complex. The Tom Clark shop/museum does possess an old-time appearance with
a sense of warmth in its wooden floors and large plate glass windows. However, aside from the BB&T
building, the rest of the complex surrounding the bastion of gnomedom do not possess a welcome
appearance. The storefronts, if one could call them that, do not house goods to be bought or sold, but
instead look into the cramped interiors of offices. What inage is this projecting? :

In light of all of the renovations that have occurred throughout Main Street over the past few years,
it seems odd that these select buildings remain untouched. So much work has gone into the
revitalization of Davidson’s village like atmosphere that it would seem that this renovating fervor
would be contagious. However, nothing as of late has been done to improve the peeling paint and
antiquated appearance.

Does the town simply become blind when passing this complex? Or does a deeper issue keep the .
town (or College) from wielding its power over these businesses? It becomes difficult for me to see .

any other division here between the Griffith Street controversy and the Tom Clark complex other than
the almighty dollar. The business along Main Street have money and the families along Griffith Street
don’ t-is it that simple? Maybe somebody had more money and bullied the Griffith street residents into
selling their property and moving? Or maybe it was done out of good faith for the safety of the families.
In any case, I don’t think any clear cut answer has been revealed thus far, and at this point in time I

am not sure we will ever see one.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1999

Campus forums of fury

Davidson students — especially Davidsonian staffers — love controversy. For us at your college
weekly, it provides us with a reason for being. For the average Davidson student, it’s a chance to discuss
real life issues amidst the past issues encountered in history class, or the abstract issues explored in a
philosophy class. It’s achance to put one’s $28,000-per-year critical thinking skills to use, applying them
toa living issue of right vs. wrong, practical vs. imprudent. Controversies are opiates for the opinionated.

And here in mid-November, as James Earl Jones’ character in Field of Dreams might describe the
current state of affairs in North Meck Land, “ It is controversy they have, and forums they like.” The
Griffith Street issue has been the topic of two evening forums in the past week. Hundreds of students
attended the first of them in the 900 Room; far fewer attended Sunday night’s Chambers Gallery sequel.
Between the two of them, these forums have seen pointed fingers, applause, tears, confusion, and general
discontent. Students, faculty, town government representatives, and townspeople have sat through over

. three hours of debate on this issue. Many opinions have been expressed. Many sides have been explained.

Nothing has been solved.

Istill love the campus forum concept: gathering students, professors, and others together to do what
we love doing most — arguing, getting to the heart of an issue, and maybe proving some folks wrong in
the process. But although building a Lego castle is fun, the ultimate goal is to finish it. At'these two
campus forums, there’s beena lot of castle building going on, but the completion is nowhere in sight. And
we’re running out of Legos. Perhaps that helps explain why so many fewer students attended the second
forum. After leaving the first forum, I stopped to assess what it had accomplished. Sum total: 90 minutes
of sporadic discussion, raising as many questions as it had answered (if not more) — a poor encore to the
Palden Gyatso talk which preceded it. Those in charge of Campus Forums here at Davidson are not
responsible for this. Neither are the students who attended that first forum, poised and ready to hurl their
best shots at panelists Vagt and Brawley, waiting for them to crack at any moment. These two spoke first
at the forum, but opened by addressing the issue of — what? Affordable housing? I thought we were
going to be talking about lawns and stuff! As the brave panelists were to discover, as far as Griffith Street
is concerned, it’s not easy being green.

Many Davidson students arrived at the forum eager to pillory President Vagt for the college's
alleged plan to purchase and clear away many of the low-income houses on Griffith Street, with the intent
of creating a “ribbon of green” in place of them. According to some, this would create a more attractive
and appealing entryway for the college. But they denied having any concrete plans for that land. Since
then, debate has raged on. In circles. With nothing settled. Maybe it’s because I haven't been taking
notes or paying close enough attention, but the truth is not obvious, and I don’t know what opinion to have
about the Griffith Street issue anymore. I used to think I did, though. Those were the days.

= LETTERS TO THE EDITORS —

- Qne athlete’s opinion

The following letter was submitted to the Davidsonian for printing in this week's issue and does not
necessarily reflect the views of the editors. The author of this letter is not a student in any of Professor
Maydole’s classes. -

Dear Dr. Maydole and Dr: Denham,

Let us recap the events of the past three weeks on the Davidson Campus concerning you two. Not
every one knows the exact details, but we will fill in the missing pieces for the faculty and students who
read this.

Dr. Maydole, you began the year by telling the students in your Philosophy 101 class that regardless
of their effort they would not do well. You gave your first review, on which there was a wide range of scores,
with a lower than average mean. One student proceeded to take this review to a professor at Coastal
Carolina College and was told that the graduate students there would do poorly on the same review given
to undergraduates here. This student then decided that it would be in her best interest to withdraw from
the class and take a failing grade, allowing her more time to concentrate on other classes and activities. She
was polite enough to come to tell you that she was withdrawing from the class, with the permission of the
Dean of Students, and you proceeded to give her a lecture. What was said behind closed doors is debatable,
only the two of you will know, but I have heard the side of the student mentioned and the things you said
were extremely condescending.

Although it was not intended for students eyes, a few of us were fortunate enough to view the mass
email you sent to most of the faculty (except the Dean of Students) concerning this student. First of all,
to send an email discrediting one particular student to the faculty is unprofessional. It is also known that
the facts presented in the email are in contrast with the student’s recollection of the events and
circumstances of the situation. I guess a professor with tenure can afford to be a little unprofessional. It
seems ironic that the word professor is derived from the term professional, Finally, to claim you did nothing
wrong is absurd. As an athlete would say, “One, two, three strikes, you're out!” Don’t expect many gifts
under the tree from students this Christmas. .

Dr. Denham, to sum-up your article in the Libertas; Davidson is becoming too athletic-oriented, or
as you say, athletics are “crimes against thinking.” Perhaps you have never participated in any inter-
collegiate athletics. Have you ever gone a practice or a game? It doesn’t matter which team-you go to they
all have in-depth strategy. Try looking at the Football team’s play book. I don’t think you give credit were
credit is due, Tripp Meritt’s intricate schemes baffles even the best of players, even some coaches, it takes
weeks to learn. By the way, the number one student in the junior class is a wrestler... It diminishes the
validity to your argument.

Youalso say that the elimination of the D1 sports and the introduction of an intra-mural athletig system
would “guarantee full aid for all qualified students.” Are you trying to say that the Division | athletes are
not qualified (check the previous sentence about the number one student in the junior class), or they are
taking money away from those who need it? [think I heard it right when I was an incoming freshman, sitting
in Gordon Peck’s office, “Jeremiah, we will work with every student who is admitted to Davidson College.
We do not want to hear that a student can not come because he can’t afford it.” I also heard that there were
“blind admissions.” Oops, did you forget that, maybe you should write a scalding letter to the admissions
office telling them to set the standards higher, What were the standards this year, an average SAT of 1360?
That is up 100 points since my freshman year.

There are certain ways to keep from upsetting peoplt. One of those ways is not to slander (Dr.
Maydole), the other is not to alienate 25% of the student body in a letter (Dr. Denham). Both of you must
consider that one out of every four students you see is a varsity or junior varsity athlete on this campus, and
seven out of every ten participate in either intra-murals, club, varsity, or junior varsity sports. It is not only
athletes who are involved in extra-curricular activities too. You have the theater department, ROTC, music
department, the Davidsonian Staff, the Quips and Cranks staff, and the list goes on. Are these “crimes
against thinking” too?

Both of you are upset that students are not thinking anymore, or pondering intellectual ideas. Many
students don’t have time to ponder the intellectual ideas beeause they have too much work from other
classes. Yes, we are trying to “just get through college, and put it behind us”, that is all we have time for.
In all honesty, you cannot'expect a full day of class, and then go home and spend three to five hours of

_homework a night, then ponder all the new concepts introduced in class. Dr. Maydole, you are a self-
proclaimed world class tri-athlete, you know it is bad for you to keep going during extreme fatigue. The
same thing happens with your brain. : :

Jeremiah Parvin
Class of 2001
‘ Baseball and AFROTC

Scott Denham responds

Dear Jeremiah Parvin:

Thanks kindly for your letter. [had indeed hoped that my article would engender discussion, something
so very absent at this place in so many ways. I would very much like to meet you and talk face to face. My
oftice hours are posted and I’m around nearly all the time. I’ve responded to the same group to whom you
sent your letter. In addition I have added Ann Culp to the list since she is editor of Libertas, where my essity
appeared; I hope this distribution is fine with you. «

Although I was not at all “trying to say that the Division. | athletes are not qualified,” I was indeed
implying that “they,” the students who play on intercollegiate teams, and accordingly the infrastructure that
supports them do indeed “take money away from those who need it.” In our finite budget, we have chosen
the following: to spend two to four times the amount (depending on the estimates) other nationally-ranked
liberal arts colleges spend on sports, and at the same time to “gap” some.of our students who qualify for
financial aid. “Gapping” means we recognize the financial need of some admitted students, but fail to meet
all of it, thus making the cost of attending Davidson a problem for some students whose families cannot afford
the bills. Many of our peer institutions do guarantee to meet full demonstrated financial need for all qualified
students. “You get in, we find a way to make it affordable.” Davidson no longer does says this. You may well
disagree that setting up the very high cost of sports culture at Davidson against the very ethically shabby act
of gapping students we admit is unfair on my part. But I find that making a Davidson education available
to students whom we admit, even if they are not wealthy, carries more of a moral imperative than fielding
division one sports teams. This is my opinion and I hope that is clear. You are simply misinformed about the

realities of financial aid and demonstrated need at Davidson. It is true that most student need is met most of

the time. But not for every student and not all the time. “Blind admissions” is something we do have, as you
rightly note. That means there is no place on the admissions application for questions about income. Yet it
is true, as I have heard it put by a member of our admissions staff, that we “recruit by zip code,” which is
to say, that students from families who can pay all their bills are especially welcome here. About two thirds
of you do pay all the costs of attending Davidson without recourse to financial aid. This would seem to make
itall the more important to help those who can’t afford it, but are qualified to study here, do so. So I do insist
there is a connection between big time sports culture at Davidson and our inability to meet the financial need
of those who need help, I disagree with those priorities.

Why I do so has a lot to do with my own thoughts on the role of sports in college. Contrary to your
assumptions and implied aspersions about my own athleticism, I have indeed spent a lot of time playing
sports (if you must know: I lettered four years in both cross-country and tennis in high school, played four
years of fierce intramural soccer and ultimate frisbee in college, and continue to be involved in those
grownup, middleaged things like running every morning, bicycle touring; plus with my kids: soccer,
swimming, canoeing, sailing, and-wilderness backpacking). If it’s the game that matters, then whether one
does this on the inter-collegiate or intra-collegiate level seems irrelevant to me, It is true that many varsity
athletes at Davidson are good students. But they would no doubt be good students playing at the division three
level or at the intra-mural level, too. Davidson College is too inclined to worship the cult of Michael Jordan.
For me this is an example of poor priorities. The money involved in division one corrupts the beauty of the
games we play. (This, I believe, was the essence of Professor Maydole’s story.) The money, and the time,
is taken from other needs the college has, needs which are more in keeping with our mission,

I do not think that my job here is “to keep from upsetting people.” On the contrary, as a teacher and a
Scholar, my job is to challenge thoughtless assumptions, prod lazy thinkers, demand confrontation with
difficult questions. In my essay I intended not to “alienate 25% of the student body,” but to encourage
thinking and debate. And as you know from my essay, I do not spare other extracurricular activities I find
in conflict with the mission of the college: both Davidson’s social scene and the culture of service here come
in for criticism as well. Big sports culture-intercollegiate competition at the division one level—is, as I noted,
simply an easy culprit since it so obviously has nothing to do with the mission of the College. This is not the
case for the other extracurricular activities you list (theater, ROTC, music, publications, etc.), that are indeed
part of a healthy life of the mind. It’s not athleticism that is bad; rather it is the cost, both in money and in
attention to more important matters, of the division one program here that is bad.

Finally, we, or at least I, do expect just exactly what you say we cannot: “a full day of class, and then
go home and spend three to five hours of homework a night, then ponder all the new concepts introduced
in class.” This is exactly what I expect. If you can’t stand the heat .. .

Sincerely,
Scott Denham :

‘
