THE DAVIDSONIAN

EDITORIALS

To the exalted
freshpeople

Congratulations, Class of 2003. Welcome to
Davidson College, your probable home for the
next four academic years. You each had certain
expectations as to how -your tenure in collegiate
academia would unfold. You’ ve all chatted with
current and former students who speak of David-
son as if it were a sublime oasis of peace, har-
mony, and enlightenment. Now is when you
begin to find out how closely, if at all, your
account of Davidson will resemble theirs.
Much-like~-other-Southern~institutions~ (Krispy
Kreme, Piggly Wiggly, etc.), Davidson stands
revered and loved by multiple generations. There
are many reasons for their affection, of course, but
what’s the right one?

Davidson College is a highly selective inde-
pendent liberal arts college for 1,750 students.
Since its establishment in 1837, the college has
graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and is consistently
ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the
country by “U.S. News and World Report” maga-
zine.

Does the preceding paragraph, which is in
reality a summary tacked onto the end of all
Davidson College press releases, properly delin-
eate what makes Davidson an honorable institu-
tion? Some must think so. As Co-Editor-in-Chief
of The Davidsonian, your school’s only weekly
newssource, I know this pretentious pair of sen-
tences like a 2nd grader knows the Pledge of
And although I feel that it barely
scratches. the what constitutes
Davidson's essence, it speaks the truth, and says
nothing of which we should be ashamed.

I surmise that the administration has in-
formed thee that you, the Class of 2003, are the
most impressive and intellectually vigorous fresh-
man class in the history of Davidson College (as
were the Classes of 2002, 2001, and 2000 before
you, in case you haven’t caught on to the pattern).
One of you gota perfect SAT score. Someone else
in your class volunteers at a soup kitchen (that he
built with his bare hands, no less) seven nights a

‘week back at home. Another classmate flies to
Florida each weekend for jai-alai training, a sport
in which she’s been ranked in the world’s top ten
in her age group since the Reagan administration,
And she can breathe fire. Sound familiar?

It shoudn’t, necessarily, and of course I jest.
But don’t worry if you feel like you’re the only
member of your class that hasn’t made a signifi-
cant improvement in our planet’s welfare since
middle school. Your .classmatés’ accomplish-
ments will pale in comparison with those of next
year’s batch of wunderkinds, I promise.

So by now, you’ve been inundated with
other people’s opinions and assessments of you
and your school. You’ve heard so many positive
and uplifting things about Davidson that it’s down-
right eerie and unsettling. Is it too good to be true?

Allegiance.
surface of

Probably. That’s why my only advice to you
at this stage in the game is to start judging this place
for yourself. Know that for each of Davidson’s
proudly displayed virtues, there may be a vice
tucked away in the closet. Formulate your own
opinions, and don’t let those of anyone else ob-
scure your perception. Learning how to think for
yourself is, after all, part of what college is all
about.

Decide what sort of an impact you want to
make on this school and make it happen. This will
ensure asomewhat fulfilling experience here, even
if you’re ready to see the entire campus go up in
flames by spring of your senior year. Love David-
son if you want to love it, or hate Davidson if you
want to hate it. Do not love Davidson or even claim
to because others do, or because others think you

should, or because others expect you to do so. —

Your vision of this school should be the only one
that -matters. Don’t be afraid to see things a little
differently.

Davidson College is a highly selective inde-
pendent liberal arts college for 1,750 students.
Since its establishment in 1837, the college has
graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and thousands of
bright young men who never learned how to do
their laundry.

N

MONDAY, AUGUST 30,1999 = ‘5

Looking at my watch, I assured myself that I
would make it to my class on time, despite the
three minute time frame, the large hill that stood in
front of me, and the three flights of stairs in
Chambers. Then the epiphany of reality hjt and I

frantically began to run. Halfway to my destina-
tion, I was overcome with the grating sound of
falling masonry. Pausing, because I had so much
time to spare, I glanced over in the direction of the
noise. Bits of brick and steel rained down from
Johnston Gym as an iron arm ripped and pried the
flesh of the building away. Completely forgetting
about the time, I suddenly became very nostalgic
over the transformation of this aging structure into
the new and improved union.

Throughout my class, I thought about the
past, the present, and the future. I was in awe on
how a shard of a morning could produce such
reflection. The renovations to Johnston Gym
made me realize how many items in my own life
have transformed since my first day at Davidson.
Three years ago, I walked through the maze of
events during freshmen orientation at the Union.
Now, less than a year stands before me and the
“real” world. A maelstrom of emotions and feel-
ings swirl through my mind when I think about the
coming year. Part of me wants to forget about life
after Davidson. and just live things day by day.
While the other part of me, the OCD (obsessive-
compulsive-disorder)
detail of my post-graduate life.
compromise?

side, wants to’plan every
Where is the
1 don’t have any answers, only a myriad
amount of questions on the road in front of me.

The questions that I ask myself (Is this really going
to matter once I graduate, is this really worth it,
how much am I going to regret this on Monday
morning, skim or 2%, what is the point of reading
this, how did this person ever get published, isn’t

this really trivial in the long run... . ) and the
questions that othersask me (what are you going to
do once you graduate, have you thought about
graduate school, are you sacrificing something in
order to do that, are you going to regret that on
Monday morning, skim or 2% .. . .). Ok, so some
of the questions overlap, but the point remains that
there are more questions than answers in life.

I wish that Lknew more about my future, but
if I learned one thing this summer it is that nothing
in life is for sure. There is no such thing as one right
way. I thought for the longest time that what I do
in college is going to determine what I do in
graduate school which is going to determine what.
I do for the rest of my life. Maybe I was silly for
thinking this way, but I thought of my life in terms
of a road, sometimes windy, sometime straight,
but always in one direction. I learned that the
extremely cliché phrase “You can do anything you
want with your life” is absolutely and positively
true. I guess I heard it so often that I never really
thought about what it really meant anymore. We
might have a destiny, but there is no set course on
how to get there. So my advice to you is not take
life so seriously, learn from your mistakes (don’t
punish yourself), and never allow yourself to be-
come blocked into a certain mind frame.

are sponsored by the ‘etter “H.”

This week's Editorials

ch

