10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Field Hockey captures

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

SALISBURY, N.C. — Davidson’s
field hockey squad finished their
season this past weekend, capturing
the Deep South Field Hockey Asso-
ciation Tournament and capping off
their best campaign since 1994,
Highlighted by victories over Vir-
ginia Commonwealth, American
University, and Stanford, the Wild-
cats turned in an 11-7 record, gar-
nering the sixth most wins of any
team in the program’s 23 year his-
tory.

Head Coach Jen Halliday is in
her third year at the helm of the
Wildcats’ program. During her own
illustrious career as an All-Atlantic
Coast Conference mid-fielder at
Chapel Hill, Halliday and company
claimed three ACC titles and fin-
ished as NCAA national runner-ups
for four consecutive years.

The Cats opened up the tour-
nament with a 6-1 victory over
Catawba College. Despite an over-
time loss to Radford University on

aie) tt b!

ee

SPORTS.

rele ae ° ‘Sy

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999.

day. After earning a decisive vic-
tory over Catawba and forcing
Radford into overtime, David-
son earned the right to duke it out
with Appalachian State in the
tournament’ s final game on Sun-
day afternoon.

Senior Nancy Livingston had
acareer day in net, recording her
fifth shut out of the season by
entirely shutting down
Appalachian’ s high-powered of-
fense. Livingston preserved the
lead with saves on two strokes
(direct one-on-one penalty shots)
awarded to Appalachian for-
wards. “Nancy’s been playing
awesome,” said Hancock. “She
did a great job to come up with
those saves.”

“Nancy’s had a great season
for us,” Halliday agrees. “We
have huge amounts of confi-
dence in her.”

The victory earned Davidson
its seventh Deep South crown in
the 1990s. “It caps our entire
career,” reveled Schoening, a se-
nior from Louisville, Kentucky.

Saturday afternoon, Davidson ad-
vanced to the conference’s champi-
onship game on Sunday. Halliday’s Wildcats
scripted the last chapter of their storybook season
with a sound 2-0 victory over Appalachian State,
improving their record to 11-7 and capturing the
tournament championship.

A final crusade

All seven members of the Class of 2000 were
solid contributors to the program, including a trio
of four-year starters: Kate Schoening, Lisa
Holthaus, and Kim Ceci. Holthaus led the squad
with 24 points entering this weekend’s action,
while senior goalkeeper Nancy Livingston logged
five shutouts and recorded over 125 saves this
season. Maggie Ferris added great depth to the
Wildcats’ forward line this season, and back Soosan
Calhoun was voted the Wildcat Award (for the
most spirited member) in ’98. Ceci, the team’s
1998 MVP, has been lauded as perhaps the best
sweeper in Davidson history. Finally, back Shana
Byers, a perennial All-Deep South selection, has
been anunflagging defender as a three-year starter.

Ceci, Byers, Schoening, and Livingston

ry Lauren Hancock fights for control against a Catawba Lady Indian.

(along with freshman Alex Rogers) were all named
to the All-Tournament team. “That’s quite a large
testimony to the seniors that have provided a lot of
great leadership over the course of the year,”
applauded Halliday.

“(Those seniors) deserve it,” said junior
Lauren Hancock. “They’ve built this team from
the start, and all seven of them have stuck together
for four years. It’s awesome to send them off like
this.”

Quarter-finals

Davidson defeated Catawba College in the
tournament’s quarter-final round on Saturday
morning. Featuring an explosive offense and
unyielding ball control, the contest quickly turned
into a rout as the ’Cats pulled away early for a 6-
1 victory.

Freshmen Jessica Barton, Alex Rogers, and
Agnes Bateman provided the first-half firepower,
scoring the team’s first three goals. Rogers showed
remarkable stick control and poise, driving down
field and then drifting outside to pull the Lady
Indian netminder out of po-
sition before pounding a shot

inside the far post.

Senior Lisa Holthaus
opened the second half with
her tenth goal of the season,
swelling the lead to 4-0. The
goal gave Holthaus her 51"
career point, moving her into
sixth place among the Wild-
cats’ all-time points leaders.
Junior Lea Jaeger added her
fourth goal of the season,
brilliantly deflecting a pass
from Lauren Hancock into
the corner of the goal.

The Class of 2003 pro-
vided one final knockout
punch when _ Jennifer
Kawwass became the fourth
freshman to pitch in a goal
on the morning. “The fresh-
men,” Halliday lauds, “have
done a great job. They’ ve
stepped up to the challenge
of being major contributors
in their first season. I’m
blessed. ..with such a fresh-
men class, They’ re all won-
derful people, they’re en-
thusiastic and they’re in-
tense.”

The victory marked

Davidson’s second victory
over Catawba this season—
but the 6-1 trouncing was

Mike Anderson
shut-out in Sunday’s championship game.

even more convincing than the ‘Cats’ 3-0 triumph
in the season opener. “That reflects just how far
we've come. We’ve come a long way. We were a
great team to start, but I think it just shows that
we've come together as a team and really gelled.”

Semi-finals

The Wildcats lost a heartbreaker later that
afternoon at the hands of longtime foe, Radford
University. Davidson bounced back from a 1-0
deficit to take a 2-1 lead at the half on goals by
Schoening and Cici. But Radford mounted acome-
back of their own, securing a 3-2 advantage with
15 minutes to play.

Halliday showed extraordinary audacity,
pulling goalkeeper Nancy Livingston with six full
minutes to play. The Cats played the final six
ticks with Jaeger, donned in no goalie equipment
other than a mask, as an extra position player and
makeshift goalkeeper. The strategy proved bril-
liant, as Davidson was able to apply constant
pressure on the Radford end of the field.

With seconds to go, an infraction by a Lady
Highlander defender resulted in one final opportu-
nity for Davidson — in the form of a corner. By
this point, no time remained on the clock — and all
Radford had to do was cover up the ball, or send it
out of bounds to end the game (the contest could
not end on a defensive penalty). After a tense
fifteen seconds of fury around the Radford goal,
Holthaus sent the ball flying from the fray into the
net, forcing an overtime.

Unfortunately, the breathtaking comeback
was to little avail, as
Radford recovered to
score a sudden death
goal about six minutes
into the overtime
frame.

“It was a great
game for us, really
well-played,” Halliday
praised. “(Our girls)
dug deep and really.
showed us the inten-
sity and the heart that
they’ve displayed all
season,”

Finals

Due to a schedul-
ing technicality,
Radford was prohibited
from participating in the

“It was a difficult three years,
but then coming out witha win-
ning record, a great group of
girls, and such tremendous camaraderie has made
it so wonderful. I couldn’t be happier.”

“We can look back without any regrets,”
Calhoun avowed. “It’s a great way to go out!”

Mike Anderson

Eye on the future

Despite losing invaluable talent and leader-
ship to graduation, Davidson will return an im-
pressive squad in 2000. A remarkable class of
sophomores will make great contributions, with
next season’s upperclassmen bringing a great deal
of aptitude and experience to the table.

Among the brightest stars in Halliday’s arse-
nal will be Class of 2003 forwards Alex Rogers
and Agnes Bateman. The duo brings scoring abil-
ity and quickness unparalleled for a pair of first-
year athletes,

“It’s really fun,” smiled Bateman. “From the
first day, the seniors really made us feel at home.
They’re awesome players, they’re great friends,
and they’re fun to be around. I’m so excited to start
playing again for the spring season, and next year
is going to be a lot of fun.”

Perhaps most impressively, Halliday agrees
that this year’s senior class will leave behind a
legacy of commitment that will serve this program
long after they graduate.

“This year’s team has been a great one be-
cause of it’s attitude,” Halliday proclaimed. “This
season is a direct result of the seniors’ effort and
the seniors’ focus. When you ask the underclass-
men who they look up to, they all give you a
different name. That says a lot.”

tournament's champi-

; reshman
onship contest on Sun-

’ Alex
named to the All-Tournament team.

ogers was Mike Anderson
