THE DAVIDSONIAN

eens

By Laura McCanbDLisH
Staff Writer

Several events have been planned for the

Black Culture.” Black History Month’s celebra-
tion at Davidson kicked off with the February 5th
performance of “The Contract,” a play by Nathan
R. Freeman. The event, sponsored by the Dean of

entire Davidson community this February to cel- Students Office was held in Hodson Hall. On
ebrate Black February 10,
History Month. oe sa
As Sakeith ° ; A essor 0
Crowder 00, ON March 11th, Dr. Wande Abimbola will give dance Karen
the Black Stu- @ lecture on the “Evolution of Traditional Hubba uf
dent Coalition Religion in Africa and the African Diaspora.” P*<*°n'’s
(BSC) Special ar i multimedia
Events Com- African-
American

mittee chairper-
son, explained, “Black History Month should not
be overlooked by non-African Americans simply
because of their ethnicity. This month is not just
for the purpose of education blacks of their own
history; it is for everyone. Black history permeates
through out the core of American history.”

The Assistant Dean of Students and Director
of Minority Student Affairs, Ernest Jeffries, sees a
new focus towards black history at Davidson this
year. “This year, we have taken on a new ap-
proach,” he explained. “Not just in February, but
through out the rest of the year, we have Black
History events planned through the Cultural Arts
Series.”

The theme of the month is “Experiencing

dance at the BSC House. Also on February 10 and
11, the BSC sponsored Union screenings of the
movie, “Eve’s Bayou,” in celebration of Black
History Month. Dr. Michael A. Gomez, a history
professor at the University of Georgia, gave a
lecture in the Union entitled “From Slave Ships to
Cotton Fields: The Forging of an African Ameri-
can Identity” on Thursday. Gomez is the author of
the book, Exchanging Our Country’s Marks. His
presentation was sponsored by the Ethnic Studies
Program and coordinated by Dr. Nancy Fairley.
On February 12, a Juke Joint/Basement Party
was held at the BSC House. The party celebrated
African-American dance styles and fashion from
the earlier part of this century. On February 14,

Davidson celebrates Black History Month

Professor Michael Eric Dyson, a Senior Research
Scholar at Columbia University’s Institute for
Research in African-American Studies, spoke in
Love Auditorium to kick off the Union’s Solidar-
ity Week. Dyson spoke about his latest book, Race
Rules: Navigating the Color Line. This Saturday
February 20, local artist Pamela Ferguson will
give a visual presentation at 12:00 p.m. in the 900
Room of the Union. She will be speaking on
“Celebrating African-American in Visual Art.”
Also, this month, a multi-media photo exhibit on
“The Images of Nigeria” is °
being showcased in the

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

hope to highlight African-Americans in many
different venues.” ;

The president of the BSC, Ainsley Natta ’99,
said most of the Black History Month events have
been well attended so far. “I hope that people who
attend these events get a better understanding of
African-American contributions to the American
lifestyle, like through the showcase on African-
American influence on dance in America and then
Saturday’s program with Pamela Ferguson speak-
ing on visual arts. They will promote a better
knowledge of our in-
fluence in American

Union.

The Dean of Students
Office is currently planning
events for later in the semes-
ter, even after Black History
Month is over. On March
11th, Dr. Wande Abimbola

Black History Month should not
be overlooked by non-African
Americans simply because of
their ethnicity.

culture,” he said.
Crowder would en-
courage students to
realize ‘““Americais the
grand nation it is to-
day because of the hard
work and contribu-

will give a lecture on the
“Evolution of Traditional
Religion in Africa and the African Diaspora.” An
African Women’s Drumming Circle, “Ase,” will
also be performing on April 16th. Jeffries said, “I
hope these events can serve as tools of enlighten-

ment to help people understand contributions Af- -

rican Americans made in all walks of life, like in
the arts and their intellectual achievements. We

tions of African-

Americans. Experi-
ence Black Culture and its implications on main-
stream American culture this month with the BSC,
Dean of Students Office, Ethnic Studies, Union
Board Films and Speakers Committee, Solidarity
Committee, Committee of Minority Affairs
(COMA), and numerous others. Branch out of
your comfort zone, become enlightened, and have
fun.”

Steiner defines the importance of pornography

Continued from page 1

Showing examples of the art on the
screen, she said that many of these
works of art were placed in the ex-
hibit simply because the people who
had painted or owned them were un-
acceptable to the Nazis. Some of them
were Jewish while others were singled
out for different reasons. Picasso’s
work was included in the exhibit be-
cause he chose to portray people as
distorted and strange.

To Steiner, even what we would
call indecent today still depends on
our interpretation of the work of art
itself. She said that opponents of her
point of view argued that “what a
painting represents is what it is,” and
she felt that this concept was false.
Ascontemporary artists represent new
ideas in their art forms, many people
who criticize them for being indecent
reveal how our society defines the
obscene. Steiner’s first example of
how interpretation can alter the way
people define pornographic material
was aphotograph called “Piss Christ”
that caused controversy. A crucified
Jesus submerged in urine; the photo
elicited a strong reaction from reli-
gious groups and others who thought
that the artist was attempting to de-
base the Christian religion. The art-
ist, however, argued that his true in-
tent had been to capture religious
symbols that had become commer-
cialized in ways that made them look
beautiful once more. Steiner pointed out that look-
ing at the picture, the viewer would not have been
able to tell that the liquid that surrounded Jesus
was urine unless someone had indicated the origin

-ollege

By CarriE ARTHUR
News Editor

From February 10 until 12, Davidson’s Quiz
Bowl was held in Phi and Eu halls. Fifteen student
teams, each consisting of four members plus alter-
nates, competed in twenty-nine games of double
elimination. The winning team, named Team Will
White or Team Stroh’s, played in the loser’s
bracket after losing its second game but then came
back to beat the winner’s bracket champio
Eumenean Society. i

Andrew Marvin’99, coordinator of the event,
said that the competition was close between Team
Will White, whose members are Will White ’00,

Anna Judy

of the amber color around the crucifix.

Steiner’s second example of the importance
of interpretation involved a series of works that
were recently taken to trial because they were

uiz Bowl

Josh Bennett ’00, Chad Diamond ’01, Scott
Lafranchi ’00, and Andy Rhodes ’01; and the
Eumenean Society Team, whose members in-
cluded Marvin, Andrew Campbell ’00, Adam
Soltys ’00, Emily Lampp ’00, and Susan Schultz
’00. Marvin said that it was a ‘good tournament.”

Team Will White will represent Davidson at.

the Regional Quiz Bowl at Virginia Tech in
Blacksburg, VA, next weekend. Davidson com-
petes in Region Five of the National College Bowl
system’s fifteen regions. This division encom-
passes the twenty-one schools within Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky, and
Tennessee, and its members include large univer-
sities as well as small liberal arts colleges. The

_ “the set of con-

charged with pandering and public obscenity. The
photographs in this collection that were singled
out as being obscene included pictures of naked
childreti and several pictures of men in compro-
mising positions. The prosecution in the case
relied on the assumption that the works of art

‘spoke for themselves, simply presenting the pho-

tographs to the courtroom as evidence and not
arguing why they were pornographic. The de-
fense, however, called one art critic after another
to the stand, all of them testifying that the viewer
could interpret these works in ways that proved it
not to be pornographic. The charges against the
artist in the case were dropped. “Works of art are
not meanings that are there,” Steiner said. “No
work of art speaks for itself.”

To conclude her speech, Steiner denounced
the idea of censuring pornography. She felt that
the act of censure was presumptuous. To her, it
was an act done by “some group in power” who
felt that it could see the questionable image and
“not be degenerated by it,” but who still felt the
need to protect some other group of people from it.
She said that to censure or attack pornography
would be “an attack on art itself.” To support her
claim, she said, “the whole point of having art ina
culture is to try it out,’Band define “our values in
terms of other people.” Steiner continued by
saying that in
questioning

lowed to ask questions. Many of the. students
challenged what Steiner had said, resulting in a
debate about whether or not pornography can
encompass certain values and whether or not those
values would affect the public at large.

Alumnus...

Continued from page 1

by the time of the class reunion.”

“It is my wish that this award will encourage
all students to improve their degree of excellence,
making themselves eligible as a W. Thomas Smith
scholar,” commented Smith when asked about his
advise to future graduating classes.

Vagt said, “this scholarship is an eloquent
expression of Tom Smith’s response to his own
Davidson education as well as his vision of the
perfect reward for high achievement for graduation
seniors.”

Prospective applicants are encouraged to
explore options with the Careers Services Office.
They are also encouraged to build their competitive
credentials and talk to seniors who have experience
in applying for high level scholarships as well as to
the members of the Graduate Scholarships
Committee.

pornography,

ventions that
we use to un-
derstand art are
the very sets of
conventions
that are being
challenged.”

After Steiner’s
speech, the au-
dience was al-

a'SP

Cancun Panama City
Parador $399 Quality Inn $99
Laguna Inn $499  Days/Ramada $139.
winner of the Aristos $599 _H.I. Sunspree $169
las oi Costa Real $629
Jamaica All prices are based on Feb. 27 Boston

compete in the
National Quiz
Bowl at the
University of
Delaware.
Team
Will - White
member Josh
Bennett ’00

Continued on
next page

Hotel Montego $399
Bungalo

$589

Nr 1800 648-4849

departures and do not include departure taxes
and fees of $57-$59 and $9.00 handling
charge,

Call today! Space is limited

www. ststravel.com

EbiSochenancnccsesascanconchocanssneeed pnatancocscuucocwncouneanscasepeusccosaucsenesne

