THE DAVIDSONIAN

Continued from page 1

Dr. Anderson believes this mentality is under-
standable when one considers the alienation and
dislocation that many poor African-Americans
suffer.

Dr. Anderson also broughtto life many preju-
dices that young black males suffer daily. He
explained how simple

: Philadelphia’s ghettoes turn to underground ac-

tivities such as crime, drugs, and prostitution.
Selling crack cocaine has become an alternative
form of income for many of the downtrodden. Dr.
Anderson brought to the listener’s attention the
gravity of the situation for African-Americans
when he explained that one third of African-
Americans between the age of twenty and thirty
are in jail or on pa-
role. Dr. Anderson

tasks like shopping can
be difficult for black
males because they are
constantly watched and
suspected of stealing. Dr.
Anderson’s own son has
been harassed by cops
several times merely be-

Dr. Anderson informed listeners that |
102,500 jobs have been lost in
Philadelphia, while important safety
nets like welfare are being cut.

suggested that if the
situation were re-
versed, and one
third of white men
in that age group
were in jail, it
would be deemed a

cause he drives a nice
car. ,

In his speech that evening, Dr. Anderson
informed listeners that 102,500 jobs have been
lost in Philadelphia, while important safety nets
like welfare are being cut. Without stable jobs
available, many African-Americans in

national crisis.

As an ethnographer, Dr. Anderson goes
into communities and talks with individuals. He
has spent time in a wide variety of urban settings,
from Philadelphia’s laundromats to its crack
houses. By spending time with deprived African-
Americans, Dr. Anderson has come to understand
their violence and social codes. Because of the

Reasons behind today’s inner city violence

intense competition in the inner city ghettoes,
violence serves as a mediating force, especially
because police tend to have a passive role in these
areas, The violence that Dr. Anderson observed
has _ special
rules and so-

‘

listeners to question incidents like this one and to
try to understand why many African-Americans
would blame the police in trials such as the O.J
Simpson trial. Although Dr. Anderson believes
that O.J Simpson
is guilty, he ac-

cial codes. For
example, he

Dr. Anderson believes that O.J Simpson is

knowledges the
African-Ameri-
can community’s
sentiments of vic-
tory over a dis-
criminate police
system.

describedfists gyilty, although he acknowledges the
oy s . African-American community’s sentiments
dance”. Dr. Of victory over a discriminate police system.
Anderson ex-
plains ‘how

similar codes of fighting have been present
throughout history, but now the consequences
have increased with the availability of guns.

Dr. Anderson illustrated how A frican-Ameri-
cans living in ghettoes believe that they can not
trust the police. Two recent incidents of police
shootings of unarmed black men demonstrate
how the mistrust of police is generated. Dr.
Anderson explained an incident in New York city
where a African man named Amadou Diallo was
shot 41 times although he was unarmed. He asked

Det

Anderson brought to light many issues relevant to
the social conditions in America’s inner cities. He
asked listeners to try to understand the alienation
of African-Americans living in ghettos. Dr. Ander-
son has written many books and articles on related
topics. Street Wise: Race, Class and Change in an
Urban Community, “A Place in the Corner: a
Study of Black Street Corner Men,” “Of Old
Heads and Young Boys: Notes on the Urban Black
Experience” have been a few of his influential
works.

News briefs

By Derek POLITzER
Staff Writer

3-5-99:

After regulators discovered potentially haz-
ardous amounts of lead in Nike brand children’s
shoes, Nike was forced to recall 110,000 pairs.

President Clinton said Friday that he does
not resent Monica Lewinsky’s efforts to turn their
affair into a money making scheme and that he
hopes she has “a good life.”

In a harshly worded statement, China said
that U.S. backing for a UN resolution lambasting
China’s human rights efforts would seriously
harm Sino-U.S. relations.

Britain is stepping up its efforts to resolve
the escalating trade war between the United States
and the European Union (EU) over banana im-
ports. The U.S. has imposed sweeping tariffs on
a variety of goods imported from EU countries
.because of a perceived bias against U.S. banana
exports.

3-6-99:

President Clinton is urging the-Senate to
accept his education proposal, which would re-

From the archives

From the March 23, 1979 Davidsonian:

RLO announced which halls would be fe-
male and male halls for the 1979-1980 school
year. They had to make changes in which halls
would be male or female due to the admission of
390 students, the largest freshman class in David-
son history. Basement, first, second, and third
Belk would be all male freshman halls, and
Richardson, which had been a traditionally male
dorm, would be all freshwomen. Upperclassmen
males would be housed in Watts, 4th Belk, Duke,
Ist and 2nd Little, and Sentelle. Upperclassmen
women would be housed in Cannon, 3rd and 4th
Little, and basement Richardson. Little was at that
time the only coed dorm on campus, but RLO
stated that they would consider making other coed

quire an additional 10,000 teachers in the public
school system and would give local school sys-
tems greater leeway to spend their money, accord-
ing to their particular needs.

The Emir of Bahrain unexpectedly died to-
day from a “sudden heart attack.” His son suc-
ceeded him.

3-7-99:

Texas governor George Bush Jr. established
a high-powered committee in what appears to be
his first official step toward becoming a presiden-
tial candidate in the 2000 elections.

In seeking to bolster the U.S.’s image as a
helpful but not meddlesome neighbor, President
Clinton toured several Central American coun-
tries to offer additional support to those countries
ravaged by Hurricane Mitch.

3-8-99:

The U.S. admitted today that the leak to
China of nuclear secrets from Los Alamos Lab in
New Mexico inflicted serious harm and enabled
the Chinese to develop small warheads that could
be placed atop missiles.

Two reputed white supremacists went on
trial today in the Pacific Northwest for multiple
murders, kidnappings, bombings, and theft. The
stolen money was used to finance the all-white

dorms as well if there was student interest.
From the March 15, 1974 Davidsonian:
On March 6, 1974, 15 men from 3rd Cannon
put on ski masks and dark glasses and then streaked
: campus. They announced
their plans before going
through with them, so that
anyone who would be of-
fended would know to
stay out of their path. The
3rd Cannon hall counse-
lor, Mark Connors, said
that streaking was just a
fad that they wanted to try
out. There was a streaker
at a PiKA party the Satur-
day before, but he was so
drunk that he ran into a
wall and passed out, with-
out anyone noticing him.

“Aryan Nation.”

After Albanian rebels agreed to sign a peace
accord which would end the war in Kosovo, U.S.
envoy Richard Holbrooke flew to Belgrade to urge
Milosevic to do the same.

3-9-99;

After dumping over a foot of snow in the
Midwest, a late winter storm pounded the North-
east and the Mid-Atlantic states with heavy snow,
closing schools, tying up traffic, and stranding
airline passengers.

__ Vice President Al Gore announced a pro-
posal that would expand airline passenger rights,
enabling them to receive compensation for botched
trips.

In the wake of daily U.S. airstrikes against
Iraq because of continued assaults against U.S.
and British planes monitoring the no-fly zones,
Qatar has signaled that it opposes the U.S.’s con-
tinued use of force.

3-10-99:

President Clinton admitted that the U.S. was
wrong to support the widespread repression that
occurred during the 36-year Guatemalan Civil

War.

Elizabeth Dole formed a presidential explor-

. atory group today to raise money and to assess her

candidacy.

Milosevic definitively rejected the U.S. peace
proposal over the war in Kosovo, as ethnic Alba-
nians likewise shied away from signing the ac-
cord. ;

3-11-99:

President Clinton pledged fairer immigration
policies toward Central America but reasserted
the U.S.’s stiff opposition to illegal immigration,
because he feels it undermines the entire system.

According to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol, E. coli cases rose sharply in 1998. E. coli is
the deadly strain of bacteria usually found in
ground beef.

The House of Representatives voted to send
U.S. troops to Kosovo on a peacekeeping mission
if both sides agree to sign the peace accord.

Iranian President Khatami met with Italian
Prime Minister D’ Alema and the Pope in an effort
to boost bilateral relations between Iran and Italy
and to engage in a “dialogue of civilizations.”

3-12-99:

NATO formally admitted Hungary, the Czech
Republic, and Poland today in a celebration in
Independence, Missouri. Russia has continued to
voice its opposition to the move.

y
Getthe CXPosure
yu deserve
Dr. Glenn
Lindsey was
quoted saying,
“This streaking is
just a temporary Increase your visibility to leading employers and recruiters
thing, it will pe-
ter out in a week : ‘ 4
bree Divideda post your résumé on
campus nas| WWW.goldenparachute.com
proved him
wrong though, as : : : ce
there are still oc- Exclusive to students and alumni of the top 100 universities
casional oor: wr Golden Parachute, inc.
rences of streak- | 1000 Fremont Ave. Suite 180
ing, such as the SPT Per cee creel
other week when fax (650) 559-9944
the brothers of info@golidenparachute.com
KA decided to
streak the cam-
: © Golden Parachute, Inc
pus wide formal.

