10 .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mary Perrin ANDERSON
Staff Writer & Fortune Teller Extraordinaire _

saa

Aries (March 21-April 19)
Aries is indecisive this month. Which one do you want? Make
your choice before the planets doit for you. Remember, Aries,  U
cream cheese on the 2™, styling products and melted chocolate
spell success with the opposite sex.

Taurus (April 20-May 19)
Even-tempered Taurus doesn’t want for affection this month! Whatever it is the Big Bad Bull is

whenever possible.

Gemini (May 20-June 20) pares
Attractive Geminis find themselves the object of much affection from the opposite sex. The stars
and planets promise diamonds, horse, and negotiable securities. Take nothing for granted, but
remember to comfort yourself with dark poetry and frequent road trips.

Cancer (June 21-July 21)

Congratulations on Luck and Acceptance, Cancer! Your star is on the rise and even El Nina looks
favorably on your planetary alignment. Intellect and good sense are your friends. Reward yourself
with a trip to the drive-thru. :

Leo (July 22-August 22)
Lucky Leo has pleased the stars and the universe with kindness and sincerity. Your month will be
filled with hot'love days, minimal homework and a fuzzy lap dog.

Virgo (August 23-September 21) |

What Virgo wants, Virgo gets! Your clever banter and sensitive wit keep friends and neighbors
laughing. Watch out for stray pers on the 2™ and reward yourself with pout plant. You deserve
| it!

Libra (September 22-October 22)

Once again Libra has tipped the scales and the stars and planets are out of whack. Too much
| Mexican food leaves your stomach in knots but this is of little importance because your folks just
bought you a new car! Happy Easter, Libra. Watch out for fruit that isn’t really fruit.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)

Scorpio has been feeling strange lately. Don’ t fret, little pet, its going to be OK. Remember to roll
over, sit and ‘Pant on command,

Sagittarius (November 22-December 20)
Congratulations on work well done, Sagittarius! Success and intense financial benefits are
imminent. Your sound advice helps a friend who needs you. Beware of stray electrical currents.

Capricorn (December 21-January 19)
askdjfeioawjfsdlkjfialdf;Ikasjdf. so there.

Aquarius (January 20-February 17)
Get back in the water Aquarius! Dry land is not your friend this month so wear the Jacuzzi back
up. Phone conversations lead nowhere but a gentle Libra will help you find your way.

Pisces (@ehiuary 18-March 20)
Fun loving and mischievous Pisces needs to watch her back. Remember that you don’t know just
what is in that cup and beware of frisbees that can come out of nowhere.

ARTS & LIVING

doing, keepitup! Love and Success are both on the horizon. Wear denim on the 5“ and boxer briefs |

Alenda Lux exe

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

P-Funk All-Stars nostalgia

Travis MARTZ

Saif Writer

I like to think of myself as a prep school
hippie. Although I don’t appear crunchy, I some-
times have atendency during the summer to let my
hair go days without a wash, while I sport dirty

‘ garments and allow my face to go unshaven.

Though this may not seem very “hippie-like,” it’s
the closest I come, and it makes me feel like one,
so back off. I consider myself extremely lucky to
have seen the Grateful Dead, live in concert, three
times before Jerry Garcia’s death, and I have
traveled up and down the entire East Coast follow-
ing a band that calls themselves Phish.

While drifting aimlessly though the bustling
parking lots of a venue before and after a Phish or
Dead show I have met some pretty eclectic charac-
ters. I have conversed with the so-called “real”
hippies, men with beards to their bellies, hair so
dirty it sticks together, random body piercings,
and colorful self-made clothing. I have seen
women with all the same features except that the
beards to their bellies are replaced with hairy
armpits.. Though this may seem unappealing,
these hippies make some of the best food on tour
out of the back of their Volkswagen’s, while they
sell everything from bottled water to goo balls.
There is nothing I enjoy more then submerging
myself in this hippie culture for a few weeks at a
time. It temporarily removes me from my fast
paced “preppy” lifestyle and replaces it with a
more relaxed and free spirited state of being.

Up until the fall of ‘97, I thought that the
Grateful Dead shows I attended in'’94 and °95
would stand nonpareil when comparing cultural
diversity among fans. It was ona warm September
night in Philadelphia in 1997 that I was proven
wrong. My friends and I took the train down to
Center City Philly, not knowing what to expect
because we were going to our first George Clinton
show.

From the first minute we walked in the door
of the Electric Factory it was obvious that the
mother ship had landed. I saw characters that I had
never seen before in my life. Not only were the
hippies representing, but the prep school crowd
was there also. The best of both worlds. Even
better, men and women my parents’ age came to
bring out the funk. Bikers found a new place
besides Bike Week in Daytona to fashion their

leather together. The homeboys displayed vibrant
apparel George Clinton style. They wore large
robes streaked with color, and their hair was bright-
ened with color highlights. Some elected to wear
their space outfits while others cowboy boots. It
was by far the most eclectic crowd I have ever seen
at a performance before, and I am well experi-
enced. Observing the crowd was entertainment
enough, but then the lights went dark.

Lights slowly illuminated parts of the stage
as members of the P-funk All Stars came on one by
one. Not only was the crowd modeling all fash-
ions, but the band also did the same. The guitarist
donned the army look, wearing all. camouflage.
And of course, Bootsy Collins wore nothing but a
large diaper. After six or seven band members
took the stage, the original dawg made his grand
entrance. As he came around the corner the crowd
started to go even crazier. There he was, center
stage looking as if from another planet, a funk
legend.

In addition to the energy coming from the
crazy costumes, George Clinton and the P-Funk
All-stars transmitted energy through their music.
Their jams were funky and spirited. Every song
had fans literally jumping in the air.. The band
would get the crowd to jump together and simul-
taneously wave their hands above their heads. I
quickly realized crowd involvement is a key com-
ponent toa George Clinton show, And after nearly
three hours of non-stop action the band made their
way off the stage.

I have been to over 100 live shows, and
without a doubt, the George Clinton show was the
most unique out of all of them. The constant
interaction between the band and their diverse fans
makes one feel as if they are part of the show.
More importantly, George Clinton and his mother
ship are going to invade Davidson on April 18".
This funk mayhem is going to rock our very own
Baker Sports Complex. An eclectic event of this
nature may only happen once at tiny Davidson,
and are you going to let it pass? Are you going to
skip seeing a Funk icon at your own school be-
cause you have “stuff” to do? You will only be
selling yourself short, for when the mother ship
lands for a few hours on April 18", Davidson
won’t be the same. Many good tickets are still on
sale at the Union box office. Get them before the
public does, because they will!

=
—
s
~~

Mle |e |e El> |e Ma kia |'a |" |x!
tay calple |p X|i |r Me clolele
a Tie |aAls Mitclalvietieioalsin
S Hellefclolmels M\VisSliée|s
© S Pola lm "el |d
Gia) Wa) de ine
> Nem felale lee Mploleim “Clol|ctle!
“ ted vel lyfolulwly [stay Plow
ee I Giz l\€ le MRE |D Elnis
A, TDIEITIBA A\LITHIDIAIN IME S|E|A
© ElRrleé ‘N|RIA
& zlalolale WIATe XIV INslolw
TAIBIAITIE MB A\W| ole 'AIPIE
( ) GH) Fietclets cl el Die. TIE|s
beretrtaie ‘olplels él|nlr

ept on weekends

\ve decded aod We mes ore only vee sS ane ak ‘ ve “s Se wad are “eo aone +o Nand La Hre Gene cols held
inverested W Renassance men We ee : eet es de aloont iu? take Voice a concet® Va Macowing or
Une. Davidson Gererals .. stwis heve A° Nalent to speck of % lessons?

an shiek re, and Khakis Land

MOASG wereding aS ene of eke
rl herwards,

wom \

\k's Vee cs ho reible Nozickian
world ay only worse.

OAL and alt tee No ime Cor hod.
3
J

\aerd
Women
now!

ate Lotz
