__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr., president of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond, will deliver
Davidson College’s annual Cornelson Lecture on
Wednesday, April 14th. Broaddus will speak
about “The European Monetary Union (EMU)
and the Role of the National Central Banks in the

Eurosystem,” beginning at 8 p.m. in the Gallery ©

Room of Chambers Building. The talk is free and

their single currency and have agreed to subordi-
nate the authority of their national central banks
to a common decision-making body, the Euro-
pean Central Bank. The EMU parallels the U.S.
Federal Reserve System in which 12 Federal
Reserve Banks, representing districts of the na-
tion, monitor regional economic conditions and
then advise the Board of Governors on national
monetary policy.

“The member nations of the EMU will real-

Broaddus will discuss whether European national banks under
the new monetary system will operate like the Federal Reserve

Bank in the United States.

open to the public. Call 982-2398 for information.
Peter Hess, professor of economics at David-
son, said Broaddus will discuss whether European
national banks under the new monetary system
will operate like the Federal Reserve Bank in the
United States. In short, does America’s Federal
Reserve System serve as a model for the EMU?
Hess explained that the 11 European nations
currently in the EMU are adopting the “Euro” as

\ .
ize significant benefits from the use of a single

currency, primarily from reducing the transac-
tions costs in trade and investment,” said Hess.
“Their national governments, however, must bet-
ter coordinate their fiscal policies, with a loss of
some economic autonomy. Whether the EMU is
a forerunner of the future is still an open ques-
tion.”

Broaddus is president of one of the 12 Fed-

. Alfred Broaddus, Jr., pres
of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond

eral Reserve Banks in the Federal Reserve
System. Chief among the system’s respon-
sibilities is setting the nation’s monetary
policy, through which it influences interest
rates and the exchange value of the U.S.
dollar, The 12:Federal Reserve Bank presi-
dents meet with the Chairman of the Federal
Reserve, Alan Greenspan, and the members
of the Board of Governors every six weeks
to reviéw economic conditions and deter-
mine the monetary policy.

g received a bachelor’s degree at Washington
$ and Leeand Ph.D. from Indiana University.
= He joined the Federal Reserve System’s
5 Payments System Policy Advisory Com-
S mittee and Information Technology Over-
& — sight Committee.

3 Davidson’s annual Cornelson Lecture
= is a component of the Cornelson Endow-
= ment, whichrecognizes and honors six mem-
S bers of the Cornelson family, spanning four
generations, who have studied at Davidson.
In addition to the annual lecture, the endow-
ment supports the college’s senior session
in economics, a capstone experience for
senior-economics majors.

3000+ college catalogues

The Library has subscribed to CollegeSource
Online. This Web-based reference tool provides
access to the college catalogs of nearly 3000 U.S.
colleges and universities, as well as 700 interna-
tional schools.

The Library is paying for a campus-wide

site license, so that faculty, students and staff can
use the service from their offices, dorm rooms, and
campus labs.

CollegeSource may be searched by words
within the school name. One also may search by
selected criteria such as state, major, or enrollment.

for their entries.

Charles Wilson awards
for non-fiction prose

Emily E. Setina *99 won Ist prize. for non-
fiction prose. Mary T. Allison ’99 and Jennifer R.
Nolan °99 won awards in the personal essay
category. Both William B. Bradshaw ’99 and
Cintra Pollack ’99 received honorable mentions

Women’s Month:
the culnanatung event

Continued from page 1

Ingram led the group to the next stop outside
of the President’s House. She spoke about depres-
sion, how it plagues many people, but few people
truly recognize it for what it is - a disease. Ingram
said, “Mental illness is too often dismissed in our
culture: if you get the flu and have to stay in bed,
people recognize your illness and make allow-
ances. But if you suffer from depression and just
can’t get out of bed, people say, ‘snap out of it.
Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Count your many
blessings.’” She emphasized the need to “light the
darkness of depression.” Ingram ended her speech
by telling the group to “own your darkness. Claim
it for your own, then shine an illuminating beam of
hope and enlightenment into it. And remember to
lighten up!”

Matt Billings ’02, the third and final speaker,
led the crowd to a tree near Chambers. He spoke
about homophobia, both here at Davidson, and
across the nation. Billings improvised his speech,
talking about the sexuality forum from the previ-
ous night. He addressed the need for tolerance
from people who are different from the stereotypi-
cal white male student. He. explained, “Homo-
sexuals are just like everyone else. But at the same
time, they possess unique talents and gifts that we,

as a community,
need to celebrate.”
Billings ended his |]
speech by quoting
Victor Hugo, en-
couraging students to |
accept new ideas asa
means of change.
After Billings placed
his stake in the
ground, the group re-
turned to the Gender
Resource Center for
refreshments and ca-
sual discussion. Al-
though this is the first
year of the closing
vigil, Ingram felt it
was a great success.
“Tt is a way of mark-
ing the end of the cel-
ebration, marking
the empowerment of
the entire month. It
is a way to bring
people together and
make _ statements
across the campus.”

outside judges.

online

You may access CollegeSource Online from
the Library Home Page under “Reference Sources”
(consider ‘bookmarking’ the Library Home Page)
or you may go directly to the site: http://
www.collegesource.org.

Have a question? Dial xCHAL (2425)

CURRENT STUDENT SCHOLARSHIP
COMPETITION

SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1999

10:30 (TENTATIVE), HODSON HALL

On April 24 the music department will hold a
scholarship competition for current first-year
students, sophomores and juniors. While most of the
scholarships will be in the form of merit awards for
| reduced or cost-free private study, some awards will,
in addition, be merit awards for tuition reduction.
The competition is open to all students, regardless of
current or prior study in applied music. |

*Retraction:

In the March 30th issue of The Davidsonian,
an article discussing the selection and composi-
tion of the incoming class of 2003 possessed
inacuracies and errors that the Editors were un-
aware of at the time of its publication. The
Editorial staff would like to apologize to ‘the
readers, especially the Admissions office, for this
article. This coming week’s Davidsonian will
provide the real truths about the incoming class of
2003.

The auditions will be spaced every twelve
minutes, so the music should not exceed ten minutes
in length. The competition will be adjudicated by
Students who will be abroad the
entire year will not be eligible. Students who will be
away for one semester will receive scholarships on a
pro-rated basis.

Students wishing to sign up for the competition
must sign up with Mrs. Brickels in the music office.

Broaddus is a native of Richmond who -
