THE DAVIDSONIAN

Profiles: SGA President, Foster Haselden

By Bossy PitreNGerR ~-
Staff Writer

“Foster is very approachable, down to earth. He

is good about not letting power go to his head,”
says Ward Gibson ’02. Senior Foster Haselden is
a history major, a fisherman, a Kappa Sigma
member, and our student body president. Every
year for the past three years, he has taken on major
leadership roles through the Student Government
Association (SGA). Freshman, sophomore, and
junior years, his class elected him president. He
helped bring ‘us the pizza bar at Vail Commons,
outpost delivery, and more union café hours.
Why is Foster in SGA? “It is a way to stretch

myself and to be able to give back to all my friends
here,” he said. Foster sees the SGA as a service
organization to serve every student who attends
Davidson. However, when he arrived at David-

son, SGA was a new thing for him. “I wasn’t
involved in SGA or any similar activities in high
school. And here... it’s my life,” he explains.
Now, with the help of his good friend and sidekick,
Dane Erickson '01, the SGA vice-president, and
the rest of the SGA, he tries to make an “almost
perfect school” better.

One issue that our SGA president stresses is
money. Foster wants to fund and co-sponsor more
clubs and events than ever before. He feels that
money should be available to any student who has

*

a good idea. “I really want to increase the money
that goes out to the student clubs,” claims Foster.
He explains that because the SGA funds are for
everyone, that everyone witha good purpose should

:

John A. Dunwoody II

be able to obtain money.

Every day, Foster is in his SGA office in the
Union thinking and planning about what can im-
prove student life. At the time, he is working on
improving four major aspects of student life. First
is the Vamanos van. He is finding ways to increase
the efficiency and the lengths of time the Vamanos
vanruns. “When we are done with it, the Vamanos
van will be running like clockwork,” he says.
Next, Foster is modifying the SGA bylaws. He is
also working on ways to allow students to use the

meal plan at the Union Café. Lastly, he is working
with the Environmental Action Committee (EAC)
to come up with a needed recycling service. As of
now, what you put in the recycling bins will not get

recycled. Foster wants to change this.
When Foster is not working with SGA, he is

_teading The Majors by John Feinstein, playing

golf with Joey Harris ’02, or listening to Tupac or
George Strait. In his days after Davidson, he is
looking to go abroad for a year, and then maybe to
law school. Whatever he does, he will always be
a great asset to the school both in his days as a
bachelor here at Davidson and beyond his gradu-
ation date this spring.

Magical Mystery Tour intrigues the Class of 2003

By ANNA KVANviG
Staff Writer

What do pizza and subs, accidental trips around
the Charlotte Airport, and lewd comedy have in
common? They were all

Union at either 6 or 8 p.m. Other than the fact that"
their ticket included their dinner, these bold fresh-
men did not know what kind of adventure the
night would entail.
Many freshmen were intrigued by the fact that
they did not know what

spotlighted in this year’s
Magical Mystery Tour.
The Magical Mystery
Tour, an event solely for
freshmen, was presented
by F-Crew and took place
on September 3.

“T really enjoyed the
Magical Mystery Tour,”

Charton ’03

“The Magical Mystery Tour was
fantastic. . . we bonded with
other freshmen that I didn’t
know previously” — Rachel

they were doing. For oth-
ers, the evening was sim-
ply a chance to get away
from campus.

“I signed up to go on
the Magical Mystery Tour
because there’s not much
to do for freshmen until
we get to go down the hill

Said Emily Kuhn ‘03. “It
was a good chance for the freshmen to get away
from campus.”

Eighty freshmen bought tickets for $10 from

members of F-Crew during the week. They were
told to report to the 900 Room in the College

and I wanted to do some-

thing,” Laurie Gomer ’03
said. “It sounded pretty cool although I didn’t
know much about it and I couldn’t get anyone to
tell me what we were doing.”

Freshmen mix, await

big brothers

By ANN GreGory AND LAURA MCCANDLISH
News Editors

With the arrival of a new freshman class at
Davidson, hall counselors are once again faced
with ways to entertain and encourage these new
students to meet different people. Some of the
means of doing this include inter-hall mixers and
the Davidson tradition of Big Brothers and Big
Sisters.

Freshman mixers provide students with the
opportunity to get to know people from their own
class. Last Friday, Richardson dorm held a five-
floor dance party mixer with each hall featuring a
different musical theme. First Richardson hall
counselors Lauren Schultz *01 and Lauren
Hancock ‘01 planned an ice cream social for their
hall, which was, according to Lauren Daniel ’03,
“fun and well-attended.” _

Third Watts hall counselors Mike Wipfler
’01 and Chris Brantley ‘01 took their hall swing
dancing this past week. They have also planned to
cook dinner for 3rd Cannon with entertainment by

and sisters

resident lounge singer and Psychology Professor,
Dr. Edward Palmer, and to play a game of
whiffleball with President Bobby Vagt on his front
lawn.

Second Richardson played a water balloon
volleyball game. Second Little and Fourth Watts
had a scavenger hunt where the freshmen searched
for “stolen” hall counselors and were rewarded
with ice cream. Other hall mixer events have
included Ultimate Frisbee games at the Lake Cam-
pus, trips to Ben and Jerry’s, and Twister tourna-
ments.

Mona Musiitwa, a resident of Second West
Belk, enjoyed a Smores making mixer with Sec-
ond East Belk. “Compared to other halls,” she
said, “we haven't done much yet. I hope-we will
get to mix with guys from other halls soon.”

With the exception of Third Watts, most Hall
Counselors have yet to pair their freshmen with
Big Brothers or Big Sisters. Lauren Daniel *03
said “everyone on my hall is really excited to meet

their Big Brothers.”” Most halls will be matched up -

in time for First Night Down on Patterson Court.

After pizza and sub sandwiches, three vans full
of expectant underclassmen headed off to Char-
lotte. The destination was The Perch, a comedy

At The Perch, the freshmen watched a series of
skits and songs in a comfortable atmosphere with
couches and chairs in the upstairs club.

club. Margaret
On the Holt °03
way to * 4 . said, “The
t h e AtThe Perch, the freshmen watched a series of skits show was
. lub. and songs in a comfortable atmosphere with couches fun because

Ow - ° ° ° we were to-
ever, @nd chairs in the upstairs club. gether with
t he our friends
vans and could

got lost and made a brief stop at the Charlotte
Airport to turn around. Despite the confusion,
everyone seemed to have a good time.

“Except for driving around for about an hour,
going all over Charlotte, which was kind of fun,
the Magical Mystery Tour was fantastic because
we bonded with other freshmen that I didn’t know
previously,” Rachel Charton °03 said.

laugh along with each other, even if the humor was
a bit on the crude side.”

Overall, the night seemed to be a huge suc-
cess. .
Webster Harrison ‘03, a member of F-Crew
said, “I thought it was fun, it was a good opportu-
nity for freshmen to get to know one another. The
show was great. And I can’t wait to go back on
another trip.”

