“The South’s F. oremost
College Weekly”

EstaBLisHED 1914

Palden Gyatso to visit campus
. 4 Davidson included in Tibetan monk’s nationwide tour

Wo

NEWS 4

Nightmare on Griffith Street
A junior cites “economic segregation”

OPINION S 6

ORTA

A&L 7

Y2K action in Love
“Millenium Musical” offers satire

L128 ERT AS

‘Hampden-Sydney goes down
Wildcat football guaranteed a winning season

SPORTS 11

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

Over fall break, three houses on Griffith
Street (the street that leads to Main Street from
Interstate 77) were taken down. These events
brought about increased criticism from members
of the community opposed to the creation of a
greenway entrance to Davidson College. One
home was moved by the college at the request of
the owner, one was razed (it also was to be moved,
but, being a concrete block house, that option was
too expensive), and the third was burned by the
Davidson Fire Department in a training exercise.
In each case, the residents were relocated to better
houses at the college’s expense. “I’ve really
enjoyed working with those folks,” Irvin Brawley
of the Davidson Physical Plant said “I feel good
that we’ve done something good for the people.”

Since 1984, the college has acquired prop-
erty along Griffith Street with the intention of
creating a “ribbon of green” as an entrance to the
college from the interstate. ‘“‘We realize that many
people visit the college who have never been here
before and many things can make a first impres-
sion,” said President Bobby Vagt. Irvin Brawley
explained, “The houses that were there were not
in good repair, The approach to the college is
important and a greenway space is better than
those homes.”

Reaction from the community, however, has
often been negative and sometimes quite harsh.
Most of the families who lived along Griffith
Street were African-American and were of lower
economic means. Some people, telling of wide-
spread dissatisfaction in the area, have described
Davidson College and its policy as “conniving”
and spoke even of “ethnic cleansing.” “I don’t
understand why Davidson College, as a Christian
institution would want to. move lower-income
people out to make a beautiful, green entrance,”
said one member of the community who wished
to remain anonymous. “I’m not against Davidson
College, but I feel that this was a bad thing — not
just for the people moved out, but also for the

mh PO

Ie
eesti ne
_ TRA 2 ~

'&é
Fad

@ Aview from the East side of the tracks facing the NOR aaa after a rainy ‘day in Davidson.
The nearby Griffith Street community lies just beyond the trees toward the right.

college.”

Guydell Connor grew up on Griffith Street in
a house his father built. “It was not a house, it was
a home — where we experienced love, sadness,
pain, everything you experience in life,” said Mr.
Connor. His childhood home was one of the
houses removed recently. “What was once a vital,
vibrant neighborhood is now gone,” he remarked.

~ Wildcat Field Hockey
claims tournament crown

San ake
Sa Ashley Hart (center) and her Wildcat teammates traveled to Salisbury for
Saturday’s Deep South Tournament, returning with not only a pair of

victories but with a championship as well. Story in Sports, page 10.

Mr. Connor is upset with the college, feeling that
it had no consideration as it single-mindedly
pursued a grand entrance.

The college stresses that it is concerned
very much for the well-being of the people being
relocated. The resident of one of the homes was
given money to purchase anew house in Lakeside
Terrace. Two other families were moved into a

duplex built by the college. Ms. Margaret Latter,
who was moved to the duplex, says that she was
“very well pleased” with the arrangements. “The
college was very nice,” she reported. “They bought
my house and reduced the rent, built me a new
house and reduced the rent again.” Mr. Brawley,

See Greenway on page 4 for continuation

Davidson partners
with Biosphere 2

By MICHAEL OMIECINSKI

Biosphere Admissions Press Release

In October, Davidson College signed a part-
nership agreement with Columbia University’s
Biosphere 2 Center in Oracle, Arizona. David-
son undergraduates are now eligible to spend a
semester studying environmental science in a
hands-on field experience called Earth Semester.
Students spend sixteen weeks exploring the
unique laboratory of Biosphere 2 and the sur-
rounding Arizona desert.

MASTHEAD ..

OPINIONS..

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR .. sO
ARTS & LIVING Aisi
SPORES jec.iccnes iss saceaesLiscseiiieis

According to Vera Case, Chair of the Biology
Department, “We are very excited about our new
affiliation with Biosphere 2. It is an exciting
opportunity for students to broaden their horizons
in the Biological Sciences.”

“Davidson College is full of high-caliber stu-
dents and faculty members whose participation in
our programs will contribute immensely to our goal
of becoming a world class research and education
campus,” said Biosphere 2 President and Executive

+ See Partnership on page 2 for continuation

eeeeeee

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
1 Davidson, NC 28036

