THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1999 5

Christian coordinates physics web curriculum

Continued from page 3

Lee’s program, “Optics Bench,” allows
students to simulate standard optic elements such
is lenses, mirrors, light sources and apertures, and
o observe the way in which light rays pass through
hem. The program allows users to change the
ocation of elements by simply clicking and drag-
zing them. It also simulates more complex sys-
ems such as laser cavity, a mirror exhibiting
spherical aberrations and an optical fiber. The
rogram also presents students with nine prob-
ems keyed to the conceptual understanding of
yptics they gain from the interactive graphical
simulation.

The magazine wrote, “The judges were im-
oressed with the overall quality of ‘Optics Berich,’
ts ability to be delivered to any student over the
Web, and the wide range of explorations it makes
dossible.”

Christian said that Lee’s program illustrates
yne of the most valuable aspects of instruction by
-hyslets. “It allows you to create situations that
you can’t replicate with real life materials,” he
said. “That’s why we call these ‘media-focused’
sroblems rather than multimedia—you have to in-
eract with the medium to understand it.”

The computers in Physics magazine contest
udges agreed that the winning entries achieved
something that is difficult to do in writing peda-
zogical software,“engaging students in activities
that will teach them something tangible . . . Stu-
dents must do more than click and watch. They
must be engaged in a process that regularly stimu-
(ates cerebral activity. . . Ideally, the program
should approximate an authentic dialogue between
a learner and an expert.”

Christian believes this approach to learning
is better than traditional methods because it effec-
tively teaches conceptual understanding and test-
ing data being collected by physics education
researchers supports his belief. He said, “Software
must be able to do something you can’t do on the
printed page with text and pictures. It should help
students visualize abstract concepts such as phase
relations in circuits or a mathematical formula, so
that they can interact with it and see the results of
that interaction.”

Media-focused instruction takes advantage
of the World Wide Web in ways that Christian
believes are too rarely used. He explained, “The
web is often used to publish megabytes of infor-

discussions or extend beyond what the class has
been studying. Students stay on-time and on-task
by using the Web to create a feedback loop. By
reviewing their assignments before class, Chris-

@ Wolfgang ristian

mation that could just as well have been printed on
a page. But that’s not likely to have an impact on
learning. You’re not changing the pedagogy or
approach to what the student does. We’ re trying to
change the basic approach.”

In addition to the interactive Physlet pro-
grams on the Web, Christian relies heavily on a
“Just In Time Teaching,” (JiTT) technique in
conjunction with Drs. Novak and Patterson. For
homework assignments, students work Physlet
problems on the Web that correspond to class

Breathing once again:
1999 Quiz Bowl revival

Continued from previous page

said, “We are extremely pleased with our victory
in the College Bowl tournament. We worked hard
to build a competitive team and feel confident
heading into the regionals at Virginia Tech this
weekend.” Marvin also said, “I think we’re
sending some good people there (to the tourna-
ment).”

Coordinating the event with the help of Jer-
emy Campbell ’02 and the Union staff, Marvin
began making plans three weeks before the bowl.
He explained that his original intention had been
to start forming Quiz Bowl teams at the beginning
of first semester, but that sufficient funding was
not available from the Union Board until recently.
Marvin would like to see the creation of a travel-

“Davidson was the only small
liberal arts school to win the
National Quiz Bowl in the past
twenty years.” To accomplish
this win, Davidson beat Harvard
in 1979.

ing team which would pull from the entire cam-
pus. - “It’s going to take lots of students to be
involved,” Marvin said about the creation of a
traveling team because he believes that an intra-
mural Quiz Bowl competition would be neces-
sary. From the intramural teams, the traveling
team members would be picked on the basis of
their performance. Tochoose these people, Marvin
said that someone would have to keep statistics
about who answers the quickest and who excels at

certain types of questions. Evenifa traveling team
is not possible, Marvin hopes at least that earlier

Before its decline, the Quiz Bowl,
. .. had been “huge in the
seventies and eighties” at
Davidson.

planning and more volunteer support will be avail-
able for next year’s Quiz Bowl, which Campbell
will coordinate.

Britton Taylor’ 98 revived the Davidson Quiz
Bowl last year after it had disappeared at the end
of the eighties. Last year, the Eumenean Society;
whose members consisted of Marvin, Campbell,
Soltys, and Mike Newman’01 won the tournament
with the FIJI team, of which White was a member,
taking second place. The Davidson team then won
fourth place at the regional competition against
thirteen other teams, including teams from large
universities.

Before its decline, the Quiz Bowl, Marvin
reported, had been “huge in the seventies and
eighties” at Davidson. Every eating house, frater-
nity, hall, and organization had a team, and those
teams competed in an intramural system. From
this system, the four member College team was
chosen. Marvin said, “Davidson was the only
small liberal arts school to win the National Quiz
Bowl in the past twenty years.” To accomplish
this win, Davidson beat Harvard in 1979.

Next weekend, Davidson’s team will com-
pete with such schools as William and Mary, the
University of South Carolina, East Carolina Uni-
versity, Wofford College, and Virginia Polytech-
nic University.

Photo provided by Quips and Cranks 1997

tian gets a good snapshot of the class’s understand-
ing of the subject matter and can tailor the next
class lesson with that in mind.

During the.three-year duration of the NSF
grant, Christian will develop an entire under-
graduate Web-based physics curriculum that in-
cludes Physlets and JiTT. The grantincludes money
for the student assistants for two summers, as well
as a full time post-doctoral assistant. The assistant
will relieve Christian of part of his teaching load so

that he can develop web physics curricula, and the
assistant will also help develop some curricular
material.

The grant will also allow Christian to pro-
duce a CD of Physlet problems and concept prob-
lems for JiTT and to continue his regular presen-
tations about Web Physics at professional meet-
ings of the American Association of Physics Teach-
ers. The software will be distributed free to educa-
tors, but Christian is also involved ina commercial
venture with Prentice Hall Publishers to create a
CD of curricular material to accompany a forth-
coming textbook.

The grant rewards more than a decade’s work
by Christian during which he gradually realized
how three different areas of his interest could be
synthesized in the new teaching method. He began
exploring the web very early, downloading brows-
ers from CERN long before they were widely
available. He also began tinkering with personal
computers in their infancy, building Altair and
IMSAI computers from kits in the late 1970s. In
addition, he has been working with students for
many years to create stand-alone physics pro-
grams.

He begins teaching his Davidson students to
write software for scientific purposes during their
freshmen or sophomore years in a “computing
physics” course that he developed. Christian said
that most schools teach computational physics as
an upper level course and as a specific skill, rather
than teaching it early and urging students to apply
it throughout the curriculum. He has recruited
students from the course to help him create Physlets
during their junior and senior years, and six of
them have won prizes in the Computers in Physics
contest.

Christian believes that computational phys-
ics represents a major change in the way the
discipline is taught. He said, “The technology and
the way we do this puts students on an equal
footing with the faculty. They soak up the tech-
nique and the technology as fast as faculty can, so
our projects are much more a cooperative venture
than the traditional relationship. I learn from them
as often as they learn from me.”

@ Laura Crimm participates in one Davidson’s
interdisciplinary classes that combines Chemistry and Art
History. One of the class’ projects was to create a fresco.

|
