6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

“I cannot go to school today,”

Said little Peggy Ann McKay.

“I have the measles and the mumps,
a gash, a rash, and purple bumps.
My mouth is wet, my throat is dry...”

And so begins the immortal poem by Shel
Silverstein that explains my predicament so elo-
quently. You guessed it — I am sick. Frankly,
this bites. I don’t want to be sick, and I saw it
coming. People started getting ill last week. First
came the sneezing, followed by the loud nose
blowing, and then came the hacking coughs. I
covered my nose, I washed my hands, and I even
took vitamins, to no avail. Before I knew it, there
I was. . . sick.

Now I was followed by the cursed “Bless
you” wherever I traveled and my Kleenex supply
began to dwindle. I grew weary of having every-
one in the class turn to look at where those vile
noises were coming from. It was as if a quaran-
tine went into effect. First people simply scooted
away from my blasting radius. Then the seats
nearest me became unpopulated. Those fifty
minute class periods grew longer and longer as I
vainly tried to conserve my last tissue, to hold
back the flood gates, to stifle that cough for just
fifteen more minutes...ten...five...Aaaachoooo!
“Bless you.”

I knew the answer to my prayers, the solu-
tion to my predicament: sleep. This all-powerful
curative would be my salvation, but alas, I could
not do it. No matter how hard I tried to go to bed
early, I wound up plodding along on my meager
seven hours of sleep. I tried napping, a skill I in
which I had never put muchcredence. Alas, I was
a failure, and the sneezing and coughing contin-
ued. The odor of Lysol began to permeate my
room in my feeble effort to dispel the germs that
plagued me. It was too late for me, but perhaps
Icould save future generations from the horror of
this bug, this cold.

Then came my epiphany. One dreary after-
noon as I wearily stared, bleary-eyed at the medi-

Sick

cine racks in the majestic CVS, I noticed the little

purple bottle that changed my life and that of
countless others for countless generations. What
was in that little purple bundle of joy you ask,
Nyquil: cold medicine of champions. Nyquil and
baked wheat crackers in hand, I marched out of
CVS and up to my room where I downed a dose of
the vile-tasting stuff. Though the immediate effect
of the syrup was to incite gagging and profane
curses, it soon began to work its magic.

In no time (two days) I was as good as new and
thereafter began to spread the gospel of Nyquil. I
doled it out in those tiny adult doses to all those that
came to me seeking guidance, and there were quite
a few that needed this wonderful cold remedy. (I
am sure that its 10% alcohol content had nothing to
do with its popularity.) And before I knewit...I was
out of Nyquil. Not to worry, I was cured!

During these long days, I had some revela-
tions. Mainly, that sick people are usually not in
full control of their cognitive abilities. While many
mock or even shun my advice when healthy, their
illness leads almost to a lack of inhibitions, alco-
hol-laden Nyquil aside. Recommendations to sleep,
to take medicine, and to totally submit to the will of
Andrew (recommendations that were completely
unnecessary prior to illness) are suddenly treated
as profound wisdom.

Thus it is necessary to guard yourself while
sick from those that seek to do you harm, namely
chiropractors. Unfortunately, that is an entirely
different topic for an entirely different week.

Note: Andrew has no affiliation with Nyquil, the
Vicks corporation, or any of its subsidiaries. It
should also be noted that any references to pink
elephants were completely unintentional, and
merely results of Andrew’s Nyquil-induced haze
(similar to that of Samuel Taylor Coleridge in his
epic poem, “Kubla Khan”).

Andrew MacDonald ’03

Professor

Well, last week the rigor of Davidson sched-
uling-kept us apart. Unfortunately, I couldn’t
acquire an interview with this week’s professor
in time to make last week’s paper. Here’s what
you all have been dying to know: The feature
professor of two weeks past was none other than
the Pre-Med advisor, Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, the
incredibly shrewd student who picked out his
identity was Jess Heath. Congratulations to both
of them. For those of you who love to travel —
get ready to be jealous...

5 a a

She was born in Urbana, Il., but only stayed
seven months. Her youth, adolescence, and
young-adulthood were spent barefoot in Hono-
lulu, Hawaii. After receiving his MFA from the
University of Illinois, her father took a teaching
job at the University of Hawaii, affording her
with the first of her extremely diverse experi-
ences with many cultures. She was a minority all
through school. The major ethnic groups in
Honolulu are Japanese, Chinese, Korean,
Phillipino, Portuguese, Hawaiian, and Cauca-
sian.

One experience in grade school ignited a
love of two beautiful things: having an open
mind, and music. Attending a private catholic
grade school, she didn’t have a lay teacher until
seventh grade. Mr. Gailer, her religion teacher,
delivered a lecture on Thomas Morton’s theory,
“No man is an Island,” juxtaposing this thought
with the popular Simon and Garfunkel tune which
refrains, “I am a rock, I am an island.” This
experience opened up the spiritual world, simul-
taneously, the power of music became a reality.

In high school she was a hippie. She made
backless dresses out of pillow cases and Indian
bedspreads. She learned how to play the guitar
by listening to Laura Webber on PBS radio. The
first song she mastered was “Here Comes the
Sun,” and she hasn’t yet stopped playing. She
and friends spent time in school bathrooms and
graveyards playing, singing, and dancing. Her
favorites in High School were Bob Dylan, Joan
Baez, Simon & Garfunkel, Joni Mitchell, and
Judy Collins.

On her way to spend a year in France at the
age of sixteen, she purchased a used Martin D-18

‘Guitar in L.A. It was put to good use when she
started touring with the French folk-band Le’
Rigadoun. Throughout the spring of *73, she
could be found in smoky cafes, playing with her
band and other bands from England and France. »

xX

The main instrumentation of Le Rigadoun was
three guitars, two fiddles, the dulcimer, a middle
eastern drum called the Dar Buka, and the spoons.
She played the spoons, sang, and — obviously—
jammed on the guitar. They gave new life to old
French folk tunes, with their fresh approach, and
varied instrumentation. (I know, I’m jealous too.)
She returned to Hawaii with a fresh desire for
education. She wanted to learn orchestration and
composition so she wouldn’t have to depend on
others in progressing her music career. As an
undergrad student at the University of Hawaii, she
played in an Indonesian orchestra and learned two
Japanese instruments: the Koto (a long plucked
zither) and the Shamisen (along plucked lute), She
worked her way through a B.A. as waitress at Pizza
Hut. Once she moved on to grad school, she began
giving piano lessons (I don’t even know when she
learned the piano!!), and was paid to sing in church
choirs.

Also while getting her Master’s, she worked
fora year as achoir conductor at a Korean Christian
church. Her favorite memory from this experience
is hearing the choir sing a verse in English and then
the congregation respond in Korean.

After graduating she had to tough it out in
Kauai (you know, the unbelievably gorgeous tropi-
cal Hawaiian island were they filmed “Jurassic
Park?”), developing an academic program under a
Title 3 grant for Kauai Community College. Her
drive to work was down thirteen miles of white
sand beach. There were only two traffic lights and
everything on the island closed at six o’clock. (I
know, I’m jealous too.)

She developed a passion for teaching and
decided to pursue a doctorate at the University of
Michigan and then the University of Cincinnati. I
asked her how hard it was to move from Kauai to
the mid-west, and she didn’t deny that it was alittle
depressing. Her doctoral work took five years.
The lengthy stint was due partly because she re-
ceived a grant to study in Indonesia, and spent time
studying in Korea.

Upon graduation she had no troubles landing
a sweet job. Two schools, Mills in Oakland, CA,
and Davidson were vying for her special skills.
She happily chose the high quality of life that
Davidson has to offer and couldn’t be happier with
her decision. She is married to another Davidson

professor, and has one daughter, Via. Her favorite.

element is water. Her favorite color is red.
Email your guess, along with the professor of
your choice, to brmemillan@ davidson.edu.

LETTERS TO THE EpDITORS——

, NOVEMBER I, 1999

Clothesline Project coming to campus

Dear Davidsonian,

For the first time at Davidson, part of the national exhibit called The Clothesline Project will come
to campus and be set up in Chambers Lobby during the month of November. Similar to the AIDS
Awareness NAMES Quilt, The Clothesline Project was established in 1992 to remember women who
have died from domestic violence (white shirts), who have been assaulted (yellow/cream shirts), raped
(red shirts), the victims of childhood incest (blue/green shirts), and women who have suffered from
violence generated by homophobia (purple shirts). The t-shirts on display in Chambers Lobby have been
collected from local high schools anda shelter for abused women. Members of the Davidson community
are invited to decorate a shirt and add it to the collection currently travelling around Charlotte.

Every twelve seconds another woman is abused, according to the FBI. This epidemic of violence
has affected our mothers, sisters, and daughters, and for too long silence has been the only response. B/
GLAD, the Gender Resource Center, the Student Health Center, the Rape Awareness Committee, and
the Women’s Issues Committee invite you to participate in this moving exhibit dedicated to the power
of speech.

To commemorate the beginning of this exhitibt, a special worship service will be held in Davidson
College Presbyterian Church’ s Lingle Chapel on November 2nd at 7:30 p.m. It will be a Christian service
using a traditional worship model and will be dedicated to the issues of domestic violence, assault, rape,
and incest.

Please contact Georgia Ringle, Deya Murray, Whitney Davis, or me if you have questions about any
of the above events. Thank you for your time.

Sincerely,
Ann Culp
Women’s Issues Committee Chair

Cort and Dave exercise questionable reasoning

To the Editors:

When I leave Davidson in the fall, one of the things for which I will be most grateful is that I have
learned to think more critically and effectively during these four years. That being said, 1 wish to rebut
an argument made in last week’s article by Cort Heroy and David Stroupe.

In response to a certain denunciation of homosexual marriage, Heroy and Stroupe point out that

homosexuality is a widespread phenomenon in the animal kingdom. But they leave it just at that — I can

only surmise that they are making an attempt to remove homosexuality from the realm of morality, and
rather make it more understandable in terms of that which is “natural.” This is flawed, and moreover
frightening, reasoning. Animals kill each other, sometimes even their own infants; yet we would
certainly not condone such behavior as humans. What differentiates us from other creatures is that we
live by social rules, or morals (what exactly those morals should be will forever be debated). Any claim
that seeks to refute this idea bases itself upon the shaky foundation of relativism, which is an entirely
different debate. This is not in the least an attempt to renounce homosexuality. On the other hand, I hope
we will all think more critically about not only what we believe, but also about that which simply makes
good common sense. It’s a fortunate thing that we can enlighten each other in such discussions —
thank goodness we’re not merely animals.

Chris Pruitt ’00

Davidson’s Griffith Street land is our land, too

Jenkins Center I want desperately not to jump to

et’s face it — 80% of Davidson students
probably didn’t notice that bulldozers
leveled two homes on Griffith Street while
we were gone for Fall Break. With the release of
Aaron Houck’s article on this Griffith Street land
use controversy, questions are sure to arise on the
subject. (I suggest you stop and read Aaron’ s article
on the subject if you haven’t yet, as my editorial
assumes an understanding of the facts delineated
there.) If you’re like I was at first, you’re probably
thinking, “What’s the problem? There’s nothing
wrong witha greenway; it makes our entryway look
nicer. But, why is the community expressing such
mixed feelings?”

The issue of confusion is that something greater
than the creation of a manicured entryway is at
stake here. In Davidson, affordable land is scarce.
Since the construction of Lake Norman 20 some
years ago, population in this area has skyrocketed,
and so have property values. The land along Griffith
Street is some of the only affordable land left in this
town. Estimates suggest that the average tax value
of aGriffith street lot and home is $36,053 while the
average tax value of a lot and home in the greater
Davidson area is $199,513. With high-pricedhomes
becoming the norm, the underprivileged are being
effectively “priced out” of this community. Even if
it is unintentional, it is still economic segregation.
By owning 18 of the 25 lots along Griffith Street,
Davidson College is participating in this trend.
We're not just creating a greenway; we’ re hoarding
inexpensive land at the risk of pushing out those
who can’t afford homes anywhere else.

Davidson College has done nothing illegal
here; we forced no residents from their homes. That
doesn’t mean what we’re doing isn’t still wrong.
I’ve heard a lot of irate voices lately who say that the
college is attempting to hide from prospectives and
visitors the poverty that is a real part of this commu-
nity. In light of Davidson College’s long history of
supporting Habitat for Humanity and the Ada

such a conclusion. I do wonder though, why are
the administrators of this project suddenly wash-
ing their hands of this tradition? If Davidson
College really cherishes diversity, economic and
racial, like we say we do then we will work to
preserve it in our surrounding community. Beauty
is relative and I hate to see Davidson College
embracing such a narrow definition of the idea by
replacing simple affordable homes and porches
filled with smiling faces with empty lots of trees
surrounded by perfect little piles of pine straw.

So, now what? We’ ve already bought the land and
razed the houses. That doesn’t have to be the end
of “Davidson College Development Company's”
involvement on Griffith Street. The lots are deep
and could accommodate new affordable homes,
design specifications of which the college could
dictate. While I don’t pretend to understand the
logistics of overseeing an affordable housing
project, I do know we have to do something
because I’m tired of grimacing every time I drive
down Griffith Street and think of how wasteful my
college is being. I understand that Davidson
College is not solely a charitable organization, but
if we didn’t want the responsibility that comes
with buying up scare affordable land, we never
should have started buying it in the first place.

I keep saying ‘we’ and ‘our’ because the land is
titled in the name of Davidson College: it is our
land. As students, faculty, staff and alumni we are
responsible for what is occurring on Griffith Street.
Itis time to take responsibility and to let our voices
be heard. Whether you agree with the greenway or
not, e-mail Bob Collins in the Physical Plant or
stop Bobby Vagt in the hallway and tell him. This
project reflects upon all of us and it is time we had
some say in the matter,

Lydia Wilson ’01
