THE DAVIDSONIAN

.

@ Gina Lawrence (#14) and Jennife

r Ortega controlled the net much

of the night, helping guide Davidson to a key win over Chattanooga.

Wildcat swim coach, Rich DeSelm, returns from Australia

By Davip Moncure
Staff Writer

Nineteen days in Australia helping coach and
train the best swimmers in the world—now that’s
a swim coach’s dream.

That dream became a reality this past August
for Davidson’s head swim coach, Rich DeSelm,
as he was the head’ manager of the USA national
swim team for the Pan Pacific Games in Sydney,
Australia.

Being the manager for the USA Pan Pacific
Team this past August was nothing new for
DeSelm. He had also the head manager for the
team-in 1997 in Fukuoka, Japan.

The Pan.Pacific games are held every two
years (beginning in 1983), the four participating
countries are the United States, Japan, Canada,
and Australia.

His role as head manager for the team scoped
a wide range of responsibilities. He dealt with all
travel and lodging arrangements for the team,
organized training programs, decided on meal
plans for the athletes, and dealt with all communi-
cation responsibilities for the team. -Working
alongside the USA National’ Team director,

By SHELLEY CONROY
Staff Writer

7
}
ay

Ten goals. Two shutouts. No losses.
Such were the season statistics of the Wild-
_cats’ field hockey team heading into last Sunday’s
game against Appalachian State University.
Over the course of the next 70 minutes, the
tally stretched to 13 goals, three

DeSelm made sure all of those events were well
planned out and executed.

DeSelm’s incredible nineteen day experi-
ence began at the University of Southern Califor-

- nia at a two-day mini camp that the national team

held before departing for Australia.

The national team’s first destination in Aus-
tralia was Terrigal, about 100 kilometers north of
Sydney. There was a six-day training camp held
there to prepare the team for the upcoming compe-
tition in Sydney. DeSelm was very positive about
the team’s experience in Terrigal, as he said the
training camp “helped develop team identity and
helped the team get unified with its goals to go to
Sydney.” .

The eight-day meet in Sydney started on
August 22. The new format for the meet was set
up as a replica for the Olympies in the year 2000,
This new format added a semifinal event to all of
the shorter events, and as DeSelm stated, “it gives
the athletes an extra chance to be at their best.”

DeSelm was very proud to be a part of this
year’s event not only because of the magnitude
that the event holds in the swimming world, but
also because of the number of world records set at
this year’s meet. In the history of the Pan Pacific

third shutout of the season.

“We really dominated the entire game, both
offensively and defensively,” commented head
coach Jen Halliday. “We just played a great
game.”

A week later, the ‘Cats took on visiting Ohio
University, ranked 13th in the nation. The Bob-
cats, defeating Davidson 4-1, brought the ‘Cats
winning streak to an abrupt halt.

shutouts and still no losses, as

WEEKEND UPDATE

“It was a tough game; Ohio

the ‘Cats undefeated season
continued with their 3-0 win
over the Mountaineers.

Lisa Holthaus started
things off with a goal off a pass
from Lea Jaeger almost 15 min-
utes into the game, followed ten

Davidson

Davis & Elkins 0

was the first team of this caliber
4 we've played this season,” said
Halliday. The Wildcats at-
tempted only 6 shots on goal,
one-fourth of Ohio’s 24 at-
tempts.

“We focused too much on de-

Goals: Bateman (2), Holthaus,
Strickland

minutes later by freshman Jessica Barton’s goal

’ with the assistance of co-captain Kate Schoening.
The third and final goal came with seven
minutes left in the game by senior Jennie Gold,
off passes from Alex Rogers and Jaeger. Defen-
Sively, goalie Nancy Livingston recorded her

fense and played not to lose, rather than to win,
which cost us.” Barton scored the lone Wildcats’
goal off a pass from Schoening and Holthaus.

The Wildcats’ took to the field again Sunday,
now 4-1, looking to rebound from the season’s
first loss.

By Kerry SUGRUE
Staff Writer

What do you when you're ranked first in the
Southern Conference and find yourself faced with
the #2 and #3 teams who are eager to take your
spot? If you’re the Davidson Women’s Volleyball
team, you quickly let them know that this isn’t the
year to mess with the “Cats. '

This weekend Davidson's touted Wild’ Cats
improved their overall record to 9-1 and their
Southern Conference record to 2-0, defeating Chat-
tanooga and Western Carolina, the #2 and #3
teams in the conference, respectively.

On Friday night, the Davidson Volleyball
team sent the squad from Chattanooga packing
after an exiting match in front of over 400 rowdy
fans. The ‘Cats rallied back froma 4-15 loss in the
opening game to soundly defeat Chattanooga with
three successive wins, 15-4, 15-4, 15-13.

After falling in the first game, the ‘Cats
executed plays like clockwork and played with an
intensity that proved too much for Chattanooga to
take. ‘

“After the first game, we talked about how
much we owed it to ourselves to win because we
had so much to prove to this team. We hadn't
beaten Chattanooga in two years, and we were
ready to change that,” said junior outside hitter
Brooke Bentley.

In the final game, the ‘Cats came back from
a 7-13 deficit to stun the defending Southern
Conference champs.

The ‘Cats were helped to victory by the
outstanding play of the dynamic captain trio of
seniors Gina Lawrence and Ginny Quis, and
junior Mara Mordini. Mordini had a game high
16 kills and 14 digs while Lawrence tallied 11 digs
and 12 kills with only | error, for a game high

Games, eight world records had been set during
the events, but at this year’s meet, there was a
whopping twelve world records set, the most world
records set at a meet since the 1976 Olympics.

It turned out that the United States won the
overall metal count and the overall team score, as
they came from behind on the last day to beat out
a strong Australian team.

The experiences that DeSelm had while in
Australia will hopefully also benefit the Davidson
swimming team. He believes that his work with
the national team will “help attract recruits to
consider Davidson as not only a great place to go
to school, but also a place where the coaching staff
is interested in helping them reach their highest
caliber of swimming.”

DeSelm also said that it was the little, subtle
things that he picked up from seeing how’ the
Olympic coaches make decisions and decide pri-
orities. He stated that it also “helps him better
understand what priorities should be here. at
Davidson.”

Hopefully recruits will see that the exposure
DeSelm is getting will help them reach their peak
performance in the pool because of the knowledge
that he gained from his experiences.

‘an

Sd Lauren Hancock (white) jockeys for the ball.

attack percentage of .423. Quis, the team’s
playmaker, racked in 42 assists and a pair of aces.
Bentley continued her exceptional play this sea-
son burying 14 kills and notching 12 digs. Mordini,
Lawrence, and Bentley again posted impressive
double-digit statistics for both kills and digs, as
they have consistently done so far this season.

Sophomores Katie Middendorf and Jenni-
fer Ortega also' made strong contributions to the
victory, with 6 and 8 kills, respectively. The ‘Cats
were able to put their impressive depth on display,
showcasing junior Katherine Lorenz and fresh- |
men Kaitlyn Martin and Rebecca Tiechgraeber.

Saturday night saw the ‘Cats give another
sold performance as they crushed Western Caro-
lina in three straight games, 15-8, 15-5, 15-10.
Again, they came back from a 5-10 deficit in the
final game to post yet another exciting finish.

“It was a great game for us to win like that,”
said Bentley. “It’s always hard to come back after
a game like we had on Friday night and play with
the same excitement and power, but the team did
a great job of keeping the intensity level up.”

The Ortega duo was on fire Saturday night,
with Jennifer tallying 13 kills and .440 attack
percentage, while Jacqueline put away a team-
high 14 kills and 15 digs, and had an incredible
.522 attack percentage. Bentley hammered in 13
kills and scooped 12 digs, giving another strong
performance for the ‘Cats and Mordini finished
the night with a game-high 18 digs and 11 kills.
Quis and Sophomore Erica Schwartz split time in
Saturday's game, grabbing 30 and 17 assists, re-
spectively.

The ‘Cats continue their attack on the South-
ern Conference next weekend as they face the
College of Charleston and the Citadel in Belk
Arena.

He will also continue his work with the USA
national team next year in the Olympics as the
assistant manager for the team. Again, DeSelm
hopes to learn many things that will in some way
benefit the swimming program here at Davidson
that he has been in charge of for seven years now.

The swimming program has greatly improved
during his tenure at Davidson. The women have
won the Southern States for three years in a row
now and have also improved to ninth overall in the
ECAC rankings. The men placed second in the
Southern States this past year after winning for
two. years in a row. They also improved their
ECAC ranking to eighth overall.

DeSelm’s hard work as the Davidson head
coach has also paid off in the category of personal
awards. He has been named Southern States
Men’s Coach of the Year three times (1995, °97,
*98) while at Davidson, and he has been named the
Southern States Women’s Coach of the Year twice
(1997, °98).

His hard work with the USA national team
this past August and then again during the 2000
Olympic games can only continue to pay off for
him personally and for the Davidson .swimming
program as a whole. ‘

Field hockey continues to surge, Wildcats improve to 5-1

Mike Anderson
