THE DAVIDSONIAN.

George Clinton brings P-

Funk to
Davidson

By Davip MoNCURE
Staff Writer

The P-Funk train was almost
derailed on its way to Davidson, as
George Clinton and his P-Funk All-
Stars had some difficulty in getting
out on stage. The afternoon began
with nearly a two-hour wait to enter
Baker Sports Complex to hear the
much-anticipated George Clinton and
the P-Funk All Stars band. The crowd
that had gathered outside of Baker
anxiously awaiting to “get funked
up” was repeatedly told that the crew
inside was wrapping up its sound
check and would be ready in five
minutes. That “five minutes” lasted
an eternity for many waiting to see a funk legend
in concert.

Once the band started playing, though, the
crowd seemed pleased that they waited to hear
songs like “I Want to get Funked Up” and “Flash-
light.” The crowd seemed rather sparse inside of
Baker. Most students stood on the basketball floor
directly in front of the stage, while some choose to
relax in the lower level red seats inside the Belk
Arena.

Many prospective viewers of George Clinton
were deterred by the time of day that the concert
was held — Sunday afternoon. Those “funk”
faithful who did manage to show up to witness the

@ George Clinton

aging band got their money’s worth, though. The
P-Funk All Stars played for over two and a half-
hours. The highlight of the show was the spectacu-
lar entrance of the main man, George Clinton. The
band had played through a few songs before George
made his way to the stage. Once he was out, the
band “funked” the night away. Bootsy Collins
was also a big hit with the crowd as he entered the
stage at the, beginning of the concert in his usual
diaper-like outfit.

Despite the seemingly sparse crowd, the con-
cert was asuccess. George Clinton and his P-Funk
All-Stars showed their unique performance abili-
ties and showcased their unusual, funked-up sound.

ARTS SZ LIVING waniiiac

By Jeremy M. CAMPBELL

Guest Writer

Last Wednesday night marked a new dawn
for activities on the Davidson College campus
with the introduction of our own chapter of the
international organization known as Students fora
Free Tibet.. Approximately thirty students con-
vened on the lawn between the Union and Martin
Chemistry Building to formulate the organization’s
plans for the remainder of the semester and the
next academic year.

Perhaps best known for its efforts with the
annual Tibetan Freedom Concert staged in Wash-
ington, D.C., Students for a Free Tibet is com-
posed of approximately 300 college and univer-
sity chapters across the nation and the world, each
dedicated to disseminating knowledge about the
crisis situation in Tibet and approaching reason-
able solutions through nonviolent means. Tibet is
aregion in the People’s Republic of China that has
been under forced occupation by Chinese Com-
munist authority since 1950. In 1959, the spiritual
and political leader of the Tibetan people, the
Dalai Lama, was forced to flee his remote home-
land, where Lamaist Buddhism had succeeded as
a pacifist movement for over 1200 years, to escape
the persecutions of Chinese insurgents. Since that
time, estimates of the death toll incurred by the
Tibetan people by way of the systematic policies
of cultural elimination engaged in by China range
as high as 1.2 million. In 1994, as a result of a
Federal Commission on Tibet and the humanitar-
ian interest of college students, SFT became a
reality and immediately began spreading the word

nti Posed eae a

Davidson College has
Students for a Free Tibet

of the situation in Tibet across the nation, lobbying
Congress, setting up concerts, and making the
affairs of the Tibetan people, people who stand to
lose their ancient culture, a concern of us all.

Davidson College’ s new chapter of SFT plans
on bringing activities, speakers, and functions to
the college community in an effort to highlight the
amazing culture of the Tibetan people, a culture
punctuated by an unwillingness to roll over and die
despite the atrocities they have suffered. Among
the larger projects SFT plans to embark on for next
semester are bringing Mandala sand-painting
monks to campus, sponsoring distinguished speak-
ers, and giving the college a taste of Tibetan
cuisine and custom. Join Students for a Free Tibet
as they present the motion picture Kundun, which
illuminates the beauty of the Tibetan landscape
and culture while representing the sheer depravity
of the genocide, in the Outpost tomorrow night,
Wednesday, April 28, at 9 p.m.

Awareness is essential. There is no excuse
for ignorance.

Students for a Free Tibet r

Upcoming Events:

A showing of

Kundun

at the Outpost, Wednesday, April 28, at 9
p.m.

‘Sign’ up-for a Fall Semester
Meal Plan by July 1, 1999 and
get an extra $25 in bonus
bucks next Fall!

a pees ue we nutrition, fic

pg

need more Info?
Call 892-2952

Get more BA

received e-mail,

C
astrolog
fall. le “

That's right, beat the rush, drop by..CatCard
Services in Belk today and fill out an
application, or respond to your soon to be
and we give you extra
bonus bucks. Change your mind as often as
you like prior to July 1, 1999, and still get the
bonus bucks*.
How

nao

VUiiouit

extra
SOI

ana

* unless you drop altogether -.no plan, no free bucks

