ya THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Dorm, irom page 1.

the furniture vendors on January 20. The
vendors met with students on the Facility
Planning Committee to discuss options.
The student committee has completed a
list of furniture that they want to see in the
new building. Some time next week RLO
will reconvene the committee to confirm
their choices. :
RLO will then give each of the vendors
an RFP (Request for Proposal) which states
what type of furniture it wants in the new
building. The vendors will then make bids
based upon the RFP. By mid-march RLO
will have signed a con-

NEWS |

But whatever the natural market forces,
RLO needs approximately 55-70 more stu-
dents on campus this year in order to help
offset the construction costs of the new dor-
mitory. “They [students living off campus]
are outside the RLO bed inventory and cost us
more to operate than the students pay to live
there,” explains Holmes.

Depending on the number of students
that study abroad next, fall, RLO presently
expects’to give off-campus permission to
approximately 60-65 students.

RLO staff expect the new dormitory to
have a profound impact on Davidson. “The
new dorm will shift perception of what con-

road reconnecting between SigEp and PIKA.
The other plan has the road reconnecting
further down, at the present entrance to Satel-
lite parking.

Lingle gone, and some parking too

‘The new dorm is being built on land once
occupied by Lingle Manor. Construction on
the new dorm didn’t begin until October 9,
when Lingle Manor was pushed, pulled, and
prodded to the ground in less than one hour by
a demolition team.

November 1999 saw preparations for
building being made. It was not until excava-
tions on the land were done that the founda-

tion could be poured. On

tract with the best bidder.

The new dorm’s effects
on student life
Davidson’s dorms”
were recently ranked 13"
in the country by the
Princeton Review as
“Dorms like Palaces.” a
This ranking was. ’

based on a survey of stu- room

dent opinion. Holmes be-
lieves that the new dorm
will greatly increase the

overall quality of student 2g. Eight singles per floor

living on campus.
With the greater ca-
pacity to house students

December 18, when many
Davidson students were at
home, asleep in their beds
after fall semester, the foun-
dation was poured at 2 a.m.

Because of the restructur-
ing of the roadway and the
loss of some parking across

Two-bedroom suites with common |} [0m PISA, there will be

100 new parking spaces cre-
ated along Patterson Court
road and in satelitte. Dean
Holmes acknowledges that
the perception is that park-
ing and traffic flow will be
adversly affected by the
change, but he says that the
effect will most likely be

oncampus, fewer students 4. One hall-wide lounge per floor neutral, and may even be

will receive permission to
live off campus next year.
“Historically we have had
about 120 students living ) .
offcampus,” says Holmes.
Typically, off-campus ;
permission is given to ap- 6
proximately 40 seniors, 60
juniors, and 20 sopho-
mores.

Holmes cites several
reasons for reducing the

Elevator to every floor

beneficial.

At present, the construc-
tion has had a significant
affect on parking. Construc-
tion fences behind the new
dorm and near the Knobloch

nated approximately 150
spots. This loss has forced a
shift in student parking to
the Baker and Satellite lots.

During the summer months

Handicap-accessible suite on every Campus Center, have elimi-

number of students living
off campus, but he believes that student satis-
faction in the new building will go along way
toward reducing the requests for off-campus
living.

“We firmly believe that this building [the
new dorm] will be attractive enough to draw
some people back to campus housing who
have gone off because they couldn’t get a
single, or needed private/semi-private baths,”
says Holmes.

stitutes the residential area on campus,” says
Holmes. Where Glasgow Street once ran
down past Richardson, there will be a court-
yard. After the change, the present exit from
Belk Parking Lot will also serve as the en-
trance, Glasgow will now run between the
new residence hall and the Health Center.
Currently there are two possibilities for
the reconnection between Glasgow Street
and Patterson Court Road. One plan has the

the new dorm will be avail-
able for conferences and camps. The ground
floor will include a multi-purpose conference
room as well as the Office of Public Safety.

Lottery

Lottery for single rooms is on April 4.
Doubles will be available on April 19. The
rooms in the new dorm will be available on
both these dates. ,

7

Cader Howard

Residence Life hopes the new dorm, scheduled to be completed in August, will draw students back on
campus.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

JoRDON STEELE

Staff Writer

George Gee and His Make-believe
Ballroom Orchestra waltzed into Love
Auditorium last Wednesday. Their sashay,
however, was conspicuously absent from
their performance. ‘

The crowd clapped appreciatively as
the orchestra, sans George Gee, came
onstage.

They remained standing, while three
female vocalists began a beautiful three-
part acapella rendition of “The Star
Spangled Banner.”

About halfway through the song, the
crowd, bewildered as to why the national
anthem was being sung at a jazz concert,
rose to the occasion. Then came George.

The iconoclastic bandleader saun-
tered onstage, relaxed, gleeful, and smack-
ing chewing gum between his teeth. Billed
as “‘the first—and only—Chinese Ameri-
can Bandleader,” Gee’s thick New York
accent reinforced his band’s mission to
bring the audience a review of New York-
style swing.

The orchestra began with a swing
classic, “Take the A-Train,” typified by a
searing trumpet solo. The band was slug-
gish in tackling the task of backing up
such an impassioned solo, implementing
scripted growls and wails that are all too
characteristic of jazz. “Ho, get ‘em boys,”
yelled Gee, skipping around the stage and
snapping his fingers to the beat. Hey, at
least they were having fun.

The next song proved to be a bit
disappointing as well. Gee called out a
dance troupe, cleverly dubbed the “Grit
Grinders.” For a band as seemingly pro-
fessional as Gee’s (they were the first
swing band to appear on MT'V), the danc-
ers were surprisingly amateur, with lim-
ited moves and out-of-synch twists and
turns. The audience politely applauded
for the Grit Grinders as they mercifully
left the stage. -

Theorchestra’s attempt to inject some
new life into old songs was earnest and
praiseworthy, but the endeavor failed to
convince this attendee,

Music Director and tenor sax player
Lance Bryant (does Gee do anything ex-
cept snap his fingers?) appeared behind
the mic for “Everyday I have the Blues.”

Unfortunately, in singing this blues
classic he sounded more like present-day
crooner Stevie Wonder and less like tor-
tured blues master Robert Johnson. He
proved to contain better sax chops than
vocal ones in a riveting and seemingly
effortless solo on his original “Buzzing
Baby.”

The rich baritone of trumpeter/ vo-
calist Walt Szymanski was truer to jazz
singing than Lance’s attempt. - Eroll
Garner’s “Misty” was done great justice
by featured vocalist June Gardner, but the
soulful sultry chanteuse could not apolo-
gize fora muddled, uninspiring, tired, and
altogether boring experience.

But perhaps I’m becoming a bit of a
jazz snob. The crowd enjoyed them-
selves, embodied by the bouncing pigtails

_of a little girl a few rows in front of me.
While it lacked the intensity of a Brian
Setzer collaboration and the technical
wizardry that has garnered acclaim for
Wynton Marsalis’s latest big band resur-
rection, George Gee succeeded in enter-
taining most of the audience for two sets,
seeking not to alienate but to entertain.

