=

- By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Davidson’s Symphony Orchestra gave an
impressive performance this past Sunday,
November 12, in what new conductor Milton

Crotts described as a “very ambitious con- |

cert.”

The concert featured the music of Ameri-
can composer Aaron Copland and also in-
cluded Beethoven’s Symphony No. 7.

Davidson College Presbyterian Church
provided a comfortable, if somewhat over-
powering, venue for the two hundred or so in
attendance.

The first selection, Copland’s Fanfare for
the Common-Man, performed by the Brass
Ensemble under the direction of Dr. William

shestra delivers s

Eh crs

lid

Lawing, made the most of the sanctuary’s
acoustic qualities. From the initial crash of
the gong to the final chord, the listeners were
undoubtedly wide awake for the whole per-
formance. Noted Matt Barus ’02, “I thought
it was a little loud myself.”

After the Fanfare, the rest of the orchestra
filed on stage for more Copland. The group
gave a very sensitive rendition of the Prelude
from the First Symphony. They followed
that up with the Hoe-down from Rodeo. .

Both pieces, as was characteristic of the
afternoon’s selections, called for great rhyth-

-mic discipline on the part of the musicians.

Crotts agreed that his choices for the concert
were “rhythmically very difficult.”

In the case of the Prelude, the contrasting,
dissonant lines provide little in the way of

Pearl Jam vs. Nirvana: who’s the
real ‘King of Grunge’

By THOMAS CULLEN
Arts & Living Editor

Critics around the world have deemed Nir-
vana the quintessential grunge band. How-
ever, I feel that Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam is
just as if not more influential.

The only reason that Kurt Cobain is given
the title of King of Grunge is because he is
dead. If he were still alive today, he would
just be a normal rock icon. Due to their
powerful lyrics and continued success, I am
here to tell you that Pearl Jam are the real
Kings of Grunge.

I must admit that I am not a connoisseur of
Nirvana’s early albums such as Bleach and
Incesticide, but of what I have heard I am
definitely not a fan. The only Nirvana song
that I truly enjoy is the unplugged version of
“All Apologies”.

The only real plus I see to Nirvana is that it
spawned the Foo Fighters. According to me
the, real star of Nirvana was and still is Dave
Grohl. His ability to play drums as well as
front a multi-platinum act is unheard of in
modern music. All of this is grand, but noth-
ing in Nirvana compares to the raw power
that is Pearl Jam.

Hitting the scene in 1991, Pearl Jam re-
leased Ten. It is unfair how good this record
is. The album sways from electric grunge on
“Evenflow” to heavy bass-driven songs such

as “Jeremy,” all while addressing socially
important issues.

Their ability to speak of important issues in
arelatable manner is at the root of Pearl Jam’s
success. They have addressed everything from
domestic abuse (“Animal”) to the corruption
of society (“Do The Evolution’’). The unique
lyrics of Eddie Vedder accompanied by the
hard guitars of Mike McCready and Stone
Gossard make for incredible live music.

Seeing the band live leaves one in awe. Not
only do they show the audience why they are
so successful in their live shows, they vary
the songs up a bit to keep the audience on its
toes. I saw them on the 1998 Yield tour, and
they were magnificent.

After Ten, the band offered up Versus, a
collection of songs that followed up their |

wonderful debut in the best possible way.
The band experienced some commercial
troubles with Vitalogy and No Code, but
these records were great. In 1998, the band
released Yield, which was easily their best
record since Ten. Now in 2000 the band has
released Binaural, which is a little different
but still a good record.

In retrospect, Nirvana was a good grunge
band that failed due to the death of their lead
singer. Yet, in my opinion, even had Cobain
lived, Nirvana would have never held acandle
to Pearl Jam.

“Oops! I Crapped My Pants”
begins week of improvisational
entertainment in Black Box

By DAN TAMAROFF
Special Contributor

Wednesday, November 15, marks the be-
ginning of the Davidson improvisation

group’s week-long staging of their ad-lib
comedy entitled “Oops... [crapped my pants.”

Much to the tune of Comedy Central’s
“Whose Line is it Anyway,” the performance
places its twelve cast members in a series of
twenty-one separate improvisational games
broken into two hour-long sets.

Many of these games place the cast mem-
bers at the mercy of the audience’s every
whim, forcing them to continue a scene in the
face of the absurdity created by the audience,
which often makes for an hysterical series of
quick wit and modern social humor only
found in improvisational theatre.

Andy. Blanton’s ‘01. character, combining
elements of the WCW with the professional
chess circuit, will make you laugh uhtil you
cry. :

The twelve cast members include Blanton, -

Marty Benson ‘02, Chris Brantley ‘01, Trey
Davis ‘01, Parker Dixon ‘01, Matthew Hurt
‘01, Emily Mendenhall ‘04, Christina Ritchie
‘03, Alan Stevens ‘04, Dan Sutko ’03, Chas
Willimon ‘02, as well.as actor/director Mat-
thew Moretz ‘01.

The student-run improvisational group will

hold performances November 15 — 17 at 7:30
pm, Saturday, November 18 at 7:30 pm and
11:00 pm, and a bonus Sunday 2:30 pm
staging.

The running time is roughly 2 hours. A $4
ticket charge is payable at the door.

With only 70 tickets available, every seat
in the intimate Black Box theatre is close to
the performance, which translates well with
the interactive nature of the improvisational

. theatre.

Due to the strong language and adult con-
tent which may arise with any true improvi-
sational theatre, “Oops... crapped my pants”
is not recommended for younger audiences.

x Vv) | Az

RTH eR

rhythmic cues forthe performers. As aresult,
they were obliged to pay very close attention
to staying together. .

At the other extreme, Hoe-down relies to a
great extent on repeated patterns and synco-
pated figures. At times the orchestra seemed
to be struggling to keep the repeated notes
crisp and distinct. ;

Those difficulties took care of themselves
as the group moved into the next section of
the concert. The orchestra accompanied
mezzo-soprano Diane Thorton, studio teach-
ing assistant in voice here at Davidson, for a
cycle of six Old American Songs.

The mood shifted greatly and often be-
tween the different pieces, from melancholy,
to reverent, to light-hearted. Both orchestra
and soloist seemed to have no trouble at all
negotiating the rapid changes.

The instrumentalists kept themselves in
the background and responded well to the

_ subtleties of Ms. Thornton’s voice. “I thought

Ms. Thornton did an excellent job,” added
musician Andrew Oster ’01.

After a brief intermission, the orchestra got
underway again with Beethoven’s Seventh
Symphony. As before, the rhythmic figures
of the piece required particularly close atten-
tion to keeping each run clear and sharp.

The effect of the precise execution was
quite impressive. In particular, during the
second movement, the orchestra managed to
capture the predominantly somber tone while
keeping the pace moving.

“T thought they performed the second move-
ment flawlessly,” praised Barus.

All present had positive things to say about

@)
—

meet =e oor
t & ia
Bea , |

stra m
Pendergrast ’02 said she thought it v
“pretty good concert over all. They put a lot
of time into it, and it turned out well,” she
remarked. ue

Oster concurred and complimented the
variety of pieces performed. “They had a
nice mix with the Fanfare for brass, a few
orchestral works, and then a song cycle.. It
was well done.”

“T know they’ re performing this twice, and
if the first performance went this well, the
second will be great,” speculated Barus.

Crotts also offered high praise for his stu-
dents. Hé compared the challenging reper-
toire to a “baptism by fire,” which he thought
the orchestra withstood very well. He also
emphasized members’ ability to hear each
other and make adjustments during a perfor-
mance. “The symphony members can all
listen very well. I can’t take credit for that,”
he commented.

Davidson’s new conductor also remarked
on the high level of commitment and leader-
ship among orchestra members.

“T knew I was dealing with a special group
when I came to the office one evening to
discover the second violins having an infor-
mal sectional rehearsal. A few days later, I
found the violas doing the same. I hadn’t
called either of those sectionals, and I didn’t
even know about them,” recalled Crotts.

“Their success is a credit to the fine, dedi-
cated musicians in the orchestra'and espe-
cially to the leadership of the senior mem-
bers.” ‘

the concert. Orche

Erin Berry

STUDY

OUTSIDE

NEXT

SEMESTER

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors an off-campus
study program that combines Humanities courses
and outdoor adventure activities.

eo@e¢¢@

Earn 16 hours of Humanities credit
Enjoy hiking, climbing, biking, and paddling
Live with a small group in a mountain lodge
Work closely with your professors:

Limited space available for Spring 2001: Feb. 5 - May 14

Call today, or visit the CRI website

to request an application. -

Castle Rock Institute

P.O. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3759
