__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Life Is A Dream more entertaining than moving

BY Kristen TAYLOR
Guest Writer

with scurrying movements across the stage,
random combat fighting, and crazy lighting
cues. The well-rehearsed actors never falter
lines; the costumes function appropriately;
the choreography and blocking work very
nicely. But it just did not move me.

The Davidsonian
Editorial

Shattering the proverbial notion that this campus is shielded by an all-encompassing
bubble , the men and women of Davidson College will Take Back the Night this evening.

These students will confront the frightening notion that instances of rape and sexual
misconduct are a reality on every college campus across the nation. They will step up to
a microphone and, before their classmates and professors, speak about personal encounters
with rape and sexual assault.

Their testimony will serve as a startling reminder that this campus is not immune from
the tragedy of sexual assault.

It will remind us that, according to many sources, | in 4 women will fall victim to
sexual assault by the time they earn their diploma.

And it will remind us that we must maintain a heightened awareness toward sexual
misconduct—not just on “Take Back the Night” week.

The Annual Security Report in Davidson College’s 1997-98 Red Book proclaims that
not a single rape—nor forcible sex offense—was reported to campus or town police dating
all the way back to 1993.

Thése statistics would be delightful, if only they weren't so transparent.

Only the most naive could be deluded into believing that Davidson is free from any
threat of sexual assault.

The testimony to be offered at “Take Back the Night” tonight will serve as an
irrefutable reminder that we must constantly address issues of rape and sexual assault.

We hope that the courage displayed by those who speak tonight will inspire and

Thrilling sword fights, a prince un-
disguised, and all for five dollars at Hodson
Hall! Well, kind of. Life Is A Dream opens

The play has been adapted into a more
entertaining spectacle, and I certainly en-
joyed my two hours. (I’m not sure how much
a morality play can be adapted to our modern
short attention spans). The work is pre-
Shakespeare, and although the narrator,
Clarion, is witty, the work lacks the depth and
the quickness of Shakespearean drama. The
strong plot competes with over-simplified
symbols of good and evil.

Combat fighting adds to the excitement
of the play; at first I thought, “Whoa, this
could replace kickboxing classes at Baker.”
Unfortunately, the sequences were simplis-
tic, cheesy, and short. The only cool fighting
was between the protagonist Segismundo
and his first cousin Astolfo. It is too much to
ask James Flieder, Segismundo, to carry the
eight of the whole play, although he gives it
his best shot, especially shining in his solilo-
quies. Other standouts were Eric Brown, per-
fect for his role as Duke Astolfo, and Shaheen
Counts. Flieder and Counts are the only ac-
tors who exhibit passion or sincere feeling.

Drawing on my limited knowledge of
morality plays, movement and the symbolic
representation of plot is important. The eagle
dancer, however, was pretty ground-bound,
and the carefully planned choreography was
boring. The highlight was the Devil Dancer,
who hysterically had only one evil pose and
one leg movement, but she sure nailed them
every time. Symbols were successfully in-

corporated, however, in a central orb that
dominated the ‘set; this circle glowed red,
blue, filled with astrological signs, and sil-
houetted characters. The inventive leather
lattices on the perimeter of the stage were
scarcely used; like the missing energy, the set
design was good, just not stretched to its full
advantage.

I felt the most sorry for Tamara Ruppart,
who was trapped under an ornamental head-
piece that indeed looked like the ornaments
hidden on the backside of the Christmas tree.
Inside the headpiece was a microphone that
did not allow Ruppart to inflect her
kinglylines. Although her wise words sounded
like Yoda, the unnatural amplification made
Ruppart sound (and look) more like
“Spaceballs” Dark Helmet. Topped with or-
ange maribou straight off of Sesame Street,
this costuming idea did not work. Yikes.

All that said, [had a good time. I laughed
with Clarion, shivered for Segismundo, ques-
tioned King’s Basilio’s motives, and ap-
plauded the neat dénouement. The play
seemed like an exercise, though, and that is
why James Flieder’s talent and impassioned
performance stood out all the more. The play
wanted to have fun; the script begged the
actors to climb on the lattices, glow in front of
the orb, and drown out the (overly loud)
accompaniment. I think the music had more
fun than the actors did, and it was taped.

Entrapment

“Aaaah.” I blink my eyes as the sun streams through the tired shades and realize to
myself that a new day has begun. It is bound to be full of fresh and exciting possibilities
and wacky new adventures. Who knows? Perhaps today I will find an old map in a bottle
and follow it to hidden treasure with my off the wall, yet predictable comrades. Or,
maybe, I will come up with a plan to serve free pancakes laced with a mind-controlling
substance only to be foiled by my goofy and insane friend who speaks more words in
gibberish than he does in English. And maybe, just maybe, I will be lucky enough to be
approached by a distressed (and very attractive) young lady who has some puzzling
mystery regarding the disappearance of her father that no one else can solve...

mobilize the greater campus population to embrace this cause each and every day of the
year.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
en ermine

News Editors Sports Editor

SETH DAVIS “RESON KALETT~ ms, BURGIN HARDIN But, let’s be serious... Today I am going to rise up, leave my warm and protective

ANN GREGORY nme a : fleece bed, and face this harsh world. Or, am I? You see I have a rather large dilemma.

a Sc Eaton. . “y™ Op-Ed Editor Do I, like a good and responsible college student, do my work and. then go to class

Features Edit V6 . al BEN C@¥INGTON --” “ER cA SCHWARTZ prepared and awake? Or do I, like so many of my hall mates, plunk my tired behind in

Cc ARRIE sail = oe tots ‘ the chair at my desk and turn on the computer? The answer should be evident. Whether
aay | ao, | Busine: SS Mainagers

it is the nagging influence of my beloved parents, the realization that midterms are less
than a week away, or the fact that I have been told (upon numerous occasions by
numerous professors) that there is a direct correlation between studying and grades, I
know what it is I have to do,

I know what you are thinking... You are thinking diese Janis gules 4a len. ule
computer! Well, you are wrong!!! HA! OK, who am I kidding? You were right... Instead
I turn on that vile computer and allow myself to become possessed with the all-
exreneial O e oe er am I to do? Save me

ein News
\ \-Gobrdinator
N PAUL

Assistant Busia S Manis:

f ; Editor
ie ie we | PATRICK: CLARK |
x=

GAMBOA

F. JUSTIN OSSM

WILL PARKER Editor Emeritus

WES GOLDSBERRY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http:/www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

