THE DAVIDSONIAN _

By Micuaet J. Kruse
The Wildcat Report

STANFORD, Calif. — Forget points. After

opening 1999-2000 0-4 in games against Division

I opponents — including a stunning loss at DI

. newcomer Elon — all the men’s basketball team
needed out here was a win.

And that’s what the Wildcats got Dec. 29 at

Maples Pavilion, nipping a slow-down Columbia

Anna Judy

Stephen Marshall, shown here
getting the best of Wofford, leads
the team in scoring.

team 50-47 in the first round of the Stanford
Invitational. Davidson moved on to face the host
Cardinal — the country’s No. | team — in the
tournament’s championship game.

“I thought our defense was the staple to-
night,” coach Bob McKillop said. “It was there
from start to finish and we were able to make the
necessary defensive plays down the stretch.”

Wayne Bernard converted a driving layup for
a 46-44 lead at the 1:20 mark and Jason Dickens
made all four of his free throws in the final 1:10 to
seal the win.

Dickens, a promising forward from Tucson,

ay hoops takes Wi

Ariz., also came up with a key steal and a game-
clinching rebound.

“It’s tough playing a team like this,” said
Dickens, who made his Davidson Radio Network
debut as the Player of the Game. “They held the
ball for 30 seconds before shooting. You’ ve got to
stay focused and mentally prepared.”

Wildcats fall to No. 1 Stanford

STANFORD, Calif. — This is what the men’s
basketball team came here to do: Beat Columbia.
Earn the right to play Stanford. And play well
against Stanford.

There you have it: Wildcat youngsters Jason
Dickens and Brian Turner each had 10 points as
the team shot 42.1 percent from the floor — a
season best against Stanford’s top-ranked defense
— ina respectable 87-61 loss.

“I thought Davidson kind of outplayed us,
really, in terms of doing what they wanted to do,”
a complimentary coach Mike Montgomery said.
“T thought we were a bit impatient, particularly in
the first half. ;

Thanks to a driving layup from Wayne Ber-
nard, Davidson was down just 33-26 five minutes
before intermission. The halftime margin was a
manageable 46-32.

In the end, though, Stanford was just too
talented, too tough, and too much. The Pacific-10
power opened the second half on a 12-0 run, The
lead bulged to as high as 30 at one point.

“You can certainly see why they’re ranked
No. 1,” McKillop told the media gathering at
Maples Pavilion. ‘Their defense from the three-
point line in is as good as you’ re going to see in the
country.”

Turner, hot-shooting Wildcats hang with Cal

‘BERKELEY, Calif. — It was only a matter of
time before Brian Turner had a game like this.

The 6-foot-3 sophomore guard is probably

the most athletic Wildcat since Brandon Williams
led the men’s basketball team to a pair of NIT
berths before graduating in 1996.
Turner’s gota smooth shot from the perimeter and
the ability to use his quickness to drive to the
basket. But Red and Black fans didn’t see much of
that last year — in fact, they didn’t see much of
Turner at all. He averaged just 6.8 minutes a game.
But his second collegiate go-round has been a bit
friendlier. He entered the starting lineup Dec. 8 at
Elon and has been there ever since.

Trurner draining five three-pointers en route
toacareer-high 21 points Jan. 2 at Haas Pavilionin
a 95-87 near-miss versus Pacific- 10 member Cali-
fornia. .

UNCG deals Wildcats setback
GREENSBORO — One step forward. Two
steps back.

Coming off a fairly promising three-game
road swing in California, the men’s basketball
team opened conference play with a disheartening
63-60 loss to UNC Greensboro Jan. 8 at Fleming
Gym.

The Wildcats twice erased deficits of 12 or
more points — once in each half — and tied the
game at 50 ona Davor Halbauer three-pointer with
a little more than four minutes to go.

Rookie guard Wayne Bernard knocked down
another three at the 1:53 mark to give Davidson a
59-56 lead. But UNCG finished the game from
there, as Spartan wing James Maye connected on
two crucial jumpers.

“Davidson’s a class program — one of the
best in our conference,” first-year Spartans coach
Fran McCaffrey said. “Any time you can beat
Davidson it’s a feather in your cap.”

Wildcats rebound against Furman

GREENVILLE, S.C. — Davor Halbauer
came in with a new attitude for the new millen-
nium.

After struggling through much of the pre-
conference portion of the schedule, the Croatian
guard had 11 points Jan. 8 against UNC Greens-
boro in his finest effort to date. He followed two

Last two wins

By BurGin Harbin

Sports Editor

There’s no place like home.

And Jeff Bergmann sure was glad to be back
in Belk Arena—he celebrated by hitting a career-
high five three-pointers in 10 attempts as Davidson
topped Wofford 77-62 last Thursday.

“It’s a good win for us because we were so
tired coming off-that long trip,” Bergmann said

after finishing

the night witha
62 career-high 17
points. We
were all waiting
for that second wind to come around.”
The match-up with the Terriers was only the
second home game in a month for the Wildcats.

Davidson’s holiday season schedule took
them to Duke, then to the Stanford Tournament in
Stanford, Calif.,
and then a 3-

80 ;

; a game jaunt
‘ wy 69 around the

Southern Con-

Davidson's ¢
Wofford ey

Davidson's +*
VMI
ference to start the New Year.

The Wildcats started strong — they opened
the game with a 7-0 run — and maintained their

Croatians and Serbians waged a war Jan. 10
at Furman’s Timmons Arena — a war of words.
Davor Halbauer
riddled Paladin for-
ward Dusan Milicic
— a Serbian fresh-
man — with not-so-pleasantries throughout the
Wildcats’ 74-63 win. The Croatian and Serbian
languages differ in terms of dialect. Gives a new
meaning to trash talk, doesn’t it?

News & Notes

Michael J. Kruse

Out West...

Senior forward Landry Kosmalski was voted
all-tournament at the Stanford Invitiational. He
had 14 points and 12 rebounds against Columbia.
Four Stanford players and a Columbia Lion joined
Kosmalski on the six-man team. Cardinal forward
Ryan Mendez was MVP of the event.

How good was the Wildcats’ 42.1 percent
shooting performance against No. 1 Stanford?
Consider that Duke managed just 29 percent in its
Noy. 11 meeting with the Cardinal at Madison
Square Garden.

Take heart, Wildcat fans: Stanford beat New
Hampshire 119-60 in the opening round of the
Invitational. The Cardinal reached the century
mark with just under 10 minutes to go.

Class of ’99...

Class of 1999 forward Ben Ebong signed on
Nov. 15 with the Des Moines Dragons of the
International Basketball Association. In 10 games
through Dec. 22, he was averaging 5.2 points and
5.3 rebounds in 17.5 minutes a game. Ebong will
start with an Australian club in early February.

Point man Ali Ton is with Mydonose Kolej in
Turkey’s top professional league.

=

f

<
H

- Brian Turner drives baseline past Wofford’s Starzee Walker in the

Anna Judy

Wildcats’ 77-62 win over the Terriers last Thursday at Belk Arena.

days later with a spirited eight-point, three-re-
bound effort as the men’s basketball team defeated
Furman, 74-63.

It’s no secret and the 6-foot-3 senior was
unhappy about his demotion to the bench after two
years as a starter. But no longer. ;

“I was finding myself for the first part of the
season,” he said. “It was hard for me to accept my
role. Obviously, I was struggling. But I thought a
lot about it. And I guess I had to focus on my game
— not what was out of my control.”

Halbauer knocked in two back-breaking three-
pointers in the second half — one at 12:20 to put
the Wildcats up 45-34, another with less than three
minutes to go that gave the team a 71-59 bulge and
all but put the game away.

If Halbauer put forth the effort, senior post
player Stephen Marshall provided the point pro-
duction.

Marshall tallied 20 of his game-high 24 points
in the second 20 minutes. He also went 8-for-8
from the line and contributed six rebounds before
fouling out late.

“We've been starting slow in the past few
games,” Marshall said. “But tonight in the second
half it came together. Our offense clicked.”

of home stand

Anna Judy

Jeff Bergmann’s five 3-pointers.
lifted the Wildcats over Wofford.

intensity for 40 minutes. Wofford pulled ahead
early, but Bergmann’ first trey of the night pushed
the score to 10-8, giving the lead back to Davidson
and erasing Wofford’s only lead of the game.

“We've always known he could shoot the
ball,” coach Bob McKillop said of Bergmann.
“Jeff Bergmann responds to our offense because
he has teammates who are willing to make the
extra pass and give it to him.”

McKillop also praised point man Fern Tonella
for having his best game as a Wildcat. Tonella
recorded four points and five assists in 17 minutes.

McKillop lauded the performance of Brian
Turner, also, who finished with 7 rebounds and 14
points, including two threes and a perfect perfor-
mance from the line.

“Guys are stepping up,” said Bergmann, who
had three teammates—Turner, Wayne Bernard, and
Landry Kosmalski-score in double-digits.

“We are a different team than we were one
month ago, even two weeks ago. Hopefully guys
will keep stepping up and we'll be a better team
two weeks from now.”

The Wildcats returned to action Saturday
night for the third time in five days and defeated
the VMI Keydets 80-69.

Stephen Marshall led the squad with 21 points
in 22 minutes. Landry Kosmalski chipped in 20
points, grabbed 9 rebounds and notched 7 assists.

“I feel more like I’m in my routine,”
Kosmalski said. “I’m feeling better and my shoot-
ing and rebounding shows that.”
