2 Tue Davsonian

} NEWS.

Tuurspay, Apri 20, 2000

Performing Wiakscpeare Stages a success

By Setu Davis
News Editor

Call it another success for the Perform-
ing Shakespeare seminar, because that’s ex-
actly what it was.

This year’s production was Romeo and
Juliet—Trey Davis and Jennifer Carlyle por-
trayed the two young lovers.

The students in Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s
seminar worked throughout the semester to
prepare the production. They played the
roles, prepared the set, and made the cos-

eck

international | ational

IT WAS A GOOD a

Developing Countries: Representatives
from 133 developing countries met in Ha-
vana, Cuba for a summit on development
issues. Included in the itinerary was a
speech by Fidel Castro, in which he ex-
horted these countries to stand up to the
developed world.

Korea, Kim Jong Il, agreed to meet Presi-
dent Kim Dae Jung of South Korea in
June. The meeting will take place in
Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea.

Jiang Zemin: The President of China
paid the first visit by a Chinese head of
state to Israel. Despite US objections,
Israel announced that it would go ahead
with a deal to supply China with an ad-
vanced early-warning radar plane.

Costas Simitis: The incumbent prime-
| minister of Greece’s party, The
Panhellenic Socialist Movement, nar-
rowly won ‘the general election, beating
the New Democracy party by a single
percentage point. —

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Hansie Cronje: In a confession that took
the cricketing world by storm, the captain
of South Africa’s cricket team admitted to
having accepted money: from an Indian
bookmaker to forecast the result of a match
in which he- was soon to play. He was
sacked as captain and dropped from the
team on the verge of an important series
against world champions, Australia.

Philippines: More than 100,000 people
have fled their homes in the southern Phil-
ippines to escape fighting between gov-
ernment forces and Islamic separatists.
Two rebel groups in the mostly Roman
Catholic country are fighting for the cre-
ation of a separate Islamic state.

Afghanistan: The United Nations Hu-
man Rights Commission published a re-
port condemning the present status of
women in the country. The report claimed
that the situation “shocks the conscience
of mankind.”

Korea: The controversial leader of North |

tumes, as a troupe in Shakespearean England
would have done. Dr. Lewis acted as teacher,

advisor, and director during the process. Per-_

forming Shakespeare has a tradition at David-
son, which Dr. Lewis began in hopes of
enabling her students to gain new insights
into the works of the playwright.

Carlyle, complete with wig, played a
Juliet who matures as the play progresses.
Her Juliet began as a girl ready to please her
mother and giddy at the prospect of marriage.
By the play’s conclusion, Carlyle’s Juliet had
become an independent self, defiant of her
parents. Carlyle portrayed this evolution
with deftness. She was able, for example, to
communicate to the audience all the ironic
undertones and linguistic wit of Juliet’s speech
to her mother after Tybalt’s death.

Davis was particularly convincing as the
starry-eyed Romeo of the first half of the
play. Like Carlyle, Davis was also able to

Asia3D aims
for diversity
and inclusion

By Setu Davis
News Ediotr

The newly-formed Asia3D organization
has a long term view on diversity at David-
son.

“If you look at the bigger picture, we are
using this organization to liberate the lives of
students here at Davidson,” says Hun Chor
Shin, president of Asia3D (Association of
Students Interested in Asiaand Asian America
at Davidson).

“Our membership policies are open.
We’re inclusive,” says Shuhei Matsuo,
Asia3D’s vice president. Matsuo points out
that fully half of Asia3D’s membership hails
from non-Asian descent.

“We’re actually one of the most diverse
student organizations in terms of member-
ship. There are African-Americans, Latin
Americans, Asians, and Caucasians in
Asia3D.. There are freshmen, sophomores,
and juniors in the organization. We want to
draw membership from everyone,” says Shin.

The organization’s members hope that
Asia3D can fill both a social and cultural role
at Davidson. On one hand, Asia3D is a social

. group designed to bring together members

from all parts of the Davidson community.
But the group has an educational flair, hoping
to bring speakers to campus and host cultural
events intended to promote awareness of
Asia and Asian America in the community.

“We hope that everyone in the Davidson
community will benefit from this
organization’s presence,” says Matsuo.

Shin agrees, and adds that the group’s
diversity will contribute to that goal.

The organization began meeting this se-
mester after receiving a charter from SGA.
At present, there are 42 members in Asia3D.

At present, Asia3D plans to hold two
events before the semester ends. The first of
these events will be a forum intended to
introduce Asia3D to the campus and to exam-
ine the question: “What does it mean to be
Asian?”

The second event will be a social event,

in which members and interested students .

convincingly perform the change in Romeo
that occurs as the play unravels itself into
tragedy. His Romeo was so eminently lik-
able in the first half of the play—he was
romantic, poetic, and philosophical. But af-
ter Mercutio’s (Justin Perkinson) death,
Davis’s Romeo became wildly passionate.
At the same time, Davis was able to raise
Romeo’s death up to the tragic pitch.

As so often happens in productions of
Romeo and Juliet, Mercutio threatened to
steal the play away from the two lovers and
make it a comic romp through an endless
litany of sexual innuendo and comedy.

Before Mercutio’ s death in Act III, Scene
1, Perkinson played the ribald character as he
was meant to be played. While Davis spoke
convincing and beautiful lines of poetry as
Romeo, Perkinson’s Mercutio danced about,
playing to and with the audience.

While Mercutio danced, fought, and pel-
vic-thrusted his way around the play, Maurie
Ponder’s Nurse was another kind of comic
force. Ponder was able to effectively convey
the Nurse’s love for Juliet. True to the play,
Ponder’s Nurse was an almostconstant source
of comic relief.

Ponder’s bubbly, vivacious, and heart-
felt character was both comic (as it was
intended) and deeply caring. Chase

Brindgardner’s Friar Lawrence, like Ponder’ s
Nurse, was also a force for comedy in the
play. Atthe same time, it is Friar Lawrence’s
plan that unravels, leading to the tragedy.
Brindgardner was able to portray the Friar
both as a comic figure, and, in the tragedy’s
end, as a pathetic figure.

Lindsay Hughes’s Lady Capulet, in con-
trast to the Nurse, was poignantly distant and
uncaring, even at times cruel to Juliet. Tim
Laramy’s Lord Capulet was fierce. His por-
trayal of Capulet’s capacity for rage was
particularly convincing. Audience members
in the front row sank back from the figure of
Laramy standing over the kneeling Juliet, his
hand poised as if to strike, his voice sharp and
stabbing.

As the scene closed, one of the audience
members remarked loudly as a kind of anti-
climax, “Man, he is angry.” Yes, he was.

Similarly, Travis Martz portrayed a bit-
ter, angry Tybalt. Martz delivered the fiery
character’s line as if each was an angry exhor-
tation. .
The Performing Shakespeare seminar
stayed faithful to Shakespeare’ s text, includ-
ing every line. The resulting production
displayed the comic and tragic force of Romeo
and Juliet.

FENNEC
science

grand canyon
sea of cortez
Sonoran desert

blioe lab oratory

CENTER

Enroll Now!

Earth Semester or Universe Semester
September - December 2000
Four Summer Programs Offered
A total immersion experience :
Environmental science in Arizona
16 Ivy League credits - Financial aid available
www .bio2.edu - 800-992-4603 - email: arizona@bio2. edu

Bolivia: In the country’s third largest city,
Cochabamba, President Hugo Banzer
declared a state of emergency, sending
police with tear gas and rubber bullets to
try to quell demonstrators who hurled rocks
and gasoline bombs at them. The
government’s move came after a week of
protests over rising water rates, unem-
ployment, and other economic cificulbies
plaguing the nation.

can come together.

Both Shin and Matsuo believe that
Asia3D has a unique and important role on
campus. They also plan to engage other
student organizations on campus in order to
promote diversity and inclusiveness at David-
son.

“We have fun and cultural activities
planned. But, ultimately, we want to contrib-
ute to the creation of the great American pie,”
says Shin.

