THE DAVIDSONIAN

Take it down or leave it up?

That is the central question in the con-
troversy raging about the confederate flag
flying atop the South Carolina Statehouse.

As the issue swirls around the country,
some fervently argue that the confederate
flag symbolizes tradition while honoring
the soldiers who. died in the Civil War.
Others vehemently assert that the flag re-
mains a symbol of hate and oppression. A
recent poll conducted among South Caro-
lina voters showed that only’a slight major-
ity (52 pércent) want the flag removed.

But somewhere between these two
strong and steadfast viewpoints lies a third
group of people. A group of people who just
cannot make up their minds. A group of
people who refuse to take a stand on taking
down the flag.

And who are these passive and un-
opinionated individuals? Frighteningly, they
are the people whose jobs are based on
voicing their opinions. They are our politi-
cal leaders.

Elizabeth Dole cleansed her hands of
the controversy stating, “That’s.very much
a state issue, and, obviously, that’s some-
thing the voters and the people of\South
Carolina will have to resolve.”

Even South Carolina Governor;- Jim
Hodges, stalled on taking a definitive stand,
calling for the flag to be “moved from the
dome to.a place of historical significance on
the statehouse grounds.”

Texas Governor George W. Bush, who
many consider to be the White House front-
runner, took an unctuously passive stand, “I
believe the people of South Carolina can
figure out what [to] do with the flag. I don’t
believe it’s the role of someone from outside
South Carolina, someone running for Presi-
dent, to come into this state and tell the
people of South Carolina what to do with
their business.”

_The debate moderator pressed on, “Gov-
ernor Bush, as a human being, what is your
visceral reaction at the sight of a Confeder-
ate flag?”

It seemed the governor had no human,
visceral reaction.

Taking a stand and taking it down

Telling people “what to do with their
business” and deciding between right and
wrong has long been the role of an elected
servant.

Inevitably, whether justified or not,
Americans look to their leaders to promote
morality in our country. During the whole
President Clinton—Monica Lewinsky- saga
most politicians did not have any qualms
about voicing their opinions, condemning
President Clinton for what they considered to
be immoral acts or attacking Kenneth Starr
for his investigation.

Where is the politicians’ moral stance on
the confederate flag debate? Or is the “moral-
ity card” only to be trumped in times of low
risk and little controversy?

America’s presidential hopefuls and
South Carolina’s governor seem to have opted
for indifference and appeasement rather than
decisiveness and conviction.

Dante wrote, “The hottest places in hell
are reserved for those who, in a period of
moral crisis, maintain their neutrality.”

Weat Davidson do not néed to look to far
to see the positive results of acting with con-
viction against a moralWrong. Just nine
months ago, the Studd Government Asso-
ciation gave emphatic support to a resolution
calling for an anti-discrimination clause in the
Codé'6F Responsibility. Davidson’ s political
leadérs acted decisively in issuing an adamant
stance against such hatred and oppression.

Dr. King said the best leader is someone
who not only takes a stand during times of
comfort and convenience, but one that takes a
stand during times of conflict and contro-
versy,” described Margaret Rush, president
of the South Carolina Black Chamber of Com-
merce.

The time has come for America’s politi-
cians to stop worrying about pleasing voters
and follow Rush’s advice. The time has come
to take a decisive stand on this highly contro-
versial issue. The time has come to make a
decision.

Maybe these politicians could learn some-
thing from the students of a small liberal arts
college in North Carolina.

Che Dabtdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY.

A

Sports Edito
BURGIN HAI

Ff
Executive Lay dur Ebitor

BEN COVI TON:

aIN/ “DAY

JUSTIN OSSMA

Business Managers
PETER‘CLARK Me
{DX JOHNSTON ents

ASsbsidri Busi Manaser Ss
ramce ARK Kes

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON
~“ALISQN KALEFT
A fy “ty

Features Editor
CARRIE RILEY

Op-Ed Editor
ERICA SCHWARTZ

WILL PARKER ;
Editor Emeri Editor Emeritus ~
itor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE
WES GOLDSBERRY CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at

http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. hint.

SES AR TALI NE MOL TNT II IONE ITE 9 0

children’ s game where the participants sit in
a circle and chase each other around? Is it A)
Duck, Duck, Goose; B) Duck, Duck, Par-
tridge; C) Duck, Duck, Stalin; or D) Duck,
Duck, Duck, Goose?” The audience becomes
deathly quiet and the lights dim and become
anew shade. The camera pans from Regis to
Moron #1 as he considers this Herculean test

but rather to the entire audience), “Well, I
know itis either Duck, Duck Goose, or Duck,
Duck, Duck Goose, but I am just not sure how
many ducks there are... I want to say that it is
Duck, Duck, Goose, but since Iam the epitome
of stupidity, I will use my lifeline to ask the
audience, who is obviously much smarter
than lam.” So begins another night of (you’ ve
guessed it!) America’s favorite game show,
“Who Wants to be a Millionaire.”

' [can understand that certain people who
were born and raised in the remote pygmy
villages of the Congo rain forest could have
trouble discerning the subtle difference be-
tween “duck, duck, goose” and “duck, duck,
duck goose.” However, moron #1 (the names

idiotic) is over three feet tall and speaks
English rather well, so I can only assume that
he has been exposed to life outside of the
remote bastions of cannibalism.

As you, my perceptive reader might have
guessed, I am less than pleased with the
current genre of game show on television.
Yet, night after night, I tune in. Why is this?
I think it deals with some deep need I have to
feel overly superior in every way, shape, and
form, to my fellow Americans, Apparently, I
am not alone. If I were, this show would not
be so popular and the questions would not

They would have to be that inane...

i ie point. ;
was the Stateof the Union address and ight.
“Picture this. “What is the name of the

of his erudition. He ponders (not to himself, —

have been removed to protect the innocently

have to be so inane. Ok, whom am I kidding? ©

SOIREE ERAS OR Ve nS

before it was another thrilling episode
wherein a bunch of moderately-able indi-

viduals were given chances to win large
sums of money. Someone raised the ques-
tion of what would have happened if the
show had been on during the State of the
Union? Which would have had higher rat-
ings? Unfortunately, we all agreed that
Regis Philbin is more of a draw than the
leader of the most powerful nation in the
world (no offense toanyone who hails from
Trinidad and Tobago, you guys just keep
on truckin’).

Now I have to ask the question: is the
problem that our populace enjoys always
being right? Or, is it that they are really
perplexed by the complexity of whether the
answer is “Duck, Duck, Goose” or “Duck,
Duck, Duck, Goose.” I am not sure which
is more frightening, to be perfectly honest.

What is the most frightening, however, is
the nuclear holocaust that Regis keeps
prophesizing...but I digress...

Don’t get me wrong on Regis. He is a
good guy. To stay with his co-host, Kathy
Lee, after all those sweat shop scandals and
the fact that her blood is complete caffeine
really makes me respect the guy. However,
my respect does not extend to the point that
1 am willing to watch mindlessly while he
mocks my intelligence. So, consider your-
self warned, Mr. Philbin.

Note: Andrew watches this show every
friggin’ night and is addicted to it. He acts

. like George Bush on crack. Furthermore, it
should also be noted that Andrew received
a visit from Mr. Philbin’s attorneys and
during the meeting “fell down the stairs.”
Please send flowers to the Lake Norman
ICU. Finally, I still have not heard a word
about my beloved top hat...-

Calling all

By Taytor HERBERT

Let’s face it, here at Davidson we have a
finite amount of free time. We all have things
that we have wanted to try or would have done
if only we had the time. Personally, I have
always felt a pull between music and service
commitments. The time I spend rehearsing
with Writing in the Grey (my band) is time that
I cannot spend planning trips for Alternative
Breaks and vice versa. Given the number of
musicians on this campus and the number of
available service activities, I’m certain that
there are others out there with the same prob-
lem. Well, the problem now has a solution.

lam getting together a new organization
to use music as service. I have given it the
working title Looney Tunes. The idea is rela-

tively simple. I think that music can be a tool

to bring people closer together. For me there
is an almost spiritual connection that forms
when I jam with someone and it really clicks.
It’s a feeling that I can’t get from watching
someone else perform, and I think that most
other musicians will tell you the same thing.

I want everyone to be able to have the
same feeling I get when I’m forming that
connection with another musician. I believe
that we can organize a group of students who
will be able to go out into the community and
not only perform music, but involve others in
the process. Think of the enjoyment we could
bring to places like hospital wards, nursing
homes, and elementary schools if we played
with them instead of to them.

Music has become a thing that most people
watch instead of participate in. They prefer to
leave the process to talented amateurs or pro-
fessional stars. It does not have to be that way.
The best thing about this group is that every-
one can participate. My vision is to have a

musicians

concert where every member of the audience
has a drum, a rattle, a bell, a whistle, or dare
I say it, an accordion.

The bottom line is I need people to be a
part of this project. I need people to play the
guitar, flute, piccolo, bassoon, tuba, and even
the hambones. I want you if you can sing,
drum, bang on stuff, or clap your hands. I
need people to help write, select, and arrange
songs, I need people to sit around and tell us
we stink so we can figure out ways to get
better. I need people to tell me if I'll get sued
for copyright infringement for calling the
group Looney Tunes. I want you even if you
think you have no musical talent. I want you
especially becausé you think you have no
musical talent. Some of the best jam sessions
I’ve had were at a paper mill when my co-
workers and I started banging on empty paint
cans with paint rollers. It brought us closer
together that summer and I think it can work
in other settings too. Professors and staff are
welcome. I invite anyone with a pulse to
attend our meetings.

We as students have the power and tal-
ents to enrich our lives and the lives of others
through music. I am really excited about the
prospect of this organization; I really think it
can work. I hope to one day expand the scope
of this group to encompass things like free
music lessons and getting workshops brought
to campus. If you want to be a part of this
undertaking, have any ideas about how things
should run, or want to suggest anew name for
the group, please come to our first meeting
Sunday, February 6, at8:00in the Morison
Room or contact me through email:
taherbert @ davidson.edu.

Sincerely,

Taylor Herbert
