_. Tae Davipsonian

VAC,

_ from page 1 .
rowful one. “It’s the sound and the motion of
the piece that’s the content,” he explains.

Sometimes the viewer activates the kinetic
element of Savage’s works, sometimes the
work activates itself, and sometimes the only
activation required is the viewer’s. engage-
ment. “The viewer has to be present to com-
plete any work; he brings his expe-
rience to it,” says Savage. “I like to
wrestle with the question of who
controls who.”

Professor Herb Jackson’s ab-
stract oil-crayon drawings cover
the walls of the room directly be-
hind Savage’s sculptures. Colors
reach across canvases where they
merge with, overlap, and disap-
pear under others.

When junior Becca Wilson ex-
amined Jackson’s works, she dis-
covered painting after painting
within every single canvas.

-

- Tate the inner. room of the gallery ‘beside

Jackson’s exhibit. Each canvas boasts bright
colors, animated lines, and funky shapes in a
cubist style.

Warren believes that much of his inspira-
tion arises from his “fascination with the folk
signs in South Carolina.” While driving with
his family each summer along the back roads
of the state, he would pass signs selling ev-
erything from religion to watermelons.

He plays with the texts and
illustrations of these signs,
weaving slogans like “Trust
in God, but Tie your Horse”
and advertisements like “U-

‘Pic-Um” into the designs of
his works.

Warren taps into his musi-
cal interest by painting in-
struments in many of works.
Thomas notes the merging
of cultures in the exhibit’s
title piece, “Elvis Ain’t no
Cubist,” which features three
stringed instruments within

She marveled at Jackson’s abil- Elvis Ain +n no Cubist the outline a house.

ity to “communicate the infinitein Russ Warren

a single object and a single form.”

The paintings made her realize that “the col-
ors in the world around us shape our view of
the world, and that view can shift so quickly.”

Jackson explains that the dynamics of the
color on the paper is “‘a direct reflection of the
gesture of the artist.” In producing a work, he
applies 30 to 50 layers of color to the paper
and “responds to each layer” by adding new
colors and scraping into existing. ones with
anything from a fingernail to dental tool.

Gallery Director Brad Thomas admires
Jackson’s improvisational ability: “One of
the most important skills for an artist to have
is being able to improvise—to go where the
painting takes you.”

“There is a richness in his work,” adds
Thomas, “that comes from having done it for
thirty years and staying on a steady path.”

Paintings by Professor Russ Warren deco-

The art connoisseur, Tho-
mas states, “knows Picasso
and other artists as well as the general public
knows Elvis. It’s funny to see that combina-
tion of cultures in the title.”

Despite the irony present in the line “Elvis
Ain’t no Cubist,” Warren admits that the idea
came to him in a dream about his daughter’s
dog, Elvis, and a seminar he was teaching in
cubism.

In the Smith Gallery across the hall, Pro-
fessor Kimberley Richards has combined her
passions for fishing and art to create a display
that reveals Genecorp Company’s develop-
ment of a new breed of fish, the
“V AMPIREBASS.”

A card mounted on the wall of the exhibit,
composed by Genecorp’s management, ex-
plains, “The VAMPIREBASS tm is a tech-
nological breakthrough unlike any other. We
have taken the number one most popular

game fish in America, the Large Mouth Bass, 3

and hybridized it by means of the Dracula

_ mutation. The result is the VAMPIREBASS

tm, a fish that will explode if exposed to
sunlight. Thanks to our new invention, the
night fishing world will never be the same.”

Richards says that sports-fishermen covet
the new breed of bass because its color, eerie
eyes, and aggression make it more thrilling to

catch and more impressive to hang on the:

wall.

In the exhibit, Richards displays paintings
of infected embryos, drawings of “unfortu-
nate, yet interesting” mutations, diagrams of
diet models, sculptures of trial color schemes,

Prva
ploding during the day.

“Genecorp’s goal is to make money, and |

my goal is to make people realize that compa-
nies are using genetically created creatures to
make money,” asserts Richards. “Ican’tsave

‘the world. I can only educate people about

things I’m concerned about—and hope that
they’ ll become concerned too.”

The works of Jackson, Warren, and Savage
will occupy the Van Every and Edward M.
Smith Gallery through the end of September,
and the work of Richards will occupy the
Smith Gallery until the first of October.

Gore,

America needs to combat international
terrorism and drug trafficking, help treat and
prevent global epidemics suchas HIV-AIDS,
and encourage the protection of the natural
environment. By stopping such threats, a
Gore administration would end the most
direct ways the average American is nega-
tively affected by international influences.

Domestic issues and policy are what the
candidates and citizens have chosen to focus
on this election year. However, foreign
policy issues are extremely important dur-
ing this time where borders tend to change
on a monthly basis, if not more frequently.
Al Gore has the experience and understands
it will be his “profound responsibility to
open the gates of opportunity for all the
world’s people.”

Bush,

But it goes beyond spending and into the
alteration of relationships with many states
and organizations. Paramount among these
reconsiderations would be the US’s rela-
tionship with China and our involvement in
the United Nations. The Governor believes
that nation must establish a more competi-

tive relationship in which the threat that
China poses to US interests is recognized as
real and upcoming. This change of focus
includes closer relations with Taiwan, Ja-
pan, Australia, and South Korea.

Governor Bush also believes that the US’s
role in the UN needs to be reevaluated. Bush
will not allow such an unresponsive and
unaccountable global bureaucracy to con-
trol deployed troops, believing that only US
officers should command US armed forces.
He will continue to demand reform in the
UN and will seek to end the nation’s
disproportionally high costs as a member.
Bush supports the UN and their noble hu-
manitarian causes but seeks to restrict their
preparedness to infringe upon sovereignty.
Above all, Governor Bush wishes to keep
the US as the current leader of this interna-
tional organization.

Under Governor George W. Bush,
America will reclaim its lost prestige in the
world. US soldiers will be proud to serve
under an administration that respects them

and refuses to allow them to live on govern-
ment assistance. Under Bush, the US mili-
tary will be the most powerful and the best
prepared. Foreign policy will be driven by
US interests alone, will be clear and, deci-
sive, and will be backed by a reformed
military.

Bellacino’s Pizza
Quizno's Subs
Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream
Summit Coffee

see the magician, have your face painted, collect
| balloons, win prizes, and hear “The Delilahs,”
widson College's female a capelliles group.

DOGWOOD DELL

or er of Concord Road and Faculty Drive)
eptember 23.¢ 12 p.m.-2 p.m.

Homecoming Lunch Festival!

featuring food and beverages from:

Rain Location: Grey College Union

