THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Lauren Baird

In the week leading up to International
Women’s Day on March 8, the air in Washing-
ton, DC resounded with more than just a fan-
fare of celebrating voices. In addition to the
many planned events and marches, Amnesty
International and other human rights organiza-
tions generated a different kind of noise. They
inundated the nation’s legislators with phone
calls and faxes — a loud and insistent clamor
directed towards ratification of the Convention
onthe Elimination of All Forms of Discrimina-
tion Against Women.

Supporters call it CEDAW for short and claim

News

®
Lack of support for women’s rights within the US government

that it’s a “dynamic, proactive approach to
women’s advancement.” Its principal oppo-
nents don’t say anything at all. By refusing to
address the convention, adversaries of this in-
ternational treaty hope it will languish quietly
as forgotten legislation.

Until very recently, the silent treatment
method has succeeded. As chair of the Foreign
Relations Committee, Senator Jesse Helms (R-
NC) refuses to rescue the convention from its
inertia of neglection. The United Nations
adopted CEDAW in 1979, and President Carter
sent the treaty to Congress for consent after
eagerly signing it in early 1980. In the interven-
ing twenty years, 162 other nations have rati-

WE COME TO YOU!

FREE IN-HOME/ OFFICE CONSULTATIONS,
FREE DELIVERY, FREE SYSTEM SETUP ON

FC~COMMUNICATIONS

SERVING NORTH MECK
& SOUTH IREDELL
_ SINCE 1997

OFFERING COMPLETE

COMPUTER SOLUTIONS

COMPUTER SALES, SERVICE, SUPPLIES, TRAINING, INTERNET
SERVICES, DIGITAL CAMERAS, SATELLITE TV SYSTEMS,
HOME/SMALL OFFICE NETWORKING

ALL SYSTEMS! GUARANTEED LOW PRICES!

CALL US AT

(704)662-6650

OR VISIT OUR WEB PORTAL AT:

WWW.HANDTECH.COM/FCCOM
EMAIL: FCCOM@HANDTECH.COM

fied it but the
United States
has not. Secre-
tary of State
Madeline
Albright _ re-
cently quipped,
“It’s not
(Helms’ } favor-
ite treaty, but I
have made it
clear it is an ad-
ministrative pri-
ority.”

As a
document,
CEDAW de-
fines discrimi-
nation against
women and re-
quires states to
eliminate that
discrimination
in civil, political,
social, _ eco-
nomic, and cul-
tural arenas. As
an international
movement,
CEDAW repre-
sents the stance
that neutrality

Wor

has no legitimacy in the worldwide realization
of women’s human rights. In the United States,
ratifying CEDAW would signal both our inter-
national awareness of these goals and our do-
mestic commitment to secure them.

When Congress designated March as Na-
tional Women’s History Month thirteen years
ago, the resolution acknowledged that “Ameri-
can women of every race, class, and ethnic
background served as early leaders in the fore-
front of every major progressive social change
movement.” Yet, last year, when a delegation
of women representatives (led by Lynn
Woolsey, D-CA) interrupted acommittee meet-
ing to demand attention for CEDAW, they
found themselyes selectively removed from
the embattled “forefront” they had fought to
achieve. Helms admonished them to “please
act like ladies” and had the group unceremoni-
ously expelled from the hearing. In protest of
both the frustrating disregard for the treaty and
Helms’ insulting performance, Barbara Boxer
(D-CA) introduced Senate Resolution 237, call-
ing for hearings and Senate action on CEDAW
by International Women’s Day.

Many of the women and men who took
action on March 8, 2000 are members of the
“Third Wave.” This is a generation of feminists
who find themselves arrested between the al-
lure of complacency and the glamour of activ-
ism. Although armed with the influence of “the
personal is the political,” we are tempted to
indifferently enjoy the equalities secured for us
by the preceding ebb and flow of the feminist
movement. However, we possess in this third

- wave both the imagination and ability to trans-

form ideologies into living instruments for
change.

In her 1969 commencement address at
Wellesley, Hilary Rodham asserted that “the
challenge now is to practice politics as the art of
making what appears to be impossible, pos-
sible.” The challenge now involves the possi-
bility of an international paradigm. In its design
to dismantle all discrimination, CEDAW rep-
resents politics as the art of essential action. It
also opposes a notion of globalization that

This Summer

The Library

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

2s ts

undervalues or neglects the needs and contri-
butions of women.

As a powerful and internationally recog-
nized lever, the convention allows women
worldwide to benefit from innovative strate-
gies of political and social transformation.
Feminist and cultural theorist, Julia Kristeva,
identifies “dissatisfaction and creativity” as the
qualities of a Third Wave consciousness. Inher
estimation and in the appraisal of other activ-
ists, the arena of international human rights—
specifically extended to women—symbolizes
the “upheaval that will require a new ethics” in
feminist thought.

The ethics of legitimacy for all human
liberation is not compatible with a congress

’ that ignores essential humanitarian legislation—

or a committee chairman who asks his col-
leagues to “behave like ladies.” In the United
States, we have to galvanize our actions to
address the increasing globalization of eco-
nomic and cultural life. Internationally, we
must redefine the concept of human rights to
reflect the position of women in the global
order. By identifying andempowering women’s
voices, we ensure that the experience and ex-
pertise of women will be included in interna-
tional agendas.

Both CEDAW and International Women’s
Day have the potential to become potent instru-
ments for the international women’s move-
ment. The clamor of dissatisfaction and cre-
ativity and the sounds of phones and faxes
promise to manifest the third option of the
Third Wave—a social model that ensures the
universality of human rights while respecting
individual diversities. On March 8, feminist
activists around the world expressed their com-
mitment to eliminate all forms of discrimina-
tion against women. Hopefully, the United
States and Jesse Helms will summon the imagi-
nation to respond.

The author is a junior English major from Temple,
Texas. She is presently studying abroad in Scotland.

k in Davidson

Summer Employment in

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer
workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should
Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332
