Physical Plant (among other depart-
ments) toiled to bring about this pro-
gram—Whitney Frazier, a senior class
senator, also helped to spearhead these
efforts and served as an SGA iene to
these other organizations.

In other recent news, Beth Gardner
has been hard at work as the new Rides
Committee chair. She will be looked to
torevive the VAMONOS van service—
providing students with free rides on
Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights
anywhere between Exits 25 and 36.

Atarecent faculty committee meet-
ing, the SGA learned that the college
has made an official change in their
Pass/Fail policy. Students now will
have six weeks to designate (or
undesignate) a class with the pass/fail
grading option. (Policy up to this point
gave students three weeks to select a
class, and a total of nine weeks to

‘unselect it). Furthermore, students will
not need their adviser’s signature to
select a pass-fail course.

The issue of smoking on campus
was deliberated at length, and at day’s
end the SGA gave it’s endorsement to
the option of assigning one residence
hall on campus to be smoke-free.
Sentelle will be the smoke-free
upperclass building for 2000-2001.

The SGA is actively supporting
the Oxfam dinner, the culmination of
Hunger and Poverty Awareness Week,
sponsored by CROP (Christian Rural
Outreach Program). The dinner is de-
signed to give people a taste of how
food distribution in the world actually
works, It will last from 6:00 until 7:30
on April 26 in the Harrison room of the
Commons. The dinner only cost $3;
tickets are on sale during lunch and
dinner at the Commons all week. It
promises to be a powerfully eye-open-
ing experience.

Perhaps the most exciting event
taking place rightnow in the SGA isthe

the Sune of the Capitol, a smaller

battle flag would be flown from a flag-

pole in the front lawn of the statehouse.
The matter now goes to the State House,
where it faces a divided legislature.

In related news, President Vagt
has voiced his support for an on-cam-
pus summit of Southern Conference
SGA Presidents. The president has
offered free lodging in the guest houses
to Southern Conference presidents that

_ might attend. Finally, the SGA will be
sponsoring a letter-writing campaign
‘later this week, urging the State of

Bd oy eerie

outh Cuslins to cease its is ela of

VIEWPOINT
Where have all the heroes gone?

PART TWO OF TWO

The despicable actions and attitudes re-
flected in the sports world have permeated to
other public arenas that were once sources of
heroism. One glaring example is politics.
Now, some of you may think I am crazy for
thinking politics is a hotbed of heroism, but
please bear with me. These most recent presi-
dential primaries were brawls, not over the
issues, but over who had committed the worst
actions as a politician. Let me just say that the
concept of accentuate the positive did not
come into play during these presidential pri-
maries. Arizona senator John McCain and
Texas governor George Bush threw enough

‘punches to fill up an entire season of Friday

night fights on ESPN. Former senator Bill
Bradley tried to ignore Vice President Al
Gore’s slanderous tactics, but ignored them
too long. It cost him any chance at-the nomi-
nation. The previous sentence is perhaps the
most shameful part of the American political
arena. Mudslinging, not campaigning on the
issues, still wins votes and thus, wins elec-
tions. Special interests still rule the day in
Washington and America even with the nega-
tive ads they support financially and even
with the small businesses they destroy through
political favors. These political favors are the
result of huge campaign contributions I might
add. For all future politicians, do not worry
about being educated about the issues. Just
know how to put down your opponent in any
way possible and know how to shake hands
and act superficially in order to garner huge
campaign contributions. Standing up for
something, fighting for the weak against the
strong, and thus, acting like a hero, does not
mean anything any more in politics. Politi-
cians no longer regard themselves to act like
their predecessors such as Franklin Delano
Roosevelt and Harry Truman. Unlike those
men they do not act as guardians of American
security. They do not feel they are account-
able for ensuring the American dream.
They do not inspire a sense of civic duty
or participation. They do not act as avenues
for the American people to seek justice and to
maintain their freedom. They do not give the

’ American people hope. They act only as

guardians of themselves and the special inter-
ests that get them elected. In order to be
successful today, politicians must only think
of themselves and money. Politics is about
money and connections. It is not about ideas
and values. It is not about heroism.

Sports and politics, with disgrace and
without dignity, have failed horribly in their
once-viewed roles—the role of an arena that
encouraged, promoted, and developed the

values of heroism. What arenas are left to turn
to? Policemen, protectors of the public safety
and preservers of the common good, sound
like they could be heroes. The Amadou Diallo
tragedy and the scandal that has rocked the
Los Angeles police department are examples
that certainly challenge that potentiality. These
horrible events reflect ignorance and total
lack of accountability for our actions. Four
New York City. police officers are found
innocent of any criminal wrongdoing after
they shot an unarmed black man, Amadou

Diallo, forty-one times while the man was

standing at his front door step. Right now if I
lived in New York, I would be afraid to even
go outside after dark. Policemen, who are
usually regarded as those who guarantee our

THurspAy, APRIL 20, 2000 B :

power and violence. It:does not thrive on
heroism. This is evident in not just movies,
television, and video games, but in real life. I
have stated numerous examples, but just to ©
jog your memory, do not forget that one first
grader shot another first grader two weeks
ago in Michigan. However, to even further
emphasize my point, ther¢ is the event that
happens this Monday. On Monday future
Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Marino will
retire after seventeen seasons as a profes-
sional. Dan has rewrote the record books for
his position and at the same time represented
all that is good not just in sports, but in life.
Dan is a dedicated and loyal player (he only
played for one team his entire career) and a
man extremely dedicated to his wife and

public safety, children. That
havenowbe- “Sports and politics, with disgrace and without dig- _ isthe mainrea-
come threats son he decided

to it. lam not
finished yet.
Cops have
become
threats to some of our most basic constitu-
tional rights. Why don’t you ask Rodney
King or Abner Louima about this last state-
ment. Policemen have demonstrated that they
do not respect nor acknowledge the impor-
tance, significance, and sanctity of the United
States Constitution. They spit on and abuse
a document that was created by some of
America’s most cherished heroes. ;

Now, if you have read all the sections of
this submission, you are probably asking
yourself four questions. How is this all con-
nected? What is heroism’s relation to any of
this? Why is this meaningful and why should
we care?

To answer the first question, these inci-
dents are a result of an attitude that has
permeated throughout many aspects of our
society. This attitude is one that promotes
gaining power and wealth at the expense of
others. Also, it promotes selfishness, igno-
rance, and a lack of accountability for our
actions. The answer to the second question is
that heroism is suppressed by the attitude
described in the answer to the first question.
Finally, why is this meaningful and in any
way significant? It is important because the
idea of being a hero, the idea of being a
mentor, the idea of just being there for some-
body, especially a young person, has almost
been suppressed to the point where it is no
longer effective or important. It is not that
bad. American society still needs heroes and
there are plenty of them out there. However,
it just does everything in its power to downplay

_their roles, contributions, and effectiveness.

American society thrives on sex, money,

Honor Council to hold forum

We would like to take this opportunity to
introduce ourselves to you as your new Chair
and Secretary of the Honor Council. One of
our major goals is to increase communication
between the Honor Council and the college
community. The past few weeks are indica-
tive of this need for more dialogue, and we
appreciate the student comments and criti-
cisms recently expressed in Davidsonian sub-
missions. While we disagree with much of
the misinformed commentary, we view these
pieces as a wake-up Call and realize that it is
our responsibility to better educate the stu-
dent body.

Wesupport the Davidsonian’s viewpoint
in their April 6" editorial “Defending the
Code.” But not every matter can be ad-
dressed in one article. In an effort to carry this
welcomed dialogue to the next level, a forum
is in the works for early May. We want to
personally invite everyone to come ready to
participate in this open discussion. Ofcourse,
you’ ve all read your Red Book from cover to
cover, but looking over it before the forum

would be beneficial. Look for publicity after '

Easter break.

The Honor Code is the backbone of our
college. Everyone should have acomfortable
understanding of it, and the Honor Council
can help make this happen. Please feel free to
contact us with your questions and concerns,
as we are here to serve you.

Sincerely,

Justin Perkinson, Chair
E-mail: juperkinson
Phone: 987-2125

Lee Ann Petty, Secretary
E-mail: lepetty
Phone: x6110

nity, have failed horribly in their once-viewed
roles — the roles of an arenas that encouraged, pro-
moted, and developed the values of heroism.”

not to come
back this year
and play for
another team.
However, despite all his accolades and de-
spite the fact that he is a wonderful and model
human being, he will perhaps only be really
remembered because he never won a Super
Bowl. Winning is the only thing that matters
to American society and Dan Marino’s career
is an excellent example of this. Unfortu-
nately, we will only remember that Dan never
one a Super Bowl. We will forget the classy
player and the great competitor that he was.
We will forget the wonderful human being,
father and husband that he was. We will
forget that he set the standard for excellence
on and off the field. He made the game better
and the fans better, and we should all be
grateful.

However, in accordance with what
American society feels is important today,
we will indeed forget all these things. We will
forget the heroes because supposedly they
are not important any more. Once Americans
feel that no greater tragedy can occur, another
one does occur and it is even more horrible
than the previous ones. Violence, greed, hate,
and wealth, have put the ideals of values,
heroism, and good acts in a coma in our
society. I fear that these ideas will never wake
up. In light of this statement, all Americans
must realize that we still need heroes. The
question Americans must then. ask them-
selves is, “Do we want heroes?” We must
answer yes.

Tadd Bevan ’02

Current Honor
Council members:

Chris Cho
Matt Clifford
Winnie Corrigan
Carter Grant
Paul Gravel
Eric Knoche
Noel McFadden-Gerber
Ksenija Milutinovic
Lauren Schultz
Kirk Willingham
Lydia Wilson
Mike Anderson
Nick Blackwell
Grant Bleecher
Jeff Cone
Carrie Frazier
Elizabeth Marie-Melchionna
Will Parker
Phil Reed
‘Aditi Sethi
Mary Kathryn White
Shannon-Bishop
Benjamin Ferrell
Hussein Nasreddin

