By RicHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Student Government 101: to whom do stu-
dent organizations turn for money, equip-
ment, and advice on budgeting?

Various chairpersons and presidents know
that the Activities Tax Council (ATC) is the
primary source of funding for most student
groups. However, they tend to keep their
dealings with the ATC to a minimum.

When groups do approach the ATC, their
tone and posture usually reflect their view of
the ATC as a necessary evil — a small, tight-
fisted group with the unpleasant ability to pry
into organizations’ fiscal records.

ATC chair Randy Skattum ’01 regrets that
the Council has developed this reputation and
believes that it is a misconception.

In fact, the ATC is not as scary as some
people make it out to be, he claims. “We
know the process [of requesting funds] may
seem overwhelming, but we don’t want to
scare people.”

In addition, the Council does not vanish
after the allocation process is over. “I think
the ATC is perceived as a group that exists

_ every now and again,” explained Skattum.

He hopes that organizations will feel more at
ease coming to the ATC throughout the year,
whether to ask for money for new projects or
to seek help with budgeting crises. “We’re

_ trying to get the word out that we’ re available

all the time,” Skattum asserted.

The ATC is a subsidiary body of the SGA
Senate and is charged with managing and
allocating all of the money collected through
the student activities tax.

Out of its ten. members, the student body
only chooses one. The position of vice-chair
is elected each Spring during the Category II
elections. The vice-chair serves for half a
year and then succeeds to chair at the begin-
ning of the following fall term. According to
Skattum, having the vice-chair on board for a
full semester before assuming the role of
chair lends some continuity to the Council.

Of the remaining seven positions, three
come directly from the ranks of the SGA. The

SGA treasurer has an automatic position, and ~

the president nominates two senators, subject
to the approval of the Senate. In addition,
three members of the student body can apply
for appointment to the Council..-The ATC
holds interviews and makes suggestions to
the SGA president, who in turn nominates
three students, again dependent upon the ap-

Court,

from page 1
has a good mind for justice.”

The members of the court may not hold an
elected SGA position and will serve on the
court from their appointment until they gradu-
ate. It will consist of one member from each
of the three upper classes, appointed by. the
SGA president and approved by the Senate.

Some SGA members questioned the need
for such a court.

“T think that the real question is, ‘Why is it
surfacing now?’” remarked Brent Wilson
’01. “After eight years of not having an SGA
court, I just don’t see it as a necessary body;

student government just isn’t that political.”-

But Patterson argued the court would pro-
vide stability for the SGA.

“Every governmental body needs a system
of checks to keep up the balance of power.
This court will provide such a system,” he
countered.

In the past, the Student Executive Com-
mittee has handled the duties now charged to
the Court.

“Since I have been on campus, no senator
has been officially impeached,” recalled
Erickson. “Instead, a few senators have been
quietly asked to step down from their posi-
tion.”

PED ide Sos eel Wk Jae a ee ee eee Se ee ee eae

proval of the Senate.

The final three members are the Coordina-
tor of Student Activities, the Dean of Stu-
dents, and one faculty member appointed by
the faculty as a body.

Most of the work of the ATC is concen-
trated in two rounds of allocations. The first
takes place in the Spring and involves organi-
zations’ full operating budgets. The second
takes place in the fall and focuses on invest-
ment in equipment and in new ideas.

In both cases, student groups must submit
detailed proposals explaining their past ex-
penditures, projections for the rest of the
year, requests for the coming year, and rea-
sons for the he requests.

The ATC reviews these requests on a case-
by-case basis, first through interviews and
then in closed discussions.

Skattum explained that the Council gener-
ally makes decisions based on consensus,
which seems to work fairly well. It also takes
some of the pressure off the ATC chair when
they present their proposals to the SGA.
“When ATC goes to SGA, we agree on ev-

‘erything,” affirmed Skattum. All Council

members can answer questions and explain
the thinking behind the proposed allocations.

Once the SGA receives the allocation pro-
posals, they are tabled for one to two weeks.

By JOHANNES NoRLING
Staff Writer

Cultural flavor was the theme of the day at
Saturday afternoon’s International Festival,
held on the patio in front of the Little Library.

Organized by continent, the exposition of-
fered a look at the culture, dress and cuisine
of 20 countries around the world and proved
an excellent alternative to the standard box
lunch served at Parent’s Weekend festivities.

On the night before the festival, represen-
tatives from each country gathered to cook
the many dishes that they would serve. Cooks
included not only international students at-
tending Davidson, but also American stu-
dents interested in international cuisine:

Then on Saturday, students dressed in na-
tive clothing presented the food along with

photographs, artifacts, postcards, flags, and
_ other examples of the culture of each country.

At the India table, visitors were everything
from rice and chicken curry to samosa stuffed
with beans. No one dish was a hit. Families

Wepnespay, OcToBER 25, 2000 _

ATC has thankless job of distributing student funds

During this time,. senators are supposed to.
review the decisions of the Council, share the

information with their constituents, and get

feedback. Finally, they vote on the proposal

with no possibility of line-item revision. The

Senate must either approve or reject the allo-

cations as a whole.

Skattum emphasized that the ATC judges
proposals both on their quality and on their
projected benefit for the campus. Especially
in the case of the fall allocations, “[the ATC]
looks at them as investments — you try to sell
it to us.”

He also admitted that the Council’s ability
to question groups’ spending habits can seem
intimidating. “It’s oversight — people look-
ing over their shoulder to see how they spend
their money,” he remarked. At the same time,
the process becomes much more familiar to
applicants with time. “Some people go
through it so often, it’s like visiting old
friends.”

Skattum praised the present ATC and hopes
that it will continue to function at such a high
level. Nevertheless, he did: suggest that stu-
dents might respond more favorably to the
Council if more of the members were elected.
In general, Skattum noted that a “more vis-
ible process for selecting members” would
increase its perceived legitimacy.

Erin Berry

International Festival offers food, culture

kept coming back for more of different tastes
of the world.

Mr. Mallett, father of Anna Mallett ‘04,
was “very impressed with the cultural diver-
sity” displayed at the festival.

The Ethiopia table was also a big hit, offer-
ing such dishes as ferefere and shero. Mallett
especially enjoyed this table.

« “Ethiopia is outstanding,” he said.

In addition to the food, students presented
sculptures and many colorful pictures of Ethio-
pia. Students like Amrote Abdella ’04, who
donned an Ethiopian habesha lebese, com-
pleted the ambiance.

DJs Zsolt Parkanyi and Charlie Carreras,
provided a wide variety of world music at the
festival which contributed to the diverse at-
mosphere..

Perhaps Cahit Ece ’04 summed up the
event best. “Ina small village like Davidson,
it’s a great experience to have people from all
around the world to eat food and listen to
music in such a great environment.”
