THE DAVIDSONIAN

Perhaps the men’s basketball team is taking this
“team bonding” thing a little too far.

Support group
emerges at Davidson

As you walk through our beautiful cam-
pus waving to your acquaintances, you can
easily imagine being in a protected bubble,
where death, disease, hurt, pain, and grief are
absent. However, how often have you taken
the time to look past a friend’s bubble and
question what he is truly feeling? One sopho-
more on our campus has; Laura Crim realized
that not all of us live in fairy tale worlds. In
fact, a surprisingly large number of students
have to cope with serious problems that ac-
cost them daily.

To specifically address the problem of
students who have to deal with friends and
family members with serious illnesses, she
has started a weekly support group.

The inspiration for starting this group is
personal in nature. Her father has had
Alzheimer’s for the past five years. When
she left for college she was worried about
dealing with her changing relationship with
her father. Once she arrived at Davidson, she
felt there was no one who she could turn to for
helping her with these emotions. She thinks
that part of the reason behind this loneliness
is that Davidson students have the tendency
to create a facade of perfection that only close
friends are allowed to look past. After having
three semesters to shatter those fronts and
develop strong relationships with other stu-
dents, she has discovered that several people
are working through a similar predicament.
The support group’s weekly sessions, she
toe will help: any one else who Naas be

experiencing feelings of grief and guilt be-
cause of the illnessess of friends and family.

This group will have two formally trained
counselors that work at the Buddy Kemp
Caring House, an affiliate of Presbyterian
Hospital that provides support for families of
people who have cancer. These adults will

_not be the “leaders” of the group, but they will

facilitate the discussion and make sure stu-
dents are dealing with their emotions in a
productive manner. This association will
have no dues and no formal membership.
People can come as oftén or as little as they
want. No formal counseling will take place;
it will essentially be a group of friends who
discuss issues bothering them. If additional
therapy is needed, the counselors will be
more than willing to provide access for one-
on-one grief support and various workshops.
The first meeting is on Sunday, February 20
at 7 PM in the Morrison Room in the Union.
The group will be small enough to remain
personalized but large enough so it will not be
considered “exclusive.”

Laura realizes that she doesn’t have all
the solutions to these type of problems, but
she also realizes that she has much to. share
from the experiences with her father. Ide-
ally, this group will learn from each other and
emerge better able to cope with the emotions
a situation like this can incur.

Casey Sams ’03

‘| experienced discrimination first hand.

THURSDAY, FEBRUAR

Can Davidson take action in
the confederate flag debate?

Isn’t it time for members of the Davidson community to do something to protest the
continued flying of the Confederate battle flag on the state capitol building in Columbia,
South Carolina?

Shouldn’t we at least collect signatures for a petition to be sent to South Carolina’s
governor and to leaders in the state legislature, with copies to newspapers in Columbia,
Charleston, Greenville, and Charlotte (many readers of the Observer live in South
Carolina)? :

Might at least some members of our community pledge not to vacation in South
Carolina until the battle flag is removed?

I do not know exactly what action we should take either collectively or as individuals. }.
But I am convinced that we need to act, and act now. South Carolina is only thirty miles
away; a good number of our students live there; and many of us enjoy vacationing in the
scenic, hospitable Palmetto’ State and have friends who live there. If we think the flag
should come down, we need to make our voices heard.

As is usually the case, arguments can be made on both sides of this issue. But the
arguments for taking down the battle flag strike me as much more compelling. The flag was
raised in the early 1960s by white legislators in a largely segregated state in defiance of the
civilrights movement. The flag symbolizes southern secession in the Civil War, which was
prompted above all by the election of Abraham Lincoln and the Republican Party on an
anti-slavery platform. Slavery—one of the great blots on the American record and our
nation’s belief in the equality.of all people—clearly was involved in secession, and hence
in the Confederate battle flag. The circumstances under which the flag was placed on the
capitol reflect hurtful, outdated attitudes of white supremacy.

Like the nation in which we live, Davidson stands for the equality of all people. Asa
southern College, that itself was segregated until recent times, Davidson especially stands
for equal rights and respect for fellow Americans whose parents and grandparents

Shouldn’t we act when the issue is so clear, as it is in this case?

Ralph Levering
History Department

Paul Miller —
English Department

to .apeitions for the Davidson student body

1. If 4c Baviidaseil article can be anonymous, how ‘does “SdNEgo” see print each week?
And is there any better example of sad Pavidoon brie than a student’ peeneas to be
Sian bicaiac

ie the addhintotrationtt ighores Patterson Court Comncil’s vote not to iiecept aco-ed eating
Rouges can sees ignore the administration’ s prohibition of kegs!

3: Granted the absence of alcohol plays a huge role, but without pictigieliow, ‘ses BSC
stay soclean? = thes

‘| wi tn ae
4. How many girls on campus broke ait be Ducal in icicle ei
Matt Kelley had moved back on ne ec 8

5. ow frateaing ith at bloke otros consrcon poe? ee i

aS xg? 4 Pe “gee z

6. 1 Colas is uspinne infin trsigadd capeens: bn Ye ceeetoages could conrits

the school that I too have a stalker? And could I get a police escort to drive me to Chambers?
Especially on cold peeing?

7. How did the college hire a man that'was capable of being fired, only weeks into his new job,
for staring into the windows of middle school girls at Davidson Soccer Camp? And do you
think he had self-selection night circled in red on his calendar?

Two Paid SGA
Positions Available

Chancellor
Treasurer

Call Dane Erickson @6723
or Joey Harris @ 6044

