,

12 Tue DAvIpSsONIAN

VIEWPOINT

Tuurspay, Apri 20, 2000

EET OTE PLETE TE TE TT ETT Te STE EET ALES STAT
Powell juror speaks out: ‘Davidson holds itself to a higher standard’

As a member of the Davidson student
body, as a student who serves on the Honor
Council, and as one of the two students who
sat on one of John Powell’s judicial hearings
last October, I send this from overseas with
the distant hopes that a collective point of
view might be expressed and that an evi-
dently sweeping issue might be clarified with
some inside/outside perspective.

More immediately, though, I present you
with my thoughts on the atmosphere of honor
at Davidson as they pertain to recent discus-
sion in The Davidsonian. Whether intention-
ally or not, the decision I helped make and my
very role on campus have been criticized and
thrown into question.

Was I qualified to require John Powell to
seek alcohol and anger management coun-
seling? More broadly, how can I impose life-
altering sanctions upon a fellow student...
with no accountability to the community and
no sense of responsibility for my actions?

I have been trying to convince myself
over the past four months that to take personal
offense to the Powell family’s legal pursuits
would be a waste of mental and emotional
energy. But it’s all personal. I think about it
and feel it all the time.

To the questions raised by Katie Schill in
her “Critical Look,” I respond likewise in
question:

Just how much “practical training” would
be necessary for your “grossly unqualified”
peers to make such judgments?

What would you have us trained in?
Thinking? Reasoning? Caring? That is what
we do in trials. That is what we do every day.

Whom would you have train us? Some-
one who thinks, reasons, and cares better
than we? And under whose training did he or
she become qualified to instruct?

How many contrived training sessions
and retreats can we expect to notch on our
belts before any of us, honor council or not,

As the weather improves and morals
unconsciously loosen, people are emerging
out of their winter hibernation to join fellow
students in pursuit of ephemeral or even
lasting bliss. On sultry sunny afternoons

. young Davidsonians can be seen at the lake

campus sailing, water-skiing, canoeing and
even swimming. Musicians bring their in-
struments to the campus lawns and serenade
willing and unwilling listeners. Professors
choose to utilize the “outdoor classrooms,”
allowing students to immerse themselves in
the aesthetically pleasing designated national
arboretum. In the Carolina spring Davidson
College can appear to be any young adult’s
paradise. One of the most enticing elements
of the Davidson experience, however, is that
undergraduates are

are qualified to function as human beings?

We differentiate between right and
wrong, and at some point we must recognize
our independent ability to do so. Why do we
assume that the more procedural we make our
lives, the more sound our thoughts and ac-
tions will be?

Furthermore, the notion that members of

_ the Council are unaware of the gravity of the

sanctions they decide upon is blasphemous.
The idea that we are power-hungry is outra-
geous. It’s not pleasant, and that’s exactly the
point. We shoulder our accountability and
responsibility all the time. We remain silent
out of respect and honor, never out of the
shame of a rashly made decision.

At Davidson, we want more for our-
selves than the status quo. Does that not
demand that we hold ourselves to a higher
standard? We certainly hold ourselves in a
higher esteem. We reap the benefits of an
honor system daily.
around feeling smug about it. But here it is,
now, pinching people... and it hurts. It’s
hurting me. It’s hurting John Powell. It hurts
families, friends and professors. It hurts
every student brought to trial and every mem-
ber of the Honor Council. ,

The pinch is nothing new, but all of a
sudden someone is standing out, asking us if
we like this hurt. Nobody likes to be pinched.
There must be something wrong. So why did
we sign onto this?

We could feel good about ourselves all
the time. We could tell ourselves that small,
petty violations of the Code are not worth
getting upset over, not worth the discomfort
that denouncing them causes, not worth the
disruption of our schedules, not worth the
wrenching honesty of a solid decision. Can
you imagine anything worse than the cycle of
self-deception this mentality would gener-
ate?

We have been challenged to reexamine a

Beyond semi-rural North Carolina

have traveled extensively prior to their junior
year and plunged into completely new envi-
ronments. A semester or year spent studying
abroad, however, allows for a unique oppor-
tunity. This may the only chance in your life
to sit ina classroom with people from other
countries and broaden your perspective in
any given field of study. How do you expect,
for example, to be an amateur political scien-
tist on Eastern European affairs if you have
never set foot on the continent? Are there any
artists on campus who wouldn’t benefit im-
mensely from making a journey to Florence,
Rome or Greece?

Admittedly the majority of Davidson
College students take advantage of the chance
to study abroad. Those who choose not to

should not ask

strongly encouraged to

themselves “why?”

take temporary leave “You can drink beer like aGerman, tan but “why not?”
and study in a foreign topless like a Swede andeven mock ——GPA is too low,
environment. ‘America like a true Frenchman.” major requirements

There are many of EX 1EESERRERTAIN| too complicated,

you who cannot get é
enough of this place. Not even the most
stimulating lecture or fun-filled and decadent
Patterson Court celebration can satiate your
yearning for more. You have had an excel-
lent experience on campus since the day you
left your hometown behind and want to make
the most of “the best four years of your life.”
In order to indulge in Davidson to the fullest
extent possible, however, you must leave.
Once you have studied in a foreign coun-
try, perhaps become proficient in another
language and frolicked in countless unknown
metropolises you can better appreciate what
Davidson has to offer. You can drink beer
like a German, tan topless like a Swede and
even mock America like a true Frenchman.
Unquestionably several students at Davidson

double major im-
possible. These reasons are obviously legiti-
mate, but would the minor sacrifices made to
leave campus not be compensated for by the
growth in character and the broadening of
perspective? Students who have lived in an
unfamiliar environment and are proficient in
a language other than English are undoubt-
edly very attractive in most job markets. The
atmosphere at Davidson is often considered
very “academic” as opposed to “‘intellec-
tual.” You can transcend this misconception
by being a true student in search of the ulti-
mate cerebral experience and study onacam-
pus other than this.one. If you don’t, you'll

»probably regret the decision later.
Anna Eriksson ’00 —

Copy Editor

We laud it, we walk ©

velar that is the foundation of our lives
inside and outside of Davidson. I think such
reexamination is healthy; no institution should
be clung to merely out of reverence for its
history. Maybe there are elements that can be
tightened, aspects that can be better defined.
Inorder that any of this be worthwhile, though,
we must be informed.

The Honor Code is not an antiquated,
dust-covered agent of fear and mystery. It is
the lifeblood of our universe. But is has been
more or less ignored by too many, to such a
degree that they feel subjugated to and unin-
formed by a higher power. For this, they have
no one to blame but themselves. They choose
not to read the Red Book. They chose not to
attend the mock trial organized with the spe-

cific intent of demystification of the Code

_and its implementation.

When John Powell and his parents went
to the Pitt County judge, they did not take his
issue to the next level. They dragged it down,
and threaten to drag Davidson down along
with it. Anyone can go to a court of law.
Anyone can sue. In the litigious society our
culture has tended to so diligently, anyone
can claim just about anything, and get a jury
of just about anyone to award them just about
any form of compensation. Davidson is not
just any place, is it? Itis a step above. A step
above that I cherish and will fight for.

Winnie Corrigan ’01

Students for New Learning: promoting
the awareness of learning differences

Students for New Learning (SNL) began
at a dinner held two weeks ago when 12
students came together to share their experi-
ence as being a few of the 100 students at
Davidson with learning differences. As we
have become more organized, SNL has not
only gained the support of 20 other students
who also have learning differ-
ences but faculty, staff, and
other students as well. This
support both encourages us and
builds our momentum to ac-
complish our goal of increas-
ing campus awareness of learn-
ing disabilities.

Our mission states that pri-
marily SNL is a forum where
students can share personal success stories
and challenges. In this forum, students par-
ticipate in programs designed to educate them
on coping strategies, career planning, accom-
modations, self-advocacy, and interpersonal
relationships. Secondarily, SNL facilitates
campus awareness through speakers, panel

discussions, workshops, and other resources.
SNL recognizes that students with learning
differences can be and are academic, campus,
and team leaders. By providing a system of
support, SNL seeks to empower students to
reach their potential and become the leaders
they can be at Davidson College.

We encourage everyone
interested in becoming amem-
ber of SNL and our campaign
to increase awareness of learn-

~ ing disabilities to contact Paul
es Gravel by telephone at
: 704.907.6567 or by email at
$ pagravel@davidson.edu. To
respect the confidentiality of
the individual student, mem-
bership to SNL—Student Forum is limited to
those students who have a documented learn-
ing disability. However, membership to
SNL—Education Task Force is open to all

campus members.
Paul Gravel ’01

he Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

Eprrors IN CHIEF

Eprtor EMERITUS

is ANT. ' Busnvess Manag

Av. DgStcNeRs ~ nal ; oS Ben’ Covington\,
f —*., \ -Cader Howard,

+ Cony Epiror “a ‘Anna Eriksgon” |
[Nas BbrrORs i _ ai Seth Davis. - |
|< ¥ rl yah semen _ Ang. Gregory i

vEEB, nes Fro be .. tj

MikeAnderson

Cindy Clark
Ina Spechar
Wes Goldsberry

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

