+

usan,

continued from page 2 2

interviewed on Monday, was hired on
Wednesday, and was on campus by Thurs-
day,” stated Susan.

As soon as he stepped foot on campus,
Susan had reasons to be optimistic. He was
pleased to see that Davidson’s student body is
drawn from all over the nation because Susan
has always been a national recruiter. But he
maintains that the southeast is where they are
going to look for players, “We have twenty-
’ two players from North Carolina on the squad,
and many from Florida and Georgia among
others.” Ohio, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania
also provide a substantial amount of Wild-
cats.

Susan stresses that the campus will be
instrumental in attracting top recruits, “ This
campus is very beautiful and it will attract
(recruits) easily.”

He is making it his point to recruit size for
the:move to the highly competitive Pioneer
League. “Unfortunately all the big players
who are physically mature and fundamen-
tally sound are at a premium, and they go to
the big name programs. But if we can find big
players who are projects and we can develop
them right, it will help our program tremen-
dously,” explains Susan.

At present, Susan and the Wildcat staff
are concerned with the upcoming season,
where they will try to build on two consecu-
tive eight win seasons, The team has planned
offensive and defensive systems that should
keep opponents on their heels and fans on
their feet.

The Wildcat defense will be characterized

o
by aggressiveness and increased pressure. .
“We will be blitzing more and using more

~zone pressure and less straight man,” Susan ~~

said.

Cornerback Ryan Crawford and defensive
end Bo Henderson, both pre-season All-
Americans, will anchor the defense. Susan,
however, stresses that individual accolades,

although well deserved, mean nothing to them,
“they both want to win first and foremost.”
Other leaders for the defense will include

The Crawford twins-ready for the new season

Seen Frowndorff and Freeman Belser, who is

returning this year witha chip on his shoulder

Foot

g} >] iG

after suffering a knee injury.

Susan’s impact will be felt most onthe

offensive side of the ball. Instead of the

option, which was featured last year, the’

Wildcats will be armed with many forma-
tions featuring a multitude of players.

“We will line up in one
back sets, two back sets, we
will use the shotgun a lot,
we will drop back into the
pocket but we will also
move the pocket,” Susan
explained. The offensive
leaders are center Matt

Barry, tackle Jerry
Saunders, and wide receiver
Corey Crawford.

The prospect of big
plays on the special teams
excites Susan. Freshman
Randall Hardy is capable
of big plays, and will see a
lot of action on the field this
season, Daryll Childress is
expected to see time as well.

The kicking game is a
bright spot. With Dan
Hanks and freshman Chris
Costello, Susan has two
weapons at his disposal.

This week the Wildcats
face Jacksonville for the
opener. Susan said the key
to the game will be who
controls the third downs and
which team can make big
‘plays. Jacksonville like to
play their defense to play
close to the line of scrimmage so look for the
Wildcats to challenge Jacksonville down the
field.

Men’s soccer ties for Navy Classic title

BY ANDY LANOHA
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team opened
the season this past weekend with a win and
a tie at the Navy Classic Soccer Tournament
in Annapolis, Maryland. The Cats won a
tight 1-0 match against Towson University in
the tournament’s opener, and saved a 3-3
dogfight in the final against the Navy Mid-
shipmen thanks to the stellar play of junior
midfielder Jon Teterick (“Tet”).

Davidson put in a solid performance Fri-
day night against the Townson University
Tigers. Townson came out fast and tallied
four shots in the first five minutes, but a near
miss by Teterick sparked the Cats and they
owned then next 80 minutes.

Senior forward Ikenna Myers put in the
game winner in the 71“ minute. “Ozmick
put in the corner kick and a defender headed
it out. It bounced out to me and I volleyed it
first time. It went in hard and hit the under-
side of the post before going in.”

Davidson finished the game out-shooting
Townson 14-7 with a 14-0 advantage on
corner kicks.

“Tt was a good team effort. We dominated
the statistics and fortunately got a goal and
the victory,” Slagle commented after the
game.

The Cats carried their momentum into
Sunday’s match against the Navy Midship-
men taking a solid 2-0 lead into the locker
roomathalftime. Junior Chris Norbet opened
the scoring in the sixth minute. Receiving a
ball at the top of the box, Norbet freed enou gh
room to put in a 25 yard blast that keeper
Soren Johnson called “nasty.” “The defender
just backed off me a bit, I touched inside and
then hit it,” said Norbet. ie

Teterick added to the lead in the 26" minute
with an equally impressive goal. Stealing the
ball at midfeild, Teterick dribbled up-field,

taking on three defenders before burying a

long distance shot from the top of the box.

Unfortunately, the Cats lapsed for about 20
minutes to start the second period and man-

. aged to fall behind 3-2. Navy senior and

tournament MVP Michael Paisant notched
the first just as the second half opened. The
Midshipmen tied the game at 58:17 and then
surged ahead just seconds later with another
goal from Paisant. “We handed it to them,”
lamented Johnson, “three goals, there you
go.” |

Davidson-faced their first gut check of the
season but answered the call with another Jon
Teterick goal in the final 15 minutes.~“After
they scored the third goal we huddled up.
Teterick came in asked, ‘Alright, who’s gonna
be the hero?’” recalled junior defender John
Martin. “Then he stepped up, controlled the
pace of the game and scored the goal.”

Davidson finished the game out-shooting
the Midshipmen 20-10 with an 11-7 advan-
tage incorners. The Cats finished second in
the tournament, losing to Navy on a tie-
breaker of goals scored. Teterick, Norbet,
and Johnson were named to the Navy Classic
all-tournament team. ;

Though the Cats did well to tie the Navy
game, attitudes toward the weekend remain
mixed. “We got to see good and bad this
weekend.” Captain David Beuhler com-

mented. “People come up to me and say, ‘1-:

0-1, that’s not bad.’ But we aren’t satisfied
with the tie. We never feel that we should do
anything other than win.” Nevertheless,
Buehler remained positive about the future
for the team. “We made some mistakes and
had one bad lapse. But we learned some
important lessons that we will take into the
next game.”

The Cats lace ‘em up again on Thursday
evening at 7:00 when they battle cross-town
rivals UNC Charlotte at TransAmerica field.
This year’s seniors have much on the line as
they face their last opportunity to beat the
49ers, a team who has had Davidson’s num-
ber three years running.

Cross Country kicks
off new season

MiLes HARMON AND JACoB McCLEAN

Staff Writers

With blazing speed and short shorts the
men’s and women’s cross country teams of
Davidson College opened their season on
Friday at the Mountaineer Open in Boone,
N.C.

The Wildcat men finished seventh in the
seven-team field, while South Florida ran
away with the men’s title.

Junior Dan Gibson lead the way for the

men’s team with a time of 26:58, and was
followed by Jimmy Swansbrough ‘03 (27:41),
Andy Schoewe ‘03 (27:48),. Colby
Broadwater ‘04 (27:50), and Dave Bunge ‘04
(28:03).

This youthful group of beautiful runners
(only one senior and 8 freshmen) marks anew
beginning for the Davidson running program
and showed to the conference that despite the
loss of so many toprunners last year Davidson
running will continue it successful run. Charlie
Blankenship, a 60 year- old janitor at a local
high school, was quoted as saying: “Wow,
these young boys sure can run!”

The equally youthful and talented women’s
XC team was led by Senior Smyth Bitter at
19:48, Colleen Faes ‘04 (20:08), Jenna Kruppa
“04 (20:47), Brooke Kittinger ‘03 (20:55),
and Laura Puckett ‘04 (21:09).

The women’s team finished ninth in the
ten-team competition. With a new coaching
staff and 6 freshmen, the team is ready to
challenge for a top spot in the conference.

Senior co- captain Keith Chapman best
summed up the race by saying: “This was a
great learning experience. Both teams will
perform at a much pigher levelly mentally in
the following races.’

Next up for the Davidson runners is the
Davidson Open and Alumni Invitational on
Sept. 9.

Preview

BY WILL RoBERSON
Sports Editor

After winning eight games each of the past,
two years, the Wildcat football team has high
hopes for the new season.

New head coach Joe Susan has sixteen
starters returning to tackle a difficult sched-
ule featuring Jacksonville, Morehead, Austin
Peay, and San Diego (all from the Pioneer
League). Guilford, W & L, Hampden Sydney,
and Georgetown are on the schedule again, as
is Sewanee, Emory and Henry, Randolph
Macon, and Centre.

“Starting off with Jacksonville will be a
terrific challenge for us,” stated Coach Su-
san. “They are always tough, and opening the
season against them will help us judge where
we stand and how well we have progressed.
We will certainly need to be prepared come
September 9.”

Starting at quarterback for the ‘Cats will be
sophomore Paul Nichols. Nichols beat out
senior Shaun Tyrance and fellow sophomore
Graham Watson for the starting job.

Last year as a freshman, Nichols appeared
in five games, including a start at Randolph-
Macon. He earned that start by leading the
Wildcats to three fourth-quarter touchdowns
and a 28-27 come-from-behind victory at
Georgetown.

After losing all-time leading rusher Eric
Ferguson to graduation, the Wildcats will
look to advance the football through the air.
Nichols will have plenty of capable targets to
throw to this year.

Leading the receivers is senior Corey
Crawford. Crawford led the team in all-
purpose yardage last year, and looks to move
out of the backfield to wide receiver full-time
under Coach Susan. Crawford is currently
tenth all-time at Davidson in receiving yards.

Nichols will also have the options of Junior
Mike Tarver, Senior Marcus McFadden, and
Sophomore Mike Chase. Tarver caught 15
passes last year for 233 yards last year, in-
cluding a 76 yard touchdown against Austin
Peay. McFadden, a two-year starter at tight
end, caught nine passes last year, including
six-against Georgetown. Chase, who stands
6-foot-3, caught 5 passes with a 13 yard
average in 1999.

The team’s trademark over the past two
years has. been. animpenetrable defense. Two
of Davidson’s returning defensive stalwarts,
senior cornerback Ryan Crawford and senior
defensive tackle Bo Henderson, have been
rated among the top 10 at their respective
positions by The Sports Network for the 2000
Division I-AA football season. The two Wild-
cats are the only players from a non-scholar-
ship program that are among the top 10.

Last year, Crawford led the nation with
eight interceptions to earn first-team AP All-
American status. His five blocked kicks were
one shy of the all-time I-AA record.
Henderson has averaged over 90 tackles per
season for his career, and needs just three
more sacks to break the school record of 22.

The Wildcat special teams have also
playeda huge role in the team’s success in the
last two seasons. Sophomore kicker Daniel
Hanks (9-11 FG, 28-29 XP, 36.8 punting
avg.) is back after an impressive freshman
year. The ‘Cats are also known for their
ability to block kicks — which often leads to
easy points for the offense.

The Wildcats definitely look onpable of
another eight-win season, but it will surely
not be easy. This week’s game against Jack-
sonville is an important first test.

The Wildcats have been defeated by Dol-
phins each of the last two a by.a com-
bined 10 points.

Kickoff on Saturday is slated for 1:30pmat
Richardson Stadium.

