Menkhaus philanthropy course one of many new offerings for spring

By ZEB KELLEY
Staff Writer

Preparations for next year have already
begun, as the Davidson faculty recently ap-
proved several new courses.

New courses include “Philanthropy and
the Non-profit sector,” offered by the politi-
cal science department and taught by Dr. Ken
Menkhaus. Two classes in the religion de-
partment include “Art of Biblical Narrative”
and “Jewish Religious Life,” and a generic

listing for W-courses has been added in the
history department.

Menkhaus says his “Philanthropy and the
Non-Profit Sector” course, offered for next
semester, is especially relevant in today’s
world.

“There are currently 1.6 million registered
non-profit (organizations) in the U.S. alone,”
he said. “They account for an increasing
portion of national employment, 11% of total
employment.”

He added that “non-profits are accruing

around

Quips and Cranks

Interested in getting to know more of
your fellow Davidson students? Do you
like design, art or photography? Join the
Yearbook Staff! We are looking for some
people to supplement the Sports section,
faculty section and sophomore section. Time
commitment is minimal, especially if you
sign up to work on a section with some
friends. There are also positions available
as business manager and senior ads editor.
Please contact Nathaniel Rogers (x6010) or
Lindsey Vaala (x6206) if interested. _No
experience necessary.

EAC
This coming Thursday, November 16,
' Summit Coffee will be sponsoring a presen-
tation and slide show by Fred Barth, an
accomplished mountaineer who has
summitted Everest, among many other
achievements. His talk will begin at 7:30
pm in the 900 Room. ‘The EAC Meeting at
9pm will follow in.the Conference Room!
The EAC also held Recycling Day today,
with a number of recycling events to pro-
mote awareness on campus. More on the
events will come in next issue.

Anthropology Society

This week, the Anthropology Society will
be sponsoring two major events highlight-
ing the Native American culture. On Thurs-
day, November 16", starting at 8:00 PM in
the 900 Room, there will be a presentation
entitled “Modern Native American Sur-
vival.” On Saturday, November 18", there
will be a Native American dance perfor-
mance, starting at 4:00 PM in the 900 Room.

Dawi

PCC

The PCC is sponsoring the “Community
Thanksgiving Dinner” this Sunday, Novem-
ber 19th from 2-Spm at Roosevelt Wilson
Park on Griffith Street in Davidson.: This
event is open to the entire College and town.
There will be tons of food and games, so
please come join us, and bring your friends,
professors, students, kids, dog, WHOM-
EVER, to give thanks - together. Any
questions can be directed to Mike Schaefer
x6038 or Ida Wainschel x6219.

English Majors’ Presentations

On Tuesday November 28" and Thursday
the 30", roughly 45 of the English majors
will be presenting their final projects in
panels during the course conference. Three
panels will be in session at 1pm and again at

2:10 pm on both days in Chambers 316, 309
and 212. Creative projects will be presented
Tuesday evening at 7:30 in Perkin’s audito-
rium.

Since politics has taken center stage as of
late, we decided to continue the trend. David
Farnum will be presenting a critical look at
the speeches from the major party candi-
dates. Alicia Shelton will also examine the
current political issues with a debate be-
tween Shakespeare’s Richard II] and Willie
Stark (All the King’s Men), played by David-
son seniors Brandt McMillan and Ed
Ellington.

If you like music, Travis Martz will present
four different versions of a Dylan song and
explain how performance changes based on
political setting. Even the popular film
genre will be represented through Jamey
Heit’s analysis of a poem in Braveheart and
Ambrose Tuscano’s exploration of Mid-
night in the Garden of Good and Evil.

THE

OPTICALSHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.0. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALDPEK, A.B.0.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY &
EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR
AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE
PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX

SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

powerful influence as advocacy groups, shap-
ing public policy debates and pressuring busi-
nesses,” and “non profits constitute the back-
bone of civil society and community devel-
opment in neighborhoods across the coun-
try.” ;

“Most Davidson students have personal
experience in the non-profit sector as volun-
teers and members of various civic.organiza-
tions, and many will assume positions of
influence in the non-profit sector.”

Since this class was available for the spring
semester, it might be a possibility during the
drop/add stage of scheduling.

College registrar Dr. Hansford Epes said
courses are added based on suggestions from

the departments and the Education Policy
Committee (EPC), which can either send the
classes back for clarification or approve them
immediately. :

‘“When it approves the course, it sends the
proposal to the full faculty for its vote,” Epes
said. “The process is ongoing and routine;
most meetings of the EPC, roughly every
couple of weeks, will look at one or more —
course proposals, as will most of the faculty’s
monthly meetings.”

The EPC is a committee of six elected
members chaired by the Dean of the Faculty.
Two of the members are students selected by
the SGA Senate.

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By Davin WHEELER
Health Advisor

On Thursday November 30 until mid-

those who have died or are suffering from
AIDS/HIV with its recognition of World
AIDS Day. That evening, luminaries will
be placed throughout the campus in memory
of friends, loved ones, students, and faculty
who have in some way been affected by the
disease. The memorial i conesoiasieg ore
ber and beautiful one.

Georgia Ringle and Mary Thomberry

THE STUDENT Bopy

Health Aabiors are, from left to right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecca Moore

night December 1, Davidson will remember

do not give adequate attention to their own

began this “Night of Light” in memory of A
Classics professor Steven Lonsdale who ATE
died of AIDS. _ Along” with Professor ix

reasons: (1) men represent the majority of
people living with HIV/AIDS; (2) men’s
behavior often puts their sexual partners at
risk for HIV; (3) unprotected sex endangers
men’s male and female partners; (4) men
need to give greater consideration to AIDS
as it affects their families; and (5) men often

health.

President Clinton writes the theme‘ ‘calls
on all men around the world to embrace a
new leadership | role not only in prevention,
but also in the care of their children and
other loved ones whose lives are :

