“When we
examine why we
act the way we do,
we find spirituality
_ spirit
soul, and we
challenge the
assumptions and
beliefs

or Scott

yaa
CnNAM

FEATURES

How do you express your spirituality?

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Linsey VAALA
Staff Writer

Zen meditation, service work, feng shui,
music or art?

What signifies spirituality for you?

Webster’s dictionary likens the adjective
“spiritual” to “intellectual”, “soulful” and “in-
corporeal,” yet spirituality is difficult to define;
there is no black and white.

Spirituality can be an emotion, feeling, or a
fleeting thought. We cannot name it or pinpoint
its exact location within us, but most of us express
it every day in personal and unique ways.

Spirituality is often linked with religion,
though they are not synonomous. Frequentchurch
attendance is not a prerequisite for spirituality.

Davidson boasts numerous non-denomina-
tional and non-religious outlets for spiritual ex-
pression.

‘ Interfaith Fellowship, for example, was
started last spring by Sanjana Karim. At the
group’s meetings, which are open to everyone,
people often lie on the floor and exchange per-
sonal stories or poetry readings, as well as utilize
more traditional forms of worship. Participants
describe the atmosphere as “comfortable and
satisfying.”

Formerly knownas Chapel Committee, Sanc-
tuary focuses on social justice.

It is a “faith-based, justice-oriented Chris-
tian fellowship group with a strong emphasis on
service and action from a progressive Christian
standpoint,” describes group leader Cader
Howard. “In addition to-performing service, we
seek to educate the community about social jus-
tice and peace issues, to svocee for those who

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000

suffer oppression in any form, to work for posi-
tive changes in our community and in our world,
and to proclaim the rightful place of justice and
righteousness in all communities and in all lives.”

Currently, members participate with Room
in the Inn, a project that provides on-campus
shelter for homeless guests.

However, spiritual expression is not limited
to organized groups.

Senior Jenny Lyon finds a spiritual outlet
through her artistic masterpieces. Her upcom-
ing senior art show, scheduled to open April 12",
will be a visual “book of hours” with each hour
dedicated to the Virgin Mary and the baby Christ.

“Tam using this spiritual format as a place to
muse on the affinity of the immaculate concep-
tion with the creative process itself,” Lyon de-
scribed. Furthermore, according to Lyon, the
suffering of the Virgin Mary parallels crimes
against women such as rape and abuse.

Spirituality also extends beyond Davidson’s
campus. Led by Rev. Rob Spach and assistant
minister to DUMC, several students embark on
an annual “reverse mission trip” to Central
America. This year thirteen students will travel
to Nicaragua. According to Spach, the goal is to
learn from the faith of the people they meet and
reflect on what it means to be a Christian in an
impoverished, non-American environment.

Rev. Brenda Tapia also conducts alterna-
tive spiritual opportunities both on and off cam-
pus. She describes her guided meditations as
spiritual and relaxing and believes everyone
possesses spiritual gifts and special talents.

Davidson: the challenge is on the table.
How do you express your spirituality?

The miraculous in the ordinary

By Kye Erickson
Staff Writer

The alarm whines. I hit the snooze
button. The alarm whines again. I hit the
snooze button one more time. The alarm
whines. I give up and shut the alarm off.

I roll out of bed and step on my boots
lying on the floor. Tripping to the sink I pry
my eyes open and jam in my contacts. The
stinging sensation helps me wake up.

It is a cold February morning and the
floor is chilled from the open window at the
end of the hall as I sleep-walk into the bath-
room. The freezing water takes my breath
away. I forgot to check the temperature in the
shower.

The water beads and dries on my skin,
making my skin rise in goose bumps. Shirt,
pants, and sweater sleepily find their way
onto my body. I shoulder my backpack and
head out the door.

Every morning I am tired and severely
inconvenienced by my early class, yet as soon
as I walk out the door I am transformed.

I am the only person encompassed in the

early morning haze that grays the lawn, shades

the trees, and cools the air.

Untouched dew carpets the grass and
muddy clay. The chill in the air stings my
lungs and tickles my nose.

The Chapel steeple rises sublimely above
the tops of leafless trees and breaks through
the haze framed by smoky sky. Meanwhile,
Phi and Ew halls rest in sage debate.

The quiet from Main St. drifts back to
me. I stare up at a dripping tree.

The well is weighed down by the wet ivy.
The brick is moist and the benches damp. The
haze crawls about them.

Chambers shrugs the haze off as her bald
dome causes me to shiver with intimidation.
The brick is slick beneath my feet.

Gravel crunches and mud splashes under
my feet as momentum throws me down a hill,
and then leaves me to struggle.

Sleeping kudzu surrounds me with a

brown brittleness. The hills roll gently and ~

the tall grass glides past my thighs. The trees
sit petrified in the breathless afternoon while

a bird sings to my right and leaves rustle to my
left.

My eyes, normally fixed on my shoe
laces, search about me. Is ita rabbit? Black-
ish brown wrinkled bark rushes past me on all
sides.

The setting sun and a solitary late after-
noon breeze chill the sweat on my back and
chest. I wipe the sweat of my face with my
sleeve. My lungs sting and my throat feels
dry. .

The trees stand naked about me. P

The thick green grass and the supple A
clay soften the ground as I lay down. I fe
watch the clouds swirl in the sky. Some i
are thin and wispy while some look thick #
and supple. They race across ablue sky  [@
that conjures up a richness of pure and ih
perfect images. ia

The cool air brushes against my face e

as [ stroll down the hill. The sun sets to “3

my leftsomewhere over Lake Norman.
A car’s hazard lights wink at me as I
pass it. Two people throw-a football
gn the lawn next tome,

Stepping over some mud that’ 7
has been washedyonto the path, 1
walk past the tall gak with the wire
running down its sidex I step off
the path into the mud. The foot-
prints have been there since after

way to dinner. I walk carefully through the
mud, through the gravel, and onto the porch.

The dark blue night glows gold. . The
lamps shine fuzzily. The haze has returned.
Sharp, green bushes brush against my pafits
leg. Christmas lights still dangle off the
branches of a skinny tree.

The dark silhouettes of trees’ grow all
around me. I hear the sounds of crunching
ground and splashing puddles beneath
people’s feet. A hidden face walks past; but

her white teeth under her smiling lip break
through the darkness and illumine her face.
Two bikes rest unlocked in the rack: >:
I follow Chamber’s pillars to her clock.
It’s been a long day. I slide my card

\ through and open the door wikful the

Son rose.
