THE DA ONAN

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Award recognizes Ramirez’s leadership i in undergraduate research

Press RELEASE

Davidson College senior Jennie Hillmann
recalls her first, vivid impression of Julio
Ramirez, a psychology professor recently
named as one of two winners of a national
award from the Council on Undergraduate
Research (CUR).

On the first day of Hillman’s introduc-
tory neurosciénce class with Ramirez, which
proved to be the initial stepping stone for her
three years of laboratory research with him,
Ramirez showed a film of actor Christopher
Reeve. “This is why we work on
neuroscience,” Ramirez told
the class as they watched an
account of Reeve’s
tumble froma horse into
alife of paralysis. “This
is what we’re work-
ing tounderstand and
help.”

Hillmann said,
“It was obvious from
the beginning that he
thinks this is a noble
cause.”

Ramirez, a 13-
year faculty member at
Davidson who holds the
college’s first R. Stuart
Dickson Professorship, has
received one of the two first-ever
CUR Fellows Awards. The award rec-
ognizes his success in developing an under-
graduate research lab to investigate recovery
of function after central nervous system in-
jury, with an emphasis on recovery from
Alzheimer’s disease. The CUR’s awardees
have outstanding records of establishing labo-
ratory programs, obtaining funding for their
work and for their students, and publishing
research findings in conjunction with under-
graduate coauthors.

The award serves as another validation
of the new pedagogy in science instruction at
Davidson, a combination of teaching and
research that Ramirez calls “terching.” In
addition to classroom instruction and tradi-
tional lab exercises, many students assist
professors with authentic research projects. It
establishes a new relationship between stu-
dents and professors as they work coopera-
tively to uncover new knowledge. Ramirez
believes this type of works instills in students
the three “C’s”- critical thinking, creative
thinking, and compassionate thinking.

It also gives them experience at the un-
dergraduate level that proves valuable in ap-
plying for graduate schools, jobs, and grants

of their own. This year alone, the National
Science Foundation gave biology research
awards to a current Davidson senior, Will
White, and a recent graduate, Ken Howard.
Since his arrival at Davidson in 1986,
Ramirez has mentored a total of 85 under-
graduate students and published 19 research
papers-nine with undergraduate coauthors.
His research collaborative educational ef-
forts with other Davidson faculty have re-
ceived more than $2-million in-grants to
support biomedical research and education at

« Davidson from the National Institutes of
Health, National Science Founda-
tion, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, and the Pew Chari-
table Trusts. In 1989,
Ramirez was named
North Carolina Profes-
sor ofthe Year and also
was honored as a Na-
tional Gold Medal
Professor of the Year.

During the first
J 10 years of his re-
search, Ramirez aimed
at discovering if accel-
eration of neuronal
“sprouting” between
nerve cells in the hip-
pocampus could promote
recovery of memory func-
. tion in rats after brain damage.

The proof of that hypothesis, was pub-
lished in papers co-authored by several stu-
dents in two prestigious journals-a 1996 edi-
tion of the Proceedings of the National Acad-
emy of Sciences and a 1999 edition of the
Journal of Neuroscience.

Ramirez commented, “I often get more
pleasure in the success of my student re-
searchers than in the researclritself . .. much
like a parent, I suppose!”

He has watched with pride as his under-
graduate researchers have gone on from
Davidson to earn Ph.D.s and M.D.s in neuro-
science and related fields. But he also gains
satisfaction from being part of an army of
researchers worldwide who have learned more
about workings of the central nervous system
in the past two decades than in all of previous
history. “It’s a wonderfully vibrant.area in
which to work,” Ramirez said. “The great
part about science is that every answer you
discover also reveals a whole new set of
questions to pursue.” He and his current
student researchers are working through a
grant from the National Science Foundation
and a private biotechnology firm to experi-
ment on pharmacological interventions to

CROP makes changes

Press RELEASE
By Carrie Arthur

Along with the annual shift in its leader-
ship, CROP, the Christian Rural Overseas
Program, is gaining a wider focus. Coordina-
tors Chris Cho and Carrie Arthur want the
organization to encompass more than the
weekly CROP lunches and annual fall CROP
walk, even though they recognize the value
of both functions.

The renewed vision began with a new
mission for the hunger organization. CROP
has dedicated itself to promoting campus-
wide awareness of hunger and poverty on a
local, national, and global level. The coordi-
nators want every student to knowat least one
fact about hunger by the end of the semester.
Because education alone is not enough, the
organization will provide opportunities for
students to address these concerns. The orga-
nization sees the need for not only the allevia-
tion of current suffering but also efforts to
resolve underlying causes. CROP will serve
as a vessel for both service projects and

activism.

While activism will generally involve
writing letters to support legislation, Cho and
other interested students are attending a
march in Washington, DC on April 7-9. Her
group will support Jubilee 2000, for which
the richest nations are erasing the debt of the
fifty pgorest nations.

Finally, the organization will continue to
raise funds. Currently, the proceeds from
CROP lunch go to Loaves and Fishes, which
provides hunger relief in Davidson and Char-
lotte. The CROP walk also raises funds to
help diminish hunger.

In keeping with this outlook, CROP and
other campus poverty organizations are plan-
ning a hunger and poverty awareness week

‘for April 26-May 2. Plans for an Oxfam
dinner and other events are currently under-
way.

Anyone interested in helping these ef-
forts is encouraged to email Cho or Arthur at

_ chcho and caarthur. Also, all are invited to
attend CROP lunch every Thursday from
11:45 to 1:30 in the 900 Room.

accelerate sprouting. Sophomore Reggie
McKoy is one of eight students who currently
spendsat least 10 hours per week in Ramirez’s
lab. McKoy said, “I feel like I’m learning a lot
more in here than in lectures.”

His classmate, Stephanie Courchesne,
added, “This is the first time I’ve ever done
original research. It’s not like we’re practic-
ing something, we’ re actually doing it. That’s
sort of terrifying, but incredible at the same
time!” The lab is busy every weekday, and
often on weekends. Two recent graduates,
Charlotte White and Andy Preston, work on
the project full-time and serve as the chief lab
technicians, providing the ongoing direction
for current students.

Ramirez cultivates an atmosphere of ca-
maraderie in the lab, encouraging students to
play music, joking with them when he drops
by, urging them to go out together on social
occasions, and inviting them to dinner at his
house. It’s a laid-back atmosphere, but the
science is strictly rigorous. “He has really
high expectations of students and pushes us
hard,” said Hillmann. “But we have a lot of
fun together.”

Students learn lab techniques and as-
sume responsibility that most young scien-
tists don’t encounter before graduate school.
Hillman, whose independent study project on
the electrophysiology of lesion-induced re-
generation will probably be published in a

SAFE SEX ON THE BEAC
DATE: APRIL 5™, 2000

TIME: 11-2PM

OCATION: VAIL/BELK DORM AREA,
(OUTSIDE OF CAFETERIA)

yn .
7 SUBSTANCE ABUSE
‘ «ERY eas Sen ces

CARGLINAS

aie “An everd from

Abuse

scientific journal, said, “In talking with people
in Ph.D. programs, I-hear that I’m doing the
same type of work they’ ve only now begun to
do, and that they never had these opportuni-
ties as undergraduates. Most undergraduates
can only hope to be a professor’s assistant,
but in my thesis work with Dr. Ramirez I’ve
developed my own project and am respon-
sible for the experimentation and analysis.”

The payoff for Ramirez is seeing stu-
dents get excited about the scientific process,
and achieve success in their pursuit of further
education in the field. McKoy wants to do
research at the National Institute of Health,
then enter medical school. Hillman wants to
follow Ramirez’s career footsteps closely,
earning her Ph.D. and then “terching” at an
undergraduate college. Courchesne said sim-
ply, “I want to do research for the rest of my
life.” The CUR will present its awards to
Ramirez and the other winner, Mary Allen,
chair of the biology department at Wellesley
College, at the Eighth National CUR Confer-
ence on June 22. Over the past 25 years CUR
has championed collaborative research among
undergraduates and their faculty mentors.
CUR conferences, publications, and

mentoring activities help faculty members
establish and sustain research programs at
primarily undergraduate institutions nation-
wide.

County ABC Board

Roundine. air fare to Sbarorte NC...$375. 00

