@ ALENDA LU

DAvIDSON ‘COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, AuGusT 30, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 1

Roof installation delays campus center completion —

Wooden roof to
be replaced with
metal; center
slated to open in
early April

By Marr GarFiELD
News Editor

The Knobloch Campus Center is hailed
as the place where students will be able to
socialize, hold meetings, play games, do al-
most anything—all under one roof.

Building that roof, Davidson officials
have found, is much more difficult and ex-
pensive than anticipated.

The center is being built out of what once
was Johnston Gym, home to Davidson’s
men’s basketball team before it moved to
Belk Arena. Renovations began in October
1999, ois

Designers hoped to save time and money,
as well as preserve the building’s rich charac-
ter, by leaving its wooden roof in place.

Knowing that the roof in its original state ,

did not meet N.C. fire safety standards, de-
signers began negotiating with state officials
to find a way to meet the standards of the code
without having to take the wooden roof down.
Meanwhile, construction continued on other
parts of the center.
. Proposals submitted to the state included
spraying the wood with fireproof intamescent

paint and installing a smoke evacuation sys-.

tem, a machine that would suck up smoke if
a fire was to start.
Grover Sawyer, a commissioner in the

Engineering Division of the N.C. Depart-__
ment of Insurance, said his agency essentially ©

Installing anew metal roof will cost the college as much $250,00- $500,000, says — : Bobby Vagt”

told. the college if it wanted to keep the
wooden roof, it would have to install a firewall,

a metal barrier that would prevent the spread -

of a fire by dividing the center into two parts:

“Even if you protect the wood [with
intamescent spray], it’s still combustible,”
said Sawyer.

_ But designers thought a firewall would
destroy the open atmosphere of the building,
and decided against that option.

Unable to reach a compromise after sev-
eral months of negotiations with state offi-
cials, college president Bobby Vagt and the
designers decided— * relctanttys. noted

Vagt— in late May to install a metal roof,
delaying the completion of the center about
two months until early April 2001, and cost-
ing $250,000 to $500,000, estimates Vagt.
“Time was passing,” he said. “We fi-

nally had to fish or cut bait.”

Vagt is certain that meeting the addi-
tional costs will not be a problem.
' The greatest injustice, in his view, is that
the Class of 2001 will only get to enjoy the
center for a few weeks.

“People will stop and talk to each other
and interact (at the center),” said Vagt. That’s

the beauty of it. I just wish (completion) had

West Dorm opens to complaints

_ West Dorm is home to sophomores, many of whom have

compiained about the size and condition of the rooms.

Aaron Houck

Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer -

West Hall, the newest arrival on
Davidson’s campus, has met with mixed re-
actions since its inception.

The dorm began construction amid alle-
gations that RLO was forcing students to live
on-campus and taking away parking; the first
residents moved in to whispers that inspec-
tors condemned the building.

Despite such concerns, Area Coordina-
tor Troy Williams stated that he feels things
are going smoothly. West’s singles and suites
were in high demand during last spring’s
housing lottery. Williams believes “people
like having that door they can close [to desig-
nate their own space].”

Karissa Smatlak ’02 and Cheryl Greene
’02, both residents of 4th West, had mid-

range lottery numbers and were among the -

last to get into the building. Greene, who
lives in a double, said she likes having a

‘roommate and her own space at the same

time. Smatlak chose a:single for privacy,

- although she noted she’s. glad some of her
friends are living in nearby singles to de-

See West, page 4,

happened sooner.’

Preserving the storied heritage of the old
gymnasium— including the wooden roof—
was a high priority during planning stages.

“In its heyday, when. Davidson was
ranked in the top 10, this is the place we
played our home games,” recounted Vagt. “It

- wasn’t big. (But) it was loud. It was a place of

great memories.”

But Vagt said continuing to negotiate
with the state would have meant further de-
laying the completion of the center— a delay
he was not willing to accept.

“Do we wish it had come out another ~~
- way?” asked Vagt. “Yes. But the world’s not

coming to an end.”

INSIDE
SEAT RUE
Viewpoint
Kursk tragedy analyzed

Has PeTA gone too far?

In defense of gay Christians
Sports
Volleyball set to repeat

Cake Race coverage

' Field Hockey joins new
conference

