10

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

By NIcoLe ForEMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson alumni Michael Stoops and
Steve Brady — alongside homeless men
from the Charlotte and Washington, D.C.
areas — appeared on‘a campus-sponsored
homelessness panel on February 6.

Adam Brown, the evening’s assistant
coordinator, called the panel “both enrich-
ing and engrossing.” He said, “It brought to
the forefront the most pressing issues for
those who are currently in homeless situa-
tions. The panelists had a true inspirational
quality that permeated the room.”

Stoops is the Director of Community
Organization for the National Coalition for
the Homeless, and Brady is on the Speakers’
Bureau.

The sobering event opened with Stoops’
slide show entitled “Faces of Homelessness,”

featuring homeless persons from across the

country.

“In this country, there are four times as
many animal shelters as there are shelters
for battered women,” read one voiceover.
“Twenty-seven percent of the homeless are
children,” lamented another.

The slide show—that included a song
entitled “It’s a Hard Life’—forced those
who came to the 900 Room event to think
about how the faces on the slides drastically
defied their idea of the homeless population.

There were more dolls in the hands of
the homeless than alcohol bottles. “It’s
funny because I like it when the lights go off
in the movies because I’m no longer ‘the
homeless kid’,” said a Harlem youth.

Senior Andrew Holbrook said that he
was “baffled that [those homeless scenes
were] even possible.”

A panel of five homeless men spoke
after the slide show. The men spoke on a
variety of issues including lack of sufficient
health care, the exploitation of the homeless
in labor camps, and public perception of
homelessness.

Many of them emphasized the fact that
“the homeless are people too.”

Charlie Steve, aman from Washington,
D.C. calls his home the corner of 15" and L
Street. Steve has been homeless for over

Panel spe

aks on homelessness

_ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

from Washington. He developed a personal
friendship with Michael Stoops after he re-
turned Stoops’ lost wallet with over a hun-
dred dollars and five major credit cards.

Burton called gentrification America’s
biggest problem. He said, “There exists in
this society a trend to make things bigger and
better. Landlords cater to the demands for
apartments and homes to gentrify, and the
tenants occupying those homes can no longer
afford to live in them. The poor cannot
compete in getting housing.”

Marshall Warren and a man named
Charlie, both of Charlotte, were the final
speakers. Warren, a homeless man who was
orphaned at an early age, explained, “When
you’re homeless, you don’t trust yourself or

‘ anyone else.”

seven and a half years. He tried to articulate
how hard it is for .the homeless to face the
population that passes him daily. Steve said,
“When we’re down and out, we can’t look
you in the eye. You have to bend down and
look at us.” This man has no criminal record
and used to work for IBM. He has been on a
waiting list for housing since December of
1994.

Al Burton was another man on the panel

Member of the panel, above, sought to debunk myths about
homelessness and educate the audience about their situation.

Charlie wanted to reiterate the fact that
none of the men were born homeless. “Many
people are one paycheck or less away from
being homeless,” said Charlie.

These men cannot get jobs with a blank
“address” line on an application, and if some-
one does hire them, “[they] are the first ac-
cused when something turns up missing,”
expressed Charlie.

A majority of the audience members
who rose to ask the panel question first con-
veyed a sincere gratitude for the presence of
the men at the event. Most of the audience had
questions on the most effective ways to help
the homeless. Charlie said, “Don’t be ashamed
to say hello. A smile from passers-by means
that they are hamans—not coldly distant from
what the homeless are going through.”

Members of the Davidson community
wishing to help with homeless issues should
regard the Reach Out! Bulletin Board on the
first floor of Chambers. The Uptown Men’s
Shelter, Room at the Inn, and the Women’s
Shelter all deal with homeless issues, and the
contacts for these programs are listed under
their respective photographs.

Anna Judy

| Heating D

eligible to return return Spring *00
~ Professional « counseling required during interim between withdrawl from Davidson

Che Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

ANN GREGORY Lo -
Le Vt

f

Executive Laygut Ehitoy
BEN COV CTpN

¥
ape

WILL PARKER

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

 aphe naes

A ssi fe Busirté8s Mana Ber
PATRICK GI

Advertsing Managers

Editors in Chief

MIKE ANDERSON
News Editors “REISONKAL EPP Features Editor
SETH DAVIS EIS@N KALE CARRIE RILEY

,, Op-Ed Editor

Sports Editoyf <> Business Managers Cente SCHWARTZ
BURGIN HARDIN i PETERCLARK-
f ‘DAVID JOHNSTON

Intersigtional News
\,Goardinator
ARK ea PAUL
| Web Editor
| STEPHEN GAMBOA

. de
c ‘4 Gircul, tion Managers
4 ~¥ CINDY CLARK

Deen Pas A SPECHAR
ak ee Pe

Editor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE

by the Dean of Students.

Honor Code Violations: Fall 1999
10/5/1999 Guilty lying aaa college business

Sanction: Authorized chads! for entire Fall ‘99 semester, effective immediately,
1g *00. No receipt of credit for courses taken during Fall ‘97.

and applying for readmission, Specific requirements of counseling to be determined

10/22/1999 - Guilty plagiarism
Sanction: “F” in course. Authorized withdrawal from other three classes. Suspension
for Spring ‘00 semester.

12/15/1999 Guilty lying about official college business]
Sanction: Continged counseling with DC Counseling Center. Probation from
campus social events, PC functions off campus, participation in College
athletics, attendance at sports events, and eating house or fraternity activities. 30
hours of community service to be completed in the Spring semester, ‘00. Service
hours related to work designated by the Dean of Students.

12/16/1999 Guilty cheating, plagiarism

Sanction: “F” in course. Authorized withdraw] from three classes. Required

counselng for Spring ‘00 semester. Specific counseling to be determined by Dean of
Students..

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

