fc - THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

~ DANGEROUS GROUND

A fresh start: Re-defining the boundaries of Indo-US relations

By RosHAN Pau

“India and America are natural allies,
two nations conceived in liberty, each finding
strength in its diversity, each seeing in the
other a reflection of its own aspiration for a
more humane and just world.” That was how
President Bill Clinton began his address to
the Indian Parliament on his recently con-
cluded tour of the Asian subcontinent.

Some call it a new beginning. Others
mourn the influx of pop culture and direly
predict imperialistic intentions. Either way,
last week witnessed a crossroads in relations
between the world’s two largest democracies
~ The United States and India. In an eagerly
anticipated and long overdue meeting, Presi-
dent Clinton visited the Indian subcontinent
for the first time. While in India, he visited
local villages and hospitals, did the typical
sightseeing you do in India, signed agree-
ments on technology, science and commerce
and generally played the diplomat role to
perfection. However, the driving force be-
hind his visit was an attempt to address the
India-Pakistan dispute over Kashmir.

Would the United Sates begin to play
mediator between the two nations? And if so,
how? The process got off to a bad start even
before the trip. After much dithering and
debating, it was announced that Clinton would
visit Pakistan as well. This visit was actually
part of the original itinerary but was can-
celled after the October 1998 military coup. It
was surmised that a visit to Pakistan would be
tantamount to condoning a coup that com-
pletely disregarded all norms of democracy.

Pakistan is not a

By Nate Lote

“{ndia and Pakistan are two friendly coun-
tries of the US in the subcontinent,” said
Mustafa Mahesar, a Pakistani. “One to talk to
and one to talk at.”

It is painfully obvious which is which.

From Pakistan’s standpoint, Clinton’s
whirlwind tour of South Asia was more like
a tactless tornado in its political implications.
The US president would spend five days in
India, the Pakistani media bitterly noted, and
a paltry five hours in Pakistan. Still, it was
enough for Pakistani citizens to take offense,
which they did.

In fairness, Clinton was in a bit of a
quandary. Critics accused him of indiffer-
ence to General Pervez Musharraf’s coup
d’etat of October 12, 1999. Visiting Pakistan
would be the nail in democracy’s coffin,
recognition of an unconstitutional military
regime.

However, that was nothing out of the
ordinary. Pakistan has seesawed between dic-
tatorships and corrupt civilian governments
since its inception in 1947. The only differ-
ence was whether the strongman wore fa-
tigues anda chestfull of medals or everyman’s
salwar kamiz, pinning his hopes on the one-
in-four Pakistanis who actually turned out to
vote. The morning after the coup, Pakistanis
yawned, muttered “Long live the army!” and
went about their lives.

And Clinton knew if the stage was to be
set for US mediation of the Kashmir issue,
leaving Pakistan off the itinerary meant a loss
of credibility as a mediator. So he squeezed in
those five hours.

That only added insult to the injurious
presence of the Indian Army in disputed
(Pakistan would say “occupied”) Kashmir. It
relegated Pakistan to second-tier status in
Washington’s foreign policy book. That

Eventually, it was decided that Clinton would
stop over in Pakistan for five hours-on his
return trip.

US secretary of state, Madeleine
Albright, then angered the president of India
by announcing that the US viewed Kashmir
as “the most dangerous place in the world
today.” In response, the President of India
publicly rebuked Clinton by asserting that
alarmist statements of that kind gave rise to
terrorists who believe that they can capture
global attention by targeting such hotspots.
As a mediator Clinton had already started off
on the wrong foot.

The conflict over Kashmir dates back to
1947 when the British partitioned Pakistan
from India. The residual states were given the
option of joining whichever nation they chose.
The Hindu ruler of the largely Muslim state of
Kashmir actually toyed with the idea of de-
claring independence until Pakistani raiders
invaded his territory, which made him opt for
India and its military protection. Since then,
there have been two wars and several skir-
mishes in the region without any real change
in the status of Kashmir.

The Kashmir issue is a thorny one since

it not only deals with contested territory and
populations but also concerns competing na-
tional identities. India is a secular state; Paki-
stan is an Islamic one. Mediating for peace
ultimately means dealing with these larger
issues which is well beyond the capabilities
of ‘any outside power. Since both countries
possess nuclear weapons and have demon-
strated the ability to withstand global pres-
sure that they deem inimical to their national
interests, several analysts regard the region as
the world’s most likely “flashpoint” for
nuclear war.

Historically, American discontent with
India’s Russian ties resulted in a pro-Pakistan
stance. Three factors have changed that stance.
Firstly, Pakistan’s clear guilt as a terrorist
sponsor in the 1998 conflict was accompa-
nied by the military coup a few months later.
The new leader, General Musharraf, then
proceeded to ban public activities by political
parties but placed no restrictions on activities
of violent Islamic parties. This fueled Ameri-
can worries about the spread of Islamic fun-
damentalism. Two lesser factors are the slow
emergence of India as a major power for

' strategic, economic and military reasons and

International

second-rate country: US policy in

should not have happened, for three reasons:

Firstly, the issue is a Cold War of prin-
ciples. Kashmir is beautiful. Stunningly so.
Within it are the headwaters of five major
rivers. Aesthetics and strategy aside, though,
there is a permeating religious tinge to the
Kashmir issue. When the subcontinent was
partitioned on 15 August 1947, semi-autono-
mous princely states like Kashmir were given
the option of choosing either the newly carved-
out Pakistan, a Muslim homeland; or remain-
ing part of India. Kashmiri maharaja Hari
Singh waffled. It was not because he was
Hindu and his subjects were overwhelmingly
Muslim. He simply wished to preserve his
regal status. The Pathan tribe of northern
Pakistan misconstrued his designs. One thing
(Pathan saber rattling) led to another (the
intimidated maharaja legally acceding to In-
dia and endorsing occupation by the Indian
Army). Now, the issue is one of spirit versus
letter of the law.

Is there a moral high ground? I would
say not. The Indian Army has bloody hands,
and with Pakistani-sponsored flare-ups like
the Kargil crisis of 1998, the victims are the
Kashmiris themselves. Pakistan, at least, ac-
knowledges this. For Clinton, not to isa
mistake, a double standard. An editorial in
the Karachi-based daily The Dawn noted:
“The US dispatched half a million troops for
the ostensible purpose of implementing UN
resolutions on Kuwait while the resolutions
on Kashmir are treated as of no account.”

’ Secondly, resolution of the Kashmir is-
sue is the key to democracy in the subconti-
nent. And democracy hasn’t been doing so
well. Not in Pakistan. Not even in India, the
self-proclaimed “world’s largest democracy.”
Never mind the violence that plagued the last
elections. Presently, Indian democracy is
something akin to the Austrian debacle. Like

Joerg Haider’s xenophobic “yuppie fascists,” .

Indian PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the
Hindu nationalist Baharatiya Janata Party
(BJP) were elected on the strength of their
anti-Pakistan plank.

Finally, Pakistan and India are nuclear
powers: TIME noted how crucial this is.
“With a warning time of approximately five
minutes, a full-scale ‘city-bursting’ exchange
[would leave] more than 17 million Pakistani
and 29 million Indian dead. And that’s just in
the first hours. The total projected dead, ac-
cording to a 1992 study sponsored by the US
Air Force, could reach 100 million.” Hu-
manitarian concerns (a hallmark of US for-
eign policy since the Carter administration)
are unthinkable in their scope, with other past
hotspots—ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, rebel
insurgencies in Congo, killings by pro-Indo-

nesian militias in East Timor—palingincom- _

the growing influence of Indians in the United
States. There are about 1.6 million Indians in
the US and their influence is rapidly rising,
especially in the vital field of information
technology.

The confirmation of a change in US
policy towards the subcontinent came with
this visit. As if the “five days in India and five
hours in Pakistan” decision wasn’t insulting
enough, Clinton’s India trip was filled with
political goodwill, touristy activities and posi-
tive gestures. On the other hand, he stopped in
Pakistan only long enough to deliver a speech,
which was primarily a list of do’s and don’ ts
for the Pakistani government. He explicitly
stated disapproval of the military regime and
requested Pakistan to respect the Line of
Control. None of this rhetoric is new. How-
ever, the fact that it was spoken on Pakistani
soil in front of Pakistani authorities gives it a
new found significance.

It is very clear that the only route for
peace in the subcontinent is the resolution of
the Kashmir issue. Such a peace would be
very beneficial for India because, unlike Pa-
kistan, it doesn’t have any serious internal
political problems and could use the opportu-
nity to concentrate more on developmental
and economic issues.

Though nothing really substantial may
arise from this visit, all the polite noises and
goodwill generated certainly augurs well for °
future progress and partnership.

The author is a sophomore Economics major
from Bangalore, India. ;

the subcontinent

parison. Thinking of Pakistan as a knee-jerk
reactionary state is just plain wrong. Pakistan
was in the nuclear club long before the testing
in Chagai. Everyone knew that—Indian
policymakers, the Pakistanis themselves, even
the relatively insulated foreign community.
Five-hour consideration is an underestima-
tion. Pakistan deserves more respect than
that.

Clinton would be wise to rethink his
South Asia policy. Pakistan is no second-tier
state in the Kashmir issue, or within the
framework of peacemaking. There is a new
Cold War on the subcontinent. Uneven deal-
ing will not resolve it.

The author is a junior Political Science major
from Karachi, Pakistan.

