8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

student and his parents sue David-
A son. They challenge the Honor Code

and Code of Responsibility, twin
tenets that supposedly form the backbone of
this institution, a set of morals without which
some say the school can’t exist.

The Davidsonian presents the facts in
three stories last week. This week’s fallout?
Nothing. There’s not one Powell Op-Ed in
' today’s paper.

I feel ill.

Not everybody is a writer. Not every-
body has an opinion. But please tell me there
are folks — somebody, anybody — on this
campus with a strong opinion on the Powell
case and the guts to make it public.

Campus-wide discourse — the kind of
vibrant discussion that should come as sec-
ond nature ina community made up of think-
ers and learners — is downright necessary for
the sustenance of a school like Davidson.
And it shouldn't just happen over dinner at

_VIEWPOINT

Stop being sheep — and start talking

the Commons and during study breaks at the
Union.

Don’t get me wrong. There has been
talk. And there has been talk of talk.

As far as I can tell, though, most people
aren’t thinking this through. The predomi-
nant two stances have gone something like
this:

*Powell’s a jerk. He’s mean. I don’t like
him.

*Powell broke the rules. The rules are
important. He should’ve accepted his pun-
ishment and gone home.

Please.

The junior from Greenville, N.C., prob-
ably isn’t going to win this case. He’ll go to
summer school in an effort to graduate on
time in May 2001. I think he and his parents
have come to accept that.

In a way, though, I’m glad someone
challenged the Codes. Let’s leave the Powell
specifics aside. I don’t care if you don’t like

the kid. This isn’t a personality contest.

What, if anything, does this case —
Powell’s legal proceedings at Davidson and
the ensuing litigation in Pitt County — say
about the school’s judicial system?

Is it perfect? Or is it too secretive? Too
harsh? Too in-your-face holier-than-thou?

Say what you want about Powell and his
family. But I thought they brought up some
interesting issues.

Mr. Powell, for example, asked whether
college students with little legal background
or training — or, for that matter, professors and
administrators in the same boat — are quali-
fied to make such monumental decisions.
Who are they, he said, to tell his kid that he
needs alcohol and anger management coun-
seling?

And did it not worry you that Davidson’s
administrators made a series of errors that, at
the very least, opened the door to outside
litigation? Misdated letters, clerical goofs,

After reading The Davidsonian’s bril-
liant editorial several weeks ago on the
merits of cable television, I was shocked
and disappointed to read last week’s com-
mentary on gun control and the National
Rifle Association (NRA). Unfortunately
even The Davidsonian has succumbed to
the promotion of superficial and illogical
gun control rhetoric.

In an uncharacteristically one-sided
manner that read like a Gore 2000 cam-
paign speech, last week’ s editorial attempts
to portray the NRA as bankrupt on ideas
and as having to resort to political trash
talking to remain relevant. While Mr.
LaPierre’s comments regarding Presi-
dent Clinton’s toleration of school
shootings may have been in poor taste, it
seems like a pretty desperate claim that
one sentence uttered several times
during a single week could in-
stantly destroy the reputation and
effectiveness of one of America’s
most influential lobbyists. But
putting aside Mr. LaPierre’s tone,
he does in fact raise a valid criti-
cism of Clinton’s penchant for
exploiting personal tragedies to
further the goals of his political agenda.
Isolated, tactless comments are unfortunate
parts of the political game but in no way

Letter to the Editors: Shooting holes in gun control rhetoric

permanently reshape the paradigm of the
institutions or people who make them. If that
were the case, both Clinton and Gore would
have been rendered irrelevant long ago after
accusing Republicans of trying to starve chil-
dren.

As disturbing and inaccurate as the
analysis of the NRA’s political future, I am
even more concerned with The Davidsonian’s
claim that the notion “Guns don’t kill
people, people kill people” has
been “utterly under-
mined”

due
to a recent
shooting by a six-
year-old student. Was
this a magic gun? Or, did
perhaps the student steal a
gun, knowingly point the gun
at a classmate, and pull the trig-
ger? This unfortunate and tragic act

was premeditated murder and in no way
the sole fault of an inanimate object. Be-
cause the age of the student makes this
case unique, if you are uncomfortable placing
the blame on the killer, I think it is appropriate
to look to the neglect of the child’s parents
and to their failure to securely store their

firearm. Either way, what kind of message
are we promoting in our society when our
President seeks to place the blame for vio-
lence on guns and the NRA instead of on the
criminals committing these atrocious acts?
(If you’re unsure, it’s “Hey criminals, keep
killing!”). It is no coincidence that the
Clinton Administration has failed to pros-
ecute thousands and thousands
of gun offenders—in-
cluding those wielding
guns in schools—and
has in essence rendered use-
less the countless gun control laws

that already exist. Why? Perhaps because
if the occurrence of gun crimes begins to
decrease as the government enforces the
laws already on the books there will be no
need for additional gun restrictions—a goal
near and dear to Clinton’s heart.

Let’s begin to think logically about gun
control and realize that more gun laws only
restrict the constitutional freedoms of those
individuals who actually obey laws and in
no way affect criminals who by their very
definition disregard laws. But, criminals,
don’t be alarmed if Clinton does manage to
enact more gun control laws—none of them
will be enforced.

Rick Bold ‘02

Redefining family: women, men, and work

Author’s note: Please note that last week’s
article “‘Feminism in the year 2000” was con-
ceived as an exploratory article for this col-
umn. The author in no way considers the piece
to be a definitive analysis of feminism in the
year 2000.

The past week’s panel presentation of-
fered some of the most interesting discussion
of the events last week. The panelists for “Bal-
ance: How Do They Do It?” offered interesting
ideas about the choices and compromises to be
made in parenting. Even more interesting was
the composition of the audience: predomi-
nantly female. This raised the question: does
the belief that women are always primary
childcare givers extend into our generation? I
am not in any way denouncing women who
make the choice to stay home with their chil-
dren; I respect that parenting takes many forms
and this is one of them. Yet, this was the
question we put to two working mothers, a
mother who worked out of her home, and a
working father in a same sex couple. Each
panelist discussed the techniques they use to
balance their home life and work life. Each
method was different, as it was adapted to an
individual lifestyle. How tolerant are we to-
wards those differing approaches? And is this

a

significant for us as college students?
The first question is particularly pertinent

in this year of presidential campaigning. Al- ’

ready, candidates have trotted out the call for
the “return to family values”. The image con-

jured by this phrase is of a family of about four, ~

with a mother, father, and two healthy ‘cute
children. If we look closer, perhaps we will
notice that dad is holding a briefcase, while
mom proudly displays the cake she baked in
hands clumsy with oven mitts. Perhaps the
children are a boy and a girl; she brushes her
doll’s hair, while her brother dribbles a soccer
ball around her.

Though there are many families similarly
structured, the average family in the United
States shows little resemblance to this model,
for economic reasons if nothing else. Support-
ing two children, paying living expenses and
bills almost necessitates two incomes, and this
is assuming that the head of the household is
not a single parent. In addition, more fathers
are choosing to stay home with their children,
and more same sex couples are choosing to
have children. Although most of the students at
Davidson have enough to handle with academ-
ics and extra-curricular interests, we are all
potential parents. How we choose to parent can
have far-reaching ramifications for ourselves,

our partners, our children, and by extension,
our society.

Espousing a value system supporting a
paradigm bearing no resemblance to the cur-
rent “norms” establishes an unreal set of ex-
pectations for parents. One panelist, a full-time
working mother recently played the question
game with her sons. She asked, ‘What does
daddy do?” “Work!” they replied. “What does
mommy do?” she continued, and her children
replied, listing all of her interactions with them
as a mother, but did not mention her career.
The predominantly female audience expressed
their concerns about pursuing a career and
fitting a family into that agenda. Perhaps they
had seen their parents go through the same
process. Some spoke about their concerns of
compromising with their future husbands, men
who have probably been exposed to the notion
that their family life is malleable to their work
life. Panelists responded that establishing sup-
port lines; dependable family and friends, is
important in reducing stress on both partners.
But all the panelists agreed that honest com-
munication in clarifying each partner’ s expec-
tations and responsibilities is key. . Without
such discussion, I wonder if many will notice
when their “family”, quite unconsciously, be-
comes run by a one-woman show?

Meredith Beattie ‘01

>

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

and poorly recorded judicial hearings are not
evidence of a mean-spirited bias on
Davidson’s part — and shouldn’t necessarily
even be the grounds for a law suit.

But does this kind of stuff not set off
some sort of alarm? The school in this
situation looks, at best, careless.

So don’t tell me why you hate John
Powell. And don’t tell me about the ‘“‘sanc-
tity” of the Codes. Think. Ask questions.
Challenge. Dig deeper. Isn’t that what we’ re
here to do?

Yet maybe I’m giving the students at this
school too much credit. ,

Davidson students, the admissions of-
fice will tell you, work hard and play hard.
That’s such acrock. Ican hear the objections
now: But people are so involved. Not true.
Some people are so involved.

The students who help run SGA meet-
ings, CCRL get-togethers, Union Board gath-
erings, and so on are often the same folks.
Some people are too involved. Seems to me,
however, the vast majority of people aren’t
involved at all.

Some do homework all day and all night
— the high-honors graduates, the cum laudes,
some of the dumbest smart people I know.

Others do homework from Sunday night
to Thursday night and spend Friday and Sat-
urday slipping in and out of a drunken haze.
Is that working hard and playing hard?

To make matters even more curious,
some of the most notorious party animals on
this campus also manage tocarry gaudy GPAs,
walking, talking testaments to this week-
weekend schizophrenia. But here’s the ques-
tion: Are those individuals learning or doing
homework?

This is my vision of the typical Davidson
student: He or she comes from a coddled
background — I do, too, so chill out for a sec
— does exceedingly well in high school, and
therefore feels an obligation to attend a top-
ranked college or university.

He or she must then make a set GPA and
join certain extracurricular organizations to
land the requisite internship to boost the
resume for graduate school.

Davidson churns out Rhodes Scholars
and CEOs at a higher per-capita rate than any
other college in the nation. It also produces
its fair share of brain-dead sheep, aimless
liberal arts graduates, and doers who do be-
cause it’s what’s supposed to be done.

Scott Denham touched on this last se-
mester. The German professor wrote an
article in Libertas saying Davidson students
too often simply do rather than actually think,
drink Beast Light on the Court instead of
wine on the porch, and float. through four
years as if they are a birthright rather than an
opportunity.

The reaction to what he wrote practically
proved his point. A frightening number of
students attacked him — not his arguments.
“If you don’t like it here,” one e-mail -said,
“then why don’t you leave?”

Which brings me back to the Powell
case.

Iam in no way condoning what John did.
He attacked two of his fellow students one
night in October — and he’s paying the price.

But think fora bit about what he’s asking
rather than what he did or who you think he is.
And think about Davidson’s choppy applica-
tion of its own hallowed process.

Blind faith is just that — blind. Have an
opinion. Ruffle some feathers. Discuss.

I dare you.

Michael J. Kruse ‘00
Editor Emeritus

Kruse wrote the Powell stories in last week’s
Davidsonian.

és M
