Rusk, KS go to bat for Habitat

By RICHARD VINSON
__ Editor-in-chief

Members of Rusk Eating House and Kappa
Sigma Fraternity caught flies and circled
bases for ten hours on Saturday, October

Participating in their thirteenth annual
Homeruns for Habitat, these men and women
played one hundred innings of softball to
raise money for Davidson’s Habitat for Hu-
manity. All proceeds will go towards build-
ing a house in the Davidson community.

Though the event was a success, both Rusk
and KS are still counting on student support
to reach their fundraising goals. ,

Ida Wainschel ’01- expressed pleasure at
the turnout from both groups. “People played
in rotations, but a few of us have been out here
the whole time,” she explained.

Adam Yarbrough ’02 agreed. “People are
in and out all day, so it’s hard to tell, but [the
turnout] is pretty good.”

A few recent alumni even made the trip for
the game. Rob Lindenberg ’00 and Fred
Lowrance ’99 both showed up for their
fraternity’s fundraiser.

In spite of the great participation, Wainschel
lamented this year’s level of contributions.
“We didn’t raise as much money this year,”
she remarked. As she explained, each year
they print t-shirts for the event and sell adver-
tising space on them to local businesses: This
year, however, Rusk and Kappa Sig did not
hold the event as early as they have in previ-
ous years, due mainly to an extremely full
calendar of events for the month of Septem-
ber. “By the time we contacted them, many
companies had reached their contribution
limits,” noted Wainschel.

Fortunately, the sponsoring organizations

have other ways of raising money. “If we sell
all the t-shirts we printed and hold a raffle, we
could still make about 500 dollars,” asserted

Tara Davidson ’02. She encouraged inter- .

ested studénts, faculty, or members of the
community to contact her, Wainschel, or
Jeremy Schwartz if they would like to sup-
port their efforts.

Asked about high points for the day,
Wainschel recalled an incident in the 80”
inning when their bat broke. “Jason Hild hit
the last ‘Homerun for Habitat’ with it as the
top half of the aluminum bat we’d been using
all day flew out into the infield towards first

base.” -

“Tim Boswell ’01 enjoyed the scenery when
the game got underway. “It was a kick to be
out here at 6 a.m. It was cold, the fog was
down on the field, and you couldn’t see
anything.”

The softball marathon finally ended around
4 p.m. Saturday afternoon. As the final out
was made, players cheered and congratulated
each other on another successful fundraiser.

Erin Berry

Boo,
from page 1

have watermelon? I’ ve been dying for water-
melon ever since I had to give one to my
friend.”

Other children raced down the hall with
less discretion, throwing a fist into each bowl
before sprinting to the next. “We’re spoiling
ourselves,” explained a vampire matter-of-
factly while dipping her hand into a bowl of
Dum-Dums.

All who participated felt that the evening
was a success. Parents appreciated the safe,
controlled environment in which their chil-
dren could gather candy. Domagalski reports
that from parents, “We got a million thank-
you’s and lots of kudos.”

Students valued the rare opportunity for
contact with children. “The girls on my hall
were really excited about doing it because
they don’t get to see kids much,” explained
resident advisor Erin Bailey ’02.

But the children appreciated the evening
most of all. As the soldier exclaimed to his

younger sister, “Are we loaded or‘what?” *

GRILLED eat ol

VEGGIE MELT ~ VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

‘Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE Juice ~

VEGETABLE SOUP

Wepwespay, Novemner 1, 2000

The Photography Club

The Photography Club announced the
opening of the brand new darkroom located
in Chambers North Basement. In celebra-

a series of instructional sessions on basic

-| photography techniques and darkroom pro-

cedure. The club has purchased new cam-
eras—one 35mm fully manual and one 1970s
Polaroid—which are now available for
member’s use. The club hopes the dark-
room will begin a very productive year for
photographic arts at Davidson, culminating
with a photography show in the spring. For
more information about the club and its
activities, contact Drew Devore (drdevore),
Kim D’ Ardenne (kidardenne), Sarah Wines
(sawines), or Lamar Clarkson (laclarkson).

SAE

The SAE fraternity attended at the YMCA
Halloween Carnival on October 31st. The
brothers helped with Halloween activities
for the kids in the area starting at four in the
afternoon, lasting until 10 that evening. Ear-
lier this semester, the fraternity also partici-
pated in Hunger Awareness Week, includ-
ing attending the Oxfam dinner as well as
giving the money toward one meal to help
prevent hunger.

Project Life

Project Life Ice Cream Social is this Thurs-
.day Nov. 2". Starting at 9 PM in 900 Room,
student can get free ice cream and hear how
| Project Life was started at Davidson Col-
| lege. Founder David Lindsey ?93 will be
there to tell his story dealing with a bone
marrow transplant. Other speakers include
the parent of a Davidson student, a current
senior, and a faculty member who have

Project Life will also sell T-shirts to help
raise funds. All questions should be directed
to Mary Kathryn (x6014) or Benjamin
Ferrell(x5386).

tion of its completion, the club is organizing ~

experienced bone marrow transplantation. |

Anthropology Society

Dr. Jerome Handler from the Virginia
Foundation forthe Humanities visited David-
son this past Tuesday, October 31. He gave
a talk entitled, “Survivors of the Middle
Passage: Autobiographical Accounts by En-
slaved Africans in British America,” the 900
Room. Handler is preeminent scholar in the
field of balck diasporic studies. Earlier that
day, a luncheon was held in Vail Commons
for students with a particular interest in
speaking with Dr. Handler more personally.

Alternative Medicine |
Phil Reid, the head admissions counse-

lor at the National College of Naturo-
pathic Medicine, spoke to an crowd this
past Monday evening about obtaining a
degree in Naturopathic Medicine. Reid’s
visit was the first visit by a Naturopathic
Medical College to Davidson.

SGA
The SGA representatives from the

freshman and sophomore classes have
organized a mixer that will be held on
Friday, November 3. It will be held in the
Union Outpost on Patterson Court from
5:30 - 9:00pm. All freshman and sopho-
mores are invited. Free pizza and kareoke
will be available for all attendees.

OLAS
OLAS has recently concluded their

celebration of Hispanic History Month
with the celebration of “Dia de los
Muretos,” or “Day of the Dead,” the
hispanic equivalent of Halloween.
During the month of October, OLAS has
sponsored a number of events aimed at
educating the Davidson studnets of the
latino culture. The celebration also
included a trip to the Mint Museum, a
Latin Dance Workshop, a workshop on
making an altar, and the “Dia de los
Muertos” celebration.

CANCUN. © JAMAICA © BAHAMAS
PANAMA (ITY BEACH © DAYTONA BEACH

5. PADRE iSL.° SOUTH BEACH © KEY WEST

EARN CASH & FREE TRIPS!
CAMPUS REP. POSITIONS AVAILABLE!

icpt.com

For Details & Reservations Call

INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS @ 1-800-327-6013

Main Street Books will host

Orson Scott Card

~ HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE. "4

5 | i
ae /
&

Bet you didn't ‘think of Us
SS for vegetarian fare!

a Eat-in Take-out

The Soda Shop "896-7743
Since 1951 :

_Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri8-0
iH “10'S

/MAIWST. DAVIDSON HC _

|

for a reception and book signing on Dyes
November 4 from 5 pm to 6 pm at the
store. On hand will be his new book
Sarah, the wife of Abraham, the first ina
__ series of historical novels about notable
women in the book of Genesis. He is best
known for his science fiction (Enders
Game, and Seventh Son). He is the only
author to have won the Hugo and Nebula
awards for best novel two years in a row.
He has published more than W titles.
For more information call 892-6841.

Books

126 South Moin Street
Davidson, Noth Coroting
907-6041

