: Special Delivery from the North Pole

I first got into the toy delivery racket as a
second job to help pay off my expenses at
the end of the year. Back then, the clergy
was the “big time” for those outside the
royalty. But even that didn’t pan out as well
as I'd hoped.

When we started, it wasn’t sagittis
plicated—just me and the missus making
some cheap wooden toys and peddling them
from house to house on Christmas Eve.
Slowly, we invested in the necessary capital
— a sled, a few reindeer, and a big sack.
Before long, we had made enough to pur-
chase our dream house at the North Pole and
move our base of operations there. Totally
tax free, of course.

Business really started to pick up as the
European explorers started to export Chris-
tianity around the globe. Soon I had to hire
more help, and we added a few dozen of
those little squirts — they like to be called
“elves” for whatever reason.

By the nineteenth century, I made a big
discovery. It’s all in the marketing.

I can’t tell you how much our profits
increased when I started wearing this silly
red suit. Kids love it. Advertising took care
of itself, as a few second-rate poems and

jingles made us a household name.

We had the basis for a first-rate enter-
prise, and in 1908 we incorporated. The
early twentieth century witnessed exponen-
tial sales figures, but the best was yet to
come.

As we looked over our business strategy
in 1947, I realized how much the whole
“religion” thing was holding us back. There
were untapped markets everywhere, all be-
cause of the archaic association between

Christmas and Christianity.

Winter 1948 was the first time we hed
what I affectionately call Chri$tma$. In-
stead of spinning the whole celebration as a
religious festival, we embraced a secular
world, and it welcomed us with open arms.

It was the perfect marriage of a culture of
excess looking for an outlet and a savvy

businessman ready to cash in on his status as |

a pop icon.
These past several decades have been
nothing short of fiscal bliss. Globalization,

the “new economy,” and a whole generation-

of spineless parents have combined to put
our operation on a new level. Consumers
can’t spend their money fast enough, and
producer and retailers need ol’ Santa as an
excuse to draw the mindless herds of
Chri$tma$ shoppers into the malls.

More importantly, our sales figures among
non-Christians have more than tripled in the
past fifteen years. The secularization and
commercialization of Chri$tma$ is the best
thing that ever happened to St. Nick.

Let’s face it - Chri$tma$ is the crowning
gem of the modern global culture. It offers
all people the chance to participate in that
defining human activity, commerce. It
bridges social, ethnic, and religious divides,

and_ it links all people in a morally sanc- |*

tioned glut of spending.

Economies thrive, and children learn how
to make their continued happiness depen-
dent on constant acquisition.

All thanks to Santa, Inc.

Merry Chri$tma$.

Love,

Santa Claus

This is the final issue of The Davidsonian for
the Fall 2000 semester.

In the interim, please feel free to send submis-
sions to davidsonian @ davidson.edu.

We hope everyone has a restful and safe win-
ter break and a prosperous new year.

“The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Eprrors-IN-CHIEF

Layout-Epitor,
Business peragens

Copy Eptror ‘
News Epriors

Apvigeswnc Maniacs

Sroits Epirors oc iis

PuordgranPY Ebriols

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson

.» “Tim Cook

‘ Péter Clark

~~ David Jobnston
Anna’ Kvanvig
Matt Garfield

“IT Tolentino

Si ill

“Matt Whited

CincuLaTioN- MANAGER AS ee ence Miller
ba sae <= wt ‘
: ~etnnmmenen

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Useless discussion

The ridiculous amount of attention and
controversy over Scott Buchanan’s word
choice in his article has shown that, despite its
reputation as a bastion of conservatism, David-
son is not immune to the politically correct
crybabies and loudmouths of this world.

The dispute illustrates the double standard
and hypocrisy that is so prevalent in the
opinions and attitudes of
many feminists and other
individuals who seek
benefit for their par-
ticular group of soci-
ety.

‘In her November 8
article, Beth Jenkins.
asserts that “a man
cannot be dehuman-
ized and objectified by
language the way a
woman can, as Lauren
Baird and Cameron Richardson have brought
that to our attention.” These three, so sensi-
tive about the deeper meaning of the word
“beast”, somehow feel justified making this
sweeping generalization about a man’s reac-
tion to stereotypical language! I can think of
countless words that objectify men and cat-
egorize us into a particular stereotype. But
most men are, thankfully, not so sensitive to
them. What, for example, does the word

“asshole” mean? It is an object—and quite a
disgusting one at that—and it is only applied

| THE Divnwonn:
; - Wepnespay,
DECEMBER 6, 2000

to men. Indeed it is a term that is much more
gender-exclusive than “slut.” Were an author
to use the word in the Davidsonian, I doubt
that any men would attack him or her for
being sexist—vulgar, maybe.

While feminists like Stephanie Mlynar and
Etta Dixon “applaud Ms. Richardson and Ms.
Baird for being willing to open this discus-
sion among Davidson students,” the truth is
that their article has created needless contro-
versy over three unimportant words that are
only degrading because

they find it so. Ihave not

talked to Scott, but I guar-

antee you that when he

called his debater an “‘igno-

rant slut” he was pirating

humor from the Saturday

Night Live skit, not trying

to, in Beth’s words, “de-

grade his fellow ‘debater’

S by calling him a woman,

a promiscuous woman.”

It is patently ludicrous

to think that was his intention. If feminists

really think this, then they have allowed their

obsession with their cause to take them far
beyond the bounds of sensibility.

If Beth, Lauren, and Cameron have an
open mind, they will see the word “asshole”
as an example of their generalizations, and
thus their hypocrisy. If not, they will just
think I am one.

Jonathan Adler ‘Ol

