THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Kristen TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Every three years or so, Shakespearean
drama unleashes itself on Davidson College.
Lucky for you, this is one of those years.
Fifteen students form the body of this year’s
Performing Shakespeare Seminar, taught by
Professor Cynthia Lewis. If you haven’ t heard
(sometimes they like to shout their lines across
Chambers Lawn), this year’s production is
Romeo and Juliet.

To be honest, when I heard they were
doing Romeo and Juliet, l yawned. How can
you possibly squeeze something else out of a
tired play? I remember sleeping through the
old black and white movie version in eighth
grade, waking up frightened by Juliet’s thick
flower power eyeliner. Then there was that
vile Baz Luhrman production, Romeo.+ Juliet
(which actually is a tragedy on film), with
Claire Danes and What’s-His-Name kickin’
Shakespeare with gangsta flava.

And right now, in theatres, Hollywood
has given us Romeo Must Die, a kung-fu
version. Just as I was about to write the play
off completely, I remembered the toast of the
Oscars this time last year, Shakespeare in
Love, a marvelous, witty screenplay by Tom
Stoppard that was engaging and familiar at
the same time. What Shakespeare play did
that movie incorporate? Three guesses. Why
does the plot keep reappearing in different
forms, cycling through theatres trying to ap-
peal to martial art fans, the MT Vified genera-
tion, and the general public? Because of all
these adaptations, Romeo and Juliet is still a
damn good play.

The Davidson production refreshes the

Romeo (Trey Davis) believes Juliet (Jennifer Carlyle) is d

News

scenes by highlighting the comedy (usually
suppressed to remind the audience the play is
a“‘tragedy”). Happily, this production has so
much fun you almost forget characters have
to die. A strong cast manages this feat with
such comraderie you would think the casting
had been an open-call audition instead of first
choice on the registrar tree. Many faces will
be familiar to audience members who fre-
quent the theatre department’s productions,
but the standout performance belongs to Jus-
tin Perkinson. If Perkinson’s charming
Mercutio did not die in the third act, we might
forget the star-crossed lovers. Another bit of
excellent casting is Lindsey Hughes; Hughes
embodies the energy we see throughout the
“two hours’ traffic” that begins with Anna
Padget’s rowdy Samson.

Trey Davis and Jennifer Carlyle are
Romeo and Juliet, and the characters are just
as they should be—romantic adolescents in
love. Likewise, the thrilling swordplay looks
unrehearsed and fitting (Bravo to Jeff
Goldman for that). In English seminars, the
professor is to become a fellow adventurer,
and Professor Lewis’ discretion shows in the
players’ interpretations. She may have staged
the blocking, but all the actors have helped
carve the characters; this cooperation shows
in the rambunctious confidence the players
exhibit.

Think you’ve seen Romeo and Juliet?
You haven’t seen it like this. The Davidson
production runs April 14-18th, with all per-
formances except the Sunday matinee in the

Chambers Gallery. Less than Movies at the °

Lake tickets, and so much more fun, go see a
saucy Romeo and Juliet next weekend (regu-
lar price: four bucks, four bucks.)

Cader Howard
ead.

at

APRIL IS NATIONAL POETRY MONTH
Davidson College Student Reading

Sunday, April 9
3 pm

Book PROFESSOR

OOK CENTER.

896-7323
Hear the writing of:
Katie Bond
Katie Crane
Scott Geiger
Rebecca Hazelton
Brooke Shaffner
Anne Stancil
www littleprofessor.com/cornelius

“Review A saucy Romeo and Juliet

yer“ 7

Juliet (Jennifer. Carlyle) and Romeo (Trey Davis) touch palm to palm

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Alex Obregon

during rehearsal of the first meeting between the two lovers.

Co-ed eating house a certainty

By ANN GREGORY
News Editor

After almost a year’s worth of effort, the
addition of a co-ed eating house to the
Patterson Court scene seems all but certain
for the coming fall.

Ben Carter, a junior and co-founder of
the yet-unnamed house, emphasizes the en-
ergy and commitment of the founding mem-
bers as a main catalyst for the house’s pre-

- dicted success.

“The enthusiasm of the group is so re-
freshing,” said Carter, citing the sense within
the group of “creating something new, creat-
ing an important presence for the court and
the college community.”

Thirty-four students have committed to
joining the house and paid the $50 deposit—
that money ‘will go towards fall semester
house dues. The members are divided among
six different committees including finance,
promotion, food and social activities. To
become a house on the. court, they need 40
members by May. | and Carter is fairly con-
fident about attracting at least six more mem-
bers.

The co-ed house plans to be in touch with
the Davidson International Association (for-
merly the International Students’ Associa-
tion) and the Black Student Coalition about
attracting some of their members to join the
house. A minority presence is “necessary to
fulfill our goal of becoming a diverse house,”
says Carter.

The house has already sponsored on-
campus events including a T-shirt tie-dying

~ and a dance at the outpost. A “Bring Your

Own Shirt” event, the tie-dying attracted
nearly 40 people and colorful shirts were
strung on aclothesline across Chambers lawn.

This display, coupled with the subse-
quent wearing of the shirts on the following
Monday, struck Carter as ‘‘a really healthy
statement of solidarity.” The dance party in
the Outpost provided the opportunity for mem-
bers to meet and get to know each other.

Carter, however, sees “the biggest com-
munity building in planning.” The group
meets at the Commons on Thursday evenings
at6 PM. Committee heads and members use
the weekly meetings to share ideas and build
group unity.

The location of the house on The Court
has yet to be decided. All of the current
houses will be given a chance to joina lottery,
with the co-ed house, to win PAX after it has
been renovated. Either the new house will be
there, or the school will renovate the house of
the winner of the lottery and give their exist-
ing building to the co-ed house.

Carter sees a bright future for the house.
Though the Patterson Court Council at first
rejected a proposal for a co-ed house from
Carter and Dane Erickson, a junior who was
elected SGA President in February, Carter
guesses they did so “because of Turner being
sonew. They were afraid we might cause the
other houses to fold.”

Carter, however, says that “most mem-
bers are not now in houses. If any thing, the
Co-ed house will strengthen the court, bring
more people down.”

“This is the best thing I have done at
Davidson, as far as giving back to the com-
munity,” said Carter.
