THE.DAVIDSONIAN

By Jim SwANSBROUGH
Guest Writer

In life, what defines our reality?

The Davidson College theater department’ s
spring production, Life is a Dream, asks just
such a question.

Directed by Alex Pinkston, associate profes-
sor of theater, Life is a Dream is based on a
novel by Spanish novelist Calderon de la
Barca. The 20 student actors will incorporate
both dance and fight choreography into the
two-act production, which is set in the late
Middle Ages during the Golden Age of Spain.
De la Barca’s literary masterpiece actually
takes place in Poland, and is reminiscent of
the more well-known story, The Man in the
Iron Mask. King Basilio (played by Tamara
Ruppart) is fearful that his newborn son
Seigismundo (James Flieder) will one day
overthrow him. Hoping to prevent any such
occurrence, Basilio imprisons his son for

Davidson production of Life is a Dream probes bout

many years.

In old age, the king repents from his actions.
He has Seigismundo drugged, released, and
informed that he is now the prince. After
decades in a cell, Seigismundo responds in
ways unbecoming of a prince. He is then
drugged again, reimprisoned, and told it was
all a dream.

The effect of the events on the prince illus-
trate the fine line between illusion and reality.
Pinkston said, “In the midst of life, we are in
death.. .Itis a very stimulating, mystical play.
It’s a medieval mystery... unlike anything
I’ve seen here in 12 years.”

Anna Jensen and Matthew Hurt play the roles
of aservantand clarion, while Rosalie Esteves
and Amanda Lanier are double-cast as

' Estrella. Jennifer Leigh Carlyle is the stage

manager.

The set design and costumes are colorful,
inspired by a déck of medieval Tarot cards.
Ron Higdon developed the set and coordi-

THURSDAY, FEBRUAI

nates the lighting, and Linda Lindsay is a
guest costumer. Pinkston said, “The produc-
tion is entertainment, not a rendition of a
literary masterpiece. It has been adapted to
entertain.”
The fight scenes, which use real swords,
staffs, and daggers, are choreographed by
Jim McClellan, a certified fight/combat cho-
reographer. Claudia Shinn, secretarial ad-
ministrator to the theater department, will
oversee the box office and ushering duties.
Pinkston’s “Introduction to Theater” class is
heavily involved with all areas of preparation
and production. ,
The production begins this Wednesday, and
will run for five days. Wednesday through
Saturday’s showing will begin at 8 p.m, while
Sunday’s showing is a 2 p.m. matinee. All
performances will be held in Hodson Hall.

James Flieder, Beth Goldstein,

and Eric Brown enact a fight
scene from “Life is a Dream.”

Anna Judy

e
Parking. from page |.

In the mean time, campus officials are
considering some short-term measures. For
instance, McKelvey said that the grass divid-
ers between the parking spaces along Patterson
Court may be eliminated if they serve no
specific purpose, creating a few more student
spaces. Further, McKelvey said, students
who must park in a satellite lot may use call
boxes to ask campus police for a ride to their
destination.

Surprisingly, McKelvey said that “there
has not been a real’ dramatic switch” in the
number of parking tickets given out since the
parking crunch began, although the “aggra-
vation level of people has been heightened.”

McKelvey said that he does not see the
parking crunch as a serious problem com-
pared to the parking situations of other schools.
Nonetheless, “parking is a problem because it
_ IS perceived as a problem,” he said. “The
problem is the fair and equitable allocation of
spaces. We're trying to find the best solu-
tions.”

Outpost. from page |.
keep the Outpost where it is,” he said.
Benson eventually terminated the peti-
tion because he realized that students were
signing the petition multiple times or while
intoxicated. But he maintains that students
were supportive of his cause. Of the students
he talked to “there were probably one or two
people who wouldn’t sign,” he said.
“If the administration doesn’t start plan-
ning the new Outpost it’s going to be a bigger

version of the Union Cafe. It’s the exact oppo-_

site of the Outpost. The people at the Union are
cool, but I don’t think they’d deal well with
what goes on at the Outpost,” Benson said.

The occasionally rowdy behavior at the
current Outpost is one of several issues that
Terry along with SGA members, Union Board
members, administrators, students, and fac-
ulty need to address, he said. Terry also said
that the hours for the new Outpost have not
been set and that decisions about staffing needs
have not been made.

One issue that has been settled, however,
is the need for the Outpost to remain a part of
campus life. “Because [the Outpost] is a pretty
active place currently, we don’t have to won-
der if there is a want, a desire for that service,”
said Terry.

But the relocation of.the Outpost raises
another question for students and faculty: Who
will move into its building on Patterson Court?

“A lotof different groups are vying for the
Outpost building,” said Foster Haselden,
former SGA president. “FIJI supposedly wants
to come back on campus. The International
Students want a house. And the soon to be
established co-ed eating house wants a place to
eat their meals.”

The administration has yet to decide who
willoccupy the current Outpost building, Terry
‘said.

students for leadership in ca

areas and who are ranked
membership.

Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) is a national leadership honor society which recognizes |

ties, athletics, student government, journalism and the creative and performing arts.
Juniors and seniors who hae significantly contributed to campus life in one of these

Current members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel that
the following students deserve to be recognized with this award.

Omicron Delta Kappa
2000 New Members

mpus or community service, social and religious activi-

in the top 35% of their class are eligible for ODK

Suzannah Leigh Bozzone
Michael Chapman Brady
Jenny Dolores Calhoun
Margaret Cartland Carolla
Benjamin Wesley Carter
Kelly Easter Carter

Julie Anne Chevalier
Laura Beth Craver

Ann Elizabeth Culp

Sarah Elizabeth Davis
John A. Dunwoody II
Matthew Eric Ferguson
Wesley Howard Goldsberry
Jennifer Elizabeth C. Goodloe
Sarah Ashley Hart

Desirae N. Haylock

James Taylor Herbert
Elizabeth Harrod Holt
Jennifer Lauren Howard
Mia Leigh Hughes
Christian Mansfield Hunt
Mariam Janine Kamell
Sarah Kathryn Keith
Christine Elizabeth Larned
Hilary Ames Masell

Stephanie Michele Mlynar
Nejib Mohammed

Sarah Archer Leigh Moore
Matthew John Moretz
Andrew James Nash-Webber
Rebecca Jane Niemitz
Alexandra Obregon

Joslyn Eleanor Ogden
Justin David Perkinson
Chad Weatherford Phillips
Derek Neal Politzer
Cameron Brown Richardson
Megan Farrel Robb
Michael David Shaefer
Randall Robert Skattum
Amy Marie Smith

Erin Mikael Smith
Jennifer Suzanne Spears
Kerry Elizabeth Sugrue
Britta Kristen Toleman
Laura Elizabeth Waddle
Ida Catherine Wainschel
Brent Austen Wilson
Edwina Victoria Zant

