THE DAVIDSONIAN
Gender Equit
sender Equity,
from page 1

By examining Davidson’s sexual harass-
ment policies and comparing them to the
other top 25 liberal arts colleges, the working
group concluded that Davidson has “ad-
equate” policies.

Still, education, implementation, and en-
forcement all need improvement.

“Not enough is being done to make respon-
sible parties aware of inappropriate relations,”
noted history professor and working group
co-chair Sally McMillen. “Everyone needs
to be much more aware of the legal conse-
quences and repercussions of the policy.”

“Greater emphasis via education and dis-
cussion can always be placed on an issue like
sexual harassment,” Dean Ross agreed.

Specifically, the report called for the re-
quired periodic re-education of employees
about appropriate workplace behavior, an
increase in the time and depth devoted. to
sexual harassment issues during training ses-
sions, and an annual review of the college’s
policy.

The working group also expressed concern
that faculty and staff were not adequately
informed on how to proceed with complaints
or questions regarding sexual harassment.
They suggested that programs and written
information be expanded to include the means
to express concerns.

Currently, new Davidson faculty must at-
tend a session in which the Vice President’s
Office of Academic Affairs and the human
resources department discuss rules detailed
in the faculty handbook’s section on harass-
ment policy and consensual relationships. In
the past, new staff members were not re-
quired to attend sessions on sexual harass-
ment and consensual relationships.

According to Brantley, a mandatory orien-
tation program for new staff was implemented
this fall.

Current faculty and staff are not required to
attend the training sessions. President Vagt,
however, mentioned the possibility of an
annual, mandatory session in which all fac-
ulty and staff members discuss issues of
sexual harassment as well as other concerns
raised in the report.

After investigation of Davidson’s family
leave policy, the report concluded that David-
son is “far less generous” than many other top
liberal arts colleges.

Specifically, the report pointed to other
schools’ parental leave policies, which pro-
vide faculty with a full semester off at full pay

_leave.

while staff receive at least some paid parental
leave. And, while the working group ac-
knowledged that a disparity may exist be-
tween other colleges’ written policies and
their actual enforcement, Davidson’s poli-
cies still appeared unsatisfactory.

Following the report, the college clarified
and changed the faculty family leave policy.

Faculty are now entitled to a one-course
reduction for a serious: health emergency
within a family

uity.
Some faculty and staff, however, may hesi-
tate to create another office or committee.
The main challenge this report lays at the
feet of the community concerns how we
combat and resolve these problems,” Dr.
Lewis remarked. “We recommended a stand-
ing advisory committee on gender relations
and a part-time equity officer, yet a commit-
tee also carries a

or for maternity
or paternity
Faculty
also have the op-
tion of buying
down an addi-
tional course for non-emergency situations
of family or personal health concern. Buying
down a course allows a faculty member to
accepta salary reduction in return fora lighter
course load.

The new policy is clearer and somewhat
more generous,” asserted Dean Ross.

For staff, the college complies with the
Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 in provid-
ing twelve weeks of unpaid leave for medical
and family issues.

Additionally, according to Brantley, staff
members can accumulate sick and vacation
days to ensure pay continuation during leave.
And, while the college will continue to pay
75% of the staff member’s salary in cases of
serious illness, staff members do not receive
paid parental leave once tliey have used up
sick and vacation days. The report strongly
recommended the addition of a paid parental
leave policy for staff.

The working group also addressed long
standing problems such:as inadequate cam-
pus lighting and an insufficient number of
women’s restrooms in Chambers. According
to President Vagt, women’s restrooms will
be added in the future remodeling of Cham-
bers, while efforts are continually being made
to improve campus lighting.

Maintaining the dialogue

Not all concerns raised by the report ad-

dressed specific policies.

Scrutiny of Davidson’s overall ‘“‘atmo-
sphere” pointed to attitudes, speech, and be-
havior which often make women and even
men feel excluded or uncomfortable.

The working group, therefore, re¢om-
mended the establishment of a permanent
equity office to confront issues of gender and
ethnic equity. They also suggested the cre-
ation of a permanent, presidentially-appointed

' Surprise your college kids

celebrations, study breaks,
exam time or just for fun!

BENGJERRY S.

VERMONT’S FINEST ¢ ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT.

202 Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

or campus chums with
ae cream or oe
frozen yogurt cake
for birthday or
graduation

“The main challenge this report lays at
the feet of the community concerns how
we combat and resolve these problems.”

high cost in
terms of time
and energy. If
we do not estab-
lish these things
then there must
be some permanent or semi-permanent way
of addressing the issues. The issues will
continue to arise once community awareness
has been heightened.”

We cannot create something new only for
the sake of creating something new,” Presi-
dent Vagt stated. “If something already ex-
ists in the system which gets the job done,
then that is preferable. If not, we need to
seriously consider something new. Also,
there is often an attraction to being politically

faculty and staff Committee on Gender Eq-

tant. We do not want tokens, yet we want to

do everything possible to make ‘people feel —

full and equal membership in the commi-
nity.”

If distinctions exist as to be best way to
address issues of gender equity, all involved
agree that the report is just the first step in a
lengthy dialogue that will hopefully result in
specific changes..

This report is not a be all and an end all,”
maintained President Vagt. “I hope the final
product is something that comes from discus-
sions that come out of this report. There are
a lot of people who have yet to be heard.”

I’ve had really good conversations with
men and women regarding the report,” Dr.
McMillen said. “I don’t just want it to be
conversation.” .

The administration has planned two dis-
cussion sessions in order for faculty, staff,
and students to respond to concerns raised in
the report. The dates of the sessions will be
announced shortly.

A copy of the gender equity report is avail-
able to all members of the college community
in President Vagt’s office.

THE STUDENT Bopy

CourcCHESNE

By Str
Student Health Advisor

~ Once again, the Davidacn College tradi-

Fraternities and eating houses went all out in
their efforts to welcome the freshmen to the

joined inthe fun on whati is undoubtedly one
of the biggest party weekends of the year.
Davidson College has longh had a tradition

behind this tradition is that the beginning of
the year should be a time of adjustment for

frighten freshmen with lectures and statis-
tion of First Night Down has comeand gone.

_ the lesson we wish to bring to everyone on
Patterson Court scene. Upperclassmen ¢ also ©
wonderful thing to spendtime

of not allowing freshmen onto Patterson. s
Court until First Night Down. The rationale

limits. Make your decisions regarding the
“evening's activities while you are still so-
a ee
freshmen. The time prior to First Night di

alcohol and sex. “AONE ace

tics, but to arm them with some information
to make wise-choices. And that would be

campus regarding the social scene, Itis a

friends ands definitely needed after astress-
ful week of working and classes. But.we

urge you to keep in mind your personal

= ce the sisies as paid their n
eet beset: ythey —

are let loose onto Patterson Court for First ¢ creases
‘Night Down. The whole weekend seems thi

like one huge | party, with almost every eat-

some way or another. ~
_ As health advisors, we are well aware of

ing house or fraternity getting involved.
‘There are live bands as well as DJ’:., and :
almost everyone on campus participates in 1S

some of the potential dangers of First Night

