o

THE DAVIDSONIAN
_, WEDNESDAY,
aie, Fea a 2008

Davidson rejects CAA invitation

BY Davip MoNCcURE

Staff Writer

Earlier this spring Davidson declined an
invitation to join the Colonial Athletic Asso-
ciation (CAA). =

A year ago representatives of the CAA
approached the Davidson athletic department
with an intriguing offer. They proposed a
move from the Southern Conference, where
Davidson has a history of excellence over the
years, to the CAA.

Fans and coaches recognized this as a great
opportunity for the school’s athletics. This
move would have not only increased levels of
competition and exposure for Davidson’s
teams but also would have tied
the school to programs with
similar academic reputations.

Ultimately, however,
Davidson rejected the pro-
posal. Members of the ath-
letic department cited exten-
sive travel time and potential

_ instability of the CAA as criti-
cal factors in the decision.

“The big difference [in play-
ing in the CAA] would have been our geo-

graphic location in relation to other schools,”
explained men’s soccer head coach Charlie
Slagle. “We would have been farther away
from conference schools in the CAA than we
are in the Southern, which would have af-
fected academics. We try to schedule games
sO as not to miss classes, and the extended
travel would have added missed class days.”

After the initial offer about a year ago,
CAA commissioner Tom Yeager visited
Davidson in December 1999 to explore the
possibility of the conference switch. After
having lost American University and East

Carolina University, two of the conférence’s
nine schools, the CAA wanted to expand.
Davidson seemed attractive to the CAA since
it was known for its high quality athletic
teams as well as its stellar academics.

. This move, however, would have re-
quired “significant change in the Southern
Conference as well as significant change in
the CAA, with the addition of more southern
schools to the [CAA],” according to athletic
director Jim Murphy

In response, Yeager returned and provided
a “what if” situation for the conference switch.
He envisioned the creation of two divisions in
the CAA. Several teams from the Southern
Conference, including Davidson, Furman,
TJNC Greensboro, the Citadel,
and possibly the College of
" Charleston, would have com-
prised the “Southern Divi-
sion.” The ‘corresponding
“Northern Division” would
| have included some: of the
} existing CAA schools, such
as George Mason, James
Madison, and the University

. of Richmond (UR).

Also involved in the possible deal would
have been a creation ofa CAA football con-
ference. Right now the CAA does not exist as

regarded as more competitive than the South-
ern Conference. Men’s basketball head coach
Bob McKillop believed that “it would have
been a great challenge for both our men’s and
women’s basketball programs [to play in the
CAA\].” He also added, “The new areas that
we would have played our games in [such as
Richmondand Washington, D.C.] would have
given us more recruiting expo-
sure since we traditionally re-
cruit in those areas and along
the north-eastern seaboard.”

As other coaches noted, how-
ever, this increased competi-
tion would have come at a cost
to some Davidson teams. For
example, men’s tennis head ee
cgach Jeff Frank judged budgeting
problems to be a serious obstacle. “Davidson
would have been at the bottom of the confer-
ence as far as scholarships are concerned,”
noted Frank. “Competing with schools that
can give much larger scholarships [such as
Virginia Commonwealth University and Wil-
liam and Mary] then becomes harder. ‘Minor
sports’ in the Southern Conference are not
funded competitively with the CAA.”

Field hockey head coach Jennifer Halliday
echoed Frank’s sentiments. ‘Competition
would have increased in the CAA since that

aconference in the col-
lege football world;
however the plan en-
tailed the formation of
such a conference.
UR, William and
Mary, and JMU would have joined some of
the “old” Southern Conference members to
create a “CAA football conference.”
Davidson also stood to gain by its partici-
pationin the CAA. This conference is widely

The Joe Susan
Era Begins

By STEPHEN REBARCHAK
Staff Writer

The last few months have been filled with
change for new head football. coach Joe Su-
san.

After he left Princeton to assume the offen-
sive line coach at Memphis, he was told by
athletic director Jim Murphy that the head
coaching job at Davidson was vacant. He
declined to interview for the job. “I told him
that it wasn’t a good time because we were
just starting spring practice,” said Susan.

But opportunity knocked again. After spring
practice was completed, he was informed that
the Wildcat head spot was still available. “I

see Susan, page 15

Davidson Football Readies

for Battle versus Jacksonville
this Saturday at 1:30

Women’s Soccer Keeps on.
Rolling, Defeats UNC
Asheville and Elon _

Cross Country Coverage

INSIDE!!!

week’s scrimmage.

ry

Volleyball Hosts Georgia
Tech, Georgia State, and.

UNC Wilmington in Wildcat -

Classic

Davidson Men Find Success
in Annapolis at Navy Glae
Soccer Tournament

“As far as I am concerned, the
issue is dead.”

conference has three
nationally ranked top-
ten teams, but the move

-Jim Murphy, would have created

Director of Athletics

Ds ONZE problems. The

CAA requires turf on
home fields [which is not feasible under our
budget],” explained Halliday.

Slagle, on the other hand, doubted that the
increase in competition would have been that
significant. “The competition in the CAA is
stronger overall, however the top teams are
just as strong in the Southern. Fighting for the
top spot in the [Southern] is just as tough as in
the [CAA].”

Another positive aspect of the move was
the prospect of being academically associ-
ated with schools such as UR and William
and Mary. Murphy pointed out that the move
“was not a purely athletic consideration.”
Increased access to the Washington, D.C. and
Richmond academic markets was a plus.

However, in late May, a bombshell was
dropped on all of the informal planning when
the University of Richmond decided to leave
the CAA for the Atlantic-10 conference. UR
was one of the founding members of the CAA
in 1985, and the move was a shock to the
college athletic world. The move also left the
CAA with only 6 members in the conference,
which raised questions about the conference’s
stability.

Murphy noted that “when Richniond left
the Colonial, that ended our interest . . . they
were one of the schools that we wanted to be
associated with academically and athletically

in the CAA. We were maybe one week away
from a formal invitation to join the CAA, but
Richmond’s departure ended our interest.”

Whenasked whether or not there still might
be any possibility of switching conferences
even though Richmond left and the CAA
only has 6 teams, Murphy remarked, “As far
as I am concerned, the issue is dead.”
Davidson did not want to move
into a conference that showed

signs of instability when the
Southern Conference has
proved stable for years. Not
only did Richmond’s sudden
departure raise questions over ©
the CAA’s stability, but also
the conference is now in the
midst of a possible lawsuit with
American University. American is trying to
win back its dght to compete in conference
tournaments for NCAA bids because that
right was taken away by the CAA after the
school announced that it would be leaving the
conference after this year.

Dick Cooke, the baseball head coach, also
focused on the academic standpoint when
discussing the possibility of playing in the
CAA.

Cooke noted, “CAA schools maybe looked
at baseball as their best sport to compete in at
the national level, and CAA schools were
very committed to baseball. When players
come to Davidson, we first want them to
think about their Davidson degree and then
think about baseball.”

Cooke added, “Davidson’s strong academ-
ics attracts players here, then they look at the
quality of games in our schedule. However,
if we were in the CAA, we would still play a
great non-conference schedule, just our con-
ference games would have switched slightly.”

“Also inthe CAA,” Cooke remarked, “there

would have been more missed classes be-
cause games in the CAA are played on Fri-
day, Saturday, and Sunday, instead of the
Saturday and Sunday setup in the Southern.
We would have always had to travel on
Friday,” which would have been bad aca-
demically speaking.”
- Although the move to the CAA would have
enhanced Davidson’s national sports expo-
sure, the athletic department felt that the
conference switch was nota wise one overall.
Davidson athletics have performed success-
fully for years in the Southern Conference
and look to continue that bright performance
in the future. As Murphy commented,
“Davidson has a long standing history in the
Southern Conference, and I am very pleased
staying there.” :

nog MEN’S SOCCER WOMEN’S SOCCER
Sept. 7 @ Charlotte 7:00 Sept.6 Charlotte 300
Sept. 12 @ North Carolina 7:00 Sept. 9 NC State 4:00
VOLLEYBALL aes Sept. 13 South Carolina 7:00-
Sept. 5 @ NC A&T 7:00 ‘FIELD HOCKEY *
Sept. 8 @ Clemson - 7:00 Sept. 9: Georgetown 1:00
Sept. 9 4 South Florida 12:00 Sept. 10 Sacred Heart 1:00
Sept. 9 * Akron 4:30 ____ CROSS COUNTRY ‘
Sept. 12 Wofford 7:00 ~Sept.9 Davidson ciameeuey Inv.

Rens Bik Si Ok es Fae oe Pees Bek JK PS Tas a es ek
