THE DA VIDSONIAN

_NEws_

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Coffee researcher Michael Griffin wins the Watson Scholarship

By Setu Davis
News Editor

Michael Griffin loves coffee.

Last week, the Watson Scholarship Com-

mittee rewarded Griffin’s passion with the
prestigous Watson scholarship, which will
allow him to pursue six months of research
abroad.
But that research project is on hold until
July, and, for now, Griffin is concluding his
‘final semester at Davidson. Griffin is re-
lieved to be finished with the Watson applica-
tion process, which he calls “the most diffi-
cult thing I’ve applied for:”

He is also ecstatic at receiving the schol-
arship. It affords him the opportunity to visit
South American and European coffee planta-
tions in order to expand upon his four years of
intense interest in coffee production and cof-
fee chemistry.

Griffin’s passion, for some, has been
difficult to understand.

“My apartment frightens most people,”
said the chemistry major from Los Angeles.
“Coffee bags and posters line the walls while
coffee equipment covers the floor.”

When he told a high school friend of his
hopes to study coffee “she must have laughed
for half an hourr,” Griffin said

Still, Griffin said, “those with an intense
passion understand me.”

Though Griffin has been drinking coffee
since he was 12, his passion for it began
during his freshman year at Davidson. When
asked about what set off his intense interest in
coffee, Griffin smiles and says, “I read one
book on coffee production and I was hooked.
After that I read every book I could find on
coffee.” ‘

beans shocked the coffee world in 1997,
Griffin saw a unique opportunity for study.
The coffee from the Kagumo plantation of
Kenyan was unusually “bright” and Griffin
decided to test the hypothesis of coffee chem-
ists that the “brightness” came from the phos-
phoric acid content in the beans. As part of a
honors thesis research class, Griffin studied
the phosphoric acid content of the Kagumo
beans. His final paper on the subject is being
published in The Proceedings of the 18"
Colloquium of the Association Scientifique
Internationale du Café.

Griffin wants to do more. “I love coffee
and the hard work is worth it,” he said.

His impending trip will give him the
opportunity to study how coffee is grown and

processed. “Few chemists have the opportu-
nity to go to plantations,” noted Griffin, but
his trip, funded by the Watson scholarship,
will allow him to visit plantations in Brazil,
Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Italy.

“Coffee is a universal language with
different ethnic accents,” said Griffin. He
hopes to learn more about the “cultures be-
hind the coffee” in the different regions he
will visit.

Ultimately, Griffin hopes to attain the
goal of coffee chemistry—making espresso
“taste like it smells.”

He also hopes to discover the means to
identify the origin of any coffee based on its
chemical components. There are over 1,200
compounds in coffee, but Griffin sets his

hopes high.

Griffin’s website,
www.coffeeresearch.org, contains 250 pages
of his research and gets around 9,000 hits a
day.

Griffin has been accepted to five gradu-
ate schools—University of Florida, Univer-
sity of Arizona, University of Texas,
Vanderbilt, and University of North Carolina
Chapel Hill. He plans to defer his enrollment
in one of these schools until he returns from
his trip to South America and Europe.

Eventually, Griffin hopes to start his
own lab and create a new espresso machine
that produces coffee that tastes like it smells.

Open-ended events promote the arts at Davidson

By Setu Davis
News Editor

“We just want to start the weekend off on
the right foot,” said Julia Philpott of the
Cultural Events Coffehouse, an event which
occurred for the first time on March 24.

Philpott and Rebecca Wilson are co-
chairs of the Union Board Cultural Events
Committee. Along with the Union Board
Literary Arts Committee’s chair Ben Carter,
they, according to Wilson, hope to give David-
son students ‘“‘a place to foster their art.”

Wilson and Philpott envision the
Coffehouse as an open-ended forum in which
Davidson students can come together to share
art and have fun. The Coffehouse will be a
recurring event.

“There are a lot of people working in
solitude,” said Carter. “These events can

form a community of artists.”

The Coffeehouse on March 24 saw a
collection of Davidson students come to-
gether for an open-ended night in which some
students chose to read either their work or
someone else’s while others played music.
Candlelight dotted the tables on the Union
Patio as Davidson students gathered to share
a night of art. The event was well-attended
and was part of Women’s Issues Month.

Engaging the diverse elements of the
Davidson community is also important to
Wilson and Philpott. ‘We hope to bring
together all different types of groups and
share their ideas,” said Wilson.

Wilson and Philpott hope to make the
Coffehouse a weekly event. This hope is
shared by Carter.

“We want to fill a void here at David-

son,” said Philpott.

The lack of open, artistic events at Davidson
is the impetus for Philpott, Wilson, and
Carter’s efforts.

“These events are low pressure and fun,”
said Carter.

Carter’s Literary Arts Committee held a Lit-
erary Extravaganza on Saturday, April 1, in
the 900 Room.

The Cultural Events and Literary Arts
Committees plan to co-host another
Coffehouse within the next two weeks.

The Literary Arts Committee is also host-
ing the slam poet Steve Coleman, who will be
on campus April 15.

“We want people to share their ideas
with us. We’re creating a venue for what has
been missing and we want people to be com-
fortable in it,” said Wilson.

Online literary magazine
Revolting is under construction

By Setu Davis
News Editor

allow people to recognize each other and to
When a unique crop of Kenyan coffee

SAY IF HE FOUND OUT YOU
WERE A HEALTH ADVISOR?

Georgia Ringle, Health
Educator, is now accepting
applications to fill four
Health Advisor positions

for the academic year ’00 -
01.

Juniors Jamey Heit and Matt Clifford hope to “revolt from traditional
literary magazines” with their incipient online publication entitled Revolt-
ing. ‘
The online literary magazine is still under construction. Heit projects
that the site will be finished around Easter Break.

“We want to get people to share what they write down and release
people from the stress of publication,” says Heit. Revolting will be a site
for the online “publication” for Davidson student’s work. In the beginning
the site will be a collection of poems, but eventually Heit and Clifford hope
to add a message board in order to create a workshop type atmosphere on
the site.

Initially, the online “issues” will come out bi-monthly. Depending on
the number of submissions, Heit and Clifford may update the site more
often.

The impetus for Revolting came to Clifford and Heit during their
“Web of Modernism” seminar with Dr. Churchhill last semester. Heit
hopes that Revolting will “boost the confidence of artists” by giving them
a “friendly environment in which to share their'work.”

While Revolting will be a publication independent of the College, Heit
hope that there will be a link to it off of the Davidson webpage.

Both Heit and Clifford are making a college-wide call for submissions
to the first.

In the future, Heit hopes to publish poems read at the Cultural Events
Coffehouses in-a special issue of the magazine.

If you have an interest in
being a peer educator,
designing and putting on
hall programs, promoting
awareness activities or
have a special talent or
experience, please apply.

Davidson College Weapons Policy
This letter serves to inform the student body about the weapons policy at.
Davidson College. The policy states: “Davidson College strictly prohibits
possession of weapons of any type by student,. employees and visitors on all

Four Health Advisors will
be selected to assist and
work with the Health

College property, including guns, both concealed and visible, and without

‘|| any other deadly object. Violators are subject to expulsion, termination,

regard to the validity of any permits. Also included are knives, explosives, or

criminal prosecution or any combination of sanctions.:” For clarification, under

this policy the use of fireworks, pasnibell en. salle dea da ge cy

is prohibited on campus. we

It is important to note that the policy, while en om ssi
: The: a

cents ok yr se t

Educator and other students in a variety of areas. Health
Advisors will be paid a stipend at the end of each semester.

To pick up an application, come by the Student Health Service.
April 14, 2000, is the last day to apply.

Questions? Call Georgia Ringle at x2902.

