| is Bava aHeAN

By ALIson KALETT

Editor-in-chief

The men’s team hoped home - pool ad-
vantage and their nine seniors would be
enough to earn them their third Southern
States Championship title in five years. In-
stead, they claimed third.

The Wildcats’ 597-point total left them
36 points short of second-place finisher Lou-
isville and 96.5 points behind defending cham-
pion Western Illinois University.

“Our guys stepped up and did everything
they could to overcome [the point deficit] and
gave it their all, but mathematically it just
wasn’t possible,” said Head Coach Rich
DeSelm.

“Even though we finished up third I
thought we had one of the closest teams i’ve
_been_on in my four years here and we really
swam well this weekend,” said senior co-
captain Sam Kuykendall.

“Unable to compete for the title that so
often defined their previous seasons, the men’s
team was forced to stake their success in their
ability to swim with character and heart,”
said Junior Kurt Hirsekorn.

DeSelm cited the “leadership, skill, depth,
and heart” of his seniors as one of the high-
lights of the championships.

“Senior Scott Harper missed the 200
individual medley finals, an event in which

her usually competes for the victory, yet he
came back the next two days with some of his.

best times,” DeSelm said.

Harper finished second in the 400 yard

medley relay and 400 yard individual relay.

Kuykendall had solid performances in
the 100 yard backstroke where he finished

sixth. And in the 200 butterfly.

“It takes a lot of courage and condition-

ing to swim those two events on the same day,

but he’s done it for us for four years,” DeSelm

said.
Also, Senior Terry Dolch claimed sec-
ond in the 100 yard backstroke.
Senior Mark Medendorp, who plays the
dual role of swimmer and Davidson’s lone
male diver, was a surprising finalist in the
one-meter diving event.
Among the underclassmen, the perfor-

_mance of Junior Kurt Hirsekorn was one of-

the highlights for the men’s team. Hirsekorn
won the 200 and 400 yard individual medleys
as wellas the 200 yard breaststroke. Hirsekorn
also set a new school record in the 200 IM.

“Kurt won three events in the champion-
ships - that’s very special for him and us,’
DeSelm said.

“Kurt Hirsekorn is a powerhouse . . he is
truly amazing to watch in action and he rises
to every occassion,” Kuykendall said.

Sophomore Michael Warner had what
DeSelm called “the meet of his life” in setting

re) SPOE 4 a
Men’s team “ollecte S

Despite a valiant effort, the men’s team fell just short in their quest to

reclaim the Southern States crown

anew school record in the 100 yard freestyle.
Looking\ahead, DeSelm hopes for solid
performances at ECAC’s and, further in the
future, he would like to see more depth in the
sprinting and diving events.
“Sprinters are half of the event and re-
lays are double the points,” DeSelm noted.

“We’re not going to win a championship
without depth in those events, yet, despite
this, we are competing with schools like
Louisville. I feel good, but our goal is to
win.”

PROFILE Swimming | & Diving’ s Class of 2000

By Jimmy Burrorp
Staff Writer

I’ve never set up an inner city choir or
pushed for anew Eating House—actually
I don’t think I’ve swam a lap of butter-

fly—but our seniors swimmers have done —@

all that and more.
The class of 2000 has set 36 school
~ records, has won six Southern States §
Championships,
swimmers to the 2000 All Southern States #
Team. 19 of the Wildcats’ 50 swimmers
comprised this year’s senior class , among
them... .
Rick Clary is from King’s Moun-
tain, N.C. and has been swimming on the *
team since he first arrived as a freshman.
He has improved every year, excelling
especially in the 400 IM, 200 back, and
200 breast. :
Terry Dolch hails from Allen, Mary-

and has named four &

Sports Information

-landand his name litters the Wildcat record Swimming & Diving’s Class of 2000 (from L to R): Back Row: Scott Harper,
book. He currently holds the records for Rick Clary, Mark Medendorp, Daniel Pancotto, Brendan Willmann, Keith
the 100, 200, 300 and 400 medley relays. Nelson, and Terry Dolch. Middle Row: Mary Shell Brosche, Rachel Horak,

Asasophomore, he was onthe All-South- Tonya Werner, Suzi Bozzone, Beth Wilson, Karen Fritchie, and Rob Saldin.

ern States team and the All-ECAC team. Front Row: Jenny Hillmann, Elizabeth Fraser, and Britta Toleman. Not pic-
He’s a participant in Davidson’s Habitat tured: Jennifer Howard and Sam Kuykendall.

for Humanity program.

Scott Harper, a co-captain, is from
Richmond, Va. He is one, if not the greatest,
swimmers to ever attend Davidson. He-holds
the school records for the 200 fly, 200 and
400 IM. And last year during the Southern
States, he led out team with 57 individual
points. Also, on this final Michael Jordan-
esque note. He swam his career best finish in
_ the 400 IM...while having mono.

Sam Kuykendall, another co-captain,
hails from Columbia, Tennessee. He has
been on the All-Southern States team since
his freshman year and continues to improve
in every event.

Mark Medendorp, from Hartland, Wis.,
is the resident Bo Jackson of the team. Not
only does he swim the butterfly and the
freestyle, he’s also a diver from the one
meter.

Keith Nelson, from Waterville, Ohio,
crushed the school record in the 100 fly
during his first Southern States competition.
He broke his own record at the ECAC’s just
a week later.

Daniel Pancotto is a quasi-hometown
boy from Concord, N.C. He was voted most
improved after his sophomore season and is
on the All-Academic team.

Rob Saldin from Boise, Idaho, finaled
in the 500 and. 200 fly during his freshman
campaign. Last year, he swam to a best time
in the 500 free and he is also on the All-
Academic team.

Brendan Willmann, from Cincinnati,
Ohio has returned after a semester in Spain to
catch the tail end of his seniorseason. Willman
hit the ground running, delivering key South-
ern States performances in each of his first
two years as a Wildcat.

Suzi Bozzone is from Signal Mountain,
Tennessee and after a year-off due to injury,
she has come back this year to the same from
that gained her the school record in the 500
free. She was an All-Southern States team
member both her freshman and sophomore
seasons. During her junior year, she suffered
a head injury that forced her to sit out the
season.

Mary Shell Brosche hails from Ander-

son, S.C. Mary holds the school records in
the 100 and 200 back, and the 200 and 400
IM. She’s won three events in the Southern
States for the past three years. During her
freshman season, she was named the South-
ern States Female Swimmer of the Meet. She
also was instrumental in bringing Turner
House to campus.

Elizabeth Fraser is most experienced
diver on the team and after a junior year in
Spain, she came back to final in the Southern
States in the three meter and place ninth in the
one meter.

Karen Fritchie is from Raritan, N.J.,
During her freshmen season she was the
fourth leading point scorer with 39. She was
also All-Southern States and All-Academic
team member.

Jennie Hillmann is from Wilmington,
N. C., and had a promising freshmen year,
swimming in the finals of 200 IM, 100 and
200 yard butterfly in Southern States.

Rachel Horak is from Dumfries, Va.,
and has been a Southern States finalist her
sophomore and freshmen years. She fought

achronic shoulder injury her junior year ,

yet recovered this year to lead the Wild-
cats Southern States’ 200 yard mediey
relay teamto a third place finish.

Jennifer Howard is’ from
Williamsburg, Va., and holds the school
record for the 100 fly. She had been a vital
member of the Wildcat’s team for each of
the past four years. She will attend the
University of Virginia School of Medi-
cine next year.

Britta Toleman of Juneau, Alaska
holds the school record for the 100 breast-
stroke and has been on four record-setting
relay teams. The team’s co-captain is the
president of Reach Out and teaches swim-
ming lessons at the YMCA to disabled
children.

Tonya Werner, from Chesterland,
Ohio, made an immediate impact on the

team during her freshman season. At the

conference championships, she was a fi-
nalist in both the 200 and 400 IM.

Beth Wilson is from Richmond, Va.,
and is a co-captain of the team. She was
voted most improved after her sophomore
year. She was on a record setting 200-
medley relay team and holds the school
record in the 200 breaststroke.

2000 All Southern States Team

Women:
Mary Shell Brosche
Kendra Berner
Heidi Hester
Starr Daniell

Men:
Kurt Hirsekorn
Graham Gravley -
Sam Kuykendall
Scott "Harper
