THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEVEN MERIWETHER

On March 26, Vladimir Putin was offi-
cially elected President of the Russian Fed-
eration, a position he has held since the stun-
ning New Year’s Eve resignation of Boris
Yeltsin.

Mr. Putin garnered 52.8 percent of the
vote; thus surpassing the 50 percent needed to
prevent a runoff. His closest opponent, Com-
munist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov,
achieved 29.3 percent. Zyuganov achieved a
stronger percentage of the vote than expected,
and analysts believe he benefited from a large
protest vote. In any case, Putin achieved a
much greater percentage of the vote than
Boris Yeltsin did in 1996, when he garnered
only 35.2 percent of the vote in the first
round, beating Zyuganov in the runoff.

Putin, an ex-KGB agent and a relative
unknown at 47, achieved public acclaim while
Prime Minister with a concentrated military
campaign against rebel fighters in the
breakaway region of Chechnya. His no-
nonsense language and man-of-action image

International

By Grant BLEECHER

We had read dozens of articles on Nica-
raguan politics, history, religion, sociology
and gender issues. We consulted the Bible,
clergy, and Nicaraguan citizens. But when
we stepped out into the hot Nicaraguan air,
the smell of burning garbage and the mutter-
ing of children begging for money surrounded
us. We were far away from anything familiar.

We were thirteen Davidson students led
by Rob Spach, the Davidson College Chap-
lain, and Andy Baxter, a minister at Davidson
United Methodist Church. We had envisioned
this day back in October when we applied for
this trip and, perhaps, everyday since. Stand-
ing on that airport curb, we were anxious and
excited, yet inevitably overwhelmed.

Our goal was to immerse ourselves in
Nicaraguan life and as Rob Spach put it, “We
wanted to commune with our brothers and
sisters in Christ, across borders.” We didn’t
go with the intent to build anything, but to
learn from them what Americans could do to
help them overcome their oppression. We
called it a reverse mission trip because rather
than go there and offer them ten days of our
service, we spent ten days learning how to
live an entire lifetime of awareness.

In essence, our service begins now by
sharing our experiences and what we learned

appealed to voters weary of the chaos Russia
has endured since the collapse of the Soviet
Union.

He has promised to stamp-out the en-
demic corruption that has invaded all aspects
of Russian political and economic life, re-
store the influence the Russian military once
enjoyed, and revive the staggering economy.
He has not, however, laid out specific plans.

In fact, to those in the West, he remains
a mystery. He has never held elective office
and was appointed Prime Minister only eight
months ago. As quoted by the Washington
Post, Boris Yeltsin, appearing at a local poll-
ing station said of Putin: “Everyone is wait-
ing for change. There will be some changes,
but the main thing is that the reform course
must be maintained; and it will be. I am sure
of this.”

But some Russian commentators and
analysts also fear that Putin is not interested
in the many trappings of democracy and is
more than willing to create a more authoritar-
ian state. This view is held by a minority,
however, as most Russians have indicated

from the Nicaraguan people, so that our ef-
forts can stretch out to the Davidson commu-
nity and into the world. .

As we made friends in the Nicaraguan
communities and became comfortable inter-
acting with them, we found humility in real-
izing that the poor people we met could give
us gifts that would leave an indelible mark on
us.

We spoke with an environmental actiy-

ist, an economic researcher, a students’ rights
activist, the former president, Violeta
Chamorro, and

that stability is their most pressing desire.

“From the very start,” Putin said before
the election, “Russia was created as a
supercentralized state. This is part of its
genetic code, traditions and people’s mental-
ity.” Though he argues there will be change,
he has also warned against unwarranted ex-
pectations, urging Russians, “not to expect
miracles.”

American analysts note his seeming com-
mitment to a market economy, and indicate a
possible thaw in U.S.-Russian relations, which
suffered a heavy blow during the NATO
bombardment of Kosovo. Renewed arms-
control talks and further financial assistance
have been raised.

However, there is still much to be learned.
Until now, Putin has relied on Kremlin offi-
cials carried over fromYeltsin’s administra-
tion, and a small cadre of advisors he worked
with at the KGB. His official appointments
will indicate the direction he intends to steer
Russia.

Putin must also find a way to end the

filled with so much struggling.

The most apparent answer is Love.

Love for each other, love for God and
love for us. We spent several nights living
with host families. We ate with the families,
worshipped in their churches and slept in
their homes. They told us about their lives
and their dreams, and their hopes for the
future of their country.

Ironically, the culture shock hit us harder
when we returned to Davidson than when we
arrived in Nicaragua. Our world was shaken
and our routines

many other people
who work to im-
prove the quality of
life in Nicaragua.

“We go on diets while elsewhere,
children’s stomachs point upward
from malnutrition.”

didn’t seem to fit
us anymore. We
questioned the
things we spend

We did
projects working with street kids who sniff
glue, students who have disabilities, people
who live off food and findings at the city
dump and at a library providing hope and
education for the people of the community.
Many of the people we met were hungry,
poor and uneducated. We spoke witha widow
inasmall village called El Aguacate who had
many children, but no land and no job. When
we asked her what her life was like she said,
“We suffer and we die here.” In a moment of
silent contemplation we asked ourselves how
these people are able to endure a life that is

service

Time: 8:00PM

DAVIDSON IN NICARAGUA:
A Reflection on Faith and Poverty

This past Spring Break twelve Davidson students embarked
on a journey that changed their views on life and faith. Let us
share with you what we learned in Nicaragua. Come see our
slide show of the experience and ask us questions about the’

Date: Monday, April 17
Location: 900 Room, College Union

time doing and
what we spend money on. Our experience in
Nicaragua imparted on us a new lens through
which we see ourselves and the world we live
in.

Once you’ve walked into a shack not
much larger than a Belk dorm room with a
dirt floor, and a sheet of ruffled tin for a roof,
and when you see that the kitchen consists of
a table and an open fire for cooking, you start
to question your lifestyle of plush carpet and
microwaves.

With images of hungry children sucking
chicken bones that we had finished with, for
the last bits of meat, we can’t help but be
cognizant of how uneven the distribution of
resources is in the world. We go on diets
while elsewhere, children’s stomachs point
upward from malnutrition. We started to ques-
tion what’s necessary in our lives. We’re on
the cusp of planning our future. And as we
look ahead, we face a new challenge: how to
enjoy our life, but not enjoy it at the expense
of someone else.

What is necessary? Luxury cars? Ex-

_ pensive, indulging meals? A $120,000 edu-

cation? Everyone has to decide where to
draw the line for themselves.

The Davisonianaccepts
responses to stories in the
international commentary
section. Please Submit
responses to the Viewpoint
Section.

7

bloody conflict in Chechnya. In its early
stages it provided him a great political boost
and served to rally Russian sentiment. As the
campaign drags on, however, the costs con-
tinue to mount.

Last Thursday the 291-member assem-
bly of the Council of Europe lifted Russia’s
voting rights and proposed suspending Rus-
sia from the Council itself because of the
Chechen campaign. This, prompted a walk-
out by the Russian delegation. European for-
eign aid is also being tied to a Russian mili-
tary cessation in Chechnya.

Putin will be officially inaugurated on
May 5, and is only the second president of the
Russian Federation. To succeed, he must
begin to free his country from a decade of
rampant corruption. He must lift Russia out
of its economic slump, and perhaps most
important, restore a lost sense of global pres-
tige to its people. His task is not small.

The author is a senior Political Science ma-
jor from Smyrna, GA.

Introspection in Nicaragua

As well-educated people with a concern
for humanity and seeking to live “useful lives
of leadership and service”, we must construct
our lifestyles with an awareness of people
who live their lives struggling.

The author is a sophomore English major
from Camarillo, CA.

Please come to the slide show and discussion
on Monday April 17" at 8pm in the 900 room
to hear more from the Nicaragua Team.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

NATO: Mormcilo Krajisnik, a Serb who
was wanted for war crimes in Bosnia, was
captured by NATO-led troops.

Rwanda: Seven people were sentenced to
death by Rwandan courts for their role in
the 1994 genocide. Over three hundred
people have received death sentences in
Rwanda for involvement in the genocide.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Nawaz Sharief: On trial for terrorism,
hijacking: and attempted murder among
other charges, the deposed prime minister
of Pakistan was found guilty and sen-
tenced to life imprisonment. He was, how-
ever, acquitted of the attempted murder
charge.

The Horn of Africa: According to the
United Nations, severe droughts in this
region are putting almost 16 million people
in danger of starvation. Ethiopia’s foreign
minister has accused wealthy countries of
waiting till they saw “skeletons on screens”
before they made up their minds on assis-
tance.

Iran-Iraq relations: A Honduran-regis-
tered tanker smuggling oil out of Iraq was
seized in Iranian waters, leading to in-
creased tension between the two countries.

