‘he (other) Zogby Poll: if the election were e today

Joy Gerpy AND Matt ZocBy
Sraff Writers

This week marks the debut of a new
Davidsonian feature, “The (Other) Zogby
Poll,” not to be confused with that other
Zogby poll (www.zogby.com). This week’s
question was “If the presidential elections
were held today, whom would you vote for:
George W. Bush, Albert Gore, ALF (Alien
Life Form), and Optimus Prime (of Autobot-
Transformers fame)?”

While the two former choices are well
known candidates for the Republican and
Democratic parties (respectively), Mr. Form
and Mr. Prime have seen recent surges in
popularity on Davidson’s Campus. In an
effort to better educate the public on these
potential candidates, we would like to brief
Davidson students on their campaign plat-
forms.

Mr. Form has been in the public spotlight
since 1986 when his hit sitcom debuted on

NBC, and it is not surprising that many com-
pare his transition into the political realm to —
that of Ronald Reagan, a fellow Hollywood

- that because he is an alien, he is not eligible to
run for the presidency, but we don’t care:

Animal rights activists have expressed con-

thespian. cern over
ALF, as he bloc ic ber ipeoeeircearme tarts the possibil-
is known to : ity of an
fans, has al- ALF ad-:
ready set ministra-
some spe- tion be-
cific policy cause of his
goals for his = record of
presidency. j eating
His opinions i house cats.
on immigra- | One activist
tion are | com -
rather lax GW. Bun AGore AL Form 0. Prime diye san RiNader A Waters J. Vents J Zogby mented,
compared to “[ALF’s]
e "The (Other) Zogby from o Opin we Margin of ecror: 44-100 .
some of his disregard
contempo- for precious

raries. Being from the planet Melmac him-
self, he appreciates the plight of illegal aliens
in this country, which he has been known to
refer to as “The Promise Land.” Some say

Student reactions decidedly
mixed after presidential debates

By Matr GarFIELD
News Editor

Not since the last episode of “Survivor”
have so many Davidson students gathered in
front of their televisions.

Only this time they didn’t tune in to see
whether it’s Richard or Colleen who gets
voted off the island. This night was about
George and Al.

The Young Democrats hosted a party last
night in Cannon Hall’s first floor lounge—
complete with Papa John’s pizza and sodas—
to watch the first of the three presidential
debates.

Most of the roughly 30 students who filled
the room supported Vice President Al Gore
over Republican Governor George W. Bush,
and an informal poll taken just after the
debate indicated they were satisfied with
Gore’s performance.

“Overall, he came off more intelligent,”
said Young Democrats co-president Hannah
Brown ‘02, who thought Gore was strongest
on the issues of education and abortion.

Bush supporter Alison Heck ’04 said she’s
willing to overlook Bush’s shortcomings as
an orator.

“If only he were more eloquent,” she said
of Bush. “Gore did a better job of debating,
but I don’t think public speaking has much to
do with being a good leader.”

Said Gore near the end of the debate: “If
you entrust me with the presidency, I may not
be the most exciting politician, but I will
work hard for you every day.”

The line drew boisterous laughter and ap-
plause from-the student audience.

Many students, like freshmen Tom Anstrom
and Paul Godfrey, congregated in the hall-
ways after the debate to the candidates’ per-
formances.

“I thought Bush looked overconfident and
often unprepared,” said Gore supporter
Anstrom. “I think he went out of his way to
attack Gore.”

“I thought Bush’s attacks were pretty well-
timed,” countered Godfrey, who supports
Bush. “I think he held his own.” '

US opposes standing UN force

By Harry DunpHYy
Associated Press, Writer

The United States opposes establishing a
standby U.N. force ready to intervene quickly

in international crises, Undersecretary of State |

Thomas Pickering said.

But he and Energy Secretary Bill
Richardson, both former U.S. ambassadors
to the United Nations, said U.N. peacekeep-
ing operations must be improved, given the
increasing number of instances where hu-
manitarian intervention is needed to prevent
loss of life.

Pickering said while setting up forces in
member countries ready for U.N peacekeep-
ing operations “needs to be looked at, [am not
in favor of the U.N. having a standing mili-

tary force.”

He, Richardson and four other former U. S.

ambassadors to the world body, commented
Monday during a discussion at the private
Council on Foreign Relations.

A special panel set up by U.N. Secretary
General Kofi Annon has recommended a
drastic overhaul of U.N. peacekeeping op-
erations, creating the equivalent of a defense
ministry to ensure troops can deploy quickly
in a crisis. \y

The panel proposed that the 188 U.N. mem-
bers states form several brigade-size forces

of 5,000 troops each that could deploy in 30
to 90 days.

The panel envisions a more professional,
high-tech peacekeeping operation than the
present one, which has been blamed for ig-
noring the warnings of the 1994 Rwanda

genocide, and for:failing to help save thou- _

sands of Bosnian Muslims from a Serb mas-
sacre in the town of Srebrenica.

Through conflict prevention and other
measures, Pickering said, “We should be able
to defeat the need for peacekeeping forces,
but we won’t, so we have to do better.”

He also said a professional civilian police
force needed to be developed for use in places
such as Kosovo or East Timor because peace-
keeping troops deployed there are not trained
for law enforcement. .

Richardson said strengthening peacekeep-
ing operations would be one way to help the
United Nations regain its focus.

“But this effort has to be properly chan-
neled by participating states so that peace-
keeping gets revitalized,” he said.

Richardson also said the U.N. Security
Council, which makes decisions about use of
peacekeeping forces, needs to be expanded to
bring in countries such as Japan and Germany
and regional representatives from Asia, Latin
America and Africa.

‘Many feel tackling an

feline lives is inexcusable. It simply isn’t
appropriate for the president of the United
States to dine on ani-
mals that are so dear to |
our hearts. It’s an issue
of family values; that .
could be your little Fifi.”

Mr. Form has also in-
dicated that the space
program will improve
by leaps and bounds un-
der his administration.

Optimus Prime was
also involved in televi-
sion early in his career.
As_ the leader of the
Autobots in a galactic
battle of good versus
evil, he has shown ex-
cellent leadership skills. to the chief?
evil force like the
Decepticons, his infamous nemeses, prepares
him for such minor problems as the nation’s
health care and education.

Critics have argued that Mr. Prime has
been somewhat two-faced in the past and has
seemed to waffle back and forth on issues.
One critic was quoted as saying, “It is as if he
is two different entities at times.” As his
campaign slogan says, Mr. Prime is often,
“More than Meets the Eye.”

Optimus Prime - hail

Mr. Prime has promised to increase mili-
tary spending although many people think
this measure would prove unnecessary con-
sidering he could single-handedly protect the
nation from foreign attack. After all, he is a
very large battle robot, the likes of which
have never been imagined (except on the
planet Cybertron). Mr. Prime is also in sup-
port of further investigation into the benefits
of artificial intelligence.

The truck driver’s union has already issued
their official endorsement for Optimus Prime
for President 2000.

In order to evaluate these latecomers’ ef-
fects on the race, the (Other) Zogby Poll
decided to gauge public opinion at Davidson. ~
In a surprise breakthrough, Mr. Prime cur-
rently is in the lead with 29%. Gore followed
with a whopping 22%. ALF came in third
with 14%, and Bush received 12% of the
votes. It seems ALF and Optimus Prime have
shown that there is dis-
satisfaction with the
major party candidates

Theremaining 19% of
the votes were dispersed
among various write-
ins. In the lead for the
write-ins were Ralph
Nader and Joshua
Fireseed (whose cam-
paign slogan is “A Thou-
sand and One Points of
Light”). Also men-
tioned were Joy Gerdy,
Jesse Ventura, Aileen
Waters and James
Zogby (Matt’s dad).

One write-in candi-
date, Ms. Anna Padget,
led all possible candi-
dates temporarily with eleventy billion votes
before it was discovered that “eleventy bil-
lion” is not even a real number...yet. Votes
for Ms. Padget were removed from consider-
ation because of suspicion of tampering. (She
received all her votes when one of our poll-
sters asked her to hold the clipboard while she

went to the bathroom.)

Christina Ritchie gave no response, claim-
ing ignorance.

