+ THE DAvIDSONIAN

News

THurspAY, Apri 20, 2000

Simply providing money will not end the drug trade

By. EpuarDo EstraDA

A couple of months ago, the U.S. Con-
gress started debating a request from the
Clinton administration for a $ 1.6 billion aid
package for Colombia’s government and
army. The House of Representatives has al-
ready approved the request and the Senate is
currently discussing it. The purpose of the
petition is to aid Colombia in its war against
drugs.

The huge aid package will serve to create
two anti-narcotic battalions, trained and
equipped by the United States. Their activi-
ties will be targeted against the coca-produc-
ing regions of the southern part of the coun-
try. The equipment provided will include
sixty-three helicopters and each battalion will
be composed of 950 men “drawn from the
cream of the Colombian special forces.”

Colombia produces 80 percent of the
cocaine that enters the United States. A large
percentage of the profits obtained from drug
trafficking goes to the guerrilla group of the
FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Co-
lombia). The FARC benefits directly from
the drug trade through the taxing and protec-
tion of cocaine plantations in Southern Co-
lombia. This way it has been able to increase
its military power as well as its strength to
20,000 combatants around all the country in
the last few years. If the.anti-narcotic battal-
ions are to eliminate the cocaine and heroin
plantations, they will necessarily have to con-
front the FARC. Since 1998, this guerrilla
group has engaged in conversations with
Colombia’s president, Mr. Andrés Pastrana.
This dialogue was intended to begin a peace

process that would end, at least partially, the
bloody and irrational four decades long inter-

_ nal war that plagues Colombia.

The aid package will primarily help Co-
lombia in three ways. First, Colombia will
cease to be the main supplier of the cocaine
that enters the US. Secondly, the deteriora-
tion of the social fabric that is a result of the
existence of an illegal drugs market will
cease. As The Economist puts it, “A drug
trade corrupts societies from top to bottom.”
Corruption, kidnappings and assassinations
will decrease. Finally, the military strength of
a powerful state army
backed by the United
States will push the
FARC to sign a peace
treaty with the Colom-
bian government.

These outcomes sound encouraging.
However, the US's strategy to crack down on
the narcotics flow from Colombia is based on
the assumption that the elimination of co-
caine plantations will eliminate drug trade. If
there is a demand for drugs from the devel-
oped countries, there will always be a country
that will supply them. For example, due to the
reduction of cocaine production in Peru and
Bolivia, the area of cocaine cultivation in
Colombia reached unprecedented levels. It
was just a matter of substitution.

The editorial of a recent issue of The
Economist expressed that “the increase in
Colombian coca (and thus in the FARC’s
income) is a direct consequence of its reduc-
tion elsewhere. That is just the latest example
of the ‘balloon effect’: squeeze the drugs
industry at one point and it reappears some-

International

where else.”

After more than ten years of a supply-
sided strategy against drugs, the amount of
narcotics that enter the US has not been
reduced. Hence, new demand-side strategies
will have to be applied.

One option is the decriminalization and
legalization of drugs. If the federal govern-
ment maintains the current market prices of
drugs, the demand for drugs will not increase
due to their high cost. Additionally, the lure
of illegality that drives so many young people
to consume drugs will vanish. Consequen-

consumption could
even go down. Fi-
nally, the elimina-

' tion of the illegal
market of narcotics will decrease the crime
that stems from drug trafficking.

The Netherlands is an example of the
effectiveness of this measure. Having legal-
ized drugs several years ago, they now have
the lowest rate of drug-related deaths in the
entire western world. Thus, the different pro-
posals for decriminalization and legalization
have to be analyzed simply on the basis of
their own merits, not on the basis of their
conformity with a determined ideological or
moral stance.

The proposed aid package will certainly
result in the elimination of the narcotics pro-
duction in Colombia and will lead the FARC
to sign a peace treaty with the Colombian
government. The violent internal conflict that
Colombia faces will come to an end, at least
partially.

But it will not puta stop to the drug trade.

No. 2 rebel band declares Easter truce

BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) _ The
country’s second-largest rebel army declared
an Easter Week truce Wednesday, promising
to suspend a crippling sabotage campaign
and allow traffic to flow unhindered on
Colombia’s highways.

The National Liberation Army, known
by its Spanish initials ELN, also said it would
free the five-member. crew of a domestic
flight it hijacked 13 months ago but keep the
nine remaining passengers, for

some dlrs 100 million in damages.

Garcia did not specify when the ELN’

would free the five-member crew of the
Avianca domestic flight, who were among 46
people it seized on March 14, 1999.

The rebel band has been
seeking to launch a peace dia-
logue with the government of
President Pastrana, which has
focused instead on promoting

whom it is seeking ransoms.

Senior ELN commander
Antonio Garcia, in a commu-
nique read to radio networks,
said the-ELN would halt op-
erations beginning at midnight
until 12:01 a.m. on April 24
“so Colombians can go about
their business during Holy
Week.”

In a bid to pressure Presi-
dent Andres Pastrana into pull-
ing troops out of a northern
region so peace negotiations
can begin, the ELN on April 3
declared all traffic on
Colombia’s highways poten-
tial military targets.

ELN fighters have since
blocked highways and burned
and otherwise crippled com-
mercial vehicles. The trans-
port industry says 53 trucks
have been destroyed and esti-
mated damage at dirs 300 mil-
lion.

In addition, the 6,000-
strong ELN has dynamited

Your image is
evervthing. How
much it costs can

be our little secret.

Turnberry Place-Cornelius
(Next to Sushi at the Lake}

W. Catawba Ave.

dozens of electrical pylons and
telecommunications towers
since late 1999, largely in the
country’s northwest.

The public electrical util-
ity ISA said the rebel group
has mounted 325 attacks
against the power grid over
the past six months, causing

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

S 6.99

OFFER EXPIRES 4/28/2000

Not vaied with other Mors.
Liat ome compon per
Custoneer. Food at

Turtiberry lagation only.

peace efforts with Colombia’s more power-
ful insurgency, the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC.

Pastrana withdrew troops from a Swit-

zerland-sized swath of southern Colombia in —

tially, the levels of

Another country will simply take over
Colombia’s position as the main narcotics
supplier to the US market. The United States
will then have to consider alternative solu-
tions within its own borders and not in the
producing countries. Of the strategies avail-
able, perhaps decriminalization and legaliza-
tion is the best option.

The author is a freshman Economics and
Political Science double major from Bogota,
Colombia.

Major Colombian
heroin ring dismantled

with 46 arrests

BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) _ Police said
they dismantled Colombia’s dominant heroin
ring Wednesday, arresting 46 people in early
morning raids in four cities with the assis-
tance of U.S. drug agents.

The drug gang, capable of shipping 100
pounds (50 kilograms) of heroin monthly,
was led by Nicolas Urquijo Gaviria, a cousin
of the.late cocaine lord Pablo Escobar Gaviria,
officials said. Urquijo Gaviria was captured
outside the western city of Medellin.

Police said the heroin _ which would
represent about a tenth of Colombia’s six-ton
annual production _ was being shipped to the
United States, Spain, Holland and Italy.

The arrests show that “the mafiosos can’t
hide,” Leo Arreguin, U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration attache in Colombia, told a
news conference in the. western city of Cali,
where some of the suspects were paraded
before reporters.

in Colombia

November 1998 ds acondition for peace talks
with the FARC that began two months later
but have been moving at a snail’s pace while
the FARC continues bloody attacks on secu-
rity forces.

The Ultimate Internet Gameshow

Grand Prize $5,000
High Score Month of April

Live weeknights - 9:00 p.m. est

Play against

your friends across the country.

www.CollegeKnowledge.NET
