Davidson

Press RELEASE

Another award-winning software module
written by a Davidson College student reaf-
firms the college’s leadership in high-tech
physics education.

Senior Jim Nolen from Houston, Tex.,
was named recently by Computing in Sci-
ence and Engineering magazine as one of
three winners in its 1999 software contest.
Under the leadership of physics professor
Wolfgang Christian, Davidson has brought
home prizes in eight of the contest’s ten
years, including the last six years straight. No
other college or university anywhere has done
as well in the international competition.

Nolen’s software models the behavior of
gasses inside containers, and is useful in
understanding the relationship between pres-
sure, volume, and temperature. He developed
it during spring semester 1999 as an indepen-
dent study project under Christian’s guid-
ance. Christian himself has won several
prizes in the contest through the years, in-
clude the only “Grand Prize” ever issued.

Nolen explained how his program, and
many others developed at Davidson under
Christian’ s leadership, make it easier for stu-
dents to learn physics. “You can’t see a lot of
the things you study in physics,” he said. “By
developing interactive software that simu-
lates molecular and atomic principles, users
can get a much better conceptual understand-
ing of what’s really happening.”

Interactivity is Key

The software contest judges noted that
interactivity was a key reason they selected
Nolen as a winner. They wrote, “The real
strength is that instructors can use Javascript
to modify it-changing the initial conditions,
plotting physical quantities of their cheice,
and using the*applet in different contexts.
Such changes can be made without seeing the
source code.” ‘

Nolen’s program becomes part of
Christian’s ongoing work to integrate inter-
active, customizable exercises accessed
through the World Wide Web into physics
instruction. Christian and two collaborators,
Dr. Gregor Novak (Indiana University) and
Dr. Evelyn Patterson (United States Air Force
Academy), received a $304,000 grant from
the National Science Foundation two years
ago for development of this instructional
concept into a complete physics curriculum.

Christian’s approach gives students the
information necessary to solve physics prob-
lems in an interactive simulation, rather than
in a written text question. Students solve the
problem through observation of motion, ap-
plication of appropriate physics concepts,
and measurements leading to mathematical
calculations.

A Different Approach

Such an approach is remarkably differ-
ent than typical novice strategies where stu-
dents attempt to mathematically analyze a
problem before qualitatively describing it.
Teachers often call this approach “plug-and-
chug” because it is characterized by the lack
of conceptual thought during the problem
solving process. Christian believes that re-
quiring students to consider the problem quali-
tatively, as is done in multimedia-focused
problems, has a positive influence on their

. problem-solving skills and conceptual un-

derstanding.

Christian and his students have so far
developed about 25 of these interactive exer-
cises, which he calls “Physlets,” (c) which are
all accessible via the World Wide Web. The
exercises are written as Java computer lan-
guage “applets” so that they can be accessed
via all popular computer operating systems.

“They are free for non-commercial use.

Christian noted that Physlets allow in-
structors to create situations that can’t be
replicated with real life materials. The “Op-

tics” Physlet, for example, can demonstrate
many different types of optical systems, from
astronomical telescopes to cameras to micro-
scopes. Students can click and drag to move
the lens around, try different light sources,
and actually grab the lens edge to make it
thinner or thicker to change its focal length.
Christian said, “You can’t do that in real life,
so that’s why we call these ‘media focused’
problems rather than multimedia - you have
to interact with the medium to understand it.”

Changing the Approach

The magazine contest judges agreed that
the Davidson entries have achieved some-
thing that is difficult to do in writing peda-
gogical software- “engaging students in ac-
tivities that will teach them something tan-
gible... Students must do more than click and
watch, they must be engaged in a process that
regularly stimulates cerebral activity... Ide-
ally, the program should approximate an au-
thentic dialogue between a learner and an
expert.”

Media-focused instruction takes advan-
tage of the World Wide Web in ways that
Christian believes are too rarely used. He
explained, “The web is often used to publish
megabytes of information that could just as
well have been printed on a page. But that’s
not likely to have an impact on learning.
You’re not changing the pedagogy or ap-
proach to what the student does. We’ re trying
to change the basic approach.”

In addition to the interactive Physlet
programs on the Web, Christian relies heavily
on a “Just In Time Teaching,” (JiTT) tech-
nique developed in conjunction with Drs.
Novak and Patterson. For homework assign-
ments, students work Physlet problems on
the web that correspond to class discussions,
or extend just beyond what the class has been
studying. Students stay on-time and on-task
by using the Web to create a feedback loop.
By reviewing their assignments just before

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

student writes software module

the next class, Christian gets a good snapshot
of the class’s understanding of the subject

‘matter, and can tailor the next class lesson

with that in mind.

During the three-year duration of the
NSF grant, Christian is developing an entire
undergraduate Web-based physics curricu-
lum that Physlets and JiTT. The grant also
funds production of a CD of Physlet prob-
lems and concept problems for JiTT, and
funds for Christian’s regular presentations
about Web physics at professional meetings
of the American Association of Physics
Teachers.

Learning the Basics Early

Nolen, like other Davidson student win-
ners before him, traced his initial interest in
web physics to Christian’s “Computational
Physics” course that he took as a sophomore.
“I had never done any programming before
that, but I enjoyed the course very much,”
Nolen said.

Christian said most schools teach com-
putational physics as an upper level course
and as a specific skill, rather than teaching it
early and urging students to apply it through-
out the curriculum. Nolen was one of the
students Christian regularly recruits from that
course to help him create Physlets during
their junior and senior years as independent
study projects. Nolen worked on it indepen-
dently, with Christian helping test results and
brainstorm about exercises and function.

Christian believes that computational
physics represents a major change in the way
the discipline is taught. He said, “The tech-
nology and the way we do this puts students
on an equal footing with the faculty. They
soak up the technique and technology as fast
as faculty can, so our projects are much more
a cooperative venture than the traditional
relationship. I learn from them as often as
they learn from me.”

~ Work in Davidson
This Summer

Summer Employment in
The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer
workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should
Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332
