6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

Review: Final ‘Scream’ takes a stab at horror greatness

By Puituip STEWART
Staff Writer

What an endlessly funny and surpris-
ingly satisfying movie this is! Scream has
become more of a personality than a movie
trilogy. Fans of the series have by now
become extremely comfortable with its char-
acters and pop-culturally influenced humor
(“Pop culture has become the politics of the
21st century!”’).

_ But while the first Scream films owed
much to the slasher movies of the late 70’s
and the 80’s, this ‘final’ chapter takes more
from it’s own series. No less than three

of Stab 3, but unfortunately there are three
different versions of it for fear that the ending
would be exposed on the internet (an actual
problem encountered in the filming of Scream
2). Also add to the mix that pictures of
Sydney’s dead mother are left with the bod-
ies. As Randy (Jamie Kennedy) explains to
us via posthumous video tape, ina true trilogy
an event from the past that no one knew about
at the beginning of the series will come out of
nowhere and explain everything, just like in
Return of the Jedi and the Godfather III.

It is through that video that one realizes
how much Randy’s character is missed, and
the scene is almost touching in a strange way.

scenes in Parker
Scream 3 Posey
directly “Scream 3 is a real treat for Scream fans, and »°*-
mirror clas- ever,
sic mo- brings a satisfying close to the horror trilogy.” —com-
ments from fort-
the other ably

Scream films, but that by no means implies
that the token homages are missing. Two
great moments will please avid Hitchcock
fans and even Jay and Silent Bob of “Clerks”
and “Dogma” fame make a hilarious cameo.

The film-opens typically, if audaciously,
with a short exposition and a grisly murder,

but this time the victim is a major character, ‘

igniting a fear in the audience that anything
can happen to anyone this time around.

Sydney (Neve Campbell) has locked
herself away in a quiet Monterey home where
she is a crisis counselor for women. Dewey
(David Arquette) and Gale Weathers
(Courtney Cox Arquette) are reunited on the
set of Stab 3 (Try to follow me here) the
movie within a movie of the events surround-
ing the murders from the first two Scream
films.

New faces include the brilliant Parker
Posey (Waiting for Guffman), playing Gale
Weathers in Stab 3, and Jenny McCarthy who
plays Sydney’s dead best friend Tatum (who
inexplicably didn’t die in Stab) from the
original Scream. The complexity of the plot
is part of what makes the film so fun, but if
you have not seen the first two Scream films,
it would be a huge mistake to see this one.

They all figure out that the killer is offing
people in the order that they die in the script

fills the shoes of Randy, and keeps the great
comic flare in the film. The constant banter
between her and the real Gale Weathers is
comic gold.

In fact, most of the film is hilarious, even
in the gory moments. The killer throws one
character out a window towards the pool; we
expect to hear a splash, but instead we hear a
thud as he hits the concrete—all the action
stops so that viewers have time to laugh and
catch their breath.

Ads claim that this Scream is the scari-
est, but I must say that honor still belongs to
the first. Itis, however, the funniest, and does
have what is quite possibly the best scene in
the trilogy, one involving five cell phones,
fax machine and a power outage.

@ Two Summer Sessions
@ French Immersion Program
@ Desktop Publishing and
Web Design Programs
@ Cultural Excursions

The American
University of Paris
6 rue du Colonel Combes
75007 Paris, France
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 07 20
Fax (33/1) 47 05 34 32
New York office:
Tel. (212) 983-1414

Website http://www.aup.edu
Email summer@aup.cdu

Seu A To AY

AB RO A D

EXPERIENCE

PR 0-6 RAM

Be a global ci

SPAIN

izen at GWs Madrid Study Center located at
Spain's prestigious Universidad Autonoma. Complement your
classroom learning with field trips, excursions and other rich cultura!

experiences in one of Spain’s most exciting cities —

FALL SEMESTER 2000

Madrid.

the
n.

WASHINGTON ty
An equal opportunity /
affirmative action institunon

;

Application Deadline is March 1, 2000

COURSEWORK IN St

Language, Culture and Literature

INTERNSHIPS
COURSEWORK TAUGHT IN ENGLISH
Europe in the 20th Century * Contemporary Spain
International Marketing * International Economics
European-Atiantic Nations

(202) 994-1649
www.gwu.edw~studyabr/madrid.htm

2-ANISH

Contact us today

or visit our website

Significantly better than the more cyni-
cal second film, it still has its flaws putting it
a notch (albeit a small one) below the origi-
nal. The opening scene, normally the scariest
in the films, is not on par with the Drew
Barrymore and Jada Pinkett-Smith murders
in the first two. Also, the ending is a bit
disappointing but brisk enough to be enter-
taining, and even then is made up for in a
terrific epilogue.

By killing off a lead character at the
outset, the tone is always a bit-unsettling. In
the second one, you knew Sydney couldn’t be

killed, but “in the third one, all bets are off.”

Ehren Kruger (“Arlington Road’’) wrote
the script, and my initial fears of his not
keeping with Kevin Williamson’s character-
izations melted away in the first 15 minutes.
The screenplay is juicy and complex, aclaim
very few ‘Part 3s’ can make (except maybe
Wes Craven’s own Dream Warriors, the third
and best Nightmare on Elm Street film).

Scream 3 is a real treat for Scream fans,
and brings a satisfying close to the horror
trilogy. Grade: A-

C.0.T.0. : Chocolate o on nthe Outside
a play by April Turner
Please come and join the Davidson College Black Student Coali-
tion, the Union Board Cultural Events Committie, and the Office
of Minority Student Affairs they present C.O.T.O. Friday,
February 11, 2000, 7 PM in Hodson Hall on the campus of
Davidson College.

Hey Davidson College
Class of 2000!!!

The following Davidson College Fellows Program
Cormally the Davidson College Intern Program)
positions are now available for application:

* Reunion Coordinator--Alumni Relations

* Laboratory Manager--Chemistry Department

* Assistant to the College Archivist--E.H. Little Library

* Assistant to the Director--Dean Rusk Program

* Production and Promotion Assistant--Music and Theatre

Departments

* Laboratory Manager--Physics Department
* Evening Facilities Manager--College Union
* Union Program Advisor--College Union

Apply Immediately!!!!

