rt :

oe Tue Davison et

Film finally ‘Bucks’ summer trend

By Puitip STEWART
Special Contributor

A couple of old-wind-up toys and stuffed
animals fill the screen in a montage of short
cuts. Two little boys run freely in a forest,
laughing quietly. A sickeningly sweet melody
plays on the soundtrack, sung by a woman
that sounds like Lisa Loeb on helium.

But then we hear insistent coughing, and
that happy world is slowly ripped away from
us. A woman is dying, and her twenty-seven
year-old son Buck is in the next room, folding
children’s cloths.

He stops folding and enters the room
where she is smoking and watching an irrel-
evant television program.

“Mom?” he asks.

She’s dead. And thus opens the best
movie of the year. But in a year like this,
that’s not saying enough. Chuck and Buck

makes the other good movies this year seem

depressingly derivative and mediocre (ex-
cept for The Cell, the only other movie this
year that seemed to take any chances at all).
Watching the film feels like taking a long
breath of air after spending way too long
underwater, drowning in drivel like “Hollow
Man”, “The Patriot” and “What Lies Be-
neath”.

It seems impossible that a comedy from the
creators of American Pie, Dead Manon Cam-
pus, and Nutty Professor II: The Klumps,
could be so dark, brilliant and original. This
phenomenon highlights the primary problem
in Hollywood today—marketability. Little
bits of all these other movies are present in
Chuck and Buck, but here these elements are
allowed to flourish rather than disintegrate in
favor of mainstream, accessible hokum; but
of course originality comes at a price. This
film is only showing at The Manor Theater in
Charlotte because most theaters are too afraid
of losing money to show such exciting and
edgy fare. America likes its simple pleasures,
huh?

Buck is the most fascinatingly complex
character to grace the screen in a while.
He’s still eleven on the inside, and Chuck,
his best friend from childhood, is the first
person he tells when his mother dies. But
they weren’t just friends—they played
games that hopefully most children avoid
when they are eleven.

Chuck comes to visit Buck for the fu-
neral and gets a little more than he bar-
gained for when Buck cops a feel during a
consoling hug. Shocked and disturbed,
Chuck returns to L.A.; and then Buck moves
to L.A. too so he can hang out with Chuck
again.

Chuck has grown up and leads a success-
ful life. He has a fiancé, a high paying job
in the music business, and a BMW. Of

_course Buck doesn’t understand this. “Is

this real?” he asks in one of many pitiful
and darkly humorous scenes. “Remember
when we used to play like we were business
men and we would buy office supplies?
Are these real ones?”

Of course they are real, but Buck is so
tuned-in to his childhood experiences with
Chuck that he almost shuts down com-
plefely without him around, and he’s blind
to anything that’s not from childhood. He
was fine when his mother was alive, but
now there is no one with whom he can
relate. He even talks like a kid, recalling
the band camp character from American
Pie in many lines. ¢

When it becomes clear that the friend-
ship is not likely to be rekindled, and all of

his advances go unrequited, Buck writes a

play about his fun times with Chuck, pro-
viding the film with a whole new dramatic
arc that seems to recall. elements of
Rushmore, Being John Malkovich and
Welcome to the Dollhouse and to wrap
them into one fresh new concoction.
Cinematically, Miguel Artera and his
cinematographer Chuy Chavez create a

stark, contrasting environment for the char-
acters. Buck often appears in extreme close-
up, almost like a picture cut out of a magazine
and pasted onto a moving canvas—a tech-
nique that parallels the story quite well once
the final themes emerge. Hand-held cameras
are used often and effectively, evoking a
sense of unease and urgency inherent to the
story. ees :

Mike White’s portrayal of Buck stands out
from the performances of the others. Maybe
because White wrote the story he was able to
convey the subtlety and facial nuances re-
quired for the role; his performance is Oscar
worthy, and so far goes unchallenged this
year.

The movie’s insistence, however, on mak-
ing the audience realize what a child Buck
remains detracts from the integrity of the
film. Lines like, “You need to grow up,” and
“Move on,” appear too often in the screen-
play, diminishing the faith in the audience —
these filmmakers obviously posses.

_ Hopefully more of Hollywood will follow
the path of Chris Weitz and Mike White, the
actors in the title roles. This isn’t the kind of
film that wins awards. They are clearly
driven by the art of film rather than money.”
Instead of making another American Pie or
Dead Man on Campus, they chose the risky
path and came out looking better and a whole
lot more interesting.

Now back to those wind-up toys on Buck’s
dresser drawers. They symbolize all that this
film is beautifully. At one point Chuck picks
up one of the toys, and it twitches in his hand,
finally stopping. Buck is like one of these
toys, only knowing one thing in life, unable to
escape.

It’s nice to see these filmmakers finally
throw away the wind-up toy and go for the
Legos, creating something that is imagina-
tive, complex, and original rather than
prepackaged and automated.

Grade: A-

Eve 6 debuts sophomore album

Simply put, this
record is quite
exceptional

By THOMAS CULLEN
Staff Writer

Eve 6returned witha new set full of charged
guitar riffs, pounding bass, and aggressive
drumming that--makes-for—a-collection—of
songs that define alternative punk music.

The boys of Eve 6, Max Collins on vocals
and bass, Jon Siebels on guitar, and Tony

Fagensen on drums, have matured since their
self-titled first release into a highly powerful
and cohesive group that shines on this sopho-
more effort. Most remember Eve 6 from
“Inside Out,” their 1998 hit single, if they
remember them atall. After. two year hiatus,
they have returned with Horrorscope and a
newly found sense of determination.

The record opens with an ambitious num-
ber entitled “Rescue” that sets the tone for the
entire album. The next song “Promise” is
simply immaculate. “Promise” is followed
by another awesome song by the name of
“On The Roof Again.” Much like “Promise,”

_ the song has jagged guitar riffs and fabulous

vocals by Collins. It too merits a listen.

Among other songs, “Amphetamines”
stands out as the quintessential punk rock
song of the record. The bass grounds the song
while the guitar shoots off riffs like the guns
in computer games. Another noteworthy song
is “Bang,” which begins like Limp Bizkit’s
“Rearranged,” but recovers to form into some
decent music. The record ends with a decent
song, but it is definitely lackluster compared
to the rest of the record.

Normally, there is something to criticize
about. record or band, but here Eve 6 flaunts
convention. As much fun as ripping a band to
shreds is, this record is magnificent.

Eve 6 came back from the studio and
offered up acollection of energy-fueled sqngs
that impress and intrigue. There is no way to
predict the commercial fate of Horrorscope,
but just because a lot of copies aren’t sold ~
doesn’t mean it’s bad. So go ahead, check it
out.

