THE DAVIDSONIAN

S O U 1 H 5 R

By Burain Harbin
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. — You know why
they call it March Madness?
Because a senior can score 29 points,
grab 15 boards and his team still loose.
Because the winning coach can admit
that he had noidea how to stop his opposition’ s
stellar senior duo.
Because games
are decided in the last
4 seconds with a 16-
foot jumper made by
a guy who hadn’t shot 30 percent from the
floor all afternoon.
But shooting percentage meant nothing
_ to lan Chadwick as he threaded a game win-
ning jumper to give Wofford a 65-64 edge

mad
Me,

Wof Y ee
Davidswfy || 64

LOSE Ny

over Davidson in the second round of the °

Southern Conference Tournament.

“I knew this one was going in,” said
Chadwick, “because one out of three times
it’s going to go in.”

Davidson struggled early, missing shots
and rebounds that allowed Wofford to gain
the advantage for the first 15 minutes of the
first half.

“The one stat that jumps out at me is the
18 offensive rebounds (for Wofford). I think
an extraordinary number of those offensive
rebounds resulted in easy baskets,” coach
Bob McKillop said. “We needed to finish
and we didn’t finish on defense by getting the
ball and that, I think, is the story of the game.”

More glaring than their rebounding
trouble was the Wildcats’ lack of perimeter
shooting, which has been a persistent hole in
their game all season. Davidson’s first points
from outside the paint came with 6:48 re-

Late season surge ends in second round of S

By MIKE ANDERSON

Editor-in-Chief

GREENVILLE, S.C. - On the afternoon
in Charleston that Jen O’Brien scored her
record-breaking 1376th point, her mom as-
serted, “Jen would trade every last point for a
Davidson win.” The tears filling O’Brien’s
eyes here last Friday night confirmed that
notion.

Just seconds after an awe-inspiring 35

point individual per-

“Dy Skee: formance, O’Brien
Fur ANE 73 and teammates
Dav as@AY | 56 watched forlornly as

Sa ‘the Furman Lady
Paladins stormed the hardwood of the

Timmons Arena in celebration of their tour-
- nament advancement.

““P’'m glad we got this one behind us,”
said a relieved Furman head coach Sherry
Carter. “We were concerned with this game
coming into today. Thank goodness.”

The game itself was pretty microcosmic
of the Wildcat season as a whole. Davidson
started pitifully slow, mustered some impres-
sive steam down the stretch, witnessed some
incredible heroics by Jen O’Brien, but still
came up short at the very end.

An athletic and energized Furman team
exploded out of the gate, racing to a 23-7 lead
in the game’s first ten minutes.

Davidson was able to stabilize itself dur-
ing the next ten minutes, and escaped to the
half-time locker room down just 34-21.

“Part of the problem early,” explains
head coach John Filar, “was that we had to
work so hard for anything we were getting
offensively. (Furman) wasn’thaving to work
near as hard.”

Davidson shot a modest 36% in the first
half while the Lady Paladins shot a steady
44.4%, thanks in part to 15 offensive re-

N C O

erriers snuf

E R

N F

maining in the first half when
Michael Bree hit a three pointer.

Bree’s three sparked a 15-
2 Davidson run over the next
five minutes as the Wildcats
managed to build a 37-29 lead
by the one-minute mark.

But over the next sixty sec-
onds, Davidson committed a
turnover, missed two three-
pointers, and fouled Starzee
Walker, and by halftime §%
Wofford only trailed by three,
37-34.

The Wildcats fought
through Wofford’s double-
teaming defense to increase
their lead to 12 in the first six
minutes of the second half, but
the next 14 minutes were pain-
ful for the Wildcat faithful.

Although Landry
Kosmalski scored a career-high
29 points and Stephen Marshall

Con tourney title hopes

Mike Anderson

netted 14, Wofford never let At the Southern Conference tournament, Landry Kosmalski scored a career-high
the game get too far out of their. 29 points in the Wildcats’ second round loss against Wofford.

reach. \

“The Mustard Team did it tonight,” said
Wofford coach Richard Johnson of the group
of Terriers who wear gold jerseys in practice.
“Those guys gave us a huge lift. They got us
back into the game when I thought we were in
danger of letting it slip away.”

And slowly, the Terriers reeled in the
Wildcats.

Colon Largent had six points in three
minutes to help cut the Wildcat lead to two
with 9:02 left. Mike Lenzley and Grant
Sterley were also key to the 12-2 run that the
Terriers put together.

bounds and almost as many easy put-backs.

‘“(Kena) Hodges and (Jackie) Smith made
up their minds that they were gonna crash the
boards,” said Filar. “We just dug a hole for
ourselves.”

Furman outboarded the Wildcats 29-11
in the first half and 50-22 over the course of
the game.

“They're great leapers, and they defi-
nitely had a height advantage on us,” said
senior forward Katy Kamp, referring to the
dominant trio of Leitra Young (6’3”), Kena
Hodges (6’2”) and Jackie Smith (6’ 1’). Smith,
last year’s Southern Conference Player of the
Year, ranked sixth in the nation this season
with 18 double-doubles.

But despite Furman’s. vast talent, the
Wildcats made an impressive comeback run

x.
ae 4

With just over three minutes to go, the
mustard team had rallied Wofford to a 60-60
deadlocked and Johnson returned Chadwick,
Starzee Walker, and Jon Pryor to the game
with one instruction: “win it.”

And Chadwick answered.

“IT saw Chadwick on the other side so [
ran over there. But he beat me and shot it,”
said Kosmalksi.. “I didn’t even get a hand up.
He just hit a big time shot.”

Kosmalski got the ball after the Wild-
cats’ final timeout and put up an awkward,
one-handed jumper from about 25 feet out as
time — and the Wildcats’ hopes for an NCAA

berth — expired.

“Landry Kosmalski had one of the most
sensational games that I’ ve ever had the plea-
sure of watching as a coach,” said McKillop.
“Tt’s really a shame that this conference and
this crowd for the next weekend won’t get to
see what this guy is made of.”

Marshall also played an extremely tough
game very well, fighting a Wofford double-
team the entire game while managing 14
points and 11 rebounds.

“We had no answer for Kosmalski and
Marshall,” said Johnson.

Still, two players don’t win a game, a
team does. .

oCon tourney

“This has been far and away the most amazing
season. We can all agree on that.”

—Meagan Gleason

over much of the second half, cutting the
Paladin lead to as little as five.

Most, if not all, of that surge can be
accredited to a brilliant run by Davidson’s
O’Brien. The 5-6 guard dazzled Timmons
Arena, scoring 21 straight points on her way
to a career-high 35. That total ties her for
Davidson’s record of 35 points in a single
game.

“T have never seen, and I don’t think I
will ever see again, the kind of exhibition that
was put on by O’Brien,” Filar said. “I can go

Mike Anderson

Kim Taylor tangles with a Paladin underneath the basket during the

March 3 SoCon tournament game at Timmons Arena.

away with the fact that that was just an
unbelievable performance. If this has to be
your last game, this is how you want to be
remembered.”

Said Furman’s Coach Carter, “She liter-
ally put Davidson on her back and said “Let’s
go!”

It seemed that the only one not dazzled
by the heroics was O’Brien herself. “My
teammates did a great job of finding me and
setting screens,” she said-with her trademark
humility. “I made a couple of shots, but it
wasn’t enough.”

Senior Meagan Gleason had nothing but
fond memories of the remarkable season that
saw Davidson evolve froma 1-9 cellar-dweller
into a serious contender. “Looking at the way
we started this season, it’s just been amaz-
ing,” she said. “We have to givea lot of credit
to the coaches and our teammates for doing
an excellent job. This has been far and away
the most amazing season, we can all agree on
that.”

Notes: Davidson finished its season at 10-17,
with a 9-11 conference mark...Jen O’Brien
came up just two steals shy of the tournament
record, despite only playing two
games...O'Brien also netted her 1500" ca-
reer point in the Furman loss...The women’s
squad went 6-3 over the second-half of con-
ference play, aremarkable improvement from
their 2-7 record in the first round of
‘action... The Lady Paladins were obliterated
90-38 in the first round of the NCAA Tourna-
ment by a top-ranked Tennessee squad
