By Susan I Rosison
Stal W Writer

members of the political science department
kicked off the Dean Rusk Program’s. busy
agenda this year. Venom-laden words flew
ina spirited tennis match Sunday night, spark-
ing campus-wide controversy concerning the
upcoming presidential election. . The debate

appropriately, Roberts was seated to
Ortmayer’s “left.”

was Fidel Castro assassinated, as suggested
by the farcical advertising headlines. How-
ever, the presentation consisted of the intel-
lectual volley of ideas centered on the 2000
presidential election. The only major area of
disagreement lay in which issues the partici-
‘pants believed would be important to voters,
and which were, as Dr. Roberts termed, “non-
starters.”

Ortmayer spoke first, alternating with
Roberts for the roughly hour-long event. He
listed acronyms for the four issues he felt
were big: PNTR, NMDS, NAFTA, and AWL.
They stand for: Permanent Normal Trade
Relations with China (should we establish
them, or shouldn’t we?), a National Missile
Defense System (do we want to spend poten-
tially 60 billion on this?), the North American
Free Trade Agreement (how would either
candidate uphold it as president?), and a
“southern spelling” for oil (who caused the
gas prices to go up?), respectively.

Roberts began by giving her version of
the top ten reasons why campaign finance
reform will not béa big issue in the upcoming
election, the top four being that “it’s a presi-
dential election year.”

She also emphasized that the values of
each candidate will be important to voters in
the wake of the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal.
She stressed the possibility of a low voter
turnout, and both Ortmayer and Roberts
encouraged students to vote.

Both participants seemed to concede that
many differences between the two candi-
dates aren’t well defined and that the public is
having trouble distinguishing Bush and Gore

Press RELEASE

The Duke Endowment has donated forty-
seven laptop computers to Davidson College
to help assure that all its students have the
technology they need for class work.

Sophomore Ashley Price from Tampa,
Fla., and other students with significant fi-
nancial aid are leasing the new Dell Inspiron
3800 machines for $1 per year.

Price says both she and her mother are
~ thrilled about the deal. “I’ve been fortunate
my mom is so generous,” Price explained.
“She gave me her computer to bring to school,
but she needs it in her job and now I can give
it back to. her. She was so excited when I
called her and said, ‘Guess what the Duke
Endowment has done now!’ When I told her
the price she said, ‘I think we can afford
that!’”

Price holds three Davidson scholarships,
including a William B. McGuire Scholarship
that was established in part by the Duke
Endowment to honor a longtime CEO of the
company.

“This computer was an answer to my
prayers,” said Price. “A laptop like this gives
you so much more freedom to do what you
—want.”

The 500. megahertz processor and six
gigabyte hard drive give Price plenty of pro-
cessing power for her science and math
courses. The laptops are loaded with Microsoft

A heated debate between two esteemed 4

featured Dr. Lou Ortmayer and Dr. Susan -
Roberts atop the 900 Room’s raised surface; -.

In reality - Dr. Orinisyer pointed out - ©
neither was the event a “heated” debate, nor

on many important issues.

Roberts dubbed the 2000 race “the
likeability election,” pointing out that many
Americans are posing-the question, “who do
we like more?”

Spectators munching pretzels were given
time at the end to ask questions of the two
sages. Queries ranged from the importance
of the Supreme Court on voter preference to
the possibility of drug legalization in the
future. :

The Dean Rusk Program sponsored this
presentation, and its Student Advisory Com-
mittee (SAC) brought in the speakers. This
on-campus organization strives to promote

international awareness by involving students

in various educational programs. After the
debate, Amanda Britt, Co-Chair of the SAC
with John Kenyon, introduced the officers of
the SAC’s committees and the various ways
in which interested students can get involved.

Staff writers and editors are needed to
help publish the monthly “Toilet Paper.” For
more information, contact Nate Lotze. ‘Lydia
Wilson and Emily Jucket head the Commu-

_nity Outreach Committee, in which students

who have been abroad are given the opportu-
nity to present their stories to elementary,
middle, and high school children in the sur-
rounding area. The outreach committee also
gives educational opportunities to those in-
terested in international fields by providing
exposure to professionals in Charlotte. People

Office and network-ready, so student can

access Internet sites not only from residence

hall rooms, but from the library and even

some Davidson classrooms.

' Davidson has avoided requiring all stu-

dents to purchase computers, allowing them

to choose the machine and software that best

suits individual needs. Those students who.
do not purchase their own machines can use

any of 110 “public” PC and Macintosh com-

puters in six locations around campus, some

of which are open twenty-four-hours per day.

lab computers. That trend accelerated with
completion of the campus network two years
ago, which gave students direct access from

their rooms to the Internet and college serv- :

ers.
It’s mostly a matter of convenience,
Casey explained. “Your work accumulates

‘on your own hard drive instead of on‘a net-

work server, and you don’t have to carry
around a disk with your files on it from place
to place. You can set up your personal com-

_ puter exactly like you want, and if you have

a laptop you can even carry it to class or the

library.”
Casey said that the Duke Endowment’s

$100,000 donation helps Davidson make sure

__that computer ownership is_not strictly an

economic choice for students. “Providing

‘these students with computers and placing

them on an equal footing with their peers is an

i Aaron H
Dr. Susan Roberts listens to Dr. Ortmayer discuss international politics.

interested in helping arrange speakers for
future events should join the Speakers Com-
mittee and should contact either Nejib
Mohammed or Jehan Shamsid-deen. The
Speakers Committee also hosts a weekly
luncheon from 12:30 to 1:30 every Monday
in the Wilson Room. Everyone is invited to
listen to the former Dean Rusk Grant recipi-
ents who will be speaking on their experi-
ences abroad. Derek Politzer and Katie Wil-
son are in charge of the PRIMA on-line
journal, an electronically based news infor-
mation source, and need help raising funds
and editing the journal. The journal will
publish faculty, student, and alumni opinions
on international affairs. NaMi Kim is the
contact for the Student Liaison Committee,
and Priscilla Bannermann heads the Faculty
Outreach Committee. Carlos Andres-Lacayo
is Coordinator/Organizer of the SAC.

Upcoming events include Jamie White,
a former Davidson Student who recently fin-
ished law school at the Case Western Reserve
University. September 1*, he will be speak-
ing about a paper he has just completed on
international immunity and the Pinochet
case.

On the 14th of September, Ambassador
Ken Brown will be speaking. on foreign ser-
vice careers: Dr. John Wertheimer will be
presenting his observations on this past
summer’s Mexican election September 17th.

Duke Endowment gift closes “technology gap”

institutional priority,” he said. “The lack of
access to and familiarity with a personal
computer can handicap students both in their
school work and in careers beyond David-
son.”

The college’ s financial aid office handled
distribution of the Duke Endowment ma-
chines. Financial aid officers identified stu-
dents in the first year, sophomore, and junior
classes with the greatest financial need, and
offered them the lease. The leases are renew-
able as long as a student remains at Davidson.
The computers are one item covered by 2 a
$1:69-million donation from the Duke En-
dowment to the college last December. Sev-
eral previous Duke Endowment grants have
also helped the college develop its techno-
logical resources, including construction of
the fiber optic network to all buildings and
residence hall rooms, and construction of
“technology classrooms.”

The Duke Endowmentis the largest single
donorto the college, having contributed more
than $50-million in its seventy-five years of
philanthropy.

‘tDavidson is a highly selective indepen-
dent liberal arts college for 1,600 students.
Since its establishment in 1837, the college
has graduated 23 Rhodes Scholars and is

consistently ranked among the top liberal arts
colleges in the country by “U.S. News and
World Report” magazine.
