THE DAVIDSONIAN

DEREK POLITZER

Why should we be concerned aboutthe
new governing coalition in Austria that in-
cludes Joerg Haider’s extremely right-wing
Freedom Party?

The party received its mandate to gov-
ern ina free and fair democratic election late

last year, when it secured the second highest ~

number of votes. .

Besides, Austria is a country that has
respected and valued democratic norms and
traditions for more than SO years. It has
among the highest standards of living in the
world and a very diverse population. For-
eigners comprise about one-tenth of the state’ s
population. In light of the Freedom Party’s
coalition with the People’s Party, the Euro-
pean Union (EU) has imposed immediate
political sanctions on Austria to isolate the
new regime.

Is Europe overreacting?

My answer is definitely no. I have re-
cently returned from studying abroad in Cen-
tral Europe, where Nazism first reared its
ugly head. My experiences there have in-
stilled within me a very real fear that xeno-
phobic and racist attitudes in the region will
soon translate into an institutionalized policy
~ of hate. Austria is no exception. From stories
of the Czech police force indiscriminately
attacking minorities in Prague to the peoples’
complete ignorance of the Holocaust, the
prevailing attitudes in this region have influ-
enced my opinion.

In the country of Hitler’s birth, one
would hope that Austrians would know bet-
ter than to vote for.a party whose leader
described concentration camps as “punish-
ment camps.” He has also called the SS at a
veteran rally “men of character,” and has
even praised aspects of the Nazi regime.
Although Haider has apologized for his com-
ments, his sincerity is questionable, at best.

International

Nesp MOHAMMED

The Western media portrays Africa as a
continent of endless turmoil mired by civil
war, political inStability, starvation, and poy-
erty. Only a few lines, if any, are devoted to
success stories such as the economic devel-
opment in the nation of Mauritius where per
capita income has increased dramatically over
the last twenty years. Furthermore, how often
do you see positive images of African people,
traditions, holidays, celebrations or even
food?

Hence, it is not surprising that most
people outside Africa are unaware of the,
African Cup of Nations soccer tournament
currently underway in Nigeria and Ghana.
While millions of excited soccer (the game is
called ‘football’ to the world outside the
USA) fans all over Africa have their eyes
glued to television sets, many people in the
Western world remain ignorant that Africans
play soccer or even that TV exists in Africa.

The African Cup of Nations tournament
has been played every two years since 1957.
Sixteen African countries qualify for the tour-
nament by topping their respective groups in
the qualification rounds. This year Ghana
and Nigeria are co-hosting the tournament.

The favorites are defending champions
Egypt, South Africa, Ghana, and, of course,
Nigeria. Currently, the tournament is in its
quarterfinal stage and will conclude on Feb-
ruary 13th.

In Africa, soccer is played and watched
with great passion and fervor. The African
Cup of Nations is a time for people to get
together with friends in living rooms or local

Before the Freedom Party’s six ministers
were sworn in, Austrian President Thomas
Klestil demanded that Haider sign a memo-
randum affirming his commitment to demo-
cratic values. After Haider signed the docu-
ment, however, he ridiculed its worth, claim-
ing that it was an “affront to the Austrian
public.”

The Freedom Party’s rise from obscu-
rity to prominence and power has its roots in
the country’s refusal to express national
shame for the Holocaust. Only recently has
the political establishment in Austria con-
ceded that it was an accomplice to Germany
rather than a victim of Nazi aggression.
Ninety-nine percent of Austrians welcomed
Germany’s annexation of the country. Ac-

_ cording to Nazi hunter Simon Weisenthal,

Austrians are in some ways personally re-
sponsible for the deaths of three million
Jews.

In contrast to Germany, Austria has
sought to bury its guilt and reintegrate former
Nazis into Austrian society without any form
of retribution or even re-education. Despite
his Nazi past, Kurt Waldheim’s ascendancy
to the Austrian presidency in the late 1980’s
constitutes an obvious example of national
irresponsibility.

The majority of Austrian people are
either unaware or unwilling to express re-
morse for their role in the Holocaust. Joerg
Haider summed up the situation when he said
that he and the Austrian people are fed up
with apologizing for ‘Austria’s role in the
Holocaust. Racism, xenophobia, and anti-
Semitism are alive and well in Austria. Ac-
cording to a recent BBC poll, 42 percent of
Austrians hold racist dispositions compared
to the EU average of 33 percent.

In speaking with Czechs and Czechs of
Austrian origin in Prague last year, I quickly
discovered that their understanding of the
Holocaust was limited and often factually

incorrect. They told me that the curriculum,
whether'at elementary, high school, or univer-
sity level, glossed over or completely ne-
glected the Holocaust. One university edu-
cated Czech woman tried:to convince me that
what happened at the Terezin concentration
camp “really wasn’t all that bad.” These be-
liefs appeared consistent among young and
old, males and females. I suspect that these
beliefs are indicative of a general trend through-
out Central Europe.

My grandmother, who escaped from
Vienna during the Holocaust, fears the worst.
She reminded me that in 1936, no one would
have guessed that the Nazis could take hold of
a progressive, democratic country like Austria
and institute a policy of genocide. She was
Jewish, but considered herself an Austrian
first. That all changed when her mother. was
sent to Terezin. Then, just as now, anti-
Semitism and xenophobia were endemic fea-
tures of Austrian society. Yet people of all
different religions, cultures, and races inter-
acted and felt a certain sense of Austrian unity.

Certain powerfully revealing parallels to
Austria in the 1930’s cannot be overlooked. In
fact, the Freedom Party displayed posters
nearly identical to those used by Nazi propa-
ganda chief Josef Goebbles. They warned of
the “over-foreignization” of Austria. Addi-
tionally, Haider’s first choice for Vice Chan-
cellor engaged in malicious propaganda. He
claimed that the former Austrian government
gave free hormone treatment to foreigners to
boost their. birth rate. Unfortunately for him,
his threat to give the Austrian president a
“bloody face” later disqualified him.

Leon Zelman, a Holocaust survivor in
Vienna, recollected to the BBC that the Haider
rallies were very similar in character to Nazi
rallies in “the way he manipulated the crowd,
the way the people cheered, the whipping up
of hatred and intolerance.”

The difference today is that the world will

not tolerate a resurgence of Nazism, real or
potential, in any form. The EU has made that
fact clear by taking a preemptive strike at
Austria. In doing so, it is sending a powerful
message to all member-states and to all pro- .
spective members that institutionalized big-
otry and racism is not tolerable in a demo-
cratic civil society. A state’s right to govern
its internal affairs must conform to the union’s
values. When a state joins the EU, it must
agree to relinquish a degree of its sovereignty
and subject itself to scrutiny by other nations
and institutions.

While I am not saying that Haider is a
potential Hitler, [nevertheless consider hima
very dangerous politician who needs to be
monitored very closely. As a world that is
conscious of the horrors of the Holocaust, we
cannot idly accept the resurgence of Nazism
in Europe, in any form. The EU’s suspension
of political relations with Austria is a very
necessary and powerfully symbolic step. It is
also a measure that is likely to de-legitimize
the radical right wing in Europe.

Austrians, I believe, do not want politi-
cal isolation. They depend too much on
Europe and on European institutions. I think
this political isolation will have the effect of
making the Austrians think twice about their
own prejudices and force them to conform
more to European standards. I am encour-
aged by the fact that thousands of Austrians in
the country’s largest cities are already pro-
testing the Freedom Party’s inclusion in a
governing coalition.

Through this unprecedented level of re-
sistance and civil unrest, perhaps we are
beginning to see a change in the mentality of
the Austrian people. On the other hand, per-
haps we are also starting to see the polariza-
tion of a country long accustomed to the
politics of consensus seeking.

The author is ajunior Political Science major
from. Great Falls, Virginia.

African Cup of Nations 2000

An illustration of Western media’s
obsession with negative images of Africa

bars, yelling obscenities at the referees for
false calls or screaming with delight as their
team scores.

In Nigeria’s case, the tournament has
brought unity to a country torn by ethnic
tensions. The Nigerian ‘Eagles’ boast of some
of the best players in the world with some
playing for professional European clubs.
When Nigeria plays soccer, you will see all
types of ethnic Nigerians - whether Yoruba,
Fulani, Igbo or Hausa - standing side by side,
cheering the Eagles on and embracing when-
ever one of them scores a goal.

If you think Africans are not serious
about soccer, then think again. Let me give
you an excellent illustration of African pas-
sion for the game and the pride with which
they play it. Champions in 1992, the Cote d’
Ivoire ‘Elephants’ were knocked out of the
tournament early on, thanks to defeats at the
hands of Cameroon and Ghana. In response,
the new military ruler of Cote d’Ivoire con-
fined the players ina military camp for almost
a week in order to emphasize the shame and
disappointment that they had brought upon
their country.

But did the Western media devote any
attention to how soccer was bringing Afri-
cans closer together or how it was enabling
Nigerians to forget their ethnic differences?
Of course not! Most articles focused on the
Cote d’Ivoire players’ forced imprisonment.

As a result of all the negative reports
about the tournament, South Africa’s chances
of hosting the World Cup of Soccer in 2006
have diminished considerably. The argument
that some at FIFA (Fédération Internationale
de Football Association), the game’s govern-

ing body, use is that a continent like Africa
with so many problems cannot host the World
Cup because something is bound to go wrong.

The blame for this misperception rests
squarely on the shoulders of western media
and their preoccupation with the “bad” that
exists in Africa. Focusing solely on negatives
can be just as damaging as providing too little
information about disasters. Hopefully, The
Davidsonian and othér publications. will not
fall into this ‘western’ trap. Rather, the media
should print positive descriptions of Africa in

addition to the undeniable disasters plaguing
the continent.

The Nigerian ‘Eagles’ are my favorites to
win the African Cup of Nations. I predict that
they will meet Egypt in the finals and then
proceed to crush them. It should be a great
match. However, do you think it will be tele-
vised on ESPN? Not a chance!

The author is a junior, Economics and Politi-
cal Science double major from Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.

Project Life holds 1* Annual
Community/Minority bone
marrow typing drive

By Katie Bond
Guest Writer

On Wednesday, February 9th from 4pm-

8pm, Project Life will host the first annual
Community / Minority Bone Marrow Typing
Drive at the Ada Jenkins Community Center in
Davidson.
Project Life is a student-directed organi-
zation which aims to increase the number of
potential donors on the National Bone Marrow
Registry. Bone Marrow donations are critical
in saving the lives of people suffering from
over sixty different types of fatal diseases,
including leukemia, aplastic anemia, and breast
cancer.

Typing for bone marrow is a simple pro-
cedure. Certified nurses draw two tablespoons

of blood from each volunteer. The American
Red Cross, then, processes the blood samples
and records lab results on the National Bone
Marrow Registry. Physicians throughout
the United States and the world can access
this registry online. :
Project Life has funded and hosted a
bone marrow typing drive on campus for the
past ten years. This November, over 300
students, faculty. and community members
were typed. ; }
Recently, there has been an increase in
the need for minorities on the National Bone
Marrow Registry. Because bone marrow
characteristics are inherited, a patientin need

See Project Life, page 4.
