@ ALENDA LU:

$ a

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 6

DEAN RUSK &
PROGRAM

hinbiatha ba PRINS AOS
pease ie

Erin Berry

Bill McKibben, author of
The End of Nature

Environmental
Conference sets
Davidson straight

By Susan Rosison .
Staff Writer

Cheers for environmentalism resounded
across the Davidson College campus recently
in the form of an environmental-conference
held over four days. Events began Sunday
September 24", and ended Wednesday the
27". The World Bank provided a generous
grant to the Dean Rusk Program to help
sponsor the event.

The topic, “International Conservation in
the New Millennium,” featured six speakers
and nine panelists touching upon a broad
range of environmental issues.

The opening address, given by author and
journalist Bill McKibben, entitled “A Special
Moment in History,” set the tone for the
conference by conveying a “gloom and doom”
evaluation of our current environmental situ-
ation.

McKibben said, “We need to understand
exactly where we are in order to understand
exactly what we need to do.” He lamented the
notion that humans increasingly determine
their surroundings by altering the environ-
ment. He argued that worldwide increase in
fossil fuel consumption has caused an in-
crease in average global temperatures, mak-
ing global warming a very real problem to
society. This idea of a drastic climate change
formed the basis for his first novel, The End
of Nature.

He went on to implore members of our
consumer-driven society to break free from
its “enchantment;” to stop thinking only of
ourselves, to and start thinking about what’s
really important. -

He determined that “the basic idea [of
consumerism] is that [the consumer is] the
’ absolute center of the universe.” McKibben
stressed that it’s difficult to care for the envi-
ronment when we think in this manner, and
encouraged the audience to “imagine other
ways of life.”

To finish up he declared, “Something other
than money matters in this world.. areaking
out of this spell is only the first step.”

The following day brought the first panel
discussion called “The End of Enforcement?
Collaborating on an Environmental Agenda,”

See Environment, page 5

Town anticipates arrival of Harris Teeter

New downtown
development to bring
groceries within walking
distance of College

By JT Toventino
News Editor

Davidson’s Norman Rockwell-like down-
town is anticipating a major new tenant in the
form of a Harris Teeter Express grocery store.
Final plans are still in the works, but officials
expect the store to open within a year.

Once that happens, college students and
local residents will have a much moré conve-
nient shopping option, says Davidson Mayor
Randy Kincaid

Right now, “everybody [in Davidson] has
to go three miles to grocery stores,” said
Kincaid.

The only food store_in town is the pricey
natural foods store on Griffith Street. The
nearest major stores are a 15-minute drive to
Cornelius and Huntersville
- The Harris Teeter Express is actually a part
of a larger project designed by local architect
John Burgess and developed by The Stephens
Company of Charlotte. The site plan covers
2.7 acres of downtown property. The store
will occupy the ground floor of. a 26,000
square-foot, two-story building with offices
for rent on the second floor. The project-will
add nearly 50 new parking spaces and a new
access road between Lorimer Road and Main
Street.

The ground that the project currently stands
on is occupied by the Blake House and the
former Cashion’s Gas Station. Considered a
historic house — there are current efforts to
include the House on the National Registry of
Historic Places — the Blake House had to be
moved, and will be moved to a location on the
new access road. Two new residential prop-
erties are also included in the project. The
former Cashion’s Gas Station, once used by

PiKA serves its time,

By Linpy BaALpwiINn
Staff Writer

As fall break approaches, students are count-
ing the days until they get a break from
classes and achance to sleep in fora few days.
Members of Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA), how-
ever, have another reason to celebrate — their
fraternity is coming off probation after this
weekend.

The fraternity has been banned from serv-
ing alcohol at parties since last spring, when
afew senior members, who have since gradu-
ated, had an argument with a Davidson police
officer while sitting on the PiKA house roof.
One of the students threw a beer can, though
not at the police officer.

Mike Schaefer ’01, the current PiKA presi-
dent, expressed regret over the incident, say-
ing it was “no indication of how we usually
act with police officers.”

The Patterson Court Council handed down
the probation sentence after a hearing. Ac-
cording to Sarah Moore ’01, the PCC officer

who presided over the hearings, an official ~ .

Existing Street Trees
(will remain}

PEAR TERE SE
PEAR HERE EE

Mate Street Elevation

Existing Street Trees
some Lendl remnenes}

{New Side Street}

wi
wi

Artist’s conception of new two-story development on Main Street

the college as a physical plant building, was
destroyed to make way for the project.

The college owned the land that the project
now occupies, but president Bobby Vagt de-
clined to be a part of the planning process,
saying that it is a matter between the towns-
people and the developer.

The Harris Teeter Express will be similar
to the store that is located on Providence
Road in Charlotte. It will feature a scaled-
down inventory of groceries, which include
dry goods, produce, and dairy products, as
well as packaged food-to-go. The store aims
not to serve as a convenience store but to
serve people who have limited time to shop
and cook.

Despite the benefits, the project was met
with opposition by area residents when first
proposed last spring.

According to Dr. David Martin, a town
commissioner and economics professor, con-
cern centered around a few issues. Towns-
people wanted to be assured that the historic
Blake House was not to be jeopardized. Resi-
dents also questioned the use of the access

finishes probation

citation was issued for failing to “respect
college property.”

Fraternities and eating houses reprimanded
by the PCC can be fined or given probation.
The length of the sentence, as well as the form
of probation, varies according to the severity
of the offense.

One form of probation is referred to as
“BYOB.” A fraternity on BYOB cannot serve
alcohol, but guests over 21. are allowed to
bring a certain amount of alcohol, which they
label for personal use and hand over to the
bartender.

The second kind, full social probation,
strips a fraternity or eatinghouse of the right
to host or co-sponsor any event where alcohol
will be served. This was the sentence im-
posed on PiKA.

Since the PCC must approve all parties
where alcohol is served and is responsible for
hiring bartenders, ID checkers, and risk man-
agers — plus getting a police officer to monitor
the party — full social probation is difficult to

see PiIKA, page 3

road by delivery tmicks and its effects on
Lorimer Road. Also, residents of South Street
did not want to see their neighborhood com-
mercialized — a possible spillover effect of
the development.

“They wanted it [the commercialization]
down Main Street,” said Dr. Martin.

In response to these concerns, the town
gave the project’s developers in early May a
series of 19 conditions that had to be met for
construction to be approved. Among them:
Delivery trucks cannot use Lorimer Road;
they must use the new street that connects
Main Street to Lorimer. The building must be
“compatible in scale and appearance with

- other downtown commercial structures.” No

construction traffic could be conducted on
Lorimer Road, and a bicycle rack must be
installed.

Providing a convenient shopping location,
while protecting the small-town feel of down-
town, was the challenge facing Kincaid and

see Teeter, page 2

FDA decision regarding
abortion pill examined

Commentary on the crisis in

Israel and the occupied
territories

Sports

What happened to
sportsmanship? |

Field fee? Senior Day

Men’s soccer conquers The
Citadel

