sity, is also author the. prize-winning
1986 book Was Einstein Right? Appear-
ing as the college’s Smith Lecturer, Will
will begin his free public address at 7:30
p.m. inthe 900 Room of the College Union.
_ The author will not only discuss how
Einstein’s theory of relativity. is important
to our daily lives, but will also talk about
the sometimes messy personal life nae this

quirky genius.

Symphony to perform American.
: Classics, Beethoven

The music department will celebrate the:
| centennial of the birth of composer Aaron:
Copland in Love Auditorium presenta-
‘tions on November 12 and November 14.
Associate Professor Milton Crotts will di-
tect the Davidson College Symphony. Or-

oe ase BE]

‘Lear said of the incident,

By LukE fice
Staff Writer

Students who think they are getting a good

deal on a computer for next semester should

. think again.

At least eight incidents of stolen laptops
from vehicles in Mecklenburg and surround-
ing counties have been reported. Davidson
campus police and the Cornelius Police De-
partment say the thieves might plan on selling
the laptops to area college students at reduced
prices.

“These people know that many college
students do not have jobs and will not hesitate
to pay $300 for a $1,500 computer,” said
Steven Davis of the Cornelius police.

Davis advises students to think twice. be-
fore buying an expensive laptop at such a
drastically reduced price.

“If someone is trying to sell a $1, 500 com-

oniiee for $300, the vee foatonaila Sarda:

‘sion one could make is that the item has been

stolen,” he remarked.

Whether individuals would get in trouble
for such a purchase would have to be decided
on a case per case basis. However, he added
that possession of stolen property is techni-
cally a misdemeanor and can have significant
consequences.

Officials believe no one has attempted to
sell laptops to local students yet, but Director
of Public Safety Sam McKelvey warns that it
is still possible.

“What we want to do is to promote greater
awareness of the situation on the Davidson
campus,” he stated.

Davis said he does not believe that the
thefts are a localized group operation, consid-
ering that anyone looking for some extra
money can easily commit the crime. He feels
there could be a wide variety of different

motives for the thefts.

“These [people] are not just crack heads,”
he said.

The crime constitutes a larceny from motor
vehicles, a felony that could result in a maxi-
mum two-year sentence if convicted.

“Apparently, there has been a group of
individuals working all across the state, tar-
geting college campuses,” noted McKelvey.

Davis emphasized that the situation is ex-
tremely serious and that there will be conse-
quences for those found to be involved, either
in stealing or buying the items.

“If anyone has come into contact with this
sort of thing, please let us know,” he stressed.

The North Mecklenburg Crime- Stoppers
of the Cornelius Police Department is offer-
ing areward for anyone who has information
regarding the stolen laptops. Reach the office
at (704) 896-7867.

Campus phone service crashes, raises student concerns

By ZEB KELLEY
Staff Writer

Campus resident tried in vain to place calls
last Wednesday, November 1, around 6:00
p.m. .
This short-term outage caused some sense
of distress in the residence halls. Studentswere
dismayed to discover that they were unable to
receive or make calls of any kind.

For some residents, however, this was not
the first time they have experienced this in-
convenience.

A student reported that on Richardson Hall,
the phones have been down, “three or four
times, sometimes for just an hour or two,
sometimes for over a day.”

The student said that, “the longest period
was right before fall break. No incoming or
outgoing calls and no voicemail. Once I had
to call Dell Computer for help for my com-

‘ puter, but I couldn’t call from my room be-

cause the phone was out, so I had to carry
everything over to the library.”” Complaints
such as these seem to be common in both
Richardson and Belk dorms, and on Wednes-
day night, across the entire campus.
Telecommunications Coofdinator Crystal
“Wednesday
evening, the phone system failed around 5:20
p.m. Bell South, Davidson’s telephone com-

pany, came out and restored service by 6:50
p.m.”

Lear also added that, “At around 8:00 p.m.
West Hall phone service went down. A tech
from Bell South came back to campus and
returned telephone service at 10:15 p.m.”
Lear described the telephone system as con-
sisting of a main control switch in Chambers
that runs service to remote branclies in all of
the residence halls. This means that if there
is a problem in the main telephone control
panel, service across campus may be af-
fected. ,

Lear reported that Bell South came out on
Saturday to further investigate the problems
that caused Wednesday night’s outages. As
for long term resolution of the problem, Lear
said that on Tuesday morning, Telecommu-
nications upgraded the NorTel Telephone
System to add a further preventative mea-
sure. This upgrade is expected to shut down
service starting at 2:00 a.m.

Lear said, “We are upgrading the system at

‘2:00 a.m. to try and prevent any inconve-

nience. We expect that traffic will be at a
minimum during this time since most people
will be in bed.”

Executive Director of ITS, John Casey,
responded that ITS had sent an e-mail to
many students concerning this upgrade of the
new software. Casey reiterated that, “we

have had some transient problems with phones
that the new version of the software should
clear up. So we want to get it installed as soon
as we can. We scheduled the upgrade in the
wee hours of the morning so that any down-
time will inconvenience as few people as

. possible.”

As for the frequent interruptions in Rich
Dorm, Lear denies that telecommunications
has been notified of any major problems. She
adds that Richardson and Ryburn dorms have
had major problems in the past, but new fiber-
optic cable was added to solve the problems.
She acknowledges that, “there have been °
single students that have had problems with
their phones,” but she says that telecommuni-
cations has not been made aware of any
problems of great magnitude. Lear advises
any student with telephone problems to call
Telecommunications at extension 2500 im-
mediately.

The student in Richardson Hall is unaware ©
of anyone calling about these problems, but
the details on both sides are still unknown.
When asked how they felt Telecommunica-
tions was handling the situation, the student
responded that, “I don’t think it was their
fault, it just seems to be a problem with
Richardson Hall itself. However, it does.
seem to be the same problem over and over
again, and we have received no explanation.”

11/5/00

Damage to property

Officer responded to the basement of
| Richardson hall to investigate a property
damage complaint. Witnesses stated former
residents of the hall did the damage during a
hall reunion. 13 pieces of ceiling tile and a
VCR were damaged. An investigation is
pending. ;

isturbance
Officer went to investigate loud music
coming from the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
house at 4:05am. Upon arrival 2 occupants
were identified. One was a student and the
other was a visitor. They were asked to
either turn off the music or lower the vol-

ume. The occupants complied.
*

Sick og initined e

EMS responded to Watts hall to assist
with an intoxicated student. The decision
was made not to transport the student to the
hospital.

11/4/00
Breaking 2 We
Unknown person(s) forced entry into a

For 11/1/00 - 11/5/00

vehicle that was parked in the Baker parking
lot and removed without the owner’s consent

several items from the vehicle. Entry was -

gained by breaking windows. A leather fanny

pack, tools, and cash -were stolen from the —

vehicle.

Breaking & entering — larceny
Unknown persons(s) forced entry into a

vehicle that was parked in the Baker parking
lot and removed without the owner’s consent
several items from the vehicle. Entry was
gained by breaking the passenger side win-

_ dow. A wallet that contained several credit

cards, personal identification, and cash were
removed from the vehicle.

11/2/00

Officers received a noise complaint from a
Richardson hall resident indicating that there
was a large group disturbing the peace on the
walkway between Vail Commons and the Pi
Kappa Alpha fraternity house. Upon arrival
the officers observed several students stand-
ing around a case of beer and consuming
beer. The group quickly dispersed once they
noticed the officers. The case of ince was
confiscated.

11/1/00

Disturbance

Officer responded to a loud music com-
plaint in the laundry parking lot. Upon
arrival the officer observed a group of stu-
dents sitting in a vehicle playing loud music
and talking. A residence life area coordina-
tor arrived at approximately the same time
as the officer. The students were identified
and asked to leave the area.

Disturbance

The town of Davidson Police Department
requested our assistance to disperse a party
on Armour Street in Davidson. The officers
advised that they received 3 calls regarding |
the large crowd and noise coming from the
party. The crowd was dispersed.

Disturbance
Officer responded to Hart to investigate a
loud music complaint. Upon arrival the
officer located the source of the loud music
and asked the occupant to either lower the
volume or turn off the music. he occupant

complied.

- Compiled by
Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of
Public Safety/Campus eect

Se ee ee eee eT
