Finally, after more than a semester of
hard work by both students and administra-
tors, a recycling program is coming to
Davidson. Soon, according to Barbara Zaionz,
the Supeintendent of Building Services, the
Patterson Court houses and the senior apart-

_ ments will recycle aluminum and Chambers
will recycle its office paper. While this is an
admittedly modest program, we must not
underestimate the importance of this gesture.
The Environmental Action Coalition, the
SGA, and the administration
have worked tirelessly to bring
us this limited program. It was a
frustrating process and they did
everything possible with the re-
sources available. Zaionz has
told me that the current recy-
cling program is the best the
campus is capable of providing,
given the current manpower. But
the fact still remains that on a
campus devoted to community
service; we are pitifully devoted
to responsibly dealing with our
garbage.

What, you might ask, does community
service have to do with a recycling program?
It has to do with priorities and it directly
relates to how we understand Davidson’s
relationship to a larger community. This
spring break, Davidson will send students,
faculty, and staff to New Mexico, Florida,
Nicaragua, and other locations to do service
work in different communities. A paradigm

Recycling program

compels these projects: Davidson is some-
how connected to a larger world and what
happens in that world affects our community.
Thus, to be responsible citizens, we must be
aware of the larger community and realize
our responsibility to it.

The absence of a comprehensive recy-
cling program undercuts and subverts the
very idea of community service. When we
send recyclable material to a distant landfill,
we contradict our own stated dedication to

“It is time that Davidson's
recycling policy corresponds
to our commitment to
community service.”

community service. We are shirking the cost
of cleaning up after ourselves and placing it
onto the larger community. Indeed, every
time we throw something away, we are doing
community disservice.

This contradiction between word and
deed indicates to me an unhealthy commu-
nity. On one level we are aware and willing
to tutor, to mentor, to build. Yet, we are
unwilling to institute a comprehensive recy-

comes to Davidson

cling program that would encompass not
only office paper and aluminum but also
newspaper, cardboard, glass, and plastic.
Why? Why the discrepancy? I mentioned
earlier that I thought it was a matter of priori-
ties. I was told we lack the resources (money)
to implement a campus-wide recycling pro-
gram. Apparently, we are willing to be of
service to the community as long as it is
economically viable. This discrepancy be-

: comes even more painful
when we realize that other
programs are not‘held to
the same standard. As one
example, every year we
contently spend tens of
thousands of doHars to
stage a single concert.

The University of
North Carolina at. Char-
lotte has two full-time em-
ployees responsible forco-
ordinating their massive
recycling program. I un-
derstand that UNC-C is a
much larger school with more resources avail-
able. However, UNC-C’s statement that re-
cycling is a priority seems much more in line
with Davidson’s expressed commitment to
service than our current approach.

We need to recognize that our responsi-
bility to the community extends beyond
Cornelius. Itextends beyond Mooresville. It
extends beyond the bottom-line. We’re not
being responsible with our own mess. It is

Eating Disorder Awareness Week

By Jutta PHiLeorr
Student Health Advisor

“.,.Emotions control me...make me
hide ina safe place of silence...my mind
stays distant from what my heart feels. If
I say it...it’s real...so I say nothing. I
can’t touch it...if 1did I would curl up or
crumble. I may seem to be made by a
heart of stone...but really just chalk...and
I'm afraid to face the possibility that I
could easily turn to dust...”

The week of February 12" through 19" is
“Eating Disorders Awareness Week” nation-
wide. The Davidson College Health Center
is sponsoring a multitude of events to help
increase awareness about causes and preven-
tion of eating disorders. Unfortunately, eat-
ing disorders are on the rise, especially on
college campuses. Yet, knowledge about
such disorders is becoming increasingly avail-
able. Information for this article was taken
from the informative web _ site:
www.somethingfishy.org. The site is com-
pletely dedicated to eating disorders and in-
cludes topics such as medications, chat rooms
for support, issues for men, signs and symp-
toms and much more. I highly encourage
everyone to check out this web site in addi-
tion to the programming around campus this
week.

There are three types of eating disorders:
Anorexia Nervosa, Bulimia, and Compulsive
Overeating. Low self-esteem is the common
thread symptom inherent in all three of these
disorders. Many times eating disorders can
stem from combinations of internal and ex-
ternal conflicts. As a way to gain control in
the midst of feeling whirlwind negative emo-
tions suchas stress, anxiety, and unhappiness
people meticulously control their eating hab-
its. The mind can become a forum for low
self-esteem, guilt, deception, depression, and
a need for power.

Words such as perfection, approval,

ll

* aw +

stress, anxiety, and depression are frequently
muttered around the Davidson Campus.
Davidson, where everyone strives for excel-
lence, is the type of environment where eat-
ing disorders often arise. While the Student
Health Center is conscious of the problems,
eating disorders are often shrouded in se-
crecy and deception. Rarely will’a person
divulge that they have an eating disorder,
making such disorders difficult to diagnose
and treat. :

On Thursday, the Health Advisors will
be running a table devoted to eating disor-
ders. At that time there will be confidential
surveys and pamphlets for help in determin-
ing if you or someone you know may have an
eating disorder.

Therefore, in an attempt to help stop

aL

such disorders before they start, I encourage
openness and support among friends. Vic-
tims of eating disorders often say they are
lacking a listener, love, communication, and
validation. In a college setting, friends be-
comeatemporary family and support system.
At times, everyone needs a little extra nurtur-
ing from his or her loved ones. So please let
this week be a starting point for everyone to
tune into their own needs and the needs of
others. Try to give a little extra to those you
care about everyday, and don’t be afraid to
ask for extra support when you need it. In
addition, set up consistent times with your
friends to eat three meals a day. That way
your body gets used to a normal eating cycle
and you get some time to talk with your
friends as well.

time that Davidson’s recycling policy corre-
sponds to our commitment to community
service. It is time that we deal with our
garbage as responsibly as we deal with the
Ada Jenkins Center. The time has come for
students and administrators to commit to
instituting a comprehensive, campus-wide
recycling program.

Ben Carter ’01

Reach Out reaches up

Reach Out and Service Council are
combining to form an as yet unnamed
umbrella organization that will oversee
all service activity on campus. The hope
of this new umbrella organization is to
unify service-oriented groups on cam-
pus and to foster a holistic vision of
service. Suggestions for the new name of
this service organization can be submit-
ted in envelopes posted on the Reach Out
board on the first-floor of Chambers and
by the College Union Information desk.

'. Also, interviews for Reach Out pro-
gram coordinators will be held Saturday,
February 19th from 12-5. Interested
students should sign up in the Dean of
Students Office by Friday, February 1 8th.
If you have any questions, please contact
Caroline Cunningham, Betsy Noble or
Lee Ann Petty.

Big Buddies Needed

If you have an interest in being a men-
tor and friend to a young person in the
community, you will be pleased to know
that the Big Brothers and Big Sisters Club
of America has recently formed an alliance
with Davidson College. This alliance will
be a wonderful tool for connecting mem-
bers of the college community with chil-
dren in the town and neighboring areas.
Big Brothers and Big Sisters of America
will also provide training sessions for men-
tors and can obtain free tickets to events
such as movies, shows, and the circus for
mentors and their little buddies.

An information session about this new
program will be held on Wednesday, Feb-
ruary 23 from 5-6pm in the 900 Room of
the Union. All students, faculty, and staff
are welcome to attend and learn more about
this great new opportunity. If you have any
questions please contact Caroline
Cunningham or Jill Williams.

