Dear Editors: .

Advertising campus events at Davidson
is acolorful business. The assortment of eye-
catching bulletin boards lining the walls of
Chambers and residence halls testifies to the
creativity and resourcefulness of Davidson
students. Flyers remain a staple attention-
getting ploy used by almost every campus
organization, social and scholastic alike. Fly-
ers may or may not significantly impact the
number of attendees at any particular event,
but their ubiquity testifies to their place in
Davidson’s extra-curricular culture. Unfor-
tunately, a recent trend

better then [sic] smoking crack’—George W.
Bush” sign, and the next day froma Patterson
Court calendar. Both flyers had been con-
spicuously aligned to cover the Expo an-
nouncement, a detail that emphasizes the
anti-feminist undertones of Davidson’ s Court
system.) But, alas, this time the flyer was
gone for good.

Since the beginning of the 1999-2000
school year, at least three other organiza-
tions’ flyers have fallen victim to vandalism.
“Liberals suck” adorned the front of one
Young Democrats flyer last semester. An
antagonistic (and statistically inaccurate) pro-

of flyer-vandalism
threatens to transform
Davidson’s reputation
from a school that val- fa llen
ues active and progres-

sive student organiza- vandalsim.”’

“...three other organi-
zations’ flyers have
victim

death penalty sign made its
way into an Amnesty Interna-
tional capital punishment dis-
play on the first floor of Cham-
bers. Members of BGLAD
(formerly FLAG), whose ad-
vertisements are especially

to

tions to one that encour-
ages only the normative standards of an apa-
thetic and mediocre institution.

Whena scribbled racial slur appeared on
a flyer in the fall of 1998, the campus sprang
into action that resulted in an annual celebra-
tion of Martin Luther King’s birthday. Last
week’s Davidsonian paid tribute to that re-
markable “vigilance and impetus epitomiz-
ing all that the Davidson community stands
for.” Yet other scrawled commentaries, and
even flyer disappearances, since that incident
have gone unpublicized or unnoticed. Just
such a disappearance came to my attention
last night when I saw that a flyer, announcing
a Davidson delegation to the Feminist Major-
ity Foundation’s Expo 2000, was no longer
on the “General Info” bulletin board on first-
floor Duke, where I had hung it a few days
before. I peered underneath all the other
flyers on the board in hopes that mine had
been temporarily obscured. (Earlier in the
week I had unearthed it from a

“Sig Ep is.

prone to defamation, have had
students follow them through the halls and rip
down signs as quickly as BGLAD can post
them.

These four incidents, which perhaps
would be discounted as minor at a larger or
less honor-driven institution, pose a real dan-
ger to both the image and substance of David-
son College. The first paragraph of our Code
of Responsibility reads:

As a college of liberal arts commit-
ted to the Christian faith, Davidson College
seeks to liberate men and women of humane
instincts, and of disciplined and creative minds
for lives of leadership, service and self-ful-
fillment. Recognizing that the educational
process encompasses far more than academic
activities, Davidson College believes that its
purpose is promoted or hindered by the qual-
ity of the total life of a college community.
The promotion of a climate that is most
conducive to the realization of its purpose is
the sole reason for the promulgation of a code

of responsibility.

How ironic it is that the four organiza-

tions plagued by flyer-foul—Women’s Is-
sues, Young Democrats, Amnesty Interna-
tional, and BGLAD—might easily find them-
selves classified under the amorphous desig-
nation of “liberal” groups, while the primary
purpose of Davidson College, true to its Jib-
eral arts tradition, is “to liberate.”
words derive from the same Latin root mean-
ing “free.” The advertisements prone to
vandalism are the very ones embodying
Davidson’s commitment to cultivating dia-
logue on diverse viewpoints both inside and
outside the classroom. All four of these
organizations challenge the status quo to pro-
mote positive change, a product of those
“humane instincts” characteristic of all David-
son students. When members of the David-
son College community are not free to ex-
plore change without harassment, especially
from those who do not have enough courage
to sign their names to their objections, “the
quality of the total life of a college commu-
nity” has been hindered.

As with any college or university today,
Davidson is rightly concerned with the aes-
thetic appeal of its campus. Yet, even as we
work to improve the appearance of our cam-
pus and our town, we neglect to monitor not
only what gets added to flyers, but also what
decorates them in the first place. A Code of

Both.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000.

Ss Flyer vandalism threatens Davidson

Responsibility based on freedom dics not
negate its key title-word: responsibility. We
must take special care to ensure that posted
calls to ponder, pray, or play do not discrimi-
nate or dehumanize. What lines our halls is
just as important, if not more, than what lines
our streets.

The potent discourse scribbling itself
across neon-colored paper on the Davidson
campus deserves a public and intellectual
dialogue, complete with faces to put with
names and names to put with handwriting. I
have hung another Feminist Expo flyer, iden-
tical to its predecessor, on the same bulletin
board in Duke. I hope that whoever has
questions or objections to its presence will
post her own flyer next to it detailing her
concerns. Or better yet, I hope that person
will arrange an open conversation with the
Women’s Issues Committee, so that we can
explore any potentially divisive issues to-
gether as acampus community. Or best of all,
I hope anyone who has ever marked on, torn
down, crumpled up, or thrown away a flyer
after finding it offensive, threatening, or ob-
jectionable, will find a positive, creative out-
let—with his own voice and his own paper—
for his frustrations.

Sincerely,
Cameron Richardson

- Class of 2001

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-
mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.
Opinions expressed in letters to.the editors or commentaries do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00
per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

A guide to college students’ most abused and most favorite drug

By JENNY HapGoop AND GEorGIA RINGLE
Student Health Advisor
and Health Counselor

With Self-Selection in the seemingly
distant past and Midwinters approaching rap-
idly, it is time for students to re-evaluate their
partying plans and their drinking doses. While
we always encourage and applaud the choice
to remain alcohol free, we, as Student Health
Advisors, recognize the frequency of alcohol
illness and abuse on our lovely, bubble-like
campus.

So, as a guide to helping you muddle
through the basement beer runs and the around
the world parties, we provide you with a list
of do’s and don’ts that will hopefully help
keep you out of the hospital and out with
friends instead.

DO: set a drinking limit for yourself
before you go out — Example, I have a test on

- Monday morning, thus I think I’ll just have
two beers over an hour and a half and spend
the rest of the night dancing without drink in
hand

DO: alternate drinks. Example: One
alcoholic drink followed by a nonalcoholic
drink such as water or soda.

DO: Eat before and during drinking
because it helps slow down how quickly you
absorb the alcohol and will help quell that
vicious next rca set

DO: Take’a vacation from drinking.
Challenge yourself to going out once a month
without drinking — can you go-to a fraternity
without drinking?

Now that you have a healthy list of what
to do, let’s take a look at a few don’ts that

seem pretty common sense but are in fact

worth repeating.
DON’T: Pound your drinks — try to take

catch up with how much you’ re drinking. For
instance, if you have 4-5 drinks in an hour,
your body won’t be able to metabolize that
amount and you’ ll end up passed out or in an
ambulance

DON’T: drink heavily if you have an

The St

tremely drunk. In other words don’t give
him/her coffee, juice, or even water because
that will induce vomiting. ‘If a person needs
to vomit, trust us, his body will do it for him
—you don’thave to! Also, don’t give a drunk
person acold shower because that just makes

underlying medical condition such as diabe-

tes, a history of alcoholism, a common cold,

or even if you’re on the Pill.
DON’T: hassle a person who. is. ex-

her a mean, cold, naked, wet, drunk — who
wants that?!

DON’T: forget to turn a person on her
side if she’s passed out from drinking too

much — you want her to puke to the side and
not on herself. CAUTION if you cannot
arouse the passed out person, you MUST call
your HALL COUNSELOR and call 911!!
YOU MUST YOU MUST.

In addition to this do’s and don’ ts list, the
Student Health Advisors want to help you
make the distinction between “normal drink-
ing” and “over the top” drinking. People
often admit that they worry about their own ~
drinking patterns or about a friend’s drinking
habits, in this case, please come and talk to
one of us, Georgia Ringle, or the counseling
center. We can help you evaluate your habits
and figure out if you’re on a track to the
hospital and the stomach pump or if you’ re
simply looking at a morning headache. Fi-
nally, we'd like to include a list that defines a
“problem drinker:”
¢ . Do you use alcohol to cope with prob-
lems?

* Doyouever feel guilty about your drink-
ing?

* — Do you plan not to get drunk but end up
drunk anyway?

\ * Do you compromise your beliefs or val-

ues when you’re drunk?

* Do you ever “blackout” and how often?
*.. Do you get annoyed when others com-
ment on how much you drink?

* Do you think it’s cool to have a high
tolerance, to drink your friends under the
table or to hold your liquor?

¢- Do you hide’ how much you drink from
others? ;

Lastly, we want you to understand that
the Student Health Center is here to help you
manage your drinking. We’ re not necessarily
going to tell you to cut drinking out entirely,

but we will help you limit your drinking and

progress to healthier habits.
