“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”
S
EstaBLisHED 1914

RLO resolves housing issues.

NEWS 2

The Davids

DAVIDSON COLLEGE >

LeU Xx

U BI

ORT A

Stop being sheep — and start talking.

VIEWPOINT 8

oni

Lo BB. RT ASS

Baseball sweeps doubleheader.

SPORTS 10

Senate calls for flag relocation

By RicHarp VINSON
Staff Writer

On Tuesday night the SGA passed a
resolution calling for the relocation of the
Confederate Battle Flag from its perch atop
the South Carolina State House.

The resolution resulted from the efforts
of a committee formed and chaired by SGA
President Dane Erickson. This action com-
mits the SGA to “actively support” efforts to
bring down the flag.

The authors of the resolution cited sev-
eral reasons the flag should be removed, first
and foremost labeling the flag a “symbol of
division and racial oppression.”

In addition, the resolution stressed the
close ties between the Davidson College com-
munity and the State of South Carolina. The

Spanish professor
hospitalized

By ALISON KALETT

Editor in Chief

On Monday afternoon, Professor of Span-
ish Lois A. “Sandy” Kemp suffered a mas-
sive stroke while at her home in Davidson.
Dr. Kemp, founder of the Spanish depart-
ment and member of the Davidson faculty
since 1972, was found by a physical plant
worker and immediately rushed to Lake
Norman Regional Medical Center where she
remains unconsciouss in the critical care unit.

Although Dr. Kemp cannot receive visi-
tors, members of the Spanish Department as
well as Dean of Faculty Clark Ross and
President Bobby Vagt have been to the hos-
pital to check on her condition and visit with
Professor Kemp’s family members, Martha
and Ted McKnight.

“The whole community is saddened,”
said Ross. “Dr. Kemp is a very dedicated
teacher and we are hoping for the best.”

“We want to help in any and all ways,”
said Spanish Department Chair Mary
Vasquez. “Also, we want to express the
concern felt by all members of the Spanish
Department and our wishes for a full recov-
ery for Dr. Kemp.”

Until Dr. Kemp is able to return, her
Spanish 101 and 102 classes will be taught by
other members of the Spanish department.
Both classes will continue to meet for the
duration of the semester.

two are linked not only through students and
alumni but also through Davidson’s partici-
pation in the Southern Conference. Four of
the schools in the Southern Conference are in
South Carolina—Furman, Wofford, College
of Charleston, and The Citadel.

The resolution also expresses the hope
that students can play a major role in this
nation-wide effort. It notes “students have
been catalysts for change” in past social and
civil rights movements. Proponents of the
resolution expressed hope it would help unite
the various schools of the Southern Confer-
ence.

Where from here?
Nevertheless, the meaning of “active sup-
port” remains unclear. Erickson mentioned

eS |

re i

several options, ranging from a march on
Columbia to sending student representatives
to the state legislature. “As far as taking a
definitive step, we're still in the process of
deciding,” he acknowledged. .

At this point, the SGA is most concerned
with achieving unity among Southern Con-
ference schools. As Erickson said, “We want
to pull the Southern Conference together.”
SGA Vice President Joey Hatris agreed that
the resolution is intended to express “support
for the rest of the Southern Conference in
taking the flag down.” Erickson added, “The
most important thing is doing it as a collec-
tive, as a group.”

Erickson started this initiative several
weeks ago with several goals in mind. Most
importantly, he found the Confederate Battle

Members of the SGA deliberate late on ie night.

Flag tobe asymbol of racial prejudice. “There
are signs of oppression all.around us. This is
a symbol of that oppression and injustice.”
As such, he felt that a determined effort was
needed to alter the present display of the flag.
Senator Laura McCandlish ’02 agreed that
the flag is simply not an appropriate symbol
given its hateful connotation. “I think we
Owe it to the minority students,” she said.
“It’s such an oppressive symbol.”

Erickson bemoaned the fact that, in spite
of the flag’s negative association, nothing has
been about it. “Yes, it’s blown up by the
media; yes, it’s a national issue. But when
you come down to it, nothing has been done.”

He saw student organization and involve-

See Flag, page 2.

Alison Kalett

Where there’s smoke there’ S fire
SGA debates smoking in residence halls

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
voted overwhelmingly on Tuesday to advise
the Residence Life Office to offer a smoke-
free residence hall for the 2000-2001 school
year.

The decision was made after lengthy
debate over various different proposed
changes to the college’s smoking policy.
Currently there is no smoking allowed in any
public buildings other than the residence halls
and Patterson Court Houses. Students are
allowed to smoke in their rooms (but not in
the halls or lounges), so long as the door is
closed and with their roommate’s consent.

But many are calling for a change of that
policy—citing health issues of second-hand
smoke and the overall environment in the
residence halls. Several students expressed
dismay at the levels of smoke that have flowed
into their rooms this year from smokers down
the hall or on other floors.

Some senators argued that the present
college policy does not adequately protect
the rights of those irritated by cigarette smoke,

contending that there is no way to completely ©

arrest the flow of smoke from different areas.

Class of 2003 senator Trip Young attested
that some of his constituents compared the

current smoking policy to having a “peeing -

area of a pool. It’s not gonna work, it’s gonna
spread everywhere.”

While some contended that individuals
have a right to conduct legal activities (in-
cluding smoking) in their own rooms, others
countered that college policy already regu-
lates student possession of pets, halogen
lamps, toasters, and other articles in their
rooms that could possibly pollute the envi-
ronment or serve as a fire hazard.

Just a week before Tuesday’s meeting,
the SGA had commissioned a poll to gauge
public opinion regarding smoking in the resi-
dence halls. Cader Howard, chairman of the
SGA’s Polling & Response Committee, pre-

INTL. COMMENTARY ..........
PID VORIALS i ccscccorsstinesehgscoataye
PES LD esiss gars ceeisianivosusassvecedvass

5 First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
ed :
10 - Permit #1

sented the results before debate ensued on
Tuesday.

Three hundred students received the ran-
dom-sample e-mail survey, which asked stu-
dents to approve or disapprove of a series of
proposed policies. The most popular option
according to the poll was the creation of a
single smoke-free residence hall, with 77%
of respondents favoring such a change.

The option with the second-highest level
of support was the creation of smoke-free
floors on various dormitories, but the SGA
concluded that smoke would unlikely be con-
tained to a particular hall.

Although 84% of students reported that
they had never smoked in a residence hall

See Smoking, page 2.

Davidson, NC 28036

