THE DAVIDSONIAN

A tribute to Davidson’s

FEATURES

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

) OSE

favorite hangout spot

Establishing a tradition: the history of the Union Outpost

By Sara Jones
Features Writer

A Tradition is Born in 1993...

The Union Outpost is the one place on campus where
students can relax, procrastinate, and just kick back with
a quesadilla.

The Union Outpost, however, has not always been a
staple at Davidson. In 1992 former Dean of Students
William Terry had a vision and our greasy, comfy,
procrastinator’s paradise was born.

“We felt like we needed a place for students to go
after parties on the Court where people could get some-
thing to eat and slow down,” Terry said. “And we [the
administration] thought we needed to provide that.” The
administration wanted the Union to have a presence on
the Court because there was too much division and the
Union needed to be more involved socially, Terry added.

As Dennis Rice, Outpost manager, noted, it used to
be tradition on campus that everyone would drive to the
old Bacon and Egg restaurant in Cornelius after parties-
a habit involving drinking and driving. In order to curb
this dangerous practice, the administration tried keeping
the Union Café open, but few students wanted to trek up
the hill, and the Union was not especially tolerant of the
added mess.

After ruling out the Commons, the adminstration set
their sights on the current Outpost location which was
abandoned by eating houses opting for buildings with
basements. According to former Director of Auxilliary
Services, Carl Pritchard, the Outpost location was ideal
because of its proximity to the Court’s social scene.

“The idea was to have it so convenient that it would
be stupid to go anywhere else,” said Rice. Pritchard also
noted that the Outpost was specifically designed to accept
students’ meal cards as further incentive.to lure them
where they could eat and relax while spending bonus
bucks instead of real money.

In the fall of 1993, the Outpost was born. It was
originally furnished with old Commons furniture and had
a rather “bare bones” motif. Initially, the Outpost was
staffed by Rice, a manager, and Commons employees.
According to Rice, it was difficult to staff the Outpost
because of the late hours and lack of initial success.

It featured a menu similar to the Union Café with a
sandwich bar, which was not as appealing to the students
as the bar-type food the Outpost serves now. According
to Pritchard, the Outpost broke even financially its first
year; but it continuously grew more popular in subse-
quent years, largely due to a modified menu, increased
Union programming, and Rice’s management.

“Dennis coming in was the best thing that could have
happened,” Terry said. “He knows how to deal with
students and they like him.”

“Dennis has been there since the beginning; he’s the

’ rectly in an effort to curb the problem.

real heart and soul of the place,” agreed Pritchard. “He
came up with all kinds of ideas to bring in students with
new sandwiches and everything... He’s really the back-
bone that has made it successful.”

During the second year, Rice developed more of a
bar food type menu, adding nachos the first semester and
quesadillas in the second semester. In later years, he
chose new items for the menu and kept what was success-
ful.

“The chicken caesar bagel is three or four years old,
I just made that up... We had Philly steak sandwiches for
a while but then everyone started watching fat so we took
those off [the menu],” Rice said. .

Renovations have also generated more traffic in the
Outpost. Originally, the social atmosphere was based on
board games, a stereo, and a 25-inch TV, but the Outpost
has gradually gained more character. The counter, stage,
and glass by the front door were installed in 1995 and the
big screen TV, formerly in the 900 Room, was set up in
1997. Rice also pushed for the booths and tried to gethigh
stools and other bar furniture to enhance the atmosphere,
but there was no funding made. available. In 1995, art
students decorated the walls, adding to the Outpost’s
atmosphere

“I thought it was great,” said Rice. “In the early
years, this place was so rowdy with kids throwing nachos
against the wall and stuff, and [the paint] covered the
salsa.”

Inregard to this rowdiness, Rice noted that there used
to be many more fights and acts of vandalism at the
Outpost, and students were so disrespectful that the staff
Started quitting. In 1994, Rice wrote a letter in The
Davidsonian, addressing the student body di-

“[The Outpost] really caltned down
after that [letter]; it was like night and
day,” said Rice. When the
Outpost staff was increased 4
he noticed fewer fights and
vandalism.

“You still have to put
up with drunk people, but
thatdoesn’tbotherme,” said 'y
Rice.

By adding delivery Rice
was abletoalleviatesomeof | @
the crowd pressure while in- lj
creasing the Outpost’s rev- '
enue by 15 to 20 percent.
| “Some nights delivery can be 25 ‘\’
percent of the profit,” said Rice. Rice tas NN e
since upgraded to two carts, and delivery has ~
continued to thrive over the past two years. te,

night hangout for the entire campus.

“It’s neutral territory, everyone can have fun here,”
Rice said.

People have mixed feelings for the Union Board’s
decision to close the Outpost next spring when the new
Union opens. Pritchard acknowledged that the new Union
will work if it can recreate an Outpost-type atmosphere.

“If they’re going to close the Outpost, they need to
create a new place in the Union - a sort of swinging place
for the students to go,” Pritchard said. “It needs to be
contemporary, a place where students have input to make
sure they’re creating an atmosphere the kids like.”

Terry believes that the Union Board will be able to
produce this similar Outpost program up the hill and
affirmed that its closing is appropriate and “makes sense.”

“[The new union ] is in the line of traffic for people
going up the hill from the court, and I think [the admin-
istration] will come up with a program like the Outpost,”
Terry said. “It won’t be my baby but it should work.”

Rice is less confident that the Union will be able to
create a comparable program. He is specifically con-
cerned about the location of the new Union, as well as
differences in menu and atmosphere.

“It’s not that the food isn’t available, it’s just not
attractive to the drunk student,” Rice said. “They need
somewhere they can crawl to, and someone to wipe their
noses and get them to their rooms.”

“Once you give the students something, it’s hard to
take away,” Rice added.

The Outpost is more universal and truly brings “~

a wider range of traffic to the Court by providing a late-

All photos courtesy of Cader Howard.
