q Y * at v..
— ee ce ae eas *
: E ee RE Pa Ps
¥ ? * pai } s Ri : * : ¢

Press RELEASE

What higher honor is there than repre-
senting your country at the Olympics? Two
members of the Davidson community — one
athletic staff member and one student-athlete
— will experience the thrill of international
competition at the Olympic and Paralympic
Games held in Sydney, Australia, in Septem-
ber and October. ir ne

Swimmer Kendra Berner ’02 and Wild-
cat head baseball coach Dick Cooke will
travel to the “land down under” as represen-
tatives of the United States in the world’s
most prestigious international competition.
Berner will compete in the Paralympics, while
Cooke will be an auxiliary coach for the USA
Olympic Baseball Team.

To say Berner is excited about the com-
petition would be an understatement. “I am
excited to be a part of
the games, caught up .
in the Olympic spirit
and representing the
United States,” said
Berner. “I’ve never
been anywhere near as
far away as Australia,
so that will be thrill-
ing, too.”

In order to qualify

Berner in action

aac

ott as : we me

for the Paralympics, Berner had to compete .

in the USA Disability Championships in In-
dianapolis on June 23-25. Physical disabili-
ties are split up into 10° separate classifica-
tions, with S1 being the most disabled, and
S10 being the least. Berner, who was born
with a congenital deformation of her right
hand, was placed in the S10 classification.

Having only one hand to use in the water,
Berner utilizes a training paddle, which is cut
to the size and shape of her left hand. The
paddle was initially approved to use in high
school, and prior to swimming at Davidson,
was approved by the NCAA.

Other swimmers in her classification
ranged in age from 11 to 38, but most were no
match for Berner. In six events, she won five,
setting American records in three of them —
50 Free (29.70 seconds), 100 Free (1:04.75),
and 400 Free (5:08.26). In the latter two

en’s Soccer kicks off new
eason with home exhibition

By Zep KELLEY
Staff Writer

To the beat of garbage can drums anda
student band of trumpets and accordions,
| the Davidson men’s soccer team played to a
0-0 tie Tuesday night against Winthrop in
their first exhibitionof the season. Despite
out-shooting

Winthrop 12-4 and 9-
0 (oncorner kicks, the
Q Wildcats still could

"not getrid of the goose
egg on the home side

Davidson
Wintheep ’

of the scoreboard.

The pace lulled along for a major por-
tion of the evening until alate second-half
charge by the Wildcats. However, Davidson
was unable to take advantage of numerous
shot opportunities and corner kicks. ,
Nevertheless, Head coach Charlie Slagle
was very impressed by the team’s first start-
ing lineup of the season. He quoted-condi-
tioning, defense and ball possession as the
high points of Davidson’s game.

Slagle also commended Chris Norbert,
Jon Tetirick, and Paul Watson, all juniors,
on their outstanding efforts. David Buehler
‘Ol left the game due to injury in the 69".
minute, but he is now back and kicking
according to Slagle.

Coming off a roller coaster season of a
year ago, Slagle and the Wildcats are hoping
that their 17 returning players can better last
year’s 10-11 (5-3) record. The 1999 team
was ranked as high as #5 in the country, and

over Clemson, South Carolina, and Rich-
mond last year will give the veterans enough
confidence to post more impressive victo-
ries this year.

September 1 will be the Wildcat’s first
game of the season, playing against Towson
University in the first round of the. Navy
Invitational Soccer Tournament. Davidson’s
first home game. this season will be on
September 15 against Virginia Tech. This
game, however, is about much more than

‘pation. Success-in the upcoming season

their coach believes that the team’s wins -

the final score.

The Davidson Soccer Program will be
participating in a charity drive called the
“Gift of Life.” This drive raises money to
pay for heart surgery. for children who
cannot afford it. Every year, doctors at the
University of South Carolina Medical Cen-
ter. donate supplies. and hospital space,
while teams in the southeast provide the
money. ;

As always, students get into the game
free, but all are encouraged to bring dona- |
tions for this worthwhile cause. Slagle is
aiming for Davidson to present a $7500
check to the cause, an amount that is cet-
tainly attainable with everyone’s partici-

looks promising for the Davidson Wild-
cats, both on and off the field.

Brazil Trip

How They Spent Their
Summer Vacation

The men’s soccer team took a
team trip to Brazil during the sum-
mer. The trip proved to be a great
opportunity for all willing players
to experience tough competition
on an entirely different continent.
The Wildcats played six games on
their trip and compiled a record of
1-4-1. This number is much more
admirable, though, when consid-
ering the opponents. The ‘Cats
played professional junior teams

that provided “great competition.” |

It is yet to be decided, however, if
this pre-season journey will im-
prove this year’s record.

‘inest take on

mle oe an agg “=

% ts ek Gp

and 7.66 seconds, respectively. .

She didn’t view her competitors as en-
emies, however. “We were competing against
each other, but for the most part, it was a
friendly competition. Som¢ of the people
were a little more fierce in their-competitive-
ness than others, though.”

Berner, an economics major, also won
the 100 Breaststroke (1:40.62) and thé 200
Individual Medley (2:51.92), while garner-
ing second place in the 100 Backstroke
(1:21.86).

“The trials were really amazing,” com-.
mented Berner. “I had never been to a na-
tional meet, or an adaptive meet before. All
the swimmers there had worked extremely

hard, and I met so many cool people. One girl —

had both arms and legs amputated, and she
was a really good swimmer. She was just so
graceful in the water.”

Berner also holds her own at the Divi-
sion I level against swimmers who have no
physical disabilities. She is a member of two
relay teams at Davidson that hold school
records — the 400 Free and 800 Free.

But perhaps a bigger challenge than her
competition in Sydney will be figuring out
how to manage her studies while in Australia
for nearly the entire month of October. “I’ve
petitioned for three classes instead of four,”
Berner remarked. “Prior to leaving, I will
work with professors on different ways to
make up the class time and keep up with the
work — get audio tapes of lectures, whatever

Te RS OS
t
. ee

events, Berner outdistanced her peers by 6.66

ing the Pan Am manager, Buddy Bell. Bell is
now managing the Colorado Rockies.
Lasorda’s coaches will be former major league
manager Phil Regan, former major leaguer
Reggie Smith, and minor league manager
Eddie Rodriguez.

“This being the Olympics, we havea lot
more attention focused on us,” noted Cooke.
“Tommy is such a great ambassador of base-
ball that he alone draws attention to the team.”

As an auxiliary coach, Cooke’s duties
include throwing batting practice to the hit-
ters. He is the left-handed throwing pitcher,
while friend and South Carolina head coach

it takes to get the Ray Tanner is
work done.” the __right-

Cooke, on . ; . handed bat-
the other hand, “It’s amazing to think that I ting practice
won’t have to . ° itcher.
worry about Will be a representative of my Noobs’ will
studies or even 2. *4 99 also handle
how the players country. I can’t wait. rere
are doing in their aK Se | advance

classes. All the
athletes on the baseball squad are profes-
sional ballplayers and don’t have a tough 400
level class with which to keep up.

“T love coaching in the collegiate ranks,”
stated Cooke, a former player in the Boston
Red Sox organization. “But it’s nice to be
around professional baseball people. I can
take a break from worrying about anything
other than baseball.”

The international scene is nota new one
to Cooke. Last’ year, he was an auxiliary
coach for the Pan American Games in
Winnipeg, Canada. “The great thing about
the Pan Am Games was that so much was on
the line,” Cooke said. “Knowing that we had
to win at least the silver to advance to the
Olympics heightened the intensity level.”

The legendary Tommy Lasorda, the
former Los Angeles Dodger manager, will
manage the Olympic baseball team, replac-

ie ee ee ee ee

scouting of the
other teams at the Olympic Games, although
he’s not sure to what degree he will be in-
volved with the scouting.

“Tt depends a lot on how Tommy del-
egates and utilizes his personnel,” Cooke
said. “From what I have seen, though, he is
not afraid to rely on his staff for information.”

Unlike last year, Cooke has given input
on the players that are being evaluated in the
minor~-leagues that will possibly join the
team. The most difficult aspect of that task is
choosing players who are good enough to
help the United States, but won’t be called up
to the major leagues prior to August 31, when
the team leaves for Australia. If a player is in
the majors, he will not be eligible for Team
USA. The baseball games don’t officially
begin until Sept. 17, and last until the 27th.

Cooke’s experience last year also had an
effect on the Davidson baseball team last
spring. The Wildcats finished , their best
season in eight years. After being exposed to
different perspectives of advance scouting,
he blended his coaching with those perspec-
tives.

“One thing I always worried about be-
fore was overloading our players with too
much information,” stated Cooke. “They have .
so much on their minds here at Davidson as it
is, particularly their studies. I didn’t force-
feed the scouting reports to them; I just made
them available, and the players seemed to
benefit from. those reports.” -

The reports that the Davidson commu-
nity will be waiting for are the ones‘on the
accomplishments ofits members: Both Berner
and Cooke will be striving for the gold, but
just going to the Olympics is a tremendous
achievement in itself. “It’s such an honor just
to be representing the United States,” said
Berner. “It’s amazing to think that I willbea —
representative of my country. I can’t wait.”

i i a
