Community celebrations mark beginning of Christmas season —

By Curistina Cooke
Staff Writer

Carols blare from dormroom radios, stock-
ings hang from dorm room doorknobs, and
strings of lights weave across dorm room
ceilings. With signs like these, one thing is
certain — the holiday season has descended
upon Davidson.

The celebrations commenced with the
“Christmas in Davidson” festival from
Wednesday,

November

29 to Friday,
December 1.
Students and
neighbor-
hood fami-
lies mingled
on Main
Street,
where they
purchased
the cookies,
popcorn, ci-
der, and
hand-knit
slippers that
stores sold
from tables

Students enjoy the Christmas in Davidson
celebration because it gives them the oppor-

tunity to mix with the town. Katherine Tate’

’03 admits that at the festival, “I feel like
Davidson College is part of the community.
Christmas especially makes me glad I’m
here.”

On Thursday night during the celebration,
a thousand luminaries bearing the red AIDS
symbol lit the campus paths around Baker,
the library, Chambers, the Row, Belk, and
: Patterson
Court “in
honor of
friends,
loved ones,
faculty, staff,
and alumni
who have
died of
AIDS.”

“It was a
powerful
statement,”
notes Student
Health Advi-
sor David
Wheeler ‘03,
one of those
who helped

along the coordinate
sidewalk. the project.
Also : Bill Giduz Fellow
along the Ray Sprague leads the Concert Choir at Vespers Health Advi-
sidewalk, sor Rebecca

carolers sang songs including “Silent Night”
and “Joy to the World,” and musicians played
carols on their accordions, dulcimers, trum-
pets, and flutes. Amid these melodies, sleigh
bells jingled as horses pulled carriages up and
down the street (observing the stoplights, of
course). .

In front of the Post Office on the second
night of the celebration, Davidson Elemen-
tary School students performed “The Nut-
cracker,” complete with dancing mice and
sugarplum fairies.

Later on the lawn of the town green, poodles
with antlers, bulldogs in tutus, and great
danes in Santa hats strutted across the stage
for the “Canine Costume Contest”. Some
dogs displayed their tricks for treats, while
others ignored the trick requirement and
lunged straight for the basket of biscuits on
the judge’s table.

Moore ’03 finds the luminaries “a concrete
way to get the message of AIDS awareness
across. People see the luminaries and think of
the AIDS problem, and people think of the
AIDS problem and remember the luminaries.
It becomes a stronger mental image.”

The following Sunday evening, people
packed into the pews of Davidson College
Presbyterian Church for the annual Vespers
Service. Scripture lessons alternated with
hymns and anthems (especially “Hark, the
Herald Angels Sing”) performed by the David-
son College concert choir, chambers singers,
orchestra, brass ensemble, and flute choir.

Kate Ramella ’03 felt that singing hymns
as part of the choir was like “a Christmas gift
to Davidson, because we’ re helping to create
a reason for everyone to come together and
feel the joys of the season.” _

The night after the service, students bundled

Why Ricky Martin is terrible

By Tuomas CULLEN
Arts & Living Editor

He started out in Menudo. I really don’t
think his musical career could have started
out any worse than that. Menudo is a Spanish
teen singing group that kicks out its members
when they get too old. Needless to say, their
music is awful.

Apparently, Menudo taught Ricky to do
everything in an extremely cheesy manner,
because nowadays, there is nothing he does
that is wretched.

The first Ricky Martin song I ever heard
was that “Cup of Life” one, and I’ m not going
to lie, I liked it at first. How naive I was. Little
did I know that he would use it to gain
international stardom only to be able to pol-
lute our world with such songs as “Livin La
Vida Loca,” which was not horrible the first
time I heard it, but was terrible by the 400"
time, and quite possibly my least favorite
song ever recorded, “Shake Your Bon-Bon.”
I would rather watch the Broncos beat the
Raiders on Monday Night Football than hear

this song again. Maybe that was a little ex-
treme, but I definitely loathe that song.
Now, Ricky is back with another album
entitled Sound Loaded. I feel for the parents
who must accompany their nit-wit kids to
these shows and watch this person dance
around like an idiot while listening to him
sing songs that are some of the worst in the
history of popular recording. I have only
heard some of one song off of Sound Loaded
called “She Bangs.” The song is pathetic. If I
find out that anyone on the Davidson campus
has bought this CD, I will make you drive me

‘to a sports bar to watch ‘all non-televised

Raiders games, and then during the Super
Bowl, you will be my butler.

I really am at a loss for words about this
guy. Ricky Martin is just so cheesy that I
really cannot see why anyone would want to
hear his music. He is just so bad. For the sake
of the human race, do not give this man any
more money by going to his concerts or
buying his records. He does not deserve it.
(Thanks to T. Rayburn for ideas).

up for the Campus Christmas Party on Cham-
bers Lawn. In between munches of ginger-
bread men and sips of hot chocolate, they
sang carols by candlelight and watched as the
lights on the campus Christmas trees shone
for the first time this season.

Mid-way through the’ party, Santa and Mrs.
Claus arrived, but not by sleigh as usual.

Instead, the two rappelled from the roof of |

Chambers. ;
Mrs. Claus (a.k.a. Anna Padget ’01) de-
clares, “The view from the top of Chambers

is splendiferous. Since it was clear, we could —

see the Charlotte skyline off behind the Union!
The crowd scene is really amazing because
you could see everyone’s face aglow with
candlelight.”

“As you’re coming down from the top,”
she adds, “itis very difficult to remember that
Santa says “ho ho ho” and not
“Whoooooo000000 Ho00000000000000.”

Students enjoy the holidays at the college
because the celebrations give them the chance
to spend time with each other in the spirit of
the season. “Despite the busy time of exams
and the stress at the end of the semester,” says
Ramella, “celebrating Christmas brings hap-
piness and allows us to share the meaning of
the season before we leave.”

“Whether you celebrate Christmas of not,
the festivities the school puts on give every-

Bill Giduz
The Union's Santa & Mrs. Claus

(Craig Stickney & Anna Padgett)

one a chance to celebrate something before
finals begin,” exclaims Padget. “I think that
the most important aspect of the holiday
hullabaloo is that it builds acommunity tradi-
tion based on fun and imagination, rather
than on an entirely religious focus.

“There are so many things to celebrate
right now in Davidson—Hannukah, Kwanzaa,
Ramadan, and Christmas,” she continues.
“Despite the clear connections of our cel-
ebration to Christianity, I hope that everyone
feels welcome to come and celebrate the
season—whatever the season may be.”

Unbreakable an uneasy mix
of ordinary, extraordinary

By Derek Lou

Staff Writer

Is Unbreakable a story about supernatural
characters living in our world? Or, is ita story
about real people living in a-supernatural
world?

Well, it’s a little bit of both. There’s
nothing inherently wrong with either situa-
tion: both have been made into great movies,

such as Dark City and Carrie. But combining -

the situations like Unbreakable does pro-
duces a film that, despite being especially
interesting, is too polarized.

There are times when the movie is satu-
rated with the events of every day life: going
to work, spending time with your family,
working out. And then there are times when
the film is strikingly eerie. To the movie’s
credit, all its scenes — creepy and mundane —
are well directed and very effective. Unfor-
tunately, this produces a distracting juxtapo-
sition.

Early in the film, a train leaving from
Philadelphia derails and kills everyone
onboard except David Dunn (Bruce Willis),
who emerges miraculously unharmed. Days
later David finds a note on his car that reads,
“Limited Edition” on the front, and, “How
many days of your life have you been sick?”
on the inside. —~

He doesn’t know the answer to the ques-
tion. He asks his wife (Robin Wright Penn).
She doesn’t know either. He tracks down the
note’s author, Elijah Prince (Samuel L. Jack-
son in his best performance since 1998’s
Eve’s Bayou), who has acondition that weak-
ens his bones so that they break easily.

Elijah, aman who walks, talks, and dresses

_ like a comic book villain, works at a gallery

for comic book art, hence “Limited Edition”.
It seems he’s been looking for someone like
David, a man who has been the lone survivor
of a horrible accident. If his bones break
easily, shouldn’t there be someone at the
other end of the spectrum? Someone who is

unbreakable? Elijah has come to believe that
aman like David could be a superhero. That’s
right. A superhero.

David dismisses Elijah as insane, as does
his wife ina later scene. The movie then, for
a considerable amount of time, focuses on
David and his wife and son, becoming an
observant family drama.

But Elijah and his ideas return to the movie,
and we begin to wonder if David really could
be a superhero. He has superhuman strength
and the ability to sense people’s wrongdo-
ings. He even has a weakness. The movie

" answers our questions in scenes that are wor-

thy of their comparisons to Hitchcock. There
is an absolutely chilling sequence towards
the end that even out of the context of the film
would work wonderfully.

Yet despite the chilling nature of these
scenes, M. Night Shaymalan’ wisely keeps
most of his film grounded in reality. It is the
art direction involving Jackson’s character —
keep an eye out for his car — that suggests the
film is a comic book put to life, creating a
contrast that distracts. ; t

Like Shaymalan’s The Sixth Sense, there is
a startling revelation in Unbreakable that
redefines the film. And like the revelation in
The Sixth Sense, it is in plain sight during the

whole film, proving Shaymalan’s skill at

deception. And like the revelation in The
Sixth Sense, it also lowers the film’s integrity,
like almost all surprise endings in movies,
including the over-appreciated The Usual
Suspects. See In the Company of Men and
The Spanish Prisoner for the best exceptions.

Despite its flaws, Unbreakable is an un-
usually strong movie, one that is a well-made
family drama and an effective thriller. If only
Shaymalan combined both more seamlessly. ..

Grade: B-

Kids don’t like eating lunch at school; but
if they got a remains of the day lunch box,

. they’re a whole lot happier.
