p EE DA VIDSONTAN

Race relations are campus

I’m responding to an article written on
the state of race relations at Davidson. Jenny
Joslin’s article begins:

“A ‘pre-orientation:’ Why do the minor-
ity students have an orientation before the
rest of the freshmen arrive?

A house on the Court: Why do the
African-American students have their own
house on Patterson Court?

A table in the Commons: Why do the
African-American students sit together in
Vail Commons?”

Although Joslin makes several good
" points in stating that race relations need to be
discussed, no points are made on where to
begin. At Davidson, minority students are
expected to be the ones to begin discussion on
improving race. However, why isn’t choos-
ing to attend a college, knowing you will be
a minority, considered a step towards im-
proving race relations? Why isn’t that con-
sidered a major “initiative to step outside of
your comfort zone and reach out to someone
who your perceive as completely different
from you,” as Joslin stated in her article.
Davidson we are given a unique opportunity
to improve race relations, but those who
make an attempt at doing so are ridiculed,
questioned and/or silenced.

The article quotes Dane Erickson: “For
different people to learn from each other and
break down stereotypes, they need to interact
with each other. In many ways, students at
Davidson are on equal playing field and only
need to interact.” Yet, since I have arrived at
Davidson, my presence here has been ques-
tioned. Several comments are made, “Per-
haps it was easier for you to be admitted to
Davidson because you are a minority and
female.” If I am not perceived on an equal
playing field, how can we-interact fairly?

Maybe it was not any easier for me to be .

admitted to Davidson than the next guy, whose
great-grandfather, grandfather, father, and
uncles all attended Davidson as well. In order
for us to interact, we must each accept that all
of us have special and unique talents, regard-
less of our ethnic background, gender, and /or
family history. We are all equals.

A table in the Commons: Why do the
African-American students sit together in
Vail Commons?”

Inaddition to viewing ourselves as equals,
we must be willing to point out flaws, from all
sides, which contribute to or perpetuate nega-

‘tive ethnic relations. When I walk into the
Commons, I see exclusively white tables.
Although virtually all white students sit to-
gether at Vail Commons, the minority stu-
dents are attacked and criticized for “segre-
gating themselves.” So I pose a question that
was not asked in the last article, Why do all
the white students sit together at the Com-
mons?

A house on the Court: Why do the
African-American students have their own
house on Patterson Court?

The BSC was founded on the ideals of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, and
many other inspirational and influential Afri-
can American leaders, does that make it an
exclusive African-American institution? Per-
haps the BSC was created to promote, unity,
“African-ness,” and as a social organization
for African-Americans, but it is by no means
only for African-American students. In fact,
there are more white students in the BSC than
there are African-American students in my
own eating house of 150 Women, Warner
Hall. Many white students say that the name,
the BSC, “intimidates” them, yet what about
the names Kappa Alpha, SAE, and Pi Kappa
Alpha?. All of the fraternities were estab-
lished in the South and originally excluded
non-whites from membership. However, now
these organizations welcome most groups.
The Sigma Alpha Epsilon National Web-site

states: “Qualitative changes in recent de-
cades have been profound. . . Membership
today is for more heterogeneous than it was a
generation ago as chapters have welcomed
increasing numbers of men from religious,
ethnic and racial minorities, enriching chap-
ters with an unprecedented cultural diver-
sity.” Although there is a shift towards diver-
sity, The Kappa Alpha Order National Web
Site states: “Kappa Alphas have never claimed
that Lee was a member of the order, but we do
rejoice that KA was born under the white
light of his noble life. We are immensely
proud and honored that his ideals were woven
into KA’s soul, and that he is, ina profoundly
real sense, our spiritual founder” (Kappa Al-
pha Order National Web-site). Although the
members of KA (and other fraternities) at
Davidson College are not racist due to their
affiliation, they are brothers to other KAs
nation-wide. The KA members are brothers
to a group of men at Old Miss who hired
African American children to pick cotton for
their formal and brothers to a national frater-
nity which did not “appreciate” Davidson
having an African American student in their
chapter. Despite the fraternities exclusively
white history, no one questions their presence
on campus.

When I addressed the issue of diversity
at a recent Patterson Court Meeting, not only
was there an attempt to change the topic of
discussion, but my statements were mis-com-
municated and I received an email about my
“complaints”. Although the BSC is on
Patterson Court, the BSC has not really been
included in Patterson Court activities. Many
members of other houses, including the
Patterson Court advisor, do not attend func-
tions at the BSC. WShen I ask why, students
respond by saying they feel uncomfortable,
which forDavidson is a valid excuse. If so,
then why can’t I say the same thing? Is it not
uncomfortable for me to stand before a group
of girls who are not of the same ethnic back-
ground as me at my own house meetings,
since I am the only African student member?
Is it not uncomfortable for me to walk into a
fraternity party where none of the brothers
are of my ethnic group? If] attemptto use that
excuse it is invalid. Not only is it invalid, but
Ican only claim being uncomfortable if some-
one directs a racist comment toward me.
Another excuse often used is: the BSC party
was not well advertised. Yet last time I heard,
impromptus aren’t advertised either and many
students still show up to those.

A ‘pre-orientation:’ Why do the minor-
ity students have an orientation before the
rest of the freshmen arrive?

As an African student, I attended the
International Student’s Orientation. Even
though I am from Fairfax, Virginia, I found
that the orientation was helpful and benefi-
cial, especially to those students who live half
a world away. Yet, at the same time, the
orientation did encourage us (though not by
force) to “hang out” with each other. Maybe
there needs to be a change in how the orien-
tation is set-up, but I don’t feel that doing
away with orientations will improve race
relations overnight.

How can we learn from each other when

* we’re unwilling to learn each other’s history?

This semester I have attended several events,
more recently the Spelman Glee Club, the
African Ceremonies slide-show, and a lec-
ture on the current conflict in Sudan. I asked
many friends to attend, but many people
argued that they had homework or needed to
study. Homework is a valid excuse,
butfollowing the African Ceremonies slide-
show, I saw many of these students partying
on the court. There have been many attempts
by the Dean Rusk Program, the BSC, the
Political Science Department and other orga-

nizations on campus to “reach out” and “edu-’

cate” students about other ethnic groups, but
these events are not well attended. If people
are unwilling to learn, how do we reach out
and learn from each other? In addition,
history that may be beneficial to understand-
ing one another remains unknown to David-
son students. We drive by the college and we
learn that “Woodrow Wilson studied here.”

Each morning students pass the Sparrow’s

Nest not knowing that it was once a servants’
quarter. Every day, we take classes in Cham-
bers, which was built from funds, from a man
who earned his wealth trading slaves. Why
aren’t we taught this history about Davidson?

Does Davidson need to do more to im-
prove race relations? Of course. But we
must also work to improve campus relations.
Davidson is divided among appearance. In
addition to ethnicity, we separate ourselves
based on how we dress, what our interests are,
our affilitations on Patterson Court, and based

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

relations

on our socio-economic status. Most of the
time we do this and we are unaware of it.
Perhaps we should promote unity in all areas.
Yet, this cannot be accomplished when stu-
dents who are subject to prejudices, due to
their gender, ethnicity, or religion, are si-
lenced or ignored. Simply saying “I haven’t
experienced that problem” or “Are you sure
that they were discriminating against you?”
does not alleviate the problem. However,
being supportive, taking initiative to make a
change, and asking how to help, will improve
things in the long run.

Aguil Lual Deng, ’01

The author intended this article to run in
last week’s issue, but due to an editorial
oversight is.is being run in this week's
Davidsonian.

To the Editors:
The family of Dr. Sandy Kemp

| who expressed their appreciation for her teaching and friendship through
their inquiries, their cards and messages, and the notes contributed to the
bright yellow poster outside her office. Her students were very important to
her, and we hope that her passion for justice and concern for our world’s
marginalized people will live on in them.

Sincerely yours,

Tha ut tien Whe Harisfe f

Martha Kemp McKnight
Grace Kemp Harris °
Winifred Kemp Husted

would like to thank the many students

ALENDA LUX UB

Che Dabtdsontan

I ORTA LIBERTAS

ANN IN GREGORY A" <n
BEN C

F. JUSTIN eS

Editors in Chief

News Edi MIKE ANDERSON Sports Editor
ews tors ss .
SETH DAVIS “REISON KALEFT™ BURGIN HARDIN

7 » Akecutive see ‘ ™~

CARRIE RI ew mes SN as
_B ree Managers Yaten rational News
Advertising »AVID CLARK... \, ‘ordinator
PETER CLAR -) ROSHAN PAUL
DAVID JOHNSTON Vad
v Zz , a C ~~ Web Editor
4 br: ed,
; Layout Mai ig co . ; “4 rat t ee ae GAMBOA
CADER HO 6 a a oe
as | Giken tion Managers
Layout Edito1 * C NDY CLARK
ALEX CALHO ms = A SPECHAR

NGTON -.*\! pR "A SCHWARTZ

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

