By Setu Davis
News Editor

“Its mathematical, but its not difficult,” says

__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Judge Vic Fleming speaks to Davidson students

traffic Judge Vic Fleming. This Little Rock,
Arkansas judge is referring to calculating a person’s
Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC). During his
forty-five minute presentation after the men’s

Weight and Blood
Alcan Level

basketball game on
Thursday, January 20,
Judge Fleming ex-
plained to a crowd com-
posed largely of fresh-
man the important math-
ematical principles be-
hind responsible drink-
ing.

Weight and Blood
f Shatten Level

In his words,
Fleming was “giving out
the information that no
one else is giving out.”
For him, the crusade
against irreponsible and
dangerous drinking is

Subtract .01%
One drink is 1.25 oz. of 80 proof liquor, 12 0z. of beer or 5 oz. of table wine.

for each 40 minutes of drinking.

that simple. Its all about
information,

Martin Luther King, Jr. Day

(from page 1).

Children’s Defense Fund delivered the Reynolds ;

lecture on Monday night.

Her apperance began a trend that Dean
Jeffries believes will continue. Future MLK Day
celebrations will be planned around a speaker.

Edelman spoke informally with a group that
afternoon in the 900 Room of the College Union
before addressing the Davidson community at
7:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. ,

Dr. Edelman, whom The Washington Post
has deemed “the most influential children’s advo-
cate in the country,” has recently published Lan-
terns: A Memoir of Mentors, in which she dis-
cusses leaders such as Martin Luther King, Jr.
whose philosophy helped shape her. In her infor-
mal conversation with the group in the 900 Room,
Edelman proclaimed, “I am absolutely obsessed
with developing a generation of leaders.” She
explained the mission of the Children’s Defense
Fund is to “leave no children behind.”

Good examples in the home and schools are
important for children. “Children don’t do what
we tell them. They, do what we do,” she ex-
plained.

Edelman discussed building multi-racial
leadership in high schools and colleges. She
suggested the importance of service, advocacy,
and activist groups, citing “a hunger for groups to

She also recommended the teaching of a non-
violence philosophy.

Non-violence, Edelman explained, would
appear as a theme in her lecture later that evening.
She encouraged further gun control, giving statis-
tics that “every two hours acchild is killed by agun.
She looked to the building of a “spiritual will” to
counter violence. Edelman added that much
ignorance still exists on who is killed by guns. “It
is nonsensical that we regulate toys and children’s
products yet not guns. We need to make this a
moral issue and lobby at the local level,” she said.

Davidson's President Bobby Vagt asked
Edelman, “How, after 26 years, have you not lost
your verve?” In response, she again stressed the
importance of “building a spiritual will.” Besides
tangible poverty, Edelman spoke of countering
the larger problem of children’s “poverty of spirit.”
She expanded, “Children present the starkest chal-
lenge to our faith and common sense. We cannot
save ourselves if we don’t save our country.”

The Reynolds Lecture

Later that night, Dr. Elizabeth Mills, English
Professor and Chair of the Speakers Committee,
welcomed the audience to Edelman’s Reynolds
Lecture in Love Auditorium. She thanked those
who made Edelman’s visit possible, and invited
the audience to a reception and book signing in
Chamber’s Gallery following the lecture.

President Vagt introduced Dr. Edelman by
“beginning with the basics.” He spoke of the
Children’s Defense Fund, which she founded in
1973 and which she still serves as President, She
attended Spellman College and Yale Law School.
Vagt also mentioned that Edelman was the first
black woman to pass the Mississippi State Bar
and served as counsel to the Poor People’s March,
led by Martin Luther King, Jr. She also chaired
the Center for Law and Education at Harvar
University and organized the March on Washing-

ton for Children.
Edelman began by calling upon the audience
“follow Martin Luther King, Jr. rather than just
colette him.”

Family had an early and lasting influence on
Edelman. She mentioned other mentors in her life
that served as co-parents. From the guidance of
those that surrounded her, Edelman said, “I learned
that I could knock down hurdles for girls, espe-
cially black girls.” Her mentors were not just
people with doctrates from Yale or Harvard,
Edelman stressed, for “You can get all A’s and
still flunk life.”

Martin Luther King, Jr., appropriately, hada
great impact on Edelman. “He taught young
people that they could be uncertain and not have
answers,” she said, “but to just take a step forward
and leave the rest to God.” He spoke in chapel
while she was a student at Spellman, where he
encouraged students to keep a positive force for-
ward, as Edelman said, “We often stall morally.”

Highlighting the sharp contrasts between
rich and poor in this country, Edelman explained
that the U.S. ranks 18" in the gap between rich and
poor children, and 16" in living conditions for the
poorest children. “The poorest group of Ameri-
cans is children, living in the richest country in the
world—and that is wrong,” Edelman emphasized.
She added, “Children in homeless shelters have
no sense of place, privacy, and private property.
How can we then expect them to have respect for
other’s private property?” Edelman also cited a
disparity in healthcare, as the U.S. leads the world
in health technology, yet has the highest infant
mortality rate.

Returning to the gun-control topic discussed
earlier that afternoon, Edelman spoke of a choice
between non-violence and non-existence. She
stressed the importance of voting for the children.
“Children can’t vote or lobby so we must do it for
them,” she said.

Modern America lacks a spiritual commu-
nity and family support, in Edelman’s view. Be-
sides impoverished children, Edelman equally
worries about affluent children who may “have
too much and may suffer a deeper poverty: of
spirit.”

Education is key to Edelman’s vision of
reform, as she asserted the importance of teachers.
“Teaching is the most noble profession—it’s what
our young people need. It’s not just a job, but a
mission to fulfill a crucial need for our children,”
Dr. Edelman said. She encouraged the audience
to reach out to children, for them to “emulate a
mentor and see what it means to be a human
being”.

Edelman stressed that “all children are sa-
cred in the eyes of God and racism, sexism, and
classism fall.” She closed her speech by leading
the audience in prayer.

. When asked about abortion during the ques-
‘tion and answer period, Edelman said. “I won't
make a stand on abortion, because my main con-
cern is children here on earth. Regardless. of
whether we are pro-choice or pro-life, we should
all be pro-child,” she answered.

“T thought it was a very good lecture and she
said a lot of things that we should take into
consideration,” says sophomore class president
Joey Harris.

Edelman’s new book is Laterns: A Memoir
of Mentors.

Was Judge Fleming successful in getting his
message across? For Boyd Stephenson, a freshman
from Little Rock, Judge Fleming’s program was
successful in part because of mathematics, but also

‘because of his real life stories of irresponsible

drinking. “For me, the more swaying parts of his
[Judge Fleming’s] argument were . . . the stories. .
. it definitely made an impression on me,” Boyd
says.

Others were not so sure that Judge Fleming’s
program was an unqualified success. “The num-
bers were real shocking . . . but I don’t think it’s
really going to change the way that anybody drinks,”
says freshman Sean Gantt.

Fleming, father of junior Elizabeth Fleming,
carries his message across the country with a wry
sense of humor. Besides appearing before crowds
of college, high school, and middle school students
with his “Why 2 Kegs?” program, Fleming also
writes a humor column that appears ina Little Rock
paper. He has authored seven books. Many, such
as Perry's Dead! (And the “Juice” Is Loose) and
Real Lawyers Do Change Their Briefs, poke fun at
American law. During his presentation Judge
Fleming tells the story of a Canadian who ate his
underwear in the hopes that it would lower his
BAC.

When he appears in front of students, Fleming
combines his sense of humor with the seriousness

judge of Little Rock soon.

"THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

of his subject. Binge drinking, according to statis-
tics that Fleming cites, is responsible for more than
40-50 college student deaths every year. In addi-
tion, alcohol abuse can lead violence and date
rape.

In light of these alcohol-related problems
Judge Fleming made a promise when he ran for the
position of traffic judge in Little Rock. He prom-
ised to work on educatingéhe populace in order to
keep more children and adults out of trouble.

His promise has taken him farther than he
originally expected:

He has been featured in “The Rotarian” maga-
zine and on Good Morning America. He was
awarded with the Pulaski County Bar Association’ s
“Outstanding Municipal Judge of the Year” rec-
ognition in 1999,

While he seeks to put the mathematical infor-
mation out there, Fleming also stresses responsi-
bility and common sense. When offenders appear
in his court, he talks at length with them about
alcohol use and abuse, addiction, and the value of
even-headed thinking. He offers them a choice:
go three months without drinking and come back
to court with proof and your fine will be lessened.

Fleming will be up for reelection as traffic
He hopes to win

reelection and to continue his cross-country cru-
sade against the ills of irresponsible drinking.

Vike Anderson

Dr. Marian Wright Edelman fields a eee in the 900 Room.

N.C. State che nist to lecture

By Seta Davis
News Editor

Marye Anne Fox will deliver this year *s Henry

Louis Smith lecture when she presents “Transform-’

ing Undergraduate Science Education” tonight at
8:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery. Dr. Fox is a
physical organic chemist and the twelfth Chancel-
lor of North Carolina State University.

Dr. Fox has committed herself to the develc

National Science Board. and the Chair of this

board’s Committee on Programs and Plans. Dr.

Fox holds a spot as a fellow of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American
Association of the Advancement of Science.
Nor has her influence been felt only in the
American sciences. Internationally, she is a for-
eign member of the Royal Academy of Arts and
Sciences. of Barcelona. In addition to this honor,
Dr. Fox was a Professeur Invitee at the Universite
Pierre et Marie ae. Ba

