The Davidsontan
| Editorial

Violations devalue Honor Code

In an eloquent homage to the Honor System, Davidson’s web site

proclaims, “

..Students feel comfortable leaving books unattended,

doors unlocked, confidences unbroken.”

But it won't claim that for long.

According to college sources, that clause describing “doors un-
locked” will be removed from the site in the wake of a string of campus
break-ins. A small handful of students have fallen victim to theft in
recent months, some reportedly losing as much as $120 cash.

“But the college’s web site promised me that I could leave my door
unlocked!” pleaded one victim after he found that cash had been stolen
-from his room. His despair made it readily apparent that we could no -
longer extend this blanket promise of security under the Honor System.

True enough, it would be naive to expect that any institution, no
matter how esteemed, could halt all forms of human fallibility. Viola-
tions of the Honor Code (or any other community standard) are
inevitable so long as we imperfect human beings inhabit the earth.

But that doesn’t make them hurt any less.

When a student falls victim to theft, they lose far more than some
arbitrary sum of cash or property. Far worse, they suffer the loss of that

“atmosphere of mutual respect and trust” that makes Davidson so

unique and special.

The rest of us, too, lose a bit of that sense of communal trust. And,
more tangibly, we lose the ability to extend a promise of absolute
security and trust to prospective students.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000

Letter to the Editor

From the Administration: Removing
the ID collection policy at Baker

Dear Students,

I very much appreciate everyone’s pa-
tience in helping us address some of our
security problems in the Baker Sports Com-
plex through implementation of the new ID
policy whereby we collect ID’s at the front
desk instead of simply swiping the ID. Iam
the first to admit (well, maybe the second)
that the new collection policy is a pain and it
may have been analogous to solving a mos-
quito problem with a shotgun, but it served
the purpose of raising the awareness that a
security concern exists. Now I ask for your
help.

The Baker Sports Complex is a very
large building with too many doors and a
wonderfully tremendous volume of use. There
are students, faculty and staff in and out of the
Complex virtually around the clock, and we
need to be able to identify and control the
traffic. The security challenges that we re-
cently have been contending with include:
-Outside doors being propped open to allow
unauthorized access,

-Individuals remaining in the building and
general safety after hours,
-Individuals entering the building through
the back door at all hours,

. -Individuals entering through side doors be-

cause they forgot or prefer not to carry their
ID's,
-Not knowing if anyone remains in the build-

ing at closing time.

The bottom line is our need to know who
is in the Complex at all times to allow us to
most efficiently manage the facility and in
case of emergency. I don’t believe this to be
an unreasonable objective. Atthe same time,
our new policy falls a little short — it was
inadequately communicated and inconsis-
tently applied. For each of these I apologize
and take full responsibility.

All that said, let’s move forward and
address our security challenges in a manner
more suited to our campus culture. I see no
reason to continue with ID collection if we all
work toward a few simple procedural items:
-Everyone using the Complex must come
through the main entrance,

-Everyone should have his or her ID to swipe
at the front door,

-Everyone should leave through the main
entrance,

-Doors should not be propped open for any
reason,

-Immediately report any unusual activity to

the front desk.

With your help, Baker can be a safe and
fun place for all types of activity. As always,
I welcome your comments and look forward
to seeing you soon — thanks for your help.

Sincerely,
Jim Murphy
Director of Athletics

McCain deserves Republican Nomination

I have recently considered whether Sena-
tor John McCain would be a better presidential
candidate than George W. Bush. Due to his
recent loss in South Carolina, it is a question
that will not seriously be considered. How-
ever, I believe that McCain is a stronger presi-
dential candidate than George Bush.

The best selling point that McCain has is
his military experience. The man’s story is
simply appealing. He was imprisoned for five
and a half years after being captured in Hanoi.
. The Vietnamese offered his release because
his father was an influential commander in the
US armed forces. He refused to avoid embar-
rassing the US and his father. These stories can
make a tremendous difference in voter appeal,
especially if he plays the war hero card cor-
rectly. While Bush has an ivy diploma on his
record, McCain has the defense of the US on
his.

McCain has more than his background to
offer the American public. His campaign
boasted the excellent strategy of the ‘Straight
Talk Express.’ This might not seem to be a
great selling point, but it counters Bush’s fi-
nancial power on the campaign trail as well as
contrasting with Clinton’s legacy. McCain is
not the type of man to avoid saying what he
thinks. His position of straight talk was well
suited to his style of leadership on top of
countering Bush and Clinton.

For some unknown reason, McCain had
the power of the media behind him. They all
love his openness to their questions. For ex-
ample, McCain had a rotating company of
about twelve journalists accompany him on his
busses. They almost never criticized him or
harped on the mistakes he made while discuss-
ing issues. This uncanny power could have

been ridden all the way through the election.
And then there is the Reagan Democrat.
At the polls in South Carolina, there was a
record turnout from Independents, Republi-
cans, and Democrats alike. This same phe-
nomenon was seen in New Hampshire. McCain
has pull with the same democrats that Reagan
conquered back in 80 and 84, and they are

coming out in huge numbers to vote for him.
This is the kind of support that the Republicans
need if they are going to gain the White House
and keep control of Congress. Walking down
the middle of the road worked well for Clinton
and it would work well for the Republicans.
Regardless of all McCain’s advantages,
Bush has some serious flaws that he needs to
consider addressing. Most of the country has
felt that he has the experience he needs to hold
the White House. He has been in office since
94, which is decent time to accumulate politi-
cal knowledge, but can be questioned by Demo-
crats come fall. Gore has been groomed for the
presidency for eight years; Bush has a total
experience of six. This experience angle is
especially weak because of his father. Ironi-
cally, the idea that Bush is riding his father’s
coattails could add power to the perception of
inexperience. Governor Bush has very few
credentials to hold the presidency, unlike his
father who was very well grounded in foreign
policy. Just look at George W.’s failure on the
international pop quiz. It was embarrassing.
Taking a step back from Bush’s perceived
weaknesses, his campaigning leaves much to
be desired. Last week, Newsweek reported
that after the New Hampshire loss, the Bush
strategists decided to go negative. Although it
worked to win the primary, it left stories of
poll-pushing and dishonored vets ringing in
the public’s ears. The last thing Bush wants to
do is seem like a back-stabbing politician who
criticizes a man’s military service...but it
worked. Bob Jones University must have
worked too. Supervised dating, a ban on
interracial dating, these things are NOT what a
presidential candidate wants to seem to en-
dorse. Notch up another mistake in the cam-
paign. Finally, the Bush campaign can’t make
up its mind whether he is a ‘compassionate
conservative’ or a ‘reformer with results.’ The
first time he returned to the compassionate
conservative title was after his SC victory. I

hope for his sake that no one noticed its ab-

sence earlier.
Bush might have made it all work by

winning, but he should never have made it a
fight. With his financial and big-name repub-
lican support, his cruise to the nomination
should never have been a question. If he was
prepared for the White House, others like
McCain would not have surfaced in the first
place. Bush’s fame may win the nomination,
but lose better qualified candidates.

Thus, McCain has a stronger position.
Americans need a hero, & man who has prin-

ciples in office. They deserve a man who can
appeal across party lines. In my opinion,
McCain had all of his cards lined properly: the
media, his service, his experience, his demo-
cratic appeal, and his honesty. All of these
things in one package have been lacking in
either party for some time. I hope that, despite
his errors, Bush can measure up in the end.

Adam Hill '03

The Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

JUSTIN OSSMA
WILL PARKER

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Editors in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON

Adverti eae LILITH ¢

ant ae

Features Editor
CARRIE RILEY

sae eae .

Editor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read Whe Babvidsonian on the Internet at

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.
