THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000 ce

South Carolina football coach Lou Holtz blasted his school’s fight song last week, saying he would
not require his athletes to memorize the tune (see page 16). South Carolina’s current fight song is
printed below, along with Davidson’s own anthem.

University of South Carolina Fight Song

| Hey, Let's give « cheer, Carolina in here,
The Fighting Gamecocks lead the way.
Who gives a cart, If the going gets tough,

Ard when itis rough, that's when the Coca get going,

Hail to or colors of garnet and Blick,

In Carolina pride have we.

Se, Ge Gamecocks Ge - FIGHT!

Drive for the goal - FIGHT!

USC will win today - GO COCKS!
Sa, let's gue « cheer, Corclina in hore.
The Fighting Gamecocks AUL The Way!

Davidson College Fight Song

O, Davidion! 0, Davidion! You are the bert old College in the mst or west;
You play a fain game, you play a rquart fame, and you win in wtrything—
And when the Red and Black machine it out 10 fight and looking mtan—

Then | am Cappy a2 for you | sing. .

0, Davidion! We wll down them, down them weryors;
Come Davidion, we will congutr tre the day i2 gore.

Dewn

Win for the boner of old Davidion!

ane lopporing team) a1 trough their limes we rm

Study: Successful hoops program related to lower graduation

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP) --Two Uni-
versity of Arkansas researchers have found
that universities with highly successful bas-
ketball programs experienced reduced gradu-
ation rates for all students.

UA sociology professors Bill Mangold
and Doug Adams conducted a statistical analy-
sis of 97 major Division IA universities.

They used data from ACT scores and
percent of games won, and from the federal
Education Department, NCAA graduation
rate surveys for 1996 through 1998, U.S.
News and World Report, and CBS sports
archives.

“Current student retention theories tell
us that a strong athletic program will bring
students together and foster pride in their
institution, thus leading to higher graduation
rates. That’s the result we expected to find,”
Mangold said.

But the numbers didn’t add up.

According to their study, football appar-
ently has a slight positive effect on gradua-
tion rates, but basketball has a strong nega-
tive effect. As teams scored more basketball
victories, net graduation rates dropped.

Although 112 universities comprise Di-
vision I of the NCAA, Mangold and Adams
excluded the Big West Conference, most of
the major Independents and U.S. military

academies from their study. Because of their
small size or regional student populations,
these universities presented campus commu-
nities unlike other Division IA schools, they

said.

The remaining 97 institutions were sepa-
rated into five groups according to the size of
their student populations.

Statistical
analysis re-
vealed that
smaller schools
-- those housing
14,900 to 20,000
students -- expe-
rienced the
greatest loss of
graduates as a
result of basket-
ball success.

“Sports on

large, diverse campuses may well provide a
. involvement and identification
” the UA study states.
“However, on a smaller, and perhaps more
homogeneous campus, involvement in a suc-
cessful sports program is more intense, com-
petes with academic goals and leads to goal

source of....

with the institution,

displacement.”

Swept up by the excitement of national

tournaments and championship games, stu-
dents neglect their academic responsibilities.
Student enthusiasm also explains why bas-
ketball shows detrimental effects while foot-

ball has a marginal influence on graduation

rates, said Mangold.
According to the. researchers, football
attracts a larger alumni crowd while basket-

Davidson under McKillop

SoCon Record: 78-31

35 of 36 seniors graduated

cade.

ball is more popu-
lar among students.
In addition, basket-
ball teams play

more games during -

the season, and
games are more
likely to be held
during the school
week.

In the study, they
identified four fac-
tors significant to

the balance between graduation rates and
sporting success. Those were overall student
ability, the potential for the development of
social and academic communities on cam-
pus, the diversity of each campus, and mea-
sures of athletic prowess over the past de-

“There’s no question that a good sports

program can enhance the campus social envi-

ronment and benefit students,” Adams said.
“But in the case of basketball, this study
suggests that once a team excels above a
certain level of success, it becomes a distrac-
tion to students _ ultimately detrimental to
the goals of the institution.”

Mangold cautions against exaggerating
the risks associated with athletic success.

“This study doesn’t mean that everyone
flunks out in March. It simply suggests that
graduation rates could be higher if basketball
teams had more limited success. We’re not
trying to predict the impact on individual
schools but to identify an overall trend,” he
said. ;

Adams believes steps can be taken to
mitigate basketball’s impact on graduation
rates. He recommends schools provide greater
academic support in the spring semester, in-.
cluding more study sessions, tutoring and .
advising.

“We don’t expect universities to pull the
plug on their sports programs. They provide
social outlets that are vital to the creation of a
healthy campus community,’’ Mangold said.
“But those universities who are considering
investing more money in athletics for the
purpose of raising graduation rates may want
to take a close look at the results of this
study.”
