THe DAvIDsoNIAN

Withall duerespect to Katharine Miller’s
thoughtful and largely conciliatory response
to Chaplain Rob Spach’s article on homo-
sexuality, [ disagree. And I refuse to agree to
disagree.

Agreeing to disagree is the privilege
(and cop-out?) of those who do not have
much at stake in the outcome. One can
imagine, for example, that American slaves
benefited little by the parlor room talk of elite
whites agreeing to disagree on slavery. I
disagree with Miller’s claim that homosexu-
ality is a sin, and while I respect contrasting
views, I want to change them. Views aren’t
held in the abstract; they have power to build
up or destroy lives.

The next time you hear someone say,
“Homosexuality is a sin,” ask her, “Why?”
And don’t settle for “The Bible says so.” Ask
why again, and suddenly things start getting
very interesting. Especially if we heed
Miller’s advice to “look hard at the actions of
Jesus Christ.”

Those who claim homosexuality is a sin
often group it, magnanimously, with other
sins—adultery, greed, lust, etc. And true
enough, when you read the story of Christ’s
life, death, and resurrection it is easy to see
how, for example, adultery is a sin: you’ are

violating a holy covenant that you made in the

name of Christ. Or lust: you are objectifying
some-

The parts fit: Christians must re-examine fhieoley. revise attit

gender runs contrary to — a sabia of
Christ?

Exactly which of Jesus! taachunes cana
practicing homosexual not follow by virtue
of being a practicing homosexual? Exactly
which part of Jesus’ life, death, and resurrec-
tion remains inaccessible to someone who
has sex with someone of the same gender?

When pressed,

one opponents of homo-
whom Words like “unnatural” presuppose — 8¢xvality will usually
y oO P ‘ : respond with varyingly
oughtto that the world is ordered in a certain sophisticated permuta-
be treat- way for a certain purpose. tions of the maxim:
ing with God created Adam and
ea ee
com- Eve, not Adam and
passion. Steve. It makes for a

In each case, the Bible says that it is a sin, and
it is easy to see why it is a sin.

Yet that is not the case with homosexu-
ality. Just what about being sexually active
(within the context of a monogamous, trust-
ing relationship) with someone of your own

omosexuality demands Christians’ attention

In the last issue of The Davidsonian,
Katherine Rice Miller took issue with Chap-
lain Rob Spach’s support of ordination for
homosexuals. .

Ms. Miller suggests that homosexual-
ity is not an issue of highest importance for
Christian faith. Nor is Rev. Spach’s broader
concern for social justice.

What is important, she suggests, is radi-
cally loving people, as Christ did, and forg-
ing communities of grace. For Ms. Miller,
this includes loving homosexuals as well as
straight people.

Following Paul’s argument in Romans,
Ms. Miller suggests that all, gay and straight,
are sinners. What confuses me about her
argument is what she understands
the sins of homosexuals
to be. Are homosexuals
sinners for the same rea-
sons that straight people are,
namely, because they are
greedy, proud, arrogant,
hypocritical, and God-
hating? Or are they also
sinners because they are
beset by an additional sin
from which straights are free?

If the former, then I only wish she had
stated her position more clearly. If the
latter, I disagree with her in a more funda-

the latter position since she believes that the
Bible univocally condemns homosexuality
as sin and also seems eager to take biblical
decrees seriously.

If homosexuals are sinners not only
because they are human, but also because
they are homosexuals, then one wonders
how to love the homosexual as Christ did.
Ms. Miller states that Christ loved the sin-
ner, but condemned sinful behavior. Does
loving as Christ loves thus require us to
condemn the sinful behavior and desire of
homosexuals? Does it require us to invite
them to repent of the sin of homosexuality?
To my mind, issuing such an invitation
would be tantamount to asking the blue-
eyed to repent of their blue-eyes, or hetero-
sexuals to repent of their heterosexuality.

More than that, I do not see how such

sexuals as anything other than cruel tor-
ment. Opposing the full equality of homo-
sexuals within the body of Christ seems to
hinder those about whom Christ speaks when
he says, “Hinder them not.” Such a view
seems akin to those in the early church who
wanted to grant fellowship to Jews, but not
| Gentiles; men, but not women; free peuple,
but not slaves.

Of course, some may think that my position
bears false witness to Christ by broadening
the strait gate and narrow way of Christian

mental way. Indeed, Isuspect that she adopts —

witnessing can be experienced by homo-.

righteousness; that it hopes to escort every-
one into the Kingdom of Heaven by getting
rid of the notions of sin and repentance
altogether. I certainly recognize this dan-
ger, and heed the warning.

There may be no hope of determining, until
the Last Judgment, whether liberal or con-
servative Christians come closer to God’s
willin this matter. But anyone who ponders
this issue in light of a Judgment to come
cannot agree when Ms. Miller asserts that
Rev. Spach has addressed an issue of only
minor importance for Christian faith.

It is certainly not a minor matter for
Christian homosexuals seeking ordination
and full acceptance at the table of fellow-

ship, nor is it a minor matter for

‘Christian heterosexuals—be they
liberal or conservative—who be-
lieve that they will one day be
called to account for the manner
in which they bore witness to
their gay as well as their straight
neighbors.

Dr. Trent Foley
Religion Department

Dear Davidsonian Editors:

This is‘an unsolicited response to Ms.
Miller’s response to Chaplain Spach’s ar-
ticle. .I usually stay out of these types of
discussions (i.e. homosexual ordination) be-
cause I feel that they profit little to the big
picture. Ms. Miller points out that Chris-
tians often “major on minors,” and I would
agree with her on that statement based on its
merits. However, Ms. Miller may need to
look at the Gospels again, for in them I think
she will find that Christ was urging his
disciples (followers) to the claims of social
justice.

We who feel that the church should
indeed be involved in “social issues” often
take heat from our more conservative breth-
ren who feel that the church should focus
solely onevangelism. Indeed, I would agree
that redemptive love should be present in all
that we do. But we would be remiss if we
didn’t feed the hungry and clothe the naked.

I see Matthew 25 and other passages as
not just mere suggestions of social justice
but as commandments to love and affirm the
personhood of the individual. It is mighty
hard-to sing “Jesus loves.me” when you
have a hungry belly and haven’t slept in a
while. Just a few points to ponder as we
walk in this journey called life.

Bill Smith,
Director, A Place at the Table
Charlotte, NC

great bumper sticker (note the subtle rhyme
scheme), but lousy theology.

It is a theology called, “The Parts Fit”
theology. It goes like this: “Hey, God gave
some of us penises, and others vaginas, and
look, they fit together!” True enough. But
what kind of conclusion can you draw from
that?

Proponents of “The Parts Fit Theology”

" want you to conclude that therefore any sexu-

ality that doesn’t involve the fitting together
of these parts is unnatural. Any coupling
other than a man and woman goes against the
very nature of who we, as men and women,
were created to be. But here’s another maxim:
whenever anyone tells you something is “un-
natural,” probe a bit deeper.

If you think about it, words like “unnatu-
ral” presuppose that the world is ordered in a
certain way for a certain purpose. Parts Fit
theologians believe that the purpose of hu-
man sexuality is to propagate using the parts
that fit. Any other use of these parts in any
other combination is, therefore, out of line
with their purpose and, thus, unnatural. (Thus,
when my dog begins to hump my leg, I know

that it is cbt Antanas: bor te cone ea :
Two problems emerge. First, like my _
dog, very few of us, including Parts Fit theo-
logians, actually believe this; fewer still prac-
tice it. As I understand it, every weekend on
campus, a number of clinical trials are con-
ducted about which parts can actually fit
where. The Parts Fit theology would pre-

clude fellatio, cunnilingus, and masturbation

for heterosexuals, not just homosexuals.

Now it is certainly within the bounds of
Christianity to make such a mandate—arabbi
once said that any religion that doesn’t tell
you what to do with your pots, pans, and
genitals isn’t worth its salt— but Christianity
does not make this particular mandate. Know-
ing why points us to the second problem of
Parts Fit theology.

A consistent theme throughout the New
Testament is that Christians have been recre-
ated through Christ in the image of God.
Christ is the new Adam (human) in whose
body we are all united through our baptism.
And in that body there is no longer Jew or
Greek, slave or free, male or female (Gal.
3.27). Thus, iv light of our baptism into,
Christ’s body, there is no longer anything
natural for us other than entering his life so
that we might love God and our neighbor with
all that we are and have and do.

Does that mean you can go put your part
anywhere with anyone at anytime? No. Does
it involve restraint and discipline? Yes. But
does it preclude two people of the same
gender being sexually active in the context of
a monogamous relationship characterized by.
the same faith and virtue that mark the hetero-
sexual relationships we sanction? Definitely

ot. In fact, it’s perfectly fitting.

Rev. Andy Baxter
Associate Minister
Davidson United Methodist Church

Bad Journalism 101

As many of you may know, The Char-
lotte Observer, not to be confused with The
Toilet Paper, recently printed two articles
that insulted Davidson, its students, and the
journalistic profession.

As a sensationalist and untrained writer,
I take offense that The Observer has stolen
my show. I mean really, who the hell do they
think they are? The very least that the
Observer’s reporter could have done was to
leave a note at the end of the first salacious

—article_(as_I_often.do) to apologize for the

hatchet job performed under the guise of
serious journalism.

As I was perusing the local section of
The Observer yesterday (local is in italics

because the entire paper is really just one big

The famous philosopher Aristotle had a
name for people who communicate like this;
he called them “morons.”

While scanning the paper for other jour-
nalistic atrocities, I came to another stunning
conclusion: the Observer employs no writ-
ers. Every frickin’ article was sourced from
The Associated Press, The New York Times,
or The Washington Post. The Observer is a
ghost paper with ghostwriters and ghost edi-
tors. (I know that there are no editors because
anyone witha modicum of intelligence would
have prevented these articles from going to
press!)

How is it that they can get away with
such carelessness? Isn’t there someone to put
them out of business?

local section), I 5 ; Oh,
came upon an- wait... There
other article that_ = The threat of another newspaper — 8" 'anyoneto
dealt with the ere : put them out of
bathroom issue. publishing the Truth might have pre- - _ business. They

The fact vented this whole fiasco. "aréamonopoly..
that the: paper ZT a TTT Nor ee gee
had printed an- with the top hat
other story about guy.lamreferring to the economic entity that

the already beaten-to-death topic did not
bother me all that much. What bothered me
was that a second grader could have written a
better column. The writer attempted to “edu-
cate” Davidson students about life using the
bathroom issue as a metaphor.

The first thing that the inept author of
this column (who shall remain nameless be-
cause I do not want to acknowledge that said
person is capable of using a writing imple-
ment) should have done before writing was to
look up the word metaphor.

What she would have learned is that a
metaphor is a: “figure of speech in which a
word or phrase that ordinarily designates one
thing is used to designate another.” In other

words, not.“generosity is a toilet which is —
hard work.” What does this statement mean?

controls a market and provides only expen-
sive or inferior products. Do Standard Oil,
AT&T, or Microsoft ring a bell? If another
newspaper existed in Charlotte, the threat of
that newspaper publishing the Truth (with a
capital T) might have prevented this whole
fiasco in the first place.

Journalistic integrity is not my strong
suit; I write to entertain. But it is something
that the one, monopolistic newspaper of the
“World Class City” thatisn’t Charlotte should
at least strive for. So allowing for the glass
houses proverb, I shall end now.

Note: This article has been reprinted with the

permission of the Unassociated Press.

_ Andrew MacDonald ‘03
