THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Aaron PATTON
Guest Writer

Following a record setting fall season,
the Davidson Crew yet again impressed the
competition at its only winter race of the year,
sending 13 rowers to the finals of the Atlanta
Erg Sprints. Another remarkable accom-
plishment was the four medals the crew gar-
nered during the day-long indoor event.

“This race set a solid foundation for the
spring season,” said Crew president Amelia
Fuller. “It was a strong performance for the
team as a whole.”

Many people do not think of rowing
during the cold of winter. But that is what
makes winter regattas so unique.
~~ Instead of racing on lakes or rivers, erg
sprints take place entirely indoors on rowing
machines called ergs. Competitors row
against others in their category over a dis-
tance of 2000 meters.

Davidson Crew attended the Atlanta Erg
Sprints, hosted by Georgia Tech. The Atlanta

race has the distinction of being one of the
satellite regattas for the World Champion-
ships of indoor rowing.

The first event of the day was the light-
weight women’s event. Sophomore Natalie
Eft placed fourth, missing the bronze by a
mere second, Eft was followed closely by
senior Sarah Muffelman, and also raced be-
side sophomore Tiffany Smith.

“Tt was unique racing against such a
large number of people,” Eft said. “Before, it
seemed like every 2000 I pulled was alone.
But with the noise of so many people I pulled
my best time ever, even though it did not feel
like I was pulling any faster.”

Arguably, the crew’s strongest perfor-
mances of the day came in the novice men’s
category as freshman Luke O’ Hara scored‘a
silver medal. Also in close contention was

freshman Charlie Babcock, who pulled eight
seconds faster than his previous best.

“T really had to isolate myself during the
race, especially after starting out so fast,” said
Babcock. “It took a lot of persistence and

SPORTS ro
Davidson rowers compete in Atlanta Erg finals

dedication to be able to maintain my speed
when it hurt so badly in the closing seconds of
the race.”

The crew’s first gold medal of the day
came from Jason Layman in the indoor only
men’s category. It was the sophomore’s first
race ever.

In the indoor only women’s category,
freshman Alison Shea was narrowed out to
finish a strong fourth. After the race, the crew
discovered Shea had rowed the last quarter of
the race with a dislocated shoulder.

In a unique event of the day, the cox-
swains were given a chance to compete. On
the water, the coxswain’s job is to steer and
encourage their rowers to victory. But in
indoor races and on an erg, coxswains com-
pete in akind of spirit compeition. Davidson’s
Stephanie Kohler came out on top with an
intense performance to win the gold.

Other finalists for Davidson were junior
Aaron Patton and senior Matt Johnston in the
lightweight men’s event, senior John Potter

THURSDAY,

FEBRUARY 17, 2000.

in the open men’s, freshman Diana Chemotti
and sophomore Erin Hudson in the novice
women’s, and Jamie Causey in the
coxswains’s category.

“I was very surprised with how well we _
did. It makes me want to improve even more
to get ahead of the competition,” said Smith.

On a final note of the day, the Davidson
Crew placed third in the team relay, within
five seconds of the Georgia Tech and Univer-
sity of Georgia crews.

“We brought a large numbers of rowers
to the event and their support and cheering
helped everyone out, if not turning heads of
the bigger schools at the same time,” said
Fuller. “It’s going to take hard work to main-
tain this kind growth as a team, as well as
financial. support-to have comparable facili-
ties to other schools.”

There will be informational meeting this
Thursday, Feb. 17, at 9:00 p.m. in the Union
Conference Room for anyone interested in
rowing.

Usrversiry oF WISCONSIN

PLATTEVILLE
Study Abroad Programs

Learn Your Way Around The World

* Study abroad i in England, Japan, or Spain
Courses in liberal arts and international business
Fluency in a foreign language not required
Home-stays with meals

Field trips

Financial vid applies (except for summer session)

2 * 2» 6 @

Program Costs:
*® Por tuition, room, board and field trips pe
Wisconsin resideats/non-resiGents)
* In London, England: $5,275/35,575
+ Jn Nagasaki, Japan: $5,675/$3, 975.
« InSeville, Spain: $6,675/$6,975

WE SeMesler {for

Application deadlines:
* April 1 for summer s¢ssion
® October 15 for spring semester

* April 30 for fall semester

For further information contact:

Toll free; 1-900-342-1725

E-mail: StudyAbroad@uwplattedu

Web: http://www.uwplatt, edu/-studyabroad

Hockey minus the ice

By Mark HyMErLING
Guest Writer

Davidson has a roller hockey team, which was created by six Davidson students and
two Davidson residents. Junior Jamey Heit, Sophomores Evan McCormick, Brad Stevinson,
and Mark Hymerling, and Freshmen Andrew Auster and Bryan Stevinson along with
Davidson residents Ron Olson and Dave Smith comprise Davidson’s first roller hockey
team. Each of the eight games is played on Thursday nights at the Charlotte Sports Center.

After forfeiting the first game (we were still on break), the team encountered some
problems adjusting to playing together and getting their legs working, losing the first game
they played. The team regrouped and played a solid game, getting stellar goaltending from
Heit, sound defense from the Stevinson brothers, an offensive boost from McCormick,
Auster, and Hymerling, and an all around solid contribution from Ron and Dave, eel
their first win of the season 12-7.

Coming off their first win, the Wildcats aisied momentum and confidence with a 10-
4 victory in their third game. Despite having only two subs, the team played a much more
physical.and defensively responsible game, limiting the opposition’s chances and capital-
izing on their own. Heit continued to improve and the forwards began to feel comfortable
playing alongside one another.

Last week, the Wildcats played Thursday and Friday night, incline to extend their
winning streak to four games.

In the Thursday night game, the Wildcats dominated, controlling the puck for much
of the contest and seemingly scoring at will. Heit once again led the defense in shutting
down the opposition, limiting them to three goals. — the wgaise aearnaee

‘ putting eleven on the board.

The Stevinson brothers Auster and Hymerling played a craic game, thecosind
checks and breaking up rushes. The swift - skating McCormick spearheaded the offense
as every player got his name on the score sheet.

Davidson played a make-up game against UNCC Friday night; it had been resched-
uled because neither team was back on their respective campuses for the original date. A
group of about twenty Davidson students came out to support the team as SGA President
Dane Erickson made his coaching debut, accompanied by trainer Marc Naples.

The Wildcats jumped to an early 2-0 lead. They carried the momentum throughout
the game despite allowing the 49ers to cut the lead in half. After Davidson added two
insurance goals, the 49ers got their second and final goal of the night. Heit and the defense
led by Auster, Brad and Bryan Stevinson, McCormick, and Hymerling shut the door,
killing off three penalties, including a four-minute double minor and finishing off the 6-
2 victory.

As the season winds down and the play-offs approach, the Wildcats are consistently
improving as they look to capture the championship. The team would like to thank those
who came to show their support on Friday night.

Join us for our 100th anniversary!

Centennial Selections:
Juss a few of dhe fascinating courses ;
for Stansnser 2008 Wess
Blarlem thea and wow a
Valea. Hiteratute. and hier in
modern Chins
Fedsrivo Garcia Lorca. #2 pees ee
Nine Not fin Enghih}
Mg tetiag vind featuee writing
i iting te soppecicis sys anal petaltica ding,
The anil pats py of Wall Sucec:
capil peo de. aad oie in aansnin
Native Amenican novel
Barly Mh-century Latin American
political Nistory
American popslar caliare, 1565 f0
the peesent
Saha, Sova, and Reggae: pogwclar
raider of Ore Cantbtcan Sr tes la Nee ee
Find these coverses and all the rest Visiting Scudent at Colverbes
iis oner 2000 Ballerin. i Se

Call (212) 854-G433, o-mail cesp-infoS@columbia.edu, or visit the Web:
http;//www.ce.columbla.edu/summer

ANNIVERSARY

SUMMER SESSION 2000
An: extentive ninge of ganduate and
undereriduase courses ti 34 areas of study.

2 fi ?
sole SONG ot Sere AON:

