Tae Davipsonian_

By CHRISTINA CooKE
Staff Writer

The art exhibit currently in the union lobby
engages its viewers, but it leaves many at a
loss for interpretations. Even the artist, Mike
Lai ‘02, finds himself struggling to classify
his pieces.

“Are they drawings? Are they sculptures?
Are they even art? I don’t know what to call
them,” he said

Lai completed the works during an ad-
vanced drawing class he took last spring. His
professor, Cort Savage, recalls that Lai’s
pieces “partially came out of a response to
some work done by a South Carolina artist,
Jill Walters, who we saw in the Van Every
Gallery last year. Although Mike’s works are
very different, that was part of the genesis of

it.”

“T think the works are really beautiful and
a wonderful example of inventing a medium
to create the work,” he said.

The six pieces range in size from two by
three foot rectangles to giant strips that stretch
from floor to ceiling. To create most of them,
Lai placed everyday materials— including
hair he gathered from barbershop floors and
objects he rescued from garbage cans—be-
tween two nearly transparent layers of tissue
paper. He coated some of the tissue paper
with shellac and stained others with tealeaves.

“IT always wanted people to look at the

_Arts & LIVING _
Lai’s artwork engages, perplexes OHCORErE

@

pieces from far away,” explains Lai. “It’s
trying to make something beautiful out of
ugly things.”

Though Lai created each of the works
using a similar process, each one has charac-
teristics that distinguish it from the others.
Rusty nails hammered into the wall run the
length of one work, and twigs nestled hori-
zontally between the two layers of tissue
paper run the length of another. Lai has
shaped three of the larger hangings like ir-
regular rectangles, and one like a sprawling
continent on a map. One of his two smaller
pieces consists of two overlapping sheets of
paper, and the other consists of a single sheet
decorated with a swirling, dotted design.

Lai does not start his pieces with the fin-
ished product in mind. Instead, he innovates
as he works.

“The whole thing is about the process,” he
explains. “It is pretty much experimentation.
Ideas just come along as I work.”

But sometimes, the ideas come when he
least expects them. Lai remembers that when
he created the small, grayish piece, “I was
burning it purposefully, and the whole thing
just caught on fire. The only thing I could find
was my own portfolio, and I just smashed it
down on my work” to suffocate the flames.
Lai incorporated the accident into the piece:
“Tt’s part of the process—you know?”

The torn paper, rusty nails, and natural
coloring give the works a sense of age. Lai

%

explains, “I tried to give them the feeling that

they have been through spe Bae have .

a history.”

Lai’s art history arches Shaw Smith
notes the aura of the hangings. “There’s a
feeling of organic life that’s left only in a
fragment—skin, bone. It’s a reminder of the
fragility of life, but not in a melancholy
way—in acelebratory way. It’s sort ofa huge
gesture of aliveness that’s no longer alive, but
still asserts itself,” he observes. “They’re
monumental and they’ re assertive, butthey’ re
fragile at the same time.”

Everyone who passes through the Union
lobby reacts differently to Lai’s pieces. The
hangings mystify many viewers. “I don’t
know what it is. don’t know what it’s trying
to say,” confesses Aravind Dileepan ‘03.

Lai’s craftsmanship impresses other view-
ers. Will Graham ‘02 admires Lai’s ingenu-
ity—the manner in which Lai “takes every-
day things and makes them look so interest-
ing.”

Savage recognizes the elusiveness of Lai’s
hangings. “I find them to be elegant pieces
that deny interpretation in the way that nature
does.” .

Lai plans to continue developing his tech-
nique. “I don’t feel the project is complete
yet. I’m going to go further with the same
idea.”

The six hangings will remain in the union
lobby until Sunday, Sept. 31.

Train rocks Belk Arena, displays musical diversity

By Matt WhitTep
Staff Writer

Saturday night, the-student body gathered
for the first big concert of the year as the
homecoming festivities culminated in the
John M. Belk Arena with a performance by
the San Francisco-based band Train. Most
famous for the hit single Meet Virginia, the
five-member group performed all the stan-
dards from its best-selling self-titled debut

album. They also ambitiously introduced the
student body to several tracks from their
upcoming CD, which is scheduled for release
on Halloween of this year.

Surprisingly to many who were familiar
only with Train’s most famous songs, the
band showed*quite a bit of diversity in its
performance. Driven primarily by Patrick
Monahan’s vocals and occasionally unusual
dancing, along with several powerful solos
by guitarist Jimmy Stafford, the band.played

aset consisting of 13 of its own songs and two
well-chosen covers: Led Zeppelin’s Ramble
On and The Doors’ Light My Fire.

Perhaps the most surprising moment came
when all of the band members walked off the
stage except drummer Scott Underwood, who
remained and entertained the audience witha
drum solo/light show.

The most enthusiastic response came when
Train ended its first set with Meet Virginia,
the song which has received by far the most

radio time. The crowd even

sure, you can quit.
or stick around and

[learn]

In Army ROTC; you'll develop skills you can use in the
real world — thinking on your feet, staying focused under
pressure, taking charge. Give it a shot. Visit the Army ROTC
ve “department, we'tt stick around for you.

_ ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can ak

how not to.

Ps, two and Three Year Scholarship Opportunities Available :
: For Additional Information visit our office '
Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165

continued to sing the final verse
loudly when Monahan stopped,
receiving a bow of gratitude
from the lead singer. The fact
that Belk Arena was relatively
empty seemed to bother
Monahan little, and the band
played an entertaining hour-
long set for the students who
came, making many new fans
and showing everyone the full
range of its musical style.

from prior page
ciation President, dedicated the
house. The unveiling of Mrs.

_ Blackwell’s portrait. crowned
the event. Presidents Emeriti
Samuel R. Spencer ’40 and
John Kuykendall ’59 did the
honors. Spencer noted Mrs.
Blackwell’s 54 years of ser-
vice to the Davidson commu-
nity. “Nancy holds the record
now and I doubt she will ever
be surpassed,” she said.

Kuykendall recalled being
taken into the Blackwell home
by Nancy and her husband
Herbert just after his own
graduation, and revealed that
Herbert sold him the wedding
ring on Missy Kuykendall’s
hand.

John Hobart ’51, the class
secretary, was a classmate of
Mrs. Blackwell’s from first
grade to high school. —

He called her a “unique and
special person” and said her
extraordinary commitment to

A pleasant surprise
from nowhere:
Angry Salad

By Tuomas CULLEN

Arts & Living Editor

Angry Salad will never make national ra-
dio, nor will they ever sell out the country’s
biggest venues. But that’s ok. They don’t
need to do that to be successful. This confi-
dence is exemplified on their self-titled record
that plays the band’s talent in a cohesive,
inviting manner.

The album opens with the simply perfect
“The Milkshake Song.” The drum provides a
funky beat that perfectly complements the
strum of the guitar. Next up is the energetic
“How Does it Feel to Kill,” which opens with
a soft piano intro that flows nicely into a
period of rocking out that serves as the rhythm
of the song.

Not many songs can successfully cover a
song and transfer it to record. Yet, the Salad,
as I will commonly refer to them, choose to
cover Nena’s “99 Red Balloons,” and they do
it with ease and skill. In lieu of keyboards, the
band places a charged guitar into the song to
allow people who are not 80’s conscious to
identify with it. Normally, covers leave you
feeling unsettled if not nauseated, yet the
Salad does it quite well.

The best song on the record is easily “Com-
ing to Grips,” which deals with a guy getting
dumped because his girlfriend is a lesbian.
Granted, that stuff’s not my bag, but credit
must be given for originality. Not only do the
lyrics shine, but the chorus is also sure to get
lodged into your head. The beauty of the
Salad is that their-lyrics are simple, rather
than the stupid, overly poetic lyrics that many
artists fall prey to nowadays.

I have chosen to leave the band members
anonymous, because you knowing their names
and instruments will not enhance your appre-
ciation of their music, They remain nameless
because that’s what they are, nameless. But
that’s not necessarily a bad thing. ___.

The guys in Angry Salad know what they
are doing and know that it is good. They shift
music with-the best of them.as well as creat-
ing inviting songs with sweet melodies. Not
only do they show you how to rock, but they
can also take it slow if necessary. You'll
probably never here of Angry Salad again,
but who cares. They’ ll still be good.

the school and the town “speaks -

to her character and willingness to give on
behalf of things that are Sehr ats in the
Davidson community.”

Bobby Vagt, speaking after the ceremony,
called Mrs. Blackwell “the UR - the Ultimate

- Resource.”

Tongue in cheek, he commented that “she’s
a little irritating in that her memory is twenty
times better than mine!”

Indeed, Mrs. Blackwell was able to con-
nect a name and personal details with almost
everyone who waited in line to give her a hug
and thank her for all she’s done for the school.

“T’m sure you think you don’t deserve all
this,” Darden said in her testimonial; clearly,
over seventy years of Davidson alumni dis-

agree.
“In terms of what she does and how she
does it, she’s a rock,” summarized Vagt.
