THe Davinsontan —

Election craziness: Let J erry Springer Show choose our ne

By Joy Gerpy AND MATTHEW ZOGBY
Sraff Writers

In looking at the presidential election and
all the nonsense happening down in Florida,
we here at the (Other) Zogby Poll, in associa-
tion with Frauline Waters, decided that there
must be a more efficient way of choosing the
leader of the so-called “free world.”

Thus, the (Other) Zogby Poll 5 is com-

pletely dedicated to establishing an alterna-
tive, and coincidentally far cooler, method of
deciding which of these two boobs gets to
take office. We came up with a number of
new, and as of yet unheralded, benchmarks of
political prowess and then asked Davidson
students to judge for themselves.

However, before we begin, we would like
to tell everyone that apparently some of our
respondents have grown increasingly afraid
of what our next poll might be from week to
week. At least one Davidson student was
heard to say, “Oh, I’m afraid,” in a deep,
baritone voice. We just want to point out that
we strike fear into the hearts of Davidson
students. Yeah, that’s right.

Anyway, our first suggestion was to have
the Jerry Springer audience decide. We fig-
ure that after both candidates ‘displayed an
intense willingness to appear on all sorts of
television programs during their campaigns,
they would jump at the chance. to appear
before TV’s most vocal and opinionated au-
dience. The candidates would undoubtedly.
notice that this demographic should be tar-
geted, seeing as how it spans from neo-nazis
to pornography moguls. After debating their
ideas before the crowd, taking in a few sur-
prises and throwing a few punches (as would
inevitably follow), audience members, each
equipped with double sided placards (W./Big
Al), could voice their opinions loudly in a
totally disorganized way.

If you’d notice, the problem of mistakenly
punched ballots would, thus, be completely
eliminated. Also, fans of the two-party sys-
tem would be happy to see that the placards
perpetuate the marginalization of third-party
candidates. That is, until the three sided
placard is invented. This choice received
only 7% of the vote, thus insuring that the
vocal majority that is Jerry Springer’s audi-
ence will still be forced to yell “Jerry, Jerry!”
at the top of their lungs in order to be heard.

The second choice was to have the two
candidates participate ina match of Battlebots.
For those readers unfamiliar with the show,
Battlebots consists of people, often with far
too much time on their hands, inventing ma-
chines with the sole purpose of being put ina
ring where they will face other machines in a
supreme battle, which does not end until one
machine loses a wheel and is, thus, rendered
motionless. On second thought, this isn’t a
very good way of deciding. It still received
3% of.the vote, however.

The third choice was to let Mickey and
Minnie decide. We know what you are think-
ing. How obvious it seems to have Florida’s
two most popular and enduring citizens de-
cide. But it is not so simple. There is a
problem. Not being human, Minnie and
Mickey are denied the right to vote. Now we
understand the premise of this rule. Not all
animals should have the right to vote. But
human sized, talking, clothes wearing ani-
mals... we think that is another matter en-
tirely. ‘Apparently Davidson doés not agree.
Only 3% of the vote went to the beloved
Disney characters.

‘Moving on, you’ re about to smell what The
Rock is cooking. Yes, that’s right. The next
choice was to have the candidates compete in
a Pro-Wrestling/Battledome/ American
Gladiators style event. While the candidates

are both very confident now that they will win —

the election, we here at the (Other) Zogby
Poll feel they would be singing a different
tune if they were forced to face the like of

Blaze or Siren. Ofc course, if competing in a
head-to-head wrassling match, an impartial
choreographer would decide the victor be-
forehand. Dubya 3:16.

The next logical choice would be to simply
decide the presidency based on SAT scores.
For this information, of course, we turn to
Cosmo. According to the October 2000 issue
of Cosmopolitan magazine, George W. Bush’s
SAT score was an impressive 1206. Albert
“Clifford” Gore scored a whopping 1355.
While not exactly a 1502, they are both de-
cent scores. Incidentally, “Cosmo’s Guide to
Picking a President” also points out that Al
Gore is an Aries and George W. Bush is a
Cancer. (Joy, an Aquarius who enjoys long
walks on the beach and soup, does not get
along with Cancers but can stand an Aries or
two.) Despite the popularity of Cosmo, this

‘choice received only 3% of the vote.

While similar to your stereotypical pride of
lions (see also Born Free or The Lion King),
choosing a president by means of Ultimate
Fighting would entail a fight. to the death.
Some respondents also mentioned that this
wouldbe very similar to Celebrity Deathmatch

and wondered why MTV has not taken this on.

yet. Fraheen Counts, a proponent of this
method, made his political leanings known
by saying, “I wanna see Gore come out of that
ring with Bush’s blood on his face.”” Please
remember that Mr. Frah’s opinions do not
reflect those of the (Other) Zogby Poll. Ap-
parently, Davidson’s campus is a bunch of
blood-thirsty maniacs, seeing as how this
choice received 21% of the vote.

The two most popular new means of choos-
ing a president on Davidson’s campus were
an academic decathlon based on the famous
one in Billy Madison and to have the candi-
dates concede to the American public and
take the physical challenge, each receiving
24% of the votes. The first choice would
interest those of us at the (Other) Zogby Poll
because we would really like to see the can-
didates bake a soufflé, give a reading of
Hamlet, run the 100 meter dash, and answer
questions on pertinent topics such as “BUSI-
NESS ETHICS” and “MY WIFE IS COM-
MON STREET TRASH.”

The second option is to take the physical

“that it is clearly the winner. We would like to
thank all the participants for trying, but sadly,
the vast majority of them were just plain
wrong.

Until the government decides to imple- -

ment the coin toss, the entire election system
will always be unfair for one candidate or
another. Expect to be sitting in front of CNN
or MSNBC for quite some time. There is no
way to mess up coin toss (unless you drop the
coin dnd it rolls under a couch or something),

and it is ao inject  esaliee aaa
of the above choices would simply be more
interesting to watch then learning how to do
your own hand count at home. (What the hell
is achad anyway?) So stand up and fight for
your right to send the candidates into the ring
with Goldberg. It’s the American way.

You can now visit the Other Zogby Poll
online at www:zogby.com in the soundbites
archive. ,

Students share reactions to election

By RICHARD VINSON
’ Editor-in-chief

More than a week ago, American citizens
cast their votes for president. Many expected
to wake up to the news of who had won.

Voters across the nation and here at David-
son had their expectations frustrated by the
apparent controversy surrounding the elec-
tion. In particular, questions surrounding
returns in certain counties in Florida raised
doubts for some about the electoral process.
In the days that followed, the candidates’
reactions have also been cause for debate.

A few Davidson students offered their own
analyses of the election and its effects on the
country. Students held a broad consensus
about the legitimacy of the electoral system
but disagreed regarding the actions of the
candidates and of the media and their reper-
cussions for the nation.

In general, all agree that the role of the
courts in the electoral process should be mini-
mal: Noted Lee Ann Petty ’01, “I think this
has no business going to the courts.”

Similarly, Katie Wilson ‘03 stated that she
didn’t think “that the judicial branch ought to
create the winner of the executive election.”

They and other critics of present develop-
ments in Florida consistently cited such con-
cepts as “rule of law” and “the will of the
people” as crucial to the electoral process.
Mark Cody ’01 accurately summarized the
views of most. “[T]he will of the people

should determine the presidency. That is
what democracy is fundamentally about.”

Students differed, however, on whether
they think the courts are interfering too much
in this particular case.

Dan Gibson ’02 asserted that “the results
[of the election] have concluded consistently.”
In light of this, any further action in the courts
would be unnecessary.

On the other hand, Mark Pustay ’03 af-
firmed that “Gore has every right to do what
he’s doing.” Cody concurred, offering sup-
port for “any extensions and court injunc-
tions that will allow for the will of the people
to be expressed in an accurate way.”

Students also seemed to believe that the
country’s electoral system is fair and effec-
tive. As Pustay observed, “There is not a
single system that isn’t flawed, but what we
currently have is the best possible alterna-
tive.”

Wilson argued similarly that this year’s
election does not call the system into ques-
tion. Rather, it only has “implications . . . for
this particular year.”

Petty maintained that though the system
may be legitimate, this particular election
demonstrates the possibility and the serious-
ness of irregularities. “I think we are realiz-
ing how serious election totals are and how
easy it is to manipulate the numbers by ma-
chine or hand-count error.”

see Election, page 8

challenge. Marc Summers
could simply say, “Look guys.
We can recount those votes in
Palm Beach County, or you
can take the physical chal-
lenge.” And honestly, do we
want a president who would
not be willing to take the physi-
cal challenge? It is unclear
whether the voters actually
thought thatthe physical chal-
lenge would be an effective
method of choosing a presi-
dent or whether they just
wanted to see the candidates
get slimed. We tend to think it
was the latter.

Several write-ins earned
“Honorable Mention” certifi-
cates from their local Rotary
Club. (They’re in the mail.)

’ These options include arous-
ing game of Rock-Paper-Scis-
sors, whoever could count
backwards from eleventy bil- ©
lion the fastest, mashed potato
sculpture contest, and eae
Monica decide.

Unfortunately the majority
of Davidson’s campus failed to
recognize that each of these
alternatives could very easily
give one candidate an unfair
advantage over the-other. The
only truly fair way to elect a
president is with a coin toss.
Although this choice received
only 3% of the votes, we think

4,000 college students

4 nights

0 ; 101
One desire

What do you want?

Dec. 30, 2000 - Jan. 3, 2001 Atlanta, €
2: 0 0: 06. .

ati

Sponsored by Campus Outreach

