Volleyball splits conference matches with UTC, Western

By. MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Those that fly highest often make the most
alluring targets.

So when Davidson rolled into
Chattanooga’s
lair with an il-
lustrious 22-
game Southern
Conference win
streak, the Lady
Mocs were ly-
ing ferociously
in wait, poised
with their best shot--and it found its target.

Chattanooga (6-6, 3-1) sniped down the
mighty Wildcats (5-6, 2-1) on Saturday,
sweeping three games (15-7, 17-15, 15-11) to

give Davidson

its first Southern
Conference loss
since November
11, 1998.

Freshman
Kari Krouse
provided the
surprise firepower for the Lady Mocs. The
first-year outside hitter from Fort Wayne,
Ind., tallied 19 kills, 17 digs, two block assists
and a solo block.

es

3
0

aad wt

Chattanooga won the first game handily,
but Davidson jumped out to a 12-3 lead in
game two. But the Mocs roared back, staving

‘off two game-point opportunities for
Davidson before claiming the 17-15 victory.
“We came out strong in the second game,

but did not capitalize on our lead and gradu- | <

ally UTC inched their way back,” conceded
Wildcat head coach Tami Darwin. “Basi-
cally, we needed to put the game away-”

Chattanooga carried that momentum into [—

the third and deciding game, pulling away
15-11 to seal the victory.

Three Wildcat seniors turned in impressive
performances on the night: Mara Mordini led
the éCats with 10 kills and 17 digs, Brooke
Bentley notched seven kills and 15 digs,
while Katherine Lorenz pulled out 13 digs.

But the Wildcats’ newfound losing ways
were short-lived. The squad visited
Cullowhee, NC on the way home, and bounced
back with a decisive three-game victory over
Western Carolina’s Catamounts (2-7, 1-2).

“It was a solid win for us,” said Darwin.
“Our girls showed a lot of heart to come back
from a tough loss with that kind of a perfor-
mance.”

Mordini led the charge with a remarkable

20 kills and 13 digs, good enough for her sixth ©

double-double of the young season. Junior
Jennifer Ortega also performed nicely, tally-

Field Hockey

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

It wasn’t supposed to be pretty.

Even Davidson’s most, loyal supporters
thought the Wildcats were crazy to even
board the Wake-bound bus on Sunday.

After all, Wake Forest’s Demon Deacons
(7-0) have been indomitable thus far in 2000...

Three weeks ago, they trounced Michigan
State—last year’s #2 team in the country—
with a decisive 6-0 shutout....

In fact, Wake Forest, widely considered
one of the nation’s five best teams, has
swarmed past opponents this season by an
average score of 5.6 to 0.2.

But Jen Halliday’s budding program held
their own, turning in perhaps their most solid
performance of the season in the face of such
daunting competition.

Wake earned the 7-2 victory, but it was
Davidson that had a reason to smile at the
final buzzer.

falls to Wake

While Wake Forest head coach Jen Averill
lamented her squad’s “costly mistakes” after
the game, Davidson’s Halliday beamed with
satisfaction after her scrappy squad handed
the prodigious Demon Deacons the biggest
test of their undefeated season.

“Tt was really exciting to see,” said Halliday.
“They’re a strong team, and we felt very
positive about our performance.”

In fact, Davidson was the first squad in the
nation to net two goals against Wake Forest’s
vaunted defense.

Sophomore Agnes Bateman, one of
Davidson’s brightest young stars, struck first
for the ‘Cats, flipping the ball into the top of
the net with 15:20 to go in the game. And
with less than a minute to play, senior Jennie

-Gold finished a nicely-executed corner to
earn the Wildcats’ second goal.

The Wildcats will jaunt to Catawba on
Thursday before returning home for a 1:00
Homecoming contest against NorPac rival
Appalachian State.

Golfers open season at J. Madison

Press RELEASE

This past weekend, the Davidson golf team
opened its fall season under first-year head
coach Tim Straub with an 11th-place finish
out of 17 teams at the James Madison Univer-
sity Invitational. The invitational was held at
Lakeview Golf Course, a par-71, 6,496-yard
course, in Harrisonburg, Va.

St. John’s claimed the top spot in the two-
day tournament at 16-over par, including a
strong finish at 286 on the second day, just
two-over par.

The top finisher for the Wildcats was sopho-
more Ben Friedell with a eight-over 150 for
his two rounds. He finished in a tie for 24th

place overall. Other Wildcat golfers were
sophomore Frank Walker (T-37, 152), senior
Sean Davidson and junior Dan Carlson (T-
42, 153), and freshman Erik Heidefors (T-82,
163). rey

Four players finished in a tie for first at one-
under par — Andrew Svoboda of St. John’s,
Chris Cope of James Madison, Daniel Lee of
Rutgers and Tim Pemberton of William &
Mary.

Davidson will hit the links again on Oct. 2-
3 at the 2000 Seahawk/River Landing Inter-
collegiate Tournament hosted by UNC
Wilmington.

‘ing 11 assists in the victory.

Davidson travels to Charleston this week-
end, with two matches on the docket. The
Wildcats visit Charleston’s Kresse Arena on

Saturday, and round out the Gliaclestin
doubleheader with a clash at The Citadel on
Saturday night.

Se ee Sere eer Ta

/ilc cats

~

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

It’s gut check time.

Just days into Southerti Conference play,
the inevitable became an immediate reality as
Davidson’s win streak and their air of invin-
cibility disappeared into the thin Tennessee
mountain air on Saturday.

All of a sudden, the team that couldn’t lose
finds itself hovering around .500 (5-6 overall,
2-1 in conference), good enough for fourth
place in the Southern Conference after the
first week of action.

Early-season Wildcat losses were to be
expected. The program’s national acclaim
last year translated into a series of “Davidson
vs. Goliath” match-ups this fall against some
of the country’s strongest teams,

But the loss to Chattanooga hit far closer to
home--and proved irrevocably that the 2000
Southern Conference Title will not be earned
with 1999’s 20-0 SoCon record.

begin 1 new streak

This means that September’ s s first round of
conference action has quickly morphed from
a mere warm-up into a series of defining
moments.

Will the loss be a demoralizing blow that
plunges the ‘Cats toward mediocrity? Or will
it be a resounding inspiration, tearing away
even the tiniest shreds of complacency and
providing a spark that re-ignites their pas-
sions and catapults the team back to the
pinnacle of greatness?

That, of course, remains to be seen.

Mike Tyson once snickered, “Everybody
has a plan until they get hit.”

And, yes, the Wildcats have been hit.

But this team has all the ingredients for
success acore of superstar talent, a vast array
of senior leadership, and talented and a com-
mitted coaching staff.

And should those ingredients come to-
gether, the Chattanooga loss will not be re-
membered as “the day the streak ended,” but
rather as the day before the new one began.

é

Snring Break 2001

Davidson

Informational Meeting &

Tuesday, Sept. 26

at 10:00 p.m.

Home Room / Union

Sponsored by:
The Chaplain’s Office &
United Methodist Church

For more information, contact:

Chaplain Rob Spach: 894-2423 email: rospach@davidson.edu
Rev. Andy Baxter: 892-8277 email: andy.baxter@juno.com

u Crash Tatk

Will Roberson

In 2000, Tiger Woods will make $54 million dollars in endorsements alone....
Frank Thomas is the AL MVP....The New York football teams are a combined 6-

0...What was up with Melissa Stark’s jean jacket on Monday Night Football?..
‘oa ...NASCAR is dumb....Tennessee got robbed by the refs against Florida....This
