THE DavIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

The Davidson community, by nearly all
accounts, is an active and over-achieving
bunch—a campus wondrously saturated with
programs, events and opportunities across a
wide spectrum.

- But some fear that the very frenzied pace
that this community supports produces some
rather negative byproducts—primarily that
students are often so
busy in their indi-
vidual and small-
group endeavors
that they rarely have
time to congregate
en masse, and sec-
ondly, that the fast-
paced life of a typi-
cal student affords
little time for reflec-
tion, casual conver-

sation, and relax- Would students use a community hour
to frequent the new campus center?

ation.

Many see this
“community hour” (often called the “free
hour” or “common hour”) as an antidote to
both ills.

“This campus definitely stresses commu-
nity,” said SGA President Dane Erickson.
“But sometimes we get caught up in our
individual daily lives so much that we fail to
take advantage of each other on a day-to-day
basis.”

“Clearly, Davidson is a pack of overachiev-
ers—both the students and the faculty,” said
associate professor Scott Denham, chair of
the German department. “As a result, the so-
called ‘Davidson family’ members are ever
more apparitions than realities, it seems, be-
cause people are so over-scheduled and over-
committed.”

Proponents envision two distinct types of

activity filling these “community hours.” A
high priority seems to be the availability of
campus-wide programming opportunities—
where the entire student body would be in-
vited to pack into Belk Arena or the new
Knobloch Campus Center to hear a speaker,

watch a movie, or take in an artistic perfor-
_ mance. .

“You could schedule a major event like
this,” said Erickson, “and count on the fact

that the entire campus will have the option to

come. Regardless
4 of your major, ath-
; letic commit-
ments, or organi-
zational involve-
ments, everyone
will have that hour
to come together
and share inacom-
mon event.”

President Vagt
actively supports
this type of cam-
pus-wide  pro-
gramming. “Any
activity which draws people together [volun-
tarily] in broad groups:..is bound to have a
positive impact on this campus.”

On the opposite end of the spectrum, sup-
porters also hope the “hour off” will engender
casual get-togethers and provocative conver-
sations, as well as personal time for reflection
and even much-needed occasional naps.

“A lot of it is a sort of touchy-feely notion
that maybe this could be a time to share an
afternoon coffee or a walk to the post office

Erin Berry

with students and fellow faculty and staff,” °

said Dr. Denham. “That’s sort of romantic
and might not. happen, . but, Who knows?,
maybe it could.”

Nevertheless, many doubts remain about
the efficacy of such a plan. “It sounds good
in theory,” said Nicholas Blackwell, a junior

DAVIDSON COURT

_ Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson

for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos

Fireplaces 9’ ceilings,
garden courtyard,
tile foyers

Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm

ALLEN TATE
REALTORS

12?

misses my party

| Mr. B says, “I pity the fool who

Would “community hour” bring students clo

classics major. “But I don’t really see a
benefit to it. I don’t think many people will
do much with it.”

Dr. Denham, too, acknowledged that not
all students will engage in the activities.
“People might just snack or sleep or do what-
ever they want, and that’s OK. At least the
potential is there.”

Cameron Richardson, a senior elected to
the CCRL, agreed that students might opt
simply to nap, watch television, or do extra
homework. “The hour will be what we make
of it,” she noted.

But, she added, “It certainly can’t hurt.
Any opportunity that allows Davidson stu-

participating on intercollegiate or club ath- *
letic teams. ig
“If we pushed our practices either an hour
earlier or later,” said Blackwell, who swims
for the Davidson men’s team, “we might be
either starting morning practice at 5:15 a.m.

or ending our evening practice at 7 p.m.”
“The principle hurdle has been schedul-
ing,” acknowledged Vagt. ;
Even if the schedule could be adapted,
many other decisions would have to follow.
Who would regulate such time to ensure it
was not being usurped by academic, athletic,
or extracurricular meetings? Who would be
responsible for programming activities for

Administrators & Staff

Dean Tom Shandley, Dean of Students
Dean Kurt Holmes, Dir. of RLO
William Brown, Dir. Student Activities
Ruth Pittard, Community Service Dir.
Rob Spach, Chaplain

Craig Rinker, Patterson Court Adviser

Faculty

Dr. Mario Belloni
Dr. Scott Denham
Dr. Ramon Figueroa
- Dr. Ann Fox

Dr. Alan Parker

Dr. John Wertheimer
Dr. John Yukich

CCRL at a Glance

Though the group manages to maintain a relatively low profile, the Advisory Council
on Campus & Religious Life (CCRL) wields a tremendous amount of power. Its
recommendations carry no binding authority, but are heavily—almost singularly—
considered by President Vagt in his decision-making on campus life issues.

The Council—a 23-person panel chaired by Dean of Students Tom Shandley and
comprised of elected faculty, designated administrators, and 13 elected and appointed
students—carries tremendous clout and has effected significant changes in campus life,
most recently advocating the institution of a new co-ed eating house.

Students

Dane Erickson ’01, SGA Pres.

Joey Harris 02, SGA 'VP

Kirk Willingham ’01, Union Board Pres.
Chad Phillips ’01, PCC

Brent Wilson ‘01, UCA

John Foster 03, SGA Appointee
Alison Suflas ’03, SGA Appointee
Amber Hartman ’02, SGA Appointee
Dan Carman ’01, SGA Appointee
Lauren Urbanski ’01, At-Large
Cameron Richardson ’01, At-Large
Matthew Moretz ’01, At-Large .
Matt West ’01, At-Large

dents and faculty and staff to come together in
a positive community-oriented interaction
can only be good.”

Carrie Porath, another senior who sat on
the CCRL during their deliberations on the
topic, echoed these sentiments. “At worst,
people won’t value the idea and it will hassle
our schedule,” she acknowledged. “But at
best, this is a chance to come together as a
community—students, maintenance workers,
faculty, everyone. Whether it’s for a discus-
sion, a speaker, a moment of reflection, or
just a doughnut, this is an opportunity to
instill a true sense of community here. I really
hope we cherish it.”

“T think it’s a wonderful idea,” agreed head
men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop. But
he raised the same legitimate apprehensions
shared by many involved in the debate. “Ideas
are great, but they have impacts on so many
other things that they can be

and be WACKY!

LN

UNION

This is your official (tough) invitation
to Wacky William’s Wild Giveaway.
Come to Chambers Gallery

November 18th. Arrive after
7:30 if you want dinner and after 8:00
if you don’t care, —

Dress is casual but you have a better
shot at “Making a Deal” if you are
dressed all wacky-like. This will be
your last chance to enter to win
William’s $500. You must be in atten-
dance on the 18th to. win. So come

hard to implement.”

with the “community hour.” In
order for this hour off to be-
come a reality, a radical sched-
“ule adjustment will have to be
accepted by a variety of differ-
ent constituencies. Either aca-
demic time would have to be
condensed into a shorter period,
or the academic portion of the
“division of the day” would have
to be lengthened to compensate
for the lost time.
Understandably, the faculty
has voiced vehement opposition
tothe narrowing of the academic
day. The other option, extend-
ing the academic portion of the
day, would spell out added hard-
ship for many athletes students

And that is clearly the case _

it? How would the campus afford to pay for
a prominent outside speaker every week?

One of the most sticky decisions might
entail the inclusion of hourly-waged staff
members. While students and faculty alike
maintain that the “community hour” would
be far from complete without the participa-
tion of campus staff members (such as physi-
cal plant workers, food service staff, and
maintenance persons), the proposition of pay-
ing staff members for an extra hour off could
prove a difficult pill to swallow for the ad-
ministration.

“There are a lot of complications,” ac-
knowledged Dean of Students Tom Shandley.
“Everyone supports the idea, but it is going to
be tough to work it in.”

The final piece of the puzzle would be
student participation. All programming dur-
ing that period would be optional—so are
students likely to take advantage of the “down
time”? Or will it become yet another hour full
of homework, or even behind-closed-doors
organizational meetings?

- “Tf it’s not an hour that truly means some-
thing,” said Vagt, “then it quickly becomes
an hour where people just do other things.”

Nevertheless, proponents of the plan term
it a vital necessity to the well-being of this
campus and its community members.

“For students who come to Davidson, free
time is time that you spend doing other things
that you need to do. Everything is according
to schedule. Students come in with less of an
ability to stop and take time to do things that
aren’t in the plan,” explained Vagt.

“So does this institution have aresponsibil-

’ ity to help students, maybe even teach them,

how to reflect and relax—to take time to use

‘ productively for yourself? That’s areal ques-

tion for us as an institution—what is our

“obligation?”
