12

Time is running out on the Outpost. In the future, the Uni

Suit Ber

£24

on Cafe in

the new Knobloch Campus Center will be the only source of late-

night dining on campus.

Naked,
from page 1

“crackdown” was-due to turnover within the
ranks of campus security. “Anybody that’s
new to any situation tends to follow the rules
a little more literally.”

He stressed, however, that campus security
is dedicated to student safety, not punish-
ment.

‘Boyd also dismissed the idea that the ad-
ministration was deliberately trying to hurt
the Court, but expressed concern that the
administration didn’t realize “how fragile an
issue this is and how easily they could cripple
the Court by their policy changes.” Schaefer
suggested the administration wanted to shift
the Court’s focus to “more constructive” ac-
tivities than hard-core drinking.

Streakers under fire

The decision to ban streaking brought the
issue of rules on the Court front and center.
Following the decision, four members of
Kappa Sigma (North Moore ‘03, Christian
Kramer ‘02, Patrick Baetjer ’03, and Jeremy
Schwartz ‘03) and one independent (Mat-
thew Smith ‘03) sent the student body a mass
email taking issue with the administration’s
actions. ;

“The attitude of the administration towards
Patterson Court has changed radically from
past years to this year... Numerous houses
have been placed under restriction for actions
that have not been questioned by this admin-
istration in the past. Furthermore, traditions
that have become an integral part of Patterson
Court life are being condemned without the
chance for any input from students,” com-
plained the authors.

“The timing of the administration’s man-
date leaves little time for discussion.” The
group finished by asking all students who
agreed with their statement to add their names
to the signature and forward it to Vagt and
Dean Thomas Shandley.

PiKA social director Ryan Pagan ’02
quickly responded to the letter in a second
mass email. Pagan said he agreed with the
previous statement “for the most part,” but
argued, “Just because a rule hasn’t been en-
forced in the past doesn’t give us grounds to
complain if they decide to enforce it, whether
arbitrary or not. As long as the rule is on the

books we are going to be held responsible for
it.” He urged students to forgo mass emails in
favor of more personal discussions.

With regards to the two emails, President
Vagt said he felt Pagan’s message was the
more informed of the two. He suggested that
perhaps the story was distorted by word-of-
mouth. ,

Vagt explained the administration’s ac-
tions by saying, “Not only is it against the
law, there are people who are feeling pres-
sured to do it and don’t want to. There are
other people, particularly young women, who
are forced to participate by being observers.”

Schaefer said he understood the
administration’s position. “Obviously, we
don’t want to offend people on the Court.”

However, he questioned the timing. “Exams ©

make it tough” to have detailed, time-con-
suming discussions and meetings. Further-
more, no one has been punished for streaking
in recent years; Schaefer wondered why such
harsh measures were brought up now. Addi-
tionally, he said that Shandley and Vagt never
brought up the issue in his Fall 2000 meetings
with them.

According to Vagt, the administration has
been concerned about the issues surrounding
streaking for several years, but nothing had
been done until a meeting of the Patterson
Court Council at which Vagt and Shandley
“proposed that if any prospective pledges or
new members of a house were caught doing
this that the house would be shut down imme-
diately.”

“We got several responses, mostly thought-
ful, from members of the Patterson Court
council, talking about individual versus com-
munity or corporate responsibility, and I think
one of the largest pleas was, “You all just
walked in here and dictated what was going to
happen. We have a role... you could have
come in and asked for advice or ‘counsel.”
Dean Shandley and I went out in the hall and
decided and came back and said, “‘You’re
right. Based on past performance, we as-

sumed and we shouldn’t have and it was a-

mistake.”

According to Vagt, the matter is now back
in the hands of the students; the Patterson
Court Council will be responsible for -dis-
couraging the streak and punishing offend-
ers. However, due to indecent exposure laws,
streaking will “not be up for debate.”

The players

Davidson International Association (DIA)
President Shalini Unnikrishnan ’01 will come
before the committee with a petition signed
by hundreds of students. This petition re-
quests that the administration give the facility
to DIA as its official on-campus home. Their
request also comes with the approval of the
SGA Senate. ‘

Likewise, PhiGamma Delta President Rob
Hester ’01 will express his fraternity’s inter-
est in acquiring the building. Though the
group has not yet voted to place a bid on the
house, Hester indicated that he would urge
the committee to forestall its recommenda-

tion until next semester. This delay would

allow the fraternity time to consider this
“very important decision.” The house al-
ready enjoys Patterson Court Council sup-
port should it make a bid.

Finally, current Union Board Outpost chair
Alexis Boehmler ’02 has stated her desire to
keep the Outpost a “neutral” facility. She is
one of many students who feel that the Out-
post should remain open to all students re-
gardless of social affiliation.

Differing views

Student reactions to this debate have been
mixed. The strong support for DIA’s petition
demonstrates a feeling that the group has
something unique to bring to life at David-
son.

Adam Chalker ’04 expressed his belief that
the campus would be best served if DIA
obtained the Outpost building. “DIA has a
rich variety of cultural activities to add to
Davidson,” he noted.

Muna Musiitwa ’03 remarked that a pres-
ence on the Court would give DIA “a chance
to break the myth that international students
are one big clique.”

On the other hand, some students reject the

notion that the Outpost needs to change at all.

Aileen Waters ’02 felt strongly enough
about the issue to print and sell t-shirts bear-
ing the motto “Save the Outpost.” The shirts
send the message that the Outpost is an inte-
gral part of social life at Davidson. ©

“Everybody loves the Outpost. I don’t see
why we have to get rid of it,” she lamented.
Former Outpost chair Matt Zogby ’02 agreed.
“J don’t understand why anyone thinks it’s
not being best used now. It makes money, the
whole campus uses it, and it’s'in use every
day of the week,” he commented.

Others have reacted even more radically to
the notion of losing the Outpost. Owen
Merrow ’01 and Paul Holcombe ’01 drafted
an “Outpost Manifesto” decrying the “alli-
ance” seeking to “exorcise the spectre” of
their beloved hangout.

Merrow and Holcombe have volunteered
to print the next batch of “Save the Outpost”
t-shirts and encourage students to “wear them
with pride.”

Students speak out

CCRL chair and Dean of Students Tom
Shandley noted that the committee is in no
hurry to make a decision. “We have plenty of
time for discussion,” he added.

Based on this expectation, some groups are
encouraging students to add their input to the
process. Campus Forums Committee chair
Kevin James ’03 admitted the possibility of a
forum on the Outpost issue next semester.

Joy Gerdy ’02 likewise stated that “student
voice will be important on this issue.”

She and Waters suggested a wide range of
options, including writing letters to The
Davidsonian or contacting administrators.
Sean Gantt ‘03, for example, is planning a
meeting with President Bobby Vapt to make
the case for keeping the Outpost.

Though the fate of the Outpost remains
uncertain, Shandley noted that he would “wel-
come and encourage that conversation.”

Rules and regulations

While discussions may have resolved the
streaking issue, students still questioned the
logic behind the sudden strict enforcement.

For example, PiKA was charged with hav-
ing alcohol in the house after one o’clock on
a weekday, which, according to Schaefer,
hasn’t been prosecuted in recent years.

Inasimilar case, SigEp was recently placed
onalcohol-free probation for “allowing drink-
ing games to occur” after four non-members
used the house ping-pong table to play Beirut.
Boyd noted that he felt SigEp’s punishment
was too harsh considering the four offenders
were not members and the incident occurred
at an impromptu party.

Like Schaefer, he attributed this toa marked
change in policy. “Rules which have never

historically been enforced are now being»

diligently upheld,” Boyd commented.

Schaefer pointed out, however, that alco-
hol-related vandalism on the Court has been
on the rise and pointed to the recent destruc-
tion of expensive equipment such as televi-
sion sets. “We don’t want to lock up the
houses.”

Torrey Bartlett ‘01, president of Phi Delta
Theta (a dry fraternity), agreed the rules are
being much more strictly enforced. “I don’t
believe that this is the best. way to handle
things because students are going to drink
regardless and I think that the court is a safe
and manageable place for these students to
enjoy themselves without harassment.”

Boyd concurred, saying, “I think that stu-
dents simply feel like they are always. under
supervision when they are on the court . . . If
the Court looses its appeal among students I
fear that we will see a rise in drinking activi-
ties far more dangerous than what happens at
the fraternities and eating houses.”

Sugrue shared Boyd’s concern. “Students

are going to drink - people who want to drink

in college drink in college, and it has always
been and will always be that way. Instead of

trying to foster a safe, secure environment for
partying to take place (as the Court provides),
the administration reacts by placing houses
on probation which forces students to stay in
their rooms and pound drinks unmonitored,
or go off campus to bars or other houses
where they have to drive.”

She concluded, “The harsh sanctions are
counterintuitive to the administration’s goals
. . . I don’t think that the changes being
implemented are realistic or take into consid-
eration the nature of college life.” *

President Bobby Vagt acknowledged that
no one wants the alcohol policy to force
drinking off-campus and admitted, “It’s a
matter of balance . . . It’s been pretty effec-
tively demonstrated that drinking games lead
to faster and higher consumption. I’m sure
[drinking games] have happened before, but
what’s happened this fall is that people are
being much more blatant about it. If we see
it, we'll shut it down. I think the change has
been not so much in the behavior of the
administration but in the behavior of the
students.”

Communication is key

“T think that communication is a two-way
responsibility,” Vagt concluded when asked
about the perceived crackdown. “To the ex-
tentthat’s the feeling and we haven’t commu-
nicated, I should have done a better job. To
the extent that the house presidents feel that
way, they should communicate that. I can
assure you that Patterson Court continues to
play an important part in the lives of students
that come to this institution.”

Vagt encouraged open discussion on these
issues, and said, “We need to work hard to
make sure we talk to each other to lay [suspi-
cions] to rest.” :

A campus wide forum will be held to
discuss “Patterson Court and the Administra-
tion” on Wednesday, December 6 at 7:00pm
in the 900 Room. eS .
