By KrisTINE HARRINGTON
Special Contributor

The 2000 presidential election is about
more than just who is elected in November. It
is about the future of citizens’ rights and
freedoms.

A Supreme Court Justice is typically ap-
pointed every two years. However, there
hasn’t been a new justice in six. That means

that the next president will likely appoint at ©

least two, maybe even three or four justices
during his first term of office. Justice John
Paul Stevens, appointed by Gerald Ford, will
turn 80 this year. Picked by Ronald Reagan,
Sandra Day O’Connor will turn 70. Justice
Ruth Bader Ginsburg, appointed by Presi-
dent Clinton, is 67 and battling cancer. Chief
Justice William Rehnquist, named to the Court
by Richard Nixon, is 75.

George W. Bush has “vowed” not to use a
litmus test in choosing justices ifhe is elected,
meaning he will not review potential justices’
records on specific issues before recommend-
ing them for appointment. However, he has
also repeatedly said that his ideal choices
would be modeled after Antonin Scalia and
Clarence Thomas, two of the most right-wing
justices ever to serve on the bench.

Replacing current Justices Stevens,
O’Connor and/or Ginsburg with extremist
ideologues would put our rights and free-
doms in considerable jeopardy for years to
come.

Following is a brief examination of ex-
amples of key cases in which Scalia and
Thomas dissented, and what our country could
look like if the dangerous Scalia-Thomas
minority becomes the Supreme Court’s ma-
jority.

Voting Rights

Both justices support narrowing the Vot-
ing Rights Act, eliminating protection against
discrimination in candidate eligibility rules,
redistricting plans, and other practices that
covertly deny voting rights to minorities.

Gender Discrimination

A Scalia-Thomas court would allow sex
discrimination in the jury selection process,
assuming that individuals would be biased
simply because of their gender. It would also
narrow the circumstances in which employ-
ers could be held responsible for sexual ha-
rassment in the workplace and would virtu-
ally eliminate protection for public school
students against harassment by other stu-
dents.

Racial Discrimination

Justice Thomas argued that the Supreme

Court erred in Brows v. Board of Education
(1954) when it considered evidence of the
social and psychological harm suffered by

black schoolchildren as a result of segrega- -

tion.

Discrimination Against People With Dis-
abilities

Both Scalia and Thomas joined Chief Jus-
tice William Rehnquist’s partial dissent in
Bragdon vy. Abbott (1998), which ultimately
ruled that the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) prevents discrimination against
asymptomatic individuals infected with the
AIDS virus (it would only take one more like-
minded justice to overturn this decision). In
1999 Justice Thomas wrote a dissent arguing
that a school district could deny nursing ser-
vices that would enable a young quadriplegic
boy to attend school.
Discrimination Against Gays and Lesbi-
ans :

The addition of two more justices like
Scalia and Thomas would overturn the Su-
preme Court’s decision in Romer v. Evans
(1996), which struck down a Colorado provi-
sion that barred local governments from cre-

- ating laws which protected individuals from

discrimination based on sexual orientation.
A Scalia-Thomas court could make it illegal
to provide even basic anti-discrimination pro-
tection for gay men and lesbians.

Reproductive Freedom and Privacy
Rights

Only two more justices appointed in the
Scalia-Thomas mold would overturn Roe v.
Wade and eliminate freedom of choice and
authorize individual states to ban abortion,
without exception. They both claim that the
Constitution does not protect any right of
privacy concerning reproduction and would
support state laws banning the sale or use of
contraceptives.

In his opinion in Webster v. Reproductive
Health Services (1989), Scalia had the gall to
suggest that one good reason to overturn Roe
v. Wade is to decrease the apparently incon-
venient number of letters and demonstrations.
targeted at the Supreme Court regarding the
abortion issue.

Religious Coercion

If Scalia and Thomas gain two more allies
on the Supreme Court, they could eliminate a
fundamental, Constitutional principle that the
government must stay neutral in regards to
religion. This would legalize prayer at public
venues, such as graduations, teaching of reli-
gious creationism in science classes, and
forced taxpayer funding of religion through
such means as vouchers.

Nader and Buchanan agree on

By Eun-Kyunc Kim
Associated Press Writer

Ralph Nader and Pat Buchanan don’t agree
on much, but they’re standing together in
contending they both should be included in

the presidential debates.

Both plan to be in Boston for the first
debate Tuesday. However, they will be out-
siders looking in, barred from a national
forum that could have given their flagging
third-party campaigns a boost.

Buchanan, the Reform Party candidate,
and Green Party nominee Nader fell far short
of the 15 percent support they needed in
major polls, as required by the sponsoring
bipartisan Commission on Presidential De-
bates.

As one caller to CNN’s “Larry Ane Live”
put it: “Give up, Mr. Buchanan.”

“I never give up, young lady,” Buichanat
replied, blaming a lack of money, sparse
media coverage and getting barred from the
debates as killing his campaign’s chances.

-Buchanan also said Bush wouldn’t want
him standing on the same stage in debates.

“Mr. Bush has abandoned conservatives.
That convention was an insult to Reaganism,”
he said, referring to the Republican National
Convention and the former GOP president.

Nader, appearing on the show’s second
half, also had harsh words for Gore. He said
that even if he wasn’t running for president,
“no way” would he vote for Gore.

Gore has spent “eight years on his knees to
big business,” Nader said.

Nader also urged people to contact the

television networks and the debate commis-

sion to push for inclusion of the third-party
candidates because “Bush and Gore can’t say
no to them.”

“Tf there’s a massive, peaceful demonstra-
tion tomorrow in Boston where the whole

$e

- Justice in J éueety: Scalia-Thomas Court would pose threat to hard won pI

Free Speech and Censorship

Scalia and Thomas would allow more di-
rect government restrictions on political ex-
pression, permit increased government limits
onartistic speech and press-related freedoms,
and would support eliminating all First
Amendment protection in programs that are
funded by the government.

Consumer and Worker Protection

A Scalia-Thomas Supreme Court would
protect cigarette companies from consumer
lawsuits and would also allow state and local
governments to fire workers for belonging to
the “wrong” political party.

Money and Politics.

Scaliaand Thomas support abolishing lim-
its on campaign financing, which are neces-

sary to prevent corruption and to increase. Y
politicians’ accountability. Also, in 1992
Scalia dissented from a ruling that protected
citizens’ rights to form new political parties.

No matter who is elected come November,
the new president’s legacy of Supreme Court
appointments in years to come will live on.
This is why it is crucial that we keepin mind
this crucial, but little-known issue when it
comes time to mark our ballots. A vote for
George W. Bush means much more than a
vote for his policies, if you agree with them.
A vote for George W. equals a vote for setting
our country decades back and stripping away
the precious freedoms that we all have come
to value!

Supreme Court Justices must
respect Constitution, rights of states

By Dan GiBson
Special Contributor

Some would argue that the judicial branch
of our federal government has gone from
palace guard to crowned king over the past
several decades, hailing itself as the single
most powerful institution in our nation. They
would be right.

Judicial activism and overt disregard for
the fundamental principles of our Constitu-
tion should have many voters concerned.
Very concerned. No one will dispute that the
next president will significantly influence the
disposition of the court for the next genera-
tion. George W. Bush ought to be that presi-
dent.

Lest the reader berate me for avoiding the
abortion issue, I turn to it first. Bush has made
it clear, despite the fear-mongering attacks of
the Gore machine, that abortion will not serve
as a litmus test for his appointments. No one
disputes Bush’s unwillingness to subject the
lives of the unborn child to mere conve-
nience, but he stands firmly on the notion that
the composition of the Supreme Court ought
to rest on far greater principles than a poten-
tial justice’s convictions on any single issue.
Thus, the question remains, what should that
potential justice look like?

Above all, the Constitution requires a jus-
tice who respects the integrity of the federal-
ist system. As judicial activism renders fed-
eralization, the rights of states and local com-
munities are eroded to little more than quaint

history lessons.

Our nation’s founders saw the need for the
dispersion of power and the value of states as
checks against the very centralization we
fought the American Revolution to escape.
Label the Bush court old-fashioned or un-
progressive if you must, but to suggest any-
thing other than adherence to the blueprint set
forth by our founding fathers is unwise. Dare
we call it “risky?”

Al Gore offers a starkly different picture.
A strong proponent of judicial activism, Gore
seeks to extend the reach of the already flail-
ing arm of the judiciary. What is at stake?

_The ability of citizens to lead their own lives

without the iron fist of un-elected officials
revising the decisions made by popularly
elected assemblies across the nation. Or have
we forgotten the value of self-governance,
which is at the heart of everything American?
The issues of policy would be rendered irrel-
evant at the hands of a Gore court, as legisla-
tion would become little more than sugges-
tions for the imperial appointees.

And so consider whichever issue strikes a
chord with you: George W. Bush thinks that
decision should be left to the elected bodies
with whom that authority rests. Should we,
as Al Gore believes, concede the principles of
our Constitution to a handful of judicial ap-
pointees, eager to run people’s lives from
Washington? Mr. Gore claims he stands for
the people and not the powerful. Care to
revise your statement, sir?

one thing: Let us in debates

worldis watching, maybe Al Gore and George--

Bush will be shamed into at least having one-
debate with a four-way discussion of impor-
tant issues that they are just celipstaieyy dis-"
carding,” he said.

Nader and Buchanan have failed to climb
out of the single..digits in recent national
surveys. These same polls, however, show

that a third or more would like to see a four-
way debate, with Buchanan and Nader join-
‘ing Democrat Al Gore and Republican George

W. Bush.

The presidential debates sponsored by the
commission _ the others are scheduled for
Oct. 11 in Winston-Salem, N.C., and Oct. 17
in St. Louis _ have the potential to reach
millions of voters and could be crucial in
attracting people who might not be swayed
through traditional campaigning.

“If you don’t get on national television,

you don’t reach the voters, and if you don’t ©

get in the debates, you don’t reach the vot-
ers,” Nader said.

Both Buchanan and Nader have used former.
wrestler Jesse Ventura to show how debates
can influence elections. Ventura barely mus-
tered 10 percent in Minnesota polls before
participating in candidate debates in the gu-
bernatorial election, which he won in 1998.

Either Bush or Gore could have pushed to
include minor party candidates in the de-
bates. They also could have pressed the major
television networks to hold.a four-way dis-

cussion, but in a race as close as theirs, “they
want to go one-on-one against each other and
not have a lot of distraction from third or
fourth party candidates who might steal their
votes,” said Cal Jillson, aSouthern Methodist
University political science professor.

Republicans learned their lesson in 1992,
when Ross Perot got to debate Bill Clinton
and President Bush. Perot ultimately earned
19 percent of the vote that November _ pos-
sibly drawing enough GOP votes to cost
Bush the election, many Republicans be-
lieve.

While neither Nader nor Buchanan planned
to crash Tuesday’s event, both will make
themselves available to reporters before, dur-
ing and after to provide their analysis. The
two also let protesters in Boston raise the fuss
for them.

About 30 people, some dressed in colonial
garb and tri-cornered hats, boarded the Bos-
ton Tea Party ship Monday and dumped
televisions into the Harbor. Taped to the TV
sets were the names of the networks and the
Democratic and Republican parties.
