Davipson COLLEGE

SGA debates
representation
changes

BY Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday night, the structure and effi-
ciency of the Student Government Associa-
tion became the center of debate among the
senators.

Christopher Brantley, Class of 2001 Presi-
dent, submitted a resolution to the Senate that
proposed the restructuring of the SGA on the
grounds of its ineffiency to deal with student
matters.

The resolution states that “the SGA Sen-
ate of Davidson College would more equita-
bly represent the [student body] of Davidson
College.” . .

According to the bylaws, the Senate has
forty members: fournon-voting officers, three

senators elected from each of the upper classes, ’

six freshmen senators, five independent sena-
tors, and one senator from each of the Patterson
Court houses.

Brantley contends that this relatively large
governing body is a hindrance to effiencent
governance.

Brantley proposed removing positions that
exclusively represent social organizations,
including all fraternities and eating houses,
the Black Student Coalition, Davidson Inter-
national Association, and the independent
senators. These positions would be replaced
with an increased number of class-elected
senators, reducing the number of vating mem-
bers by twelve.

Kevin Epps, ‘03, Chairman of the SGA
Bylaws and Charter Committee, agreed that
~ this was a necessary action: “The infrastruc-

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 2

entino

Christopher Brantley, Class of 2001 President, discusses. the results

of the reorganization committee.
ture of SGA has got to change... we’ re getting
things done but that’s not getting out [to the
students] through the representation.”
Contributing to the inefficiency in repre-
sentation is a lack of enforcement of the
bylaws. Senators are allowed only three ab-
sences. After that, they can lose their seat.
This attendance policy has not been rigor-
ously enforced. Two-thirds of the elected
senators must be present for a meeting to
occur; at last week’s meeting, the number in
attendance just barely met this standard.
Patterson Court senators are absent more
than others, which leads some to believe that
representing the Court differently may raise
efficiency within the Senate. “There have
been some complaints that [fraternity and
eating house] representation hasn’t been that
great and we’re letting them know that some-

thing could change,” noted SGA Vice-Presi-
dent Joey Harris, ‘02.

While the method for improvement is up
for debate, some senators argue that restruc-
turing is not the issue.

“If it’s structuring, it’s structuring. Whether
we need to restructure or not, we need to have
better communication between the SGA and
the student body” commented Bobby
Pittenger, President, Class 2002.

The end result -

President Dane Erickson created the
Restructuring Committee to assess the cur-

.rent system of representation. The Commit-

tee, chaired by Brantley, met multiple times
during the past week and spent hours debat-
ing the best way for Senate to better achieve

See SGA, page 6

Davidson police search local woman’s car

Incident raises issue
of probable cause

BY LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Writer

“The right of the people to be secure...
against unreasonable searches and seizures
shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause . . .”

Anyone who’s studied the US legal sys-
tem —:or watched an episode of Law and
Order—knows this Fourth Amendment clause
can be difficult to interpret. In particular, the
term “probable cause” is open to interpreta-
tion and often invoked by lawyers when the
legitimacy of a search or seizure is ques-
tioned in court.

The Davidson police department recently
found themselves before the court of public
opinion on just this sort of question. __

On August 17 Susan Martin, a twenty-two-
year-old Davidson waitress, stopped at a li-
cense checkpoint. She was cleared to leave,
but a few miles later she was pulled over by
Davidson Police Officer Scott Searcy. He
told her the officers at the license checkpoint

had seen something in her backseat, and he ©

had probable cause to search the vehicle.
The suspicious item was an issue of the

newspaper Creative Loafing; on its cover
was a photograph of a marijuana plant. Ac-
cording to an article in the August 19 issue of

Creative Loafing,

Martin felt the officer did not have prob-
able cause to search her car, but consented to

the search so she wouldn’t be stuck on the
roadside for hours. Officer Searcy’s search
yielded nothing, and Martin was allowed to
leave. :

_ sessment.

A letter from Martin to Creative Loafi ng
prompted Sam Boykin to write the article
about her experience. Boykin wrote that the
officers apparently thought it was a copy of
High Times (a publication about marijuana).
However, Boykin interviewed several attor-
neys, and according to criminal lawyer James
Watt, “You could have 100 books in your car
about marijuana, and that’s still not probable
cause.” ;

By August 25, local newspapers and TV
stations had picked up the story as well.
Despite the notoriety her case has gained,
Boykin said Martin has no plans to press
charges. Inquiries at the ACLU have been
met with red tape, and Martin is reluctant to
paint “‘a bull’s-eye on her back.”

When asked about the story, Boykin was

annoyed by “the fact that the [assistant] po-

lice chief [Butch Parker] stuck to his guns and
said it might have been an issue of High
Times, like that would make it o.k,” implying
he believes there was no probable cause to
search Martin’s car.

Dr. Mary Thornberry of Davidson’s oliti:
cal science department agrees with this as-
“Having a magazine of general
circulation, such as Creative fogins: is not
probable cause.”

See Police Search, page 6 —

Rankings keep
Davidson among
nation’s elite

BY SUSAN ROBISON
Staff Writer

College administators across America ea-
gerly awaited last week’s issue of U.S. News
and World Report. The magazine released its
annual ranking of the top colleges in America,
including the fifty best liberal arts schools,
and every year “the competition is fierce,”
said Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable.

Davidson found itself in the 11" spot for
the second year in arow, improving or retain-
ing its scores in six of the seven evaluation
criteria over last year, which, to college presi-
dent Bobby Vagt, “‘is the preferred result.”

The data is amassed by standardized
surveys sent to every college. The rank is
based on seven parts: academic reputation,
retention, faculty resources, student selectiv-
ity, financial resources, graduation rate per-
formance, and alumni giving rate.

The highly subjective “academic reputa-
tion” category is based on a survey given to
the president, the chief admissions officer,
and the chiefacademic officerofeach school.

Director of Planning and Institutional Re-
search Linda LeFauve was happy about the
college’s overall consistency in the rankings.

“We continue to be ranked among the best
in terms of selectivity, retention of students,
graduation rates and alumni giving,” she said. ,

Although 11" isn’t the highest that David-
son has been—it was eighth in 1997—stu-
dents seemed to be extremely satisfied with
the outcome.

“The high ranking made me feel even more
proud and honored to be a part of such a great
institution,” said freshman Jason Scott.

Students and faculty members alike are
especially pleased with the report’s impact
on Davidson’s perceived reputation.

“T was definitely excited to see us ahead of
other.schools with really great reputations,”

See Rankings, page 6

INSIDE

Viewpoint
SGA Commentary

Response to Chaplain Spach

Hate Crimes Laws Under Scrutiny

Sports
Possible Conference Changes?
Big Week For Volleyball

Football Preview

