+ BY Liz NEIHEISEL

Career Services Intern

There are few tasks that cannot be tackled
through the Internet these days. Lawyers and
other members of the legal field now have yet
another resource for such tasks: Fastcase.com,
an Internet start-up company dealing in digi-
tal legal publishing. And they owe some
thanks to Davidson College seniors Jason
Hild and Eric Arnold, who interned at the
start-up last summer.

This paid internship was announced last
spring by Career Services through JobTrak.
Specifically, students who selected Wash-
ington, DC as one of their geographic prefer-
ences received a targeted email. Out of a pool
of 150 applicants from various prominent
colleges and universities, only six applicants
were offered positions. Three of those posi-
tions went to Davidson College students:
Austin Rice-Stitt (00), Jason Hild ’01, and
Eric Arnold ‘01. The remaining positions
went to students from Yale, Mt. Holyoke, and
Carlton.

The ratio of permanent to part-time help
gave the interns a greater role. “There were
six intern positions and five permanent posi-
tions at this internet ‘start-up,” said Hild.
“That gave the interns the ability to really

contribute to the company.”

- “I designed the company t-shirt for -our
softball games,” recalled Hild. “Then they
asked me to design the company business
‘cards and stationery. I’d never really done
that sort of thing before, but they let me try
anyhow. That design then set the image of the
company.”

“Their attitude about our work was great,”
noted Hild. “They were so responsive.
Whether they liked the ideas or not, they were
appreciative. We heard a lot of posi-
tive criticism.”

Arnold also had a positive experi-
ence at the start-up. “A lot of intern-
ships you go to and make what you can
of it,” he said. “They went out of their
way to make it a good experience for us. We

didn’t have to seek out learning opportuni-:

ties.”

The interns kept busy over the summer
with marketing, market research, content
development, technical operations, database
design, and operations management.

“I did content research for the site,” ex-
plained Hild. “That provided the basis for the
site’s services. I also did marketing research
and analysis, some graphic design and brand-
ing, and competitor research.”

“My competitors were different from
Jason’s, but we were on the same main

project,” added Arnold.

“Some of the interns thought the job was
very computer oriented, and the interns did
have to be proficient, but it was a proficiency
that is not uncommon at Davidson,” said
Arnold. ;

Computer skills were not the only skills

- needed, though. “The interns would be as-

signed a specific project and had to go out and
capture all the data and then write a memo to
the whole office,” Arnold remarked. “The

Beyond Davidson
[A sees fram Caner Serie |

memos were critiqued on content and style.”

Fastcase.com was not all work, though.
“There would be random trips to Ben and
Jerrys,” said Hild. “We played softball every
Wednesday on the Ellipse, there between the
White House and Washington Monument.
We went to lunch on Fridays. We even took
a trip to a Baltimore Orioles game.”

“The company needed cheap labor, but
they wanted to give something back,” as-
serted Hild. “I appreciated that. They knew
what it would take to keep us happy and
busy.”

The company also tried to keep the interns

Tild make a | Fastease fori internet interns

informed about the field of internet start-ups.
“They set up luncheons with engineers from
a company called Bitbunch who talked to us
about acquiring data for the site,” commented
Hild. “Another luncheon dealt with the fi-
nancial side of a start-up.”

There were less-than-exhilarating moments
with the group, though. “The content re-
search maybe the foundation of the website,
but it’s not the most fun,” Hild admitted.

“Every few days we rotated administrative
duties — phone, filing,
and that sort of thing,”

said Arnold. “That was
the most boring part of
* the job.”

Hild, an economics
major, has expressed interest in consulting
and investment banking, but has not tied
himself to either of these fields. Arnold, a.
psychology major, has also left his options
open. Both, however, truly enjoyed their
summer experience on the Internet.

“We spent the summer surrounded by great
people with great ideas,” professed Hild.
“These people turned down serious money to
be with this start-up.”

“T’m looking forward to see the site go live
in November,” agreed Arnold.

For more internships like this, check out
www.interncenter.com!

Lynch joins Campus Security, brings wealth of experience

BY THOMAS CULLEN
Staff Writer

Davidson welcomed Marlon Lynch tocam-
pus this spring as its new Associate Director
of Campus Security. After sitting down with
him for even a short period of time, one can
easily see that he has lead an extremely re-
warding life.

After growing up in Chicago, Lynch
attended college at Michigan State Univer-
sity. As a mentor there, he spent time with
Mateen Cleaves and running back Cedric
Irvin. Ultimately, Lynch became a police
officer outside of Detroit where he dabbled in
such fields as being an undercover narcotics
officer, working ona SWAT team, and teach-
ing the D.A.R.E. program.

After leaving Detroit, Associate Director
Lynch relocated to Southern Methodist Uni-
versity in Dallas, Texas where he was a
lieutenant. Finally, He made his last stop here
at Davidson College.

Associate Director Lynch has come to
Davidson with many new ideas. He feels that
his job is about 80 percent administrative and
rarely patrols on a daily basis, Yet, if an
officer can not make his or her patrol, he will
cover for them.

Among changes he has proposed at David-
son, Lynch said, “Things I would like to add
would be a community policing [program].”
This program would entail the interaction
between the Campus Police and the Resi-

. Officers opened the unlocked

dence Life Office to discuss such issues as
personal safety, alcohol, property, and self
defense.

During the course of the interview,
Lynch kindly offered a few stories from his
past. It was Christmas Eve 1993 in Detroit
Michigan and Officer Lynch was answering
a “shots fired” call as a member of the Swat
Team.

Apparently, a boyfriend had tied up his
girlfriend and placed a large stack of
phonebooks next to her body.
He would tell her he was going
to kill her and shoot the shot-
gun into the phonebooks and
then press the barrel of the shot-
gun fo her head and burn her.

™~ynch was called to the scene
and ‘went up to investigate as
part of the entry team. With the
aid of information from a
sniper, Lynch and three other

door and entered the apartment.
The boyfriend had put down
the rifle and he decided to go
back and get it, but Officer
Lynch was not down with that.

He and the boyfriend
struggled, and, eventually,
Lynch broke the man’s jaw with
the butt of the rifle. Needless to
say, such practices are not en-
dorsed by Officer Lynch, but

Student Travel Services

Europé, Florida .

1-800-648-4849

America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas,

' www.gospringbreak.com

he feels that it was
the necessary thing
SPRINGBREAK 2001 to do at the time.

+ Associate Direc-

Hiring On-Campus Reps tor Lynch feels that
crime at Davidson =,

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, is not a problem,

~ GO FREE!!! but it is here and

can not be forgot-
ten. Recently, he
said that an inter-
national student
had fifteen hun-
dred dollars worth
of plane tickets sto-
len from his back-
- pack in the library.
- Just last week,
Lynch received re-

ports of a stolen

laptop, calculator, and. a backpack. These
occurrences are not meant to instill paranoia,
merely awareness.

Relations between off-campus police and
Davidson also fall under. his jurisdiction.
According to Lynch, due to the size of David-
son and its surrounding counties, the police
departments all keep in contact when a David-
son student is involved in a crime. Simply put
by Lynch, “You’re always a Davidson stu-
dent.”

Marlon Lynch has come to Davidson
with a positive outlook and an open mind. His
presence provides experience, knowledge,
and a friendly face on campus. Lynch best
sums his Davidson experience thus far by
saying,“ You can appreciate being in an envi-
ronment like this, because the majority of
your contacts are positive.”. With his back-
ground of service, loyalty, and courage, Of-
ficer Lynch nothing but positive things to
offer our school.

a Two sha etee's year ; achibaieiiige's vailadle: | s x
< For r Additional Information visit our office. re
Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165

