By Mariana DeEFEDEISA

A few weeks ago, the world was abuzz
over the situation in Austria, a tiny mountain-
ous country located in Central Europe. Why?
Simply because the long-held coalition be-
tween the SP and VP disintegrated, leaving
behind the opportunity for a third party, the

FP to arise. This is nothing new. It would be *

tantamount to the Reform or Libertarian Party
gaining a majority up on Capitol Hill.

So why has the European Union (EU)
threatened to sanction Austria?

Austria, like the other EU members, is a
free and democratic country in which elec-
tions are held and the people choose their
rulers. Though their governmental system is
quite different from that of the US (perhaps a

4. __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Austria receives unmerited sanctions International

source of misunderstanding), it is still demo-
cratic and holds much of the same principles.
Is it fair to say that the world should isolate
the country simply because it is facing inter-
nal governmental problems and is restructur-
ing? No. What were the reactions to the
recent military coups in Pakistan and Ecua-
dor? Was there talk of sanctions upon those
countries? No. Yet, Austria, who didn’t have
anything as drastic as a coup, faces the threat
of political isolation.

Such sanctions would be like a vote of no
confidence in the British system. The govern-
ment is restructuring. Shouldn’t we be
complimenting this? Critics of Austria should
go back to the basic democratic principles of
representation. The Austrian people were fed

Crossword

a
ie 7% -
a]
to
a EY 28 Ea
34
37 40
yrs
41 I
@
40
e3
ww
Nun-sense
Across Down
1. Pointed 1, “_ -boy!”
5. UCLA rival 2. Goo Goo Dolls song
9. Ship part 3. Rent character
14. Kiddie vehicle 4. Squeaks by
15. Train depot (abbr.) 5. Glucose variety
16. Gives off 6. Consumers
17. Balboa competitor 7. Higher than normal
18, German one 8. Sugar crop
19. Gem measurement 9. Non-stop
20. Beginning of quip 10.____ and the Night Visitors
22. Musical symbol 11. Send money
24. Be sick © 12. Celebrity
25. Artist Andy 13. EDT alt.
29. Actor Idle 21. Electric animal
31. Great Expectations nickname 22. George Michael song
34. Zones 25. Absurd
35. Proofread 26. Full of noise
36. As well as 27. Leases
37. Second part of quip 28; = I Told You Lately” ‘
39. Third part of quip 30. Emulate the sun?
41. Model Moss 31. Pen feather
42. Actress Skye 32. Section of Time or Life
44. Range 33. Beauty and the Beast mom, w/ Mrs.
45. Mos. and mos. 35. English school
46. Carson’s successor 36. Open
47. Concurs 38. Brother’s daughter
48. Egg holder 40. Something to walk on?
49. Shoats’ partners 43. Hole in one’s head?

51. Final part of quip

58. British distance

59. Southpaw’s stat

60. Wed unseen
61.“Ifyouneed__ to talk to”
62. Word with supply or thin
63. Baggy, as clothing

64. Playfully bounds

65. USA panhandle

66. Bad car

46. LA hoopsters

47. Wonder

48. Chuck

50. Scarlet, in Gone With The Wind
51. Casino offering

52. Newspaper column
53. Dumb’s partner
54. Lotion ingredient
55. Sonic noise
56.___ facto

57. Adolescent

58. Damage

up with the current interaction between their
two main parties (comparable to the Repub-
lican and Democratic Party disputes in the
US). Therefore, what should be the natural
result, but a changing of government to re-

 flect'these changing desires?

Things would have looked differently
had President Kleistil called earlier elections.
This would have shown that the people do
indeed desire Joerg Haider’s Party (FP) to be
a part of the government. And if it’s the
people’s will, then how can you call it un-
democratic?

After all, it’s not as if Haider, a man
renowned for his Nazi and anti-immigrant
sentiments, will be a part of this government.
Unfortunately, Haider is not known for his
diplomacy. This is what I believe is causing
the call for sanctions versus the idea of a
right-wing party being a part of the govern-
ment.

I believe that within a couple of months,
the people and his party will see the devastat-
ing result of Haider’s frequent and indecent
remarks. Once this happens, leadership
changes will occur. But that is Austria’s busi-
ness. Give it a chance to reform its govern-
ment without having to worry about political
isolation.

The world has not given this tiny country
a chance to prove itself. Instead, before even
watching to see how this new government
will operate, we threaten them with sanc-
tions. Is that really fair? Certainly not. Give
Austria a chance for political reform!

Mariana DeFede is a freshman, German and
Political Science double major from Spain.

Dr. Krentz to
write book on
Greek warfare

Press RELEASE

W. Kendrick Pritchett ’29 has ensured
that the name of Davidson College will for-
ever be associated with scholarship on an-
cient Greek warfare. Peter Krentz, professor
of classics, will further enhance the college’s
reputation by writing a book that synthesizes
current knowledge of the subject into a single
volume with popular appeal.

Pritchett, a former professor at Berkeley
whose 90th birthday was celebrated by Krentz
and many others last spring, wrote the five-
volume The Greek State at War between
1971 and 1991. Krentz will draw from those
books and a tremendous amount of scholar-
ship from Pritchett and other researchers to
write a single-volume interpretation of Greek
warfare with appeal to a broad audience.

The National Endowment for the Hu-
manities has accepted his proposal, and will
provide $30,000 funding to support Krentz’s
research on the subject in Greece next aca-
demic year. He will spend the year as an
Elizabeth A. Whitehead Visiting Professor at
the American School of Classical Studies in
Athens.

Krentz has written a half-dozen article
on Greek warfare, dating back to 1985. His
research thus far has led him to believe that
Greek warfare was not so bound by a code of
honorable conduct as many scholars believe.
“Some have even referred to the battles as
‘tournaments’ to emphasize the rules they
followed,” explained Krentz. “But my notion
is that things were never so rigid.”

His most recent journal article covers

_ deception in Greek warfare, and argues that

ambush and trickery were accepted practices.
Krentz said, “It may be that early Greek

See Krentz, page 7.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

a ee

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

Sierra Leone. The UN Security Council
agreed to increase the size of its peace-
keeping force in the West African nation
from 6,000 to 11,000. This makes it the
largest UN force currently in operation.

Stipe Mesic. The reformer, who was
Yugoslavia’s last president before its break
up in 1991, has just been elected as Presi-
dent of Croatia. Mesic’s first move as.
President was to invite around 300, 000
ethnic- Serb refugees to return to the coun-

try.

Hostages on the hijacked Afghan air-
plane. The tension surrounding the Af-
ghan airplane that was hijacked in London
came to an end as all the passengers were
released and the hijackers surrendered
under the terms of political asylum.

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Lebanon. When six Israeli soldiers were
killed in Israel-occupied southern-Leba-
non, the Jewish nation retaliated by bomb-
ing Lebanon. Three electric transformers
that provide power to key Lebanese cities
including Beirut, the capital, were hit by
the bombs.

Pavle Bulatovic. The Serbian, who was
Yugoslavia’s defence minister and a key
ally of President Milosevic, was fatally
shot in a restaurant in Belgrade.

Nauru. One of the newest members of the
United Nations, this Pacific island has
proposed to review its banking system
after it was disclosed that Russian crimi-
nals were using it for money laundering.

Your image is
everything. How
much it costs caw

be our little secret.

Turnberry Place-Cornelius
(Neat to Sushi at the Lake)

W. Catawba Ave

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

S 6.99

OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99

Nex valid with other offer’.
