Latin American Influence in
Mecklenburg County |

On Wednesday October 18 at 7:15pm
in the 900 room there will be a panel
discussion on the topic “The Latino pres-
ence in the Charlotte area: Building
Bridges with Davidson.”

The panel will consist of four members
of the surrounding community who work
closely with Latinos and Hispanics. The
moderator will be Professor Magdalena
Maiz-Pefia.

Oataes Dinner

The Oxfam Dinner will ae held on
Monday, October 16 from 6:30 to 8:00
pm in Vail Commons. The dinner is
intended to demonstrate world food dis-
tribution. —
A discussion of neha resources ;

meat 44

Honistece Panel

Homeless people an Charlotte will
come and talk about their experience on —
Tuesday, October 17 in the 900 Room:
The talk starts at 6:30, dinner will be |
served at 6. This event is a part of Hunger
and Poverty Awareness Week.

Briefs and announcements
can be sent to JT Tolentino at
jttolentino @ davidson.edu,
_ or to Matt Garfield at
maserpeld @davidson, edu.

By Linpy. B BALDWIN
Staff Vi Writer

“

Last February, the deaths of four Pine View
A&M athletes capped off a two-month pe-
riod in which five van crashes injured or
killed college athletes traveling to and from

"games.

Such tragedies caused many colleges—
including Davidson—to question the safety
of their policies regarding athletic teams’
travel.

Beginning this year, the school no longer
allows athletes to drive vans to games, and
provides drivers for buses or vans for all its
athletic teams. ©

Athletic Director Jim Murphy says
Davidson’s policies regarding van travel have
always been notably stricter than those of

. Davidson examines travel policy for athletes.

comparable schools.

“Prior to this season, we allowed teams to
take vans if the trip was under four hours and
the team would return to campus before mid-
night,”
been limited to blown tires and other minor
incidents.

But the school decided not to take any
chances.

Murphy said he and other members of the

_athletic staff were uncomfortable with the

idea of van travel, especially given the in-
crease in highway truck traffic and the recent
string of accidents. Murphy’s staff worked
with college President Bobby Vagt to allo-
cate the necessary funding to hire buses for
larger teams and van drivers for smaller ones.

In addition to improved safety, Murphy
feels the new policy is much more comfort-

he said, adding that accidents have

‘able for athletes.

“The physical stress of a long return trip
packed in a van does not lead to maximum
productivity upon the team’s return to cam-
pus,” he said.

And then there’s always the benefit of
inspiring jealousy in opponents. Beth Corrigan
’04, a member of the tennis team, said that at
this season’s first match other teams were
impressed with Davidson’s new method of
transportation. Many athletes from. other
schools expressed interest in the school’s
policy and said that they wished their schools
had similar travel policies.

Given the benefits of using professionals
instead of exhausted athletes to drive on long
trips home, perhaps other colleges will soon
adopt Davidson’s new policy.

Ecumenical Council promotes Christian community

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Both in national discourse and here at
Davidson, the Christian community has pre-
sented a divided and often confusing front on

the issue of inclusion and ordination of ho-

mosexuals. The Ecumenical Council wants
to reframe the ongoing debate in a forum
entitled “Many Voices of Faith in One Con-
versation” next Tuesday, October 3.

The Council encourages and respects the
differing views. They are concerned, how-
ever, about the way the debate has been
carried out and about its perception in the
community. In light of this, the forum in-
tends to “discuss the way the Christian com-
munity has reacted” to this debate and to
demonstrate a more unified, more tolerant
approach to its resolution, according to Olga
Granda ’01, chair of the Council.

As Granda explained, Chaplain Rob Spach
had intended to begin a dialogue on inclusion
of homosexuals in the Christian community
with his letter to The Davidsonian.

Both Spach and the Council are pleased to
see this debate taking place, but because of its
distance from the issue and from the actors
involved, “The Davidsonian doesn’t show
every side,” remarked Granda. “We [the
Ecumenical Council] feel that we need a
more open and familiar environment.” Fur-
thermore, the letters that have been printed
“show a rift [among Christians], and that is a
negative image to present to the larger com-
munity.”

This forum is also an attempt to increase
the involvement of the Council in its main
area of responsibility, promoting coopera-
tion and dialogue among Christian students
and organizations on campus. The Council,
explained Granda, is sponsored by the
Chaplain’s Office and includes representa-
tives from every Christian group at David-
son.

“There have been times in recent memory
that the Council and its members found them-
selves unable to work together,” she recalled.

Now, however, she feels that members, with
their differing yet compatible views of Chris-
tianity, are excited about their role in the
community and eager to make a positive
impact.

“After all, this is what the Ecumenical
Council is supposed to be responsible for,”
Granda asserted.

She stressed that this forum is not supposed
to determine whether or not homosexuality is
asin. “There will be no scripture quoting or
arguing back and forth.”

Council member Lydia Wilson ’01 added,
“The Council recognizes the issue of homo-
sexuality is of great importance to the entire
Christian community but fears no positive
effect can come out of further debate until
Christians learn not only to understand each
other’s views and their roots but also to
respect those differences.”

Finally, Granda encouraged all interested
students to attend. Though the event is spe-
cifically for Christians, she commented that
she “would invite others to come to witness
the fact that Christians can agree, can be
tolerant, and can behave as the brothers and
sisters that we claim to be.”

+ Neigh

Porrgl Pink4 BankotAmerica

For 9/25/00 — 10/2/00
9/28/00 9/27/00
Solicitor Loud noise

Officers responded to a complaint that a
solicitor was observed in Belk hall without
a permit and unaccompanied by a Davidson
student. Officers located the solicitor, ex-
plained the college’s policy on solicitation,
and instructed the solicitor to leave the build-
ing.

False fire alarm
A student reported that an alarm was
sounding in Richardson hall. Further inves-
tigation revealed the alarm was activated
because the “tamper” cover was removed
‘from the fire alarm pull station on the first
floor of the hall.

on ice eee 2
5 Reopen ey rea es £ woes aE

Officer responded to a noise complaint
located in Watts hall. The complainant
stated that the noise appeared to be coming
from the basement and it sounded like some-
one “beating on pipes”. The officer was
unable to locate, the source of the noise.

9/26/00

Disorderly conduct

Officer observed 2 subjects urinating on
‘ a parked vehicle near Patterson Court. The
subjects were later identified and disciplin-
ary action is pending.

Compiled by
Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of

Public Safety/Campus Police

ee

ee

ee ed

T 8 __ Erin Berry
eeter,

from page 1
the commissioners.

“Most everybody said thati it would comple-
ment [the town],” said Kincaid.

Added Martin: “We are in the business to
ensure that downtown is viable.”

Both men said the Harris Teeter could
boost the town’s tax revenue, which will help
fund services such as parks and recreation.

Martin says the town has historically has
not actively recruited new downtown busi-
nesses.

“We would like n more businesses in down-
town Davidson,” said Martin, adding that itis
an “attractive place” for business.

. “A sustainable community includes a gro-
cery store.”

The store also could improve town/college
relations, much as like the post office has
done in the past, says Kincaid.

“Residents would be in regular contact
with college students,” he said,

With the opening of the new Knobloch
Campus Center in the spring, students won’t
need to go into town as much. The Harris
Teeter might provide the only opportunity for
students and residents to interact.

Kincaid stresses that “this is a place where
you need to walk to.” He hopes that the
college students will not drive to the store, but
rather will walk from their dorms.

Martin agrees, stating that it is
walking distance” of his own home.

Many students are happy about the project,
saying it will make shopping much easier—
especially students like Nina Somers ’02,
who doesn’t have a car on campus.

_ Students like Somers are happy to have
such a nearby shopping choice. Given the
current options of shopping in town — the
CVS pharmacy, Home Economists natural
foods store, gas stations, and the College
Union — students say the Harris Teeter will
give them a one-stop destination for all needs.

But some students also said the store
poses a threat to downtown’s small-town
image.

Ben Carter ‘01 believes that “it is mis-
placed for the community.”

“It’s alright, as long as it is not too big,”
said Al Vichot ’01.

His biggest worry is that it will destroy the
image of the town that Davidson has long
sought to preserve.

“The idea of having it in town is good, just
so long as it complies with the architectural
standards of the town,” said Vichot.

Kincaid summed up the overall result of
the development: “This project will have
some costs to one or two immediate neigh-
bors but I believe in balance it will have great
benefits for the town as a whole.”

“within
