tee Darmsomsn

Wildcat volleyball overwhelmes Charleston, Cita |

By 3y MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Coach Tami Darwin’s Wildcats appear to
have sufficiently recovered from a bruising
early-season schedule, capturing a pair of
conference victories in Charleston this week-
end to catapult back above the .500 mark.

“We're excited,” said Darwin. “It’s impor-
tant to establish
ourselves early
in the confer-
ence.”

Davidson met
up with the Col-
lege of Charles-
ton on Saturday afternoon at Kresse Arena,
where the Cougars putup a fierce fight before
succumbing in four games (16-14, 15-17, 16-
14, 15-11).

Charleston—currently ranked seventh in
the 11-team Southern Conference— rallied
back from an 11-3 deficit in the first game

* a
© wet

before Davidson was able to recover and earn
the win.

“Charleston definitely gave us a fight,”
acknowledged Darwin. “I don’t think we
expected them to come after us as hard as they
did, but I feel it was a good win for us. Itreally
tested our ability to battle back, and we met
the challenge.”

Four different Wildcats recorded double-
digit kills on the afternoon, with Southern
Conference Player of the Week Mara Mordini
leading the way with 19. - Junior Jennifer
Ortega continued her recent surge by notch-
ing 14 kills of her own, while Brooke Bentley
and Roberta Quis each had 11 kills. Junior
setter Erica Schwartz tallied an impressive 44
assists.

“Some people really came through big for
us when we needed them most,” said Darwin.

“We’ ve learned that we have to play at our
best every single match,” the first-year head
coach noted. “Because every team has us in
their sights and plays their best volleyball
against us. That’s going to be our challenge

this year—to maintain a high-level game in
every single match.”

The Wildcats
did just that,
rounding out the
day trip by
quickly bagging
The Citadel’s
ailing squad
(15-8, 15-5, 15-
3). The three-game sweep extended the Bull-
dogs’ Southern Conference losing streak to
12 straight games (over 4 matches) this sea-
son. ;

Sophomore Rebecca Teichgraber recorded
a career-high 14 kills on just 18 attempts in
the nightcap.

“Rebecca played a really good match
against the Citadel,” praised Darwin. “She
hit very smartly.”

The Wildcats continued conference action
lastnight witha Belk Arenashowdown against
a 2-3 UNC-Greensboro squad. Greensboro
got off to a rocky start earlier this month,

_day.

when nine of their team’s 12 players (as well -
as a trainer and assistant coach) came down

with strep throat.

Davidson hosts a pair of matches this week-
end—against conference foe Georgia South-
ern on Friday night and then ACC power-
house Wake Forest on Saturday evening.

“We’ve already had a taste of the ACC
against Georgia Tech and Clemson,” Darwin
said. “This will be our last match against an
ACC school this season, and it’s a great
chance to prove ourselves against one of the
nation’s top volleyball conferences.”

Wake Forest finished non-conference ac-
tion this year with the ACC’s top mark (8-1),
falling only to #8 Pepperdine. But the Wild-
cats have a unique insight into the program—
namely 1999 Wake alum and current
Davidson assistant coach Kelly McCaffrey.

“Tt’s nice that Kelly played at Wake,” said
Darwin. “I’ve been picking her brain every

”

Charlotte suffers through rough sports year

By Davip MoncurRE
Staff Writer

Charlotte seems to have everything going
in its favor, right? -

It is one of the fastest growing cities in the
nation. It is one of the premier banking
centers in the nation. The nation’s best liberal
arts college is only a short drive away. How-
ever, the one thing that Charlotte does not
have is a successful sports world.

May 1, 1999 was the beginning of the
recent troubles for the Charlotte sports world.
On that day, three spectators were killed at
Lowes Motor Speedway by debris from a
crash at an Indy Racing League race.

Many other spectators were also critically
injured when tires and other debris from the
three-car crash flew into the stands. The
deaths were the first in the history of the IRL
and of the Charlotte track.

The fatalities raised many safety concerns
about racing in Charlotte, such as the possi-
bilities of raising the safety fences, not allow-
ing people to sit in the first few-rows of seats,
and maybe even not racing Indy cars in Char-
lotte again.

A drunken-driving incident occurred on
October 27, 1999, when the Hornets’ Derrick
Coleman was arrested after wrecking his car
and injuring his teammate Eldridge Recasner.
Coleman was later found innocent of the DUI
charges.

Coleman’s run-in with the law began a
series of such troubling instances involving
Charlotte sports players.

On November 16, 1999, Cherica Adams,
the pregnant girlfriend of Carolina Panther
Rae Carruth, was shot. She delivered the
baby, but she’ ended up dying a few weeks
after the shooting. Carruth claimed inno-
cence, despite the fact that he was found
hiding from police in the trunk of a car at a
Tennessee motel.

Carruth and 3 conspirators were charged
with 1* degree murder, conspiracy, and
intent to kill an unborn child. He remains
in jail without bond, and the prosecutors are
trying for the death penalty in his case. The
trial is set for later this year.

On December 7, 1999, George Shinn, the
man who brought the NBA to Charlotte,
~ began his civil trail after being charged with
sexual assault. A Hornets cheerleader al-
leged sexual misconduct; however, Shinn
was later found not guilty.

Shinn’s incident brought further infamy to
an already struggling Hornets team. Despite
making the first round of the NBA playoffs,

the Hornets had a sub-par season.

Average attendance at Hornets’ games was
more than 6,000 fans lower than previous
year’s average. One explanation for the drop-
off in attendance is the fact that the Hornets
have traded all of their star players, including
Larry Johnson, Alonzo Mourning, and most
recently Eddie Jones.

The early months of 2000 brought further
shame and tragedy to the Charlotte Hornets.

On January 12, 2000, the Hornets’ Bobby
Phills was killed in a car crash driving home
from practice. Police believed that Phills was
racing his teammate David Wesley when
Phills wrecked his car.

Then on February 26, 2000, the Hornets’
Anthony Mason was arrested in New York on
assault charges. He was involved in a fight
outside of a Harlem bar with 6 other people.

This disturbing incident was only the first
of a series of such run-ins with the law'by
Mason, who has recently been traded to the
Miami Heat. Mason created a small scuffle
with the Panthers’ William Floyd at the Com-
edy Zone on May 5, 2000.

Mason was involved in a third fighting
incident on July 3, 2000, in New Orleans. He
instigated an argument with another man and
then hit a police officer that was trying to
break up the argument. Then Mason tried to
stir riotous behavior from the surrounding
crowd. The Hornets decided to trade Mason
after recognizing his inability to stay clear of
run-ins with the law. ;

The final headline incident involving the
Hornets in the early months of 2000 dealt
with the possibilities of a new arena. Ray

~ Woolridge, aco-owner of the Hornets, wanted

the city of Charlotte to help fund a new $220
million dollar arena for the Hornets. State tax
money would have also been used in
Woolridge’s plan.

Somehow Woolridge expected the city to
empty its pockets to fund a new arena for a
rapidly declining team.

Woolridge also figured that the Charlotte
Sting, the WNBA team, could play in the new
arena. The Sting would surely draw fans with
their 8-24 record this past ‘season. After
making the playoffs in their first three years,
the Sting fell sharply this past season.

Now the timeline turns back to tragedy,
again involving Lowes Motor Speedway. On
April 5, 2000, a construction worker died

after falling from the bleachers that were

being built at the dirt track at the speedway.

Then on May 20, 2000, a concrete foot-
bridge at the speedway collapsed after the
NASCAR race. Calcium chloride eroded the

steel cables that supported the footbridge
over highway US 29, and over 100 people
were injured after the bridge collapsed 17 feet
down to the highway.

Thebridge’s collapse raised questions about
the quality of construction and whether or not
shortcuts were taken during construction that
might have led to the corrosion and collapse.
Yet another tragedy at Lowes Motor Speed-
way was definitely not the news headline that
the Charlotte track needed.

July 6, 2000, brought further tragedy t to
Charlotte. Ex-Panther Fred Lane was shot to
death in his home by his wife Deidra Lane.
Fred Lane had played three seasons with the
Panthers and was recently traded before his
death.

Prosecutors believed that his wife sought
to collect on his $5 million life insurance
policy. Deidra Lane had a history of criminal

problems involving money, including a re-
cent arrest for bank larceny charges.

The Lane story coupled with the ongoing
Carruth saga was not the way that the Caro-
lina Panthers hoped to be known for in the
sports media circle. The Panthers were hop-
ing to earn more positive media coverage in
an attempt to recover from a disappointing 8-
8 1999 season. Instead, the Panthers have
been portrayed as a continually struggling
team trying to recover from the recent crimi-
nal problems.

The past year in Charlotte sports has defi-
nitely been one to forget. A series of trag-
edies, criminal problems, and poor perfor-
mances on the field or in the arena has left
Charlotte sports fans bewildered. The ath-
letes’ level of performance both on and off
the field can only improve from here.

X-Country races in Charlotte

By KeitH CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Friday night at McAlpine Greenway Park
in Charlotte, the Men’s Cross Country team
competed in the Great American Cross Coun-
try Festival.

The-Cats faced off against twenty schools
from around the country, including
Georgetown, NC State, Michigan State, and
Duke. The men’s race began at 7:30 pm, and
fans watched as nearly 200 runners sloshed
their way under the lights through a wet and
muddy 8 kilometers.

Despite the conditions, the Cats recorded
their best meet of the season. Finishing first
for the men, junior Dan Gibson ran his way to
a 26.03 on the 8k course. Following close
behind came sophomore roommates Andrew
Schoew (26:32) and Jimmy Swansbrough
(26:38). Freshmen Dave Bunge (26:52) and
Colby Broadwater (27:06) rounded out the
Cat’s top five spots. Sophomore Brad Becken
(27:26), freshman Chris Schmader (27: 30),
senior Keith Chapman (27:41) and freshman
Ben Gaspar (27:45) filled the next four spots.

After the race, Coach Gary Andrew could
barely contain his excitement. With the 9
guys under 28 minutes, the Cats continue
their risé through the Southern Conference.
Andrews noted, “the younger guys have got-
ten a few races behind them now and the team
is really coming together. I think we’re going
to surprise some teams at the Southern Con-

ference Championships.”

With almost every member running a per-| |
sonal best, the Men’s team is primed for even
more dramatic improvement.

Even alumni Thomas Joseph McElveen
was overheard saying, “the team is impres-
sively strong. They performed up to coast
guard standards!” The men will race this
Saturday at Hagan Stone Park.

_ Press RELEASE

Senior Smyth Bitter finished 56th overall
to lead Davidson to a 15th place finish at the
Great American Cross Country Festival held
at McAlpine Park Friday evening.

Gardner Webb’s Sylvia Chelimo finished
the 5K course ina time of 16:55 to capture the
women’s title. Brigham Young took home
the team title placing five runners in the top
15. Finishing behind BYU in the top five
portion of the team standings were N.C. State,
Georgetown, Ball State and Duke.

Following Bitter for the Wildcats were
Colleen Faes (19:35, 94th), Jenna Kruppa
(19:44, 103rd), Liz Gross (20:11, 127th) and
Emily Einstein (20:12, 128th).

Davidson finished the meet just behind
SoCon rival Western Carolina. Next up for
Davidson women is the Greensboro
Invitaional in Greensboro, N.C. on Septem-
ber 30.

