By MIKE ANDERSON

Editor Emeritus

Head coach John Filar brings an abun-
dance of promising—though wholly un-
proven—talent to the floor this year as the
women’s basketball program takes its first
hesitant step into the post-Jen O’Brien era.

Few things, if any are certain. But one
thing is for sure—it’s bound to be a wild ride.

“Tt’s going to take some time to gel,” Filar
acknowledged. “There are going to be some
nights on the court when we’!l amaze people.
There are going to be some nights when it
looks like we’re running around with our
heads cut off.”

The opening night lineup will be starkly
revamped from last year’s O’Brien-led
squad—let alone the 1998-99 team that last
reached the Southern Conference Champion-
ships.

Junior sharpshooter Janna Magette is the
lone returning starter,’but the squad will re-
turn a core cast of supporting characters—
players who spent most of the past few sea-
sons developing in the shadows of names like
O’Brien, Kamp, Montrella and Brown, and
are eager to step to the forefront.

Joining them will be aremarkable influx of
freshman talent—Filar brings six first-year
players to the roster and expects many of
them to make an immediate impact.

At a pre-season media gathering in
Greenville, S.C., last week, Southern Confer-
ence coaches predicted Davidson to finish in
a seventh-place tie with Wofford come
season’s end.

But Magette, for one, isn’t concerned. “I
love the idea that people expect us to be
seventh in the conference. That means they’re
not expecting much out of us, which will
allow us to creep up on some people.”

That’s the game plan—Filar hopes to con-
vert his team’s biggest weakness (lack of
experience) into:an unlikely strength (the
ability to catch team’s off —guard and unpre-
pared).

The Captains.

Three upperclass captains will be relied
upon to help stay the course during what is
bound to be an up-and-down early-going—
senior JoAnne Hassel and juniors Magette
and Bethany Schott.

Hassel, a5-8 guard from Jacksonville, Flor.,

came to the teamas a non-schol-
arship recruit four years ago.
Three years later, after exhibit-
ing an intense work ethic and
team-oriented commitment,
Hassel will not only captain this
squad—but looks to see a dra-
matic increase in her court time.
“JoAnne has played awfully
strong inthe pre-season already,”
said Filar. “She’s in tremendous
shape—and at top form on the
defensive end. She’s probably
the quickest player on the court
for us.”

Magette, a junior guard, will
be looked to as a constant on-
court leader. The team’s only
returning starter, Magette will
draw intense attention from op-
posing defenses but will be re-
lied upon to carry a large per-
centage of the scoring burden.
“Magette’s shoulders have to be
so broad this year,” Filar said.
“Tt’s such a mixed bag that she
has to attend to. She has to be a
leader on the court, she has to be
a.scorer, and most importantly,
she has to find a way to involve
everyone else. Janna’s going to
have to make such smart decisions every
game for us.”

Fellow captain Bethany Schott will have a

@ Seniors Kim Taylor (front), JoAnne
Hassel, and Jess Heath.

erleck Witheartaakeinel squat preps for season

“Tt’s definitely going to be hard (to have to

watch from the sidelines),” Schott said. “It’s
going to be a major learning experience for

markedly different role. As a would-be re- me. But I’m just going to have to become a

up on some people.”’

“I love the idea that people expect us to finish
seventh in the conference...They’re not expect-
ing much out of us, which will allow us to creep

.- Janna Magette

turning starter, Schott figured to play a con-
siderable role in the squad’s success this
season until going down with a torn ACL/
MCL in pre-season pick-up. “We’re going to
miss ‘B’ tremendously,” said Filar. “It’s
really a big, big loss to this squad.”

@ Kim Taylor holds off a would-be Furman rebounder in last season’s. Southern
Conference Tournament. Taylor scored 18 points and grabbed a team-high ten
rebounds in Saturday’s exhibition.

leader off-the-court and stay vocal and posi-
tive for the team.”

Filar has no doubt that she will. “People
have no idea how much Bethany Schott is
going to contribute to this team this year—it
will be completely behind the scenes.”

Keys to Success

No one expects Davidson to
sweep through the Southern
Conference this year. In fact,
given what some people have
deemed “‘a rebuilding season,”
it can be tempting to look down
the road a bit. The Wildcats
have no such inclinations.

“Anytime you ’re coaching at
this level—especially with a
young roster like we have—
there is a two-year.or a three-
year plan,” said Filar. “But
| that’s not our primary goal. Our
primary goal is to win this
| year—we’re not going to hide
} that at all.”

And there is potential to win
this year—to win a lot. But the
team will have to achieve greatly
in some key areas.

Defense.
“This team has a potential to be
as strong defensively as any team
we’ve had here,” Filar said, And

they may well have to be. “We’re all con-
cerned about where the points are going to
come from, so we need to be extra stingy on
defense,” the coach continued.

First-year guard Lindsay Shade agreed.
“To be. successful, we must be at out very

. best defensively every time we step onto the

floor. Our offense will feed off our defense.”

The squad promises to be one of the quick-
est, most-athletic teams Davidson has seen in
some while—and given the depth on this
year’s team, forty minutes of intense, stifling
defense may not be out of reach.

Consistency in the Post.

The center position is still up for grabs as
early-season action rolls around. And the
loss of Schott opens up playing time at the
four-spot as well.

Four Wildcats—two seniors (Jess Heath
and Kim Taylor) and two freshman (Meghan
Bryant and Courtney Laird)—will vie for
time in the post.

“For a long time, there were Katy Kamp’s
and Jess Montrella’s to reckon with. Now
it’s Jess and Kim’s turn to step to the front,”
said Filar.

Heath and Taylor bring distinctly diverse
talents to the floor.

“Jess is finally starting to realize what a
physical presence she can have on the court,”
said Filar. “And Kim Taylor can run the
court as well as any five player in the confer-
ence.

“They bring such different games to the
floor. If we can depend on both of them on
any given night, we’re going to be tough to
stop.”

Stay Healthy

Luck has not been on the Wildcats’ side
over the past couple of seasons—especially
in the junior class.

Literally one-half of the knees in the junior
class have been operated on—both of Leah
Uhernik’s, both of D’Erica Taylor’s, and
now one of Bethany Schott’s.

Health at the “three” will be a major issue
again this year. Uhernik is coming off her
third ACL surgery in four years and contin-
ues to play with pain. Meanwhile, Kelly
Copland, another bright spot of potential this
year, continues to battle a chronic lower back
injury.

“Tt’s been really strange in practices due to
all these injuries,” said Filar. ‘There are
times when I want to grab five veteran play-
ers to demonstrate a drill or a play, and we
don’t even have five healthy ones out there.”

Cohesiveness.

The team is nothing if not inexperienced.
With only one returning starter and six fresh-
man added to the mix, this year’s roster
players averaged barely thirty percent of the
court time of last year’s squad.

So while there is a great deal of talent
waiting’ to be realized—they will have to
grow together. And they’ll have to do it
without O’Brien, a three-year starter. at the
point. with the nickname of “Elmer” for
bringing cohesiveness to the floor.

Said Filar, “We have a lot of players who
haven’t seen a lot of court time together.’
We’re going to have to get comfortable out
there very quickly.”

But the ‘Cats are eager to prove they can do
it. “Our team’s biggest strength is our unity,”
said one. “I’ve never been around such a
good group of girls. We’ll be able to pick
each other up and prevent any lapses in
play—this group is special.” :
