THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

_ THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

International

By As tt KINoGLu

The existing conflict in Cyprus between
the Greek and Turkish parts of the island has
a complex history. The root of the trouble in
Cyprus isn’t the 1974 invasion that the Greek
Cypriots claim resulted in the ethnic cleans-
ing of their people. It goes back much farther
than just the last twenty-six years.

As previously mentioned in the article
“The Sparks That Keep the Turkey-Greece
Fire Blazing,” until 1960 Cyprus was admin-
istered by British colonialists. The exit of the
British saw the formation of a bi-communal
State with a political partnership between the
two nations. This result was unlawfully pro-
tested by the Greek-Cypriots since their aim
was total “annexation of Cyprus to Greece
(ENOSIS).” In the process, despite UN ef-
forts to mediate, the Turkish-Cypriot mem-
bers of the joint parliament were expelled
from office and the people forced to flee their
homes. The UN peacekeeping force was un-
able to protect the Turkish-Cypriots against
the Greeks — at which point Turkey inter-
vened.

Regarding the intervention in 1974, “Was
Turkey right and the rest of Europe wrong?”
as was implied by “A Homeland is Heart.”
Maybe so! Since when are truths regarding
world politics determined by a simple math-
ematical majority of those for and against
them? A simple example to illustrate this
point: when the world, including the UN,
simply ignored the genocide that took place
in Rwanda in 1994 and did nothing to stop
that humanitarian crisis, were the victims of
this violence wrong and the rest of the world
right? Of course not! The issue goes much

Cyprus: can hatred and animosity ever be the solution?

deeper and is certainly more complex than
that.

The policies of the Greek-Cypriots —
described by the UN secretary-general as “a
veritable siege” - resulted in the Turkish
inhabitants being scattered in various, .iso-
lated parts of the island from 1964 up to 1974,
with no representation of the ‘ ‘joint” govern-
ment that the 1960 Treaties required. Further-
more, during that ten-year period, 117
mosques were destroyed with the goal of

. abolishing all Turkish landmarks.

Even though they were truly hostages in
their own land, the international community

Turkish Cypriot side in grants and loans
without any demand for repayment. That is a
considerable contribution since Turkey itself
has more than $93.4 billion of external debt.
Even though helping out Cyprus was, at times,
a huge burden on the Turkish economy, the
government never ceased the flow of aid to
the junior country.
Why? Because Turkey did care.

. Turkey has a 10% unemployment rate
today versus the 6.4% in Northern Cyprus
that it has helped to maintain if not decrease.
No one in his right mind could call that
“failing to bring a better living forthe Turkish

ignored the Cypriots
Turkish-Cypri- which sup-
ots’ pleas for “How brutal are the Turks if the entire posedly it
protection for Balkan Peninsula, which had been under ‘°#™* '°
eleven years. 5 : save.

Therefore, es- | Ottoman control for five centuries, still An-
pecially after remains predominantly Christian?” other alle-
the Greek coup gation was
on 15 July that Tur-

1974, the aim of which was achieving
ENOSIS, Turkey had no option but to inter-
vene to protect its own people.

“How much interest did Turkey have in
the Turkish Cypriots?” Quite a lot, one would
guess, otherwise why would they go into
Cyprus in the first place? If they had territo-
rial ambitions, the Turkish troops wouldn’t
have stopped after having invaded only 40%
of Cyprus. They would have gone all the way
since they certainly had the means to. Yet,
they didn’t because their aim was to secure
and protect the Turkish-Cypriots’ rights and
not to take over the island.

Between 1990-97 alone Turkey provided
$700 million dollars of economic aid to the

key threatened to march into Damascus if
“Syria continued supporting the Kurdish
population.” It is not the Kurdish population
that is in question, but the Kurdish Workers
Party (PKK), a terrorist organization that has
brought about the deaths of more than 30,000
people over the course of the last fourteen
years. During this period, it is a well-known
fact that terrorists were trained in camps in
Syria and Greece. The Turkish government’s
only demand of Syria was to cease supporting
and financing the PKK’s illegal atrocities.

If “US and NATO dump billions of dollars
into Turkey” as the latest article “Turkey:
The Peacemaker?” claims, how come the

Turkish lobby in Washington, DC isn’t ‘as
strong as a Turk’ as the expression goes?
Instead, everyone is well aware of aclear and
indisputable Greek lobby that prevails.

And if “the Turkish mobs have effec-
tively destroyed the ancient Greek commu-
nity of Constantinople/Istanbul through mass
expulsions and other discriminatory policies”,
why is Istanbul still the heart of the Orthodox
Church? How brutal are the Turks if the
entire Balkan Peninsula, which had been
under Ottoman control for five centuries,
still remains predominantly Christian?
Sadly, one cannot help but notice the differ-
ence in attitudes between the authors of the
articles on the Cyprus-Turkey conflict in the
previous issues of The Davidsonian. Tek’s
article used a moderate approach and men-
tioned the need for peace between the peoples
and a conclusion to the historical prejudices. —
However, the Greek-Cypriots’ point of view
seems to be an attacking one and is not at all
flexible in its attempts to reach a feasible
solution to the conflict. It is indeed quite
disappointing to see such rigidity on the parts
of Demosthenous and Sakkalou, their argu-
ments lack any credible basis at times.

Recently, with the major earthquakes
that took place in Turkey and in Greece, the
citizens of both countries ran to the aid of one
another. There is solidarity between the
people! Meanwhile, politics should remain a
domain for governments to handle. Hatred
and animosity simply cannot help the situa-
tion in any way.

The author is a junior political science major
from Istanbul, Turkey.

NANNY AYR YY YY YY YY YAY AY YY YY YY YY YY

WY

Did you say
FREE PIZZA?!

NYO MII YI OY

Sponsored by SGA, RLO and The Annual Fund

To Sigh up

C oMing Sooh to a Calling Center hear

The Spring Phonathon
March 14 thru April 6th

Mall Counselor
or Residence Advisor!

contact

But do it TODAY because
to miss out on FREE PIZZA, GREAT
PRIZES and COLD MARD CASH!

AN ANANANANANANANAN AN AN ANANANANANANANANAN ANAT AT ANNAN NANANANANARNAR

don't waht

