By Susana RobrRiGUEZ

Ina far, far away land, the mountains rise
above the clouds and the Pacific washes the
shores. Some have called it the Land of the
Smoking Volcano as ash from an active vol-
cano still descends upon the capital city of
Quito. Others have denoted its Galapagos
archipelago as the Enchanted Isles. It is a
gorgeous country from the blooming orchids
in vivid hues to the sunlight patchworks drawn
on the folds of the Andes; from the wild
untamed forests to the restless waters of the
Amazon tributaries.

This is the story of the plight of my
people.

In the midst of all this beauty, the harsh
realities of life have reared their ugly head.
The people of Ecuador cannot fully appreci-
ate the beauty they are blessed with, as star-
vation and poverty consume their thoughts.

In the last four years Ecuador has suf-
fered its worst economic and political crisis
of the twentieth century. The control of the
state has changed hands six times, from one
political party to another and from one presi-
dent to the next. Characterized by corruption
and irresponsible decisions, the unstable gov-
ernments have failed to provide the country
with the stability and security that it so sorely
needs.

These years of strife culminated in a
mass movement by all sectors that took to the
streets on Friday, January 21". Ecuadorians,
tired of false and empty promises and need-
ing food for their children, took to the streets
on Friday January 21st. Inflation had in-
creased by almost 60% yet salaries remained
unchanged. Bankrupt financial institutions
were closing their doors. All economic mea-
sures had failed. All hope was lost.

It was time to act. History was on their
side.

Having removed a previous president,

the demonstrators were aware of their power.
Native Ecuadorians from the forests and vil-
lages poured into the capital. Joined by other
movements, they overtook the government’s
most significant buildings. Supported by the
army, a handful of military and civil leaders
proclaimed a triumvirate that would, hence-
forth, control the country.

As the turbulent day came to a close,
three men controlled Ecuador: the chief of the
Ministry of Defense, the director of Conai
(the indigenous movement), and the ex-presi-
dent of the Supreme Court of Justice. The
result of the coup d’edtat was the abandon-
ment of democracy. Yet, no blood was spilled.
The deposed president, Jamil Mahuad, sub-
mitted silently, and apparently asked for po-
litical asylum in Chile. _

Tlie day was far from over. Three hours
later, the proclamation was retracted and vice
president Gustavo Noboa was granted con-
trol of the country under constitutional law.

Why had the new leaders mysteriously

relinquished their power?
Although the government explained it as a
conciliatory act to restore stability, breaking
news filtered out to the people. The Ecuador-
ian government had received a call from the
White House. The United States of America
would not support the triumvirate and “re-
quested” areturn to democratic control. Uncle
Sam’s had asserted its unofficial power over
a third world country.

Ecuador’s troubles are no longer just an
internal matter. The Oracle has spoken and
the invisible power ties it has with Ecuador
make its will a reality. External onlookers
might see U.S. involvement in my country’s
affairs in a positive light. For Ecuadorians,
however, the role of the United States in this
situation takes on a different dimension. It
weakens the state’s own power because it
must bend to the will of a stronger one. The
coup d’etat’s conclusion ultimately was con-

Beauty combined with turmoil in Ecuador

trolled by the American government. Ecua-
dor was left without an option. Though noth-
ing was explicitly stated and no official de-
mands made, United States on my country
overshadows all decisions.

No leader is allowed to forget that they
must first obtain approval from the White
House before they can enact any real change
in the country. In this interdependent global
community with porous national boundaries,
itis not the American army that bends the will
of other nations, but the American economy.
By exerting its influence over trade markets,
the United States is pulling the strings that
control the lifeblood of my country.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000

Today, Ecuador has regained some peace
and my people are holding their breath to see
if it will last. They are clinging to the dream
that in the near future they will be able to
regain control of the country. They hope that
sound economic measures will be imple-
mented and that corrupt politicians will be
replaced. Therein lies the hope that Ecuador
will be able to control its own destiny and not
submit to a stronger power. Only then will
the rest of the world be able to see what the
land has to offer.

The author is a freshman from Quito, Ecua-
dor.

A) 3/ 3

ay

') 3

N
uv
i

GY ya
ALL DESTINATIONS (8K
EARN CASH & FREE TRIPS:

SALES REPS & STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS WANTED

Best Prices, Hotels, Discounts, & Biggest Parties!
BROWSE THE WEB  inter-campus.com

For Details & Reservations Call

INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS @ 1-800-327-6013

Va
&

ae

i [li
eally.
classes.
campus. So

Personalized
attention. Not just

Small Small

what?

from your mentor,
" from everybody at
CGU—distinguished
faculty and helpful
staff alike. Check us
Out at www.cgu.edu,
then call or e-mail for
admissions info.

j

If you didn't sign up for ROTC asa

ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP.

Pa \

Al}

By the time you have graduated from

freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of

catch up to your classmates by
attending Army ROTC Camp Chal-
lenge, a. paid six-week summer
course in leadership training.

an Army officer. You'll also have
the self-confidence and discipline
it takes to succeed in college and
beyond.
