2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Flag from page 1.

ment as a way to move away from the status
quo. “We felt that as students, we could unite
ourselves and cause change.”

“Students are at a point in their lives
where they can think about where they are
and what kind of society they want to live in,”
Erickson elaborated. “And that gives them
power.” The student body president hopes
that this idealism and drive will push the
process of change along.

To this end, he started a committee to
discuss what options were available. Com-
mittee member Kevin Epps recalled, “He
started it with the idea of exploring the op-
tions on what Davidson could do towards flag
removal or other plans.”

Their first action was to try and garner
the support of other schools. College of
Charleston was the first contact and has proven
to be a very enthusiastic partner in this effort.
In fact, Erickson noted that their SGA had
already passed a similar resolution. It also
favored “relocation” of the flag. After dis-
cussing this issue with Angela Kouters, SGA
president at College of Charleston, she and
Erickson agreed to seek active involvement
from all Southern Conference schools. They
are pressing all student representative groups
to pass resolutions in the same spirit.

Erickson and Kouters each took half of
the conference and have been trying to con-
vince other schools to cooperate in this ven-
ture. Kouters focused on the South Carolina

Smoking from page |.

room, only 47% favored a universal ban on
smoking in the residence halls.

Members of the SGA then debated among

the various plans presented. The option of
retaining the standing policy was eliminated
quickly, and the “smoking floor” proposal
was dispensed of shortly thereafter.
The SGA was then faced with the options of
supporting the abolition of smoking in all
dormitories, or the creation of a smoke free
residence hall or halls.

Those in favor of banning smoking in all
residence halls noted that barely over five
percent of students report smoking in their
rooms. They argued that the health and

environmental rights of 95% of the campus .

should outweigh the “right to smoke” exer-
cised by a slender minority.

In support of the smoking minority, some
argued that the prohibition of smoking in the
residence halls would serve to alienate stu-
dents that smoke. “Smoking is a personal
choice, just like other personal habits,” stated
Brent Wilson.

Dean Kurt Holmes of the Residence Life
Office made an “educated guess” that “the
majority of schools (across the country) cur-
rently do not have aban on smoking, but more
and more seem to be going that way.” De-
spite such trends, an overwhelming majority
of senators felt that a universal ban on smok-
ing would not yet be acceptable for Davidson
College.

Most of the SGA representatives present
agreed that the establishment of smoke-free
residence halls was the most attractive op-
tion. The immediate subsequent issue was
that of determining which residence hall
would be smoke-free.

Dean Holmes said that the additional “smoke”
factor would further complicate the tricky
process of balancing the residence halls, but
that his office would gladly answer the stu-
dent demand. The office already undergoes
a protracted number-crunching process, tak-
ing into account gender, class, geography and
amenities, he explained.

He solicited student input, asking that stu-
dents submit suggestions for the smoke-free
building to him via e-mail. “I want this
decided before Friday,” he stated firmly.
“People need to know of changes early so that
they can make informed decisions (before
lottery).”)

NEws

schools and Georgia Southern, while Erickson
has targeted the rest of the Southern Confer-
ence. Of the reaction, he noted, “Some schools
are excited, while others are interested but a
bit more cautious.”

The split on the issue of the Confederate
Flag runs deep. In particular, students dis-
agree about what role—if any—Davidson
should play. Many on the committee assert
that Davidson has.a vested interest in bring-
ing down the flag. McCandlish agreed that
the flag’s influence extends beyond the South
Carolina border. She noted in particular the
large numbers of Davidson students who hail
from South Carolina.

Others are more hesitant‘to také such a
strong stand. Senator Will Fortune empha-
sized that it is important to go about this with
the right motivations. He agreed that it is an
important issue, but warned against “doing
anything bandwagon-ish or simply to get
media attention.”

Some senators voiced concerns about
whether the flag initiative is truly of concern
to the student body at Davidson. Senator
Whitney Frazier doubted if “this is what the
campus wants or needs right now.”

Beyond the bubble.

This situation also touches on many
broader issues. Opponents of the flag point to
the historical context in which it was first
used. The battle flag was first displayed on
the State House in 1962 during a time of great
social upheaval and racial tension.

DO YOU SMOKE?
8.2%
2332 %

68.6%

Frequently

Occasionall

Never

Yes
No
Neutral

: Yes
No
Neutral

In a Libertas article printed on January

27, Aaron Houck wrote, “South Carolina’s
decision to fly the Confederate flag over the
state capitol in the early 1960s as a silent
protest tothe movements of integration shows
the obvious tie of this particular display of the
symbol to animosity towards racial rapproche-
ment.” Fortune agreed, “No one can deny
that the flag was put up at that time for racial
reasons.”

In addition, the flag used is the Confed-
erate Battle Flag and not the actual Flag of the
Confederacy. Some assert that this choice
was intended to be more incendiary.

Nevertheless, many defend the flag as an
appropriate and respectful affirmation of
Southern heritage. As such, it has more to do
with culture than with racism. Explained
Houck, “They argue that the exhibition of the
Confederate flag is about honoring their an-
cestors who fought and died for a cause - a
cause larger than the issue of slavery.”

More generally, some feel that South
Carolina’s decision to fly the flag is based on
certain fundamental rights. Specifically, they
assert that the flag was adopted by the state
legislature, which is the only body with le-
gitimate authority to determine that. Senator
Jesse Smallwood commented, “There are lots
of connections between Davidson and South
Carolina, and we do have a right to voice our
opinion . . . Still, in the end, it’s South
Carolina’s decision.”

Bracing for impact.

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

All involved knew beforehand that this
would be acontroversial and emotional issue.
Noted Epps, “This is the kind of issue where
both sides are offended by the other’s opin-
ion. We run the risk of dividing the student
body.”

Erickson recognized this and assured
that before any action is taken, “We're going
to get as many opinions as we can.”

Students will have another chance to
voice their opinions at a forum on April 5.
The SGA sees this as an important opportu-
nity to gather student input. Senator Allison
expressed a desire to use this forum as a
means to generate student support for the
cause, ~ “Our next big hurdle is to get the
student body involved, to get them fired up.”

At the forum, students will be presented
with a list of options. Some suggestions
include a march on Columbia, a letter-writing
campaign to politicians and/or Davidson
alumni in South Carolina, and sending repre-
sentatives to address the state legislature. .
Epps also speculated about the possibility of
a substitution. He suggested that the students
come out in support of replacing the Battle
Flag with the less frequently used and more
benign Flag of the Confederacy.

Erickson expressed the hope that student
support will coalesce around this issue. “It’s
easy for us to get caught up in our own lives.
Once in a while we have to stand up for
something, to stand up for what we believe
in.” Said the president, “I think this is one
that’s worth fighting for.”

DO YOU SMOKE IN YOUR ROOM?

Frequently
Occasionally
Nevel

Did not reply

ARE YOU TOLERANT OF PEOPLE SMOKING IN YOUR ROOM?

18.8%
73.9%
7.2%

DO YOU SUPPORT BANNING SMOKING IN ALL RESIDENCE HALLS?

Yes 46.9%
No 43.5%
Don’t Know 9.7%

DO YOU SUPPORT THE CREATION OF A SMOKE-FREE RESIDENCE HALL?

77.3%
12.6%
10.1%

2.9%
11.6%

$3.6%
1.9%

Housing concerns allayed

By ANN GreGory
News Editor

RLO’s drastic reduction in off-campus
housing permission coupled with the largest
campus population in history has incited con-
cern amongst the student body over recent
weeks.

Many of these fears were allayed on
Tuesday, as every senior group that applied
fora four-person apartment was accomodated.
Three “mixed groups” (with some. seniors
and some juniors) also secured apartments, as
did one group of all juniors.

However, some seniors seeking either
five-person apartments and off-campus per-
mission were able to obtain neither. Due to
the added costs incurred by the construction
of the new dorm and lost revenue from the
addition of lounges to every hall, RLO slashed
the number of off-campus permissions from
120 to 60.

Holmes says the reduced number of off-
campus spots “has always been a reality of
the new building. It was.a conscious choice
on the part of the College to slightly increase

the percentage of students on campus. Tar-
geting the exact number is some sort of cross
between an art form, magic, and voodoo.”

The RLO staff came up with the number
60 from an estimate of the number of students
studying away from campus and the number
of students needed on campus to create 16
new lounges and return the appropriate
amount of financial support.

If their estimate of 134 students studying
off-campus next year is lower than expected,
Holmes assures that “we will be able (and
eager) to tell people on the waitlist for off-
campus that they can go.”

In the meantime, eleven seniors have
been denied off-campus permission in the
first round of lottery. The only underclass-
men that were awarded off-campus permis-
sion were those with “special needs” ap-
proved by Residence Life, the Dean of Stu-
dents office, or the Counseling Center.

“Thad looked forward to living off cam- .

pus for spring semester next year, until I was
told by RLO that there was little chance of
getting permission” lamented rising junior
Dave Love. i

Many students fear that limited off-cam-
pus space will translate into increased com-
petition for the more-desirable residence halls.
Rising sophomore David Summers added, “I
just hope that there will be enough room in
the new dorm to accomodate those of us
who'd like to live there.”

Answering those concerns, Holmes said,
“While it is possible that seniors will take a
number of spaces in the new building, I don’t
believe they will constitute any sort of major-
Ity;

The 445 rising seniors in the Class of
2001 marks the largest class in Davidson’s
history, continuing a trend that will peak with
the Class of 2002.

“In short,” says Holmes, “this year’s
senior class is the largest in the history of
Davidson. Thus, every milestone for lottery

_seems that much more difficult for students

and the RLO staff to navigate. But, we are
modifying our projects as we cross each of
those milestones and are working hard to
make all of the square pegs fit in the square
holes and the round pegs in the round ones.”
