6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

Tuurspay, APRIL 20, 2000

KA fundraising continues despite inclement weather

LAUREN DANIEL
Staff Writer

The Kappa Alpha Order is in the midst of
extensive fundraising for the Muscular Dys-
trophy Association, with an end goal of $8000.
This past weekend was intended to be the
principle time for fundraising activities with
the Buck-A-Tuck Charity Auction on Friday
night and the Saturday afternoon KArnival
on the town green.

The auction on Friday “sold” KA broth-
ers to the highest bidder. The winner re-
ceived abrother’s time for four hours. A final
total for the auction is not available as all the

bidders have yet to pay. This is the second
year that KA has conducted the auction and
with increasing popularity they were able to
raise more money this year. Last year the
fraternity sent $1500 to MDA, and this year’s
total was much higher.

“The auction was a lot of fun and a great
fundraiser, I’m looking forward to having it
for years to come,” comments KA brother
and auction participant Kevin Dexter.

‘“T was so impressed with the amount of
money KA raised in just one night—and
everyone had a blast doing it,” said Ashlee
White.

Due to Saturday’s rain most of the
KArnival’s events were postponed until
Davidson’s Town Day on May 6th. The
Nascar dome racing was. one of the only
events that took place in the shelter of the
Outpost. The silent auction is planned for the
Town Day, and with more than $3000 worth
of merchandise to be auctioned off organiz-
ers are hoping to bring in at least $1000.

Cast Iron Filter was scheduled to play at
the KArnival. KA is planning on having
them perform this Wednesday night off the
back porch of their house instead.

The money raised goes to supporters

attendees of a MDA summer camp in June.
The $8000 should pay for five cabins of
campers; each cabin houses four campers.

The money raised for MDA is kept track
of nationally by KA chapters and last year the
highest was about $5500. Davidson’ s chapter
is hoping to donate the most money this year.

Organizer James Jenkins was happy to
see all of their work pay off as their
“fundraising efforts greatly exceeded their
expectations.” The auction was a great suc-
cess and the KArnival, which intended to
bring many organizations on campus together,
will continue to be a yearly event.

NAACP may stand alone in rejection of Senate’s Confederate flag

COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) __ The NAACP
may stand alone in its push to continue the
tourism boycott of the South Carolina after
the state Senate passed a bill to remove the
Confederate flag from the Statehouse dome.

The civil rights group’s biggest allies
said Friday they’re ready to put the flag fight
behind them.

“T think once South Carolina deals with
the issue and has moved it from the State-
house dome ... a boycott of South Carolina
would not have an impact,” said Hunter

- Howard, president of the state Chamber of
Commerce, which rallied the business com-
munity to call for the flag’s removal.

Columbia Mayor Bob Coble, whose law-

suit to remove flag was dismissed after the
Legislature gave itself sole authority to take
the flag down, said he’s willing to work with
the Senate bill that was approved Thursday.

That plan would remove the Confeder-
ate flag from the House and Senate chambers
and from the Statehouse dome. Under the
proposal, a square Confederate battle flag
would be placed about 15 feet behind the
Confederate Soldier Monument at Main and
Gervais streets, on a 20-foot pole.

“At some point, political reality dictates
we have a solution that has a chance of
working,” Coble said. “At this moment, I
don’t see any other solution that can pass the
Legislature.”

LA VECCHIA’S
SEAFOOD GRILLE
LAKE NORMAN

NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS soe OUR NEW
LOCATION IN CORNELIUS (EXIT 28 — SHOPS ON
THE GREEN) SCHEDULED TO oe AT THE

But South Carolina NAACP President
James Gallman said the Senate’s bill exacer-
bates the problem.

“The current bill does not address the
issue of sovereignty, it just moves the sover-
eignty to adifferent flag pole,” Gallman said.

National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People plan to consult with
their allies Wednesday and gauge support for
stepping up economic sanctions against the
state.

“The purpose of the briefing is to discuss
the latest development in the Confederate
flag debate, review the probable elements of
expanded economic sanctions and gather spe-
cific input from you,” Gallman said ina letter
to flag opponents.

Invitations also were sent to the govern-
ment watchdog group Common Cause of
South Carolina, but Director John Crangle
said his group would support the Senate com-
promise.

“Our position, the Common Cause posi-
tion, is that we endorse the Senate bill,”
Crangle said. “We're going to argue that
position at this meeting, which I’m sure is not
going to be particularly welcome.”

Gov. Jim Hodges’ spokesman, Morton
Brilliant, said the governor hoped the NAACP
would delay any action.

“We’ve made considerable progress on
ending the flag debate, and we hope that folks
will wait until the bill is passed before reach-
ing any conclusions,” Brilliant said. “Cer-
tainly, it’s a bill that a large coalition of
people have gotten behind. It may not be
everything one person wants, but it gives
something to a lot of people.”

Senate Majority Leader John Land, D-
Clarendon, said there wasn’t much the Senate
could do about the NAACP’s plans to ratchet
up the sanctions.

“They’ ll just have to do what they have
to do, just like we did what we had to do,” he
said. Land said the Senate was faced with a
choice between allowing the banner to re-
main on the dome or moving it someplace
that would draw enough support to pass leg-
islation.

“I don’t think to let it fly
South Carolina,” he said.

The bill now goes to a House Judiciary
subcommittee.

was good for

Professor loses bid to keep post
after marijuana conviction

VICTORIA, British Columbia(AP)_A
University of Victoria sociology professor
convicted of growing marijuana in her sub-
urban home three years ago ha’ lost an ap-
peal to keep her job.

The dismissal of Jean Veevers, who had
been on the university staff since 1980, is
effective immediately.

Veevers had been suspended with pay
since December of 1998, when university
president David Strong recommended she be
dismissed.

Veevers, 56, could not be reached for
comment Friday.

Strong said that the dismissal of a ten-
ured professor from a university is “very

*.
=
si
aS
el
Se
bey

“What a Great Experience!”

Learning the language. Meeting
people. Coming face to face with
history, art and architecture, culture,
food and fun.

UNIVERSITY
STUDIES ABROAD

. CONSORTIUM...
Small classes. Personal attention. Fully
accredited — receive university credit.
We provide great classes in intensive,
language, history, anthropology, art,
business, economics, political science...

University Studies Abroad Consortium
University of Nevada MS/323

Reno, Nevada 89557

(775) 784-6569

E-mail: usac@unr.edu
http://usac.unredu

AUSTRALIA * BASQUE COUNTRY * CHILE * CHINA * COSTA RICA * DENMARK * ENGLAND « FRANCE
GERMANY * IRELAND * ISRAEL ° ITALY * MALTA* NEW ZEALAND. * SCOTLAND ° SPAIN * THAILAND

uncommon.”

Veevers pleaded guilty to charges
of cultivating marijuana and posses-
sion of marijuana for the for the pur-
pose of trafficking following a police
raid on her home in April 1997.

Officers seized nearly 19 pounds of
marijuana and 122 marijuana plants
from a set-up described as sophisti-
cated by police.

Veevers received a one-year condi-
tional sentence, meaning it was served
in her home.

The decision to finally dismiss
Veevers from the university was made
by a three-person arbitration panel.

The panel report cites the “serious
and wilful misconduct’’displayed by
Veevers, and says the crimes to which
she pleaded guilty “harmed the repu-
tation and credibility of the univer-
sity, and involved as active partners
two persons who were actual or po-
tential students.”

Veevers had taken a partial retire-
ment package prior to her legal
troubles and was working just over
half time. With the loss of that posi-
tion, she gives up $52,000 Canadian
in annual salary.

®
