THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS.

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Coach Mark retires after 48 years of coaching

By Davin MoncureE
Staff Writer

After seven seasons as the head coach of
the Davidson College golf team, Joe Mark is
retiring.

After about 48 total years in coaching,
Mark is looking forward to his retirement.
“I’m looking forward to travelling more and
becoming a spectator,” commented Mark.

He is also happy that he is ending his
Davidson coaching experience on a high note,
as the golf team is playing as well as any team
has played during his seven years here.

“T feel great about the direction the pro-
gram is heading,” said Mark. “We have
gotten better and better [during my time here].”

Mark graduated from William and Mary
in 1951 with a Bachelor of Science degree in
physical education and a minor in biology.
He also played football and ran track. After
graduating he served in the Korean Conflict
for two years with the US Army. He then
received his Master’s in Education in 1954
from William & Mary.

Mark then moved on to coaching. For
three years he was an assistant football coach
and head golf coach at William &Mary, and
then he spent eight years as an assistant
football coach at University of North Caro-
lina Chapel Hill.

He then coached at the Naval Academy,
the University of Maryland, the University of
Virginia, and Shippensburg University.

Mark then went back to Virginia to work
with athletic fundraising in 1979 and re-
mained there until he came to Davidson in
1992.

During his first year at Davidson, Mark
worked with the Davidson Athletic Founda-
tion, and in 1993 he began his tenure as the
Wildcat’s head golf coach.

“It has been a great experience working
with the true student athlete,” lauded Mark.
“They are all fine young men with their
priorities straight.”

Mark has also left a big impact on the
student-athletes that he has coached at David-
son.

“Coach Mark was one of the main rea-

Dye named member of the GTE >
Academic All-District First Team

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

STAMFORD, CONN. - Senior Ginny
Dye was named to the GTE Academic All
District Fall/Winter at-large first team. She
was one of nine females voted to the District
III first team, which is made up of members
from all fall and winter sports. She was the
only Southern Conference athlete on the first
team.

Dye, a native of Columbia, Md., repre-
sented the only female athlete from the South-
ern Conference on the first team. She has a
3.88 cumulative GPA and led the Wildcats
with her six goals, 10 assists and 22 points.

She currently sits in third place for career
points (73), third in career goals (28) and tied
a single-season record this year for her 10
assists.

Earlier this season, she was named to the
1999 National Soccer Coaches Association
of America’s Scholar Athlete All-American
second team. The only other women’s soccer
player to earn this honor was Kelly Ammann
((93-’97), who was named in her senior year.
Dye also earned All-Southern honors for the
fourth-straight year.

As a result of the award, Dye will be
automatically nominated as aGTE Academic
All American and fepresents the first women’s
soccer player on a national ballot.

Davidson hockey crushes UNCC

By Mark HyMERLING
Hockey Correspondent

The Wildcats faced off against their ri-
val, UNCC and once again came out on top in
local roller hockey action.

Evan McCormick opened the scoring
with a trademark rush from the defensive
zone. He beat the entire UNCC team and
fired a wrist shot over the shoulder of the
goaltender.

Continuing their dominance, the Wild-
cats quickly added to their lead on a goal by
Mark Hymerling. Hymerling took a pass from
Ron Olson and shot over the diving goalie.
Andy Rhodes continued his offensive roll by
one timing a shot through the UNCC goalie’s
five-hole to raise the lead to 3-0.

Ryan Auster, playing through his knee
injury, flew down the floor and rifled a wrist
shot into the upper corner of the net. Minutes
later, Marc Naples scored the prettiest goal of
the game; he one-timed a pass from
McCormick into the roof of the net. Mean-
while, the defense of Brad and Bryan
Stevinson suffocated the UNCC attack, al-
lowing only a few shots to reach goalie Jamey
Heit, which he turned away effortlessly, frus-
trating the UNCC forwards.

“The guys in front of me make my job
very easy,” said Heit. “For them, scoring
goals is like shooting fish in a barrel.”

Auster single-handedly killed the sec-
ond half of a Wildcat penalty by weaving and
circling the floor with the puck. After the

penalty expired, Hymerling rushed in and
fired home a wrist shot to make it 6-0.

The Wildcats then drew a power play
and Naples cashed in on a shot from a sharp
angle that deflected off the goalie’s pads and
into the net. McCormick once again weaved
through the UNCC defense and notched an-
other goal.

In the third period, Auster fed Hymerling
in the slot and he fired a shot over the goalie’s
shoulder. Bryan Stevinson then put on his
own impressive display of stickhandling,
cutting through the UNCC defense and firing
a bullet into the net. The Wildcats dominated
far more than the 10-4 final score showed,
earning a very satisfying victory.

Tonight was by far our best performance
of the season,” said McCormick. “Everyone
had a tremendous game and played heads-up
hockey. It was fun tonight.”

Rhodes was far more impressed with the-

effort tonight, “Last week we just kept hack-
ing away in the crease,’ Rhodes commented.
“But against UNCC, we kept our eyes open,
picked our shots and remembered to make it
look pretty for the ladies.”

“Having Auster back is huge,” said Bryan
Stevinson “It just gives us so much more
depth on defense. It lets me play on the right
side with him and with his offensive skills. I
can just focus on playing solid defense. And
it lets us'shift Naples back to his natural
forward position which also gives the attack
a little more spark.”

sons why I came to Davidson to play golf,”
Oliver Cross said. “He has made my college
golf experience one I will never forget. Coach
Mark is not only admired by his players, but
by other coaches, teams, and the community,
as well.”

“Tt will be sad to see Coach go,” Sean
Davidson said. “What he has done for David-
son golf is basically indescribable. He has
meant so much to the program.”

Coach Mark said, “I will definitely miss
the association with the team and being around
the young people. I will also miss the cama-
raderie with the other coaches.

“T will still follow the Davidson golf
team and see how they perform. It is fun to
follow up and see how your recruits have
performed.”

{Women’s tennis weekend action

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

CHARLESTON, SC — Davidson’s
Kelley Cantrell and Gayle Jones were the
lone bright spots in a disappointing 6-3 loss
to College of Charleston (9-12, 3-5) Sunday
in Southern Conference women’s tennis.

Cantrell stayed hot with her third-
straight win at No. 4 singles. She improved
to a perfect 3-0 mark in SoCon action.
Freshman Jones also remained undefeated
in the league as she earned a three-set vic-
tory at No. 6 singles. The two accounted for
each of the Wildcat victories as they rallied
for a 8-4 victory in No. 3 doubles.

The Wildcats were not without their
chances to win. Sophomore Forbes Thomp-
son (No. | singles) split the first two games
with Vinny Seiverling, only to lose the third
6-0. Senior Anna Holland breezed through
the first game at No. 5 singles and fell short,
losing the next two. Thompson and sopho-
more doubles partner, Elizabeth Moreno,
jumped out toacommanding 7-0 lead in No.
1, but Seiverling and Liorah Levin rallied
for nine-straight points to win 9-7. ,

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

’ DAVIDSON, N.C. — Davidson Col-
lege lost for the second time. in as many
matches, suffering a 5-2 loss to the Bucs of
East Tennessee State in Southern Confer-
ence men’s tennis action on Saturday after-
noon.

The Wildcats only captured two of the
six singles matches and also lost the doubles
point despite winning one of the three

matches.

Davidson falls to East Tennessee 5-2

Senior Brett lalacci (above), along with doubles
Okulski, notched a point for the Wildcats last Saturday with a
victory in doubles competition.

Davidson falls to 1-2 in the SoCon and
5-8 overall and plays host to UNC Greens-
boro Wednesday.

STATESBORO, GA — Davidson
played Georgia Southern to a 3-3 tie through
in singles but fell short as the Eagles swept
in doubles to defeat the Wildcats 6-3, Satur-
day in Southern Conference women’s ten-
nis.

Freshman Yasamine Hilu picked up
the first Wildcat win at No. 3 singles with a
6-4, 6-3 victory over Ella Reilly. Kelley
Cantrell won at No. 4 singles and freshman
Gayle Jones won at No. 6 singles. Hilu,
Cantrell and Jones each remain undefeated
in SoCon action with a 2-0 record.

Elizabeth Moreno, who had won her
previous four matches, fell 6-2, 6-3 in No. 2
singles to Martha Barett.

Barett, Isabella Kling and Brooke
McNamee each picked up a pair of wins for
the Eagles. GSU (6-6, 3-1) travels to confer-
ence-leading Furman Sunday.

Davidson falls to 1-1 in the SoCon and
5-7 overall and travels to College of Charles-
ton Sunday for a 10 a.m. match.

The No. 5 and No. 6 players for Davidson—
Chad Winebarger and Chad Phillips—each
earned victories on the afternoon.
Winebarger took a straight set victory over
Ricardo Nava while Phillips won a 6-2 7-5
match over Matt Keeter.

The doubles duo of Brett Ialacci and
Alex Okulski squeaked out a 9-8 victory in
doubles at the No. 1 slot, but the Bucs took
the other two matches to earn the double
point as well.

The Wildcats (6-7, 2-2 Southern Con-
ference) visit Southern Conference foe VMI
April 4 for a 1:00 p.m. match.

~ Davidsonian Archives
partner Alex

