Tue DAvIDSONIAN
 WEDNEspay,
OcTOBER 25, 2000

The (Other) Zogby Poll asks the probing questions

By Joy Gerpy AND Matt ZocBy
Sraff Writers

Miss Alabama in the 1994 Miss USA con-
test:

Question: If you could live forever, would
you and why?

Answer: “I would not live forever, be-
cause we should not live forever, because, if
we were supposed to live forever, then we
would live forever, but we cannot live for-
ever, which is why I would not live forever.”

Watching the presidential debates, it was
hard to ignore how similar the whole process
is to a beauty pageant (or. scholarship pro-
gram, depending on whom you ask). Candi-
dates are paraded around like pieces of meat
and are judged more on their congeniality
rather than on their policies and what they can
actually accomplish.

Now, honestly, would you really be sur-
prised if there was an opening dance number
used to introduce them? And if there was,
ratings and the number of viewers would
certainly triple.

In an effort to explore this theory, we have
come up with some questions that should
have been asked to the candidates, and we
then asked Davidson students what they think
the candidates would say. We will now
proceed to beat our current topic to death.
Join us.

Question 1. If the candidates were trees,
what kind of trees would they be?

Bush had a variety of responses. One
respondent ‘said that Bush would be a tree
with “strong roots inacommunity like David-
son, a solid, Christian trunk, and long, leafy
branches to provide shade for handicapped
children on a hot summer day.” Others said
a dogwood, a weeping willow, a pine (be-

cause it’s “soft wood”), an oak because Bush

Time ts

is “solid, wise, and hearty,” a bush, and of
course, the obligatory plastic office tree. Two
people voted for cactus. More than one
respondent pointed out that, “Bush doesn’t
believe in trees.”

The overwhelming majority of
students said Gore would be an
oak. Interpretations of this phe-
nomenon might vary. One per-
son said thathe simply “resembles
one” in his physical appearance.
The first runner-up response was
the common pine because “there
are loads of them, and they’re all
the same.” The most passionate
and poetic response came from
someone who wished to be known
simply as Frah. He said that Gore
would be a “pussy willow sway-
ing in the wind of public opin-
ion.” ;

One student proudly responded
that the tree that would best rep-
resent the candidates would be
“cocker spaniels”, which brings
us to Question 2.

Question 2. If the candidates
were animals, what kind of ani-
mals would they be?

Both candidates received a
variety of responses for this ques-
tion. Bush was compared to a
naked mole rat, a dung beetle,
and an iguana. Two students
referred to him as.a bear. Con- -
tinuing with the theme mentioned
for the trees, one respondent said
that, “Bush doesn’t believe in

_animals.’’ Gore was called a naked mole rat,

a llama, a walking stick, a bear, a golden
retriever, a squirrel, and a horse.
One respondent called Bush a monkey,

Running Out

an

Princeton
~- Review

Borer Seores Better Schools.

Don't miss out on the
best way to maximize
your score on the

LSAT

Davidson LSAT

- prep class is
starting 10/28.
Seats are limited

Enroll Today!

‘The LSAT!

‘onmectl.

Gore a “real man,” and Nader a “sweet, little
honey bunch.” The same student who called

' Bush an elephant called Gore a donkey.
Unfortunately, none of these responses are
correct. The correct answer is that Gore is a

lemur, and Bush is an otter. -

Question 3. If the candidates had one wish,
what would it be? .

The vast majority of students said that both
would wish either to be president or to win the
election. However, some astute members of
the student body understand that there is
more to life than winning or losing the presi-

dential election. One Sandra Twitt** also . ..

said that both candidates would like “to have
breasts as perky as Miss Idaho’s.” Bush’s
wishes varied from “real presidential creden-
tials” to “eliminating the poor.” It is unclear
at this juncture whether he meant to allow the
poor to rise to a higher tax bracket or simply
to sweep them under the carpet. Students
thought that Gore would wish for anything
from supreme power to “to be more like
Clinton, I mean, be more charismatic.” Once
again, Miss Anna Padget may have misun-
derstood the question. She said that Bush
would wish for “eleventy billion to be a real
number.”

Question 4. What is the single greatest
challenge facing their generation today?

This question also brought forth a diverse
array of responses. More than one student
said “the Constitution,” including one of your

esteemed pollsters. Other answers included

“choosing the lesser of two evils,”
' “strategery,” and both menopause and impo-
tence. One respondent said that Bush would
respond by saying, “Could you repeat the

question?” and that Gore would say, “What is
a generation anyway?” and then change the
subject. .

Question 5. Could. the candidates name
and spell all fifty states in alphabetical or-
der?

The numbers were fairly close
on this question. The students of
Davidson college seem to put their
faith in neither candidate when it
comes to this fairly menial task,
which, by the way, both of your
pollsters can do very well. Forty-
five percent of respondents said
that Gore would be able to, while
only 36% said that Bush could.
One student said that neither could
because they would “forget some
state like Iowa,” but we disagree
since Iowa is something of a swing
state. Another respondent said
that neither one could do it, “but
Amber Atkins can.” One person
said that it would just “take Busha
long time,” and yet another said,
“Bush may have a little trouble,
but Gore would have studied.” The
prophet Frah said that Bush would
respond, “Fifty states? Really?”
while Gore would say, “Fifty!
That’s the number Texas stands
in...[insert various statistical cat-
egories here].”

Question 6. Who would win the
swimsuit competition?

Gore won this competition with
hefty 60% of the vote, leading
. Bush’s smaller 30%. Write-ins
for Tipper comprised 10% of the vote. Your
esteemed pollsters reserve comment until it is
determined what kind of swimwear they will
be modeling. However, one of them is lean-
ing toward Gore after careful examination of
the current cover of Rolling Stone.

Question 7. Who would win the talent com-

petition, and with what talent?
Bush received the overwhelming majority
of the votes for this competition. Some of his
talents included a dance to the opening cred-
its of The Beverly Hillbillies, an interpretive
dance to “Deep in the Heart of Texas,” whin-
ing, juggling, and “improvisation of how to
be a president.” Gore only received 36% of
the votes for such talents as cloggin’ to “Rocky
Top,” stand-up comedy, bulls—ting, and
“blowing hot air out of his a—.” While all of
these responses are quite eloquent and well
thought out, we at the (Other) Zogby Poll
think that the student body has drastically
underestimated Gore and his incredible
HTML skills.

With that, we conclude this week’s poll.
We think we have shown the uncanny resem-
blance between the presidential election and
beauty pageants/scholarship programs. Un-
fortunately, after three debates the election is
still quite close. It will all have to come down
to evening wear.

If you'd like to vote in the (Other) Zogby
Poll, then listen to WALT Sundays 9-10 pm

Sleep? Who needs sleep?

Write for
The Davidsonian

Contact Aaron Houck aahouck @davidson.edu cuaiat
or Richard Vinson rivinson @davidson.edu

