Cooke ea earns gold medal with USA baseball i in ee

By Davin Moncure
Staff Writer

Only a few weeks ago, the Olympics sports
world watched the United States baseball
team shock Cuba in the gold medal game.

The US team had pounded its way through
the preliminary round, going 6-1, with the

only loss coming against the same Cuban:

team. Then, in the semifinal game against
South Korea, the US won in dramatic fashion
on a bottom of the 9" homerun by Doug
Mientkiewicz. Ben Sheets pitched a gem in
the gold medal game, leading the US toa 4-
0 revenge victory over the powerhouse
Cuban team.

Spectators of Olympic baseball witnessed
the dramatic events, such as Sheet’s master-
ful performance and Mientkiewicz’s breath-
taking homerun; however, much more be-
hind the scenes work led the United States to
a successful run at the gold medal.

This is where Davidson’s head baseball
coach Dick Cooke enters the story. He was
selected as one of only two college coaches to
be a part of the Olympic coaching staff.

The 2000 Olympic games was the first time
that professional baseball players were al-
lowed to compete, so the coaching staff was
also compromised of mainly professional
coaches. However, two spots on the coach-
ing staff were reserved for college coaches.
The main job of these two coaching spots was
to pitch batting practice, and Cooke was
selected as the left-handed batting practice
pitcher.

Cooke had previously been the left-handed
BP pitcher for the 1999 US Pan Am team in
Canada.

The Pan Am Games were the qualifying
tournament for baseball. Since the US took
home the silver medal in that tournament,
they qualified for the Olympics. Hoping for
similar success in Sydney, the Olympic com-
mittee decided to keep the coaching staff in
tact if possible, so Cooke got the call again.

“T really wasn’t expecting to be invited
back,” Cooke commented. “I figured that
they would want to spread the wealth [of
being a coach in international competition] to
other coaches. As it turned out, there ended
up being
seven or
eight of us
on _ staff
who were in
Winnipeg
last sum-
mer.”

T he
newly com-
promised
Olympic
baseball
staff met for
the first
time at this
year’s base-
ball All-
Star game
in Atlanta.
Cooke said,
“This was the time when the officials were
selecting the roster, so I went to a lot of
meetings and did a lot of listening about [the
quality of] possible players. The idea was to
find mainly AA and AAA guys, building a
young, powerful pitching staff backed by

older, more established position players.”

“After the meetings in Atlanta, we did not
meet again as a staff until we flew out to-‘San
Diego on August 31. The athletes arrived on
September 1, and we spent three days in San
Diego before flying to Australia,” remarked
Cooke about the pre-Olympic events. He
continued, “We then played six exhibition
games before beginning the Olympics,”

Although Cooke’s role as the left-handed
BP pitcher was crucial in preparing the ath-
letes for each game during the Olympics, his
other coaching staff role as a scout was equally
or sometimes even more important.

cal, qverpeid. bverpamnipered professional
athletes: “The players hada blast. They didn’t
act like high-priced pros, just your average
person having the experience of a lifetime.
Players walked around the Olympic village
wide-eyed carrying their video cameras to
soak up the moment.”

He talked about how despite any on the field
differences between athletes, everyone was a
friend off the field, which exemplifies the
Olympic spirit. “[One great memory was]
hanging out with the Cuban players and
coaches after the gold-medal game. In our
game in the round-robin tournament with
Cuba, one of our players got hit by a pitch and
some tempers flared. Players from both teams

Almost every free minute of Cooke’s off-
‘the-field time was spent preparing scouting
reports of the other Olympic baseball teams.
The US games were usually played at 7:30pm,
so Cooke spent most of the daytime hours
attending other games or
watching videos of oppo-
nents and making scout-
ing reports of the team.
Cooke’s reports helped
the coaching staff devise
game plans of how to play
the opposition. Cooke re-
marked, “The scouting
| part was very critical [to
_ the overall picture of each

xX

game].” left the dugout and there was some tension
Unfortunately Cooke between the two sides.
‘was unable to attend many “Olympic officials were very concerned

other Olympic events,
since nearly all of his time
was spent scouting, pitch-
ing BP, or coaching.
However, Cooke admit-
ted, “The coaching staff
did get to see one softball
game. Once you get the competitive edge
[by becoming enwrapped in the baseball
duties], you just don’t worry about not see-
ing other events.”

As a member of the Olympic baseball
coaching staff, Cooke was included in im-
pressive company, highlighted by head
Olympic coach Tommy Lasorda. ‘“‘Lasorda
was so humble that I never once intimated at
all,” commented Cooke. “Lasorda andcoach
Buddy Bell sought to make both myself and
the other college coach (Ray Tanner from
South Carolina, the NCAA coach of the year
last year) feel as if we were a part of the team.
Lasorda made things very comfortable for us
and always asked us to speak up and voice
our ideas.”

Cooke also mentioned how the profes-
sional players did not act like the stereotypi-

that, with emotions during the final game,
things may get out of hand and they would
have an international incident on their hands.
But the game went smoothly and nobody had
to deal with any tempers. Then, after the
game, there were our players hanging out with
the Cuban players, and our coaches with their
coaches.”

Cooke summed up that experience by sz say-
ing, “It just goes to show that the game of
baseball can transcend anything, including
nationalities and ethnicities.”

In regards to the overall experience, Cooke
concluded, “Regardless of whether you win
or lose, the entire Olympic experience is amaz-
ing.”

As head Olympic coach and former. Los
Angeles Dodgers manager Lasorda frequently
remarked about his coaching experience,
“When the Dodgers win, only Dodgers fans
are happy. Giants’ fans and Yankees’ fans
aren’t happy. However, when the US team
wins, all of America is happy.”

Cooke and the rest of the coaching staff and
players definitely made American baseball
fans happy in Sydney.

Mordini, Volleyball team rebound from loss with two SoCon wins

Press RELEASE

Charlotte 49ers’ head coach Lisa Marston
made her return to Belk Arena on Tuesday
night in triumphant fashion by leading het

volleyball team

five-game vic-
tory over David-
son.

The win im-
proves Charlotte
to 8-11 on the season, while the Wildcats fall
to 11-8.

Davidson took the first game of the match
by pulling away from a 7-7 deadlock. But
Charlotte responded in the second and third
games after falling well behind. In the second
game, the 49ers recovered from a 9-3 deficit

by running
off 12 unan-
swered
3 points, then
ran off 13
straight in the
third game
after falling

behind, 10-2.

The Wildcats would not die, however, com-
ing back with another 15-11 victory in game
four. But the rally-scoring, match-deciding
fifth game took its toll on Davidson, as Char-
scHted led from the outset to complete the two-

to a grueling .

hour, 25-minute match. The match was the
fifth in the last six in which Davidson played
five games, winning the first three but drop-
ping the last
two.
3 It was a
4 Sweet victory
for Marston.
Last year, she
led Davidson
to a stellar 31-4 overall record, a perfect 20-
0 mark in the Southern Conference, and its
first-ever NCAA Tournament appearance.
After the school year, however, she took the
head job at the Wildcats’ cross-county rival.
Senior Mara Mordini led the Cats in the
losing effort with 22 kills and 26 digs.
Davidsonis twin juniors, Jacqueline and Jen-
nifer, were the only other Wildcats in double-
digits in kills with 16 and 11, respectively.
Senior Christy Galvin had a big match for
the 49ers, recording 23 kills and a match-high
32 digs. Junior Esra Akgun led Charlotte with
28 kills, and senior Ozlem Ozkan Ayture
recorded 60 assists as well as 31 digs. At the
net, freshman Jessica Kelly was involved in
seven of the team’s 11 blocks.
In a crucial away match, the Davidson

ion as they swept Furman in three games 15-
12, 15-11, 15-13. With the victory, the Cats
improve to 12-7 overall and 8-2 in the South-
ern Conference while the Paladins fall to 8-12

_ volved in six

, Chipped in with four.
volleyball team responded inimpressivefash- |

and 7-2 in SoCon action.

Davidson and Furman battled back and
forth in game one before the Wildcats pre-
vailed 15-12. A .361 team hitting percentage
in game two helped the Cats put Furman ina
hole they couldn’t escape from. Davidson is
now 11-1 on the season when they win game
one of a match.

Junior Erica Schwartz had an outstanding
.417 hitting per-
centage and 44
assists to lead
Davidson. Se-
nior Mara
Mordini and §
sophomore
Roberta Quis

improved their season mark to 13-8 overall
and Southern Conference record to 9-2.

Prior to this match, Davidson was only 1-7
in contests where they had lost the first game.
In the second game of the match, the Wildcats
had a .310 hitting percentage while holding
the Terriers (3-6, 2-10) to a -.053 attack per-
centage to even the match.

“Wofford has really improved overall since
the last time we played them
and I think they caught us off-
; guard at some points in-the —
match,” noted Davidson head
coach Tami Darwin.

The defensive intensity re-
mained for Davidson in game
three, as the Cats held Wofford

each had } to a .114 hitting percentage to
double-digit — take control of the match.
kills on the | Junior Jacqueline Ortega led
evening. the team in kills with 21 and
On the defen- 5 senior Mara Mordini led David-
sive front, jun- § son in digs with 18. Sophomore
ior Jennifer Roberta Quis notched 15 kills

Ortega was in-

fxg) ON only two errors in the con-
test.
Six Cats registered double-digit digs. Jun-
ior Erica Schwartz and freshman Nicole
_ Tonelli combined for 56 assists. “Several of
our players contributed,” said Darwin. “We
were able to use different combinations and
have success this afternoon.”

Ll Wiel

blocks and sophomore Kaitlyn Martin

Davidson won only its second match of
the season after dropping the first game, by
bouncing back to defeat SoCon-rival Wofford
11-15, 15-4, 15-7, and 16-14. This was the

second straight victory for the Wildcats and

‘ Mourning sickness: Heat center Alonzo Mourning ' will miss the entire sea-

_ son with a kidney ailment....the St. Louis Rams defeated the Atlanta Falcons
45-29 despite not having a kicker--they were 4 for 5ontwo-point

conversions....Converse shoe company is closi

ig its doors, unable to compe-

