@ ALEN DA LU:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 4

Davidson strives for gender equity

The recently published gender
equity report examined the current
status of gender equity among
Davidson’s faculty and staff while
also recommending specific areas
for improvement.

By ALISON KALETT
Editor Emeritus

Last fall, female faculty members gathered
to express long-standing concerns regarding
issues of gender equity at Davidson. The
result - an in-depth examination of Davidson’s
policies and practices as they. pertain to gen-
der equity among faculty and staff.

The working group, composed of five fac-
ulty and three staff members, concluded that
Davidson has sound written policies con-
cerning gender equity, yet education about
and implementation of the policies need im-
provement.

“We found we have good policies,” af-
firmed Leslie Marsicano, Associate Dean of
Students and working group member. “Our
policies are just not as well known or consis-
tently applied as they should be.”

“Davidson has solid policies,” concurred
history professor and working group member
Vivien Dietz. “The problems are not perva-
sive, yet a gap sometimes exists between the
policies and peoples’ comfort in implement-
ing them.”

The group, appointed by President Bobby
Vagt, explored issues of same-sex partners’
benefits, sexual harassment, parental leave,
faculty tenure, departmental positions, bath-
room facilities, campus lighting, and overall
atmosphere.

“This was one of the first efforts at the
college to coordinate concerns affecting both
faculty and staff,” recounted English profes-
sor and working group co-chair Cynthia
Lewis. “We were really trying to explore and
find solutions to problems that are across the
board in the Davidson community.”

The working group, which submitted its

INSIDE

Viewpoint
Homosexuality and
Christianity debate
continues

™~

MP3’s and the Honor
Code

Sports

Football struggles in
win
Women’s soccer

continues to dominate

Volleyball win pizeak
broken

report in April, based its findings on confi-
dential interviews of faculty and staff, an
examination of Davidson’s current policies
and statistics, as well as comparisons to the
top 25 liberal arts colleges as ranked in the
1999 issue of U.S. News and World Report.

Number crunching

Over the past decade, Davidson has in-
creased the number of women occupying top
faculty and staff positions. The number of
women holding tenure or tenure-track posi-
tions, for example, has increased from 24 to
43 since 1990.

“There are more women on the staff and
faculty, and there are more women in posi-
tions where they can affect the outcome of
decisions,” said working group member and
Director of Alumni Relations Eileen Keeley.

Still, the current statistics are revealing.

According to the report, eight of the
college’s 50 trustees are women. Women
occupy 43 of the 145 tenured or tenure-track
positions. Six of the 22 department chairs are
women. And, of the 28 endowed chairs, only
four are held by women. And, until the
election of psychology professor Ruth Ault
last August, no woman had every served on
the faculty tenure committee. Among staff,
women hold ten of the 35 executive, admin-
istrative, and managerial positions, while
occupying 91 of the 95 clerical jobs.

What explains this under-representation of

. top positions?

First, Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, the
department chairs, and the human resources
department have worked to increase the num-

ber of women hired. They contend, however,

that in some cases the availability of manage-
rial positions and the number of qualified
women in certain disciplines such as physics
or philosophy limit the applicant pool.

“We make a concerted effort to recruit
women for managerial positions, but it is
important to realize that turnover of manage-
rial positions is very low,” explained Director
of Human Resources Andy Brantley.

“The percentage of women in a given aca-
demic department is a manifestation of what
is out there and the number of women getting
Ph.D’ sin the field,” explained working group
memiber and 30-year veteran of the math
department Ben Klein.

Second, as. the working group noted, in
order to ensure fair representation on various
committees, the College often solicits women
to serve on them. Consequently, women are
sometimes over-committed and forced to turn
down time-consuming, leadership positions.

“Tt is fair to state that often we ask much of
individuals from. demographically
underrepresented groups,” Dean Ross ac-
knowledged.

As the report pointed out,
underrepresentation will only change with
time and with a conscious effort to hire and
promote female faculty and staff.

“One third of the faculty is women, and
there are more women at mid-level adminis-
trative positions,” Dean Marsicano noted.
“We’ ve made a lot of progress because it has
been a priority. We cannot sit back and relax.
This is a continuing process.”

Concerns and recommendations

The working group also examined
‘Davidson’s policies concerning same-sex
partners benefits, sexual harassment, and fam-
ily leave.

While the report recommended that David-
son.adopt a same-sex partners benefit policy,
the college had already initiated the develop-
ment of a partners’ benefit plan.

The policy was approved in June and will
go into affect in October.

“The adoption of the same-sex partners’
benefits was more about what we stopped
saying,” said working group member and
Dean of Residence Life Kurt Holmes. “Some-
how we had implied a discriminatory bent,
and now we are a more open and accepting
community.”

See Gender equity, page 3

Richard Vinson

MP3 use threatened

Napster, file sharing services
facce uphill battle -

‘By Linpy BALDWIN AND Matr WHiTeD
Staff Writers

Worries over copyright infringement are
not at all new to the entertainment industry.
In fact, ever since the most basic methods of
copying began to reach the market, the major
labels have been close to a constant state of
panic over whether each new device would
bring their demise.

Over the past year, aformidable new player
has come into the game. Internet startup
Napster has proliferated more quickly than
any. could have expected, using the-MP3

computer music format to spread pirated and
legal music faster than ever before. : °

All of this has occurred much to the dismay
of the recording industry, which has fought
Napster every step of the way.

In a recent article, Newsweek summarized
the Napster court battles as a case of “Kids
versus suits.” Calling today’s teens and
twenty-somethings the “Napster Generation,”
the piece cited the rampant use of controver-
sial file-swapping programs suchas Gnutella,
MP3.com and Napster on college campuses
across the country.

Davidson is no exception to this trend. A
large portion of students with personal com-
puters uses a music-sharing program.

Napster, which debuted last August, is a
program available for free download on the
Internet that links its users to each other’s

See MP3’s, page 4

VAC exhibit presents diverse themes, novel media

Vampire Bass Kimberly Richards

By CurisTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

This month, four different artists with four
different interests, mediums, and styles dis-
play their works in the VAC’s galleries. But
despite their differences, the artists have one
thing incommon: they all teach art at David-
son.

Professor Cort Savage’s kinetic sculptures ;
_ fill the first room of the Van Every and

Edward M. Smith Gallery located to the left
of the VAC’ s entrance. Savage finds inspira-
tion for many of his sculptures—the bronze
figures in particular—by observing the natu-
ral and manufactured forms around him.

“T’ll be looking on the side of the road and
see a piece that has fallen off a car, and that
form will interest me,” says Savage. He will
return to his studio and create a sculpture that
combines the shape of the car part with shapes
he has noticed elsewhere.

The forms of two of his works resemble the

vertebral column—Mexican river rocks.and

rubber compose one, and morphine ampullae
and radiator fluid compose the other. Savage
uses the spine’s function as the foundation of
the skeleton as a metaphor for every person’s

“core body of information,” the storage place

for the life experiences whose lessons stay
with us always.

A sculpture entitled “Recurrence” domi-

nates one of the gallery’s walls. In this work,
a bundle of whittled wooden chain dangles
from a point on the large steel hoop. When
viewers step on a pad across the room, they

activate a motor that rotates the hoop in a
complete circle, sending the chains around
too.

Savage says, “The lifting of the chains is
symbolic because it’s an ascension. Then
putting them on the ground and dragging
them is a burden.” He sees the rise as a

suciphae movement and the fall as a sor-

See VAC, page 7

