THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Joy Gerpy AND Matt Peaks
Sraff Writers

As the election grows nearer, the (Other)

.. Zogby Poll completely ignores what others
might consider the “hard-hitting issues.” We
instead choose to write about what we know
best: Saved By The Bell.

We asked Davidson students which Saved
By The Bell character would best represent
them as the next president of the United
States.

Despite preconceptions about high school
presidential elections, our poll showed that,
at least at Bayside, popularity is not the deci-
sive factor in politics. Our poll showed that
Davidson students throw their support in
widely diverse directions.

Whom did they vote
for, you ask? Not sur-
prisingly the majority of °
the votes rested with the
six main characters (not
including the talented Mr.
Belding, who received no
votes and is arguably the
maincharacter). The sup-
port for the six main char-
acters comprised 73% of
the popular vote.

Zack “Preppie” Mor-
ris, an obvious favorite
from the outset, received
only 19% of the vote fin-
ishing second.

Alexis Boehmler ’02
campaigned hard for her
candidate, saying, “Zack
could be the best presi-
dent we’ve ever had.”
While voters certainly
appreciate Mr. Morris’ innovative ideas and
‘fascinating ability to “Time-out” any situa-
tion and speak directly to the viewers at

home, such talents weren’t enough to win .

over the campus at large.

Early on, political pundits expressed con-
cern that Mr. Morris’ penchant for mischief
would get him into trouble with the voters,
who have not yet forgotten “Potatogate,” as it
is widely known, an incident in which Mr.
Morris took other students’ money and in-
vested it in potato stock, which later plum-
meted. Perhaps this incident is the reason
why Mr. Morris’ childhood friend received
more votes.

‘Although Jessie Spano (a.k.a. “Legs” a.k.a.
“Mama”) grew up next door to Zack Morris,
she did not step into the limelight until the
high school years. Despite her relatively
recent appearance on the show, Ms. Spano
has succeeded in squeezing out enough votes
to win the election.

This fact is not all that surprising consider-
ing she is by far the most politically minded
student at Bayside.

Aileen Waters ’02 voted for Ms. Spano
because she is “intelligent. ..and responsible.”
Xander Morsink ’02 pointed out that some-
times she seems to be “the only one who gets
any good work done over there [at Bayside].”

Ms. Spano did only receive 25% of the

_ vote, however. Perhaps this close race was
the result of Ms. Spano’s former addiction to
caffeine pills.

Also, more than one reliable source has
claimed to have sighted Ms. Spano at the
Stardust in Las Vegas, Nevada working as a
showgirl under the name “Nomi Malone.”
Surely this spotty past ‘affected the voters’
view of Bayside’s salutatorian.

Samuel “Screech” Powers a.k.a. “the dork
who gets to hang out with the cool kids” did
not receive as much of the vote as was ex-
pected. Considering his superior intelligence,
evident in the success with his creation of
Artificial Intelligence, forexample, Bayside’ S
valedictorian only received 10% of the vote,
placing him fifth.

News
Thé (Other) Zogby Poll brings presidential politics toB

Unfortunately for everyone involved, be-
cause he did not win the election, he will be
forced to continue with his old job as Mr.
Belding’s bitch on Saved By The Bell: The
New Class. We look back with joy on the
days when he played an extra in Big Top
PeeWee.

Both Lisa “Token Minority” Turtle and
Albert Clifford “Brillohead” Slater a.k.a.
“Pig” each received 13% of the vote.

Pryor Dawson ’04 called Ms. Turtle “ag-
gressive” and was quick to point out that she
is not afraid to speak her rind.

Ms. Turtle was a gossip columnist and
therefore has always kept up oncurrent events.
This “hobby” cértainly helped her with the
voters. -

Mr. “A.C.” Slater had a surprisingly large
number of votes consid-
ering he is an idiot.

More than one voter
chose Mr. Slater because
of his fashion sense, cit-
ing both “pleated, acid-
washed jeans” and tank
tops as the central factor
in their decision. An-
other voter said that Mr.
Slater would be capable
of “chiseling the country
into one big pectoral
muscle.”

Mr. Slater’s support

can be attributed to the
fact that he has stayed in
the public eye as a cover
model fora muscle maga-
zine your esteemed poll-
sters once saw in Harris
Teeter.
: The final main charac-
ter received a measly 3% if the vote. Kelly
“All-American Girl” Kapowski received the
majority of these votes because she is
“hhhhhhhot.”

Interestingly enough, around the same time
that Ms. Spano was sighted as “Nomi
Malone,” Ms. Kapowski was driven to move
in with her cousin Brandon Walsh in Beverly
Hills where she was known as “Valerie
Malone.” Conspiracy theories are still being
considered as possible explanations of this
amazing coincidence.

Other characters who received 3% of the
votes included the enigmatic Max, of The
Max, Nikki, who mysteriously disappeared
after eighth grade, presumably living some-
where under the name “Malone,” James, the
witty actor/waiter who helped the gang out of
many a jam, and the obligatory cliché group
of nerds.

A dark horse candidate, Miss Bliss re-
ceived 6% of the Davidson College students’
support. She is perhaps best known as the
junior high school teacher who was respon-
sible for putting an end to Potatogate with
appropriately TV-teacheresque punishments
for all involved.

Christopher Brantley ’01 justified his vote
by saying that it is about time we had a
woman as president. He did, however, run
into difficulty with that fact that she is British.

You may have noticed that our percentages
add up to 101%. What’s your point?

The (Other) Zogby Poll would like to ex-
press its excitement at the fact that this poll
did not become simply a popularity contest.
While Jessie Spano is in no way one of the
nerds, she is far from holding the popularity
status of a Zack Morris or a Kelly Kapowski.

Upon hearing the news of winning the poll,

-Ms. Spano reportedly cried, “I’m so excited!

I’m so excited! I’m so...scared!”’ Have no
fear, Jessie! Davidson is behind you! .

‘ We here at the (Other) Zogby Poll feel that
it is important to realize that Saved By the
Bell can be related to most any situation.

As one Mary-Margaret Zogby once said on
the occasion of her sister’s wedding (at which

Sarah Jessica Parker was present), “This whole
situation reminds me of a Saved By The Bell
episode. You know the one? Where Zack got
into some mischief and things got out of
control, but in the end Kelly and the gang
came through and everything was okay?”

Yeah Mare, we know the one. :

* Ms. Brownlow ’03 and Ms. Padget ’01
would like it to be known that J.R.R. Tolkien

AY

oe :
The Student Health Adiabene are, Srom left to right: Stephanie palais ‘Rehelea Moore,

By Juuia Puporr
Health “sbieahle

“To have an ome disorder i is to have a
disease of the self-esteem, and to have a
broken coping mechanism. Eating Disor-
ders are about being addicted to a behavior
that makes it easy to temporarily forget
problems and feelings of depression and
self hate, stress and anxiety, guilt and pres-
sure. Just like alcohol is a symptom of
alcoholism, food is a symptom of Anorexia,
Bulimia, or Compulsive Overeating. The
real issues are hidden away in Ae victim’s
heart and mind.”

From y

When you take a look at the Davidson
College Community, there are alot of amaz-
ing people doing too many things with too
little time. Such conditions make for a

- about yourself, or that you are seicsil din:
of happiness? 1

tea, ee eat a lot of junk a
campus of opportuni y galore, yet for many = , anc

uses the “number” seve in The Led of.
the Rings. We here at the (Other) Zogby Poll
still feel that this only serves to reinforce the
fact that eleventy is fictitious. However, they
asked us to point it out anyway.

** Listen to WALT 1610 from 9-10pm on
Sundays to respond to the next (Other) Zogby
Poll Question.

re

ing you in a negative way?

4. Do you keep your SebBogs ioside
for fear of being judged negatively or doy ;
feel like talking to others about your ae
lems is. a burden?

5. Are you considered the Meenas.
hold” for everyone else’s problems when
you never seem to talk much iis Meir
own?

6. Do you ‘disparage 1 own pain.
and emotions and think of everyone, else’s
feelings first? _

7. Do you ever have a “voice insaae
your head” that tells you negative. things

8. Do you starve, roach binge and
purge, eat, over-exercise when you are hav-
ing a hard time with things? ee
9. Do you ever drink a lot of water,

