By MIke ANDERSON

_Editor Emeritus

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.—Ask any coach:
What’s the single most desirable attribute
you look for in a recruit?

‘Occasionally, it’s size. Maybe speed or

For JoAnne Hassel, playing Division-I
basketball has been the opportunity of a life-
time.

To her father and grandfather, both
Davidson graduates, her days in the red-and-
black are among the proudest moments of
their lives.

quickness. “It’s been a
Perhaps a dream come true,
surefire jump - Lee for my dad espe-
shot: “You really value the peoplein | <iatty,” says Dr.

But from your program that show loyalty, “| David Hassel, a

of them, Bs ao 1975 David

the onewe, | and that’s what JoAnne has done eraduate avaeson
will come in- from the beginning. “ JoAnne’s pater-
stantly and nal grandmother,
unequivo- ee Leslie Anne, de-
cally—a love - Head coach John Filar scribes, “Even
and a passion though (Jo) “hasn’t
for the game, played a whole lot,

for competition, and for their teammates.

The kind of spirit you might find ina player
like JoAnne Hassel.

“Jo”—a 5-8 senior captain from Jackson-
ville, Fla.—joined Davidson’s basketball
squad in 1997 as a minimally-recruited non-
scholarship athlete.

Three years later, she enters her senior
campaign as not only an elected captain of the
squad but as a scholarship recipient.

“We had a scholarship become available
when (Carolina Perez-Heydrich) decided not
to play this year,” described head coach John
Filar. “JoAnne was the first thing that crossed
my mind.” :

Filar earned permission from athletics di-
rector Jim Murphy to transfer that scholar-
ship money to Hassel for her senior season.

“You re-

the fact of being on this team means the world
to her.”

JoAnne’s grandfather Carl graduated in
Davidson’s class of 1950, white her father
graduated in 1975. Jo’s father jokes that her
2001 graduation date throws off the family’s
pattern, to which she smiles and says, “That’s
not my fault, Dad. That’s yours.”

“T’ve been coming to Davidson since I was
five years old,” she says. “It’s the only
college I’ ve ever known. It’s been nice to be
able to play here and share some of the

experiences my father and grandpa did. It-

been pretty special for our family to carry on
the tradition.”

A Whole Lot of Heart.
A young JoAnne came home one day,
picked up a basket-

ally value the ball for the first time
people in | “She has a drive and a desire and | ever and informed
your pro- | @ will to play more than anybody | b*« parents she was
gram that ; os going outside to
show loyalty, I’ve ever known. practice so she could
and ‘that’s try out for her
what JoAnne ; ‘ school’s seventh-
has done - Dr. Carl Hassel ‘75 grade team.

from the be- “Tt’s always been
ginning,” Fi- a dream,” says her

lar said. “She’s given everything that our
scholarship players have over the last three
years and never recéived anything monetarily
in return. I was really pleased to be able to
reward her this year.”

_Last weekend’s trip to Florida marked a
homecoming for the Wildcats’ senior guard.
“Tt was great to go home,” Hassel said. “It
was a little weird to have this meshing of my
world from Davidson and my world from
home. But it’s just a nice way to start off my
senior year.”

A Family Thing.

father. “It’s always been something that’s
driven her. She’s known for quite some time
that she wanted to be a Division-I player.”

Hassel spent her prep days at the Bolles
School in Jacksonville, Fla. Though she
graduated with all-state honors and a school-
record 1,532 career points, she found herself
near the bottom of the talent pool when she
arrived at Davidson.

“She was a good player, but never an overly-
talented player,” Dr. Hassel describes.
“But she has a drive and a desire and a will to
play more than anybody I’ve ever known.”

~ something she'll have with her

“When I came in as a fresh-
man, I knew the position that I
was in” says JoAnne. “I knew
that my contributions would have
tocome from hard work—I knew
I’d have to out-work everybody F
else. If I wasn’t as good as the.
next person in a certain area, I
knew I'd have to work as hard as
I could to come through in a
different area.”

By the end of her freshman
season, she realized that court
minutes—at least for the next
couple of years under. Jen
O’ Brien—would be few and far |"
between.

“T realized shortly after com-
ing here that I was never going to
be the best person on this team,”
she says. “I decided then that my
role on this team wasn’t going to
be a leading scorer or rebounder.
But I knew that I could still con-
tribute to our team’s atmo-
sphere.”

She quickly became one of the | -
program’s most vocal and in- fF
spiring cast members. She’s the }
first to leap off the bench when a}
teammate knocks down a bas- |
ket. She’s one of the squad’s
most tenacious competitors on
the practice floor. And she’s
always. ready with supportive
words or just a knowing smile.

“You don’t ever have to won-
der how Jois gonnabe ona given | _
day—she .comes in every time
and gives the same hundred per-
cent commitment,” says Filar. ee

Coaches and family attribute
that to the competitive spirit of |”
the Hassel clan.

“We’ve always told our chil-}
dren that they need to be able to} ~
say that they did the best they
possible could have, in whatever
they do,” says her father. “‘Do
the best you possibly can and
don’t be satisfied with anything |
less than that.’ She took that to |
heart.”

One year left.

As she enters her senior cam-
paign, JoAnne Hassel is living a |
dream.

Not only has she risen to the
ranks of a captain, but she can }
count a Division-I scholarship
as another feather in her cap. |

“Tt’s not the money,” says her
father. “It’s the fact that she’s
been thought of highly enough .
to be given a scholarship to play [ieseesssal
Division-I basketball. That’s

for the rest of her life.”

“Being a captain is the biggest
honor I could ever receive,”
Hassel says. “It means that my f
team respects me and trusts me
‘tobe a leader. That has made my
year already.”

More than anything, Hassel is |
determined to cherish her final |
season with the program.

“Tove these girls, they mean
the world to me,” said JoAnne.
“They’re the reason I love
Davidson—I don’t know what
I’d do without them.”

