hard to tell,” said Katie Wilson ’03 said.

Daniel agreed with Wilson, adding that
“Pennsylvania and Florida are going to be
deciding factors in who is going to win.”

Dr. Russell Crandall, political science
deparment, said “a Bush victory will provide
momentum on free trade expansion, espe-
cially vis-a-vis Chile. The overriding mo-
tives driving US policy will continue to be
drugs and immigration, two things that both
Republicans and Democrats basically agree
yes : ‘

He also noted that many key policies will
remain basically the same no matter who
wins, and that foreign policy in the western
hemisphere did not seem to be a hot issue.

“Tt’s the next four years of policy that will
affect us. It’s also a character issue,” said
John Pitts ‘04, stressing the importance of
youth involvement in the election.

The large groups congregating in front of
televisions across campus dispelled the no-
tion of youth apathy towards the election.

“Tt’s wonderful to see so much passion
_ coursing through the veins of our freshman
hall,” said Martha Hunt ’04, who lives on
Belk Hall’s second floor,

“Td say that we’re unusually involved for
our age,” said Tom Bardwell.

The Sunshine State In Debate

Emotions ran high at every television set
when the media recalled the Florida votes for
~Gore. °
; “It was the network showing their bias by

calling [Florida] before it closed,” complained
Katherine Miller ‘01.

Scott Buchanan ’01 agrees. “The network
should nothave called before the polls closed.”

The controversy began when the major
media outlets predicted a Gore victory in
Florida early in the evening. CNN and sev-
eral other networks recalled their prediction
when it became evident that substantial votes
were not yet tallied.

The Florida vote remained very close be-
tween Gore and Bush into the early morning
hours, with Bush holding a bare majority
during the evening..

The Failure of the Electoral College

The possibility that a candidate could win
the popular vote but still lose under the Elec-
toral College bothered some students on cam-
pus. It is possible for a candidate to gain the
majority of the popular vote, and still lose the
election if he doesn’t garner the most elec-
toral votes. This was the case in the 1960
presidential race between Nixon and Kennedy.

-“{I am] very concerned that the Electoral
College may not reflect popular vote,” said
Sam Steinman ’01.

“The possibility of [this inconsistency]

makes us lose trust in the government. We

need to get rid of the Electoral College,” said -

Pitts. :
Dr. Mary Thornberry, chair of the political
science department, explained that one prob-
lem with the Electoral College is that “it
exaggerates the winner.”

However, Thornberry said that “I don’t
think there will be a huge difference.”

By early Wednesday morning, the num-
bers showed that the electoral vote tallies

’ closely reflected the popular vote - both num-

bers being nearly divided, with a bare major-
ity going to Bush.
According to CNN, with 88% of the polls
reporting, at 2:30 AM Bush held 44,164,516
of the popular vote and Gore held 43,616,845
of the popular vote - a nearly evenly divided
vote barely siding towards Bush. These num-
bers coincided with the 271 electoral votes to
Bushcompared to Gore’s 249 electoral votes.

The Third Party Debate

Like the 1992 and the 1996 elections, the

effect of the third party candidates - Pat
Buchanan of the Reform Party and Ralph
Nader of the Green Party - became an issue.

According to Thornberry, “Buchanan is
not a factor” in the 2000 election.

As for Nader, Thornberry added that Nader
may swing the votes in specific states, such as
‘Minnesota and Oregon. Most of the votes
that Nader gets will most affect Gore’ s votes.

Students also believe that the third party
effect is minimal.

Katie Wilson said that although Buchanan
is persistent in getting his ideas out, he will
not have “that big of an impact.” ;

By early Wednesday morning, Nader only
had three percent of the popular vote and
Buchanan had less than one percent of the
popular vote. Neither candidate won any
electoral college votes

Reaction to the End

As is expected, the students had mixed
reactions to the final outcome of the election,
obviously divded along party lines.

Many students who were at 21-Year Old
Night int he College Union Tuesday night
stayed until the final results came in early
Wednesday. There were mixed emotions
about the election outcome, some cheering to
Bush’s victory and other dismayed about
Gore’s defeat.

Sarah Jacob ‘02 was unhappy about the
outcome of the election, fearing that the new
president-elect George Bush would threaten
“women’s rights and abortion.”

Another student commented that she was
pleased with the outcome, believing that ei-
ther candidate was qualified for the job.

Meredith Beattie ‘01 expressed the hope
that the election will ‘‘raise interest in voting”
among the American People, especially those
who were unhappy about the outcome of the
lelction.

Everyone else is doing it.

Write for
‘The Davidsonian

THGUISTE US,

\aron Houcl

Wi

aahouck @davidson.edu
| |
MSONKY GavidSon.ecau

around |

EAC

The EAC will hold first annual
RECYLCING DAY on ‘Wednesday, Nov
15th on Chambers lawn from 10 AM to 2
PM. The day’s events will help educate the
student body of the new recycling program
on campus. WALT-AM 1610 will DJ the
event.

EAC is also already working on Earth
DAY in April! To make this event an even
better success, EAC has been working to get
bands and fun participants for the weekend
before Earth Day also! For information on
Earth Day, contact Alison Moran (almoran)
and Margaret Holt (maholt).

Sanctuary, CCM, & Amnesty

This Wed. from 8-11pm, there will be a
vigil in opposition to the execution sched-
uled for Thursday morning. It will held on
Chambers Lawn. Co-sponsored by
Sancturary, Catholic Campus Ministry, and
Amnesty International.

Project Life

Weekend excursion is playing in the 900
room Friday night starting at 10. The bar will
be open and there is a $2 cover. Proceeds
from the concert will go to Project Life. The
organization will also be selling tshirts all
next week in the union.

The big Project Life Bone Marrow Drive
will be next Wednesday and Thursday,
November 15th and 16th. Members of the
community are encouraged to have their
blood typed for the national bone marrow
registry at Davidson College’s annual
“Project Life” bone marrow drive. Typing is
free. The two-day event runs from 10 a.m.-
3 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the College
Union. Call 894-6014 or 894-5386 for more
information.

SFT

The week of November 6 to the 10th, SFT
will be selling frisbees in front of Chambers
Gallery. The frisbees will help fund Steve
Lehman’s visit to campus, a noted photog-
rapher of the Tibetan people. To purchase
afrisbee, please contact Ramya Parthsarathy
(raparthasarathy).

Union Board

Professor Clifford Will will present this
year’s Smith Lecture entitled “Was Einstien
Right?” this Thursday, November 9" at7:30
in the Homeroom. The lecture is sponsored
by the Union Board Speakers Committee,
the Public Lectures Committeen and the
Department of Physics .

Dance Ensemble

The Dance Ensemble will have its fall
concert on Friday, November 10 and Satur-
day, November 11 at 8:00 pm in Hodson
Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.
The performance will include ballet, jazz,
tap, and modern dance. Admission is free.

CROP

The Crop Walk will take place Sunday,
November 12". Registration begins at 2:00
on the Davidson Village Green and the walk
begins at 2:30. Participants must obtain a
sponsor sheet from the Union Information
Desk or from Carrie Arthur (caarthur) or
Chris Cho (chcho) before the walk in order
to collect donations. All proceeds will go to
local charities aimed at helping with hunger
in the local community.

If your organization has any
submissions for “Around David-
son,” please send them to Matt
Garfield (magarfield) or to JT
Tolentino (jttolentino).

DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 |

to apply for

George L. Abernethy
Endowment Funds

Abernethy Funds are available to students
in the following three categories:

I. Independent student research.

2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students
during the academic year or the summer.

8 Collaborative research by students and faculty. The
student must have a clearly defined, independent

role in the research.

FYI: Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported twelve
projects with grants up to $4,000, with the average award
_ totaling approximately $2,000.

Ap

plication forms are available in the Office of the

Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116).

office before

Completed application forms are due back in this
[00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 15.

he announcement of the awards wiil occur on or

before

ev eeeeeeaeeaneae,

anuary 15, 2001

a

settee ew een eneneeen ere eaees

