Through MP3 search engines and sharing -

' programs, users can easily find rare live ver-
sions of songs by their favorite band, or they
can download the most popular single.

Listeners love the convenience of MP3’s
and some bands have met with success due to
exposure they gained on the Internet.

However, for many groups, music is nota
profitable emerprise. For a band struggling
on the college circuit to land a hit on main-
stream radio requires a great deal of personal
sacrifice on the part of the band members.
They count on the radio play to generate
interest in their music and to convince the
audience to buy their music.

But why would listeners drive to the CD
store and pay $15 for one song, when they can
download the MP3 for free in the comfort of
their own room? If economists have anything
to tell us, it is that consumers will always take
the most goods at the smallest cost.

Simple market forces doom many bands to.
the same fate. Most groups will eventually
fade into anonymity, only remembered on
flashback radio programs and reruns of Sat-
urday Night Live.

Contrary to popular wisdom, this is an
important issue. So important, in fact, that
artists have decided to take it to the courts.
Whether the courts will propose specific
‘measures is debatable. Whether that will
actually change the way people acquire re-
cordings is doubtful. ©

While Davidson students are probably just
as opportunistic as anyone else, we are, how-
ever, bound to a higher standard. If your
conscience doesn’t stop you from exploiting
artists, then the Honor Code should. In the
final analysis, when we download MP3’s of
songs we do not own, we are helping our-
selves to the property of others.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson,

Editors-in-chief

Davidson prepares students for rich experiences

For anyone who read “Pittenger reports on
a summer of excitement” from last week’s
Davidsonian, I hope to clarify a few things
with the article. Liz Neiheisel kindly asked to
interview me earlier this semester for the
weekly Career Services column, created to
aid students in thinking about different and
exciting things to do during the summer time.
I reflected upon the article and asked myself,
as I am sure you did, “why me? Why do I
deserve a third of a page devoted to what I did
this past summer?” °

I did nothing to merit such praise and did
not deserve an entire article dedicated to my
summer. There are too many other Davidson
students who deserve this so much more than
I ever would: those who aided in children’s
lives at the Love of Learning Program, a
sophomore who studied Greek in Ireland, a
friend who cared for a mother diagnosed with
breast cancer, and the list continues. My
point is that no more that anyone else, do I

deserve the kindness granted to me in last
week’s Davidsonian.

Secondly, I do not have the strong writing |

skills the article may have conveyed. In truth,
Iama mediocre writer. I strive to improve my
writing skills, and because of Davidson I am
four thousand times better than I was in high
school from taking classes like Dr. Campbell’s
freshman composition and Dr. Nelson’s Lit-
erary Analysis. ,
- If there is one thing I learned from my
internship, it is that Davidson prepares us to
do anything.. My internship experience this
summer is something any Davidson student
could have done. So take a visit to the-white
house two doors down from the Admissions
house on Main Street and figure out some-
thing to do this summer. Find out that you
really have improved since Ms. Britt’s AP
class in high school.

Bobby Pittenger ‘02

he Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

VIEWPOIN

ar EZ

CIRCULATION MAN ere

ar6ti Figuck
Richard V.in§on
ol Ti 11 CQo
2s Peter
David.

‘BY

Da hnstg
Jagkie
Dayidson

oberson
ca Schwartz
Renee Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

‘other had to be sup-

Isser feei@owareward?

I was surprised the other day to receive a
two-dollar credit check and memorandum —
explaining the new “Wildcat Credit” pro-

. gram.

I was not surprised that the idea of service,
emphasized by the last administration and
much cherished on the campus, should find
ever new forms. But I did not expect such an
explicit expression of its cash value.

Of course, there has always been a certain
commercial aspect to Davidson’s service pro-
grams. The financial rewards of virtue under
the Bonner Scholarships are well known, and
the extracurricular service of students and
faculty are paid in the coin of local fame,
employment and job security.

Some years ago, when such commercial
incentives for service were announced by the
Kuykendall administration, a few com-
plained—some fearful that their virtue could
not weather competition, others concerned
about the biblical preference for anonymity
in well-doing.

Such cavils, however, were swept away by
the obvious practicalities of the program.
Since virtue was clearly not
its own reward, some

rejected the law; he said he came to fulfill: it.

If we say that homosexuality is not.a sin
anymore, I feel that we are not loving our
brother but accepting the sin.

Another verse that clearly condemns ho-
mosexuality is found in Romans 1.25-26.
Note that homosexuality is notthe main issue
here. Yet, Paul uses it as a sign of the level of
wickedness. In Paul’s epistle the problem is
not homosexuality in itself, but rather he sees
that as a result of falling away from God. For
Paul, homosexuality is against the natural.

To this argument you could reply that na-
ture is relative and that actually homosexual-
ity can be one’s nature. That is where I also
disagree with you.. Although, I aknowlege
that there are people with homosexual ten-
dencies, that does not mean this is soley their
nature.

Science has not proven that homosexuality

- isanature-only issue. It is probably a mixture

of both nature and nurture. Thus, I would
argue that even if somebody is born with
homosexual tendencies, that does not define
him or her as a homosexual. We may be born
with tendencies to many things. Some are
born with tendencies to be unfaithful, to be
alcoholic, to be violent, etc. That does

not mean we are helpless in giving in

plied—and when it was,
service efforts of all
sorts were undertaken,
recorded, and publi-
cized.

If Davidson was no
longer a very religious a
place, it came to be viewed as a place rich in
public virtue. So the “Wildcat Credit” pro-
gram may be recognized as a logical exten-
sion of, if nota monumentto, Dr. Kuykendall’s
dedication to the benefits of perceived virtue.

Those, however, who prefer reality over
appearance might want to sign their slips over
to a professor like Dr. Holland, who doesn’t
do much but read, write and work with stu-
dents, or to some student who doesn’t do
much but study.

After all, the virtues which ought to be the
College’s chief concern are the pursuit of
knowledge and the service of truth.

A.J. McKelway
Faculty ‘65-‘98

Response to Rev. Baxter

Thank you for your sincerity and advocacy
on this issue. I am glad that you did that for
now I can also show my sincerity and advo-
cacy on this point. I also refuse to agree to
desagree.

If you ask me whether homosexuality is
wrong, I will plainly tell that it is. There are
two verses in the Bible that I would like to call
attention to, both of which stand up to further
questioning. The first one is in Leviticus
20.13a: “If a man lies with a man as one lies
with a woman, both of them have done what
is detestable.”

You may say that this verse is part of a list
of unclean things condemned in the Old Tes-
tament that we do not follow anymore. You
would argue that I am taking this out of
context. Then I ask you to look again at the
context. That same chapter condemns besti-
ality and incest. If you are willing to throw the

|. condemnation of homosexuality out of the

Bible, you cannot then condemn incest and
bestiality. What if I told you that I have this
infatuation for my sister, would that be sin?
What if I have sexual desire for animals, is
that a sin? If you are willing to disregard this
passage, then you have no basis (at least
biblically) to condemn these other actions.
Of course, I do not believe that homosexu-

: _ ality should be punished by death. To do that

would be to undermine an understanding of
the Bible as a whole. We live in a period of
grace, anew convenant. In this new covenant
it is not on us to punish the sinner, but rather
to God alone. However, that does not mean
that the sin is not sin anymore. Jesus never

to these tendencies. Humans may
have a fallen nature, yet that does not
mean that God cannot redeem it.
Thus, I firmly believe that if homo-
sexuality is a sin, God has the power
to change it.

The teachings of Jesus compell us
to love our neighboors as ourselves. It
teaches us mercy and compassion. Believing
that homosexuality is wrong does not contra-
dict with these teachings. Instead, it actually
fulfills this teaching. A true friend will tell
another friend whether he or she is in sin. It is
my duty to love the homosexual and to bring
him to the Biblical truth [believe in. By doing
so, I am loving him instead of just ignoring
something that I and the Bible think that is
wrong and thus harmful for him. ,

Elias Kruger ‘02

Save the Community Bike Program!

For almost a year now, Davidson College
has had a Community Bike Program. You
know, those hard-to-miss, obnoxiously red
bikes that can be seen around campus.

The premise of the program is wonderful
— to offer bikes that can be borrowed any
time, anywhere, to cruise around campus and
to leave the bike wherever you happen to stop
for the next person. Borrow freely and enjoy.

However, a stick has been thrown in the
spokes of the program lately; the Davidson
Outdoors staff can’t repair the bikes as fast as
_ they are being broken. While alittle damage
have been thoroughly abused.

Although the D.O. staff has been amused
with the ever-new ways in whichclever David-
son students can mangle bikes, the thrill is
gone. As a result of such destruction, we
currently have two bikes on campus, and six
in the D.O. office being fixed. Not the best
ratio.

Two red bikes is a novelty, not a program.

So what can we do? Well, we can try to
take care of the bikes. Seems simple doesn’t
it? It is. The only way to make the program
work is if we.all take a little responsibility for
what we do.

The freedom of the Community Bike Pro-
gram comes from being able to ride around on
arather flamboyant bike whenever you want,
not from the ability to Bhost-ride the bike into
atree..  *

-So, enjoy the bikes, ride them as much as
yourwant, leave them wherever you want on
campus, just please try to take care of them,
and we’ II have a really cool Community Bike
Erepani that will keep growing.

Robert McKeehan and the Davidson
Outdoors Staff
