Last week extremist liberalism reafed
its ugly head yet again, this time manifesting
itself in the form of tasteless billboards.
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PeTA) has erected billboards in Pennsylva-
nia and Wisconsin. The advertisements fea-

ture the face of New York City Mayor Rudy —

Giuliani with a milk mustache, juxtaposed
with the phrase “Got Prostate Cancer?”
Under the phrase appears the caption “Drink-
ing milk contributes to prostate cancer.”
To-an average human being, this image
is simply insensitive, simply cruel, and sim-
ply detestable. This form of advertising
- ought to be decried and deplored by all.
Certainly this billboard is evidence that PeTA
will stop at no limits:in its quest to alarm and
to offend. Mayor Giuliani is only the latest
figure to be targeted by this extremist group.
Countless other citizens are targeted when

they walk out of a fur shop or when they buy
hamburgers. Most disturbing, however, is
that now all you have to do to be targeted as
an animal hater by PeTA is to develop a
common form of cancer.

PeTA has satiated the public with their mes-
sage of compassion towards animals, but
their actions tell a different story. Evidently
the group likes to emphasize “ethical” in its
name, as inferred from the italicized “e” in
its acronym. Yet how is plastering the face
of an innocent man stricken with an innocent
illness at all ethical? PeTA is hypocritical
and not at all compassionate or ethical when

it comes to humans. This extremist group is *

driven not by a desire to help animals, rather
by its need for self-promotion.

The Mayor’s reaction to the billboards
was tasteful and direct. “It’s tasteless and
inappropriate to exploit my illness and also

This past June, while attending an inter-
national college chaplains’ conference in
Vancouver, I spent several hours talking
with a United Church of Canada minister
named Ken.-Ken’s story as a middle-aged
gay man and minister resonated with ques-
tions that have been on my. mind. Homo-
sexuality and Christianity: how do they fit
together? What is it like to be gay and
Christian?

Throughout the summer, at church
conventions of Presbyterians, Epis-
copalians, and Methodists
(among others), the issues of or-
daining gays and lesbians and of
blessing homosexual unions have
been hotly debated. In every case,
both ordination and blessing were
denied, though often by narrow
margins. At each convention, gay
_Jand lesbian Christians, and their
straight supporters, engaged in peaceful pro-
test and civil disobedience to bring attention
to their understanding of the Bospel's mes-
sage on this issue.

I am astounded by the courage and
perseverance of such people and of someone
like Ken. Growing up as a Catholic, Ken felt

ing his seminary training, he accepted him-
self.as gay — but only after years of struggle,
after submitting himself to electric shock
therapy and extensive counseling. When he
came out to friends and family, the response
was generally negative. One friend mailed
Ken some money he owed him and told Ken
never to contact him again. Ken’s father at
first would have nothing to do with him. Ken
left seminary, wentinto acting, and spent the
next eight years advocating the full inclu-
sion of self-affirming gays in the Catholic
Church — years that ended in frustration. He
eventually left the church altogether, though
he didn’t deny his faith-in the loving God he
worshiped and sought to serve. ©

Two years later, a friend invited Ken to
attend the United Church of Canada. He
found anew church home where he could be
an openly gay Christian. Encouraged once
again to follow his call to ministry, Ken
completed his studies and settled into a full-
time pastorate in a church of deaf people. As
missionary funds declined, his hours were
reduced to half-time,. and he added to his

In support of gay Christians

CLK,

called to serve God in the priesthood. Dur- .

‘for us to live lives that are righteous. With

 tuality,

work a part-time campus ministry. Through-
out the past twenty-one years, Ken has been
in a committed relationship with his part-
ner, John. Every five years they publicly
renew before God their vow of commitment
to each other. John’s mother attended that
ceremony for the first time on their fifteenth
anniversary, much to Ken’s delight.

I hope for the day that more Christian
churches fully accept men and women like
Ken. I would-like to have

openly gay and lesbian
clergy colleagues and to
represent the church in
blessing homosexual
unions. I have always re-
spected my brothers and
sisters in Christ who, be-
S cause of their interpre-
tation of scripture, be-
lieve that all homosexual
relationships are wrong, and who speak that
conviction in a.spirit of kindness. I simply
disagree with them. ,

As I read the broad message of the
Bible and look at the seven passages that
mention same-gender sex, I don’t hear a
blanket condemnation of homosexuality. I
do hear a resounding message of God’s
great love for all of creation. I do hear a call

regard to sexuality, I’m convinced that righ-
teousness doesn’t have to do with the fact of
one’s sexual orientation, with being straight
or gay. Rather, it has to do with how.one
lives out one’s sexuality. Clearly, all Chris-
tians_are_called to do.so in: relationships
characterized by commitment, fidelity, mu-
and loving kindness. .
I also hear a call in scripture for us to work
towards communities characterized by jus-
tice, especially on behalf of the poor and the
marginalized. I think my gay and lesbian
brothers and sisters are often marginalized
in the Church. I hope for the day that the
words “gay” and “Christian” will not sound
like an odd pairing. I seek the time when
gays and lesbians; as members of the king-
dom of God, will be able to focus less on
concerns over their sexual orientation and
more on the quality of their discipleship to
Jesus.
Rev. Rob Spach
Chaplain, Davidson College

horrible for human health, catastrophic for
the environment, and a living nightmare for
these cows and their veal calf babies.” That’s
right, loyal readers, your mothers are wrong.
Milk is “horrible for human

takes advantage of my position as the mayor
for advertising purposes,” said the Mayor on
August 24",

Not only is PeTA’s campaign exploita-
tion of the most sordid variety, but also its

accuracy is in doubt. The claim of prostate

cancer
caused by
milk comes
from an
April study
by the
Harvard
School of.
Public
Health, in
which it was
discovered
that “consum-
ing a large
amount of milk
and dairy prod-
ucts possibly
can modestly in-
crease the risk of
prostate cancer.”
The study also
stressed that the
case “was far
from settled,” and
it recommended
“further study of
[milk’s] effects on
health.” All ofthis
uncertainty does
not mattertoPeTA.
They only look for
one side of the story.

Mayor Giuliani is considering suing
PeTA for using his image in an advertise-
ment without securing his permission. As
well he should. No group should be allowed
arbitrarily to display persons’ faces wher-
ever it likes. And though we cannot legislate
morality or ethics, the public ought not to
stand quietly while a group sinks as low as
PeTA did with this attack against Mayor
Giuliani.

Milk’s effects on health, and specifically on
the prostate gland, is unclear. But to PeTA
vegetarian campaign coordinator (yes, this
is a real position), Bruce Friedrich, milk’s
health effects are clear: “Dairy products are

DRY
www. Mi ikSuct

a ta cancer?

health” (somebody
taught this guy alliteration), and the way our
legal system is going, if you develop pros-
tate cancer, you’ll probably soon be able to
sue your mother for advising you to drink
milk in your youth. That is, if Mr. Friedrich _
and PeTA are allowed to proceed with their
campaign. Just think, the cows could be co-
plaintiffs with you! And any other lactating
creature as well!

How unthinkable is this scenario? It’s
about as unthinkable as any human using
another’s illness, for personal gain. Yet,
thanks to PeTA, it turns out that this is not so
unthinkable after all.

ks.cor

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @¢

Exegoy Er
Lafeur Bbrior fy
BUSIN & Manat“

aron Houck
chiar, Vinson

' Boa GBvington
eee “~ . Lim.Céok
si Pett C

http://www.davidson:edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

