DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ ALENDA LUX

e &

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2000

SGA pushes for Internet voting
system by Spring elections

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

‘The members of the Student Government
Association and Honor Council are supposed
to represent the entire student body but, in
fact, are chosen by only about one third of it.

In an effort to increase voter turnout, the
SGA passed a resolution last night that en-
courages Information Technology Services
to make voting online available as soon as
possible. ‘‘...[W]e, the Student Government
Association, representing the best interest of
the students, ask ITS to have online voting in
effect before Category II Elections of Spring
2001,” states the resolution.

The resolution was proposed by Bobby

Students draw ire for
night under the stars

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

The lack of things to do in the small town
of Davidson, North Carolina is a frequent
cause of complaint for Davidson students.
Students usually have to create their own fun
in the form of parties, hall socials and study
breaks.

Thinking along these lines, Nathan Flaim
’04 and Brad Bridges ’04 came up with the
idea of camping on the lawn in front of Little
and Watts. They thought it would be fun to
set up their tents and sleep under the stars for
a few nights. The campus police, however,
disagreed.

Flaim, Bridges and Elijah Smith ’04 spent
the night of Thursday, October 12 in tents
after pitching them around 2:30pm. Accord-
ing to Flaim, this was “accomplished ... with
absolutely no problem, or even comment,

from auttigaiies.”

Flaim took down his tent the following day
to leave on a trip; Bridges slept outside on
Friday and Saturday nights without incident.
Since he’d asked his hall counselors if it was
all right and been told it was, he was not
expecting a Sunday afternoon visit from a
police officer who told him the tent needed to
come down — immediately.

Bridges complied with the officer’s re-
quest and asked the officer whether there was

see Tent, page 3
———
1 News
2 Briefly |
4 Politics
q Perspectives
10 Sports

ee fee ie Wee |

Pittenger ’02, Kevin Epps ’03, and Randy
Skattum ’01.

Low voter turnout in recent elections has
spurred the demand for online voting, which
SGA members say would make the process
much more accessible to students.

“We could leave the polls open for 24
hours a day and allow students to vote from
any computer on campus. This would make it
possible to fit voting into any busy schedule,”
asserted Skattum, co-chairman of the Elec-
tion Council.

The SGA is working with ITS to bring the
idea to life, and hopes to have a system ready
for the Category II elections this spring.

“The request for development of a ballot-
ing system is on a list.of about two dozen
requests from around the college. A subcom-
mittee of the Joint Committee for Informa-
tion Technology is working on prioritizing
the requests,’ explained John Casey, Execu-
tive Director and Professor of ITS.

.Many area schools, including UNC Char-
lotte and N.C. State, have already held online
elections, and UNC Chapel Hill and Wake
Forest plan to hold their firstones next semes-
ter. Winthrop and Johnson C. Smith univer-
‘sities also are considering a switch.

Some schools, such as UNCC, use their on-
campus computer networks, while others
contract with Internet companies to tally the
votes. SO

While members of the Election Council are
capable of developing some of the Web pro-
gramming needed, ITS officials would need
to write the script to process the program and
tally the results.

To vote, each student would sign in at a
designated website by using either their stu-
dent ID number or another assigned identifi-
cation number. They would then select candi-
dates and submit the form. Results would be
tallied continuously and would be available

_ see Internet, page 6

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 8

\
\
\

Professor of German and Humanities and Registrar

ansford Epes, winner of this year’s Thomas Jefferson
Award receives congratulations from. Professor Jean O'Neill.

College rewards Epes’ dedication

At Saturday’s Fall Convocation Davidson
College named one of its longest-standing
citizens, Hansford Epes, Registrar and Pro-
fessor of German and Humanities, as the
recipient of the 2000-2001 Thomas Jefferson
Award. ,

The annual award is made to a faculty
member who by “personal influence, teach-
ing, writing, and scholarship” promotes the
high ideals of Thomas Jefferson. The over-
riding outstanding qulaity is described as that
of having given of self “generously and well
beyond the call of duty to College causes
advancing in some manner those ideals and
objectives personified in Thomas Jefferson.

Epes entered Davidson as a freshman stu-

Court provides oversight for Senate

By AMBER PARKE
Staff Writer

There’s a new court in town - but unless
you are a class senator who’s been misbehav-
ing or slacking off on the job, there’s no need
to worry. |

For the first time in eight years, the
Student Government Association (SGA) has
reinstated the SGA Court, which is called for
in the government’s bylaws.

The Court’s main duties will include inter-
preting the bylaws andremoving elected SGA
officials from office.

Senators are in jeopardy of impeachment if
they are absent from three student council
meetings, miss more than 50% of all SGA-
sponsored events, or abandon their duties as
anelected member. ©.

Senator Kevin Epps ’03, chairman of by-
laws committee, said there has been no need

for the court up to this point. But some SGA

members, including Sophomore Class Presi-
dent Gray Patterson, note that the any gov-

erning body needs a political counterweight.

The move comes as part of an effort to re-

‘' examine and improve the bylaws and operat-

ing procedures under which the SGA cur-
rently operates. To do that as justly as pos-
sible, SGA members decided it was time to
re-establish an’ impartial body to review its
decisions.

President Dane Erickson chose the four
members at the October 17 SGA meeting:
Carrie Porath ‘01, who will serve as the
court’s chairperson, Elder Gwin ‘02 and Joel
Sadler ‘03.

’ “Carrie possesses an unparalleled combi-
nation of intelligence and enthusiasm and
provides leadership in everything that she
does,”’ asserted Erickson.

“Elder is a meticulous, thorough and re-

sponsible man whotakes pride ineveryjobhe _.

is assigned. Although he does not have any

previous SGA experience, this willallow him ~

to be as fair as possible when making deci-

- sions.”

’ “(Joel is) genuinely loved by all students
on campus. He is friendly and outgoing and:

see Court, page 2 .

dent in 1957, has been teaching at his alma
mater since 1964. He was appointed Regis-
trar in the spring of 2000.

Upon naming Epes as the Registrar, Clark
Ross, Vice President for Academic Affairs,
noted that, “no one is more dedicated to the
institution than Hansford. His blend of expe-
rience and expertise will serve Davidson well
in the registrar’s office.”

Epes has held many positions of responsi-
bility at the college, including coordinator of
international education, chair of the German
department, the first-ever coordinator of aca-
demic computing, adviser for Rhodes and

see Epes, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

ATC manages funds

Various chairpersons and presidents know that

the Activities Tax Council (ATC) is the primary
source of funding for most student groups. How can

it satisfy everyone?

News page 2

Blalock Lecture

On Thursday, October 19, Kay Redfield Jamison

delivered the inaugural David Blalock Memorial
Lecture in Love Auditorium.

NEws page 3

Zogby Poll
How would the presidential candidates fare ina

beauty pageant? The pollsters addressed the most
difficult questions of the electoral season.

Po.itics page 4

Can you love God too much?

Letter to the editor addresses religious fanati-
cism at Davidson.
PERSPECTIVES page 9

