By Micuaet J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

John Powell’s brush with Davidson’s
law last semester was not his first.

A female student charged him with sexual
misconduct in the fall of 1997. Powell was
absolved of any guilt — but not, the junior
believes, a soiled reputation.

“TI never felt confident they would under-
stand where I was coming from,” Powell said
of his Code of Responsibility hearing last
October. “I don’t know if it was my history.
But I think the board painted a picture that I
was an angry person with a drinking prob-
lem.”

Powell and his father insist they’re not
attacking the Code itself — just Davidson’s
application of it in this particular case.

’ But the Powells have questions.

“When is Davidson going to let us solve
our own problems?” the younger Powell
asked. ‘To say someone has an alcohol
problem or anger problem is only going to
promote anger.

“This school’s too small to support this
type of system. People can be pushed un-
fairly. But nobody ever knows about it. The
secrecy deal means mistakes can be made.”

Mistakes, adds Robert Powell, that can
be made by students, faculty, and administra-
tors who are — at least potentially — unquali-
fied to come up with certain sanctions.

For instance, he asks, does anybody on
the Judicial Committee or Review Board
have the educational background or clinical
say-so to order alcohol or anger management
counseling?

“From a personal standpoint,” he said,
“my opinion is that there’s something bro-
ken, and I don’t think the college is address-
ing that possibility.

“You can break a state law on campus

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Plaintiffs —

and the college doesn’t impose any sanctions
at all. But you do something that doesn’t
break the state law and you can have a very
severe punishment.”

Davidson’s Codes are hardly new to the
Powells.

The family has had a presence at David-
son for nearly 60 years. Powell’s grandfather’
was a member of the Class of 1942 — though
he never actually graduated, according to
Robert Powell, after getting suspended twice
for missing chapel.

Powell’s father graduated in 1969. A
pair of uncles followed in 1971 and 1976. His
older brother Graham finished in 1997. And
a cousin is currently a freshman.

“Our family,” Robert Powell explained,
“has a 60-year history of living with
Davidson’s Code of Responsibility and Honor
Code.

“Those people who think we’ re trying to
undermine the college just don’t know us.
We’ ve lived there, studied there, given money
there, and we’ve sent our kids there. I’ve
given Davidson two of my sons.”

Another son went to UNC only because
he earned a Morehead Scholarship. But,
according to Robert Powell, his daughter, a
senior in high school this year, is going to
Sewanee in the fall, in no small part due to the
current suit and its ramifications.

“This is the honest truth,” John Powell
said. “One of the hardest things to deal with
is that a lot of my family has lost faith in the
institution. I don’t like seeing my dad, my
granddad, and my brother displeased with
where they came from.” ~

“A long-standing Davidson family and
Davidson have had a falling out,” Marsicano
added. “There’s no way you can feel good
about that. I don’t see any happy ending to
this.”

The Defendants

By Micuaet J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

Davidson’s admissions staff makes it
clear from the get-go: This school has an
Honor Code. All students must understand
the Code, agree with the principles of the
Code, and abide by the Code.

The creed is put forth in the form of a
written agreement on admit materials.

John Powell signed that agreement. So
did his parents.

And now they’re suing the school.

“Those people who think we’ re trying to
undermine the college just don’t know us,”
said Robert Powell, John’s father, a 1969
Davidson graduate. “I think we’re trying to
enforce the original agreement.

“Abide by the Honor Code and Code of
Responsibility as it’s printed. The college
didn’t do that. We have — with every letter.
We’ re asking the college to uphold its side of
the bargain.”

But the Powell case raises questions cen-
tral to Davidson’s trademark Codes: Can the
school enforce its own set of rules and regu-
lations without the threat of outside legal
intervention?

It highlights the difference between
Davidson’s law and the laws governing soci-
ety. And it begs the question: When does
each apply?

“Minimally speaking, he wants his grades
restored,”’ Associate Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano said. “But I think they feel there’s
more to it. They’ re fighting for his honor and
reputation.

“The college is also fighting for several
things — our right to set and uphold our own

standards of behavior.”

And if Davidson loses that right?

“As far as I’m concerned,” Dean of Stu-
dents Tom Shandley said, “we'd lose our
ability to judge John — our ability to just judge
him. It doesn’t mean in any way that our
honor system falls apart. I think that’s too
dramatic.”

The outcome of the case could set a

_ dangerous precedent for Davidson.

“Tt does,” Shandley said, “open the door}
for legal challenges over and over again.”

This isn’t the first time a student has
sought outside legal help in challenging
Davidson’s Honor Code and Code of Re-
sponsibility.

According to President Bobby Vagt, the
school last found itself in this type of case
“eight or nine years ago,” and won. David-
son, in fact, has never lost in this situation.

Even the Powells recognize they’ re fight-
ing an uphill battle.

“This is kind of like suing the govern-
ment,” Robert Powell said. “Nobody wins.
It’s my opinion that Davidson can delay and
maneuver because they have the money to do!
that and I don’t.”

But both sides have shouldered consid-
erable legal costs —“‘a ton of money,” accord-
ing to Marsicano — in the last five months.

For good reason, Vagt says.

“This court case is important because it
challenges the ability of this community to)
oversee its relations between-one person and
another,” he said. “It’s so important that it’ Il
be incumbent on the college to assert the
process we have in place until we prevail.”

And if Davidson doesn’t prevail?

Said Vagt: “We won’ tbe the same place.”

the sanctions.

Lawsuit, from page 1.

Said Hoffman in an e-mail: “Good luck
and forget about what happened between us
because I have.”

Marsicano charged Powell on Oct. 15
with violating Section IV of the Code of
Responsibility: “Students will not engage in
any form of activity which intentionally or
recklessly results in physical injury to any
person on College premises or at College
sponsored activities, or which interferes with
the rights of visitors or members of the com-
munity.”

The Judicial Committee included Reli-
gion professor Mark Csikszentmihalyi and
students Winifred Corrigan and Mike Ander-
son. The four of them heard Powell’s case
Oct. 21 and came up with :

Marsicano notified ©
Powell of his punishment
via e-mail later that day and
put a letter in his Davidson
post office box on Oct. 22.
Powell challenged the ver-
dict in a Review Board
hearing Nov. 2.

The Review Board —
Chair Luis Pefia, a Spanish
professor; Richard Kaye,
an English professor; Karen
Bernd, a Biology profes-
sor; and Brendan Willmann, a senior who
serves as student secretary — upheld the Judi-
cial Committee’s original decision.

The Board, in fact, concluded that
Powell’s punishments were, if anything, too
light.

“He could not really give us a good
reason” for his actions, Willmann said in a
Nov. 19 affidavit. “I was dismayed that John
had assaulted two students without any real
provocation.”

Powell made a final appeal to President
Bobby Vagt which was denied Nov. 8. Powell
and his family consulted outside legal assis-
tance and filed the suit a week later.

“We took this course of action,” said
Robert Powell, John’s father, “because we
did not feel the procedures outlined in the
Code of Responsibility had been followed in
John’s case.

“We also didn’t know whether the doc-
trine of fairness had been applied. And the

onn Powe

’

level of sanctions did not seem appropriate

given the mission of the Code of Responsibil-
ity.”

Nor did they seem appropriate, Robert
Powell added, in light of Grainger’s lesser
sanctions.

“My life has been a hundred times harder
since Oct. 14 of last semester,” Grainger said
last week. “I’ve had to work really hard over
the last five months to prove that I’m not
some sort of violent criminal.”

And what, exactly, happened that night
with Powell and Hoffman?

“I don’t want to go into it,” Grainger
said. “That was a long time ago.”

The crux of the Powells’ argument is
Marsicano’s actions and alleged bias during
proceedings, along with the level of sanc-
tions.

After Powell’s Oct. 21 hearing,
Marsicano delivered the sanctions in a letter
dated Oct. 19. The Powells call that evidence
of premature judgment. The dean says it was
a typo.

Marsicano also had witness statements
and police reports from two students who
apparently weren’t at KA at the time of the
Oct. 14 incidents. One of them linked Powell
with vandalism on the Court.

Powell objected to their legitimacy and
consideration in the hearing. Marsicano
agreed with Powell and told them they
wouldn’t be used. One page of one of them,
though, ended up in Csikszentmihalyi’s packet
of information. Marsicano told him to disre-
gard it. Csikszentmihalyi stated in a later

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000.

Due to his role in this matter as a
member of the Honor Council, co-
editor-in-chief Mike Anderson was not
involved with the writing, editing, or
presentation of this story.

affidavit that he did.

Powell and his attorneys also claim the
Judicial Committee failed to provide an accu-
rate audio recording or written transcript of
the trial — a violation of Red Book regula-
tions. The college’s lawyers say the record-
ing is audible if not high-quality.

Marsicano then briefed members of the
Review Board for 20 minutes prior to Powell’s
Nov. 2 appeal. According to the dean and
documents obtained by The Davidsonian,
Marsicano during that time went over the
errors of the original hearing, a practice the
Red Book allows,

Still, Powell said, “that’s
20 minutes of someone who
thinks I’m guilty before I even
go in there. When I went in
there after Dean Marsicano al-
ready laid it all out on the table,
I felt like I really didn’t have a
shot at all.”

To some extent, though,
he didn’t feel like he had a shot
to begin with, in large part be-
cause of Marsicano’s role ina
sexual misconduct case involv-
ing Powell in the fall of 1997.

Powell was found not guilty, and
Marsicano didn’t chair that trial. She spoke
with Powell’s father on a number of occa-
sions one afternoon and shredded the docu-
ments at the end of the case. That’s all she
did.

Even so, Powell stated in a Nov. 22
affidavit, “based on Dean Marsicano’s sub-
sequent conduct toward me, it was clear to me
that she was unhappy with the results of the
disciplinary proceedings.”

But members of the Judicial Committee
think Marsicano was fair throughout.

“When it came to actually deciding upon
a sanction,” Corrigan stated in her Nov. 19
affidavit, “she seemed to sit back and wait for
‘me, Mike, and Dr. Csikszentmihalyi to voice
our opinions. Dean Marsicano was abso-
lutely not trying to lobby for a particular
outcome.”

“While none of the rule violations or
incidents of unfairness are conclusive stand-
ing alone,” Powell attorneys Evans and Mar-
tin wrote in a Nov. 22 statement, “when taken
as a-whole, it becomes very obvious that
Davidson deprived John of the opportunity to
receive a fair and just consideration of the
offense committed and the subsequent sanc-
tions imposed.”

Everett, the judge in Pitt County, agreed
enough to grant the restraining order. ©

“A Temporary Restraining Order,” the
Powells’ attorneys explained, “is necessary
to protect the rights and interests of the Plain-
tiffs during the pendency of this action.”

Everett also asked for another trial in
front of the Judicial Committee. A new
committee, chaired by Shandley, re-did
Powell’s. hearing Dec. 7 and reached the
same conclusions.

Powell had another Review Board hear-
ing Dec. 16. The Board again upheld the
verdict and sanctions,

There is no definitive legal timetable at
this point. The next step in Powel et al. v.
Davidson College Board of Trustees is depo-
sition — a round of interviews with those
involved in the case.

“It could go on for a long time,”
Marsicano said. “There’s some sense or
urgency, though, because some of the people
involved will be graduating in May.”

Said Powell: “I’ m ready to just get it over
with.”

“To me,” Corrigan added in her affida-
Vit, “it is a dishonor to the fabric of Davidson

College that this matter has been brought to
col ”
