-_Wepnespay, Ocroner 25, 2000

By Anpy LANOHA
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team has had
better weeks.

Dropping tough losses to ) #24 Clemson
Tigers and #21 Furman Paladins, Davidson
ended its six-match winning streak and fell to
second in the Southern Conference.

Entering last Wednesday’s match against
the Clemson Tigers, Davidson was flying
high. The Cats has been cleaning-up on
conference opponents and playing very well.
But Clemson was a higher caliber of compe-
tition and Davidson knew it.

Both Davidson and Clemson came out
hard and fast, each demonstrating its will to
win. A wild, offensive first half left the two
teams with a 2-2 tie going into the locker
room. Clemson opened the scoring in the 13"
minute when senior Mark Lisi fed forward
Steve Rhyne alone in the middle. Rhyne
made no mistake sliding the shot home. ~

Davidson answered back quickly, how-
ever, when senior co-captain Dane Erickson
scored his third goal of the season. The play
started when freshman, David Peoples
launched the ball into the box offia flip throw-
in. Chris Norbet was able to flick the ball
through the defense finding Erickson cutting
through the six-yard box to the back post.

Clemson wasted no time reestablishing
their lead striking again at the 22:33 mark.
Lisi scored his first goal of the game after
Davidson’s keeper Soren Johnson was
knocked off the ball trying to retrieve a high
cross. The ball dropped right in front of the
goal and no one was in position to defend the
close-range shot.

After falling 2-1, Davidson got fired up.
For the rest of the half, the Cats created
scoring opportunities that challenged
Clemson’s keeper. Juniors Jon Tetirick and
Chris Norbet combined to create several dan-
gerous chances.

The Cats finally tied the game when junior
midfielder Erick Ozimek finished a ball that

the Tigers had been 1 struggling to clear. Once
again, Peoples started the play with a long
throw-in that
put Clemson
on their heels.
After several
seconds. of
scrambling
around the
box, Ozimek
finished the

ball decisively.
Unfortunately for the Cats, Clemson had a
lot of energy left to carry them through the

ankle injury) was a daunting task.

The Cats were up to the challenge for most
of the first half. Both teams battled hard and
created scoring chances but after 22 minutes
it was still drawn at 0-0.

Furman’s John Barry Nusum broke the tie
in the 22" minute finishing a ball that was
bouncing in across the goalmouth.

Down 1-0 at half, Davidson was hardly out
of the game. Despite losing, Davidson had
created chances of its own, unfortunately the
inability to convert those chances would be
the story of the game for the Cats.

Davidson fell behind 2-0 at the 52:04 mark

sec- when
ond Furman’s
half. Patrick
The Tanner
Tigers . finished a
came ball that
o on had _re-
strong bounded
in the off the
sec- cross bar.
ond Through
half, the early
finally part of the
get- second
ting half,
their Furman
third Erin Berry clearly ap-
goalin The motto of men’s soccer: Safety first peared to
the 65" be the
minute. Lisi scored his second goal (and fifth stronger team. But, after falling behind by

point) finishing a free kick from 24 yards out.

The Cats lost.more than the. game against
Clemson. Davidson’s Erick Ozimek and Pat
Miller, both starters and team_leaders, re-
ceived their fifth yellow cards of the season
Wednesday night. They would, therefore,
have to sit out a one-game suspension against
Furman.

Coming into Furman’s game Saturday night
in Greenville, Davidson knew that the odds
were against them. Playing away against a
top-ranked opponent without three starters
(freshman Justin Porter has been out with an

two, the Cats showed that they had: life in
them yet.

Davidson shelled Furman’s goal for the
last 20 minutes of the game, mounting an
offensive attack that was quite dangerous at
times. In the end, the Cats were able to out-
shoot the Paladins and double their corner
kick tally (10-5), but for some reason
Davidson could not find the back of the net.

“We had our chances at the end of the
game. If we had been able to get just one, I
think that we would have won the match. We
playing better than them at the end” specu-

en’s Soccer falls to nationally ranked opponents

lated senior co-captain David Buehler.
Coach Charlie Slagle had a positive attitude

toward his team’s performance. “We played
well,” said
Slagle. “We

battled hard
0 and created
some great
chances. We
just didn’t put
them in.”

Though the team may have lost its shot at an
“at-large” bid to the NCAA tournament
Davidson’s spirits are not broken.

Davidson’s next match is against UNC-G,
Tuesday evening in Richardson stadium, and
will determine important seeding in the South-
ern Conference tournament.

“Going into the UNC-G game, we are look-
ing for some momentum to take with us into
the tournament. We will be second [in the
conference] if we beat them and that could be
important”-said Buehler.

J ohn Tetirick “02 was"
named SoCon Player
of the Week for the

_ week of
10/15/00 - 10/21/00

The 27th Olympiad through the eyes of a Wildcat

By Burcin Harpin
Foreign Correspondent

SYDNEY, Australia — Ask the registrar’s
office where I am these days and those friendly
folks there will tell you that I’m “studying
abroad.” But this kind of studying is unlike
any other kind of study. Some of the things
I’ve learned thus far I won’t allow to be
printed for fear of incrimination, but every
experience in this foreign culture has been an
excellent adventure.

My base camp is Bond University, a small
school located on Australia’s Gold Coast, a
pristine bit of coastline located in the middle
of the eastern seaboard.

This past week, I hopped on an hour-long
flight bound for Sydney, that well-known
international port 1500 miles south famous
for, among other things, the 2000 Olympic
Games and approximately 187, sushi bars per
square block.

I managed to stay away from consuming
raw fish, but I did jump headfirst into the 27th

Olympiad. Here’s how it.all went down: .

America won enough gold to make Mr. T
jealous, host nation Australia played the role
of the underdog like a pit bull on speed, and
it -was-a common occurrence to have 16

billion people crowded onto one subway car,
most of them cheering, “Aussie! Aussie!
Aussie! ‘Oy! Oy! Oy!”

I attended three events—the bronze medal
men’s soccer game between the U.S. and
Chile, the bronze medal women’s basketball
contest, which pitted Brazil against Korea,
and the gold medal
women’s basketball mis-
match between the good
ol’ U.S. of A. and the
rowdy Australian nation.

Apparently, there
were only two U.S. fans
inthe arena—meand my
buddy Adam. Sincetheir
national team was com-
peting, the Aussies came
out in droves, filling the arena with flags and
banners and that clever little chant which
bounced from one side of the arena to the
other.

I turnéd to an Australian behind me named
Ryan to wish him and his team good luck, to
which he dryly replied, “I wish you no luck.”
I soon discovered that Aussies enjoyed ro-
manticizing the idea of them, the underdogs,
toppling the big dog, the U.S., and so the

tension in arena between, well, Adam and I_

ORY?

and 35,000 Australians Was rather intimidat-
ing.

But we didn’t let that stop us.

After the U.S. scored its first field goal, I
leapt from my seat applauding and chanted,
“U,S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” See, they’re not
the only ones with witty chants. After a few
more rounds of that
ditty, however, I noticed
a trio of Aussies a few
rows down pitching me
asit-down-or-T’ll-jump-
you-like-a-rabid-dingo
glare. SoI sat..

I was up again when
Lisa Leslie drained a
three to increase
America’s lead to
twenty. By then, I could look at the Aussies
and see in their faces the despair that had set
in. Still, they cheered wildly whenever the
Opals—Australians’ affectionate nickname
for their hoops team—gained possession.

In truth, the game had been decided about
five minutes into the second half as America’s
intensity overwhelmed the Opals, but by the
sound of the crowd, you would have never
known it. The Aussies’ loyalty and bound-
less enthusiasm amazed me.

But have a little enthusiasm in me, too, and
my cheers never waned, despite my fears-of an
attack by a massive mob of Australian hoops
fans. I had sacrificed my voice by the time the
final buzzer sealed America’s 72-54 gold
medal victory, and so I was limited to only
clapping during the medal presentation cer-
emony. And admirably the Aussies applauded,
too—even Ryan.

I had a little celebration of my own that
night to honor this latest gold medal, which
was a welcome sight after watching the U.S.
men’s soccer team the night before lose to
Chile, a quick team that held the Stars n’
Stripes scoreless and won the bronze medal by
a two-goal margin.

But in Sydney, you really didn’t needa gold
medal as an excuse to party. The atmosphere
of acity that knows it’s on display to the world
is almost hypnotic. The city has done its best
to dress itself to the nines; Sydneysiders’ civic
pride has peaked, signalling their readiness to
dazzle the world with their exceptional cul-
ture; and wide-eyed visitors embrace it all and
beg for more.

As for me, I’m sure I fell victim to the
Olympic rings’ hypnotic power because now
every time I hear “‘Aussie! Aussie! Aussie!
Oy! Oy! Oy,” I get an odd craving for sushi.

Well, Mets, it was fun while it lasted....Bungles-I mean Bengals- running back Corey Dill-
- on set the NFL record for rushing yards in a game with 278 vs. the Broncos...A sopho-

more football player at San Jose State had his right poo and ankle c poutasee after suf- —
fering; a compound fracture i in a game on 1 October 14.

| the Raptors played - -

