THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ SPORTS

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

13

Marston departs for UNC Charlotte post

By Buracin Hardin
Sports Editor

When Davidson volleyball hosts UNC Char-
lotte in October, Lisa Marston will be on the
sideline, of course—but it won’t be Davidson’s.

The coach who led the red & black attack on
an imposing 20-0 run through the 1999 Southern
Conference has left to head the volleyball program
at UNC Charlotte, a school ten times the size of

-Davidson that boasts a fully-funded volleyball
program.

“I feel like at this time in my life this is a good
career move for me,” Marston said, “and I feel
confident about that. I feel good about the poten-
tial at UNCC and I feel good about what I’ ve done
here.”

Mike Anderson
Marston’s 85-79 overall career

record at Davidson included an
undefeated ‘99 Southern Confer-
ence campaign.

And indeed she should.

The two-time Southern Conference Coach of
the Year complied a 85-79 overall record in her
five years at Davidson, including a 51-31 confer-
ence record.

Marston’s first year, 1995, saw her squad
finish a dismal seventh in the conference, but since
then the Wildcat Express has stormed through the
SoCon rankings, finishing sixth, then third, then
tied for second, then finally an undefeated first
place finish in *99.

“She putin an incredible amount of work and
the success she’s had is amazing,” senior Gina
Lawrence said.

The Wildcats’ NCAA tournament contest
against powerhouse Nebraska marked the first
NCAA tournament appearance for any Davidson
women’s team, and the loss to the Cornhuskers
didn’t upset the Wildcats — they were thankful for
the opportunity.

“Tm really proud of just making it to the
national tournament,” Lawrence said after the
game.

But stats are just numbers on a page and
trophies are shiny things that impress vistors. For
Marston, her best memories will be of her players.

“It would be easy to say that the conference
championship or the night when we found out we
were going to be undefeated [will be the greatest
memories]. Those were great moments, of course,
but the best memories I'll have will be of the time
I spent with the girls.”

It’s no accident that the Wildcat team mem-
bers have a very close relationship with each other
as well as their coaching staff.

“T think that’s why we were so successful —
we cared enough about each other to work hard for
each other,” Marston said.

Marston has stressed togetherness and team-

Uhernik out for season

By Mikt ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

In October of 1998, a wide-eyed and glowing
John Filar promised great things from a 5-10
freshman forward out of Freedom, Pennsylvania.

“Leah Uhernik is going to be a huge asset to
this program,” Davidson’s head coach praised.
“Our fans are really going to thoroughly enjoy
how she plays.”

As fate would have it, none of us have been
given that opportunity yet.

Her first two seasons were supposed to be
marked by spectacular rebounding, an uncanny
knack for creating scoring opportunities, and even-
tually.a major role in the starting lineup.

Instead, the story thus far of this seemingly
star-crossed sophomore has been an endless litany
of crutches, ice bags, and ibuprofen.

The latest chapter in this saga of frustration
and unfulfilled potential came Jan. 10, when
Uhernik suffered the third torn ACL of her career,

“Tt just happened so fast, I knew as soon as I
landed,” Uhernik recalled. “My knee hurt, but I
was more heartbroken than anything.”

The injury occurred in the midst of a fierce
battle against UNC Greensboro, one of the league's
most physical opponents.

“IT went up for this rebound, but as I was
landing I was twisted funny. On my way down,
my leg bumped one of their players and I landed
awkwardly.”

Head coach John Filar was visibly distraught.
“As disappointed as we are, I can’t imagine the
disappointment she must feel. I’ve never had an
athlete endure what Leah has had to go through in
terms of injuries.”

Uhernik entered this season with renewed
expectations after a frustrating, injury-plagued
freshman campaign. The forward spent last year’s
pre-season workouts on the sideline recovering
from another torn ACL.

After seven months away from the game,
Uhernik was forced to play catch-up during her
first few weeks in Wildcat red & black. But she
found her touch quickly. In the first two weeks of
1999, she averaged 7 points and 6 rebounds per
game off the bench.

Uhernik showed flashes of brilliance against
some of the league’ s best competition, chipping in
a combined points and 18 rebounds in the
regular seasofhi’s two contests against the
conference’s top-rated team, UNC-Greensboro.

Shortly thereafter, a fractured rib sent the

Freedom Area High School product back to the
starting blocks. Playing with excruciating pain,
Uhernik didn’t record another point or rebound
until the Southern Conference Tournament cham-
pionship game.

Asked if she would describe her freshman
season as disappointing, Uhernik answered: “Dis-
appointing? Try disastrous.”

But 1999-2000 was supposed to be different.

The Pennsylvania native was expected to
return to the Wildcats’ starting lineup, bringing a
nearly unparalleled level of athleticism and versa-
tility.

“Leah is one of the biggest unknowns to
people,” Filar explained just before the start of this
year’s campaign. “She has the ability to create a
lot of mismatches on the court. She’s a 3-point
threat, she’s a slasher. She knows, and her team-
mates know, that no one has seen the real Leah. I
know the things that she’s capable of, hopefully
this year she'll have the opportunity to show it.”

In the early going, Uhernik was slowed by a
string of nagging injuries, including a joint injury
in her foot and continuing shin splints. Neverthe-
less, she managed to play 25 minutes per game and
was among the team’s best with 6.3 points and 4.2
rebounds per game before being sidelined by her

‘most recent clash with fortune.

As her teammates continue their journey to-
wards Greenville this season, Uhernik will em-
bark on an entirely different and all-too-familiar
journey. She is slated for surgery today and will
begin the agonizing six-month recovery and reha-
bilitation process.

“I just want to be able to contribute to this
team,” a frustrated Uhernik said. “Jen O’Brien is
the best player I have ever played with, and I'll
never get to play with her again. It’s just so hard
to accept.”

Through it all, No. 25 has proven indomi-
table.

“There’s no way I’m going to go out like
this,” she proclaims with unwavering resolve.
“My coaches and my teammates are counting on
me, and I want to prove myself and contribute to
the team. ;

“There’s no way I’m going to leave here
without anybody seeing the true Leah Uhernik
play.”

John Filar couldn’t agree more. “I have no
doubt that she'll come back better than ever.
Because that’s the kind of player, and that’s the
kind of person, Leah Uhernik is.”

work from the very beginning, planning trips and
training activities that fostered team bonding. The
players’ respect and care for their teammates and
coaches transcends the volleyball court and un-
doubtedly will help insure success in the post-
Marston era.

“Our strength and cohesion will work to our
advantage during this transition,” sophomore set-
ter Erica Schwartz commented.

Marston said repeatedly that the one draw-
back to taking the UNCC job would be leaving her
players.

“They are just wonderful, wonderful girls
who have given me

everything they

could have given Overall
me,” Marston 14995 8-25
praised. “Ihavethor- }4996 11-22
oughly enjoyed ev- 1997 14-17
ery minute of it. The

thought of leaving 1996 21-11
the girls was the one 1999 31-4

Marston’s Davidson Record

and energy into making that program a premier
women’ s sport at Charlotte,” Marston commended.

“She brings impressive credentials to our
program,” UNCC’s Athletic Director Judy Rose
said at the announcement. “She knows what it
takes for a team to be successful, which is the type
of program we want. We are excited to have her.”

Marston inherits a 49er team that went 13-17
overall last season and won a school record seven
Conference USA matches. Patty Dennison, the
49ers former coach resigned Jan. 8 for personal
reasons.

Davidson will now begin a search for a coach
of its own, which Athletic
Director Jim Murphy. be-

SoCon lieves could take up to two
3-11 7th months. The department is
5-9 6th conducting an open search

through the NCAA News

rae vided t and the AVCA, the Ameri-

zs Newt can Volleyball Coaches As-
20-0 1st sociation.

thing that kept me
saying, ‘I don’t want to leave, I don’t want to
leave.”

“It’s upsetting, but Ido understand,” Schwartz
said. ** We understand this is a good move for her.”

At UNCC, Marston will have twelve scholar-
ships at her disposal compared to the 1.5 that
Davidson’s resources afforded her. Playing the
likes of Cincinnati, DePaul, and Marquette, means
more national exposure, also.

“The athletic department has put the resources

“I feel positive
about where our program is and the strength of the
program will help us attract anew coach,” Murphy
commented.

“I want [the players] to know that the depart-
ment is very dedicated to them, dedicated to their
success, and dedicated to finding a well qualified
person to come in,” Marston added.

But it won't be easy. Lawrence said, “It’s
going to be hard to fill her shoes just because she
loves Davidson and the people of Davidson.”

ROOMATE WANTED 2BR, 2 BA WF
condo. $400-+utilities/month/person.
No smokers/pets.

Credit check/deposit required.
Call Stacy 892-7373 or 655-9259.

earlier in the afternoon.

Ben T. Craig 54

Ben Craig played his last
football game at Davidson
in 1953, but his contribu-
tions to the school and the
— community have endured for

an outstanding tackle in foot-
ball from 1950 through 1953,
and a successful business
leader as President of First Union Corporation.
Craig also was a member of the Davidson Board
of Trustees (1973-88), serving as Chairman from
1985 until his death in 1988. In 1987, Craig
received the first James P. Hendrix Award, pre-
sented to a former Davidson Football player
whose success after college can be attributed to
the lessons learned on the football field. Craig
and his wife, now Jane Craig Hanes, who cur-
* rently serves on the college’s Board of Vistors,
are the parents of Cathy, Sally ’81, and Chip "86.

Homer A. Smith

Homer Smith didn’t attend
Davidson, but his accom-
plishments as the Wildcats
" football coach from 1965 to
1969 are still remembered.
He was an All-East tailback
at Princeton (class of °53).
As Davidson’s football
coach, he was regarded as
an offensive genius, and his teams consistently
ranked among the nation’s leaders in passing. In
1969, he guided the Wildcats to their only South-
ern Conference championship and a berth in the
Tangerine (now Citrus) Bowl. Coach Smith
retired from coaching after the 1997 season. He
and his wife Kathy have two children, Kim and
Cari.

Hall of Fame Welcomes Class of 2000

_ During the halftime of the Jan. 22 men’s basketball game against VMI, four new inductees to
the Davidson Athletics Hall of Fame were recognized for their outstanding contributions to Wildcat
athletics. The Carl and Louise Knobloch Tennis Center hosted the official induction ceremonies

nearly five decades. He was .

Richard E. Lyon ’71

Rick Lyon still shares the
school’s 200-meter record.
He ran a leg on the 1969

team that won the South-

ern Conference 440-yard

relay championship and he

was the conference 220-

yard champ in 1971. In.
football, Lyon was an out-

standing receiver who set

a single-game record with 248 receiving yards

when he caught 13 passes against Bucknell.

Lyon also achieved in the classroom, ranking

13" in his class and earning an NCAA post-

graduate scholarship. Currently an emergency

room physician, Lyon resides in Florida with his

wife Joanne and their children, Jamie and

Carolyn,

Julius “Jake” Wade, Jr. 50

Jake Wade intercepted four
passes and returned one of
them 94 yards for the deci-
sive touchdown in a 20-14
win over N.C. State that
took place 50 years ago at
Charlotte’s Memorial Sta-
dium, If the Wildcats held
= a play-of-the-century con-
test, Wade’s interception would be at the top of
the list. Wade also played second base for the
Wildcat baseball squad. Baseball has remained
one of his passions and he had coached in
Charlotte’s Myers Park Trinity League for the
past 42 years. One of the league’s fields is
named in his honor. An attorney, Wade resides
in Charlotte with his wife Sara. He has three
children, Jimmy, Jay "79, and Amelia.

