The Davidsoni

ALLEN DA | Foe ee, € LU. Bt ORTA LJ BuB RT ALS
DAVIDSON COLLEGI 13 00 oy

“The South’s Foremost

College Weekly Women’s basketball signs
@ Davidson celebrates feminism. Race relations are campus relations. A glance at Davidson’s staff. five high school stars.

Estasuisnen 1914 NEWS 4 VIEWPOINT 8 FEATURES 7 SPORTS 10

By Burin HARDIN - Presidents discuss

Sports Editor

Lights? Nope. : Davidson’s history

Camera? Nada. | By ALISON KALETT
Action? You better believe it. fg Editor in Chief

Three days before its match against Ice-
land at Ericsson Stadium, the U.S. National
Women’s Soccer Team dominated Iceland in
aclosed-door session at Richardson Stadium,
capturing an 8-0 victory.

Since nobody outside of the Davidson
College community was admitted to the scrim-
mage, the presence of almost 500 people in
the stands was that much more impressive.

“Back in the days when I played, we
were lucky if we had 400 or 500 people attend
a game,” said head coach April Heinrichs,
who played four years at the University of
North Carolina in the mid-1980s. “It’s won-
derful to have the crowd.”

The past and present of Davidson Col-
lege came together on Monday night.

Former Presidents Samuel Spencer and
John Kuykendall joined current President

Bobby Vagt as well as students, faculty, and
community members in discussing the issues
which shaped their undergraduate and presi-
dential years.
Spencer, who graduated in 1936 and
served as president from 1968 through 1983,
remembered a Davidson in which the Honor
Code still governed student life, Chapel was
mandatory, there was little opportunity for
academic “experimentation or variety, ”
During his tenure as President, women were
See USA Soccer, page 12. . admitted as full time students in 1975.

Also, Spencer pointed to the require-
ment that all faculty members had to be
members of a Christian church as one of the
most difficult issues he was forced to con-
front.

“There was a big question about how
faculty would be perceived if not members of :
a Christian church,” said Spencer.

The religious affiliation requirement for

See Presidents, page 6.

Mia Hamm (above) and the U.S.
National Women’s Soccer Team

faced Iceland Wednesday on INTL. COMMENTARY First Class Mail

Richardson Field in a closed-
door match prior to their game at | FEATURES _U.S. Postage Paid

Ericsson Stadium on Saturday. VIEWPOINT Permit #1
‘| SPORTS Davidson, NC 28036

All photos by Mike Anderson

