. ditions and remaining min-

Greetings and salutations. For those of
you who are wondering who came up with a
column with such a bizarre title, most of you
don’t care, but I'll tell you anyway. My name
is Andrew MacDonald. Last year I authored
‘a series of unusual and informative (debat-
able) articles, including ‘Hall Golf,” “The
Snowman Cometh,” and “Spam, It’s What’s
For Dinner.” This year, as an erudite and
enlightened sophomore, I shall both try to

expand your minds as well as to offer little:

known and amazing details of the inner work-
ings of the Davidson College campus and of
the a-typical student’s mind. Here we go!

I arrived on campus early this year and
found, to my dismay, that the transportation
infrastructure had been turned into some-
thing reminiscent of Dresden, 1945. I was
distraught, dismayed, and most of all, delin-
quent (I ran a portable stop sign). How was I
to unload my packed-to-the-roof vehicle?
Was I to ignore warning signs and pull up on
the sidewalk? Exactly. I was a rebel with a
cause: shortening the distance between my
suitcases in the car and the floor of my dorm
room. Success! But, I celebrated too soon..

As I was walking up from my basement
location (basement Cannon, to be exact, girls,

my door is always open) to my aging but ©

illustrious Volvo, I began to hear a ringing
sound. No, not a ringing sound, more of an
incessant beep, kind of like the drone of the
torture device used in medieval Han dynasty
torture chambers.

son wasn’t built in a c

mph. That was when I realized something
that had eluded my attention up until that
time. There was nowhere to park; not no-
where to park as in [have to park two minutes
from my dorm instead of the usual thirty
seconds. Rather, nowhere to park, as in there
would be a better likelihood of finding a
needle in Siberia.

What was the source
of this head-splitting
screech? It was the
door, the door that
had been propped
open, and the door
that had been propped open with a trashcan:
Actually, it looked remarkably similar to the
door that I had propped open with a trashcan,
but that is of no grave importance.

What is of grave importance was that my
harmless little trashcan maneuver attracted
the attention of a not so harmless officer...

‘She was actually very kind as she told me to

get my car off of the grass before she had to
open fire on me and all of my worldly belong-
ings. So, naturally, I jumped in the car and
drove off at speeds up to and exceeding 10

exceeding 10 mph.”
TT

" ens : It was then that I
Naturally, I jumped in the car began to look around
and drove: off at speeds up to and _at the campus. Gone
were the sloping hills

es «2 Of beautiful ever-

greens thathad lined

Patterson court. In their place was an archi-
tecturally masterful dirt lot. Where paths once
stood to guide my meanderings, dirt trails
now existed, muddied from recentrains. And,
as if to add insult to injury, the trip from
Cannon to the Belk computer lab (where I
work frequently, girls...), which had once
been a hop, skip, and a jump, was now more
along the lines of a ten mile march through
the jungles of Vietnam.

Why had they destroyed ‘the idyllic

Davidson campus? Was it ina amen effort
to trip up the backwards-walking tour guides?

Or was it part of something more sinister? |

Did they really think that no one would notice
that Cannon did not have a roof or that the
entire building of Belk looked as if it was in
the middle of two opposing armies engaged
in trench warfare? =

But, not to worry, all is well. This “con-
struction” (read as devastating mess) is in the
name of progress (the same progress, I might
add, that led to the Hindenburg, Nuclear
Winter, and the TV series “Big Brother’),
and progress is a good thing... Or so they
would have us believe...

Note: Andrew does not imply, suggest, nor
admit to having ever parked on the grass. His
legal team will deal with any such salacious
claims in a quick and decisive manner. Fur-
thermore, he has not held the views stated in
this article ever since he got a “sweet” space
in the Belk parking lot.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Real “Reality TV”: the Kursk tragedy

As many of you were preoccupied the
past couple of weeks with who was going to
be the “Survivor,” or about the arcane pecu-
liarities of “Big Brother” participants, amuch
more compelling and significant “live” nar-
rative was playing itself out on the floor of the
Barents Sea.

One of Russian’s newest and most so-
phisticated nuclear submarines, the Kursk,
sank suddenly and dramatically under uncer-

tain and controversial circumstances with °

118 crewmen. As much of the rest of the
world held its breath and

which America won a great victory in the
Cold War, the supreme irony is that we find
ourselves gravely threatened by the weak-
ness and potential collapse of Russia.”

We won, their sub sank, and we are the
ones threatened? The operative words are
nuclear weapons, theft and terrorism, state
failure and disintegration, the environment,
and perhaps the much-maligned interdepen-
dence.

The Kursk tragedy served to expose the
raw truth of Russia today: a former military

reduced defense spending differ dramatically

-from its military’s self-image, force struc-

ture, and manning (still larger than the US),
which continue to project Russia as a major
power and as the target of threats from a
myriad of sources.

One of those sources is the United States
and the fact that we maintain, among many
other forces ‘nuclear and conventional, 16
ballistic missile nuclear submarines opera-
tional a decade after the Cold War, forcing
the Russians to try to continue the Cold War-

the Kursk has two nuclear reactors, which
like the sub lie rotting on the sea floor and will
continue to do so for some extended period
until the huge military vessels might be raised.
Military specialists, scientists and advocates
all disagree over whether the reactors are/will
be a danger to the environment or may be
subject to leakage. Any one remember the
half-life of radioactive material from your
physics class?

The tragedy underscored the fact that
Russia already has some 100 nuclear vessels

hoped that this real-world
saga would indeed be that of
survivors, the imagined con-

utes of the imperiled seamen
became too easily imagined
and nightmarish. A week, or
maybe two, later we were
forced to admit that rescue
was not to be.

Charges assessing the
blame for the tragedy from
both-within-Russia-and_the
outside world came fast and
furious: Russian bureau-
cratic bungling, dissembling,
delay, deception and even
delusion combined to con-
demn the Russian submari-
ners to a horrible death. A
comment by former prime
minister Victor
Chernomyrdin on an earlier
Russian blunder came to
mind: “we hoped for the best,
but things turned out as

I\

lying in various states of dis-
repair in Russia’s northern
ports, many with nuclear fuel
still on board. The Bellona

Mind your own f ae eee
Seal All it
needs. is a Irttle

“Oo

\

=~

a~\
NV ,
—_—_~

—

In +ernational
Syeport.

v

_ ane

foundation, a watch-dog
agency, reports that besides
the laid-up subs, Russia is
believed to be storing nuclear
waste in nine rotting ships,
and to have dumped as many
a as 17 nuclear reactors which.
2 it could no longer maintain
or store into the Kara sea.
Resteasy, this is country that
brought the world Chernobyl
at the height of its power 14
years ago. The British, how-
°, ever, are already uneasy
. about the effects on one of
° the main supply sources for
their hallowed fish and chips.
o But this reality is far from
any direct connection with
me and my “Survivor” hab-
its — or is it? Consider the
implications of one
commentator’s remarks:

Aaron Houck

usual.”

But the Kursk affair was
far from routine or simply another instance rof
Russian post-Cold War ineptitude. The inci-
dent is emblematic not only of a human
tragedy that we all share, whether tragedy is
a matter of proximity or not; rather, it is one
of all too “real” connection to our.own lives,

.and responsibility.

As Graham Allison, former dean of the:

Kennedy School of Government at Harvard

and briefly “czar” of Russian policy in the

Clinton administration, lamented ‘recently,

“Were Russia’s military, and even the Rus- .

sian state, sinking and dissolving on another

planet, Americans could regard this a cither-~ greater risk of nuclear weapons vuinerable to disintegrate: with its-nu eles

tragedy or just. deserts but nonetheless as a

matter of distant interest. Sadly, however,

they.and.we share.a.shrinking, glabe.. After,

four decades of cichcach ia ‘exertion in

superpower, now bankrupt, no longer able to
repair much of its still vast nuclear arsenal or
even totrain its military personnel adequately,

the country itself at risk of failing as amodern ©

state.
Nowhere may the danger exposed by the

_ Kursk loom greater than in the possible fail-

ure or negligence of Russian military officers
whocontrol nuclear-tipped missiles (still with
some 8000 warheads) aimed at the United
States. :
Such a nuclear ‘ "abeident? .waiting to
happen may itself be overshadowed by the

theft, or to sale to terrorists.
What makes Russian weapons and per-

mip hi The problem is that Russian reality and

era games of underwater cat-and-mouse (L.e.,
“Hunt for Red October’) in order to remain a
respectable power, despite a fleet rusting in
harbor, nuclear power-plants decaying and
personnel poorly trained, and even more
poorly paid and respected. Disappearances
of nuclear-weapons grade material and weap-
ons, while not yet commonplace, have been
documented and are of increasingly grave
risk in such an environment and declining
authority of the state.
What would happen if the Russian state,

like its predecessor the Soviet Union, were =e

“The Kursk episode comes
after a 1980s decade during
which the Soviet state itself sank. It follows
the 1990s, when the popular hopes invested

in democratization and westernizing reform —

were betrayed by the incompetence, miscon-

duct and ated Russian military or its civilian ©

management? ._

As the US increases its defense budget
(despite rhetoric to the contrary) and moves
so that the next president does not “inherit a
US military in decline” (again, rhetoric), how
might a newly assertive movement of “na-
tional revival” in Russia react?

. Areourtwo aa and our two qocteties.

tant? Who would be the s successor state this
time around?

- Russians and outsiders alike, is the fact that

Sep ereag i enbaee

obalong’*t to us as well? Gay tuned:

_ Political Science
