Tue Davmsontan

By Tom ANsTROM
Staff Writer

Judging by last week’s cake race, the 63"
of its kind at Davidson, the freshmen class is
in pretty good physical shape.

But that doesn’t mean it doesn’t enjoy a
good cake every now and then.

More than 300 of the college’ s 465 fresh-
men participated in the annual race, setting
out on anewly-designed course that started in
Richardson Stadium and wound its way to-
wards the Chambers building, down Main
Street, through Patterson Court and back into
the stadium.

In the men’s race Colby Broadwater of
Ft. Hood, TX, edged out cross-country team-
mate Ben Gaspar of Lake Bluff, IL, to take
first place with a time of 7 minutes 53 sec-
onds. Finishing third just six seconds behind
the winner was cross-country runner Chris
Schmader of Hillsborough, NC.

The men’s cross-country team claimed

seven of the top eight spots and dominated the
race.

The women’s race was just as thrilling,
with Colleen Faes of Howell, MI, capturing
the title with a time of 9 minutes 28 seconds.

Cake Race continues Fre

ill Gi uz

Taking second and third in the women’s race
were Jenna Kruppa of Dublin, OH, and
Kathrine Hatch of Portland, OR, respectively.

Cross-country coach Gary Andrew said
that judging the runners’ talent was difficult

because the course had not been run before.

But he said that this was a very “exciting”
freshman class.

Other notable runners in the race were
Director of Media Relations Bill Giduz, who
ran the entire race while juggling, and college
president Bobby Vagt, who ran the race wear-
ing the Wildcat mascot’s giant, furry head.

Vagt said running with the head is “okay
for the first 100 yards,” but that breathing
becomes a problem by the end of the race.
Vagt has been running the race in the mascot’s
head every year since becoming president.

Faculty and local residents showed their
support for the students by contributing 99
cakes for the hungry runners. The top 50 men
and the top 49 women received cakes.

Broadwater chose first and selected a
giant yellow duck cake that was so big it
required several of his teammates to help him
carry it off the field.

Faes, who described the race as “hard but

_ fun,” selected a huge cake covered in M&Ms.

Volleyball’s Darwinism —_
new coach, same expectations

By Mike ANDERSON

of first-year head coach Tami Darwin.

with academic achievement.

Big shoes to fill? Absolutely.

players.

place.” .
t assistant coach Kelley McCaffrey.

asset bridging the seasons together.

Staff Writer
The Wildcats will look to build upon last year’s seamless campaign under the tutelage

Darwin, who was hired after the departure of instant legend Lisa Marston last fall, has
been touted as the perfect match for a Davidson squad striving to aaKCN athletic prowess

- Darwin spent her college days at Duke University, where she made the ACC-
Academic Honor Roll while helping the Blue Devils to four straight ACC titles.

“Tamiisa great fit for Davidson,” Athletic Director Jim Murphy said. “She has played
and coached in a strong, competitive athletic and academic environment. She understands
what it takes to be successful at a school like Davidson.”

Darwin inherits the program from Marston, the two-year running Southern Confer-
ence Coach of the Year who left for the Charlotte job last fall. Marston guided Davidson
to the peak of greatness, steadily improving a perennial basement-dwelling program into
Davidson’s most successful women’s team ever. .

But, by all accounts, Darwin has hit the ening running.

“I’m not anxious about the future, and I’m not focused about the past,” says the first-.
year coach. “I’m taking each day one ata time. I’ve asked that these girls give 110% for
every practice and every game, and if they do that I know the results will come.”

Since coming to Davidson this past spring, Darwin has quickly earned the favor. of ne

“Tami has been teally well-received by our team,” says Mara Mordini ‘01.

Players praise her commitment to camaraderie and so-called “character goals.” 4

“We’ve set some numerical goals as a team,” acknowledges Darwin. “Buta lot of our
goals are character goals versus numerical goals. We all feel that if we focus on character
goals such as eines communication and work ethic, then everything else will fall into

Darwin’s most applauded move as head coach thus far has been the retention of
McCaffrey served under Marston last season, and has been described a as an invaluable 5
(Darwin) could haye come in with a whole new system and changed everything
around,” said one Wildcat. But instead, Darwin’s decision to stay the course Gnetdinig the:

retention of McCaffrey) “speaks volumes about her coaching style and confi
“Kelly es net ore said

shman tradition

ETS Ms SENT,

According to Vagt, the race originally served
a dual purpose. It not only allowed incoming
students to greet people on campus and in
town but also gave then-cross-country coach
Heath Whittle a chance to identify promising
track and cross country runners.

Vagt said one thing that has really
changed about the race since he attended
Davidson is the fact that “the participation of

' the rest of the campus has increased over the

last thirty years.”

Bill Giduz
To the winner go the spoils .. .

| | 3rd

*

at

Tom Anstrom

oi
Cake Race Winners:

Colby Broadwater

Ist
Colleen Faes
2nd__Ben Gaspar _
, _, Jenna Kruppa
Chris Schmader

Katherine Hatch

Third in Pre-Season Polls “ee

The Davidson women’ 8 soccer team was
predicted to finish second in the Southern
Conference pre-season poll. The Wildcats
received two of the ten first-place votes,
and trailed only Furman in the voting.
Furman swept the 1999 regular season
with a perfect 9-0 league record and won
the conference: tournament in a 2-1°win
over Davidson in four overtime periods. —
The Wildcat men were picked to finish
third in the conference. Furman was
picked to repeat their 1999 championship.
UNC Greensboro finished second in the
voting, followed by the Wildcats.

Wildcats Selected Pre-Season All-Con-
ference

Three Davidson soccer players were re-
cently selected as pre-season all-confer-
ence by the Southern Conference coaches.
Representing the. Wildcat women’s 1

was Tara Maloney ‘03.- Maloney played
in all 23 games last season, tying two other
Wildcats for the team lead in goals (6) and
was third in total points (17). For the men,
Wildcat midfielder Dane Erickson ‘01
and defender David Buehler ‘01 were
named to the team. Erickson, a co-captain
in 2000, started 20 matches, finishing sec-
ond in assists (8) and third in points (11) for
Davidson. Buehler, who will also serve as
a captain, started 20 games in 1999 and
added two assists.

Volleyball

| Wildcats Garner Honors _ eee
The Southern Conference. volleyball
coaches have selected Davidson to repeat
as the regular season champion in 2000.
Davidson received six of the 11 first place
votes from the league coaches in the pre-
season poll. Seniors Brooke Bentley and
Mara Mordiniand junior Erica Schwartz
were named to the pre-season acon:
ence team. ;

‘Basketball

McKaiop Works With Team USA

Wildcat men’s ‘basketball coach
McKillop served as a floor coach
summer at the 2000 USA Basketball Men’s |
National Team Trials at the U.S. Olympic

