at the inee Tickets are $6 for students,
faculty, and friends and $3 for children
twelve and under.

All proceeds will benefit Project Life. an
on-campus organization which raises”
money and awareness for an annual Bone
Marrow Drive. Please come and enjoy the |
Davidson Community and support this wor-
eg cause before First Night Down.

RLO, ITS to bring cable to
residence halls

Adelphia Cable, Davidson College’s
cable provider, has granted permission to
begin connecting residence halls. Instead
of waiting for Adelphia to do the work,
RLO staff can now make the connections
themselves. ITS has agreed to have their
“cabling” contractor begin this process. .

Estimates for completion range from
days to weeks. Some or all of the lounges
could have service by the weekend, though
‘| this is not guaranteed. In the meantime,
RLO hopes to have all TVs in place by this
weekend to give students access to broad-
cast channels and the use of a VCR.

- Richard Vinson

Briefs and announcements can be
sent to JT Tolentino at
jttolentino @ davidson.edu, .
or to Matt Garfield at
magarfield@ davidson.edu

By Linpy BaLpwin AND Matt GarFIELD

Staff Writers

Call it The Story That Won’t Die. -

Unless you just arrived from another planet,

you know about the fiasco concerning
Davidson’s policy with the West Hall bath-
rooms. What follows is an attempt to explain
the details of the now-infamous story that has
made national headlines.

It started innocently enough. Charlotte
Observer higher education reporter Michelle
Crouch came to Davidson Sept. 4 to doastory
about new residence halls in the area.

She had seen the Aug. 30 front-page article
about West Hall in The Davidsonian.

“T’dnever heard of aschool where students
clean their own bathrooms, so I went over to
the dorm and got an earful,” Crouch ex-
plained.

Y West Hall story attracts national attention

The next day the front page of The Ob-

server contained the following front-age

teaser: “Housekeeping 101: Some Davidson
students get a lesson in bathroom cleanup.”

The story ran at the top of the Local section.

Media outlets—including WBTV in Char-
lotte, national radio talk shows as far as
Connecticut and even National Public Radio’s
“Weekend Edition”- - have subsequently con-
tacted Associate Dean of Students and Direc-
tor of Residence Life Kurt Holmes for com-
ment.

Holmes said he declined several offers
because he doubts their sincerity, although he
is considering speaking to NPR.

On Sept. 6, West Hall’s bathrooms were
featured as a “Hot Topic” on ABC’s talk
show “The View.” The show’s hosts, includ-
ing MTV’s Carson Daly, described their own
housekeeping habits and recalled their col-

lege years.

Some college officials have expressed frus-
tration about the coverage, suggesting the
media has portrayed the entire student body
as being upset, when it may be: Paly a few
students.

Media Relations director Bill-Giduz calls
the attention “Absolutely out of proportion
[to the importance of the story]. The thing
that’s sort of upsetting is that it’s not true as
[some media outlets] tell it,” he said, citing
“The View” as one example.

“It became this cute little story about whiny
rich kids and bathrooms,” Giduz said.

Giduz. said this isn’t the first time
Davidson’s bathrooms have attracted national
prominence. In the mid- 1980s, the Dean Rusk
Program’s practice of putting international
news briefs and maps in bathroom stalls also
attracted national attention. ,

Davidson makes strides towards improving faculty resources

By Aaron Houck

Editor-in-chief

It is the annual report that college adminis-
trators love to hate.

Each September, U.S. News and World
Report publishes its list of the top colleges
and universities in the nation. They calculate
these rankings using catagories such as “‘aca-
demic reputation,” “faculty resources,” “stu-
dent selectivity.”

Under this system Davidson consistently
places in the top tier of national liberal arts
colleges—this year, Davidson ranked 11",
the same as in last year’s list.

Despite maintaining the same over-all po-
sition, Davidson made significant gains in

. “|

8/31/00 — 9/8/00

9/8/00
Domestic related disturbance
Officer responded to a domestic related
disturbance in a residence hall. Suspect was
gone prior to the officer’s arrival.

9/7/00

Larceny of a bicycle
Student reported that his unsecured bi-
cycle was taken without his consent on 8/26/

00: The approximate value of the bicycle is
$60.

9/4/00

Damage to property

Complainant stated that his vehicle sus-
tained damage on the bumper while it was
parked in the Belk parking lot. No other
‘damage was visible at the time of the report.

9/2/00

Larceny of a golf cart

Student reported that his golf cart was
taken without his consent. The golf cart was
last seen near the Martin Court apartments.

9/1/00

Suspicious person

Officer responded to acomplaint of suspi-
cious person near the Martin Court apart-
ments. The responding officer located the

subject and further investigation identified
the subject as a solicitor. The subject was

informed of the policy of no soliciting on |~

campus without a permit and was instructed
to leave campus.

8/31/00 .

Larceny of a bicycle

Student reported that her unsecured bi-
cycle was taken without her consent from a
bike rack near Knox residence hall between
8/22 — 8/25. The approximate value of the
bicycle is $300.

Suspicious person

“Officer responded to a complaint that a
suspicious person was seen in the area of the
library. The officer received a second com-
plaint regarding the same subject following
a female student through the Union. The
officer located the subject in the library and
made contact with him. The officer imme-
diately noticed a strong odor alcohol on or
about the subject’s person. Further investi-
gation revealed that the subject did not have
a reason to be on campus and was clear of
warrants. At that time the officer issued a
criminal trespass warning to the subject and
instructed the subject to leave.

Contributed by Marlon Lynch, Assistant
Director of Public Saftey and Caninus Po-
lice

-o-—

the “faculty resources” category, moving from
25 in 1999 to 13 in 2000.

“Faculty resources” accounts for 20 per-
cent of the total score, and its components
include class size (8%), faculty compensa-
tion (7%), proportion of faculty with highest
terminal degree (3%), student/faculty ratio
(1%), and the proportion of faculty that are
full-time (1%).

The improvement in national ranking sig-
nifies significant progress toward goals re-
garding faculty salaries.

“(There was a] gradual recognition that
[Davidson’s] salary structure --particularly
at the entry level -- wasn’t as competitive as
it could be,” noted Dr. Clark Ross, Vice
President of Academic Affairs and Dean of
the Faculty.

Two years ago, the Board of Trustees de-
cided to alter the salaries of faculty and staff
at the college.

“This year’s higher rank reflects the efforts
of past years,” President Bobby Vagt ex-
plained. However, he continued, “this doesn’t
mean we’ re going to stop or that we’re where
we want to.be. But it certainly was a step in
the right direction about which we are all
enthusiastic.”

As an additional caveat, President Vagt
warned that, “with respect to ‘faculty re-
sources,’ people go only to salaries, but that
is not correct. People need to be mindful that
there are other factors that contribute to this
category.”

In fact, noted Dr. Ken Menkhaus, Chair of _

the Professional Affairs Committee, those
other factors must be responsible for
Davidson’s improvement, as the college’s
relative rank this year remained low.

“No one is arguing [the fact] that we have
had generous salary increases,” Dr. Menkhaus
pointed out. “But despite significant in-
creases in salaries basically we are still 24 out
of 26 [with regard to faculty salaries].”

Additionally, Davidson is playing “catch-
up” with its peer schools in terms of endow-
ment per student. “Some of these schools
have [an endowment] of $1 billion, so obvi-
ously. they can pay more,” Dr. Menkhaus
explained.
~ Dr. Menkhaus offered a possible explana-
tion for the improved “faculty resources”
rank but low faculty salaries rank. “The
differences between the schools on the list is
so minor, that if there are changes in how [the
rankings] are calculated or in the way col-
leges do business, it can have dramatic ef-
fects on the composition of the rankings.”

President Vagt and Dr. Menkhaus agree
that faculty salaries is a “lightning rod issue,”
and that while Davidson is making progress,
itis a long term process that can only be fixed
over a matter of years.

“We’re not going to make fundamental
instutional decisions based on how they are
going to help us [in the rankings],” President
Vagt contended. “At the same time, a lot of
people use that [list] for [college] informa-
tion, many of whom we would like to make
Davidson their four year home.”

Russian poet inspires, entertains students

By Katy ELWe.i
Staff Writer

Most people wouldn’t compare the accu-
racy of English translations to women, but
Yevegeny Yevtushenko is not most people.

“Translation is like women. If it is beauti-
ful, it’s not faithful. If it is faithful, it’s not
beautiful,” he said.

Yevtushenko, an acclaimed Russian poet
and filmmaker, spoke at Davidson’s annual
McGaw Lecture Sept. 7, and was well-re-
ceived by many students.

“T liked how he included everyday things in
his poetry. “Everything wasn’t abstract,”

Hannah Brown ‘02 said. “He talked about
Rocky and Elvis.”

Kelly Carroway ‘04 agreed “He did a very
good job of incorporating world events into
his poetry,” she said.

Yevtushenko introduced each poem with a
story of a historical event or a personal expe-
rience, giving students greater insight into his
verse. He also used comic relief, both in his
readings and.stories.

“When relating to college students, it’s
important to use humor to connect with them,”
Carroway said.

Yevtushenko had someone else
interoperate a poem in English before he read
the poem in its original Russian. He also read
afew poems only in Russian, without a trans-
lation.

“Even though you couldn’t understand the
Russian, the emotion behind his words and
the feeling in his deliverance made the con-
tent of the poem evident,” Brown said.

_ Carroway said, “The actual Russian was

_my favorite part of the lecture.”

Overall, Yevtushenko olicited a positive
response.

Freshman Laura Rizzo said, “It was my
first poetry reading, but I would definitely go
to another one.” ”
