In most categories, Davidson fell between
the 50th and 75th percentile; however, the
college lagged behind in a few areas. Nota-
bly, the number of video references and elec-
tronic periodicals (excluding NC Live) fared
poorly, falling in the bottom quartile.

Finally, while Davidson’s per pupil expen-
ditures are about average for typical liberal
arts colléges, Park admitted that Davidson is
the “low man” when compared to the top 10
colleges. 4

However, he was quick to paint out that
Davidson has only been “solvent” for the past
30 years or so. Colleges like Amherst,
Wesleyan and Middlebury have had large
amounts of capital pouring into their libraries
for far longer. Even now, Davidson’s $335
million endowment pales in comparison to
colleges suchas Grinnell and Williams, whose
endowments exceed $1 billion.

Park said he hopes the new capital cam-
paign, which began last month, will bring
new funding into the library. °

In the meantime, the inter-library loan de-
partment (ILL) is very active in getting books
that students request from other college li-
braries. The number of volumes requested
from Davidson’s library, however, is well
into the 75th percentile.

Joe Gutekanst, a top library assistant in
charge of ILL, said this number is less a
reflection of any deficiencies in Davidson’s
collection than an indication of ILL’s reli-

‘ability.

“It stands to reason that if -you want some-
thing and aren’t sure you’ ll get itin time, you"
may not order it.” The “marked rise” in ILL
requests, he suggested, proves that Davidson
students feel confident of receiving their ma-
terials in a timely manner.

Mark Cody ’01, achemistry major, acaitn
with this assessment.

“While Davidson doesn’t have everything
a science major desires, they are very good at
getting articles, patents and such to you via
interlibrary loan in a short time,” he said.

Park cited the large number of ILL requests
to dispel the suggestion that this system might
be limiting. The large number of abstracts
and indexes, he argued, lead to resources
elsewhere — available either through ILL or
online.

Davidson’s system of acquisitions is far
different from other liberal arts schools. At
most colleges, the librarians are in charge of
acquisitions; they may take suggestions from
students or faculty, but one or two individuals
are ultimately responsible for building the
library’s collection. Larger universities may
hire professional bibliographers to make sure
all academic areas are “covered” in the li-
brary.

But here, the faculty is responsible for
acquisitions. Sixty percent of the library
budget is split between the departments. Each
department uses their portion to subscribe to
periodicals and purchase other materials.

Teachers request books they need for their
classes and then tend to build their curricu-
lum around resources they’ ve made available
in the library.

Davidson’s academic needs. .

“The collection reflects what’s taught at
Davidson,” Park said.
The school is also unique in that it runs

yearly review process to keep periodical sub- ©

scriptions up-to-date, said Park.

Moms, Daps,
KIDs, ‘CATS...

Fur fow

According to Dr. Park, the library collection is sufficient for

Erin Berry

“The collection of periodicals that we have
are ones that every year, the faculty looks at
and says ‘yes, we need those to teach at
Davidson’ .. «it’s good management of funds
and prevents [building up] a collection full of
junk.”

Many students said electronic resources
are one of the library’s best features.

Hannah Brown ’03, a political science
major, mentioned the Lexis-Nexis Academic
Universe, which provides indexing and ac-
cess to many legal, business, and government
sources. Project Muse, hosted by Johns
Hopkins University, is alsoa significant online
source for Davidson students and faculty.

Science majors have also found more re-

_ search options through online databases. A

new program called “Sci-Finder” allows stu-
dents to search the abstracts database without
asking a professor to do it for them. Cody
said the program “has added a whole new
dimension to our resources.”

Indeed, a significant aspect of the plans for
the library’s future involve increasing use of
the Internet. Several library projects making
use of Davidson’s online capabilities are ten-
tatively in the works.

Park suggested online reserves might soon
become reality. Instead of passing a single
journal between members of a class, an ar-
ticle could be scanned and uploaded onto the
Internet for students to access at their leisure.
Similarly, music could be streamed to stu-
dents in music classes. Many books are
already available online; Park says over
14,000 volumes are stored in NCLive’s
NetLibrary. Still, Park said he doubts elec-
tronic books will replace hardbacks anytime
soon.

In the meantime, many feel Davidson’s
library resources are sufficient for their needs.
“We don’t have the largest collection, but it’s
unique in many ways,” Gutekanst said.

Added Park: “As a liberal arts college, we
can do anything anyone else can.”

We’re waiting.

You can still write for

The Davidsonian

contact Aaron Houck

or Richard Vinson

