“The ine Patrol will ee ee dorms
randomly between Homecoming, Septem-
-ber 24, and Fall Break, October 5. Resi-
| dents who do not have a computer i in their
rooms can bookmark a “Favorite” on the
campus network in any of the computer

abs. Prize Patrollers will accompany such.
esidents to a computer lab to check for
this bookmark. oe

~ Questions should be directed to Career
Services at 2132.
Lia Neiheisel

Favicon Conser-
vation Conference

Cande Martin, Director General for

falicm ilo will speak at Davidson Cr
lege from September 24 through Sep-
tember 27.

The guests will be participants in a
biannual international studies confer-
ence sponsored by the Davidson's Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies
and Bank of America. All events are free
and open to the public in the Gallery
Room of Chambers Building. ;
=; For more ern call 892-4080 _

By Jessica MERING

Staff Writer

Davidson’s lack of a vocal AIDS aware-
ness group is about to change. Last week, the
SGA approved the charter for a new student
organization - the Davidson College Adopt a
Country AIDS Campaign.

Proposed by Muna Musiitwa ’03, Grant
Lovellette ’03 and Judie Kaplan ’04, the club
hopes to raise campus involvement with-the
AIDS cause. :

According to its constitution, the AIDS
Campaign is “a campus organization aimed
at informing and involving students with
issues relating to HIV/AIDS.” The club will
focus on both education and activism. It
plans to create areference web page as well as
to make financial contributions to interna-
tional AIDS organizations.

The club is a response to its founders’
realization of both the personal and global
implications of AIDS.

“T have lost relatives to HIV, and [realized
that I wasn’t doing anything to help stop the
spread of the disease,” said Musiitwa, a na-

: International AIDS activism ¢ comes to Davidson

tive of Zambia, where AIDS is particularly

prevalent.

She also pointed out the enormity of the
AIDS epidemic throughout the world. It is
now estimated that more than four million
people have become infected with the HIV
virus. In many countries, those in the 15-24
age group are most often infected, and the
number of women infected with the virus is
rising. While the number of new infections in
the U-S is slowing, other countries are not
experiencing this positive trend.

The Adopt a Country AIDS Campaign
seeks to assist countries whose lack of re-
sources prevents them from offering suffi-
cient AIDS treatment and prevention educa-
tion. The club is planning projects and
fundraisers that will allow the Davidson com-
munity to contribute to this effort. The first
beneficiary will be an organization that serves
women in Botswana. Eventually, the club
hopes to expand its scope of its donations to
other organizations and countries.

The club is already setting high goals. The
AIDS Campaign founded here in Davidson is

the first organization of i its kind among col-
leges and universities in the United States.
The organizers hope to expand their efforts to
other colleges and universities by helping
found branches of the AIDS Campaign along
with their financial support of a wide array of
AIDS organizations.

Anessential part of the AIDS Campaign is
its use of the world wide web to dissiminate
information about the virus to students on
campus and worldwide. Lovellette envisions
a web page that will link readers to informa-
tion about the Campaign as well as to the
organizations that it supports. He hopes that
this will eventually expand into a database
which provides contact information for many
other social organizations than those just
dealing with AIDS.

Membership is open to all and the club will
meet once a month. As an organization rec-
ognized by the SGA, it will receive partial
funding from the Activities Tax Council. All
charitable donations that the club makes,
however, will come from its fundraising ef-
forts.

Wertheimer shares observations on Mexican election

By JOHANNES NoRLING
Staff Writer

Dr. John Wertheimer gave a talk and slide
show presentation on Sept. 17 about his expe-
riences in Mexico during the nation’s presi-
dential election this summer as part of the
Dean Rusk program’s series of speakers.

Wertheimer began his talk with an over-
view of Mexican politics for those in the large
audience rusty on the subject. For more than
70 years since a decade-long revolution in
Mexico in the 1910s, the Institutional Revo-
lutionary Party (PRI), has ruled national poli-
tics in Mexico. Until recently, the presiden-
tial elections were dominated by the PRI.
However, in 1988 and 1994, the elections
have been especially tight and fraught with
fraud. The left-wing Party of Democratic
Revolutién (PRD) has been very close to
gaining the presidency, and in 1997 actually
won control of the local governmentin Mexico
City by prevailing in the mayoral election.

All of this activity, Wertheimer noted,
pointed toward increasing contention in this
summer’s election.

As he did six years ago, Wertheimer trav-
eled to Mexico as one of many foreign visi-

9/18/00

Larceny of a bicycle

Complainant stated that an unknown
person(s) removed without their consent her
unsecured bicycle from a bike rack near
Richardson hall. The bicycle is.a light blue
GT Outpost trail bike valued at approxi-
-| mately $150.

Damage to property

Complainant reported that an unknown
person(s) damaged his blue Trek by break-
ing the rear spokes and chain while it was
chained near Cannon hall.

9/17/00

Damage to property

Complainant stated that an unknown
person(s) damaged the porcelain top of the
toilet at the Kappa Sigma house.

9/15/00

Natural gas leak

A staff member at the computer services
center smelled natural gas and requested
-t assistance. The Davidson Fire Department
inspected the building and requested assis-
tance from the gas company. The leak was
located and repaired.

Campus Police Blotter
9/12/00-9/18/00

CATCARD from her unsecured residence

_ person(s) removed without her consent her

_located in an unsecured office in Chambers.

9/12/00

Larceny of a camera & CATCARD

Complainant reported that an unknown
person(s) removed without her consent a
Canon Rebel 2000 camera and her

hall room in Sentelle. The approximate
value of the camera is $400 and ne
CATCARD is valued at $5.

Larceny of a bicycle

Complainant stated that an unknown
person(s) removed without her consent her
black Giant bicycle from a bike rack near
Duke residence hall. The bike is valued at
approximately $100.

Larceny of a check card
Complainant stated that an unknown

First Union check card and North Carolina
driver’s license from her purse that -was

The check card was later used without the
complainant’s consent to purchase items.

Contributed by Marlon Lynch, Assistant |

Director of Public Safety and Campus Po-
lice

tors with Global Exchange out of San Fran-
cisco. Since the fraud in its elections was
uncovered in the 1980s, Mexico has invited
many such observers to monitor national
elections, along with appointing numerous
domestic observers.

For the beginning of his two-week “reality
trip,’ Wertheimer spent time in Mexico City
learning about the
election and absorb-
ing the unique Mexi-
can political culture.
Unlike in the U.S.,
campaigns in Mexico
tend to be advertised
outdoors with color-
ful banners, posters,
and graffiti, rather
than inside on a TV
set. Parties rely on
imbedding their sym-
bol in the peoples’
minds so that even
voters unable to read
can recognize the
parties’ symbols on the ballots.

Wertheimer went on to describe how the
PRI kept its “‘institutionalized power” for so
long, and then lost it in the last 12 years. As
the dominant party for nearly 80 years, the
PRI resided in the middle, keeping its left-
and right- wing factions content.

Every six years, the sitting president would
hand-pick his successor, who would then
proceed to dominate the election. While in
power, the PRI set up an extensive network of
handouts for lower and middle class indi-
viduals. When the elections came, small
farmers and businessmen throughout Mexico
voted for the PRI for fear of losing these
subsidies they had come .to rely. on.

Recently, however, defectors from the PRI
have helped opposition groups rise. The first
opposition president in the history of Mexi-
can democracy, the National Action Party
and its president Vicente Fox, will take its
position this December.

As the election neared, Wertheimer moved
to Huejutla, Hidalgo, to assume his job of
monitoring the election. Wertheimer offered

‘avery colorful account of his long day at the

polling booth. He described a voting system
much different from that in the U. S., where
polling workers are chosen like jury mem-
bers, the ballot boxes come with transparent
windows in the sides, and each party sends a
representative to each and every polling loca-
tion to monitor the proceedings.

: The Mexican gov-
ernment has been
forced to take such
drastic action be-
cause of the preva-
lence of fraud, or
“dirty pool” as
Wertheimer refers to
it, in recent elections.
However, there were
also many good signs
in this election. The
increased competi-
tion, most notably the
election of an oppo-
sition president,
highlights an unmis-
takable democratization of Mexico.

Furthermore, decreased voter turnout does
not signal complacency, but rather indicates
a decline in such practices as ballot stuffing.

While fielding questions at the end of his
talk, Wertheimer discussed the impact of
President Fox on America. While the presi-
dent-elect voiced his desire for an open bor-
der with both the U.S.:and countries to the
south, this issue was not a point of contention
in the Mexican election because such a situ-
ation is very unlikely to occur within the next
six years. Conversely, as an advocate of big
business, Fox favors free trade and NAFTA,
and his opinion on these matters will be of
much more importance.

However, the increasingly global nature of
the Mexican economy has been bittersweet:
On one hand, Mexico may soon achieve
economic prosperity it has been yearning for
since its independence in the 1870s. As with
every other emerging nation, globalization
carries a price that, in Wertheimer’s words,
“the regional identity of Mexico may be
diminishing.”

Aaron Houck

The staff of
The Davidsonian

is seeking a qualified student
to take over
web design

Contact Aaron Houck at aahouck @davidson.edu or
Richard Vinson at rivinson@davidson.edu

