Hillary Clinton is supposed to be the smart-
est woman in the world. The title likely was
concocted for innocent insertion into the ba-

Sic political jargon, just like the term “Third

World.”

Yet Third World can be explained satisfac-
torily, while Mrs. Clinton being The Smartest
Woman in the World cannot. According to
Mr. Webster, Third World is simply a term
for the underdeveloped countries of the world.
If only Mr. Webster could explain Mrs.
Clinton so succinctly.

Hillary Clinton indeed is not the, smartest
woman in the world. In reality, she is a far cry
from it.

Mrs. Clinton is so successful at what she

‘does (what does she do?) because she enjoys
the privilege of not having to explain herself
in full. She will never reveal her true self,
because were she to, she would never see the
limelight again.

She is afraid. But of what? She’s been the
First Lady of the United States and of Arkan-
sas. She has a spirited campaign in New York
for the U.S. Senate. The media love her, the
unions drool over her, and those who know
no better take her as the savior sent from on
High. What is this woman?

The reasons that Hillary Clinton is afraid
became apparent in her debate with Rick
Lazio on September 13. Hillary is afraid
because she has everything to hide.

The reason that Rick Lazio shined the floor
with Hillary Clinton that night was that Hillary

previously has never had to explain any of her
actions. She has always had the benefit of

friendly media coverage. She has turned
down interview offers from such straight-
talking reporters as Tim Russert, who moder-
ated the recent debate.

Finally, on the 13", we saw what Hillary
Clinton really does when prohibited from
lying. She babbles (“Well, uh, well, hmm,
yeah, umm...”). She squirms (“Gee, Tim,
that’s a very in-

She refers to her radical and failed univer-

sal healthcare proposal as a starting point,

refusing to admit that her socialist desires
would have hampered the medical gains
achieved by a privatized health industry.
She is arrogant, and she plays ignorant:
“Obviously I wasn’t misleading anyone, I
didn’t know the truth” about her husband’s
relations with Monica Lewinski. She doesn’t
see a problem with offering theLincoln Bed-

teresting ques-
tion, and I’m
glad you asked:
that because I
want to be as
forthcoming as
I can, but the
truth is, it was a difficult time for me.”’). She
changes the subject (“Did you know that I
really don’t like Newt Gingrich?”).

When pressed, Hillary Clinton is unable to
explain her actions. She is a failure.

Mrs. Clinton has many reasons to be afraid.

She can’t refute that she brought public
education in Arkansas from 48" to 50%—
dead last—during the time she was in charge
of its reform.

She won’t apologize for branding all who
criticized her husband as being part of “a vast,
right-wing conspiracy.” Even with those she
accused including Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman,
Al Gore’s holy running mate, she refuses to
swallow hard and apologize.

It’s a cat’s life --
Students in a stupor

I am tired. No, let me rephrase that. I am
very tired. So tired, in fact, lam going to take
a nap. Bye.

Don’t worry, I was just kidding. I would
never abandon my loyal readers for the va-
garies of some base and primitive delight.

Why am I so tired? I get my daily require-
ment of seven hours of sleep, I take my
vitamins, and today I even ate my proverbial
Wheaties, literally. Yet, as seems to be more
and more the case, I cannot keep my eyes
open. °

To make matters worse, this dilemma is not
confined to me alone. No, the plague has
swept through the campus faster than the
latest Bush\Cheney bumper sticker.

Granted, my lethargic state is compounded
by the fact that I just got out of Dana 146,
possibly both the greatest and worst class-
room in exist-
ence. Can you

Maybe I just used to get more sleep. Maybe I
should just sleep more now.

No! I can’t sleep. I have work to do and
meetings to go to and classes to attend and
events to plan and dinners to be at and if I
don’t get everything done then I won’t get
into graduate school and then I won’t get ajob
and then, well, then all I will be able to do is
sleep. I have to work non-stop just to keep
afloat!

So, back to my problem: why am I so tired?
Now, I know what you are thinking. You are
thinking that it is because I am doing all my
work and going to all my meetings and such
that I am exhausted and have no time for
sleep. Well, if you have a better idea, I’d like
to hear it!

Ithas been recommended to me that I begin
to take, oh what is the word, ah yes, naps.
_ Thank you. I

know better. I

blame me? With
those big comfy
chairs and their |

enveloping desire to frolic. .

Now, as the siren that is my alarm
clock rudely awakens me, I have no
: Maybe I should just

can see these
“naps” for
what they re-

cushions, I’d sleep more now . munist plot to
have to be inhU- uy ms § COTUpLOUr pre-
man not to fall cious bodily
asleep! fluids!

And that, my friends, is precisely the prob-
lem. I am human. We are all human and as
human beings we require mad amounts of
be...I mean sleep .The average person spends
one third of his or her life asleep, and that isn’t
considering the countless hours spent day-
dreaming and “resting one’s eyes.”

I wasn’t always this tired. I can remember
fondly the days back in my innocent youth
when I would be able to frolic in the autumn
evenings and would then awake (much to the
chagrin of my parents) with the sun, ready to
frolic once more.

Now, as the siren that is my alarm clock
rudely awakes me, I have no desire to frolic.
The spring in my step and the ear-to-ear grin
with which I used to greet every day has been
replaced by the “crack” sound in my ankle
and the scowl on my stubble-ridden face.

- Lookatcats. Back when cats were wild and
free they used to get by with maybe 4 hours of
sleep a night. Then they were domesticated
and because they no longer had to hunt, they
began to pass the time by taking brief little
rests, hence the name “cat nap.” Before any-
one knew it they were sleeping 20 hours a day
and addicted to catnip.

So, L ask you, are you prepared to give up
your soul for a few more hours of sleep? -

Tam.

Note: Andrew does not support nor deny
any of the malicious rumors that have him

‘ taking regular naps. He stands by the com-

ments made in this article just as he stands by
his commitment to be a kinder and gentler
columnist.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

ally are: acom-

room and
Camp David to
She has so much to fear. Confrontedhead- _ig-money do-
oie nors. But

on, she cannot defend her policies or her ;
: Hillary Clinton
personal actions. can talk all she

wants, because
as long as she
is not prohib-
ited from lying, the mainstream media will
say nothing objectionable about her.

Paella he his candidiess: and objectivity,
Tim Russert exposed the true Hillary Clinton
at her debate with Rick Lazio.

The true Hillary Clinton is combative, to.
fensive, and crude. When forced to explain
herself, she can’t. She has so much to fear.
Confronted head-on, she cannot defend her
policies or her personal actions.

Yet Hillary Clinton survives. It’s no sur-
prise. She only survives because she has only -
once been asked to explain her actions or her
feelings in straight talk. And it’s a good bet
that with the likes of Bryant “What a F—ing
Idiot’ Gumbel and James “Rajun-Cajun”
Carville controlling what the public is al-
lowed to hear, Mrs. Clinton will never have to
explain her thoughts or actions again.

Don’t be so afraid, Hillary; your nasty
brush with objectivity is in the past.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

A framework for debate

Discussion is
necessary, but at
what cost?

As a result of Chaplain Spach’s article in
support of Christian homosexuals four weeks
ago, the editors of the Davidsonian have seen
an unprecedented response from the campus
community. Students, faculty, and other con-
cerned individuals have put forth their very
best efforts to inform, to persuade, and to
engage their ideological counterparts about
this issue. ,

It is no surprise that people hold very
strong beliefs about the relationship between
sexual identity and religion. These two con-
cepts are both deep in meaning and ever-

argument only extend so far. The final deci-
sion lies with the individual.

Second, as stated before, sexual identity,
however it is defined, is a deeply personal
concept. It is one of the core aspects of one’s
identity as a whole and becomes a very sig-
nificant expression of that character.

However, this identity has a powerful so-
cial function as well. Not only do we use it to
help define ourselves, but we also apply it to
the world around us. Sexual identity is argu-
ably the most basic, most intuitive principle
for ordering the society in which a person
exists. All value judgments aside, people act
differently towards men and women depend-
ing on their own sexual behavior.

Because sexual identity is such.a critical
concept, by debating it in public, we come
dangerously close to examining the worth of
other individuals. We’re not debating favor-

present in our
daily lives.

Yet, why this
sudden urgency?
To be perfectly

f
honest, the speed of others.

~ does nothing to change the attitudes

ite football teams
The attempt to make this issue a line here, this is seri-
along which to divide the community ous. Simply

stated, analyzing
another person’s
identity one way

with which we ii a | or another can °

received responses and the intensity of them
caught us off guard.

On the one hand, the willingness of stu-

dents to submit their ideas for public dis-
course is very encouraging. It shows a re-
markable amount of intellectual maturity and
a strong sense of civic:duty for our peers to
push this debate forward themselves. If people
want to change their community, then they
obviously care about that community.
. Nevertheless, the character of the debate,
at least the parts of it we are fortunate enough
to read, has evolved from the social, to the
theological, and finally to the ideological.
What was originally a question of greater
inclusion is in danger of becoming a criterion
for exclusion. Though this progression makes
sense within the scope of an argument, it can
have serious consequences when played out
in a community as a whole.

» Itis our hope to offer some kind of perspec-
tive,.a moderating voice in the midst of this
debate. Moreover, we would issue a caution
to all members of this community to take care
how they go about this debate. -

First, by linking this issue to religion, the
discussion deals with whether or not homo-
sexuality is right or wrong. Since religion
offers people guidelines for what is and is not
morally acceptable, debating homosexuality
in this context is a question of morals. —

Ultimately, however, the question of what
is right and wrong is a value judgment. Re-
gardless of what one’s community says, each
person is in the end responsible for that judg-
ment. While we can hope to persuade other
people to change their beliefs, reason and

ee

potentially be very risky.

Third, although the specific theological
underpinnings for one’s beliefs are signifi-
cant within the sphere of a particular religion,
they may not reflect the larger issues at stake.
The discussion of this issue thus far has
concentrated on the doctrines of Christianity.
Though Chaplain Spach happens to be a
Christian minister and was specifically ad-
dressing Christians, the debate itself is just as
significant for other communities of faith.
By focusing on one religious group, we are
ignoring the contributions of others.

“Moreover, not everyone subscribes to; a:
particular set of spiritual doctrines. People
who do not participate in the religious life of
the community still have values. They have
also been excluded from this debate.

Fourth, whichever view one holds, the pur-
pose of the discussion is clearly to influence
other people’s views. The best way to ac-
complish this is to give clear, understandable
arguments in support of one’s own beliefs.
The attempt to make this issue a line along
which to divide the community does nothing
to change the attitudes of others. Actively
forming opposing camps only exacerbates
the split and makes constructive debate more
difficult. :

In conclusion, we hope that all those in-
volved in the discussion of homosexuality
will take great care to examine their own
beliefs and to consider how their statements
will affect their community.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
 Editors-in-chief
