oda DA CD SONIAN 5

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

CHARLESTON, S.C. — It wasn’t pretty,
but the Wildcats sustained their mid-season
surge with a victory over the College: of
Charleston here Saturday afternoon.

Davidson shot a scanty 34 percent from
the floor of John Kresse Arena but Jen O’Brien

wa s

Davidson

College of Charleston 50 f
ree

throw
line down the stretch, knocking down 12 of
14 to keep the Cougars at bay.
“That just shows you how smart of a
player she is,” said head coach John Filar.
“She wasn’t shooting well from the floor,
so she went and found other ways to contrib-
ute to the team. She grabbed eight rebounds,
and more importantly, got herself to the free-
throw line. That’s what smart shooters do.”
With 39 seconds to play, O’ Brien stepped
to the line to attempt a pair of free throws in
a 58-50 ballgame. She iced them both, ce-
menting both the game and her place in
Davidson’s record books. With 18 points on
Saturday (16 of them in the second half)
O’Brien surpassed Carolyn Kirsch ‘97 as
Davidson’s all-time career leading scorer.
“It’s a shame (the record) didn’t happen
at home,” said Filar. “But without her points
in this game, we don’t win it.”

Kamp powers

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Katy Kamp fueled an offensive explo-
sion as Davidson surged past Southern Con-
ference power ETSU at Belk Arena last Tues-
day night.

The Wildcat se-

85 Nior set a school

75 record with a spec-

tacular 91.7 percent

shooting mark on her

way to acareer-high 26 points and game-high
nine rebounds.

“Katy’s really playing her heart out,"
said John Filar. “She’s just been on fire over
the past two games. I’m just so happy for
her.”

Thanks primarily to Kamp’s | 1-of-12

Davidson
ETSU

“Thank God they won,” said Philip
O’Brien, Jen’s father. “Because if they hadn’t,
this would have meant nothing to her. As it
is, (the scoring record) isn’t really important
toher. But later on she’ ll really appreciate it.”

“Points don’t matter to Jen," echoed her
mother, Dianne. "She’s very humble, Jen is.

Davidson win

performance, Davidson shot a program-record
63.8 percent from the field. Fellow senior
Jen O’Brien added 26 points of her own to
knock off the fourth-place Lady Bucs.

Davidson exploded for a 21-9 run over
the final 7:41 in the first half and took a 46-35
lead at halftime.

But ETSU clawed back into the game,
pulling within five at the 5:01 mark with a
pair of free throws from Chris Forman.

Kamp responded witheight quick points
and the Wildcats netted 10 of 15 foul shots
down the stretch to rebuff the Buccaneer
offensive.

“I’ve been ready for it to happen all
season. It feels great to step up and finally
like like I’m capable of,” said Kamp.

“Most of all, I’m just happy we’re on a
winning streak.”

Catamounts upset Wildcats

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

A month ago, Davidson thumped West-
ern Carolina 77-52 to pull out of a three-game
conference skid.

But the tables were turned Monday night,
as the Catamounts used a 44-22 second half to
snap a three-game Wildcat win streak.

“This

Western Carolina 77 “4 game

Davidson that we
needed to
have,” said

a disappointed coach Filar. “This is the point
in the season where you can’t afford to let
anything slip.”

Jen O’Brien was honored as Davidson’ s
all-time career leading scorer before the
evening’s action.

Apparently, Janna Magette was inspired.

The sophomore sharpshooter went on a
scoring tear of her own, splashing four three-
pointers in the first half on her way to a 20-
point frame and 27 on the night.

“Anything and everything she shot was
going in,” said Filar. “When Janna’s hot,
there’s not a shot she can’t pop.”

But Magette and the rest of the Wildcat
attack went cold in the second half, as West-
ern exploded for a 30-10 run to open the
second round of action.

Davidson struggled to compete in the
paint, grabbing just 27 rebounds to Western’s
46. Catamount forwards Laura Echols and
Willow Russell combined for 45 points, while
Davidson’s four post players totaled just 14.

“We gave them way too many inside
shots,” said Filar. “They were shooting four-
footers, we were shooting nineteen-footers.”

O’Brien added eight points, moving her
program-best total of 1384. The 5-6 point
guard is the first Wildcat in history (man or
woman) to score 1,300 points, dish out 500
assists, grab 500 rebounds, and snare 300
steals.

The loss moves Davidson to 4-8 in South-
ern Conference action, as the Wildcats pre-
pare for a pair of difficult contests: against
Greensboro and Furman, two of the
conference’s top three teams.

“Losses come from a lot of different
things,” said Filar, “but the first thing you
look at is effort and intensity. And we just
didn’t have either tonight.”

Mike Anderson
Jen O’Brien with her teammates as she surpasses Carolyn Kirsch ‘97

as Davidson’s all-time career leading scorer Saturday in Charleston.

I was so happy for her, she really deserves it.”
Both O’Brien and Katy Kamp hit other
notable plateaus on Saturday, becoming just
the 6th- and 7th-ever Wildcats to snare 500
rebounds over a career.
“Tt’s been a pleasure to play with Jen the
past few years,”’ Kamp said.“ We’re ve

good friends on and off the court, and it
means a lot to be a part of her success.

Amidstall the personal accomplishments,
the team came away with a crucial confer-
ence win.

“Tt’s a win that you’ re not exactly pleased
with,” Filar said, “but you’ re happy to get out
of here and escape with a ‘W.’”

Credit much of that victory to some
clutch play off the bench..

“We win because girls like JoAnne Hassel
and Kim Taylor come off the bench and give
us solid performances,” said Filar.

Hassel played just four minutes, but hit a
key basket in each half to stem the swelling
tide of Cougar comebacks. Taylor, who has
come on strong of late, turned in 15 minutes
in the post. The junior center scored eight
points and secured five rebounds.

A trioof Wildcat guards—O Brien, Janna
Magette, and Meagan Gleason—continued
their rampage throughout the Southern Con-
ference, combining for 40 of the Davidson’s
65, points on Saturday. ;

Gleason (44.7%) , Magette (44.2%), and
O’Brien (43.5%) rate 2nd, 3rd, and 4th, re-
spectively, in Southern Conference 3-point
shooting.

“There’s a great connection developing
between those three guards,” says Filar.

“They’re all creating scoring opportuni-
ties for each other, and for our players in the
paint.” :

Mike Anderson

Assistant coach Carri Walker (left) and head coach John Filar can’t

help but smile about the women’s basketball team’s recent surge.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Fepruary 12, 2000 - UNC GreensBoro SPARTANS
@ FLEMING GyMNASIUM (GREENSBORO, N.C.)

Spartan’s Record (as of 2/7): 13-7, 8-4 (3rd Place)

Last Meeting: UNCG won 71-69 on a pair of last-second FTs.
Meagan Gleason had a career-high 17 points.

Since then: Senior Spartan Melinda Goodson called it quits after suffering a torn ACL
during practice New Year’s Eve. Goodson retired as the program’s second all-time
leading scorer, just 121 points shy of the scoring crown.

What to watch for : Sophomore Brianne Dodgen leads active Spartans with 11.2 ppg.

FEBRUARY 15, 2000 - FURMAN PALADINS
@ Timmons ARENA (FurRMAN, S.C.)

Paladins’ Record (as of 2/7): 14-8, 10-3 (2nd Place)

Last Meeting: Furman used an 8-2 run in the final
2:28 to knock off Davidson 74-71. Janna Magette had

a career-high 27 points.

What to Watch For: The contest could mark the final installment of the Jen
O’Brien /Jackie Smith rivalry. The Wildcats are 4-4 against Furman since O’Brien and

Smith joined their respective squads.
