gnition 2 .
titled debut album includes songs ranging
form the eccentric and flirtatious “Meet
Virginia” to the serious and reflective
“Blind.”

Tickets in advance are $10 with col-
lege ID, and $15 for the general public.
Tickets at the door are $12 with college ID,
and $17 for the general public. Tickets can
be purchased at the. Union Ticket Window,
or by calling Des icine at (704)-552-
6500.

John Lane, Environmental Poet,
Meets Davidson

John Lane,an environmental poet from
South Carolina, visited Davidson Friday,
September 1. A professor of English and
creative writing at Wofford University in
South Carolina, Lane participated in work-
shops and readings about the environment
and aimed at emerging poets.

He spent the day with Dr. Ante
Ingram’s “Literature and the

hae ee ad en ih ee

The highli Ba oa
cadooeusdied Friday evening. Laneread
some of his poems, dating from his time in
college to those currently awaiting pub-
lishing. The majority of the poetry pre-
sented during the: evening was naturalistic
in theme. ms f
Nearly fifty pennies showed up for the
hour-long reading that began around sun-
set. Ben Carter ‘01, chair of the Literary
Arts Committee of the Union Board, noted
that this large turnout is “indicative of the
interest in Davidson [in poetry] that some-
times is not recognized.” —_-
|.__ Although the evening did not feature |
any student works, Carter pointed out that
the Union will be sponsoring an open mike
poetry.night sbsincas in the near future.

Entertainment Industry Alumni
_ to Speak on Campus

On Wednesday September 13 and
pwusare September 14, Davidson alumni

_troduce and speak about

rium.

BY AMBER PARKE -
Staff Writer

An issue that is making headlines across
the nation—the debate over the death pen-
alty—has caught the attention of two local
governments this month.

The city councils in Charlotte and David-
son have passed resolutions calling for a
moratorium, ‘or temporary ban, on execu-
tions.

Currently, there are approximately 211
condemned criminals on death row in North
Carolina, including 16 from Mecklenburg
County.

The Coalition for a Moratorium on Capital
Punishment, composed mostly of local clergy
and attorneys, brought this issue to the atten-
tion of the Charlotte City Council at a meet-
ing on July 28. The meeting attracted a large
crowd eager to voice its opinions on the
controversial issue.

Because the City Council doesn’t hold
official authority on the issue of capital pun-
ishment, many leaders were opposed to deal-
ing with it at all. Nevertheless, a bipartisan
vote for the resolution passed by a vote of
eight to three. ;

Mayor Pro Tem Susan Burgess was among
those who supported the moratorium.

“T’ve been told that a wealthy person has
never been executed. If one can afford com-

‘ petent defense and avoid the death penalty,

that to me is unjust.” Said Burgess.

Joe White, aMember-at-Large on the Coun-
cil voted against the resolution because he
does not view capital punishment as a ‘topic
pertinent to the council and its duties. But he
supports a moratorium.

“Charlotte, Davidson enter debate over capital punishment

“I support capital punishment as I feel that
it is appropriate in certain cases, but at the
same time, I do support the moratorium.”

White considers the current manner in
which the death penalty is implemented to be
immoral, but, he added, “I feel very strongly

that we were elected to [deal with] the busi- |

ness of Charlotte.”

Burgess, on the other hand, argued that the
death penalty is of concern to the council.

“Our employees at the Charlotte-
Mecklenburg Police Department are the point
of entry to the justice sytem (and potential
death sentences),” she said.

Burgess said that “there needs to be a
groundswell of support from the people to
give the General Assembly [of North Caro-
lina] the courage to address the issue.”

The resolution was vetoed by Charlotte
Mayor Pat McCrory, who adamantly op-

_ posed the coucil’s involvement; saying the

vote was “a political gesture” and “not repre-
sentative of the beliefs of the majority of
Charlotte.”

“First, it is not within our realm of respon-
sibility,” explained McCrory. “Second, I
strongly agree with the actual proposal. There
are 16 people from Mecklenburg County on
death row, and I have personally reviewed
each of the cases. The families of the victims
have. waited long enough for justice.”

The council debated the issue again at last
night’s meeting. Seven votes are needed to
override the mayor’s veto.

The Davidson Town Board of Commis-
sioners first focused on capital punishment in
early July..Rev. Andy Baxter and other local
citizens approached the Town Board and

Russian poet speaks out against indifference

BY KATIE WILSON
Special Contributor

Yevgeny Yevtushenko will present this
year’s McGaw lecture on Thursday, Septem-
ber 7 when he reads and comments on his
work beginning at 7 p.m. in Love Audito-
rium. A reception and book signing will
follow the presentation.

Not only. a poet but also an actor, film
maker, and photographer,
Yevtushenko will also in-

his film, Stalin’s Funeral,
on Friday, September 8, at
8 p.m. in Perkins Audito-

While Yevtushenko —
may not be familiar to the
majority of Davidson stu-
dents, he is recognized
among the professors. —
“Yevgeny Yevtushenkois
one of Russia’s best known
poets, whose courage and
political savvy in raising
Holocaust ‘issues during
the Khrushchev era tested

the limits of free speech under a [regime of] -

censorship,” said Dr. Bob Williams, chair of
the history department.

Yevtushenko’s most celebrated poem is
“Babi Yar,” which criticizes the indifference
of thepost-World War II Soviet Union to
atrocities committed against Jews. The title
refers to a ravine where 96,000 Soviet Jews
were systematically killed by German forces.
In the content of the poem, Yevtushenko
condemns the reaction of the Soviet govern-
ment, namely the construction of a monu-
ment which made no mention of the victims’
religious affiliation. Yevtushenko broached
a taboo subject in a way never attempted
before, drawing comparisons between him
and anti-establishment poets in our own coun-
try.

Indeed, his-readings often filled stadiums
and other large venues. Nina Serebrennikov

’ remembers one such occasion at the Library_

of Congress in the late sixties. “I went be-

cause my parents were Russians who had left
during the Revolution, but Yevtushenko was
young, he was a dissident, this was still the
time of the cold war, and the line was huge.
Despite all the conversations with people in
front and back of me as we waited, I wasn’t
quite sure what to expect when I grabbed a
folding chair and sat down. When he read
Babi Yar, I can only say I was impaled. I'd
Z ‘ been to Dachau, and I’d often
wondered what it would be
like to be a German my age,
knowing what one’s parents
. had been witness to, indeed
complicit to. Now I knew. I
haven’t forgotten.”

When this poem came out in
1961, the government’s re-
sponse was swift, and “Babi
Yar” was rewritten in a cen-
sored version. Yevtushenko
a the other shestidesiatniki,

r “people of the sixties,”
eaght greater artistic freedom
and a movement away from
poetry as political propaganda.

They spoke out against Stalinism and advo-
cated for:reforms in Soviet ideology. They
were not, however, anti-communist.
Yevtushenko is noted for his dramatic pre-
sentations and charismatic stage presence.
He allowed Dmitri Shostakovich, atwentieth
century Russian composer, to set “Babi Yar”
to music. Symphony No. 13 was also banned
by the Soviet government, although two per-

fee

formances were allowed before the ban was —

issued. A discussion of this symphony, the
historical context of censorship, and other
musical connections of Yevtushenko will
occur’ on Friday, September 8 at 3:00. p.m.

.Contact Neil Lerner in the Music department

for details. 5
Yevtushenko’s visit to Davidson is spon-
sored by the Department of German & Rus-
sian, the Department of English, the Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies, and
the McGaw Endowment of the Public Lec-
tures Committee. For more information, call
894-2441 or 894-2855.

asked the commissioners to consider a pass-
ing a resolution similar to the Charlotte
council’s. The Board and the Davidson pub-
lic were invited to a presentation about the .
death penalty at Davidson United Methodist
Church.

Atthe July 11 meeting, the resolution passed
by a vote of 5-0.

The resolution cites facts such as “98% of
the people on North Carolina’s death row
have been unable to afford their own attor-
ney,” and “In the past decade in North Caro-
lina, for every four citizens executed, we
have released one citizen.from death row
after their innocence has been éstablished.”

The resolution further urges the federal
government to adopt legislation imposing a
moratorium on executions until it can be
confirmed that any citizen charged with a
capital crime would be guaranteed compe-
tent legal council not dependent on the
defendant’s ability to pay for it, due process
in which the risk of an innocent citizen being
executed has been minimized and due pro-
cess in which neither the race of the defendant
nor the victim changes the likelihood that the

- defendant receives the death penalty.

Dr. Dave Martin, Professor of Economics
at the college and a member of the Town
Board, stated, “It is a concern for the David-
son Town Board when any Davidson resident
could be part of the system we support.”

It is also important to emphasize, he added,
that “it was (calling for) a moratorium on the
death penalty, not a statement on the validity.
of the death penalty.”. ;

Matt Garfield, Aaron Houck

Contributing authors

Vamanos hits
the road

SGA brings back late-night
taxi service

BY JOHANNES NoRLING

| ship revived the service this year. The Dean

_| which you'll get to meet “all sorts of inter-

Staff Writer

“Vamanos” is back in business.

After a yearlong layoff, the transporta-
tion service is back and ready-to shuttle
students to and from their desired destina-
tions. It will run for the first time this
weekend.

The “Vamanos” (which is Spanish for
“we go’) idea originated a few years ago as
a student-operated taxi service. Each week-
end, a different Patterson Court organiza- |’
tion was in charge of driving the van. The
service was designed to offer transporta-
tion to students without cars and to cut
down on drunk driving. But a shortage of
drivers kept the Vamanos van parked in the
garage all year.

New interest and a change of leader-

of Students’ Office and the SGA, which
sponsors the service, appointed two direc-
tors to run the show. and kéep ““Vamanos”
on the road. Beth Gardner and Monica
Siegenthaler are now in charge of schedul-
ing all drivers.

The new service runs from’8 p.m.-11
p-m. on Thursday nights and from 8 p.m.-
2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights.
During these hours of operation, anyone
who needs a ride merely has to call the
van’s cell phone at (704) 564-7135. The
van will take people from Davidson to a
location, and bring them back home later.
“Vamanos” operates anywhere within In-
terstate 77 exits 25-36 or anywhere else
within about fifteen or twenty minutes, but
not to Charlotte.

For those interested in driving the van,

| described as a “very fun experience, in

esting people,” contact Beth Gardner at

extension 5430.

