o

The Devillea Student Government As-

. sociation faced acrisis of character this week.

A proposal emerged that could drastically
alter not only the size of the organization but
also its composition. Simply put, this resolu-

tion would elminate all Patterson Court rep-.

resentation in favor of a set number of sena-

_ tors from each class.

Beneath the contention that this resolu-
tion was merely an attack aimed at the “social

vote” lay along history of frustration. Appar-

ently, not even Davidson is immune to bu-
reaucratization and micro-management.
The SGA consistently finds itself struggling
through a web of self-inflicted red tape. Ini-
tiatives consistently languish as members
quibble over details. Confusion over which
member of which committee is responsible
for which issue thwarts the efforts even of
those most committed to the SGA.

While SGA members promptly enlisted

the help of (surprise) a committee to solve,

this quandary, those who do not have daily
dealings with the organization were charac-
teristically unaware and uninformed of the

situation.

Does SGA do a poor job of describing its
actions and purposes? Unfortunately, that
seems to be the case. How often are other
students aware of what is on the agenda for
the SGA in any given week? Clearly, not

ds to be more accounts ble

the SGA for its policies to carry any weight.
By the same token, if the lines of communi-
cation were more effective, SGA initiatives
would garner more support from the student
body. A feeling of common interest is essen-
tial to combatting the lack of involvement on

enough. campus.
Undoubt- Simi-
edly, rz ° larly, the
come or Woes SGA do a poor job of de-  o6n" must
the blame ahi 7 1 ) address its
me biame scribing its actions and purposes? — aécress
fells on Unfortunately, thatseemstobethe  ireffi-
e ciency.
Daidrin Case.” Commit-
and on the q tees . cer-
apathy of LAE <TC ae | tainly aidin
the stu- making
dent body. However, the SGA has a_ educated proposals. As the number of com-

responsibilty to keep its constituents updated
on its operations. Just as in any governing
body, accountability is inextricably linked to
transparency. Too often the adage, “Out of
sight, out of mind,” holds true. The students
as acommunity must feel some connection to

mittee meetings increases, however, the cost
in time and effort increases exponentially. In
our limited exposure to the SGA,we have
seen actions and proposals postponed repeat-
edly for further revision and discussion. On
such a small campus, student government

must be able to act quickly and decisively on
important issues.

The most important consideration, how-

ever, is whether reducing the sizeofthe SGA .
will increase efficiency and accountability.
Does reducing the number of members nec-
essarily ensure that the most hard-working
elected officials will remain?
Surely it is easier to hold thorough discus-
sions and build needed consensus when the
group is smaller, but it is also more difficult
to accomplish all the necessary tasks with
fewer available hands. In addition, every seat
lost is one less senator with the ability to
inform his or her fellow students.

At present, the SGA should find it un-
neeessary to reduce its size. Rather, through
more stringent attendance policies and en-
forcement of existing by-laws it should adopt
anew, more interactive role on campus. The
recent proposals should serve as a warning to
all members of SGA—get involved or get
out. ,

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson,
Editors in Chief

The REALLY
big questions:
response to

the chaplain

Well, here we go again. Every
year, the debate over the ordination of
homosexuals resurfaces.

Back and forth the questions
fly, and often the discourse
generates more heat than light.
When the smoke clears and the
opposing sides retreat to lick
their wounds, the issues
remain. They’re not going to
go away.

Before you brace

_ yourself for a Bible-thumping

tirade against the ordination of
homosexuals, let me make one point
perfectly clear: my purpose in writing is
not to argue against my more liberal
brothers and sisters in Christ who maintain
that:the Bible makes no blanket condemna-
tion of homosexuality. It does, just as it
condemns adultery, fornication, and
murder, but that’s beside the point. If
Christians have learned anything from the
past two thousand years of church history,
it’s that sometimes you’ve just got to agree
to disagree. This is one of those times.

There’s something else I hope
we’ve learned, too: Christians run into
trouble when they major on the minors.
This is also one of those times.

Now, I do not mean to imply that
homosexuality is a minor issue; nor do I
mean to belittle the situation in which
Christians of a homosexual orientation find
themselves. They are in tough circum- -
stances. However, the chaplain’s article
raises questions that are even more
important—and more relevant—than the

. issues he addresses:

What is the message of Christian-
ity? Is social justice the ultimate goal?

ee

In last week’s letter, the Chaplain
said that he hears “a call in scripture for us
to work towards communities characterized
by justice; especially on behalf of the poor
and the marginalized.” I disagree. The
scripture calls us to something even higher:
to communities characterized by grace.
Social justice attempts to equalize circum-
stances: to level the playing field in such a
way that individuals can be accurately
evaluated according to their performance.
Divine justice levels that playing field and

determines that none of us is good
enough. We’re all dead in the
water. We can’t live up to
God’s perfect standard,
regardless if we’re straight or
gay, if we read our Bibles
every day or if we never
darken a church door. What
homosexuals need, what I
need, and what you need is
not justice, but grace. We
need a lifesaver; someone
who sees that we’re broken,
who loves us anyway, and who-has the
power to restore us to what we’re meant to
be. That lifesaver is Jesus Christ. True
social justice can only exist where grace
abounds. Therein lies the essential message
of Christianity.

Let’s face it. We screw up. The
church screws up. Christians (myself
included) do a pretty poor job of showing
Christ’s love to those around them, and this
is especially true when it comes to homo-
sexuals. In the Gospels, Jesus Christ hangs
out with “sinners” of all types: adulterous
women, tax-collectors, and lepers, to name
a few. He spends time with them because
they are “sick and need a doctor.” He
condemns sinful behavior, while at the
same time showing the sinner—the
people—the love of God. We often get so
caught up in condemning the sin that we
end up destroying the sinner in the process,
or in our misguided attempts to “love” the
sinner we gloss over his or her need for a
divine checkup. Neither approach is loving
or honest. We all would do well to take a
long, hard look at the actions of Jesus
Christ.

None of us is really in a position
to affect the national debate over the
ordination of homosexuals. We are ina
position, however, to affect the eternal
destinies of those around us. Christians, are
we doing that? Talk is cheap. What about
our actions?

Do we radically love people the way Christ
did? Do we humbly speak the truth,
regardless of the cost? In short, do we live
lives that point others to Jesus Christ?
Don’t get distracted, friends. That’s the
real reason we’re here.

Katherine Rice Miller ‘01

Outpost artwork
shows no respect

Last week a group of friends and I were
enjoying our late night snacks at the Outpost
when one freshman pointed out that the wall
said “What Would Judas Do” and further
over “God protect me from your followers-

Amen”.

As one might expect, those statements
became the focal point of our conversation.
Those at the table came from numerous dif-
ferent religious and social backgrounds, but
all agreed on one thing: those statements
should be painted over. While no one was in
support of limiting the artist’s freedom of
speech or expression, the message that the
work sends is _
disrespectful and offensive.

The Outpost is a public “safe place”
where all can come and enjoy good friend-
ship and food in an environment of respect. It
is not a place to be mocking anyone’s reli-
gion. The fact that there has been little public
outcry up to this point illustrates how little
respect the Christian religion is offered.in the
public sentiment. If the wall had contained
derogatory statements about any other reli-
gious, racial, or ethnic group, it would have
been dealt with long ago.

It is time for the management of the
Outpost to recognize and realize that the art"
they promote on their walls is not passed over
lightly by the student body.

In the name of respect: paint it over!

John Pitt ’04

he Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

. .
Santa Ri: n
s “Matt Ga ed

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

t
