THE DAVIDSONIAN -

VIEWPOINT

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000 ee

Changes made in Red Book on sexual misconduct

For the past month of March, the
Women’s Issues Committee has provided
Davidson College with an array of speakers,
panels, films, discussions, and artistic events
in honor of Women’s Month. The members
of the Women’s Issues Committee in con-
junction with the Gender Resource Center
strive year round to increase the student body’s
awareness of gender programming and
women’s roles on this campus. Given the
threatening events of the past week (scream-
ing behind sophomore dorms, mysterious
calls threatening rape), we feel a clarification
and discussion of Davidson’s Sexual Mis-
conduct Policy is beneficial and imperative.

In the fall of 1997, a group of students
initiated changes in the Sexual Misconduct
Policy in response to increased dissatisfac-
tion with the policy, as it applied to previous
cases. Once a committee formed, they fo-
cused on clarifying the definition of sexual
assault and “unwanted touching” (Red Book,
1996-7 p. 21). Unhappy with the 1997 poli-
cies that failed to explicitly define
nonconsensual sexual contact and issues of
ability to gain or give consent. We include an
excerpt from Davidson’s Sexual Misconduct
Policy; please notice the ambiguous language
and lack of detail regarding issues of consent
and use of alcohol (a typical presence in cases
of rape and assault on this campus):

Davidson College does not condone and
will not tolerate Sexual Misconduct of any

kind. Sexual Misconduct includes sexual as-
saults (including rape) and sexual harass-
ment. An assault is considered to be a sexual
assault, regardless of whether penetration
occurs, if it in-

fluence consent, those students initiated a
revision of Davidson’s policy. Before read-
ing the following policy, please consider the
explicit definition of consent, as well as what
warrants non-con-

cludes the un-
wanted touching of
an intimate part of
another person.
Digital penetration
is one form of sexual
assault. Rape is
forced sexual inter-
course that is per-
petrated against the
will of the victim; it
occurs if one person
uses force or the
threat of force to co-
erce another, regard-
less of the relation-
ship existing between
them. In acquaintance
or “date” rape, the as-
sailant may be a casual ac-
quaintance, classmate, date, or sig-
nificant other (Red Book, 1996-7 p. 21).
After reviewing this policy, students from
the newly-formed Rape Awareness Commit-
tee researched other institutions for examples
of sexual misconduct policies. After realiz-
ing the importance of mutual consent and
presence of alcohol and other drugs that in-

Se 9 whew it ton Ror Enaicd w |

sent, including non-
communication and
incapacitation

Section VI: Sexual
Misconduct.
Definition.
Sexual misconduct is
any non-consensual
conduct of a sexual na-
ture. “Sexual Miscon-
duct” encompasses a
broad range of behav-
ior, from inappropriate
touching to criminal
sexualassault. It includes
butis not limited to any of
the following, if non-con-
sensual: sexual inter-
course, penetration of any
body opening with any
~* object,touching of intimate body
parts such as genitalia, groin,
breast, buttocks or mouth or any
clothing covering them, touching a person
with one’s own intimate body parts, or com-
pelling another to touch one’s intimate body
parts. “Non-consensual” means without ei-

The state of race relations at Davidson

A “pre” orientation. Why do the minor-
ity students have an orientation before the
rest of the freshmen arrive?

~ A house on the court. Why do the Afri-
can-American students have their own house
on Patterson Court?

A table in the Commons. Why do the
African-American students sit together in
Vail Commons?

Some Davidson students contemplate
these types of topics and ensuing questions in
the privacy and safety of quaint dorm rooms
in the company of their roommates. Are the
right questions being asked or, more impor-
tantly, are questions.being asked at all? Some
students don’t take the time to ponder the
controversial topic of race relations at all
even though it affects us as a society.

Dane Erickson, Student Government As-
sociation President, believes that “Davidson
is a microcosm of our society” in which we
can tackle problems that are present in today’s
society.

I agree with Erickson that we have been
given a unique opportunity to “improve race
relations in a drastic way because we all live
in a small, protected environment with the
sole purpose of learning from books and
professors, but also from each other.”

However, the knowledge that we gain
from personal interaction with other people
will possibly be more beneficial in the real
world than some of our academic knowledge.
For instance, I might be hired to manage a
large group of people at an international
business in a large city like New York City. I
will probably find that the people I manage
come from completely different social, eco-
nomic, and racial backgrounds. How will I
handle this situation?

How would you handle this situation if
you have not had any previous interaction
with people unlike you?

Dane proposes two ways to gain this real
world knowledge that is so vital to one’s
success. The first way is by “increasing-aware-
ness” through programs, forums, and lec-
tures. The second is through “Equal-Status
Contact”, which he explained it as when
“people of equal status but of different ethnic
backgrounds interact in normal situations
and learn from each other.” These are perti-
nent ideas to carry out. However, how are we

going to be successful in improving race
relations on this campus?

“For different people to learn from each
other and break down stereotypes, they need
to interact with each other. In many ways,
students at Davidson are on an equal playing
field and only need to interact,”
Erickson said.

Interaction needs to take place.

I support Erickson in his at-
tempts to improve the relations and
awareness here on campus. How-
ever, does Dane have the full sup-
port of Davidson College?

When I tried to get a response
from several students concerning

What do you have to lose?

Actually, the right question to ask is:
what do I have to gain?

A new friendship.

Jenny Joslin ‘01

ther explicit verbal consent or overt action
clearly expressing consent. Such signals of
consent must be mutual and ongoing. Ifat any
time during a sexual interaction any confu-
sion or ambiguity should arise on the issue of
consent, it is incumbent upon each individual
involved in the activity to stop and clarify the
other’s willingness to continue. Non-commu-
nication constitutes a lack of consent. A ver-
bal “no,” even if it may sound indecisive or
insincere, constitutes a lack of consent. Inca-
pacitation likewise constitutes a lack of con-
sent. Examples of incapacitation include but
are not limited to the following: persons who
are intoxicated, passed out, asleep, threat-

. ened, or coerced. Use of alcohol or drugs

shall not diminish one’s responsibility to
obtain consent (Red Book online 1999-2000
, Code of Responsibility Section VI).

Despite the new policy’s focus on ob-
taining “mutual and ongoing” consent, the
instances of sexual misconduct (including
date rape) continue to occur in violation of the
Code of Responsibility. Just as the statistics
of alcohol violations misrepresent the actual
amount of underage drinkers at Davidson, so
do the sexual misconduct statistics inaccu-
rately reflect the volume of annual sexual
crimes that occur here. The number of offi-
cially reported and/or prosecuted rapes does
not reflect the number of sexual misconduct
crimes that are unreported, reported anony-
mously, or not prosecuted. This paramount
distinction emphasizes the difference between
Davidson’s “serene” appearance and attitude
versus the unacknowledged reality of sexual
assault at this institution.

Jenny Hapgood ‘01
and Stephanie Kohler ‘01

WHAT WOULD YOUR FATHER
SAY IF HE FOUND OUT YOU
WERE A HEALTH ADVISOR?

the BSC and race relations on this
campus, I received surprisingly few
responses. However, [thought about
why I hadn’t received many re-
sponses and was no longer surprised
when I realized the cause.

There is a general lack of inter-
est in improving race relations and
a lack of concern for the future of
race relations on this campus and
out in the real world, which worries
me. We have become accustomed
to our safety zones where we can
easily be passive about issues such
as race relations and claim that they
are not our problems. Yet, when
faced with a sight such as the Con-
federate flag still flying at the state
capital of South Carolina, it is our
responsibility to react to this insen-
sitivity toward the suffering endured
by African-Americans.

Has our sense of justice and
equality completely disappeared?

Changing the current state of
race relations rests on the shoulders
of each individual on this campus.
Take the initiative to step outside of
your comfort zone and reach out to
someone who you perceive as com-
pletely different from you. You
might just discover that you have
more similarities than differences.
Furthermore, those remaining dif-
ferences will enrich your knowl-
edge of the world and human na-
ture.

Georgia Ringle, Health
Educator, is now accepting
applications to fill four
Health Advisor positions
for the academic year ‘99 -
‘00.

If you have an interest in
being a peer educator,
designing and putting on
hall programs, promoting
awareness activities or
have a special talent or
experience, please apply.

Four Health Advisors will
be selected to assist and
work with the Health _
Educator and other students in a variety of areas. Health
Advisors. will be paid a stipend at the end of each semester.

To pick up an application, come by the Student Health Service.
April 14, 2000, is the last day to apply.

Questions? Call Georgia Ringle at x2902.

