“if I idiew hen what I know now. Pe: Advice froiti Davidson. aldnini

By Liz NEIHEISEL
Career Services Intern

Several Davidson College alumni came
back to Davidson early for Homecoming last
week to talk to freshmen about life at David-
son. The program, entitled “If I Knew Then
What I Know Now”, was sponsored by Ca-
reer Services as part of PE 101 and was
designed to give first year students some
good advice about
how to best spend
their time on campus.
Alumni talked about
majors, internships,
and post-graduation
plans.

The alumni were Winn Maddrey (’91),
Eleanor Hatcher (95), Jamal Jones (’95),
Bill Gullan (’96), Anna Kemp (’96), Mike
Ingram (’97), and Paul Dryden (98).

The alumni advised the freshmen on their
first year at Davidson. Their advice was a
balance between studying and socializing.

“All learned my freshman year came from
the court,” said Jones. “Make sure you get
that balance early.”

“T studied way too much freshman year,”
said Dryden. “It was so overwhelming. I
started devouring books and doing extra as-
signments. But I knew that was not what
college was all about. I started studying
smarter the next semester.”

Ingram reminded the freshmen of their
peers, and the learning that can take place
surrounded by those peers. “I think ‘it’s
important to get to know the people around
you. The most you can get out of Davidson
is out of the classroom and with other people.”

Majors

The question of majors also received com-
mon advice — choose a major you love.

Icalled up my mom and said I was going to
be an art history major,” said Jones. “She said
she wasn’t paying for me to be an art history
major. So I was a biology major.”

“Choose a major that you really like.
Choose a good match. You can use anything

Beyond Davidson

if you love it and do well in it,” said Jones.
Some alumni highlighted the value of a

liberal arts education, while others stressed -

the value of diverse coursework.

“The ability to learn is so much more
important than what you’ve learned,” said
Hatcher.

“IT knew coming into Davidson that I wanted
to be a political science major,” said Dryden,
“but I spent my freshman year trying out
different things. I kept coming back to politi-
cal science.” _

“A friend who was a senior told me if you
want to go into business you’ ve got to be an
economics major,” said Ingram, a consultant
with Andersen Consulting. “That was not
true, but I did end up enjoying economics.”

Internships

Internships were also a topic of discussion.
Alumni pointed to the value of internships —
both positive and negative — in deciding ona

career path.
“I did, an internship at a loan securing
corporation,” said Hatcher. “That was abso-

’Jutely the best example of what I didn’t want

to do with my life.”

“You sort of find the stuff you like and find
the stuff you don’t like and end up some-
where in between,” said Maddrey. »

Maddrey also reminded the audience not to
wait until graduation to take advantage of the
alumni contact network. “When you
start looking for summer internships,
start by talking to fifteen alums. Tell
them what you’re looking for and see
what they think,” he said.

Graduate school

The discussion on graduate school saw a
wide range of advice.

“I decided to go back and get a degree in the
field I was working in. It does increase
earning potential to do that,” said Kemp, an
art history major who currently works for
Venetica, a software development company.

“T don’t want to go back to school,” said
Gullan. “And I hope I never have to. But at
a lot of places, they want to see that. And
that’s fine.”

“T would highly recommend taking at least
a year off,” said Kemp. “I have friends who
went straight from undergrad to grad school
and it is a major burnout. Take at least a year
off and decide what you want to do with your
life.”

Jobs

The Davidson College diploma does have
its advantages, said these alumni.

“The network that Davidson has in Char-

lotte is something you should really utilize,”
said Gullan, an employee at Shy Genius, an
Internet start-up company in Charlotte.

“I did my interview on campus with a
software company,” said Kemp. “And I have
to be honest — during my interview, I had to
ask the difference between software and hard-
ware. And they still hired me. The inter-
viewer was a Davidson grad.”

“There’s an ‘A’ stack and there’s a David-
son,stack. And even if the Davidson stack is
less qualified, we’ ll start there,” said Maddrey.

And Charlotte is not the only place where
Davidson grads are recognized. “Thad offers
to go to New York, DC, the Midwest. Char-
lotte is not the only dumping ground for
Davidson,” said Dryden.

“No matter where you are on earth, people
will talk to Davidson people,” said Maddrey.

The Davidson reputation only goes so far,
though.

“There are gaps in Davidson’s recogni-
tion,” said Gullan. “And it’s not easy with a
school with a lower profile. It’s not like
looking for a job in Boston as a Harvard grad.
But it’s up to you to show what you learned at
Davidson. I’ve found at first jobs that cre-
dentials matter. It’s nice to know you’ re left
to your own devices to succeed or fail.”

“It’s okay to defend your school,” said
Kemp. “Tell them that Davidson is the num-
ber eleven liberal arts school in the country.
You should not be afraid to talk about it.”

The bottom line—enjoy your time at David-
son and really experiment while you are here.
So that when you graduate from Davidson

College, you’ ll never have to say, “If only I'd

known then what I know now...”

Class of 1990 sponsors Blalock Memorial Lecture

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

A group of Davidson alumni from the
Class of 1990 are honoring the memory of
their friend in the best way they know how.
They are giving the college a gift to open
people’s eyes to the suffering of others like
David Blalock.

Dr. Kay Jamison will deliver the inaugu-
ral David Blalock Memorial Lecture in Psy-
chology on October 19 in Love Auditorium.

Jamison is professor of psychology at the
Johns Hopkins University School of Medi-
cine and author of the New York Times
bestseller An Unquiet Mind, her memoir about
her struggle with manic-depressive illness.

This lecture is given by members of the
Class of 1990 in memory of their classmate
Blalock, a former Davidson student who
ended his life on December 3, 1989. A senior
at the time of his death, Blalock would have
graduated the following spring with the rest
’ of the Class of ’90.

The idea for this gift originated within
Blalock’s close circle of friends and had its
roots in a lecture that Dr. Boyd Gillespie 90
heard while, studying at Johns Hopkins.

Gillespie recalled his first encounter with
Jamison at a dean’s lecture she presented six
years ago. Her talk focused on the apparent
connection between mental illness and artis-

tic creativity. Gillespie was immediately

impressed.

“This talk was. phenomenal, ad it stuck
with me for a long time,” remarked Gillespie.

As the years went by, some of Blalock’s
closest friends, his Kappa Alpha brothers,
continued to remain in contact with each
other. Despite the passage of time, the shared
experience of tragedy had thoroughly ce-
mented their bond. “In some ways, [David’s]
death kind of solidified our friendship,”
Gillespie noted. i

Knowing that their tenth-year reunion was
approaching, some of their group began to

discuss ways to honor their friend. Tom
Goodrum ’90 explained that he and Gillespie
kicked around the idea of bringing a speaker
to Davidson to talk about depression for quite
some time. “Boyd and I talked about it
extensively over the past year,” recounted
Goodrum.

“We knew that the ten-year reunion was
coming up, and we thought it would be a good
time to recircle the group and to think about
the issues surrounding David’s death,” he
elaborated. ~

Joe Davant ’90, an-
other of Blalock’s
classmates agreed.
“Knowing that we
were going to be to-
gether again, this
seemed like a good
time and opportu-
nity.”

Once they began
discussing the pros-
pect of a lecture,
Gillespie suggested
that he contact
Jamison. She agreed,
and the date was set.

Though no one
ever knew what mo-
tivated Blalock’ s sui-
cide, inretrospect, his
friends feel that it
must have been de-
pression. Gillespie expressed his view that
only mental illness can drive a person to take
his or her own life. “Asking why is the wrong
question; it’s more about how,” he com-
mented.

Unfortunately, none of his friends sus-
pected that anything was wrong at the time.

Moreover, awareness about depression was _.

not as prevalent as it is today. “There was a
stigma attached to depression in the late 80’s,”
explained Goodrum.

~ “It’s hard to recognize depression,” stated

Dr. Kay Jamison will deliver the
first David Blalock Memorial

Gillespie. ‘Now, we realize that he was
depressed, and that has stayed in the back of
our minds.”

As a result of this recognition, Blalock’s
friends thought that a lecture designed to
raise awareness about mental and emotional
disorders would be a perfect way to memori-
alize their friend and to give something back
to Davidson.

Davant, Gillespie, and Goodrum all stressed
that Blalock’s death
was a huge blow to
the Davidson com-
munity at that time.
“The impact that this
had on the college
was pretty amazing.
The whole school
just came to a halt,”
remembered Davant.

However, they re-
called with equal
clarity the way that
the Davidson com-
munity responded to
their tragedy. “The
community reached
out to us,” Goodrum
said.

Gillespie added,
“The day of [David’s]
funeral was the same
day as the Davidson
Christmas carol sing-
ing.” After returning from Blalock’s funeral
in South Carolina, Gillespie found the gather-
ing very meaningful and remarked on the
support he and the others received. “This
college really reached out to [David’s] clos-
est friends.”

In light of this response from the commu-
nity, the lecture takes on added significance
for the donors. “This is a way for’us to

, celebrate David and to bring something con-

crete to the campus community,” asserted
Goodrum.

Jamison herself is a strong proponent of
education about mental illness and particu-
larly about suicide. She is a recipient of the
American Suicide Foundation Research
Award and the Fawcett Humanitarian Award
from the National Depressive and Manic-
Depressive Association; among others.

At her lecture, she will read from her most
recent book, Night Falls Fast: Understand-
ing Suicide. This book was a national
bestseller and was selected by the New York
Times as a Notable Book of 1999,

When asked why she chose write a work
about suicide, she replied, “I have studied the
psychological and biological effects of sui-
cide for more than fifteen years and have
become increasingly optimistic about the
possibilities of suicide prevention, but deeply
frustrated by the lack of public and profes-
sional awareness of the terrible toll of sui-
cide. Too many people die too young, too
unnecessarily.”

Goodrum expressed the hope that this lec-
ture would continue in the form of a biannual
series. “We’re working on the best way to
make this a lasting gift,” he stated. Gillespie
agreed, “Among our friends, we’re pretty
committed to a David Blalock Memorial Lec-
ture.” :

In order .to endow this series, Blalock’s
friends are hoping to approach other mem-
bers of the Class of 90. Goodrum suggested
that they might also contact members of the
other classes who attended Davidson while
Blalock was here, raising the total to seven —
classes.

All the donors are hopeful that the David-
son community will welcome the opportu-
nity to hear Jamison speak. Goodrum re-
marked, “I want to encourage the whole com-
munity to be there, not just students.” °

“T really hope students will support this,”
concluded Davant. “It’s admittedly not a
bright, shiny subject. But if this lecture
touches just one person, it’ll be worth it.”
