6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

NEws

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000

Festival of Smiles kicks off Spring Frolics

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Although Saturday’ s Spring Frolics plans
were altered due to inclement weather,
Friday’s “Festival of Smiles” occured as
planned. The festival benefited Operation
Smile, which provides children with free
corrective surgeries to correct problems such
as cleft palates and cleft lips.

Throughout Friday afternoon and early
evening, student and faculty acts preformed
on Patterson Court. Although the public was
welcome to attend the event free of charge,
purchased tickets were necessary to enjoy the
food, games and raffles sponsored by various
student groups. Organizations represented
were Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Catho-
lic Campus Ministries, the co-ed eating house,
and the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

Ten different performers and bands were
featured during the four anda half hour event,
including Writing in the Grey, The Four
Coursemen and a band featuring Mark
DiCristina and Dave Tolley. The Generals
and the Delilahs also performed.

. Profits are estimated at $790, not includ-
ing expected donations from the Patterson
Court houses. The money raised exceeded
expectations as Operation Smile member,
freshman Adam Dutko, said that the group
had hoped to raise enough to finance one
operation, which costs $760.

Operation Smile is an international orga-

Presidents. from page 1.

faculty was ultimately removed under Spencer.

Former President Kuykendall attended David-
son during a time in which the college welcomed its
first female faculty member and the academic bowl
team was better known than the basketball team.
Kuykendall suceeded Spencer in 1983.

“The presidency was an opportunity to give
something back and be engaged with something I
knew and loved,” said Kuykendall.

Current President Bobby Vagt, who accepted
the presidency from Kuykendall in 1997, attended
Davidson during the Civil Rights movement and the
Vietnam War. As Vagt stated, “this town wasn’t a
seething hotbed for race or political issues,” yet, as
Vagt noted, students attended Martin Luther King’s
March on Washington, while ROTC cadets were hit
with water balloons while performing drills.

The presidents also addressed changes in the
admissions policy over their administrations.

“During the 1950’s Davidson was not recruit-
ing like we are today,” Spencer said.

~ Junior resident advisor, Carrie Porath in conjunc-
tion with the Residence Life Office, organized the
forum for the second consecutive year. This was the
first year, however, that the forum was open to the
entire campus.

“TI hope Davidson students will gain more

knowledge of college history and appreciation of °

Davidson’s tradition as a result of this program,”
said Porath

“Tt [the forum] brings people from the commu-
nity, students, and faculty together,” added Vagt.

From left to
right: current
president
Bobby Vagt and
former
presidents John
Kuykendall and
Samuel
Spencer.

nization with fundraising chapters in many
high schools and colleges, including UNC-
Charlotte. The Davidson chapter was started
this year by senior ‘Zannah Bozone and has
approximately 40 members.

Currently, the group is concentrating on
fundraising efforts, but as Dutko comments,
“We hope to grow enough so that eventually
we are able to send Davidson students to

accompany the doctors who perform these
surgeries. Students travelling with Operation
Smile interact with the children, observe the
operation and are occasionally able to actu-
ally assist with it.”

The group also hopes to make Festival of
Smiles an annual event. Students interested
in becoming involved with Operation Smile
should contact ‘Zannah Bozone.

Lak

e 1 Ar. Photo, Inc.

Southlake Shopping Center
P. O. Box.1090, 20619 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
704/892-5400 4

‘gland canyon
sea of cortez
Sonoran desert

blo2 lab oratory

Enroll Now!
Earth Semester or Universe Semester
September - December 2000
Four Summer Programs Offered
A total immersion experience
Environmental science in Arizona
_16 Ivy League credits - Financial aid available
www .bio2.edu - 800-992-4603 - email: arizona@bio2.edu

Roomate lege Union, and admission is

' Schubaniger is a nationally} ae histo-
rianof U.S. foreign relations and the Vietnam
War. His book A Time for War: The United
States and Vietnam, 1941-1975, won the Rob-
ert Ferrell Prize of the Society for Historians
of American Foreign Relations in 1998.

Schulzinger is a member of the U.S.
State Department’s Advisory Committee on
Historical Diplomatic Documentation, and is
president of the Society for Historians of
American Foreign Relations.

* Hereceived his Ph.D. from Yale Univer-
sity in 1971, and taught at the University of
Arizona and the University of Denver before
taking his position at Colorado in 1977. In
addition to his book on Vietnam, his publica-
tions include Henry Kissinger: Doctor of Di-
plomacy, and U.S. Diplomacy since 1900.

For more information onhis talk at David-
son, call 892-2442.

Administration discusses

few changes were revealed.

Ninety three ‘spaces will ‘be added be-
hind the new dormitory, the c-shaped faculty
parking area behind Richardson Dorm will
become a walkway, and the drive in front of
Richardson will also be mere to go around
the new building.

These alterations to the teins of
Davidson should allay the concerns of both
the students and the townspeople who have
encountered problems with parking within
the town of Davidson.

SGA will most likely form an adhoc
committee to work with staff members on
this issue, and students are strongly encour-
aged to send Heh. amas wh e-mail to

Co ere Boer sue ;
fe ae riter

re ees the sound of.snaracas, laughter,
and excited voices, thirty 1 five children from
th David on Ba enjoyed

