—_—___— ee arr

EV mags we — .

The editors recently received a lettergvith
the following warning printed on the back.
“Tf you are a P.C. robot, don’t open. You
can’t handle the truth!”

This letter contained three pieces of pro-
paganda from the publication American Re-
naissance as well an article from the No-
vember 1, 1999 issue of Time.

One of the items bore the title, “Let’s Face
it: The Issue is Race. Crime, Illegitimacy,
School Failure, Decaying Cities, Welfare
Abuse, Immigration...” This selection also
commented, “Despite what the media would

‘| have us believe, race matters. It is part of

human biology.” And further, “A neighbor-
hood or school that is overwhelmingly black
is different in countless ways from one that
is white — or Hispanic or Vietnamese.”

The included article described the tragic
stories of rape victims in South Africa. It
also contained the statistic that the South
African rape rate in 1998 was roughly three
times as high as that in the United States. We
can only presume that this article was meant
to support the contention that, in the words
of Jared Taylor, editor of American Renais-
sance, “race matters.”

Such racist propaganda is deeply disturb-
ing from a moral perspective. It is positively
repulsive that educated people could es-
pouse such views, much less organize and
fund publications suchas Mr. Taylor’s. Their
rhetoric of racial exclusivity stands in fun-
damental opposition to the ideals upon which
this nation was founded.

Nevertheless, as compelling as moral ar-
guments are, examination of such racist

claims reveals their inherent irrationality.
American Renaissance would have the
reader believe that social problems are trace-
able directly to our genetic codes, as if the
slight addition of pigment would make a
person more prone to violent behavior. This

| argument is reductionist and attributes a
' huge complex of problems toa single factor.

|
|
|

One wonders if Taylor and his associates

| believe that people of a certain race cannot
| : te :
help but engage in criminal behavior. If

their behavior is predetermined, then do
others have a right to punish them for what
they will inevitably do? Or perhaps they
think that violent behavior is a fundamental
component of certain cultures, and thus only
incidentally related to race. If this is the
case, then does Taylor think that particular
societies encourage anti-social behavior?
Social problems result from a number of
interrelated factors, including economic sta=

C robot” « enitors weigh 1 in on racism

tus, upbringing, education, and, of course,
personal decisions. History shows that crime
and violence have plagued all civilizations
in all eras. Culture and genetics may indeed
play a role in this, but this role cannot be

isolated from other factors and is certainly |

not the primary cause. It makes about as
much sense to say that blacks are predis-
posed to be criminals as it does to say that
whites are more likely to be bigots. :

While we might like to think that we are
insulated from this at Davidson, unfortu-
nately, this campus has had its own encoun-
ters with racism in various forms. Two years
ago, a flyer announcing a speech by a black
politician was vandalized. This led to.cam-
pus-wide discussions and eventually to
changes in the Code of Responsibility re-
garding harassment.

Even more recently, someone left the fol-
lowing comment on a whiteboard in one of
the residence halls: “We should have a hall
program where we beat up people from
Yemen.” This statement appeared days af-
ter a terrorist group attacked a U.S. naval
vessel refueling in a Yemeni harbor. While
the note was hopefully meant in jest, it was
tasteless and racist.

Clearly, there is much difference between
the actions of Taylor and American Renais-
sance and of the author of this ill-conceived
joke. Taylor and his cohorts are actively
engaged in furthering their agenda of hatred;
whoever left the message about beating up
people from Yemen was displaying igno-
rance and insensitivity. .

Nevertheless, both lead to dangerous gen-
eralizations that benefitno one. The average
Yemeni citizen had as little to do with the
bombing as the horrified Americans watch-
ing CNN.

Placing blame on others based solely on
their ethnic ties to the criminals generates
the feeling that they ought to be punished.
Such a narrow-minded reaction to violence
produces more violence and exacerbates
existing tensions.

No one claims that we live in a perfect
world. However, if we are to address social

problems, we have to avoid short-sighted

explanations based on fear and ignorance.

Mr. Taylor, the issue isn’t race. It’s your
desire to make the “truth” fit your precon-
ceived notions of people.

Aaron Houck and Richard Vinson,
Editors-in-chief

he Davidsonian

.@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

CIRCULATION. MANAGERS:

Matt Whited
Renee Miller

_ http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

byt ss!

Ashooh should
stop moralizing

For the past several weeks I have read with
interest Mr. Ashooh’s increasingly conserva-
tive op-ed pieces. I’ve heard him attack the
Clintons and Al Gore while exalting Repub-
lican Presidential candidate Gov. G. Bush.

While his views on politics might not mir-
ror my own, I respected his right to state his
opinion, despite the absence of relevant facts
to back the personal attacks. However, with
his October 4th article on RU-486, Mr. Ashooh
has reached a new low in his desire to moral-
ize and call names.

First of all, as a male, Mr. Ashooh is seri-
ously limited in his ability to write a sensitive
and balanced article on the topic of abortion.
He will never have to face this
difficult choice.

Yet, despite his gender-

— to "RU-486 —.

need such intolerant attitudes here. Say what
you might about the Presidential race, Mr.
Ashooh, but from now on I'll thank you
kindly to keep your morals out of my womb.
And to the women of Davidson, remember
that George W. Bush promised, if elected, to
create an ‘administration that “respects life.”
Is a tax cut really worth the loss of your
personal freedom? If you’ll pardon me, I’d
rather pay.

Jessica Benoit ‘01

Non-iurgical abortion
is question for science,

not for morality

The latest debate over the FDA’s approval
of RU-486, the only non-surgical method of
abortion, has threatened to turn what should
be a completely scientific
process into a moral and
ideological argument, with

based security blanket from
the real abortion debate, i.e.
the internal debate a woman
must face, he attacks women
who might seek an abortion
in the most grossly inappro-
priate terms imaginable. He
calls women who seek or
consider abortion “selfish and
cowardly.” Excuse me?
Pregnancy termination is always a difficult
choice, it might even be the wring choice in
given circumstances, but how is it more self-
ish or cowardly than bringing a child into this
world without the ability and desire to raise it
in the loving and supportive manner every
child deserves? Is he going to raise all these
children? po

Secondly, I'd like to call to readers’ atten-
tion the overzealous language Mr. Ashooh
himself uses. He likens Mifestiprone to “Ho-
locaust-era medical policies.” This is an
insult not only to women who.support their
right to choose but Jews and other Holocaust
victims. Likening the choice of a controver-
sial medical treatmentto the wholesale slaugh-
ter of millions of people is not only specious
reasoning but inappropriate as it belittles the
suffering of those involved in any real holo-
caust. And as for anything resembling a real
holocaust here in the U.S., lask Mr. Ashooh
to return to his beloved George W.’s. seem-
ingly arbitrary and reckless use of the death
penalty throughout his tenure as Governor of
Texas. Are the lives of death row inmates
worthless, but that of a fetus precious? I find
this selective morality distasteful in the ut-
most.

Last, I would like to ask Mr. Ashooh to
tender his resignation as moral arbiter to the
women of Davidson College. I don’t know
about the rest of the women of Davidson, but

" I feel confident that I can find my own moral

compass without the intrusive intervention of
young men who feel justified in hurling i in-
sults.

- It is hard enough for any young woman to
take control of her reproductive health with-

’ out having to be exposed to those who would

question her “integrity.”

Mr. Ashooh, real integrity is respecting
others, not insulting others with your slanted
and rude language, especially in regards toa
crisis that you will never face. It is articles
like his that serve to encourage the terrorist
tactics of anti-choice activists. We do not

the woman’s right to choose
hanging in the balance.

In January. 1973, in its
landmark Roe vs. Wade
decision, the Supreme Court
invalidated anti-abortion
statues in 46 states, with
certain and specific restric-
tion. Citing a constitution-
ally implied right to privacy,
the court reaffirmed the basic right to a
woman’s dominion over her body. The states
could still prohibit abortion in the third tri-
mester, or regulate its practice to protect the
health of the mother.

What the Supreme Court did not do, how-
ever, was draw a distinction between surgical
and non-surgical abortion. The methods used
were largely left up to the patient and her
doctor.

Jump to the-end of the twentieth century.
Although legal, abortions have not enjoyed
the legal status given to all other surgical
procedures. Debate continually rages in its
inclusion in Medicaid and other entitlement
programs, and many federal legislators are
unwilling to guarantee abortion legal protec-
tion as a medical procedure. In town and
cities across America, those who practice
abortion are vilified and those who seek it are
run out of town.

This stigma is not hard to understand, but
neither is it valid or warranted. Regardless of
its immorality/morality, its use has been af-
firmed as a right of the individual. Only a
constitutional amendment or reversal by the
Court itself could change that. Therefore, to
seek to limit its use by restricting so-called
“convenient” methods of its practice is not
only bad governance, it’s also ignorance at
work.

I doubt that any woman would describe any
method of abortion as “convenient,” and to
imply that the impact of the decision to have
an abortion is made easier is to fundamentally
misunderstand the issues facing women who
choose to have abortions.

All over America, people face difficult
situations: congenital defects, inadvertent
exposure to harmful substances, financial
dependence, and maturity. Women have
compelling and important reasons to choose
abortions. The women themselves can only
judge the morality of those Gecisions, with

continued on opposite page

