8. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Penn State students weigh in on outdoor smoking

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) _ Is this
the newest frontier of -anti-smoking senti-
ment? Cigarettes have been pushed out of
offices, restaurants and airplanes.

Now there’s talk of forcing them out of
the outdoors, too.

Penn State students weighed in Wednes-
day about whether their vast main campus
should go smoke-free, both indoors and out.

Results were expected late Wednesday
night, but the vote would not change policy
right away. The idea would have to wind
through university bureaucracy.

The issue isn’t second-hand smoke or
the threat of cancer. It’s butts: used
cigarettes littering the grounds.

“Cigarette butts seem like such a small
problem,” said Paul Ruskin of the Penn State
office of physical plant. “But when you mul-
tiply the numbers, it suddenly becomes a
larger issue.’”

Consider these numbers: Penn State

spends $150,000 a year on cleanup. Thirteen
landscapers spend eight hours per week pick-
ing up butts and emptying outdoor ashtrays.
The university has 700 butt canisters. At
$300 a pop, that’s a $210,000 investment.

The referendum appeared on the ballot
for undergraduate student government offic-
ers. An informal exit poll of a dozen students
turned up no one who had voted for the idea.

“Tt’s ridiculous. I think it’s fine the way
it is. And I don’t even smoke,”’ student Jody
Miersh said.

‘Where else are people going tosmoke?”
added her roommate, Amy Wills, also a non-
smoker.

“That’s like saying we can’t smoke in
New York City or something,” student Henry
Jeong said.

Several students wrote impassioned .ap-
peals against the idea in letters to the Daily
Collegian, the student newspaper.

“T implore all that value their freedom,

both smokers and nonsmokers, to have their
voices heard on this,’’ one student, Rick
Sollman, wrote in Wednesday’ s editions. “To-
day, send the university a message. Tell them
that you are fed up with the attitude that they
are our parents.”’

The butt problem escalated after Penn
State barred smoking indoors in 1992. When
smokers moved outside, their butts followed.
Litter concentrated around building door-
ways.

Undergraduate student government met
with physical plant staff in December to
discuss answers. Since the meeting, more
visible, stainless-steel pots have been installed
in a few places.

But a ban on smoking was considered
the long-term solution.

Several students questioned whether the
university would even be able to enforce it,
and even Ruskin acknowledged that going

Purdue students, others continue hunger strike to stop sweatshops

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) _ A
group of Purdue University students entered
the sixth day of a hunger strike Saturday,
attempting to pressure the university to alter
its stance on sweatshops.

For more thana year, members of Purdue
Students Against Sweatshops have been work-
ing to ensure that Purdue clothing is made
under humane working conditions. Six of the
students stopped eating Monday, because
Purdue President Steven C. Beering hasn’t
agreed to join the Worker Rights Consor-
tium, an alliance with workers and human

rights organizations that monitor factories —

for sweatshop conditions.
Indiana University and the universities

of Michigan and Wisconsin have said they

will conditionally join the consortium.

Beering said Purdue administrators are con-
cerned about the issue, but need to know
more about the consortium before commit-
ting the $6,000 it costs to join.

“President Beering, we want to know
what you had for dinner last night while six of
your students were starving,’ Purdue student
Emily Rosko shouted through a megaphone
during lunchtime Friday.

Some students handed out fliers and
shouted profanities addressed to the presi-
dent, while others tied themselves to the
pillars of a university building with red rib-
bon, intended to represent red tape.

The Purdue protesters were joined Fri-
day by students from Indiana University and
the University of Michigan. Micah
Maidenberg drove to Purdue on Thursday

with eight other IU students.

“This is part of a national movement that
is going on at campuses all over,’’ Maidenberg
said. “Purdue and IU have been in constant
contact with each other about this. Purdue’s
struggle is our struggle.”’

Friday’s incident came a day after orga-
nizers of the Purdue Students Against Sweat-
shops said Purdue trustees asked that the six
students engaged in the hunger strike end
their fast. In exchange, the trustees offered to
send one of the students ‘as an observing
university representative to the Worker Rights
Consortium founding conference next Fri-
day.

The students said that’s similar to a pro-
posal they'd already rejected.

<

State colleges deal with record number of applicants

CHARLESTON, S.C. (AP)—The state’s
colleges are experiencing a record number of
applicants this spring.

As many as 2,000 would-be cadets are
expected to apply for just 625 slots in The
Citadel’s Class of 2004. At the College of
Charleston, 10,000 applicants are vying for
2,000 spots in the freshman class. And a
religion-based education has attracted more
than 1,200 students for 944 freshman spots at
Charleston Southern University.

It isn’t just a Lowcountry phenomenon.

For every slot available in Clemson’s
freshman class, there are four applicants,
college officials said. The school expects a
record number of applications.

“T expect we'll exceed 10,500 applica-
tions by the end of the year,” said Robert
Barkley, director of undergraduate agus?
sions.

South Carolina State University expects.

to enroll 2,000 freshmen in the fall, but al-
ready has 2,616 applications, 8 percent more
than last year.

The University of South Carolina, whose
admissions policy allows students to apply
for school -year-round, doesn’t have firm
counts, but admissions officials expect the
number of ‘applicants to exceed the slots.

Educators and research experts say the
flood results from many factors: The children
of the baby boomers are coming of college
age; higher education is more accessible and,
in some cases, more affordable because of
scholarships and other aid; and more young
people understand that job prospects are bet-
ter with a college degree.

‘Four out of every five high school gradu-
ates will goto college. That’s stunning,’’ said
Clifford Adelman, senior research analyst
with the National Center for Education Sta-
tistics at the U.S. Education Department.
“Twenty years ago it was half of all high
school graduates.”

Total college enrollment hit a record
14.9 million last fall, and the Education De-
partment predicts it will reach 16.2 million by
2009.

“This is probably not a first-year fluke,”
said Joe Marks of the Southern Regional
Education Board, which charts higher educa-
tion performance and enrollment data for 16
states, including South Carolina.

Much of the application surge is the
result of a population shift. Baby boomers’
children are headed to college now. Nation-
wide this fall, 51.7 million students attend

public and private secondary schools. That’s
expected to climb to 54.6 million by 2006.
Marks said the link between a college

‘education, quality jobs and earnings is an-

other reason more students are going to col-
lege.

Tom Mortenson, higher education policy
analyst with Post Secondary Education Op-
portunity, said educators have stressed that
earnings are tied to education level. Maybe
now the message is being heard, he said.

According to Mortenson, the average
annual income for someone with a bachelor’s
degree is $40,495; for a master’s, $52,771;
for a two-year degree, $29,749.

Earning potential drops dramatically for
a high school graduate ($21,680) and even
more for a high school dropout ($14,920).

“It’s a very tough world out there for kids
who think they can start off life with a high
school diploma or less,’’ Mortenson said.

Charleston’s standing as a tourist desti-
nation and the College of Charleston’s vis-
ibility in science and athletics have helped
boostinterest in the school, said Sue Sommer-
Kresse, vice president of enrollment manage-
ment. Freshmen applications have climbed
from 7,750 in 1995 to 9,393 last year.

Police dog caught on camera shoplifting meat

WAUKESHA, Wis. (AP) _ A police dog
upset when his kennel was burglarized broke
out and was spotted later on a surveillance
camera, lifting a piece of meat from a bin at a
24-hour grocery store, authorities said.

Nutz, the 7-year-old German shepherd,
was corralled about four hours later by two
workers when he wandered into the yard of a
store.

“We called him over and he came,” said
John Stayton, an employee at Venture Elec-
tric. “We gave him some water and played
with him. He was great.

“T said ‘sit’ and the thing sat. I said ‘lay
down,’ and it laid down. We were like, ‘cool.’
I wanted to take him home.”

They called the Humane Animal Wel-

_ fare Society in Waukesha to report a stray.

“Then all of a sudden, there were like
seven squads here,” Stayton said. “I was a
little nervous.”

The dog had been left at the Best Care Pet
Motel while his owner, a New Berlin police
officer, was on vacation. The dog is also a
trained member of the New Berlin police
force. ‘

Police said the kennel was burglarized
and the dog broke out of its cage and bolted
away.

Nutz was walking past Sentry Foods at
the Fox Run Shopping Center about 4:30 a.m.
Thursday when he set off the automatic:doors
and padded into the store, browsing until he
reached the meat counter, Waukesha police
Lt. William H. Graham said.

The videotape showed him retrieving a
hunk of prime rib from the meat bin.

After being caught, Nutz was taken to
the New Berlin police department, no worse

completely smoke-free might be too extreme.

“It’s the direction we would want to go
in. Realistically, I'd expect there would be
compromise,” he said.

At least one school has done it: Harding
University in Searcy, Ark., has long barred
the “use or possession of tobacco” among
students. There, the concern wasn’t litter, but
religion: Harding is a Christian school.

“We're trying to be Christ-like here,
trying to be an example for others,” explained
spokeswoman April Mouser.

Many other schools are smoke-free in-
side. No other Big Ten school has gone smoke-
free outside, and Ruskin said an Internet
search didn’t turn up any other cases among
major universities.

If students say they want it, USG would
send a proposal to the administration. Any
implementation would take “quite some time,”
spokeswoman Christy Rambeau said.

Law officers shut
down Minneapolis
campus looking

forgunman

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) _ A man who
allegedly threatened a student with a gun
ata
community solloge: prompting a room-

‘by-room search through college build-
ings by an army of law officers, was
arrested Friday night,

Witnesses said an argument over rap
music at Minneapolis Community and
Technical College led to an eight-hour .
search by more than 100 law officers,
including four SWAT teams. Officers
cordoned off the college, evacuated stu-
dents and faculty, and painstakingly
searched campus buildings.

. “We appreciated that they took this
very seriously,” said Phillip Davis, col-
lege president. . _

The man was arrested at 8:43 p.m.
without incident at his home in south
Minneapolis, said police spokeswoman
Cyndi Montgomery. He had no weapon,
but he did have a full magazine of bullets
and was wearing a bulletproof vest, said
police Lt. Robert Allen.

During the lunch hour, the man ap-
proached the student in a cafeteria and
they had words about the man’s rap mu-
sic.

Tan Wright, another student who was
eating lunch, said he heard the student tell
the suspect that his music was “whack,”
meaning it was bad. The man began shout-
ing at the student, Wright said.

The student, identified by college
officials as Chris Martin, tried to walk
away, But the man followed.

“He was saying, ‘I’m going to kill
you,””, Wright said. “He was saying,

‘Look at my record, look in my eyes.

Soe he suspect. then threatened Martin
and a security guard with what looked
‘like a 9mm handgun and ran into the
a building, oes

for the wear, except for a small cut on his foot,
police said.

“He’s in good condition,” Graham said.
“But we’ ll still have to question him about the
theft.”
