DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2000

College fights to stave off new pipeline

Natural gas supplier
seeks rights to stretch of
ecologically vulnerable
land; local landowners
protest _—

By ERonN EarRLey-THIELE

Staff Writer

A major natural gas supplier is making a
bid to gain rights to.a huge tract of environ-
mentally sensitive land running through the
Davidson area. .

Its efforts, however, are meeting stiff resis-
tance from Davidson College and from local
landowners.

Piedmont Natural Gas, one of three com-

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Caveat emptor

At least eight incidents of stolen laptops from

vehicles in Mecklenburg and surrounding counties
have been reported.

Did you ever wonder ...

On the Union Patio last Monday, CNN had a

video camera set up to record any question that a
Davidson student could conjure.

News page 3

More news on networks

From checking out the latest pictures of friends

to listening to their MP3 files, the Network Neighbor-
hood offers a great source of entertainment during
study breaks. Before now.

News page 5 :

Offensive vs. degrading

Whenis language intentionally demeaning, and
when is it meant to shock?
PERSPECTIVES page 8.

News page 2 }

panies with gas lines running through the
region, plans to lay a new, 30-inch pipe next
to its existing one. The current pipe cuts
across the north end of campus through the
running trails and some woodland.

Under the original agreement, Piedmont
holds a 50-foot right-of-way within which
they can install and maintain their lines. To
install the new pipes, however, they want an
additional 40 feet besides this first easement.

- President Bobby Vagt has vowed to “fight
this thing tooth and nail.” He claims the
ecological well-being of the region outweighs
the company’s need for more space.

Moreover, citing his experience in the oil
and gas industry, Vagt noted that profession-
als with “any skill at all” require no more than,
50 feet to lay pipe.

Natural gas in high demand

During the recent period of climatic fluc-

By Timotuy Cook
Layout Editor

As of next year Davidson College will be
holding a very prestigious world record. No,
it is not the record for most hours stayed'up in
row studying for microeconomics or organic
chemistry - but good guess. The college will
instead become the home of the World’s
largest Wildcat statue.

The statue is a gift that will be donated by
longtime Davidson supporter Ike Belk.
Davidson’s wildcat is one of the three mas-
cots that will be immortalized in the next year
with help from Belk’s funding, along with the
Johnson C. Smith University Bulls in Char-
lotte and the Furman University Paladins
(which is a Knight mounted on a horse) in
Greenville, SC.

Ike Belk, brother of John Montgomery

| Belk, founder of the Belk Scholars Program,

has already made his mark at Davidson by

‘donating a significant contribution to the

Piles of 30-inch pipe sit in anticipation of Piedmont’s new gas line.

tuations and high petroleum prices, natural
gas has come to enjoy a strong economic
standing. While global warming may loosen
collars and sell lemonade, it has done very
little to decrease the demand for energy.

Natural gas offers a logical alternative to
costly fuels, such as oil and coal, and other
traditionally exploited sources of power.
Many utility suppliers have chosen to burn
this “environmentally friendly” cousin of
those heavy fuels to turn turbines. In so
doing, these megaliths have increased de-
mand while depleting supplies at an unheard
of rate. Providers of natural gas have been
enjoying the kickback from this situation for
the past few years.

Three major natural gas pipelines snake
their way around the Davidson area of North

see Pipeline, page 10

Eri Berry

Davidson awaits monumental donation

construction of the track in Richardson Sta-
dium that bears his name. He has also served
on the US delegation to the United Nations.

Davidson President Bobby Vagt says that .

this is no minor gift. He says the eight to nine
foot long bronze statue will cost around
$90,000 to $100,000-to complete.

The soon-to-be former largest wildcat statue
currently resides at California State Univer-
sity — Chico. Belk searched all over the
country to find the largest statues of the three
schools. Some were probably harder to find
than others: For instance, Furman is the only
school with a Paladin for a mascot.

. The statue will be placed in the natural area
in front of the Baker Sports Complex. Vagt
anticipates it to arrive sometime early next
year.

Though’ it sounds harmless, having the
world’s largest wildcat does have its respon-
sibilities, especially at a college. Comment-
ing on its weekend garb Vagt said, “Lord only

knows what it will wind up wearing.”

Tight elec-
tions capture
Davidson’s
attention

By Susan RosIsoNn AND JT TOLENTINO
Staff Writer and News Editor

Students across campus were glued to their
television sets to witness what turned out to
be one of the closest presidential races in
nearly 40 years.

As of 2:30 AM Wednesday morning, with
88% of the polls reporting, CNN reported
Governor George Bush’s victory over Vice
President Al Gore, winning 271 of the.elec-
toral votes to 249 for Gore.

Bush only needed 270 to become the
nation’s president elect.

From the resident hall lounges, to the 900
Room, the Chambers Hall Gallery, to the
library, viewers were on the edges of their
seats as the votes began trickling in around 7
p.m. in the evening.

Surrounded by goldfish, chips, and soda,
cries of anguish and elation resonated as the
lead in electoral votes changed hands.

Al Gore and George Bush traded places
several times for the lead, making the race for
the presidency very close as predicted.

The closeness of the race might have been
the reason so many students tuned in to tele-
vision coverage. Each party was well repre-
sented but at times it seemed as if the Demo-
crats on campus outnumbered the Republi-
cans.

Yet, as Beth Daniel ’04 explains, “the
Democrats are more vocal here at Davidson.”

Most students following the election rec-
ognized how close the final vote would be,
and couldn’t predict the outcome.

“I have no idea [who will win]. It’s too

see Election, page 4

1 News

2 Briefly _

6 Arts & Living

. a aoe
Sports, |

