THE DAVIDSONIAN

This cold week seems like the worst time
to talk about global warming. A significant,
upcoming event makes this timing necessary
though. On February 11", the Davidson
College Board of Trustees will listen to Cool
the Planet’s request to withdraw funding from
large companies with a vested financial inter-
est in the denial of the existence of global
warming. This is exactly the right time to
divest endowments because businesses like
Ford are responding to public pressure to
show environmental responsibility and in-
vest in “the clean revolution.”

You have probably heard something
about the negative effects of global warming:
glacial melting, rising ocean levels, and in-
creased incidence of mosquito-borne diseases.
Scientists have predicted that extreme weather
conditions (such as hurricanes) will increase
in frequency if global warming is not halted.
Meanwhile, many people deny the existence
of global warming. The most powerful oppo-
nent is the Global Climate Coalition (GCC).
The GCC has “contributed more than $63
million to federal candidates and national
political parties” to oppose efforts to reduce
emissions of

OPINIONS
Davidson deals with

pointed out that satellites fall from orbit every
year. After the data was adjusted to account
for orbital decay, it showed a temperature
increase corresponding to the surface tem-
perature increase. Dr. Christy admitted that
his study needed to be reexamined, but the
GCC still touts his original study.

The GCC has opposed mandatory limits
on emissions by claiming that its members
already act responsibly. ‘For example, [the
GCC’s 1999 Inventory of Industry Voluntary
Actions] praises automakers for producing
vehicles powered by efficient alternatives to
fossil fuels; however, it fails to mention how
few of these vehicles are actually sold, or the
auto industry’s lobbying battle in Congress
against tougher fuel economy laws.”

The GCC focuses on “sinks” so as to
distract attention from pollution prevention.
Carbon sinks absorb carbon into vegetation
and the oceans. However, “in order to keep
up with human greenhouse gas emissions,
the U.S. would have to plant a new forest 2.5
times the size of Texas just to absorb carbon
dioxide emissions from its utility companies
each year- an impossible goal.”

The

greenhouse gases. .
The GCC has
focused on scien-
tists in the minori-
ties who believe

“This is exactly the right time to
divest endowments because busi-
nesses like Ford are responding to

good news is that
another major
corporation, the
Ford Motor Co.,
has pulled out of

that_human-in- public pressure to show environ- the GCC, and
duced global tal ‘ili di ti joinedthe GCC’s
warming does not mental responsibility and invest in onenorgani-

contribute to sea

‘the clean revolution.’”’

zation, the Busi-

level rise. It has

ness Environ-

ignored the Inter-
' governmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC), the world’s leading scientific body

studying climate change, which is made up of

more than 2,000 scientists from around the
world. The IPCC reported that global warm-
ing has contributed to the four to six inch sea
level rise during the last century.

The GCC chooses to listen to science
when it suits the GCC’s needs. Dr. John
Christy based his theory of “global cooling”
on 17 years of satellite temperature records.
An examination of surface temperatures
shows that they have increased. Christy
showed that satellite temperatures went down.
The rest of the scientific community quickly

mental Leader-
ship Counsel (BELC). The BELC is a coali-
tion of companies that think businesses
“should take concrete steps now in the US
and abroad to assess opportunities for emis-
sion reductions, establish and meet emission-
reduction objectives, and invest in new, more-
efficient products, practices, and technolo-
gies.” Ford has pledged “to be a leader in the
second industrial revolution - the clean revo-
lution.”

Ford’s- withdrawal comes as a major
embarrassment to the GCC for two reasons.
Ford shows that there are Fortune 500 com-
panies willing to listen to the concerns of
environmentalists and the public’s concern

Che Dabtdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors

Executive Layout Edlitor
a Bae

6 ee,

WILL PARKER

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

Editors in Chief
MIKE. ANDERSON

SETH DAVIS ; NUISQN KALETT ™ CARRIE RILEY
ANN GREGORY ys,
fn Bus Me AN Op-Ed Editor
Sports Editoy’ > ie s ERICA SCHWARTZ
BURGIN HARDIN“ DAVID JOHNSTON a
é ' >.” Ittenigtional News

abiea Busirte

4 fi veri Mere 1 E n

CADER HOWARD

Features Editor

° sage GAMBOA

Editor Emeritus
MICHAEL KRUSE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read Whe Davidsonian on the Internet at

http://www. davidson.edu/student/organ izations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

slobal warming wre

forthe environment. Most of the 21 members
of BELC are Fortune 500 major corporations,
companies that include United Technolo-
gies, Sunoco, DuPont, Boeing, Weyerhaeuser,
Lockheed Martin, Enron, and CH2M HILL.
“When we asked people whether they associ-
ated energy and oil with the word progress or
with the word pollution - almost half said
pollution,” John Browne, CEO of BP Amoco
said at the recent Conference on Corporate
Social Responsibility in London, “We make
mistakes. But we try to learn from the mis-
takes, and we’re gradually building a track
record of performance in line with our objec-
tive.” Who would object to corporate respon-
sibility?

Ford’s decision also shows that major corpo-
rations are willing to find profitable ways to
do business while acting environmentally
responsible. For example, Bp Amoco “has
pledged to reduce its greenhouse-gas emis-
sions 10 percent below 1990 levels by the
year 2010 - double the level agreed to by the
world’s industrial nations in Kyoto, Japan.
(The United States Senate has refused to
ratify the treaty.) General Motors is devel-
oping an electric vehicle and Toyota is mak-
ing “a hybrid electric car that gets 66 miles
per gallon and emits half the carbon dioxide
of a normal car.” Other examples include
Boeing, upgrading the efficiency of its lights,
which reduced lighting electricity use by up
to 90 percent and reduced Boeing’s air pollu-
tion by more than 100,000 tons of carbon

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000 ;

Lge eens A925

dioxide, 8,000 tons of sulfur dioxide, and
4,000 tons of nitrogen oxide- a year. The
payback period (time when an investment
pays off) is two years. Small businesses have
done the same. Centerplex of Seattle has
“lowered its electricity consumption by 55
percent by using more ‘efficient lighting and
better windows, occupancy sensors, insula-
tion, and programmable thermostats.” The
payback period would have been 4.5 years,
but the local utility company subsidized two-
thirds of the new equipment’s cost, making
the payback period 1.5 years.

The move. toward environmentally re-
sponsible corporate behavior is inevitable.
Some companies are learning to swim before
it floods. Some companies, like members of
the Global Climate Coalition, who are stub-
bornly clinging to irresponsible behavior,
need a gentle financial push from investors
like Davidson College. The first step is to ask
nicely. Cool the Planet asks that Davidson
express its frustration with the GCC’s misin-
formation campaigns. Step 2 involves the
threat to withdraw of endowment funds from
GCC members. Step 3 is to follow through on
that threat, a swift kick where it counts to get
the GCC’s attention.

A college’s actions can be very power-
ful. UW (Seattle) and Stanford made the
noise that convinced Ford to withdraw. Let’s
see what Davidson can do.

Matt Johnston ‘00

Got an opinion? Tell us about it.
Write for Op-Ed!!

Send submissions to
Erica Schwartz
(704.896.6574)

erschwartz@ davidson.edu

All submissions must be received by 6 PM
on Sunday evening.
The Davidsonian reserves the right to edit
| all submissions.

Sportsman, from page 8.

I could count, but that has nothing to do with whether or not he is fat. I understand yelling at
bad calls or when someone is obviously throwing elbows or trying to trip one of our players,
but I think that most of us should have gotten over that stage that relies solely on looks in order

to conjure up appropriate insults.

Come on, Davidson! For the past three games, I have watched us offend opposing teams
over and over again. The saddest part, though, is when we lose. After screaming obscenities
at anyone not wearing black and red, we have to deal with the other teams’ fans giving us smug

little looks as they

cheer and march

joyfully out of the
ply giving them
say; “I don’t see
Weare asking for
people leave
with a pretty de-
ing that all we did
the entire game.

havetheprivilege efs names.

I felt ashamed of our behavior... I
think there is a difference between
using a few expletives in a “Man, -
I-wish-we-had-gotten-that!” sortof
way and calling the players and the

stands. We are sim-
the opportunity to
you cheering now.”
it. Not only that,
Davidson, a school
centreputation, say-
was act like idiots
Visitors who do not
of witnessing one of

our basketball

games leave telling

people how nice we are; visitors from schools in the Southern Conference leave saying we are

annoying brats.

Let’s just try to grow up. I fully support getting up and yelling when something was done
wrong, but we will come away looking like a much better school if we show everyone how
mature we can be by not calling people names and making sexual references when yelling at
the refs. Sportsmanship is an important part of playing the game, and there are easy ways to
support our school in a positive manner. Yell at the lousy calls all you want, but please do not
forget that, ideally, everyone, including the opposing team, should have a good time no matter

how irritating or overrated they are.

Joy Gerdy ‘02
