__ Tue Davinsonian ©

_By Tapp Bevan ‘02
Special Contributor

In September U.S. News and World Report
published its annual college rankings issue.
Colleges and universities around the country
flocked to news stands to see where they
stood among other American institutions of
higher education.

These rankings have been criticized, dis-
avowed, and deemed unimportant by college
and university admissions personnel nation-
wide. However, the underlying truth is that
these rankings do matter and are used as
leverage by schools of higher education in
helping students finally decide where to spend
four years of their life.

Even Davidson, a school that prides itself,
I believe, on being modest in its presentation
to prospective students, focuses on these
rankings. This

4

4

late.

The point of this article is not to say that our
admission’s office has been so influenced by
the rankings in such a way to ignore what is
most appealing about Davidson.

This fall’s edition of the Davidson Journal
clearly demonstrates this point as do Presi-
dent Vagt’s remarks at the Alumni Leader-
ship Conference Dinner which I attended
during Homecoming. Weekend. Both the
Journal and the President focused on impor-
tant and distinctive characteristics that sets
Davidson apart. Those characteristics in-
clude the fact that Davidson is private, it is a
liberal arts college, it is extremely strong
academically, it is a school where hard work
is necessary and valued, and it is home to an
outstanding faculty.

Other important qualities noted were
Davidson’s location, its facilities, and the

~ fact that David-

college weekly
contained an
article on these
rankings which
focused on
what factors
had placed Davidson eleventh among na-
tional liberal arts colleges. These rankings
have served as an impetus for the college
administration to address certain factors, such
as faculty salaries and endowmentsize, that if
improved, would augment Davidson’s rank-
ing.

Being highly ranked is now synonymous
with being deemed a “good” school. Being
“good” and thus, highly ranked, distinguishes
one school from another. Being a “good”
school implies that one school is better than
another and is obviously the better choice for
a prospective student. This logic is flawed
and is what Davidson must not seek to emu-

We are acommunity where individual
learning and desire are encouraged.

son ‘students
participate in
Division I ath-
letics. I defi-
nitely agree
with emphasiz-
ing such characteristics. They have influ-
enced mine and hundreds of other student’s
decisions to attend this very fine institution.

These characteristics distinctly represent
what Davidson is. However, I feel that David-
son does not do a good enough job promoting
perhaps its strongest and most appealing char-
acteristic - who Davidson is.

Who are we [Davidson]? Weare far above
anything else acommunity. This word, com-
munity, must be given greater consideration
in order to demonstrate how important it is to
this institution and its staff and students. We
are a community where individual learning
and desire are encouraged. We are a commu-

“Human dimension” sets Davidson comm

Students should limit
rec time on network

You are probably frustrated, as are many of
your fellow students, faculty, and staff, by the
slow response on the Internet.

The problem is simple to state, but not
simple to correct. Our links to the Internet are
jammed most of the day.

Measures to correct the problem are very
expensive, except for one. Would you agree
to use the Internet for recreation (MP3 down-
loads, Web-Radio, etc.) only at off
hours? It will make a difference.

We'll all see the benefit if you
encourage your friends and limit
your use during these hours: Sun-
day, noon to midnight; Monday
through Thursday, 7 am to mid-
night; and Friday, 7 am to 6 pm.

Recreational use is fine, but it has
begun to interfere with teaching and learning.
Will you help make the Internet more usable
for everybody during class and study hours?

Cooperating, not regulating, is the David-
son way to solve this problem.

John Casey,
ITS Director

Emotional testimony

fails to persuade

On Monday night in the 900 Room,
Stephanie Mueller of the National Abortion
Federation delivered a speech entitled “The
- Truth About Abortion.” I found it hard to
believe, however, that her goal was to present
the “truth” of abortion considering her lec-
ture was anemic of facts and statistics.

On the contrary, her presentation focused
on the emotional testimony of two women
who chose abortion in the third trimester
because of medical complications, using these
tragic testimonies to justify abortion. Mueller
ignored the fact that in America between

1965-1996 over 486,000,000 babies have
been killed from surgical and chemical abor-
tions (American Life League). Mueller did
admit that 500 women in the last year had
abortions in the third trimester, but she con-
veniently failed to mention that 1,600,000
women have surgical abortions annually.
Mueller adamantly argued women should
have the right to choose the most beneficial

option for them after conception has oc-.

curred.

Iagree that freedom is of the utmost impor-

tance, but I think the right to life precedes all
other _ freedoms. Dr. Jerome Lejeune,a
famous French geneticist, de-
fines a human being as “the he/
she who belongs to our species .
. .no matter the amount of kilo-
grams and no matter the amount
of differentiation of tissue.”

Within 24 hours of. when the
sperm touches the ova, two sets
of 23 chromosomes are present, containing
all of the information concerning the
individual’s sex, hair, eye, and skin color,
physical structure, and facial features. If
Mueller really wanted to present the truth,
she should have honestly revealed the facts
about the indisputable evidence of embry-
onic development and allowed the audience
decide when a life is a life.

My favorite part of Mueller’s presentation
was when someone asked her if she believed
a doctor should kill a baby if it somehow
survived the attempted abortion, and she re-
plied that it would be “unethical” to kill the
baby outside of the womb. Does our environ-
ment define who we are? What makes it
“ethical” to abort a baby inside the womb but
“unethical” when removed?

In attempting to present truth, one should
present facts, data, and statistics from both
sides of an argument, not emotional testimo-
nies and enigmatic replies to questions de-
manding uncomfortable answers.

Sarah Davis ‘03

nity of honor. Academics and honor clearly
lie at the core of this institution.

At this year’s Alumni Leadership Confer-
ence Dinner, the new executive board of the
Davidson Alumni Association was inaugu-
rated. The new president, Michael Deese,
made some a brief, but wonderful, speech
that I feel gets at what is most important about
Davidson. He stated, “I submit to you that
that there is something even more fundamen-
tal about Davidson.. .In my view, that ‘some-
thing’ is Davidson’ s internal focus upon honor
and integrity as vital components of study,
learning, service and leadership. This is
what, to me, sets Davidson apart.”

First of all, I want to say to Mr. Deese,
“Well done.”

Second, I would take his sentiments one
step further to emphasize something just as
important - the human quality that is so evi-
dent. What is this human quality? It is the
kindness of Davidson students. It is the
kindness of the faculty who care not just

, about their student’s academics, but about

their wellbeing. It is the kind hello from
students or staff that greets all visitors to this
campus. Itis the students who help each other
endure the stressful times and enjoy the fun
times. It is the fact that Davidson is a place
where help is never far away. It is the reality
that Davidson is a caring community where
not only your mind is nurtured, but your heart
and spirit are as well.

I know that it is not easy nor simple to
illustrate this quality to prospective students.
However, if we ignore this aspect - the human
aspect - I feel we are ignoring perhaps the
most essential component of the Davidson
experience.

Davidson definitely strives and is success-
ful in educating the whole person. While this
is not a cause for complacency, it is definitely
acause for celebration. We must celebrate by
making it clearly known across the country
and the world that one who attends Davidson
is supported, acknowledged, and cared for in
a unique and distinctive manner - a manner
that clearly sets Davidson apart.

The faithful and the fanatics - God,
save us from religious extremism

By RosHaNn Paut ‘02
Special Contributor

Early this semester, I noticed an amusing
yet intriguing bit of graffiti in the Outpost. It
said, “God, protect me from your followers.”
Interesting, I thought to myself, that someone
had the audacity (or, perhaps, temerity) to do
this ata conservative, southern, Presbyterian
institution. I was pleasantly surprised at David-
son.

Ialso should have known it was too good to

last. Recently, I noticed that someone had

drawn a line through the word “God” and
replaced it with “Jove.” Through reading the
Davidsonian, | became aware that a freshman
named John Pitt had written that it offended
his religious sensibilities. A little later, the
phrase was mysteriously mutilated into what
it is today. I write this not to attack John Pitt,
the person, but to attack the mentality he
possesses that made him write that letter of
complaint to the Davidsonian..From the rag-
ing homosexuality debate, I have become
disturbingly aware that there are several John
Pitts within this astute student body that are
studying for a degree in “Liberal” Arts.

But damn it, the sentence is legitimate.

Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young sing, “Too
many people have lied in the name of Christ
for anyone to hear the call; so many people

eminently justifiable for some people to ask
for “protection” from fanatical followers of
God.

Fanatics always amuse me because I’m
never sure that they fully believe what they
are so vociferously propagating. I may not
have understood everything in Robert Pirsig’s
“Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance”
- that landmark book that brings abstract
philosophy to the layman — but I did get this:
“you are never fanatically dedicated to some-
thing you have complete confidence in...when
people are fanatically dedicated to some-
thing, it is because their validity or dogmas or
goals are always in doubt.”

Very true. My biggest passion is a game
called cricket. To the unaware, cricket is the
game from which baseball was invented and

.which in South Asia is almost a religion.

There, it has a following so frenzied that it
makes the Latin American passion for soccer
seem apathetic. If you think that the assassi-

‘nation of the Colombian who shot an own- .

goal in the World Cup was drastic, then you
ain’t seen nothing yet. I could tell you stories
about cricket fans that would make your
blood curdle.

But I digress. My point is that no matter
how much anyone criticizes or makes fun of
cricket (saying it is too slow, too boring etc),
it will never annoy me. For the simple reason

have died in that I am se-
the name of cure in my
acurl Ena ! From the Crusades to the Inquisition and from love eee
can thelieve. Islamic jihads to Osama bin Laden’s fatwatokillall = 87° ne?

it all. : ’ : , someone
They’re Americans, enough crimes against humanity have enka bn
right. From been committed in the name of religion thatmake  yrite,
the Crusades: such a statement extremely valid. “Cricket is
\o the N00) eee, eens, NT ON
sition and wall, it
from Islamic wouldn’t

Jihads to Osama bin Laden’s fatwa to kill all
Americans, enough crimes against humanity
have been committed in the name of religion
that make such a statement extremely valid.
And it does not apply only to Christians.

We need to draw a line somewhere, folks.
What if all the Muslims in Davidson were to
demand that Vail Commons stop serving
pepperoni or bacon; or that Patterson Court
ban the presence of alcohol at their parties?
These are far worse offenses to Islam than
irreverent graffiti is to Christianity. Such
silliness has to stop.

One can always look at it and say, “Its just
graffiti.” It should simply be taken with the
pinch of salt it merits and nothing else. But
John Pitt apparently took it seriously. Thus,

- since he chose to dignify it, I argue that it is

bother me one iota.

People of faith shouldn’t be any different.
John Pitt needn’t feel so insecure about his
religion that he demands that the graffiti be
erased. God knows there are enough people
on this campus who feel as strongly as he
does about Christianity that he will always
find people in his camp (e.g. the atrociously
patronizing Christians who love homosexu-
als but condemn homosexuality). However, I
do think that the John Pitts of Davidson have
a problem when it comes to their owngtrength
of belief about God and Christianity.

As for whoever is responsible for having
the graffiti painted over, that they couldn’t be
open-minded about something as silly as
srattihl epee So eee ey ee
biggest = of all
