THE DAVIDSONIAN

VIEWPOINT

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

A critical look

In response to Michael Kruse’s article in last week’s Davidsonian, |
decided to make my opinions regarding the issues raised public knowledge.
First, let me state that I like the Honor Code. I think it is a good policy that
offers many outstanding benefits to those people who are morally responsible
enough to act in accordance with it. However, I would‘argue that the current
form through which Honor Code violations are handled leaves a lot to be
desired. I think that the secrecy surrounding the whole process often leads the
Honor Council to abuse their power. Furthermore, I believe the sanctions
handed out for Honor Code violations are often too harsh. Additionally, I
question the competence of students with little or no legal or psychological
training to make weighty decisions regarding the lives and careers of their
classmates.

While the secrecy surrounding Honor Code violations is intended to
protect the violators, It also serves to insulate those serving on the council
from any sort of accountability for their decisions. The Honor Council is not
accountable to anyone for the decisions they make. They do not have to
answer to a higher authority, nor do they have to answer to other members of
the college community who may or may not agree with the sanctions the
Honor Council imposes. Clearly, it is important to protect the privacy of
those who violate the Honor Code so that they will feel comfortable here if
permitted to continue their education at Davidson. However, it is also
important that
the people on
the Honor

“The Honor Council doesn’t try people for murder,

Cc . and they shouldn’t be handing out sanctions
ouncil feel Batic

they are going that would indicate that the offender

to held respon- had just killed the Pope.”

sible for the
judgments they ,
make during these closed hearings. Iam sure that we, as acommunity, could
find a reasonable solution to this matter if we looked into it further.
Furthermore, I honestly feel that many Honor Code sanctions are too
harsh. Let me be very clear in saying that I am not about to assert that people
should not receive any repercussions from their violations. To the contrary,
I believe that the only way to prove that we as a community take the Code
seriously is to enforce it through punishment. Yet, is it really. necessary to
suspend a student for a semester or a year, and give them failing grades in all
their classes over one cheating violation? Honestly, I think this is too harsh.
Perhaps the student should fail the assignment they cheated on, or maybe it
would be more appropriate for them to fail that entire course. But to fail all
of the courses for the current semester and/or be suspended from school? It
just seems to me that the punishment doesn’t quite fit the crime. I think it is
fair to say that cheating is not an action usually performed out of malicious
intent. Furthermore, I would assert that the vast majority of cheating
violations handled by the Honor Council involve defendants who would
never have broken the rules unless they were feeling an extraordinary amount
of pressure. I am not arguing that their level of stress excuses their actions,
but I would argue that a one time cheating offense does not justify a
punishment involving suspension. Come on, when you really think about it

most of these violations are extremely petty. The Honor Council doesn’t try.

people for murder, and they shouldn’t be handing out sanctions that would
See Critical look, page 8.

Defending the code

Over the past few weeks, the Honor Code has been under intensive
scrutiny. This week’s opinion pages are littered with student responses to the
Clearly, it is an imperfect system—but it is a far cry from the inefficient,
bumbling process that some have attempted to depict.

Many of the attacks have been targeted at the alleged lack of “public

accountability” of the Council and the trials it conducts.
Let there be no mistake—any student'accused of a violation has full privilege
to request, in fact require, either a closed hearing or an open one. The vast
majority of students opt for a closed hearing—and the Honor Council gladly
sacrifices the opportunity to defend its actions publicly so that it can instead
accommodate the wishes of the accused, -

Students are not whisked away—as if they’d been “ ‘disappeared by
some small Latin American government,’”’ as Alison Nicole Thomas wrote on
page 11. Rather, the Honor Council’s privacy clause provides a shroud of
secrecy so that convicted students can retain their dignity while accepting
their punishment.

Unfortunately, this tradeoff leaves the Council open to some degree of

public doubt—as council members and witnesses are unable to explain the
rationale behind their long-thought-out
decisions. It gives convicted students
almost-unfettered opportunity to de-
nounce the actions of the Council, while
the accusers, other witnesses, student so-
licitors, defense advisers, and council
members sit idly by, unable to defend the
truth as they see it.
Though public disclosure would cer-
; tainly help to clarify and justify Council
decisions, the underlying merits of privacy are paramount. Students who are
found not guilty do not have a public exhibition stapled to their reputation.
Those who are found guilty are able to return to campus and be forgiven,
hopefully without the lasting stigma of an Honor violation against this
community.

a. NN

The Code came under more direct assault this week by an article from
Katie Schill, printed opposite this article. This junior claimed that sanctions
handed down by the Council are “too harsh.”

Forgive us if we seem unforgiving—but every student understands the
gravity of this sacred Code long before they even set foot on campus freshman
year. The Honor Code affords such great freedoms and flexibilities —from
self-scheduled final exams ‘to take-home tests to one’s “word of honor’ that
is as good as gold to most on this campus.

Given the tremendous opportunities this Code affords, is it “too harsh”
to severely punish those students who take advantage of these freedoms?
There are no pre-established sanctions for any offenses—each case is handled
individually.

These cases are handled with the utmost care and regard for the accused.
Full Honor Council trials are renowned for lasting into the wee hours of the
night, as council members hear hours of testimony and deliberate every
possible aggravating and mitigating factor.

See Defense, page 8.
