Environment,
from page I :

in which Dan McLawhorn (General Counsél
NC Department of Environment & Natural
Resources), Dr. Linda Rimer (Liaison to North
‘and South Carolina US Environmental Pro-
tection Agency), and Vicki Taylor (Consult-
ant to the Catawba River Keeper Program)
presented their respective opinions on this
issue. Dr. Ken Menkhaus moderated the
discussion.

Dr. Rimer began by discussing current
EPA issues, and the future of regulatory en-
forcement. She undermined the importance
of collaboration in environmental policy. Dan
McLawhorn followed with his thoughts on
environmental enforcement and compliance.
Vicki Taylor concluded with statements con-
tradictory to those of Linda Rimer concern-
ing the necessity of collaboration between
environmental agencies. She feels that col-
laboration is an excellent way to approach
environmental issues.

That evening Chuck McGrady, the imme-
diate Past President and Treasurer of the
Sierra Club, spoke on “Smart Growth or
Urban Sprawl: The Asphalt Jungle and Land-
scapes Transformed.”

He described the “unbridled, haphazard
growth” of urban sprawl to be one of the
hottest issues of the environment to date. He
began by giving reasons why sprawl is detri-
mental, the main reason being that sprawl is
costly, and the environment could be helped
simply with better planning.

He complained that certain government
policies actually mandate urban sprawl,
thereby propagating the problem. He fin-
ished with a list of ways to promote smarter
growth with improved public policy.

He stressed, “Solving the sprawl problem
means a better future for us all.”

The second panel discussion, “Safeguard-
. ing Endangered Ecosystems and Species:
Conservation & Traditional Societies,” took
place September 26th. The participants in-
cluded: Jeff Dickison, senior biologist of the

the Executive Director of the Nature Conser-
vation’ Research Centre; and Ana Cristina

- Rossi, author and environmental activist from

Costa Rica. Dr. Annie Ingram moderated the
discussion.

Dr. Claude Martin, the Director General of

the World Wildlife Fund International, gave -

his keynote address, “New Approaches to
Conservation in the 21st Century” Tuesday
evening. In this time of distress, he believes
achange of mentality is needed to ameliorate
the current environmental situation.

“We are called upon to produce solutions
because we are all in the same boat,” he said.

He discussed numerous strategies of the
WWYF, and expressed the need for an interna-
tional approach to tackling the problem.

The final day of the conference began with
a lunch address by William Holman, the
secretary of the North Carolina Department
of Environment and natural Resources. He
addressed “North Carolina’s Responsibility
in the Global Environment,” and a comple-
mentary lunch ensued.

Davidson College’s own Kimberly Rob-
erts spoke about how genetic engineering
inspires her artwork in, “Transgenic Ani-
mals: The Art of Science.” She joined a
fictional company, “Gene Corps,” of her own
creation, and used it as a context to represent
genetically altered species in her creations.

She believes genetic engineering is pos-
sible in our society as “people don’t know
what’s real and what’s not real anymore.”

The final panel discussion, “Sustainable
Development and the Environment: The
Greening of Business,” took place that after-
noon. The speakers were: Rick Brunch,
business education director of the World
Resources Institute; Dr. John Shilling, senior
economic advisor for the World Bank; and
Jerry Taylor, director of Natural Resource
Studies at the Cato Institute.

Rick Bunch said, “much of the power to
change things rests with private businesses,”
summing up a basic sentiment in the discus-
sion.

Dr. Shilling encouraged a shift in con-
sumer demand to promote environmental re-

cover your putt:

better yet, help cover your

_ [tuition].

College can mean maneuvering through a lot of different

- obstacles, but tuition payments shouldn’t be one of them.
In Army ROTC, you'll have a shot at a scholarship worth
thousands. And make friends you can count on. Talk to an

Army ROTC advisor today. We've got you covered.

ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take.

-
Rahs

ee

3 Ko) at
“y * +
7 tty hy a

Two and Three Year Scholarship Opportunities Available
For Additional Information visit our office
Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165

»

_ Natural Resources Depaitment;JohnMason, form. . Sn aC
_ He said, “If you rise to consumer chal- ° supply:
lenges, you will get a greener industry.”

Jerry Taylor said, “It’s not business that
needs greening, it’s government,” implying
that the real solution lies in the government’ s
environmental policy. —

Finally Wednesday evening, Dr. Anthony
Janetos, Senior Vice President of the World
Resources Institute gave the closing address
entitled “Potential Consequences of Climate
Variability and Change.” He began by re-
minding the audience that over the last cen-
tury, the global annual average temperature
rose one degree Celsius due to the drastic
increase in the carbon dioxide concentration
in the atmosphere.

He proceeded to explain a study done by
his institute, researching the global warming
threat, and evaluating the potential conse-
quences of climate change in the years to
come. Dr. Janetos expects that increased

warming will adversely affect vulnerable

ecosystems, with much damage to coastal
and permafrost regions. He also mentioned
the possibility of widespread water concerns.

To bring it all into perspective, he said, “the
combined effect of all these individual stresses
is the real problem.”

“We do not know how to live ina world of

ten billion people.” Bvidently, we need 19° re

learn.

Public turnout for the pas is was high,
and the majority felt the conference was a
success.

“Tt caught a lot of people’s attention...that
people at Davidson care about the environ-
ment,” said Margaret Holtz of the Environ-

~mental Action Coalition.

Ambassador Ken Brown came up with the
idea for the conference in June of 1999 while
conversing with Claude Martin, Director
General of the World Wildlife Fund, at a
meeting in Africa. He received nothing but
support for his idea, so he pursued it.

Saying, “We were pleased with the way the »
conference schedule finally shaped up and
the extraordinary help we got in implement-
ing it.”

“Big helpers of the conference included:
Irene Middleton, Kathie Faulkner, and
Rebecca Rodriguez, Karen Sorenson, the SAC
(student advisory committee), and the Envi-
ronmental Action Coalition.

Virginia company markets “safer” cigarettes

By Maria SANMINIATELLI
Associated Press Writer

A small tobacco company is test-market-
ing in Virginia and Kentucky a new type of
cigarette with lower levels of cancer-causing
chemicals than regular brands.

Star Scientific Inc., which launched the
brand called Advance this week, plans to
expand the tests to other states in a couple of
months.

But industry experts are skeptical that re-
duced-risk products will sell among smokers.
One reason is the company’s reluctance to
market the new brand as less dangerous.

“We’re trying to be very, very careful and
as responsible as possible,” said Paul L. Perito,
chairman of the Chester-based company.

Advance cigarettes have
fewer cancer-causing toxins,
known as tobacco-specific nit-
rosamines, or TSNAs. TSNA
levels in Advance cigarettes are
70 percent lower than the lev-
els in the leading brands, the
company states. The new ciga-
rettes also come with a char-
coal filter that reduces toxic
gases such as carbon monox-
ide.

Perito, however, said it is too
soon to claim that Advance
cigarettes are less hazardous
than others.

“At this point in time, we

‘ don’thave the evidence,” Perito
said. “It will take several years
to finalize the research whereby
it can probably be evaluated.”

Advance cigarettes come
with several warnings. A warn-
ing that covers the entire back
of the pack starts with “There
is NO such thing as a safe ciga-
rette,” and ends with “Tt is much
safer for you to QUIT than to
switch or smoke.”

Inside the wrapping is a leaf-

let that repeats the warnings and adds expla-
nations about the cigarettes’ ingredients and
their harmful effects.

“Tt’s a bit silly to think that smokers are
going to switch if you’re not going to make a
strong claim, if you can’t promote it as safer,”
said David Adelman, a tobacco analyst with
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.

Donald Shopland, a special expert in to-
bacco control with the National Cancer Insti-
tute, said nitrosamines are one of about 40 or
50 cancer-causing agents in cigarettes. There

is nothing to show whether reducing one
carcinogen compound alone would make ciga-
rettes less harmful, he said.

“We have no idea. None,” Shopland said.
“About switching to this product, we would
be able to provide no advice whatsoever.”

Advance cigarettes are not the industry’s
first attempt at lowering nitrosamines in ciga-
rettes, although they may be the first conven-
tional cigarettes to do so.

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is marketing
Eclipse, a special cigarette that heats tobacco
instead of burning it, and Philip Morris Co. is
test-marketing Accord, which also heats to-
bacco. Both have lower nitrosamine levels.

The test-marketing goes on despite an an-
nouncement from R.J. Reynolds last month
that its own scientists have found no evidence
that cigarettes with lower nitrosamines re-
duce the risks of smoking.

Nivrosamines are formed during the curing
pices used to prepare tobacco, and Reynolds
plans to switch to low-nitrosamine tobacco.

But Adelman said he is skeptical that ciga-
rettes marketed as less dangerous would se-
duce smokers.

“Smokers in the U.S. are by definition risk-
takers,” Adelman said. “As a group they are
less likely to try a reduced-risk product than
the public at large.” ~

Star employs about 160 people and manu-
factures such discount brands as Sport and
Vegas. It is test marketing the Advance ciga-
rettes at about 30 retail outlets in the Rich-
mond, Va., area, and about 35 outlets in and
around Louisville, Ky.

