THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ News

THURSDAY, MARCH 30,2000 3

Alternative Spring Breaks: beyond beach bumming and skiing

By Carotine CUNNINGHAM
Guest Writer

As is a Davidson tradition, several stu-
dents decided to spend their spring breaks
serving others in various locations across the
country. Alternative Breaks, the organiza-
tion that plans and sponsors these free service
opportunities, offered three very different
and successful trips to students who wished
to challenge themselves and their environ-
ment.

Joslyn Ogden led a trip to Carretta, West
Virginia. Carretta is a former coal mining
community of a few. hundred residents. The
community was essentially established by
Olga Coal Company in the 1920s, but when
the coal mining industry had its bust in the
1980s, the company and about 75% of the
population left the town. Carretta is currently
the seventh poorest area in the United States,
and an abnormally large percentage of its
population depends upon welfare. Eight
Davidson students spent their spring break in
Carretta, hoping to help the people and to
learn more about their challenges, ideas, and
culture. .

The students stayed in the Carretta Com-
munity Center, an old elementary school that
has been converted into a meeting center and

a place for daycare. The group painted a few
rooms in the Center, cleaned, and took part in
ameeting of the Young People's Action Coun-
cil, a group of ambitious high school students
working to bring improvements to their edu-
cation system. Currently, they have neither a
foreign language program nor any sort of AP
program available to them. The Community
Center is also involved with College Connec-
tions, a program through which college stu-
dents come to work in Carretta during the
summer, acting as coaches and coordinators
for youth programs.

According to senior Lindsay Meyers,
the time spent in Carretta allowed her to have
increased understanding of the welfare sys-
tem and allowed her to associate names,
faces, and relationships with an issue so seem-
ingly distant from our lives in Davidson. She
experienced a week of cultural exchange and
awareness in addition to, and perhaps more
powerful than, the service work. Reflection
was an important facet of this trip-reflection
about different needs of different people,
different ways to serve, and a hope for com-
mon ground and understanding. Is develop-
ment always the best thing for acommunity?
How do we relate to people who started using
illegal drugs at the age of six? How close do
we let them get tous? These students went to

Tibetan monks conduct healing
and sand mandala ceremonies

Jessica MERING
Guest Writer

Five Tibetan monks visited Davidson
last week to present a series of lectures,
performances and ceremonies to the College
and the surrounding community. The central
activity of the monks’ visit was the construc-
tion of a sand mandala, which was created
and displayed in the Chambers Gallery.

The sand mandala represents the layout
of a Buddhist deity’s palace; it is also a
metaphor for the universe as a whole; it is
often used in ceremonies that initiate a monk
into a high form of meditation. The monks
use a piece of chalk-dipped string to outline
the mandala and then fill it in by tapping a
sand-filled metal cone against the mandala’s
surface. The ritual of the mandala itself is
representational of a tenet of Buddhism. The

Buddha said, “all things are impermanent, .

work out your salvation with diligence.”

In order to illustrate that no parts of life
are permanent, the monks sweep up the sand
mandala almost immediately after its comple-
tion. After the sweeping, the monks scatter
the sand in a river or a lake. By releasing the
sand into the environment, the monks are
attempting to purify their surroundings. The
monks worked on the mandala throughout
their three-day visit. The sweeping of the
mandala and the scattering ceremony oc-
curred on Friday afternoon, March 24 and the
scattering of the sand immediately followed
at the Lake Campus.

While at Davidson, the monks also of-
fered a lecture on patience and compassion,
which took place on Wednesday evening in
the 900 Room. The discussion was presented
by aLama, or spiritual master, and facilitated
by a translator. The Lama encouraged mem-
bers of the audience to train their minds on
patience and compassion in order to seek
happiness. The Buddhist tradition believes
that external circumstances cannot relieve
most suffering and pain. Instead, the indi-
vidual must seek to purify his thoughts and
attitudes in order to achieve a spiritual purity
that will bring happiness.

Ina further demonstration of their efforts
to achieve purity, the monks shared the
Vajravidharan Healing Ritual with an audi-
ence at the Outpost on Thursday. This is a
three-stage ritual in which the Lama assumes

the form of the Buddha of Purification in
order to cleanse and heal those participating
in the ritual. The healing ritual is primarily
based on visualization as well as onthe Lama’s
statements and encouragement of purifica-
tion.

The monks are members of the Gaden
Shartse Monastic College in Southern India.
The monastery was located in Tibet until

. 1959 when the Chinese destroyed it and forced

the monks to flee to India. The monastery was
rebuilt there. Many of the Shartse monks who
are there today have recently escaped from
Tibet. Currently, there are approximately 3000
monks in the Gaden Monastery, with about
1500 of those monks affiliated with the Gaden
Shartse College. The monastery also func-
tions as school that educates young boys in
Buddhist traditions, art and philosophy.

The monks’ daily lives at the monastery
are rigidly scheduled from 5 AM to midnight,
with much of this time being spent in prayer,
meditation and the debate of Buddhist truths.
Some prayers last as long as 18 hours, begin-
ning at 4:30 AM and lasting well into the
night. The monks also spend a considerable
amount of time working towards academic
degrees, many of which take from 5 to 40
years to complete.

Monks from the Gaden Shartse Monas-
tic College have been touring various parts of
the world since 1989. The monks who visited
Davidson last week have been travelling since
last May and visit anew city every four or five
days. The money raised on the tour is desig-

. nated for a new courtyard for the monastery,

where the daily debates occur. Funds will
also be used to increase the salary of the
monastery’s administrators and to improve

_ the diet of the monks. Right now, administra-

tors are receiving about 180 rupees a month,
which is less than two dollars and is insuffi-
cient to meet daily needs. The food is also
nutritionally lacking at the monastery, which
leads to severe health problems in the aging
monks. The monks also hope to use money
raised from the tour to expand the monastery’s
library of English texts in order to educate the
young boys so that they are able to share the
Buddhist traditions with more of the world.

The Shartse monks were hosted by
Davidson College’s Students for a Free Ti-

‘bet. The organization is co-chaired by Aditi

Sedhi (02) and Jeremy Campbell (’02).

Carretta without knowing what they would
do and left with a better understanding of a
nearby community.

Seniors Mark Jones and Pete Thomson
led a similar trip to Harlem, New York and
had an equally incredible adventure. They
lived and worked in the Emmaus House, a
homeless community for people who have
been abused, finished time in prison, or
recovering from drug addictions. The main
theme and goal of their group was to help the
Emmaus House in moving to a new building,
while establishing relationships with the
people and having a good time. They trans-
ported food, files, and other objects to the
new location and discovered that throwing
things out of the third story window onto a
mattress on the street was a definite help.
They also made use of sock puppets and
visited the Dukes of Hazard Museum on the
way home.

Each member of the group kept a journal
and like the West Virginia crew, they did not
know what to expect prior to their arrival in
Harlem. According to Mark Jones, it was
great watching the group come together
throughout the course of the trip and observe
how they motivated the members of the
Emmaus House. Davidson students have
spoken with some of the residents since the
trip and feel that they had a unique experience
with this group of people. Their message that
service is fun and their relationships with the
residents of the Emmaus House are funda-
mental to everything that service as a way of
life is, and they grew from this experience
every bit as much as the people they served.

A third group headed south to Immokalee,
Florida. Led by sophomore Jeremy Campbell,
twelve students spent seven days at the
Immokalee Friendship House, a non-profit
community center and homeless shelter. They
were responsible for cooking meals and for

cleaning the house, which provides free as-
sistance to a large population of migrant and
displaced workers in thé south Florida area.
The students were also able to participate in
various service projects in the town, such as
Habitat for Humanity, health care education,
work at an abused women's shelter, and vol-
unteering at an alternative school for girls.

Approximately twenty-five residents live
in the Immokalee House at any given time,
though during picking and planting seasons
the house can accommodate forty people.
Twenty thousand people permanently reside
in the town of Immokalee, but during the
orange and pepper harvests no less than sixty
thousand people crowd the area. There is also
a substantial Haitian population that has been
displaced as a result of political and eco-
nomic factors. According to Jeremy
Campbell, "Almost everyone on our trip felt
like they were in a different country," due to
the stark differences in the economic and
cultural climate of the area. Much like the
other alternative breaks, these students felt
that they gained more, in terms of cultural
exchange and experience, than they gave to
the residents of Immokalee.

According to Campbell, the work of
twelve students over seven days in Florida
did not dent the larger socio-political and
economic structures that perpetuate poverty
and racism.

However, the heightened awareness of
their own complicity in such structures,in
addition to the hope that they shared with the
residents of Immokalee, are hallmarks of this
successful and introspective trip.

Alternative Breaks sponsors trips during
nearly every break in the academic calendar,
including some weekend trips. If you would

like more information, contact Taylor
Herbert at x6336 or Adam Sanders at x6642.

The latest news from SGA

Branpt McMILLAN
Staff Writer

The SGA has been extremely busy this
semester; many exciting issues have been
brought up and debated under the new lead-
ership of president Dane Erickson. Recently
the SGA has solidified other leadership posi-
tions by approving Alison Moran as chancel-
lor, and Mike Anderson as Treasurer. The
SGA has also allocated money to Students for
a Free Tibet and KA Karnival, helped orga-
nize the Phone-A-Thon, explored options for
expanding recycling on campus, approved a
charter for an Asian Students association,
endorsed a proposed change in the voice mail
system, and discussed proposed changes in
the College’s smoking policies, among many
other fruitful actions.

Two weeks ago the SGA voted to create
a committee to explore options regarding a
protest of the Confederate battle flag flown
atop the statehouse in Columbia, South Caro-
lina. The committee is aptly named the Flag
Exploratory Committee.

The Confederate battle flag, or “stars
and bars,” has caused much debate over its
effects on society. Many people feel that the
flag stands for racism and acts as a painful
reminder of slavery, while supporters say it
honors their southern heritage. Leading the
national effort against the flag is the NAACP;
they have organized the most prominent pro-
test of late by sanctioning a total tourism
boycott on the state of South Carolina. South
Carolina is the only state that flies the flag
over-their state capitol building. The SGA
has decided to join the fight against flying the
confederate flag; our opinion being that it
causes much more harm than good. President

Erickson has been in contact with Southern
Conference colleges, making progress to-
ward a unified protest. The student govern-
ments from Davidson and the College of
Charleston will be spearheading the effort.
The College of Charleston’s SGA has al-
ready passed a resolution to oppose the flying
of the flag. Both Davidson and Charleston
are trying to persuade other schools in the
Southern Conference to pass similar resolu-
tions against the flag.

There is no definite plan as of yet as to the
nature of the protest. Various ideas are being
debated and discussed by the SGA. These
ideas range from a proposed march on the
capitol building in Columbia to a letter writ-
ing campaign against the flag. One interest-
ing notion is a replacement of the Confeder-
ate battle flag with the actual flag of the
Confederacy. It is the battle flag which is
closely associated with racism and the atroci-
ties committed before and after the Civil
War. The actual flag of the Confederacy does
not closely resemble the battle flag. It could '
be possible to appease those who believe the
battle flag honors their southern heritage by
replacing it with the Confederate flag.

The Flag Exploratory Committee is de-
bating the options for action. A campus-wide
forum on the flag issue should take place in
the next couple of weeks. The SGA believes
that action is necessary because the Confed-
erate battle flag has become a national con-
cern, many of our students come from South
Carolina, and because we are a member of the
Southern Conference. Being located in a
bordering state, Davidson College is region-
ally associated with South Carolina; their
reputation affects our own.
