“community hour” to President Bobby Vagt.
Formal notification was sent tothe president’s
office two days later.

Nearly one year has passed since the CCRL
recommendation, and still no end is in sight.
Despite widespread support for the proposal,
implementation of the “community hour”
has proven complicated. Erickson hopes this
poll will help curry a groundswell of support
that will bring deliberating parties together
quickly.

“We're definitely looking to rejuvenate the
idea of this community hour,” said Erickson,
whois nearing the end of his one-year term as
SGA President. “The idea has bounced around
this campus for over a year and a half. The
CCRL passed it unanimously almost one
year ago, but here we are a year later and there
is still no community hour. As an SGA, I
think it’s our job to grab hold of things and
push them through.”

In an interview.on Monday, President Vagt
strongly advocated the notion of the “com-
munity hour.”

\ | A . sy - . 7 :

>

“Any activity that draws people togetherin

broad groups, when it’s not incumbent upon
students to do so, is bound to have a very
positive impact on this campus,” said Vagt, a

Class of 1969 alumnus and the college’s |

president since the summer of 1997.

But, Vagt noted, installation of the “com-
munity hour” has proven precarious. “Where
could you put an hour into the schedule?” he
asked rhetorically. ““You think it ought to be
a no-brainer, but it turns out to be a lot more
complicated than that...You’d practically
have to move heaven and earth to fit this hour
in.”

One prominent CCRL member expressed
doubt that the proposal could be implemented
anytime in the near future. “There are too
many constituencies who are threatened by
it,” said Dr. Denham, associate professor of
German and the chair of the German depart-
ment. .

Dr. Denham cited the athletics department
and the natural sciences as two of these “threat-
ened” constituencies. Both groups express
wide support for the principle of the commu-
nity hour, but each holds out deep-rooted
concerns about the impact it might have on
their schedules.

- “T think the hour off is a great idea,” said
Athletics Director Jim Murphy. “But finding
that hour in the day is going to be very
difficult.”

Unless the faculty conceded academic time
during the hotly-contested “division of the
day,” Murphy explained, athletic practices
would stand to be pushed deeper into the late
afternoon.

With nearly twenty-five percent of the stu-
dent body engaged in Division-I competi-
tion, the prospect of starting practices any
later than 4 p.m. (the earliest that mandatory
practices may be scheduled under the current

’ “division of the day”) is far from appealing.

“In athletics, we’ re constrained by daylight
and by dinner,” Murphy said. “If our teams
want to get in a two-hour practice, they have
to start just shortly after four o’clock. If all of
a sudden you add an extra hour to the division
of the day, that really isn’t going to work
unless we start lighting all of our fields and
develop a number of other dining options for
our athletes.”

Faculty and some students in the natural
sciences expressed similar concerns—fear-
ing that the “community hour” would ad-

Wepvespay, Novemper 15, 2000

versely affect already cramped laboratory
afternoons.

“Probably the most important barrier to it is
the inertia of the college schedule,” Dr.
Denham said. “No one is willing to invest the
time or energy to make this kind of change [to
the schedule].”

Nevertheless, most supporters still remain
optimistic that the community hour—in what-
ever form—will become a reality somewhere
along the line.

The Faculty Executive Committee (FEC)
is set to discuss the topic at a meeting in the
upcoming weeks, according to President Vagt.
Dr. Karl Plank, chair of both the religion
department and FEC, was unavailable for
comment on the matter.

As for student leadership, Erickson pledged,
“The SGA is more than willing to help out in
whatever way the administration, faculty and
students deem necessary. We need this com-
munity hour for each other.”

President Vagt welcomed Erickson’ s lead-
ership and the polling initiative. “The banner
for this community hour needs to be picked
up and carried with renewed vigor.”

‘Community hour” idea takes hold on other campuses

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

The Davidson community is not alone as it
grapples with the notion of a “community
hour.”

Almost 1200 miles -away, this very week
Carleton College of Northfield, Minn. is con-
sidering similar proposals. Carleton, one of
Davidson’s peer institutions among the
nation’s elite liberal arts colleges, currently
holds a convocation once a week—where
students are invited to come together during
an unscheduled block of time on Friday morn-
ing to share in.a speaker or similar program.

But the Carleton Student Association (CSA)
is evaluating their current arrangement and
actively lobbying for a furtherance of the
“common hour” notion to include two blocks
of time per week—one for convocation anda
second for small-group discussions, reflec-
tions, and casual visits.

The CSA commissioned a Committee on
Common Conversation and Convocation
(CCCC) to help increase communication and
a sense of community on the Carleton cam-
pus. The CCCC submitted a proposal this
week to Carleton’s College Council, a gov-
erning body comprised of faculty, adminis-
trators, and students, calling for a twice-a-
week “common hour.”

The intentions for this second hour are
somewhat unclear,” acknowledged CSA
President Jenny Houghton. “The committee
has talked about things like forums, student-
faculty meetings, or just achance for students
to eat lunch together.”

Nick Wunder, a Carleton junior who serves
on their Education & Curriculum Commit-
tee,-explained, “It stemmed from a drive to
inspire more community relations and.com-
mon conversation beyond our pre-existing
hour of convocation.”

Still, the general student population seems
a bit reticent to embrace the idea. “Students
are really skeptical,” said Houghton. “They
fear that it would elongate the day and people

‘wouldn’t utilize the free time well—it would
- just be consumed like other free times.”

At Carleton, the academic portion of the
day runs from 8:30-4:20 on Monday/Wednes-
day/Friday and 8:30-4:15 on Tuesday/Thurs-
day. Under their current proposal, “common
hour’ would be from noon to 1:00 on Tues-
days and Thursdays, lengthening the aca-
demic day to 8:15-4:45 twice a week. *

Currently, convocation is held on Friday at
11 a.m.—a schedule that entails shortening
Friday classes by ten minutes a piece. But,
most of the time, a mere sliver.of the student

body attends the Friday morning programs.

“Tt has been the feeling that it’s been ex-
tremely underutilized,” said Houghton.
“When it’s somebody well-known, lots of
people show up. But when it’s a less promi-
nent speaker, we get pretty pathetic atten-
dance.”

Some speakers like Minnesota Gov. Jesse
Ventyra attracted standing-room-only
crowds. But most events, even with signifi-
cant speakers such as legal scholar Guido
Calabresi, are lucky to draw 200 students out
of a campus population of around 1850.

The best convocations, said Wunder, were
those that were co-sponsored by campus or-
ganizations that, in turn, mobilized students
to attend the event.

A bit closer to home, at Roanoke College in
Salem, Va., the campus shares well-defined
“lunch breaks” during the middle of each
day.

From 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Mondays,
Wednesdays, and Fridays, no classes are
scheduled. The same holds true between
11:10 a.m. and 1:10 p.m. on Tuesdays and
Thursdays.

According to senior class president Joe
Kohut, the college programs a chapel service
on Tuesday and a convocation on Thursday,
but the remainder of the free times are left for
student organizational meetings or merely
eating lunch together.

“There are a lot of different speakers [at
convocation],” said Kohut. “But the atten-
dance isn’t really widespread. You definitely.
don’t have 1,700 kids in there.”

Kohut describes chapel services as quite
sparsely attended, rarely drawing but a dozen
students. Thursdays’ convocations, on the
other hand, are reported to draw anywhere
from 15 to 150. ; \

But the crux of Roanoke’s “community
hour” seems to be the casual time that is spent
between students and faculty during the lunch
time. “It means that all of us get to eat
together quite often,’ said Roanoke SGA
president Brian Clark, ‘“‘and that builds a
whole lot of community.”

Clark also praises the “community hour”

for providing a campus-wide mid-day break. |

“It definitely does divide the day.:
you a break.”

Students at Roanoke report that the length-
ened academic day this produces isn’t overly
burdensome. ‘We have a couple of classes
that are offered that run as late as 6:15,” said
Kohut. “But those are by no means neces-
sary—that’s just a special offer for people
who want a class that late.”

Roanoke also offers night courses to stu-

.it gives

dents interested—but most students: finish
their academic day by 2:30 p.m., according to
Kohut. As far as interference with athletic
practices—there is little. Athletes in
Roanoke’s 18 D-III programs are given pri-
ority in course scheduling, and therefore can
easily avoid late afternoon classes.

One attractive byproduct of Roanoke’s
“community hour” is the increased mid-day
traffic in their brand new campus center.
With the April opening of Davidson’s own

Knobloch Campus Center looming on the
horizon, the prospect of such community-
sharing in a central location is quite an ap-
pealing one. /

“We can take our food over to the campus
center or outside on a nice day and talk about
classes and friends,” Clark described. “Some
groups of friends really delve into deep con-
versation and talk about philosophical ques-
tions—but others are very happy to sit around
and engage in idle chit-chat.”

Class is starting!

Enroll by November 30, 2000 and receive a
FREE upgrade to Kaplan’s MCAT Year Program.

Uncertain when you might want to take the MCAT,
or think you may need some extra time?
Enroll early and double your study time.

Save $99 off the one-exam course plus upgrade.

4

KAPLAN

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com

Test Prep, Admisions,.and Guidance. For life.

* MCAT is a ener acer of the Association of American Medical Colleges.

Kaplan gets you in.

