By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

On October 24, famed novelist Richard
Powers arrived at Davidson to deliver two
public lectures. At 4:30 pm, Powers spoke on
“The Intersections of Science with Other
Disciplines” along with a panel of Davidson
professors consisting of Karen Hales, Mauro
Botelho, and Gregory Snyder. At 8 pm, Pow-
ers will deliver the Reynolds Lecture and
address the topic of
“The Gauges of KnowI-
edge” in Love Audito-
rium.

Dr. Elizabeth Mills of
the English department
was largely responsible
for coordinating Pow-
ers’ visit. “The
Reynolds Lecture Fund,
which was established
at Davidson in 1959, is
designed “to provide
an,annual series of dis-
tinguished guest au-
thorities in humanities,
sciences, arts, and phi-
losophy who will be in-
vited to serve as ‘professors in residence’ at
Davidson College for periods of two to three
days.” The visit by Richard Powers will
certainly fulfill that goal,” Mills stated.

Powers has gained prominence as a writer
by combining his knowledge of several dif-
ferent disciplines to create several stylisti-
cally unique novels. Powers was born in
Evanston, Illinois, but lived in Bangkok,
Thailand between the ages of 11 and 16

Organization brings
AIDS Quilt to campus

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

On alist of the most dangerous diseases the’
word faces today, Acquired Immune Defi-
ciency Syndrome (AIDS) would surely place
at the top. The devastation caused by AIDS
has inspired many touching memorials, but
few are as powerful as the AIDS quilt — part
of which will be on display in the Davidson
College Union starting October 26.

The AIDS Memorial Quilt is the brainchild
of San Francisco gay rights activist Cleve
Jones, who first came up with the idea in
1985. Jones teamed up with others in the San
Francisco area to form the NAMES Project
Foundation; by 1987, donations of money,
sewing machines and materials were pouring
into the foundation.

The quilt itself consists of panels made by

_ people all over the world in honor of specific
victims. Most panels bear the name of an
AIDS victim. When the quilt was first dis-
played in 1987, it was the size of a football
field. Today, the entire quilt would cover 16
football fields.

Naturally, few places are equipped to dis-
play the quilt in its entirety; instead, the quilt
is shipped around the country in 3’x 6’ pan-
els. According to Adopt-A-Country AIDS
Campaign co-president Judie Kaplan ’04, the
quilt has been on display at Davidson before.

By bringing it back, ACAC hopes to increase.

HIV and AIDS awareness on campus.

“T hope it reflects who we are and our
compassion and concern for a national trag-
edy,” said Davidson president Bobby Vagt.

' “There are a huge number of people very
far away whose conditions are much worse
than ours, for whom this is a fact of their lives
and of their deaths. This quilt both reminds us
of that and encourages us to help and find a
solution.”

The spotlight on AIDS was brightest in the
early 1990s, but in recent years it has dimmed
somewhat — in part due to the fact that sophis-
ticated cocktails enable patients in Western
countries to avoid the death sentence that
used to be synonymous with the HIV virus,
and educational efforts about condom use
have helped check the spread of this plague.

For men and women in Africa, Asia and
other non-industrialized parts of the world,
however, this is still not the case. Education,
access to STD-preventing birth control, and
drugs for those already infected fall far be-
hind the astronomical rate of AIDS infec-
tions. In some areas of Africa, 1/3 of the
population is infected.

“T want people to get angry,” said Kaplan
of the display. “I want people to say, ‘how
could this happen?’ We want people to con-
sider not just the numbers but the stories.”

Adopt-A-Country AIDS Campaign was
brought to Davidson one year ago by Muna
Musiitwa ’02, who is now the regional coor-
dinator of ACAC. There are chapters at other
North Carolina schools, and the organization
in general is spreading rapidly.

“We hope that by bringing the quilt to
Davidson, it will help people be closer to the
reality of HIV/AIDS. We want everyone to
realize that this is a problem that will take all
of our efforts, therefore, we look forward to
everyone's support,” said Musiitwa,

ACAC has other plans for raising AIDS
awareness on campus, including a fundraiser
that will involve people buying and then
decorating luminaries for World AIDS Day.
The proceeds will go to a women’s clinic in
Zambia.

The display of the AIDS quilt will coincide
with other AIDS awareness activities on cam-
pus, including free HIV testing on October 25

and a public lecture entitled “A Boy, A Girl.

and a Virus” on October 29.

wae eh

Famed novelist speaks at Davidson

Novelist Richard Powers

because of his father’s job. He then returned
to the states to graduate from high school and
attended the University of Illinois, where he
received an undergraduate degree in rhetoric
with concentrations in math and physics. He
then went-on to obtain a master’s degree in
English.

According to a 1998 interview with Jeffrey
Williams, Powers had difficulties in deciding
what exactly he wanted to do with his life. He
had “a real bias toward the “non-subjective”

_ disciplines... the diffi-
q culty... was this constant
sensation that every deci-
sion to commit myself
more deeply to any of
these fields meant closing
several doors.”

After completing
graduate school, Powers
moved to Boston and
found a job working with
computers. One day while
visiting the Museum of
Fine Arts, he was inspired
by a work of art there to
write his first novel. Three
Farmers On Their Way
To A Dance was published
in 1985, and was highly successful. It eventu-
ally won the Richard and Helga Rosenthal
Foundation Award for best American fiction,
as well as acitation from the PEN/Hemingway
Foundation. ,

He has since gone on to create six more
novels, including Gain, which won the James
Fennimore Cooper Prize.from the American
Society for Historians, and Plowing the Dark,
which received the Vursell Prize from the

SR

Lee eee ee

eee

American Academy and Institute of Arts and ~

Besides his success as a novelist, Powers
has also published articles in such renowned
literary publications as Harpers, The Yale -
Review, The New Yorker, and the New York
Times. He has been recognized as a Lannan
Literary Fellow, and received a “genius grant”
from the MacArthur Foundation.

With regards to his career as a writer,
Powers said he felt he had “somehow lucked
into the greatest job imaginable.”

Because Powers’ interests cover such a
spectrum of subjects, his novels also inte-
grate a wide gamut of themes. From artificial
intelligence to neglected children, and from
business corporations to virtual reality, Pow-
ers’ novels convey the vast amount of knowl-
edge that Powers has acquired throughout his
life. Amazon.com recommends that “if you’ re
interested in ideas, in novels with intellectual
density, in narratives that force you to think
deeply and reflectively about the world...
[you should read] Richard Powers’ remark-
able list of fictions.”

“We're fortunate that Powers, a polymath
whose interests cross boundaries between
disciplines, will be on campus to converse
with students and faculty in classes, during
the interdisciplinary symposium, and through
his formal lecture on Wednesday evening,”
Mills concluded. “Powers shares our love of
the liberal arts; he has a capacious intellect
and imagination; he’s thoughtful and com-
passionate and very generous to share his
time with Davidson. It will energize the

‘college community to have such a smart,

creative person at Davidson for three days.”

What are you
doing next, ./
semester?

STUDY
ABROAD

with

SYRACUSE
UNIVERSITY

italy
London
Spain
Hong Kong
France

Africa

1-800-235-DIPA

(3472)

http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa

Monpbay - FRIDAY
SATURDAY

Halloween
Sale
at
The Bookstore

October 31
Clothing 25% off ¢ General Books 25% off

yf ~<

STORE HOURS

10 a.M..- 1 P.M.

8:15 a.m. - 5 p.m.

