THE Davipsonian |

Bookstore to emerge from the depths of

By Coin EAGAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson College bookstore will turn:

another page in its history this spring. Escap-

ing from its current location in the window- -

less basement of Grey Union, the store will
relocate to the second floor of the new
Knobloch Campus Center, where it will en-
joy a prime location in the bright, atrium-like
atmosphere of the new building. With a full
move scheduled to take place before May 17
graduation, anticipation builds on campus for
this much-awaited transformation.

Designed by the firm of Kremer, Shipp and
Daggett, the new bookstore will sit on the
north end of Knobloch, overlooking the ten-
nis courts. Though it exists only currently as
drywall and concrete, a visitor can even now
get a feeling for the new store and its new
features. ,

“We have the same amount of space as we
have in the old store,” explained Bookstore
Director Gwen Gardner, “but it will be ar-
ranged much more efficiently.”” Much of this
efficiency will result from the new layout,
which has been streamlined and more pre-
cisely organized. Placement of all displays
and shelves will be on castors, so that they can
be rearranged with ease. A large space to-
ward the front of the store will be specifically
dedicated to displays for temporary items.

“We plan to use this as a space that can
conform to various specific needs,” contin-
ued Gardner. “For instance, we might re-
move all the shelves there and hold a book
signing at times, or move in more clothing on
Alumni or Parent’s weekend.”

Students will be excited to learn that this
space will also be converted to shelving for
textbooks during buying time at the begin-
ning of each semester. According to Patsy
Woods, Assistant Bookstore Manager and
Text Book Coordinator, this will make the
books “self-serve.” As books come in, stu-
dents will be able look at them before hand,
and hopefully will be able to get a better
feeling for what courses have to offer. “I feel
that our students will like this process much
better than the way we have to do now,”

Woods commented.

The innovations continue. . Thanks to ser-
vice windows that open into the atrium inte-
rior of the Campus Center, students will be
able to return their hand picked texts more
efficiently at buy-back, avoiding the inevi-
table crowd that forms inside the store itself.
More space for leisure book displays has
been set aside, and plans are in the works for
anew children’s reading area that can be used
by younger members of the Davidson family
and surrounding community. Benches and
chairs throughout the store should welcome
curious book browsers who have previously
been forced to stand or move on.

Architects designed the bookstore with key
goals in mind. “We were really reacting
against what they have now in the basement,”

_said Bob Russ, project architect for the

Knobloch Center. “We wanted to get the
store out and into the natural light.” The
second floor location is covered with win-
dows on the northern side, allowing an excel-
lent view of the tennis courts and hills be-
yond. The southern side receives light from
windows that adjoin the building’s atrium
center. Air ducts in the room will be exposed
to raise the ceiling and create headroom, and
office space has been minimized to allow for
as much floor space as possible.. “It’s going
to be a much warmer, more attractive space to
work in,” commented Russ.

And the location of the new store itself
should be more attractive as well. The second
floor, which has door access at ground level
on the west side of the Campus Center, will be
home also to the copy center and post office,
setting the scene for a hub of activity. “It’s
going to be a very lively space,” observed
Union Director William Brown. “Especially
at peak post office hours. You will be able to
get your mail, stop by the bookstore, and go
through to Baker without hitting any stairs.”
As an ‘anchor tenant’ on the second floor, the
new store will be much more prominent on
campus, a far cry from its current, removed
location in the Union basement. And moving
up in the world brings various changes, as
Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry
pointed out: “This new location should give

As a Davidson Fellow you will:

setting

health, dental and life insurance

available)

in person, or by mail.
Questions or need more information? .

Davidson Fellows

Didn't get enough of Davidson in the first four years?
Then the Davidson Fellows Program is for you!

- Participate in quarterly in-service workshops with other Fellows

- Receive $500 per semester toward attendance at professional development
conferences or classes related to your work

- Receive the benefits of full time employment at Davidson College, including

- Receive assistance in finding affordable housing options in the Davidson are (if

There are five positions available beginning this summer:

1. Reunion Coordinator - Alumni Relations

2. Evening Facilities Manager - College Union

3. Assistant to the Director - Davidson Athletic Foundation
4. Student Calling Program Coordinator - Annual Fund

5. Assistant to the Director - Bonner/Community Service

Application forms are available on-line. From the Davidson homepage, click on Business
and Finance, then Human Resources, then HR Forms, and under Employment Forms choose
Employment Application. Application forms may also be picked up at the Human
Resources Office at Jackson Court #11. To apply, you may email your information, apply

www.davidson.edu/administrative/human_resources/fellowspage/htm.

Or call Ashleigh Justice at x2619, or email asjustice @davidson.edu

Deadline: Wednesday, February 7

- Enjoy one or two years of important and challenging work in a higher education| °

the Bookstore a much higher profile ‘that
makes it more accessible to students, alumni,
and the general public. We will have to adjust
our way of doing business accordingly and
reconsider our hours of operation as well as
how we use the entire union as a place where
we can do business.”

With completion of the new bookstore
closing fast, students wait eagerly: “I can’t
wait to shop there,” exclaimed Emily
Einstein’04. “It should be easier to find what
I’m looking for!”

“I’m really looking forward to using the
new facilities,” enthused an unusually ex-
cited Wes Barry’02. “They should provide
many new opportunities for the community.”

- Others seem less optimistic. “Aw, tl
store is useless,” declared Hak Shin Park’04.
“They still won’t sell anything I want. I
mean, they have sweaters, man. Who needs
sweaters?” Perhaps it really is time to get out
of the basement.

In preparation for the move, bookstore
workers are even now labeling stock and
back stock. Gardner wants to assure all
students that even as the move takes place at
the end of the year, the current store will be
open to buy back books and sell exam sup-
plies. With the hard word of a dedicated staff,
the transition between facilities should be
seamless. What’s epilogue for one bookstore
is now prologue for another.

Community hour proposal
continues to gain momentum

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief. . ¥

Students and administrators expressed
“cautious optimism” about the possibility of
a weekly community hour after last week’s
student presentation before the Faculty Ex-
ecutive Committee.

Four student leaders. went before the FEC
last Monday. to make the case for a campus-
wide community:hour. SGA President Dane
Erickson ’01, Vice President Joey Harris ’02,
Chancellor Beth Gardner ’03, and Polling
and Response Committee Chair Cader
Howard ’02 submitted an SGA resolution

and a student survey, conducted by Howard, -

at the committee meeting.

The resolution calls for a one-year trial of
the proposed hour, after which time the idea
can be assessed and adjusted if necessary.

The accompanying survey showed some
statistics gathered from student respondents
about the community hour idea (see table).
According to that poll, 71.1% of respondents
indicated that they were in favor of acommu-
nity hour. “I think there is significant student
support for the community hour,” concluded
Howard.

The proposal currently under consideration
by the FEC calls for one one-hour period each
during the academic day on Tuesdays and

. Thursdays. During these blocks, no classes or

formal meetings would be held. Instead,
students, faculty, and staff would have the
opportunity to participate in campus-wide
programming, including guest speakers or
discussions of campus issues.

In order to accommodate the community
hour, however, the academic schedule for
Tuesday and Thursday would have to un-
dergo some revision.

“There are ways of producing the hour
without limiting available class times,” ex-
plained Registrar Hansford Epes. The most
likely plan involves starting the first class on
Tuesday and Thursday one-half hour early,
shortening breaks between classes from 15 to
10 minutes, and ending the academic day 10
or 15 minutes later.

Even with these adjustments, administra-
tors are unsure about the impact of the hour
on campus life. “There is a recognition that
there are costs and benefits [of the commu-
nity hour],” remarked Vice President for
Academic Affairs Clark Ross. Among these
concerns include extending the class day into
extracurricular time and starting classes at
8:00 instead of 8:30 a.m. on Tuesdays and
Thursdays.

“There’s a difference between listing
classes at 8:00 and [students] taking classes at
8:00,” noted Epes.

In addition, questions remain about the
content and cost of the programming planned
for the community hour.

Despite these doubts, Ross said he remains -
“cautiously optimistic” about the prospects
for the community hour. He indicated that
the FEC had “responded with interest to
continued discussion and with sympathy to-
wards the goal” of the proposal.

French Professor and FEC member Homer
Sutton agreed. He described the student
presentation as “persuasive.” Sutton added,
“My reaction to their presentation was favor-
able; subsequent discussion following the
presentation in general was positive.” He
also echoed the concerns about 8:00 a.m.
classes and conflicts with extracurricular ac-
tivities.

Erickson expressed the hope that the fac-
ulty would come to support the idea. “The
faculty will make or bréak this [proposal],”
he asserted.

He emphasized that even if the plan fails, in

the long run, the knowledge gained from a
one-year trial could be invaluable to future
efforts at community building. “Especially
looking at [the community hour] in that-light,
the benefits clearly outweigh the costs,” af-
firmed Erickson.
. Ifthis initiative is to succeed, however, the
faculty will need to reach a decision soon.
Epes stated that requests for next fall’s course
schedules are sent out to department chairs on
February 7, after which faculty will have
about two weeks to finalize their plans. Should
they agree to a trial period, they would need
to decide in the very near future.

Remarked Erickson, “We’ve built up
enough momentum with the poll, the resolu-
tion, and the articles in the Davidsonian, that
we feel the time is now.”

