Cae DavIDsontAn

ee Delilahs Telease debut C

By Jen Josiin
Special Contributor °°

“It has been three years in the making,”
states Ida Wainschel ’01. After three years,
fraught with struggle, success, lots of fun,
and countless hours of hard work, the David-
son Delilahs are releasing their debut CD,
“Falling into Place.”

One of its founders, Anna Katherine
Clemmons ‘01, recalls why she and the other
original founders, Eileen Dwyer ‘99, Towles
Allison ’99, Page Neubert ’01, and Grace
Robinson ’99, decided to unite their efforts
one night in the spring of 1998 to create the
Davidson Delilahs. “We really wanted an all-
female a cappella group on campus,” says
Clemmons. “The Generals had just begun as
well, so we decided to branch out and start our

The Delilahs

Fellini Club broadens expo-

own group.”

Who would have guessed at the time that
this one night would eventually lead to mak-
ing a CD? Recording a CD is just one of the
final steps in solidifying the Delilahs as a
lasting musical presence on the Davidson
campus.

Andy Gilliland of Hyperactive Studios,
who recorded the Delilahs over Fall Break in
Lingle Chapel, has nothing but good things to
say about his experience with the group. “The
greatest challenge,” Gilliland explains, “was
to enhance and capture that special cohesive
quality of ensemble recording from a group
of young women that are so strikingly indi-
vidual in style and spirit...but as you listen,
you hear in the clean harmonies a definite
communion of spirit and advanced musician-
ship.”

N

sure to lesser-known films

By DeEreEK LOH
Staff Writer

One of cinema’s greats lends his name to
Davidson’s newest club. Last Friday at an
appropriate 8:30, the Fellini Club had it first
gathering in Perkins Auditorium to watch
Fellini’s 8 1/2.

Founders Alejandro Correa ’03 and Tho-
mas Ward ’04 hope their meetings will be an
arena for studying and discussing interesting,
if not always great, movies. Not confined to
showing just Fellini’s films, the club plans to
view titles with similar themes. Starting with
8 1/2, the group is studying movies that
comment on the nature of art. The Spanish
thriller Tesis, a grim story about our fascina-
tion with death, will be included in this seg-
ment about art.

Ward also wishes “to explore the rancid
underbellies of our psyche” through a series
of films involving cannibalism, such as The
Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, Deli-
catessen, 301/302, and Titus. In addition,
Thomas said, “I hope at some point we can

explore films that are plotless”.

The Fellini Club provides Davidson with a
much-needed outlet for the examination of
intellectual films. Charlotte is the country’s
second fastest growing city, and yet only one
theater, The Manor — which, given its size,

plays an incredibly large array of films — |
provides Davidsonians with the opportunity ©

to see movies of aless popular variety. (Also,
Movies at the Lake sometimes plays films
previously shown at The Manor.)

In the past, the Park Terrace Theater in
Charlotte has dared to play less mainstream
titles. However, due to the exceptionally
unsuccessful runs of movies like Into the
Arms -of Strangers: Stories of the
Kindertransport, a wonderful movie that
scared viewers away because of its being a
documentary, the theater has since stopped
screening less available titles. Movies are,
after all, a business.

Hopefully, the Fellini Club’s showings and
discussions about movies will spark cinematic
interest in the Davidson community. The
group meets every Friday at 8:30 in Perkins.

Many of the Delilahs came to realize the
grueling realities of their undertaking over
Fall Break. “The most difficult aspects were
the long hours and the constant re-record-
ings,” says Neubert. Instead of leaving cam-
pus like most student musical groups, the
Delilahs utilized their time efficiently, know-
ing well that the process would take more
time than Davidson typically allows for non-
academic endeavors.

Even though they did not really have a Fall
break, Clemmons believes that “the most
rewarding moment will be holding the fin-
ished CD.”

Wainschel adds, “I am so proud of what
we’ ve accomplished. ..to get the opportunity
to put our sound on our own CD and then
share that with people who enjoy our
music...[it] is nothing short of an amazing

With the release date of “Falling into
fast approaching, the Delilahs are fully
riencing the amazement of which W:
speaks, Three years have passed so quickly
that itis difficult not to be amazed by the rapid
improvement shown by this diverse group.

Over the years, the Delilahs have expanded
their repertoire and fine-tuned their perfor-
mances, which all started with a fun and
upbeat song entitled “One Fine Day,” sung
by Wainschel. “It’s incredible to see how
much we’ ve grown,” notes Clemmons. Mak-
ing a CD demonstrates the maturity that has
developed through numerous practices and
performances by the Delilahs. ;
' Gilliland enthusiastically praises the group
by saying that “the recording won’t replace
experiencing their entrancing live perfor-
mances, but I feel this CD is a solid testament
of their exciting style.” It will be exciting for
the hard-working women of Delilahs who
have dedicated their time and energy to such
a taxing project to ultimately hold the fin-

‘ished product in their hands.

The dedication exhibited by this group will
undoubtedly inspire the many women who
follow them. Stephanie Kohler ‘01 remarks,
“T appreciate the a cappella community at
Davidson, both singers and listeners, and I
think it has a great future.”

Wainschel declares that “the future of this
group is absolutely boundless.” In its third
year, the Delilahs have added several new
talented members in hopes that the group will
continue to be a dominant presence.

Maggie McDougall ’04 asserts that “it’s
really neat to see all these people. ..unite in
this one thing and not necessarily anywhere
else in their lives.” Alison Heck ’04, another
new member, exclaims that she “can’t wait
for the next few years.” Neither can we!

The CD release date for “Falling into Place”
is Monday, February 26. To celebrate, there
will be a release party in the Morrison Room
of the Union at 10 p.m. .

If you have not yet ordered your CD, check
out CATKID.COM, where you can listen to
some excerpts and place your order.

The women of the Delilahs, from
left to right, top to bottom: Darcy
Peifer, Anna Katherine
Clemmons, Page Neubert; Jen

_Joslin, Sharon Meidt, Carrie

Frazier; Katie Young, Ashlee
White, Stephanie Kohler;
Meredith Shuba, Ida Wainschel
