Duquesne 15, Davidson 7

PITTSBURGH, PA..—The Davidson la-
crosse team continued to struggle as it fell to
3-8 on the season with a 15-7 loss to
Duquesne Friday night at Rooney Field.

Davidson, which began the season with a
school best record of 3-2, received two goals
each from seniors Steph Hunter and Lauren
Kenchington.

But the Duquesne lacrosse squad was too
much to handle. The Dukes’ Meghan
Hungate notched her second six-goal per-
formance of her career leading all scorers
will adding two assists for a game-best eight
_| points. Katie Harner netted two goals and
added three assists while twin sister Kristin
notched three goals in the victory.

Also scoring for the Red & Blue was
Lauren Dutch (2 goals, 1 assist), Lauren
Mincher (1 goal, 1 assist) and Rebecca West
(1 goal).

P.J. Harrison snagged seven saves on the

night. The Dukes held a 6-2 edge at the half
and continued to build on that lead through-
out the final 30 minutes of play.

Davidson 14, Mt. St. Mary’s 10

April Fool’s Day proved to be no joke as
the Davidson lacrosse wwam ended its six-
game losing streak with a 14-10 victory over
Mount St. Mary’s College Sunday afternoon
at the Mount St. Mary’s College Lacrosse
Field.

Seniors Steph Hunter and Lauren
Kenchington along with junior Sarah Otto
each scored three goals to lead the Wildcat
scoring attack.

The first half remained fairly close, as the
Wildcats (4-8) jumped out to an early 1-0 lead
with a shot by Otto reaching the back of the
net just 13 seconds into the game.

Good penetration by the Mount’s Lara
Steinbraker, however, quickly tied the game
up at one two minutes later, as both teams

Wildcats return from road trip, snap losing streak
oer Davidson tops Mt. St. Mary’s on April Fools Day to end six-game skid |

traded goals three more times to keep the
score even at four with little over 11 minutes
left in the first, before the Wildcats took
control of the final 10 minutes of the half and
amassed a 7-4 halftime lead.

The second half started off extremely slowly
for Mount St. Mary’s, as Otto capped off
another three-goal scoring spree by the Wild-
cats to help Davidson extend its lead to 10-4
with 23 minutes yet to play. Morley got her
second goal of the day after receiving a
breakaway pass from Kelly Moran, and tak-
ing advantage of a one-on-one situation with
freshman goalie, Becca Nussbaum.

Once again, though, the Wildcats put to-
gether another three-goal performance,
capped by Otto, to take their largest lead in
the game 13-5 at the 18 minute mark. The rest
of the half belonged to the Mount as three
different players, including Erin Garga, Har-
ris and Moran scored in less than seven min-
utes, cutting the Wildcats’ lead to five.

‘took possesion for the rest of the time re-

NOSE amet ch Gi a ON a es i AY

‘ge Pats US rae. cE at pa rer ate

A third and final goal by Hunter stalled the
Mount’s momentum before Morley and
Ashley Rusk scored two more for the Mount,
cutting. the Wildcat lead to four with just
over four minutes left in the game.

On the ensuing draw control, Davidson

maining and left the match on top with a 14-
10 victory over the Mount. Harris contrib-
uted with two goals in the game, and
Steinbraker had a goal and two assists.
The Wildcats were led by their overall
point leaders, Sarah Otto with three goals,
Lauren Kenchington with three goals and
one assist, and Hunter with three goals and
two assists.
The Wildcats next host Richmond April 7
at 1 p.m.
—Derek Smith
Davidson S.1.D.

Volleyball’s

| Bentley

| awarded Hicks
§ scholarship

By JENN HIGGINS

Staff Writer

Senior volleyball player Brooke Bentley was awarded last week the 2001 Dorothy Hicks

Graduate Scholarship.

The $2,000 scholarship is awarded annually to a female student-athlete in the Southern ,

Conference to continue her education in graduate school. .

Bentley, a 1997 graduate of St. John’s High School in Houston, Texas, has a 3.7 grade point
average in political science, with a minor in Spanish.

She plans on pursuing a law degree at Texas after working as a paralegal in Washington,
DC, for two years. She has team-taught legal cases with Dr. Louis Ortmayer, a professor of
political science, and is co-authoring a contemporary case study in American foreign policy.

In an e-mail correspondence, Bentley elaborated on her career plan.

“I have always been fascinated by politics and ultimately I would love to work in the

executive branch, specifically in the State
Department,” she said. “International poli-
tics has the focus of my studies, with the
increasing permeability of national borders
global relations are taking on a much more
dynamic role. I realize, however, that this is
the type of job that exacts years of experi-
ence. Thus, I would like to begin my career in
law, most especially in the area of interna-
tional commerce and trade.”

Asan outside hitter, Bentley has led David-
son to two conference tournament titles and
the Wildcats’ first NCAA appearance in pro-
gram history.

She earned a spot in the Davidson record
books, recording 1,599 career digs, second-
most in program history, and is among the
kills leaders with 1,056. She served as team
captain in 2000 and was selected as co-MVP
of the team. along with Mara Mordini.

The match in Hawaii was most likely the
pinnacle of my collegiate career. After endur-
ing asomewhat inconsistent season, the team
peaked when it mattered most- the Southern
Conference Tournament. Then we went to
Hawaii and just played like we had nothing to
lose. The energy emitted by the 5,000 fans
made the match incredibly fun, and the stand-
ing ovation we received after the last game
was a true testament to the heart of the team.

Wildcats set records at Raleigh Relays

Record-setting performances by women’s relay teams lead strong Davidson effort

By Mike CLarkK
Davidson.S.1.D.

RALEIGH, N.C. — The Davidson track
teams competed last weekend in the Raleigh
Relays, one of the largest track and field
meets on the East coast with more than 2,000
athletes present from more than 100 teams.

While there were no Wildcats who placed
in the top 10 at the meet, there were several
strong performances for the men and mul-
tiple record-setting performances for: the
women.

The women’s 4x100 meter track team set a
new school record with a time of :50.33,
breaking the previous mark of :50.63 set in
1996. Later in the day, the women shaved just
over three seconds off the school record in
the 4x200 meter relay, as they finished the

race in a time of 1:48.61. That time bettered
the previous mark of 1:51.64 set in 1982.

The team made it a perfect three for three
with yet another school record. This time, the
4x800 record fell. The Davidson runners fin-
ished in a time of 9:36.60 which was just
under four seconds better than the record
which was set in 1999 (9:40.57).

Innon-relay events, freshman Laura Puckett
(St. Paul, Minn.) finished 77th overall in the
women’s 1500 meters in a time of 4:59.99.
Freshman Amanda Yeck (Swansboro, N.C.)
leapt 9.96m and earned a 47th place in the
triple jump.

Junior Megan O’Neill (Charlotte, N.C.)
finished 39th overall in the shot put with a
throw of 10.47m. For the men, there were two
top 30 performances in the relays. The 4x 100
meter relay team finished 27th in a time of

:44.34 while the 4x800 relay was 25th. Their
time of 8:03.42 was among the top 10 fastest
in school history.

Five individuals also competed at the meet.
Jimmy Swansbrough finished 27th in the
steeplechase with a 9:50.53 which puts him
among the 10 fastest athletes to compete in
that event at Davidson. Brad Becken and
Chris Schmader both competed in the 10,000

meters finishing 51st and 58th respectively. .

The duo of Ben Gaspar and Dave Bunge
ran the 5,000 meters and finished 114th and
120th.

The men and women will head their sepa-
rate ways this weekend as the men head to
Durham, N.C. forthe Duke Invitational while
the women head to the Georgia Tech Invita-
tional in Atlanta, Ga.

Men’s tennis
tops VMI

By MIKE CLARK
Davidson S.1.D.

LEXINGTON, Va. - For the second con-
secutive match, the Davidson men’s tennis
team posted a 7-0 shutout, this time over
conference-rival VMI (8-8, 0-6). With the
win, the Wildcats (7-6, 2-2 Southern Confer-
ence) break the .500 mark for the first time
since February 3.

Senior Whit Hansen (No. 1) was the only
player who had to go to three sets to pull out
a victory in singles. Hansen rallied after drop-
ping the first-set tie-breaker to win the final
two sets, 7-5, 6-2.

He has played five three-set matches this
season, most
on the team,
and is 3-2 in
those battles.

_ Junior Chad
: Winebarger

(No. . 3)
- notched a
_ perfect 6-0,
6-0 win over
Tappan Au-
gustof VMI.
At number
five singles,
junior David
a Web b
picked up his third straight win since moving
back into the starting lineup, 6-3, 6-2.

In doubles action, Winebarger and fresh-
man Rob Gould’s 8-2 triumph was their 10th
doubles victory of the year.

Hansen and fellow senior Billy Boykin did
not play their match at number one doubles.

Winebarger

UPCOMING HOME STAND...
