By CuristINA Cooke
Staff Writer

Davidson Outdoors has packed its spring
calendar with trips of every kind. This week,
February 19-23, the campus celebrates the
backpacking, caving, canoeing, kayaking, and
fly-fishing trips tocome with “Into the Woods
Week,” aseries of
outdoor-related
activities.

All week from
11:20 a.m. until 2
p.m., a D.O. table
outside on the
Union patio (in-
side the Union ifit
rains) will offer
students informa-
tion on upcoming
trips, display pho-
tos taken on past
trips, and most im-
portantly, dole out
handfuls of
GORP—the pea-
nuts, raisins, and m&m’s mix that most con-
sider the highlight of every D.O. trip.

The week’s festivities kicked off on Mon-
day morning with a Frisbee Golf Tournament
that led students around campus from tree to
bench to light post.

At 6 p.m. that night, another group heade

half an hour down I-77 to scale the walls and
ceilings of the Inner Peaks Climbing Wall in
Charlotte. This Inner Peaks climbing excur-
sion was not just a one-time event. Every
week at 6 p.m., a group meets at the D.O.
office and shuttles to Inner Peaks, where for
$5, beginners can learn to climb while the
advanced shimmy up, down, and across the
walls.

On Tuesday afternoon, students gathered
in front of the Union to behold the inaugural
roll across campus of the 20 new community
bikes brought to us by Rob McKeehan ’01,
Bobby Pittenger ‘02, and the SGA. Each of
the shiny red cruisers comes equipped with a
kickstand, a combination lock, and set of
coaster brakes—much to the delight of stu-
dents who, atop an old community bike and
midway down a hill, have discovered its lack
of braking power.

Tuesday afternoon, Biology Professor Mark
Stanback hosted a bird walk around campus.

Charge!

As he led the students around the natural

_ areas near Jackson Court and Baker Sports
' Complex, he pointed out the wrens, spar-

rows, starlings, and chickadees perched over-
head and filled in the participants on bits of
natural history.
On Tuesday night, ecologist and theolo-
gian James A. Nash, author of “Loving Na-
ture: Ecological
Integrity and
. Christian Respon-
sibility” delivered
a lecture entitled
“Too Many Steps
Tg9o Far: Living
_ . Within Ecological
‘Limits” in which
he discussed the
ecological conse-
quences of ex-
ceeding natural

boundaries.
The Union pa-
Matt Whited tio saw an inva-
sion of ailing bikes
. on Wednesday

morning as students wheeled in their rides for
tune-ups. Mike Goode and Rob McKeehan
repacked hubs, aligned wheels, cleaned
chains, and instructed students on how to
implement such repairs themselves.

That afternoon, rattlesnakes and copper-
heads lazed around the floor of the Home
Room while Biology Professor Michael
Dorcas delivered his Snakes Alive! presenta-
tion to a group of very interested, slightly
fearful students.

A series of stunts, much like those on
Mountain Dew commercials, will light a
screen in the 900 Room as D.O. presents
Sawtooth Film Festival at 10 p.m. Wednes-
day night. The festival consists of a sequence
of clips that range from 4 to 27 minutes in
length. Each clip exhibits extreme athletes
performing sports including skiing, surfing,
kayaking, biking.

At the weekly CROP lunch, from 11:30
a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thursday in the Morrison
Room, students are invited to share quota-
tions, poems, and short stories relating to
nature. While speaking or listening, students
can enjoy aplate of beans, rice, and cornbread
by donating a dollar or two to the Loaves and
Fishes food pantry.

On Thursday night at 8:30 p.m., students in

Writers show Davidson how to cap-
ture and communicate memories

By Jeremy Hunt
Special Contributor

“We write poetry to save things...to save
the child within...to save those who have
died.”

These were the words of Dr. Tony Abbott
as he introduced his work to an enraptured
Davidson audience.

English professors Dr. Abbott and Dr.
Brenda Flanagan were the featured artists for
the third annual “Davidson Reads”. They did
indeed save things this night; they resur-
rected memories and commemorated the lives
of those who had touched theirs.

Dr. Abbott began the evening by introduc-
ing Dr. Flanagan. She read a story based onan

account of a young girl, Claudette, who had ©

the gall to refuse her bus seat to a group of
white children in Montgomery, Alabama.
The poignancy of the story rested in the fact
that this act preceded, by nearly nine months,
a similar one by Rosa Parks.

Sadly, Claudette was sent away by an
ashamed community to live in New York.
The story was told in retrospect, as Claudette
talked to audience about the news that, 40
years hence, Rosa Parks was the one receiv-

ing a medal for her bravery and courage. She
may not have gotten the public recognition
she deserved, but thanks to Dr. Flanagan’s

_ gifted writing and impassioned reading, this

DC audience celebrated Claudette.

Dr. Abbott concluded the evening with 10
poems from his published works. He chose to
celebrate characters from Davidson life, a
“Davidson retrospective,” as he put it. His
poems reflected a life deeply touched by both

God and man, with plenty of humor and wit

mixed in.

He told of encounters with students, who
inspired a number of the poems he read that
night. Admonishing the audience never to
grow up, he also spoke of the difficulty of
growing physically older in a touching work
entitled “Alphabet Soup”. This writing de-

scribed the challenges of keeping names and ~

faces straight in a life that has impacted so
many people. :

Dr. Abbott’s works rejoiced in the pain, the
pleasure, and the mystery of our lives on this

earth, Both he and Dr. Flanagan succeeded in °

capturing the audience and, hopefully, en-
couraging them to view life with a new fresh-
ness and wonder.

spray skirts will slip themselves into kayaks,
and, afloat in the Baker pool, they’ll either
learn or refine their kayak rolling techniques.
Instructors will coach those who have never
rolled before. Although D.O. provides all of
the equipment necessary, they welcome stu-
dents to bring their own kayaks, provided
they are clean.

_ Also at 8:30, another group of Davidson
students will meet for a night climb at the
Challenge Course, where they will ascend the
high ropes course under the stars. On the
course, students can climb, balance, and soar
through the air on the giant swing, which
allows participants to choose how high to be

‘lifted and when to let go. Ifinterested, stop by

the D.O. office beforehand to sign up and
receive more information.

Cole Barton, Davidson Physics Professor
and avid recreational fly fisherman, will
present a fly-casting demonstration on Fri-
day from 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Chambers
lawn. Barton will instruct students as to the
techniques with rods and tackle provided by
D.O.

Another group of students will clean the

trips to come

Junior Class President Bobby Pittenger was one of the stu-

stréam that runs behind the Senior Apart-

ments on Friday afternoon. Plan to meet in

the Union lobby at 2 p.m., wearing clothes
that can stand some mud.

Davidson’s very own Appalachian Trail
through-hiker, Physics Professor Tim
Gfroerer, will share stories and pictures from
his Maine to Georgia experience at Erwin
Lodge on Friday at 6 p.m. over a potluck
dinner. Those interested, contact D.O. tosign
up.

And finally, Elaine Baker will lead a day
hike on Saturday, starting at 8 a.m. Again,
sign up with D.O. in advance.

By offering such a variety of films, lec-
tures, instructions, and fun, D.O. hopes to
generate enthusiasm among students for out-
door activities available to them. “The pur-
pose of ‘Into the Woods Week’ is to remind
students that spring is outside and to encour-
age them to get out in it,” says D.O. Union
Board representative Anna Padget ’01. “At
Davidson, we’ re not that far from great rivers
and mountains. You’ve got to remember to
go out and play.”

dents most involved in expanding the red bike program. He
was one of the first to try out the new models.

Into the Woods Week Schedule

courtesy of D.O. website

THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
11:30-2:00 | Nature Readings with! Fly Casting with Dr.| Day Hike with Elaine
; . | Dr. Ingram at CROP Barton
Union Patio lunch
‘Aftenioon! Davidson Creek
Eveni Kayak Rolling —_ | Stream Cleanup Service Caving with Elijah
vening Proj
yject
Night Climb on the Appalachian
Other ' Challenge Course Trail Hike Dinner
Talk with Dr.
Stargazing Gfroerer

