Rededication Day
aims to raise aware-
ness of Honor Code

By RoLanp Foss
Staff Writer

The Honor Council has been taking a pro-
active role in college life lately. After months
of planning, Honor Code Rededication Day
will take place Thursday from 4:30 to 10 p.m.
in the Atrium of the College Union.

The event is part of the Council’s desire to
raise-awareness of the Honor Code and its
importance at Davidson.

“We want to make the Honor Code more
accessible to students,” said Amber Parke
04, Honor Council member and Chair of

Honor Code, from page 1

intentionally or negligently representing
another’s words or ideas as one’s own.” It
was this wording that the Honor Council
voted to endorse Monday night, by a vote of
22-0,.with five members abstaining.

The matter now rests in the hands of the
Student Conduct Council, which will take
two votes, with a waiting period in between to
allow for student and faculty opinion on the
proposal to develop.

SCC is composed of Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, SGA officers, class presidents,
several faculty members, and other students
specifically elected to SCC. After that, the
proposal’s last stop will be College President
Bobby Vagt (although the Board of Trustees
has final authority).

Will Parker enthusiastically endorsed the
proposed change.

“This proposal is, without question, an
improvement over our current wording,” said
Parker. “It allows the Honor Council to
deliver appropriate decisions, while ensuring
that students who make good faith efforts to
cite their work will not be in jeopardy of
violating our Honor Code.”

Others, however, are still uncertain about

ie

ES

the absence of the word “unreasonable.”
Anderson, who abstained from the vote, is
one of them. “My fear is that future Honor
Council panels may begin to interpret “negli-
gence” to mean any degree of negligence...

‘I fear this proposal could potentially hand-

cuff panels into
delivering guilty
verdicts when
they feel in their
hearts that the ac-
cused exhibited no
effort to deceive,”
Anderson said in

Anderson em-
phasized, how-
ever, that “I am
proud of the pro-
cess we have em-
barked upon...
the result is a sturdy and thoughtful proposal

. a successful effort at crafting a more
perfect, applicable Honor Code. I do endorse
this resolution, if for no other reason than Iam
confident in the process that crafted it.”

“Is it perfect? No. But it is certainly more
perfect than the current wording,” said Parker.

THE RECENTLY APPROVED HONOR CODE CHANGE:

Current Worpinc: Cheating includes plagiarism, which ts

representing another’s words or ideas as one’s own.

Proposed Worvinc: Plagiarism is intentionally or negli-

gently representing another’s words or ideas as one’s own.

Spaghetti, mock trial part of Honor Day

* atl,

& Gren if our resolu-
tion does become part
of the Honor Code, my

can occur agai 9

~ Will Parker ’02

_ The Right Look. —

Aa

‘Student Conduct Council will vote
on proposed Honor Code change

Opportunity for students to express their
opinions on this issue will be immediately
available, said Parker. “At this Thursday’s
Honor Code Rededication Day, we will have
a forum on the Honor Code, in which we will
invite several faculty members, Honor Coun-

cil members,

Patterson Court and
_ other student lead-

ers to participate.

I'd be surprised if

plagiarism isn’t a

topic of conversa-

tion during that fo-

a letter to the Stu- rum.”
~dent . Conduct hope is that this debate Anderson en-
Council. couraged students

- with opinions or
concerns to also ex-
press them to the
student members of
the SCC. “There are
probably few more

important issues before the student body this
year. The Honor Code is a hallmark of this
institution — any change to it must be taken
very, very seriously. We have to consider the
affect any change will have on accused stu-
dents, but also the effect any change will have
on the student body and faculty’s faith and
admiration for the Code.”

“T predict that the Student Conduct Council
will pass some change, even if it’s not the
exact wording of our proposal,” said Parker.
“If there’s one thing upon which faculty and
honor council members agree, it is that some
change in our Code is needed.”

“Over the past year, we’ve had countless
discussions, forums, and committee meet-
ings to get to this point. Even if no change
passes the SCC, this debate has been good for
Davidson. And even if our resolution does
become part of the Honor Code, my hope is
that this debate can occur again.”

G. ~)

The Right Price.

si Nat

Rededication Day. Will Parker’02 and Amber Parke’04 plan Rededication Day atisfaction, Guaranteed Style

“Often, people think ‘the Honor Council
does a good job of implementing the Honor
Code; I don’t need to worry about it’ ,” com-
mented Honor Council President Will
Parker’ 02.

“That’s false logic. This Honor Code - this
covenant to which all 1,600 students are party
--relies upon activity on everyone’s part.
Honor Code Rededication Day aims to prompt
students to engage in this kind of reflection
about their Code.” ,

The evening will include a mock trial,
involving a scenario in which SGA President
Joey Harris is accused of cheating.

- “Not many students have seen an honor
trial before,” said Parker. “Thursday, the

hearing will depend on audience members’
deliberations to arrive at a verdict.”

A spaghetti dinner sponsored by College
President Bobby Vagt is also planned. De-
bates on the Honor Code and its relevance
will take place during the meal. “The dinner
should be fun and informative,” said Parke.

Question and answer boxes concerning the
Honor Code have been placed in the Cham-
bers Building and the Union in an effort to
increase student understanding. Students are
encouraged to submit any questions they
might have. :

The Rededication Committee also plans to
resurrect copies of pages from the Honor
Code book signed by the members of each

Visit our web site at www.greatclips.com.
GOOD ONLY AT:
Turnberry Place Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28, Cornelius
-next to Sushi at the Lake-
(704) 987-0607

class at freshman orientation. These
sheets will be mounted on the walls
of the Union as a reminder of stu-
dents’ commitment.

“It’s important that we as a com-
munity do more than sign the Honor
Code register our first year and fol-
low it the remaining four years,”
said Parker.

“Instead, the Honor Council envi-
sions a Davidson that is comprised
not only of people following a policy,
but that is also constantly thinking
about its common pledge to each
other.”

Le i ee ee ae Td alee i eee eden

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

S 8.95

OFFER EXPIRES Shi loz

