Columnist

Not much is known about the upcoming
trade talks. in Quebec City at the end of this
month. But judging from the massive num-
bers of police that city officials are deploy-
ing, one doubts that the Free Trade Agree-
ment for the Americas will produce anything
of use to anyone but opportunistic politicians
and large corporations.

Approximately 6,000 police officers will
deny protesters all access to negotiations on
the Free Trade Agreement for the Americas
(FTAA). The protesters are sure to be blamed
for being overly violent as the police officers
spray them indiscriminately with pepper
spray. The press will ignore most of the
actual agreement and take lovely pictures of
anarchy symbols and enraged youth. But in
the end, nothing much will actually be learned
about the FTAA itself.

In memory of
Senor Figueroa

In loving memory of Dr. Ramon Figueroa,
I’d like to say a few words, not for his sake,
but-on behalf of the grieving community left
in his wake. I speak for a Davidson commu-
nity stunned and hurt by the loss of one of its
most beloved and valued members: But I
want to remind you all of one of the many
lessons Sefior Figueroa taught to not only his
students but to this entire college community.

In Mexico the dead and the living freely
interact. On the Day of the Dead family and
friends dead and alive get together to eat and
celebrate the inevitability of death and the
holistic experience of life.

And since Dr. Figueroa is primarily re-
sponsible for bringing widespread awareness
of Dia de los Muertos to this campus, it seems
only right that we grieve his premature depar-
ture in full consciousness of the ideas behind
this celebration. Although we feel cheated

that he was taken from us too soon, we must
celebrate his life and our lives with him.

We must feast and tell stories about our
lives together, how much we’ ve learned, how
much we’ve grown. We should have a big
bilingual multi-cultural festival in the grave
yard on North Main Street or better yet, in the
basement of the Guest House, room 06.

But [I’m sorry. While I’m aware of the
fatalism infused into the holiday, I cannot
help but toask why. Why was he taken from
us, an educator whose academic life exempli-
fied Davidson College’s professed primary
purpose, “to assist students in developing
humane instincts and disciplined and cre-
ative minds for lives of leadership and ser-
vice”?

Ineed answers. We as a community need
to know why we’ ve lost such an integral part
of our academic lives, not for his sake, (he is
no doubt headed for a better place) but for our
own. .

This is a eulogy for the late Professor
Ramon Figueroa whose Davidson pedagogi-
cal life came to a premature end with the
recent decision to deny him tenure.

We, his supporters, have decided to cel-
ebrate his life at Davidson but we find its
termination impossible to accept without an-
swers. :

*Dr. Figueroa supporters can pick up but-
tons and pins distributed in Chambers and the
Union.

James Hampton ‘01

Challenge to students:
push Take Back the
Night past capacity

I’m a big enough person that I can admit
when I am wrong, and I might well have
wrong about some of my accusations in last
week’s editorial. Although the turnout for
Nancy Hulse’s presentation was disappoint-
ing, the crowd at Take Back the Night gave
me hope in the Davidson community. I saw
over three senate show up to hear
their peers speak their experiences with
rape, sexual assault, and physical abuse.

My heart broke every time another speaker

approached the podium, teary-eyed in telling
her story. I have been on both sides of that

podium. I know the strength and courage it .

takes to stand behind that microphone and
share such an intimate and horrible detail
with strangers. Those speakers from last
week, and the speakers before them, and
those still to speak, these men and women are
my personal heroes. They are strong, they
have been wrongfully hurt, but they will

survive. I could not be any prouder of all of.

them, and of all the audience members.
Then again, I’m still a little disappointed
with my fellow students. I walked into class
the next morning and it was the first time in
three years that I did not see even one red
string around anyone’s wrist, signaling that
none of them had gone to Take Back the
Night. Of course, as one friend pointed out,
that’s not surprising when our own school
newspaper places an article about online reg-
istration on the front page over Rape Aware-

ness week activities, or a picture of Bobby -

Vagt on a bike over the Vagina Monologues,
which sold out Love Auditorium.

Well, that’s not a good enough reason for
me. There is no good reason for not being at
Take Back the Night. Davidson claims it’s a
family, yet we are not supporting our brothers
and sisters during a painful and hurtful time.
Our administration claims to support Rape
Awareness week, yet their presence was mini-
mal during all the week’s activities. And
many faculty members seemed more con-
cerned about the destruction of one book in
the Library than the destruction of a person’s
life.

I now present a challenge to the Davidson
community. There are over sixteen hundred
students and over two hundred faculty and
staff on this campus. Ideally, I would like to
see eighteen hundred people at Take Back the
Night next year. Realistically, I know that
won’t happen. So instead, I challenge you
next year to fill Chambers Gallery so full that
Take Back the Night cannot be held there the
following year. I challenge you to change
attitudes about rape on campus.
Rape Awareness Committee. Become a First
Responder. Most of all, I challenge you to
end the darkness of rape, sexual assault, and
abuse so our children will never have to take
back any night.

Amanda Mordavsky ‘02
President, Rape Awareness Committee

Skull wanders off

I was happy to see the article last week
about the skeleton in Old Chambers’ col-
umns. As mentioned in the article, the skull
was a gift for Pi Kappa Alpha. We proudly
displayed Icabod, as he came to be known, in

- our basement for many years. During Spring

Frolics in 1997, Icabod disappeared without
a trace. He was drinking that day, and the
beer may have gone to his head rendering him
incapable of heading off an attacker. He also
always wanted to visit California and, with
his headstrong ways, may have ventured out
on his own. If anyone has any information
that permits us to make headway in our inves-
tigation, there will be a handsome reward.

Michael Clifton ‘02,
President, Pi Kappa Alpha

Join the ©

And there is a simple reason for all of this
- the FTAA has been negotiated entirely in
secret. As of now, only corporate representa-
pata laa cea agroup

such as water. So schools will become priva-
tized and energy will be deregulated not
through the acts of legislatures, but by the
ruling of a hemispheric trade tribunal run by

of business-ori- bureaucrats
ented organiza- and corpora-
Sons, nave been It is likely thatin the U.S.some mean- _‘“10ns._ Reports

able to provide
input for this
document. A
full text of the
agreement has
still not been
made public.

In an effort to placate consumer, labor, and
environmental groups, negotiators established
the “Committee of Government Representa-
tives.” But according to the Public Citizen,
“the Committee is little more than a mail-
box.” Negotiations usually just toss out the
concerns of citizen’s groups.

Maude Barlow of the Council of Canadi-
ans said that despite being “consulted” by
government officials, “the draft comes back

‘to us and it’s like we’ ve never spoken.” (The

Ottawa Citizen, 4-2-2001).

These negotiations and the trade agree-
ment that is sure to follow them are clearly
anti-demo-

ingful labor, environmental, and human
rights provisions will be included in the
agreement if it is to pass in Congress.

of corporate
cost-cutting re-
sulting in the
degradation of
services are
sure to be the
result.
Another harmful provision is the “inves-
tor-to-state” provision that allows corpora-
tions to sue government for inhibiting their
profits with laws that protect health, safety,
and the environment. Not only is this one of
the most ridiculous and shameful efforts by
corporations to promote their profits over
human lives, but it’s also a proven disaster.
North American Free Trade Agreement
contains a similar provision, called Chapter
11. Under Chapter 11, the U.S.-based Ethyl
corporation sued “Canada to pay $13 million
in damages and.drop its ban on the dangerous
gasoline additive MTT,” according the Pub-
° lic Citizen.

cratic. Clear . And I thought
steps have been According to the Public Citizen, “the that these
taken to restrict Cc itte ° littl more than a: mail- agreemen ts
access and in- panies 7 1S 7 emo : had our best
put to the box.” Negotiations usually just toss out interests . in
FTAA. By the concerns of citizen’s groups. mind!

shutting OUtiM- a —_, ~ ‘Fortunately,
portant argu- corporations
ments from may not get all

consumer, labor, and environmental organi-
zations, the voice of only the rich and power-
ful can be heard. ‘The result is a trade agree-
ment of which the majority of people gov-
erned by it have neither heard nor to which
they have consented.

From talks with the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative, the Public Citizen did
learn some of the details of the FTAA. It
contains a series of harmful provisions that
all citizens should be aware of. First, the
FTAA takes aim at public services provided
by governments, such:as education, environ-
mental services, energy, and public utilities

of what they want in the Free Trade Agree-
ment for the Americas. Protesters may ham-
per negotiations in Quebec as they did in
Seattle, forcing negotiators to listen to the
opposition. And individual nations must
have these agreements accepted at home. Itis
likely that in the U.S. some meaningful labor,
environmental, and human rights provisions
will be included in the agreement if it is to
pass in Congress. Hopefully citizen groups
will keep the heat on the FTAA and its
implementation will not prove to becostly for
the people of North and South America.

“The Davidsonian

¢@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

EprrorsIn-Cya af
Businey Manion

Conf EDOK: 7
Dats sce

f- i ae
boveg ge je Masdcas

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
“Peter Clark
~David'Johnston
: Anna Ryanvig
nM » Pin ¢ ook
Jessi -aMe: ing
ue F

/ Matt Whited
Mase) Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

