By JorDAN STEELE
Staff Writer

After having released a slew of stunning
albums throughout the 90s, the influential
rock outfit Pavement fizzled.

The band could not have finished more
appropriately. 1999’s Terror Twilight, argu-
ably Pavement’s best

Columbia, SC gets Paved by band

However, little intervened between
Malkmus and the music. The first song,
“Black Book” found the bandleader chug-
ging out chords on his guitar, pointed at the
crown like a machine gun.

During the evening, Malkmus oscillated
between the whimsical, evident during the
calypso-funk pastiche “Vague Space,” and

=

record, abandons the
sloppy, brash harmony
of shattering guitars and
spastic rhythm, which
rendered the band at once
endearing and annoying,
in favor of sleek, sinewy
guitar work and atypi-
cally intelligible lyrics.

Thealbum wasthecul- |
mination of a steadily |
maturing vision of its |
frontman, guitarist |
Stephen Malkmus, who
performed last weekend
with his new band,’ the
Jicks, in Columbia, SC.

Malkmus continues the grown-up hard rock
sound on his self-titled 2000 release: think
Billy Corgan with a deadpan wit. On Friday
night, the bandleader successfully conjoined
the old with the new, in a refreshingly affable
set at Uncle Doctor’s.

The beer-swilling, shaggy Malkmus con-
jured up images of Pavement’s “slacker rock”
days, prompting one concert attendee to re-

“mark, beaming; “These days, most of-them
just drink bottled water.”

‘Pavement

the downright weird, in the lo-fi hilarity of
“Jo Jo’s Jacket.” “Phantasies” showcased
Malkmus’s weakness for psychedelic brit-
pop and emphasized his surprisingly in-tune
falsetto. Keeping the beat on bass was the
alluringly aloof Joanna Bolme. Her rhythmic
counterpart, drummer John Moen, lacked the
paroxysmal drum work that typified live Pave-
ment, but his straightforward approach to the
kit was no less effective.

If there was any wonder about leadership in
Pavement, Friday night’s performance as-

Picasso and Rembrandt and Krasner,
oh my: the VAC’s permanent collection

BY GRACE PATE
Special Contributor

On a Tuesday afternoon, in the respectful
silence of the Van Every Gallery that is
usually disturbed only by the occasional
muffled sound of feet on hardwood floor, I
sat/dozed at the information desk where I
work. Suddenly I was torn from my sleepy
reading by an excited “Holy *#@$ ! This is
a Rauschenburg,” directed questioningly at
me by a stranger in sunglasses. I smiled
politely as if I knew what he was talking
about.

Cursing and jumping spastically from piece
to piece, this gangly teenager shouted out the
famous names and spewed art-historical de-

tails—saying things like, “Aww man, there’s
a phenomenal gallery of De Kooning artwork
in the City.”

I thought to myself, ‘Ahh a New Yorker.
Well la-ti-da.” To my South Carolinian ears
this location bespoke an intrinsic artistic su-
periority, and yet my only response was to
smile calmly and give a cool nod at his
excitement.

As soon as the New Yorker left, my snob-
bery disintegrated and was replaced with
utter curiosity. The truth is, the exhibit from
Davidson’s permanent collection had just
gone up that day, and I h&d not yet looked
around. Rising from the desk, I walked
around the firstroom of the exhibit: a Picasso
etching, a John Singer Sargent watercolor,

Photo Copywright www.allmusic. com

sured the audience that this is Stephen
Malkmus’s band. His decision to encore with
the Cars’. eerie pop classic “Let the Good
Times Roll” is more than indie irony..
Malkmus seems willing, after a decade of
revitalizing underground rock and paving the
way for its new wave, to pay homage to the
legends that enabled his own ascent: not a
poor task for indie rock’s Prodigal Son.

and a few I didn’t recognize—all very im-
pressive. The next room held some excellent
Doisneau photographs, aRembrandt etching,
a Diirer woodcut, a Lee Krasner lithograph,
and my favorites, a black and white photo-
graph by Alen MacWeeney with a heart-
warming, narrative quality, and a Hopper
etching entitled “Night Shadows.”

I found the final room just as exciting as the
firsttwo and as I returned to my seat I couldn’t
contain my amazement at the quality and
variety of the artwork I had just viewed. But
most of all, I could not believe that this
beautiful display was a permanent posses-
sion of Davidson College. Where-had it
been? Did we really keep this kind of treasure
buried in the basement of the VAC?

Brad Thomas, curator of the Van Every
and. Smith galleries, informed me that the
exhibit contains a selection of “highlights”
from the over 2,600 pieces in the permanent
collection. The artists range from relatively
unfamiliar to some of the top names in Ameri-
can and international art of the past and
present. The art itself spans 500 years from
classical to modern, realistic to obscure, and
covers every medium from pencil to sculp-
ture. A particular focus on the collection of
works on paper began in the early “70’s with
Herb Jackson’s initiation of the annual
Davidson Print and Drawing Competition.
Additionally, artists, alumni, and friends of
Davidson have generously filled out the col-
lection to its current magnitude. I, forone, am
very grateful.

Since the last exhibit of permanent collec-
tion highlights was in 1995, I strongly en-
courage Davidson students to take advantage
of this altogether unbelievable array of art
before it comes down December 5". Mean-
while, the basement collection itself is al-
ways available as an excellent source for
studio and art history majors, and anyone else
with a particular interest. It is a resource that
should not be left untapped. I guarantee that
amongst the broad ranging pieces each viewer
will find several favorites.

New addition for
must-read list

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

One of the great casualties of the Davidson
experience is, I believe, the concept of read-
ing for pleasure. By the time the average
student is finished with Paradise Lost, the
political science journal and the physics
problem set, the thought of reading more
words — by choice, nonetheless — is tanta-
mount to suggesting torture. Few books
would compel a Davidson student to take
on that task. —

Margaret Atwood’s novel The Blind As-
sassin, however, is such a book. This lyrical,
haunting novel is so extraordinary that I feel
compelled to risk being told “I already have
enough reading!” approximately eight mil-
lion times in my effort to get my friends,
acquaintances and now total strangers to read
it.

Unknown to me until I picked up her latest
novel in Main Street Books, Canadian author

- Atwood is one of the most prolific and re-

spected modern authors. While her fame
hasn’t quite reached Steven King levels, she
certainly deserves to be on the must-read list
of every literary fan. In addition to several
novels, she has written reams of poetry and
her shelf is probably sagging under the weight
of her numerous awards. The Blind Assassin,
published in 2000, is no exception to Atwood’s
history of critical acclaim — it was awarded
the 2000 Booker Prize (a British award given
to the year’s best novel), and has been called
“the first great novel of the new millennium.”

Of course, greatness does not always equal
an easy or enjoyable read (Exhibit A: Crime
and Punishment, or anything that came out of
19'-century Russia for that matter). Atwood’s
work is certainly not lightweight; at 521
pages, The Blind Assassin is not a good re-
placement if your idea of pleasure-reading is
the monthly issue of Maxim or the latest
cookie-cutter product of the romance novel
industry. ‘However, Atwood’s vivid, beauti-
ful prose deftly draws the reader into her
story; despite the complex structure and oc-
casionally depressing themes, reaching page
521 is far from a chore.

The novel itself almost defies description;

_ any attempt to explain it either gives too

much away or makes the story seem gim-
micky. It begins as the memoirs of Mrs. Iris
Chase Griffen, and wastes no time setting
forth the central puzzle of the novel with the
words, “Ten days after the war ended, my
sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.”

see ASSASSIN, page 6

Cannon’s at the Neighborhood Theater for Green

By Cannon Hopces
\ Special Contributor

‘Tl was sitting on the back of the bus
traveling from one show to another and I
started thinking about Willie and Jerry Jeff
Walker and Robert Earl Keen,” he recalls. “I
wanted to show them how much I appreciated
them. I had a pretty cool chord arrangement
going and started thinking about Willie
Nelson’s shoes. I mean, just think about all
the places and things his shoes have seen
from the top of the White House to walking
around some square in Amsterdam to China
and wherever else he’s been. Willie’s had an
amazing life and career. The lyric says ‘I’ ve
got these crusty shoes down on my feet and I
could write a book about the places that
they’ ve seen.’ It’s the story of how I picture
their lives.”

With Pat Green, Texan Songwriter, “the

cowboy rides away with the girl and the bad
guys are all dead”. And that is the typical
spirit of most of us Texans. We like to hear
ballads about cowboys, rodeos, Sunday morn-
ings sitting on the front porch, the escape of
outlaws, our dazzling history, and our crazy
Texas women.

Pat’s music is different from that which is
familiar on the Davidson College campus.
His sound has remained pure and unspoiled
by Nashville. Ingenious talents like Willie
and Robert Earl Keen have influenced Green
rather than high-society producers and money.
He doesn’t need help from an assembly line
of songwriters. Instead, Pat writes his own

songs and when he doesn’t — he gives proper _

credit through his and Cory Morrow’s Songs
We Wish We’d Written CD. There isn’t that
Nashville twang that most asaboiited with

popular country.
This is not another Garth Brooks. Pat

eee eaae re raeeere

doesn’t put forth a false affection in his mu-
sic. He’s relentless, passionate and true. Iam
sure that many of you Nashville country fans
are thinking that I am disgracefully offending
you and your “country”. Truthfully I believe
that Nashville had reached its pinnacle dur-
ing the days of Hank Williams, Willie Nelson,
Waylon Jennings, and Merle Haggard. Those
boys knew what to write about and how to
sing itright and pure. Today their soul echoes
in the voices of Texas songwriters.

Now I am putting forth an invitation to
those who are interested in hearing Texas
Music at its best. Don’t go expecting to see.
a bunch of hillbilly boys in fresh, straw cow-
boy hats, starched shirts and Wrangler jeans.
If you do, you will be shocked to find some
good ole’ Austin musicians whose influences
range from Willie Nelson, Otis Redding and
Stevie Ray Vaughn to Bach, Led Zepplin and
Mark O’Conner. These boys are the preemi-

nent talents in the music world — country or-
rock. They love their job and don’t pine for
the fame that has exhausted Nashville. And
if you do come, watch the faces. of every
Texan there; in them you will see a bit more
pride and familiarity than usual. In a sense
they have returned home, but even more than
that, they’ ve been given a confirmation that
there is a place so absolute and magnificent
that only poetry’s best words can distinguish
it from others.

So please, join a few crazy Texans and me
at the Neighborhood Theatre on Wednesday
night. No cowboy boots and hats are neces-
sary — just bring your wallet so you can buy a
few Shiner Bocks. This is not a paid adver-
tisement, instead I’m just a big fan trying to
introduce y’ all to one of my bands sing songs
about Texas. More _ information:

Wwww.patgreen.com
