Mocking signs do not
achieve anything

I’m disappointed. I became disappointed
in this campus before we performed The
Vagina Monologues. Posters were torn:
down and flung on the ground. They were
wadded up and deposited at my door in neat
pink balls of “screw you, you liberated
woman you.” But I quashed my disappoint-
ment. I was-hopeful. And then, when we
finally got to perform, after hours upon
hours of preparation by the cast, crew, and
director, I thought my hope was justified.
The three performances were heavily at-
tended, all but selling out Love at least two
of the three nights. The light, as it were,
seemed to beon. Then, in the week follow-
ing our performances, two con-
spicuous examples of ignorance
and disrespect showed up on bul-
letin boards on campus. One was

However, someone at Kappa Sigma, and
some other bravely anonymous people don’t
seem to understand what The Vagina Mono-
logues are about. “Tired of Monologues?” as
the poster advertising the “Pimps and ‘Ho’s”
party asked -- now that’s bad form. That’s
like ‘ripping on Take Back the Night, guys,
and we all know you wouldn’t stoop to doing
that. Take Back the Night is about REAL
people, right? Real people here at Davidson
who have been victimized. Well, news flash.
The Vagina Monologues are about real people,
too. And the money raised at the event goes to

help real people. As for the “Penis Mono-

logues” poster — that was in heinous form as
well. Did The Vagina Monologues advertis-
ing say “Come to the Vagina Monologues!
It'll be Wet and Ready!”? No. Our posters
came straight from our scripts; one in particu-
lar detailed

— the fact that

BEA 500,000

ao
SS

\ women are

in the form of a poster advertis-
ing Kappa Sigma’s yearly
“Pimps and Hos” party. The
other was astrikingly un-clever
parody of our advertising:
“Come to the Penis Mono-
logues! It'll be huge.”

Before you opt to read no fur-
ther because I’m obviously a
frothing, rabid femi-nazi, wait
— because I’m not. Remember
the “language is violence” debate? Hon-
estly, Sundstrum’s comments didn’t really
upset me all that much. I knew he was
kidding. I wondered, actually, why every-
one else didn’t catch on. And I don’t care,
particularly, that Kappa Sigma chooses to
put on a bash called “Pimps and ‘Ho’s.” It’s
making fun of, and having fun with, stereo-
types. Our most familiar media does it all
the time. It just so happens that ‘it’s more
socially acceptable to cast Jim Carrey as an
idiot than it is to have a “Pimps and Hos”
party. Kappa Sigma’s party isn’t advocat-
ing battery, and Jim Carrey’s movies aren’t
advocating purposely brain damaging your
children for amusement. We all know this.

2

raped in this
country ev-
ery year. In-
formative,
not inflam-
matory.
The poster
also says
“A Benefit
to Stop
Sexual
Violence.”

But you were probably too preoccupied

with the word “vagina” to notice that. It’s a

pity, really.

Explain to me, if you will, what compari-
son there is to be drawn between the very
legitimate activity of advertising and raising
money for organizations working toward an
end to violence against women and these
complete lapses of judgement. submit to
you that there is no comparison. I’m sure that
those who composed the two lovely “adver-
tisements” in question thought they were,
funny. I’m sure these individuals were de-
lighted with their original “humor.” But I bet
they didn’t think of this:

Letters: Reaction to the Vagina Monologues immature and ineffective

They have mothers. Maybe they have
sisters; if they’re lucky, they have girlfriends.
THERE ARE WOMEN IN THEIR LIVES
THAT AREIMPORTANT TO THEM. And
with a few smart-ass keystrokes, they’ ve
trivialized facts that are central to the lives of
those women. To steal shamelessly from Bill
Neville’s program, “one billion women liv-
ing on Earth today have been or will be raped
or beaten sometime during their lives.” Since
women make up a little more than half of the
world’s population, odds are that you will
one day confront this fact face-to-face. Think
about that next time you decide.it’s cute to
trivialize the work of more than 50 people
who are raising money to combat that vio-
lence. Exercise, if you would, a little of that
vaunted Davidson intelligence, or at the very
least, a little common courtesy.

Nikki Thomas ‘02

There aré other fora
for gender debate

I have a few words to say regarding the
posters bearing the word “penis” which were
posted in Chambers on Monday. I do not
know who put them up or their justification
for doing so, and that is exactly why I am
writing. .

I can only assume that these flyers repre-

sent aresponse to the recent production of the.

Vagina Monologues. I fully support of the
Monologues, their stated purposes, and the
broader movement within which they are
situated. I believe one of the intended goals
of this all-woman show is not only to bring
further awareness of women’s experiences,
views, and concerns but also to challenge
society-at-large and to engage in a construc-
tive debate on what gender relations are and
what we wish them to be.

I do not believe, however, that one of the
ways to initiate that debate is a single-word
flyer with no explanation or carefully thought-
out statement of belief

Maybe the people behind this poster felt
disenfranchised by the Vagina Monologues.
Maybe they thought this show unfairly places
emphasis ona single gender, becoming guilty

of precisely the same fault found in a patri-
archal system.

Maybe they feel like any approach to
transforming gender relations must take
into account both masculinity and feminin-
ity. Adopting an all-or-nothing approach,
letting the women goto one corner and the
men go to another, decide their views, and
then fight it out is only going to result in
unnecessary damage to masculine-femi-
nine relations.

I could project that there were women
and men offended by these posters. Some
might call them a dumb gesture, an unintel-
ligent response to a wonderfully empower-
ing show. They might say that I lend
undeserved legitimacy or dignity to the
flyers by writing this letter. I say that I have
the right to think whatever I want when I
walk in the halls of Chambers._ I am al-
lowed to want an analytical response, and if
a lack of information constrains my ability
to formulate that response, then I am al-
lowed to approach the initiators of this flyer
and ask for their views.-

I understand the movement to end vio-
lence against women that is the purpose of
V-DAY, and I acknowledge the role that
creating a safe space for women-and their
bodies plays in said purpose. I think sup-
porters of this movement must also recog-
nize its unintended consequences and deal
with them as they arise.

Because, ultimately, most of the perpe-
trators of violence against women are men,
and their views and reactions to the Vagina
Monologues and the movement as a whole
must be taken into account.

The initiators of this might have had
valid arguments with which I agree and
disagree. I am writing this letter, however,
because I do not know their reasoning.

Whoever posted the penis flyers clearly
was trying to make a statement, and I would
just encourage them to say it in a more
intelligible way to push the discussion of
gender interaction to a different level. We
are none of us going to be satisfied by a
simple lack of communication.

Katie Wilson ‘03

@ ALENDA LUX USBI

The 5 Se RRO

ORTA LIBERTAS @

EpiTors-IN-CHIEF
Business MANAGERS

Copy Eprror
News Epirors.~

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports Epirors

Arts & LivincEpitors.. >
PSrTVES Eprror

Pudkoce dar Eprrors

CIRCULATION MANAGER

Aaron Houck

Richard Vinson

Peter Clark

David Johnston

Anna Kyanvig

Tim Cook

A Jessica Mering

Peter Clark

David Johnston

Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin ~~

Martha Hunt

», Mara Mordini

“Amy Poe

Erin Berry

Matt Whited

Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Who needs a labor amnion? Davidson
community is stronger without it

Recently many of us on campus received a
letter from an Anna Thompson using a Yahoo
account. In her email she indicated a concern
that Davidson does not have a labor union.
If Ms. Thompson and the People’s Labor
Advocacy Organization feel that Davidson’s
lack of a labor union is a pressing concern,
they should put up fliers on campus or contact
the Campus Forums committee to have a
campus discussion about the issue.

Instead, they have chosen to go behind
everyone’s backs using a Yahoo email ac-

- count to send out emails to small blocks of

students to avoid retribution from ITS in
pursuit of their goals. These tactics alone
should be enough to discredit their effort
entirely.

It would also be nice to see some evidence
of the supposed wrongdoing by the adminis-
tration in their emails or on their webpage. It
has been my experience that the administra-
tion goes out of its way to treat the staff
tremendously well. Unless they can provide
some evidence to the contrary, they should
rest assured that I and other members of the
Davidson College community will dismiss
their group and its proposals. If they truly
have evidence that the college administration
has done something wrong, again, they should
go through the proper campus or law-en-

forcement channels rather than making base-
less accusations while veiled behind a Yahoo
email account.

Also, an explanation of the supposed in-
trinsic good of labor unions would be nice.
The first line of their email cites the fact that
Davidson does not have a labor union; my
reaction to this supposedly factual statement
is “so what.” They want students to act to try
to solve the “problem,” but how is Davidson’ s
lack of a labor union even a problem?

Davidson College is a community in the
truest sense of the word; absent any substan-
tial evidence detailing the gross mistreatment
of the staff, I view it as a positive that we do
not have a “management/workers” mentality
in our community.

Even if their premise about the goodness of
a labor union at Davidson were to be ac-
cepted, I would like to know what unions
have to do with diversity. All of their “litera-
ture” suggests that Davidson should have a
union because we value diversity here. Cer-
tainly, we do value diversity, but diversity
and organized labor are not synonymous.
How would the introduction of a union into
the Davidson College community further our
pursuit of diversity? I cannot see any connec-
tion between the two.

Brandt Leibe ‘02
