By Linpy BALDWIN”
News Editor

Educational debate, always a hot topic
among politicians and parents, can become
especially heated when the educational topic
in question is sex. Public opinion on what
belongs in the classroom runs the spectrum,
from abstinence-only to a full program in-
cluding abortion, homosexuality and STDs.

American public schools, however, are cur-
rently leaning towards the former. Thirty-
eight states mandate abstinence-only educa-
tion, including North Carolina. Many mem-
bers of the Reproductive Right Alliance of
Davidson feel that isn’t enough — and they’ ve
started a new group to fill in the gaps.

The new Reproductive Health Education
Team (RHET) is a group within RRAD
chaired by RRAD member Melissa Breedlove
°04. RHET’s mission statement reads as
follows:

“The Reproductive Health Education Team
isacommittee within the Reproductive Rights
Alliance of Davidson (RRAD). We provide
training to our members so that they may
provide young men and women (from pre-
teens to young adults) with information about
reproductive health. We believe that this
information will enable young adults every-
where to make responsible, healthy deci-
sions.’

The group’s ultimate goal is to take its
members off-campus as early as next semes-
ter to YMCAs, private schools and other
youth-oriented organizations. Public schools
will likely be off-limits due to North Carolina’s
abstinence-only laws, but members hope that
this may make other, less restrictive groups
even more enthusiastic about RHET’s ser-
vices.

RHET kicked off its training programs last
Wednesday at 9 pm with an introductory
lecture designed to explain the group and its
goals. The meeting was conducted by

Grand Opening October 8

Breedlove and RRAD president Kristine
Harrington °03, and was well-attended by a

- committed, enthusiastic group of female

Davidson students, mostly RRAD members.
A member of the Pro-Choice Coalition of
Charlotte was also in attendance, and praised
the group’s efforts to educate young people.
“We are so excited about the formation of
this committee and the great turnout we had
at our first session!”’ Harrington enthused.
A few members, however, were disap-
pointed in the minimal — well, nonexistent —

‘male turnout. “I definitely think that we’re

going to want guys as well as girls to make
this program really successful when we go
off-campus,” said one.

For those who are interested in the training
but unsure about taking on the responsibility
for educating teenagers, Harrington empha-
sized that RHET attendees need not commit
themselves to next semester’s planned activi-
ties. “RRAD?’s intent in forming this sexual-
ity education committee was to equip, our
members with important knowledge, whether
or not they decide to become Educators next
semester.”

The first session covered mostly introduc-
tory ground. Breedlove and Harrington started
off the meeting with some information about
the group’s foundation and goals. They then
addressed what she felt are common miscon-
ceptions about sex ed and teenagers — includ-
ing the idea that sex ed makes teens more
likely to have sex. In fact, RHET argued, the
opposite is true.

Through comprehensive sex ed, RHET be-
lieves teens will be able to make informed
decisions (including abstinence) they won’t
regret later on. Breedlove and Harrington
came armed with both American and interna-
tional statistics on teenage sexuality, preg-
nancy, and STDs to justify the group’s mis-
sion.

Among the most striking: According to the
Journal of Adolescent Health, more than 30%

Giant Stuffed Potatoes

Big Deli Style Sandwiches
New Orleans Style Muffalettas
Huge Fresh Salad Bar

Box Lunches

99¢ Kids Menu

Free Ice Cream

And Much More

Catering For Any Occasion

Deb

ley

T
ex! HE DELI RESTAURANT SINCE 1976

of sexually experienced females and about
40% of sexually experienced males agreed
with the statement, ““When putting on a con-
dom, it is important to have it fit tightly,
leaving no space at the tip.” (Georgia Ringle
would be horrified!) Said Breedlove, “Un-
fortunately, a lot of teenagers are clueless
about sex ... even after eye become
sexually active].”

Additionally, a 1999 study indicates that in
countries such as France and the Netherlands,
where sex ed is far from abstinence-only, the
teenage birth rate, abortion rate and number
of AIDS cases are far lower than in the US.
Through programs like theirs, Breedlove and
Harrington ar-
gued, this trend
could be coun-
tered.

Philip Osborne
‘04, treasurer of
the newly-char-
tered Davidson
Students for Life,
disagreed. “Their
promotion of
these materials
both off- and on-
campus necessar-
ily promotes pro-
miscuous behav-
ior, which is one
of the leading causes of abortions,” he ar-
gued. Both he and Paul Godfrey ’04, DSL’s
president, felt that abstinence-only education
was a better option for teenagers.

However, Rachel McCord °04, DSL’s vice-
president, emphasized that, “Just as there are
many different views of this topic among the
general population, there are many diverse
opinions among pro-life individuals.”

McCord continued, “I believe that it is
importanttoinform youth about STDs and the
risks of unwanted pregnancies while present-
ing abstinence as a choice and informing

6 6: believe that teens and
young adults should be in-
formed fully about their re-
productive health options, so
that they can make respon-

sible and healthy decision y |

~ Kristine Harrington ‘03

lew g group stresses reprdaciive health education

; dade that there are individuals who ab-

stain until marriage. If this type of education
is effective, it can actually reduce the need
for abortion, and is thus in-line with the cause
of many pro-life individuals.”

“I am sure that RHET will provide a useful
service to the community by presenting the
risks of STDs and unwanted pregnancy to
these youth while presenting abstinence as a
viable option.”

Godfrey was slightly more wary, saying, “I
think RHET is misleading people into think-
ing that sexual activity comes with few con-
sequences . .. Groups that advocate abortion
tend to emphasize “safe sex” and downplay
abstinence.”

Despite their dif-
ferent approaches,
RHET members
agree that it’s im-
portant to prevent
teens from making
casual decisions
about sex. “I am so
excited about
RHET because I
feel that having a
candid, peer-based
source of compre-
hensive sexuality
education could do
wonders for teenag-
ers, whether they are sexually active or not, in
understanding reproductive health,” ex-
plained Breedlove.

“We believe that teens and young adults
should be informed fully about their repro-
ductive health options, so that they can make
responsible and healthy decisions,”
Harrington concluded.

RHET’s next session will take place on
Wednesday, October 3. Dr. Verna Case will
be presenting a lecture on anatomy and physi-
ology. Interested students should contact
Breedlove at mebreedlove @davidson.edu.

Jason's deli

Opening October 8, 2001
16639 Birkdale Commons
Huntersville
704-895-2505 * 704-895-2504 FAX
www.jasonsdeli.com

