_ Tuurspay,
JANUARY 25, 2001

Fa y “4 3 2 , 4 4 4 % ¢
’ s ‘ ¢ - + v2 r,
% yh ei A z J } ¢
by r “t ei . ; .

Youthful squad gives Oddo first championship at W&L

By ALAN RoE
Staff Writer

Eight out of the 10 Davidson wrestlers
who competed in last weekend’s Washing-
ton and Lee Invitational. placed, giving the
Wildcats their first tournament champion-
ship of coach Tom Oddo’s 16-year tenture.

The Wildcats finished first out of eight
teams competing and 17.5 points ahead of
runner up Pensacola Christian.

“This is my favorite tournament of the
year,” said Oddo. “We do not have any

standouts on the team this year, rather we’

have an even-keeled squad with the ability to
work together. We won this tournament in
the.first round. Our goal was to gather the
most points through pins and major deci-
sions to put us far enough in the lead. That’s
what happened.”

Like much of the Wildcat’s recent success,
_this tournament was won by consistency

throughout the starting lineup. While every
wrestler contributed to the victory by scoring
points at some point in the tournament, the
squad had eight place winners.

Freshmen Adam Sperling and Shawn
Reynolds took fourth place in the 165 and
Heavyweight weight classes. Senior An-
thony Albert also took fourth place despite
just returning from a shoulder injury. Five
Davidson wrestlers made it to the finals. Se-
nior Dan Carmen took 2nd place in the 125
pound weight class. In the 157-pound class,
Jr. Jeff Bender also took 2nd place. Junior Jeff
Libersat, who was recently named Southern
Conference Wrestler of the Week, lost a nail
biting 8-7 decision to Wesley Koteski of
Washington and Jefferson in the finals of the
184-pound division. Freshmen Mark O’ Hair
and Brian Werstler made it to the finals in the
165 and 174 pbdund divisions respectively.
While Werstler, like Libersat, also lost in the
finals round by one point. O’Hair captured

the Wildcats’ only individual title by defeat-
ing Hayden Call of Southern Virginia 9-6.

The success of the freshmen in this tourna-
ment is reflective of their contributions to the
squad throughout the season. Retention of
incoming freshmen has been a difficulty for
the Davidson program over the past two sea-
sons, but this year, seven of the eight fresh-
men who began the 2000-2001 campaign
have stuck with it. °

“In previous years you might have looked
forward to going up against a freshmen during
practice, (but) this year’s group brings an
intensity to the practice room that is uncharac-
teristic of most freshmen classes. These guys
challenge the rest of the team on a daily basis
in the practice room,” junior Jeff Bender said.

Coach Tom Oddo shares similar enthusi-
asm for the performances of the freshmen
class and is excited about the experience they
will gain for the future.

With only two seniors, the squad is un-

doubtedly inexperienced. But it has already
surpassed last season’s victory total of three
by posting five victories to date.

After losing their first two matches, the
Wildcats have one five of the last six.

Team members say it is all a matter of
balance. While the Wildcats do not have the
individual star in Ian Kaplan that they have
had for the previous four years, they are
putting nine starters on the mat that they feel
are capable of putting up points—as they did
in the W: & L Invitational.

Oddo says this could be the most complete
team he’s had at Davidson. With the continu-
ing leadership of upperclassmen, Anthony
Albert’s return to the mat and the younger
wrestlers gaining experience, the team will
only improve for the remainder of this sea-
son.

This Saturday, the Wildcats take on
Howard and UNC Pembroke at 1 p.m. at
Baker Sports Complex. ,

C O M

By JENN Hiccins

N T

Congratulations, Coach McKillop

A 68-60 victory over VMI marked Bob McKillop’s 177th Davidson win, making him the winngest coach in Davidson history

Staff Writer

After more than eleven seasons, Coach McKillop has become the winningest coach in Davidsomhistory. Many _
coaches don’t stay around long enough to come close to breaking Lefty’s record. Davidson College has indeed
been fortunate to keep Coach for their own for this many years. Whenever the Division I coaching carousel starts
to spin, Bob McKillop’s name moves to the top of the list. ESPN sports writer Andy Katz wrote during the 1998
NCAA Tournament that McKillop was one of the most sought after coaches in all of Division I basketball.

The statistics aren’t important. It is the story behind the numbers that means so much more. It is what people
would rather read. It is what people ought to know that care anything about Davidson basketball. You can
appreciate Coach McKillop’s all-time conference record or that he has coached eight consecutive overtime wins
or that he is currently one of 31 D1 coaches chosen by the NABC to serve on the ESPN/USA Today Board of .
Coaches. The truth of the matter is that he has developed a top-notch program at the mid-major level and
maintained it. And he has put Davidson basketball back on the map.

But what you should appreciate more than anything is his perspective. You should appreciate what he does for
the game of basketball. In any game, he works as hard in the first minute as he does in the last, no matter what
the score. He demands the very same from his players. He is an example to opposing coaches, remaining
composed yet surprisingly vocal while he works the sideline. And in the post-game talk, he would surely rather
praise one of his standout players than criticize the game officials or discuss breaking Lefty Driesell’s record.

He knows what the job is about and he lives it everyday. Take his letter to former Western Carolina head coach
Phil Hopkins. An unnecessary gesture in what Ken Garfield calls a “bottom-line profession where one man wins
and the other sometimes gets fired.” McKillop hoped his sympathetic words would fall on open ears and spark
Hopkins’ discouraging season. It did more than that. It led to Davidson’s demise in the first round of the 1999
SoCon tournament, courtesy of Hopkins’ Catamounts.

Coach figured as much, but he sent it anyway. Because ‘to play the game is great, to win the game is even greater,
but to love the game is the greatest of all.’

And besides, the best coaches realize that some things are just more important.

A R Y

IO

Seana

Davidsonian Player
of the Week

Janna Magette

The junior guard
scored a game-high 18
points in a 78-62 loss to
Georgia Southern on

Jan, 22.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Soe WRESTLING ____ WoMEn’s BASKETBALL
Jan.27 Howard : 1:00 Jan.27 @ETSU 3:00
UNC Pembroke Jan. 30 College of:Charleston 7:00
SWIMMING Men’s BASKETBALL :

Jan. 27 College of Charleston 1:00

Jan.27 _UNC Greensboro
Jan.30 @ VMI

7:30
7:00
