Wildcats hope to rediscover winning ways"

Recent nine game losing streak leaves baseball team struggling for answers

By Hinps H H owarp
“Staff W Writer

In all sports, especially baseball, a slump is inevitable.

Even a pro team with loads of talent slumps at some point.

_ So it goes with Davidson’s baseball team, which despite having
one of the most talented and experienced teams in recent memory,
has struggled mightily after getting off to its best recorded start in
school history.

After starting the season with six straight victories, including ano-
hitter in the opener against High Point on Feb. 15, the Wildcats
abruptly lost track of their winning ways.

A little more than a month after that incredible opening day, the
Wildcats have only two victories in their last sixteen games.

The bleeding was stopped, at least temporarily, by an 8-6 victory
over Georgia Southern on Sunday.

But it came only after a horrendous nine game losing streak, the
team’s longest since 1997. The record currently stands at 8-14, 3-9
in the Southern Conference.

So what gives? What’s to blame for the shocking downslide?

Head coach Dick Cooke is struggling to find reasons behind the
slump, but he and several team members have some theories.

“Baseball goes through cycles,” he said. “We struggled defen-
sively for a while and when you do that against good teams, you are
going to put more pressure on the pitchers. If they don’t come
through, the offense starts pressing a bit trying to do things that they
aren’t capable of doing.

“And it all falls apart.”

The best solution, he says, is to stay focused even when things get
bad.

“Tt’s important to keep an even keel emotionally, and take things
from every game and learn from them,” he said. “The season is day
to day. Approach has been good, of course you get frustrated when
you don’t win, but all you can do is prepare yourself for the next game
and put yourself in a better position to win next time.” :

Take a look at the schedule, and you notice that except for blowout
losses to South Carolina and Auburn, the team has been compeative

South Carolina
pummels ’Cats

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team traveled to
Columbia, S.C., last week with hopes of an
upset against highly-touted South Carolina
(17-2).

The Gamecocks were ranked No. 2 in two
national polls entering the game, and after
shellacking the Wildcats 19-1, its safe to say
they will remain there.

Three RBIs from outfielder Michael Floyd
powered the Gamecocks’ offensive riot, as
Floyd became only the fifth player in school
history to hit for the cycle.

Floyd and company unleashed 21 hits, in-
cluding five home runs, and scored in every
inning but one.

Seven South Carolina pitchers took part in
the rout, combining to hold Davidson to the
one run on just two hits. Billy Ryan got one of
those hits and the teain’s lone RBI in the fifth,
but all hope had been lost at that point. Sopho-
more Chris Emond also recorded his first
collegiate hit, a double in the ninth inning.

in most of its games. The problems have come in crunch time, says
outfielder senior Ryan Stroker.

“We haven’t been coming through with runners on and two outs,”
he said. “I haven’t been getting on base and others haven’t been able

‘to produce in the clutch. It has really hurt us.”

The statistics support Stroker’s claim. Over the nine game losing
streak, Davidson stranded a total of 81 runners on the base, an average
of more than one runner per inning.

But fundamentals don’t tell the whole story. Stroker says attitude
problems are also to blame.

“We came out with all the confidence in the world this season, and
the wins came easily,” he said. “We had incredible pitching, but once
our pitching started to falter a little, it affected our hitting, our defense
and our overall attitude. We became complacent.”

“We knew that we had the talent to win every game. We weren’t
playing with the sense of urgency necessary for the wins.”

‘The team held a meeting after a 3-1 loss to previously winless
Fairfield on March 15, in which team members say they tried to sort
out the frustration of the mounting losses.

Senior third baseman Cassidy Lundin said the team agreed to stop
pointing fingers and re-commit to each other.

“The only way we were going to come out of the slump is if we came -

together and played like a team again.”

The meeting didn’t result in immediate victories, but it was clear that
the team was playing better baseball in Georgia. The win over Georgia
Southern on Sunday may have been a turning point, says Stroker.

He points to one moment early in Sunday’s win.

In the game before on Saturday, Eagles’ first baseman Carlos Love
barreled over catcher Billy Ryan during a play at the plate, which is
against NCAA rules.

The next day, senior pitcher Jeremiah Parvin hit Love in his first at
bat in the second inning.

“Jeremiah set the tone for the rest of the game and hopefully the rest
of the season when he hit that kid in his first at bat,” said Stroker. “This
was a thick guy, probably not someone you would pick on, but he just
went right after him. That’s the way we need to play. The teams may
be good, but we can’t back down.”

Tim Frend connects
with the ball in a
recent outing at
Wildcat Park. The
Wildcats have
struggled of late after
starting the season
with six straight wins,
but Frend, his team-
: mates and the coach-
~ ing staff remain
Sports Information Department optimistic.

Wildacts miss offense in rain-shortened game

Despite battling hard and lasting until the
fifth inning, Jeremiah Parvin (0-3) took the
loss, giving up 10 runs in five innings.

Coach Dick Cooke said against a team of
South Carolina’s caliber, it was Bull a good
effort.

“They are a great club offensively,” he
said. “Parvin pitched well, but they had some
strong kids who were able to lift the ball a
little bit. They are a good, intimidating kind
of ball club.”

“Any game you winor lose, you find things
to work on, you find things that were good
and you go from there,” he added. “Look at
each aspect of the game and where we did
well and where we didn’t do well. You evalu-
ate who you're playing and kinds of people
you saw.”

“The beauty of playing so many games is
that there is always the next game.”

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer
Bad weather nearly forced Davidson to
cancel its March 13. game against Fairfield,
but the game finally got underway late in the
afternoon.

With the late start, the two squads only had
time for seven innings before the game was
called for darkness. Fairfield (1-9) didn’t get
a full game, but earned its first victory of the
season with a 3-1 win over the reeling Wild-
cats (7-12).

Freshman Matt Young (1-0) made the most
out of his first collegiate start, allowing just
one run and seven hits in six innings. ©

Davidson’s only runcame from Tim Frend,
who blasted his fifth home run of the season
to right field.

Freshman pitcher Brian Akin got the start

and went 2 1/3 scoreless innings. Akin gave

up only two hits and showed improving con-
trol with two strikeouts, no walks and one
wild pitch.

Sophomore Andy Demko took over for

Akin in the third and gave up tworuns inthe |

fourth, for which he was handed the loss.
Fairfield played “‘small ball,” scoring on an

errant pickoff attempt on just one hit in the

fourth inning, but as Cooke said, “It was one
of those games where both teams pitch well
and both team play good defense and the
other team just ends up scoring more runs.”

“You can’t let yourself get to high or too
low,” he said. “You make adjustments:as you

need to, but these things happen. Preparation —

and adjustment are the keys to surviving-a
long season. We just have to put ourselves in
a position to win ball games.”

the opener on setniay. scoring two runs in
the first highlighted bY a Matt Berry RBI
single. The Eagles kept pace with one run in
each of the first twoinnings. Davidson struck
again in the third with two more runs and
another Berry RBI single.

Co-captain Cassidy Lundin doubled to
leadoff the sixth inning, and Jeremiah Parvin
drove him home two batters later with a
single up the middle on the first pitch. It
turned out to be the lastrun Davidson would
score.

Leading 5-4 in the seventh, starting pitcher
and co-captain Wes Self gave up three quick
runs and was pulled for Ryan Stroker, who
promptly loaded the bases on a hit batsman.
After a three-pitch strikeout, Stoker was
pulled for Mark Wells, who gave up another
run while recording the final two outs. When
the inning was finally finished, Davidson
was down 9-5. Self (3-3) received the loss as.
Davidson had the offense and the defense,
but the pitching came up short.

There was not much to write home about
in the second game of the twin bill on
Saturday, as Davidson lost its ninth straight
game 14-3.

Sophomore Derrik Wolpert (2-3) pitched
well, but was tagged with the loss after
giving up seven earned runs in five innings. |.
The other seven were unearned. _
Davidson’s offense produced just three
runs and was unable to put together a string
of big innings to close the gap. The seventh
inning produced Davidson’s only runs, as
Stroker drove in the team’s first run and
scored its last two batters later. ©

In Sunday’s game, the Wildcats came out
calm and confident despite the recent funk.

“(The team) did a great job especially
yesterday of coming out focused and re-
laxed for the game.” Ina rare weekend start,
Jeremiah Parvin took the hill and lasted six
innings, giving up 5 runs on 7 hits with four
strikeouts.

After giving up aruninthe first, Davidson
scored four in the third, powered by Cassidy
Lundin’s two-run single with the bases
loaded. The Wildcats added two more in the
sixth, but it was the two in the 10® that made

