Keep the fires
burning forever

America, and indeed the world, was outraged last week
as a series of civilian airliners hijacked by terrorists rained
destruction in Washington, DC and New York City. It was,
without question, the most devastating assault on American
soil in all of history — and our nation is preparing to respond.

Armies are being mobilized, relief teams are being
deployed, blood is being donated and volunteers are flooding
to the forefronts. In the shadow of death and adversity, it is
a glowing illustration of the best our society has to offer.

As months pass, however, the pain will start to subside.
The horrific images etched in our minds will be relegated to
the depths of our consciousness. We will never forget — the
quiet, unyielding anger that President Bush spoke of will
undoubtedly linger, matched only by the solemn tribute our
memories pay to the dead — but we will begin to move on.

As we do, though, may this tidal wave of compassion live
on. For there is other need in this world — in our neighbor-
hoods, our schools, our cities.

Some 5,000 lives were vanquished on that fateful morn-
ing. And while no statistical comparisons should diminish
that harshest of realities, we should not forget the thousands
of souls harmed by other social ills.

This year alone, 21,000 people will be killed in drunk
driving accidents.

More than 10,000 will be shot to death by handguns.

Roughly 14,000 will be killed in drug-related murders.

And 141,000 women will be victims of sexual assault.

One in five American children will be born into poverty.
Fourteen percent of children will have no health coverage.

Thirty-one percent will not receive thorough immunizations.
There is much hurt, much need in America — to speak
nothing of the world outside our borders. At this time, no one
can deny the magnitude and the pressing nature of last
’ Tuesday’s tragedy. But when our work there comes to a
close, may we re-channel this spirit of devotion and commu-
nity toward other pressing needs.
For the past week, Americans have displayed unity and
brotherhood like never before. Let us honor the dead by
making sure these fires never go out.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
Martha Hunt Derek Loh

Sports Editors
Jimmy

Caroline Hauser

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

BN THE NAN, You
CAN STOP SAYING
“ALLEGED” NOW

bb Nia =) N \
NON-GEQOMTUR COM

WILEN @LOM-SEAGITUR. CONN rst BY UNWE PSL PRED ALO

2
z
=

Writer was wrong, war is not answer

In response to “For Sharon, war is the only remaining
choice” (Travis Lee, Sept. 12).

I write to you in reference to an article published in the
Davidsonian last week. This article laid out evidence to
suggest that the only available option for Ariel Sharon and his
Israeli forces is to go to war with the Palestinian opposition,
and thus, eliminate them from the West Bank and, essentially,
from this world. Make no mistake, in order for Israel to
achieve its goal of a sovereign, Jewish, Democratic state in
this region, they will be forced to eliminate the Palestinians.

I am appalled that someone in our nation, let alone on this
Earth, could suggest such a solution. When I hear arguments
such as this, my first reaction is always amazement that
someone might actually think this is a viable option. This is
soon replaced by akeen awareness that this person must know
very little about this area of the world or about this struggle,
which has been underway for over 50 years. This situation is
not so one-sided as it was made out to be. It is in fact a very
complex issue in which both peoples have legitimate claims,
in which both peoples have suffered horrible grievances, and
in which both peoples have committing wrongs.

The key here, however, is that both sides are made up of
people who want to live without fear for themselves or their
families in a land of peace. The option,put forth in this article
is no option at all because it denies the Palestinians their right
to be considered human. Coming to the conclusion that one
side or the other must be eliminated is, at its core, a call to
genocide. When a nation of people decides to wipe out
another nation of people, it can be called nothing else. It
seems to me the Nazis’ goal of elimination of the Jewish
people was a large part of the impetus for the creation of the
Israeli state in the first place.

This is a very grave situation. The only possible solution
is for both sides to come to the table and hammer out a deal
in which both sides can be assured of reasonable living
conditions in a free and sovereign state. The deal offered to
the Palestinians last year was not “gracious and praisewor-
thy” as last weeks article suggests. It did, rather, offer the
Palestinians a state, complete with Israeli settlements scat-
tered throughout. This is not a free and sovereign state. It
would. be a state, subject to Israeli will and would ease
tensions in the slightest.

Iam glad to say that my hope for a peaceful end to the
conflict has not'subsided and an announcement on Tuesday of
a ceasefire by both sides only fuels this hope. My hope,
however, hinges on the fact that the U.S. realize that it cannot
be disengaged from this conflict. Itis very much involved and
must continue to be involved if any substantial progress is to

be made. The U.S. has poured, and continues to pour, billions .

of dollars in aid and countless weapons and other goods into
the area. As a result the US has a vested interest in the area
that cannot be denied.

As an American, and as a human being, I believe war and
genocide cannot and never will be the answer to this conflict.

Maithew Zogby ‘02

WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 19, 2001

Support your soccer team, coach asks

Asa 1993 graduate of Davidson, I know how very involved
and busy you all are. But I would like to encourage you to
attend this fall’s athletic events. .

It is a unique and special Davidson ingredient that one out
of four students competes at the NCAA Division I level. Your
support means so very much to them in their athletic chal-
lenges. -

This year’s soccer team has started on the right foot. Led by
eight talented and extremely committed seniors, this is a fun
team to watch.

We have a HUGE up-
coming home game this
upcoming Saturday, Sep-
tember 22 at7 p.m. against
Charlotte. Last year, the
team had an incredible
comeback win in overtime.

I would also ask for you
to put a star in your calen-
dar on November 3, when
our Southern Conference
rival, nationally-ranked
Furman come to Richardson Stadium for a 7 pm clash. This
game is “Senior Day”, so please make your best efforts to
arrive at 6:45 as we announce the seniors and salute all they
have done for Davidson.

And include in your support all of the other fall teams in
action such as football, field hockey, women’s soccer, volley-
ball, golf and cross country.

You CAN make a difference.

Thanks in advance and have a great Fall.

Matt Spear ‘93
Men’s Soccer Coach

We’ve got your parking tickets here

Our freshman year, back when both our reputations and
livers were clean, two guys named Dave and Erich displayed
their wit and wisdom each week in the Davidsonian. We
don’t have much of either, but we’re stealing their general
ideas: Sarcasm, name-checking and the occasional fabrica-
tion. And since the sports editors still don’t consider drinking
games to be worthy of coverage, this is probably your only
chance to see our names in print.

Charles: Why write an article for the Davidsonian?

Will: Why not? If they have enough room for interviews
with roommates, columnists claiming Pika and SPE are
“homogeneous” and articles that run for half a page on topics

as riveting as mildew, they should be begging us for content.

W: So, let’s move on to addressing some campus issues,
being careful to avoid anything constructive.

C: First, campus police. Why is it necessary for a party to
be shut down at midnight on a weekday?

W: The cops show almost as much compassion as a Leslie
Marsicano e-mail during a national tragedy. Maybe Patterson
Court should elect a police-student liason to help settle
complaints?

C: I nominate Trevor Stanley. .

W: Good call. And a word for Officer Ramsay: Put your
Parking Ticket Gameboy back in its holster. I could wallpa-
per my senior apartment with the successful appeals against
tickets you gave out last week.

C: On a related note, what about the senior apartments?

W: Another problem. If RLO’s Christian Coalition down
here had their way, we wouldn’t be able to leave our indi-
vidual bedrooms after dinner.

C: Well, now that Matt Kelley is off the market, at least we
might not be in those bedrooms alone.

W: Ideally. But if all those girls continue their nightly
candlelight vigils outside his apartment window, I’m betting
he’ ll cave.

C: [think it might be time to wrap this one up. Davidsonian,
keep up the good work.

W: We'll check in again soon.

Will Cannon ‘02 and Charles Cushman ‘02

We welcome letters to the editor. Submissions can
range in length from a few sentences to 400 words on any
topic of importance. Please include your name, class and
e-mail address. We edit or hold letters for brevity, gram-
mar and clarity. E-mail magarfield@davidson.edu or
ticook @davidson.edu.
