In midst of tragedy,
community prevails

Tuesday’s terrorist attack, with a death toll still unknown
and an impact still unimaginable, marks the greatest tragedy
of our generation.

In elementary school, we chaffed at the Persian Gulf War
with some vague notion of patriotism. In middle school, we
cheered the fall of the Berlin Wall with some idea of freedom.
In high school, we cried over the Columbine High School
masacre with an intense sense 'of sympathy.

Today, though, we awoke to a new world. The most
destructive terrorist attack in United States history, likely
leaving tens of thousands dead, twists tragedy with irony. The
abstract idea of war, with countries launching missiles from
remote locations, fell away. American planes, carrying
American passengers, were hijacked and aimed at American
targets.

Our airplanes are not weapons; our citizens are not ammu-
nition.

Recognizing the gravity of the situation, though, is not
enough. In their usual ingenious, instinctive way, all citizens
of this country must overcome this catastrophe. Blood drives
and donation drop-off points have already been established,
seeking to satisfy immediate, emergent needs. More creative
solutions will become necessary in the coming weeks, and
community support will prove vital.

With CNN looming in the background," hundreds of stu-
dents, administrators, faculy, and staff lined the rails and
packed the atrium of Alverez Campus Center Tuesday night
testifying to this need for community. Many members of the
college spoke, their simple words made eloquent by the
earnestness and depth of feeling invoked.

As students shed tears and held hands, the essence of
Davidson shone. No mad riot started, no political ranting
fueled already high emotions. We can and should be proud to
be part of this institution.

Throughout this uncertain, turbulent time, we must commit
to supporting one another. The geographic diversity of our
student body is such that, by just a few degrees of separation,
this tragedy will touch each of our lives.

On a lager scale, we must support this nation. The govern-

ment should move swiftly, strongly, and surely against the
responsible parties. Furthermore, it must move in a manner
that commands the support of its citizens.

As college students, we have a unique responsibility. Our
generation will live the leagacy of this week. September 11,
2001 will provide the greatest lessons of our Davidson
education.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
. Burgin Hardin
_~ Managing Editors
Tim Cook ©~. Matt Garfield
News, Editors
Lindy Baldwin ~~ — Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
Martha Hunt = Derek Loh

he ¢ _ Sports Editors
ged Caroline Hauser
4 | Swansbrough

Jimmy

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

(NO CELL PRONE,
No PAGER,

#GIGH*

WL

A WHOLE NONTA NO G.PS.,
WITHOUT HUNAN No (INTERNET,
CONTICT.,. No E-MAIL,

TF,

No PALM PILOT,
NO NEWS oN
THE REST oF
THE WORLD...

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

‘Zach Williams.

1 SROULO'NE
THOUGT 9F
THIS YEARS

AGO...

Last week, US News and World Report Magazine pub-
lished its annual rankings of American colleges and univer-
sities. While there is great controversy
surrounding the legitimacy of these
rankings, the bottom line is that they
sell magazines (40 percent more than
US News’ standard weekly issue) and
so they are surely here to stay.

What I wish to address is not the
rankings themselves (Davidson moved
up one spot this year to 10" among
_national liberal arts colleges), but rather
the methodology behind the rankings.
It is a method that suggests colleges are

David Crow .

’ inthe business of simply conferring degrees so that graduates

may obtain higher paying jobs, rather than being centers of
education.

Let me explain.

None of the data US News uses in order to rank colleges is
sufficient in measuring how students on the campus actually
learn. Rather, the magazine uses data such as financial re-
sources, alumni giving, student/faculty ratio and other such
figures.

While a school that has more money might be able to attract
a more prestigious faculty, it doesn’t always translate into
better teaching. Even more importantly, none of the factors

York have caused a great deal of pies and a tremendous
sense of confusion in this country and around the world. We

at Davidson have done well to come
together, comfort one another and be
there to offer a sympathetic and attentive
ear. I am still terribly concerned, how-
ever, over the administration’s choice to
continue with classes on Tuesday after it
would almost seem natural to cancel them.

This to me was an insult and made me extremely angry.
Students were on their cell phones trying to figure out if
loved ones were alive and they were worried about classes
continuing as scheduled. Ata time when there was great loss
and suffering in this country, we had to worry about tests,
quizzes, and chemistry labs. I for one am disappointed that
we as a college community did not honor the tragedy in our
capital and New York by saying that just for one day we
should take some time off to reflect. On the one hand, the
powers-that-be of Davidson College want us to do just that—
—on the other hand, we have four (or five) classes that will not
allow us to do that.

[have already told the deans and President of this school
all of this already, but as a representative of the students, it
is important that I let everyone know how I feel. I did not go
to class after I received that e-mail, and encouraged others|-
not to as well. What has happened over the past two days is

unprecedented! I know we have to move on, but at least give

us a chance to sit and let it all sink in so that we can begin to
heal. Really, is that too much to ask?
Joey Harris ‘02

SGA President

College rankings don’t tell whole tale

tell how engaged students are in their work. Are students in
class just to get a grade or to actually learn? This question is
never even asked.

Furthermore, the factor that weighs most heavily in the
rankings is “academic reputation.” Not how good a school
actually is, but rather, how good a school’s “reputation” is.
What this system comes down to is nothing more than a
popularity contest based purely on conjecture.

US News explains its reasoning for giving such weight to
reputation by saying, “A diploma from a distinguished col-
lege helps graduates get good jobs or gain admission to top
graduate programs.”

I am certainly not under the illusion that going to a school
with a good reputation will not guarantee a high-paying
position. Of course it helps. The problem is that education
should be more than just a means to an end. Education should
be about the process of learning.

What the US News rankings really represent is a movement
towards brand name education. When we care more about the
name recognition of a school than we do about how well that
school teaches its students, we lose touch with what college
is about, and our educations suffer accordingly.

I only hope that this year’s high school seniors have more
sense than the editors of US News and are able to recognize
that schools cannot, and should not, be quantified by such
arbitrary guidelines.

First Night Down hasn’t lost it yet

The social expectations of freedom and entertainment had
definitely come to a head among members of the freshmen
class by the time Friday came around. The long-awaited
“First Night Down” had finally ar-
rived.

Technically, “First Night Down” re-
fers to the night when Davidson fresh-
men are allowed to participate in
Patterson. Court activities.

However, I had the feeling that for
many students, it basically translated
into a school-sponsored binge-drink-
ing event.

For students at other institutions, the
phrase may mean nothing more than a
perverse joke, but here at Davidson,
“First Night Down” is.an idea steeped in tradition.

Although the frat parties were officially to start at 10 p.m.,
most eager freshmen joined their upperclassmen comrades
for “pre-game” gatherings. To extend the delay, many fell for
the rumor that it wasn’t cool to show up until after 11 p.m.

While the parties may not really get fired up until this time,
I was still frustrated by what seemed like an endless wait.

The PiKA house was my first stop on the court. Inside, I
was greeted by a loud band, friendly people and exciting
beverages. Partygoers at the house could either enjoy the
music inside, or converse on the outside patio.

After checking out PiKA, I moved onto the next party at
SPE. Inside there was a band, more friendly people, and more
exciting beverages. I hung out on their outside patio for a
while and then progressed to the third party at SAE.

Once again, I was treated to live music, nice people and
some more beverages, although they were becoming less
exciting by this time. After realizing that there was an outside
patio at all three of the houses and the basic setup was, well,
the same, I spent the remainder of the night jumping back and
forth between the three parties.

Despite the homogeneity of the parties, the actual social
aspect inside the houses was greater than I had expected. I
found myself engaging in real conversations with both new
and current friends. The overall experience was more of a
friendly party night, rather than a hardcore frat scene.

I finished the night with a piece of pizza and quesadillas in
the Union. Although the food was great, I was sorry to miss
eating down at the old Outpost, a place which seems to have
created widespread nostalgia with its closing last year.
