-

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER-4

Religious plaques ignite faculty debate

Concerns over diversity,
open-mindedness
prompt faculty response

By CoLin EAGAN
News Editor

The written Word has been all
the talk at Davidson lately—but
perhaps not in the way religious
leaders usually hope. Controversy
has arisen over religious plaques
that have been placed around cam-
pus at the request of a donor to the
college. Featuring quotes from the
Old Testament, the plaques have
provoked questions among faculty
and students concerning the defini-
tion of appropriate contributions to
the college, the role of Davidson’s
Presbyterian heritage and its mis-
sion of open-mindedness.

To some, the controversial plaques seem
subtle enough. Three have been placed in
various locations—one on the right wall of
the Chambers Building foyer, one on College
president Bobby Vagt’s office door and one
outside the Hall of Fame room in Baker
Sports Complex. They feature verses from
Psalms, Proverbs and Jeremiah, respectively.

All were placed over the summer in accor-
dance with the wishes of a major, unnamed
donor. The decision to install the plaques,

according to Vagt, was made entirely by the
President’s Office with the “knowledge of
several trustees.”

This summer, several professors were
startled by the appearance of the plaques
around campus. It would seem the unan-
nounced appearance of Old Testament verses
on Davidson’s walls was cause for confusion
and even alarm.

History professor Sally McMillen was first
to formally express concern. She wrote a

SiGNs FROM ABOVE. Several plaques quoting scripture were recently placed around
campus at the behest of an unnamed donor, drawing concerns from some faculty
members. The plaque above hangs in the Hallof Fame Room at Baker Sports Complex.

letter to religion professor Karl Plank, Vice
Chairman of the Executive Committee, re-
questing that the committee discuss the
plaques’ origin and appropriateness. A copy
of the letter was sent to Vagt.

“T felt that putting these permanent plaques

-with their Bible quotes in such public places

conveyed the idea that the college is not
living by its statement of open-mindedness
toward people of all different faiths,”
McMillen explained. “I felt that some par-

ents, students, and visitors might
be offended by these Bible
sayings...Should we not also
display quotes from the Koran,
the Book of Mormon, etc?”
McMillen soon discovered that
her concerns were shared by
many among the faculty.

The Executive Committee,
composed of the president and
a small group of faculty mem-
bers who advise him, spent a
considerable amount of time ad-
dressing McMillen’s concerns.

“Tt was not as much a discus-
sion that would lead to conclu-
sions as it was an exploration of
issues,” said Plank.

Issues discussed included
“donor-trustee prerogatives, the
dynamics of religious particu-
larity with sensitivity to plural-
ism, and the problem of the
particular medium as a fitting vehicle for
expressing religious concerns,” he said.

A summary of the committee’ s discussion
on the topic was conveyed to the faculty at its
August meeting. At this point, many faculty
members expressed their feelings and posed
questions about the plaques to Vagt and to
each other.

“T think concerns were raised in several

i

see P laques, page 2

Campus discussion on Honor Code continues

By Ro .anp F. Foss
Staff Writer

The momentum to revise the Honor Code
has slowed, though the process of discovery
and diplomacy continues.

“Clearly, we have a ways to go before we
can make any change,” said Will Parker ’02,
Honor Council Chairman.

Dissenting and provocative thoughts were
urgently displayed at
aforum sponsored by
the Honor Council on
Thursday, Sept. 6.
Almost fifty students
and faculty attended,
including members
of the Honor Coun-
cil, President Bobby

‘sWe have anexcellent
system in place, and
these debates are

Honor Code.

Currently, the portion of the Code relevant
to plagiarism states: “Cheating includes pla-
giarism, which is representing another’ sideas
or words as one’s own.’

Under the option put forth at the forum, this
sentence would be amended to: “Plagiariz-
ing, whether intentional or by means of un-
reasonable negligence, is representing
another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” The
sentence regarding pla-
giarism would be in a
paragraph separate
from the sentence re-
garding cheating.

At issue to many is
the idea of “unreason-
able negligence.” Dr.
Jonathan Berkey stated

Vagt, and Dean of merely attempts todim< . that “unreasonable”
Students Tom could be, in this case,

prove it. Se:
Shandley. —Adam Hill ’03 synonymous with “in

Will Parker was
first to speak, offer-
ing his and the
Council’s perspective on the proposed
changes to the Honor Code, which revolve
around the issue of plagiarism.

He posed two rhetorical questions: “Is it
possible for a student to unintentionally pla-
giarize?” His answer was yes. However,
“Should a student be capable of unintention-
ally violating the Honor Code?”

Indeed, this, among others, was and is still
a burning question of many who are con-
cerned about the proposed revisions of the

tentional,” whereby the
definition would thus

be “circular.” He
plainly asked, “What constitutes reasonable
negligence?” Judging by other faculty
member’s comments, this question too was
on their minds.

Dr. Susan Roberts wondered whether “un-
reasonable” could also denote an “amount”
or proportion. Both Berkey’s and Robert’s
interpretations challenged the proposal’s pro-
ponents to qualify how exactly “unreason-
able” is to be defined.

Mike Anderson ‘02, Policy Coordinator

for the Honor Council, conceded that the
“faculty is best equipped” to decide what is
plagiarism in an academic context, but de-
fended the purpose of the Honor Council to
decide to what degree a specific instance of
plagiarism constitutes an Honor Code viola-
tion. Both he and Parker remained on the
defensive for much of the forum.

Some faculty members supported splitting
the proposed plagiarism sentence into two—
the first saying of what plagiarism consists,
the second making a determination of intent
and perhaps punishment.

Dean Shandley’s remarks towards the end
of the discussion made it seem as if the
Council would have to go back to the drawing
board. He said the proposal was not ready to

be presented to the Student Conduct Council,
and suggested that faculty and students need
to talk more.

Shandley suggested that the Council should,
as its next step, return to its program of small
group discussions and consider several dif-
ferent resolutions that would appeal to differ-
ent groups and different ideas.

Not surprisingly, this is what the Council is
now doing. Several members of the Council
are planning to participate in personal meet-
ings with several faculty members.

“We do have a common goal—a stronger,
more applicable Honor Code. We just need to
figure out the best way to get there,” said
Anderson.

see Honor Code, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-5

Sophomore leads t-shirt campaign to
raise money for Red Cross.

Arts & Living.............00006-7
Chef Martha’s debut. Yum.

Perspectives. 8-9
Student reacts to plaques.
‘Sports 10-12

Sophomore Amy Leitch (right) leads
women’s soccer over Elon.

