meet with students to discus upcoming project

By Burcin HarpIN
Sports Editor

Chances are Rebecca West, a writer for the
New Yorker in the 1940s, never knew she
would be a matchmaker over 50 years later.

Arelatively unknown journalist of hertime,
West covered: a Greenville, S.C.; lynching
trial in 1947 and wrote.a vivid narrative
for the New Yorker that detailed the
mob lynching of black man named
Willie Earle and the subsequent acquit-
tal of all 31 men who had been charged
in his killing.:

The trial had been a farce, West im-
plied with frequent sarcasm, and a vic-
tory for Southern justice.

Fifty years later, Rebecca West and
her story have brought together an un-
likely trio—two independent filmmak-
ers from Greenville and Davidson’s
Batten Professor Steve Isenberg.

Isenberg stumbled upon a reprint of
the New Yorker article in an antique
bookshop two years ago and was imme-
diately intrigued by the story and West’s
poignant account.

“T found it completely by accident,”
said Isenberg, a former editor of
Newsday and certified New Yorker. “I
saw that the story took place in South
Carolina and soI decided to read it since
I was coming down here. But then I
really got into it and said, ‘Wow, this is
good.’”

Isenberg decided West’s piece was
perfect for his literary journalism class,
not only for its well-crafted prose but also for
the issues it raised about race and the segre-
gated culture of the mid-century South.

Meanwhile, unbeknownst to Isenberg, the
West piece was at the heart of Greenville
natives John Sexton and Jeff Sumerel’s re-
search for a film the two were planning about
the lynching trial.

Not until after Isenberg came south did he
discover that some folks shared his affinity
for West and her report. He found out about
Sexton and Sumerel through The Greenville
News, which profiled their film project last
year. Fueled by his own curiosity and his old

Newsday instincts, Isenberg set out to find
the filmmakers.

Isenberg soon called them, but his enthusi-
asm for a story that Sexton and Sumerel
considered obscure at best surprised—and
even puzzled—them.

“We thought we should check this guy
out,” joked Sumerel, who along with Sexton

visited Isenberg’s class two weeks ago. “A

former editor of Newsday wanted to talk
about our movie? We didn’t know who this
guy was.”

Isenberg invited the filmmakers to his cdass
after spending the afternoon with them in
Greenville touring the story’s landmarks.

“Tt occurred to me that these guys were still
grappling with how to make this movie,” said
Isenberg. “I could tell they were genuinely
interested in how people read this Rebecca
West piece and reacted to it.

“T thought a ‘visit from these guys would

make the story come to life and help every- _

THE

OPTICALSHOP

OF LAKE

ALL DOCTORS’

PRESCRIPTIO

NORMAN

NS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O.

- MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.

EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A

103 PENINSULA
PENINSULA, EXIT

AUTHORIZED ZEIS VARILUK

VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RO. AT TH
28 " CATAWBA AVE DE! DE Ul
SEIKO PRESCRIPTION | LABORATORY /

ak eeneaeentaanenaanmnmemematiel

, CORNELIUS

body think about not only the Rebecca West
account but about what somebody would do
to translate a story into another medium.”
In the class’s last meeting before the Easter
break, Sexton and Sumerel talked for over an
hour with Isenberg’s students in the filmmak-
ers’ first meeting with any college audience.
“Getting the viewpoint of literary journal-

Bill Giduz
(left to right) Professor Steve Isenberg, John Sexton, Jeff Sumerel, and US

Representative Mel Watt (D-NC). Sexton, Sumerel and Watt were all
speaking to some Isenberg’s classes.

ism students today is very important to us in
deciding how we’re going to translate this
story and these characters to our audience,”
said Sexton, who scribbled notes as students
volunteered opinions on everything from
Rebecca West to why Sexton and Sumerel
should make a movie about themselves.

Sexton and Sumerel, both veteran film-
makers and performers, valued the visit not
so much as a chance to tell their story but as
achance to brainstorm with people who knew
the background well.

“What this does for a writer is it gives you

a chance to defend questions about your.
project,” said Sumerel, whose scriptwriting
duties continue expanding. “If you can’t
defend the questions being asked, then you
need to do some more work. You have to go

» through that process. You have to be able to

bounce things off colleagues, strangers, and
friends.”

Out of a lynching trial that involved
so many different personalities i insucha
tense environment came so many differ-
ent stories, the filmmakers explained,
that they have struggled in deciding
which angle would make the most effec-
tive movie.

“We don’t want to do another white-
man-kills-black-man movie,” Sexton
said to the class. “That’s been done. We
want to tell people to talk, to speak out
and exptes: feelings they’ve kept cov-
ered up.”

Sexton and Sumerel will take stu-
dents’ ideas, questions, and suggestions
back to Greenville and integrate them
into what has become almost 15 years
worth of research. And there’s more to
come.

“Tosee areal project come out of this,
itll be at least a year,” said Sexton, who
hopes to have a shooting script for the
film ready a year from now.

Funding and people’s availability will
also dictate the production schedule.

Already in the works is a short trailer,
which they will shoot in the coming
months and will debut at the Spoleto arts
festival in Charleston, S.C., this sum-
mer. They plan to use the public’s response
to the trailer as.a test of the project’s viability.

But even their visit here went a long way in
reassuring Sexton and Sumerel: of their
project’s merit and potential.

“We couldn’t have spent a better after-
noon,” said Sexton. “This is a great invest-
ment for us. We obviously ran into Steve for
a reason.

“And getting another perspective from the
class, hearing ideas that we might not have
even thought of, was extremely valuable.”

Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Groups

Student Groups earn $1,000 - $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfinder.com three hour |
fundraising event. |

No sales required. |

Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! |

|

|

|

|
|
|
|

Contact Campusfinder.com
at (888) 923-3238,
or visit www.campusfinder.com

Creative Account Executive

uneeded for biey Lake Narnan aa agency.

Manage accounts, develop marketing plans, write copy
for ads, radio and cable. Excesien?. carsnunication &
organizational ¢kills a must. Muse be able te multi-page.
Knawledge oF prin ting and/or media a pits

Four year degree in related field required.

Recent graduates are eicounaged

Sure work emirornnents

ta apply.

Fax mountié to 704.886.2507.
