By Jackie DAviDSON

Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats displayed a valiant
effort by their defense and a solid perfor-
mance from junior quarterback Paul Nichols
as the ’Cats’ defeated Emory & Henry 23-6,
deftly avoiding a two game losing skid.

The Davidson defense forced five Wasp
turnovers, including two interceptions by jun-
ior Graham Elmore, while Nichols, recover-
ing from his worst career start as a Wildcat,
threw for 127 yards, including two second-
half touchdowns. The victory was the Wild-
cats’ first ever at E & H’s Fullerton Field.

In a first half defensive struggle, the Wild-
cats caused a Wasp fumble and intercepted
the E & H quarterback, leaving the offense
with terrific field position. Davidson squan-
dered its first scoring opportunity, however,
as the ’Cats mishandled the snap on a 36-yard
field goal attempt by place kicker Daniel
Hanks.

Later, though, the second Wasp turnover of
the half—one of Elmore’ s two interceptions—
resulted in a 19-yard touchdown run by fresh-

Football ’Cats: beck on track with E&H win

man John Leverett, the only score of the first
quarter.

Following intermission, the Davidson de-
fense forced yet another turnover when the
Emory & Henry quarterback coughed up the
ball as linebackers Darryl Childers and
Brendan Date double-teamed him. Freshman

“we still are an outstanding
team with a chance to win every
game we play.”

—Paul Nichols ’03

Scott McDonald recovered the fumble on
Emory & Henry’s 32-yard line. Four plays
and a penalty later, Nichols found junior
wide receiver Mike Chase in the end zone,
who wrestled the pass away from a de-
fender for a 26-yard TD.

The only Wildcat score unassisted by
the E&H offense came in the middle of the
fourth quarter. On third and eight, Nichols
lofted a pass over three Wasp defenders to
a speeding Randall Hardy, who sprinted 40

yards to the end zone for Davidson’s third
TD of the afternoon.

Though the Wasps’ defense held. the
’Cats to a mere 243 yards, the stingy Wild-
cat defense only allowed 242. Emory &
Henry’s only score came on a 46-yard
touchdown pass from Rob Spencer to
Lashon Green with 2:48 remaining in the
game.

Quarterback Paul Nichols said, “Our

week of preparation was outstanding and
the win put us on the right side of the
scoreboard. More importantly though the
win restored confidence in the team that
we still are an outstanding team with a
chance to win every game we play.”

Davidson will have their second Satur-
day off in three weeks with a scheduled
bye week.

The Cats’ return to action on October 6
against divisional foe Morehead State (0-
4), a most formidable opponent. Last year,
the Cats’ defeated the Eagles 38-31 in a
thrilling double-overtime game. But in the
previous year, MSU trounced the Cats’ 40-
0. Kickoff is slated for 1:30 p.m. at MSU.

Game fia ACES. Captains Around Campus
This Week: Volleyball...

J acaneline Ortega
Miami, Florida
Political Science Major

Years Experience in Sport:
7 years

Position:
outside hitter

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Today” by the Smashing Pumpkins

In your opinion, who is the best role model
for youth today?

“Ralph Ortega, football coach for the
Gulliver Prep Raiders. He pushes his players
to be the best they can be athletically and
personally. Having acoach like that can make
all the difference in the world for an athlete.”

Jenn Ortega
Miami, Florida
History Major, predental

Years Experience in Sport:
7 years

Position:
middle blocker

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Gasoline Dreams” by Outkast

In your opinion, who is the best role model

for youth today?
“T admire my grandparents tremendously.
They have always inspired dignity, hard work,

and joy in everything they do and taught [my

sister and I] to do the same.”

photos by Erin Berry

Erica “E” Schwartz
Phoenix, Arizona
English Major

Years Experience in Sport:
13 years

Position:
Setter

Favorite Pump-up Song:
“Firestarter” by Prodigy

In your opinion, who is the best role model

for youth today?

“Anyone that can personally inspire you to
achieve...mine was Debbie Green (setter for the
National Team). She was 5’4", whichtomemeant
that if I worked hard enough, my height would
never hinder my success as a volleyball player.”

THe DAVIDSONIAN
_ WEDNESDAY,

Sarah Davis
Jacqueline (12) and Jennifer (1)
Ortega leap together to block a
Citadel spike. See story PAGE 11.

CLusB Sport SPOTLIGHT

In-line Hockey

By Evan McCormick
asst Contributor

A few weeks ago t the Davidson College
Inline Hockey team opened the season with
a thrilling 10-4 victory. The victory was
merely an extension of last year’s successful
campaign when the team captured the Mon-
day Night League championship. However,
the current squad vaguely resembles the cast
of characters that hoisted the Cup last spring.

__ Only five players on last year’s champion-
ship team are playing ‘this semester:
defensemen Jay Hollis and forwards Josh
Voorhees, Jim Davidson, and goalie Evan
McCormick. The five absent players are
studying abroad this semester, leaving alarge

void to fill. .

Fortunately, the gap has been filled with
potential-ridden newcomers Richard
Connolly, Trip Cook, Tim Cook, Weston”
Waxweiler, Andrew Foerster, and Ned
Conway. The new recruits add speed, grit,
and determination to analready proud squad.
However, it will take time for the new play-
ersto La sie rl ia

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Do not be afraid of the past. If people tell
you that it is irrevocable, do not believe

them.” —

Oscar Wilde

THE WEEK AHEAD

MEN’s SOCCER VOLLEYBALL

Sept. 28 Xavier 7:00 Sept.27 @ Wofford 7:00

Sept. 30 @ Evansville TBA Sept.29 @ Georgia Southern 2:00
Oct. 2 N. Carolina A&T 7:00

Women’s SOCCER s Fiecp Hockey :

Sept.28 Appalachian State 7:00 Sept. 28 @ SW Missouri State 4:00

Sept. 30 E. Tennessee U. 2:00 Sept. 29 @ SW Missouri State 2:00
Sept.30 @ St. Louis# 12:00

at SW Missouri State
