_PREsS RELEASE
The Union Board

. Authorities have identified twelve suspects

in the recent toilet papering of the newly
dedicated Alvarez College Union. Union
Director William Brown said that all twelve
members of the Union Board have been
brought in for questioning as part of the
ongoing investigation into the rolling.

“This act disrupted the way we work and
live,” Brown said. “We must find the perpe-
trator, and bring him or her to justice.”

Brown disclosed that the list of suspects
included the three officers of the Union Board
in addition to its nine members. “I can’t
understand why these people might have
done such a thing. Just because I get the credit
for the successes of this building doesn’t
mean they should deface our new union. I
expect leadership from the officers, not this.”

When asked to comment, Union Board
Vice President Adam Hill dismissed Brown’ s
implications as ridiculous. “There is abso-
lutely no basis for any accusations against
me. I cannot vouch for [Union Board Presi-
dent] Will [Parker] and [Vice President] PJ
[Martin]. ’ ve always thought those two were
shady characters.”

Martin, on the other hand, similarly re-
jected the idea that he had anything to do with
it. He also gave Union Board Ambassador
Amy Poe an alibi, but he could not specifi-
cally identify her whereabouts. “We need to
investigate this issue further before we jump
toconclusions. After all, look at Katie Vogel;
she.is the newest Board member, and she is a
transfer after all.”

Suspects identified in
vandalism of Union.

Martin also brought up the specter of what

authorities are calling a crucial piece of evi-,

dence. “We know that there was a bowl of
popcorn leftover from a Union Board film
event found at the scene. This does not look
good for Cody,” referring to Union Board
Films Chair Cody Ruxton.

Authorities did not rule out the possibility
of several Board members working together.
Brown mentioned that Union Board Artist
Series Chair Aditi Sethi has gone on record
saying that she always thought toilet paper-
ing the Union would be fun. “It would not
surprise me if Aditi were to have had some
help,” Brown speculated. Union Board Con-
certs Chair Liz Smith, Speakers Chair An-
drew MacDonald, Special Events chair Rachel
May and Student Performers Chair Pryor
Dawson don’t have “credible alibis” Brown
said.

Union Board Publicity Chair Karen
Sweeney vowed to find the guilty party. “I’m
going to find this person; I have found my
calling. We will get to the bottom of this.”
Sweeney predicted that the investigation
would be concluded on or by November 10,
which happens to be the date of the Union
Board Mystery Giveaway.

The Giveaway so far includes a free dinner
and battle of the bands from area talent. To
compliment this event, Sweeney has pledged
$500 of her committee money to elicit stu-
dents’ help in identifying the responsible
suspect.

Contact Karen Sweeney, Union Board
Publicity Chair, at x6154 for more informa-
tion.

SAE prepares to go be-
fore committee _

SAE, from page 1

tation of the individuals.”

A joint investigation led by PCC and
SAE continues to uncover details about
the incident. Newly-identified eyewit-
nesses have offered accounts of the
incident, while the plantiff has sup-
plied additional information as well.
The new information has helped clarify
what happened several weeks ago but
only surfaced publicly last week.

Since last week, the plaintiff in the
case wrote an e-mail to Hoffman clari-
fying that he and another individual
were not chased by the assaulters, as
reported earlier, but rather the two
walked away after the plantiff was hit
by a beer can. The student filed a
formal complaint with the Residence
Life Office on Oct. 9, three days after
the incident. -

In the e-mail (given to The
Davidsonian by Hoffman), the plain-
tiff also stated that he did not wish any
punishment on SAE and would be
pleased only to see the fraternity spon-
sor an educational program. The plain-
tiff could not be reached for comment.

In addition to the plantiff’s e-mail,
Hoffman was also made aware of sev-
eral eyewitnesses. One witness reported
that people on the porches of SAE and
Warner Hall (who also hosted a party
Oct. 6) were apparently throwing beer
cans at anyone who walked by.

Hoffman sent these e-mails to the

school administration but said he has
received no reply.

Dr. Mary Vasquez, Spanish Department
Chair and SAE’s faculty advisor, said, “I
am concerned over the discrepenices be-
tween the story that the brothers of SAE
were orginally given and that which is now
given.”

- “There is definitely a breakdown some-
where,” she said.

Hoffman appeared at the Student
Government Association meeting last
Thursday to ask for the SGA’s support

‘during the investigation and to answer

senators’ questions. SGA President
Joey Harris ’02 indicated that the SGA
fully supported the steps SAE and
Patterson Court were taking to address
the incident. é

The J-Board is the body.composed of
fraternity and eating house members
who hear and pass judgment on cases
before they reach the Dean of Students’
Office. Dean of Students Tom Shandley
ultimately either accepts the J-Board’s
ruling or overrules it. The Board keeps
its proceedings and rulings confiden-
tial until after Dean Shandley has made
his final decision.

SAE is still deciding whether to bring
the entire fraternity’s membership or

only its officers to the hearings to tes-.

tify. Hoffman does hope the plaintiff
and the witnesses who have come for-
ward will attend the hearing and give
their accounts.

Vasquez says that she admires SAE’s
comeback and the effort that they are put-
ting forth in seeing this case through.

NOW OPEN!

THE DELI RESTAURANT SINCE 1976
16639 Birkdale Commons

we
pon ;

Jason's Deli |
$1.00 off any item for
Dine-in or Delivery

Good through 11/30/01

7 stes

Giant Stuffed Potatoes ¢ Big Deli Style Sandwiches
New Orleans Style Muffalettas « Huge Fresh Salad Bar
Box Lunches ¢ 99¢ Kids Menu
Free Ice Cream ¢ And Much More

Catering For Any Occasion __

Jason's deli

Huntersville

704-895-2505 ° 704-895-2504 FAX
www.jasonsdeli.com
