12

Tue DAvVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcroseER 10, 2001

Football falls to Morehead State, 28-17

Second-half comeback dooms ’Cats in their second loss of the season

By Jackie DAvipsoN
Staff Writer

Football is a game not only of inches, but
also inspiration. Whatever inspiration
Morehead State head coach Mike Ballard
offered his Eagles team at halftime made up
for a lot of inches. In the second half, MSU
rallied from a 17-0 deficit to defeat Davidson
28-17 Saturday afternoon at Jayne Stadium.

Fullback Nick Wooldridge led the way
with a pair of touchdowns. as the MSU of-
fense exploded in the second half, scoring all
of its points on four of its final five posses-
sions.

Initially, Davidson seemed poised to best
its new conference rival. The Wildcats turned
in an impressive all-around first half perfor-
mance, including a 17-point production by
the offense and an outstanding effort by the
defense and special teams.

On the special teams side, junior Jarred
Cochran downed a Chris Costello punt inside
the Eagle one-yard line, setting up a blocked
punt by junior Mo Idlibi after the Eagles
failed to advance.

Meanwhile, the Davidson defense repeat-
edly denied the MSU offense in its end zone
attempts.

Senior linebacker Sam Fraundorf recov-
ered a fumble by Eagles quarterback David
Caudill on the Davidson 10-yard line to set up
a 90-yard touchdown drive by the Davidson
offense. ;

With 1:33 femaining in the half, junior
quarterback Paul Nichols found freshman
John Leverett for the five-yard score, giving
Davidson a 10-0 lead.

Forty-three seconds later, the Davidson
defense forced another MSU turnover.

Once again, the offense capitalized. This
time, Nichols hit Barrett Johnson in the end
zone for the 20-yard TD, giving the Wildcats
a 17-0 lead and tremendous momentum go-
ing into the half.

The game, however, proved to be far from
over.

With 3:20 left to play in the third period, the
MSU rally began when Wooldridge scored
the Eagles’ first points on a one-yard run up
the middle, cutting the Wildcats’ lead to 10.

After stopping the Davidson offense on its

next possession, the Eagles marched down
the field again, scoring its second straight
touchdown, a four-yard run by Caudill, which
reduced the Wildcat lead to two.

On their next drive, the Eagle offense con-
tinued its scoring onslaught, mounting an
impressive nine-play, 84-yard drive capped
by a screen pass from Caudill to fullback
Nick Covin for a 21-yard TD, giving the
Eagles their first lead of the game, 21-17.

A few minutes later, Wooldridge sealed
the Eagle victory witha 12-yard TD run to the
left corner of the end zone.

In the second half, the MSU offense out-
gained the Cats 264 yards to 60. Caudill
finished 19-for-25 for 203 yards passing.
Wooldridge ended the game with 53 yards on
5 carries.

For the Wildcats, Nichols threw for 147
yards, going 17-for-28, including a pair of
touchdowns. Johnson led all receivers with
seven receptions and 80 yards.

The ’Cats will look to get back to their
winning ways next weekend as they travel to
Georgetown to take on the Hoyas. Kickoff is
scheduled for noon.

Club Sport Spotlight

Evan McCormick

Special Contributor

Davidson's roller hockey team suffered a recent devastating 6-5 loss
putting the team in danger of missing the playoffs for the first time in the
organization’s short yet illustrious history. If the team had a coack
would have been upset with the team’s performance. The Wildcats were | [i —
unable to generate sufficient offense to offset the relentless forechecking | gaussamammm
of the Whalers. Limited offensively due to injuries and player absences,
the Wildcats struggled to put the puck in the back of the net.

Richard Connolly once again provided much of the Wildcats’ offen-

sive, collecting four goals. Jim Davidson rounded out the team’s scoring
with a beautiful tally. If there was any positive in last week’s game it was

would have been happy with their performance.

Defensively, the squad did not fair much better. Although Davidson
was able to limit the explosive Whalers to six goals, excellent by roller
hockey standards, the hill was still too high to climb. The Whalers came

defensive corps. Strikingly similar to the Taliban’s military sites that were
destroyed this past week, the Wildcats defensive unit was demolished. If
the team had a coach, he would have been disappointed with the team’s
defensive play.

Due to the squad’s disappointing performance, the local media was not

silence from the organization accentuates Davidson’s perilous situation.
With only two games remaining the Wildcats must win both games to
guarantee a playoff birth. If the team manages only one victory, then a

of lingering questions.
Andrew Foerster to re-ignite playoff hopes. Pressure will surely be placed

on the shoulders of veteran leaders Jay Hollis and Trip Cook. Further-
more, younger players such as Weston Waxweiler and Ned Conway will

the fearless play of Richard and Jim as they almost single-handedly
provided enough offensive to sink the Whalers. If the team had a coach he

out fast and furious, taking an early lead and successfully frustrating the |

granted access into the team’s locker room after the game. The eerie

playoff appearance will most likely be decided by tiebreakers. Going|
winless in the next two games will resulti inan =“ off-season anda string

The squad will surely look towards the return of Josh Vooriess and

Leaping on top again...

Bron Bary: Thiele

Is it a great day to be a
Wildcat?

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Sports Editor

Davidson owns the biggest wildcat statue
in the world. It’s eleven feet long, 1500
pounds, and completely unnecessary.

Irwin Belk ’45 funded the colossal cat’s
creation specifically for the college. The statue
will be installed in front of Baker Sports
Complex, near the Irwin Belk track. Yup,
same guy. As many may recall, that track was
“completed” roughly three years ago thanks
to the generous funding by Belk. But was it
really completed?

The -400-meter, eight-lane track boasts
enough surface for long-jump and pole-vault
runways, a steeplechase water-jump pit, and
a high-jump and javelin-throw area in addi-
tion to the standard racing lanes. The track
team has everything it wants, right? Wrong.

Since the surface dried, little more than a
shoddy paint job (which had to be redone)
was added to the track. The men’s and
women’s track teams have no high-jump and
pole-vault bars or pits. They have no steeple-
chase barriers beyond the one water-jump pit
that waits year after year to be filled. The
sprinters have no starting blocks, and for the
last two years when the school has hosted the
Irwin Belk Invitational track meet, the school
has borrowed starting blocks and hurdles
from UNC-Charlotte because Davidson has
few or none.

The above is just one of many examples of
under-equipped athletic programs at David-
son. Returning to the gracious donation of the
world’s largest wildcat statue, I question the
funding necessary to construct such a statue
and its purpose within the athletic commu-
nity. Will the statue bolster school spirit and
team morale? No. Will the statue draw larger
crowds to home athletic events? No. Will the
statue represent anything to the community a
year from now other than a target of vandal-
ism or fraternity pranks? I predict not. I think
the statue is a waste of money at a college that
could use such a big monetary expenditure
elsewhere (i.e. its athletic programs).

All that big hunk of bronze symbolizes to
me is my school’s lack of support for athlet-
ics. Why does the construction of a statue
take precedence over lack of sufficient ath-
letic equipment?

Every year, athletes work with the David-
son Athletic Fund to hound new and old
athletic alumni and beg for program funding.
I’ve called alumni and listened to each re-
fusal echo my own resentment towards a
school that hardly provides the bare essen-
tials. Varsity athletes sacrifice their time and
their grades for this school with little thought
of recognition. Many of these athletes share
my view that this statue is a vulgar manifes-
tation of Davidson’ s nonexistent athletic sup-
port.

If the school respects its athletic programs,
it should equip the track, light the baseball .
field, or turf the field hockey field. The wild-
cat statue is supposed to symbolize
Davidson’s overachieving spirit, right? Put it

Freshman Julia Hueckel pounds the ball home in
last Tuesday’s game against North Carolina A&T.
See page 10 forcomplete results

be challenged to extend their successful rookie campaigns. Davidson still
clings to the hope of another championship—will they succeed? —

in front of our Chambers academic building,
where all the real spirit resides. We’re fresh

out at Baker.
Inspirational Quote of the Week
is é ‘ ‘ FOOTBALL VOLLEYBALL
So long as there is breath in me, that long will | Oct. 13 @ Georgetown 12:00 Oct. 12 Wofford 7-00
persist. For now | know one of the greatest prin- Oct. 20 @ Randoph-Mac. 1:00 Oct. 20 @ Chattanooga 2:00
ciples of success; if | persist long enough, 1 will Mes Cerone ree eskey
p ze 2 Pp g g Oct. 13 @ VMI 11:00 Oct. 12 @ Vermont 11:00
win. a Oct. 17 @ Wake Forest 7:00 Oct. 15 @ Holy Cross 4:00
_OgMandin of. % 4 WomMEN’s SOCCER Oct. 16 @ Maine 12:00
Zn Oct. 12 @ Chattanooga 7:00 Oct. 20 William & Mary 12:00
Oct. 14 @ Western Car. 1:00 Cross CouNTRY
Moe , ~H) Oct. 19 C. of Charleston 7:00 Oct. 13 Men: Furman Invitational

Women: Intercollegiates
