Men’s tennis earns three straight conference wins

By WHITNEY BOYKIN
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team is on a roll.

After winning six of its last seven matches,
the Wildcats are in fifth place in the Southern
Conference with a record of 10-7, 5-3 in the
conference.

With victories over Wofford, The Citadel,
and Georgia Southern, the team hopes to pick
upa first-round bye in the conference tourna-
ment by finishing in fifth place or higher.

Head coach Jeff Frank said Thursday’s
match against Appalachian State may be the
best opportunity to lock up the fifth seed.

“The team is playing great right now,” he
said. “We’ ve gotachance now to finish (No:)
five and not have to play the first day, but to
do that we have to beat ASU on Thursday or
ETSU on Friday. Thursday would cement it
for us.”

Against Georgia Southern on Sunday,
Davidson opened the match by taking all
three doubles for a 1-0 lead. Seniors Whit
Hansen and Billy Boykin (#1) won by ascore
of 8-6 as did junior David Webb and fresh-
man Rob Haywood at number three.

Freshman Rob Gould and junior Chad
Winebarger defeated Wojciech Nowak and
Darren Clark 8-3 at No. 2 doubles.

The singles matches were much more
nerve-racking. Winebarger (#3) and senior
Chad Phillips (#4) won in straight sets, but

Webb stole the spotlight with a match-clinch-
ing victory at No. 5 that lasted more than an
hour after the other matches were completed.

With the team score tied at 3-3, Webb

_rallied from one set down to upend Uli

Ebensperger, giving Davidson its third con-
secutive win.
In Saturday’s match against The Citadel,

. Erin Berry
Senior Whit Hansen, who was named Southern Conference Player of
the Week, helped the Wildcats to their recent 3-win streek -

the Bulldogs jumped on top of Davidson
early by taking the top two doubles matches.
Haywood and Webb picked up Davidson’s
only victory, an 8-2 triumph over John
Dougherty and Tuck Deiter.

The team dominated in singles play, claim-
ing five of the six contests all in straight sets
for the win. Boykin and Eddie Almada had

THE DAVIDSONIAN
- WEDNESDAY,
Aprit 11, 2001

the closest match of the afternoon with Boykin
prevailing 6-4, 7-6. Hansen, Winebarger and
Webbalong with freshman Bryan Stonestreet,
were all victorious for Davidson.

In Thursday’s 6-1 win over Wofford, the
Wildcats took the top two matches for the
doubles point. At number two doubles, fresh-
man and junior Winebarger picked up their
team-leading 11th doubles victory and also
notched their fourth conference win of the
season. Boykin and Hansen triumphed at No.
1, 8-5.

Davidson won five of the six singles
matches to clinch the victory. Hansen’s 6-0,
6-2 win was his fifth straight at No. 1 singles.
Phillips, Webb and Stonestreet all won in
straight sets.

The Cats began the match by sweeping all
three doubles. Number one team Boykin/
Hansen and number three team Webb/Lewis
both won their sets by a score of 8-6. Number
two team Gould/Winebarger won their match
8-3. ,

Coach Frank is very pleased with Webb’s
recent play and commented enthusiastically
on this upset.

“David Webb won the deciding matches
against Citadel and Georgia Southern this
weekend. In the last two conference matches
he is a perfect 4-0 in singles and doubles.
Nobody else on the team has that record.

Women’s tennis picks up momentum with second straight win

By WuiTNEY BoyKIN
Staff Writer

For only the second time this season, the
women’s tennis team has won two straight
matches thanks toa 5-2 victory over Wofford
on Monday.

With the win, the Wildcats improve to 7-9
overall and 3-4 in the Southern Conference
with three matches remaining before the con-
ference tournament.

Davidson triumphed in five of the six
singles contests, all in straight sets, to clinch
the victory. Freshman Lindsay Offutt (No. 1)
earned her first career SoCon singles victory
with a 6-3, 6-3 win over Wendy Rohr. Fellow
freshman Katherine Hatch (No. 6) picked up

‘her third consecutive singles victory while
junior Kelley Cantrell (No. 4) and sopho-
mores Yasamina Hilu (No. 3) and Gayle
Jones (No. 5) also prevailed.

The Terriers took the top two matches for
the doubles point. Hatch and Offutt (No. 3)
were the only players to notch a win, pulling

‘out a 9-7 victory over Kristine Banks and
Erin Hantske.

The win over Wofford, coupled with
Saturday’s 5-2 home triumph of Georgia
Southern, gives the Wildcats some momen-
tum as the postseason approaches.

It also helps erase the memories of con-
secutive losses to Furman on March 31 and
UNC Greensboro on April 5.

The women played with a home court ad-
vantage in the match against Furman, but the
nationally-ranked Paladins won 6-0 to record
their 26" straight conference win.

The Paladins took all three doubles matches
to win the doubles point. Katherine Hatch and
Lindsay Offutt played a close match at No. 3
but fell 8-5 to Krista Thomson and Shellie
Cochran.

Before the rain forced the match to be
cancelled early, the Paladins had enough time
to clench the win with four singles victories.
The only player still on the court was No. 5
Gayle Jones. She was down one set and trail-
ing 3-2 with the match was called off. -

Against UNCG, the Wildcats dropped two
of three doubles matches en route to a 5-2
loss. The lone win came from No. 1 team

Elizabeth Moreno and Yasamina Hilu in an
exciting 11-point tie breaker.

“Yasa and (Moreno) are really pulling it
together and starting to show their potential.
I think they will continue to improve their
record,” said head coach Carolina Price.

Moreno recorded her second win of the day
and her first conference victory over No. 2
Ashel Rimel by a score of 6-3, 6-2. Freshmen
Katherine Hatch also won her singles match
to improve her record to 3-2 in conference
play.

The 5-2 win over Georgia Southern gave
the team its second victory in the conference.
The Wildcats won the doubles point this time
to take a 1-0 lead entering singles.

In singles, the women clinched the victory
with four straight set victories. Cantrell and
freshman~Hatch both notched their team-

leading ninth singles victories while Hilu and |

Jones also triumphed.
The team travels to Boone on Thursday to
play Appalachian State at 3 p.m. :

Sports. Information contributed to this ar-
ticle.

Erin Berry
Junior.Elizabeth Moreno returns

a rally.

Davidsonian
Player of the Week

Sarah Otto

The junior scored two goals to
lead the lacrosse team to a
thrilling 10-9 victory over
Richmond on Apr. 7

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL
Apr. 17 @ Winthrop 6:30
Apr. 18 N.C. A&T 3:00
GoLF :
Apr. 13-14 Wofford Invitational
Spartanburg, SC

TRACK &, FIELD

Apr. 14 USA Collegiate Series
Greenville, S.C.

MENn’s TENNIS

Apr: 12@ Appalachian State 2:30 pm
Apr. 13@ East Tenn. St. 9:30 am
_ Apr. 17 @ Elon College 2:30 pm

Women’s TENNIS
Apr. 12 @ Appalachian State 3:00p.m.
Apr: 14 @ Virginia Tech 9:00 a.m.
Apr. 17 @ East Tenn. St. 10:00 a.m.

4 LACROSSE
Apr. 16 @ Vanderbilt

3:30 p.m.
