: Tue DavipsoniaN

By JessicA MERING
News Editor

The political process will arrive close to
home on Friday when Davidson students lead
a discussion on their experiences with local
and national campaigns.

At 4 pm on Friday, March 23 in the Union
Homeroom, students including Wendy
Adams ’02 and Adam Hill’03 will talk about
their work with Democratic campaigns in the
last year. The speakers will present a brief
summary of their jobs and then spend the rest
of the time answering questions from the
audience.

Adams spent the last two semesters away’

from Davidson, working first as an intern for
Al Gore’s presidential campaign. While with
the campaign, she traveled to Iowa, New
Hampshire, Washington and Tennessee. She
was involved with the events leading up to
and surrounding the Democratic primary elec-
tion, where Gore ran against Senator Bill
Bradley. Her primary activities involved in-
creasing Gore’s visibility in New Hampshire.
Adams and fellow Gore supporters spent
time campaigning on street corners and coor-
dinating campaign events. “One of my favor-
ite memories of that time was watching the

oe

q

Student panel discusses involve-
ment in political campaigns

Super Bowl in a room with Al Gore,” Adams
said.

Adams spent this past fall in Washington
state as a staff member for both local and
national campaigns. She worked with Sena-
tor Maria Cantwell (D-Wash), who defeated
incumbent Slade Gorton. In Washington,
Adams helped to coordinate volunteers, make
phone calls and organize events for Cantwell
and other Democratic candidates.

Especially memorable was election night
in November, when the television networks
called Florida for Gore before the Washing-
ton polls closed. “I'll never forget that feel-
ing. Florida meant we’d won, but it all went
downhill from there,” she remembered.
Adams noted that a predicted Gore victory
probably caused many individuals on the
West Coast not to vote at all and could have
affected the potential election results.

Hill spent his fall semester working for
Gore’s campaign in the Nashville, Tennessee
headquarters. He was primarily involved in
the press and communications departments.
Adams and Hill will discuss the differences
in working for national and local campaigns.
They hope to “give an idea of what [they] did
and what it’s like behind the scenes at a
political campaign,” said Adams.

| The Student Health Advisors are, from left to right Stephane Courhee Rebecca Moore, a
David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott -

Bi Gonos tiphe:

Guest Writer : re ae:

“Thates Saint bapick'« bat ven though | Ido enjoy watching drunken characters gure
green beers, I dread reliving that same day in 1988.

The Soda Sho

Since 1951

preakfast : aks ast. Burritos

Omelets

‘Tt began as a typical spring break: the family piled in the old station eigcii uy booted
and his best friend harassing me in the backseat, Dad belting out every country song on the
-wrong key, and Mom complaining about the noise level and her car-sickness. We were
heading to the New Mexico Rocky Mountains; Dad was still slightly annoyed with his other
daughter, Laurie who was a senior in high school, because she had decided against the
family ski vacation so that she could go “party at the beaches in South Padre”. Around eight
we stopped at.a motel in Amarillo to spend the night.

- Icouldn’t sleep that night. I don’t know why but I just couldn’t sleep. So I closed my
eyes, snuggled with the dog, and pretended to dream. Around two the phone rang. I saw
Dad’s backrise as he moved towards Mom, he was calm yet the look on his face contradicted
his methodical actions. He and Mom sat my brother, his friend, and me onto the couch in
the other room. “Cannon, Daniel, Reagan... Laurie was killed in a car accident tonight”.

I can still see the itchy brown fabric of that couch and I can feel my body stand to embrace
my family; but at that time I didn’t cry- truthfully I didn’t understand. Laurie was only

eighteen, she knew every Madonna and Cyndi Lauper song, she wore mascara and used an
eyelash crimper; she was too young to die, only grandparents and great-uncles die.

104 S.Main St. Davidson, NC

Certainly not a young, carefree, blonde Texan. In orderto preoccupy Reagan, my brother,
and me, Dad brought in his highlighters, zoning pens, and legal pads.

No one knew how to react, accidents like that don’t happen to safe and careful families.
T still thought that she would come back. At night I dreamed I was in a mirrored hallway
with hundreds of doors and Laurie was hiding behind one of them.

There had been a party the night before Laurie and her friends were going to road trip to
South Padre. Of course, they were all blasted; her boyfriend was driving her Bronco, Laurie
road shotgun, and the rest were in the back. None of them were wearing seat belts. He must
have turned too quickly because the Bronco he He had a broken leg, her other friends
had minor injuries, and she died.

Eat-in Take-out

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.C.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288 ae

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. -

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY &
EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR
AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON AD. AT THE ENTRANCE GF THE
PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKD PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Since then, I’ ve hated Saint Patrick's Day, Lam a seat-bett nazi and Ihave zero tolerance
for drunk driving. I think of her every day- what would she be doing now? Where would
she be living? Instead she is a memory in my heart, she’s the best teacher that I have had
and will ever have. South Padre was Laurie’ s dream vacation, she couldn’ t wait to take her

final high school spring- break trip; unfortunately she never made it there. aS

‘Her death changed my life. As I matured I saw my peers make Laurie’ 5 mistake, but
a aise ee bd peapghice materia aii os bunch,

eer

/ si rs or

broken ee S cusdainiaaaangenriiens ip
to South Padre, peticbrpabyie Mae atmo a :
| Married and hada prs seidenitolin and shared all shunts inh lit sister.

“The Student

n, Body isan informatica dine ie
Sect acide. , who

students. It is written by the Student Health A ‘ :
‘Se che i er Bd Mt
: _ also contact Georgia Ringle (x2902) in the Student ¢ unseling Ce

Son
SECIS

Campus Police Blotter

The Campus Police Blotter will return next week

~ MARY SALOPEK, 0.8.0.

LUCA

