tics.

FOR

- Love him or hate him, U.S.
Senator Jesse Helms has
been a staple in modern poli-
His retirement an-
nouncement last month has
led many to reassess his long
and contraversial term.

Statesman not afraid to take a stand

A living legend of American politics and a
conservative icon an-
nounced his departure
from public life last
week.

Jesse Helms, known
to both critic and ally as
“Senator No,” yielded to
his increasingly deterio-
rating physical condition
and officially announced
his retirement from poli-

TRAVIS LEE

tics.

North Carolina, the state he served so loy-
ally for so long, and America will, indeed, be
worse off when Mr. Helms leaves in 2003.

Upon joining the Senate as an inflamma-
tory, states’ rights conservative in 1972, Helms
set about to change the political landscape in
North Carolina and the tone in Washington.

He restructured the partisan landscape of
his home state by becoming the first Repub-
lican senator elected by the Tar Heel state
since Reconstruction. His victory, along with
Strom Thurmond’s in South Carolina, helped
to loosen the hold of the Democrats in the
“One Party South.”

The GOP, for the first time in more than

* 150 years, became a potent force in the South.

It may even be argued that Helms’ efforts to
strengthen the GOP in the South enabled
Ronald Reagan to win the North Carolina
primary in 1976 and stage his comeback, and
the beginnings of the “Conservative Revolu-
tion,” in 1980.

Though his work to remake the Republican
Party is memorable and praiseworthy, Jesse
Helms will undoubtedly be remembered for
the controversial, but principled, stances he
took on issues of policy- especially foreign
affairs.

It must be admitted that Helms took some

-less than sensitive stances on some issues,

such as desegregation, but it must also be
conceded that these positions were formed
from Helms’ deepest-held convictions and
principles on the role of the federal govern-
ment.

Other, more commendable, views on abor-
tion, gun control and affirmative action forced
the political climate in the Senate to become
more partisan and hard-nosed. He was a po-
larizing figure who held polarizing beliefs,
forcing more frank and impassioned discus-
sion of policy issues.

Helms not only antagonized the liberal

establishment in the media and the Demo-
cratic party, but also infuriated United Na-
tions bureaucrats and Communist dictators.
Like his domestic record, Senator Helms’
policy decisions in the realm of international
politics at times seemed out of date. But

again, he always looked to principle to make

these decisions. Helms was able to force
presidents from Reagan to Clinton to bend to
his will on confirmations, UN dues pay-
ments, and international treaties with tenac-
ity seldom seen in the Senate. Yet he was also
able to look deep within his Christian and
conservative soul to do the right thing on
third world debt relief and AIDS assistance.

With so colorful and memorable a history
in the US Senate, Jesse Helms must be re-
membered as one the great American states-
men and politicians in recent history. His
departure will alter the Senate more than Jim
Jeffords’ defection because it will, sadly,
move the body to the political left.

A vacuum will be left in the American
political landscape that perhaps no person
can fill. In 2003, North Carolina and the
entire nation will watch a champion of val-
ues, American independence, and principles
fade away.

AGAINST

No tears after Helms’s departure

Last week was one of the greatest weeks of
my life. North Carolina
senior senator Jesse
Helms announced that he
would not seek re-elec-
tion. To some, Helms was
a hero. To me, he was the
last overtly racist national
politician, athrowback to

soos

ALEX the Old South.
IMASSENGALE As Earl Black of Rice
University said, “Jesse
Helms is the most promi-

nent Southern senator that acted as if the Civil
Rights and Voting Rights Acts never passed.”

Throughout his career, while other Old
South politicians have embraced minorities,

Jesse has worn his bigotry against gays, Af-

rican Americans and “communists” like a
badge of honor.

Jesse Helms first burst into the public
eye in North Carolina in the late 1950’s while
working as a commentator for WRAI-TV in
Raleigh. He became famous with his nightly
rants against communism and civil rights.

Here is one of his enlightened gems: ‘‘The
Negro cannot count forever on the kind of
restraint that.has thus far left him free to clog
the streets, disrupt traffic and commerce and
interfere with other men’s rights.”

While working for WRAL, Jesse also wrote
editorials. One from the late 1960s urged his
readers “to face, honestly and sincerely, the
purely scientific statistical evidence of natu-
ral racial distinctions in group intellect.”

This exposure and the popularity of these

racist sentiments in a state desperately trying
to stave off the civil rights movement led
Jesse to run for the U.S. Senate in 1972. In
what would become his trademark, Jesse ran
a very negative campaign centered on issues
of race and ethnicity. Running under the
slogan “Jesse Helms: He’s one of us,” he
narrowly defeated Greek American oppo-
nent Nick Galifianakis.

Helms’ combative nature and his scath-
ing commentaries on race, liberals and com-
munists quickly led him to became one of the
most prominent members of the infant neo-
conservative movement and helped him es-
tablish a vast national fundraising empire.

Helm’s 1984 campaign was one of the
most expensive and divisive campaigns in
the country. Trailing Gov. Jim Hunt by 20
points, Helms played the race card and
launched filibusters against the creation of a
holiday honoring Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
and against an extension of the Voting Rights
Act.

Helms argued, “King’s view of American
society was thus not fundamentally different
from that of the CPUSA (American Commu-
nist Party) or that of other Marxists. While he
is generally remembered today as the pioneer
of civil rights for blacks and as the architect of
nonviolent techniques of dissent and political
agitation, his hostility to and hatred for
America should be made clear.”

In 1990, Helms found himself facing a
double-digit deficit against African Ameri-
can Harvey Gantt. He responded by running
the infamous “white hands” ad in which the

hands of a white man are seen crumpling up
a job rejection notice while a commentator
says, “You needed that job. And you were the
best qualified. But they had to give it to a
minority because of a racial quota. Is that
really fair? Harvey Gantt says it is.” This ad
turned his re-election campaign around and
Helms won.

Helm’s bigotry continued unabated into
the 1990s. He began the decade by opposing
funding for AIDS relief. Years later, he ex-
plained his opposition to this measure to the

. New York Times arguing that “We’ ve got to

have some common sense about a disease
transmitted by people deliberately engaging
in unnatural acts.“

Later in a well-publicized incident in 1993,
Helms entered an elevator with African
American Senator Carol Moseley-Braun and
began to sing “Dixie”, telling colleague Orrin
Hatch that he would sing it “until she cries.”

Columnist Hal Crowther summed up the
essence of Jesse perfectly when he wrote that
“Jesse’s customers are all white people, and
in North Carolina white nostalgia for the
good old days usually includes nostalgia for
separate restrooms and lunch counters. A
vote for Jesse Helms is a vote for their ances-
tors ...our senator is a walking theme park

with two. themes: Jim Crow and the Cold

War.”

We should all be glad that this theme park
is closing and Jesse Helms will no longer be
able to spew his venom in the name of North
Carolina.

The Late Dale Earnhardt

NASCAR
dangerous
by nature

Just in case you hadn’t heard, NASCAR
legend Dale Earnhardt,
died in a crash in Feb-
ruary while racing the
last lap of the Daytona
500.

His death shocked
the world of auto rac-
ing and forced
NASCAR officials to
look into new and im-
proved safety stan-
dards for both drivers and cars. The fatal
crash also sparked a six-month investigation
into how exactly Earnhardt met his death.

While most fans hoped for a clear explana-
tion of how and why their hero died in that
infamous crash, the results proved mostly
ambiguous.

Essentially, it is hard to survive a head on
collision with a wall at 164 miles per hour,
even if you are the world’s “greatest driver of
all time.”

While Earnhardt’s death is stunning, it
shouldn’t seem too surprising that such a
travesty occurred ina NASCAR race.

In the last 18 months alone, four deaths
have occurred on the raceways. But is this
poor track record (pardon the pun) really due
to the sports’ inadequate safety policies, or is
death simply a part of the sport that fans and
drivers must come to accept?

After all, how many NASCAR followers
could honestly claim to be disinterested when
the monotony of cars going around in circles
is sometimes broken by the spontaneity of a
10-car collision? Except for the final few
laps, crashes are often the climax of a typical
race for viewers.

It seems like the only way for NASCAR to
fully satisfy its fans is to find an approach to
safety policies that minimizes injuries, while
maximizing the possibility for extraordinary
crashes to occur on the track.

Some of NASCAR’s recently revealed
plans for future safety policies are hardly
impressive. A few of their “new” plans
include seat belt regulation and tighter speed
restrictions. The problem is that the safest
seat belts are uncomfortable, and less speed
entails crashes that don’t look quite as cool.

One of the supposed safety improvements
involves inserting “black boxes” into the
racing cars, much like those placed in air-
planes and consulted in the case of a crash.
These would supposedly provide us specific
information about what occurred during a
particular car crash. -However, it seems that
the 40 or 50 cameras at the race recording the
action already give us enough feedback on
what happened, since I can watch the replay
ten times on SportsCenter the next morning.

There is only so much safety we can
provide to drivers when they decide to put
themselves in a car traveling 170 mph.
Earnhardt understood the inevitable risks of
his sport. Why can’t the fans?

ZACH WILLIAMS
