12

we

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMB ER 7, 2001

First half woes

By Jackie DAvIDSON

Staff Writer

On Saturday, the Wildcats learned never
to underestimate the value of veteran lead-
ership.

The absence of veteran quarterback Paul
Nichols, out for the season after suffering
a torn ACL against Hampden-Sydney,
proved disastrous for the Wildcats (4-4) as
the offense struggled mightily in the first
half, committing six turnovers en route to
a 41-27 loss against the Centre Colonels
(8-1). :

Davidson’s first offensive play fore-
shadowed the ’Cats’ doom when a fumbled
hand-off from freshman quarterback An-
drew Pickens to senior running back Ward
Gibson gave Centre superb field position
on the Wildcats’ 32-yard line, resulting in
a Centre touchdown just 2:46 into the game.

Four plays into the Cats’ next drive,
Pickens mishandled the snap, resulting in
another Wildcat fumble inside their own
territory. Once again, the Centre offense
capitalized on the Davidson turnover, as

quarterback Drew Mildren scored on a |

quarterback sneak to put the Colonels up
14-0.

Davidson’s offensive woes continued
on their next series when the ’Cats com-

, absence of starting QB plague Wildcats

mitted yet another turnover, failing to score
despite having driven deep into Colonel
territory. After a 25-yard completion from
Pickens to sophomore Barrett Johnson po-

sitioned the ’Cats at the Centre 5-yard line, -

the Colonel defense denied the run on two
straight attempts, forcing Davidson into a
passing situation on third down. Pickens,
however, was intercepted as he attempted
to find a receiver in the back of the end
zone.

Following the interception, the Colo-
nels marched 80 yards on seven plays,
including a 37-yard run by Travis Bell, for
the touchdown, making it 21-0. Centre
would later score 10 more points off David-
son turnovers, giving them a commanding
31-0 halftime lead.

Davidson finally scored late in the
third period when Pickens found senior
Mike Tarver on a fade pass to the corner of
the end zone. Seconds later, after sopho-
more linebacker Darryl Childers inter-
cepted Mildren, Pickens threw another
strike to Johnson for the ’Cats’ second TD
of the day.

While the ’Cats managed to pull within
two touchdowns of the Colonels, the first
half deficit proved too much to overcome.
With Centre leading 34-20 and 2:30 re-
maining, ‘Davidson attempted an onside

kick. Though the kick took a favorable
high bounce, the Wildcats were unable to
recover and the Colonels went on to a 41-
27 victory.

Tarver and Johson combined for 13
catchies and 191 yards in the losing effort.

Pickens, despite the four turnovers, man-
aged to rack up otherwise impressive num-
bers, completing 16 of 35 attempts for 247
yards, prompting praise from his team-
mates.

Junior defensive lineman J.J. Rice de-
scribed Pickens as “crisp” and “sharp,”
saying, “other than the turnovers, he looked
good out there, and the turnovers are un-
derstandable considering it was his first
start.”

The ’Cats will conclude their 2001 cam-
paign at home next week against confer-
ence rival Austin Peay. They will once
again be without Nichols, who is unavail-
able after suffering a season-ending ACL
tear. ,

According to Nichols, the injury occurred
two weeks ago against Hampden-Sydney.

“I scrambled during the Hampden-
Sydney game and hurt my knee,” he said,
“but I didn’t feel it pop so I continued to
play.”

The full_extent of the injury became
obvious on Monday, when immense swell-

Men’s soccer team readies for postseason

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Writer

At the beginning of the season, men’s
soccer coach Matt Spear outlined his squad’s
plan for the year: “The primary goal is to win
the Southern Conference and advance to the
NCAA Tournament. The next time we can

Senior Jeremy Kilburn helped keep the Furman
offense at bay in Saturday’s close 0-1 loss.

get to the tournament will put Davidson
men’s soccer back on the national map.”

Saturday’s loss to Furman dashed any
hopes of the Wildcats capturing the SoCon
regular season crown, but, judging from their
performances against the Paladins and the
College of Charleston, the team should feel
optimistic about its
chances of securing an
NCAA bid by win-
ning the. conference
tournament.

Against Charleston,
the ’Cats were look-
ing to end a three-
game losing skid and
continue their un-
| beaten streak athome,

as they were 4-0 at
Richardson Stadium
entering the match.

Senior forward Jon
Tetirick, in his first
game since recover-
ing from a leg injury,
provided the offensive
spark that Davidson
needed, netting two
goals en route to the
2-1 win.

Tetirick’s first goal
was unassisted, as he

Lindsay Ferguson

took the ball from the top of the penalty area,
avoided several Cougar defenders, and slot-
ted aclean shot into the bottom left corner in
the 54th minute. ;

Only 17 minutes later, fellow senior Erik
Ozimek set up what would be the game
winning goal, lofting a pretty ball to the feet
of Tetirick, who skillfully placed the cross
into the back of the net for his second tally of
the evening.

Following Davidson’s second goal, the
game turned into a physical battle, as the
referee issued four yellow cards and three
red cards in the final 20 minutes of the match.

‘The Cougars got on the scoreboard late in
the second half, but it was not enough as
freshman goalkeeper Bart Creasman recorded
two saves on his way to earning the victory.

“Charleston was a very physical team and
we had to match their grit in order for our
soccer abilities to rise to the top,” noted
Spear. “Not getting a first half goal inspired
Charleston, who began to think an upset was
in order. But improved second half play, led
by Jon Tetirick’s two spectacular goals, won
the day.”

Spear continued, “It was great to have Jon
back after three games away due to a ham-
string injury. As an attacking, creative and
experienced forward, he is critical to our
post-season plans. He stepped up big time
today. Great players do that.”

ing in Nichols’ knee prompted a trip to the
orthopedist, which revealed the tear.

“That same night the doctor called and
told me that I had completely torn my
ACL,” said Nichols.

In the interim since, Nichols has sched-
uled surgery but is not expected to return
until spring practice. So Pickens will get
his second start in Saturday’s season fi-
nale. Kickoff is slated for 1 p.m. at
Richardson Stadium.

Caroline Hauser

Midfielder Dan Ferriter ’05
offered strong support off the
bench against Charleston.

The Wildcats entered the Furman game
confident that they could play with the Pala-
dins, but desperately wanting to prove that
Davidson was capable of beating a ranked
opponent. |

Although 21st ranked Furman: controlled
play for much of the first half, the game
remained tied until the 43rd minute, when
the Paladins’ Anthony Esquivel finally capi-
talized on a penalty kick opportunity.

Early in the second frame, Furman came
close to extending its lead, but sophomore
defender David Peoples made a brilliant
play on the goal line to keep the ’Cats within
a goal.

Davidson dominated possession for most
of the second half, as the Wildcats kept the
ball in their attacking third and generated
many scoring opportunities.

Tetirick narrowly missed a rebound op-
portunity midway through the half and was
stuffed by the Furman goaltender on a.
breakaway with just over 18 minutes left in
the game.

With time winding down, Ozimek fought
to tie the match, but the Paladins keeper
blocked his well-placed free kick from 20
yards out to all but secure the 1-0 win for
Furman.

Senior goaltender Soren Johnson played a
fantastic game in net, despite the loss.

“Although Furman had more shots, we felt
continued on page 15°

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Many of Life’s failures are people who did

not realize how close
when they gave up.”

Pear pe sig.
nm he. cgien rn

they were to success

Thomas Edison

THE WEEK AHEAD

FOOTBALL Women’s Soccer

Nov. 10 = Austin Peay 1:00 Nov. 8-11 SoCon Tournament TBA

(Greenville, SC)
VOLLEYBALL

Nov. 9 E. Tennessee State 7:00 WRESTLING

Nov.10 Appalachian State 5:00 Nov. 10 West Virginia Open All Day
(Morgantown, WV)

Men’s Soccer :
Nov. 10 @ Georgia Southern 1:00 MEN’s BASKETBALL
Nov.8 Finland 7:00

