- Tue DavipsoNIAN ~

O’Brien

9
from page 1
(“Spin”, “Ambush”) and also from a: very
different work in progress, about a group of
college graduates and the lives they lead after
college. Later, O’Brien closed the night with
a book signing, reception and a trip to the
Depot for drinks with students.

Thursday morning O’Brien met with En-
glish classes for question and answer ses-
sions. He explained the long hours and hard
work poring over his writing, perfecting each
word and sentence. In the way of advice for
aspiring writers, he
said “bad writing ‘is
using words from
Wal-Mart... that out
of the same 26 letters
you can make
Ulysses, or Cosmo or
Playboy, they’re like
DNA, building
blocks... a [good]
story doesn’t instruct,
give lessons, explain
anything, it just is...
and that a well-told
story addresses not
just the head but the
whole body.”

Amid discussion of
syntax and diction,
O’Brien’s remarks
also took on an
overtly political tone.
Admitting that he had
“always been pretty cynical,” O’Brien re-
marked that Vietnam was the sort of war that
turns “idealism into betrayal in a hurry.” In
response to a student’s question about poli-
tics, O’ Brien stated that the United States “‘is
founded on great principles, but also is the
country of genocide against the Indians, sla-
very, and My Lai [massacred Vietnamese

¢

village].”

O’Brien says that he did the wrong thing by

going to the war, and lacked the courage to
stay home. In the first story of The Things
they Carried, O’Brien writes “I was acoward.
I went to the war.” Clearly O’Brien opposed,
and still opposes, the war but went because of
fear and embarrassment: “men, by and large,”
O’Brien said, “go to war because they’re too
embarrassed not to.”

At Thursday night’s lecture, Prof. Eliza-
beth Mills, who eloquently introduced
O’Brien, spoke of O’Brien’s words, tech-
nique and their impact on the reader. O’ Brien
regaled assembled students and professors of
_ his formative expe-
riences as “Timmy,”
one of his first liter-
ary experiences read-
ing The Boxcar Chil-
dren, and his very
first novel, Timmy in
the Little League.
O’Brien said that he
was a “wholesale
swallower of the
John Wayne myth”
who coveted the
glory of war. His ex-
periences in Viet-
nam, however, shat-
tered that myth when
it “collided with real
life.”

Before he con-
cluded his visit,
O’Brien thanked his
hosts and the students
and professors he had met. He called Davidson
a pleasure to visit, and distinguished it from
other colleges “where [one] watches Bernard
Shaw on CNN all night.” Before leaving his
newly made Davidsonian friends, O’Brien
hoped to cap his visit with another trip to the
Depot.

College Communications

Outpost,

from page I

pondering the idea of a house on the Court
since the 1970s. However, strong efforts
began last semester when it became clear the
Outpost would soon be available. DIA repre-
sentatives presented their case to the CCRL,
plus the SGA and the Patterson Court Coun-
cil.

PCC endorsed DIA’s petition last year, but
with a catch. According to former PCC
President Chad Phillips (who served during
proposals from both DIA. and Fiji), PCC
agreed to endorse DIA — but only until or if
Fiji decided to apply for the house. Fiji did so
this semester, after the brothers took an offi-
cial vote.

Phillips said, “I felt like the majority of the
members on PCC would have preferred to
have a group on Patterson Court that would

future we can use this experience as a build-
ing block”

Unnikrishnan believes the discussion pro-
cess helped DIA hone their arguments and
strengthen their commitment. In addition, it
provided DIA with an opportunity to find out
what diverse campus organizations thought
of their plan. “As an open organization, it’s
important to get a sense of what people think.”

If Vagt grants the petition, both Harris and
Unnikrishnan feel DIA will bring a new and
unique perspective to the Court. If DIA ends
up moving into the old Outpost, it will be dry,
co-ed and completely inclusive, making it
more along the lines of the Black Student
Coalition than the existing eating houses and
fraternities. Unnikrishnan believes a house
on the Ceurt would help DIA. move from
being an event-to-event organization to hav-
ing more consistent participation from mem-
bers and the campus, even if that participa-
tion is just hanging out at the DIA house.

have sup- If the Out-
ported PCC,” post be-
and DIA had i comes
indicated Strong efforts began last semester when it be-  pIA’s new
they did not came clear the Outpost would soon be available. ho. m6:
want to be- ; _ . Unnikrishnan
come 2 PCC i < ms said, there
member. a are no plans

Phillips.stressed that the PCC is not against
DIA, but that “PCC supports any group that
would be an active voting member of PCC,”
and the group felt more allegiance to Fiji,
which has been an active member even while
off campus.

According to Fiji president Rob Hester
‘01, the fraternity would have liked to supple-
ment membership in PCC with a physical

presence on the Court. However, he too .

stressed that Fiji was never against DIA, just
- for themselves. “We were disappointed,” he
admitted, “but to be honest we feel that DIA
would be a good addition to the court also,
We’re hoping that if a house opens up in the

tosi gnificantly redecorate. “The Outpost has

”

a special place in all our hearts,” she ac-

knowledged, saying that no one wants to

completely change it. She suggested that
small changes to bring an international flavor
to the house might be in store, but added,
“Hopefully the people will bring an interna-
tional flavor to DIA.”

President Vagt declined to comment on the
issue until he has reached a decision. But
whether DIA’s petition is granted, Harris
said, “I’m sure they’re busy planning some-
thing as we speak.” If they do become a
presence on the Court, he said, “I think they’ Il
do very well.”

703-872-6261.

places. Asithe nation’s fifth-largest passenger-carrying airline, US Airways strives
to be the Carrier of Choice, And/as we travel through 205 airports daily, we can
offer our employees some of the best travel privileges in the industry. The
following position is available in Winston-Salem:

CONSUMER
AFFAIRS REPRESENTATIVES

immediate Full Time (Year-round) and Summer (May through September
with evening training starting in April) positions are available, °

In this key role, you will maintain/retain customer loyalty to US Airways. This will be
achieved by diplomatically responding to passenger complaints/recommendations by letter or
telephone, and determining circumstances or procedures involved when irregularities or problems
result in customer inconvenience through coordination with other departments. Additionally, you will maintain
consumer database and provide quantitative feedback with regard to consumer trends and job productivity.

US: Alzways fas been ‘around ~ since 1939, w be precise, And we're pings i

Ideal candidates will have H.S. Diploma or equivalent, 2 years of experience in a telephone/call center environment or similar customer
service experience (e.g. retail, hotel & hospitality), and a background in communicating with consumers through written
correspondence (writing abilities will be assessed during the interview process). Knowledge of MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint)
is essential. Understanding of the airline reservation system, ticketing and passenger procedures is a plus, but not required.

Competitive salaries, liberal travel privileges and excellent work/life balance are the hallmark of our outstanding
programs. For confidential consideration, please forward your resume and cover letter (indicating Job Code LC200495) to: US Airways
~ Recruiting, Attention: LC Marketing Recruiter, 2345 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22227. E-mail: careers@usairways.com Fax:

U'S AIRWAYS

Wwww.usairways.com

US Airways is committed to workplace diversity and, as an equal opportunity employer,

secks qualified candidates regardless of race. colot, sex, of national origin.

L fs

empl

right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecca Moore,

dened by the fact that ballet schools, televi-
sion, and magazines are presenting a well-

