GALENVILLE

From S.1L.D Reports

How the Wildcats fared at the Southern Conference Men's and
Women’s Basketball Championships, March 1-4 in Greenville, S.C.

Men advance to semis

ADNESS

Women lose to Wofford

By DEREK SMITH

Davidson §.1.D

GREENVILLE, S.C.—Davidson was finally able to employ it full arsenal at the Southern

Conference tournament after spending much of the season battling injuries and absences.
In the opening round of the tournament, Chris Pearson delivered the clutch game-winning
shot with two seconds left to lift Davidson over the Wofford Terriers, 60-57.

With less than a minute to play, the Wildcats’ Martin Ides, who was 1-for-6 from the foul
line in the game, hit two free throws to give Davidson a 57-54 lead.

But Wofford’s Ian Chadwick drilled a long three-pointer with 33 seconds remaining in the
game to tie the score at 57. It was Chadwick’s fourth three-pointers of the game, and gave him
a game-high 32 points.

Not having to worry about the shot clock, Davidson set up fora last-second shot by isolating
sophomore Wayne Bernard. He drove into the lane, but dished off to Pearson underneath the
basket, who laid in the go-ahead bucket and was fouled. Pearson converted the free throw for
the three-point lead.

But the Terriers still had time for one last desperation shot. After a timeout at halfcourt with
1.4 seconds, Wofford could not get the ball to Chadwick, but rather Bishop Ravenel. His 30-
footer at the buzzer fell short of the rim, giving Davidson its first league tournament victory
since winning the 1998 title.

“‘T knew that Wayne was going to win the game for us,” said Pearson after the game. “But

what I didn’t realize was that he was going to use me to win it.”

In the Friday afternoon quarterfinals, Davidson pulled off its second upset in less than a
week of South Division top seed College of Charleston, defeating the Cougars 57-54.

Sophomore Wayne Bernard hit both ends of a one-and-one free throw situation twice in the
final 30 seconds to preserve the Davidson victory. Charleston had a last shot at tying the game,
but could only manage ‘a distant three-pointer by Jeff Bolton that was off the mark with two
seconds left. .

Following the game, head coach Bob McKillop said, “This team fears nobody. We will play
Duke or anyone in the country and with that said, this is a great victory in the Southern
Conference Tournament.

“We’ ve been healthy every time we have played [Charleston]. We played with confidence
and we play to win.”

Even with the momentum of two wins, Davidson’s attempt to take the conference crown
by winning four games came to an end in the semifinals of Saturday evening as the UNC
Greensboro Spartans defeated the Wildcats 73-68. °

Junior Michael Bree drained a three-pointer with 16 minutes left to give Davidson its
biggest lead of the game at 48-35. The Wildcats still led by nine four minutes later when
sophomore Wayne Bernard canned a pair of free throws after UNCG Head Coach Fran
McCaffery picked up a technical foul for throwing his suit jacket.

But the technical seemed to spark the Spartans, as they rattled off nine straight points.
Freshman Jouni Eho made one of two foul shots before UNCG’s Luke Boythe hit a layup to
give Greensboro its first lead in over 20 minutes at 55-54.

Davidson didn’t wilt, however, immediately retaking the lead ona jumper by junior Emeka
Erege and two free throws by sophomore Chris Pearson.

A three-pointer by Courtney Eldridge put UNCG up for good with 5:48 to play, 62-60. With
Ronnie Taylor and Eldridge converting all six of their free throws in the final 24 seconds, the
Spartans wrapped up the game.

“We emptied are tank today,” said McKillop afterwards. “You could see with eight to 10
minutes left, we just ran out of gas. Our energy level didn’t come into play until UNCG started
its run. Without momentum on our side, it was very difficult to maintain our energy.”

The Wildcats will not loose any seniors this year, making this year’s entire squad available
for next year.

Competing against big names, big money for recruits
COMMENTARY, from page 16

Dean Emmerton, on the other hand, isa senior diver at Myers Park High School in Charlotte.
He came to North Carolina by way of South Africa, where he recently won the National Diving
Championship in December. He was also the North Carolina State 4A diving champ on the
one-meter platform in 2000 and 2001. He has had past successes most specifically over the
summer while diving with his USA Diving team, Team Charlotte, in regional competition. In
his age group, he has placed in the top ten in regionals on both the one- and three-meter
platforms.

Emmerton would be an enormous asset to the Davidson swimming and diving program as
it joins the Colonial Athletic Association next season. Diving coach Ted Hautau, who has
been Emmerton’s coach with Team Charlotte, says that he is an aspiring engineer and is very
much interested in the Honors Program at the University of South Carolina. Emmerton would
also like to dive in a competitive conference like the Southeastern Conference (SEC), which
is widely considered the best diving conference in the country. He is also being recruited by
a number of ACC schools, including North Carolina, NC State, and Maryland.

So what do we offer these two recruits? We can offer Eric Blancett the small size that he
is looking for in a nationally ranked liberal-arts college. We can also offer the possibility of
a full athletic scholarship. We can offer our 3-2 engineering program to Dean Emmerton, but
not the exposure of diving in the most competitive conference in America, And we can’t
guarantee a full scholarship like South Carolina.

And hence, these are just a few of the challenges of recruiting at a school like Davidson.

Ultimately, a student-athlete must determine what they are most interested in obtaining in
their college experience. Although Davidson enjoys the benefits that come from success in
NCAA sports, it does not intend to make any sacrifices for the explicit purposes of garnering
‘the nation’s top recruits.

Davidson S.I.D.

GREENVILLE, S.C. — What was a disappointing season for the Davidson women’s
basketball team came to an end Thursday evening with a 76-62 loss to the Wofford Terriers
in the first round of the 2001 Mountain Dew Southern Conference Championships at
Timmons Arena. .

Davidson (9-19, 4-14) never led as Wofford (11-17, 6-12) jumped out to an early 8-0 lead
and never looked back. The Lady Terriers had four players score in double figures and were
led by senior guard Jenny Nett who scored 18 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, both game
highs.

The Wildcats were led by junior forward Kelly Copland who scored 13 points on 6-8
shooting. Junior tri-captain Janna Magette added 12 points while senior forward Kim Taylor
scored 10 points in her final game in a Wildcat uniform.

After the opening 8-0 deficit, Davidson was able to cut the lead to just six points at 12-6,
however Wofford would score the next eight points and Davidson never got closer than 10
points the rest of the game. Wofford built a lead as large as 19 points in the first stanza when
the Wildcat offense had trouble finding the bottom of the basket.

The teams headed to the lockerrooms with the Wildcats trailing 36-21.

The Wildcats came out for the second half and immediately cut into the Wofford lead.
Taylor made two free throws to start the. Wildcat comeback. Two more free throws, this time
from freshman guard Ashley Hallsted brought Davidson even closer. Senior guard JoAnne
Hassel made a driving layup and a three-point basket by Magette put the Wildcats down just
10 points, 42-32, with 15:42 to play.

After a timeout by Wofford the Lady Terriers reeled off six consecutive points to put the
lead to 16 points with just over 14 minutes to play. The Wildcats once again got the lead down
to 10 points with 10:35 to play when a Copland layup made the score 53-43.

Wofford recovered and the Wildcats never were able to make a substantial run to cut into
the lead.

Magette ended the season with 964 career points which puts her on the cusp of becoming
just the seventh player in Davidson history to reach the 1,000-point plateau. Her six steals gave
her 101 for the season, which is second on the single-season records and puts her in third all-
time with 185.

Freshman center Meghan Bryant ended the season with 47 blocks which is the third best
single-season total and ranks her 11th all-time.

The game signified the end of the Davidson playing career for three seniors — JoAnne
Hassel, Kim Taylor and Jessica Heath.

4
