y)

Erin Berry

Nicole Tonelli ’04 supports a Wildcat squad prepared for the South-
ern Conference Tournament after three straight wins.

Cross Country Wrap-up

Greenville course challenges women

By Brooke KITTINGER

Men improve formidable 10k goals

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH

Staff Writer

The women’s cross-country team finished
its fall season at the NCAA Southeastern
Regional meet on Saturday at Furman Uni-
versity in Greenville, SC.

The ’Cats placed 21st in a competitive 26-
team field. N.C. State won the meet with 45
points, just four points less than rival North
Carolina. Sophomore Shalane Flanagan of
UNC was the overall winner, finishing the
6K race in 20:26. ,

The regional meet was a bittersweet end
for the Wildcats, racing on the hilliest terrain
of season and challenged by the race’s added
kilometer.

Freshman Sally Stanhope was the first
finisher for the Wildcats, placing 86th over-
all in 24:04.

Five places behind her, Anna Brew fin-
ished at the 24:10 mark. Junior tri-captain
Liz Gross finished with a time of 25:09,
followed by sophomores Jenna Kruppa and
Emily Einstein at 25:14 and 25:28, respec-
tively.

Freshman Lindley Swartz and sophomore
tri-captain Laura Puckett also finished for
the Wildcats with times of 25:51 and 26:58.

“This was one of the best seasons we’ve
had ina while,” said tri-captain Gross. “Based
on the times we’ ve been running, we should
definitely be breaking some records on the
track this spring.”

Coaches Jennifer Straub and Adam
Johnson urged the team to look toward the
upcoming season as well as summer training
to improve its performances in next year’s
cross-country season. Overall, the young team
ended its season with a solid feeling of ac-
complishment as well as anticipation for the
spring 2002 track and field season.

Sports Editor

Nothing could be finer than to be in Carolina on
Saturday morning. For the men’s cross country
team, competing in the NCAA Southeast Re-
gional Championships at Furman University, the
moming brought the end of a successful season
and the promise of an impressive track and field
effort come spring.

The Wildcats finished 22nd out of 29 teams on
the rolling 10k course in Greenville: Conditions
were excellent and the weather was sunny and
warm as the N.C. State Wolfpack seized the team
title. NCSU placed five runners in the top eleven to
gain the victory. William & Mary’s Sean Graham
crossed the finish line in 30:15 to capture the
individual title. .

Senior captain Dan Gibson once again led the
way forthe Cats as he gamereda67th-place finish
with a time of 32:55. Following Gibson’s fleet-
footed steps was junior Brad Becken (90th, 33:19)
and sophomores Chris Schmader (109th, 33:53),
Ben Gaspar (132nd, 34:37), Dave Bunge (155th,
35:23), and Greg Scott (156th, 35:37).

In the 2001 season, the Wildcats boasted a
fourth-place finish in the Southern Conference
Championships—theteam’ sbestfinish since 1964.

Coach Gary Andrew noted the team’ s improve-
ment over.the course of the season and lauded the
runners’ solid finish.

“We’ ve stepped up our training and now we are
beginning to put it together during races,” said
Andrew. He noted that the team’s top-five finish-
ers improved their personal best times for the 10k
race.

“These results are very encouraging going into
the track and field season and I’ m looking ahead to

. next fall. We’re going to continue to improve and

make our presence felt in the SoCon.”

The squad will take a two-month break from
competition as it prepares for the indoor track
season this winter. The first competition for the
’Cats will be on Jan. 19 at Appalachian State.

By Drew PRrICcKETT
Staff Writer

The Davidson volleyball team finished the
regular season in convincing fashion, beating
UNC-Greensboro, East Tennessee State Uni-
versity, and Appalachian State, building posi-
tive momentum going into the Southern Con-
ference tournament.

“It’s always great to get a win before the
conference tournament,” said head coach
Tammy Darwin.

Saturday’s contest was even more memo-
rable as the last home match for two fixtures
in Belk Arena the past four years, twin sisters
Jacqueline and Jennifer Ortega

The Wildcats (14-16, 11-9) opened .the
week with a convincing three-game win over
UNC-G, 30-16, 30-19, and 30-28. It was the
tenth consecutive Davidson victory over the
Spartans.

Leading the way were Jacqueline Ortega

(15 kills, 16 digs), junior Roberta Quis (16
kills, 15 digs), and freshman Meredith Lorenz
(7 kills, 15 digs). Freshman setter Kristin
Higbee tallied 44 assists.
Friday’s match against ETSU proved more
challenging for the Wildcats, but the team
came through with an exciting 30-25, 22-30,
33-31, 24-30, 15-11 win over the Bucs. With
the win, Davidson clinched the sixth seed in
the SoCon tournament.

The match was hard-fought from start to
finish. The Wildcats jumped to one game
lead, only to have ETSU battle back in
Game two.

In the third game, both teams earned game
points. First, Davidson had a chance to seal
the victory with a 29-26 lead, but ETSU
edged back to tie the score and subsequently
take the lead. Down 30-29, a Roberta Quis kill
held the Bucs at bay and enabled Davidson to
prevail after a fifth game. point.

5 Waessoay,Novenmen 14,2001
Three-game win si
hopes for SoCon championships

In the match, blocking proved to be the
deciding factor. In the fifth game, with the
score tied at six, the host Wildcats used
consecutive blocks from junior Latisha
Chapman to wrestle momentum from the
Bucs. Chapman finished with seven blocks
in the match.

Quis led all players with 17 kills and
Jacqueline Ortega posted another double-
double (13 kills, 10 digs).

Saturday’s late afternoon match with in-
state rival Appalachian State was another
five game thriller for Wildcat fans. Trailing
12-10 in the fifth game, the team scored five
consecutive points to seal the win. Quis ended
the match with her 16th kill of the game.
Afterwards, the junior needed only one word
to describe the marathon-like match: “In-
credible.”

The evening was especially memorable for
the Ortega sisters. Playing in front of their
friends and family for the last time in Belk
Arena, Jacqueline posted 13 kills while Jenni-
fer had nine.

After the game, Jennifer, a history major
with aspirations of attending dental school,
reflected on the game, “It was exciting, a good
way to go out. The fact that we’re peaking now
has shown that we’ve come a lot further [than
others expected], and that’s heartening in it-
self.”

Sister Jacqueline, a political science major
with her sights set on law school (hopefully at
the same institution as Jennifer) added, “It’s
nice to be done, and good to go out this way.”

Whenasked what she will miss the most, she
responded that her friends on the team will be
the most difficult to leave. “Mentally,” how-
ever, said Jacqueline, “I am ready to move on
to the next phase of my life.”

Regarding the talented and amiable Ortegas,
Darwin said, “I am very proud of Jackie and
Jenn. We’ re thankful for their hard work and
dedication over their four years.”

Wrestlers grapple for
recognition in season opener

By AMANDA MorDAVSKY
Staff Writer

In its first.competition of the season, the
Davidson wrestling team made its presence
known at the 20th Annual West Virginia
Open.

On Saturday afternoon, six wrestlers trav-
eled to Morgantown, WV, tocompete against
nine other teams, including Ohio, Ohio State
and Virginia.

Head coach T. J. Jaworsky commented,

“This is one of the toughest tournaments all,

year, a tournament that featured several Na-
tional Champions and All-Americans.”

Senior Jeff Libersat led the team with three
wins on the afternoon in the 184-pound divi-
sion. Libersat began the competition with a
first-round win, and, after losing in the sec-
ond round, bounced back with two wins in
the wrestle backs. He ended the afternoon
with a loss to Hunter Guenot of Bloomsburg,
the eventual third-place winner.

The sophomore class showed its winning
style, as Adam Sperling and Mark O’Hair

-both notched several wins on the afternoon.

Sperling demonstrated his strong presence
on the mats, advancing to the third round in
the 149-pound class. His first loss of the

afternoon came to Jake Percival of Ohio
University, the eventual runner-up. O’ Hair
finished 2-2 on the afternoon in the 165-
pound division.

Though the wrestlers did not finish as high
as they would have liked, senior captains
Libersat and Jeff Bender felt the afternoon
was a success. Said Libersat, “I thought ev-
eryone wrestled very well. We were defi-
nitely in the best shape of anyone at the
tournament.”

Bender agreed, adding, “We were in bet-
ter shape than our opponents Saturday, but
we still need to tighten up and learn to use
that effectively. We’re happy to see so much
improvement, but we are never happy to
lose.”

Overall, Jaworsky was happy with his
team’s performance. “This is a huge im-
provement from last year’s Open, in which
the team won two competitions,” he said.
“This year, we won ten.”

Jaworsky sees unlimited talent in his wres-
tlers, and hopes it develops over the next
several months. “I keep telling the guys, this
is not a sprint, it’s a marathon. It doesn’t
matter until March.”

The Wildcats continue their marathon on
Saturday, Nov. 17, at the Old Dominion
Tournament in Norfolk, Va.

un, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida and Mardi.
ded...Travel Free, Earn $$$. Group Discounts for
0g f www. leisuretours.com

SPRING BREAK | with STS, America’ s #1 Stupent Tour OPERATOR —
Promote trips on campus earn cash and free trips
Information/Reservations: 1 Bin ciel

www.ststravel.com

