ing oe
by a juggling routine presented by
ec College students.

Portnoy ' Will Speak at Davidson

Argentine writer and activist Alicia
Partnoy will read from her work and
speak on her experiences as a political
prisoner from 1977 to 1979 on Sunday,
April 29, at Davidson College. Partnoy’s
presentation, entitled “The Disappeared:
Writing Strategies to Re-Establish Their
Presence,” will begin at 8 p.m. in the
Gallery Room of Chambers Building.
Admission is free. Born in Argentina in
1955,Partnoy is one of the few survivors
from secret detention camps in which -
about 30,000 Argentineans were “disap-
peared” during that country’s “Dirty
War.” She recorded her memory of suf-
fering in her book, The Little School, a
narrative account written in exile of life
in the clandestine prison.

_SGA sponsors lunch

Davidson College’ s annual juried stu-
dent art exhibit will be in the Van Every
Gallery April 26 to May 4. The Smith
Gallery will feature the work of senior
studio art majors from April 20to May 9.

_ “La Citta,” a series of charcoal drawings
“on paper, 38"x50,” by Rob Harkey will
be on a ciopiey April 20-25. “New Sculp-

Transfers make their ways to Davidson

~ By Kate Auterra
Staff Writer

The average national retention rate of stu-
dents for all four undergraduate years for
public universities across America is less
than fifty percent. Davidson College boasts a
ninety percent retention rate.

This number is astounding, and we, as part
of the Davidson community, should be proud
of our institutions obvious strengths. There
are some of us,. however, who choose to
remove themselves from Davidson for any
multitude of reasons.

Each year, about five percent (or twenty-
two people) of primarily the freshmen and
sophomore classes transfer out of Davidson.
According to Dean Tom Shandley, many of
these students go to schools similar to
Davidson: private colleges with a small stu-
dent body and an easily accessible campus.
The Class of 2003 saw twelve students trans-
fer.

Their reasons were typical of students who

Spring Convocation was held April 18 in Love Auditorium. See v www.Davidson.edu for full list and

descriptions of awards given.

Don’t like Ink
smeared all over your
hands?

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

The April 11 issue of the
Davidsonian misquoted Marie Sharpe.
Her correct statement was; “Let’s do
something. Let’s write letters, let’s
make phone calls, let’s write emails.
Let’s make our voice heard. I’m sick
of talking.” Sharpe and Lee are mem-
bers of the class of 2001, not 2002, as
reported.

transfer from Davidson; either the academics
are too challenging, they have medical or
family problems, or they are dissatisfied with
the social life, size or lack of diversity on
campus. Other students in the past had

otherreasons for transferring, such as paren-

tal pressure to be closer to home or their
intended major wasn’t offered. Shandley
discussed the few instances in which students
transfer out due to honor code violations.
This number is quite small relative to the
student body, about eight to ten students per
year.

The process of transferring does not appear
to be easy. Students must fill out a sheet with
reasons for withdrawal. This sheet asks ques-
tions of the students to understand the deci-
sion to leave, such as the personal, academic,
sports or institutional reasoning that was in-
volved. Since Davidson takes great strides to
keep students happy, as well as, maintain its
highretention rate, transferring students meet
with Dean Shandley to discuss the personal
decisions involved in leaving Davidson.

“KU

Transferring into Davidson isn’t simple,
either, In the past, any where between thirty
and ninety people have applied for admission
as transfer students. Last year, there were
thirty-four applicants and only seventeen were
admitted. It is obviously competitive to get ~
into Davidson, as we all know, but transfer-
ring might not be that easy.

Laura Bondeson 03, a transfer student from
Georgetown University, said that she came to
Davidson because she wanted a smaller un-
dergraduate feel than Georgetown, and though
the students at Georgetown were smart, they
weren’t as well-rounded individuals as
Davidson students. Though she liked
Georgetown, she said she couldn’t imagine
herself graduating from. such a place.

Bondeson is just one example of the stu-
dents who come to Davidson as transfers. A
few girls on her hall are transfer students, and
she said that they all seem to be happy about
their decision. The administration hopes that
that happiness is what causes 95% of Davidson
students to return each year,

Phto by: College Communications

WAN

ON

SOW Bik

OAD

cated in quaint downtown Mooresville

enjoy your dining

in comfortah

experience

fe elegance

historical hous

