By EmiLy Byrne
Staff Writer

When Allison Cobb first strolled across
campus, it wasn’t behind an eager student
tour guide who used a blue sky and bustling
morning to show her just how much she
should want to go here. Quite the opposite in
fact. After spending a rather intense spring
break visiting fifteen different colleges in
seven days, she and her parents decided to
make one last stop, and pulled into a parking
spot in front of the Summit Coffee Shop. It
was midnight on a Friday in the midst of last
year’s spring break, and Davidson was dark
and deserted. Glancing up at the clock on
Chambers, Allison noticed how bright the
stars were and was suddenly struck by the
serenity and peacefulness of the place. “It
just felt right,” she says.

This coming weekend, Allison and nearly
two hundred other similarly accepted stu-
dents will get their tour, blue sky, and busy
morning. In fact, the Admission Staff’s an-
nual Decision Davidson weekend will offer
them much more.. With an itinerary that
includes student panel discussions, lectures
by professors, and interviews for potential
scholarship recipients, students will get a
good honest look at what it’s like to attend the
school. Admission Counselor John Bell has
no qualms.

“We’re going to give them a warm and
enthusiastic welcome so that they walk away
with the impression that Davidson is an en-
couraging community. Luckily we don’t
have to put on a magic act—just show them
how it really is,” he says.

Charlotte-native Blair Hance has already.
seen how it really is, since her sister Meredith
is a senior here. After taking the tour four
years ago, Blair was impressed by the beauty
and community-feel of the campus and says
she’s always struck by the alumni loyalty in
Charlotte. But she still has an eye on Princeton,
and hopes that this weekend will make the
choice easier.

“T’ve always seen the school as a prospec-
tive applicant, so this is a good chance to see
it as a prospective student and meet other
people who are doing the same thing,” Hance
says.

Admitted class to decide

The opportunity to meet potential class-
mates and current students seems to be a big
draw for all the soon-to-be high school gradu-
ates. Sophomore Shannon Bishop, who is co-
coordinating the tour groups this weekend,
understands the value of getting to know
other students before making a decision on
which school to attend.

“The people here are Davidson’s biggest
selling point. This weekend offers students a
chance to meet everyone and hear a lot of
different perspectives on the school,” Bishop
says. ,

And it seems they really do need to hear
some different perspectives on the school.

Judging from the rumors that are apparently

circulating throughout American high
schools, the academic rigor of a Davidson
courseload sometimes acts as a deterrent.
David Young, who hopes this weekend will
help him decide whether to enroll here or at
Northwestern, views the school with a little
trepidation, and apparently he’s not the only
one.

“T’ ve heard they love to work you to death,
just to be able to say that they work you to
death,” he says.

Cobb echoed similar sentiments.

“A lot of people back home [in Atlanta]
told me, ‘It’s so hard there, all they ever do is
work.’”

But obviously the faculty is doing every-
thing but scaring people away. This year’s
applicant pool reached a record-breaking level
and students here are excited about the
school’s increasing renown.

“I remember how much smaller the Deci-
sion Davidson program I attended was than it
isnow—it’s really exciting that the Davidson
name is getting out there and so many people
are coming to visit from all over the country,”
says junior Reggie McKoy, who is also co-
coordinating the tour groups.

While Decision Davidson offers this group
of potential members of the Class of 2005 a
look at what the current students are like,
many of them sound like they go here al-
ready.

As Allison Cobb was getting off the phone,
she sighed, “This is going to be a busy-week-
end for me, I have a big paper due on Mon-
day.” Welcome to Davidson.

THE

OPTICALSHOP

OF LAKE

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A
20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR
AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE.,

CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & GE LUCA

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

- decline in my work. After notifying them I
_ Center and I learned all the options available t

Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Gr

Student Groups earn $1,000 - $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfinder.cc com his hour
‘ fundraising event.
No sales required.

Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact Campusfinder.com
at (888) 923-3238,
or visit www.campusfinder.com

By AMANDA MILDNER
Guest Writer

I first experienced depression shortly after graduation from high school. I attributed the
_emotions to the anticipation and anxiety of leaving for college and moving away from
home. By the time I left for college I was feeling fine after receiving therapy and some
prescription medicine. My freshman year was a fantastic blur of activities and I even

forgot that the previous summer I had been diagnosed with chronic or chemical
depression.

Upon returning to school in "Avil I began to experience what my mom patios the
“Sophomore Slump.” But soon my slump became a rapid descent. Before I knew what
was happening I was back where I had been a year and half before—in an incredibly
depressed state. I slept often or not at all. My rapid mood swings frightened myself and —
alienated people. My interest in activities, people, and any social life disappeared.

Depression is hard. You deal with uncontrollable emotions and sense of hopelessness
that only those who have gone through it-can understand. But depression on a college

campus, especially one as small and rigorous as Davidson, is a nightmare. Everything
becomes difficult—normal conversations with friends, paying attention in class, concen-
trating on work and basic decisions. You begin to feel that no one understands. Your
friends might try to reach out to you but they can never seem to reach out far enough. You —
know you need something and someone—you might even know what you need but in the
midst of depression you almost never go after it. Depression creates clouded thinking,
physical exhaustion, and irrationality that makes it hard to take any action.

- Finally I hit rock bottom. With the support of my family and friends I began the slow
bounce back up. But my absolute determination not to let depression defeat me made me
angry and gave me energy that created the momentum behind my moving back up. Ialso |
‘realized I needed help and went to talk to my teachers. The responses I got from them

were better than I could have ever imagined. aie noticed my lack of attention and —

= ales a baa toes eal

