THe DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcrosBeR 10, 2001

This week in Martha’s Kitchen: Don’t be chicken. Cooking’s fun!

By Martua Hunt

Arts and Living Editor

real fast.

Here’s what you’ll need:

1 package of boneless, skinless
chicken breasts (usually there are
4 per package, so if you need
more, buy accordingly)

Red pepper, green pepper, yel-
low pepper (pick the color of your

Hey again everyone! Welcome back to
Martha’s Kitchen. Fall Break is on the way,
woo-hoo. Ill be sure to bring back some
scrumptious recipes from home, just to en-
lighten you.

So, did you try the “tomato tacos”? If you
made it through the last recipe without burn-
ing down the dorm, pat yourself on the back.

You are ready for the next phase. choice!)

For this week’s delectable delight, you’ ll 1 onion
definitely need an oven. No cold pizzas here. Salt and pepper
However, this one is pretty simple, so with a Olive oil
little oomph in your step and confidence in Foil

Baking sheet
Oven preheated to around 375

your cooking ability, another meal will be
popping out of the oven in no time.

The following is one of my favorite reci-
pes. It’s so quick to fix and it tastes superb.
Chicken is one of the easiest foods to prepare,
and one of the most versatile. You can dice it,
fry it, bake it, boil it... the list goes on. The
recipe below is great if you’ve never dealt

Here’s what you do:
1. Measure out a square piece
of foil for each chicken piece you

Award-winning photographer
‘will showcase work in 900 Room

By Burain Harbin,
Executive Editor

Award-winning photographer Ken Duncan will present a collection of his
work and discuss his worldwide travels at a free, public presentation at Davidson
College, Wednesday, October 17. The event will begin at 7:30 p.m. in the C.
Shaw Smith 900 Room of the Alvarez College Union.

Revered for his trademark Panographs, Duncan will talk about the technical
aspects-and philosophy of America Wide: In God We Trust, his latest collection
of this unique brand of panoramic landscape
photography that seeks to capture the essence of
a place at a particular time.

His visit to Davidson will mark Duncan’s only
collegiate stop on a two-week North American
publicity tour that takes him to Los Angeles,
Chicago, New York, Dallas, Nashville, and Bir-
mingham, Alabama.

“Davidson is honored to have Mr. Duncan,”
said Adam Norris, a senior Economics major
who spearheaded the effort to bring Duncan to
Davidson. “Any time an artist of Mr. Duncan’s
exceptional caliber agrees to give his time to this
community, we’re extremely excited and pro-
foundly grateful.”

America Wide is the product of a three-year,
80,000-mile overland journey through all 50
states, where Duncan shot over 3,000 rolls of
film. From some 10,000 photographs, Duncan
culled 106 to include in his book, which is the
first photography collection to document America in panoramic format.

“The urliqueness of my journey and the resulting book is that America has been
seen through fresh eyes,” said Duncan, who had never photographed America
before beginning the America Wide project.

“Of all the countries in the world I have traveled through, I have never seen a
country more blessed with natural beauty.”

Who: Award-winning
photographer Ken
Duncan

Wuat: A multimedia
presentation of
Duncan’s latest
collection of pan-
oramic landscape
photography

Wuen: Wednesday,
Oct. 17, 7:30 p.m.

Wrere: C. Shaw
Smith 900 Room

Apmission: Free

A native of Australia, Duncan has earned an international reputation since his . |g

first photographic expedition in Australia almost 20 years ago. He spent five
years in the Australian Outback, risking his financial security and following what
he describes as “a calling from God.” His experiences there inspired the next two
decades of award-winning photography.

Duncan has completed assignments for National Geographic and the New
York Times and continues work on projects in the United Kingdom and America.
The Sydney 2000 Olympic Games commissioned him to create several unique
collections of commemorative Panographs® that celebrated the Australian
landscape and the urban vibrancy of the host city.

The Australian Professional Photography Magazine described him as “the
photographer who is now undoubtedly Australia’s (and possibly the world’s)
leading exponent of panoramic landscape photography.” And just this year, the
photographer won gold and silver medals at the Australian National Print
Awards. |

Duncan, whose spirituality and strong faith define his life’s wed: remains
humble.

“Sure, I have won some awards, but it’s not all about me,” said Duncan. “I

believe when shooting landscape you have to humble yourself before God who

created that landscape in order to feel the spirit of the moment.”

with a feathered friend before; if you have,
it’s still a simple way to get some tasty food

foil around all sides). Put the foil squares on
the baking sheet, in a row, or however you

' can configure them so they all fit side-by-

side.

2. Pull the chicken out of the
package. Now one thing I must
warn you about here is that you
are working with raw meat. You
can never take too many pre-
cautions. Just make sure that
you clean off your working sur-
face REALLY WELL before
and after handling the chicken.
Also WASH YOUR HANDS
immediately after touching any

Not to be confused *@W meat. People get sick

with other culinary
marvels named

Martha

have. Make sure there’s ample room on all
sides of the chicken (i.e., about 4-5 inches of

wouldn’t want to be spreading
crazy chicken germs every-
where.

3. Put a breast of chicken on
a foil square. Congratulations. You’ ve mas-
tered the hard part. The rest is easy!

enough around here as itis. You -

4. Basically what you are about to do is to
season the chicken. That’s what the other
ingredients are for. Slice up the pepper and
onion and put a few strips of each on top of the
chicken breast. Drizzle some olive oil over
that (don’t drench the chicken), and then
sprinkle some salt and pepper. If you have
other spices available, try them!

5. That’s it. All you need to do now is fold
up the foil around the chicken, crimping the
edges so oil and juices can’t escape during
baking. Make a little package, in other words.

6. Throw the baking sheet into the oven and
set a timer for around 20 minutes. The best
way to tell if the chicken is done is toundo one
of the packets (careful, it will be HOT), and
slice into the chicken with a knife and fork. If
it looks pinkish, it still needs to cook. It’s
done when the chicken is white through the
middle.

7.Enjoy! Mmm, tasty, juicy chicken.
Amaze your friends with your fine culinary
talents. Just be sure to hide this issue of the

New art exhibit
to open next week

Exhibit will feature permanent
collection works and paintings by
Corinne Duchesne, Oct. 17 - Dec. 5

Press RELEASE
College Communications

Selections of artwork from the Davidson
College permanent collection, and paint-
ings by Canadian artist Corinne Duchesne,
will open to the public on Wednesday, Oc-
tober 17, in the college’s Belk Visual Arts
Center. Both exhibitions will remain on
view through December 5.

Duchesne will present a slide lecture in
the building’s Semans Lecture Hall onopen-
ing night from 7-8 p.m., and a reception for

will exhibit some of her new paintings in the
building’s Edward M. Smith Gallery. Her
dynamic canvases are imbued with a color-
ful lyricism that strives to construct an “al-
legory for the quest of the human spirit,
based on duality.”

The William H. Van Every Gallery will
feature selections from the more than 2,600
works in the college’s permanent collec-
tion. Among the artists to be exhibited are
Rembrandt Van Rijn, Robert Rauschenberg,
Pablo Picasso, Diane Arbus, Romare
Bearden, and potas Noland. _

Davidsonian. They’ Il never guess.

The Right Look.
The Right Price.

the artists will follow the talk. Duchesne| .

$ 8.95

No appointments necessary. Open 7 days
a week with convenient evening and weekend hours
Guaranteed Satisfaction. Guaranteed Style

Visit our web site at www.greatclips.com.

GOOD ONLY AT:
Turnberry Place Shopping Center
I-77, Exit 28, Cornelius
-next to Sushi at the Lake-
(704) 987-0607

pee i ee a ee ae ee ae

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

Not valid with other §
offers. Limit one coupon

per customer. Good only |
OFFER EXPIRES él loz a Turnberry location. |

unfortunately, mind-reading is not one of our talents
email Martha (mahunt@davidson.edu) or Derek (deloh @davidson.edu)
with your ideas or comments about A& L.

