THE DAvipsoNnIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 31, 2001

Milton’s work blends tradition and innovation

By CurisTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

To look-at a Peter Milton print is to explore
a dream-like world where phantoms emerge
from the walls of living rooms, wolves lurk
about hotel lobbies, and musi-
cians perform in nightclubs while 7
standing knee deep in water.
The VAC’s Van Every and @
Edward M. Smith Gallery will
display thirty of Milton’s etch-
ings and engravings from Janu-
ary 22 to March 2.
“In the context of the
printmaking world, Milton is by
far one of the top artists,” said |
Gallery Director Brad Thomas. |
In the 1970s, the ArtNews maga-
zine declared his signature print, |
“Daylilies,” which pictures aman |
absorbed in contemplation, one
of the top ten prints of the decade
After graduating from the Yale
University School or Art and Ar-
chitecture in 1954, Milton experi-
mented with paint and sculpture
for a few years. But when tests
diagnosed him with red-green
colorblindness in 1962, Milton
declared, “Black and white prints
from now on!”
Milton blends the traditional 7
techniques of etching and engrav-
ing with contemporary light-sen-
sitive processes to creaté a variety *
of textures. He spends about a
year working on each print, first etching a
copper sheet to capture a sense of the space
and then engraving the sheet to add the re-
fined details. When the piece satisfies Milton,
he inks the plate and runs it through the press
with paper to create 200 to 250 prints.
Professor Shaw Smith admires the sense of
age that this combination of techniques pro-
duces. “It’s got a feeling of historicism
because of the medium used,” he explained.
“It’s an aged memory, not some kind of
flashed image.” ;
Milton finds inspiration from a wide vari-

>

ety of sources, including music, literature,
theatre, opera, dance, film photography, and
the paintings of master printmakers like
Rembrandt and Brueghel the Elder.

He packs each print with references to the
twentieth century culture, borrowing settings,

figures, and gestures from the works of art of
notable artists. Often, he portrays the artists
themselves. ;

“I’m amazed at his depth of reference,”
confessed Thomas. “It would require pages
and pages of analysis to deconstruct his etch-
ings and engravings. They’re very dense, but
incredibly elegant.”

Milton himself acknowledges the intricacy
of the allusions in his 1998 print “Points of
Departure III: Twentieth Century Limited.”
“Tt’s so complex I still need a numbered key
to enumerate the references,” he admitted.

Erin Berry

Coming next week ...

A review of The Edward M. Smith
Gallery’s "Scenes of Cyprus," a collec-
tion prints derived from antique lantern
slides found at a flea market by associate
professor of classics Michael Toumazou.

In the print, two trains have crashed under
the arched ceilings of the historic Penn Sta-
tion.
crash represents the apocalypse of modern
art. From the rubble flee dozens of twentieth
century artists with their works, including

Picasso with “Guernica” and Warhol with the
“Marilyn Monroe Diptych.”

According.to Milton’s website, the

Milton’s works engage the viewer’ s imagi-
nation at the same time they activate his
mind.

In “Points of Departure I: Mary’s Turn,”
American painter Mary Cassat leans over a
pool table to take a shot while the balls float

like bubbles off of the table and
through the parlor. “Points of
Departure II: Nijinsky Varia-
tions” presents a multitude of
| figures inside a grandiose opera
house. Some pierce the viewer
| with their stares, others sit com-
' placently in chairs as phantoms
" emerge from behind them, and
_ still others leap through the air in
' a dance.

“Peter gives us strange ‘shots’
of other worlds,” critic, John
_ Fowles described. “They are
' not, except in their outer skin,
_ realistic ones; but far more mys-
terious and often poetic fanta-
_sies. I have always thought of
' them rather less as prints than as
_ novels. His major works all leave
_ an enticing flume of questions
floating like smoke in their at-

; mospheres.”
When viewing Milton’s col-
: lection, Professor Herb Jackson
| advises the viewer to linger with
each print. Milton “takes a year
or so to develop an image,” he
said, “so the viewer must be pre-
Eri pared for an investment of time
rin Berry
to explore the new world that he

presents.”

