By Maria Hunt
‘Arts & Living Editor

Hello there. I notice you’re reading this
week’s “The Person You Never
Knew” interview. Smart call. Put on your
seatbelt and get ready for another thrilling
exposé on a student just like you.

This week, I spent an hour with one of
Davidson’s most notorious sophomores. Pipe
down, you equal opportunity defenders - I
can hear you saying “Two sophomores in a
row? Are these interviews random or not?”
Let’s just say they’re random enough. Ran-
dom enough for my purposes, that is. There
really isn’t any rhyme or reason as to how I
select people to be interviewed. Call it hap-
hazard, call it random - I think it adds some
spice to this old newspaper.

The first interviewee happened to be my
brother - because, as I explained last time, I
figured he would make a good test run. As
soon as his interview was published, the
masses were clamoring at my door insisting
that I interview a certain Mr. Tom Bennett.
Not one to deny popular opinion, I declared
“Let the people decide!” - and the rest is
history.

Thad no idea what Il was 1s getting myself into.
My life will never be the same. I have heard
rumors about the “Man of Destiny” (aka
Tom Bennett) since arriving on campus last
August. I hadn’t had the pleasure (or shock)

an of L | Destiny”:

of meeting him until last Friday, when we met
up in the Union Café. I'd been warned about
Tom’s unpredictable personality, and I got a
taste of it within the first minute of our meet-
ing. He blew in from the wind and rain, his
great mane of red hair stuffed under a hat,
and he sat down at my booth. Little did know
what was in store...

Me: Hi there Tom, thanks so much -
Tom Bennett: Hey! Do you have a car?
MH: Uh, no...

TB: Ooh, too bad. Do you know where that
cemetery is out at Exit 25?

MH: No...

TB: Does your brother have a car?

MH: NO!

TB: Hmmm.

MH: What’s the matter?

TB: Well, Martha; see, I’m really happy to
do this interview - I mean, I think it’s cool and
all - but I’ve heard that you should never
agree to be interviewed at the place the inter-
viewer suggests.

MH: Huh?.

TB: It’s all about intimidation. If I answer
questions where you want me to, then I’m
playing by your rules. It’s better if I take you
somewhere so you’re uncomfortable.

MH: Ha! Hey man, do whatever. You pick
the place. I don’t mind.

TB: And the other thing is that if I take you
somewhere else, it’s a sort of adventure, and

Fairey taunts consumer

By CnrisTINA COOKE
Staff Writer

Five times, police have arrested Shepard
Fairey for posting his image of Andre the
Giant on bus-stop shelters, electrical boxes,
billboards, and signs across the nation. But
this month, from March 12 until April 13,
Fairey’s posters hang legitimately on the
walls of the Edward M. Smith Gallery.

Fairey, a young California artist and
skateboarder, developed the Andre the Giant
icon while a student at the Rhode Island
School of Design in 1989. Working in a
Providence skateboarding store, Fairey
chanced upon a wrestling magazine adver-
tisement featuring Andre—the 7 foot 4 inch,
520 pound wrestler who starred as Fezzic, the
giant in The Princess Bride.

“He is so ugly, it is brilliant!” thought
Fairey upon seeing Andre’s face. So he
developed the image into an icon and printed
the icon on numerous stickers and posters.
He distributed the stickers among skateboard-
ers who stuck them all over Providence. By
the mid-90’s, the craze had spread, and half a
million stickers covered the public property
of the world.

Though the Andre image has made him
famous, Fairey admits that the image has no
meaning for him. “I don’t have an infatuation
with Andre,” explained Fairey to Transworld
Stance Magazine, “but I’m trying to make
other people have one.”

He has succeeded. Millions of people have
become fixated with the Giant icon, though
they do not understand it. Fairey circulates
the icon as an experiment in phenomenology,
or the belief that human consciousness deter-
mines reality. He explains that because the
sticker has no meaning, the viewer’ s interpre-
tation reflects only his own personality and
sensibilities—and nothing more. “The Giant
sticker attempts to stimulate curiosity and
bring people to question both the sticker and
their relationship with their surroundings,”
states Fairey in his project’s Manifesto.

“Because people are not used to seeing
advertisements or propaganda for which the
product or motive is not obvious, frequent
and novel encounters with the sticker pro-
voke thought and possible frustration, never-

theless revitalizing the viewer’s perception
and attention to detail. The sticker has no
meaning but exists only to cause people to
react, to contemplate and search for meaning
in the sticker.”

Fairey admits that the sticker’s subversive
nature appeals to many people. “The Giant

sticker seems mostly to be embraced by those

_ who are (or at least seem to be) rebellious,”

pronounces Fairey in the Manifesto. “Even
though these people may not know the mean-
ing of the. sticker, they enjoy its. slightly
disruptive underground quality and wish to
contribute to its humorous and absurd pres-
ence which seems to somehow be anti-estab-
lishment/anti-social convention.”

But in many cases, the sticker’s popularity
acts as evidence of our conspicuously con-
sumptive society. According to Brad Tho-
mas, Davidson’s Gallery Director, Fairey is
“trying to key in to the fact that we’re very
consumer-oriented. We can’t go anywhere
and not be hit with a commercial image. If we
see ared can, we know it’s Coke. He’s using
the same tools and language as advertisers,
but with a different purpose: to criticize it and
roll it back on itself.”

Thus, when people obtain stickers only

a

then we get to be friends because of it. And
everyone knows that all interviewers secretly
want to be the best friend of whoever they’re
interviewing.

MH: Sure thing. Where do you want to go?

TB: (thinks for a while) Hmmm... hey,
how about the » chapel?
MH: If that’s what you want, let’s go.

So we trekked from the café to the chapel,
and I beganto getasense of Tom’s wackiness.
Don’t get me wrong, wackiness is a good
thing. I should know, since I have more than
my fair share. Wackiness actually seems to
abound on Davidson’s campus, so I haven’t

Tom Bennet ‘03

funt picks Bennet’s brain

. felt too odd.

Of course that raises the question: if every-
one is wacky, does that mean that nobody
is?But we digress. Back to the interview:
once inside the chapel, Tom sprawled out on
the stage and turned to.look me in the eye. I
tried to take him seriously but itwas a bit hard
with him lying upsidedown.

MH: Do you feel better?

TB: Oh yeah. This is great... much better
atmosphere. (takes off his shoes and stretches
out arms)

MH: I’m glad you think so. Okay, let’s get
started. Where do you live on campus?

TB: Basement Sentelle. It’s awesome. Me
and my friends got the worst lottery numbers
last year and had to be put on a waiting list.
We were pretty bummed, and then we got like
the best rooms on campus.

MH: Nice. What year are you?
TB: Sophomore.

MH: OK, and do you know what your
major is yet?

TB: Yeah, I’m a philosophy major.

MH: Any particular reason?

TB: In high school I had courses like
“Theory of Knowledge”, which I really liked.
[like learning what the most intelligent people
in the world have thought. This generation is
pretty groundless and relativistic... reason is

continued on opposite page

culture with giant icons

because they have seen them posted around |

the city and wantto feel part of the “in” crowd
by owning one, they serve as evidence of the
conspicuous consumption that Fairey criti-
cizes.

Fairey often accompanies his icons with
the slogan “OBEY” in order to mock such
responses to his images. “I write OBEY to
confront people with themselves,” he reveals
in Sugar Skateboard Magazine. “I have the
impression that many do not realize that they
act like disciplined and obedient people.
Maybe my posters can bring them to Gunle
about their condition.”

Fairey feels that the public’s obsession
with the Giant’s image makes a-statement
more powerfully than the image itself. “The
ultimate success of the Giant is commercial
embrace because this demonstrates that the
unaware consumer, as opposed to the hipster
in on the joke, has been subversively indoc-

trinated. I’m trying to achieve as large a scale
a coup as possible with an absurd icon that
should never have made it this far,” he ex-
plains.

Fairey has extended his. exploration of the
public’s blind acceptance of images beyond
the Giant campaign by creating posters that
portray dictators and generals, usually
complemented with the slogan “OBEY.”
Working in the style of the old propaganda
posters of Russia and Germany, he illustrates
the parallels between the ways in which au-
thoritarian and commercial images exert con-
trol over the masses.

Ironically, Fairey currently works for a
design firm in San Diego called the Black
Market, where he invents designs for compa-
nies including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, and
Universal Pictures. All the while, he keeps
the Giant sticker and poster campaign alive in
the streets.

Harris proves Oscar-worthy in Pollock

By DerEK Lou
Staff Writer

Pollock is more about alcoholism than it is
about Jackson Pollock; that it is a movie
about a great painter is secondary. The name
“Jackson Pollock” and the events of his life
are just the canvas for a film that examines
alcoholism.

Like many biopics involving artists, such
as Before Night Falls and Sweet and Lowdown
(which, despite being based on a fictional
character, is no less real than any other films
of the genre), Pollock favors observations
and insight over plot. Yes, Pollock has the
familiar “rise and fall of a genius” structure,
but that pattern feels more coincidental than
planned. :

The film is composed of relatively short
scenes showing Pollock’s (Ed Harris) drink-
ing and abstaining, fighting and loving, try-
ing to make love and actually doing it. At all
times, with or without alcohol, he is a mis-
guided genius. Pollock, like 1998's Afflic-
tion, treats alcoholism not as a solvable prob-
lem, but as an unavoidable part of life.

But unlike Affliction, Pollock is not acom-
pletely hopeless movie. There are moments
of light humor and tenderness. There is a
gentle moment when Pollock is rolling around
ina field, and astray dog approaches. It is one
of my favorite scenes in any movie.

Further distracting us from the always-
apparent alcoholism, Pollock is a technically
superb film. From the set design and cos-
tumes to the cinematography, we are ab-
sorbed by the worlds, particularly the New
York art scene that Pollock creates. But,
especially given the end of the film, we ulti-
mately remember Jackson Pollock of Pollock
as a pathetic man.

Star and director Ed Harris has created a
film full of accomplishments. In her best role
to date, Marcia Gay Harden as Lee Krasner,
Pollock’s wife, gives the film’s most impor-
tant performance. She provides the audience
with a way into the film, a character with
which to relate. As for Ed Harris, he deserves
to win the Best Actor Oscar come March 25.
Pollock opens March 23 at The Manor.

Grade: A-.
