Construction woes continue to delay completion of

By Matr GARFIELD
Sports Editor

Completion of the Knobloch Campus Cen-
ter won’t officially take Place for several
months, but officials hope to make at-least
part of the center available to students by May
11.

The center’s 600-seat amphitheatre will
not be completed until September, so the
school plans to open only the Union in time
for exam week.

A formal ceremony to christen the center is
slated for Homecoming Weekend on Sep-
tember 14. But in an effort-to allow séniors to
utilize the center before they graduate, the
school will have what president Bobby Vagt
calls a “campus opening” just before exams
begin, which is about a month later than
officials had hoped..

Vagt said the center’s workout rooms and
food and socializing areas will be available
for students to use.

The delay of theater completion resulted
largely because of problems acquiring struc-
tural steel that will house the amphitheatre.
Delivery of the steel came later than ex-
pected, and in a sort of domino effect, made
it impossible to make progress on other parts
of the center.

“We’re running behind,” remarked Physi-
cal Plant Director David Holthouser. “It’s a
real struggle.”

Without the steel in place, workers were
not able to pour the concrete floor of the
theater. That, in turn, delayed work on
Knobloch’s mechanical systems, including
heating and air conditioning, which are lo-
cated underneath the theater.

Vagt said issues with building safety stan-
dards, which must be approved by the N.C.
Department of Health, also posed a chal-
lenge. He indicated that there was no one

specific problem, but rather “a whole combi- :

nation of little things.”

“This is a very complex. project, ~
Holthouser commented. “Building a theater
is not building a square box. It is full of odd
shapes and sizes.... It’s a difficult project.”

“On a daily basis we’re faced with a mul-

‘titude of challenges.”

The construction team is now working
seven days a week, using the weekends as
“make-up time” noted Holthouser.

“Time is certainly a pressure.”
“But [having] a facility that works.
the real pressure.”

The center is being built out of what once
was Johnston Gym, home to Davidson’s
men’s basketball team before it moved to
Belk Arena in 1989. Renovations began in
October 1999. The center was originally slated
to open this month.

Preserving the storied heritage of the old
gymnasium— including its original wooden
roof— was a high priority during planning
stages.

The roof, however, did not comply with
North Carolina fire safety standards. Unable
to strike a compromisé with state officials
that would have allowed the school to keep it,
Vagt and campus leaders decided last May to
install a metal roof, costing roughly $200,000
and delaying completion for two months,
estimated Holthouser.

Vagt speculated that the center would have
opened on time if not for the roof complica-
tions.

he said.
.. that’s

oblo

Knobloch construction has attracted the
most attention on campus, but work is also
beginning on several other projects, includ-
ing telecommunications and ae iota) water
systems.

Holthouser says the good economy makes

history to the 1950s, when
several dormitories were built.

“There’s a tempest of activity going on,”
he said.

Voting,

from page 1

senators. The system will contain a safeguard
against accidentally voting for too many can-
didates. The program records the order in
which a voter casts his or her choices. Any
votes cast above the limit will not count.
The system is incapable of allowing stu-
dents to vote for only certain offices. There-
fore, students will technically be able to cast
votes in elections for which they are ineli-
gible. John Casey, Executive Director and
Professor of ITS does not anticipate this

becoming a problem. “The assumption is that
students will be honorable and not vote in
elections they shouldn’t,” he reasoned.

The voting results will be available imme-
diately after election officials close the
website, and since all tabulation is automatic,
there should not be any margin of error.
Advocates of this program assert that it should
prove to be invaluable to the entire commu-
nity. Casey anticipates that faculty and stu-
dent groups will be able to use it for polling
and voting purposes separate from the semi-
annual elections.

Thanks to the new system, said Pittenger,
“There’s no reason why every student
shouldn’t have a vote.”

Want to strike
it rich?

The Davidsonian
is seeking students to work in
Business and Advertising.

All positions paid.
For more information contact

Peter Clark x5218 or
Dave Johnston x5607

We've done more than just change
our name. At Accenture, we're building
a completely new network of businesses
that will influence the shape of the new
economy. This presents new and exciting
challenges for our employees, with ever
expanding career options. There has
never been a better time to be part of

ACCENTURE STUDENT LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

¢ New leadership development opportunity for rising seniors
* Deadline to submit resume online via JobTrak is February 2
* Contact your career services office or call John Hutto, Conference Coordinator, at (800) 776-6411 for additional information

Visit campusconnection.accenture.com

e Consulting ° Technology ¢ Outsourcing ¢ Alliances ¢ Venture Capital
Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting

our dynamic global force as we bring
innovations to improve the
way the world works and lives.

With our unique vantage point
between what is and what will
be, there are unprecedented
opportunities to work with today’s
leaders and help create the leaders

>
accenture

{Why change your name if it's the only thing you change?}

of tomorrow. And these opportunities
are greatly enhanced by a truly creative,
collaborative and diverse environment,
one which. encourages the continual
development of skills and careers.

For those who want to create
the future, now is the time to ie
at Accenture.

