Cast Iron Filter claims new album is best to date

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Blending luminous songwriting, near-virtuoso
instrumentation, and an unbridled joy for their
craft, Davidson-rooted Cast Iron Filter is poised to
release their third album, This Ugly Town, on Nov.
3 at a CD release party at the Visulite Theater in
Charlotte.

The five-piece southern rock/Americana en-
semble has exploded out of the gate since going
full-time this past summer. Acclaims The Char-
lotte Observer: “...Cast Iron Filter cranks out like
acoustic folk-rock on steroids’’-and as their sound
bleeds across the southeast, the band is accruing an
impressive resume of gigs and radio play from
Virginia to Georgia. °

“T’m having a lot of fun, I don’t know how I
could be more happy,” says Dustin Edge ‘00, lead
vocalist/guitarist. “This new CD definitely repre-
sents our sound better than anything we’ve re-
leased before, we’re confident it will open some
doors for us.”

The fourteen-track album glistens as a tribute to
the unique blend of sounds that has come to define
thenewly-revamped Cast Iron. It’salittle bitrock,
alittle bit country, a little bit bluegrass, but above
all a beautifully cohesive album, blasting an up-
beat, feel-good sound.

Describes drummer Tim Helfrich ‘00, “We
wanted to run the gamutas far as styles. We were
definitely aware of the variety on this CD as we
walked out of the studio.”

Mason Bissett, a recent Wake Forest graduate
who recently joined the band on the bass guitar,
adds, “It just feels like good music. We’re just
trying to jam, we’re not trying to fit into any

predetermined genre of music.”

Ugly Town trumpets a sound markedly differ-
ent from the band’s first album, the purely-acous-
tic Paradise in Palestine.

New to the crew, Bissett and steel-pedalist Jim
Ashton have sparkled - both on stage and in the
studio.

“Mason has beenareal spark plug forthe band,”
praises Helfrich. “Interms of having a genuine joy
for our music, there’s nobody like that kid.”

“The first time I saw Mason [who recently
departed from Wake Forest band No Big Deal], I
thought: He’s the only kid I’ve ever seen who
plays like [Bela Fleck bass guitarist] Victor
Wooten,” Orlando says. “Mason does things on
that bass that fiddlers can’t do on the damn fiddle.

“And Jim’s addition has brought so much to the
band. We came to know him some months ago,

Cast Iron Filter’s new album This Ugly Town
is due out November 3. From left: Mike
Orlando ‘01, Dustin Edge ‘00, Jim Ashton,
Mason Bissett and Tim Helfrich ‘00.

and knew he was just too good to let get away.
Mason and Jim both have forced us to be better
- musicians, they’re really pushing us ahead.”

In addition to the new members, Hootie & the
Blowfish guitarist Mark Bryan teamed up with the
Cast Iron Filter for selected tracks of Ugly Town,

as did National Fiddler’ s Conven-
tion champion Glenn Alexander.

“This album really utilizes a full
band,” says mandolinist Mike Or-
lando ‘01. “Thelast [album] really
lacked a full percussion presence.
This Ugly Townreally ties together
better.”

Case in point - the ninth track,
“When YouDon’tCome Around.”
This album’s super-charged re-
make of the staple Cast Iron song
features hard-driving percussion
and a wall-to-wall jam of a rolling
banjo line. “‘That’s a song that
kind of morphed from a true blue-
grass into a real rock tune,” de-

that it never had before.”

Acrossthespectrum, “You Ain’t
Right” drips pure country. It opens with a catchy
pedal-steel melody from Ashton: “Jim played
phenomenally on this album, especially on “You
Ain’tRight,”” says Helfrich. “He pulled outall the
tricks from his Nashville days.”

Though the song blends Cast Iron Filter’s foun-
dational sound with a country accent somewhat
foreign to the band, “We just had to put it on the
album,” says Bissett. “We justhad thatsong down
tight.” ;

“Tt’ sreally asong that youcan market,” Helfrich

Red Water creates a splash at Harvard

. By Derek Lou ;
Arts and Living Editor

Yes, it’s true: Rush Beam ’04 slept in
Natalie Portman’s bed two weekends ago.
Unfortunately, Ms. Portman wasn’t in the
bed with Rush, but Mark DiCristina ’ 03 was.
Perhaps Dave Tolley ’03 was in the doghouse
that night: his two band mates shared the bed
alone.

Mark, Dave, and Rush form the band Red
Water Parting. Their journey to Queen
Amidala’s boudoir began in the fall of 1999,
during Mark and Dave’s freshman year. The
two friends started to play music together,
and eventually performed at various campus
concerts. Some of you may remember their
many headlining shows in the 900 Room.
Back then they were just Mark and Dave.

A year later Mark and Dave met Rush at the
Thursday night worship services that they
started. Using the spiritual services as a guise
for auditions — a sort of “Making the Band,”

if you will— Mark and Dave spotted Rush and
immediately recruited him as a percussionist.
No, not really. Red Water Parting evolved
from the three’s friendship. There was never
a conscious effort to form a band, never an
insistence on having adrummer. Rush would
fool around with the drums in the company of
Mark and Dave, and eventually his name was
added to the group.

Last spring provided a number of impor-
tant moments for the band. They made their
debut as a trio at Spring Frolics and also
played a few times at Living Arts in Char-
lotte. More importantly, their CD Facing the
Post Office, which was recorded a year ear-
lier, was pressed. This summer, Grassroots

Music picked up Post Office and now distrib- °

ute the CD _ on their’ website,

www.grassrootsmusic.com.

The group adopted the name Red Water
Parting only recently. The Judeo-Christian
implications of the name are hard to overlook
— especially with an undeniably spiritual fla-

Red Water Parting played at Havard October 22. During the show,
Dispatch’s Brad Corrigan (left) played guitar with Mark, Rush and Dave.

vor to their lyrics — but the group insists on the
name’ sunclarity: “It’s ambiguous. ..however
the listener wants to take it, whether visually
or another way.”

Perhaps “ambiguous” accurately describes
their sound, as well. Red Water Parting is one
of those genre-blending groups that are best
left without a label. And based on the follow-
ing dialogue, I think the band might agree.

Mark: “We’ re tri-vocal, Afro-Celtic folk.”

Dave: “Why Afro?”

Mark: “The drums, man.”

Dave: “Oh.”

Whatever their style is, whatever adjec-
tives precede their name, their music caught
the attention of the Harvard concert commit-
tee this fall. The band found itself in the
running to open at Harvard’s Dispatch con-
cert two weekends ago. With Post Office as
its ambassador, Red Water Parting impressed
the committee, which flew Mark, Dave, and
Rush to Boston. for the gig.

- Opening for Dispatch certainly marks the
crest of Red Water Parting’s career. The
band played eight songs, four from Post Of-
fice, and the audience’s wildly enthusiastic
reaction has yet to register with the band.
Also, Brad Corrigan from Dispatch played
during the guys’ set, and then Dave returned
the favor with a violin improvisation during
the Dispatch show.

In one weekend Red Water Parting went

- from a small college group to Dispatch’s

opening band. And for consolation prizes,
they got a free trip to Boston and somehow
managed to get in Natalie Portman’s sheets.
(Ms. Portman is a member of Harvard’s con-
cert committee, so we’ll attribute Rush and
Mark’s good fortune to Ms. Portman’s hospi-
tality rather than to Red Water Parting’ s skills
with the ladies.) You can catch Red Water
Parting Nov. 9 at 9:30 P.M. in the 900 Room.

scribesEdge. “Itdevelopedasound |

Y | Tae Davinsontan
p = WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 31, 2001

describes. “It’s just got that feel.”

Adds Orlando, “It’s just the kind of song that
could end up on CMT (Country Music Televi-
sion).”

But that’s not the goal.

“The route we’ re taking, we’ ve decided to stick
with our unique sound, rather than change itto suit
theradio,” says Bissett. “Itwilltakelongertomake
it ‘big’ this way, but it’s worth the wait.”

“T’ve had more fun in the last four weeks than
I’ve had in my entire life,’ says Orlando, his
trademark grin stretching from ear to ear.

“Tt’s all about having fun and being with your
friends,” nods Helfrich. ““We’re at a point where
we can seriously focus on those two things. And
this music really reflects that.”

The joy ride has become increasingly lucrative,
as well. Under the direction of manager Scott
Shupe ‘01 and their new booking agency Treeline
Artists (Athens, Ga.), Cast Iron has filled its
October and November calendar with 23 gigs in
four states.

“We're having fun exposing people to our own
unique sound,” Edge describes. “‘There’s nothing
like getting up there, making people dance, and
then seeing them be won over by the end of the
night.”

“We're always trying new things, but all in all
we’ re sticking to our root sounds,” says Orlando.
“And that definitely reflects a commitment that
we’ re going to be in this industry for a long time -
long enough for this sound to catch on.”

Cast Iron Filter takes to the stage Saturday at
11:00 PM with a 21-and-up release party at
Charlotte’s Visualite Theater (1615 Elizabeth
Street). More information is available at

www.castironfilter.com.

Alumni led Blue Dogs
return home for
Thursday night show

By Evans McGowan
Special Contributor

Do you remember where you were last
Thursday? If you can’t, then you must not
have been at the Blue Dogs Concert in the
Smith 900 Room at the College Union. The
Blue Dogs’ mix of fast-paced jams with hip-
hop beats and a bit 0’ country rock kept the
room alive and hoppin’ well into the night.
Davidson College graduate, lead singer and
guitarist Bobby Houck ’87 still leads the
band.

Last Thursday was a great chance for
Houck and the rest of the band to reminisce
about the “old days” as well as relive his
Davidson experience. Houck made his de-
but in the old Union as a guitar soloist, so
performing in the new Union was very spe-
cial to him. Currently, the Dogs are planning
a western tour and trying to get picked up by

‘la major label.

Sponsored by the Union Board Concert
Committee, the Blue Dogs are one of many
bands to play the Alvarez College Union.
Look for a suggestion box in the Union to

voice your opinion about favorite bands.

