By Mike ANDERSON AND NANCY KOHLER
Staff Writers

Huddled together in a film room adjacent
to Belk. Arena, thirteen members of the
women’s basketball team were stunned on
Monday afternoon when a teary-eyed John
Filar—the longest-running and winningest
coach in program history—walked in and
announced his resignation.

“It’s difficult to leave,” said Filar. “This is
probably the toughest decision I’ ve ever had
to make.”

He spoke for less than a minute, quickly
articulating his decision and offering best
wishes for the future as emotion filled the
room.

“Tt was difficult to look at them,” Filar said
in an interview on Tuesday morning. “I
didn’t want to see what was in their eyes
yesterday. I knew that it would have to be a
very short meeting because there was no way
I could make it through a long speech. As I
spoke, I saw the looks and the tears just start
coming, and I couldn’t go on.”

Monday’s resignation brought to an end a
decade-long tenure during which Filar
reinitiated a program that had been shelved
for the past six seasons.

“John Filar came in here and was tasked
with jumpstarting a program that didn’t ex-
ist,” said Athletics Director Jim Murphy.
“He built a very competitive program very
quickly, within a decade. He recruited ex-
ceptional people into the program and cre-
ated a situation where we can truly build
upon the foundation of success that he’s
created.”

Over those ten years Filar amassed a 102-
135 record—including an impressive span
between 1995-1999 when the Wildcats won
65 of 97 games. But things turned downward
over the past two seasons, as Davidson sput-
tered to a combined 19-36 record.

The team finished last season 9-19, includ-

Mike Anderson
John Filar
ing a 4-14 record in the Southern Conference
and a 76-62 first round loss to Wofford in the
conference tournament.

“(Recent struggles) must certainly have
increased the level of frustration that he felt,”
Murphy said. “Coaches and players are com-
petitive and want to win. When a team is beset
with injuries and other factors that lead to
losing, the frustration increases and pressures
increase. I’m sure that was certainly an is-
sue.”

Filar spoke vaguely about his motivations
for stepping down. “Coaching at the Divi-
sion-I level consumes an enormous amount
of energy,” he said. “There comes a time
when you start thinking that you need a new
challenge to be re-energized. [ also think it’s
just a time when the program needs a shot of
new energy and personality.”

Sources familiar with the program specu-
lated that professional tension between Filar
and Murphy may have played a role in the
coach’s decision to resign. They say the two
men had sparred over recent years about a

range of issues, including gender equity is-
sues at Davidson. Nonetheless, Murphy ex-
pressed warm regard for Filar in an interview
on Tuesday night.

“If there’s a coach with whom I never
disagreed over the course of ten years, then
neither of us would have been doing our jobs
well,” said Murphy, in his fifth year as Ath-
letics Director. “Any of our disagreements
over recent years shouldn’t have played any
role at all in his decision to move on.”

Player Reaction

Many team members were caught off-guard
by Monday’s announcement.

“When Coach Filar walked in and told us
that he had to keep the meeting short because
he couldn’t handle it, I knew something very
bad was about to happen,” said forward
Bethany Schott, a junior captain. “When he
said that he had turned in his resignation
papers, my reaction went from utter shock to
just sadness and confusion.”

“TI was stunned,” said junior guard Janna
Magette. “I didn’t see it coming. I’m going to
miss him. It’s hard'to imagine a practice or
pre-game chat without Filar. It is impossible
to imagine not hearing his voice on the other
end of the line when I dial the office.”

Filar cultivated a reputation as a deeply
caring and thoughtful friend and father-fig-
ure to his players, many team members say.

“T will miss Filar knowing me,” said Schott.
“He knows what I’ m about, what the program
is about, what the school is about. He knows
my family and my friends. Filar would do
anything for anyone of us, and it saddens me
to think of Davidson without him.”

A number of other concerns were raised,
especially from a senior class fearful that a
new coach might come in and look to a
younger crop of players to build upon. Next
year’s squad is comprised of five rising se-
niors and six rising sophomores.

Baseball loses to High Point

HIGH POINT, N.C. — High Point hit
three homers to help hold off Davidson on
Tuesday afternoon by hanging on to an 11-9
victory at Alumni Field. The Wildcats were
able to close within a run on several occa-
sions, but the Panthers never relinquished
their lead.

Junior Mark Wells (1-4) suffered the loss,
surrendering eight runs on nine hits in’ six
innings, walking three and striking out one.

Junior Tim Frend finished the game with
five RBI thanks to his triple and team-leading
sixth home run. James Marino led the Wild-

cats with three hits, and Ryan Stroker, Frend,,

Cassidy Lundin and senior Jeremiah Parvin
each chipped in a pair of hits.

Davidson next plays this weekend when
the Wildcats host The Citadel for a three-
game Southern Conference series.

-‘Men’s tennis tops UNC Asheville

The Davidson men’s tennis team only
dropped one set en route to shutting down
UNC Asheville, 7-0. With the win, the Wild-
cats (6-6) have won three of their last four
contests to reach .500 for the first time since
early February.

Five of the six singles matches were won in
the straight sets by Davidson. Freshman

Bryan Stonestreet (No. 6), the hero from the
College of Charleston match, had to rally
from one set down to notch his team-best 10th
singles victory.

Davidson starts a four match road swing
Thursday, March 29, when the Wildcats travel
north to take on Elon.

Lacrosse falls to Duke

DURHAM, N.C. — The Davidson la-
crosse team was unable to recover after fall-
ing behind early to the fourth-ranked Duke
Blue Devils and suffered a 14-5 loss at
Koskinen Stadium.

Tae Davipsontan:
: WEDNESDAY,
Marcu 28, 2001

Looking Forward

Murphy announced that a national search
process for a successor will begin immedi-
ately. By Tuesday night, the position was
posted on the “Employment Opportunities”
feature of Davidson’s Web site.

A six-person search committee, including
aplayer representative believed to be Bethany
Schott, will examine potential candidates.

“J think we’ll attract a tremendous appli-
cant pool,” Murphy predicted. “This is not a
situation where we’ll have to resuscitate a
program. This is a program with a good solid
foundation to build upon.”

Murphy suggested that the committee
would prefer a female candidate, although
“nothing is set in stone.”

“We'd like to have someone with experi-
ence as either a player or a coach at an
institution with a strong academic profile.
We’re looking for someone who is charis-
matic, whois a good recruiter, and who has an
exceptional technical knowledge of the |
game.”

Still, Murphy described “a good fit for
Davidson’ as the single most important quali-
fication.

Sources report that assistant coaches Jen-
nifer Roos and Claire Gardin are expected to
apply for the top spot.

“I have encouraged the current staff to
apply and I have assured each of them that
should they apply they will receive full con-
sideration,” said Murphy.

While the new head coach will have full
discretion over the coaching staff, some
sources speculate that 2000 graduate Jen
O’Brien would make an exceptional top aide.
Widely considered the most prolific basket-
ball player in school history, O’Brien has
spent the past year in the coaching ranks,
heading a junior varsity squad at a Connecti-
cut high school and turning out brilliant re-

’ sults as an AAU coach.

Reached on Tuesday, O’ Brien expressed a
continued interest in coaching at Davidson
despite Filar’s departure.

Filar, a 1974 Westminster College gradu-
ate,.is considering a variety of options—
coaching either at the collegiate or prep level,
or perhaps exploring a different avenue alto-
gether. Despite the frustrations of an injury-
ridden season, his fire for coaching remains
visibly alive.

“T look back over the years and the wins
and losses really don’t seem very important
right now,” he said. “What’s extremely close
to my heart, though, are the relationships that
have been established here with the players
I’ve coached and the staff I’ ve worked with.
It’s been truly special.”

Davidsonian
Player of the Week

Bryan Stonestreet

Freshman Brian Stonestreet
won atie-breaker, 7-4, over Col-
lege of Charleston’s Milos
Lazicto to complete the Wild-
cats’ upset over the Cougars last
Sunday. See story on page 13.

THE WEEK AHEAD |

BASEBALL Women’s TENNIS
Mar. 31 The Citadel (2) 12:00 Mar. 29 @Elon 2:30
Apr.1 The Citadel 1:00 Mar. 31 Furman 1:00
Apr.3 High Point 3:00
Apr.4 @Duke 7:00 MEN’s TENNIS
Mar.29. ~~ @Elon 2:30
TRACK Mar. 31 @VMI 10:00
Mar. 30-31 Raleigh Relays @ Raleigh Apr. 3 @Wofford 3:00
Apr. 4 @UNCG 2:30

___ Lacrosse
Mar. 30 §@Duquesne 4:00
Apr. 1 @Mt. St. Mary’s 1;00
