By NIcHOLAS CARLSON

Staff Writer

When Head Coach Kevin Hundley re-
marked that his team has “gained some con-
fidence,” he made a decided understatement.

After a horrid 0-6 start, the "Cats have
stunned just about everybody but themselves
by winning four in a row.

The Wildcats initiated their streak two
weeks ago against a weak Elon team, but the
next three victories came in tough conference
matches.

Last Tuesday, in their first conference
match, Davidson thumped the Wofford Ter-
riers, 4-0. Leigh Anne Hoskins lit up the
scoreboard, scoring two goals in the win.
Tara Maloney and Natalie Cox contributed
with goals of their own to trounce the Terri-
ers, now 1-5 for the season.

Momentum and determination drove the
*Cats to their third straight win—last Friday’ s
match against Appalachian State. Scoreless
until the 87th minute, the game was a defen-
sive slug-fest, won 1-0 on a late header from
Cox. os
Maloney, in a by-now comfortable and
consistent role, offered up an assist from the
left side of the field for the winning goal.

THe DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcrToseER 3, 2001

natant

Lindsay Ferguson

Midfielder Deneille Erikson ‘04 blows by a flimsy ETSU defender.

Coach Hundley was pleased with senior
Cox, saying “It’s a real tribute to her to come
in and to make such a big contribution to the
team in this, her senior year.”

The win against conference foe ASU
improved the team to 2-1 in league play while
dropping the Mountaineers to 1-1-1.

The ’Cats soundly defeated the Bucca-
neers of East Tennessee State in another
offensive explosion, moving to 4-6 overall.
The 4-0 win was Davidson’s third confer-
ence victory in a row.

The game was Sarah Hobart’s fourth
straight shutout, the most a freshman keeper
has ever had at Davidson. She hasn’t missed
a save in 14 attempts.

“She’s obviously played solid all year, we
were just giving up too many shots and too
many chances earlier on,” said Coach
Hundley.

~ The winning streak has put new life into a
season that started dismally.

“T think we’ ve still got along way to go, but
in the conference we’re 3-1, so we feel like
we’re in the top half of the league, which is
where we thought we could be,” saida pleased
Coach Hundley.

This Friday, Oct. 5, the Wildcats travel to
Blacksburg to take on the Hokies of Virginia
Tech.

Game Faces: Captains Around Campus

THIS WEEK: Field Hockey...

Photos by Matt Whited and Erin Berry

Jessica Barton
Hummelstown, PA
Economics Major

Position: Center Back

Years Experience in Sport: 11 years
Favorite Pump-up Song:

Rocky IV Theme

Who is the best role model for youth today?

“Michael Jordan...he just never quits.”

Amanda Mordavsky
South Windsor, CT
English Major

Position: Goalkeeper

Years Experience in Sport: 7 years

Favorite Pump-up Song: “Hit me with
your best shot” -Pat Benatar

Who is the best role model for youth today?

“I think Karen Scavetto is a great role
model for all young female athletes. She has
worked her butt off to become one of the best
archers in the world at (age) 19.”

Club Sports Information

clysmic volcanic eruption, the Davidson
inline hockey team exploded to a dominat-
ing 11-1 victory last Thursday against the
division rival Checkers.

Davidson scored early and often as the
Checkers were unable to contain the speed
and prowess of the Wildcats. Taking advan-
tage of several days of rest, the squad was
able to capitalize on many offensive plays.

Amazingly, seven of the eight skaters
managed to light the lamp, testimony to

was: firing on all cylinders—Richard
Connolly, Trip Cook, Weston Waxweiler,
Andrew Forester, Tim Cook, Jim Davidson,
and Ned Conway all scored. The perfor-
mance is all the more impressive consider-
ing the defense-minded play of the Check-
ers.

Trip Cook said, “Entering the game we
knew that every goal would come at some
physical cost, yet the team responded with
fearlessness and tenacity. Simply oe we
kicked some ass.”

Richard Connolly led the scoring race

trating the ‘opposition all night.

C.uB SPORT SpoTLicHt: Roller Hockey

Resembling the power and fury of acata- _

Davidson’s depth. Offensively, the team.

flawless.”

with three’ goals, overwhelming and fros-—

nd the team’ s perfor-
ted, “It v was nice

“see Roller Hockey, pore 10.

RECR RHEE

to dominate like we did. The team exhibited
the offensive Sx plCBIVERESs, that makes us
so dangerous.”

Davidson managed the decisive win with-
out talented forward Josh Voorhees who is
nursing a hip-flexor injury suffered several
weeks ago. Team physicians contend that
Voorhees can return to action next week.
Despite Voorhees’ absence, the squad has
proved that it can terrorize opposing goalies
with pure talent—an asset that Andrew For-
ester finds comforting.

“I expect our offensive flare to take us
deep into the playoffs,” he said. :

Captain Jay Hollis, the lone skater who
failed to record a goal, responded positively
to questions regarding his limited output.

“Even though | did not light the lamp,”
said Hollis, “I felt good about my defensive
play. Usually I let a lot of forwards skate
around me, but tonight I successfully closed
the lane.”

Fellow defenseman Ned Conway spice
that Hollis played a solid game. “Jay played
awesome tonight. He usually lets a lot of
people skate around him, but tonight he was

Davidson’s deftanive play indicates that
the team can also dominate on the other end
of the i ice. Limiting the Checkers to fewer

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Let your plans be dark and impenetrable
as the night, and when you move, fall like a

thunderbolt.”

—Sun Tzu

THE WEEK AHEAD

FOooTBALL VOLLEYBALL
Oct. 6 @ Morehead St. 2:30 Oct. 5 @ ETSU 7:00

Reed Oct. 6 @ App. State 7:00

Men’s SOCCER Oct. 9 Winthrop Univ. 7:00
Oct. 4 @ The Citadel 7:00 Fievp Hockey
Oct. 9 Appalachian St. ° 8:00 Oct. 7 @ Duke 2:00
Cross Country
Women’s Soccer Oct. 6 Men- Lehigh, Penn.

Oct. 5 @ Virginia Tech 3:30 Women- Charleston, S.C.
Oct. 9 Wake Forest 5:30 GoLr

Oct. 8-9 Intercollegiates @ UNCW
