c

DaAvIpDSON COLLEGE

D

@ ALENDA LU

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 1

Honor Code faces possible revisions

BY ROLAND F. Foss
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Honor Code, loved and cher-
ished since its inception, might undergo a
significant revision. Pressed by faculty con-
cerns and a desire to keep the Honor Code
reasonable and understandable,. the Honor
Council has initiated a plan for campus dis-
cussion.

A forum for Honor Council representa-
tives, faculty, administration, and all inter-
ested students is scheduled for Thursday Sep-
tember 6, at 4:15 PM in the C. Shaw Smith
900 Room of the Knobloch Campus Center.

Changes to the Honor Code have been
contemplated since last semester, when fac-
ulty members made a formal complaint to the
Faculty Executive Committee. At issue, ac-
cording to many faculty members, is the
difference between the College’s standards

and the standards of academia regarding pla-
giarism. Should Davidson students ‘abide by
the rules of the professional academic world,
or should the Honor Code be specially de-
signed for Davidson students? Or, as one
Honor Council member put it: “Is the Honor

Code an academic standard, or is ita standard

of character?”

“In the past,” explained Mike Anderson
’02, Policy Coordinator for the Honor Coun-
cil, “the Council has wrestled with the sticky
controversy of ‘unintentional’ or ‘negligent’
plagiarism — where the faulty work was a
result of severe Jaziness rather than a con-
spiracy to deceive. This proposal hopes to
clarify that area of the Code.”

According to Will Parker ’02, the Honor
Council Chairman, there is a five-step pro-
cess for revisions to the Honor Code. First
comes small-group discussion within the
Honor Council, generally conducted by vari-

RLO fights disease

Fear of Hepatitis B, Meningitis prompts new
residence hall bathroom, shower regulations

By PK PATEL
Staff Writer

As the new year began, Davidson students
moved into residence halls and learned quickly
of new changes awaiting them. Beginning
this year, toiletries may no.longer be stored in
hall bathrooms. Their potential to foster
environments conducive to Hepatitis B and
Meningitis in this setting has been deemed a
serious health threat.

Over the summer, the Residence Life Of-
fice (RLO) researched extensively the risks
of meningitis and Hepatitis B on college
campuses. An article that appeared in the
Journal of the American Medical Associa-
tion reported studies of incidents of meningi-
tis. It was found that first year students living

on college campuses were at high risk of |

contracting the illness. RLO also learned that
students on college campuses were at high
risk for Hepatitis B.

Hepatitis B is a virus that causes inflamma-
tion and damage of the liver. If this damage
is severe, it can lead to death. Hepatitis B can
be contracted in several different ways—from
contact with blood or body fluids, from sexual
contact, or by sharing any items, such as

razors or toothbrushes, that may have come

in contact with an infected person’s body -

fluids. It can live in body fluids for up to
seven days. :
Meningitis is a bacterial infection that
causes@evere swelling of the brain and spinal
cord. It is potentially fatal and leads to death
in 20% of all cases. Fortunatley, it is rela-
tively rare. Meningitis is spread more easily
than Hepatitis B, and can be transmitted

through vapors suspended in air and direct ©

contact with a person who is already infected.

Since all of the first year students and over
90% of upperclassmen at Davidson live on
campus, RLO decided to take immediate
action in order to prevent a potential tragedy.
As Leslie Marsicano, Dean of Students and
Director of Residence Life, points out, “One
death is too many.”

It was decided that no student would be
allowed to store his or her toiletries in a hall
bathroom unless it is equipped with shelves
built specifically for this purpose. RLO plans
to gradually remove all shelves from all bath-
rooms before the start of next year. “Since the
risk is not urgent,” said Marsicano, “we are

see Disease, page 2

The Outpost.

Perspectives: Students sound off on the
retirement announcement of North Carolina
Senator Jesse Helms.

Sports: Football runs win streak to nation-
best 18 games. ay

, INSIDE THIS WEEK

News: School reaches a conclusion with

News

Perspectives 6-7

8-12

Sports

ous committees. Second is the inclusion of
the entire Davidson College community in a
forum. Next comes an Honor Council hear-
ing, the findings of which are sent to the
Student Conduct Council, which then refers
the matter to the President of the College.

The. campus-wide meeting scheduled for
tomorrow is the second step in the new pro-
cess.

Currently, the portion of the Code relevant
to plagiarism states: “Cheating includes pla-
giarism, which is representing another’s ideas
or words as one’s own.” Under the plan put
forth by the Policy Committee of the Honor

Y
=
©
a
U
&
2
a
Z
-
©
U

Council, this sentence would be amended to:
“Plagiarizing, whether intentional or by means
of unreasonable negligence, is representing
another’s ideas or words as one’s own.” The
sentence regarding plagiarism would be in a
paragraph separate from the sentence regard-
ing cheating.

Though a work produced by plagiarism
may be easy to spot by many, in the opinion
of some it has been exceedingly tough ‘to
convict for this offense. Heretofore, Honor
Council trials have been hung up by the

sée Plagiarism, page 4

The Counting Crows played to a nearly packed house in Belk Arena
Monday night. See reporter Matt Whited’s exclusive interview on

page 2.

Class of 2005 welcomed

By Nipui PAuL
Staff Writer

The Office of Admissions and Financial
Aid is excited about the class of 2005. Once
again, it says it has managed to admit the most
talented, diverse, carefully selected and all-
around best class in its history.

Over the past few years, Davidson has been
slowly increasing its selectivity. Despite the
fact that the newest class is one of the largest
to enter Davidson, the percentage of students

accepted out of all applicants has been dimin- '

ishing steadily. Every new class that comes
in is comprised of the best students in that
applicant pool.

The class has an almost even split of
students from public and private schools,
with the public schools winning by a tad.

There is also the small percentage from paro-
chial or foreign schools.

The distribution of students from different
states is more varied than usual—38 states
and 16 foreign countries are represented.
This year only 44% of freshmen came from
the Southeast (19% from NC), the second
largest group being from the Mid-Atlantic,
with 21%. This year’s international popula-
tion comprised 4% of the class, and represent
countries suchas Argentina, Bulgaria, Ghana,
India, Japan and Venezuela.

Three quarters of the class graduated in
the top 10% of their high school class. The
top academic interests this year remain al-
most the same as last year. Nancy Cable,
Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, said

see New students, page 4
