College papers face criticism over hand!

By Jessica SSICA MERING
News Editor

Are newspapers accountable for the con-
_ tent in the paid advertisements théy print?
Many college newspaper editors have been
asking just that question in the last several
weeks as they decided whether to print a
politically-charged ad. Sixty-five college
newspapers, primarily dailies, received an ad
headed: “Ten Reasons Why Reparations for
Slavery is a Bad Idea for Blacks - and Racist
Too.”

Conservative author David Horowitz, presi-
dent of The Center for the Study of Popular
Culture, wrote and submitted the full-page
ad. His claims, while shared by others, had
the power to incite strong feelings and en-
courage controversy. Of the sixty-five news-
papers that received the ad, more than half of
them rejected it on the grounds that paid
advertisements were subject to the discretion
of the staff. Most of the newspapers are run
independently of their universities and there-
fore enjoy complete freedom when deciding
what to run.

In an interview with DiversityInc.com,
Horowitz accused the papers of censorship
and argued that their refusals violated his
First Amendmentrights. Advertisement regu-
lations, however, are often very separate from
editorial procedure.

Many editors chose to reject the ad for
practical reasons. “Advertising space is not
sacred ground; it is space bought with money.
That space comes with restrictions and stan-
dards far different from those on an opinion
or editorial page ...Writing opinion pieces
and news stories that may upset readers is

Staff Writer

Without the help of the Department of
Public Safety, Davidson’s little campus could
have turned into a bike graveyard by now.
Campus police have been collecting “aban-
doned- looking bikes” for more than a year,
says Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey.
McKelvey says that police officers observed
most of the bikes in their abandoned state “for
sometime” before they were rescued.

The bikes were found “in bushes, and lying
along roadways, paths, and lawns,” McKelvey
notes. Many students who have had their
bikes taken complain that the department
took them from a bike rack, but McKelvey
figures that other students may have “bor-
rowed” the unsecured bikes and left them
somewhere in a hurry. That’s exactly what
happened to Stratton Lawrence ’03, whose

ee ee en en Ee ee ere

" often good journalism. Selling advertisements
that alienate customers is just bad business,”
said the editors of the Yale Daily News in an
interview with The Washington Post.

By separating the editorial and business
staffs, newspapers attempt to retain distinc-
tion between the two jobs. Editors, through
the use of opinion sections and letters to the
editor, shoulder the responsibility for facili-
tating a public forum where any voice can be
heard. In an interview with the Washington
Post, Jennifer Kepka (American University’ s
Eagle) explained that her paper’s decision
not to print the ad was based more on its form
than its content: “If Mr. Horowitz had chosen
to submit his piece as an opinion-editorial,
with a campus co-signer, we wouldn’t be
having this discussion. We would have printed
it. Advertising, however, doesn’t have that
kind of protection on our pages and I don’t
believe it should.” In other words, not print-
ing an editorial is censorship while not print-
ing an ad is good business.

Of the twenty newspapers that printed the
ads so far, three of them have since apolo-
gized for their decision. Editors at the Daily
Californian (UC — Berkely), State Press
(Arizona State) and the Aggie (UC — Davis)
issued public statements in which they ex-
pressed their regret for printing the ad. “The
Daily Cal’s ad policy does not allow the
publishing of ads with incorrect or blatantly
inflammatory content ... the ad allowed the
Daily Cal to become an inadvertent vehicle
for bigotry,” said its editor Daniel Hernandez.

Other newspapers have published the ad
and, despite protest, stood behind their deci-
sions. Irate students removed copies of Brown
University’s Daily Herald from the stands. At

Erin Berry
Campus police collected about forty “abandoned” bikes
recently.

Police pick up “abandoned” bikes

By BreEnT Byars

bike was stolen, found and then recovered by
Public Safety in front of Knox.

Campus police currently have a cache of
about 40 bikes in their storage area. An e-
mail sent from the Dean of Students office on
March 15 informed students about the or-
phaned bikes, and urged those with missing
bikes to call Public Safety. It’s not clear
whether Public Safety made good on the e-
mail’s deadline for disposal of the bikes, but

‘McKelvey insists that proper notice was given.

Public Safety’s website lists ways that stu-
dents can safeguard their bikes, the most
important of which is a reliable bike lock.
Students can also have their bikes registered
with the department for free, so that the bike
is more easily recovered later. Students can
call Public Safety at x2178 for more informa-
tion or to inquire after the lost-and-found
ae

Duke University, hundreds of witenks mo.
tested the Chronicle’s decision to run the ad,
and the campus police were forced to escort
out more than fifteen protesters who stormed
the paper’s office. “We have made a commit-
ment to be an open forum for all ideas. In
America, at newspapers and college cam-

Why for Slavery
By David Horowitz
1
tha Ws fees Geer Rowers hn TCs Oh tw 18 ee Tete
dine ee ets henbton bes Veton, Wek Benes wet
Sigeow Same Cowen we teem
a
hmocoemenerg C2 Lohenlerubeddechenmonked kanal
a Sees piers te ea wan Remco on osha
ree hike beet
PRC set tone lath etna Teer a Sao ee
sane trteeeane tee eh cao
iSitvere popes ted ntoat mone tals sorreney Sheet mets me acm ete nan te
pote fend e weterny oer tat Ua loay mow 4 Straw senees |
eres To Aras Ast Rs Asana Bex Poe
(yA Mer So ar Ot am,
fats pe
SSESiS eee Seabee mt ctr more, Eire wren a a vay 4
os < : oe
w
Was dove Tex Oem res Ont Te dense?
ete
Riven
ee =: teaimeetine
(oa soonest ae Prod
4 ; Freon etter eS atacand
‘Tos Bicone Perms bse Te dees Tm Bermenees Cam wales arne Bel Wrachates 4 sondien d Bienen tl dn oe
Rocket, Op hee hr re “r=,
— pete
cae 0 Nate emp eredeeploraly perl
Res atciarny Sherpa loadsa tte hi cat ht alia
Bes ig thr tesba toi tenable rh na npraer
SEs cera Bond nen oa pains <tr soar .
pond Srp omilas hres oon "hut Rem Avex veto heer
— — a, Tae Koon oot Gan feo Posy,
ax
SSrean sowie me pana ba oe oon tobertnant CE ne
eo Pnmasgeryey
went Tedeenr
ray Pareto eter rere erties
Meets se
Sapo sseeen ermentumnaee tam Solactenny Aeterna oestriol do ae
Me ntieaer
porrar ety wade
women

www.frontpagemagazine.com
Horowitz’s article caused
controversy in college

puses especially, we value that free exchange
and different views. Frank discussion comes
at the expense of comfort,” said Chronicle
editor Greg Pessin. In a four-page public
statement, the Chronicle staff states: “Our
actions over the past few days have been
consistent with our principles as journalists,
students and community members. They have
been consistent, too, with the invaluable tra-

€ expression, open
Asoka ventiy ist Sous We -stand
by our principles and our actions, and reiter-
ee ee ee
debate.”

Horowitz begins his argument by noting
that “There is No Single Group Clearly Re-
sponsible for the Crime of Slavery.” He claims
that there were thousands of non-white
slaveholders and that it is therefore impos-
sible to assign payment responsibility to any
one faction. He points out that because of
immigration, a relatively small number of
today’s Americans have any direct connec-
tion to slavery. Horowitz claims that there is
no evidence showing that today’s African-
Americans suffer any economic consequences
of slavery.

He also suggests that reparations would
ultimately have divisive effects on American
sqciety by further underscoring and separat-
ing racial groups. He claims that “reparations
to African-Americans have already been
paid...in the form of welfare benefits and
racial preferences.

Finally, he suggests that any debt owed to
African-Americans is countered by a debt
owed by them to others who have worked for
equality: “If not for the sacrifices of white
soldiers and a white American president who
gave his life to sign the Emancipation Procla-
mation, blacks in America would still be
slaves. If not for the dedication of Americans
of all ethnicities and colors to a society based
on the principle that all men are created equal,
blacks would not enjoy the highest standard
of living of blacks anywhere in the
world...Where is the gratitude of black
America and its leaders for those gifts?”

