fully look to their coaches for advices and
leadership. A bond should be formed be-
tween t the competitor and thei instructor that
braves any hardship, but at what point may
acoach; sacrifice that bond for the necessity
of victory? :

During this past women’s soccer season,
a man sacrificed that bond and systemati-
cally destroyed the self-confidence of one
of my friends. He made her hate one of the
few things in her life that she could love
carelessly. My friend played fora Division-
I Southern Conference team this fall, and
because of a man so reckless in the role of
coach, my friend now abhors the spirit of
competition.

My friend was an above-average player,
and she boasted that “love of the game”
seldom found on the collegiate level where,
all too often, athletes seek money and glory.’
In her senior year of high school, she tore
her ACL and missed the season adults remi-
nisce about. She fought rehabilitation woes
and college anxiety to secure a slot on a
Division-I team, comforted at last that she
could recapture the adrenal rush of team vs.
team, friend vs. foe.

Her coach ruined the ideal of sport for her
over a four-month span. He used my friend
| asa practice dummy for the starters without
instructing her play. He left her off the
traveling team list as the only healthy player
staying home. Above all, he had his assis-
tant coach tell my friend /0 minutes before
the Southern Conference quarterfinal game
that she could not don her jersey because he
forgot that only 18 athletes could dress.

I traveled to Greenville this past week-
end. I watched my friend turn to me and
smile after her team lost its championship
shot because her hell was over at long last.
She made me promise the night before not
to confront her coach verbally or physi-
cally, despite the chivalric urges of my
Tennessee upbringing. I saw in her smile
the bitter benefits of the contemporary
coach’s win-at-all costs mentality. I con-
demn that mentality with every Aber of my
being.

No statistic or “W” on a score-sheet i is
worth the destruction of a young adult’s
confidence. Anindividual corrupts t thename
of “coach” when those seeking instruction
feel like pawns for inhuman and selfish
hands. I understand the pressures for suc-
cess that pile upon a collegiate coach, but at
no point should an athlete feel inadequate
and | superfluous. College spo should as

ienc dtbes tint attend Savidteon: and
her situation does not apply to many of you.
But there are the stories, rumors I’ve tot
of love sacrificed r vi
pus. Take my anecdote for what it’s sath
to you: example, allegory, or: ‘emergency
toilet paper. °

But for the love of all that is Davidson,
don’t settle for the high school memories.

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Ending the season with a three game
winning streak, the men’s soccer team
seems primed to be a force in the Southern
Conference tournament, which begins

Thursday evening in Charleston, S.C. With

wins over conference rivals Wofford and
Georgia Southern, the ’Cats secured anum-
ber two seed for the upcoming tournament
and will face Georgia Southern again in the
quarterfinal round.

Following a tough loss to Furman only a
few nights earlier, the Wildcats were look-
ing to reassert their dominance against a
feisty Wofford squad in their final home
game of the season.

The Terriers broke into the scoring col-
umn first, but senior forward Chris Norbet,
who won SoCon player of the Week honors
this week, evened the score only minutes
later with a goal assisted by fellow seniors
Erik Ozimek and Justin Saunders.

Davidson took a one-goal advantage in
the 37th minute as junior Joel Sadler
notched an unassisted goal. The ’Cats
closed out the half with a 4-1 lead as Norbet
tallied two more for his first hat trick of the
season. Saunders and Ozimek assisted on
Norbet’s second goal and his third score

- back and push us,”

"Reetht wins build n momentum fo

Men's team prepares to face Georgia Southern in first round oy SoCon tourney

came off a pass from senior defender David
Ramich. ;

Once again, Wofford opened the half
with a quick tally, but Ozimek extended
Davidson’s lead again to three with a pen-
alty kick in the 74th minute. The Terriers,
however, would not go softly into the night
as they netted two quick scores in the last
eight minutes, one a Davidson own-goal,
to close the gap to one.

Davidson withstood the Wofford attack
in the final few minutes to preserve the
lead as the ’Cats improved to 10-7 on the
season and 5-2 in conference play. Of
special note, all three Davidson keepers
combined for their first joint victory of the
season.

“Every conference game is a battle, and
Wofford proved their resilience to come
remarked head coach
Matt Spear. “Chris Norbet had three tre-
mendous goals to get to 17 on the year and
Joel Sadler provided sparkling midfield
play.

“Tonight was the final home game for
our eight seniors; a nice finale.”

Against Georgia Southern, Norbet
proved again to be the go-to guy, scoring
two goals en route to a 4-2 Wildcat win.
Norbet netted both his goals in the first
half, increasing his season total to 19. The

senior striker’ first goal came off an assist
from senior Jon Tetirick and the second
from a combination of passes by Sadler
and freshman Dan Ferriter.

The Eagles pulled within one in the 34th
minute, but Sadler found the back of the
net off a loose ball in the box to give the
’Cats a 3-1 lead going into halftime.

Ferriter rounded out the scoring for
Davidson in the 52nd minute as he knocked
home arebound from the top of the box for
his fourth tally of the year. Georgia South-
ern scored- once more on a penalty kick
mid-way through the second frame, but it
was not enough.

Senior Soren Johnson notched six saves
to earn the win and secure second place for
Davidson in the Southern Conference.

“This was an important win to further
elevate our momentum and confidence go-
ing into the Southern Conference tourna-
ment,” said Spear.

Spear is optimistic about the postseason,
“We feel good about our number two seed,
and playing Georgia Southern for the sec-
ond time in six days in the first round will
be an interesting challenge. We have talked
all year about believing and peaking in
November. The performance, composure,
and attitude needed to win a conference
championship and the resulting NCAA
Tournament bid are there.”

UNCG eliminates ’Cats from semifinal bid

By Liz Gross
Staff Writer

Davidson’s hopes for impressive tourna-.
ment play were shattered as a roller coaster
season came to an end for the women’s soccer
team last weekend. The Wildcats entered the
tournamentas the No. 6 seed, coming into play
after ending their regular season competition
with a four-game losing streak.

Davidson’s first game pitted them against
No. 3 seed UNC Greensboro, who handed the
Wildcats a 0-3 defeat less than two weeks
earlier.

On Friday night, though, Davidson’s de-
fense was up to the Spartans’ challenge. The
game was scoreless after the first half as both
teams struggled to finish their scoring opportu-
nities.

It wasn’t until the final stretch of the second
half that the Spartans scored the game-winning
goal. Greensboro’ s Jennifer Kennedy connected
onacomer kick from Jamie Ableman, sending
aheader into the back of the net to eliminate the
Wildcats from the tournament.

“After a season of injuries, 17 of our 18
players were back inaction for ourfinal game. It
was gratifying to play once more with most of
the team,” said senior captain Penn Graves.
“Unfortunately our hostilities towards UNCG
were left unresolved with the 1-0 loss.”

Davidson’s freshman goalkeeper, Sarah
Hobart, continued her impressive return from
injury as she posted ten saves during the evening.
Sophomore Leigh Anne Hoskins led
Davidson’s offense with two shots, as the
Wildcats were out-shot by the Spartans 4-17.

“J think the team played with more heart

' Friday night than any other game this season,
- so it was a hard loss,”

said senior Natalie
Cox. “It no longer stands as a loss for me
though, because I will always remember this
game as the last one that I played with some of

FRATERNITIES ° Sononres * C.uss @ Stupent Groups

Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy

hour fundraising event: .

the best friends I’m sure I will ever know.”

The UNCG Spartans went on to win the
tournament, shutting out Furman in the semifi-
nals and defeating the No. 1 seed Western
Carolina in double overtime to win the cham-
pionship.

The Wildcats end the season 7-14 overall
and 6-4 in conference play. The women battled
injuries throughout the fall, making it difficult
to sustain any momentum as the season pro-
gressed. However, the team looks torest up and
be ready to charge back into action next season.

Do you love Davidson?

mV |

Do you want to help shape the future of Davidson?

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid will be
interviewing for new Tour Guides!

ext. 2233 we mibrad
to schedule an interview.
Last day for interviews is November 20°

Got oe %

