fundraising event.
No sales required.
aaiaasy dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact Campusfinder.com
at (888) 923-3238,

‘oups —

2,000 this semester with fy easy Campusfinder.com three hoir

Campus Police Blotter

The Police Blotter
return next week.

will

tions. “[It is a] misconception that sorority
girls are extremely picky when it comes to
choosing new members and only pick the
best looking and then during sisterhood do
terrible things to the girls. All my sorority
friends could not stop elaborating on how
sweet the older sisters were to them and that
all throughout their freshman years they re-
ceived breakfast in bed, bedtime stories, and
pamper-me baskets.”

A group representing the pro-sorority move-
ment has met with President Vagt. “Basicallly
we discussed the reasons why sororities were
not brought on campus when this issue arose
a few years ago and we are taking those into
consideration as we moved forward with our
process to start a sorority here at Davidson,”
Tate explained.

President Vagt was careful to stress that
1998’s decision is in no. way binding or
permanent. “Times change, people change,

needs change,” he acknowledged. “At that

time, women on the campus were opposed [to
the idea of serorities].”

However, many Davidson women still
aren’t quite sure if sororities would be a
positive addition to the campus. Some fear
that the presence of women’s Greek organi-
zations would diminish Davidson’s unique
eating houses. Others felt that Davidson’s
small size did not warrant the creation of even
smaller organizations.

Tate acknowledged the opposition but is
not convinced by their arguments. “Sorori-
ties offer a small, intimate experience, focus
on service and provide a sense of family
within the house among its members. Plus, if
men can have to option to choose between
Greek life, an eating house, and being inde-
pendent, why shouldn’t women be offered
the same freedom?”

Supporters of a Davidson sorority will
be holding a meeting on Wednesday at
7:30 pm in the 900 Room.

Study Outside
Next Semester

The Castle Rock bva sponsors

an off-campus study program that

° combines coursework in religion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 — Dec. 10

Visit the CRI website to request an application.

Castle Rock: Institute

P.O. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3759

www.castle -rock.org

s

and paddling.

Summer Employment

UP ON THE LATEST
TECHNOLOGY?

he Office of College Communications

seeks a summer student employee to

assist with Web design, the integration of

- content with templates, image cataloging, and

other site development tasks as needed. Student
should be familiar with HTML and basic Web
design concepts. Experience with Dreamweaver
and Fireworks or Photoshop preferred.

if interested, please send a
resume and cover letter to:
Sandra Tucker, Editor of New Media

College Communications
satucker@davidson.edu

