THE Davsontan

Griiian rocks the Smith Room

By Liz Smitu
Staff Writer

Touring behind their latest CD, Hang
Around, the band Granian performed Saturday,
Oct. 6 in the Smith Room of the Alvarez
College Union. This event, sponsored by the
Union Board Concert Committee, drew a more
subdued, but nonetheless appreciative, crowd.
Most patrons settled on the balcony bar stools
or on chairs strewn about the ground floor.

Regarding the eclectic make-up of those in
attendance, sophomore Megan Kotarecounts,
“I was excited to see such a diverse group of
' people at the show, some chilling on the
balcony and some dancing up front like
Maggie [McDougall] and me.”

Originally hailing from New Jersey and
New York, Granian is comprised of Garen
Gueyikian (lead vocals and guitars), Graycon
Legere (drums), and Tony Maceli (Bass).
Due to illness, Tony Maceli was unable to
perform on Saturday night.

Gueyikian and Legere performed songs off
their 1996 release Without Change and their
2000 release Hang Around, as well as covers
of popular standards. The seventy-five minute

setincluded “Not Just Yet,” “Far from saved,”
“Whole again,” “Circle,” “Without Change”
and others from their two albums. Covers
included an acoustic version of the Black
Crowes’ hit single “She talks to Angels,” as
well as Billy Joel’s cult HCE, “Only the
Good Die Young.”

The Granian performance marks the sev-
enth event sponsored by the Concert Com-
mittee this semester. Other events sponsored
by the committee so far include: the
Bluestring/Jonasay concert, Dean Edwards’
comedic performance, the Counting Crows
concert, the Georgia Ave./Virginia Coalition
concert, the Cast Iron Filter benefit concert,
the Second City Comedy performance and
now the Granian concert. ;

Upcoming events include, a Battle of the
Bands cosponsored by the Publicity and Stu-
dent performers committees on November
10th and Fighting Gravity on November 17th.
Both events will be free to Davidson students.

For more information about how to get
involved with the Concert Committee or to
give suggestions for upcoming shows, please
contact Liz Smith at ezsmith @davidson.edu.

Corpus Christi retells Christ’s life

Off-Tryon Theater Company produces hit-and-miss performance

By JorDAN STEELE

Staff Writer

In just its second season, the burgeoning
Off-Tryon Theatre Company has secured a
play that has been embroiled in controversy
since its inception off-Broadway in 1999:
Corpus Christi. Off-Tryon director John
Hartnett argues, “is a love story,...a retelling
of the most famous story in Western Civiliza-
tion.”

The play presents, ostensibly, an interpre-
tation of Jesus Christ as a gay Messiah, situ-
ated in the backwaters of Corpus Christi,
Texas. It’s of no surprise that the latter fact
incited the national uproar. The play comes
to Charlotte at an appropriate time, as Na-
tional Coming Out Day is celebrated this
Thursday.

The black-box theater, located in
Charlotte’ s trendy North Davidson Arts Dis-
trict, has been playfully redesigned as a sort-
of Roman Bathhouse, the reputed site of
many ahomosexual encounter. Tacky Christ-
mas lights adorn the rafters, giving the room
a trashy but celestial aura. The players are
disarmingly familiar with the audience. They
lounge comfortably in Oxford-style shirts
and khaki pants, musing and schmoozing
with the spectators. The actors are stumpy,
stout, boorish, radiant, sensual, and adorable:
in short, gay Everymen.

Corpus Christi immediately emphasizes
the individuality of its players in its attempt to
humanize each character. The play opens
with a lengthy baptism ceremony, in which
each of the 13 actors is christened one of the
characters, then proceeds to relate to the
audience the idiosyncrasies of each disciple.
The play is obviously trying to destroy gay
stereotypes, but the uniqueness of the indi-
vidual serves to marginalize our hero, Jesus,

Joshua, played by the precocious Eric Foss,
is noticeably uncomfortable assuming the

mantle of “Son of Man.” Foss’s Joshua is shy -

and raw, with a jerky posturing which sug-
gests that the Savior of Mankind isn’t com-
fortable in a human body. Joshua is most at
ease with his friend/lover Judas, a burly al-
pha-male who is a self-professed aesthete.
Judas kisses Joshua not once but three times,
the first of which foreshadows the boy’ later
betrayal. One after-prom French kiss on the
football fields confirms the Joshua’s homo-
sexuality and seals his fate as gay martyr.

Harnett’s production is best when play-
fully ironic and at its most offensive when
sarcastic. Especially charming is a cross-
dressing Simon, played by the tender Antony
Napolitano, who dons a do-rag and a dead-on
Texas drawl as the Virgin Mary. But cheap
shots at Roman Catholicism—apparently the
only denomination of Christianity whose pres-
ence is worth mentioning in Protestant-satu-
rated Texas—high-school bullies, and mili-
tary veterans, undermine Corpus Christi’s
struggle to dispel stereotypes. If McNally
devotes so much script to particularizing his
gay characters, why does he insist on lump-
ing all homophobes into the category of
“sexual deviants with repressed gay tenden-
cies”? Such a pat characterization threatens
to alienate further the gay community, and,
more importantly, contradicts the play’s es-
sential tenets.

When Simon declares at the end, “If we
have offended, so be it,” one wonders whether
his restrained indignation is merely self-righ-
teousness. Corpus Christi struggles to love,
but in the end the play seems justifiably
angry.

Corpus Christi will be playing at the Off-
Tryon Theatre Company until October 20".
Student tickets are $10. For more informa-

who must assume the moniker “Joshua” be- _ tion, visit» offtryon.org.
cause his domineering fath=- ' ~° st
fers it otherwise.

Coming Up Next From

THE DAVIDSON CONCERT SERIES

SS

Brazilian Guitar Quartet
Monday, January 28

Imani Winds
Monday, March 25

Editor emeritus

The Scholars of London gave a technical
tour-de-force in Hodson Hall on Sunday
evening.

The British quartet titled their performance,
the second in this year’s Davidson College
Concert Series, Five Hundred Years of Song.

Bass and founding member David van
Asch expressed the ensemble’s desire to
bring a variety of musical styles from many
periods to the stage. Instead of running
through their repertoire chronologically,
however, they grouped them into loosely
“thematic” categories.

The themes ranged from the profound,
“The Power of Music,” to the poignant,
“Songs of Love,” to the downright silly,
“The Animal Kingdom.” Jokes abounded,
both high and low, within the songs them-
selves and in the commentary provided by
the vocalists.

Noted tenor and co-founder Robin
Doveton, the speaker in the Orlando Lassus
madrigal “Tutto lo di” laments the fact that
his beloved sings the entire day. Instead of
ringing a church bell at her insistence, he
tells her, he would much rather “ring your
little bell.” Indeed,

Such subtleties aside, what set this quartet
apart was their great command over the
music. What may seem like elementary
considerations in vocal music, pitch and
rhythm, become complicated when perform-
ing intricate, contrapuntal songs a cappella.
The Clement Jannequin chanson “Le chant

The Scholars of London: (I-r) David van Asch, Kym Amps, Aioua
Davidson, Robin Doveton.

Best of British harmony, unplugged

By RICHARD VINSON

des oiseaux,” for instance, used a variety of
melodic lines, syncopated rhythms, squeaks,
squawks, and whistles to imitate birdsong.
The effect was quite entertaining.

The Scholars moved seamlessly from the
reverent strains of a sacred motet, to the
lighthearted pulse of an Italian gagliarda, to
the melancholy lyricism of a traditional En-
glish ballad. Precision, restraint, and crys-
tal-clear harmonies characterized the per-
formance.

If one could criticize the four, one would
have to note the relative lack of passion in
their music. Renditions of an African-Ameri-
can gospel tune and even of a Bach chorale
lacked energy and emotion. It is, perhaps,
hard to escape one’s roots. Nevertheless,
their performance of Vaughan Williams’s
“Silence and Music,” on an admittedly more
“metaphysical” text, gave some sense of
drama.

The group itself originated in 1970 from
the efforts of four former choristers of the
King’s College Chapel. All had received
scholarships to Cambridge University for
their talents, hence their name, the Scholars.
The quartet started out as an all-male en-
semble but added a female voice in 1972.

The present group has been touring to-
gether since countertenor Angus Davidson
joined in 1986. Soprano Kym Amps had
joined three years prior to Davidson.

After six sequences of songs, the Scholars
filed off the stage to warm applause. At the
insistence of the crowd, they gave an encore,
fittingly, a Beatles song, “When I’m Sixty-

”

four.”.

Quick Pics:

Bread and Roses. Ken Loach’s Bread and
‘Roses is the year’s most emotional, and per-
haps relevant, film. Pilar Padilla stars as an
illegal Mexican immigrant who works as a
janitor in an L.A. office building. Treated

poorly, the workers strike, and try to form a ,

union, only to meet strong opposition from
theiremployers. Aside from this main story,
Loach’s script effortlessly weaves in sub-
plots involving sexual harassment, robbery,
and aromance. I was reminded of last year’s
The Contender, the rare film that wasn’t
afraid to take a political stance. A movie like
Bread and Roses is even more rare: it takes a
political stance, stands by its opinions as best
it can, and then recognizes the flaws of its
arguments. Here is a film so uncompromis-
ing that it’s unwilling to hide even its own
shortcomings. And I doubt there will be a
better performance this year than Elpidia
Carrillo’s. Bread and Roses is one of the
year’s best films. Grade: A. Opening at The
Manor on the 12 and at Birkdale on the 19.

—Derek Loh

g0 see a flic!

Training Day. An inside peek at the secret
life of inner city policemen, Training Day

‘combines Oscar-caliber acting and charged

fight scenes to create an edge-of-your-seat
action flick. To be honesf, that’s about all I
really remember about Training Day, even
though I saw it only two days ago. Sure, I
remember the main actors, Ethan Hawke and
Denzel Washington, Snoop Dogg’s cameo;
past that, what else is there to remember
besides a car ride and typical male bad-
assness? High action, high violence thrillers
typically do not interest me, and I put Train-
ing Day in that category. Although this
movie did not particularly win me over, I still
have to give credit to Hawke and Washington
and David Ayer’s screenplay. So, if youridea
of a great and worthwhile movie consists of
male bravado and twenty-minute fight scenes,
then Training Day is perfect. Like the guys
who saw the movie with me, you would
probably give Training Day an A, but it only
reached a B- for me. Now playing at all local
theaters.

—Erin Delk.
