By CoLin EAGAN
Staff Writer

Think you aren’t getting any sleep these
days? Try working in admissions. With a
record number of over 3,300 applications to
the class of 2005 this year, Davidson boasts
an admissions staff that’s never been busier—
and an incoming freshman class that’s never.
been better.

The percentage of students accepted into
next year’s freshman class was 34.1% of
those who applied, the lowest such value in
over a decade. The current freshman class
had a noticeably higher rate of 36.1%, the
class of 2003 an even greater rate of 38.2%. A
total of 3359 applications to the class of ’05
represented a 7% increase from last year’s
applicant pool. “With a marked increase in
applicants, Davidson is becoming increas-
ingly more selective in its admissions pro-
cesses,” commented Nancy Cable, Dean of
Admissions and Financial Aid. “And that’s a
trend we like to see.”

With escalating competition among appli-
cants, it would appear-now more than ever at
Davidson that “A” is for Admission. Stu-
dents admitted to the class of ’05 proved the
best and the brightest, with average class
ranks falling in the top 2.2% of their high
school classes. The middle 50% of appli-
cants accepted achieved SAT scores between
1310 and 1440.

The newly admitted class stood out in other
areas as well. In considering interest of
minorities in the college, African Americans
had a record high application completion rate
of 83%, and 75 students have been admitted.
Hispanic applicants completed 69 applica-
tions, and 40 students were admitted to next
year’s class. Recruited athletes who received
ratings from coaches were admitted at just
over a 50% rate. Overall, students in the
admitted group represent 40 states and 23
foreign countries.

Of the total 3359 applicants, the 34.1%

admitted totaled 1147. 195 of these applied
Early Decision. The admissions staff expects
this year’s yield (a measure of those predicted
to come against those who were offered ad-
mission) will be around 41%. If this holds
true, 471 students will enter the class of 2005,
just over the goal of 465. In general, this
year’s elevated numbers indicate an increased
degree of interest in the college from high
school students.

To what does Davidson owe this increase
in popularity? “T’d like to think it’s thanks to
the wonderful job we’ re doing here in admis-

Wide Web, and on-campus events such as
last Friday’s Junior Day, which hosted over
900 perspective students and their parents.
And through it all, the admissions staff is

firmly committed to letting Davidson speak:

for itself. ““We’re not boisterous about mar-
keting,” continued Cable. “We’re not cute at
Davidson. We’re substantive. The value of
Davidson with its great strengths and distinc-
tiveness—the honor code, the Division one
athletics, the location near Charlotte, the
strength of the faculty, the strength of the
student body—has a kind of virtual circle to

Increasing Selectivity at Davidson

. 38.2

’ Class

sions!” jokes Senior Associate Dean of Ad-
missions and Financial Aid Kathleen
Stevenson-McNeely. She’s largely right.
“We are doing our work in a very focused
way, getting the word out about Davidson’s
great value and qualities,” explained Cable.
“We’re marketing. We’re going to more high
schools and talking with more students. We’ re
helping Davidson to become better known.”
Cable also attributes increased notoriety to
the college’s accessibility over the World

wo ie) wo wo wo
on [o> N @ o
% Accepted

wo
oS

wo
wo

@
Le)

it. We don’t need to change anything about
Davidson. We just need to become better
known.” |

Trends of increase in the applicant pool
over the past years reflect as well the chang-
ing nature of the institution. The student
body used to hover around 1300, but shifted
to 1600 as a result of a decision for expansion
made by the board of trustees in 1990 (stu-
dents on campus currently number about
1650). Classes have grown from 350 to 450

inthe past 15 years. Applications have grown
from around 2,200 to 3,200 during this time.

An increase in applicants has meant more
selectivity in the class of 2005, and more
selectivity means more work for the admis-_
sions staff. “It was a smooth ride,” reflected
Stevenson-McNeely on-this year’s admis-
sions process, “but it was tiring one!”

Dean Cable described basic logistics: “If
we have 200 more folders and we know that
we have.to spend 20 to 30 minutes on each
one, and there still only 9 of us doing the
reading, that’s a lot of time.” And yet it all
seems to be worth it. “Oh we’re glad,” the
Dean continued. “Bring them on. As long as
we can find the very most talented group of
people to bring to Davidson, we’ re doing the
right thing. The process is exhausting but
exhilarating.” rs

Cable extends her great appreciation to
Davidson’s Faculty Admissions Committee
for help in the admissions process. Chaired
by professor Dan Boye, the six-member com-
mittee read over 20% of the applicant folders,
and helped decide on every student admitted.
“We work with the Admissions Office staff
to see that Davidson gets the ‘best mix’ of
students enrolling in a freshman class,” said
Boye, who has served on the committee for
six years and chaired for the past two. “We
are constantly reviewing what “best mix”
means... Itisa wonderful committee of which
to bea part since you are dealing directly with
the lives of bright aspiring scholars.”

Says Cable of. the committee members:
“They spent hours upholding Davidson stan-
dards. And it’s a thankless task.” With the
completion of selections for the class of ’05
last week, hopefully these dedicated faculty
members can enjoy a bit of a break. For Dean
Cable and her staff, however, overseeing the
completion of student matriculation means
vacation won’t come until “sometime this
summer!”

.

Need,

from page 1

Davidson is not need-blind in two areas. The
first is international students. “We only have
so much money per year to offer to students
who are international to apply to Davidson,”
said Cable. “So we will often.make admis-
sions decisions based on who is most likely to
come given the need that we can offer them.”
The admissions staff is also not need-blind
when it goes to select waitlisted students. If
need-based money has already been exhausted
by this stage, then preference is given to those
who have the ability to pay. Over the past
decade, only a small handful of waitlisted
students have been given preference due to
their proven ability to pay.

“It is my intention and certainly my hope
that Davidson will always be need blind in its
admissions policies,” Cable continued.

And yet the task is becoming increasingly
difficult. Over the past decade, Davidson has
consistently supported about a third of its
student body with some type of financial
assistance. However, ever-increasing costs
of education consistently jeopardize the
college’s ability to maintain these levels. A
drop in relative financial aid funding might
force the college to abandon its prized need-
blind policies in favor of finding those stu-
dents who are guaranteed not to break the
bank.

As Senior Associate Dean of Admissions
and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson-
McNeely explained, the future is at best un-
certain. “Right now, while we can meet the
need, the level of funding the college com-

°

mits to us does not mean that we will be able
to meet it five years hence. Especially if we
were to have an economic downturn.”

Cable explains the logic behind of on-
going increases in providing education to
college students: “Every year to provide a
better education for our students, price is
going up. We are under continuous pressure
to keep pace with the growing costs of library
resources, computer technology, and energy
in the form of utilities. It is an expensive
enterprise to sustain a superlative teaching
faculty. On top of all of this, there are
inflationary pressures.” All of these com-
bined price increases, though ‘unnoticed’ to
most, must be countered with increased fund-
ing if current levels of financial aid are to be
maintained on campus. “Looking toward the
future, we need to increase funding to main-
tain those levels of need,” Cable continued.
“Alumni and friends of the college find that
argument and that point very important. Many
of them came to Davidson on scholarships
and need-based aid, and they want to con-
tinue to keep this a place where students from
all socio-economic backgrounds, if they are
admissible, can enroll.”

To maintain Davidson’s high standards of
need-blind financial aid that so many value so
greatly, the college is raising considerable
funding in the form of the current capital
campaign, “Let Learning Be Cherished.” Of
a total $250 million goal, between 85$ and
100$ million will be allocated for financial
aid for students. The campaign, which was
begun last October and has raised 120 million
to date, will not only allow the admissions
staff to maintain levels of aid through need-
blind policies as prices increase, but actually

increase these levels.

“Currently, we are dependent on no, more
than a third of our students needing financial
aid,” commented Stevenson-McNeely. “One
of the goals in the campaign is to increase the
socio-economic diversity on this campus,
and to increase the percentage of those re-
ceiving aid from a third to closer to 40%. We
do not currently have the funding to do that.”

. An increase in financial aid funding will

allow Davidson to compete more closely
with other competitive schools in terms of
attracting diversity. “Davidson now has one
of the lowest percentages of students qualify-
ing for need-based aid,” continued McNeely.
“The institution is committed to more diver-
sity on this campus, and that’s one of the
components of diversity.”

Vagt explained additional goals of the in-
creased financial aid funding through the
campaign: “It will not only allow us to
increase the percentage of students who come
to Davidson in need of financial aid, but also
allow us to rewrite the formula by which we
determine aid. This will involve reassessing
the value placed on non-liquid assets, such as
houses and land property.” As Vagt de-
scribed, there are now families who are given
less aid than they require due to the use of
admissions need-calculating formulas that
might assess unreasonably high value to a
non-liquid asset. Itis the hope that families in
the future will be asked to make contributions
toward tuition that more fairly represent their
true economic situations. Additionally, the
campaign will also allow the college to cap
loans to students. Currently loans to students
for a Davidson education range from any-
where between $3,000 to up to $55,000. “It

is our goal that inno year would any Davidson
student have more than ten percent of that
year’s cost as indebtedness through loans,”
Vagt asserted. Students, it is hoped, will not
have to make post-graduation job choices
due to exorbitant load payments.

Another portion of the dollars for financial
aid earned through “Let Learning Be Cher-
ished” will go to merit aid. Building off
current bases, such as the recent $28 million
dollar gift by John Belk, will help Davidson
compete with the best merit scholarships in
the country. “We would like to be inthe game
for the very highest able kid in the United
States” said Cable. “We’ ll have our fair share
of those extremely talented students.”

The multifaceted goals of increased fund-
ing for financial aid through the campaign
reflect input campus wide, resulting from
suggestions from the SGA, Faculty Admis-
sions Committee, the College Strategic Plan-
ning Committee, and trustees. Through it all,
Davidson’s commitment to its. need-blind
policy will be maintained, and indeed ex-
panded. “Davidson has never been forced to
jeopardize need-blind admissions policies due
to funding issues,” commented Cable. “I’ve
been here nine years, and I know that my
predecessors preserved that principle, that
value of the institution. We have never sent
mixed signals in any way to our perspective
students about that. We are clearly making
the initiative without knowledge of price.”

As Vagt echoes, principles fundamental to
Davidson are at stake: “We must make abso-
lutely certain that commitment and capabil-
ity are the basis upon which students make
the decision to come to Davidson, not the
ability of the familv. to nav.”
