Forum sparks debate on homosexuality |

Forum, from page 1

hoped would spark students to think about
one central question: “How do you treat
people when they are different than you
are?”

He said college is the best time to decide
that question, because “This is a small
little pond. The world is a lot bigger.”

As the son of a conservative Pentecostal
minister, Palmer said he knows what it’s
like to feel ashamed. He didn’t come out of
the closet until age 30, when he was mar-
ried with two children. Today, his mother
still doesn’t tell any of her friends that her
son is homosexual.

Palmer asked GSA president Shea and
’ other homosexuals to share their-experi-
ences before and during their time at
Davidson.

Shea remembered Christmas during her
freshman year, when she received seven
Bibles from hallmates. Those times were
hard, she said, but things seem to be im-
proving.

“Davidson is getting better,” she told the
audience. It was not always the most
friendly place. There are many times I’d
go back to my room balling. I prayed I
would be straight.”

Another student said coming out of the
closet during his sophomore year was the
best decision he ever made. Although some
disapprove of his homosexuality, he’s never
encountered any backlash.

“I’m so glad this (forum) happened be-
fore I graduated,” he said. “I think it’s a
huge step forward.”

A freshman said he’s been public about
his homosexuality for six years, and. has
grown to be comfortable with who he is.
Some of his classmates, however, haven’t
made the adjustment.

“Guys on my hall have a difficult time
talking to me or making eye contact with
me,” he said. “(But) for the most part,
things have been great here.”

A non-homosexual freshman told about
threatening phone calls she received re-
cently because of her close friendship with

Shea.

“There are a lot of things that happen on
this campus that you don’t know about,”
she said.

Shea said on Tuesday that the forum was
only the latest example of the growing
success of the Gay Student Alliance chap-
ter at Davidson.

While previous homosexual organiza-
tions died out due to lack of participation,
GSA today has 45 people on its mailing
list, as well as involvement from College
President Bobby Vagt and Chaplain Rob
Spach.

She said its success shows that Davidson
is doing its best to create a welcoming
environment for people of all backgrounds.

“I think diversity is something that ev-
eryone struggles with,” she said. “It’s not
exclusively a Davidson thing.

I really think Davidson as a whole, par-
ticularly the faculty and staff, are trying
hard to make Davidson a welcoming place
for just about anybody.”

Houses will be warned before parties are shut down

Quiet, from page 1

enforcing it incorrectly. Some officers had
interpreted it to mean that Patterson Court
had the same quiet hours as the dorms and it
was their responsibility to enforce these hours;
others were more lax, leading to a discrep-
ancy in enforcement that confused and frus-
trated many students.

In the past, some officers have shut down
all parties promptly at midnight. Although
the text of the proposal for future enforce-
ment has not yet been finalized, it seems that,
in the future, this will not be the case unless
a noise complaint is received. Houses will
receive a warning before their party is shut
down due to noise complaints. Officers will

remain at the party until the students have
turned the music down to acceptable levels; if
the volume rises after the officer departs, the
party may then be shut down.

There have been no changes to the alcohol
policy, and houses that are investigated for
noise complaints may end up getting sanc-
tioned for violating the alcohol policy if the
officer observes anything out of place. Offic-
ers will not enter fraternities or eating houses
unless there has been a complaint, however.

Patterson acknowledged student concern
that any change in policy or in enforcement
would encroach upon the rights of students
who want to study or sleep during these
hours. “We do live in a community, we need
to compromise.” He stated that there will be
no change to the Red Book and no impact on

residence hall quiet hours.

He hopes that the new enforcement policy
will enable all students to be accommodated,
whether their activity of choice at midnight is
socializing, studying or sleeping. “[The pro-
posal] allows people who want to party and
people who don’t want to party to be able to
do what they want to do,” he said.

Additionally, Watson, the Public Safety
representative in SGA, will work with Public
Safety to maintain the lines of communica-
tion between students and officers.

Patterson called the result of the
committee’s work “a triumph of the process,”
saying, “students were given the chance to
prove their worth [by working to change the
policy] and I think [the proposal] is a very
positive outcome.”

First Lilly scholars named

Press RELEASE
College Communications

Five Davidson College seniors—Joel F.
Hanisek, Richard B. Vinson, Elisabeth M.
Summerlin, Elizabeth Marie Melchionna, and
Sarah E. Schmidt—were recently selected as
the first Lilly Scholars by Davidson’s Lilly
Program for the Theological Exploration of
Vocation.

The Lilly Scholarship is intended to interest -

more students in.considering ordained minis-
try as a possible vocation. Tim Beach-Verhey,
program director, explained, “We’re trying to
reach out to students who might not otherwise
be thinking of seminary, and who show gifts
for ministry.”

Each award includes $20,000 for financial
assistance during the scholar’s final year at
Davidson and first year at theological semi-
nary. Because seminary is a three-year process,
the Lilly Scholarship gives students a “free

year” to explore that as a graduate option they .

may not have otherwise considered.

- Scholar Joel Hanisek confirmed that the
Lilly program has already led him to consider
the idea of vocation more seriously. “This
scholarship challenges me to take seriously the
idea of vocation, and to seek ways to connect
the various passions of my life within a frame-
work of integrity and faithfulness,” he said.

Candidates for the scholarship are nomi-
nated by fellow students, faculty, staff, and
local clergy. Nominees are invited to submit an
application highlighting academic performance,
campus leadership, commitment to commu-
nity service, a sense of a genuine faith journey,

and a curiosity about ministry. This year’s
winners were selected from a pool of forty-four
nominees.

Throughout the rest of this academic year,
the new Lilly Scholars will participate in a non-
credit, semi-weekly seminar led by Beach-
Verhey to explore issues of vocation and or-
dained ministry. They will read texts such as
Who Will Go For Us: An Invitation to Or-
dained Ministry by Dennis Campbell. They
will talk with church pastors, as well as indi-
viduals who have completed a master of divin-
ity degree and now work as. pastoral counse-
lors, chaplains, or in religious leadership out-
side the church. They will also meet represen-
tatives of seminary schools and current semi-
nary students to talk about their experiences.

The Lilly Scholars have already met with
visiting lecturer James Fowler, Candler Pro-
fessor of Theology and Human Development
at Emory University, who talked at Davidson
on vocation and the challenges of practical
postmodern faith. as

The Lilly Program at Davidson is funded by
a grant from the Lilly Foundation, and seeks to
foster the development of faith through ser-
vice, and to promote the idea that faith applied
to the workplace can lead to a more fulfilling
career. The Lilly Foundation made awards to
20 colleges nationwide willing to explore the
contention that people who align their beliefs,
values, and principals with their work find it
more meaningful, and manifest solidarity and
compassion through it. Davidson has crafted
its four-year Lilly program to encompass stu-
dents, faculty, staff, townspeople, and alumni
of all faiths and religious persuasions. ;
