THE DavipsoniAN

Homecoming attendance
fine despite week’s events

By Nick ASMA
Staff Writer

Unhampered by recent national conflict,
hundreds of alumni returned to Davidson this
weekend for the annual homecoming. With
the football game versus Drake cancelled,
Davidson graduates instead enjoyed numer-
ous other activities sponsored by the office of
alumni relations. .

A continuous schedule of events, including
receptions, dinners, gatherings, pictures, tours,
parties and a 5K walk/run attracted a large
turnout of classes from past years.

Davidson hosted reunions for the classes of
1996 and 1991. The class of ‘41 enjoyed its
60" reunion, and three former students re-
turned for the reunion of the class of ‘36.

A large crowd of former students congre-
gated behind Chambers Building on Satur-
day morning for the annual Homecoming

Festival, aluncheon complete with face-paint- |

ing, balloons and numerous booths.
_ Former students turned attorneys, mothers
and brokerage analysts mingled together
amongst children on a beautiful Saturday
morning. 8
~ “Treally enjoy the family atmosphere of the
weekend,” said Denise Hines ‘91. “The festi-
val is great for children.”

Most alumni were brought back by a shared
desire to see old friends, enjoy the activities

and: explore their old haunts. All expressed
admiration over the newly constructed
Alvarez College Union.

“If I were at Davidson now, the distractions
of all the new facilities would continually
keep me from class,” commented alumus
Andrew Cooke ‘91.

To many, homecoming weekend actually
felt like coming home, and thus offered‘a

relief and an escape from last Tuesday’s

terrorist attacks.

“Being back at Davidson really answers
my needs for comfort,” commented Clair
Marshall ‘97. “At a time like this everyone
needs to be where they are most comfort-
able.”

The cancelled football game dampened the
community atmosphere of the weekend but
alumni still managed to find each other
throughout the campus. .

In light of the recent events, people were
uncertain of what was planned for the week-
end. Many called old friends and roommates,
checking up on each other and confirming
plans for the weekend.

Unfortunately, many agreed that the in-
ability to fly caused quite a few alumni to
miss the weekend, though some did make the
extra effort to drive extended distances and
attend the events.

¢

$645 in donations,

Cast Iron Filter plays
benefit concert for victims

College Communications

Despite the cancellation of the Alvarez College Union
dedication, Davidson favorite Cast Iron Filter went ahead
with its concert on September 13, turning the event into a
benefit for the Red Cross. The event raised $1,957. 56, in
addition to proceeds from CD and merchandise sales. The
band played old favorites, songs from its new CD and a few
cover songs. Lead singer Dustin Edge concluded by singing
“America the Beautiful” in honor of those who died in the
September 11 terrorist attacks. As of Monday afternoon,
the community service office had received an additional

Amanda Yeck ‘04 paints the face of an alum’s child for Homecoming 2001.

rin Berry

Alumni recall memories
in return to campus

By Nick ASMA AND AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writers

Homecoming weekend attracted alumni
from across the country, drawing them back
to the place where many spent the best years
of their lives.

A conversation with a typical graduate
would show that graduation from Davidson
yeilds a wealth of opportunities. While alumni
pursue countless different professions around
the world, in the end, each carries memories
of their experiences at this school. And there
is life after Davidson.

Bill Loy ‘49 came to Davidson from
Mecklenberg County at age 16. Then an all-
male school, Loy played basketball, claim-
ing it “was hard because everyone was bigger
and faster than I was.”

After graduation he ran an engraved statio-
nery store in Charlotte. When asked his
thoughts about the co-ed aspect of the school,
Loy said he thought it was great that the
school had ‘gals’ now,” but if they had been
around when he was there he would have

“failed with all the distractions they bring!”

His best memory of Davidson came when
he was a member of the drama club. One
night he got back to his room and his friends
had decorated it with streamers because he
had gotten a telegraph from President Franklin
Roosevelt asking him to perform at the White
House.

Davidson still feels like home to him, and
he complained only that “I just don’t know
my way around anymore!”

John Bell ‘99, ahistory major, now works
at Davidson. He noted the distinct improve--
ments in the school following his graduation.

While reminiscing, he notes his best

‘ memories as Dean Cable’s orientation speech,

and a Davidson basketball game he attended
in Atlanta in 1998, when the Wildcats reached
the NCAA tournament and lost to Michigan.
Bell advises students to “spend more time
playing and enjoying each other’s company.
“Never again will (you) be surrounded
by so many talented people, so don’t miss the
opportunities,” he said.

New York

from page 2
away.
I was in the 4" Sentelle common room

| watching live footage when the second tower

fell. At first I thought it was a replay of the
first collapse. When I realized it wasn’t, just
sank to the floor. That whole day, I couldn’t
stop shaking. When asked to describe the
sight of the towers collapsing, mayor Giuliani
said simply, “I don’t know if I can describe it.
It was the most horrific thing I’ ve ever seen in
my whole life.”

Life for the people of New York City
clearly must and will go on, but to talk of a
return to normalcy at this time seems un-

thinkable. Step by step, people are carrying
on with their lives, but the dense fog of this
disaster still weighs heavily. One woman
described it as the ominous feeling of waiting
for the other shoe to drop. Whether the next
blow comes from us or from our enemies, still
it will come. Now that nothing is impossible,
what will the next headline be?

As my parents left a restaurant on the
Upper East Side yesterday, a helicopter flew
overhead, the blades of its propeller shatter-
ing the relative calm.

Everyone on the street looked up, watching
its reflection in the glass of the buildings,
holding their breath until it passed by.

Peace
from page 1

ing campaign “seems silly because of sim-
plicity and lack of efficacy.”

But, he insists, “The important thing about
doing this is to challenge the community to
engage in a civil issue and to flush out their
feelings. We want to bring people together
because of a common feeling.”

Although he is torn about what the country
should do next, SGA president Joey Harris
’02 believes that students at Davidson need to
come together..

“We won't be able to heal if we’re frag-
mented,” he said.

This healing process alludes to the most
common sentiment at Davidson: Confusion
over the attack on home turf. Ultimately,

every person who tried to find an explanation
stumbled over their definition of justice, a
subjective and complicated term.

For.some, like Campbell, justice is about
what can do the most good at that time. For
others, justice is about retribution and retali-
ation. Supporters of both definitions agree

that justice is a difficult idea to apply on the

world front.

Government investigation continues as
Davidson attempts to study and discuss the
events. Despite differing opinions, the over-
whelming feeling of students seems to be one
of respect toward other perspectives. Slowly,
people are starting to listen - as they wait
together for President Bush to decide on an
appropriate course of action.
