ampaign finance laws are needed to revitalize democracy —

By ALEX MASSENGALE
Columnist ©

Campaign finance reform is one of the
most pressing issues before the senate. Sena-
tors John McCain (R-AZ), Russell Feingold
(D-WI), and Thad Cochran (R-MS) are sub-
mitting their re-

week, the credit card industry successfully
lobbied for legislation that would curtail the
abilities of individuals to file for bankruptcy.
This bill flew through both Houses of Con-
gress, without any semblance of public sup-
port. The support mainly came from MBNA,
a large contributor to the Republican party,
who pushed hard

for this bill and

form bill to Con- !

St ae. The U.S. Public Interest Research
. -cialinterests'and Group found that fundraising for

contributors congressional elections has risen

toboth major par- 42.5% since 1978.

ties are lining up
to prevent any
sort of meaning-
ful
change that would reduce their undue in-
¢ fluence. The reasons for regulation of cam-
paign finance are obvious. American democ-
racy. has been lifted out of the hands of the
American voter and placed into the hands of
- large industrial groups and wealthy benefac-
tors.
There are numerous recent example of how
unregulated campaign funding has compro-
the democratic process. Policymaking
is increasingly shaped not by public opinion
but by large donors. For example, just this

ay ee

was rewarded.
Vote buying is
illegal but this

bribery is com-
monplace.

- The listof such
abuses goes on
and on. For instance, Senator McCain and
others introduced legislation to curb teen
smoking and tobacco advertising in 1998. As
a response, the tobacco industry gave $ 4.6
million to the Republicans and $900,000 to
the Democrats and the popular bill was killed.

Further evidence of the tobacco’s industry
undue influence on policy can be gleaned
from the $50 billion dollar tax credit for the
industry in the event of a settlement of law-
suits with states that was included in the

“1998 budget. Public indignation was so pro-

nounced that Congress was forced to repeal

form of de facto ,

this provision.

Other instances of undue corporate influ-
ence can be found in the debates over gun
control, casino gambling, drug pricing, and
auto safety. Time and time again, democracy
and the will of the people have lost out to
powerful interest groups.

Following the excesses of the 2000 cam-
paign season, the financing system urgently

need to be reformed. Donations continue to '

skyrocket. The US Public Interest Research

Group found that fund raising for Congres-

sional elections has risen 425% since 1978,
reaching $1 billion this year. Those who
kowtow to corporate interests receive the
bulk of this money. USPIRG reports that “the
candidate who raises the most money wins
94 percent of the House and Senate cam-

amoiint of soft money spent by special inter-
ests. In their current, unregulated form, Soft-
money contributions continue to rise. Ac-
cording to the Christian Science Monitor,
“Soft-money contributions soared in the last
election cycle - jumping from $22 million in
1984 to more than $480 million last year.”
The bill would ban donations to parties from

-unions and corporations, limit the size of

individual donations to parties, and curb is- '
sue advocacy ads from independent groups.
It would hugely reduce the power of special
interest groups.

According to McCain, “Every single spe-
cial-interest group in America... that through
the use of money obtains access and influ-
ence in the legislative process is scared to
death about this legislation because it dimin-

ishes their influ-

paigns.” As are-

sult, the discon-

nect between the Time and time again, democracy
pamic mee and the will of the people have lost
government’s _ Out to powerful interest groups.
legislativeprioi-

ties is more pro-
nounced than ever. The net result is*simple,
your vote continues to matter less and less.
The McCain-Feingold-Cochran Bill would
begin the process of reform by reducing the

Do stone people matter more than the fleshy kind?

By Kxoury ASHOOH
Columnist

Barbarians are everywhere. An example
of their presence is in China, a country whose
government recently arrested two Christian
ministers as they were leading a prayer ser-
vice in a home. Or perhaps Iraq, where the
leader entertains himself by stealing from his
population and torturing it with fear. And
then there’s Cuba. Thanks to its leader, a
100-mile trip across the shark-infested sea on
a few wooden boards looks more appetizing
than life in the island prison.

But there is perhaps one place on Earth that
is ruled by the most barbaric of barbarians:
Afghanistan. The small Central-Asian coun-
try has been ravaged by war and famine for
nearly thirty years. It is a place that seems to

. have been more advanced during the time of
the Silk Road trading than it is today. A
substantial part of the country’s problems lie
in decades of neglect, isolation, and war. But
the largest portion of the blame should be
placed upon the leaders of a faction in control
of 90% of the country; the radical Taliban

, Muslims.

The Taliban have ruled nearly all of Af-

ghanistan since 1996, and with their rule have .

come harsh mandates in the name of fostering
and preserving Islam. Perhaps one of the
strangest edicts issued by the Taliban came
nearly one month

hardline theocracy Iran and many vocal Bud-
dhist nations) expressed outrage and sought a
reversal to the edict. Yet the Taliban refused
all pleas, and Afghanistan’s museums were
plundered and statues were smashed. And
the Bamiyan Buddhas were destroyed in a
barrage of artillery shells.

Nevermind how ridiculous it is that the
Taliban would rather spend money on weap-
ons to destroy stone statues than on food and
medicine for the people of Afghanistan. Set
aside the fact that the loss of the.statues, both
large and small, was both an assault on world
heritage and was deemed an act of religious
bigotry by many Buddhists. And finally,
ignore the fact that Mullah Mohammad Omar
ordered the slaughter of 100 cows in Af-
ghanistan as a way to atone for the “fact”’ that
the Taliban took so long in destroying the
statues. All of these actions show just how
barbaric these misguided Muslims are, and
they should not be ignored when forming
foreign policy.

Yet it wasn’t until giant stone statues were
threatened that the world offered its unified
condemnation of the Taliban. It is true that
only three countries recognize the Taliban as
the official government of Afghanistan, but
for nearly five years since the Taliban Move-
ment began gaining territory, it has treated its
subjects harshly and it has protected its ter-
rorist mastermind Osama bin Laden and the

world commu-

ago when the
movement’s su-
preme leader,
Mullah
Mohammad
Omar, ordered

* the destruction of
all statues in the
country, claiming
that they were offensive to Islam. World

. outcry ensued— especially when learning

;,that the nearly 2000-year-old sandstone
Bamiyan Buddhas, the world’s largest Bud-
dhas, were included as a target to be demol-
ished.

The international community pled with the
Taliban to spare the Buddhas. Even New
York City’s Metropolitan Museum of Art

# offered to buy the statues in the country and
pay for their removal, but the Taliban re-
fused. The world (mostnotably the Taliban’s
closest ally, Pakistan, along with Islamic

The small Central Asian coun-
try of Afghanistan has been rav-
aged by war and famine for
nearly 30 years.

nity has done
next to nothing.

prohibit the edu-
cation of
women. They

outlaw televi-
sion. They for-
bid women from
being unaccom-
panied outside of their homes. They perse-
cute ethnic minorities, and there have been
reports of spontaneous executions of these
minorities. The Taliban have made trim-
ming one’s beard a jailable offense. And the
list goes on. Taliban spokesman Abdul Hai
Mutmain said recently that Islam is a progres-
sive religion and that “it was for the sake of
progress that the idols were destroyed.” Is-
lam is indeed a progressive, peaceful, and

tolerant religion, but ironically the real en-_

emies of progress are obviously the Taliban.

The Taliban,

The manner in which the Taliban treat their
peopleis abhorrent. The only rights the people
of Afghanistan have are, the right to do every-
thing the Taliban say and the right to be
executed if orders are disobeyed. Yet the
world seemed only to voice acare when some
stone statues were threatened. Where are the
priorities of the world community? The
Taliban’s assault on world culture is appall-
ing, but their assault on their own people is
even more so. Stone can be replaced and
rebuilt, but people can only be remembered.
The world community should show as much
concern and place as much pressure on the

. Taliban to change the way they treat their

people as it did to change their plans to
demolish the statues.

“ence and power.”
However, it is
important to re-
member that soft
money only rep-
resents some of
‘the money con-
tributed to campaigns. Hard money, money
donated to individual candidates by citizens,
represents the majority of the money in-
volved in campaigns and elections. A pro-
posed amendment that Senator McCain sup-
ports would triple current hard money limits.

_This is an unacceptable compromise and

would leave our system no closer to true
reform than it currently is. Wealthy contribu-
tors would gain even more influence over
individual campaigns than they already have. ~

Furthermore, their is little public support
for such an increase. Doris Haddock, the
ninety-one year-old woman who walked to
Washington to drum up support for campaign
finance reform, points out that when asked,
almost ninety percent of visitors to McCain’s
own web site, StraightTalkAmerica.com,
rejected this idea. The public wants to finally
curb the undue influence of big money in
campaigns. Therefore, we strongly support
McCain-Feingold-Cochran without this
harmful provision. It is animportant first step
in revitalizing our democracy and reducing
voter apathy.
