WEDNESDAY,
Marca 21, 2001

International perspectives-Russia suffers under “new czars”

By Ricarpo AmMpPuDIA

Columnist

After Russia’s conversion from, commu-
nism to capitalism, the former soviet nation
has achieved several important goals: there
are free elections for every level of govern-
ment, private ownership has been legalized,
and privatization of the largest segments of
the government now has been implemented.
However, this change has been obviously
rough. This was reflected by a GDP growth
rate of approximately —-8% until 1998. How-
ever, a reallocation of resources from heavy
capital spending to services and consumer
needs, as well as a highly qualified labor
force has helped Russia enter into an era of
progress, invalidating the pessimistic predic-
tions of many analysts who didn’t believe
Russia could ever attain a state of constant
growth.

FRANCE - Boris Berezovski, known by
many as the new Muscovite Rasputin, cur-
rently enjoys political asylum status in France
as he rests in his mansion a few feet from the
Mediterranean, He has become the head of
one of the biggest entrepreneurial empires, he
is a friend and partner of the Yeltsin family,
and, to others, he is simply a thief.

Born from a middle class family, although
Berezovski was a mathematical genius, he
had to attend a small, unheard of institute.
Later, however, he obtained his doctoral de-
gree and became a scholar. In 1989, he
generated his fortune by selling Lada cars in
Russiaand some foreign countries. He bought
cars from the Vaz factory in Togliatti, which
competed against the decaying factory of

Avtovaz. As Avtovaz dwindled, Berezovski .

became even wealthier.

Berezovski’s success created envy among
many. In 1994, an explosion in the middle of
Moscow during the day destroyed his
Mercedes, killed his bodyguard, and decapi-
tated his chauffeur.

Berezovski is one of the only five Russians
that hold more than a billion dollars. How-
ever the Russian economical crisis has made
him lose one of the three billion dollars he
held in assets.

Berezovski came to realize that the most

lucrative sector of the Russian economy was,
by far, the political one.

He bought several important elements of
the media, including the oldest television
channel, ORT, and the Nezavissimaia Gazeta.
He is currently protected by a private army of
150 people, most of them previous members
of the Russian army. In fear of an attempted
return of the communist party, he and some
six bankers put together approximately three
million dollars to sponsor Yeltsin’s electoral
campaign.

“My fellow bankers and I control 50% of.
the Russian economy,” Berezovski stated
proudly.

In an interview with CBS, Berezovski’s
reactions: to the accusations that the inter-
viewer brought up clearly indicated his guilt.
However, he still made the allegation that, in
Russia, “people simply hate the rich.”

“Yes, some people hate the rich,” Daniel
Gerbatch ’03 declared in an interview “but
not in an unusual way as Berezovski de-
scribes it.” Very many of the formerly state-
owned assets have not been fairly distributed
amongst the population, and some of the
land-distribution processes are still in their
early stages.

“Cutting corners is perhaps lightly put,”
affirms Gerbatch, referring to how some

Russian entrepreneurs have turnedricherthan _

they ever imagined to be, “particularly, the
privatization process has been greatly influ-
enced by some arbitrary bureaucratic deci-
sions. Berezovski might have benefited from
the process, as he might have left some con-
tacts in the government when he used to work
for the government for less than 300 dollars
per month.”

However, considering the process’ magni-
tude, it can be said that the Russian officials
have done a decent job. Changing the eco-
nomic backbone of one of the former world
powers is by no means an easy task. All the
hard work started to pay off in 1998. Until
then, the country seemed to have entered a
never-ending recession.

“This is when the stereotype becomes true,”
states Gerbatch “where people believe that
Russians are extremely patient people.” Truly,
the level of patient demonstrated by the popu-

The Davidsonian

e@ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Ep!Tors-IN-CHIEF
Business MANAGERS

Copy Eprror
News EpITors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
a Ld
Srorts Epirors

ARTs &. Livine, EDITORS
Paps?ecrives Epror F

; 4 i i
Puotocranry Eprigrs:

Circutinon MANAGER 7

bps |e “Martha funt

Sai vnnncensrsl

Aaron Houck

Richard Vinson

Peter Clark

David Johnston

Anna Kyanvig

« Tim Cook

. Jessica Mering
Peter Clark

David Jolinston

Matt nd ta

_ Maga Mofdini
/ An Poe
Erin Berry

Matt Whited
Maggie Kozicharow

Pl

ite

h ay RE OR PRIDE I FF RE

lation is quite remarkable, as they had waited
almost a decade for the country to become
stabilized in accordance to the promises of
many of the new oligarchs. .

Although the support that the population
has provided is startling, “there is still an air
of nostalgia floating among the older genera-
tions in regard to the previous economic

system. However, the younger generations —

do not share this view,” says Gerbatch.
Still, Russia represents a world power in

terms of industrialization. It has not lost its ~

place in the first world and has successfully
redirected its resources and adapted to a mar-
ket economy. Some of the population, how-
ever, seems to have become dependent upon
a command economy and have become ac-
customed to having the government guide
many aspects of their lives.

Nevertheless, people are adapting more
easily than what many expected.

It is easy to forget the universal repercus-
sions of this situation. Together with the
Asian economic crisis, the Russian economic

slowdown has had a deep macroeconomic
effect within every nation in the world. A
Latin American review noted that the great-
est effect that has resulted from both of these
crises took place in the banking sectors of a
great number of third-world countries in South
America and Africa as well as the levels of
foreign investment performed in these na-
tions. However, during the ends of the year
2000, the world caught its breath again as
both of these sectors regained stability, par-
ticularly the Russian economy.

With a highly qualified labor force, an
invaluable heritage that the USSR left to
Russia, this country has demonstrated to will-
ingly accept a challenge that very few coun-
tries in the world could ever withstand. Ac- .
cording to many analysts, the hard days for
Russia are virtually over,.and a period of
progress and prosperity is clearly in sight.
Despite the opportunist actions taken by oli-
garchs, the promise of a general state of well
being seems to be taking shape with every
day. ° ,

It’s time for fair tax relief for America

By JOHN Kropski
Special Contributor

Recently, the Congressional Budget Of-
fice announced that the budgetary surplus for

‘the next ten years will total a projected $5.6

trillion. To set the record straight, that means
the government is taxing the American
people $5.6 trillion in excess of what it will
need to cover its expenses. It seems rather
reasonable for a portion of this money to be
returned to the people who are covering the
bill in the first place.

The central focus of President Bush’s plan
is reducing marginal tax rates, creating 10%,
25% and 33% brackets that decrease the tax
burden for everyone who pays taxes. The
plan will also take six million low-income
earners off tax roles altogether. In all, this
$1.6 trillion tax cut, divided between the

roughly 100 million families that make up -

the US, will return $1,600 to the average
family. That $1,600 could represent a
semester’s tuition at a community college,
savings toward retirement, or a plethora of
other very beneficial things.

Recently, Congressional Democrats have
launched vocal attacks on the Bush tax plan,
a plan described as “required” under the
circumstances by Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan. The Democrats claim that
the Bush plan favors the wealthy because it
does not cut Social Security taxes and lower
income workers find the government taking
a significant portion of their income away in
the form of payroll taxes. However, the
clamor to cut Social Security taxes instead of
marginal rates is clearly unwise.

The Social Security system currently runs
a surplus, and will continue to do so for
several more years, after which it will not
longer be self-sustaining. Itis very clear that
Social Security is in need of major reform.
That being said, cutting payroll taxes and
eliminating the Social Security surplus would
only bankrupt the system even sooner. In all
likelihood, that would not be beneficial to the
country. Cutting Social Security taxes would
be fiscally dangerous, so President Bush in-
tends to lower our tax burden through more
responsible means.

Another claim that Democrats have at-
tempted to feed the American people for the
past six months is that half of the tax savings
goto the top 1% of all earners. While there is
little need to reiterate what has been ex-
plained countless times before, that claim is

_ completely false. Currently, the top 1% of all

earners in pay, pay more than one-third of the
income taxes the government collects. Under
the President’s plan, this top 1% will receive
only a fifth of the tax. savings. This shifts a
greater portion of the tax bill to the wealthy,
yet countless confused Democrats continue

‘to claim that the President’s plan is regres-

sive. Unfortunately for them, a regressive

_ tax is a one which places more of its burden

on the poor than on the rich.

Obviously, the Bush tax plan is not regres-
sive. The final claim that Democrats have
made is that eliminating the death tax will cut
charitable contributions. This assertion is
downright foolish: The death tax currently
takes 50% of the value of an estate worth
more than $650,000 and gives it to the gov-
ernment upon the death of the individual
who owned it. It is a tax on something that
was already taxed when it was purchased.

This double taxation is especially hard on
small business owners and farmers who may
be worth over $650,000, but most of their

worth is tied up in property. They have few

liquid assets, so when they die, their families
must sell the family business or farm in order
to appease the government. Were the death
tax eliminated, these families would be able
tokeep the family business in the family. The
savings would also free up.a large amount of
capital for them to invest or donate to chari-
ties. Because families would have greater
assets on their hands, they would be willing
and able to donate more, not less, to chari-
table causes.

Given the current economic forecast, it is
logical to conclude that the American people
deserve significant tax relief. The economy
shows signs of slowing down, and one proven
way to jump-start the economy is to cut tax
rates. Some have claimed that cutting taxes
will lead to deficits in the near future, citing
the Reagan years as an example. The differ-
ence is, this is not 1981. Contrary to 1981, the
economy is still moving forward. Contrary to’
1981, we have a budget surplus. Contrary to
1981, the military is not ina state of complete

_ disrepair that requires massive severed to

bring up to speed.

In 2001, we can without question afford
tax relief for the hardworking American pub-
lic. As long as a few reasonably minded
Democrats can convince their colleagues to
stop fabricating lies in an attempt to create
some sort of class warfare, you and I will
enjoy significant and well-deserved tax sav-
ings in the future.
