Read the following selection and answer
the questions that follow. You will have
fifteen minutes. Please begin...

... now. President Bush wants to “get
down to business” reforming public educa-
tion in America. Borrowing language di-
rectly from the business world, he envisions
a system based on performance and account-
ability.

One key provision of his plan is the institu-
tion of standardized testing for school sys-
tems across the nation. Apparently, contin-
ued federal funding would be linked to in-
creases in students’ scores in certain aca-
demic areas.

In theory, this would serve two purposes.
First, testing would make school systems,
individual schools, and even individual teach-
ers accountable to a single objective stan-
dard. If scores go up, they are doing their job;
if scores go down, something needs to change.
The indicators are clear, and one can easily
assess quality.

Second, this system would equate educa-
tion with the much more quantifiable concept
of performance. Just as students are expected
to perform in order to be promoted, schools
and teachers would be required to demon-
strate some actual achievement if they are to
continue to operate. Or perhaps more
-applicably, just as businesses must keep mak-
ing profits, teachers would have to keep crank-
ing out educated children. Ultimately, the

quality of public education is supposed to —

rise. .
Unfortunately, this economic model does

not apply so well to the learning process. For

instance, while objective, standardized tests

do a great job of measuring rote knowledge,
they are a poor judge of thinking ability. A
multiple-choice test can judge whether a per-
son can add, substract, and spell “Missis-
sippi.’ It cannot measure creativity, persua-
siveness, or problem-solving ability. In an
economy that rewards innovation and
adaptibility, it seems more reasonable to try
and teach those skills that will lead to success.

Moreover, by micromanaging curricula and
the insisting on uniform standards of learn-
ing, systems of standardized testing may ac-
tually frustrate the pursuit of excellence.
Instead of coming up with ways to challenge
and inspire students, teachers will be encour-
aged to teach specifically to the tested mate-
rial.

As college students, we are all acquainted
with such familiar standardized tests as the
SAT,LSAT, MCAT, and GRE. However, all
of those tests are used not as absolute stan-
dards of progress but as comparative tools for
other institutions —- which is exactly what

‘standardized tests are good for.

President Bush has the right idea by trying
to make schools and teachers accountable to
something other than their own status quo.
Holding them to some basic standards may
also be appropriate, especially at lower lev-
els. He needs to respect the academic en-
deavor, however, as a process unto itself and
not quantifiable in terms of numerical
progress.

Standardized testing is supposed to pro-
duce a) better teachers and b) educated stu-
dents. In fact, linking funding to test scores
will unfortunately yield c) none of the above.

It’s time for Spring Break, minus the Spring

Pack up your parka and stock up on hot
chocolate, it’s almost time for Spring Break
2001!

Here at Davidson we do Spring Break
right, taking our vacation just in time to enjoy
the last chilly blasts of the winter weather.
Who needs sunny skies and warm tempera-
tures when you can have cold drizzling rain?
Early March is the perfect time to “get away
from it all.” .

Another bonus of our academic calendar is
that we do not have to see those bothersome
friends from other schools during our time
away from classes. Schools such as Duke,
North Carolina State, Texas, UNC, and Wake
Forest all foolishly schedule their spring

breaks for the week after Davidson’s.

In fact, since dreary weather and isolation
are so restful and relaxing, why not just make
break earlier by another week? We could call
it “Winter Break II” or perhaps “Pre-Spring
Break.” Or better yet, let’s just eliminate the
whole business and make Winter Break a
week longer. That way we’d be guaranteed a
dismal climate and no social life.

So study for those midterms write those
papers, because relief is on the way. Pack
your bags, book the plane tickets, and get
ready to hit the beach for some prime ice
fishing.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors-in-chief

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBGERTAS @

Eprrors-IN-CHieF _

Business MaNacers -
Ix. a .
Cop¥ Epiror~~-

x e i
vie

ae

‘PHOTOGRAMPY Eprfors’

Soy Her dy

CIRCULATION MANAGER’

sesso”

http:/www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html

ee san ae

Standardized testing fails our education system President George W. Bi

‘“T am in control”

By Joun Pitts
Columnist

Three weeks into the Bush presidency
Democrats are left to sulk about, scratching
their heads and asking what could have gone
so wrong. They had promised their constitu-
encies that a moronic boob had taken the
reigns and that the country would be para-
lyzed by his inability to produce a cogent
thought.

The Democrats felt primed to take an equal
role in setting the agenda, while taking ad-
vantage of Bush’s ineptitude to build a favor-
able voting coalition. With their successful
control of the legislature they could bank on
a majority in both houses after the midterm
elections.

What sadness and dismay must be perme-
ating their ranks this week as the Democratic
leadership realizes that Bush has success-
fully garnered national attention, set the
agenda, broken the Democratic voting bloc,
and made great strides in building bipartisan
coalitions on most every banner issue. Dis-
playing political adeptness that no pundit
could have predicted, Bush is governing with
the power of a mandate and is crippling
Democratic potency.

President Bush has commanded national
attention and the spotlight of the media since
his first full day in office. In presidential
politics, setting the national agenda means
setting the media agenda. When Bush has
talked about education, tax cuts, and missile
defense, the country has responded. The
Bush administration has dominated the na-
tional spotlight, leaving the Democrats to
flounder in their search for an identity in the
absence of Clinton. These days Democrats
are only making the news during their fre-
quent meetings with Bush—and they have
consistently acquiesced to his common sense
approaches to the issues of the day.

Early on, the even split in the Senate had
the Democrats trumpeting their ability to
control the agenda over cabinet and judicial
appointments. Democrat leadership had
promised that it would present a unified front
and wield its power in the Senate and stone-
wall the Republican nominees. During the
Ashcroft vote Democratic powerhouses John
Breux, Christopher Dodd, Zell Miller, and
Robert Byrd, in addition to four other Demo-
crats, sided with the Republicans and thus

caused the Democratic dream of controlling

.the Senate to come crashing down. Instead of

controlling the agenda the Democrats need to
shift their focus to building an organized
voting bloc.

Opposition to Bush’s tax cut has been all
but destroyed after the venerable Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan an-
nounced his support of the tax cut, describing
it as proactive and responsible. Initially em-
braced by the Republican majority, the tax
cut is now being supported by numerous
influential Democrats like Zell Miller of Geor-
gia and Tom Daschle of South Dakota. With
the slowing economy and layoffs approach-
ing, a tax cut is.a certainty; the only debate is
over the size. A victory in this most contro-
versial issue not only will continue to
embolden and empower Bush, but also will
simultaneously weaken the Democrats’ abil-
ity to successfully oppose any Presidential
initiatives.

Bush’ “education week” also got off with
a bang after visits to various racially diverse
schools in the DC area. Bipartisan support
for the majority of his bill has already been
secured. Even if Bush drops vouchers, he -
still can reintroduce them as a tax credit after
he has fortified his position in the legislature
with a popular victory over education and tax
cuts.

Like the Bush tax cut, the missile defense
plan also has been all but formally guaran-
teed. The Republican majority is solidly
behind Bush and he has garnered enough
Democratic support for the plan to be ap-
proved. Presently, Colin Powell and the
foreign policy All Stars are in Europe suc-
cessfully proposing the plan to NATO. Pre-
sumably it should not be long until the Ameri-
can people can be assured of their safety from
nuclear rogue nations. .

Bush is solidly on top after a glowing three
weeks. The moronic boob has managed to
push the bulk of his agenda effectively and
quickly, while leaving the Democrats gasp-
ing for air and searching for organization and
identity. Bush will continue to steam roll the
opposition while building popular support
through his control of the media and agenda.
It will not be long until the American people
ask, “Do the Democrats have anything to
offer our nation other than ineffective oppo-
sition to popular initiatives?” Save a miracu-
lous change in leadership strategy, the an-
swer is a resounding NO!

Treat Commons’ picnic tables with respect

At the Commons, it is our goal to be a part
of your college experience in a real and posi-
tive manner. We believe our physical setting
is aesthetically pleasing and we continue to
expand our services based on many of your

requests.

This past summer, we replaced the old,
worn wooden picnic tables with a more du-
rable model to provide a comfortable venue
for outdoor dining. You expressed gratitude
for this change and have enjoyed using them
over the past several months.

Unfortunately, in the past two months,
these tables/benches have been subjected to

regular abuse each weekend. We purchased
tables and benches that would give years of
enjoyment, but at this current pace they will
need to be replaced long before they should
be.

We want to be good stewards of student
fees; replacing expensive equipment prema-
turely is a terrible waste of these funds. }
_ Please help us take care of all of the many
amenities placed around campus to ensure
they can be enjoyed by everyone.

- Barbara Metzler,
Director of Dining Services ~«

