_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

PRIMA seeks submissions

Online Journal gives spotlight to international studies

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

Looking for places other than your parents’
refrigerator to display that last “A” paper?
Here’s an idea. During the 2000-2001 school
year the Dean Rusk Program began PRIMA,
Davidson’s first on-line journal. PRIMA, or
Perspectives on International and
Multicultural Affairs, is currently accepting
submissions from all interested members of
the Davidson community.

Brainchild of Jay Scanlan ’00 and Derek
Politzer 01, PRIMA is an online journal
created to showcase the ideas of Davidson
students, faculty and alumni on topics of
international and multicultural concern.

According toits mission statement, PRIMA:
seeks to “promote intellectual exchange” and
“increase international awareness and under-
standing on campus and in the global com-
munity.”

The editors-in-chief for the pilot year were
Politzer and Katie Wilson ’04. As Wilson is
currently in Morocco for the semester, Alyssa
Chang ’02 has assumed responsibilities as
Editor-in-Chief on campus.

In explaining the journal, Chang said,
“PRIMA is designed to provoke and _facili-
tate thought and discussion among the stu-

dents of Davidson College regarding events
with an international dimension.”

Chang commented that the number of sub-
missions is up from last year; as to'‘who is

‘submitting articles, she said, “We’ ve received

submissions from students, faculty and alumni
of Davidson College, but the majority [of
those] submissions are sent in by [current]
students.”

Evans McGowan ’05, PRIMA’s Submis-
sions Editor, said that, “Many of the articles
are about personal passions or experiences by
Davidson students, which tends to make for
an interesting read.”

Chang is pleased with the steady growth
the publication is experiencing this year.
“Happily I’ve had the privilege of working
with a group of dedicated and intelligent
individuals,” she said. “The second issue of
PRIMA is going to be great!”

“T could see this venture substantially grow-
ing in the coming years,” offered McGowan.

To submit your own paper or article for
consideration in PRIMA visit the journal’s
website, www.davidson.edu/administrative/
dean_rusk/dean_rusk/PRIMA.htm or email
Alyssa Chang (alchang@davidson.edu) or
Evans McGowan (evmcgowan@davidson.
edu).

The Few, the Proud.

THE NEws STAFF.

Interested? Contact Colin (coeagan) or Lindy (ibaldwin)

SGA Agenda
General Meeting
Thursday, November 27, 2001

1.0 Call to Order... J sderepssecssceesesoscssssnsscsonsssrsonst Joey Harris

2.0 Roll Cale... cece eeeceseseecessecesseeeeeceeeeceeeeesseeeseeeeeeeeeeeeees Elder Gwin
3.0 Approval of Minutes.......... cece eeeceeecsseeeseeeseeeseeeeneeeeees Joey Harris
4.0 Communication and Announcements............ pinssssvensssasites Beth Gardner
5.0 Committee Reports..........cccccececeeseeseseeeseeen SGA Committee and
Council chairs
6.0 Old Business .
6.1 SGA Day/UNCC Basketball game Update................. Kevin Epps
6.2 Exam Sign-U6........cccecccseecsseecsseecsseeceeeeessaeeeeeseeneeees Elder Gwin
6.3 RLO Compensatory Proposal.:................05 Charles Washington
Owen Barrow
6.3 Vamanos Van Update...........eeecseeeeeneecssteeeeesteeeeeenees Kevin Epps
7.0 New Business
7.1 Freshman/Sophomore Mixet...........::ccsssseeeeeesseeeeees Hannah Fuhr

Scott Ferguson

CANCEL Your Liprary FINES

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

From now until December 13th
you can pay for your Library fines and
.  1OUs with cans of food which will be -

given to needy in our area.

HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or 10Us
(e.g., for five cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines).

: WHERE: Library Circulation Desk
