“from pe page ‘V5
changes. After reviewing the college’s con-
stitution, the SGA bylaws, and community
expectations, the Board determined that it is
primarily “an organization that has been
charged with the programming life of the
college.”

“Tn my mind, the product is our first prior-
ity,” asserted Parker. “‘And I think that prod-
uct — our programming -— is first rate.”

Former Board President Kirk Willingham

’01 and Vice Presidents Eric Arnold ’01 and -

Parker then began discussing ways in which
they might alter the committee structure. “It
was basically [a process of] looking at com-
mittees and tweaking them,” noted
Willingham.

Consequently, the Policy Committee, the .

body charged. with regulating Board struc-
ture, went to work on some adjustments. In
just two weeks, they made some of the most
significant changes in the Board’s history.

For instance, Parker recalled that the “Cul-
tural Events Committee, the Literary Arts
Committee, and the Outpost all overlapped in
some way.” They hosted speakers, poetry
readings, student performers, and the like.

The Board decided to merge the three into
a single committee and call it the Coffee-
house committee. In this way, they hope to be
able to better coordinate their programming
and to offer the best options to students. Any
other functions not directly related to pro-
gramming will fall to organizations or clubs
outside the Union Board.

Similarly, the Board felt that the biggest
share of responsibility for the Campus Fo-
rums and Women’s Issues Committees should
pass to the SGA and the Gender Resource
Center, respectively. Hence, they dissolved
both committees. The Board has begun dis-
cussions with the SGA about Campus Fo-
rums and will formally address the status of
the Women’s Issues Committee later this
spring.

The Board also acknowledges as a part of
its purpose a responsibility to be a “resource”
to other groups on campus. Parker elaborated
on this aspect of their mission.

“We want people to know about the re-
sources available to them through the Union,”
he remarked. For instance, Parker believes
that student organizations in their own plan-
ning could benefit from the Board’s expertise
in securing funds, working with agents, or
negotiating and signing contracts.

As another example, Parker suggested that
the Publicity chair hold a publicity workshop
for students. This would help leaders know
how to do such tasks as writing and distribut-
ing press releases.

This reassertion of the Board’s mission and
purpose corresponds to a charige in some of
its methods. In particular, Board members
themselves want to redefine the way they
plan and organize events.

“Tn the past, programming was done mostly
by committee chairs,” recalled Parker. This
‘meant that each Board member had to spend
the majority of his or her time managing all
the minutiae of their events. Under the new
system, the Board committee chairs will con-
centrate on planning and recruiting. The rest
of the work will devolve to an appointed
“support group,” which will take care of all of
the detail work.

Willingham feels that the smaller Board
will help this change along. “Any time you
have a leaner, meaner organization, there’s a
greater sense of ownership,” he remarked.

Likewise, the Board hopes to eliminate the
useless distinction between “co-curricular”
and “social” activities. Under the old scheme,
committees fell under one of the two catego-
ries. The two Board Vice Presidents were
also identified as either co-curricular or so-
"cial.

In practice, though, “the distinction be-
tween co-curricular and social is blurred,”
noted Parker. “We hope to formally end it,”

; hie added.

“freshman activities,” such as the Activities

recruiting more freshmen to be involved with

‘all outstanding - the very

Instead, one Vice Preakient’ will focus « on

Fair during orientation and F-Crew. -That
Vice President will also be responsible for

the Union Board. :

The other Vice President will be “more of
an administrator,” according to Parker. That
student’ s job will include managing recogni-
tion within the Board for successful program-
ming and organizing any important forums
not covered by the SGA.

One other personnel change will be the
addition of an Ambassador. The Board envi-
sions that position reaching out to other orga-
nizations on campus. He or she will be
responsible for cultivating better relation-
ships with other groups, both to encourage
feedback from students to the Union Board
and to help students understand how the
Board operates.

The Board will also move into its new
home in the Knobloch Campus Center some
time this semester. Although the change in
venue will not affect their mission, Parker did
note that the student center will offer’ some
appealing new programming possibilities. -

For instance, the fact that the new 900
Room will be directly adjacent to the late-
night café will solve one problem that had
vexed the Board for some time. Previous
Films committees had encountered difficul-
ties attracting students to their evening show-
ings. In the future, they anticipate that stu-
dents who are already eating and socializing
in the café will take advantage of the conve-
nient programming next door.

Another area that the Board hopes to work
on is.that of “big ticket” concerts. According
to Parker, student and faculty surveys consis-
tently show that the campus wants and needs
more large-scale concerts. Unfortunately,
the Board often finds itself unable to. land
large, well-known groups for several rea-
sons.

In particular, bigger ven-
ues in Charlotte or elsewhere
can generally outbid
Davidson for contracts, some-
times by tens of thousands of
dollars. Also, the Board only
has very limited access the
Belk Arena. \

“Sometimes we’ |I only be
able to get two snectin Belk]
a semester, and then we’re
supposed to ‘plan a big con-
cert,” complained Parker.
“The music industry doesn’t
work like that.”.

The Board, however, hopes
to remedy that either through
corporate sponsorship or by
establishing a relationship
with a promoter in Charlotte.

With its slimmer, sleeker
look and a new crop of mem-
bers, the Union Board has
high hopes for the coming
year. “I feel great about the
people we’ve appointed”
Parker admitted. “They’re

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP

Pla: Fresn soveeze Onance Juice
. HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

"bet you didn't think of US
ttn a ae . ‘inva fare!

Board,” exclaimed [*. “WALLISS ZS

Willingham. “I’m looking G

forward to seeing the results.”
Since 1951

best.”

Though the Policy Com-
mittee and the Board made
the changes over the space of
a few short weeks, their out-

“Eat-in Take-out,

Pr anual

_ 896-7743

ene stephen

“Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

MAIN ST. ‘DAVIDSON |

Parker agreed, calling the
changes “monumental.”

“The Union Board has been: :
acentral organization oncam- er a
pus for years,” he mused. of

“This change is dramatic.” 4 ] y $.

ORES

Ni
Migs. wn,

