WEDNESDAY, SurreMBER 26, 2001.

Sophomore organizes t-shirt sale to aid Red Cross

By Nick AsMa
Staff Writer

The horrific events of September 1 1 opened
the eyes of Americans to the reality of terror-
ism and yielded a variety of responses around
the Davidson campus. Everyone sympa-
thized with the stag-

Eventually, Washington and a friend from
Clemson University in Clemson, S.C., coined
the idea of a t-shirt sale. They decided to sell
the shirts for $13 and donate the profits to the
Red Cross.

“When people are given the chance to buy
a product it creates a great chance of partici-

ton emailed the student body with the shirt

offer, explaining his goals and intentions.
To place an order, students simply emailed
Washington their requested size and method
of payment.
“The entire project was done through
email,” commented Washington, “and the

shown by the Davidson student body. Al-
most 80 shirts have been purchased already
and a surprising amount of money has been
raised.

“The shirts are selling better at Davidson
than Clemson,” explained Washington, “an
the freshman. in particular have ae

many.”

gering number vic-
tims and their fami-
lies, while many con-
tributed to relief ef-
forts with monetary
support.

To personally con-
tribute to the crisis
relief efforts, Charles
Washington’04
went a step further—
_ -he organized a t-
shirt sale to raise
money for the Red
Cross.

Washington
wanted to organize
some type of fund-
raiser to aid the Red
Cross but was unsure
of what to do, noting

| DOMATED TO THE AMERICAN RED CROSS kn memoriam of those that lost their lives

September 11, 2001

Front (at left) and back designs of t-shirts sold by sophomore Charles Washington to raise money for
Red Cross relief efforts in New York and Washington, DC.

Asked why he chose t-
shirts as the product for
the fund-raiser, Washing-
ton responded that t-shirts
are “always tried and true.
They make a great fund-
raiser because people can
always use extra shirts.”

The shirts themselves
are adorned with color
graphics and catch
phrases on both the front
and back. The front reads
“J donated to the Ameri-
can Red Cross.” The back
follows with the catchy
line “what'd you expect,
I’m an American,” along
with a graphic of the
American flag and the
somber reminder “In me-

especially the “diffi-

culty to get people to participate,” in most
relief efforts. The events struck close to home
for him, however, and he wanted to help out
“in any way possible.”

pation,” commented Washington.

He and his friend organized the drive,
basing the sale around the Davidson and
Clemson campuses. With an original goal to
sell 300 shirts between campuses, Washing-

largest obstacles have been my lack of time
and help.”

Though his personal goal for the amount
sold has dropped slightly, Washington is ex-
tremely pleased with the interest and support

moriam of those that lost
their lives: September 11, 2001.”

The sale, which began last Thursday, con-
tinues until the 27th of September. Those
interested in buying a shirt should email,
Washington (chwashington@ davidson.edu).

Plagiarism debate continues

Honor Code, from page 1

Dr. Clark Ross, Dean of Faculty, was “very
pleased that the students representing the
Honor Council are willing to work with fac-
ulty to improve the wording of the Honor
Code.”

The Sept. 6 forum was the first of four
scheduled public forums this year organized
by the Honor Council.

If any changes to the Honor Code are to
occur, these public forums are the second
step. If consensus is found in these forums,
the Honor Council takes a vote on the pro-
posal, which is then forwarded to the Student
Conduct Council. The SCC will then forward
the matter to the President of the College if it
deems action necessary.

In addition to these forums, other programs
and initiatives are scheduled for this year.

Adam Hill, a member of the Honor
Council’s Policy Committee, offered a re-
minder to members of the community who
might be disillusioned by the debate.

“Many other universities, such as ‘Duke,
University of Colorado, and the University of
Texas, have just created codes within the last
seven or eight years, whereas ours has been in
existence [for quite some time]. We have an
excellent system in place, and these debates
are merely attempts to improve it.”

One of Parker’s main drives in his year as
chairman is to make the Honor Council more
accessible and relevantin the lives of Davidson
students through increasing the Council’s
activism on campus.

“This year’s Honor Council is about mov-
ing this campus community to engage in
more critical thought about its Honor Code,”
he stated. “The plagiarism issue directly aids
that cause.”

celebrations, study breaks, | -
exam time or just for fun!

BENGJERRY S.
VERMONT’S FINEST ¢ ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT.

202 South Main Street
704.892.0604

Surprise your college kids

or campus ae claiie with
an ice cream or
frozen yogurt cake
for birthday or
graduation —

Cast Iron Filter, Quesadillas
return to Patterson Court

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, along with Turner and Rusk Eating houses, will co-
host Cast Iron Filter at SigEp this Friday, September 28.

‘Also on Friday, SigEp will reopen Davidson’ s Outpost from 11 p.m.to3a.m. Quesadillas

and a variety of drinks will be avaliable. Davidson’s own WALT radio station will provide

music.

T-shirts for the event will also be on ale All proceeds will benefit the New York
Memorial Firefighter’s Fund, to be distributed to the families of firefighters and EMT

personnel lost in the September 11 attacks.

—from Staff Reports

EAC sponsors Recyling
Day, September 27

‘In an attempt to expand the recycling
program at Davidson, the Environmental
Action Coalition will sponsor Recycling Day
on Thursday, September 27. The event will

be held in the Knobloch Campus Center and ~

will include information tables, the-recy-
cling game, and a display se trash separated
from recyclables. _

The EAC hopes that the event will make

students more aware of the need to recycle

oncampus, _
“Its a fundamentally easy thing that you

can hgh comet agit said EAC a ;

“Services to promote plastic, reusable cups
ge onsaleinthe union. ee esis

in cardboard, sealed in aluminum, and served
in plastic—produces large quantities of re-
cyclable trash. Yet, most of the houses
ignore recycling receptacles, simply throw-
ing their trash in garbage dumpsters. In the
coming year, the EAC hopes to involve
house managers and service chairs of the
houses in an effort to promote recycling.
‘Although more could be done, recycling
participation on campus has grown each

_year since the Pepareat, s beginning ire

years ago.
Recently, the EAC worked with Dining
