Editorial

We had hoped the Nov. 14 social forum would draw a large
crowd and provoke thoughful discussion and innovative
ideas about enriching social life of this campus.

Alas, our hopes were dashed.

Poor attendance was one of the most discouraging aspects
of the forum. Barely 100 people
showed up, and only about half of
those were students. Faculty, coun-
selors and other staff members com-
prised much of the audience.

While this school could not
function without its faculty and staff,
the fact that a social forum is better
attended by the college’s employ-
ees than by its students is disap-
pointing. *

Complaints abound. Everyday students hold informal

discussions among themselves about social life. But when an ~

opportunity arises for students to voice their concerns to those
in charge, the turnout should reflect the depth of students’
concerns. Nov. 14 did not.

Few who did attend the forum offered progressive ideas.
Much of the night’s discussion amounted to little more than
whining over issues that have already been addressed. These
issues represent legitimate concerns, to be sure, but they offer
nothing new to improve campus social life.

The Union Cafe is not the same as the Outpost. Patterson
Court and the Union attract different people at different times
for different reasons. This much, we already know. |

Our charge, as students, is to accept these realities of
Davidson social life as a starting point. Instead of allowing
our concerns to become stale and lifeless, we need to use these
realities to jettison a program of change in Davidson’s social
life. Let our current situation spark new ideas, not a rehasing
of old issues.

Among some ideas proposed at the forum:

A bigger television on the main floor of the Union, along
with a TV or two on the basement floor.

Better communication between fraternities and Campus
Police.

Revision of weeknight party hours to better reflect current
trends. ;

More cultural diversity, especially in Union activities.

The bottom line, as articulated by SGA Senator Owen
Barrow ‘04, is that the Union (and Patterson Court) belongs
to us, and it’s our responsibility to make the most of it.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin. Hardin
Managing Editors .
Tim Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
“Arts & Living Editors
- DerekLoh —-Gavirt Weber
Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser Jimmy Swansbrough
Photography Editors
Erin Berry Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Rick Bold’. Aaron Houck
Jeff Larrimore
Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

3 htt D //www.davidso u/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

ALL IN FAVOR OF SHOWING THe
WORLD OUR MORAL ZUPERIORITY
BY PUTTING AN END To ALL
PROFILING, RAISE YOUR WAND...

NAG it |

peers

fll. “SN | { 4!

ZL. _ =
By fy
Lh ebb 7

£ ¥
2 5
a
:
WILEYORON -SeQuUiTYR CONN rar, HY OPI NERO. PRS SYA O1CPTE WWW 3

Can honor be codified?

In response to “Council approves change in plagiarism
definition (Nov. 14).””

Reading about the changes in the Honor Code suddenly
struck a strange chord within me; I was immediately hit with
the idea that honor might not be something that can be
codified. ~

Although I greatly admire the efforts of the SGA—espe-
cially those of Will Parker—in creating the atmosphere of
reasonableness which the process of learning requires, I can’t
help but think that an attempt to live honorably does not
necessarily require quibbling
over whether the word “gross”
or “unreasonable” is more fit-
ting toa definition of plagiarism.
I have too much faith in the idea
of honor (which Davidson has
helped to instill) than to think it
so one-sided as to be codifiable.

The more I think about the
Honor Code, the more I wonder
if it is not really more of a code of self-interest. It does not
require a speck of honor if all that keeps you from cheating (or
casually making a remark about a recent test to your mother
on the phone) is an intense fear of being turned in by your
classmates. That is self-interest, not honor. But there again,
perhaps honor is, after all, only an inflated form of self-
interest. I would like to think that it is more, and I must say
that Davidson has, on the whole, led me to believe that it is
more—that it is something worth striving for out of a sincere,
unselfish interest in advancing knowledge and advancing
humankind.

I say, live honorably regardless of the wording in the fat,
dusty books of The Code, regardless of the sacred name-
signing ceremony, regardless of the publicity value of the
words Honor Code. True honor cannot be imposed by an
institution, no matter how careful it is about semantics. True
honor must come from within or not at all.

Learn from the invaluable debates about honor that are
going on at the moment by all means, and take advantage of
it as a forum to voice your own opinions; but in the end, you
must decide for yourself what is honorable, and live by that.

Thomas Ward ‘04

Proud to be American

We Americans sure do have short memories. With fires
still burning at ground zero in New York, some factions have
already begun to undermine the best efforts of our govern-
ment to protect our ways of life.

Even as the country remains at risk of more attacks, The
New York Times has repeatedly questioned the military’s
engagement in Afghanistan. Closer to home, the Young
Democrats have posted political cartoons that overtly criti-

cize preemptive security measures put into place by our ©

government as assaults on civil liberties.
Maybe the real problem is our Oprah-esque fear of confron-
tation. In political speeches, newspapers, dedications to lost

A be Re OR ONO OR He OOO 8 RON 8.) 8 bleh, meee

lives and even during sporting events, the terrorist attacks are
downplayed as “tragedies.”

Describing what actually took place that day as if it were an
earthquake or hurricane is ignorant and dangerous. Our
country was attacked, make no mistake about it, and I find it
thoroughly unpatriotic that many Americans seek first to
place blame on America, and look secondly to undermine the
very government and military that are fighting to secure our
right to free speech.

In a recent issue of Libertas, writers Greg Harris and
Lauren Becton pejoratively condemn Americans for patriotic
actions. Ms. Becton notes that Americans are being bom-
barded with “pro-American propaganda” such as the singing
of the Star-Spangled Banner and the displaying of American
flags. Mr. Harris calls for Americans to “stop raising flags”
and to begin questioning the very steps our government is
taking to ensure his safety.

Ihave no problem with the government tapping the phones
and computers of a few hundred Americans, just on the theory
that such eavesdropping could save the lives of thousands.
We are living amongst zealots who have targeted Americans
because of the values for which we stand. Such a threat carries
with it some requisite needs for self-protection.

Unlike some of my fellow Americans, I am proud to stand
beneath the American flag and pledge my allegiance to it. I
believe that the flag and everything it represents is worth
fighting for. God bless America.

Jordan Gratrix ‘04

We alone are not right

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks raised the age-old question of
why some people do things that many others believe are
almost ufspeakably evil. One of the best short answers to this
question that I have seen appeared in the Oct. 18 issue of the
New York Review of Books in an article entitled “Notes on
Prejudice.” The well-known British philosopher Isiah Berlin
sent these informal comments in 1981 to an unidentified
friend who was preparing a lecture. They were published for
the first time this fall.

The excerpt below contains most of the first paragraph
and all the last paragraph of Berlin’s notes, with afew changes
in punctuation to improve readability. Berlin’s comments
apply not only those who attacked the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon, but also to anyone who believes that she or
he is “in sole possession of the truth.” It is important to remind
ourselves that, even ina relatively open, questioning commu-
nity like the one here at Davidson, it is easy to succumb to the
temptation to believe that we and like-minded friends “alone
are right.”

“Few things have done more harm than the belief on the
part of individuals or groups (or tribes or states or nations or
churches) that he or she or they are in sole possession of the
truth—especially about how to live, what to be and do—and
that those who differ are not merely mistaken, but wicked or
mad and need restraining or suppressing. It is a terrible and
dangerous arrogance to believe that you alone are right... .

Conquest, enslavement of peoples, imperialism etc. are
not fed just by greed or desire for glory, but have to justify
themselves by some central idea: [for example] French as the
only true culture; the white man’s burden, communism, and
the stereotypes or others as inferior or wicked. Only knowl-
edge, carefully acquired and not by short cuts, can dispel this;
even that won’t dispel human aggressiveness or dislike for the
dissimilar (in skin, culture, religion); still, education in his-
tory, anthropology, law (especially if they are comparative
and not just of one’s own country as they usually are) helps.”

In this excerpt, the only words I would change appear near
the end. I would revise “education in history, anthropology,
law” to “education in many disciplines and from many
perspectives.”

Dr. Ralph Levering

Professor of History

>

