Wigan Fesrvary 14,2001

Rugby takes undefeated record into spring season

By Garrett F RICHEY
: Guest Writer

With only mouth guards and electrical tape
to protect them, the Davidson rugby team
‘charges onto the intramurals field amid a
small crowd of dedicated fans and the oppos-
ing teams vicious taunts.

The football team wasn’t the only squad
that went undefeated last season. Every Sat-
urday, at the same time, the Davidson rugby
team defeated all eight of its opponents.

‘ ball team, which resulted in small crowd
support and, sometimes, the absence of an
athletic trainer, the 20 members of the rugby
team didn’t lose a game, an incredible feat
considering that Davidson was both outnum-
bered and outsized on numerous occasions.

Out of all the victories, the most memo-

rable moment for nearly every team member

was a 20-5 rout of archrival and rugby pow-
erhouse Appalachian State.

“It was probably the best rugby match that
Davidson has ever played,” said senior Andy

Despite sharing the spotlight with the foot-

points, and a chance to ‘convert’

from the try scored.

Coddington. “We played like atrue team. We

has been brought to the ground with: ball.

In rugby, there are 15 players per de: This is divided into 8 Wopuee.
and 7 backs . The forwards have to try and get the ball, (so they are all
the ones getting smashed and shoving and kicking!) Whilst the backs
try to run the ball upfield and score. This is usually done by set plays,
where they have designated plays to run in order to ‘trick’ the oppo-
nent. _When the ball goes out of bounds, a line out is formed. This is
when players line up parallel to one another, whilst the team who has
possession sends a player to throw it in. Both teams jump and try to
recover the ball, and play then continues.

A team can score in 3 ways, a try, conversion or goal...
TRY: This is when the player of one team manages to carry the ball
over the opponents goal line. The team who scores is rewarded 5

CONVERSION: This occurs after a player has scored a try, he is given
a chance to kick the ball between the opponents goal post. If he does __
so successfully, his team is awarded another 2 Pelnts along wi the 8

DROP-GOAL: This is when a deve? decides histead of trying to score
a try, he kicks the ball between the opponents goal post in the middle
of a play. His team is awarded 3 points for a ‘drop-goal’.

rucked together, we moved the ball together,
and we won together. I was very proud of our
performance,”

The victory is even more surprising when
you consider that the Mountaineers brought
their traveling team, which totals about 45
players compared to Davidson’s 20.

“Tt is one of the greatest moments in rugby
that I have ever had,” said senior captain
Travis Harp. “I have seen a lot of matches
where our individual performances have won
games, but this time is was different. We
played hard as a team.”

Every Tuesday and Thursday, the team
meets at the IMAC fields at 4 p.m. to practice.
For two hours, they endure rigorous work-
outs drills that focus on passing, running,
hitting, scrumming, and rucking.

After the drills are completed to head coach
Paul Kenny’s satisfaction, the team scrim-
mages for an hour. When Kenny, a middle-
aged rugby veteran with bad knees and a
failing back who scrimmages with them, is
pleased, practice was ended with condition-
ing drills.

“Whatever we do in practice, whether it be
passing drills, scrimmaging, or conditioning,
is to help us play better as a team,” said
Kenny. “By playing well as a team, we can
expect to win more matches. Itis that simple.”

Wicpcat Rucsy
Sprine 2001*
Feb. 11 Western Carolina
Feb. 18 @Furman
Feb. 25 @Chapel! Hill
March 24 Duke
March 30 @South Carolina
‘| April 7, UNCG

April 28 Radford
*Schedule subject to change

The rugby team will have to continue to
play well as the spring schedule approaches.
Tough teams from around the state will try to
hand the team its first loss, including Furman,
North Carolina, Duke, South Carolina, and
the measuring stick of North Carolina rugby,
Western Carolina.

Each match until March 11 will be on
Sundays at 1 p.m. at the IMAC fields.

“Tt really does not matter if we win or lose
as long. as we play together, play, to our
potential, and, most of all, have fun doing it,”
said Harp. “I am having the best time of my
life. Iam playing the game that I love with a
bunch of great guys. What more could I ask
for?”

How about a perfect 13-0 record?

Rugby tops Western Carolina

By Garrett RICHEY
Guest Writer

As the clock slowly ticked down, the once
rowdy and rambunctious Western Carolina
fans stood silent. For eighty minutes they
had watched their heavily-favored Cata-
mounts (8-1) not score once agianst.the un-
dersized Davidson Wildcats (10-0).

This past Sunday, the Davidson Rugby
Club proved their fortitude once again by
destroying rugby powerhouse Western Caro-

lina in a 19-0 victory.

“The Wildcats dominated the from the open-
ing kickoff. Senior Andy Coddington’s kick
was swarmed by the Davidson defense, which.
put the Catamounts in bad field. Seven min-
utes into the match, Davidson drew first blood

‘with a penalty kick by Senior Andy
Coddington that put the Wildcats up 3-0.

With about twenty minutes into the match,
Western Carolina mounted a drive that would

leave Davidson with their backs to the Cata-

- mounts try zone. But the Wildcats held their
own with a tremendous defensive effort, great
rucking, and a great kick by Matt Haist that
not only cleared the ball out, but also gave the
Wildcats good field position for the line out.

At halftime the score was 13-0 thanks to
the priceless foot of Senior Andy Coddington
who nailed a penalty kick from twenty-two
meters just before the half.

The start of the second half of play was
marked by great defensive efforts by both
teams. Both the Wildcats and the Cata-
mounts mounted drives that put them in good

field position, but came up short after several |

great goal line stances. That is until Western
Carolina’s eightman got too emotional and
started a fight with not only some Davidson
players, but also the Davidson fans. He was

sent to the Sin Bin for five minutes and
Davidson was given an opportunity to put the
match away with a penalty kick. Andy
Coddington once again took the kick and
scored from twenty-two meters out, which
gave the Cats an impressive 16-0 lead with
less than eighteen minutes left to play.

While Western Carolina’s eightman was in
the Sin Bin, Davidson took the initiative and
mounted a four-minute drive that resulted in
apenalty due to unfair play by the Catamounts
scrumhalf. Once again, Andy Coddington,
amid the opposing teams jeers and taunts,
kicked a thirty-meter field goal that clenched
the game for the Wildcats with a final score of
19-0.

“We have waited for this win for a long
time,” senior prop Dave Nutt said. “ Western
is a very good rugby team. If you can beat
them then you are doing something right.”

The Man of the Match Award went to
Andy Coddington who scored twelve solo
points with his golden foot.

“T really don’t care about the award,” said
Coddington. “Tam honored, but what really
matters is that we beat Western Carolina and
we have the opportunity to make it to the state
tournament. The award should really go to
the entire team; we played long and hard, and
we did it together.”

The Wildcats will play Furman next Sun-
day at 1 p.m. on the IMAC fields. If they win
next week, then Davidson will qualify for the
state tournament and have the opportunity to
play in the state championship match, a first
for Davidson Rugby.

“T told the team before the match that there
was something in the air,” said Senior and
Captain Travis Harp. “I told them that there
was no way we were going to lose this match.
I could feel it.”

By Matr GarFIELD
Sports Editor

Attendance at men’s basketball games
has fallen this season, but school officials
say the decline has more to do with the
team’s mediocre record than ticket prices.

Belk Arena averages 2,500 fans against
‘Division I opponents, said Ticket Office
Manager Lee Sargent. On many nights, the
lower level is half empty.

A recent Davidsonian study found that a
family of two adults and two teenagers pays
more to attend a game at Davidson than at
any other Southern Conference school.

Depending on the ages of its children, a
family can pay as much as $50 for parking,
tickets and concessions. °

Still, Sargent is convinced that unexciting
basketball—not money—is what’s keeping
people away.

“Tt all depends on how our team is playing
and the quality of our opponents,” he said.
“In 1996 (when the Wildcats went 25-5) it
was hard to find a red seat. Our record isn’t
as good (this season), so less people come.”

With three regular season games remain-
ing, two of them at home, the Wildcats are in

Officials: Ticket prices not to blame

for declining attendance figures
Study finds night at Belk costs most in conference

fourth place out of six teams in the SoCon’s
South Division with a record of 11-15, in-
cluding 5-8 in the conference.

Between 1995 and 1998, when the team
averaged 21 wins per season, average atten-
dance was as high as 3,500, Sargent said.

While the Wildcats’ record may change
next season, ticket prices probably won’t.

“If [had people saying ‘you guys are charg-
ing too much,’ I might say ‘maybe we’re
making a mistake,’ said Sargent. “I have not
heard that.”

. Appalachian State opened the 8,300-seat
Seby B. Jones Arena this season, but decided
not to raise its $8 ticket prices—in part out of
consideration for its fans.

“We didn’t want to be accused of a gouge
situation,” said associate director of athletics
Mark Dreibelbis. “We tried to be concerned
about our patrons.”

To compare Belk Arena prices to those at
schools such as Appalachian State is unfair,
says Sargent, because of Davidson’s location
in the affluent North Mecklenburg area.

“We fit in the right niche of the Charlotte
entertainment area for what we charge,” he
said. “We sell this as great family entertain-
ment. I think it is.”

TICKET PRICES AT AREA SCHOOLS

School Reserved General admission
UNC Chapel Hill — 30
Charlotte — 16
Davidson** 14 (red seats) 10 *
Charleston** — 10 *
Appalachian St.** — 8
UNC Wilmington oo 10
Western Carolina** — 8
VMI** 12,10 7
UNC Greensboro** oo 7%
Chattanooga** 12 6
Winthrop —_— 5
Elon - — 5%

Rates can vary throughout the season. Students at all schools get in free.
**Southern Conference school
* Bleachers seating.

