RTS Sc LIVING wes;

= closed —— = live Davitisonialis c examine their soft anderbellles.

The Arts and Living section welcomes
Lauren Lanza, Sarah Tyndall, and Kayleen
Hartman. We hope the three female
Davidsonians will be featured weekly in the
section, offering insights to issues of sex and
the School. They hope not to raise contro-
versy, but to stimulate converation and
thought. For their first article, the women
discuss self-stimulation and all the attached
stigma. So here it is, ladies and gentlemen.
Enjoy.

“If you want something done right, do it
yourself,” says sexual guru and Waffle House
chef Chris, waxing philosophical on the topic
of self-stimulation. Chris was an eager inter-
viewee as soon as he realized that yes, we are
three female college students and yes, we
masturbate.

All right, so what’s the big turn on? Ona
campus as sexually repressed as Davidson is,
it’s impossible to imagine an entire female
population not taking matters into their own
hands. We like it, we want it, and most of us
at 18+ have figured out how to give it to
ourselves. “Ladies, DO try this at home,”
says sex columnist Sarah. Although her
attempts have produced only mediocre re-

sults thus far, she’s in dogged pursuit of the
Holy Grail. Her two compadres, Lauren and
Kayleen emphatically encourage her, and
while we’re at it, all of our fellow female
Davidsonians, to keep at it. You'll be pleas-
antly surprised at what an excellent little
study break it can make. It rivals a good back
massage or a cup of green tea for stress relief.

I'mean, after all, it seems to us that on this
campus everyone at some time or another has
expressed the wish to truly “find themself.”
And what better place to start than under-
neath the zipper of your favorite pair of
J.Crew chinos. We talk about becoming self-
sufficient, yet the majority of women are
hesitant to attempt (or perhaps just to admit
that they attempt) the ultimate method of self-
stimulation. An expression of solo sexuality
is a powerful statement. It’s sex for us, by us.
This can be somewhat intimidating. Some-
times these three coeds wonder if this idea of
education and the cultivation of our minds
may sometimes crush the notion of educated,
intelligent women as sexual beings. Which
seems to us a little illogical; we put forth the
contention that not only is solo exploration an
acceptable part of the process of self- discov-
ery, itis a VITAL part of it. This is not to say

ladies that you will only receive your diploma

at the end of four years if you’ ve spent at least
one nighti in bed with yourself, although if we
had our way, it would be heavily under con-
sideration.

Please don’t mistake us for militant femi-
nist types attempting to assert that the dexter-
ous handiwork of a man is obsolete. There’s
nothing like a good roll in the hay with the
partner of your choice. But when the willing
and able are in short supply (as it turns out
they too often are), a woman owes it to herself
to be prepared. So come on all you assertive,
empowered modern chicks. In lieu of epsom
salts and a cozy aroma therapy candle, next
time you need a relaxing evening at home, put
the “Do Not Disturb” sign on the door, turn on
some delicious music, close your eyes and
rock your own world.

We would like to take this time to address
all our male readers. What do you think? It
has come to our attention that there is a
widespread male fascination with female
masturbation. We’re wondering if it’s pos-
sible that guys just want to watch girls get
themselves off so they can find the answer to

_ that ever-elusive question: “Where the hell is

the clitoris exactly?” (and for those of you

Union takes suggestions for spring concerts

By Liz Smit
Special Contributor

A few weeks ago the Union Board Concert
Committee distributed suggestion boxes
throughout the union café in an effort to elicit
ideas for bands to bring to campus for subse-
quent semesters. Each box came equipped
with a brainstorming list formulated by the
concert committee meant to be a catalyst for

response. While the boxes fell victim to some '

stuffing, the results represent a diversity of
tastes.

As mentioned on each box, a significant
portion of your student activity fees go to-
wards concert and other programming ‘on
campus. In order to provide quality program-
ming that attracts many groups on campus,
we would like your feedback. This method is
an extension of that which was discussed at
the Social Life Forum held in the Smith room
on the fourteenth of November.

In an effort to clarify and solidify the re-
sults, a selection of the results is reprinted
below for your perusal. Please direct any
response to the list to Liz Smith, concert
committee chair fog the union board
(ezsmith@ davidson. dtu).

Dave Matthews Band — 43 responses

Ben Harper — 38

Outkast — 34

Dispatch — 32

Weezer — 29

Jill Scott — 25

David Gray — 23
The-Roots — 23

Jimmy Buffett — 21.
Alicia Keys — 20
OAR - 19

Barenaked Ladies — 18
Guster — 17

Nelly Furtado — 16
John Mayer — 13

Ludacris — 12
Nelly — 11

Bela Fleck — 10
Bob Dylan — 10
Ginuwine — 10
Moby — 10

Busta Rhymes — 9
Pat McGee — 9

Widespread Panic — 9
Alison Kraus — 8

Eve —8
Nickel Creek — 8
Shaggy — 8

String Cheese Incident — 8
Blues Traveler - 7
Lauryn Hill — 6
Lifehouse — 6

Robert Earl Keen — 6
Eryka Badu — 5

Ryan Adams — 5

Ziggy Marley —5

Dru Hill — 4

‘Emma Gibbs Band — 4
India Arie — 4

Jimmy Eat World — 4
Jump Little Children — 4

Shallow, from page 5

This movie points out the stereotypes that
politically correct people are too afraid to
touch. On one level Shallow Hal is saying
that it does not matter what your physical
beauty is, but the movie does acknowledge
our society’s obsession with it.
Shallow Hal shows us the absurdity of
basing relationships on looks. For example,
Mauricio stops seeing a girl because she has
one long toe. This may be alittle extreme, but
jit goes to show us how silly we sometimes

e. I recognize the fact that this is a movie,
ere for entertainment purposes, but movies
o influence our lives. They give us heroes,
illains, role models, and sex symbols.

This movie is brave enough to bring up a

boo subject. I can see how some could
pplaud its efforts at trying to raise awareness
bout our own preoccupation with looks. We
io not realize how much we judge a book by
ts cover and Shallow Hal has no problem

‘is by being a good person. This movie show

exploiting society’s problem. This movie
tries to make a sensitive topic humorous. It
comes out funny and painful at the same time
I can only imagine how hurtful this movie
could be if I were a woman who was strug-
gling with weight issues, whether it be obe-
sity or anorexia. It reinforces the idea that
there is a certain standard of beauty.
Rosemary does not fit the measuring stick
therefore the only way she could be beautiful

her inner beauty by making her skinny an
gorgeous. For Rosemary to be a marketable
heroin she needs to fit the mold our society
adheres to and yet the movie tells us we
should not use such stereotypes. On the
movie posters we see the skinny Gwyneth we
adore and a fat shadow. It is her idealistic
body type that we find attractive.

Shallow Hal makes a noble attempt :
delving into a touchy subject, but it doesn’
really come close to truly embracing its mes-
sage.

Doc Watson — 3
Howie Day — 3
Leftover Salmon — 3
Vertical Horizon — 3
Weekend Excursion — 3
Agents — 2

Black Eyed Peas — 2
Derek Trucks — 2
D-12-2

Jay Z-—2

Jurassic 5 — 2

Phil Lesh — 2

REM - 2

Shakira — 2

Spoon — 2

SR 71-2

Travis —2

Wesley Willis — 2
Wilco — 2

Folds concert
meets high
expectations

By Katy ELWELL
Special Contributor

A crappy live show makes me lose all
respect fora musician. An exciting show, on
the other hand, assures them a devoted fan for
life.

I have been addicted to Ben Folds ever

since I heard, “Battle of who could care less.”
Ben Folds was doing something new and
exciting with bored guitar-driven indie rock.
I went out and bought Whatever and Ever
Amen and the self-titled debut album. When
Naked Baby Photos and The Unauthorized
Biography of Reinhold Messner came out, I

‘ was hooked.

Needless to say, I went to Ben Folds’
November 26" Raleigh show with sky-high
expectations. Folds played all of the instru-
ments for the recording of Rockin’ the Sub-
urbs, his first album since-the break-up of
Ben Folds Five, but I hoped his live band

would have an onstage chemistry compa- .

rable to that of his previous band with Darren
Jesse and Robert Sledge.

Luckily, I was not disappointed. Ben
Folds, with Brett “Snuzz” Uzzell on guitar,

bassist Millard Powers, and ex-Sheryl Crow

who actually need an answer at this point, it’s
about three inches NORTH of whete you

_ think it is, as one television show put it). But

innocent curiosity aside, we feel that the
fascination runs deeper. And so, we three
intrepid explorers of sexuality delved into the
recesses of the mind of one of the most
sexually eager creatures to be found any-
where: the Davidson male. We asked two of
our favorite connoisseurs of female sexual-
ity, for our purposes here named Bill and Ted.
“Girls doing sexual things are hot.” Elo-
quent, succinct, and honest. “Knowing that
she’s into to sex...it shows that she’s inde-
pendent and comfortable with her sexuality.”
Ahh now we’re getting somewhere. Lauren
muses that the fascination is less tangible
than the obvious preoccupation with legs,

breasts and butts. As far as we can tell, men

are to be commended in their mental appre-
ciation for our sexual autonomy. We dig that
you dig that. So now we put this question to
you, how independent is too independent?
Bill and Ted were able to come to a general
consensus that anything battery operated was
inadmissible in woman’s solo repertoire.
“Who am I fooling, my equipment doesn’t
vibrate” quips the ever-lovable Bill of Bill
and Ted. It seems that neither sex wants the
other to become TOO engaged in taking the
controls. We submit this basic rule of thumb.
Remember the sage words proffered by Jim’s
dad in American Pie. “It can be fun, but it’s
not a real game.” This is one of those cases
where you just can’t “beat” the real thing.

and Dixie Chicks drummer Jim Bogios,
banged out most of the tracks on Rockin’ the
Suburbs, interspersed with Folds’ funny self-
deprecating comments on his songs and his
ability as a musician, which of course, are
unfounded.

The Ritz is a fairly large place, but it was far
from packed. I arrived late, but was still able
to push my way up to the front. The show had
the feel of an intimate performance, with
Folds talking to the audience as if we were
just watching him jam in his living room.

Folds is an excellent entertainer. He knows
how to show the crowd a good time and give
them just what they want. As great as Rockin’
the Suburbs is, 1 know I wasn’t alone in
feeling a little jipped when the band left the
stage without playing any of the Ben Folds
Five classics. But after lots of stomping and
yelling, Folds returned with. “Kate,” “Song
for the Dumped,” “Evaporated,” “Best Imita-
tion of Myself,” and “Battle of Who Could
Care Less,” among others.

The encore lasted almost as long as the
original set, with the crowd still wanting
more when it finished. Folds has definitely
matured in his songwriting, and while the
title track on Rockin the Suburbs is a fun
pseudo-sellout satire of all the nu-metal bands
played on the radio today, and even pokes fun
at Folds himself, most of the songs lack the
fun, care-free attitude of the first Ben Folds
Five albums. Folds did a great job of playing
his new stuff, but at a concert, who really
wants to hear about serious things like a
father and son struggling through their crappy
lives in “Still Fighting it,” the threat of sui-
cide in “Losing Lisa,”or a lonely woman in
“Annie Waits”? I would rather hear fun
songs about having a good time, whichis why
I enjoyed the encore more than the actual
show. Few people can do anything but laugh
when Folds sings about hooking up with a
girl that-looks like Axel Rose in “Julienne,”
or a houseguest who has been saying he’s
leaving tomorrow for weeks in “Steven’s
Last Night in Town.” .

Despite Folds transition to more somber
subject matter, he still plays a mean show,
and it was definitely worth the $20 I paid to
get in. And I’Il expect another great show
when he plays at Ziggy’s on the 13", even if
he isn’t all fun and games.
