ta og

A nationwide moratorium on the death penalty is needed

By ALEX MASSENGALE
Columnist

Regardless of your views on the death
penalty, it is hard to deny that the U.S system
of capital punishment is deeply flawed. Jus-
tice Harry A. Blackmun says the application
of the death penalty is “fraught with arbitrari-
ness, discrimination, caprice, and mistake.”
Unfortunately Blackmun is correct. The race
~ and socioeconomic classes of both the perpe-
trator and the victim, often matter more than
the severity of the crime. “

Blacks and whites both account for ap-

proximately the same percentage of murder .

victims yet their killers get treated very dif-
ferently by our judicial system. According to
a study by researchers from the University of
Florida, blacks convicted of killing whites in
Florida are five times more likely to receive
death sentences than whites convicted of
killing whites. In Texas, blacks found guilty
of killing whites are six times more likely to
receive death sentences. Nationwide, accord-
ing to statistics from the Death Penalty Infor-
mation Center (DPIC), this number is closer
to 6.3. Fora nation that prides itself on equal
protection under the law for all, these num-
bers are unconscionable. In its current form,

our application of capital punishment implies
that blacks are not as valuable to society as
whites—a message America presumably does
not want to send.

The system’s problems go much deeper
than that. According to the ACLU, “for every
seven people executed in this country since
1976, when the Supreme Court reinstated
capital punishment, an eighth person — com-
pletely innocent —has been condemned to die
and later exonerated”. This amounts to eighty-
seven people, forty-four since 1990 accord-
ing to Amnesty International. A single in-
stance of this would be tragic, but eighty-
seven instances are unbelievable. This prob-
lem comes from two places. Firstly, most
states do not provide enough money for a
defendant to mount a proper defense. As a
result indigent death penalty defendants are
often afforded very poor council. According
to a study by the National Law Journal, law-
yers for defendants sentenced to death were
disbarred or disciplined at a rate 3 to 46 times
higher than the rate for other attorneys in their
states. Those facing the ultimate penalty de-
serve the best defense the state can provide,
not some of the worst.

Furthermore, death cases are often politi-

cal issues that politicians turn to their advan-

tage. For instance, during his 1992 presiden-
tial campaign, Bill Clinton publicized return-
ing to Arkansas to preside over the execution
of Rickey Ray Rector, a black inmate so
mentally disabled that he asked the prison
staff to put his dessert from his last meal aside
so that he could :

reports that “all three later recanted their
testimony, including the only “eyewitness,”
who stated that he was pressured by the
prosecutors to implicate Johnny D. in the
crime.” All four of McMillan’s appeals were
denied. Finally, lawyers not under contract

with Alabama

have it later.
Prosecutors
often do the
very same
thing. In many .
municipalities,
they seek the
death penalty in

ensure reelection.

- order to gain a reputation for “getting tough

on crime” and thus ensure reelection. A good
‘example of this can be drawn from the case of
Walter “Johnny D” McMillian. In
Monroeville, Alabama in 1986, a white
woman was murdered. After eight months,
‘there were no suspects and the prosecutor and
local sheriff’s offices were feeling pressure
from their constituents. In response they
arrested McMillan, a black man. No physical
evidence linked him to the crime. He was
convicted on the basis of testimony by three
witnesses and sentenced to die. The DPIC

Clinton’s legacy is about much more

By Joe PEARLMAN
Special Contributor

Like sludge through a pipe at a toxic waste
dump, the adjectives seem to flow when
describing the qualities of our recently lapsed
President. During the “Lewinsky scandal”
liberal journalist Christopher Hitchens de-
scribed Bill Clinton as “reckless and trivial.”
George Will,.in discussing the recent barrage
of gifts to the Clintons from private citizens,
described the former first couple as “merce-
naries.” The most enduring single-word de-
scription has been “shameless.” Take your
pick, but none of the words you choose are
likely to echo Clinton’s election year
promise to have “the most ethical

denied that the President had lied in the
deposition).

Bill Clinton foreshadowed what was to be
the theme of his Presidency when he ex-
plained an empty promise he made to enroll
in the Arkansas ROTC some thirty one years
ago. He wrote the then-commander of the
Arkansas ROTC, after renouncing his com-
mitment to enlist, that he had promised to
enroll merely to “preserve his political viabil-
ity” (most graduate students do not think in
terms of their political viability). The Clinton
Presidency. became all about political expe-
diency, and the truth was merely an impedi-
ment to be sacrificed for that end.

would have continued to deny all carnal esca-
pades with Monica Lewinsky, while sending
out his minions to trash her in the manner of
his other unfortunate accusers.

While searching for his legacy in his last-
ditch efforts to broker a. Middle East. peace
agreement, Clinton had already unwittingly
created for himself an enduring place in his-
tory. Among his achievements: taking mil-
lions in illegally laundered foreign contribu-
tions, which quite probably influenced his
foreign policy decisions; allowing satellite
technology to be sold to the People’s Repub-
lic of China by a large contributor in contra-
vention of the advice of the military; selling
access to the White House and the
Lincoln bedroom; bombing an aspirin

administration in history.”

Atthe same time, Clinton is lauded
as “gifted” and a “political genius,”
as if such qualities balance out the’
ethical and moral free fall that reached
terminal velocity in the second
Clinton administration. The utter
corruption reached its denouement in the first
week Clinton was out of office, in the shock-
ing and unconscionable pardon of an interna-
tional fugitive who illegally traded with Iran
at the same time Americans were dying in an
attempt to rescue our hostages.

The new President no doubt lacks the abil-
ity to eloquently “feel your pain’’ and “care
about you.” While the level of professed
empathy may decline, a bit less charm and
volubility would be a small price to pay for
the restoration of a minimal level of ethics,
decency and honesty to most important office
in the free world.

Whenever you think-Clinton has said or
done some truly. astounding, showing his
lack of a moral compass, he goes one step
further. Everyone will have their favorite
Clintonian moment, but for sheer gall I sub-
mit the recent Esquire Magazine interview in
which he suggested the Republicans in Con-
gress should apologize for his impeachment
for, among other things, lying in a deposition
in the Paula Jones case. A week or two later
Clinton reached an agreement with the Inde-
pendent Counsel in which he admitted to

- giving “false and misleading testimony” in
that same deposition. (In the Orwellian spin-
ning which has characterized the past admin-
istration, White House counsel David Kendall

Clinton embodied to the end

the culture of narcissism.

Clinton responded for the to first of the
“bimbo eruptions” in the campaign year of
1992 by saying he had never had sex with
Gennifer Flowers. This denial came after
Flowers released a tape of a telephone con-
versation in which Clinton told Flowers that
if they both denied what happened than no
one could prove it was true. Shortly after this

denial—which he later contradicted by ad- -

mitting to single episode of unambiguous sex
with Flowers in the Paula Jones deposition—
he was granted the gift of a fawning post-
Super Bowl profile by “60 Minutes” in which
he blandly admitted that he and his wife had
overcome some problems in their marriage.
The Flowers eruption was controlled, and the
lesson that one could lie on the national stage
was cemented.

So Clinton learned to compartmentalize
the truth: he: could use it when convenient,
and ignore it when it wasn’t. Political advan-
tage ranked far ahead of the truth in the
Clintonian hierarchy of needs, so it is hardly
surprising that he could, with utter calcula-
tion, look into the collective face of the Ameri-
can people and state what might be his ulti-
mate epitaph: “I did not have sex with that
woman.”

And had things played out a bit differently
(no Linda Tripp, no semen-stained dress) he

factory in Sudan to deflect attention
from his grand jury testimony; affirm-
ing to the same Grand Jury that his
deposition in the Paula Jones case was
accurate (the deposition in which he
said he was never alone with Monica
Lewinsky).

So was this the most ethical administration
. inhistory? It depends on what your definition
of “ethical” is.

Deficit reduction and a vibrant economy
do redound to Clinton’s credit, as do the

In many municipalities, they seek the
death penalty in order to gain a reputation
for “getting tough on crime” and thus

appealed and it
was unearthed
that the pros-
ecutors had il-
legally with-
held evidence
that would have
proved
McMillian innocent.

In light of the stark inequalities and defi-
ciencies inherent in our capital punishment
system, acessation is called for immediately.
Our nation cannot, in good conscience, stand
idly by and allow more innocent people to be
executed. If the United States is to continue
employing the death penalty, something must
be done about its discriminatory and capri-
cious nature. I urge all state governors to
follow the example of Illinois’ George Ryan
and declare an immediate moratorium on the
death penalty.

than policy

North American Free Trade Agreement and
welfare reform. The latter two initiatives
were sponsored chiefly by Republicans, but
Clinton was willing to go against his party. It
may have helped that Dick Morris told Clinton
he would lose to Bob Dole if he vetoed

‘welfare reform once again.

Clinton embodied to the end the culture of
narcissism. He was: self-referential in all
things, unable to refrain from discussing his
choice of underwear ina television interview,
or to slink quietly out of town on the day his
successor was sworn into office. I halfway
expected to see Clinton alongside Britney
Spears, playing his saxophone, at halftime of
this year’s Super Bowl.

Some have expressed concern that George
W. Bush will be less vigilant than Clinton in
his stewardship of the environment. While
there may be cause for concern among cari-
bou in Alaska, there is one urban enclave that
will be decidedly cleaner. The foul air around
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue—the malodor-
ous residue of corruption and deceit—is al-
ready starting to clear.

Joe Pearlman is a graduate of Davidson
College. He is an adminstrative law judge in

_Charlotte, NC. He asks that comments be

sent to pearlman.joseph@esc.state.nc.us.

‘The Davidsonian

—@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

EpITors-IN-CHIEF
Business MANAGERS

Copy Eprror
News Epirors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports EpiTors

Arts. & Livinc Epirors
PERSPECTIVES EDITOR

PHOTOGRAHPY Eprtors

CIRCULATION MANAGER

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Anna Kyanvig
Tim Cook
Jessica Mering
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Matt Garfield
‘Burgin Hardin
Martha Hunt
Mara Mordini
Amy Poe

Erin Berry
Matt Whited
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

