F

lleft: Yasser
Arafat
jright: Ariel.
Sharon

j

No easy solutions in Middle East conflict |

Peace in the Middle East. A phrase con-
stantly thrown about for years looks to be
even less of a possibility than in the recent
past. The political ramifications of the esca-
lating violence in Israel
and the Gaza strip came
to ahead recently at the
United Nations confer-
ence on racism.

The United States
and Israel walked out
due to anti-Israeli lan-
guage found in the
summit’s resolutions.
The question most
people are asking is,
“Who is to blame for the recent outbreak of
violence?”

Obviously, a complete answer to such a
loaded question cannot be found in anewspa-
per article. Nevertheless, here is my opinion.

As recently as 1967, a group of Arab

“Mike Galdo

forces allied in an effort to “drive the Jews
into the sea.” It didn’t work. In fact, Israel
managed to acquire more territory from its
opponents and to drive the Arabs farther back
into the desert. Realizing that brute force was
not the answer (especially once Israel ac-
quired nuclear weapons), the Arabs have
adopted a much more effective tactic.

While still lashing out in suicide bomb-
ings and shootings (five Israelis died and
dozens were wounded just this past Sunday),
the Palestinians have tried to make Israel
appear to be the aggressor.

Despite being surrounded on three sides by
nations that teach their children in schools
that Jews are evil an should be driven from
their land, the Arab nations have made Israel
appear to be the aggressor by turning several
foolish domestic policies formed by Israeli
leaders into media coups.

On a local level, the Jewish people them-
selves are tiring of endless peace talks that

bare no fruit. From their perspective, the
Arabs are asking for land that they lost in a
war designed to destroy the Israeli nation. In
essence, they would be doing the Palestinians
a large favor by giving them any land at all.

The Jewish Defense Ministry announced
to the public a short time ago its belief that

_ Palestinean leader Yasser Arafat is coordi-

nating the recent wave of violence. The valid-
ity of this claim is vehemently contested.
However, one can easily see the effects upon
the Israeli populace as a whole.

With even the average Israeli taking such a
strong stand it is hard for me to see any end to
the violence in the near future. Perhaps new
leadership is needed on both sides. Or, per-
haps both. sides need to re-examine exactly
what they want to do. Are their goals simply
to use the conflict for personal political ends
or is there a genuine desire for peace in the
war-torn Middle East?

For Sharon, war is the only remaining choice

For almost a year, Israel has been under
continuous siege as the latest Palestinian
intifada continues on unabated.

With hundreds dead
on both sides as a result
of daily terrorist attacks
and with Israeli occu-
pation of Palestinian
territory, the situation
in this fragile region
grows more drastic by
the hour.

In the last few weeks
the world has stood by,
shocked, as Israeli tanks rolled into Palestin-
ian towns on the West Bank and as Arab
extremist suicide bombers attacked helpless
civilians at pizza parlors and nightclubs.

Policymakers in Israel are desperate and
have taken to grasping for unrealistic solu-
tions such as targeted assassinations, tempo-
rary occupations and unilateral separation
(the dividing of Israeli and Palestinian terri-
tories by fence line):

Coupled with Yasser Arafat’s inflamma-

Travis. Lee

tory rhetoric at the recent United Nations
Conference on Racism, these developments
show that neither side is actually interested in
reviving the peace process-- if it can be re-
vived at all.

Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is left
with three courses of action. He can continue
the current, directionless, tit-for-tat policy
that has caused nothing but increased vio-
lence; this reactionary policy to Palestinian

or Arab extremism and, while justified, has ©

only led to more fanatic attacks.

Since this policy’s aim has been to end
such violence, it is an obvious failure. Indeed,
if Sharon’s goal is to end the hostility and talk
peace, then is must pursue a policy along the
lines of former Prime Minister Ehud Barak’s.

However, the stunning electoral defeat of
Barak at the hands of Israel’s current leader
and the intransigence of Yasser Arafat make
this policy 4 non-starter. The fact that Barak’s
gracious and praiseworthy offer of peace was
refused by the Palestinian leadership makes a
return to such a course of action, especially
by Ariel Sharon, unlikely- and rightly so.

Yasser Arafat and the Palestinians do not
deserve a second offer. The first was as good
as it could have ever been. |

With both of these policies destined for
failure, Sharon is left with a final, controver-
sial option, which is more a change in goals
than in policy.

He must declare war. Violence in the re-
gion is at sucha level to be easily calléd a war,
it is only not officially one. Intifadas and
assassinations will occur again and: again
until either the Israelis or the Palestinians are
removed from the region and one remains in
control of a single sovereign state.

With their ancient and divine attachment to
the land and their current global stature, this
one state must be Israel. Such a step is not

difficult, for all Sharon needs to do is an-

nounce a shift in the goal of his actions.

It is difficult to. call for and disgusting to
condone, but a war is the only answer to the
current situation. Peace has been created only
by a victorious party after a conflict- and so it
must be for the Middle East as well.

School spirit?

College traditions have become widespread
throughout the past century. Most of them,
however, do not exist on the Davidson cam-

pus.

Why is it that David-
son, a small liberal arts
school with a revered
standing, has little to no
school spirit?

_ Otherschools haveno
problem encouraging
and keeping school
spirit. An overzealous

Cannon - blue devil at Duke used
Hodge to run through random
classrooms promoting

school spirit.

The red raider at Texas Tech commences
football games by racing through the stadium
on a black horse.

- Most every school has a battle cry, such as
“Roll Tide” at Alabama or “Wahoo!” at Vir-

The pickings are slim here

. ginia. What about Davidson’ s football games?
Last year, our most frequent and adored spec-
tators were President Vagt and a handful of
Phi Delts, along with their plastic Santa Claus.

Our band consists of someone pounding on
a bongo drum and our half-time show is often
the infamous “Vermonster” ice cream eating
contest.

Truthfully, I don’t even know our school’s
fight song.

Now be honest here: how many of y’all
haven’t brought your bookbag to a football
game? At how many football games have
you be an active participant?

Often the stadium is only half-full, and
even then it’s mostly townspeople or cakaie
family members.

Honestly, I was impressed by the crowd at
the season opener against Valparaiso.

I see hundreds of fellow students adorned
in Davidson gear, yet I don’t feel any real
sense of spirit. °

I think that the junior who told me, “We’re
too busy doing homework to have school
spirit” summed up the prevailing attitude
best.

We go to a difficult school, no doubt about
it. Our main concern is work. I don’t think it
is common for the library to be the social
center of the campus. We are serious students
here and I, like the rest of y’all, feel over-
whelmed sometimes.

What could be better than supporting our
football team? Create your own tailgate,

dress up for a game, show some respect for |.
the Wildcats- they’re pretty amazing consid-'

ering they have the same amount of work and
managed to have the longest win streak in the
nation (18 games) before Saturday’s loss at
Jacksonville.

Plus they’re really nice guys. So revel in
the fact that you. have access to football

games, a great education, and a really fun

school president.

Tall Frotes

more like
Fool Frolics

I had a great time this past weekend; no
doubt. That point is not in question whatso-
ever. The weather was
beautiful, the parties
were phat, the ladies
were looking fine, the
freshmen were getting
their chance to shine,
and there was plenty
of root beer and cream
soda for all who
" wanted one or six.
But maybe I am a
traditionalist. Maybe
I’m a child of the season after winter and
before summer. A season that contains a
certain festival, at a certain time of the year at
a certain school called Davidson. A season
that begins with an S, and ends in -pring.
Maybe all of these accusations that I am
accusing myself of are true, but I know one
thing and that’s that I am just not sure about
this Fall Frolics idea.

Let me give you a couple reasons why, and
then after I am done you can roll this newspa-
per up into a megaphone or telescope or
baseball bat and entertain yourself for the rest
of the afternoon. (Trust me, the world looks
completely different when you close one eye
and look through a tube with the other.)

I’m a sophomore. And like most other
sophomores at Davidson, next year’s Spring
Frolics will be the fourth one I’ve attended.
I’ve had a lot of fun memories during that
wonderful weekend in April, like when that
dude threw that...I mean when those girls.
broke...Or when I...ok, well, maybe I don’t
have a lot of memories. But according to a
gnome I met last week, I was involved in a
few things that were on the border of cool.

It all started my junior year in high school
when I was visiting my brother, Trip, who
was then only a petty freshmen, freshly
pledged to Pi Kappa Alpha and ready to make
sure the end of my spring break was as good
as the beginning, which I spent in Florida.

Nice try, Trip. Still, that was a fun
weekend. Pretending to be a 22-year-old col-
lege dropout from Georgia Southern Univer-
sity to pick up senior women, watching this
cool reggae band, meeting some chicks. Well,
I didn’t meet any chicks. But-either way it
perked my interest in Davidson. High-Five
number one: Spring Frolics.

And then there was my senior year. That
was the weekend when my world-renowned
band. Dropline Sinkher made its Davidson
debut. My friends and band mates had a great
weekend and even though it rained most of
the time and two of them helped PiKA get put
on probation for six months,. we rocked the
house on Saturday night until the wee Sunday
morning hours.

Is there any other weekend when you can
play Twisted Sister’s “We’re Not Gonna
Take It” as the cops are pulling the plug,
nearly incite a riot, and then party on through
the wee hours of the night? I think not.

And finally, my last Frolics to date.
Shooting water balloon toward the court,
animals throwing chairs through windows,
and don’t let me forget Bob Dylan and the
Black Crowes on the same night.

So, let’s compare, shall we? The music
was ok, the rides were the same as always, but
more importantly I wasn’t 22. My crazy
friends from Atlanta didn’t sit on a roof. My
bro and I didn’t play glam for four hours.
There was no Dylan, no Crowes — NO DICE.
' Nice try Fall Frolics, but there is room
enough for only one true champion, and the
winner is Spring Frolics.

_ The only true Frolics — ever.

Tim Cook
