rages

Democracy at Davidson just received a
shot in the arm. Thanks to the combined
efforts of students and staff, voting for stu-
dent officials has never been easier.

Earlier this week, the Student Govern-
ment Association (SGA) and Information
Technology Services (ITS) announced that
from now on, the internet will be utilized to
conduct elections on campus. Students will
no longer have to wait in line and fill out
Scan-tron sheets in Vail Commons and
Chambers. Instead, they will be able to
voice their opinions from the comfort of
their own rooms or from the nearest com-
puter lab.

Using simply their identification num-
bers, students can access a secure website
that displays the electronic ballot. Voting
and tallying are instantaneous, dramatically
reducing the likelihood of human error. The
system even includes provisions against vot-
ing for too many candidates and allows the
voter to retract any errant mouse clicks.

As if the catastrophe that was the 2000
election wasn’t enough, partisan feuding
has continued its cruel reign over American
political life. Now ithas emerged in the form
of controversy surrounding discussion of

Bush’s choices for Secretary of Labor,
Linda Chavez, Attorney General, John
Ashcroft, and Secretary of the Interior, Gale
Norton, each endured the scathing personal
attacks that characterize these strictly parti-
san disputes. More dangerous, however, are
the attempts by extreme elements on both
sides to hijack public opinion.

Certainly every citizen is entitled to his or
her own opinion, and a particular position is
no less legitimate because of where it falls
on the political spectrum. But when partici-
pants divert attention from some critical
facts, the intended purpose of political dis-
course is lost and replaced by vitriolic dia-
tribes. The opposing groups, in trying to
portray their own positions in the best pos-
sible light, each work to monopolize the
flow of information.

For the average American, it is impracti-
cal to know all the political beliefs and past
actions of a particular nominee—that is why
Cabinet appointments are left up to the Presi-
dent and to the Senate. The public trusts the
elected officials to make responsible deci-
sions and to govern in the way that protects

Yes, Florida, foolproof voting is a possibil-_ .

President Bush’ s appointees for his Cabinet. —

Tiiternet voting has arrived

ity.

This is not to say that representative gov-

‘ernment at Davidson will necessarily func-

tion any better. It is still incumbent upon the
students to take an interest in their own
affairs, to inform themselves, and to take the
time to vote. After all, no system is perfect.

Nevertheless, internet voting is an im-
provement in the system. In simplifying the
voting procedure, it gives students a more
direct, more reliable means to express their
preferences. Moreover, this initiative sends
the message that Davidson will use the best
available resources to support student gov-
ernment.

For that, we applaud the SGA as well as
Dr. John Casey and ITS. .

All that remains is for Davidson students
to show the willingness to participate in the
governance of this institution. In short, they
must vote, and they must vote responsibly.

Were it any easier, someone would have
to vote for you.

The real losers in the game of politics

the interest of the population.

At this point, interested parties swoop in
and tell us that we should care and feed us
information regarding their particular tar-
get. “Did you know that appointee X once
said this in a speech before Smallville Town
Council???” Who cares? Where is the rest
of the relevant information that shows that
an appointee has been a dedicated and re-
sponsible public servant for the past twenty
years? Why do the interest groups refuse to
tell us about the proposals that worked?
What is gained from this childish finger-
pointing? Are the interests of the public
served?

To those who participate in and perpetu-
ate this absurd competition, politics is a
zero-sum game. What they fail to see,
however, is that the other players include
not only the “other side,” but real American
people—the midwestern farmer, the small
town doctor, and the retired Air Force colo-
nel—who don’t care about partisan battles.

Most would only like to hear the whole
story told and to see their leaders making a
genuine attempt to compromise. And until
that happens, the “politics of personal de-
struction” will continue to its toll on the
careers of qualified Cabinet hopefuls and on
the psyche of the American people.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors- -in-chief

‘The Davidsonian

@ ALEMDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Eprrors-IN-CHiEF’ “

.. Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
‘Peter Clark

* David’ Johnston

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

“Tae ‘Davilisbaian

THuRSDAY,
- January 25, 2001

Statistics can be misleading

_ Lindy Baldwin’s article on Little Library,
which offered a statistical comparison to the
libraries of peer institutions, mentions that
with 270 electronic periodical subscriptions
(excluding NC LIVE), Little places in the
bottom quartile for that category. The good
news, though, is that NC LIVE complements
our holdings with “online access to complete
articles from over 5,500 newspapers, jour-
nals, and magazines; two encyclopedias; and
indexing for over 10,000 periodical titles.”
NCLIVE is a cooperative venture, begun a

few years ago, to make every library in the
state “‘a gateway to the total library resources
in the state as well as to a rich array of
electronic information,” and our own Dr.
Leland Park is one of the key players in the
project, serving on the Steering Committee

- search libraries.

and the Librarian’s Working Group. To reit-
erate what I hope no one graduates from
Davidson without understanding: statistical
profiles don’t tell the whole story.

In the year 2000, what you find contained
within a library’s walls or on its subscription
list doesn’t reflect a library’s true reach into
the world of information. Getting started on
my research early, using interlibrary loan,
and working with reference librarians on a
search strategy when I was stuck extended
the library’s reach far enough for me to write
a masters thesis and a doctoral dissertation
right here, with only occasional trips to re-
And this was before NC
LIVE came along and made the footwork
easier! ,

Ellen Giduz
Careers Librarian

Gale Norton is dangerously short-sighted

By ALEX MASSENGALE AND Josu CRAFT
Columnists

Boy, Dubya sure has picked a cabinet full
of winners. We have a neo-confederate At-
torney General, a man with strong connec-
tions to the tobacco industry to head the
Department of Health and Human Services,
and someone stuck in a cold war mentality to
head the Department of Defense.

Can you imagine whom George would
have appointed had he received a mandate?
Thank God the majority of Americans haye
more sense than that, However bad the rest of
them may be, Gale Norton takes the cake as
the most dangerous and shortsighted of all
Bush’s cabinet appointees.

As the Secretary of the Interior, Norton is
responsible for watching over our nation’s
environment and protecting our natural re-
sources. Gale Norton claims to be a “passion-
ate environmentalist”, but nothing could be
further from the truth.

As Attorney General of Colorado, Norton,
a former lobbyist for lead paint companies,
was an ardent supporter of “self audits” for
industries. In’ essence, “self auditing” turns
over the role of policing and enforcing envi-
ronmental laws to corporations. Imagine
eliminating all police departments and then
expecting criminals to start turning them-
selves in. One wouldn’t expect many to come
forward.

A sterling example of this program in ac-
tion involves the Hayden power plant. This
plant gained the reputation for being one of
the state’s most notorious polluters, and
Norton refused to prosecute it. Finally, after
lawyers from the Sierra Club took the Hayden
plant to court, a federal judge ruled that it had
violated the Clean Air Act an astronomical
19,000 times. One could only wonder what.
would have occurred had she not been such a
“passionate environmentalist.”

Norton also founded the Council for Re-
publican Environmental Advocacy,’a group
bankrolled by the National Mining Associa-
tion, the Chemical Manufacturers ‘Associa-
tion, Texaco, and Ford Motor Company, that.
trumpets private property rights above envi-
ronmental concerns.

We visited the organization’ s. website
(www. crea-online. org) to see the extent of

' Norton’s environmental advocacy. Instead,
_ we found some articles dedicated to trashing
_ ‘the Sierra Club, informing one how to build

ing. to

an environmentally ‘safe ranch house, and
links to the Concerned Women for America,
Free-Market.org, and the NRA. Didn’t see
too much about deforestation, global warm-
ing, or pollution. In fact, we didn’t see much
about the environmentat all there, which was
surprising given her claims of being an “en-
vironmentalist”’. -

Her group doesn’t articulate any stances
on any issue of environmental concern (no
wonder Dubya picked her!), only their affin-
ity towards the free market and their hatred of
environmental regulation.

Among the environmental regulations
Norton has sought to overturn are the Clean
Air Act (surprise, surprise) and the Endan-
gered Species Act on the grounds that they
violate the Tenth Amendment and infringe
upon states rights.

Norton fervently advocates opening up the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drill-
ing. This would be a grave mistake. Accord- °
the Sierra Club, (http://
www.sierraclub.org/wilderness/Arctic/
oil.asp) “America could save far more oil
simply by increasing the fuel efficiency of
our cars and light trucks. We wouldn’t flood
the Grand Canyon to build a hydroelectric
dam. We wouldn’t plug Yellowstone’s Old
Faithful to tap its geothermal energy. Why
should we permanently destroy this unique
wilderness for an unnecessary and uncertain
amount of oil?”

The solution to our nation’s energy prob-
lems involves utilizing renewable energy
sources and promoting great energy effi-

“ciency and not simply finding another finite

source of oil. Generous estimates claim that
ANWR alone could only support US oil
demand for six months, hardly reducing our .
dependence on foreign oil. It certainly isn’t

orth destroying one of our few remaining

national treasures.

- Ournation’s remaining environmental trea-
sures are too precious to squander in such a
shortsighted manner. Much of the damage
done to nature is irreversible. If Norton has
her way, the health of our environment could
be sacrificed to the gods of short-term corpo-
rate profit.

All those who wish to leave aclean Earth to
future generations. should oppose Norton’s.
nomination and pray that the Senate has the
wisdom to avoid the pitfalls of her short-
sighted brand of thinking.
