Does Davidson only boast two spring a ]

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
' Special Contributor

The February 28 issue of the Davidsonian
managed to forget the swimming, wrestling,
lacrosse, golf, and track teams while devot-
ing four pages to the basketball teams and
three articles to the baseball team. Where’s
the logic? I don’t want to knock the teams the
Davidsonian DID cover in the last issue, but
rather the lack of solid coverage provided by
the editors.

As a small, academic-oriented college
competing at the Division-I level, Davidson
requires time-commitment and dedication
from all its athletes. The school is so small
that 25 percent of students compete at the
varsity level. ONE QUARTER of the stu-
dent-body represents the school athletically
each year. Now, I’m wondering why twenty-
five percent of the school wouldn’t want to
read about their own team and other David-
son teams in a newspaper devoted to the
school? You editors wonder why no one
seems to read your paper each week, right?
Here’s a hint: Try writing about Davidson.

To help prove my point, let’s examine
page 10 of the last issue. This page presents
the playoff brackets of our basketball teams
in life size—successfully filling the whole
page. If the brackets are absolutely neces-
sary, then fine, keep them. But why not shrink
them from 90-year-old-myopic-invalid read-
ing size,and include more pertinent informa-
tion about our athletic teams. For instance,
one could have included:

1) A look ahead to the coming weekend’s
conference championships for the Wildcat
wrestling

uled to compete at the Birkdale Invitational Greg Schernecke finished fractions of a sec-
over Spring Break, but we didn’t see any ond off school records in the 55 and 200

preview of their competition(see above for

logical reason-
ing).

3) Theresults
of the lacrosse
team’s two com-
petitions by the

The school is so small that 25 percent
of students compete at the varsity level.
ONE QUARTER of the student-body rep-

resents the school athletically each year. .

meter dashes, while junior Dan Gibson earned

all-conference
honors by plac-
ing third in both
the 3000 and
5000 meter runs.
Both his times

time of publica-§ ———K
tion (against Den-

ver on February 19 and UNC on February
25). One might also have included: a look
ahead to the spring break competition offered
by California, Stanford, and St. Mary’s.

' 4) Anarticle about the tennis teams writ-
ten by writers not personally connected to the
sport. The “minor” sports don’t seem to re-
ceive coverage unless the athletes write about
their teams themselves. This should not hap-
pen. I know Elizabeth Moreno of the girls’
tennis team and Whitney Boykin(former
member) understand this frustration, seeing
as they had to contribute the only article
Davidson’s seen about the tennis teams this
semester.

5) A wrap-up on the swimming and
indoor track teams. The swim teams finished
their season at their conference meet up in

‘ Virginia the weekend before the Davidsonian

went to press, but I have no idea how they did

because the Davidsonian didn’t even throw:

in a quick news blurb. The swim team boasts
34 competitors(22 girls and 12 guys)—six
more athletes than both basketball teams com-
bined. Why do four pages get devoted to two
teams while another two teams don’t receive
one sentence of coverage? .

The

team(They ended
up with three top
finishers, An-
thony Albert ’01,
Jeff Libersat ’02,
and Shawn
Reynolds ’04,).
I’m sure people
were wondering how successful that guy was
who did the “shuck’’(Libersat). This last
issue of the Davidsonian described the talent
of every conference team standing in the way
of our basketball men, but failed to cover
merely our own wrestling team’s skill.
2) A preview of the Davidson Golf team
and its season outlook. The team was sched-

The job’s as easy as copy-and-
paste with computer technology -
but maybe I’m wrong.

track teams now
move outdoors,
but they both
competed in a
conference
championship
(February 23-24)
justlike any other
team. The women’s 4x400 meter relay team
shattered the school record by seven seconds,
and junior Megan O’Neill broke the school
record in the shot put as well. Half the team
recorded personal bests in their individual
events. The men’s team mirrored these favor-
able results as well with nearly everyone
recording personal bests. Sophomore sprinter

Care about the Earth? Take
Your Mail Home and Recycle It.

By JEHAN SHAMSID-DEEN
Special Contributor

Let me start this article by saying YOU
matter. [had an interesting conversation with
the Davidson Postmaster on March 19". How
many of you thought that the mail you throw
away in those big bins was being recycled?
Well when I

_ Id be arrested if I took your trashed Home
' Depot circular to the recycling center myself

because it violates federal law. That’s adamn
shame. I was stunned to find out that I

.couldn’t put up signs over the bins to ask

people to consider taking their unwanted
mail home to recycle it because all post

offices are supposed to be uniform. That’s

even sadder. She
said other people

asked, I got a big

fat with a federal &

stamp of ap- I’d be arrested if I took your
proval NOPE! I trashed Home Depot circular to

never knew how
much mail was

the recycling center myself.

had asked her
before, sol know
some of you are
interested. If you
care about pre-

being thtOWl _u | — scrving the carth
away per day— for your children,
imagine a then. take your

dumpster full of pre-approved credit cards
and circulars that don’t even have coupons
every single day. Believe me, I understand
why you want to trash them; I usually do a
fade away jumper to keep my game tight.
The federally-funded post office budget
doesn’t contain resources to hire someone to
take it to the recycling center. And, get this,

mail home and recycle what you don’t want.
If you’re really, really interested in trying
to get some form of recycling at the post

office, then email me. at
jeshamsiddeen @ davidson.edu or contact the
Environmental Aciton Committee at
maholt @davidson.edu or

mawi i u.

‘holding hearings

were the second
fastest ever run
by a Davidson athlete, and he’s the first male
track athlete to earn two all-conference awards
in at least the last 20 years.

By ANDREW MacDOoNALD
Special Contributor

Imagine yourself walking down the street
in Manhattan, past the dealers selling fake
sunglasses, stolen Rolexes, and other, shall
we say, less reputable goods. One person,
however, seems to be offering a different sort
of commodity, “ambassadorships for sale,
ambassadorships for sale, get them while
they are hot!” Or perhaps he isn’t selling the
position — as
America’s

Any and all news-worthy’ information mation —

could easily be attained by an intelligent

editor in touch with contacts at the Sports
Information Office. It’s their job to get pub-
licity out about our school, and I’m sure
they’d love for the Davidsonian to yoink their
news and updates. The job’s as easy as copy-
and-paste with computer technology, but
maybe I’m wrong. After all, maybe the ac-
tivities of 25% of the school aren’t newswor-
thy. I wouldn’t know; I’m just an uninformed
student-athlete.

“A mbassadorship, one dolla”

of the measure would be MBNA Corporation
of Delaware, which describes itself as the
world’s biggest independent credit card com-
pany. Ranked by employee donations, MBNA
was the largest corporate contributor to the
Bush campaign” (NY Times 3/13/2001).

It doesn’t start or stop with credit card
companies. The Bush administration has be-
gun to give out the plum ambassadorships as
well. Not surprisingly, “significant overlap
exists between the ambassadorial candidates

and the Pioneers,

spokesman to an
entire country;
maybe he is only
selling legisla-
tion that will help
your particular
industry take advantage of millions of credit
card holders, or maybe even just a little smid-
gen of Alaska to drill for oil.

Where is the outrage? God forbid that our
President has extra-marital sex, affecting at
most ten people. But, to sell out millions of
debtors who are lured into credit cards and
cannot or do not read the fine print alluding to
30% APR interest rates that is just fine. It is
perfectly acceptable to rape our land of its
few remaining natural resources in exchange
for a-few million in campaign contributions
from energy companies, but to allow con-
tributors to spend a night in the White House,
why that is a horrific abuse of power.

There is a double standard in Washington
today; it is a double standard of prostitutes.
As Congress was

There is a double standard in
Washington today. —

the special roster
_ of Bush fund-

raisers who

rounded up at

least $100,000

for the cam-

paign” (NY
Times 3/17/2001).

The list goes on and on.

It is entirely arguable that had Mr. Gore
won the Presidency, the same types of actions
would be occurring, perhaps for labor unions
and lawyers instead of credit card issuers and
energy companies. In fact, Senate Democrats
raised more money than Senate Republicans
in the 2000 election (NY Times 3/18/2001).

-The argument, unfortunately, stands with ei-
ther party in today’s system of whores.

The Senate will begin debate on the
McCain-Feingold Campaign Finance Reform
bill this week. This bill intends change the
contribution limits and severely curtail the
influence of soft money. While damming the
influence of money in politics is an ideal that
seems impos-

into the pardon-

sible, this bill
would at least be

ing of one fugi-
tive American, it
passed legislation
that will hurt hun-
dreds of thou-

While damming the influence of

money in politics is an ideal that

seems impossible, the McCain-

- Feingold bill would at least be a

meaningful step.

a meaningful

step. In the 2000 ««

Election roughly
a half a billion
dollars was

sands, if not mil-
lions of Ameri-
cans. It will,
amazingly, mean “billions of dollars in addi-
tional profits to creditors, and that it would
raise the profits of credit card companies by
as much as 5 percent next year,” according to
Kenneth A. Posner, an analyst for Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter (NY Times 3/13/2001).
Also, coincidentally, “the biggest beneficiary

nearly twice the
amount spent in 1996 (Common Cause). It
may be now, ornever. Make this bill a reality.

4

Write your senator, call your Congressman,

and make noise, at the very least, do some-
thing. Or when we look around we will not

see a land of the free, instead, we will find a e

land of the elite in which we are enslaved.

For a limited time only ...

__ or distributors should contact
Aaron Houck x5564 or Richard Vinson x6213.

The Editors of bi
The Davidsonian
_ will be leaving at the end of the semester.
Any students interested in positions as writers, editors,
advertising representatives, me
