{0 Ta Davmsowan

By Matr GARFIELD
Managing Editor

CHARLOTTE—Twothin gs youcancount
on when Davidson and Charlotte renew their
cross-county rivalry: raucous fans and lots of
three-point shooting.

On Nov. 16 at Halton Arena, most of both
belonged to the 49ers.

Charlotte’s 65-51 win gave it the Hornets’
Nest Trophy for the sixth straight year, and
closely resembled last season’s 69-53 vic-
tory in Belk Arena on Dec. 9.

Just like last year, the arena was filled
nearly to capacity with 8,011 noisy specta-
tors, including about 400 Davidson students
who took fourcharter buses and the Vamanos
Van to the game.

Just like last year, both teams played ag-
gressively, diving for loose balls and con-
testing every shot.

And just like last year, Jobey Thomas
made the difference.

The senior guard scored a game-high 18
points, but it wasn’t easy.

With Peter Anderer shadowing him early,
Thomas missed six of his first nine shots.

As the game went on, Thomas heated up,
keying an 11-0 second-half spurt that put the
Wildcats away for good.

“T was thrilled with how hard we played,”
said Bob McKillop. “We just don’t have
enough firepower if we don’t cross every T
and dot every I. There’s just so little margin
for error.”

By Matr GarFIELD
Managing Editor

Sharpshooting Anderer steps up

In the final seconds of the biggest game of
his life, against one of the most storied teams
in college basketball, with 14,000 fans root-
ing against him, Peter Anderer wasn’t the
least bit nervous.

With his team up 56-54 over North Caro-
lina with 10 seconds left, Anderer calmly
sank two free throws to clinch the most
memorable victory in recent Davidson his-
tory.

The 6-1 guard from Manhattan scored a
game-high 18 points, hitting four of his seven
three-point shots and keeping momentum on
the Wildcats’ side right down to the final
buzzer.

Three games into the season, Anderer has
emerged as one of the top playmakers on the
Wildcats’ roster, leading the team with 13.3
points per game. What makes it all so sur-
prising is that three years ago, he couldn’t
find Davidson on a map.

He thought his playing days would end
after he graduated from Regis High School
in Manhattan. He had already submitted a
deposit to Columbia University, where his
father teaches Japanese literature and film,
because no college coaches had shown inter-
est.

But in March of his senior year, Anderer
caught the eye of then-Hofstra assistant Tom
Pecora. Hofstra had already given out all its
scholarships for the year, but Pecora figured
Anderer was good enough to play some-
where. Sohe called his friend Bob McKillop,
a Hofstra graduate, to give him a heads-up on
the sharpshooter from Manhattan.

McKillop and Anderer spoke on the phone
a few days later, shortly before assistant
coach Matt Matheny stopped by Regis to see
Anderer play his second-favorite sport, vol-
leyball.

After the game, Matheny and Anderer
found a gym and Peter put on a shooting
display that would ultimately bring him to
Davidson.

“T’ll be honest,” Anderer recalls, “I don’t
think I’ve ever shot better than I did in that
gym that day.”

* ati
49ers have too much offense in opener -

ee

4

ae

Peter Anderer ‘03

He wasn’t givena scholarship until after his
first year, which turned out to be a challenge.

“Coach McKillop challenged him after his
first year here as walk-on,” said assistant
coach Jason Zimmerman. “One of those things
was getting stronger, getting tougher and more
controlled. Peter plays with a tremendous
intensity, and sometimes that means he goes
too fast, too hard on offense.”

Now in his third year, Anderer has evolved
into a well-rounded two-guard with deadly
three-point range. Fans have taken notice of
his play, and the accolades are starting to pour
in. In the days after the North Carolina vic-
tory, Anderer received more than 30 e-mails
from fans and friends congratulating him ona
great game.

Observers of Davidson basketball are be-
ginning to realize what Zimmerman has al-
ready learned.

“Every time he steps on the court, you know
what you’ re gonna get from him,” Zimmerman
said. “Everything he’s got.”

Chris Pearson ‘03 launches a shot against Charlotte.

_ WepNEsDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2001 ;

team Patriot League). :

The history: Beat-Davidson 67-60 in
Annapolis in 1998. :

So far: The Mids lost six seniors, includ-
ing four starters, from last year’s team, so
it’s not surprising they lost to Rice and
Southern Methodist to open the season.
The Mids beat Air Force 71-53 on Nov. 24
to record their first victory.

What to expect: The Mids -are some-
what inexperienced, but as with any mili-
tary academy, they’ll play hard and tough
for 40 minutes.

Davidson vs. Elon.
Tuesday, 7 p.m., Belk Arena

Last season: 9-20 (4-10, seventh in Big
South). — ae

The history: Beat Davidson 75-69 last
season and 75-70 in 1999,

So far: Elon’s two losses have come
against ACC teams Wake Forest and Florida
State, with its two victories against N.C.
A&T and Lynchburg.

Senior guard Brendon Rowell (18.7 ppg)
is dangerous as a spot-up shooter and
penetrator. He scored 22 points in last year’s
victory.

Elon is 3-28 on the road since joining
the Division I ranks in 1999.

What to expect: The Wildcats will
play angry. After being embarrassed by
the Phoenix in each of the past two
seasons, they’ll be eager for revenge.

By Katuerine Cup

Staff Writer

The Saturday before Thanksgiving break,
Cannon Natatorium echoed with splashes
and cheers as the Wildcats competed against

the Tribe of William and Mary. On Novem-
ber 17, Davidson faced incredible competi-
tion and fell to the Tribe by a slim margin.
The women lost 125-116, and the men fell
121-104.

The Wildcats posed a serious threat to the
Tribe, with the women dominating —
four events and the men controlling
six. Kelsey Holmberg ’04 placed first
in 1000 free with a time of 10:44.89.
Teammate Jenny Hoekstra ’05 won
the 50 and 100 free. Jamie Sasanfar |
touched the wall only .04 seconds ©
behind Hoekstra in the 50 free. *
Sophomore Sara Laws secured the ~
200 back for Davidson, winning the —
event in 2:08.12. i.

In men’s competition, Mike —
Warner won both the 50 and the 100 .
free, with times of 22:15 and 48.25, &
respectively. In the 200 back, Charlie
Hunter ’04 finished first and co-cap- ;
tain Nick Blackwell placed second.
The relay team, composed of co- §
captain Steven Reece ’02, Blackwell, @
Laurent Ropars ’03, secured first
place for Davidson in-the 400 free
relay in 3:23.58.

For the dive team, Chis Wrobleski ®
’05 performed well, winning the one-
meter and three-meter events.

Co-captain Nick Blackwell was
pleased by the team’s performance at

| the meet, “I was proud how a lot of our

Swimming loses close meets

that is a good sign of what we are capable of

Chris Wrobleski won both the one-

and three-meter dive events against
Wé&M.

guys stepped it up and really competed and
raced against them. There were a lot of swims
that were season bests so far for us, and I think

doing in the upcoming meets and ultimately at
the end season at the conference meet.”
The Wildcats have one more meet this
season. November 30 and December 1,
they will host a meet against UNC-
Wilmington, Gardner-Webb, and South
Carolina. The meet begins at 6 pm on Fri-
day and continues at noon on Saturday.

Erin Berry

FRATERNITIES @ Sororities @ Ciuss @ Stupent Groups

Earn. $1,000-$2,000 this semester with the easy.
Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event.
Does not involve credit card applications.
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact campusfundraiser.com at (888) 923-3238 .
Visit www.campusfundraiser.com

