Tue Davinsonran

Experience, solid pitching staff bolster team’s hopes ~

By Trey RAYBURN
Staff Writer

As it prepares for the 2001 season, the
Davidson baseball team can look back on last
season as a source of confidence.

That team went 26-28 overall and 14-15 in
the Southern Conference, its best record in
eight years.

With seven of the nine starters returning
from the line-up and all but one pitcher back,
the Wildcats fully expect to build on last
season’s success.

The biggest change the Wildcats hope to
make is their performance in the conference
tournament. Last season ended disappoint-
ingly, as the team was ousted from the tour-
nament after just 2 games.

The tournament may be a big part of the
reason the Wildcats are ranked eighth in the
preseason media poll. Last year’s success

was a surprise. This season, nothing less is
expected.

“For the first time, we are going into the.

season knowing that we can compete. with
and even beat the best teams in the confer-
ence,” said senior Cassidy Lundin, a third
baseman and co-captain.

“Last year, we got a taste of success,” he
added. “I don’t think anyone was satisfied
with the end result, two and out in the confer-
ence tournament.”

On The Mound

Of all the improvements the team made last
year, none was more noticeable than the pitch-
ing staff. The maturation of several pitchers
and key contributions from some of the fresh-
men helped the team ERA drop more than a
full point.

Senior Wes Self, without a doubt the staff
ace, is among the Wildcats’ career top 10 in

TheSkipper

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

There’s a popular t-shirt that contains the
slogan “Baseball is Life. Everything Else Is
Just Details.”

For Dick Cooke, those words couldn’t be a
better fit.

The relationship between the sport and
Davidson’s baseball coach is not difficult to
romanticize. Baseball gave Cooke a chance
to play professionally, to coach bright college
student athletes at the Division I level and to
assist the U.S.A. baseball team in winning a
gold medal in the 2000 Olympics in Sydney
last summer.

As he begins his 18th season in coaching

and 11th at Davidson, Cooke’s passion for
baseball is as strong as ever.

“You get hooked in the game, it’s a tough
one to give up,” Cooke said. “There is not a
day when I am not scrambling and excited
’ about getting over to Baker (for practice).”

The most rewarding part of the job, Cooke
says, is the opportunity to work with focused
student-athletes.

“They are very motivated kids, and you get
that kind of work ethic on the field, which
means you can teach them and they make a
great effort to learn and understand the game.”
_ Cooke developed much of his coaching
philosophy as a pitcher for the University of
Richmond. As a left-handed starter for the
Spiders in the late 1970s, he compiled a 12-10
record. overall.

He went onto play minor league baseball at
the Triple A level for the Boston Red Sox for
three years.

Cooke realized he had little chance of reach-

ing the major leagues. That’s when another:

option surfaced.

He discovered during conversations with
professional coaches that he had a knack for
coaching. He abandoned his aspirations to
become a broadcast journalist and instead
became an assistant coach at Richmond in
1984.

. Five years later, he became head coach at
Belmont Abbey College in Gastonia, N.C.,
about 30 minutes south of Charlotte.

Shortly thereafter, in the summer of 1990,
Davidson came calling.

Cooke says the job was attractive on all
fronts. The move to Davidson was so easy
that his wife could keep her job in Charlotte.
He knew he would be a good fit at Davidson,
an academic-minded school not unlike Rich-
mond.

Sports Information

Head coach Dick Cooke enters
his 11th season at Davidson.

Over the past ten years, Cooke has coached
and won more games than any other coach in
school history, compiling a 194-315-1 record
and garnering Big South Conference Coach
of the Year honors in 1992. He is the only
coach in Davidson history to earn 20 wins in
five separate seasons.

His most memorable victory came in 1995
in a 6-4 upset of No. 1 Georgia Tech, a team
that had four future major league players,
including Red Sox shortstop Nomar
Garciaparra.

Cooke got the opportunity of a lifetime last
spring when he was asked to be an auxiliary
coach forthe USA baseball team in the Sydney
Olympics.

Cooke’s biggest responsibility was to watch
countless game tapes and prepare lengthy
scouting reports on opponents, along with
another assistant and two scouts.

They presented the reports to head coach
and former Los Angeles Dodgers manager
Tommy Lasorda.

Cooke did not get much free time to see the
sights of Sydney, but he says he didn’t expect
to.

“We were very clear on the fact that we
were there to do a job,” he said. “It was not a
vacation, but rather a business trip.”

Although he received job offers after the
Games, Cooke is not ready to leave Davidson
anytime soon.

“The quality of the community is such that
Iam very comfortable here, with my personal
life as well as with the program. It’s a great
town to raise a family in.”

aO"0: 7 BASEBALLPREVI

wins, starts, innings and strikeouts.
Newcomers include Brian Akin, Matt
Dellinger and Will Guthrie.

In The Field

The entire starting outfield returns this
season, including junior left-fielder Tim
Frend, a first-team all-conference selection.
Frend set the school record for hits in a season
with 78 while batting a .364. He led the team
in eight offensive categories, including hom-
ers (9), runs scored (56) and RBI (53).

In center field is senior Jeremiah Parvin,
who is coming off a disappointing 2000 sea-
son but has perhaps the strongest arm in the
outfield.

Ryan Stroker gets the nod in right field.
The senior had a stellar .443 on-base percent-
age with 45 walks, which was a new school
record and third-most in the league.

The Conference

The Southern Conference will be tough
this year. Defending champion Georgia
Southern is ranked second behind The Cita-
del, which will once again bring impressive
power and team speed to the diamond. The
Bulldogs are ranked in the top 30 in many
national preseason polls.

“The top three in the conference — The
Citadel, Georgia Southern and UNC Greens-
boro — will all be the teams everyone will try
to keep up with,” said Cooke. “We certainly
have the talent to compete with anybody in
the league, and I think we can certainly do
even better this season.”

The team plans to move into its new club-
house facility as early as mid-March.

Though he maintains a very positive out-
look, head coach Dick Cooke warns that the
team must not let the successes of 2000
translate into complacency this year.

2001
Davidson Baseball
Schedule

High Point

at VMI* (2)
atVM*&  —™
at N. C. State

Apr, 21: a

+

Feb. 14 Davidson .. ee
Feb. 17 Mt. St. Mary's (2) Davidson 12:
Feb. 18 Mt. St. Mary's Davidson 1:00
Feb. 21 at North Carolina A&T Greensboro, N.C. 3:00
Feb. 22 at High Point High Point, N.C. 3:00
Feb. 25 Furman* (2) Davidson 12:00
Feb. 26 Furman* Davidson 3:00
Feb. 27 at North Carolina Chapel Hill, N.C. 3:00
Mar. 2 at UNC Greensboro* Greensboro, N.C. 7:00
Mar. 3 at UNC Greensboro* Greensboro, N.C. 1:00
Mar. 4 at UNC Greensboro* Greensboro, N.C. _ 1:00
Mar. 7 at Auburn Auburn, Ala. 4:00
Mar. 8 William & Mary Davidson 1:00
Mar. 10 Appalachian State* (2) Davidson 12:00
Mar. 11 Appalachian State* Davidson 1:00
Mar. 13 at South Carolina Columbia, S.C. 7:00
Mar. 15 Fairfield : Davidson - 2:30
Mar. 17 at Georgia Southern* (2) Statesboro, Ga. 12:00
Mar. 18 at Georgia Southern* Statesboro 1:00
Mar. 20° Winthrop Davidson 3:00
Mar. 22 at UNC Asheville Asheville, N.C. 3:00
Mar. 24 College of Charleston* (2) Davidson 12:00
Mar. 25 College of Charleston* Davidson 1:00,
Mar. 27 at High Point High Point, N.C. 3:00
Mar. 31 The Citadel* (2) Davidson 12:00
Apr. 1 The Citadel* Davidson 1:00
Apr. 3 High Point Davidson | 3:00
Apr. 4 at Duke Durham, N.C. 7:00
Apr. 7 at ETSU* (2) Johnson City, Tenn. 2:00
Apr. 8 at ETSU* Johnson City, Tenn. 1:00
Apr. 10 UNC Asheville Davidson 3:00
Apr. 17 at Winthrop Rock Hill, S.C. _ 6:30
Apr.18  —— North Carolina A&T - Davidson > ~"3:200 ~

ee ee eee eRe He ee ee ere

Lexington, Va. 12:00,

per ==

9
