Book” as Davidson’s Reynolds Lecturer.
He will speak on April 19 at 7:30 pm in
Love Auditorium. Call 894-2288 fort more
information.

Daviden Fraternity
Stages Annual Festival to

Benefit MDA

Davidson College’s Kappa Alpha Or-
der fraternity invites kids of all ages to
participate in its ninth annual KArnival
festival on Saturday, April 21.

The event, whose proceeds will benefit
the Muscular Dystrophy Association, will
be held on the Davidson Village Green
from 10a.m.—4 p.m. It will feature a silent
auction, musical acts from local schools
and Davidson College, and games such as
a moon bounce, go fish, and a dunk tank.
The Kappa Alpha Order has a nationwide
commitment to MDA and its patients that
prompted more than $170,000 in dona-
tions to the organization last year. For
more information on KArnival , contact
‘Matt Chapman at 894-5200.

For more information on the Muscular
Dystrophy Association, please visit the
— website at rte raceme

New w Biology program

: “hen anon sn and reptile conserva-.
Soa ee tera ie Renteet Catalin Ais

Billington talks on “The Future of the

By Jessica | Mananc
News Editor

When the Board of Trustees announced
their tenure decisions last Friday, Professor
Ramon Figueroa was not on the list of newly-
tenured faculty. Many students took this as a
call to action and have mobilized to protest
the decision.

Marie Sharp ’02 and Allen Lee ’02 are
spearheading the effort to express the wide-
spread dissatisfaction with the trustees’ deci-
sion. “I can’t believe that he could not be here
next year for other students to experience his
incredible teaching style and involvement in
the community,” Sharp lamented at last night’s
SGA meeting.

In response to the decision, Sharp and Lee
addressed the SGA and proposed that they go
on record as disagreeing with Figueroa’s
tenure denial. They are also encouraging in-
dividual students to express their feelings and
opinions to the administration. “Let’s do

DIA waits
while Vagt -
decides fate

of Outpost

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor in chief

After consultation with the Committee on °

Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt is debating whether to ac-
cept its recommendation on the Outpost fa-
cility. He maintains that nothing has been
decided as of yet.

CCRL recommended to Vagt that he grant
the request of the Davidson International
Association (DIA) to make the Outpost its
permanent home.

If all proceeds as anticipated, the building
which currently houses the Union Outpost
will become vacant after its late-night food
service moves to the new Knobloch Campus
Center.

The Committee issued its proposal after it
had considered requests from a number of
groups, including DIA and Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity. Other students wanted to keep the
Outpost an open facility, even if the Grille has
to go.

In-spite of the recommendation and the
widely circulated DIA petition, Vagt still has
some “questions and concerns” about the
best use of the building. According to him, he
discussed these issues both with representa-
tives from DIA and with CCRL.

Vagt admitted, “There are a whole lot of
wonderful reasons why DIA should get that
building.” Nevertheless, as he put it, “We’re
still trying to get our institutional priorities
straight.” :

Vagt mentioned several possible “needs
for space” that may not have been addressed
yet. In particular, he noted that should
Davidson decide to remodel the houses on
Patterson Court, the Outpost could serve as a
“rotator house.” The facility couldalso prove
useful during the planned renovation of Grey
Student Union and for alumni functions.

Another concern dealt more specifically
with DIA. “They [DIA] said that they wanted
to bring the breadth of the campus together

see Outpost, page 6

‘Students protest t tenure decisi

something. Let’s write ie let’s tke
phone calls, let’s write emails, let’s make our
voice heard. I’m sick of action,” Sharp im-
plored.

The reasoning behind tenure decisions is
confidential, even to the faculty member in
question. Student evaluations, classroom per-
formance and scholarship, which often means
publishing success, are the three factors in
deciding to whom tenure will be awarded.
First, an academic department votes on
whether to award tenure to its member. Re-
gardless of this decision, the Faculty Advi-
sory Committee then votes on the professor.
The Dean of Faculty sits on this four-member
committee, as well as one representative from
the sciences, arts and humanities and the
social sciences. The case then goes to the
trustees whose decision generally reflects the
Faculty Advisory Committee’s recommen-
dation. Figueroa’ won the Spanish
department’s approval but was not approved
by the Faculty Advisory Committee or the
Board. According to procedure, Figueroa has
thirty days to appeal the decision if he chooses
to do so.

Outraged students cite a disproportionate
number of professors of color being denied
tenure in recent years. Sharp claims that this
possible pattern is detrimental to Davidson’s
quest for diversity and that Figueroa’s tenure
decision could reflect an alarming trend.
Members of the SGA questioned this as-
sumption and stressed the importance of
avoiding premature. conclusions. “That is a
broad accusation, not having all the facts, to
suggest this decision was made because he is
a person of color,” said Amanda Mildner ’03.

Sharp pointed out Figueroa’s high levels of
involvement with the students during his
seven years at Davidson. He has been active
with the Union Board, Dean Rusk, OLAS and
DIA. He is instrumental in the Dia de los
muertos and Cinco de mayo. In a form letter
designed to encourage student action,
Figueroa’s supporters ask: “...how the Ad-
ministration can expect current students to
encourage prospectives (especially minori-
ties) to come to a school that wants to present
itself as being ‘committed to diversity’ when
wonderful and qualified professors such as

.. Dr. Figueroa have been denied tenure?”
The writers also cite Figueroa’s exemplary
and engaging teaching style as a reason why
tenure-denial is inappropriate.

The SGA passed a resolution to write a
letter to the Administration which questions
the process of making tenure decisions and to
encourage more student involvement in the
procedure. It will not expressly challenge the
decision regarding Figueroa. “There will be
no revoking this decision. What we can do
here and now is state our displeasure as a
body,” said SGA President Joey Harris ’02.
Vice-President Beth Gardner seconded
Harris’s opinion: “I don’t think it’s our place
to determine whether the decision is right or
wrong. I do think it’s our place to express
concern about student involvement in the
procedure as well as convey student out-
rage.”

Harris and Gardner, along with Sharp and
Lee, did encourage individual senators, along
with the rest of the students, to express their
individual opinions on the matter to the ad-
ministration.

|

to buy a
computer?

You mh y order a computer

through Information Technology Services from
See this web site for more

June-August.
information:

www .davidson.edu/computing/purchasing/students/

e Computers are sold only to enrolled Davidson
students for their personal use.

e Specific information about the sales program
will be available after June 1%*, 2001.

Would you like

