SLR ANTLN TEN ETS

AI SRR CR. 2

Servicemen load an AIM-7 "Sparrow" missile on an F/A-18 "Hornet"
aboard the USS Carl Vinson onOct. 9.

Ideas, not bombs, should be
top priority in Afghanistan

Our current military efforts have
made the situation more dangerous

JosH CRAFT
Guest Columnist

Although the U.S. military bombing cam-
paign in Afghanistan has seemed somewhat
successful, the more important war is the war
of ideas.

Our bombs may obliterate most or all of the

Taliban’s resources in Afghanistan, but that °

will not be sufficient to win the war of ideas.
Terrorism and anti-Western movements are
not based in states or governments, even
though they are funded by them. Terrorist
groups exist because they appeal to impover-
ished and neglected people of the world. In
order forthe U.S. to defeat terrorism, we must
persuade the international community that

the U.S. acts on their behalf. The U.S. gov- .

ernment and other sources of authority must
seek to delineate themselves morally and
legally from the terrorists.

Our current efforts have only made the
situation more dangerous. Robert Fisk ar-
gued on Oct. 15 in the Independent (England)
that the bombings have fueled the idea that
the U.S. is waging a war against Islam. Our
continued bombings of Afghanistan only lend
credibility to Osama bin Laden and extrem-
ists who prostitute religious ideology to gain
power.

Anti-U.S. rallies have sprung up all across
the globe. Even Bush administration offi-
cials admit that we are losing the ideological
and informational war against terrorism. The
administration also recognizes that our bomb-
ings increase the threat of terrorist attacks on
the U.S.

Our support of Afghanistan’s Northern
Alliance is not very wise, considering that
forming short-term military alliances with
such groups has often led to future humani-
tarian disasters (Saddam Hussein and Osama
bin Laden to name a few). And we are
‘walking a tightrope in Pakistan, where “Presi-
dent” Musharraf may be overthrown if he is
seen as being too close to “the West.” Politi-
cal instability in Pakistan is quite risky, con-
sidering its possession of nuclear weapons.

I recognize that anger against the United
States is inevitable and not entirely prevent-
able. A few policy choices will not transform
our world in a stable, peace-loving paradise.
But there is an alternative to continued bomb-
ing anda dangerous, full-blown military cam-

The aircraft carrier USS Enter-
prise steams through the north-
ern Indian Ocean, on Oct. 9.

paign in Central Asia.

Our government could do a series of things
which, combined with legitimate military
force, would strengthen the war against ter-
rorism.

We should step up aid efforts to the poor
throughout the world, especially to women
who have few social and political rights. We
must try to bring the criminals who master-
minded the murders committed on Sept. 11 to
justice through international law.

The U.S. government should support an

International Criminal Court. We should

ease sanctions that hurt the people of Iraq.
We must criticize the leaders of Israel harshly
for using U.S. military aid to continue occu-
pation of Palestine.

Justice demands that we take such a path.
It would also help us by distinguishing le-
gally and morally from terrorist organiza-
tions.

Concrete actions would be much more
helpful in improving perceptions of the U.S.
around the globe than dropping leaflets and
food packages.

Josh Craft is a sophomore, with an interest
in government and politics

If you haven’t read the front page story
about the alleged incident at SAE, then please
go back and read
it. If you don’t
want to read it,
ask the person sit-
ting next to you
» to explain it to

| you. If you or no
‘one has a clue of
what’s going on,
then let me pro-
vide some analy-
sis.

Tim Cook ‘04 A
couple weeks ago at “Tacky Party”, most
graciously hosted by SAE, an incident was
reported to PCC President Matt Arbuckle
about two students being verbally and physi-
cally abused by other students because they
were homosexuals. This is a hate crime. If it
happened the way it was reported, then it is a
despicable and degrading act that should not
go unpunished.

The issue that I want to address has to do
with responsibility and support. Responsi-
bility is a word has been thrown around a lot
regarding this issue. Allegedly, the incident
happened on the back porch of SAE. But
does this make the house responsible for an
act that no one could have foreseen and that
could have easily happened anywhere? I
should think not.

Also, didn’t SAE have a Risk Manager
and Campus Police officers present that night?
Are they not just as responsible? They’ re job
is to keep the place safe as well.

As amember of Pi Kappa Alpha, I think all
Patterson Court members must stand behind

wh ‘Time for the Court to unite

SAE, as the house is being hit with serious
allegations stemming from this event.

We must realize this could easily be our
house being put before the J-Board or Dean of
Students. If we as acommunity allow SAE to
take the fall for something for which it may
not be responsible, then we leave ourselves
wide open for others to wreck our fun as well.

SAE is a convenient target for those
looking for someone to hang. The house
didn’t have a great record for a couple years,
but has since endured much adversity to
overcome a huge financial debt. The house is
bringing in a large pledge class this year and
the brothers are striving to become known as
the “comeback kids.”

The truth of the matter is that SAE is not
the culprit. In fact, the brothers are them-
selves victims. They are the victims of some
idiots who took advantage of their hospital-
ity.

They will also be victims if we don’t show
our support for them.

As a community, we should help these
fellows who showed everyone an incredible
time.that night, and get to the bottom of these
allegations.

The Court strives to welcome people of
all backgrounds, and we accomplish that pri-
marily by keeping parties open and partici-
pating in community service and civic activi-
ties.

Also, one last challenge: If SAE goes
before the J-Board at a hearing, I suggest that
everyone who attended Tacky Party come as
well and testify to what they know. This
could be the only way we really get to the
bottom of all this.

Uninspired architecture doesn’t

While walking across one of the newly
constructed brick paths recently, I overheard
a student jokingly comment that if he were to
ever have enough money, he would donate a

‘building built of stone to Davidson just so

that there would be something on this campus
not made out of red brick.

While this comment was made in jest,
there is some-
thing to be
learned from the
student’s state-
ment. It seems
that every new
building -built at
Davidson _at-
tempts to mimic
the Georgian ar-
chitecture of the
campus’ original
buildings, such at
Philanthropic Hall. This attempt to fit in with
the traditional architecture of the campus can
be seen all over, from the columns outside
Vail Commons and Little Library to the
Watson science building.

~ These buildings attempt to be contextual
and fit in with the surroundings. The problem
is that contextual buildings almost always
result in uninspiring architecture because they
simply recycle ideas of another era, often
unsuccessfully. Rather than create a sense of
place, contextual buildings rob us of our
sense of place. The Davidson campus, as
beautiful as it is, could be virtually any other
campus in any other place.

What Davidson needs are architecturally
distinctive, innovative and original buildings
that will show that we are a unique commu-
nity.

The reason this issue is important now is

‘David Crow ‘05 :

’ that Davidson is currently in the midst of a

reflect the imagination of the College

building boom, yet the college is not taking
advantage of this opportunity to show its
distinction through architecture. Recently,
the college unveiled the plans for the renova-
tion of the Chambers Building. While the
new design seems to meet all technical re-
quirements, it fails to make any distinctive
architectural mark. Instead, the renovation,
which would add classical style columns to
the back of what is now Love Auditorium,
seeks to merely fit in and not offend.

Why not use this renovation as an oppor-
tunity to show that we are an institution that
looks forward and embraces innovation, not
one that looks only to the past and the famil-
iar? Other institutions have used architec-
tural renovations to make statemeUts about
their philosophies. For example, in 1996
Cornell University renovated one of its most
historically important buildings, Sage Hall,
to be the new home of its business school. The
project restored much of the original exterior
while also renovating the interior and rear
facade in a modern and architecturally dis-
tinctive style. The result is a building that
shows not only Cornell’s rich history, but
also demonstrates that Cornell is an innova-
tive and progressive institution that is not
stuck in the past.

At Davidson, we are taught that our work
should always be original and interesting, yet
our buildings donot reflect those ideas. Rather,
when we walk around Davidson’s campus
we see architecture that, while aesthetically
pleasing, is unoriginal and uninspiring. Only
when Davidson’ s architecture becomes more
innovative and distinctive will it truly reflect
the imagination present at this great institu-
tion.

David Crow is a freshman from New York
City interested in architecture and public
affairs
