Baseball moves into new clubhouse
Field house replaces second-hand mobile units

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

Baseball players walk down to practice
with a little more bounce in their steps these
days. The team’s pep comes in large part
from the new clubhouse that was completed
last week.

No longer will players and coaches have to
put up with the confining space and thin walls
of the old clubhouse.

The new clubbie, located on the home side,
has a larger locker room, small training room,
two offices, bathrooms, storage areas, um-
pires’ changing room, and perhaps best of all,
a lounge area that is home to a brand new 62-
inch TV.

The TV was donated to the team, but doesn’t
have cable yet. That seems to be about the
only thing this new clubhouse is missing.

The players are ecstatic about the new
facility and see it as a rallying point for the
end of the season.

As sophomore pitcher Derrick Wolpert
explains, “It’s a great new place, everyone’s
kind of excited and it brings us together. It’s
a big step for the program.”

After relying on temporary structures pur-
chased from the Charlotte Knights minor
league baseball team for the last 11 years, the
baseball team is ecstatic about finally getting
some room and showers down at their field.

The home and visitor clubhouses,
restrooms, press box, and even some bleach-
ers were all acquired from the Knights in
1989 when they moved into a new stadium.

Over the last few years, it became apparent
that Davidson’ s clubhouse had as Coach Dick
Cooke puts it, “finally outlived its useful-
ness.”

The decision was made to build a new,

permanent structure that would be ready after
the season, but construction finished ahead of
schedule and the team moved into its new
home last week.

Cooke was a bit nostalgic concerning the
retiring facility.

“They weren’t going to win any architec-
tural awards, but they were very functional
and they gave us a place to change near the
field,” he said. “I think we got much more out
of them than probably anybody expected.”

The old facilities were the most immediate
issue, Cooke explained, and he said he hasn’t
heard of any plans for further rehabilitation of
the facilities surrounding the field.

“The most immediate issue was a place for
the players,” he commented.

Cooke said the new building brings respect

Construction of the new baseball fieldhouse finished ahead of

to Davidson’s program and is comparable to
most field houses in the Southern Confer-
ence. 2

Still, schools like The Citadel and Georgia
Southern have facilities with more amenities
(like a tunnel from the dugout to the locker
room) that did not fit into Davidson’s plans
for the new building.

And several schools old-fashioned locker
facilities that connect with their sports com-
plexes. That wouldn’t work in Davidson’s
case, because Baker Sports Complex is nearly
a mile away.

But no one is complaining. It’s clear that
the team’s quality of life improved with the
opening of the new clubhouse. The program
can only hope that the improved facilities
translate into success on the field.

Matt Whited

schedule, allowing the team to enjoy the clubhouse for the closing
weeks of the 2001 season. The clubhouse replaced the second-hand
boxes the team has been using since the Charlotte Knights donated

them 11 years ago.

Cc O

M M E N T A

R Y

Davidson’s summer camps mean more than money

By JENN HicGINs
Staff Writer

Each summer, Davidson hosts a number of
athletic camps for young people across the
South.

You may notice at the front desk in Baker
Sports Complex, there are neatly printed bro-
chures for each camp.

They have action photos of star athletes
like Brooke

staff are responsible for organizing, promot-
ing, and running the camp for however many
sessions they are able to sponsor.

Men’s soccer coach Charlie Slagle tops the
charts with eight weeks of camp, while the
football and field hockey camps are each only
offered during one week of the summer.

These camps are notjust offered as ameans
of turning a profit. The college does make
money off the camps, but the truth of the

matter is—that’s

Bentley (volley-
ball) and Jen
O’Brien (basket-
ball). This is an
effort by camp
directors (most
often, the sport’s
head coach) and
notthe college it-
self to promote particular camps to the com-
munity. —

Simply put, these are privately run sports

camps that are in no way operated by or

through the college.
Each camp is under the primary supervi-
sion of the coach. The coach and his or her

Forget profit, the numerous athletic camps
and clinics held annually on campus by David-
son coaches teach young athletes the vale of
teamwork and prepares them to be positively
involved in the community at large.

not only why
they do it.

It’s also to
build a sense of
loyalty among
fans, one that is
sure to provide a
source of moti-
vation for the
athletes on a particular team..

I can think back to when I was 11, when I
spent a week at Duke basketball camp. It had
tobe one of the most memorable weeks of my
childhood.

Honestly, I can’t even remember if my

team won a single game we played all week.

But I do have vivid memories of feeding the
ball to Quin Snyder, who was then an assis-
tant coach at Duke and now is head coach at
Missouri, during an afternoon workout in
Cameron Indoor Stadium.

Later on, when I would watch him coach in
big games and NCAA tournaments, I felt like
I was somehow a part of it and that I had
helped him get there.

Kids get feelings like this when they go to
a college sports camp. They get to develop
their skills, meet and interact with college
athletes as counselors, create lasting relation-
ships with other campers, and find continued
exposure to local college athletics.

These camps serve the community in an

effort to not only promote continued partici-
pation in sports at all levels, but to also expose
young athletes to the rewards. of teamwork
and the value of positive relationships through
athletics.

Ultimately, Davidson coaches provide sum-
mer athletic camps to the community because
they hope young athletes will be inspired to
improve their skills and continue sports, not
for our benefit, but for theirs.

Davidson Lacrosse finishes its 2001 season
April 28 when they host
William & Mary at Richardson Stadium

: By Tytee Reep

Staff ff Writer

- The men’ s golf team erapped up its sea-
son this past weekend at the Southern Con-
ference Tournament in Chattanooga, finish-
ing 10th out of 12 teams.

The Wildcats’ three-day total score of 896
was indicative of the entire spring season:
Several players posted solid scores, but the
team once again could not come together
and perform to its potential.

The Wildcats were in ninth after 36 holes,
but a third-round team score of 297 dropped
them to tenth for the tournament. Davidson
finished just three strokes behind ninth-
place Western Carolina.

Leading the Wildcats was sophomore Ben
Friedell, who shot a three-day total of 216 to
tie for 14th place.

Seniors Sean Davidson and Scott Shupe
played solidly as well, AEISHNBE, 31st and
39th, respectively.

East Tennessee State ran away with the:
title with two stellar round to finish the
three-day event at 831 (-9).

The individual title came down to
Wofford’ s William McGirt, who was paired
with Friedell in the final round, and Pat
Beste, last year’s medalist.

With a par on the first playoff hole, McGirt
emerged as the Southern Conference indi-
vidual champion.

The tournament was held at Chattanooga
Golf and Country Club, a par-70 course
measuring just over 6,300 yards. While the
course may be shorter than most of the
courses Southern Conference teams see as
tournament sites, difficulty was more than
made up for by the greens.

Friedell described them as some of the
hardest, fastest, and most undulating he has
seen.

Despite firing two very solid rounds out
of three (a 73 and 74 in rounds one and
three), Shupe was disappointed in the team’s
effort over the weekend.

“The team underachieved at the tourna-
ment, period,” he said. “The problem is that
we are not as en vag saute as
other teams.”

Underthe pressure of the conference tour-

Oe 6 OO BE SO Oe 606 6 DAS ODS ke A ee
