. By Erin RAFFETY
Special Contributor

When we were little, my sisters and I, like
any kids our age, approached the holiday
season with great zeal. As a result of our
parents we learned the art of gift-giving very
early in life. Because my mom had spent
countless hours finger-painting and doodling
with us in the basement, at Christmas time,
my sisters and I converted the usual damp,
cluttered dungeon into our very own Santa’s
workshop. We worked feverishly like little
elves, preparing only the best handcrafted,
glued, glittery gifts for our parents and one
other. Often this bustling basement world of
excitement only heightened the anticipation
for my sisters and I; we often had trouble
holding out until Christmas morning to present
each other with the fruits of love’s labors.

When I became a bit older, I remember
asking my dad whether he liked store-bought
gifts or homemade gifts better. Not surpris-
ingly, he answered that he preferred the home-
made gifts, because he knew we’d worked so
hard on them, and they were each special and
unique. I felt he’d made the right choice.
While misshapen ornaments often dotted our
tree at and hap-hazardly nailed together,
brightly painted wooden contraptions lined
our mantel, Christmas at our house was beau-
tiful and happy to everyone involved.

Perhaps because my parents never discour-
aged, or always encouraged my creativity, or
perhaps because I’m living on the arts hall
here at Davidson, my creative juices always
get flowing as the holiday season approaches.
It’s not that I don’t pine away for certain
items in store windows or love the softness of
Christmas sweaters fresh out of their boxes,
but I have a certain appreciation for the lop-

Were or over Nis Stavalt: ‘Erin's

sided creations of my youth. Even more, Isee
Christmas time as a time of creation, of gift-
giving, down to its very core, a time to relish
the beauty in our world in all its forms.
Thus, I have taken it upon myself to recall
some of the gifts of my youth and others lent
to me by friends and family. Though invari-
ably corny and traditional, these gift ideas are
approachable and inexpensive, and they make
people smile. They are geared toward par-
ents and family, friends and loved ones and
toward the Christmas celebration, but can be
adopted to suit just about anybody anywhere.
Read them over and try some out; have fun
and make something unique for the people

- you love. They’ll probably never forget this

gift...ever.

Christmas isn’t Christmas without the deco-
rations, without the red and green, the tree,
the lights, and the snow. Christmas lights line
the streets and wreathes are placed on the
doors. An angel that my sister fashioned
from styrafoam plates and sequins in elemen-
tary school still adorns our. tree at home.
Perhaps one of the oldest Christmas gifts is
the ornament. When I was a kid, we went
outside and collected pine cones and frosted
them with white paint and glitter, attaching a
red ribbon to hang them by. I suggest making
ornaments for each person in your family,
highlighting their hobbies or interests. Be-
sides nature-inspired ornaments, plastic trans-
parent bulb ornaments are relatively cheap
and can be filled or decorated with seashells,
ribbon, or baby blocks. Try writing each
person’s name and the year on the bulb and
filling it with cute personal items.

If the ornaments sound a little too compli-
cated, stick to paper chains. Instead of thread-
ing crumbling popcorn onto a faulty string,
grab red, white, and green construction pa-

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

A blind date, a beer, some good conversa-
tion. A second date: dinner, some more
conversation, not as good as the first. No
third date. It happens
often enough: you meet
someone, things go
well, andthen they don’t
go well. So begins
Rebecca Gilman’s “Boy
Gets Girl’, her award-
winning play opening
today in the Black Box
Performance Space of
Cunningham.

The girl is Theresa,
played by Beth Gardner.
Things are going well:
she’s living in the big
city, working fora popu-
lar magazine, covering
the Yankees and. the oc-
casional inerview with
a soft-porn czar, played
by Cahit Ece. One day, Theresa meets Tony
(Parker Dixon) for a beer, and the two have
dinner together. And then things don’t go
well. Actually, they go really badly.

It’s at this point that “Boy Gets Girl” de-
scends into unsettling territory. Tony’s inter-
est in Theresa becomes obsessive. He shows
up unannounced and sends flowers, and it is
clear that he’s more than a nuisdhce. He
bestows on Theresa paranoia — perhaps she
sees him following her on the street — and the
constant fear of physical and sexual violence.
“Boy Gets Girl” makes its regional debut at
Davidson, and this production is only the
play’s third: it initially played in Chicago and
subsequently enjoyed a hit run in New York
earlier this year. Having an undergraduate
student, Bill Neville, as a director is, there-
fore, even more impressive.

Neville finds the play especially relevantto

Beth Gardner stars in
“Boy Gets Girl”

“Boy Gets Girl” opens in Black Box

life on a college campus, an environment in
which stalking and other forms of predatory
violence are present. These fears, says Neville,

e “thoughts that people can never com-
pletely turn off,” and the ideas raised by the
play “resonated with conversations with [his]
female friends.”

On a similar note, “Boy
Gets Girl” is unabashedly bi-
ased. “Itis only half the story,”
says Neville. We only see
and hear Theresa’s side. It’s
not that she is the victim and
Tony the predator; rather, we
see an unflinching account of
how these events alter the
course of her life.

Accordingly, post-show
discussions will follow
tonight’ s and tomorrow’ s per-
formances. The cast, direc-
tor, Georgia Ringle, and cam-
pus police officer Trisha War-
ren will lead the discussion.
Also, afaculty-led, lunchtime
forum entitled “Fear in Lit-
erature” will take place on November 30.

It’s interesting that Gilman’s work — in-
cluding “Spinning into Butter,” a popular

play on race and racism — has been described’

as theatrical, elevated Lifetime Television.
Lawrence Frascella says, “This harrowing
story of a stalker is far richer than the stuff
you getad nauseam on Lifetime.” And Neville
himself believes that Gilman “asks you to
think without stepping onto a moralistic high-
horse...It’s potentially cliched drama turned
instead into worthwhile plays.”

“Boy Gets Girl’, also starring Marshay
Hall, Thomas Mills; Christina Rithchie, and
Chris Walkters, runs from November 28 to
December 1 at 7:30 p.m. There also will be
a matinee on December 2 at 2:00 p.m. All
shows are $4, and tickets may be purchased at
the door. Due to the size of the Black Box, it
is advised to arrive early.

os, holiday

per, cut, and strips together for quick and oo
holiday garland.

Grab a tough piece of paper and some
markers or crayons and go wild. Be colorful
and creative; embellish your cards with rib-
bon or glitter, and include personal messages
inside to friends and family. If drawing
scares you, find an old eraser and carve Christ-
mas designs or. words into it to create your
very own stamp. Grab green and red ink pads
and stamp your designs onto the cards and the
envelopes for a personal touch.

For a useful pre-Christmas present salvage
an old box or paint can and adorn it with
seasonal decoration. Label it “Card box” or
“Card can” and present it to your parents as a
space for holiday cards from previous years
or cards that do not fit on the mantel to be
placed. Place your card receptacle on your
coffee table to encourage friends and rela-
tives to sift through the season’s greetings.
Make sure to save the Christmas cards, too.
My Auntie always keeps her cards around
until next year when she’s wrapping presents.
Then she cuts off the fronts of the cards,
punches a hole into them, and strings them
onto the ribbon, scrawling a message on the
back.

When my sisters and I were little we al-
ways made my dad “paperweights,” or rocks
we had splattered with paint. Years later, I
bet many moms and dads still have use for
paperweights on the desks in their offices.
Old cans also make great pencil holders. Rip
off the labels on the soup cans and replace
them with your own strips of paper. Consider
scanning on pictures of yourself and your
siblings, or writing your mom or dad a per-
sonal message that they’ Il rejoice to see each
morning at work.

What mom or dad can’t use more photos

for their office? Place yourself ina fame and
box it up as'a gift. Even better, find some of
your old artwork ora story you wrote as child,
and frame it for the office or the kitchen. Buy
a plain, flat frame and consider gluing on
childhood toys or knickknacks that are cur-
rently collecting dust (i.e. baby blocks, cray-
ons, and matchbox cars). You can glue on
puzzle pieces or make a collage from maga-
zine pictures. Original drawings with origi-
nal frames are one-of-a-kind.

Now I am no chef, but I believe the holi-
days make it possible for anyone to dabble in
the culinary arts. My twin sister spent a good
deal of her winter break last year baking rum
balls and fudge for her entire cross country
team. When she finished, she boxed the
goodies up and shipped them off to all her
friends (packages = every college student’s
dream!). Not only was this gift popular and
tasty, it really wasn’t all that difficult. Con-
sider trying to make a new fudge, like one
with a hint of raspberry, or pick up some
marzipan and investigate the German art of
using a bit of food coloring to create realistic-
looking miniature vegetables and fruits.
Christmas sweets are great for grandmothers
and neighbors, friends and family.

If you feel like your family is starved for
Christmas traditions, create a new one. Put
cookies and milk out for Santa because your
grandparents think you still believe in him.
Light the advent wreath and read scripture
verses aloud. Find a special way that you can
share the season with those you love. Find a
way to honor Jesus’s birth and to appreciate
those around you. After all, your words and
actions during the holiday season of celebra-
tion will mean more than any gift you can
give!

At the movies: Harry, monsters, and anesthetics

By DEREK Lou
Arts & Living Editor

I’ve been reduced to pure cinematic plea-
sure. Only weeks ago did I toss Mulholland
Drive around and around in my head. (It’s
still playing at Birkdale if you feel the need
for confusion.) I’ve been on a no-brainer
kick, revisiting last year’s simple delights,
movies like High Fidelity and Wonder Boys.
There’s something special in those films:
they’ re not technological triumphs, not emo-
tional dramas, just happy films that create

circumstances and characters that we believe _

and care about.

Of course this article is about no such films.
We haven’t been blessed with any recently.
However, there is some entertaining, “simple”
stuff out there. “Entertaining” is the key
word, here. There’s nothing profound, noth-
ing too flashy, just good, old-fashioned, un-
adulterated fun. ;

Why not help Harry Potter and the
Sorcerer’s Stone get to the $200 million a

little faster? Hopefully, we can dismount our

college high horses long enough, two hours

and twenty-two minutes to be exact, to give

the movie a shot. It’s not quite Willy Wonka
and the Chocolate Factory or The Wizard of
Oz, but it’s pretty damn close.

We meet Harry, so unloved that his aunt
and uncle force him to live in a closet under
a staircase. The son of wizards, he’s soon
taken to Hogwarts, a boarding school for
budding possessors of supernatural powers.
We sit in on potion and flying lessons, lull a
three-headed, giant dog to sleep, and witness
a Quidditch match that’s more exciting than
any car chase or fight sequence in The Matrix.
And then there’s a game of chess with jaw-
dropping special effects.

Despite its technical strengths and the charm
of its actors, Harry Potter doesn’t create the
magic of other fantasy films, the aforemen-
tioned Willy Wonka and Oz in addition to The
Never-Ending Story and Pee-Wee’s Big Ad-

venture. And I don’t think it’s because I lack
the naivety of a child moviegoer: just a few
years ago the Babe films — and maybe we
should include Being John Malkovich — gen-
erated that indefinable quality I’ ve been call-
ing magic.

Like Harry, Novocaine is just a few steps
away from being truly special. It’s part
screwball comedy, part film noir about a
dentist who sort,of does something wrong,
but not really. I'll tread carefully with my
descriptions as not to give away any sur-
prises.

Steve Martin gives a performance that re-
sembles his deadpan work in David Mamet’s
caper The Spanish Prisoner, while the situa-
tions surrounding his character are more at
home in the screwball Bowfinger. Martin is
Dr. Sangster, a successful dentist with a per-
fect practice and perfect hygienist who doubles
as his fiancée (Laura Dern). And then Susan
Ivy (Helena Bonham Carter) walks in for a
root canal. She scams him for some painkill-
ers, and then scams-a pharmacist for some
more. And I can’t say anymore without
revealing too much.

Writer-director David Atkins fills No-
vocaine with satisfying jokes, both pertinent
to the story and extraneous: the film’s funni-
est moment — it involves a watching a couple
engage in some foreplay — has absolutely
nothing to do with the film. Also, there are a
few loose ends hanging about at the end of the
movie. At ninety-five minutes, Nococaine
film feels much shorter. Perhaps the cliché
about time and fun is true.

Lastly, I'd like to mention Monsters, Inc.
Disney’s team at Pixar has created another
clever family film. It lacks the sharp-edge of
other family movies like Babe: Pig in the City
and Shrek, Also missing is the sentimentality
of Toy Story 2 that appealed to adults. In-
stead, Monsters, Inc is chock-full of screw-
ball comedy and endearing characters. And
finally, we have the definitive explanation for
the Loch Ness Monster and Big Foot.
