7 Te DavipsoniaN

EAC campaigns to free

aay

e

environmentalists

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

The newly inaugurated President of
Mexico, Vincente Fox, faces many daunting
tasks as he assumes leadership. Among his
promises to the Mexican people and the inter-
national community has been a pledge to
improve Mexico’s human rights and envi-
ronmental record. A handful of Davidson
students are aiming to remind him of this goal
through a letter-writing campaign designed
to encourage the release of two imprisoned
environmentalists.

Rodolfo Montiel Flores, a farmer and ecolo-
gist, is one of Mexico’s most vigilant and

- dedicated environmental activists. In 1995
he was one of the first to speak out against
flagrant abuses by an American company,
Boise Cascade, logging in the old growth
forests of Guererro. Flores organized letter-
writing campaigns and roadblocks. In 1998,
Boise Cascade withdrew from the area.

Flores and a colleague, Teodoro. Cabrera °

Garcia, were subsequently arrested and signed
confessions to drug and weapons charges.
The Rainforest Action Network
(www.ran.org) alleges these confessions were
prompted by torture, and that Garcia and
Flores are political prisoners of Mexican of-
ficials who stood to profit from Boise
Cascade’s logging activities. Organizations
like Amnesty International and Human Rights
Watch concur that Garcia and Flores were not
tried fairly.

Clinton Rickards ‘04, head of the Environ-
mental Action Coalition’s Rainforest com-
mittee, is heading up the campaign with in-

. spiration and help from Amnesty Interna-
tional. The campaign’s ultimate goal is the
release and retrial of Flores and Garcia, but
Rickards feels notifying students about the
issue is an important first step. “I think that
EAC helps raise awareness,” Rickards ex-
plained.

“‘We’ re mostly aware of the issues immedi-
ately presented tous. Evenif someone doesn’t
write a letter, maybe they’ ll go back to their
dorm room and look it up on the Internet and

say, “This is a problem.’”
From 10:30 to 2:00 on Tuesday, Feb. 13,

EAC members took turns encouraging pass-

ersby to read available materials and sign a
prepared letter to President Vincente Fox.
Only thirty minutes into the effort, Rickards
had a thick stack of signed letters — and a few
handwritten by devoted students.

According to EAC presidents Mary Wise
and Margaret Holt, the EAC has conducted
several letter-writing campaigns in the past.
“It’s a way we as an organization and a school
can have impact globally,” Wise said.

In fact, another campaign is in the works
under the leadership of Terra Gill 02. This
second letter-writing effort will center around
the plans to drill for oil in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge.

This plan, endorsed by President. George
W. Bush during the 2000 campaign, has
drawn fire from environmentalists and
prompted fears that President Bush’s envi-
ronmental policies will favor large corpora-
tions. Holt and Wise were both reluctant to
pass judgment on the Bush administration,
saying that so far Bush has neither helped nor
hindered the environment. However, Wise
expressed concern over plans for the Arctic
Refuge.

The relationship between Republican ad-
ministrations and environmental groups has
traditionally been contentious. Holt said she
believes a middle ground exists, but wonders,
“Ts either side willing to find it?” .

Regardless of Washington politics, the EAC
plans to continue its efforts to educate
Davidson students about the environment.
Other ideas include restoring Davidson’ ar-
boretum by labeling the trees again and work-
ing with Physical Plant on beautifying the
campus. They’re also planning campus and
community-wide events for Earth Week, com-
ing up March 23.

Students who missed the letter-writing cam-
paign can visit http://www.ran.org/
info_center/aa/aal151_montiel.html for more
information.

Be a part of our
new Union Board!

i,
\Z

Applications

available in
the Union Lobby
beginning this week.

For more information contact Will Parker, x5902

aa

7 i _*
weg’ fe a

*

WE CORDIALLY INVITE YOU To JOIN THE Att-Campus Prom THroucn
tHE Decaves Party as Davipson CoLiece CELEBRATES THE SENDOFF

oF THE Grey Stupent Union. Come pressen

IN MODERN-DAY

PROM ATTIRE, PROM CLOTHES FROM DECADES PAST, OR

WHATEVER YOU'RE WEARING AT THE T

Fooo, Live Bano, DJ; Casn Bar, & Free Apmission

Feeruary 17", 2001

_ 10:00pm - 2:00A

21 YEAR oLps Brin 2 IDs

Broueut To vou By Se

M
- «©
oC.

