Wildcats come up empty-handed in tr

By Rick BENDER
Davidson §S.I.D.

JOHNSON CITY, TENN.—The Bucs of
East Tennessee State won both ends of a
doubleheader against Davidson College on
Saturday afternoon by scoring a run in the
bottom of the ninth inning in each game.
ETSU took the first game, 9-8, after blowing
an 8-3 lead, then rallied in the second game to

- win, 3-2.

Davidson jumped on top in the nightcap
with a run in the first. Senior Ryan Stroker
ripped a one-out single, and junior James

. Marino extended his hitting streak to 12 one
out later with a single of his own. Delivering
the two-out, RBI single was senior Matt Berry
to score Stroker.

The Bucs got that run back in the second,
though. Nathan Copeland led off the inning
with a double to right-center, went to third on
asingle to center, then scored on an infield hit
by Scott Rose. Wildcat hurler Wes Self es-
caped the inning without any further damage
thanks to a strikeout and couple of fly outs.

In the fifth, ETSU threatened to score again
with another lead-off double, this time by
Jason Brotherton. Two outs later, Andy Baxter
lined a single to right, and Stroker came up
gunning to the plate. When Brotherton real-
ized the throw would beat him, he tried to
retreat to third, but to no avail.

Senior Dylan Deal finally broke the 1-1 tie
in the eighth with a two-out blast to left, his
second of the year. The lead vanished in the
bottom half when ETSU loaded the bases
with two outs. The tying run crossed the plate
on a wild pitch by reliever Tim Frend.

The Bucs loaded the bases in the bottom of
the ninth with two outs once again. After
getting a strike on Brandon Cross, a slider
from Frend (3-1) slipped and hit Cross in the
side, forcing home the winning run.

Matt Nunley (1-1) got the win in relief of
Matt Hensley, who tossed eight solid innings
himself, allowing just two runs on seven hits
and four walks with five strikeouts. Nunley
pitched a perfect ninth to pick up his first win
of the season.

In the opener, the Wildcats trailed by five
runs going into the top of the seventh. But a
three-run home run down the right-field line
by junior Jack Purcell brought the ‘Cats within
two, 8-6.

It appeared that Davidson would fall short
in its comeback attempt, as the first two
batters in the ninth were quick outs. But
Frend drew a walk, Marino singled to left and
Berry singled through the right side to load
the bases. Junior Billy Ryan provided the
clutch hit with a two-run single to center,
tying the game at eight.

East Tennessee State didn’t wait long to
win the game in the bottom half, however.
Ryan McKinney led off the frame with a
double down the left-field line off junior
Mark Wells (2-5), then advanced to third
when the next batter reached on an error.
Stroker replaced Wells on the mound and
threw one pitch, which turned into a winning
single off the bat of Baxter.

Bryan Crouse (1-1) was credited with the
win, despite allowing the tying runs in the
ninth.

Nathan Copeland crushed two two-run
homers in the opener, giving him seven for

the year. For Davidson, Marino also hit his

seventh home run of the season, a two-run
blast to right.

ETSU 10, Davidson 6

East Tennessee State broke a 5-5 deadlock
in the bottom of the eighth with five runs to
defeat Davidson on Sunday afternoon, 10-6.
ETSU (14-20, 6-9 Southern Conference) won
all three games while hosting Davidson (13-
21, 7-14) over the weekend. Both wins on
Saturday came in the bottom of the ninth.

In the fateful eighth inning, the Bucs loaded
the bases without hitting a ball past the infield
on two infield hits and a sacrifice bunt that
was thrown in the dirt. Ryan McKinney pro-
vided the tie-breaking hit, a two-run single to
right, followed by another RBI single by
Ryan Hyder. A sacrifice fly by Andy Baxter
plated another run, as did another sac fly off
the bat of Brandon Cross.

The Wildcats didn’t help themselves out
defensively, committing six errors in the game
which led to three unearned runs. -

Davidson struck first with a run in the
second. Junior Billy Ryan led off the frame
with a single up the middle, and senior Matt
Berry drew a walk. Senior Cassidy Lundin
sacrificed the runners over, but a grounder to

third kept them on second and third. Sopho- ~

more D.J. Dailey came through with the
clutch two-out single to score Ryan, but Berry
was thrown out at the plate.

The Bucs countered with a run of their own
in the bottom half. Nathan Copeland reached
when he was hit by a pitch, then scored two
outs later on a single by Tim Turner.

A two-out RBI single off the bat of junior

James Marino scored senior Ryan Stroker,
who ripped a one-out double in the third.
Once again, ETSU came back with a two-run
home run by Copeland, his third of re series
and eighth of the season.

The ‘Cats tied it back up in the fourth with
an unearned run. With two outs, Davidson
loaded the bases, and Dailey streaked home
from third on a wild pitch. The following
inning, Marino led off with a double, and
Lundin doubled him home with two outs.
Senior Jeremiah Parvin grounded the next
pitch through the left side to plate Lundin and
give Davidson a 5-3 lead.

In the sixth, the Wildcats committed three
throwing errors to help the Bucs tie the game
at five.

Matt Nunley (2-1) got the win in relief of
Reid Casey. Nunley retired the side in order
in the eighth, and allowed just a solo homer to
junior Tim Frend, his seventh of the season,
and a two-out double to Ryan.

Wildcat hurler Derrik Wolpert (2-5) got
stuck with the loss, surrendering 10 hits and

_ seven runs, six earned, in seven-plus innings

of work. He walked just one and struck out
seven.

Turner led the Bucs with four singles, two
which were bunts, and stole two bases. Eight
other ETSU players contributed one hit apiece.

Marino and Ryaneach had three hits for the
‘Cats, and all but one player in the starting
lineup had at least one hit.

Davidson, which now has lost four straight,
will be in action again on Tuesday at UNC
Asheville at 3 p.m. The Bucs also play at
UNC Asheville for their next game, on Thurs-
day at 7 p.m.

as Strong pitching helps

Sept. 1 VALPARAISO UNIV. DAVIDSON 1 p.m. ;

Sept. 8 Jacksonville University Jacksonville, FL 1:p.m.* D k t W l d t

Sept. 15 DRAKE UNIVERSITY: DAVIDSON 1 p.m. Uu © Op ] Ca S

_ Sept. 22 Emory & Henry College Emory, VA 1 p.m

Sept. 29 OPEN By Rick BENDER

Oct. 6 Morehead State Univ. Morehead, KY 1 p.m.* Davidson S.LD.

Oct. 13 Georgetown University Georgetown, DC 1 p.m.

Oct. 20 Randolph-Macon College Ashland, VA 1 p.m. DURHAM, N.C.—Ryan Caradonna threw six masterful innings for Duke

Oct. 27 HAMPDEN-SYDNEY DAVIDSON | 1 p.m. as the Blue Devils built a 6-0 lead, then watched the bullpen struggle through

Nov. 3 Centre College Danville, Ky 1:30 the final three frames as Duke won a non-conference game against visiting

Nov. 10 AUSTIN-PEAY UNIV. DAVIDSON 1 p.m.* Davidson, 6-3.

Nov. 17 Pioneer League Caradonna (4-6) faced just one batter over the minimum and threw only 67

Championship North Winner TBA pitches in his six innings of work. Only two Wildcats managed hits off of him,

and he struck out three.

* Pioneer League Conference Games Meanwhile, the Blue Devil offense took advantage of three walks and an
error to score four runs, but only one earned run, in the second off sophomore
Derrik Wolpert (2-4). The first two batters walked, and David Mason drove *

home the first run with a single. After a sacrifice, Bryan Smith hit a grounder
to third. But senior Cassidy Lundin’s throw to the plate was high, allowing
another run to score.

A walk loaded the bases, then Kevin Kelly hit another grounder to third.
Lundin got the force at third, but his throw to first was wide as the third run
scored. J.D. Alleva stroked an RBI single to plate the final run of the inning.

In the third, another lead-off walk set the table for Duke. One out later,
Mason laced a triple to right-center to make the score 5-0. Further damage was
avoided when senior Jeremiah Parvin caught a fly ball in center for the-second
out and gunned down Mason at the plate.

The Blue Devils got their sixth run in the sixth thanks to another lead-off
walk. With one out and runners on the corners, Brian Patrick got caughtina .
rundown between first and second. Junior Jack Purcell tagged him out, but
Drew Jerdan scored from third ahead of Purcell’s throw to the plate.

When Duke went to the bullpen in the seventh, the Wildcat offense came to
life. A double by senior Ryan Stroker and an RBI single by junior Tim Frend
brought home the first Davidson run. The ‘Cats scored twice in the eighth on
Frend’s two-out, two-run double over the left fielder’s head. But the inning ~
ended when Frend was thrown out attempting to advance to third on the throw.

Davidson loaded the bases in the ninth with one out on singles by juniors
James Marino and Billy Ryan, and senior Cassidy Lundin. But Justin
Dilucchio retired the next two batters to end the rally and earn the save, his first
of the season.

The Blue Devils managed just five hits in the game, three by Mason. But all
five batters that walked came around to score.
Stroker, Frend and Ryan each had two hits for Davitesn, with Stroker

scoring two of the three runs and Frend driving in all three. —

Erin Bey
Davidson Crew hosted its only home regatta of the season last weekend on the
waters of Lake Norman.
