from page I

looking for more convenient ways for stu-
dents to store their stuff.” In dorms such as
Sentelle and Cannon, vanities were built in-
side the rooms so that students would have a
place to store their shower caddies.

Toiletries such as razors and toothbrushes
are of the main concern because they may be
contaminated with infected body fluids.
Soaps, shampoo bottles, and other such toi-
letries don’t contribute directly to the spread
of Hepatitis B and Meningitis, but leaving
them in bathrooms makes it difficult for the
housekeeping staff to clean in the areas where
these items are left. This leads to unsanitary
conditions, increasing the risk of acquiring
these infections forthe students and the house-
keeping staff.

Vaccines are available for both Hepatitis B
and Meningitis, although students are not

required to be vaccinated for them to be able
to live on campus. On the Pre-Admission
History and Physical Medical Form, required
to be completed by-
all students before

being able to live on
campus, the vac-
cines for Hepatitis
B and Meningitis
are listed as op-

tional.
When asked
whether it should be

required that stu-
dents be vaccinated

@&e looking for

more convenient
ways for students

to store their stiff: |

-Dean Leslie Marsicano

replied, “No, but we are noticing more and
more entering students have had the Hepatitis
B [vaccine] series administered.” The num-
ber of entering students who
have been vaccinated for
Meningitis is increasing too.
It would seem that overall
students find storing their toi-
letries in their rooms is a mi-
nor inconvenience given the
risks they would be taking by
storing them in the bathrooms.
“Carrying toiletries too and
from the bathroom is a small
_inconvenience,” commented

for these infections,
Marsicano replied, :
“No, I do not think it should be required,
because the risk is relatively small and the
vaccines are relatively expensive.”

When asked the same question, Jan Poole,
Head Nurse of the Student Health Center

Annette Welty’04, “but its
worth it in the long run to

keep everyone healthy.”
Marsicano commends students for their
compliance with the new rules. As she points
out, “It’s in everyone’s best interest to com-

ply.”

Counting Crows rock Belk Arena

Matt WuiTED
Photography Editor

It wouldn’t have been difficult to guess that
Monday’s Counting Crows concert would
prove to be Davidson’s largest concert in
years, perhaps ever. -Even the cynics, who
cited last year’s low student attendance at the
Train concert in Belk Arena, were convinced
as the crowds started to line up outside Baker
Sports Complex as early as 3:30 for a concert
that wouldn’t begin until 8 p.m.

By the time Stew, Counting Crows’ open-
ing band, was ready to take the stage, the
arena was filled nearly to capacity. Duritz
came out to introduce the band, sporting a red
Davidson t-shirt, and immediately won the
emotions of the crowd by telling a story about
how the members of Stew were Davidson
alumni who had played in the marching band
together but had a dream to make it big
someday.

Led by. singer/guitarist Stew from The
Negro Problem, the band played a 45-minute
set consisting of songs such as “Reelin’” and
“The Naked Dutch Painter.” Throughout the
set, they enjoyed only lukewarm support from
a crowd that was unfamiliar with their music.

After a 30-minute intermission, Counting
Crows took the stage. Including the encore,
the band played 17. songs. Although they
played quite a few of the standards from their

three studio albums, Duritz devoted a large -

portion of the show to unreleased songs that
the band intends to include on their new CD,
which is currently being recorded during
weeks and months between tour dates. In
fact, seven songs from the set list were com-
pletely new.

Counting Crows didn’t let down the enthu-
siastic crowd at any time during the set. They
began with several driving electric songs,
including “A Murder of One” and “Anna
Begins” from their first album, “Have You
Seen Me Lately” from Recovering the Satel-
lites, and “Miami” and “Richard
Emmanuel is Dead” which are scheduled
to appear on their new studio recording.

The rest of the set was most remarkable for
its diversity in the style of the songs and
instrumentation. Counting Crows played
acoustic versions of two of their traditionally
electric songs, “Angels of the Silences” and
“Catapult,” even venturing to have Dan
Vickrey play the lead guitar part for “Cata-
pult” on a banjo. The band also introduced
several heavily electric rock songs, including
“American Girl” and “1492.”

In what has become typical Counting Crows
fashion, the band ended the concert by invit-
ing the members of Stew and the family of
drummer Ben Mize onto the stage for the
final song.

They played “Hanginaround,” the only song
in the set from the band’s most recent release,
This Desert Life. As they had done in several
songs throughout the concert, members of the
audience alternated singing the chorus with
Duritz and Stew.

Q&A with lead singer Adam Duritz

In an extremely gracious move by Adam
Duritz, I had an opportunity to sit down with
the Counting Crows’ lead singer and
songwriter for a few minutes before the band
ate dinner to talk about his life, his music,
what we can expect in the future.

MW: So, how is your tour this year going

THE

OPTICALSHOP

LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O

- JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.0
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR.

- MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.
KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

03 PENINSULA pa © 19420 JETTON RO. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

S PENINSULA EXIT 26

\ AUTHORIZED ZEIS

VARILUK

w. CATAWBA AVE

CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUC

SEIKD PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

so far?

AD: Good, we actually just got back on
the road. We toured in May, then we were in
the studio in June, July, and August record-
ing. We’re going back to record more after
October.

MW: You mentioned a lot of recording,
and I’ ve heard that you’re working on a new
CD. How is it coming so far?

AD: We’ve written a lot of new songs...
there are about 14 right now; they won’ tall go
on the new CD. I plan to write a few more
songs when we get back before we finish
recording.

MW: I guess the next thing I would like to
know is about your influences. Your lyrics
are probably the most consistently poetic of
any modern band... where do you get your
inspiration lyrically?

AD: I write about myself, so that’s where
I draw most of my inspiration.

MW: Whatabout your lyrical influences?
What writers influenced you?

AD: Bob Dylan, but then how can you be
a songwriter and not be influenced by Bob
Dylan, because he shaped the art. Ti’s like
how can you be a guitarist and not be influ-
enced by Chuck Berry? Although I don’t
think my lyrics are actually like Dylan’s.
Also R.E.M. as a kid, I derived the free form
for songs from them. I don’t agonize over my
lyrics for months or weeks or hours like other
artists... well, maybe hours. I like to sitdown
and get it done.

MW:. What about musical influences, for
you or as a band?

AD: I’ve listened to a lot of different
music, so it’s hard to name one or two.

(Turns to guitarist David Immergluck, who

_@davidson.edu.

Noted Indian Dancer to

Present Public Workshop

Sonal Mansingh will present a free dem-
onstration on Wednesday, September 12.
The workshop will begin at Spm in the C.
Shaw Smith 900 Room of the Union.

Yay, Reptile Day!

Saturday, September 8 Reedy Creek Na-
ture Center will hold Reptile Day. Please
come for live snakes, frogs, turtles and
salamanders to touch and hold. 10:00 a.m.
to noon. Contact Michael E. Dorcas in the
Biology Department.

is playing backgammon)

Who am I listening to now?

DI: Well... Frankie Miller.

AD: Yeah, I’ve been listening to a lot of
Frankie Miller recently. I ve been influenced
by Big Star and Robyn Hitchcock, he’s a
British rocker. I listened to a lot of funk
growing up.

MW: Where do you see the band heading,
as far as the ways that you’re growing and
developing right now, particularly since just
before the release of This Desert Life?

AD: Well, we keep adding guitarists, for
one. It’s hard to tell what direction we’re
going while it’s happening. It’s the kind of
thing you look back on later and see. Usually
it’s more accidental than purposeful. Well,
that’s not always true. Like when we made
Recovering the Satellites after adding Dan,
we wanted to make that an electric record.
Our third album was more quirky and instinc-
tive, less planned-out.

MW: What about the new album?

AD: It has a lot of different things. We
have a couple of beautiful acoustic songs on
there. I’m still rewriting the lyrics to some of
the songs before we finish recording.

a

Since 1951

st Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

104 $.Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

