en’s soccer struggles
~ By RICHARD CONNOLLY By Liz Gross
Staff Writer Staff Writer

Every great team must overcome adversity.

The men’s soccer team will need to rediscover
the form that got it off to a 5-1 start if they want to
be playing in late November.

Over the last four games, the squad has posted
an unimpressive 1-3 record, falling out of both
national and regional rankings.

Playing its first home game in over two weeks,
Davidson came out firing against conference foe
Appalachian State on October 9. Senior Erik
Ozimek gave the ‘Cats a 1-0 lead when he ripped
a7th-minute shotinto the net from 25 yards out off
a pass from sophomore Justin Porter.

That score remained until the 72nd minute,
when senior Chris Norbet sliced his way through
the Mountaineers defense and fired a shot to the
back of the net for his 13th goal of the season.

Junior Soren Johnson recorded three saves and
earned his third shutout of the season as Davidson
improved to 8-3 overall and 3-0 in the Southern
Conference.

“{ think we had a good showing against a strong
conference opponent tonight,’ noted Coach Matt
Spear. “We were able to control the play this
evening and once again Norbet stepped up for us.
Ozimek’s score in the first half was another
highlight-worthy goal.”

The ’Cats hit the road again with an October 13
trip to Lexington, Virginia, where they hoped to
continue their conference success against the
VMI Keydets.

VMt had not beaten Davidson since 1982, and
Davidson was riding anine-game winning streak
against the military schools.

The teams went into halftime tied at zero, but
the Keydets took the lead in the 50th minute and
scored what was, ultimately, the game winner.

The Wildcats, despite a 10-7 shot advantage,
were held scoreless for only the second time all
season as VMI keeper John Simmons earned his
third.shutout of the season.

Although the team maintained a spot in the
South Region rankings in spite of the VMI loss,
Davidson knew it would be the underdog against
a powerful Wake Forest team on October 17.

The Démon Deacons, ranked 19" in the coun-
try, Were on a six-game winning streak entering

the contest and were in the middle of an eight |

game home stand.

Freshman goaltender Bart Creasman made
four saves in the first half and, despite the Demon
Deacons’ 10-3 shot advantage, the teams went
into halftime knotted at zero.

In the 52nd minute, however, Norbet took a
pass from Ozimek and volleyed a shot beyond the
grasp of the Deacons’ keeper to give the ’Cats a
one-goal lead.

The Deacons answered in the 76th minute and
then scored the game winner only seven minutes
later to thwart an upset and ensure the 2-1 victory.

“This was a great opportunity to knock off a.

rahked, ACC team on the road,” Spear stated.
“We played very well and we were able to
establish some confidence early. I felt like we
need to believe we can win against those teams
and not just compete.”

The ’Cats continued their road trip against the
11th-ranked Clemson Tigers, an October21 game
that Davidson had hoped would end its three-
game losing streak. Coming into the game, the
Wildcats had yet to defeat a ranked opponent this
season.

* Davidson’s chance at victory was further di-
minished in the third minute of the game, when
goaltender Johnson received a red card for taking
down a Tiger forward in the box.

Clemson capitalized and took control of the

_ game, scoring five more times to win 6-1, as the
Wildcats played with gnly 10 men.

Freshman goalie Bart Creasman played the
final 87 minutes and recorded eight saves as
Davidson was out-shot 26-5 by the Tigers. The
*Cats’ lone goal was scored in the 38th minute
when Joel Sadlernabbed his second of the season.

Davidson. will return to action on October 30

-when the College of Charleston Cougars come to
town for a Southem Conference match-up.

These are dark days for Davidson field hockey.

Despite intense effort and several overtime
matches, the Wildcats are suffering a ten game
losing streak and have gone winless in six games
of conference competition.

On October 10, Davidson faced Northern Pa-
cific rival Radford University. The ’Cats forced
the scoreless game into overtime.

Radford’s Megan Driest found the back of the
net off of a penalty comer with 5:32 left, handing
Davidson their third overtime loss this season.

Next ‘on Davidson’s schedule was an October
15 visit to Appalachian State University. Moun-
taineer Krista Hahn scored the first goal of the
match with 30:26 left in the first half, and was
matched by teammate Jessica Burkhardt, who
scored at the 12-minute mark, extending ASU’s
lead to 2-0.

The ’Cats rallied after the half as sophomore
withtwoquick goalstotiethe game. First, Kathleen
Fennscored with anassist from Courtney Hughes.
A minute later, Davidson struck again as Jessica
Barton found the net on a penalty stroke, forcing
the 2-2 tie.

ASUcountered with twomore goals with 11 45
and 6:49 left in the game. Fenn held the final hope
for Davidson as she scored with an assist from
Amanda Strickland ona penalty comnerin the final
seconds of the game.

The 4-3 defeat was Davidson’s second loss to
conference member ASU this season.

The Wildcat’s last home game was Saturday,
October 20, against No. 7 William and Mary
University.

Within ten minutes, Kristen. Southerland had

scored the first goal forthe W&M Tribe. Davidson

answered with a breakaway goal by Agnes _

Field Hockey fights ten-game losing streak

Bateman off a pass from Kathleen Fenn.

The first half ended tied at one, but William and
Mary clinched the 3-1 win with two goals in the
second half. Freshman goalie Cate Schenning
registered 14 saves in the match.

LastSunday, the ’Cats once again faced Radford
University. The Highlanders jumped out to the
lead with a goal from Tessa Brooks at 25:34 in the
first half.

Radford scored again less than a minute later,
and clinched the win with a third goal at 22:07 in

Lindsay F. erguson

Freshman midfielder Tiffany Homan duels with a William & Mary
adversary in last Saturday’s game. The ’Cats lost to the seventh-
ranked Tribe, . 3-1.

the second half, handing Davidson the decisive 3-
O loss.

The Wildcats out shot the Highlanders 12 to 8.
Goalkeepers senior Amanda Mordavsky and
freshman Sarah Nolan split the game, tallying
one save apiece.

Davidson will look to break its losing streak
against Wake Forest University in Winston-
Salem, NC. Game time is 7:00 pm on Thursday,
October 25.

Football falls to Hoyas, beats Yellow J ackets

By Jackie DaviDsoN
Staff Writer

Davidson’s football team split their last two
games, an October 13 matchat Georgetown andan

| October 20 nail-biter at Randolph-Macon.

Trailing the Georgetown Hoyas (2-3) with min-
utes left in the game, the Davidson Wildcats (2-3)
were undoubtedly experiencing déja vu. Two
years ago, they found themselves in a similar
situation until Paul Nichols led the Cat offense
down the field for the go-ahead TD, lifting the
Wildcats past the Hoyas, 28-27.

History, however, did not repeat itself. This
time, the Hoyas were able to preserve the victory,
intercepting Davidson’s 2-point conversion at-
tempt in the final 52 seconds of the game to defeat
the ’Cats 26-24.

The game began slowly offensively as both
teamscouldonly manage onefield goal each bythe
end of the first period.

In the second quarter, Georgetown reached into
their bag of tricks to score the game’s first touch-
down.

David Palus, punting for the Hoyas, took a
fourth down snap intending to boot the ball away.
Daunted by the ’Cats’ defensive pressure, he
instead started running. :

He stopped in the end zone on a 53-yard score,
the longest run by a Hoya this season. The extra
point and a subsequent field goal gave the Hoyas
a 13-3 halftime lead.

At the start of the second half, Davidson came
out firing. First, Chris Costello connected on a 41-
yard field goal to pull the "Cats to within a touch-
down.

On the next possession, the ’Cats embarked on
an 8-play, 74-yard scoring drive, capped by a nine
yard run by freshman John Leverett. The extra
point was blocked, allowing Georgetown tomain-
tain a 13-12 lead.

The Hoyas quickly struck backas Sean Peterson
threw a 65-yard touchdown pass to Kurt Bennett,
widening the Hoya lead to eight.

On the ensuing kickoff, senior Ward Gibson
retumed the ball 63 yards to the Hoya 23. A few

plays later, Nichols scored ona |-yard touchdown
run.

Looking to tie the game, Davidson attempted a
two-point conversion, but Leverett was stopped
short of the goal line.

With 3:04 lefttoplay andthe Wildcats down 26-
18, the Davidson offense marched 65 yards down
the field for what could have been the game tying
possession.

On the drive, Gibson accounted for 30 yards on
threereceptionsandrushed fora six yardTDtopull
the ’Cats within two.

But on the Wildcat’s.2-point conversion at-
tempt, the Hoyas’ Eric Speronintercepted Nichols,
all but sealing the Georgetown victory.

Inthe end, Hoya Marc Samuelaccounted forthe
difference. The graduate student posted more than
half of the Georgetown’s points, connecting on
four field goals and two extra points.

For the Wildcats, Nichols went 22-for-35 for
230 yards while Barrett Johnson tallied 78 yards on
8 catches.

Davidson finished its five game road trip this
past Saturday at Randolph-Macon.

Faced with the possibility of losing their third
straight game, the Wildcats rallied in overtime to
defeat the Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets (4-3),
27-24.

Quarterback Nichols lunged into the endzone

- from inside the Randolph-Macon one-yard line to

score the game-winning touchdown and hand the
’Cats their third win of the season.
Though the Yellow Jackets would convert ona

24-yard field goal to take a brief 24-21 lead, the

overtime period belonged to the Wildcats.

The Wildcats immediately gained ground from
the 25-yard line starting pointas Nichols hit sopho-
more Johnson for a 14-yard gain. From there,
Leverett took over, rushing twice to get the ball
inside the one-yard line.

Besides setting up Nichols’ game winning TD,
Leverett was also involved in one of the stranger
and more spectacular plays of the afternoon.

Onakickoffretum, Leverett fielded the ball two
yards deep in the end zone. He started to return the
kick, only to stop just beyond the goaline. Realiz-

ing thathe had tokeep going, Leverett foundahole
in the middle of Yellow Jacket coverage and went
the distance, setting a school record with a 100-
yard return.

in the nation at the time.

_and Georgetown. Both. games were decided

: against Hampden Sydney.

]

DAVIDSON VS. HAMPDEN SYDNEY
Saturday, 1 p.m. at Richardson Stadium

The Wildcats return home for the first
time in nearly two months on Saturday to
host Hampden Sydney.

It’s been a strange season, to say the
least.

The team opened the year with a con-
vincing 24-7 victory over Valparaiso to
extend its winning streak to 18 games, tops

One week later, the streak ended with a
thud in a startling 45-3 loss at Jacksonville.

The terrorist attacks occurred three days
after that, and the Homecoming game against
Drake, one of only four home games, was
postponed. No make-up date has been set.

 Fourstraightroad games later, the team
is 3-3 (0-2 Pioneer), with victories over Div.
Ill teams Emory & Henry and Randolph
Macon, and tough losses to Morehead State

in the final minutes.
_ That brings us to Saturday’ A match-up

The Div. 1 Tigers improved to 3-4
‘overall, 2-3 in the OD AC Cont

two touchdowns in the victory,

The two teams’ only common oppo-
nent this season is Emory & Henry, The| .
Tigers lost 34-20 on Oct. 6, while Davidson
won 23-6 on 1 Sept. 22). ns

The numbers suggest an easy victory
for the Wildcats, but the way this season is
going, — seems Possible.

~Matt Garfel

