—_ are we — - Philosophers debate origin 0

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

The conflict between creationism and athe-
ism has been a prominent moral question
~ since the 1925 Scopes Monkey Trial. The
issue still prompts emotional arguments from
both sides. Thus, Chambers Gallery was
standing-room only on January 25, when
students, faculty and dozens of visitors
crowded in to hear “Did God Create the
Universe? A Philosophical Debate.”

The debate, sponsored by the Philosophy
Department, featured two prominent speak-
ers: William Lane Craig and Quentin Smith.
Dr. Craig is one of the foremost academic -
creationists in America. He holds a PhD from
England’s Bir-
mingham Uni-
versity, and a
Doctorate of
Theology from
the University of
Munich in Ger-
many. He cur-
rently teaches at
Talbot School of
Theology, and
spoke at
Davidson
2000.

Dr. Smith, a
member of Western Michigan University’s -
Philosophy department, holds a PhD in Phi-
losophy from Boston College. Smith’s field
of expertise is the philosophy of time and
quantum cosmology; he was a guest speaker
at Davidson in 1999. He and Dr. Craig

philosopher

collaborated on the book Theism, Atheism :

and Big Bang Cosmology.

“T thought that a debate between them
would be the natural follow up to their respec-
tive earlier visits,” said philosophy professor
Dr. Robert Maydole, who has used their
coauthored book in seminars on proving the
existence of God and atheism. “Philosophy
is about ultimate questions of existence and
meaning. Whether God created our world is
one of the most ultimate questions.”

Before the debate began, Dr. Maydole an-
nounced that the evening’s presentation was
the first in a series of planned philosophy

in Dr. William Lane Craig, theologian and

lectures. He then laid the groundwork for the
debate by discussing Stephen Hawking’s
famed book A Brief History of Time, which —
according to Maydole — contains both the
suggestion that the-universe would not need
a Creator and a reference to the mind of God
in its final paragraph. Maydole suggested
Hawking’s book reflected a deep ambiguity
most feel about the question of a Creator. “I

- do not expect that we will resolve this ambi-

guity tonight,” he said. “Indeed, it may even
deepen. And while our speakers this evening
are likely to disagree about the need for a
creator, I believe they both share a profound
respect for human reason.”

Each speaker presented a twenty minute
opening statement, a ten minute rebuttal, and
ten minutes of
closing remarks
followed by a
question-and-
answer period.

Many of the
spectators likely
expected a reit-
eration of the
arguments sur-
| rounding
Erin Berry 1999’s Kansas

School Board
decision not to

teachevolution. ,

Dr. Smith’s opening statement proved this
assumption false. He said, “Arguments-:made
by theists such as William Craig are unsatis-
factory,” and attacked Craig’s main argu-
ments on linguistic, logical and philosophical
grounds.

Smith insisted that the atheistic explana-
tion for the world was not only complete, but
left no room fora Creator. He drew adiagram
on a blackboard showing “... At BC...”
and said that it represented the universe at
t=0. Each “thing” in this initial state, he
argued, was caused by something else in that
state. Thus, having established simultaneous
causation, he argued that there was nothing
left for a God to do. The force of explosions,
he said, forced the self-creating ABC com-
plex into later stages that ultimately resulted
in the creation of the universe.

It was this argument that would prove the

ae Main Street ¥ Davidson, NC
892-0604

Shen # Jerr Py cenmads Holdini@, Inc. 1999

most discussed point in the evening’ s debate.
Craig insisted that Smith’s argument com-
mitted the “fallacy of composition” and asked,
“Where did ABC come from?”
During the question-and-answer period
Michael Newnam ’01, a Philosophy ‘major,

likened this to asking, “Where did the crowd -

come from?” when one knew how everyone
in the crowd got there. Smith agreed with the

implication, but Craig said the situation was °

non-analogous and proposed his own com-
parison. He suggested that Smith’s model
was like a box closed with each flap holding
down one of the other flaps, and his question
to asking “Where did the box come from?”
Another key argument centered around
whether the existence of intelligent life im-
plied a creator. Craig insisted that the emer-
gence ofan unlikely creation that conforms to
a specific design suggests the hand of a cre-
ator. Smith argued that the laws of nature and
biology created life, and that no rational God
would create conditions that made it difficult
for life to emerge if that was His ultimate

goal. He also wondered jvhyjeha ganas 2
was so isolated in the universe if God’s goal —
was to create life.

A panel of philosophy. majors, Newnam,
Elizabeth Barnes ’04 and Daniel Gibson ’02,
began the question-and-answer session. Af-
ter they had asked their questions, the audi-
ence passed a microphone around and the
speakers entertained questions on the exist-
ence of God as a disembodied mind, vicious
infinite regress, the finite nature of life, “vir-
tual particles” and the possibility of a man-
made Big Bang.

As Maydole promised, audience members
did not leave the debate feeling that the ques-
tion of theism vs. atheism had been resolved.
“Thope [the debate showed] that fundamental
issues can be discussed rationally, even by
people who disagree,” Maydole said. The
night’s final question seemed to sum up the
confusion many were feeling: suppose God
created irrationality to prevent us from solv-
ing this mystery?

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By NicoLe ForeMAN
Health Advisor

Last Thursday, January 24, five “of-age”

the Impaired Olympics, a program jointly

Health Educators. The goal of the program

The Student Health Aasisork are, from left to right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecea — re

Davidson students willingly participated in —
behavior and personality more rapid than
sponsored by the Campus Police and the”
: eps et nn mies ee

was to show the ill effects of alcohol. over Aristocrat alcohe Ii ina little

only after the first drink sia | was still
behaving normally. However, because the
event was only an hour long, and partici-
pants were told to drink at “party-pace,”
what the audience saw was a change of

what would occur at a party. I drank four

