Se |
ee mG

12

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
NOvEMBER 28, 2001

Davidson shocks N orth Carolina

Basketball, continued from pg. 1

At the ten-minute mark, the winds of
fortune reversed, however, as UNC put
Davidson on its heels with 9-0 run over the
next four minutes. Senior forward Jason
Capel, who was not a factor at the outset,
sparked the North Carolina offense—and
the Smith Center crowd—with five points
in four minutes.

Three points from Brian Bersticker
brought North Carolina within four, 21-
17, by the three-minute mark, and it ap-
peared Davidson had stalled.

Compounding Davidson’s sudden offen-
sive ineptitude was the young and inexpe-
rienced Wildcat lineup that ran the floor
for most of the last five minutes of the half.

Fifth-year senior Erege had more play-
ing time in a Wildcat uniform than the four
other players on the court with him—com-
bined. Joining him were second-year walk-
on Terrell Ivory, true freshmen Eric
Blancett and Conor Grace, and second-
year man Jouni Eho.

“That was pretty much a band-aid ap-
proach,” said McKillop. “That gave our
veterans, our starters, quite a bit of rest.
Therefore, they were able to play the min-
utes they did in the second half.”

McKillop’s “band-aid approach” also al-
lowed the Wildcats to escape threatening
foul trouble. Middleman Martin Ides, who
led the team with 10 rebounds, only played
nine minutes of the first half after collect-
ing three fouls well before the halfway
point. Pearson had two personal fouls after
fifteen minutes and did not play the re-
mainder of the half.

Forced to bandage itself to conserve its
big men and big shooters, Davidson still
managed to keep the Tar Heels in check as
the half wound down.

Foul shots by Blancett and Grace evened
the score at 25 with just over a minute to
play after Melvin Scott, who paced UNC
with 11 points and Doherty called “one of
the few bright spots,” led a North Carolina
offensive rally.

After Erege and North Carolina’s Kris
Lang exchanged a pair of free throws,
Davidson and North Carolina ended the
half deadlocked at 27.

“We felt that if we could hang in there
through the first half, that we could make
a game of it,” said McKillop after the
game.“I was concerned that Carolina would
come with a knockout punch in the first
round.

“But we held the fort pretty well over the
first half, and once that happened, we be-
came believers and they became doubt-
ers.”

That change was palpable when Anderer
hit Davidson’s first big shot of the second
half—a wide-open 3-pointer near the top
of the key that increased Davidson’s ad-

vantage to four, 36-32, seven minutes into
the half.

North Carolina switched to a full court
press as they reeled in Davidson, but
Anderer hit another 3-pointer with just
under 11 minutes to play. He ignited the
Wildcat bench three minutes later with a
juke to the right that opened a shooting
lane for one more baseline trey as the shot
clock expired.

Tar Heel Kris Lang, surprisingly incon-
spicuous much of Tuesday night, brought
North Carolina within one, 44-43 with six
minutes to play. But Blancett answered
with yet another 3-pointer for the Wild-
cats.

“That was a pretty terrific shot for a
freshman just coming off the bench,” said
McKillop, who has called Blancett the best
pure shooter on the team.

Still fighting a punishing North Carolina
press, Davidson shut down the North Caro-
lina offense and managed to extend their
lead to eight, 54-46, by the 2:30 mark.

In a momentous defensive stand, Ides,
on the brink of fouling out, camped under
the basket as Capel made a drive to tie the
game. The 7-2 Czech threw his arms up,
creating a ten-foot wall that Capel could
not scale.

But North Carolina refused to go qui-
etly. And its senior leadership showed more
tenacity than ever before.

Lang scored five straight points in less
than a minute and Capel raised the roof of
the Dean Dome when he followed Lang
with a 3-pointer to tie the game at 54 with
just under a minute to play.

Davidson scrambled to fight the UNC
press and the thunderous racket of the Tar
Heel faithful, and the ball eventually fell
into the hands of a repose veteran—Michael

Bree.

Bree found himself matched up against
junior forward Will Johnson, who had
struggled all night to contain him. He had
the opportunity to drive past Johnson again
en route to a tie-breaking basket, but he
juked and dished the bali to a wide-open
Pearson beneath the basket.

Pearson burned the net with what would
be the winning basket as Lang and Capel
looked on, frozen.

DUEL OF THE
Forwarbs:
Emeka
Erege ‘02
blows by

© UNC’s

* Jason
Capel.

Caroline Hauser

Anderer sank two foul shots in the clos-
ing seconds to seal the win, a victory that —
will go down in Wildcat history as legend-
ary but leaves McKillop a bit torn.

“Matt Doherty is like a brother and like
ason to me,” said McKillop, who coached
Doherty:in high school and gave him his
first collegiate coaching job. “I’m going to
certainly celebrate this victory with our
team, but in the aftermath Ill certainly be
thinking about Matt.”

Caroline Hauser

The Wildcats rose above all the defense the Tarheels offered. Erege
jumpshots over double coverage in the final moments.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Accept the challenges so you may feel the

exhiliration of victory.”

George Patton

THE WEEK AHEAD

’s BASKETBALL SWIMMING
Nov. 16 @ Charlotte 8:05 Nov.17' William & Mary 1:00
Nov. 20 @ North Carolina 7:00 WRESTLING
Nov. 23_.—Oglethorpe 7:00 Nov. 17. Old Dominion Tournament
Women’s BASKETBALL (Norfolk, VA)
Nov.46-17 Miliary Academy Tournament Nov. 24 —_ Carolina Open
(West Point, NY) (Chapel Hill, NC)
Nov. 21 Jacksonville 4:00 VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 24-25 Ronald McDonald Classic Nov. 16-18 Southern Conf. Tournament
(Durham, NC) (Greensboro, NC)
Nov. 27. —_ College of Charleston -

