Tae DavipsoNIAN

Auletta analyzes Gates, credits his I loss to ‘hun

By Matr TT GARFIELD |
Sports Editor

Bill,Gates became the world’s richest man
_ by building his company, Microsoft, into one
of the most powerful corporations in the
world. Those who know Gates say his tech-
nological genius and—maybe more impor-
tantly—his shrewd business sense, were his
most valuable assets along the way.
- Journalist Ken Auletta learned about the
latter characteristic the hard way.

Auletta, longtime author of the “Annals of
Communications” columni in The New Yorker
magazine, spoke
about his new
book, World War
3.0: Microsoftand
Its Enemies to a
large crowd on
January 19 in the
900 Room of the
College Union.
Among the audi-
ence was_ his
daughter, Kate, a
first-year student
at Davidson:

Auletta’s expe-
riences with Gates
and the Microsoft
antitrust lawsuit,
which he covered
from gavel to
gavel, led him to
conclude _ that
Gates and
Microsoft could have settled the case years
ago with relatively little damage to the com-
pany by showing more respect for and coop-
eration with the government.

Instead, Gates displayed the same combat-
iveness during the trial that he did in an
encounter with Auletta when the two at-
tended the World Economic Conference in
Davos, Switzerland.

Upset over the tough questioning a
Microsoft executive received at a panel mod-
erated by Auletta, Gates angrily confronted
the journalist during dinner. “Before he sits
down, Bill Gates starts berating me,” said
Auletta. “T’ m looking up at this guy thinking
‘He’s nuts.’

A little while later on the same evening,
Gates grew even more furious during a ques-
tion-and-answer session when Auletta asked
him, “What do you say to people who say that

Microsoft often behaves in an arrogant 1 man-
ner?” .

“He starts sabiaidiiie’ at me,” recounted
Auletta. “He may be the richest man in the
world, but he’s crazy,” Auletta remembered
thinking.

That encounter sparked Auletta’s curios-
ity. He said he began to wonder what would
make such a powerful man feel so angry and
besieged.

He reveals his theory in his new book.

Netscape, one of Microsoft’s fiercest com-
petitors, had developed an easily accessible
Internet browsér that Gates feared would

topple his
company’s su-
premacy.
“Gates was
crazed about
that,” said

Auletta. “He was
really worried.”

So worried,
said Auletta, that
Gates and his
company began
offering their
own browser,
Internet Explorer,
packaged for free
with Windows—
two for the price
of one.

But, it began
strong-arming
manufacturers
into selling
Microsoft’s sys-
tems instead of Netscape’s. In one year,
Netscape’s share of the browser market fell
by more than 50%. Enter the United States
Justice Department.

Alleging that Gates had achieved a mo-
nopoly over his competition, the government
filed a lawsuit with the intent of breaking up
Microsoft—and crippling Gates’ hold over
the computer market. Gates entered the trial
with the same arrogance with which he con-
fronted Auletta only four months earlier.

“He basically harangued the Justice De-
partment,” said Auletta. ““To heck with Janet
Reno,’ Gates was quoted as saying.”

Auletta followed every aspect of the trail
and conducted extensive interviews with liti-
gants on both sides of the case—he event got
three exclusive interviews with Judge Robert
Penfield Jackson, who presided over the case.

Red Bikes,

from page I
from Sun bikes, a really reputable company,
with kick brakes and nice big handle bars and
seats. They’ re essentially bomb proof, but
with a lot of style.

“If people treat them right, not delicately
but not stupidly, the program will work won-
derfully.”

Pittenger emphasizes the function of the
Honor Code as integral to making the red bike
program work: “The Code is key. It’s all
about respect. We believe that the program
will work because Davidson students are
mature and honorable enough to respect the
bikes and take care of them.” And, like the
Code itself, the bike program will make
Davidson unique. “This red bike program is
’ just one more thing that separates us from

other schools all across the country” Pittenger
added.

As the big red bike debut draws near,
- students anticipate this new resource with
excitement. Just ask Lindsay Offutt ’04 if she
thinks McKeehan and Pittenger’s idea is a
good one. “The bikes will be great!” she
exclaimed.

“The red bikes will be a great new re-
source,” commented Randy Skattum ’01.
“Especially for all those seniors coming up

and down the hill to class.”

SGA President Dane Erickson ‘01 encap-
sulated the benefits of the new program to the
Davidson Community: “These bikes are ex-
tremely practical in helping students, faculty,
and staff get around campus quickly and
efficiently. However, they also provide com-
munal benefits. Because the campus is col-
lectively responsible for them, they will help
build community. This program is just one
more way that Davidson can share in a com-
munal good.”

Of course, opinion concerning the bikes
remains slightly divided. Said Hak Shin Park
°04, “Aw, I doubt they'll be fast enough,
man.” . :

But most agree that the new red bikes will
be a great addition to campus, and the coop-
eration between the SGA, Davidson Out-
doors, and the Offices of President Bobby
Vagt and Dean Tom Shandley has been widely
complemented. Perhaps only one vital ques-
tion remains: Why red? “No one goes out to
buy a red bike,” offers Pittenger. “They’re
easy to spot, and of course red is a Davidson
color.” Indeed.

To usher in this.new era of red bikes,
Pittenger hopes to hold a releasing ceremony
“probably sometime next week.” The event
should showcase notables from the local com-
munity and will no doubt be well attended

When it was over, Auletta published a
25,000 word recap of the trial in an August
2000 edition of The New Yorker, one‘of.the
longest pieces to run in the magazine in more
than 15 years. His interviews with Judge
Jackson appeared in the January 15, 2001,
edition of the magazine, timed to coincide
with release of World War 3.0. His appear-
ance in Davidson was one of the first stops on
a six-week nationwide tour to promote the

’ book.

Auletta said the government built its case
on the contention that Microsoft’s domina-
tion of the market stifled innovation in the
field. But he.contends that was a weak argu-
ment. “It’s not an argument based on fact,” he
said.

Unfortunately for Gates, Auletta said, the
defense’s case was even weaker. In a video-
tape deposition, attorneys grilled a nervous,
sweaty, and often agitated Gates for:several
hours. “His attitude was ‘Why are you both-
ering me with questions?’” said Auletta.

deposition ve a tical Sapee ee ;

essentially supported the prosecution’
tention that Microsoft was arrogant and un-
fair. The judge had no choice but to rule for
the prosecution, splitting Microsoft into two
separate companies and handing a decisive
victory to rival companies. Microsoft has
appealed the ruling to federal district court,
which will hear arguments this summer.

Despite losing the case, Gates’ attorneys
would collect close to $100 million for their
services.

“They should be sued for miipractice,”
said Auletta.

“When I look back on this dance, this
trial... I say to myself ‘Why did [Gates] not
settle? Why did he pout like a child?’”

“I came to a conclusion that I call the
‘Human Factor.’” [The defense] ignored
things like credibility, intent. They handled it
like an engineer would. And they are paying
for it.”

