DAvIpDSON COLLEGE

Complaints surface
over new parking rules

By Burcin HarDEN
Sports Editor

At its weekly Tuesday night meeting, the
SGA debated but ultimately tabled a resolu-
tion requiring all first-year students—begin-
ning with the Class of 2005—to park in the lot
outside Baker Sports Complex.

' Sophomore class president Kevin Epps
proposed the measure after working for weeks
with SGA President Joey Harris and campus
saftey chief Sam McKelvey. The trio had
considerd other options, including class-spe-
cific parking zones and the use of a lottery to
assign parking spaces, but neither alternative
proved an equitable solution.

“This resolution will make parking safer,
more convenient, and not as competitive for
the number of spaces we have available,”
said Epps. “We want parking to be a service.
We don’t want students to have to park in
Satellite and then walk to Duke.”

Satellite parking, according to Epps, is
overflowing and students are parking on the
unpaved, unlighted road behind the Sateilite
lot—a strip that actually belongs to Duke
Power Co. Mandating parking in Baker, a lot
that remains largely empty, will move cars
out of those unsafe areas.

Opposition to the proposal came from a
number of sentors. Some representatives
disliked the idea of singling out one class
while others did not see the advantage of
requiring freshman to park in a lot on the side
of campus opposite from where the majority
of freshmen are housed housed.

Epps called for a vote on the resolution, but
SGA Vice President Beth Gardner moved to
table the resolution if it was not voted on after
twenty minutes of debate. Enough senators
left, however, before debate was over that the
SGA did not have a quorum and therefore
could not hold a vote.

The senators will plan to vote on the reso- .

lution at the SGA’s next meeting, a week
from Thursday.

Epps’ proposal comes on the heels of a
town ordinance that went into effect last
week restricting overnight parking on Main
Street. The ordinance prohibits townspeople
and students alike from leaving their cars
curbside between 2 and 5 in the morning.
Violators will be towed at their own expense.

The town ordinance is designed to discour-
age students from leaving their cars parked
on Main Street for days on end, according to
town manager Leamon Brice. Without a
constant turnover, downtown merchants and
patrons have had difficulty finding parking
spaces during the day.

“Tt'appeared that a lot of the parking was
cars that never moved or would stay for
several days at a time,” said Brice. “We did
the no-parking-at-night to make sure that the
parking was not used for car storage.

“We wanted to make sure that that parking
turned over at least once a day.and make it
possible for downtown workers, merchants,
and patrons to access the parking.”

Students have complied with the ordinance

see Parking, page 6

Phi Delt prank doesn’t
make everyone laugh

By Timotuy Cook
News Editor

The library was the scene of some contro-
versy last Friday, when Phi Delta Theta prac-
ticed one of their favorite traditions. It was
late Thursday night when two unnamed se-
niors were carrying some 30 to 40 books piled
high in their arms on the stairs between the
ground floor and the second floor. The two
men then “tripped” and they along with their
books went tumbling down several steps. A
laughing crowd gathered around the spec-
tacle, which Phi Delt said was meant to be

1 _. News

Briefly

Arts & Living
11 Perspectives
13 Sports

comic relief to break the study mood at the
library.

One person who was not laughing among
those who were watching was German De-
partment Chair, Dr. Scott Denham. After the
incident occurred, he wrote an e-mail to the
president of Phi Delt, Evan Shay and various
others expressing his concerns over what he
called “an unwanted encounter.” In that e-
mail (printed in full below), Dr. Denham
disclosed his conception of what happened
that afternoon and his anger about the de-
struction of a book. —

Denham wrote in the letter that he wit-
nessed an act of hazing on a pledge by the
upperclassmen brothers. He also said that it
looked as if there were “maybe 200 books” on
the floor and that he found one book had its
cover damaged. In the e-mail Denham cov-
ered points in both the Code of Responsibility
and the college’s Hazing policy.

But, after an investigation by Dean
Marsicano and Library Director Leland Park,
the incident was found not to have anything to
do with hazing. The two students were se

see Phi Delt, page 5
also see Lhe E-mail, page 5—

Matt Whited
Members of eating houses and fraternities are encouraging the
addition of sororities to Patterson Court.

Group campaigns for
sororities at Davidson

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

High school seniors searching for the “per-

fect college” usually consider a myriad of |

factors in choosing their final destination.
One major consideration is usually the social
life on campus — including the presence or
absence of fraternities and sororities. The
Greek presence on campus can take many
forms, from Dartmouth (where they domi-
nate the social scene) to Swarthmore (where
the student body is fiercely opposed to the
idea). ;
Davidson’s own Greek system is some-
what unusual in that only fraternities are
present on campus. However, a growing
group of students is seeking to change that.
Megan Tate, a junior-in Rusk, is one of the
leaders in the movement to bring sororities to
Davidson’s campus. “The thought of starting
a sorority has passed in and out of my mind
ever since sophomore year,” she explained.
“I have always thought that the bond the
fraternity brothers have is simply amazing
and have wished to have a similar experience
for myself. ;
. “I see that bond created through the small
size of their houses and the time spent to-
gether, especially in that first semester as
freshmen. If guys can have the option to go

Greek, join an eating house, or be indepen-

dent why can’t girls have the same choices?”

Tate is far from alone in her sentiments.
“Several people are involved including
Tamsin Garner, Chiqui Sanchez-Ross,
Loucinda Pittenger and members of two fra-
ternities. Also several more have expressed
interest if not to join then to give full
support for starting a sorority.”

This group is not the first to attempt to

bring sororities to Davidson’s campus. In

- 1997, Davidson students brought the issue to
President Bobby Vagt. Vagt rejected the idea

in early 1998.

In a statement (available on the web in the
News & Events Archives), Vagt said, “It is
my judgment that the presence of sororities at
Davidson could put at risk one of this
institution’s great strengths — that is, the
unsurpassed quality . . . of the female appli-
cants for admission. Clear expressions of

concern were voiced by the Admissions Of-
fice ... Further, the overwhelming majority
of the hundreds of female students, both
current and graduated, vigorously asserted
that the presence of sororities on this campus
would have acted as a strong depressant on
their interest in attending Davidson.
“Absent these facts, simple equity would
have dictated inviting sororities to organize
here. However, we cannot and will not jeop-
ardize imprudently something as vital to
Davidson as the caliber of its students.”
Tate disagreed with the idea that sororities
would act as a deterrent to female applicants.
“Several friends didn’t come here because
there weren’t any sororities here on campus
and they wanted that sense of sisterhood and
connectedness. Sororities may not be for ev-
eryone, but they would make a wonderful
contribution to the life on Patterson court.”
She also objected to the stereotype of so-
rorities as exclusive, even snobby, organiza-

see Sororities, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Horowitz calls for free press

Are newspapers accountable for the content in the
paid advertisements they print? Conservative author
David Horowitz, president of The Center for the
Study of Popular Culture, wrote and submitted a very
controversial full-page ad to sixty-five college and
university newspapers.

News page 3

Down and dirty at Davidson

The upheaval created by the constant movement of
construction vehicles and equipment has spawned
huge rivers of brown sludge —often several inches
deep—along roads and near the tennis courts. Offi-
cials say relief is at hand, as construction will soon
wind down.

News page 4
Say no to drugs

Johnny Depp’s new release Blow was as
unmemorable as it was unengaging.

Arts & Livinc page 8

Tenure War
Students debate the recent denial of tenure for Dr.
Figueroa and plead for an explanation.

PERSPECTIVES page 11
suo

