Tue Davinsonian
| TuHuRspay,
January 25, 2001

The Doors- L.A. Woman: The final studio album from an incredible band

By THoMAS CULLEN
Arts & Living Editor

As youcan seein Oliver Stone’s movie The
Doors, Jim Morrison and Ray Manzarek were
just two guys until one day, on the beaches of
Venice, they decided to start a band. This
band was the Doors, and with the addition of
Robby Kreiger on guitar and John Densmore
on drums, they became the staple of innova-
tion throughout the late 60’s and early 70’s.

The death of Morrison is no shock to any-
one who has read about how he lived his life.
Based upon what I have read, he was always
either drinking or on drugs. Yet, in 1971, the
band was collected in the studio for what
would be their final studio album. The album
was called L.A. Woman, and itis their greatest
achievement.

The album opens with “The Changeling.”
This song is filled with conviction and funk
that is typical of the Doors. All of the Doors
songs show that they can sustain musical
cohesion while still being vastly complex.
“Love Her Madly” is a song that has a bass
line to ground the song as well as masterful
guitar playing by Kreiger. Manzarek’s key-
board playing on this song is absolutely mag-
nificent.

The best song on the album, and possibly in
all of music, is “L.A. Woman.” For most fans,
the song is incredible even before the words
begin, but as soon as Morrison utters.the first
words, everyone should know that the song is

truly in a class by itself. The song shifts from
fast to slow-with ease and pleasure. As far as
what I’ve read, this song was Morrison’s
farewell to the city that had given him all that
he had ever wanted. He left the city to go to
Paris in the summer of 1971, and on July 3, he
died, never to see his beloved L.A. again.
With that background information on the
song, and then listening to it, I find it hard to
believe anyone can disagree with my previ-
ous claims.

The song entitled “L’ America” can turn
people off with its title, but once you listen to

it, you find that it’s much like “The Unknown —

Soldier,” with its military drumming and the
way it shifts pace. The song is a hidden
masterpiece in an album filled with them.
The album closes out with “Riders on the
Storm,” and in no way could there be a better
song to finish this masterpiece. With its rain
effect and soft keyboards, the song lulls one
into a mood that only the Doors create. This
7-minute jaunt is the last song on the last

album that the Doors ever made.

Jim Morrison is the definition of rock star.
He’s better than Axl Rose. He’s better than
Keith Richards, and he destroys Kurt Cobain.
With music going the way it is today, letting
fools like Ricky Martin and Fred-Durst achieve
fame, another Morrison would surely be wel-
come. Yet, the mystique that looms around
his destructive and ingenious personality is
the best thing-about him.

You Can Count on Me tops list of storytelling masterpieces

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Film critic Kenneth Turan of The Los Ange-
les Times makes a very good point. He says,
“Because the act of reviewing is by definition
an exercise in arbitrariness, it follows that: (a)
the selecting of a 10-best list is arbitrariness
squared, and (b) the picking of a top film of
the year is arbitrariness refined to such a
purity as to be almost meaningless.”

Turan then, of course, goes on to partake in
these arbitrary acts, and so will I.

Most of the best movies I saw this year
were masterpieces of storytelling. The truth-
ful stories of Almost Famous, Traffic, and
You Can Count on Me were accessible to
everyone. And if the images and styles of
Alone/The Little Thief, The Cell, Dancer in
the Dark, and Requiem for a Dream were too
harsh for some, at least their plots and mes-
sages were clear and concise for even the
most dimwitted of viewers. Also, the beauti-
ful and exhilarating moments of Ang Lee’s
Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon made it
one of the best action films I’ve ever seen.

This is not to say that 2000 was without
films of the more intellectual variety. Judy
Berlin and The Virgin Suicides challenged us
with their haunting narratives and all-too-
familiar ideas of sadness in suburban waste-
lands.

1. The year’s best movie was You Can
Count on Me, the story of Sammy (Laura
Linney, who deserves an Oscar nod) and
Terry (Mark Ruffalo, also deserving of an
Oscar nomination), siblings who lose their
parents early in life.

As adults, they have gone their separate
ways: Terry travels the country, finding work
when and where he can. Sammy, on the other
hand, has a son and decent job at a small bank
in the only town in which she has ever lived.
The movie documents the pair when Terry
pays his sister a visit.

You Can Count on Me plays more like a
documentary than a work of fiction: I could
swear there were times when a camera was

just dropped in the middle of these people’s
lives. Ken Lonergan wrote, directed, and has
a small role in what is the most profoundly
realistic film I have ever seen. It’s as subtle,
random, funny, difficult, satisfying, and open-
ended as life itself.

2. Sophia Coppola’s The Virgin Suicides is
a sometimes funny, sometimes eerie, some-
times frightening film about infatuation, be-
ing an adolescent boy, discovering sexuality,

and our inherent obsession with understand- ©

ing. It’s not about the five, beautiful, Lisbon
girls and their suicides. It’s about a
community’s fascination — both sexual and
intellectual — with the girls and their actions.
Kathleen Turner and James Woods are chill-
ing as the girls’ misguided parents in this
gloomy, dare I say accurate, portrait of subur-
bia.

3. Lars Von Trier’s Dancer in the Dark
stars Bjork as Selma, an immigrant strug-
gling to make money. for her son’s operation.
Few movies take as many emotional and
creative risks as Dancer in the Dark and its
star do. Bjérk’s performance is one of the
best I have seen in one of the most original
films of recent years.

Dancer in the Dark is manipulative and
bizarre, but it’s manipulative and bizarre in
good ways. Not everyone agreed: Dancer in
the Dark polarized viewers as drastically as
Magnolia and Clockwork Orange did. Re-
gardless of your opinion, Dancer in the Dark
is unquestionably unforgettable.

4. Darren Aronofsky’s follow-up to Pi is
the ruthless Requiem for a Dream, an uncom-
monly subjective look at drug abuse. Re-
quiem for a Dream is a masterwork of style:
its colors, cinematography, images, and
soundtrack attack our eyes and ears and,
ultimately, our sense of decency. °

Ellen Burstyn Jared Leto, Jennifer
Connelly, and Marlon Wayans star as drug
addicts on their paths to destruction in what
Roger Ebert accurately called “a travelogue
of hell”. Burstyn and Connelly deserve Os-
cars for their daring performances.

5. Traffic is an exceptionally relevant film

about our country’s multi-faceted drug prob-
lem. Separate, loosely connected stories ex-
amine several aspects of the situation from
Mexican drug cartels, to the newly appointed
drug czar of the United States, to his addict
daughter, to a wealthy Californian drug lord.

Traffic is superbly acted, particularly by
Benicio del Toro as an honest Mexican cop.
Even more impressive is Soderbergh’ s direc-
tion, which is restrained and matter-of-fact,
allowing his film’s ideas to take precedence
over the action and storylines.

6. Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is one
of the best action movies ever made for two
simple reasons. First, at the heart of the
movie is a compelling and well-told love
story involving obsession and revenge. Sec-
ond, the film uses its action not as the attrac-
tion, but as important plot points.

The result is a breathtaking film of beauti-

ful landscapes, costumes, and fight scenes. ,

Ang Lee, who also made Sense and Sensibil-
ity and the melancholy masterpiece The Ice
Storm, again proves his versatility as direc-
tor.

7. Alone and The Little Thief are two,
absorbing, short films made by Erick Zonca,
the director of last year’s brilliant The
Dreamlife of Angels. The 34-minute short
Alone was made two years ago, but played in
this country along with the 65-minute The
Little Thief this year.

Alone follows a young woman as she first
losses her job, then her home, and ultimately

“her freedom. The Little Thief stars Nicolas

Duvauchelle as a young man who gets se-
duced into an organized crime ring. While
both films differ in subject and style, they
both document how easy it is to be pulled into
a life of crime and desperation.

8. Watching The Cell was one of the most

visually exciting experiences I’ve had ‘in a
movie theater. Director Tarsem Singh’s
mental landscapes are captivating, as is Mark

Protosevich’s script, which seamlessly com- |

bines three stories that intersect for an excit-

ing closing act. Jennifer Lopez gives a won--

derful, restrained performance as Catherine
Deane, a skilled psychiatrist who enters the
mind of a killer to solve a kidnapping.

9. Few films are as eerily cheerful as Eric
Mendelsohn’s Judy Berlin, a meditation on
missed opportunities and second chances told
through a number interlocking of stories in
Babylon, Long Island. The merrily apoca-
lyptic atmosphére that Mendelsohn creates is
one of the most unique places to which a
movie has taken me.

The characters include a teacher and prin-
cipal who share a secret affection for one
another, a struggling filmmaker, a ditzy house-
wife, and an aspiring actress, Judy Berlin,

played excellently by Radic Falco of “The

. Sopranos.”

10. In my review of Almost Famous, | said,
“Almost Famous is flawless: there is not a
moment in the movie that is out place, not a
performance that is miscalculated, nota scene
that is boring, and nota joke that isn’t funny”.
Cameron Crowe’s autobiographical, com-
ing-of-age movie is triumphant in its broad
appeal. This is amovie that anyone can watch
and enjoy, if not love.

I have chosen five runners-up to my ten-
best list. In alphabetical order, they are as
follows: Billy Bob Thorton’s All the Pretty
Horses; Majid Majidi’s spiritual The Color of
Paradise; Into the Arms of Strangers: Stories
of the Kindertransport; Robert Redford’s The
Legend of Bagger Vance; and the weirdly
hilarious and intimate Curtis Hanson film
Wonder Boys.

On a final note, I’d liked to mention Chuck
and Buck, Miguel Arteta’s story about child-
hood friends, Chuck and Buck, who meet up
as adults. Chuck has become successful in
the music industry; Buck is still a child. No
other movie this year, not even Requiem for
a Dream with its graphic ending, disturbed
and challenged me as much as Chuck and
Buck did, which I think is a testament to its
script and strong acting. I mention the film
because I think it is on to something. I’m just
not sure what.
