pat a
eh ree RP ree ae

/hat’s in name? I’m not too

crazy for some of them out there

. What’s in a name? I think there is much

iii more to aname
_ than any of us

_ could ever
imagine. Inthe
next 7 minutes
we'll take a
look at some
names’ «of
people and
groups that are
just a little odd,
maybe a little
hypocritical
and some that are pretty stupid.

Why am I writing about names instead of
the usual profound ideological insights that I
normally expound? Because I am an editor,
and that means that I am better than you.

I got on this topic today because I came
across the name of the student organization
“Davidson Students for Life.” This organiza-
tion was founded this year in response to
RRAD (Reproductive Rights Association of
Davidson). When I read the name I asked
myself, “Hey Tim! Yeah, you! Wake up!!
Why am I not a member of this group?” Iam
what you might say a “big fan” of life. I love
living and if there is one thing I hate more
than trolls it’s death. But then I realized that
it would be weird for me to join this group
because they mean life as in anti-abortion,
and I am pro-choice. Downtrodden, I de-
cided to make my own group called TFL, or
Tim for Life.

My point with this redonkulous (yes,
redonkulous) little story is that names are
kind of weird. Because if there is one thing
that lam sure of it’s that some people who call

Tim Cook ‘04

themselves “pro-life” in the anti-abortion
sense are probably pro-capital punishment,
or as I would put it, “Pro-Death.”

How about this one: my new friend
Brooks reminded me today that God is in a
way pro-choice, because in many situations
God didn’t stop people from making choices.
How do you like that one? Does that mean
that pro-choice is right because I can easily
classify God into that category?

Here’s a kind of personal one, if the one
before wasn’t personal enough. [hate it when
people call me a “Pike” because I am in Pi
Kappa Alpha. I’m a Pika, not a Pike. I don’t
care if other members of my frat around the
country say Pike. Those people are wrong.
There’s not even an “E” in Pi Kappa Alpha.
But there is an “A” and that’s why I say Pika.

You might not think it’s a big deal, but I
don’t like the association that some schools
have with “Pikes.” They are often considered
date-raping meatheads, and I am neither a
date, a raper, a meat, or a head. I’m just a
skinny kid in a frat.

Ohh! I’ve got another one. Did you ever
wonder why the former East Germany, or
German Democratic Republic was commu-

- nist? Or why Republicans favor Democracy

and Democrats favor Republic?
NowIknow that groups pick these names
to make themselves look good. I mean I
could easily call pro-life folks anti-choice or
I could call pro-choice people anti-life or pro-
death, but I am not sure they would appreciate

that. But I am not here for appreciation, [am

here for blood. SoI call out you groups, all of
you, for what you are and what you aren’t.
Let’s be realistic about what we stand for,
before we make up a clever acronym.

Yankee loss is not the big loss
for America some think

Mariano Rivera, demonstrating his su-
perhuman ability to close big games, takes
out the first three Diamondback hitters of
the ninth inning
in Game 7 of the
World Series.
Mark Grace hits
a weak dribbler
to the right side,
Damian Miller
strikes out and
Jay Bell hits a
high pop fly to
short to end the
inning.

Catching the
ball is team
leader/dema-

gogue/shortstop Derek Jeter. Raising his
hands after winning the World Series for
the fifth time in his relatively short career,
he runs to the mound to hug Rivera. Joe
Torre leads the rest of the pinstriped team
out of the dugout with the rotund Don
Zimmer straining to keep up.

Well, at least that’s what Yankees fans

wanted, and believed they were going to get

- when Rivera took the mound in the ninth
inning of Sunday night’s thrilling World.
Series finale. Fortunately, it did not happen.
That’s right, I said fortunately.

Many people were pulling for the Yan-
kees in light of the Sept. 11 tragedies. They
claim that the city of New York has been
through enough, and needs a distraction, a
source of hope, a light at the end of the
tunnel. Blah, blah, blah.

First of all, as much of a sports fanatic as
I am, when it comes down to it, no matter if
my team wins or loses I know that it is a
game (unless, of course, Duke loses to

“Mike Galdo ‘04

UNC).

And secondly, how many people in New
York are actually Yankees fans? I bet for
most of their self-proclaimed supporters,
the only games they watched all season
were played in the last week. Heck, what
about the Mets fans? How would they have
survived yet another Yankees champion-
ship? How would it have been for them to
arrive at work the next day once again
seeing the gleaming, self-assured grins of
some of their co-workers?

-l’m sorry if I seem a bit cold and grizzled.

’ Part of it is because I am an old Braves fan

whose hopes have been shattered one too
many times. When the Yankees swept At-
lanta in 1999, I nearly cried. I guess you
could say that my bitterness towards the
bandwagon, I mean America’s team, has
only hardened since then.

Now, don’t get me wrong. I don’t hate the
city of New York or those who live there
(although I would rather live in the South,
even with all of its “‘backwardness”’). But I
am not going to shed a single tear over one
of their sports team losing. I don’t want to

_ read any more articles bemoaning the Yan-

kees loss.

People don’t place their faith and lives on |.

sports. They put their trust in their family,
their friends, their God and themselves.
Leave the Yankees where they belong: sec-
ond place in people’s minds, and second
place in baseball.

I hope I have not offended any of you
annoying, I mean die-hard, Yankee fans out
there. In all seriousness, I truly respect and
marvel at your city’s reaction to the trag-
edies. But keep in mind that next season,

and every year after that, I am hoping your

team takes a big L whenever it plays.

Pro

spay, NOVEMBER 7, 2001

fessor speaks out against U.S.

campaign against terrororism

Dear Editor

I have been silent for too long. Since
September 12, 2001, I have been con-
cerned that our government would use its
military strength to retaliate for the at-
tacks in New York and Washington. I
was pleased when a month passed and we
showed restraint. However, now I real-
ize the month was not one of restraint but
one of planning. The United States gov-
ernment is pursuing a policy to combat
terrorism that is. wrong, hypocritical, in-
effective and counterproductive.

Killing is inconsistent with my un-
derstanding of the core values of Chris-
tianity and all
the other ma-
jor religions of

the world.
America is
largely a

Christian
country and
yet it is diffi-
cult for me to
see any evidence of this when our gov-
ernment uses bombs to express love for
our neighbors or a turning of the cheek.
I do not expect the US to allow the sur-
viving participants of September’s at-
tacks to go unpunished. However, I can-
not spiritually justify the killing of people
in Afghanistan in order to punish the
killing of Americans.

The first rule in making an effective
policy is uniform enforcement. As par-
ents, my wife and I tell our children what
we expect of them and what the conse-

_ quences.will be if they do not obey. We
must live up to the standards we set for

our children. If one child breaks the rule,
we must enforce it uniformly or the rule
will be meaningless. It is hypocritical of
the United States government to claim it
will fight terrorism in all its forms if the
US supports governments and causes that
use terrorism as a means to an end. The
US has a sad history of supporting terror-
ists (both ruling governments and oppo-
sition parties) who appear sympathetic
to official US policy. Our Government
has. paid and/or supported terrorists in
Nicaragua, El Salvador, Chile, Somalia,
and Afghanistan. Our government helped
train the Taliban fighters when they were
in opposition to Soviet troops. The old
saying “my enemy’s enemy is my friend”
has gotten us into many regrettable situ-
ations. Furthermore, our credibility is
strained when we say we will fight ter-
rorism in all its forms when we continue
to support a country that routinely de-
stroys the homes and businesses. of
people. Remember how shocked and an-
gry we were on September 11? Imagine
how you would feel if this happened
once a week? Palestinians have suffered
for many years and yet we continue to
support the Israeli government with mili-
tary and economic assistance. If we want
to eliminate terrorism, we cannot con-
tinue to support any country that uses
terrorism as a means to an end.
Bombing Afghanistan, and any other
countries that the Bush Administration
considers “supporters of terrorism”, is
not making the world a safer place. Has
bombing stopped terrorism? Look at a
newspaper and evaluate its effectiveness.
Anthrax threats, real and imagined, have
our country on edge. The governor of
California says one of its four main
bridges may be blown up this week. The
US Attorney General warns the entire
country of a “real and credible” threat,
. with no specific details. Our country is

too big and too free to defend from ter-
rorism. We have too many bridges, dams,
power plants, airports, cities and schools
to protect every potential target. This
mentality of fortification is the same one
that built isolated fortresses along the
west coast during World War II to pro-
tect the entire US coastline from Japa-
nese attacks. Then and now, these mea-
sures are quick ways to instill a false
sense of security. When a bully beats up
another kid, does the school condone
retaliation in hopes that all future vio-
lence will stop? If you hurt someone in
anger, will you feel safer or will you
worry that you might suffer a similar fate
in the future? We cannot prevent future
terrorism with military might.

Wher you are sick there are two ways
to proceed. You can either treat the symp-
toms or treat the cause. No one wants
terrorism to continue and the best way to
stop it is to address the root causes. Bin
Laden has many supporters and follow-
ers because they feel there is no alterna-
tive. People everywhere want to work in
order to provide for their famiHes, have
access to health care and educational
facilities, and be treated fairly. If the
United States were to declare a war on
inequities as aggressively as we are at-
tacking targets in Afghanistan, there
would be very few people willing to trade
their own lives in order to hurt the same
country that helped build the clinics and
schools in their home towns. After World
War II, the Marshall Plan converted two
despised enemies into our closest allies.
We cannot hurt people and expect them
to love us. Every bomb we drop produces
more hatred and fosters the anger that
empowers Bin Laden. The current policy
of war is counterproductive in the long
run.

We all want terrorism to end and every
country deserves the same freedom from
terror. The worst punishment we could
devise for Bin Laden would be to win the
hearts of people in Afghanistan, Iran,
Iraq and any other country where America’
has used force to inflict its means to an
end. By sharing our wealth and freedom,
Bin Laden would be a lone angry voice
preaching to an empty room. Global ter-
rorism is a complex problem and the
solutions will need to be complex too.
We will need to create policies that use
support rather than destruction to influ-
ence people. Head Start Programs in ev-
ery country. Drinking water and vacci-
nations in every village. Yes, this will
take time and money, but military cam-
paigns are even more expensive and we
have been told the Bush plan will take
many years. How much does it cost each
day to conduct war? Are there more ef-
fective ways to accomplish an end to
terrorism?

Mikhail Gorbachev, the Soviet presi-
dent who presided over his country’s
1989 withdrawal from Afghanistan after
the loss of more the 15,000 soldiers, said
“the U.S. war against terrorism can’t be
won by force and can only succeed if a
coalition forms to build a just world or-
der.” My hope is that Bush will realize
his current approach is not the right one
and will move towards a response that
will actually end terrorism in all its forms.
I do not think he is improving our imme-
diate safety and I think he.is making us
more vulnerable in the future.

A. Malcom Campbell

Associate Proffesor of Biology
Director of Genome Consortium for
: Active Teaching
