Wepnespay, Apri 4, 2001

Spy Kids features great performances, weak plot

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Spy Kids is a movie for anyone who wants
revenge on Teri Hatcher for doing those
annoying Radio Shack commercials, for any-
one who loves Antonio Banderas, for anyone
who hates Antonio Banderas, for anyone who
has warts, for anyone who is Latino, for
anyone who likes Cheech and Chong or Bond
movies, for anyone who enjoyed movies like
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, The
Sandlot, and The Goonies, and for anyone
who likes saying and/or hearing the word
“poop” (yes, that means you, Ian Nelson).

I can’t say I had the inclination to see a
movie called. Spy Kids. It took my reading
numerous, glowing reviews before I went out
and saw it. Turns out it’s the best movie I’ ve
seen in a few months.

Antonio Banderas and Carla Gugino star as
Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez, two spies who
have given up their life of espionage for
parenthood. Their daughter Carmen (Alexa
Vega) has been skipping school and their son
Juni (Daryl! Sabara) gets picked on and has no
friends. It seems all is normal in the Cortez
household, except for its Seussian architec-
ture.

Soon, however, the two are on a mission
once again, helping to recover a number of
missing agents. Uncle Felix (Cheech Marin)
comes to watch the kids while they’re gone.
(Cheech as a babysitter? Hmmmm...)

Once inside their car-plane-boat mobile,
Gregorio and Ingrid are intercepted by Fegan
Floop (Alan Cumming) and his henchmen. It
seems Floop, who uses a children’s televi-
sion show as his smokescreen, is responsible
for the missing henchmen: he is trying to
create and sell an army of killing machines
using spies. Unfortunately, his experiment
has gone awry, and Floop’s minion Minion
(Tony Shalhoub) comes up with the idea to

Gugino, Banderas, Sabara, and Vega give spirited if light-hearted

performances in Spy Kids.

make deadly robots that look like celebrities’
children, hence Spy Kids.

Back at the Cortez home, Uncle Felix and
Carmen and Juni are attacked by a group of
men in black. Carmen and Juni, still unaware
of their parents’ true identities, are directed to
safety by Uncle Felix, who himself is not so
lucky. And so, the children discover the truth
about their parents and set out to rescue them.

Yes, the plot is tired, clichéd, and idiotic.

Davidson students and faculty
participated in a unique exer-
cise in socially critical theatre
on Friday, March 30. “The
DisAbility Project: Exploring
Disability Issues Through
Theatre” premiered on the
stage of the 900 Room. Visit-
ing artist in residence Joan
Lipkin and professors Ann Fox
and Sharon Green directed the
performance. Among other
things, the show explored the
ways people perceive, react to, .
and interact with individuals
with different disabilities.

But like I always say, stories really don’t

‘matter all that much. Spy Kids is filled to the

brim with invention after invention, with
clever joke after clever joke, with shameless
pun after shameless pun. For example, some
of Floop’s workers are literally all thumbs.
And at one point the children read a book
entitled How to be a Spy written by Anony-
mous.

But beyond its invention, Spy Kids man-
ages to house what I would dare say are some
brilliant performances. The film embraces
Banderas as much as it makes fun of him.
And Banderas plays along, striking just the
right note for self-parody. And Carla Gugino
manages to come off as genuinely sweet and
caring, not easy in a film that is so flamboy-
ant.

And speaking of flamboyant, Alan
Cumming, a young actor with many notable
credits to his name, steals the show here, once
again. He was the funniest thing in Eyes Wide
Shut, and his work in last year’s Titus was
certainly the most enjoyable part of that al-
ready wonderful movie. I think, though, that
the highlight of his career comes in Spy Kids
when he yells, “Ican’t think straight enough!”
It’s that subtle, cynical edge combined witha
certain truthfulness amidst the chaos of his
films that makes Alan Cumming and his
characters so memorable.

No doubt, many adults — orI guess I should
say college students — won’t be able to dis-
mount their high horses and go see Spy Kids.
I guess that’s understandable. Spy Kids is,
after all, a children’s movie at its heart. But
ina place where everyone seems to be stressed
out, maybe a children’s movie and a dose of
stupidity is what we need most.

And I’m not talking about a dose of some-
thing like See Spot Run. If you can’t find a
copy of Half Baked or if you have time to
drive to Exit 28, spend the $3.50 and see Spy
Kids.

Grade: A-

Splang ay],

“umuo
JO UONIS BUIATT 2 SIV OU} JOT IM,

"OyLIM Jsnf ‘718A 3, U0Gg

‘UONLULIOJUL SIOUI JO} Nps UreUOSpIAep@ uNYyeW UNF eyyeyy OeUO|D

