Cha-ching? Union Café raises prices

Increase in prices draw questions, criticism from students

By Nick AsMa AND RoLanp Foss
Staff Writers

The addition of the Alvarez College Union
to the Davidson campus was welcomed by
students, teachers and staff alike. Some
changes, however, were not welcomed quite
as enthusiastically. The ever-popular Union
Café features an expanded menu, added space,
and unfortunately, increased prices.

Students across campus have expressed
their displeasure and shock over the increases
in everything from snack food to sandwiches.

“They are bordering on price gauging,
which is pretty immoral in a context like
this,” commented Matt Eble ‘04.

Many annoyed members of the student
body have pondered reasons for the sudden
change, and most see the increases as unjus-
tified. Many feel the costs of the new Union
may have played a role.

“The price for convenience should only be
so high,” noted Dave Francis ‘04.

As the only late night food vendor on
campus, many students have no other night-
time option than purchasing food from the
café. This restriction allows greater freedom
with pricing due to no competition.

Beth Daniels ‘04 expressed similar senti-
ments: “I understand that we should pay
more for added convenience, but just because
they have us in a closed environment doesn’t
mean they should milk us for every last cent.”

Many students see the increases as unnec-
essary due to the high cost of tuition already.

“Aren’t we paying enough to go here?
Can’t they give us a break to make it easier?”
commented Parker Dixon ‘03.

The apparent low cost of food preparation
further angers many students by not justify-
ing the cost hikes.

“Quesadillas cost little to make and are
way too expensive,” noted Richard Cutler
‘04.

Many search for answers to justify the

changes in price, though few can conceive
any. “If the increased prices have gone to help
fund academic programs then they are fine,
but as of now they have yet to be justified,”
commented Josh Craft.

“T don’t see how you could justify higher
prices given the current economic condi-
tions; inflation is not accelerating and the
labor market continues to weaken. Maybe the
higher prices factor in higher overhead costs
with the new
campus cen-

simple, says Terry. Not everyone wants salsa
on their quesadilla, so it’s not fair to incorpo-
rate the charge into every quesadilla pur-
chase. However, if it becomes clear a large
majority of customers do want salsa with
their quesadilla, a fixed charge to include
salsa might be instituted.

Terry insists that the goal of the Union Café
is to provide customer satisfaction while
maintaining responsible budget procedures.

A responsible
budget proce-

ter,” noted dure this year
Carlos A. was to raise
Lacayo ‘02. 4 G prices after the

One man ust because they have Union Café op-
who knows the H * erated below

ironment

truth, Richard usin aclosed env budget last year.
Terry, Director doesn’t mean they should Indeed, this year
of Axiliary Ser- : has seen the
vices admits milk us for every last “first price in-
that there were crease in the
price increases. Café menu in

“I won’t Pre- ~ Beth Daniels ‘04 three years.”
tend they didn’t Terry also
go up,” said clarified that no
Terry. one but the Col-
However, lege _ profits

Terry asserted, all the price increases are
justified because a corresponding increase in
either quantity or quality resulted in the par-
ticular products which saw price increases.
For example, hot dog prices went from
$1.30 last year to $1.95. However, this year’s

dogs are bigger and are significantly better in

quality. The price raises in the chicken sand-
wiches are due to the fact that this year’s
chickens are “whole muscle-“ not the pro-
cessed patties they were last year. The quar-
ter-pound hamburger price raise of 10 cents
seems modest when considering they are no
longer pre-frozen, but are made fresh.
Perhaps the loudest outcry has come up in
protest of the cost of 80 cents for salsa with a
quesadilla. The rationale for the charge is

from Union Café budget profits. He and the
rest of the Café management do not gain
incentives for reigning in large profits.

“I never expect people to be 100% satis-
fied,” Terry explained.

However, Terry is trying to make the Union
Café a more flexible and convenient place to
eat. Included in recent initiatives to achieve
this have been an expansion of serving times .
and an increase of 30 cents in the meal plan
allowance to $4.85. Both these improvements
over last year cost money.

Terry urged those customers who protest
the Union Café’s prices to compare the prices
to such places as convenience stores or to talk
to Gray Patterson ‘03, SGA Auxiliary Ser-
vices liaison.

Dean Rusk Program to host author William Schulz
Executive Director of Amnesty International-USA will speak later this month

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

With the September 11th tragedy and its

aftermath still affecting our lives and hearts,
some might consider this a particularly im-
portant time for talk of human rights.

For those who do there will be a free, public
talk held on Tuesday, October 23 at 7:30pm
in the Love Auditorium of Chambers. Dr.
William F, Schulz, the executive director of
Amnesty International USA, will be speak-
ing about his new book, Jn Our Own Best
Interest: How Defending Human Rights Ben-
efits Us All (Beacon Press; April 13, 2001;
$25.00; 256 pages) and holding a book sign-
ing.

This presentation has been organized by
Davidson’s Dean Rusk Program and co-spon-
sored by the school’s chapter of Amnesty
International and the Charlotte World Affairs
Council.

Dr. Schulz has been the executive director
of Amnesty International USA since he was
appointed in 1994, Schulz is an ordained
Unitarian Universalist minister and, from
1985-1993, served as the president of the
Unitarian Universalist Association of Con-
gregations (UUA). Traveling extensively
throughout the world, Schulz advocates a
wide spectrum of national and international

social justice causes.

In the United States he has been outspoken
in supporting women’s rights, gay and les-
bian rights, and race relations. To support
these causes he has actively organized and
participated in many demonstrations.

He has also written about these causes.
Schulz has served on numerous boards, in-
cluding People for the American Way, the
Council of the International Association for
Religious Freedom, Planned Parenthood Fed-
eration of American, and Americans United
for the Separation of Church and State.

Schulz also currently holds the position of
Chair of the Board of the Meadville/Lombard
Theological School and is a member of the
International Advisory Committee for the
Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Award.
Schulz has appeared on many TV and radio
shows, including “60 Minutes,” “20/20,” and
“All Things Considered.” He has also writ-
ten several books preceding the one which he
will be discussing, among these Finding Time
and Other Delicacies, and Transforming
Words: Six Essays on Preaching.

With his most recent work Schulz strives to
make human rights a personal thing for ev-
eryday Americans in arguing that foreign and
national human rights issues affect our
nation’s security, economy, environment, and
public health.

According to Schulz, “Whether it be war
and peace, international trade, economic
growth, the security of jobs, the state of our
environment, the public health, the interdic-
tion of drugs, or a host of other topics, there
is a connection between Americans’ own
interests and international human rights.”

He addresses issues like the prison condi-
tions in the U.S., the spread of dangerous
viruses around the world, the environmental
detriments caused by nuclear fuel leaks in
Russia, and the U.S. economic effects of the
systemic corruption occurring in the Far East.
Today it’s more obvious than ever to Ameri-
cans the effect other countries can have on
our home soil; Schulz brings the consequences
of human rights infringements to the home
front as well.

Sara Cromwell ’02, the president of
Davidson College’s chapter of Amnesty In-
ternational, asserted that Dr. William Schulz’ s
visit is. “hugely important” to the group be-
cause “‘it raises amnesty’s profile on cam-
pus.” She hopes that there will be high atten-
dance for the talk, not only by Davidson
students but from the wider community as
well, Amnesty International supplied some

of the funding for the event, although the

Dean Rusk Program actually was in charge of
bringing Schulz to campus.
Dr. Homer Sutton, Interim Director of the

Dean Rusk Program, shared Cromwell’s en-
thusiasm for the upcoming lecture. When
asked what prompted Dean Rusk to approach
Schulz about speaking, Sutton replied, “We
wanted to focus on humanrights and humani-
tarian assistance during September and Octo-
ber, and Amnesty International was a natural
choice.

“With Kevin Bales speaking on contempo-
rary slavery on September Sth, Will Coley on
asylum-seeking refugees on September 24th,
and Rashid Khalikov on the Humanitarian
Assistance efforts of the U.N. (November 1),
we wanted to include Amnesty in that sched-
ule.”

The Charlotte World Affairs Council is
also co-sponsoring the event. They are as-
sisting with some of the travel costs and will
be hosting, along with Dean Rusk, aluncheon
in Charlotte on Wednesday October 24th
which will feature Dr. Schulz. 250 Davidson
alumni have been invited to that luncheon
including guests of the CWAC.

If you are interested in joining Davidson’s
Amnesty International, the group holds meet-
ings every Sunday night at 8:30pm in room
302 of the new Union. The group focuses on
letter writing campaigns to aid foreign gov-
ernments, free prisoners and help those op- -
pressed both at home and abroad.
