One of the most important principles of
journalism is to speak for those who have no
voice, and to hold the powerful accountable.
As a guest lecturer, Dan Flynn had an impor-
tant kind of power. At an institution of
higher learning, Mr. Flynn’s power, how-
ever, was not a unique kind.

It is for this reason that my article (“Flynn
crusades against convicted ‘cop killer’”)
focused mainly on the student response to
Mr. Flynn’s exercise of power. It is also the
reason why the story, and indeed the first
paragraph, focused on the one party in this
case who had no voice: slain Police Officer
Danny Faulkner.

In this case the journalist’s guiding prin-
ciple, the search for truth, happens to coin-
cide with Mr.

A news writer responds:
reactions to Flynn article

by a controversial event, an unprecedented:
event my short tenure here, I sought to
capture every detail I could about student
response to Mr. Flynn’s lecture. If Ms.
McKinley objected to inclusion of some of
these details—as is her right—because they

were inaccurate, I can only heartily dis-

agree. But, if she objected to their inclusion
because of their nature as provocative, then
I can only say that this is precisely how I
would seek to fulfill the journalist’s search
for truth.

Please do not get me wrong. I believe that
the journalist has to separate fact and opin-
ion, for sake of integrity and responsibility.
If my article portrayed Mr. Flynn as a con-
troversial figure, it also provided enough

information to

Faulkner’ s voice.

allow the reader

By seeking out
the truth fairly
and honestly—
whether it means

But, if she objected to their inclusion be-
cause of their nature as provocative, then I
can only say that this is precisely how I would
seek to fulfill the journalist’ s search for truth.

to determine if
the controversy
was warranted.

You will

that Mumia Abu-
Jamal is guilty or
not—we best honor Danny Faulkner.

Now, before I go farther I would like to
make myself clear: the article was neither
intentionally nor subconsciously biased. I
‘had neither formed an opinion about Mr.
Abu-Jamal’s guilt nor was I convinced—by
either side—during the course of Mr. Flynn’s
lecture.

Many have complained about a perceived
bias, including a perspective piece written
by Erin McKinley ’01 and published in
these pages two weeks ago. I would like to
address these concerns.

The news writer’s job, I believe, goes
beyond listing facts or statistics and occur-
rences. Any good news story will also have
acertain amount of analysis. To convey the
truth, the whole truth, about the news the
journalism must capture the subtly nuanced
details of an event, or an impassioned
speaker.

This is perhaps the journalist’s most diffi-
cult task: to balance the needs of the audi-
ence for the ‘subtle truth but leave the reader
to form their own judgments. If Ihave failed
in this, I apologize.

Allow me; though, to respond to some of
Ms. McKinley’s comments. In my rush to
capture the uproar of political fervor caused

please note that
|

I also wrote the
box that ran beside the article (“Two Sides to
Every Story”) which presented a few of the
arguments of both Mr. Flynn and his oppo-
sition. I also included Mr. Flynn’s
counterarguments. The facts, in effect, got
both a direct and cross-examination.

It is outside the purview of my writing
responsibilities, but I believe that the box
should have received the same prominence
as the initial news article. (It followed the
story on page 5.)

In the interests of fairness and impartial-

ity, however, the article should not have run
without perspectives from the groups that
sponsored Mr. Flynn’s visit to campus. Ef-
forts were made to get comments, but the
time restraints imposed on both a weekly
college newspaper and a busy Davidson
student unfortunately prevented it.

In short, I stand by both the facts presented
in the article and.my analysis of Flynn’s
presence on campus. My characterization
of the event was honest and fact-based.

However, my article may have been writ-
ten in sucha way that would preclude certain
reader’s viewpoints and for that I apologize.

Brent Byars ‘04
Staff Writer

The Davideonian

e?@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Eprrors-in-Cret”

belies Mosikosks-

romp hitin “ “
Pat a

_ Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
y *Reter Clark
“David? ohnston
“~ Anna Ryanvig

V4 Lupin

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

" Wanvestay”
APRIL 25, 2001

New leaders encourage

reflection on Honor Code

Just before spring break, we had the good
fortune of being elected Chair and Secretary

‘of Davidson’s Honor Council. We’re hon-

ored that the members of the Council have
placed their confidence in us, and thrilled to
serve the College’s great, long tradition of its
Honor Code.

Certainly, our first priority will be con-

‘ducting hearings in a thoughtful, thorough

and impartial manner. Our outgoing Chair
and Secretary—Justin Perkinson and Lee Ann
Petty—did this well; we thank them for their
example.

However, beyond hearings, this year our
emphasis will be in positioning the Honor
Council to better fulfill its responsibility of
promoting understanding, discussion and
critical thought of the school’s Honor Code.
To this end (as you see elsewhere in this
week’ sedition of The Davidsonian), the Coun-
cil has crafted an ambitious set of initiatives.
In implementing these initiatives, the Coun-
cil is organizing into active committees and
chartering a student organization to help en-
act these plans.

We are asking every member of the Honor
Council to devote more time to their work as

Honor Council members then in previous
years. The school’s Honor Code is the most
sacred of its institutions; of all people, the
elected members of the Honor Council must
provide the leadership to sustain its vivacity.
Concurrently, we ask that you—whether
student, staff or faculty—also embrace our
vision of constant reflection about the Code.
We ask that you question applications of the
Honor Code in its everyday use; we encour-
age open debate and the resolution of any
uncertainties you may have. Above all, we
ask simply that your everyone “talk about

_ the Code.

The Honor Code works well here, but it
will never be perfect. Davidson can get closer
to perfection if we all talk and think more
about the Honor Code; we hope you’ ll agree.

Thank you for your support of Davidson’s
Honor Code; please let us know if you ever
have questions or comments about what we’re
doing.

Will Parker ‘02,
Chair of the Honor Council

Tara Davidson ‘02,
Secretary of the Honor Council

Cohen’s speech misjudges perils, promises

In his well-delivered speech to a large
audience in Love on April 21, William Cohen,
the three-term Republican Senator from
Maine and President Clinton’s last Secretary
of Defense, was long on sketching the “per-
ils” and short on elucidating the “promises”
of a new world.

He was correct in mention-
ing the nationalist sensi-
tivities of Russia and
China as the United

build it, it will work. The technology is not on
the horizon. (Not to mention the prohibitive
budgetary and diplomatic costs of pursuing
such a system.) There is no chance that a
multilayered defense system with a broad
reach can be in place by the end of this
decade. It, in fact, surpasses-rocket science in
complexity. This dismal fore-

cast also applies to the
most advanced theater
systems based on ships

States engages them in
negotiations to work
out differences. At the
same time, he insisted
that the Hegemon’s
(that’s us) military
“domination” over all
lesser powers must be
assured in order to
protect and _ project
America’s national inter-
ests. .

However, he offered remarkably little in«**‘

the way of a critique of the large and expen-
sive weapon systems that drive the budgets
and missions of the four armed services some
12 years after the Berlin Wall came down and
the Cold War ended, and that keep the Penta-
gon budget at the $300 billion level. It is to the
credit of the Bush Administration that it is at
least attempting, in a “bottom up” review, to
adapt the roles of the military to meet per-
ceived new threats before submitting to Con-
gress a Department of Defense budget for
fiscal year 2002.

Alas, both the old regime and the new
continue to tout some version of a national
missile defense (NMD) system. Quite sim-
ply, this is a “field of dreams” notion—if we

to defend against me-
dium-range missiles.
An ROTC cadet
asked Cohen a percep-
tive question about
NMD, drawing atten-
tion to the symbiotic
relationship between
_offense and defense in
regard to weapons that
can be delivered
intercontinentally. At this point, Cohen cited
‘rogue states” with small missile forces that
might irrationally threaten this country in a
showdown with them. (Incidentally, he mis-
represented the offensive forces of Iraq,
wrongly claiming that Saddam Hussein has a
few intercontinental ballistic missiles in his
arsenal.)

A citizen might ask, just what does a per-
meable defensive net over the United States
have to do with the new “weapons of mass
destruction” (with no return address) her-
alded by Cohen: anthrax and other forms of
biological warfare for which some 120 Ameri-
can cities must be prepared, let alone
cyberterrorism?

William E. Jackson, Jr.
Class of 1957

