By ANNA JENSEN

Special Contributer

As a Service Chair of Warner Hall, when I
attended last week’s Celebration of Service,
I found out there that 60% of Davidson’s
campus participated in service. Comparing
that to the 100% participation rate we had in
Warner Hall last semester, I thought that
seemed a little sparse. But then President
Vagt went on to explain that at a university
like Princeton, they struggle to get 10% of
their students involved in extra-curricular
community involvement.

So my question is, who isn’t doing service?
70% of women on Davidson’s campus are in
an eating house, just under 50% of men are in
one of the fraternities and we all have service
standards to meet over the course of the
semester. Assuming every member of every
Patterson Court house was involved in ser-
vice throughout the semester, as our stan-
dards aspire to encourage, that in itself should
be 60% of our campus. Do you know what
goes on down the hill when there’s not a
party?

Warner Hall has had a year that marked a
new commitment to service on Patterson
Court. Among numerous activities for mem-
bers, Warner Hall continued a spring version
of our Fall Semester Finals Candy Cane sale,
selling Candy-Grams and Flowers to be de-
livered for Valentine’s Day, raising about
$200.

In conjunction, our new exciting undertak-
ing this semester was that of assisting sopho-
more member Stepho Connolly in beginning
her newly funded service project, The 1000
Paper Crane Project. Warner Hall is cur-
rently making thousands of oragami paper

_crahes to be donated to various children at

hospitals suffering from terminal illness. We
help to continue this involvement into next
year, combining with not only the making of
oragami but also the delivery and volunteer
work at local hospitals.

Along these lines, we chose a cause for the

money raised by the Valentine’s Day °

Fundraiser and our first 1000 Cranes. North
Mecklenburg resident Edher Soule suffered
this Fall from a brain hemorrhage. Warner
Hall not only donated our $200 towards his
medical expenses, but also set up a table in
Chambers to collect donations, raising close
to another $100 in two days. More impor-
tantly, at the table, volunteers also taught
students, faculty and staff to make their own
paper cranes. We feel that the simple act of
creation is in itself not only a healing project,
but also a personal gift that reaches beyond
monetary support. The promise of 1000
Cranes indicates a miracle in Japenese tradi-
tion. The project is something that everyone
in this community can benefit from, whether
they receive a miracle or allow someone who
is suffered to believe again in one.

More importantly, we are not the only
house on Patterson Court devoted to service.
Each house has their own service chair and
service requirement and many activities go-
ing on every week. Patterson Court Council
members are involved directly in Davidson’s
community, like Turner House’s After-After
program at Ada Jenkins, or Rusk and Kappa
Sigma’s Home Runs for Habitat. Service is
also crucial on the national level, such as
Kappa Alpha and Connor raising thousands
of dollars for Muscular Dystrophy through
the KArnival and breast cancer research with
the Bosom Buddies dinner. Yes, 60% is a lot

more than 10% participation, but 60% a lot
less than 100%. Whether you’re a social
organization member oran independent, what
are you doing with your free time?.

Our purpose is to use the true story of
Sadako and the Thousand Paper Cranes to

one person to create change, and t \
that are cherished by all cultures. To help out
with the crane project, contact Stepho
Connolly, or to donate money to Friends of
Edher, contact Anna Jensen.

Kappa Sigma hosts

successful brother/

faculty dinner, looks
forward to next year

By Sam DuPont
Special Contributer

The Kappa Sigma Fraternity held their
spring faculty dinner on April 26. Approxi-
mately thirty faculty appeared for hamburg-
ers and hot dogs and to share tidbits of their
wisdom, off the record of course. This was a
very successful event as the students strive to
further their relationships with professors out
of the classroom. Dr. Malcolm Partin was
particularly jovial in his thoughts about the
occasion: “The food was first rate (congratu-

lations to the artists of the grill), the welcome
was warm, and I haven’t seen that many
dressed up students in the same place in dog’s
years.” I hope that all sentiments from the
faculty who were there are this enthusiastic,
as I know the brothers were just as apprecia-
tive of the event as Dr. Partin. Patterson

Court houses are required by PCC to host a

dinner of this sort, but after this experience it
is my contention that it should be thought of
as a privilege and nota burden. Again, thanks
to all who participated, and I hope that next
autumn’s event is as much a success.

0 wep

MONDAY

just have some fun.

and many more...
No money required!

Place: Games will be placed
throughout the campus

center
Time: 10am - 10pm

"TUESDAY

“The Last 21-year-old night
Place: C. Shaw Smith room
Time: LOpm.:*

WEDNESDAY
Outdoor movie at dusk

Interactive Games Will Be in the College Union
ALL DAY! Come take a breather from finals or

Games include: Indoor Basketball games,
Putting Greens, Pinball Machines, Video

Games, Foosball; Air Hockey, Darts,

All Events Will Be Held in the Knobloch Campus Center
Except for Senior Class Party

with Troutman & the New Majic Band

This event will feature the musical

Prof. Milton Crotts and the Music

Senior Class Party featuring Right On!
Place: behind senior apartments

THURSDAY
Cast Iron Filter

Place: C. Shaw Smith room
Time: 10pm

FRIDAY
Senior Soiree

talents of seniors from the
Class of 2001

Place: C. Shaw Smith room
Time: 8pm

This event is sponsored by
Department

SATURDAY

Time: 10pm - 2am

