Choir and orchestra give lively performance of Requiem

By CoLin EAGAN
Staff Writer

It was the best possible scenario. We got to

‘ perform a requiem and no one died. The

Requiem, that is, the forty-minute, seven-

movement masterpiece by John Rutter for

soprano solo, mixed choir, and small orches-
tra.

Representing months of long rehearsals
and endless hours of polishing and posturing,
The Davidson College Concert Choir per-
formed Requiem in concert with the David-
son College Symphony Orchestra in two sepa-
rate recitals, Sunday.April 22 at Belmont
Abbey Basilica and Tuesday April 24 at our
own Davidson College Presbyterian Church
(DCPC). The Orchestra also performed sev-
eral of their own selections at each location.

‘The Belmont Abbey performance was en-
joyed by most choir and orchestra members,
as it’s generally perceived that abbeys are
cool. This one came complete with many
Brothers who welcomed us upon our arrival,
and let us sit in their garden while we were
waiting to use their single restroom facility.

At this performance, the Symphony Or-

_ chestra, directed by Milton Crotts, led off the
afternoon with Concerto Grosso in C Major
by Corelli, followed by the Entrance of the
Queen of Sheba by Handel and the Bassoon
Concerto in B-flat Major by Mozart.

The Requiem followed, which proved well
suited to the church atmosphere. The piece,
conducted by Choir Director Raymond
Sprague (Ray), was met in the end with a
standing ovation. A big deal in and of itself,
this occurrence was particularly motivating,
given that the majority of the audience was
made up of local octogenarians. Some pointed
out that they probably were just standing up
during the applause because they knew they
would have to get up at some point eventually
anyway, and just wanted to get a head start on
what might well turn out to be arather lengthy
process. Who knows.

But as the audience filed out to their early
bird dinners, some noted that several of the
Brothers were quite moved by our religious
musical selection, and had perhaps even shed
a tear. I personally didn’t get quite that
impression; at one point during the music (a
point at which I was trying very hard to sing

all movingly-like) I looked up and glimpsed .

one Brother, thinking “wow, wouldn’t it be
cool if he was looking all pensive and emo-
tional?” He was looking, all right, but at his
wristwatch.

The DCPC concert was beautiful. The first
~ half of the program revealed the mastery of

musicians in the Symphony Orchestra, who

performed and encore of Concerto Grosso as |

wellas Simple Symphony by Britten. Thomas
Bergamo’02, Concertmaster, shone on vio-
lin, as did Stephanie Corwin’ 03 on bassoon.

The performance went without a glitch,
until the last selection of the first half, Britten’s
Matinées musicales, where upon the winds

lost a bit of synchronization with the strings

(apparently because those in the back couldn’t
see up front to Crotts, who likes ducking).
This was ok, however, because the audience
really didn’t notice, probably because every
other movement of Britten’s Matinées musi-
cales sounds like some mixture between the

Nutcracker and circus music. The jovial
nature of the selection was quite amusing,
even to the players themselves apparently, at
least one or two of whom was seen to briefly
forgo his or her serious concert decorum in
favor of cracking a grin.

The second, Requiem portion of the evening
evoked not smiles, but tears. The good kind
(we think). The seventy-some-odd person
Concert Choir made a tremendous sound
with the musicians of Symphony Orchestra
who accompanied. Kristen Hillyer’01 gavea
spine-shivering solo performance (which had
tended to be a problem in practices, as the rest
of the choir was so memorized that an en-

trance or two was missed completely on more
than one occasion).

The audience seemed very appreciative,
save for one apparently roiled student ob-
server who leapt from his seat at one point
and ran outside hacking loudly. The student
was later identified to be Brian Borak’04,
who described the Requiem as “very mov-
ing.” A second standing ovation was in order.
With the accomplishment of completing two
successful ‘performances, members of the
choir and orchestra can—taking some of the
Requiem’ s own words to heart—indeed “rest
from their labors.”

‘\

Memento proves intelligent, light-hearted - but in reverse

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Before we get to Memento, a quick note: I
was going to write a review of Freddy Got
Fingered. Then I read Owen Gleiberman’ s

review, in which he says, “To raise moral-
- Objection to Green’s antics is to play right

into his hand. It would be like complaining
that a skunk sprays you; that, quite simply, is
what a skunk does.” It is the only movie I
truly wish I had not seen.

On the other hand, I was quite enthralled by
Christopher Nolan’s Memento. It belongs to
that whole group of films like The Usual
Suspects, The Spanish Prisoner, The Man-
churian Candidate, Exotica, and The Sixth
Sense. I call them Keyser Soze movies,
movies that twist around their realities and

chronologies, (sometimes) delighting and
enlightening us with their confusion and trick-
ery.

Keyser Soze movies don’ t always work: in
The Usual Suspects, the twist all but proves
the entire film useless. But in a movie like
Atom Egoyan’s Exotica, deception is not just
part of the fun; it is essential. That said,
Memento’s antics — it’s told backwards, and
its hero has no short term memory — are
simply fun, nothing more. (That’s both a
complement and a criticism.)

The argument that the backwards tech-
nique puts us in its protagonist’s constant
state of confusion is rather weak: in a tradi-
tionally told movie, we still don’t know who’s
who until.the film iets bs know, just like

Memento does.
Guy Pearce stars as Lenny, a man whose

Christopher Nolan’s new film Memento joins an elite group of movies
with a chronological, narrative twist, including The Usual Suspects

and The Manchurian Candidate.

VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP -

GRILLED CHEESE -

Bet yea \
oe

VEGGIE MELT - ~ VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE

NK SWEET PO TATO FRIES - CAE SAR SALAD

{
Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE ©
HOMEMADE sea ola ih LEMRAAE AND LIMEADE -

adn't think of us
or vereLarian fa fare!—

— 104 S/MAIW ST Davinson= Nc

VEGGIE RANCH WRAP

Me GE TABLE soup at

, eeeeneel
ene

connnennot

_--—~Eat-in Take-out

896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

wife has been raped and killed. His sole
purpose for living, he believes, is to avenge
his wife’s death. And because the movie
begins at the plot’s “end”, the first scene
shows Lenny killing his wife’s murderer, but
then again, maybe it doesn’t.

As the film moves backwards through its
story, we learn about Lenny’s condition, his
absent short-term memory. Plot hole: how
can he remember that he has a problem re-
membering things?

Twocharacters pop up time and time again,
having different motives in évery scene.
Natalie (Carrie-Anne Moss) befriends Lenny,
providing him with information on John G,
his wife’s killer. Then there’s Teddy (Joe
Pantoliano), a mysterious presence whose
involvement in the story makes less and less
sense as the film continues (i.e. moves back-
wards).

It’s Memento’s end, perhaps, that under-
mines the film the most; it usually is that way
with Keyser Soze movies. And while the
finale/beginning does answer some questions
— most importantly, it explains the subplot
involving Sammy, a man with a condition
similar to Lenny’s —it raises more. Why, for
example, is Teddy even inthe movie? There’ s
a plethora of other questions, ones I can’t
discuss without spoiling. All I will say is that
the film doesn’t give us enough information
to come any logical conclusions.

But these qualms aside, Memento is a well-
made, engaging, intelligent (there’s achange)
film. The performances, particularly that of
Carrie-Anne Moss, provide most of the fun.
What I liked most about Memento, though, is
that it doesn’t take itself too seriously. It has
a light sense of humor that is, at times, bril-
liant. In one scene Lenny wakes up in a

_ Strange room and finds an empty wine bottle

inhis hands, andhe says, “I don’tfee/ drunk...”
Grade: B+.

Would you like

to buy a
computer?

You may order a computer

through Information Technology Services from
See this web site for more

June-August.
information:

www.davidson.edu/computing/purchasing/students/

e Computers are sold only to enrolled Davidson
students for their personal use. .

e Specific information about the sales program
will be available after June 1°, 2001.

—— .

