ares ewes

: ‘Tae Davison son AN ste

Murphy djspotnted to NCAA

Management Council

By Burin Harbin
Sports Editor

Rejoice, Davidson—the Wildcats are go-
ing to the NCAAs. Well, one of them is, at
‘least.

The 12 member schools of the Southern
Conference have appointed Davidson Ath-
letics Director Jim Murphy to represent the
conference on the NCAA Division I Manage-
ment Council, an esteemed 49-member ad-
ministrative body comprised of athletics ad-
ministrators and faculty representatives em-
powered to formulate policy and make rec-

ommendations to the Division I Board of.

Directors.

“Doing the Council’s work is a very de-
tailed and participative process,” said Murphy.
“But it’s one that I’m anxious to get involved
in, not only for Davidson but for the entire
Southern Conference as this conference con-
tinues to establish a strong and respected
voice among the NCAA membership.”

Murphy replaces Appalachian State pro-
fessor Dr. Alan Hauser, who has represented
the Southern Conference on the Division I
Management Council since the Council’s

‘inception in 1997.

“Tt’s been a very interesting and positive
experience,” said Hauser. “The Manage-
ment Council has a great deal of power and
influence within Division I. This body has a
lot of responsibilities.”

The Management Council oversees Cabi-
nets responsible for academic affairs, eligi-
bility and compliance, budget and finance,
championships and competition, and strate-

- gic planning. Those Cabinets report to the
Management Council, which comes to pro-
cess all changes to the Division I manual—in
effect, the rulebook that governs all of Divi-
sion I college athletics.

The Council meets three times a year—
January, April, and October. Murphy’s term
will begin following the conclusion of the
January 2001 NCAA Convention. He will
attend his first Council meeting in April in
Indianapolis.

“T’ll be there to represent the perspective
and interests of all 12 Southern Conference
schools as we all try to compete in NCAA
Division I athletics, which itself is a very
diverse mix of schools in terms of enrollment
and resources,” said Murphy.

“He’ ll doa fine job,” lauded Hauser. “He’s
a careful and thorough worker. And he will
pay a lot of attention to the Conference’s
interests.”

Murphy, a 1978 Davidson graduate, re-
turned to his alma mater in February 1996 as
Director of Athletics following a stint as
executive associate athletic director and chief
financial officer for the Georgia Tech Ath-
letic Association. Since 1996, he has over-
seen a host of capital projects and scholarship
programs, including the Bryan Scholars, one
of the most comprehensive student-athlete
scholarship programs Davidson has ever of-
fered.

Prior to his appointment tq the Manage-
ment Council, Murphy served a two-year
term on the Division I Budget and Finance
Cabinet.

“T gained a lot of experience during that
term,” said Murphy. “With that kind experi-
ence inside the NCAA administration, I’m
confident about undertaking this new role
and these new responsibilities.”

Wuat’s INTHE HOTSEAT? Among the most
daunting and immediate issues that Murphy
and the Council will face in the coming
months is amateur deregulation.

According to current NCAA rules, any
Player who leaves college—or: skips. it alto-

on Oe eee ee ee ee eee ae

—— we we ne es ae eee oe

gether—to play a professional sport forfeits

his or her college eligibility in that sport. For

example, a high school pitcher who signs
with the L.A. Dodgers cannot play collegiate
baseball if he ever enrolls in college.

A movement, however, has arisen among
the NCAA membership to change those rules
so that an athlete can remain eligible to play
collegiate athletics even if he or she joins a
professional team before going to college.

The idea behind the movement is to en-
courage professional athletes who have never
earned a college degree to return to campus
and finish their studies. But while Division II
administrators have already approved deregu-
lation with a few stipulations, skepticism
about the proposal lingers throughout many
Division I conferences, which believe that
deregulation would only invite unscrupulous
deals between professional players and col-
lege athletic programs.

“Our Conference will need to take a really
careful look at the possible hidden implica-
tions of this,” said Hauser. “I’d say there is a
good deal of anxiety about this proposal from
many other Division I conferences.”

Stars ’N Bars. Also on the Council’s
radar darts the ongoing debate over the Con-
federate battle flag.

As a conference whose membership in-
cludes five schools (College of Charleston,
The Citadel, Furman, Wofford, and Georgia
Southern) located in states where the Confed-
erate flag remains a prominent symbol and an
intensely divisive issue, the Southern Con-
ference has become more actively involved
in the Confederate flag debate than most
conferences in the country.

“T assure you the Southern Conference will
continue to be involved as the debate moves
into Georgia,” said Murphy.

Last year, the conference went on record in
support of removing the battle flag from the
flagpole atop the South Carolina Statehouse
dome. Commissioner Alfred White notified
the South Carolina General Assembly that
the conference would relocate the 2001 men’s
and women’s championship tournaments
slated for Greenville, S.C., if the legislature
did not remove the Confederate battle flag
from atop the capitol building.

InJuly 2000, after years of wrangling among
legislators and the NAACP, the state legisla-
ture passed a resolution to remove the flag
from atop the capitol and feature it in a
Confederate memorial on the Statehouse
grounds.

The Southern Conference will go ahead
with its plans to have Greenville host its 2001
basketball championships remain and prepa-
rations are already underway for champion-
ship weekend, but now the focus has shifted
to Georgia, whose state flag incorporates the
Confederate ‘baile flag.

FoorTBaALL stupy. A study of Division I
football also has a place high on the Council’s

_ immediate agenda as the NCAA launches a

multilateral committee to study the current
state of college football. The study, due to be
completed in 2003, will consider, among
other issues, membership classification, es-
calating costs, and the quality of the postseason
experience—but will not include any discus-
sion of a Division I-A playoff.

“The NCAA study has been commissioned
to evaluate the current ‘arms race’ in intercol-
legiate football and to develop possible alter-
natives to slowing it down,” said Murphy.
“Division I-AA schools have no chance to
compete with the amounts of money being
spent at the I-A level.”

An underlying concern among Division I-
A programs is the recent increase in migra-

eee ee ee ee

. Davidson Athletic Foundation
tion of programs from I-AA to I-A. Some

administrators, including Murphy, favor drop-
ping the “A” and “AA” classifications, leav-
ing simply an inclusive Division I football
league.

Again, the Southern Conference has a sub-
stantial stake in this discussion. The Confer-
ence has established itself as a Division I-AA
leader since 1981 when the NCAA restruc-:
tured Division I football and reclassified the
Southern Conference’s eight football play-
ing members to Division I-AA. The Southern
Conference boasts the best winning percent-
age in the history of the I-AA Playoffs (.627)
and has won seven championships.

“Division I-AA football, I think, is aloom-
ing issue right now, especially for Southern
Conference members,” said Murphy. “I think
the question of where I-AA football fits within
the broad scheme of NCAA competition is a
question that will be coming up again and
again.”

Hoops REcRuITING. Murphy also will likely
spend some of his time helping to untangle
the mess that is basketball’s summer recruit-
ing season.

The NCAA wants to mitigate the undue
influence that agents, shoe companies, and
camp directors have come to impose upon the
recruiting scene, especially in the form of
financial contributions to camps and summer
tournaments.

Charged by the Division I Board of
Director’s in the fall to develop a new sum-
mer recruiting model, a subcommittee of the
Division I Basketball Issues Committee al-
ready has developed a four-pronged approach
that “strengthens the certification of summer
events, maintains a summer evaluation pe-
riod, enhances the important role of coaches
and attempts to restrict what has been called
the unseemly influences on the game,” ac-
cording to Gary Brown of the NCAA News.

But some conferences and administrators

* question whether the NCAA should even

involve itself in the situation. Some argue the
Association should remain proactive and work
tocleanup the glaring problems, while others
insist that the NCAA should not impose any
kind of oversight.

This recent work by the Basketball Issues
Committee, however, indicates that the
NCAA is, at least for now, opting to get
involved and help restructure a recruitment
program that Hauser calls “a mess.”

Commenting on the Basketball Issues
Committee’s proposal, Murphy said, “My

‘guess is that [the Basketball Issues

Committee’s proposal] will make the recruit-

‘ing process more expensive for smaller pro-
grams since we will need to cover more
ground to see the same number of high school
payers since the large summer showcase tour-
naments may be eliminated or reduced.”

ee ee ee en eee te ee ee

avs ¥ @

indoor

By] Davinson SID

Press Release

The Davidson men's track and field team
opened the 2001 Indoor Season at the UNC
Asheville Duals Saturday afternoon. The
Wildcats had 10 top-10 finishes at the meet.
Greg Scott was Davidson's top finisher as he
finished second in the 800 (2:12.4). Ben
Gaspar took home third in the 3,000 meter in
a time of 9:29.3. Also among the top five
finishers were Greg Schernecke in the 500
(4th/1:15.5), Dave Bunge in the mile (4th/
5:07.17) and the 4x400 meter team of
Schernecke, Randall Hardy, Graham Watson
and Ward Gibson (4th/4:07.6). Next up for
Davidson is the ETSU Invitational in Johnson
City, Tenn. January 26-27.

UNC Wilmington
tops swim teams

By Davipson SID
Press Release

WILMINGTON N.C. - In their first meet
of the new year, the Davidson swimming
teams fell to CAA-foe UNC Wilmington.
The Wildcat men (0-7) fell by the tally of
139-96 while the Wildcat women (2-6)
dropped a 136-105 decision.

Both the men and women could only man-
age three wins in the 13 events on the day.
Senior Kurt Hirsekorn had a dominating per-
formance in the 200 individual medley, win-
ning by over three seconds over fellow senior
Matt West. Hirsekorn notched a second vic-
tory in the 200 breastroke, with a time of
2:09.24. Once again, West followed up
Hirsekorn in that event. Junior Graham
Gravley touched the wall first in the 1,000
freestyle for the only other men's victory.

Three different freshmen earned wins on
the women's side for Davidson. Freshmen
Erin Rosintoski and Ashley Cain finished
one-two in the 500 freestyle. Cain managed a

-first place finish in the 1,000 freestyle as well.

In the 200 backstroke, freshman Sara Laws
won with a time of 2:09.29.

The Wildcats finished second in four other
events: the 400 medley relay, 50 freestyle,
100 freestyle and 3-meter diving.

Davidson will jump in the pool for their
next meet on January 27th against the Col-
lege of Charleston in Cannon Natatorium on
the campus of Davidson College. The final
home meet of the season will start at 1:00
p.m.

Coming Next Week....

A profile of new football
head coach Mike Toop

fe ema nt ae Ae ee oe oe me ne oe ne ae ae ns ee ees nee eee eee eeeeens sone
