CHARLOTTE ACTIVITIES COMPILED BY D. Lou
Arts and Living Co-Editor

So, let’s see...Friday night...What to do?
What to do? Drink? Steal golf carts?
Break some stuff? The Court? Senior
apartments? Swipe my CatCard ten times
at the Union Café? Go night swimming at
The Lake Campus?

Davidson gets a little boring, and the
surrounding towns of Mooresville and
Cornelius provide little more than a
Goodwill, KFC, and a bowling alley or
two. Fear not, Charlotte will come to
your rescue! Not really. You have to
drive down there, and then pay some
money, but here’s a quick list of upcom-
ing events in the Charlotte area.

In the theater world, Larry Shue’s
comedy The Foreigner opens at the
Charlotte Repertory Theater today. The
play will run until September 30. Ticket
prices are between $25 and $30. Visit
charlotterep.org for details.

Main Street got you down? Get out of the
Davidson “bubble”: head to Charlotte for a
shmorgasborg of great things to do and see!

Also,.the wildly popular show Blast! will
be coming to Charlotte’s Oven’s Audito-
rium on October 16-21. Shows are
expected to sellout, so buy tickets early.
Visit performingartsctr.org for more
information.

As for conerts, Jay-Z’s September 27
concert at Grady Cole still has tickets
available through ticketmaster.com.

And in the following two days, uptown
Charlotte plays host to the Queen City
Music Fest 2001. On September 28 and
29, twenty bands will be playing, includ-
ing Blues Traveler, Cheap Trick, and
Gran Torino. Passes are also valid at
several Charlotte clubs and bars for the
weekend. Visit queencitymusicfest.com
for more information.

Also on the 28 at 6pm is the Lloyds Blues

Festival, with headliner BB King. Tickets
are still available at ticketmaster.com.
Prices range from $19-$40.

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

The Deep End is a terribly frustrating
movie. It grabs. you from its opening se-
quence and keeps you on the edge of your
seat until its final moments. And then, as

‘you walk out of the theater, you realize that
the film cheats, that its thrills are momen-
tary. At times The Deep End evokes the
same emotions as movies like North by
Northwest and The Spanish Prisoner: it
surprises, scares, and finds humor in its
protagonist’s predicament. But while The
Deep End exhibits chilling sequence after
chilling sequence, it feels like each succes-
sive scene was just thrown in, not necessary
to the plot, but not completely useless ei-
ther.

The Deep End reminds me of American
Beauty. They differ completely in their
stories, but my criticism of the two movies
is nearly identical. Both films are rich in
symbolism, full of beautiful color imagery
and strong performances. Each has scenes
that are so captivating - we remember the
now infamous bag scene — that they belong
in better movies. The Deep End, like Ameri-
can Beauty, emerges as an unbalanced, al-
most superfluous. film in which greatest
surfaces only from time to time.

The Deep End offers some cheap thrills

In The Deep End Tilda Swinton stars as
Margaret, mother of three and wife of a navy
admiral. Her performance has Roger Ebert
saying, “On Feb. 12, 2002, Tilda Swinton
will be nominated for an Academy Award ag
best actress, for her performance in The Deep
End. This is universally assumed.” Her
eighteen-year-old son, Beau (Jonathon
Tucker), is having a relationship with a 304
something club owner named Darby. While
both were drunk, Beau crashed his car. Mar
garet tells her son’s lover to stay away; Darby
asks for $5,000.

Of course Darby doesn’t stay away and
visits Beau late one night. Darby is drunk
Beau is frustrated, they fight, and Darby
unknown to Beau, falls on an anchor and kills
himself. The next morning Margaret goes for
a walk and stumbles upon Darby’s body. Het
first reaction is that Beau was the murderer
and she hides the body, poorly.. The’ rest of
The Deep End involves a sex tape, blackmail
$50,000, and a mysterious man named AleK
Sperra (Goran Visnjic). Describing more of
the story would be spoiling it.

Again, The Deep End is at all times inter+
esting, and at some times fascinating. Scott
McGehee and David Siegel’s script — they
also directed the film — deals wonderfully
with genderissues. Margaret’s daughter fixes
the cars when she’s not at ballet lessons
Swinton’s Margaret maintains, to some de;
gree, a wonderfully androgynous nature
Opposite these modern women is Margaret’
father-in-law, a conservative annoyance of 4
man. And then there’s Beau: trumpet and
water polo player, high school senior, college
applicant, and homosexual. Really, he’s just
an average American teenager.

Despite all its ideas and useful symbolism
The Deep End, particularly because of itg
ending, which is both satisfying and cheap
remains just an average thriller with mo;
ments of glory. The problems, ironically
enough, stem from the film’s strongest point
its script. McGehee and Siegel handle thei
ideas masterfully, but their almost segmented
plot flaws the film. The Deep End will be
playing at The Manor Theater in Charlotta
until September 20, and will tentatively mova
to The Movies at Birkdale on the 21.

Grade: B-

Bleed American:

Jimmy Eat World’s new ako
offers “an exciting ride”

By Jeremy Hunt
Staff Writer

It’s been rather eventful year in the world
of music, if only from a standpoint of estab-
lished -artists releasing new albums. We’ve
witnessed the return of Weezer, as they moved
from a cult favorite toa
mainstream mega-suc-
cess. Radiohead graced
the world with another
genre-melting record,
mixing underground
electronica techniques
with their peculiar mu-
sical interpretation of
modern society. Fans
of dark, brooding rock
rejoiced at the sounds
of Tool’s latest work and the pummeling
soundscape that it created. P.O.D.’s long-
awaited return, Satellite, just appeared on

- Tuesday.

Why am I telling you all of this? Because
another group has recently issued their latest
foray into musical creation, but unless you’re

I’m not alone because the t.v.’s on
I’m not crazy because I take the right pills:
every day and rest

I bled the greed from my arm
Won't they give it rest now?

It’s a powerful
way to open the
album and -a
tough act to fol-
low, but the re-
maining 10 songs
are more than up
to the task.
Among my fa-
vorites are “A
Praise Chorus”,

. “Sweetness”,
“Get It Faster’, “Cautioners”, and “My Sun-
down”. Of course, the other songs are also
fantastic. These songs simply possess quali-
ties that set them ahead of the rest. “A Praise
Chorus” features the vocals of Davey
Vonbohlen of the group, The Promise Ring,

“,..a phenomenal album, filled
with songs of criticism and

hope.”

a fan of Southwestern indie rock, you may not
have heard of them. And it would be a shame
for you to miss out on this artist and this
album, because it is one of the year’s best.
The group is Jimmy Eat World, hailing from
Arizona, and the record is Bleed American.
Jimmy Eat World’s last effort, Clarity, was
put out by Capitol Records and became some-
thing of an indie rock classic in its own right.
Despite being published by a major main-

“stream label, Clarity didn’t receive much

promotional support. Soon thereafter, Capi-
tol released them from their contract. So with
no guarantee of backing from a label, the
band members continued touring, while peri-
odically returning to the studio to record what
would become Bleed American. Thankfully
for us all, the folks at DreamWorks Records
got wind of their predicament and signed
them to the roster.

Jimmy
Eat World
has put to-
gether an
album
chock-
full of au-
ditory
splendor,
ranging
from rag-
ing guitar
riffs to
soaring vocal melodies to poetic lyrics. Con-
sider it somewhat akin to moving from a
conventional automobile to one of those sci-
ence fiction floating cars: it’s an amazing ride

‘and you’ll love every minute of it:

The record opens with a bang, greeting the

’ listener with the blaring guitars and pounding

drums of the title track. It’s a biting criticism
of America’s modern culture of comfort and
greed:

and excerpts from two different songs:
Tommy James’ oldies classic ““Crimson and
Clover” and new wave Madness’ hit, “Our
House”. I must admit that I am sucker for
good rock songs that feature ““whoa-whoa”
vocals and “Sweetness” is one of those songs.
It is so catchy it’s ridiculous. Meanwhile
“Get It Faster” and “Cautioners” both utilize
interesting and creative musical motifs. “Get
It Faster” starts with an eerie bass and sound
effects intro and progresses to a solo duel
where the two guitars question and answer
each other. The interesting bass lines con-
tinue in “Cautioners”, where a drum cadence
and an off-rhythm bass riff are layered under
ashimmering guitar voice. Both “Cautioners”
and “My Sundown” feature the beautiful
backing vocals of Rachel Haden. Her voice
also graces “Hear You Me” and “If You
Don’t, Don’t”. It’s the almost worth the price
of the record
just to hear
how _bril-
liantly she
accents
songs.

As an
added _ bo-
nus, the CD
is enhanced
with a link
to a secret
website
where you
can download video footage and a demo of
one of the album songs. If you want to check
out their sound before you buy it, you can
download the title track from mp3.com. All
in all, Bleed American is a phenomenal al-
bum, filled with songs of criticism and hope.
But don’t take my word for it - check out.
Jimmy Eat World for yourself as soon as you
have a chance.

Rating: 5 turntables (out-of 5)
