Offensive power helps baseball win series over V.
Wildcats take two of three games to keep postseason hopes alive 3

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

The baseball team took the trip up to rural
Lexington, Va., this weekend for three games
with VMI.

The trip proved a success as the Wildcats
took the first two games 8-7 and 17-4, before
running out of offense and losing the final
game 8-2.

The wins put the team in position to make
arun at the eighth and final Southern Confer-
ence tournament spot.

Ranked eleventh
entering the weekend,
Davidson (9-15 in
SoCon) needed to
string together some
conference wins and
VMI, last in the con-
ference, looked to be
the easiest place to get

Davidson 8

Davidson 2

them.

But the Keydets (4-14 in SoCon) were
resilient in each game, refusing to throw in
the towel on a hopeless season. The two wins
were hard-earned for Davidson.

In the first game, Davidson jumped out to
a 7-0 lead after three innings, behind a flurry
of RBI singles and a pair of sacrifice flies.

VMI battled back against Wildcat starter
Jeremiah Parvin, scoring single runs in the
third and fourth innings.

In the fifth, after a rare walk by Parvin, the
Keydets bashed back-to-back doubles and a
two-out RBI single, scoring three more runs

and pulling within two at 7-5.
Davidson got its final run on a costly error

. by the VMI shortstop on a short fly to center
. Off the bat of Dylan Deal, which allowed

Billy Ryan to score from first base.

Inrelief of Parvin, sophomore Andy Demko
gave upahome run inthe seventh and another
run in the eighth on a bloop single, and the
Wildcats suddenly clung to a single run lead
8-7.

But junior slugger Tim Frend took over on
the mound in the eighth, ended the threat, and
retired the side in the ninth for his fourth save.

Parvin (3-3) earned the victory after pitch-
ing five innings and allowing five runs on
nine hits and three walks, while striking out
three. Stroker paced the Wildcat offense with

three hits, extending his hitting streak to 15

games.

Rescheduled into a Sunday doubleheader
afterrain early Saturday, game two was worth
the wait.

Davidson posted a season high 17 runs
behind a season-high five home runs in crush-
ing the defenseless Keydets 17-4.

As they did in the first game, the Wildcats
came out swinging, posting nine runs through
three innings. The production came from an
unlikely source.

Co-captain Cassidy Lundin came out of
nowhere and smacked the second pitch of the
third inning over the right field fence for his

first career homerun after 424 at-bats as a.

Wildcat.
VMI mounted a small comeback in third
inning off of sophomore Derrik Wolpert.

Wolpert did not last long, leaving after the
third with elbow pain.

Ina sling on Monday, Wolpert was unsure
of the extent of his injury.

- “Thaven’t gone to the doctor yet, and once
I do, we will go from there, but right now, I
don’t know,” he said.

The loss of their most consistent pitcher for
any amount of time cannot help the Wildcats’
playoff run.

Mark Wells filled the immediate void left
by Wolpert. After giving up a run in the fifth,
he shut down the Keydets. Wells (3-5) gave
up only two hits, no walks and the single run
in his best outing this year.

The Wildcats tacked on eight insurance
runs, four each in the sixth and eighth innings,
behind Billy Ryan’s first two homers of the
season.

Lundin’s second home run on the day fol-
lowed Ryan’s second one, capping an explo-
sive offensive spectacle. Frend and Ryan
each had four RBIs for the victorious Wild-
cats.

Co-captain Wes Self took the hill in the
third game, hoping to capitalize on some
more Wildcat offense. But once again, he was
offered little support by Davidson’s fickle
bats.

A sacrifice fly plated the first Keydet run in
the first inning, but Davidson capitalized on
an error in the second to score a run as well,

tying the ball game at 1-1. Self fell apart in the
third after a two-out error that led to a three-
run home run and a 4-1 VMI lead.

After four innings, the Keydets had thé
game in control and brought in Phil Hendrix,
the pitcher Davidson Head Coach Dick Cooke
said was, “their best arm.”

Hendrix, a sophomore right-hander, has —
not given up a lead all year, and has appeared

. in all of VMI’s wins this season.

Davidson managed to put up only one run
against him, and was disastrous in the field,
resulting in the 8-2 loss.

One bright spot in the game came when
junior outfielder Steve Aldrich slapped a.
double down the left field line for the first
extra base hit of his career.

Cooke was pleased with his team’s perfor-
mance in the first two games.

“We played flawless defensively the first
two games and just didn’t play as well in the
field the third game, which hurt us,” he said.
“They pitched pretty well the third game. We
had no errors in the first two games, and
simply made plays when we needed to. Our
pitchers threw strikes, and we made plays.
VMI hit well enough, and when they give a
game to Hendrix, they are tough.”

Davidson will continue its drive for the
tournament this weekend in a crucial home
series against Wofford (7-10, seventh in
SoCon).

the Southern Conference Tournament.:

Park, in Charleston.

Staff Writer
The focus of the baseball team at this point in the season is always the race for a spot in

Of the 11 teams in the conference, only the top eight make it to the tournament.

After a winning series over VMI last weekend, the Wildcats have climbed into the ninth
spot in the conference, but are only a few percentage points out of the eighth spot, which they ©
need to secure in the next few weeks if they want to make it to the tournament.

The tournament will be played from May 16 to May 20 at The Citadel’s home field, Riley

Standard double-elimination narrows the eight-team field to two, one from the winner’: s
bracket and one from the loser’s bracket, for a Saturday championship.
If the team from the losers’ bracket wins then, they will play a final game on Sunday.

The winner of the tournament must play a mini-
mum of four games in four days, but can play as
many as six games in five days.

It’s obvious that the team that wins will have to
have an extremely deep pitching staff to survive the
week.

After the five-day tournament, regionals compe-
tition starts the following Thursday on May 24.

As Head Coach Dick Cooke explains, the South-
ern Conference teams always have their sights on
regionals,

“Coaches in the Southern Conference know that
baseball in the conference is very good, and they
expect to play well in the regional tournament and
do some damage,” he said. “The goal. for most
Southern Conference teams is not to win the confer-
ence, but to do something after that in regionals. The
regional championship is not out of reach for any
Southern Conference team.”

Any SoCon champion will be a contender for
regionals. Most notably, The Citadel made it to the
College World Series in 1990 after winning the
SoCon and the regional tournament. UNC Greens-

#7 Wofford
Greensbor@
#8 College
(4-14, .222

#5 Furman (13-10, .56€

Carolina (13-10, .565)

#9 Davidson (9-15) has a winning percentage of 375

Are playoffs in the mix for baseball team?
Wildcats look for wins in final weeks to shore up eighth seed

By Hinps. Howarp

boro has made a few runs in the regional tournament as well.

For Davidson, however, the goal is to reach the tournament. The seedings will be
complicated this year, because some teams will not play the full amount of conference games.

VMI and Wofford have had several games rained out, and Appalachian State and the
College of Charleston had an entire series snowed out last week.

The seedings are based not on wins, but rather winning percentage. This gives a clear
advantage to the four teams in the conference that won’t play as many games as the others.

While VMI (4-14) will not factor into the final seedings, teams like Wofford (7-10) and
College of Charleston (8-12) could finish ahead of Davidson with fewer wins. Traditional
powerhouses like The Citadel and UNCG should be near the top, but the lower seeds are

extremely close in percentage points.

Davidson has not fared well in the tournament over the years. Last year’s Garly exit after
losses to UNCG and The Citadel have become standard for the Wildcats.
When asked what it takes to win at the tournament, Cooke responded, “You have to be
firing on all cylinders. Pitching depth is a major
| 2001 SouTHERN CoNFERENCE BASEBALL TOURNAMENT | factor. If you lose a game, you are going to have to
play six games in four days to win it all, so you have
to get innings from your pitchers.

You have to be in good enough condition as a
team to where you can potentially throw a guy on
twodays rest. Whoever is in the winners bracket that
final day is going to have an advantage in that they
will only have played three games. But as we saw
last year when Furman made a run, anything is
possible. If we can have everything come together
for us, we could be a threat in the tournament.”

Optimism can only get you so far, and with the
recent injury to pitcher Derrik Wolpert, the Wild- :
cats are surrounded by huge question marks as to

whether they will even make the tournament at this
point.

Only time will tell, andasa fourth- ranked Furman
team showed last season with an unexpected run to
the tournament final, anything is — in South-
ern Conference play.

