’ By MARTHA Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

Hello again, my fellow insomniacs. Can’t
sleep? Can’t study? You’ve chosen the per-
fectantidote to your problems (wait a minute,
I think Ijust shot myselfin the foot... as in, this
article will put you to sleep or bore you so
much that homework will look FUN).

Strike that last statement. What I was at-
tempting to say was... well, forget it. I’llleave
my words open to interpretation. Besides,
I’mwasting space. Let’s cut to the chase: I’m
so glad you’re here to meet this week’s victim
(um, subject), the third in my series of ran-
dom interviews.

For those of you who have been griping
ever since I interrogated TWO male sopho-
mores in a row, this one’s for you. And for all
you girls on 1" Belk: thought you knew every-
thing about your hall counselor, did you?
Well, keep reading - IbetI’ve got some dirt on
this girl even you didn’t
know about.

Ever met someone whose

room just radiates her per-
sonality? Welcome to Belk
113, home to Carrie Frazier
(and her roommate of
course): acolorful haven of
stuffed animals, fluffy com-
forters, and a bubbling
fountain (which used to
work but died a little while
ago. It still looks cute on the
shelf. )

On Sunday evening I sat
down on an oversized sofa
beneath one of the lofted
beds, and looked up to see
twinkling Christmas lights ©
lacing the bedframe above me. Those, com-
bined with music serenading me in the back-
ground, made me feel that somehow I had
stumbled upona secret Strawberry Shortcake
Land...

Me: Hey Carrie. Thanks for letting me
interview you - this is an awesome room. So,
you're a junior... what’s your major?

Carrie Frazier: I’m doing psychology. I
used to want to do special needs teaching.
Yeah. Now I have no direction whatsoever.
Maybe I'll go to graduate school, and then get
a private prac-

Carrie Frazier ‘02

he wor

not then, not now. Rainbow Brite, CareBears,
My Little Pony... I definitely had a horse
phase, and I’m positive MLP started that. I
still have my teddy bear (pulls down worn,
gray bear from bed)... he’s called “Heart-to-
Heart Bear” and I’ ve had him since I was five.
You hold him close and you can hear his
heartbeat.
MH: How cute! If you could relive

ing

MH: Whoa. That sounds rather traumatic.
Let’s change the subject to something a bit
more uplifting: would you rather do a hot-air
balloon ride or skydive?

CF: I'd love to go on a balloon in Ireland -
low enough to see the sheep grazing, of
course. I’d go skydiving with my mom, but I

arrie Frazier

I’ve ever known. I’d wear sweatpants every
day in Chicago. My favorite outfit is some-
thing huge and baggy, like wigwam socks
and a sweatshirt.
MH: Here’s a clincher: Delilahs or Gener-
als?
CF: What about Androgyny?
MH: Well, everyone likes An-
drogyny. There’s no conflict there. But

any moment/period in time, what would
you pick?

CF: I wouldn’t mind reliving 5"
grade. I was obsessed with 5" grade - I
had SO much fun. Those were some
fun times.

MH: So, how’s the hall counselor
job?

CF: I love it. I can’t even decide
what the best thing is; the girls are great. We
have a great dynamic. And I have a great new
roommate. I studied abroad in the spring of
my sophomore year so that I could do this job
my junior year. I was in
Tours, France - anightmare,
but my heaven in retrospect.
I changed so much. I
wouldn’t do it again but ’'m
glad I was there when I was.
It’s amazing to see where
it’s taken me.

MH: If you could change
anything about Davidson,
be it psychological or physi-
cal, what would you do?

CF: No homework!
(laughs) Also make all tests
based on notes. I like going
to class, but reading outside
of class - don’t like it.

MH: If you could do any-
thing without failing, what
would it ‘ be?
CF: I'd be a hip-hop dancer, and I'd be good.
I won’t embarrass myself further. (laughs)

MH: OK, you have a choice: shave your
head or wear false redneck teeth for a week.
Which will you pick?

CF: I think I'd shave my head. I’ ve got the
biggest head of anyone around and it would
be funny to see it without hair. And you
know, when it’s shaved, you can see if there
are any weird spots or stuff like that. Yeah,
that would definitely be fun.

MH: I think a lot of people would go for the

_ Shaved-head

Bill Giduz

tice. —— look. So, do

MH: Hmn, . . . ou like
that. “sounds I grew up in a suburb in Chicago, but  stlegékaiee ot
cool. Where home is definitely Atlanta... all those rollerblades
are you from? southern roots. better?

CF: Atlanta. CF: Me
lewnp ii. I as wearing shoes
suburb in Chi- . with wheels is

cago, but home is definitely Atlanta... all
those southern roots. ae

MH: If you could pick any place to live

-after college, where would it be?

CF: Oh man - right now, probably Ireland.
I’m definitely obsessed with Ireland. I’m
dying to go there. I even have a brochure - see
all the green grass and sheep? Sheep are very
exciting to me. I’m part Irish, so that may
have something to do with it.

MH: If you could have any job once you
graduate, what would you choose?

CF: (thinks for a bit) A schedule where I
lead worship music on the weekends and play
during the week would be great. I’d love to
organize service projects too.

MH: What was your favorite TV show as
a kid?

CF: I used to come home after school and
watch Oprah. I hated my school cafeteria and
avoided it at all costs, so I’d go home, eat
lunch, watch Oprah, and then fall asleep until

_ dinner.

MH: Can you think of any of your favorite
toys from when you were little?

CF: Oh yeah. Nothing to do with Barbie -

a bad idea in the first place. My mom would
love it if I said rollerskates... her dream is to
go to a mall parking lot at night and skate all
over the place.

MH: If you were sent to a deserted island
with all the necessities for existence, what
one extra thing would you take along?

CF: Ah. No contest there - a huge feather
comforter. A comfy bed is a fairly large part
of my life.

MH: What’s the dumbest thing you’ve
ever done?

CF: Hmm, that’s a hard one. (thinks, then
the light comes on) Oh my GOSH, something
so bad. I can’t believe this. I was in 7" grade,
going toa dance at school. It was over Christ-
mas break, so my grandfather was in town -
he was formerly a Baptist minister. Yeah. So
I’m standing in front of a mirror, looking at
myself all dressed up, and I wanted to say that
I looked horrible. I said something else - I
honestly didn’t know what it meant - I said “I
look like a whore.” My brother almost fell
over, My mom’s mouth dropped, and my
grandfather wouldn’t speak to me for weeks.
It was bad..I was crushed.

We either read The Davidsonian
right away or really late. But we do
read it every week...

think a balloon would be more practical.
MH: Here is the most serious question of
this interview, so think carefully before re-
sponding: if you were a hotdog, and you were
starving, would you eat yourself?
CF: Well, either I’d starve or I’d start

nibbling, right? I think I’d have a struggle —

eating myself. Unless I were one of those
hotdogs with cheese through the middle. I’m
addicted to cheese. In that case, I might not
have such a hard time snacking on myself.
MH: What’s your favorite item of cloth-
ing?
CF: I am the least fashion-conscious kid

I’ve heard a lot of people trying to
decide whether the Delilahs or Gener-
als are better. ‘

CF: I started Androgyny with my
roommate, so I have a soft spot for
them. And of course I’m in the Delilahs,
so if I don’t pick them I'll be shot. The
Generals are great, too - you know guys,
they always have fun. But we girls are
perfectionists. I’m proud of everything we’ ve
done. So I'll pick the Delilahs.

MH: Wise decision, given your position.
Well, I think that’s about it. Oops. I forgot my
most important question.

CF: What’s that?

MH: How often do you read The -
Davidsonian?

CF: Oh! Well, whenever it comes, my
roommate is usually asleep, so we kick it
under the door. We either read it right away or
really late. But we do read it every week...

MH: Perfect. You’ ve passed this interview
with flying colors.

and exceedingly.

FRESH

Let's try homeparty fashionbly and have a joyful
chat with nice fellow. Fujinami’s straw will

produce you young party happily

m@aitroduce.com

