Editorial |

In light of the recent CCRL and other organization’s
deliberations and in preparation for the upcoming
campus-wide social forum, The Davidsonain would
like to address the issue of party hours.

The current policy does not
allow weekday parties to con-
tinue after midnight. Recent
efforts by campus police have
made sure this policy is strictly
enforced, but closing parties at
midnight can potentially cause
more harm than good.

When a party closes at mid-
night, usually the height of a
weekday party, students are left
with few social options. Thus,
the likelihood of students caus-
ing disturbances off the Court
increase significantly.

Closing a party at midnight does not guarantee that
student will retire quietly to their residences. Most
likely, they will seek out alternative locations, most
likely down to Martin Court or even off-campus in
order to relax or continue to party.

Forcing students to find alternative party locations
is dangerous. It is a danger to the peace and quiet
enjoyed by sleeping or studying students and it isa
danger to partygoers’ safety. When students move
their parties off camps, they are under less supervi-
sion than they would if the party reamained on the
Court, where campus police and Risk Managers can
respond to rowdy and dangerous behaviour.

Events where students cause major disturbances or
endanger themselves or others without question calls
for campus police intervention. Campus police offic-
ers are responsible for the safety of this campus and at
no time should they ever overlook a potentially harm-
ful situation. However, it is despiriting to those who
enjoy relaxing on Patterson Court to close a party at
midnight when there is no apparent danger or distur-
bance to others.

The upcoming Social Forum on November 14 will
provide the perfect setting in which to discuss party
hours and a host of other issues concerning this cam-

‘pus’ social life. And if we, as students, truly want to
make a difference in the life of this community, then
it is our duty to attend.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook ~~, Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editor
Derek Loh. ~ Tim Cook
iE _peSports Editors
_cy) | Caroline Hauser ~~ Jimmy Swansbrough
2 F Photography Eaitors,
\\ ‘Advertising & Busitiess Managers
\. “.Rick’Bold...Aaton Houck

h p://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

WIN (T TOK NOSES HO YEARS
TO LEND WIG PEOPLE out oF
THE WILDERNESS

by WILEY

NOW-2E QU. CORN

Z

states past and presen it. From its revolutionary tiona yb ise
to world hegemony, the United States has blazed an original

Partying by the book, frat-style

Weare two concerned members of Patterson Court and feel
there is a large communication gap between houses on the
court and the Public Safety office. The Red Book rules say
when we are allowed to have parties, how long we can serve
booze there and/or have it in the house but they are not being
consistently followed by the campus police.

The Davidson College Handbook has achapter that specifi-
cally deals with Patterson Court parties that occur during the
week. Rule 16 states that weekday parties must end the
service of alcohol by midnight and that all alcohol must be out
of the house by 1 am. And, it
goes on to say that the party may
continue with music as long as
the Risk Manager wants to stay
on duty as per rule 16.C.

A week ago our house was

having a party. As per rule
3.B(2), when the gathering grew
to an event over 40 individuals
we designated a Risk Manager
to supervise the party. When said Risk Manager went to the
Public Safety Office to obtain the sacred Red Risk Manager
Shirt the police were a) not there and b) when found were
unwilling to give us the glorious garment. Granted it was
11:30 or so, but in accordance with the rules we waited for 40
people, tried to obtain the shirt and should have been allowed
to party late into the night as our Risk Manager had brought
his sleeping bag. (Ok, not really)

This wasn’t to be however, as when the officers arrived at
the house at 11:50 they acted like they were doing us a favor
when they so graciously offered us ten more minutes to party.
The officer cited a noise complaint, which is curious because
we were the ones who informed them of our gathering only
minutes prior. Since we had no proof that the complaint was
false and more importantly if it was directed toward our party,
we didn’t press the issue at the time.

Butkicking us out because of noise complaints doesn’ thelp
anything. After years of service here, we are sure that the
police know by now that partiers when kicked out of houses
just wander down to the senior apartments where we wake up
God knows how many people. And then they just chase us
around, and that doesn’t solve anything, now does it?

We feel that the police are acting outside of the rules and
breaching our rights as written into the Davidson Handbook,
which we even had a copy of to show them and question their
acts when they arrived.

We try and follow the rules because we want to work with
the school. If we are doing something wrong, then by all
means shut us down. But, when we are doing all that we can
to abide by the rules, then by God let us party!

Brian Werstler, Pi Kappa Alpha ‘04
Timothy Cook, Pi Kappa Alpha ‘04

Time’s right forU.S. Exceptionalism

American Exceptionalism is a historical and political theory
that contends that the United States is unique from all nation-

trail which other nations have not been able to successfully
follow. The avoidance of a socialist state, the economic fate
of almost all other industrialized nations, is evidence for those
who advocate this theory.

In this war with Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and other
groups that harbor terrorists, the theory of American
Exceptionalism is being invoked to justify our response: But
the diplomatic and military efforts are failing to meet the high
standard that American Exceptionalism demands.

American Exceptionalism is the theoretical foundation for
the broad and unassailable goals of the Bush Administration.
On Sept. 20, in his speech to Congress, President Bush
declared the objectives of the American response. Undeni-
ably, they were noble and extremely difficult, if not, impos-
sible to criticize. Who can question “a fight of all who believe
in progress and pluralism, tolerance and freedom?” To me,
these extremely ambitious aspirations are new sources of
American Exceptionalism. What other nation has ever pro-
claimed that it is fighting for the human freedoms of civiliza-
tion, besides the United States?

While these presidential aims cannot be reviled, what
should be criticized are the common, banal and unexceptional
means that the United States employs to reach their high-
minded goals. Any country with our military might could
bomb an almost defenseless country like Afghanistan. Rather
than relying almost solely on unilateralist retaliation, an
exceptional country would actually form an international
coalition to fight the Taliban and save the starving and
desperate people of Afghanistan. Indeed, a truly extraordi-
nary nation would actually play the role of an honest broker
in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the Kashmir dispute
until the violent, and potentially catastrophic disputes were
settled. Lastly, a country without historical and political
equal would be able to recognize past mistakes and develop
new, unprecedented strategies to achieve its incredible goals.

If you are a believer in American Exceptionalism, now is
the time for our country to prove itself again. If those words
penned by our Founding Fathers really did create an incom-
parable society of freedom, liberty and justice for all, then the
words, and subsequent deeds, of America will shine through
this national and international crisis. On the other hand, if you
disavow or are ambivalent about this theory, now is a time
where your views could change. The stage is set for America
to be exceptional. For the sake of universal peace and
freedom, let us hope our country succeeds. ,

Sean Brooks

Questioning America is not
anti-American

In response to Taliban letter to editor (Nov. 1)

I resent being labeled as anti-American. Since when does
being a critic of the United States make you anti-American?
If this is the case, then I assure you George Orwell is tossing
and turning as we speak. When proposing a dissenting view
is Anti-American, America is dead. I refuse to stand blindly
behind my leader, and I find it outrageous that anyone could
even propose such an idea in this country. The notion of
trusting the government is just plain offensive to me. I believe
that is what offended Russ White as well.

I would like to remind the brothers of Phi Delt that money,
not virtue, runs this country. If it’s profitable at the moment,
they are sizing you up for star-spangled blinders. Everyone
has a duty to make sure they aren’t wearing their blinders
along with their reds, whites and blues. The point of my
article was simple, the American media will not give you the
whole story, and neither will George W. Bush.

“ternal vigilance is the price of liberty.”

—wWendell Phillips, abolitionist

Greg Harris, ‘04

