DAvmwson COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2001

Incident at SAE party
prompts investigation

Fraternity faces uncertain
future in wake of hate crime
allegations at October 6 party

By Linpy BALDWIN AND COLIN EAGAN
News Editors

School officials are investigating what they
call a hate crime alleged to have occurred at
an Oct. 6 party at Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Two students claim to have been verbally
and physically assaulted by other students at
a party.

According to Patterson Court Council Presi-
dent and SAE member Matthew Arbuckle
*02, two students, who identified themselves
as homosexuals, reported to him that while
ee ber the SAE porch during a “Tacky

THe AIDS Memoriar Quit

Party” on the night of Saturday, Oct. 6, they
were verbally assaulted by a group of stu-
dents on the porch. The pair alleged that full
beer cans were thrown at them, and said they
fled as they were chased on foot by partygoers
who had jumped from the porch, allegedly
with the intent to inflict bodily harm.

“This is a big deal and a horrible thing,”
said Arbuckle. “I have never heard of sucha
discriminatory act happening on the Court.”

The exact time-of the incident is unknown,
but the party lasted from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

The victims, both males, reported the inci-
dent to Arbuckle on the following Monday.

After hearing of the incident, SAE was
asked by school officials to turn over the
perpetrators, said Arbuckle. When unable to
do so, the house was asked to help in an

see SAE, page 3 3

The campus will welcome a powerful memorial to the Alvarez
College Union on October 26. See article on page 2 for details.

UNION DEDICATION

By Linpy BaALpwin
News Editor

The headline may seem like something
you’d find in The Davidsonian’ s annual spoof
issue, but this isn’t a joke. The College will
play host to the world-renowned Royal

_ Shakespeare Company this February.

Fifty members of the world’s leading
classical theatre company will arrive at
Davidson on Feb. 19, and will stay for two
weeks, culminating in 11. performances of a
new production of Shakespeare’s The Mer-
chant of Venice, directed by RSC veteran
Loveday Ingram. This performance will be
rehearsed and premiered in Stratford-upon-
Avonand London before coming to Davidson.
The production will be the crowning event of
the Duke Family Performance Hall dedica-
tion; the same cast and crew that performed in
England will perform at Davidson.

Carrie Van Deest ’98 is coordinating the
program, and believes that it will be extraor-
dinarily beneficial for both the college and
the community.

“This is not just a couple of actors coming
over from the RSC. This is an entire produc-
tion, a full cast, a full crew, an educational
staff, voice staff, movement staff. The RSC

College threatened with Mp3 lawsuit

By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

NetPD, a Cambridge-based consulting firm
contracted by Sony Music International, Inc.,
has accused Davidson, among other schools
and institutions, of violating the Digital Mil-
lennium Copyright Act of 2000.

John Casey, Executive Director of Infor-
mation and Technology, has received at least
three messages naming specific files that are
being illegally transmitted from the college.

To date, all reported file abuse has been
perpetrated with Aimster, a downloadable
file sharing program that uses AOL Instant
Messenger technology to trade files with
peers on a.user’s “buddy list.”

According to Casey, NetPD “assumes that
Sony has not granted the right to transmit
these works to whoever’s doing it on the
campus.”

Because of the college’s firewall, all com-
puters on the network operate under the same
ISP address. Thus, NetPD can be no more
specific that naming Davidson as the copy-
right offender.

“An institution like Davidson is not legally
responsible for copyrighted materials which
are shared from the network,” says Casey,
“provided that, when notified, we take steps
to make whoever the offending person is
cease and desist. The College ultimately has
to protect itself from becoming a repeat of-
fender, which makes all the protections of the

Digital Millennium Copyright act go away.”

ITS cannot, however, simply email the
responsible party and request their discon-
tinuance of copyright violation.

“One of the problems we have is that,
because of our firewall, everything in the
world has a single address if it comes from
Davidson College,” explains Casey. “That’s
a pretty common practice, and the idea is to
protect individual machines within the
Davidson domain so they can’t be attacked
externally; nobody knows what your exact
Internet address is.”

“Because of that, the address that NetPD
says is where these offending messages origi-

see Bandwidth, pase 3

A More Perrect Union. The new Alvarez College Union
will be formally dedicated on Thursday, October 25. See
story, page 5.

Royal Shakespeare Co.
to visit theatre next year

is basically moving in here for two weeks and
making Davidson their home. |

“The Royal Shakespeare Company is con-
sidered one of the best, if not the best, En-
glish-speaking theatre company in the
world. To have them available to Davidson
students, staff and the larger Davidson com-
munity is tremendously exciting. The last
residency the RSC did on a college campus
was at the University of Michigan, an institu-
tion with an enrollment of well over 30,000.
As far as I know, this residency will mark the
first that the RSC has planned with a college
of this size,” Van Deest said.

Naturally, said College President Bobby
Vagt, every effort will be made to take advan-
tage of the tremendous educational opportu-
nities these visitors bring with them. “We
want to create learning opportunities outside
the formal classroom,” said Vagt.

“RSC Artistic. Staff, actors, and techni-
cians will be working with students and pro-
fessors in classes in many departments,” ex-
plained Van Deest. “The education program
will also include public events like discus-
sions, demonstrations, classes, pre-play and
post-play talks. Because the RSC will be

see Shakespeare, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-7
College prepares to dedicate Alvarez
Union. See page 5.

Arts & Living 8
The Robber Bridegroom opens this
week. See page 8.

9-10

Perspectives

The plaque debate continues.

See page 9.

Sports 11-16

Men’s and women’s basketball teams
tip off season with Matinee Madness.
See page 16.

