Shakespeare, rest page 2

visiting fortwo weeks, we will plan anarray of
social activities so that the RSC can interact

_with students and staff on a more casual
level.”

These opportunities will be open to all
students regardless of major or course sched-
ule. Nevertheless, Dr. Cynthia Lewis can
expect her Performing Shakespeare seminar
to be in even higher demand than usual; two
sections will be offered in the spring.

There will also be opportunities for North
Carolina high school teachers to come and
learn from these professional artists, and visi-
tors: from the community are always wel-
come.

In addition to the artistic learning opportu-
nities, Vagt says that the college intends to
initiate discussion on the issue of anti-
Semitism, since The Merchant of Venice con-
tains a great deal of anti-Semitic rhetoric.
Students interested in more information
can contact von Deest, Dr. Joe Gardner, the
head of the Theatre and Speech department,

or Dr. Lewis, a specialist in Renaissance .

drama.

File sharing could prompt lawsuit

Bandwidth, from page 1

nated says Davidson College and no more
than that. So we have, at this point, no really
good way to determine which computers on
campus are the offending ones.”

Copyright offenders, however, should not
take this protection for granted. As a hypo-
thetical solution to impending legal action
against the school, Casey discussed dropping
the firewall for a specified period of time,
thus allowing Internet watchdogs to obtain
unique ISP addresses of computers.

At that point, legal liability would fall to
the individual user. ;

For now, though, the college has consulted
with its legal representation, the Charlotte
offices of Smith Helms.

College attorneys have advised the school

‘not to act before receiving more specific

information from NetPD, information that,
according to Casey, has been requested but
not forthcoming.

Davidson College president Bobby Vagt
outlined the administrations current position,
“We don’t have any deep-seated philosophi-
cal opposition to [sharing] audio or video, but
we care about illegal things. I understand that
students have grown up with is ‘who’s music
is itanyway?’ when it’s out there. But I think
you’ ve got recording artist who [protest shar-
ing] and, unfortunately, the law seems to be
on their side.”

At this point, Casey stresses, “Students
simply need to know that they can get caught.”

Admissions Office welcomes prospectives

By Tracy BANGHART
Staff Writer

On Sunday, October 21, 2001, close to 600
unfamiliar faces could be seen on Davidson’s
campus. These visitors, almost 250 of whom
were prospective students representing 28.
states as well as Washington DC, descended
upon campus for this year’s Discover
Davidson II.

Invitations to Discover Davidson were sent
to all “responders,” or high school students
who expressed interest in Davidson through
college fairs, online sign-ups, and other means,
according to Emma Butler, Assistant Dean of
Admission and Financial Aid, who was in
charge of the program this year.

The day-long event consisted of campus
tours, speeches by both Robert Vagt ’69,
Davidson College President, and Nancy
Cable, Vice President and Dean of Admis-
sion and Financial Aid, and lectures by vari-
ous Davidson professors.

There were also several information ses-
sions offered to prospective students and
their parents, including “Making Davidson
Home,” a panel discussion about different
aspects of student life on campus, and ses-
sions about financial aid, scholarships, and
the application process.

In addition to these features, students and
parents also had the opportunity to split up
and learn about Davidson from different per-
spectives; the students were able to ask ques-
tions of current Davidson students, while

parents spoke about the academic life at the .

college.

~Ms. Butler, when asked about the motiva-
tion to host these kind of weekend events,
replied that the admissions office is always,
in this event and in personal visits to high
schools around the country, trying, “...to

educate students about Davidson so they can
make a good college decision.” These orga-
nized weekends give students and parents a
more in-depth look at Davidson than an indi-
vidual visit allows.

In addition to the activities of the day about
140 students decided to get a closer look at
Davidson and stay overnight with hosts from
the freshman and sophomore classes on cam-
pus.

Kristine Harrington ’03 and Mark Pustay
°03, Overnight Hosting Coordinators, related
that there were no specific activities planned
for the prospectives staying on campus; it
was up to the individual hosts, many of whom
hosted more than one student, as to what to
show their guests.

The positions held by the two juniors will
be up for grabs this December when
Harrington and Pusty resign their posts. The
admissions office is currently looking for
replacements.

The job involves recruiting current stu-
dents at Davidson to host prospectives, and
organizing overnight stays accordingly.

Pustay ’03 was very enthusiastic about the
job, saying, “You get to meet a lot of the
people coming in, and get to introduce them
to Davidson.” If interested, please contact
either Kristine Harrington ’03, Mark Pustay
’03, or Page Neubert ’01, admissions counse-
lor. Interviews will begin in early November.

Court harrassment investigated
SAE, from page |

investigation into the allegations.

If caught and convicted, the alleged of-
fenders could face penalties. under the
college’s Code of Responsibility as well as
state and federal laws on hate crimes, said
PCC Adviser Grahaeme Hesp.

“In accordance with the federal Cleary Act
that mandates the Uniform Crime Report
produced by every college and university,
this incident would fall under the hate crime
category,” he said.

Hesp said an investigation is still being
conducted.

“There is an ongoing investigation into
allegations of inappropriate behavior associ-
ated with sexual orientation and connected to
activities on Patterson Court. The Patterson
Court Office has also asked Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity to assist in this investiga-
tion.”

“As you can imagine, Davidson College is
treating these allegations very seriously.”

Hesp was unable to comment further, since
the investigation is ongoing. However, he
said that “any assistance from anyone to help
bring the perpetrators of this heinous act to
justice would be appreciated.”

Arbuckle informed his SAE brothers of the
accusations at the Monday house meeting
after the incident. He said it was the first time
any SAE member had heard of the incident.

“We were shocked,” said Arbuckle. “SAE

' is a very accepting group. To be smeared

with an image of ignorance hurts.”
He said SAE members have been unable to

PCC Parking Lottery Results!

VO 1UCk\

Harrington (0

}and Charles Merrill °O4

students will never ha tO part

identify the perpetrators, but said he doesn’t
believe the offenders are SAE members.

SAE President Skylar Hoffman declined
comment.

Entry into Patterson Court parties is usu-
ally restricted to the front door of a house,
where party hosts check to identify incoming
students’ PCC registration. Arbuckle said
that SAE had purposely barricaded their back
porch steps on the night of the party to pre-
vent anyone from entering illegally. Arbuckle
said he suspects the harassers snuck onto the
porch through the back steps.

It is not uncommon for people to bring beer
cans into the party through the front door
though, he said.

Campus Police officers and a student Risk
Manager were on duty at the party, following
procedure for any Court event. A party was
occurring at Warner Hall on the same night.

Difficulties in identifying the perpetrators
seem due to the fact that the incident occurred
outside in the dark. Further, all partygoers at
the SAE “tacky” party had been encouraged
to dress in “tacky” attire, making individuals
difficult to distinguish, said Arbuckle.

“Someone has taken advantage of an open
party where everyone was welcome to come
and have a good time. Someone has taken
advantage of our hospitality, and made SAE
and all of Patterson Court look bad,” he said.
“T challenge [the offenders] to have the moral
integrity to come forward.”

Arbuckle hopes that “some good” can
come of the event. He has expressed SAE’s.
wishes to host a function that would raise
awareness of homosexuality on campus. He.
hopes to coordinate with the Gay Student
Alliance to take a more “proactive” role.

Managing Editor Tim Cook contributed to
this story.
