Track and field finishes eighth,
App. State crowned track champ

By Derek SMITH
‘Davidson S.1.D.

The Davidson men’s track and field team
finished eighth at the 2001 Southern Confer-
ence Championships that concluded on April
21 at the Read Track Complex on the VMI
campus in Lexington, Va. .

The Appalachian State Mountaineers to-
taled 221 points to outdistance second place
Western Carolina which had 156 points.

The championship was ASU’s first in out-
door track since 1996. This marked the first
time that VMI, which finished third with 155
points, had failed to win a SoCon track cham-
pionship that it had hosted.

Appalachian State’s Ben Bissette was
named the mens Most Outstanding Performer.

Appalachian State’s John Weaver was
named the men’s coach of the year and The
Citadel’s Nick McNeil was the freshman of
the year after posting a second place finish in
the hammer and taking third in the discus.

The Wildcats earned a total of 14 points
which placed them eights in the 10-team
field.

Sophomore Jimmy Swansbrough was the
man of the weekend for Davidson. He fin-_
ished sixth in the steeplechase with a time of
9:32.56. He followed that up with a fifth-
place finish in the 1,500 meters with a perfor-
mance of 3:57.73.

In addition to the two top-eight perfor-

_mances by Swansbrough, the Wildcats picked
up points in the 4x400 and 4x100 meter
relays. The Wildcats finished fifth in the
4x100 (:44.19) and sixth in the 4x400
(3:22.69). .

Meanwhile, the Davidson women’s track

and field team finished eighth at the Champi-
onships.

The Western Carolina Catamount women
won. their third straight outdoor title with
230.5 points while Appalachian State was
second with 170.

There was a tie for the Most Outstanding
Performer award on the women’s side with
Chattanooga’s Tyleana Hanner and Western
Carolina’s Virginia LaCombe tying for the
honor.

Hanner won the long jump and set a meet
record in the heptathlon while also finishing
third in the triple jump and fourth in the high
jump.

LaCombe won the high jump with a meet
record 5-9.75 while also finishing second in
the heptathlon, third in the 110 hurdles and
fourth in the triple jump.

Western Carolina’s Danny Williamson was
the women’s coach of the year and Chatta-
nooga Oddbjorg Haugen was the Freshman
of the year after winning the 5000 meters and
finishing second in the 3000 meters.

The Wildcats earned a total of 22 points
which placed them eights in the 10-team
field.

Freshman Amanda Yeck finished eighth in
the high jumpas she cleared 4' 11.75". Sopho-
more Liz Gross finished seventh in the 800
meters in a time of 2:20.79. Freshman Mel-
issa Millar lowered her school record in the
400 hurdles to 1:03.83 as she captured third in
that event.

The Wildcats also picked up points in the
relay events. They finished sixth in the 4x400
(4:03.12). Davidson also finished seventh in
the 4x100 (:51.80).

the scenic mounta
and get engaged

ison students

y on the topic of leadership.

wailable from the
Office

on Business

‘Championship Weekend

Davidson’s track & field and tennis teams closed out their 2001 campaigns this past weekenil Below; courtesy
eet Of the Davidson Sports Information Department, are the results of the Southern Conference Track & Field
™ Championships from raping. Va., and the SoCon Tennis Championships, hosted by Charleston, S.C.

Men and ‘women’s tennis teams
fall in quarterfinals

By Mike CLARK

Davidson S.1.D.

CHARLESTON, S.C. — For the second
consecutive year, Davidson and UNC Greens-
boro squared off in men's tennis in the
quarterfinals of-the Southern Conference
Tournament, but this year the Spartans pre-
vailed, 4-0.

The seventh-seeded Wildcats finish the
year 12-11 overall.

In doubles, the Spartans took the number
one and three contests for an early 1-0 lead.
Junior Chad Winebarger and freshman Rob
Gould notched an 8-6 victory at number two
doubles for the 'Cats. Seniors Whit Hansen
and Billy Boykin (#1) fell in a tie-break to
Tony Mulé and Marcio Torres.The top four
singles matches all went to three sets, but
three of those contests did not have a chance
to finish because UNCG clinched the team
victory with wins at number four, five and
six.

Last year, Davidson upset the then third
seeded Spartans in the quarterfinals of the
SoCon Tournament, 4-2.

In the first round of the Southern Confer-
ence Tournament, the men defeated the host
Bulldogs of The Citadel, 4-2.

The Citadel opened the match by taking the
top two doubles contests for an early 1-0 lead.
Junior David Webb and freshman Rob
Haywood (#3) were the sole victors for David-
son, winning 8-2 over John Dougherty and
Tuck Dieter.

_, Insingles, the Wildcats had to claw through
three three-set matches to overtake The Cita-
del for the victory. Senior Whit Hansen (#1)
bounced back after dropping set one, 6-1, to
notch his 11th singles win of the season.

Webb (#5) and senior Chad Phillips (#4) each
lost the second set of their respective matches,
but both prevailed in the final set. At number
two singles, senior Billy Boykin cruised to a
6-4, 6-1 victory over Eddie Almada.

The women’s team lost 4-0 to the College
of Charleston in the quarterfinals of the tour-
nament.

The seventh-seeded Wildcats finished the
year 8-13. Host College of College advanced
to the championship match only to lose to
Furman.

The College of Charleston quickly jumped
ahead of Davidson by grabbing the top two
doubles matches. Freshmen Lindsay Offutt
and Katherine Hatch were ahead 7-3 at num-
ber three doubles when the doubles point was
decided.

In singles, the Cougars took the number
two, three and five contests easily in straight
sets to earn the team victory. Offutt (#1),
Hatch (#6) and junior Kelley Cantrell (#4)
were all involved in tight first sets, but did not
have a chance to complete their contests.

All-time against the College of Charleston
in women's tennis, Davidson is 0-14.

The team opened the Southern Conference
Tournament with a first round win over West-
ern Carolina, 6-0.

All three Wildcat doubles teams picked up
victories to give Davidson an.early lead.

Freshmen Lindsay Offutt and Katherine
Hatch (#3) teamed up for their third straight
win, prevailing 8-2 over Amy Rex and Kristin
Munn.

Davidson pounced on Western Carolina in
singles, taking all five completed matches in
straight sets. Sophomore Gayle Jones (#5)
was ahead 6-2, 4-2 when the contest was
halted.

