-_ Tue Davipsonian

Valicouver’ s New Pornographers excede exp

By Curis SCHMADER
Special Contributor

‘On Friday night the New Pornographers
played a fantastic show to a full house at the
club Room 4 in Carrboro, North Carolina.
For those readers who don’t know, and I’m
sure there are many of you, the New Pornog-
raphers are a Canadian rock group, and not
very concerned with smut, at that. Instead,
they play euphoric pop songs with bludgeon-
ing force, never letting the listener off the
hook for an instant. Their exceptionally
tuneful music is a guiltless pleasure, like
pornography without the sleaze, and on Fri-

. day they were in top form as they galloped
their way through their only album to date,
Mass Romantic.

The Pornographers consist of members of
several other obscure Canadian bands: sing-
ers/guitarists/songwriters Carl Newman (of
the band Zumpano) and Dan Bejar (De-
stroyer), alt-country siren Neko Case, bassist
John Collins, drummer Kurt Dahle, and
keyboardist Blaine Thurier. The band began
as a side project between friends, and the
band members’ camaraderie was evident in

GRAND

their easygoing manner between songs, when
they casually poked fun at each other and the
audience, at one point having to endure the
question, “So what happened to the old por-
nographers?” Thankfully, they kept the rep-

www.mintrecs.com/bands/index.html

artee toaminimum, which couldn’t be said of
openers the Frames, an Irish band with an
annoyingly talkative front man. The Frames’
songs dealt mainly with hypnotic vocals
crooned and wailed over a textured backdrop
of guitar, bass, violin, and drum parts that

veered back and forth between extremely soft
and extremely loud. Think of a less inventive
and less interesting version of Mogwai and
you have the Frames. The New Pornogra-
phers’ hyperactive power pop ended up pro-
viding a welcome change of pace from the
unimpressive drone of the opening act.
Unfortunately, the headliners lacked one
half of their songwriting team, with Mr. Bejar
being replaced on guitar by Todd Fancey and
on vocals by Mr. Dahle, but the rest of the

_ band more than made up for his absence by

performing with impressive passion and pre-
cision. Both Mr. Newman’s and Mr. Bejar’s
songwriting styles do not lend themselves to
easy live performance. Mr. Newman writes
loud, quick-tempo pop hooks and highly ar-
ranged harmonies, while Mr. Bejar opts for
less obvious tunes and more shifts in dynam-
ics and speed. To complicate matters, both
songwriters fill their material with emphatic
stops-on-a-dime after which every instru-
ment in the band hits with full force. Their
songs sound wonderful on Mass Romantic,
but I had doubts going into the show as to
whether they would be able to replicate the
intricate melodic rush they captured so well

CHARLOTTE, NC

NOW OPEN

PENING aos

off;Department Store) prices!

Don’t miss.the Grand Opening of CHARLOTTE’s new
Rugged Wearhouse. All the most popular BRAND-
NAME denim, casual apparel, shoes and accessories
for men, women and kids.

Save up to 70% off department
store prices everyday!

CHARLOTTE

McMullen Creek Plaza

Pineville-Matthews Road
Non - Sat 9:30am - 9pm ¢ Sun 11am - Gpm

RUGGED

WEAR HOUSE

This 4

ouse Rocks with Savings!

in the studio. Lonly nceded iy kane Obeane
to have these doubts completely obliterated.

The band opened superbly with “The Slow
Descent Into Alcoholism,” a song with a
tricky march-like beat and typically chal-
lenging vocal parts. In concert the Pornogra-
phers actually sounded better than they do on
Mass Romantic, which suffers slightly from
a sterile atmosphere created by its ultra-slick
production. While the band executed its
material tightly live, the guitars and vocals
sounded just rough enough around the edges
to heighten the intensity and emotion of cap-
tivating songs like the “The Body Says No”
and ‘Mass Romantic.” Mr. Newman, Ms.
Case and Mr. Dahle did an excellent job
singing difficult harmonies, and the perfor-
mance hit a high note with Ms. Case’s un-
hinged vocals on “Letter From an Occupant,”
a song that has camped out in my head for the
past three days and shows no signs of leaving.
Other highlights included Mr. Bejar’s bouncy
“Breakin’ the Law,” as well as the seamless
three-count transition from the soaring,
heavily distorted “Mystery Hours” to the
brilliant “Execution Day,” which ended with
each instrument dropping out of the mix one
by one before surging back to full volume for
the final refrain. The band finished by play-
ing what could be called a three-song encore,
closing with “Centre for Holy Wars,” al-
though they didn’t leave the stage after the
main set because of the club’s tight confines.
By the end of their hour and fifteen-minute
show, the Pornographers had completely
mesmerized the audience with their relent-
lessly joyful power pop. Should they decide
to stick around—remember, this is a side
project—they would be a welcome addition
to the pantheon of brilliant, commercially
unsuccessful indie bands scattered through-
out rock history.

WALT Radio
Spring Schedule

Sunday:
9:00 - 11:00 Black Man & Mexican Show
11:00-12:00 Elizabeth & Beth

Monday:
4:00-5:00 Erland Stevens
7:00-8:00 Lauren & Erin
8:00-9:00 | Win, Lose, or Rock
9:00-10:00 Natalie Cox

10:00-11:00 Sterling & Laura
11:00-12:00 Elena

Tuesday:
8:00-9:00 George & Elliot
9:00-10:00 Travis & Andy

10:00-11:00 Mark Pustay
11:00-12:00 Sean & Trey

12:00-1:00 Mono & Steve
Wednesday:

7:00-8:00 | Adventures from the Web

8:00-9:00 Tim & Dan

9:00-10:00 Kristy & Mary

11:00-12:00 Brian & Ashely .
Thursday:

7:00-8:00 Nick Carlson

8:00-9:00 Dueling Virginians

9:00-10:00 Mixon & Andy

10:00-11:00 Said & Schmader
11:00-12:00 Billy Stephens & Dallas Kaplan

Friday: ;
3:00-4:00 J.P. & Big Dog
5:00-6:00  Zique
6:00-7:00 Frank Chimotti
7:00-8:00. Greg Harris

Saturday: =
4:00-5:00 Nick & Dan

