Tae DavIDsoNIAN

steppin gir

|
Sports Information

Several hundred Davidson fans turned out for Sunday’s title game to
watch the Wildcats earn the SoCon’s automatic NCAA bid.

The Semifinals
Davidson 68 UNC Greensboro 58

By Matt GarFIELD
Managing Editor

It’s only fitting that Davidson’s road to the
NCAA tournament included a victory over
UNC Greensboro.

These two schools have met six times over
the past two seasons, and each game has been
a war.

The Wildcats’ 68-58 win over the Spartans
in Saturday’s semifinal round was simply the
latest battle. ;

When the teams met in last year’s semifi-

nal, Davidson was playing its third game in
three days against a team it had lost to twice
already.
' The Wildcats held the lead deep into the
second half, but fatigue finally set in with
about five minutes left, resulting in a 73-68
season-ending defeat. The Spartans went on
to win the championship.

This season was the exact opposite. The
Wildcats’ 11-5 finish in the North Division
included two close wins over UNCG.

More importantly, it gave them a first-
round bye in the tournament, meaning
Davidson was playing its second game in the
semifinals, while UNCG was in its third.

As Saturday’s battle neared its finish, it
was the Spartans (20-10, 13-6) who had to
deal with waning energy and heavy legs.

And it was the Wildcats who got clutch

performances from two seniors playing what
could have been their last collegiate games.

In his second game back after missing 14
with a leg injury, Emeka Erege surprised

nearly everyone with 17 points on 7-of-11
shooting.

With the Spartans focused on shutting down
Chris Pearson and Wayne Bernard, Erege
took over, scoring on three-pointers, putbacks
and explosive drives to the hoop.

“The guy who really killed us was Erege,”
said UNCG coach Fran McCaffery. “He
missed half the season and was their leading
scorer. He’s obviously a very talented fifth-
year senior and he did exactly what you’d
expect him to do.”

Erege departed at the five-minute mark
after suffering a cut just above his right eye
that left a trail of blood across midcourt.

It required several stitches after the game,
but Erege’s efforts in 24 minutes on the court
proved to be the difference.

Martin Ides helped the Wildcats hold on to
the lead by knocking down 8-of-10 free
throws, finishing with 14 points.

Michael Bree, returning from a leg injury
suffered in the regular season finale against
VMI, had eight points, while Nick Booker
chipped in nine. Wayne Bernard added seven
points and a team-high three assists.

Peter Anderer couldn’t find his shooting
touch, managing only four points.

Pearson grabbed 11 rebounds to help the -

Wildcats take a42-33 advantage on the boards.
“Today was an indication of the kinds of
warriors that play this game for us,” said
coach Bob McKillop.
Added Bree: “To play UNCG, it’s going to
be an intense game — whenever, wherever.
But we always come to win.”

a

By Burcin HARDIN

The Cham p ionshi
Davidson 62 Furman 57

Staff Writer

“Every time we play Davidson, somebody
makes a lot of threes,” said Furman coach
Larry Davis after Sunday night’s champion-
ship game.

This time, that somebody was Peter
Anderer.

Anderer put on a dazzling three-point shoot-
ing performance, scoring 22 points on 7-of-
10 shooting, including six three-pointers, as
Davidson beat Furman 62-57 for the South-
ern Conference championship.

For his efforts, Anderer was named the
tournament’s Most Outstanding Player.

“Every time he was called on, he stepped
up,” said coach Bob McKillop.

The ever-humble Anderer could only think
of his teammates:

“Tt just feels great to know we’ ve done this
together, he said. “This group of guys is my
family.”

The Wildcats’ offense sputtered early, com-
mitting turnovers and failing to score for the
last eight minutes of the first half. Fern
Tonella’s jumper with four seconds left cut
Furman’s lead to 28-24 at halftime.

“We were very careless with the ball,” said
McKillop. “We just didn’t have respect for
the basketball.”

The low score was a telltale sign that the
Paladins were in control. One night earlier,
the Paladins beat College of Charleston 44-
43 in the lowest-scoring Southern Confer-
ence tournament game since 1986.

But Anderer quickly brought an end to the
drought.

He nailed his second three-pointer six min-
utes into the second half, and for the next
seven minutes went ona 14-point tirade—by
himself.

Wayne Bernard, Martin Ides and Chris
Pearson followed Anderer with baskets of
their own, but the Paladins were not going
quietly.

“We weren’t going to give up out there,”
said Kenny Zeigler, who led the Paladins
with 14 points. ““We’d come too far. We just
continued to play hard for 40 minutes.”

With under two minutes left, two three-
pointers brought Furman to within 58-55.

“We gotta finish this,” bellowed Anderer
with an emphatic pounding of his fist in his
left palm.

After Souchu stopped the heart of every
Wildcat fan by intercepting a pass beneath
his own basket and dropping in a score that
reduced the Davidson lead to two with eight
seconds left to play, Anderer did exactly
what he said had to be done.

He finished it.

Two free throws by Anderer gave Davidson
a 61-57 advantage and put the game out of
reach, and Pearson sealed the championship
with one final free throw.

“T feel the emotion of all these guys,” said
McKillop after winning Davidson’s first
Southern Conference.championship in four
years. “Forme persons, it feels great. But
that’s magnified by what I know these guys
feel.”

The Quarterfinals
Davidson 71 The Citadel 58

By Burcin HarpDIN
Staff Writer

On the eve of the Southern Conference
tournament, Michael Bree could barely walk
and the Wildcats had won only two of their
last five regular season games.

But none of that mattered Friday afternoon
when the Wildcats took the floor against The
Citadel in the quarterfinal round.

As junior guard Wayne Bernard pointed
out, “Come tournament time, you look at
every game differently.”

And you have Emeka Erege, too.

Erege, who had not played since injuring
his foot on Jan. 4 at Western Carolina, re-
turned to score 10 points on 4-of-7 shooting
as the Wildcats advanced with a 71-58 win
over The Citadel.

The timing of Erege’s comeback was remi-
niscent of last year’s tournament, in which
Erege returned for the first time in two months
after a leg injury kept him sidelined for nearly
the entire conference season.

_ “He’srelentless, passionate and ferocious,”
said head coach Bob McKillop. “He’s a tal-
ented young man.” ‘

Erege was one of 13 Wildcats who saw
playing time Friday as McKillop tried to
compensate for the loss of Bree and to take .
pressure off Davidson’s big men, Chris
Pearson and Martin Ides.

The Wildcats never trailed, but couldn’t
quite shake the Bulldogs, either. With under
a minute left in the first half, Davidson clung
to a slim three-point advantage.

But a timely three-pointer by Erege and
two free throws by Bernard just before the
half pushed the Wildcats’ lead to 32-25 and
gave them some breathing room by intermis-
sion.

Davidson never looked back, maintaining
a double-digit lead during the second half.

“Tt’s an ongoing statement about how we’ ve
learned from the adversity and challenges
we ve faced,” said McKillop after the game.
“All our guys have prepared to step up when
they’re called upon.”

With seniors sidelined, others emerge

Injuries, from page 1

after a sharp (though accidental) elbow to the
right eye.

Applegate was able to control the bleeding,
wrapping Erege in a full-head bandage—but
the pain on the broken fibula had become
overbearing, and the trainer ordered Erege
sidelined.

And sothe Wildcats entered Sunday’s game
short one senior leader, but hopeful that Bree
was ready for a complete game.

Or so it seemed.

Just 11 minutes into the action, Furman
guard Guillermo da Luz reached around Bree
in an attempt to poke the ball away. Instead,
da Luz’s knuckle found the groove in Bree’s
elbow, bruising his ulner nerve (typically

referred to as the funny bone). Bree couldn’t
feel part his hand for the next several days.

And so he took a seat on the sideline, next
to Erege, and watched Furman surge to a 15-
0 run during the first half.

In the second half, however, other Wild-
cats stepped up. None more so than junior
guard Peter Anderer, who came off the bench
in Bree’s absence to score 22 points.

“There were a lot of leaders out there
during the last three minutes,” said
Zimmerman. “We knew that Emeka would
give us all he could give us, and Bree would
give us everything he could give us.

“But if they couldn’t go, we knew other
guys would step up—and that was exciting.,
Whata statement about this team... Our guys
were on a mission to deliver this for their
seniors. That was pretty special.”
