ockey drops fina fe

prepares for tournament —

By BEcca McDevitt
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team suffered a
6-1 loss to Virginia Commonwealth in its final
game of the regular season.

The ‘Cats now enter the NorPac Conference
Championships with a record of 7-12.

The game against VCU started on an upset-
ting note when star defender Courtney Hughes
went down two minutes into the game with a
potential ACL injury.

Coach Lisa Thompson said of the injury,
“That seemed to have really shaken our confi-
dence and composure. We lost focus men-
tally and got caught back on our heels.”

The Rams would capitalize on the lowered
morale of the Wildcats by finishing the game
with an impressive 26 shots and 18 penalty
corners.

With 11:15 remaining in the firsthalf, Wendy
Ray put VCU on the board as she scored off of
a pass from Nicole Sullivan.

Davidson, however, concluded the first half
on a more aggressive note when Kathleen
Fenn scored her team-leading eighth goal of
the season.

Although Fenn’s goal tied the score at 1-1,
the Cats were unable to put the ball in the cage
in the second half, as the Rams took control of
the game.

Tavris Parker scored two goals early in the
second half, giving the Rams a 3-1 advantage.

Jennifer Howard assisted Parker on one of
those goals and then made another pass to
Lauren Sparrow, who was able to get the ball
through the Davidson defense.

With 13 minutes remaining in the game,
Parker found the back of the cage again to

Christof Perick

complete her hat trick for the day.

Becky Spangler followed Parker’s goal with
the first of her collegiate career with 7:25
remaining, completing the Ram’s 6- 1 advan-
tage over the ‘Cats.

The highlight of the day for the Wildcats
was Sarah Nolan’s eleven saves in cage.

Nolan has now reached third place in the
Davidson record books for single-season saves
with a total of 155.

Although the ‘Cats ended the season with a
record of 7-12, they look forward to the oppor-
tunities ahead at the NorPac Conference Cham-
pionships.

The ‘Cats will travel to Palo Alto from
November 7-10 to compete at Stanford Uni-
versity against their conference opponents.
Davidson is currently 3-3 in conference play.

Captain Jess Barton has an optimistic out-
look on the tournament ahead. “We’re just
going to take it one game at a time, trusting in
all the preparation that got us to this point,” she
says.

“As seniors we’ve been talking about this
since sophomore year; we don’t want to go out
any other way than knowing we left it all on
the field. If we are all committed to that, the
victories will take care of themselves.”

Coach Thompson added that the new turf
field at Davidson has helped tremendously in
preparing the girls for conference play. Their
game has become quicker and more precise.

On a final note, Coach Thompson offers
these words of inspiration: “The potential of
this team is truly unbelievable. They have the
talent and the drive to accomplish anything
they want. They have made a believer out of
me. Now, all they have to do is truly believe
in themselves.”

HONY

Music Sect Oh

MostlyMozar

These informal, intimate and economical concerts feature some”

of the world’s most famous and best-loved works of classical music.

The series brings the CSO out of its home in the Blumenthal Performing Arts
Center to perform in your neighborhood.

Christof Perick, conducting
Susanna Self Huppert, flute

MOZART

Overture to Abduction from the Seraglio

MOZART

Christof Perick

HAYDN

Flute Concerto No. 1 in G Major

Symphony No. 103, “Drum Roll”

Thr Nov 14 ~ 8 pm

Duke Family Performance Hall
Davidson College Campus -

Huppert
¢ A great classical
music experience

for children
10 & over.

¢ Casual Dress
e Free Parking

Davidson

SPECIAL SAVINGS
FOR FACULTY AND STAFF!

Advance Tickets $8 (regs10)
Students $5

Tate harriers’ third place |

finish best in school history —

Team on the rise as Brew
named all-conference,
Straub coach of the year

By Brooke KITTINGER
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s cross-country team
crowned their successful season with a third-
place finish in the Southern Conference Cham-
pionships .

Under picturesque oaks hung with Spanish
moss, the team accomplished its season-long

‘goal of being among the top three teams in the

conference.

Head Coach Jennifer Straub was also hon-
ored for her accomplishments throughout the
season with the Southern Conference Coach
of the Year award. Coach Straub has success-
fully led the team from seventh to fifth and
now third in the conference since she became
head coach in 2000.

Appalachian State took the first-place title
in both the men and women’s races, and App
runner Jennifer Kelley was freshman of the
year.

U.T. Chattanooga claimed runner-up in the
Southern Conference Championships for both
the men and women with sophomore Shannon
Womack placing first overall and receiving

the Southern Conference Runner of the Year|

award.

Sophomore Anna Brew once again shone
as the first runner for the ‘Cats at a time of
18:10, the second fastest 5K in Davidson
history after her own record of 18:01, which
was established during the 2001 season.

Brew placed sixth overall, earning her All-

10/29-Hlomer Arranging 12: 0(
, 11/7-Cooking Hass 6:30-7
12/12-Holiday Centerpieces 12:

All classes ela t
Faculty, Staff and Students welcomed.

a: peter tor Hhifors!

vw the Commons.

Conference honors.

Another star for the Wildcats, junior captain
Laura Puckett, ran a stellar race at 18:39 and
placed twelfth overall.

Close behind her at the fourteenth and sev-
enteenth places, sophomores Sally Stanhope
and Sarah Baxter gave solid performances at
18:44 and 18:52.

Senior captain Liz Gross rounded out the
score for the ‘Cats at a time of 19:06 and
twenty-first place.

Freshman Hilary Leister also ran an impres-
sive race at 19:36, along with junior Emily
Einstein at 19:47 and senior captain Brooke
Kittinger at 21:04.

Junior captain Laura Puckett said, “The
team came together amazingly this weekend.
Nearly everyone had the race of her life.
Cross-country is a team sport, from the first
finisher on the team to the last, and we really
showed that this weekend, because it was our
fourth and fifth runners that scored the points
we needed for third place. It is because of the
entire team, their efforts running or cheering
during the race, and their enthusiasm for the
sport and for each other, that we ran well and
had a really fun time.”

Head Coach Jennifer Straub also comments,
“The team showed great poise and depth at the
Southern Conference Championship. By po-
sitioning themselves in the top 20 of the field
at the start of the race, the Wildcats put them-
selves in contention for the team title. I am
extremely thrilled with the way the team ran as
they proved that they belong in the top ranks of
the Southern Conference.

Davidson women’s cross-country has _ |
one final competition, the NCAA South-
east Region Championships, in Greenville,
N.C., on November 10.

ee

