__ Tue Davipsonian_

Men’s tennis pins hopes on youth movement Laerc 3se

By JONATHAN Crooms
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team has faced many new
challenges this season, including moving
younger, less inexperienced players into the
starting line-up and competing against Ivy
League and Conference USA opponents
that the school has never faced in a prior
dual-match situation.

What has carried the Wildcats through
the ups and downs of the season thus far is
the team’s heart. Over the weekend, the
team’s spirit showed through more than
ever as the Wildcats pulled out impressive
5-2 and 4-3 wins against the Mountaineers
of Appalachian State University and the
Phoenix of Elon University. ©

After losing four straight matches during
the past two weeks, the Wildcats responded
with strong play and persistence on the
court. In Friday’s home match against the
Mountaineers, the tone of the match was
set early, as the team amazingly came from
behind to clench the doubles point. Rob
Gould ’04 and Chad Winebarger ’02 led
the charge with a quick 8-2 victory at number
two doubles, but an 8-4 loss by Rob Haywood
°04 and Donald Miles ’05 at number one
doubles placed the doubles point in the hands
of Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Jonathan Britt
’04 at number three. Despite being down 7-4
and having faced a match point, Mullen and
Britt stormed back to win the match and
capture the doubles point with a 9-8 (5)

victory.

Head coach Jeff Frank was thrilled with the
comeback. He noted, “it [was] was remark-
able after being down 7-4 and a match point.”

The Wildcats carried the momentum into
the singles, winning four of the six matches.
At number one singles, Winebarger was al-

. photo by Erin Berry
Matt Peters catches some air.

most flawless, as he defeated his opponent 6-
0, 6-1: Haywood won his match in straight
sets, 6-3, 6-4, at number three singles. Miles
and Mullen had no trouble at all in their
matches, as both captured 6-2, 6-1, and 6-3,
6-1, victories at their respective fifth and
sixth singles positions. The only losses of the
day came at numbers two and four singles,
where David Webb ’02 and Britt lost 3-6, 6-

4, 3-6, and 6-1, 6-1, respectively.
On Sunday, the Wildcats demonstrated their
ability to persevere once again with a tight 4-
3 win over the Phoenix at Elon University.
The team came out firing early, winning all
three of the doubles matches to earn the
doubles point. Haywood and Miles won 8-6
at number one doubles. Gould and
Winebarger also pulled through with an
8-6 win at number two doubles. At num-
ber three doubles, Mullen and Britt came
through once again with an 8-4 victory.
In singles action, the team won three
of the six matches to clench the win. At
number three singles, Haywood cap-
tured a 6-3, 6-3 victory. Both Miles and
Mullen also won in straight sets. Miles
emerged with 6-3, 6-2 win at number
five singles, while Mullen won his match
easily, 6-2, 6-2, at number six singles.
Despite playing a well-fought match,
Winebarger was unable to pull out the
win, losing 4-6, 7-5, 9-11 at number one
singles. At number two singles, Webb
dropped his match 6-0, 6-1. Britt also
lost 6-4, 6-3 at number four doubles.
With only two matches to go, the Wildcats
find themselves with a 3-5 Southern Confer-
ence record and a 10-11 overall record. This
week, the team looks to make a final push in
attempts to secure its seeding in the Southern
Conference Tournament. The team will finish
the season with key conference match-ups
against VMI at home on Friday and Furman at
Greenville, SC on Sunday.

With four wins, women storm conference

By AMANDA MorDAVSKY
Staff Writer

Unlike most students, the women’s tennis
team did not get an Easter break. Instead, they
continued competing through the holiday to
improve to their current 14-5 record, 4-2 in
the conference. Beginning on March 27, they
lost a heart-breaking match to conference
rival Furman University, who shut-out the
Wildcats 7-0. However, they bounced back
on March 29 to trounce East Tennessee State,
7-0, for their first conference win of the
season. For the doubles point, fresh-
men Meghan Fillnow and Kelly
Fillnow combined for an 8-5 win
over Jessica Irey and Gemma Halim.
At the second doubles spot, junior
Gayle Jones and freshmen Meggie
Petterson beat Aimee Villavicencio
and Tatiana Arrarion, 8-6.

In singles action, Kelly Fillnow
again dominated Halim, beating her
4-6, 6-1, 6-0. At the two spot,
Patterson crushed Irey, 6-1, 6-2,
while Meghan Fillnow continued the
freshman romp, defeating Arrarian,
6-2, 7-6. Senior captain Kelley
Cantrell shut out Villavicencio, 6-0,
6-0, while fellow captain, junior
Yasamine Hilu, stomped her oppo-
nent Heather Jones, 6-0, 6-1. Sopho-
more Katherine Hatch rounded out
the sixth spot with a shut out over
ETSU’s Charmaine Luvis, 6-0, 6-0.

The Wildcats returned to action

-on April 2, visiting conference rival
Chattanooga. The Wildcats came out strong,
wining the doubles point and four singles

~ matches fora 5-2 victory. Fillnow and Fillnow
defeated Catherine Allen and Cynthia

Oulevay, 8-4, while the duo of Hatch and

Patterson overcame Bethany Everett and
Saskia van Velze, 9-7. Finally, Cantrell and

Hilu beat their Lady Mocs opponents Char-

lotte Goude and Sarah Henry, 9-7.

The Wildcats remained strong in the singles

line-up, as Kelly Fillnow beat Goude, 6-1, 6-
3. However, the Mocs bounced back, as

Meggie Patterson attacks the net.

Oulevay deat Patterson, 7-6, 6-3. The Wild-
cats came back with a Meghan Fillnow win
over Allen, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, and a Cantrell
domination over van Velze, 7-5, 6-1. Hilu
rounded out the point scoring with a 2-6, 6-3,
7-5 win over Everett. Hatch could not hang
on against UTC’s Stephanie Miles, dropping
the match with 7-6, 6-4 favor for Miles.
The Wildcats continued their winning streak
against yet another conference foe, UNCG.
*The ’Cats came away with another 5-2 vic-
tory, despite losing the doubles point, ending
with no victories in doubles action. However,

mo Pn aid an tite aitlicate cmakraeill Pes sgt ee

they dominated in the singles competition, as
Kelly Fillnow beat Sonnia Orellana, 7-6 (6),
6-4, and Patterson overcame Lindsay Peel, 6-
3, 6-4. -

The Wildcats suffered a minor setback
with a Carlin Kannan win over Davidson’s
Meghan Fillnow, 6-4, 6-3, but they bounced
back witha6-1, 6-4 Cantrell win over UNCG’ s
Kate LaCoste. Rounding out the action, Hilu
came away with 6-4, 6-3 win over Kristen
Adamson, while Hatch snuck by with a 7-6,
6-0 victory over Amanda Eutzler.

photo by Erin Berry

The Wildcats notched their fourth confer-
ence victory on April 5 with a 6-1 win over
the Catamounts of Western Carolina. Once
again, the Wildcats lost the doubles point,
with only Fillnow and Fillnow winning their
match over Shelby Fitzpatrick and Shannon
Zalinski, 8-2. Despite this initial setback, the
Wildcats proved the stronger team by win-
ning all six of the singles points. Kelly Fillnow
paired up against Kristin Munn, delivering
her a 6-2, 6-2 loss, while Patterson handed

‘Fitzpatrick another loss, 6-1, 6-2. Meghan

Fillnow proved too strong for Zalinski, win-
ning her match 6-0, 6-1, while Hilu
came away with a win over Erin
Johnson, 6-2, 6-4. Rounding out the
wins, Hatch brought home a 6-4, 6-2
win over Emmy King, while Jones
came away with a 6-3, 6-1 win over
Kristin Cotton.

Despite their winning streak, the
Wildcats could not hold on against
the 2001 Big South Champions Cos-
tal Carolina on April 6. The Wildcats
managed only one win on the day,
after once again losing the doubles
point. Only Meghan Fillnow, at the
three spot for doubles, pulled out a
win over opponent’ Lara
Lendenmann, 6-1, 6-0. At the one
spot, Coastal Carolina’s Emma Kidd
crushed Kelly Fillnow, 6-4, 6-0,
while Medina Brajambasic snuck by
Davidson’s Patterson, 6-4, 7-5.
Coastal’s Dana Goffin handed
Cantrell a seldom-seen loss, 6-4, 6-
2, while Maria Matrika handed out

the same punishment to Hilu, 5-7, 6-3, 6-0.

Finally, Stephanie Koot rounded out the scor-

ing, defeating Davidson’s Hatch, 6-1, 7-5.

Coach Caroline Price commented on the
loss, explaining, “We gave a strong effort,
but we just didn’t have the legs to turn the
corner. They competed with strong heart but
too much to overcome.” Still, Price sees great
teamwork from her players. “All those Wild-
cats are about hard work and supporting
everyone.”

to 5-7 on year
Team suffers big

losses to Virginia
Tech and Duke

Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

BLACKSBURG, VA—The women’s la-
crosse team suffered a 19-6 loss to Vir-
ginia Tech Tuesday afternoon at Moseley’
Field.

The Wildcats once again were unable to
get things started offensively and quickly
fell behind 5-0. Senior Christin Raimondo
scored the first of the team’s two first-half
goals on an assist from junior Loren Seaton.
Senior Blair Otto scored with just over ten
minutes left in the first period to cut the
Hokie lead to seven, 9-2. However, Vir-
ginia Tech added four more goals to push
their lead to 11 goals, 13-2, at the intermis-
sion. ,

Senior Sarah Thornton scored the first
goal of the half and cut the lead to 13-3,
however the Wildcats would never get
closer than that ten-goal margin. Seaton
scored her lone goal of the game to make
the score 14-4. Raimondo and fellow se-
nior Sarah Otto added two more Wildcat
goals late in the second half, but it wasn’t
enough for a Davidson rally.

Davidson struggled to control the ball as
they committed 25 turnovers and only
forced Virginia Tech into making 12. The
Wildcats were also outshot 40-17 for the
game.

GOALS: Raimondo (2), B. Otto, S.
Otto, Seaton, Thornton.

ASSISTS: S. Otto, Seaton.

SAVES: Nussbaum (60:00; 19 GA,
14 SV), Goff (3:04, 2 GA, 2 SV)

DAVIDSON, NC—The women’s lacrosse
team dropped an 18-6 decision to the sixth-
ranked Duke Blue Devils Wednesday evening
at Richardson Stadium. The Wildcats are
now 5-7 with the loss while Duke improves
its record to 6-3 on the season.

Duke jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead behind
a pair of goals and an assist by: Kelly Dirks.
Wildcat senior Sarah Otto scored the first of
her four goals at the 9:37 mark on an assist by
Lindsay Frank. Otto would score again ona
free-position shot just moments later to cut
the Duke lead to three, 5-3.

The Blue Devils pushed the lead to 9-4 on
a goal from Claire Sullivan at the 26:57 mark
and neither team would score the remainder
of the half.

Davidson once again let the opposition
quickly take control at the beginning of the
half as Duke scored two more goals. Senior
Christin Raimondo scored the first of two
second-half goals at the 34:55 mark, but the
Duke offense added two more goals to make
the score 13-5 at 42:28 in the game.

After Otto’s fourth score of the evening,
Duke added five more goals to make the final
score 18-6.

The Wildcats return to action Sunday, April 14
fora 1:00 American Lacrosse Conference contest
with Vanderbilt at Richardson Stadium.

GOALS: S. Otto (4), Raimondo, Seaton.

ASSISTS: B. Otto, Frank.

SAVES: Nussbaum (60:00, 18 GA, 10 SV)

&
