‘Sensational’ effort falls short against Blue Devils

By Matt GarFIELD

Managing Editor

DURHAM—Duke wasn’t expecting such a tough test so
early in the season.

The sixth-ranked Blue Devils probably viewed Monday’s
game against Davidson as a tune-up before more serious
challenges from UCLA and Ohio State.

The challenge they got from an unheralded, inexperienced
Wildcats team couldn’t have been more serious.

The upset bid fell short 95-80, but Davidson showed a
national audience on espn2 that Tobacco Road isn’t the only
place in North Carolina to find top-flight basketball.

The Wildcats matched Duke for almost 39 minutes—cut-

ting a 17-point lead to six with 1:04 remaining— before the
Blue Devils sealed the win with seven free throws in the final
minute.

“T think we attacked the whole night,” said Davidson coach
Bob McKillop. “It’s a great statement about toughness, resil-
iency, about where we might be headed if we keep this kind of
attitude.”

Wayne Bernard’s 28-point performance wasn’t a total sur-
prise. Even though he’s still adjusting to the point guard
position after three years as a shooting guard, Bernard is easily
the team’s most experienced scorer.

Davidson (3-1) vs. Charlotte (1-2)
Saturday, 7 p.m., Belk Arena

GUIDE TO THE GAME

He proved it on Monday with a dazzling display of three-
point shots and drives into the lane en route to a career high.

“Bernard was sensational,” said Duke coach Mike
Krzyzewski. “He had great poise. I thought we put good
pressure on him. (But) he showed what a veteran he is. That’s
why as we-were shaking hands, I told him, ‘that’s a great
performance son.””

Bernard was nearly unstoppable in the first half, scoring 21
points and forcing Duke to alter its game plan to contain him.

Duke 95

Davidson 80

“The thing that was a little shocking for us, was for the past
five or six years, Davidson has had a little point guard who gets
the ball up court and does a great job of that,” Krzyzewski said.
“We didn’t think Bernard could do that. What we thought was
wrong.”

No one expected 23 points from forward Ian Johnson, a 6-9
freshman playing his first college game in basketball’s most
hostile arena.

With an old-school array of post moves and baby hook shots,
Johnson sparked a second-half run that erased a 77-58 Duke

Point Guard:

Both teams feature senior point guards adjusting to new positions. Former shooting guard Wayne Bernard is playing the
best basketball of his career, averaging 17 points and seven assists. Curtis Nash, also a former shooting guard, is off to a

hot start as well, averaging 14 points per game.

Shooting Guard:
Two more seniors who can bury the three. Charlotte’s Demon Brown, a point guard for the past three seasons, shoots 52%
from three-point range and averages almost 20 points per game. Brown will match up against Peter Anderer, who started
slowly but found a groove in the weekend Div. III games, when he scored 22 and 15 points, respectively.

Center:

The 49ers lost starter and leading rebounder Calvin Clemmons to a knee injury in Saturday’s loss to Richmond. Heralded
freshman Curtis Withers is expected to replace him, but he’s four inches shorter than his counterpart, 6-10 Wildcats senior
Michel Lusakueno. Still, more than six points from Lusakueno would be a surprise.

Power Forward:
Conor Grace, a versatile 6-8 sophomore who can.also shoot the three-pointer, gets the nod for the Wildcats. He’ll go
against junior Butter Johnson, an athletic big man who can post up.
Small forward:

Jouni Eho opened the season at small forward but may be out with a foot injury suffered on Saturday. If he’s hurt,
freshman Brendan Winters will likely fill in. Both players can shoot, but they’ll face Eddie Basden, a quick sophomore

Bench:
Ian Johnson probably won’t stay out of Davidson’s starting line-up much longer. A 6-9 freshman from Oak Hill Acad-

emy, Johnson showed an impressive repertoire of post moves and turnaround jumpers in the season opener against Duke.
Terrell Ivory isn’t flashy but provides solid minutes backing up Bernard at point guard. Leave Matt McKillop open, and

with a team-high nine steals on the year.

he’ll also bury the three-pointer.

Like Davidson, Charlotte’s bench is talented but highly inexperienced. Sophomore Chris Sager and freshman Mitchell’
Baldwin are athletic wing players who fit the typical 49ers mold.

lead and helped put Davidson in position for an upset.

With the Blue Devils’ lead down to 87-80 with less than a
minute left, Davidson set up a shot for senior Peter Anderer,
who finished last season as the nation’s 12" most accurate

‘three-point shooter.

But Anderer’s three-point attempt from the top of the key
sailed wide right, and Duke converted all its remaining free
throws to create a winning margin that didn’t reflect how close
the game really was.

The freshmen—Johnson, and guards Brendan Winters and
Matt McKillop—showed no fear despite making their college
debuts in front of the Cameron Crazies, considered the loudest,
rowdiest fans in college sports.

The Crazies began lining up outside Cameron Indoor Sta-
dium more than an hour before game-time, and were forced to
wait until the game’ final seconds to break out their trademark
“Drive home safely” chant.

The Wildcats left Cameron with a loss, but their perfor-
mance attracted national attention over subsequent days, in-
cluding compliments from two TV commentators— Dick
Vitale, who praised the play of Johnson, and Billy Packer, who
reportedly listed Davidson as one of his “surprise teams”
during Sunday’s Duke/ UCLA broadcast. |

“They played great,” said Krzyzewski. “If we don’t do some
pressure things down the stretch, we don’t win this game.”

Upcoming games
Thursday

Davidson vs. James Madison (1-3)

Scouting Report: The Dukes were down last year, finishing
ninth out of 10 teams in the Colonial Athletic Association with
a 14-15 record, 6-12 in the conference.

Head coach Sherman Dillard may
be on the hot seat if his team doesn’t
. Show improvement soon.

Luckily for Dillard, the Dukes re-
turn almost their entire roster, including
all five starters. Senior guard David
Fanning is the CAA’s top scorer at 18
points per game. He’s dangerous as a shooter and penetrator.
Containing Fanning is the key to beating James Madison.

So far: JMU opened with a 68-66 win at Furman, but lost to
Georgetown and West Virginia both on the road, and La Salle
at home.

| Tuesday
Davidson vs. St. Bonaventure (2-2)

Scouting Report: The Bonnies reached the NIT last season
with a 17-13 finish, including 8-8 in the tough Atlantic 10
Conference. But star guard J.R. Bremer graduated and is now
with the Boston Celtics.

Like Davidson, St. Bonny’s strength lies
at the guard positions. Marques Green, a
5-7 point guard, averages 19 points per
game. The Green vs. Wayne Bernard match-
up will be key in determining the winner.

So far: The Bonnies opened with double-digit wins over
Virginia Tech and Michigan, but then lost to Brigham Young
and St. Louis.

They face Boston College tonight and Alabama on Saturday
before stopping in Davidson on their way home.

The Be ea

Pee bat ay il 8 Vie 0 8 a Ga ep ie Se ae

with his performance in the team’s regular season opener
against Duke, throwing down 28 points to go-along with six
rebounds and four assists.

Wir ar Gar Wine Se oat Ye Ss eek iy ae aN Sy Se SS) Sate

Women’s Basketball vs. UNCW

Men’s Basketball vs. James Madison 7:00 p.m.
monnannnnnnn nnn n= Saturday-----------------
Wayne Bernard ‘o3 Swimming vs. Towson 1:00 p.m.
Basketball Sis Women’s Basketball at Winthrop 1:30 p.m.
Hometown: Poway, California Men’s Basketball vs. Charlotte 7:00 p.m.
Major: Sociology ; ‘
sia Se ornare naan Tuesday---------------
Bernard earned respect from basketball gurus nationwide Men’s Basketball vs. St. Bonaventure 7:00 p.m

6:00 p.m.
