THE DAVIDSONIAN

@

Men? S Cross country aaees
fourth in opening race

Team not pleased
with first result

WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

A cool breeze, blue sky and ironically flat
course located in the mountainous region of
Boone, N.C., could not help the men’s cross-
country team get off to the start it wanted on
Friday. The team finished fourth of six teams,
just 4 points behind UNC Asheville, in the
Covered Bridge Invitational hosted by Appa-
lachian State.

Leading the team was senior Jimmy
Swansbrough in an even 27 minutes, cross-
ing the line 14" overall. Following close
behind him were senior Brad Becken in 27:09,
juniors Greg Scott and Chris Schmader, who
both completed ‘the 8k course in a time of
27:12, and freshman Austin Mercadante in
27:31.

Swansbrough, however, was not satisfied
in the least with his or the team’s -perfor-
mance. “I felt strong at the beginning and end
of the race but struggled through the middle
miles,” the co-captain said. “My time was
poor, though, and I expect to see at least three
other guys walking all over it come next
race.’

. The team had hoped to come out of the
invitational with a performance that could

put numbers behind their early-season work-
out success. Times, though, were surpris-
ingly slow as a whole Friday, with many of
the runners from other schools finishing
slower than they had done the year before as
well.

Coach Gary Andrew remains confident his
team will come to form. “It looked like our
first race of the season—a bit rough around
the edges. Our effort was inconsistent, but
that will improve as we race more. With the
talent we have on this team, I know that we’re
going to get much better.”

Swansbrough agreed, noting, “We, as a
team, need to-drop at least a minute from
Friday’s times. It’Il happen.”

Their next opportunity will come in a week
and a half on September 21" at the Winthrop
Invitational in the college town of Rock Hill,
SC.

Freshman Jonathan Baker and junior Ben
Gaspar rounded out the top seven for the
Wildcats, who all finished within 17 places of
one another.

Host Appalachian State took both the team
and individual titles with winner Mike Reed
running the course in 25:55. They edged
second place Maryland by 9 points.

Look for the Davidson team to continue
running as a pack as the season progresses.
The goal from here will be to move the group
up closer to the front runners to blanket the
finish line before most teams can get their
third through fifth men past.

Chapman, Quis lead the
way in Wildcat Classic

By MIKE GIGLIO
Staff Writer

“Dominating.”

Davidson volleyball coach Tim Cowie
needs only one word to describe the play of
his middle tandem of Tisha Chapman and
Roberta Quis. “Tish and Roberta just domi-
nated this weekend.”

In helping propel the Wildcats to a 3-0
record and a tournament championship in the
Wildcat Classic last Friday and Saturday,
both players were named to the all-tourna-
‘ment team with Chapmanalso garnering tour-
nament MVP honors.

Quis and Chapman were not forced to carry
the team on their own, however, as Rebecca
Teichgraeber and Julia Hueckel also turned
in strong performances for the second straight
weekend.

The first game of the tournament, on Fri-
day night against Coastal Carolina, the play-
ers felt the pre-game jitters that are customary
for a home opener.

The players were eventually able to over-
come these initial butterflies to take the match
in four games, highlighted by a late rally in
the last game which saw the ‘Cats take seven
of the final eight points to secure the victory.

Chapman led the team with twenty-two
kills, while Quis came through with thirteen
putaways.

Teichgraeber chipped in with an impres-
sive double-double, posting sixteen digs and
ten kills.

“Everyone was a little nervous for the first
home match and we didn’t play as well as we
could have,” Coach Cowie said after the
game. “Tt wasn’t pretty but we took care of
business and got the win.”

The Wildcats ran into some trouble in
Saturday’s first match against Southeastern
Louisiana, allowing SLU to come back and
tie the match after winning the first two
games.

It wasn’t until the ‘Cats went on a 6-1 run

in the middle of the final game-that they were
able to pull ahead for good.

Chapman again led the way with twenty- .

five kills, and Quis continued to play well
with seventeen putaways and only one error.

In its third and final match, against North
Carolina A & T, Davidson remained unde-
feated in the tournament by taking the match
in four games.

Finishing strong, the ‘Cats boasted a .390
hitting percentage in the final two games.

In addition, four players had double-digit
kills in the match, including Chapman with
seventeen and Hueckel with fifteen.

After a tournament in which the Wildcats
didn’t quite play up to their potential but still
managed to come away with the champion-
ship, hopes remain high for the start of con-
ference play.

“We haven’t played good volleyball yet,”
coach Cowie reflected.

“We’ ve played well enough to win but not
up to our potential. But it’s always better to
win ugly than lose pretty.”

The players too understand that there is a
lot of work left to do, and they are confident
in their ability to get the job done when they
need to.

“We have a long way to go, but getting
these wins under our belt gives us the confi-
dence we need,’ Chapman said.

As we have already seen, stopping the
Wildcats is nearly impossible with Chapman
and Quis controlling the middle:

Coach Cowie is certain, however, that op-
posing teams will do everything in their power
to quell this dynamic duo.

“Teams are going to do whatever they can
to take them out of our offense,” he predicts.
‘“‘We’re going to have to work to pass well and
have others step in and help carry the load.”

Davidson volleyball returns to action this
weekend at the UNO Classic in New Orleans
where they will face Nicholls State, Troy
State and New Orleans.

Junior Leigh Ann Hoskins attacks The Citadel defense on Saturday.

Offensive explosion lifts
women’s soccer over Citadel

Hoskins scores

first of six goals

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

While the men’s soccer team got national
attention on Saturday by defeating North
Carolina, the women settled into Southern
Conference play with a less stunning, but
nevertheless very important, 6-0 win over the
Citadel on Saturday to improve to 1-0 in
conference play and 1-2 overall.

Early on, the Wildcats asserted themselves

with a plethora of offensive chances, demon- -

strating to all that they are a very dangerous
attacking team.

After being outshot a combined 30-6 in
their first two games, the ‘Cats turned the
tables against the Bulldogs, outshooting them
25-5.

Junior forward Leigh Anne Hoskins opened
the scoring with a goal in the 15" minute, her
second tally of the season.

The Citadel managed to keep the game
close until the final twelve minutes of the first
half, when the Wildcats blew it open.

Freshman Kara Koehrn scored in the 34"
minute to give the Wildcats a 2-0 lead. Senior
co-captain Heather Maloney scored hardly a
minute later, and then scored quickly again in
the 39" minute on a pass from sophomore
goaltender Sarah Hobart that turned into a
perfect setup.

Sarah Huber scored her second goal of the
year in the 44" minute, on an assist from
senior Meghan Ferriter.

Ferriter also assisted junior Catie Williams
in the 65" minute for the only goal of the
second half.

Entering the second stanza with a five-goal
advantage allowed coach Kevin Hundley to

let his more inexperienced players see sig-

Defender Lauren Dennis helped
keep the Bulldogs from scoring.

nificant time on the field.

Alleight Davidson freshmen logged plenty
of minutes Saturday, including reserve goal-
keepers Melissa Bandy and Laura
Schulbenberg, who split the second half to
combine with Hobart for the shutout. Koehrn
tallied the first goal by a member of the class
of 2006.

Heather Maloney, who was recently tabbed
pre-season SoCon along with her twin sister,
Tara, has a chance to break the all-time school
scoring record.

With her two goals against the Citadel,
Heather now has 29 goals through Saturday,
putting her third on the all-time list in a tie
with her former teammate Ginny Dye (1996-
99). She needs ten goals to take first place.

Davidson returns to action this weekend at
the Wisconsin Invitational Tournament in
Madison where they will challenge Saint
Louis and the University of Wisconsin.
