‘om the Sideline
Field of Dreams

By Caro ine HAUSER

Sports Editor

Sunny and 75—must be spring in Davidson.
Finally, we can move out of Belk Arena and
onto the lush patches of grass that Physical
Plant rolls out to accent the brick.

While Sports Illustrated searches for some- .

one besides Peter Anderer to write about, Ihave
found my muse. The crack of the bat, the smell
of the dirt, the feel of a leather glove...you
guessed it. Intramural softball.

With names as intimidating as “Angry Rock
Lobsters” and as frighteningly ambiguous as
“The Truth,” students and staff are gearing up
for a solid month of practice and play.

Like anything else at Davidson, where even
the golf class starts every day with a mile jog,
softball is for neither the faint of heart nor the
timid of spirit. Practices start with plenty of
stretching, lest those muscles left stiff from
hours in the library cramp up from the sudden
rush of blood from brain to limbs.

Armed with an updated copy of Lee Jones’
meticulous schedule, teams converge on the
IMACs (which, as a freshman, I definitely
thought Steve Jobs donated), with two fields
subjected to three games each every Sunday.
And, lest the grass manage to grow back mid-
week, at least two teams play every Wednesday.

With its ban on varsity baseball players, the
sport isn’t exactly of SoCon caliber. Many
participants depend on echoes of Dad’s t-ball
instruction and sixth grade coaches’ advice—
Step Up To The Plate! Move Your Hands
Together! Move Your Hands Apart! and the
time honored Keep Your Eye On The Ball!—
to project some semblance of coordination on
the field. Others try to cross home any way
possible, and if that way is crawling to the plate
like a military commando, so be it.

There are, of course, the baseball and softball
phenoms who just happen not to be varsity
players but are mysteriously able to hit pitch

after pitch over the waist high fence.

I fall firmly into the former category. While
my batting average is about three times that of
any overpaid ballplayer in America, I’ve come
to terms with the aging process in recent years.
Diving for a ball or jumping in front of a line
drive doesn’t seem to be quite as smart at
twenty as it did when I was twelve.

I am, however, completely devoted to the
rituals of the game. I clean my mitt, wear a pair
of Wilson Youth Large batting gloves, and
make multiple trips to the new Dick’s for
everything from wristbands to shorts thatmatch
my team’s fabulous ringer tees. And, while
looking good is obviously the most important
thing in the game, I’m a fan of the official
objectives for intramural sports at Davidson:

1. To provide an opportunity for every indi-
vidual, regardless of ability or experience (thank

goodness) to realize the joy of recreational ’

participation.

2. To provide programs geared toward mass
participation rather then elite competition (at
Davidson?).

3.To contribute to the development and
identity of student groups on campus (great for
hall bonding—just think flickerball).

4.To create programs and activities orga-
nized and administered by students (props to
the captains).

5. To provide programs that provide attrac-
tive alternatives for free time through physical
recreation to develop lifelong habits of exer-
cise and play (study hard, play hard—the cen-
tral theme of our college experience).

6.To implement a program that provides
fitness, social affiliation and fun through com-
petitive and recreational pursuits (okay, so five
out of six isn’t bad).

Yeah, I just listed the objectives to hit my 500
words. I’m already late for practice.

‘Dedicating the B.C.O.C.

Community gathers to formally
welcome world’s largest wildcat

By Erik EHINGER
Staff Writer

On Saturday, members of the College
community as well as the town gathered
in front.of Baker Sports Complex to
welcome the newest and biggest (sorry,
Martin) wildcat to the Davidson com-
munity.

The world’s largest wild-
cat statue arrived on cam-
pus last fall but had not yet
been officially dedicated in
its permanent home. Since
its arrival, the 1500-pound
bronze wildcat, a gift to the
college from 1945 alum-
nus and longtime supporter .
Irwin Belk, has become a
dominant symbol of Wild-
cat pride, overlooking the
complex from its rocky
perch where it ominously
greets opponents visiting
the cat house.

Mr. Belk himself was in
attendance Saturday, along .
with Hanna Jubran and Jodi
Hollnagel-Jubran, the
statue’s creators, and a host
of Davidson faithful. Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt as well as
athletic director Jim
Murphy made brief re-
marks before turning the
microphone over to Mr.
Belk.

Perhaps the biggest win-
ners on the day, though,
were the children from

Davidson in attendance who took ad-
vantage of the opportunity to have their
picture taken while riding on the back of
the giant wildcat.

The ceremony.and the wildcat itself are
symbols of an excellent past and a prosper-
ous future for Davidson athletics, as Wild-
cats of all ages became infected with the
winning spirit of the ’Cats.

photo by Bill Gid munications

Bobby Vagt and irwin Belk share a Tight
moment at Saturday’s dedication.

Students, Faculty, Staff--

Take a Bow !!

The number of lost books in the 2000-2001
inventory 1s the lowest number in 42 years.

Over 90,000 books checked out,

170 reported lost.*

Thanks for your part in keeping the Honor.
System working in your Library!

The Library Staff _

*There i is a list of the lad lost books available in the Library. Check and see if you can help us find those.

