A LIBERTAS @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 20, 2002

Buddhist monks bring art,
dance, meditation to campus

Monks to create
mandala in Union

By EmiLy Drew
Senior Staff Writer

10 Buddhist monks from the Loseling
Monastary, India, will be in residency at
Davidson College from March 20-23. Spon-
sored by the Davidson College Artist Series
and Students for a Free Tibet, the monks will
create a sand mandala, offer a lecture on the
art of healing, demonstrate a sacred dance for
world healing, lead guided meditations, and
join students for lunch and dinner throughout
the week.

The mandala, an intricate sand construc-
tion symbolizing eternity and unity, will be
created in the Brown Atrium of the Alvarez
Union beginning March 20. The monks’ visit
will culminate on Saturday at 2PM at the
Lake Campus, when the monks will ceremo-
niously release the madala’s sand into Lake
Norman. :

“The first time that Davidson hosted monks
from Tibet, it was a life-changing experi-
ence,” said Jeremy Campbell ’02, referring to
a visit paid by another group of monks two
years ago. “We want to provide that experi-

Conference examines
medical issues

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer

Students and professionals joined last
Wednesday at the 15" annual Speas Collo-
quium. The colloquium, designed to focus
around bioethical issues, included a forum
and other activities throughout the day.

For the’first time, students presented their
own viewpoints on the many difficult issues

Dean Rusk Program sponsors film festival

“Search for Common
Ground” program
highlights global issues

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

From March 12 to 21, Davidson College
hosts the “Search for Common Ground Film
Festival.” The festival consists of the screen-
ing of eight films that promote understanding
and peaceful coexistence among all people.

The films are selected annually by the
Search for Common Ground, a non-profit,
non-governmental organization that is de-
voted to conflict resolution and conflict pre-

ence for the new group of students at David-
son.”

Campbell also commented on the atrium of
the Alvarez Union, which will be “a great
space for displaying the mandala and view-
ing the monks’ work.”

“Tibetan people seem to exude peace and
compassion,” said Aditi Sethi ’02, an integral
actor in the planning of the monks’ visit.
“They’ ll bring a much needed sense of calm
to this campus.”

Like Campbell, Sethi is a member of the
Davidson branch of Students for a Free Tibet,
an organization focused on promoting aware-
ness of Tibetan, Buddhist, and monastic cul-
tures.

For more information about the Davidson
residency, contact Sethi at X6060. More
information about the monks can be found at
www. mysticalartsoftibet.org.

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

Wed 3/20 to Sat 3/23
Construction of the Sand Mandala
Brown Atrium

Opening Ceremony 3/20 10:00 p.m.
Brown Atrium

Closing Ceremony 3/23 at 2:00 p.m.
Lake Campus

see Schedule, page 2

addressed by the roundtable each year.

The annual colloquium catered to the mis-
sion of the Bioethics Society to “promote
student awareness of current ethical issues in

medicine.” Student participators joined with .

professionals and presented their research at
the conference luncheon. Afterwards, stu-
dents joined in discussion groups throughout
the afternoon.

The Pre-Conference Workshop, entitled
“Responsibility for Health Status,” “covered
issues surrounding genetics reproduction,
biomedical research, the intersections of faith
and medical practices, cultural perspectives
of health status, and stigma and illness as
represented in contemporary literary works.”

vention around the world.

The films are all examples of “common
ground media” — a specific genre that “dem-
onstrates in informative and entertaining ways
that workable solutions can be found to con-
tentious problems.” Certain criteria for the
films are also used: the film must be balanced
in the portrayal of issues, timely and relevant
to the issues of today, entertaining and infor-
mative, and have high production standards
and values.

Last October, the films began their nation-
wide tour in Washington D.C. at the US
Festival. Since then, the set has been mailed

to various universities around the country, -

including Cornell University, Emory Uni-
versity, the University of Southern Califor-
nia, and many more. Now, after five months

-
<
ae
ae
ale

~
~
o
>
Z.
CO
es

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 20

Martin Ides (right) shoots during Davidson's 69-
64 loss to Ohio State in the NCAA Tournament.

Bioethics Society participates in annual Speas Colloquium

The event sought to highlight controversial
ethical questions around the practice of medi-
cine with the intention of learning more
through exploration and discussion.

The events got off to an early start at 9 a.m.
in the Gallery Room of Chambers. Elizabeth
Kiss, a Davidson alumna, Rhodes scholar,
director of the Kenan Institute for Ethics, and
associate professor of the practice of political
science and philosophy at Duke University,
made the introductory marks at 9:15.

Throughout the morning Kiss and other
professionals directed a panel discussion
based around a number of biomedical issues.

The. forum concluded at 7 p.m.: with an
address from Dr. Carl Cohen, professor of

’ of travel, the films have arrived at Davidson.

The Search for Common Ground website
offers five specific reasons they feel it is
important to sponsor such a festival. First, to
showcase films that contribute to preventing
and reducing conflict; second, to honor film-
makers who work within this genre; third, to
encourage future productions that promote
the project’s goals; fourth, to popularize this
type of filmmaking; and fifth, to move audi-
ences from beyond the viewing of these films
into dialogue. ;

Dr. Homer Sutton, professor of French and
interim director of the Dean Rusk Program,
initiated the attempt to get the films to
Davidson’s campus during their university

see Films, page 2

philosophy at the University of Michigan, at
7 p.m.

Overall, participants considered the events
extremely successful.

“We were more than pleased about the
turnout of the bioethics forum,” commented
Bioethics Society member JT Tolentino ©
’02. “Being our first forum, we had nearly 65
undergraduate students in attendance. This
event was nearly a year in the making, and
those involved were very happy with the
outcome of today’s events. Many people left
the forum satisfied, finding the small breakout

see Speas, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-4
Turner House raised over $300 for
impoverished farmers in Africa. Page 3.

Arts and Living Pages 5-6

Steve Martin’s Picasso at the Lapin
Agile opens Wednesday in the Duke Fam-
ily Performance Hall. Page 5.

Perspectives Pages 7-8

Davidson’s NCAA Tournament expe-
rience was,about more than basketball.
Page 8.

Sports Pages 9-12

Baseball team limps through month
with 0-6 Southern Conference record.

