Isha Asmat Ahsan Soren Morgan Johnson
Charles Nash Babcock Nicholas Alan Mantini
. Patrick Bruce Baetjer © Derek E. May
Shannon Clark Bishop Jessica Steuart Mering
Todd Matthew Chapman Emily Wheelan Metzloff |
Ashley Cara Crimmins Rebecca Jean Moore
Mark Joseph DiCristina, Jr. Daniel A. Morris
Kevin Edward Epps Hussein Nasreddin
Eduardo Andres Estrada Sheila Natarajan
Maurice Lamont Falls William Douglas Neville
Lewis Haughton Faulk Grady Leslie Patterson IV
Benjamin Avant Ferrell Nidhi Theres Paul
Katherine Kenyon Fiedler Roberta West Quis
John Andrew Foster Rebecca Lynne Rigel
Nancy Elizabeth Gardner Meghan A’ Dair Singletary
Leslie Nicole Grinage Victoria Anne Statler
Elizabeth Bazemore Halligan Rebecca Lee Stewart
Jefferson Daniel Hanks III James Raymond Swansbrough
Kristine Jo Harrington David Caruthers Tolley
Adam Russell Hill Maryanne Elizabeth Warner
Katherine E. Shaw Hipsher Ian Richards Willoughby
Kevin McCoy James Katherine Elizabeth Wilson

CAMPUS POLIGH DLOUIER

11/17/02 Patterson Court Parking near Turner - Removal of personal property
Unknown person(s) did remove kayak from on top of vehicle and placed it near CoHo
House

11/17/02 Patterson Court Fraternity House - Assault on student
Known perpetrators sprayed victim in the face with a fire extinguisher. Perpetrators
have been referred to Dean’s Office for disciplinary action.

11/17/02 Residence Halls - Sexual Assault
Known Davidson student was accused of sexual assault by another Davidson College
student. The incident occurred in the hallway by holding the victim against the wall
and groping victim with the hands. This incident is under investigation.

11/19/02 Alvarez Union - Trespassing
Several non-Davidson persons were found using Davidson pool tables in the
Union. It was discovered that they were not Davidson students when they started an
argument with Davidson students over the use of one of the pool tables. Persons were
escorted from campus.

11/23/02 Patterson Court - Assault
Known perpetrator did assault a Davidson College visitor by punching him in the face,
causing the visitor to require stitches. Perpetrator has been referred to Dean’s Office
for disciplinary action. Victim in this case declined to pursue criminal charges.

11/23/02 Patterson Court Eating House - Drug Possession
Known Davidson student was found to be rolling a marijuana joint on the porch area
of the Eating House amongst a crowd of people. Student has been referred to the
Dean’s Office for disciplinary action.

Correction

The first paragraph of “Diversity discussion continues: recruitment key” in the Nov. 20
Davidsonian, President Vagt’s quotation should have read, “Things go well at Davidson.
This means we have good days and less good days.” The Davidsonian regrets the error.

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

-Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Christmas €at¥ Davidson

Despite the stress of exams and final papers, Davidson is an incredible place to be during the
holiday season. Here’s a guide to just some of the events that students can look forward to as my
breaks, or just another means of procrastination.

Wed. - Fri., Dec. 4-6 6-9 p.m. nightly Main Street Christmas in Davidson

Merchants will open their doors each evening, offering free refreshments and a variety of
entertainment, including local bands and carolers. Visitors can view the festivities from a horse-
drawn carriage or trolley and enjoy a visit with Santa and Mrs. Claus.

Two attractions that were crowd pleasers last year return this year. A “Cajun Christmas”
celebration will take place on Friday evening at Davidson South, complete with live music,
entertainment, regional food, and special favors. Members of Davidson United Methodist Church
will be staging a Live Nativity presentation along with dramatizations each evening on the west
side of Main Street in front of the former Methodist church.

New additions include “A Blue Ridge Christmas” at the Davidson Cotton Mill featuring popular
blue grass bands, crafts from North Carolina artisans, regional food offerings, and gospel singers.
On Thursday evening, the acclaimed Grey Seal Puppet Theatre will present “Snuckleby and his
Tales from Kudzuland” at Davidson South. Finally, local resident “Lura”, arising child pop music
artist, will be performing during the event.

Mayor Randy Kincaid and Don Kimmel will host opening ceremonies beginning with seasonal
music on Wednesday evening at 6:00 pm on the Village Green. The opening ceremonies will end
with the lighting of the town Christmas tree and the arrival of Santa by fire truck.

Saturday, Dec.7 1-3 p.m. Main St. Davidson Christmas Parade
Watch traffic come to a stop as Christmas rolls into town!

Sunday, Dec.8 2-4 p.m. Alvarez Union Community Christmas Open House
The union will host children’s activities, serve refreshments, ring with holiday music, and offer
several opportunities to shop at the tenth annual Alternative Gifts Fair.

Sunday, Dec.8 7:15 p.m. DCPC Christmas Vespers

Soprano Jacqueline Culpepper will perform with the Concert Choir, Chamber Singers, Brass
Ensemble, and Symphony Orchestra. The musical prelude will begin at 7:15 p.m., followed by the
service of lesson and carols, seasonal anthems, instrumental music, and selected readings at 7:30
p.m. There is no admission charge, but those who want a good seat are advised to arrive early for
the service, which usually fills the sanctuary.

Thursday, Dec.12 10-11 p.m. Brown Atrium DCPC Cookie Study Break
Three words: get there early. Students start lining up by 9:30 for homemade cookies and hearty
smiles, both courtesy of Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Friday, Dec. 13 10-11 p.m. Brown Atrium Ice Cream Study Break
Again: get there early. Watch Bobby Vagt wrestle your ice cream out of a huge tub, then have
your professors add another scoop. Top it off with every garnish you can imagine.

* Special thanks to the Town of Davidson and College Communications in the compilation of this
information.

Davidson College
Bookstore

Friday - Thursday

Dec. Thur Dec.
13th - 19th

Y)
M4
O
©
aa
a
O
re

Fri. 12/13 -- 8:30 - 5
Sat. 12/14 -- 9:00 - 2

Mon.- Thurs. 12/16-12/19 - 8:30 - 4:30

THES VA OS XI NEWIPARR TUCK SC MACK 2/140) FU
