By Katie MEYER
Staff Writer

Buy a paper hammer. Stick it on your
window. On most days, this would seem
ridiculous, but in September, a paper ham-
mer on your window will signify participa-
tion in Davidson’s efforts to raise money for
the Wildcat House.

The hammer sales are one of many
fundraisers developed by Davidson students
and faculty to support upcoming projects by
Davidson College’ s Habitat for Humanity. If
everyone on campus, including faculty and
staff, contribute to purchasing these $10 ham-
mers, Habitat would raise nearly $10,000.
That equals the cost of building nearly one-
fifth of a Habitat house.

Led by Casey Sams ‘03, Ann Marie
Wesneski ‘04, and Kelley Hubbell ‘03, the
organization hopes to collect $50,000. If they
raise an additional $5500, students will travel
to Guatemala to build four more Wildcat
Houses under the guidance of the Office of
Community Service.

“When we started planning this event the
student group hoped to break ground in 2003-
2004 school year and complete the building
that year. The president has challenged us to
begin building in the spring of 2003. The
student group has the energy and initiative
through partnerships and their own endeav-
ors to try and bring in enough funds in this
semester to make that happen,” commented
service coordinator Rosie Molinary.

Unlike other Davidson Habitat projects,
students, faculty, staff, and alumni will take
control of each aspect of this endeavor. “Dur-
ing the semester our Habitat volunteers typi-
cally spend three weekends helping other
sponsors with Habitat houses. However, with
this house, Davidson students will be solely

2

responsible for funding and construction,”
explained Sams. Aiding the students with

raising money will be Davidson’s Develop- -

ment Office through the writing of grants and
seeking of materials from local stores.

Another campus-wide event will be the
PCC Construction Gala on October 19. Shaw
Hipsher ‘03, PCC Service Chair, heads the
planning committee for the construction gala.
Made up of faculty, students, and community
service, Union Board and PCC representa-
tives, this cooperative event includes Habitat
speakers, dessert, music and a hypnotist.

Paul Leonard, President of the-Habitat In-
ternational Board and a Davidson graduate,
will address the Davidson community at the
event. A current Habitat house owner will
also attend and Davidson singing and musical
groups will perform. This event is made pos-
sible by a “triumvirate of PCC, Union Board,
and the Davidson College Habitat chapter,”
said Hipsher.

“This isn’t going to be something David-
son College Habitat can do alone or PCC or

Union Board. We’ ve all got to take the initia- .

tive and work together. This will be symbolic
of the school coming together and creating
something. A-lot of students do their own
service projects and put in hours with their
own groups, but I think it will be cool to see
what we can do together. I think it’s going to
be inspiring to see the relationships grow and
blossom between these groups and the com-
munity,” said Hipsher.

If you’re interested in helping with
fundraising, contact Casey Sams, Ann Marie
Wesneski, or Kelley Hubbell.

If you’re interested in working on the Con-
struction Gala, contact Shaw Hipsher. For
more information about this project, visit
www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/
habitat/wildcathouse.htm.

Paper hammers, PCC raise
funds for Wildcat House

Red Bike program in question

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

On Thursday, August 25, SGA senators
started a fresh semester with discussion on
a variety of topics, including their involve-
ment in the Sept. 11 anniversary events and
the community bicycle program.

President Gray Patterson ’03 explained
that while the College’s plans for Sept. 11,
2002, are still in the works, the SGA will
play a major role in the events on campus
throughout the day of remembrance. Chap-
lain Rob Spach has headed up a committee
of professors and students to plan the events
that will take place that day. SGA will be in
charge of leading a morning communal
gathering around the flagpole, as well as an
evening program in the Union.

The other major topic of conversation at
the meeting was the failing Red Bike pro-
gram. Though newcomers to campus may
be unaware of the fact, Davidson has spon-
sored this community bike program for the
past few years. In the past, 20 “red bikes”
have been available for students to ride
around campus and the town. Much to the
chagrin of the program’s founders and ap-
preciative riders, irresponsible students and/
or townspeople have vandalized these bikes
in the past.

In recent memory, the red bikes have
been thrown off balconies, against lamp-
posts, on top of the Martin Court bulletin
board, and often bent beyond usefulness.
Senator Adam Gerstenmier ’05 chairs the

_SGA Red Bike Committee that was formed
- at the beginning of last year. Last spring, in

an attempt to reduce the amount of repair
work that was necessary to maintain the
program, SGA began picking up the bikes
from around campus each Friday afternoon
and redistributing them on Sundays. SGA’s
hope that this would diminish the program’s
costs faded after several incidents of vandal-
ism last semester.

Atthe SGA meeting, many senators voiced
strong desire to put an end to their control of
the Red Bike program. The decision may be
made to donate the Red Bikes to Davidson
Outdoors, where students would have to
check the bikes out in order to use them.
SGA’s feelings about this issue seem to
disappoint Gerstenmier, and he feels that the
SGA senators may not be correctly reflect-
ing the feelings of the student body.

“TJ can think of no reason why students
would not want a community bike program
in place. It is a fun and convenient program,
and ‘there is nothing like finding a red bike
in satellite when you park your car at night,’
I was told by a sophomore friend the other
night,” Gerstenmier said. Gerstenmier also
mentions that the continual abuse of these
bikes “shows the possibility of flaws in the
Code of Responsibility here at Davidson.”

Patterson added that he “would hate to see
the program stop, particularly if it stopped
because students were destroying them even
though it is an Honor Code violation. That
has larger consequences outside of a few red
bikes.”

Gerstenmier asks for any students who
feel adamant about the continuation of the
Red Bike program on campus to voice their
thoughts to SGA and Davidson Outdoors.

Campus-wide forum
on Social Life |
at Davidson College

with President Vagt
and Dean Shandley

Tuesday, Sept. 10

8:00 PM in the
C. Shaw Smith Room,
Alvarez College Union

