eae

welcome spring wi

th events, service.

Fraternities and eating houses co-host parties, foster discussion and sponsor service events
Kappa Alpha and Black Student Coalition
team up to host ‘Middle School’ party

Two houses team up to combat
stereotypes and meet new people

By Eric McKay AND Lewis FAULK
Special Contributors

After several weeks of planning, the Black
Student Coalition and the Kappa Alpha Or-
der initiated an event that would introduce
the members of both houses to new friends
and serve as an opportunity for open dialogue
and interaction between them.

Mbye Nijie ‘04, member of the BSC and
one of the key organizers for the event, accu-
rately portrayed the sentiments of other stu-
dents involved in his statement, “The reason
that I wanted this party was because of the
stereotypes that are attached to both KA and
the BSC. Both of these houses have a stigma
that only one group can go into these two
houses.”

On Friday, March 22, the members of KA
and the BSC disre-
garded any previ-
ous stigmas and
met at the BSC
house for a cook-
out and, later in the
evening, atthe KA
house for an open
party. Sunny
weather and nearly
every member of
both houses turned
out for the cook-
out. Members of
both houses agreed
that there was
much more inter-
house mingling
and conversation than previously anticipated.

As Nijie stated on behalf of his house, “We
were extremely delighted to have had the
cookout with KA and... we also met a lot of
cool people that we have not met before.”

After the meal at the BSC, decorations
were set up at KA for the party sponsored by
both houses. The party, dubbed “Middle
School Party,” ran from 10:00 p.m. until 2:00
a.m., and was deemed by some attendees as
“quite simply the best party of the year.”

By midnight the house was packed with
students from very diverse backgrounds, as
not only members of the BSC and KA were
present. Students affiliated with the other
houses of Patterson Court and also many
independents showed up at the party making

KA.”

“The party was a big
success, mainly be-
cause it helped me to
eliminate any previ-
ous steretypes about

it, as Njie said when later commenting on the
party’s success, “great to see many groups of
people that don’t normally hang out, at the
party having fun together.”

Erika Dean ‘05, a freshman member of the
BSC, added, “the party was a big success
mainly because it helped me to eliminate any
previous stereotypes that I had about KA
upon coming to Davidson.”

While the closing of the party at 2:00 Sat-
urday morning marked an official end to the
event, the connection it opened between KA
and the BSC had only begun. Due to its
success, both houses hope to co-sponsor more
events in future semesters. There is already
another function combining the two houses’
efforts in the works for this coming fall.

The presidents of the two houses were both
enthusiastic about the event. “I was really
proud of the members’ support for the party
and amazed at the turn out,” stated BSC
President Leslie Grinage ’03. “It was com-

munity-build-

ing and an ex-
- ample of
something we
need to see on
this: campus
more often.”
“My hope
is that this
event fosters
more interac-
tion between
groups) on
campus. It’s
hard to push
people out of
the comfort of
their own so-
cial group, but the success of this party shows
that it’s worth making the effort,” added
Graham Watson ’03, President of KA. “I had
a great time hanging out with members of the
BSC that I already knew as well as meeting a
lot of new people.”

Beyond altering people’s perceptions of
the two Patterson Court houses, these types of
social functions are promoting a greater sense
of community in Davidson’s social sphere.
While it is the nature of individual groups to
stick together and develop relationships in-
ternally, this exclusive tendency can be detri-
mental to the broader community. The BSC
and KA are working together to break down
social barriers and enhance community life at
Davidson College.

- Erika Dean ‘05

Connor hosts annual Bosom Buddies dinner

Proceeds from silent auction will
benefit breast cancer research

By BETH CorrIGAN
Special Contributor

On April 16, 2002 Connor House will host
its second annual “Bosom Bud-
dies” dinner and silent auction in
support of Friends You Can Count
On, an organization based in
Greensboro that supports innova-
tive breast cancer research. Last
year, Connor raised over $7,000
and the girls hope to reach this goal
again this year. j

Alaina Beach ‘04, co-service
chair for Connor remarked, “last
year we were very successful and
hope to be equally as successful
. this year; however, we would like to see more
faculty and student attendance at ‘Bosom

Buddies,’ because, afterall, thisisaDavidson —

vent.”

Dr. James Boyd, a renowned Charlotte
oncologist, is the guest speaker at the dinner.
In addition, the Delilahs will be performing
along with Jodi McQuillen ‘04, a harpist.
Area businesses have been very supportive
and have donated numerous items to the
silent auction. Some of the high-
lights include: a Vera Bradley bag,
jewelry, furniture, gift certificates
to area restaurants, two season tick-
ets to Davidson basketball games,
printers, and much more.

Allare encouraged to attend this
exciting event. The tickets are $25
(students receive a $10 discount).
Also, look for Connor girls at the
upcoming health fair on April 10.
If you are interested in attending
“Bosom Buddies” or would like to
make a donation, please contact Beth Corrigan
(894-6597) or Alaina Beach (894-6528).

Connor House invites female staff, faculty
to discuss women’s issues at weekly meeting

Informal discussions sponsored
in honor of Women’s Month

By SHANNON BIsHoP
Special Contributor

In honor of Women’s Month, 15 female
staff and faculty members joined Connor
House’s weekly meeting to moderate infor-
mal discussions of issues facing women at
Davidson. The evening enabled Connor
members to praise Davidson successes, find
comfort in shared experiences, and gain an
appreciation for the female role models we
have on cam-

outside of what happens in class is enor-
mously important and allows us to begin to
learn new things from one another,” said Dr.
Sharon Gteen, a professor in the Theater
Department.

“T really enjoyed and appreciated our con-
versations we had and it was good to know
that professors are really interested in what
we have to say and how we feel as students,”
commented Amanda Young ’04. “I would
really love it (and I am sure I speak for others
who were there tonight) if we could make this
amore common occurrence. It’s areal bless-
ing to be at a school like Davidson where

these gathering can

pus.

Group dis-
cussions ranged
from Connor
women ex-
plaining the
Davidson dat-
ing scene to the
moderators
sharing their
own college ex-
periences. This
low-key event enabled Connor members, fac-
ulty, and staff to interact casually outside the
academic environment. Response to the
evening was overwhelmingly positive on both
sides.

“What I enjoyed about the evening was the
opportunity to spend some time with Davidson
women—some of whom I know, other of
whom I met for the first time—outside of the
usual classroom setting. Starting to under-
stand that both students and faculty have lives

MITSUBISHI'S EDUC

“Tt was good to know
that professors are
really interested in
what we have tosay.”

- Amanda Young ‘04

be so personal.”

Dean of Resi-
dence Life Leslie
Marsicano also_
found the discus-
sion valuable. “I
really enjoyed par-
ticipating in the
event. It’s invigo-
rating to get to-
gether with such
. accomplished and
energetic women.”

The evening allowed Connor Women to
take advantage of the female resources we
have on campus. As history professor Dr.
Sally McMillen commented, “I think the dis-
cussions hit a sensitive chord.”

Connor House would like to thank all the
faculty and staff members who facilitated
this experience. It is crucial for Patterson
Court and Connor to continue this type of
conversation, camaraderie, and development.

x | fale
Bas Hee

“Must be a cllege goduote within the past wa yers, oo college senior curremly enoled inc fouryenrprogiom and wil receive your degree within 12 months from an

occedited U.S, college ot university of o student currently enrolled in o U.S. masters or doctoral

program, Required to show documentation such 0s on application for graduation

to
Mba hicchudarrtPaaptebiricpish plait gngitalssad ely t-sg 4 bnpdlypanenuoa **First poyment Is due 390 days, ond

finonce charges begin 360 days from when contract is signed. In Maine, zero finance chosges limited to

days ond zero payments limited to 360 days. Program ovailable

th desolate heer avait ine sa <i dsbinly rh cab oma ond 2002 models only. Excludes 2003 Eclipse ond

. Some customers wil not qdalify. Actual price set by retailer. Retoiler terms ond vehide
contract must be signed by progrom end date of 4/30/02. See porticipating retoiler or coll 1-888-MITSU2002 for details. ***7 Rally Edition shown, MSRP

stock

Ovailability may vary. Customers must toke retoil delivery from retoiler

$15,597, plus $545 destination /handing ($670 Alaska). Excludes to, tile and license. Actual prices st by eles. Vide 4 is
frm th December ‘0 seo Kiger oso inic,€2001 The lage Neshagn os ne wisest Suey onal alaca
