daily activities (like going to school or
going out with friends) you will want to ask
for assistance. —

- Talk to your friends, family, or
teachers. Often the best way to feel better
about something is to share your feelings
with other people. You realize you are not

alone and you can help each other. It is
important that somebody knows how you

feel. Identify at least one adult whom you -

trust to talk to when you are upset.

- Try different ways to express
yourself. Talking with others helps but
you also may feel like writing in a journal
or doing a creative writing, music, or art
project. Just doing the activity is often
enough to make you feel better bit it also
may help to share your work with others.

- Don’t be surprised if you react dif-
ferently than you expected. Lots of fac-

tors contribute to how we react to an —

anniversary. These can include how you
felt at the time of the attacks, how close you
were to the events or someone who was
hurt or killed, if you have experienced
another crisis since then, or if you are
having difficulties in other areas of your
life. What is important is to be aware of
your feelings and not keep them inside.
Get help if you _ feel

overwhelmed. While feeling sad or more
anxious is normal during this time, feeling

like you can’t cope is a sign that you need

some help. Tell an adult immediately if
your feelings are keeping you from your

normal activities or make you feel pan-
icked, hopeless or alone, out of control, or
like hurting yourself or others. Also, pay
attention to the reactions of your
friends. Tell an adult if you are concerned
about a friend who seems misenially dis-
tressed. ¢

“Miia nik marae routine and
be constructive. Sometimes simply going
toa practice, engaging ina hobby, going to

the movies, or reading a favorite book can
ue make ay feel more ee :

teacher or parents know if the workiowt or
pace.is too much. :

Don’t watch too much TV
coverage. The media is likely to highlight
the anniversary with emotional coverage
such as interviews with survivors and fam-

ily members, stories about the terrorists,

predictions of future attacks, and/or replays
of ‘the World Trade = Center
collapse. Watching this kind of coverage
can raise your anxiety level unnecessarily,
particularly if you are not learning new or
helpful information.

- Take care of yourself. We have aten-
act to ignore our health when we are
dealing’ with ‘strong emotions or the de-

_ mands of school. Be sure to get plenty of

healthy food, exercise, and sleep. Limit your
caffeine and junk food. Listen to relaxing
or favorite music. Go ; for a walk with a

‘helpful. Your school may organize a me-
morial activity t to help students and teachers
express their emotions related to the
anniversary. These activities can help you

_ feel less vulnerable or alone and be a posi-

tive step in moving on. Emphdsize the posi-
tive things about the people and events you
are remembering such as favorite memo-
ties, the importance of family, a stronger
sense of community, and a greater appre-
ciation for our freedoms. It is okay if you
don’ t want to be part c of amemorial activity,
and you should not feel presoured todos So.

“ from The NationalAssociation afSchoo!

; ass aa

Hops Restaurant
Of

Lake Norman
presents

KICK OFF PARTY

16815 CALDWELL CREEK DR

HUNTERSVILLE, NC
1-77 and Exit 25

Free samples of beer and food!!!
Bring a friend and enjoy the festivities!!!

extracurricular activities, and adie up
with and/or. making new friends. Let your

By KaTHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

You are living in a Federal Disaster Area.

Perhaps the lush green lawns on campus
have led you, like many, to dismiss North
Carolina’s much discussed drought as some-
thing not so important and certainly not wor-
thy of any more coverage. It’s just water—
the stuff you ask for at a restaurant when
feeling cheap and unwilling to actually pay

for a drink. How valuable can it be? As is .

often the case, it takes the absence ofa thing
for anyone to notice its presence.

At present, according to the New York
Times, North Carolina is in the midst of the
third worst drought in recorded history, out-
ranked by only the infamous Dust Bowl of
the 1920s anda similarly devastating drought
in the 1950s. Cumulative rainfall over the
past four years has left the region short of 40
inches, or one full year’s quota of precipita-
tion. The shortage of rain is aggravated by the
increase in urban sprawl. Columnist Douglas
Jehl reports that in Charlotte alone, the num-
ber of water users has increased 36 percent in
the past ten years, while the daily water use
has increased by 56 percent.

In the early summer, governor Mike Easley
called for the citizens of North Carolina to
limit their water:use by watering lawns at
night and reducing car washing. The water
shortage continued and, in August,
Mecklenburg County upgraded from volun-
tary to mandatory water restrictions.

According to physical plant director David
Holthouser, Davidson and the surrounding
Charlotte area are in level I mandatory re-
strictions. Level I, the lowest level of re-

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

Drought leaves campus
desperate for H20

straints, calls for all watering to be done
between the hours of 9 p.m. and 4 a.m.
Holthouser said Davidson put all of the timed
sprinkler systems on night watering in April.

Students who were on campus this summer
may have noticed daytime watering nonethe-
less. Holthouser points out that not all grassy
areas have automatic sprinkler systems. Newly
planted areas and frequently trafficked routes
often receive water from moveable sprin-
klers. Because there is no nighttime grounds
staff to transport, set up, and monitor the
sprinklers, crews were forced to water these
areas by day. Now, with a larger school year
staff, and under the tighter restrictions, the
sprinklers are set up by day but turned on by
at night custodian after 9 p.m.

Holthouser worries about the effects of an
increase in water limitations. For example, if
Mecklenburg county moves up to level II
restrictions, lawn watering will be permitted
only once per week. This could spell disaster
in particular for the athletic fields, which
require special attention to survive their daily
abuse. In a worst-case scenario, level III
restrictions would completely prohibit all non-
essential outdoor use of water. According to
information from Charlotte-Mecklenburg
Utilities, violations of the restrictions can
lead to fines of $30 to $100 per day.

Maintaining the grounds’ verdant appear-
ance is far from the only use of water on
campus. Besides independent student use,
water is a vital component in providing air
conditioning, cooking, dishwashing and, of
course, the cherished laundry.

Situated on the edge of Mecklenburg

see Water, page 4

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/9/02

Several individuals violated public consumption of alcohol rules at

the Guster / John Mayer concert.

