VOLUME 94, NUMBER 11

Over 50 students gathered in Richardson Stadium on Sunday to show their support for a possible Dave
Matthews concert in the spring. The school has entered a bid to bring Matthews to Belk Arena.

Davidson and Dave: The

By Matt GarFIELD
Managing Editor

From Counting Crows and Indigo Girls to
Ludacris and John Mayer, Davidson has lured
some of the biggest acts in music to Belk Arena
over the past two years.

Nowefforts are underway to land what would
likely be the biggest catch in school history.

’ Dave Matthews is planning a solo 12-show
college tour on the East Coast next spring, and
Davidson is among more than 300 schools
vying fora performance between March 19 and
April 6.

The school has made a “competitive” offer,
and expects to hear from Matthews within a
month, said Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant
Director of Union Programs.

“T think we have a real good shot,” she said.
“We have a lot of things working for us. The
offer we’re making is a very good offer. The
way.we’ve structured it shows him it’s not
about us making money...We want to. bring

him to the school because it’s what our students

want.”
Bannerman said Davidson has earned a good
reputation among concert promoters because

Rock On: Sophomores swept Battle of |
the Bands, a Union Board event held last Sat

of its experienced staff, which she expects will
play a role in Matthews’s decision.

One of those promoters, Mike Jones of More
Music in Virginia Beach, Va., helped to bring
Ludacris and Mayer to Belk Arena in May and
September, respectively.

Not only is Jones fond of Davidson, but he’s
also close to Matthews’s manager, said Union
Board President Kate Fiedler.

“They are great friends and have a long
history together, so that’s a pretty big connec-
tion. (Jones) called us and said ‘I want you to put
in a bid.’ He’s real excited about Davidson and
the program we have.”

Bannerman and Fiedler declined to name the
exact offer, but according to two Internet mes-
sage boards, most bids run around $150,000.

* Fiedler expects ticket prices to be $39 for
students and $49 for general admission in the
4,500-seat venue.

“Our agent said ours is one of the smartest
offers he’s seen,” said Fiedler.

Matthews played at area schools like College
of Charleston and Wake Forest on his most
recent solo tour in 1999. Just as he did then,
Matthews may bring a guest musician such as
guitarist Tim Reynolds, but his band will not be

Battle of

urday night at 10 in the

best of what’s around?

part of this tour.

And this time, he hasn’t ruled out playing at
smaller colleges like Davidson.

“What their management told us was he’d
entertain every offer, any venue, any size,”
Bannerman said. “There were no parameters
about being a certain size school. It was just
‘make your best offer and he’ I] take a look at it.’
That’s very rare for this type of artist.”

Students have always singled out Matthews
on Union Board concert surveys, said Fiedler.

“Dave has been one of those dream artists.
He’s been one of the No. 1 folks that people
want to see,” she said.

And Bannerman said this is a golden oppor-
tunity for the College to bring another big-name
act to campus.

“We have tried to help Davidson students
think they’re not missing out by going to a
smaller school,” she said. “We want you guys to
feel fortunate about being at Davidson for more
than just academics. And it’s good exposure,
especially when you think about kids who are
looking at Davidson.

But that’s secondary. The first thing is that we
want students to be excited about being here.”

i) the
1 Bands

Union Atrium. Phil Sasser, Hans Larson, and Ashley Brown earned first place and $250 with their bluegrass-
esge group “No Name Band #2.” Joe Zimmerman, Jimmy Newlin, Travis Lloyd, and Andy Heston earned
second place and $100:in “Joe Zimmerman and the Soccer Moms.” The audience decided the winners.

Above (I to r): Phil Sasser and friend; Luke O'Hara w/ “Magical Realists” (formerly known as “German Philosophers”); Durham Barnes.

Students hope
to charter
historically
black fraternity

By Caro.ine K. HAUSER
News Editor

Another chapter in the long and varied history
of Greek life at Davidson College is unfolding
this week. In hopes of bringing a historically
black fraternity to campus, two national organi-
zations accepted invitations to visit with stu-
dents and present their programs.

Representatives from Phi Beta Sigma Frater-
nity, Inc. met with students last night, and Alpha
Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. will give a presenta-
tion tonight at 8 p.m. in the West Hall Confer-
ence Room.

According to Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean
of Student Life, “Black fraternities are some-
thing that’s engrained in the African-American
culture. We have a lot of students on.campus
with those connections: We'do get asked when
some African-American males are looking at
Davidson if we have black fraternities. They
have those expectations.”

The idea of brining a historically black frater-
nity to campus goes back to 1991, when a group
of men approached the college with the idea. In
1993, Alpha Phi Alpha granted Davidson a
charter, but the chapter did not materialize.
Resultantly, the charter was revoked.

In 1996, as it was preparing for re-accredita-
tion, Davidson conducted a self-study. Among
the study’s recommendations was that histori-
cally black fraternities be added to aid in the
social and educational experience of black stu-
dents.

Over the past few years, says Jeffries, “a few
fledgling pushes were made, but students just
didn’t have the numbers.”

However, last spring, 16 males sent Tom
Shandley, Dean of Students, a petition request-

see Frats, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Memory of Water debuts tonight, p5

News 1-4
SGA considers smoke-free dorms. Page 3.

Arts & Living 5-6

Harry Potter reviewed. Page 5.
Perspectives 7-8
Columnists discuss Cornel West’s
appearance this week. Page 8.

Sports 9-12

Volleyball tournament preview. Page 11.

