A330 mi. Propesilsad Raber, “Noslonal Polttics:
and Sept. 11: Partisanship, Civil Liberties, and
National Reapers. 2 OCU eL ee 21. 5

Panel discussion — C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

- Brief lecture by Dr. Christopher Alexander, Director
of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program and.
Associate Professor of Political Science, followed by :
haters isk discussion

4 p.m.

5:15p.m, _ Inter-faith prayer vigil — Mariam Cannon Hayes

Amphitheatre (rain location - Brown Atrium) _

- Students and faculty from various religious tradi-
tions will offer prayers and en poe ner s

respective Regions

‘Campus gathering - Alvarez College Union
- Keynote address by Dr. Elizabeth Kiss ’83, Associ-
ate Professor of the Practice of Political Science and
. Philosophy and Director of the Kenan Institute for
Ethics at Duke University ’
- Open mic session for response
- Closing ceremony

9 p.m.

‘Canvas labyrinth — C. Shaw Smith 900 Room
- -36’x 36’ meditative path for walking, quiet
reflection and prayer available all day and night

Throughout the day, writing space will be provided in the Union
for spontaneous expression.

Note: Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Davidson United Meth-
odist, and St. Alban’s Episcopal will co-sponsor two identical services
of worship at noon (at Saint Alban’s) and 7:30 pm (at DCPC).

The Soda 1981
preakfas
Roi “qa 11:30

Breakfast Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

people as possible.

said. “With many different opportunities to
respond during the day, we hope everyone
can connect with at least one. Of course, each
event will not be the right response for every-
one and, in fact, may be the wrong one for
some people.

“We’re all sensitive to the moment. Some
people are just now coming to terms with the
attacks and we’re all still trying to work
through it.”

Though she was ‘not in Davidson on Sept.
11, Fiedler’s position as Union Board presi-
dent has been influenced by people’s stories
of that day. She expects the Union to serve the
campus on the anniversary of the attacks
much as it did last year, simply by being “a
space that’s open and allows for sharing—a
place where people can come to talk or listen
or cry.”

To accommodate spontaneous response,
the Union will have large sheets of paper for
those on campus to express their thoughts in
words and art.

At 9 p.m., just as last year, the’ college
community will gather in the Union for a time
of reflection and
rememberance.
Vagt will make
opening remarks
before.a keynote
address by Dr.
Elizabeth Kiss ’83,
Director of the
Kenan Institute for

do this.”

last year’s, when students and faculty mem-
bers offered their initial thoughts about and
reactions to the attacks.

“Our hope is that the emphasis will be on
‘How have we responded to Sept. 11?’” said
Spach, asking, “Are there things that we have
done in response? Are there ways we’ve
changed our lives? How are we investing

' “There’s not one proper way to do this,” she

“We're all sensitive to
the moment...There’s
not one proper way to

oto by College Communications

Students fill the Union on 9/11/01.

ourselves in the community in Hane of these
events?”

“Of course,” he added, “people can say
whatever they want.”

Whatever the response, says Vagt, “When
you’ re in a healing process, one of the things
you want to do is retrace your steps. We want
to go back and feel that unity, but now we’ re
all seeing those events through the lens of
what’s happened
in the last year.”

On the night of
the attacks, hun-
dreds of people
filled all four lev-
els of the Union,
sitting on the floor,
hanging over rail-

‘Ethics at Duke Uni- ings, holding onto
versity and a . ; one another as they
Davidson trustee. - Kate Fiedler ‘03 tried to make sense

After she speaks, of what was hap-
Spach Wil ence LL fei Ny.
session similar to Inhis comments

then, Vagt urged unity and understanding.
“We’re here tonight because of an emotional
and spiritual need to be together,” he said.
“Our hope is not only that we’ re here, but here
together.”

One year later, Vagt recalled the emotion
of that night and said quietly, “It’s very im-
portant that we go back.”

Counseling Center
September 11 Hotline
(704) 742-1670

From Monday, Sept. 9 until Saturday, Sept. 14, the Counseling

‘Center will have a cell phone hotline available 24 hours a day for

students dealing specifically with issues relating to the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

In addition to the usual on-call pager, students can call (704) 742-
1670 to talk on the phone, set up an emergency face-to-face meeting
if the counselor feels it is appropriate, and/or set up a regular Student
Counseling Center appointment for follow-up.

Construction, from page 1.

the campus and the existing summer pro-
grams, Little and Richardson underwent reno-
vations. :

Additionally, utility workers removed a

massive utility pipe system from 1930 and

‘replaced and much of the central air condi-
tioning and power line infrastructure was
repaired.

8/24/2002

A student was transported to the hospital due to alcohol poisoning.

8/31/2002 A student was transported to the hospital due to alcohol poisoning.

