Editorial

There’s no need to use this space to discuss whether
Sunday’s WALT radio show was a disturbing display of
college immaturity. Formulating a list of the 20 “most hated”
people at Davidson and then announcing it.on air was in
questionable taste. Its occurence should spark a discussion
about the best way WALT can

- serve the Davidsoncommunity.

WALT has long been an un-
der-utilized but potentially
valuable asset to this campus.
But few people know it even
exists, much less take the time
to tune in.

A supervisory organization,
suchas the Union Board, should
supervise the station and do a
better job of promoting it. It
should spend more time and
money to put together enter-
taining but respectful shows that
bring attention to all that is good about Davidson, including
athletics, Union activities, academics and student achieve-
ments. Good fodder shouldn’t be hard to find.

This organization also should keep close tabs on who and
what goes on the air. We’re not advocating censorship here,
but there has to be some sort of procedure in place to ensure
quality programming.

The Union Board has done an exceptional job this year in
putting on concerts, pancake breakfasts and all kinds of other
activities. It has taken full advantage of the new opportunities
offered in the new Union, and its staff is full of talented,
enthusiastic leaders eager to create fun for fellow students.
Maybe the Union Board ought to take on the challenge of
rescuing WALT from the identity crisis into which it has
fallen.

A college radio station like WALT has the potential to
serve as a campus-wide forum in which important issues can
be discussed and debated. Two years ago, for example,
professor Scott Denham and baseball player Jeremiah Parvin
held an on-air debate about the role of fraternities, athletics
and academics at Davidson. They took phone calls and
argued passionately about a wide variety of issues.

The show was a prime example of the influence that a radio
show can have on shaping opinions and enlightening an
audience.

After all, that’s why we are here in the first place.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Tim Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
< Derek Loh .. Gavin Weber
Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser
-. Photography Editors.
Erin Berry — Matt Whited
aaNet & Business Managers
»Gregg Wallace
ig Jett Lartimore . ‘
Cire ition: Manager “a
“Maggie Kozicharow

/iwww vids® .edu/d id oni

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY
wnveronny| ECP) “kat earowes

EAC
OTHER...

S PONEN NEN DON'T WE
TURN OFF THE TV ANO
JUST TALK

CATE

What do patriotism and
basketball have in common?

I dedicate this piece to two groups of people: everyone with
tacky post-Sept. 11 bumpers stickers and all of you who go to
basketball games and watch dispassionately while our teams
face clutch situations. You both make me sick.

The events in New York and
Washington were tragedies of
horrible magnitude, and it was
important for our country to show
aunited front in our opposition to
terror. Almost instantaneously,
however, a sincere outpouring of
emotions turned into another
money- making scheme and pop
culture phenomenon even worse

than the Backstreet Boys.

Where was your patriotism when the U.S. Women’s Soccer
team won its first World Cup? Where was your patriotism
when you allowed a misguided Supreme Court to override the
people’s vote in the last presidential election?

_ How many of you who preach “United We Stand” weren’t
at the women’s basketball game on Tuesday when it scored
more than 100 points? How many of you weren’t there when
the men came within three points and mere seconds of beating
Western Carolina? I hope you were in your rooms organizing
a political movement to end poverty, because drinking or
playing X Box are not excuses. Before you can solve
problems ona national level, you have to solve them ona local
one. Before we can unite the country, we have to unite the
campus. So get off your butt and go toa sporting event. This
doesn’t just include men’s basketball, but every sport on
campus. They all deserve our support. If you can’t even go
to a basketball game, then you had better take off that phony
bumper sticker.

Qe

Vic Lindsay ‘04

Our misguided defense policy

President Bush announced on Wednesday his push for a
$48 billion dollar increase in defense spending, saying, “We
will not cut corners when it comes to the defense of our great
land.” If the increases pass, the U.S. government will spend
$379 billion on defense next year. According to the Washing-
ton Post, that means we will be spending roughly the same
amount as the next 15 closest competitors. Bush assures us
that “in order to win this war against terror ” new spending
is ’essential.”

But a closer look reveals a whole lot more. First, Bush
implies that the way to fight terrorism is to build high-tech
weapons. Unfortunately, there is no technological silver
bullet to fighting terrorism. A fully functioning missile de-
fense system could not have prevented the murders commit-
ted on Sept. 11. Nor can precision- guided bombs blast

terrorist cells forever out of existence. An appropriate strat-, ,

PS SRER OR OP 7 ke ee

egy against terrorism will require human skills, like respect- :
ful diplomacy and intelligence gathering.

Perhaps the worst part about Bush’s proposed hike is s that
it does almost nothing to combat terrorism. Due to rather
shoddy media coverage, very few people know what this
money will go toward. Most of it will go to procuring “big
ticket items,” like the F-22 fighter jet, which was originally
meant to combat a Soviet fighter plane that was never built.
More useful items, like unmanned aerial drones, would
receive much less support.

U.S military priorities have been seriously misplaced since
the end of the Cold War. The military has continued to train
to fight the Soviet Union instead of modernizing its force
structure to fit newer, smaller security threats. According to
William Greider in Fortress America, the result of this odd
situation was that the military had to cut back on training and
pay for troops so that it could pay for both old and new
weapons systems. Reform seemed likely when Sect. of
Defense Donald Rumsfeld told the Pentagon and the military
industrial complex they would have to make ”tough
choices.”

With the Bush budget, neither will have to make any
choices. The “War on Terrorism” has derailed any political
will for reform. Pet projects will continue, while efforts to
make the U.S. military adaptable to new challenges like
terrorism willlag. Withouta serious debate about reform, our
military’s ability to meet these challenges seems doubtful.
Congress should reject Bush’s push for increased military
spending and call for efforts to meaningfully revise the
Pentagon’s force structure to make our military both afford-
able and useful in the 21st century.

Josh Craft ‘04

Drunken hook-ups rethought

In response to “Behind Closed Doors: ‘What’s your name
again? (Jan. 23, Arts & Living).’

I was extremely troubled by the apparently lackadaisical
attitude taken towards “drunken hook-ups” in last week’s
article. While I am comforted that the authors at the very least
encouraged sober encounters over drunken ones and while I
am not usually one to condemn the actions and choices of
others, I have one major difference with Kayleen, Lauren and
Sarah — unlike them, I think drunken hook-ups are not okay
in any circumstance. I am a member of Patterson Court and
I know it happens all the time, but that doesn’t mean that I
condone or agree with it in any way. The authors of this article
caution people to “be smart”. They’re right, but in this case,
especially if you’ ve been drinking, the smart choice is always
to say “no”.

The Davidson Sexual Misconduct Policy makes it clear
that incapacitation (this includes intoxication) constitutes a
lack of consent in all cases. I too fail to see how anyone can
make an intelligent decision if they’ ve been drinking. Be-
cause it is much easier to take advantage of someone intoxi-
cated, drunken hookups are questionable territory when it
comes to giving and obtaining consent. I also wonder—if your
inhibitions are such that you'll hook up only when you’re
drunk, that’s a signal that you probably shouldn’t be doing it
in the first place.

So I have a radical proposal: if you meet someone on the
Court whom you find attractive, by all means, dance, talk,
flirt, whatever. But go home alone. Get in touch with him/her
the next day. If there was really a connection, you haven’t
ruined it by creating morning-after awkwardness, and maybe
something wonderful can develop. And if it was just animal
attraction, is it really worth it if you can’t remember what
happened the next morning anyway?

Kristine Harrington ‘03

