Quartet inaugurates Duke Family Performance Hall

By JonATHAN Wu
Special Contributor

The Brazilian Guitar Quartet held a packed
crowd at the edge of their seats in the official
inauguration of the Duke Family Performance
Hall. Interestingly enough the group’s leader

and most renowned member, Paul Galbraith, °

is actually Scottish. He moved to Brazil in
1996, where he quickly embraced the South
American culture and started a family as well
as the Brazilian Guitar Quartet.

Galbraith’s style of playing is quite
unique, one that is consciously derived
from the cello—he plays an eight-string
guitar, holding it almost perpendicular to
the floor and supporting it with a metal
endpin that rests on a wooden resonance
box.

His guitar adds a string tuned to A on
both the low and high ends of the guitar’s
voice range. The metal endpin carries the
vibrations of the guitar down to the wooden
resonance box, which then amplifies the
sound and adds body to the newly created
low and high voice ranges of the extra
strings. The resonance box also opens up so
that it becomes a nifty guitar case. The
resonance box along with the guitar inside is
then placed into a hard case for transporta-
tion.

Galbraith is backed up by the two brothers,
Edelton and Everton Gloeden, and the “‘infa-
mous” Tadeu Do Amaral. Edelton’s appear-
ance and style of playing reminds me much of
the great violinist Itzhak Perlman. However,
it seems to me that this style fits the violin
better than the guitar, for Edelton’s style
lacked certain left hand preparation, making
him more liable to mistakes in the left hand.

Everton, who also plays an eight-string

guitar, has only recently begun to study the
“extended” instrument - I believe under
Galbraith’s tutelage. He provides most of the
bass line. Tadeu, or “Tad,” was my favorite
of the four, both to watch and to listen to. His
sound was clear, powerful, and precise.
The repertoire of the evening included se-
lections from J.S. Bach, the well-known Bra-
zilian composer Heiter Villa-Lobos, the fa-
mous Spaniard Isaac Albeniz, and the con-
temporary composers Ronaldo Miranda and
Francisco Mignone. All of the pieces were

ao pae

photo

emotion of each of the guitarists came to-

gether to produce what I felt was the piece’s
essence, if I may wander into that Platonic
realm of ambiguity.

As a whole, though the performance was
good, I would not give it my stamp of excel-
lence-however much, or little, weight that
carries. The quartet did play well together,
each guitarist being aware of his part in the
piece, whether it be the melody or the accom-
paniment. However, I was not thoroughly
impressed with the most of the tone the quar-

by College Communications

The Brazilian Guitar Quartet held the first concert in The Duke

Family Performance Hall.

played quite solidly, but my favorite was the
selection by Ronaldo Miranda, Variacoes
serias, or Serious Variations. The Varia-
tions provided an enjoyable lyrical interplay
between guitars and displayed a playful varia-
tion of theme. The energy, technique, and

tet offered. With the exception of Amaral,
the quartet played too often with around tone
for my taste. I would attribute the majority of
this excess to the acclaimed Galbraith, who
generally played the melody since he was the
lead guitar. In the classical guitar, in order to

create a round sound, as opposed to a more
metallic sound, one plucks the strings further
from the bridge so that the point of contact
lies basically overthe soundhole. The rounder
sound is usually used for indications of piano
(or “softly”), whereas the brighter sound is
used for forte (or “strongly”). Andon special
occasions, an even rounder sound (made by
plucking even further from bridge) is used as
an accent on certain notes to emphasize the
climax as well as adding lyrical flexibility.
These interpretive techniques are practiced
regularly by the world’s top guitarists, with
John Williams leading the pack.

The reason for the occasional use of the
very round tone is because, alone, this tone
may sound weak. The best way that I can
describe this tone is to use the term “vague.”
The vagueness allows for a wide and flexible
range of expression if used appropriately. If
overused, however, the melody becomes un-
stable and wavering. Galbraith’s wooden
resonance box attempts to counteract this by
amplifying the sound. However, the volume
can only partly guise the tone quality. In
addition, frequent occurrences of the very
round tone devalue its worth as a point of
climax. If it might help to understand, those
who are familiar with Longinian rhetoric
could regard the excess use of round tone as
turgidity.

Ona lighter note, I was able to enjoy dinner
with the. musical foursome after the perfor-
mance. They were light-hearted and warm as
they joked about Brazilian coffee and appar-
ently made bad, yet entertaining puns. I only
have the slightest clue as to their conversa-
tion, since I don’t speak Portuguese, or Span-
ish for that matter. It was still an enjoyable
experience spending the evening with the
Brazilian Dream Team. °

Jeunet releases creative
cinematic import of the year

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Last year it was Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon. In 2000 it was All About my Mother,
and the year before that we had Life is Beau-
tiful. The foreign language film darling of
2002, that subtitled film that American audi-
ences embrace, is Amelie.

The characters of the great Babe: Pig in the
City existed in a world “just a little to the left
of the twentieth century.” Amelie is set in that
same, strange, vibrant world where lamps
talk, animals sing, and chance is a person’s
best friend.

Director Jean-Pierre Jeunet infuses his film
with so much style and energy; it’s a miracle
that Amelie never runs out of steam. Take the
wonderful first act, for example. Those first
fifteen minutes play like a marathon of little
details of the most (un)important aspects of
our lives. We learn about characters’ pet
peeves, their likes, their loves, and whatever
else Jeunet feels like disclosing. Revealing a
detail.as minute and inconsequential as the
diameter of a woman’s calf would not be silly
in the context that the filmmakers create. We
watch as one character overlooks Paris and
wonders how many couples are. having or-
gasms at a precise moment.

Our heroine, Amelie (Audrey Tautou), is a
character so saccharine that even the most

bitter of moviegoers will find her irresistible.

She is a quiet girl who lives alone and works
atacafé called The Two Windmills. Amelie’s
discovery of an old box full of toys sets the

plot in motion.. She vows to find the box’s
owner, and if he is pleased by the reunion
with his childhood mementos, Amelie
pledges to do more good deeds. Of course
the owner is touched, and so Amelie begins

movies.

yahoo.com
The clones in The City of Lost

Children

her crusade of charity. So here we have a
stylistically charming movie about a cute,
polite, good-doer, and yet Amelie never feels
too sweet. We feel nothing but affection for
this movie and all its ideas and characters,
creepy or sweet.

Take the hypochondriac tobacconist and
her boyfriend, a disgruntled, jealous man
who expresses his sentiments to his voice
recorder. Yes, these characters are fun to
watch and laugh at and with, but they’re

see Amelie, page 6
