a column by the
'

Steve Clugston: Throughout your time at
Davidson, you will find (if you have not already
noticed) that almost everyoneis friendly. People |
will walk past with a smile and salute you with
a head-nod and a “what’s up?” or a “what’s
going on?’ and occasionally a “how’s it go-
ing?”

Although it might not seem that they sin-
cerely care or even expect you to answer, this
can be a subtle way of saying, “Hi, Idon’t know
you personally and I mightn’t ever, but feel free
to ask me for a helping hand.”

Some call it human nature but it is certainly
one of the greatest trophies of this happy little
bubble called Davidson College. However, this
is just the foundation of a great time here. All
you need to do is find the special people who
will listen to your binges of complaint at 2 a.m.,
hug you when you need it, and hold your hand
when you feel lost. But remember that any
relationship is two-way. A true friend will re-
ciprocate both affection and regard.

Ultimate Friendship Movie: Keeping the
Faith

Felicia Browne: I would advise everyone,
particularly freshman, to take the time to get to
know those you consider “friends.” In these
ensuing months, you will encounter some of the
most friendly, captivating people you have ever
met; and as a result, many well make the mis-
take of instantly latching onto these people.

Please be selective. You will have plenty of
time to get to know them, so take advantage of
that. You will be glad you did. It is very easy to
find someone to go party with, but rare to find
those who will forego homework to accompany
you home at 2 a.m. because you had an
emotional breakdown (my personal experi-
ence).

As we all know, the Davidson experience can
be rough at times, but it is a lot easier knowing
you have friends who will make sacrifices in
order to stay by your side at. your
toughest moments.

heal

»SOUL

th advisors.
Ultimate Friendship Movie: Brokedown

Palace

Lauren Stutts: One of the best things about
Davidson is the amount of different people you
can meet from all across the nation and even the
world. What’s really sad, though, is that many
people do not take advantage of this privilege.
I have found that some of my most enriching
friendships are with people from other coun-
tries or states.

Within the first month I was here, I met
people from Alaska to Ghana, and it was re-
markable to see what their lives had been like.
Therefore, be a brave duck and waddle away
from that comforting line of homogenous ducks
and try to make friends with people different
from you—this will enable you to emerge from
Davidson with a much broader and richer pro-
spective of life.

Ultimate Friendship Movie: Beaches

Jenn Greene: I guess the most important
thing I can chime in is that friendships are
dynamic. People are always changing, grow-
ing, and rediscovering themselves.

Particularly in the first few weeks of college,
we meet so many new people, and each seems
intriguing in his or herown way. But as we grow
to know more about those people, we begin the
“weeding” process, and grow apart from those
whose priorities are too dissimilar from our
own. And no matter how hard you try, some
people just slip away.

There are times when I look back to my best
friends freshman year, and it pangs me that we
barely speak anymore. But just as some people
fade away, others become grow closer, of just
appear all of a sudden and take your breath away
(I highly recommend letting yourself fall in
love).

Friendships are give and take, gain and loss.
But all works out in the end. Those who leave
have their reasons, and those who come into
your life to stay are well worth the wait.

Ultimate friendship movie: The Cure

; FROM 85:

Hops Restaurant
of

Lake Norman
Presents

KICK OFF PARTY
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2002

30-9:30 pm

16815 CALDWELL CREEK DR
HUNTERSVILLE, NC
I-77 and Exit 25

Free samples of beer and food!!!
Bring a friend

Controversial spring —

and enjoy the festivities!!!

Be s
f, &

show drew attention
By Anpy HESTON
Staff Writer

If you will so indulge me, I'd like to take the
reader on a bit of a flashback. It’s a Sunday
night, Spring 2002. Most likely, your thoughts
were on homework, perhaps the Simpsons. You
wander out into your hall and hear, from a
nearby room, laughter and conversation. You
are intrigued, and wander in. There, anumber of
students are crowded around a radio, listening
to some talk station, thoroughly unremarkable
save the large amount of static.

Then, you realize: these are two Davidson
students on the radio; one Mbye Niie and one
Ryan Carvalho. And what is it they are talking
about? It sounds like they’re reading a list of 20
people, the twenty most terrible people on
Davidson’s campus. That can’t be true, can it?

Yes, Ryan and Mbye’s show did read a list of
the twenty most terrible people one campus last
semester, and in the process became the most
controversial student radio broadcast in
Davidson history. Feelings were hurt, students
were divided, hearts were broken, ratings were
incredible. No one could anticipate what Ryan
and Mbye had in store for next week, only that
it would be relentlessly entertaining. One of
your friends could make the list. One of your
classmates. Or even you.

And all over campus, students were heard
saying, “We have a radio station?”

Yes, Davidson does have a radio station.
WALT 1610 AM, to be specific. And they
allow more than just talk shows. Basically, at
WALT, anything goes, excluding profanity and
dead air time of course. And if you feel WALT

is not catering to your genre of choice, be it

classical, rock, or Hindustani music, new DJs

are always welcome: start your own show and
play what you want to listen to.

There is the problem of whether other people
listening or not, of course. Last year, few shows
other than Ryan and Mbye’s could claim any
sort of following. And speaking from experi-
ence, doing a show for no one is a bit frustrating.
Few of the shows advertised, few listeners
called in, and few DJs were particularly excited
about the station.

This year, however, things are very different
at WALT. It really is exciting: it seems the
station has garnered enough attention to get its
foot in the door to be a campus institution and
not just a couple fanatics. For one, there’s the
new core programming, which is basically a
more professional show: more cohesive theme,
better station support, and best of all, a tiny
salary.

Yet WALT does more than just the student
radio. They are also ready to DJ your party for
much cheaper rates than a professional DJ, and
you’ll have more control over the playlist, too.
Whatever it is you want to hear, they’ Il be more
than happy to play for you. Thus far, there
haven’t been any complaints with the WALT
DJs, and the station hopes to continue this trend
this year as well.

Allin all, it’s shaping out to be a fine year for
WALT 1610. Watch the Davidsonian for a
detailed schedule of shows and DJs in coming
weeks, and if you are interested in DJing,
whether it be for music, sports, politics, or
whatever is your thing, contact Max Dubuisson
at madubuisson @davidson.edu. WALT’s al-
ways excited to have fresh faces. And most of
all, keep (or start) listening.

Concert, from page 5

_and “Deny” can be heard everywhere: in mov-

ies, on the radio, or being sung by people
walking the streets. Default’ s emergence proves

that rock is not dead, but has been reborn. It is .

hard to say which band will draw the largest fan
base at the Weenie Roast, but there is little doubt
that everyone planning to attend is in great
anticipation of Default’s set.

The secondary performers include:
Goldfinger, Butch Walker, Doves, SR-71,
Greenwheel, and Epidemic.

What better way to celebrate the end of
summer and welcome the fall than with the
hottest bands in rock today. Normally people
use the phrase “once in a lifetime” when the
situation is really not deserving of it. However,
it appears that this concert may be a “‘once in a
lifetime”: opportunity. Maybe these bands will
be back next year, maybe not. Is that a risk you
are willing to take?

Fri

. gnade Grown « F,
aie S| inly The

Tava Jam Happy Hour
days 5-Spm
Indoor/Outdoor Seating

Open 7 Days.
Come see us

123 South Main Street, Davidson, 104.895.1040

Davidson
College

