Local housing
organizations
earn recognition

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Press Release

The Davidson Housing Coalition (DHC)
and its partner organizations, The Affordable
Housing Group (TAHG) and the Town of
Davidson, have been honored by the Fannie
Mae Foundation among six winners of its
national Maxwell Award of Excellence for
Affordable Housing.

The award, which carries a $50,000 grant,
recognizes efforts to maintain affordable
housing in urban

Area Median Income is $64,000).

The DHC’s Marguerite Williams said it is
a humbling honor for: the relatively young
organization to have been chosen by the foun-
dation as a winner among so many other long-
established affordable housing groups. She
said, “This sudden recognition links us to a
wonderful network of new friends across the
country we can call on when we face chal-
lenges, and it gives us credibility when we
seek support for future projects from donors
and lenders.”

She also gave credit for success of the
project to the people of Davidson. “One of the
reasons we’ ve been successful is because so
many citizens believe in affordable housing
as a core value. We haven’t had to spend our
energy persuading people that it’s a good

thing. They already

neighborhoods, know that, and are
metropolitan com- Us , eager to support and
munities, small We don twant to ne- participate in our
cities, and rural ar- , work.”

eas. This is the first
time a North Caro-
lina housing orga-
nization has ever
won the Maxwell
Award.

The award was
presented to rep-
resentatives of the
three groups in a
ceremony at the foundation’s Washington,
D.C., headquarters on March 5. The DHC
was represented by its president, Marguerite
Williams. Mayor Randy Kincaid represented
the town, and Executive Director Dean
Edwards represented TAHG.

The local coalition won for the design of
their 32-unit rental housing project on Jetton
Street in Davidson named “The Bungalows.”
Opened in November 2000, The Bungalows
is the first affordable rental complex built in
Davidson in more than 20 years, and serves
families with income up to fifty percent of the
area median income (Mecklenburg County’s

glectfully allow the
suburbanization of this
area to force out lower-
income residents.”

- Marguerite Williams

She also thanked
town officials for
municipal support
of the project, which
included donation of
the land and side-
walks. “Our town
board (of which she
is amember) recog-
nizes the impor-
tance of maintaining socioeconomic diver-
sity. We believe in Davidson as a self-sus-
taining community where all citizens are im-
portant contributors, and don’t want to ne-
glectfully allow the suburbanization of this
area to force out lower-income residents.”

When the DHC began to plan for The
Bungalows, it sought a partnership with
TAHG in order to meet a state requirement
that developers must have built 120 units to
qualify for tax credit funding. Whereas DHC
had built no units at that point, the 35-year-
old TAHG had built several thousand in work-
ing statewide with other affordable housing

‘Affordable housing partners receive top national honor

organizations on such matters as funding,
board development, education, programming,
mission and vision statements, and project
construction.

_ The partnering organizations planned The
Bungalows as an opportunity to redefine af-
fordable rental housing in Davidson. A few
people worried that the project would destroy
property values and ruin the neighborhood
aesthetic. Instead, The Bungalows’ careful
design by Davidson architect John Burgess
and quality craftsmanship by Crosland Build-
ers have been warmly received by neighbors,
and it has prompted a wave of other improve-
ments in its area of town.

About $1.9-million of the $2.5-million cost
of The Bungalows came from tax credit fund-
ing. Other funding came from the NC Hous-
ing Finance Agency, local churches and other
donors, loans, and the in-kind gifts of The
Town of Davidson. The local lender was First
Charter Bank. The DHC has also received
significant grants from the Z. Smith Reynolds
Foundation and the Warner Foundation.”

“The partnering organizations have ad-

dressed a critical need, and have made an
invaluable contribution to affordable hous-
ing in Davidson,” said Stacey Davis, presi-
dent and CEO of the Fannie Mae Foundation.
“Tt is important that we share their successes
so that these projects may inspire and help
improve other community development ef-
forts.”

The DHC is currently building 10 homes
for land-lease sale to qualified buyers in the
new. Deer Park development in Davidson.
Davidson College has also donated to it prop-
erties in the Ralph Johnson estate around
Mock Circle and Sloan Street, which the
DHC plans to use for construction of about 1 1
rental and land-lease sale units.

The Fannie Mae Foundation, a private non-
profit organization supported solely by Fannie
Mae, creates affordable homeownership and
housing opportunities through innovative
partnerships and initiatives. It has bestowed
the Maxwell Awards since 1988 in honor of
former Fannie Mae chairman and CEO David
O. Maxwell, in recognition of commitment
to the housing needs of low-income families.

Speas, from page |

panels interesting. I even heard several pan-
elists commenting about the success of the
undergraduate forum. I think many people
are looking forward to another forum next
year.”

Founded in the spring of 2001, the David-
son College Bioethics Society also strives to
“provide students with resources needed for
conducting research on medical ethics re-
lated issues, and to be a source of information
for students interested in pursuing a bioethics
related field.”

This focus on awareness of bioethical is-
sues is accomplished through debates, lec-
turers, and other events such as the Pre-
Conference Workshop.

President Michelle Lim ’02 founded the
society after attending a student-led bioethics
workshop at Princeton University. Wanting

to organize a similar student event at David-
son, she advocated the participation of the
newly formed Bioethics society in the annual
Speas Colloquium.

Dr. Lance Stell, chair of Davidson’s Medi-

_ cal Humanities program, enthusiastically

praised the society’s work. “They have been
ambitious in their activities and plans.... The
fact that students are taking an interest in
bioethics education outside of class is ter-
rific.”

The society took part in planning the event
and invited students from.around the area to
attend at no cost. The general public was also
invited.

Davidson’ s Speas Symposium was founded
in 1986 with the goal of assessing difficult
and intricate issues dealing with healthcare in
today’s society.

©

eh

cover your putts
better yet, help cover your

[tuition].

College can mean maneuvering through a lot of different
obstacles, but tuition payments shouldn’t be one of them.
In Army ROTC, you'll have a shot at a scholarship worth
thousands, And make friends you can count on. Talk to an
Army ROTC advisor today. We've got you covered.

ARMY ROTC unlike any other college course you can take.

For scholarships and enrollment information visit
CPT Leslie

ae

~

Work in Davidson
This Summer

Summer Employment in
The Library

The Library i is now accepting applications for
student summer

workers. Positions are available i in all depart-
| ment.

at
#7 Jackson Circle
or
call (704) 892-2165 -

Contact Je; ean an Coates, Library C Circulation C Office:

