By Matt Wuirep
Photography Editor °

During the past few years, Davidson has
successfully brought popular national bands
for the big fall concert, perhaps culminating
in last year’s performance by Counting Crows.
This year will be no exception when John
Mayer comes to Belk Arena with Guster and
Charlie Hunter next Monday.

After spending several years in Atlanta
writing songs and building a fan base, Mayer
has quickly gained national recognition coin-
ciding with the release of Room for Squares,
his first album under the Columbia label.

In particular, his recent singles “No Such
Thing” and “Your Body Is A Wonderland”
have quickly moved to the tops of the charts.

Mayer’s music draws from a variety of
influences, and he spent many of his teenage
years mastering blues guitar, for which he
quickly gained local recognition. Eventu-
ally, after realizing that his desire was not to
master someone else’s songs but to create his
own unique sound, Mayer enrolled in Berklee
School of Music in Boston. He dropped out
after a few months, though, to begin perform-
ing full-time, and moved to Atlanta.

Mayer wrote most of the songs on Room
for Squares while he was performing solo in
Atlanta, and gained a reputation for what the
Atlanta Journal-Constitution called a “so-

By CHARLES CUMMINS
Staff Writer

Reviewing the list of movies currently play-
ing at Movie at the Lake, Birkdale, Amstar, or
Concord Mills, I noticed a pronounced lack
of high quality movies. Most screens con-
tinue to be filled with the blockbusters of the
summer, which by now most of us have seen.
So in a search for the best movie alternative,
I returned to a classic that has been given a
breath of fresh air with a Tenth Anniversary
2 Disc Special Edition DVD released last
week... Reservoir Dogs.

Let me return to the year 1992. Back then,
we were somewhere between the ages of 8
and12, enjoying our Saturday morning car-
toons and playing the original Nintendo or, if
you were one of the lucky few, the Super
Nintendo.

At the same time, over in Los Angeles, a
young filmmaker named Quentin Tarantino
and his partner in crime producer Lawrence
Bender were preparing to release the film that
would begin a revolution in Hollywood and
popular culture. It would make stars of Tim
Rothand Steve Bucemi and introduce Harvey
Keitel toa younger audience, then best known
as Jodie Foster’s pimp in Taxi Driver.

Today, the legacy that Reservoir Dogs has
established over the last ten years is most
evident in the countless movies that have
used and reused Tarantino’s cinematic tech-
niques in subsequent films.

How many times have you seen instances
in which a film’s plot are broken up with
flashbacks so that the film might jump from
the aftermath of an event to the next scene in
which the characters are planning the event to
a third sequence in which we are back in real
time? Or think about the technique when an
event is shown from several different charac-
ters’ viewpoint.

Recent movies have used the method well.
Besides Tarantino’ s subsequent films includ-

Sept. 9, 8 p.m., Belk Arena

Singer, songwriter and guitarist John Mayer will
kick off Davidson’s 2002-2003 school year by
teaming up with opening band Guster.

phisticated, accessible folk rock sound domi-
nated by striking acoustic guitar playing.”

. As he has begun to tour nationally, Mayer

ing Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown (both
recently released on Special Edition DVDs),
Doug Liman’s 1999 film Go (largely missed
by audiences and cornmonly referred to as a
high school/college version of Pulp Fiction)
also uses similar editing techniques.
Recently, filmmakers have begun to use
the effects of the broken plot as the result of
the subject matter, from the classic amnesia-
based Mementoto this summer’s sleeper (pun
intended) Insomnia with Robin Williams and
Al Pacino.
_ Yet, the legacy Reservoir Dogs has at-
tained is most evident by the fact that I can
even today put the movie on and be enter-
tained with a mix of humor (the “Like a
Virgin” speech), mystery (who is the rat?),
suspense (the robbery) and cringe factor (the
infamous EAR scene). The current re-release
of Reservoir Dogs for the Tenth Anniversary
Edition DVD brings together a long list of the
special features to enjoy.

Besides the usual Deleted Scenes, Theatri-
cal Trailer, and Commentary, you get several
new interviews with the stars, the director,
and the producer, which reveal all the struggles
to get this movie made on a shoestring budge.
One of the more surprising finds is an inter-
view with Kirk Baltz, made famous as LAPD
Officer Marvin Nash, victim of the EAR
incident.

But the key interview is with the man
himself Quentin Tarantino, who recounts his
start as a clerk at a video store to an “‘A list”
director with the release of Reservoir Dogs.
His interview, humorously broken up with
written narration set to angelic music and a
background of a clouded sky, shows how
Tarantino has become the idol of all strug-
gling filmmakers. This DVD helps to docu-
ment the work that went into developing this
modern classic. It has given this reviewer
greater respect for the film that was created in
the process. |

So as we all await a fall filled with the

.

Preview: John Mayer and Guster in Co ice

has expanded his band
and started playing elec-
tric guitar in addition to
acoustic, buthas retained
much of the folk rock
sound.

Mayer’s voice has
been compared to artists
such as David Gray and
Dave Matthews, but
concertgoers next Mon-
day can expect that his
voice will not be the main
attraction.

Indeed, Mayer has
said that he considers
himself primarily to be a
guitarist and songwriter.
If past concerts are any
indication, he will take
his fair share of lengthy,
intricate, and skillful
electric guitar solos.

The Davidson concert
will bring Mayer close
to the end of a tour that
has been going almost
nonstop for the past 16
months to promote Room

for Squares. Guster has joined John Mayer’s

group on tour since the end of July as co-
headliners, and the tour has featured a variety

Ten years later, Reservoir Dogs still brings enjoyment

return of Hannibal Lecter, James Bond, the
Lord of the Rings, or even Harry Potter, pick DVD of Reservoir Dogs.

of opening groups.

Guster and Charlie Hunter will both add a
more acoustic element to the concert, and
certainly will not disappoint avid Mayer fans
who are not familiar with either group. Ac-
cording to one Baylor University student
who attended the Waco, TX performance,
“the coolest part of the entire concert is that
the Guster drummer plays all the drums with
his bare hands, even the cymbals.” So, if
anyone still needs a reason to put off home-
work on a Monday night, there it is.

The concert will begin at 8 p.m. on Mon-
day, Sept. 9 in Belk Arena. Tickets are on sale
through the Union Box Office and
Ticketmaster.

Charlie Hunter, of Guster.

up the Tenth Anniversary Special Edition -

Senior Experience Calendar

September 2002: .

September 12th
PIGAPALOOZA, 5-7pm, Martin Court

(Senior Class Barbeque sponsored by Dining Services)

Senior Success Series:

(Sponsored by the Career Services Office)
Credential Review (Alvarez 414, 11AM-12N on Tuesdays;
2-3PM on Fridays: cover letters, applications,

Ongoing
4th
Sth
6th

9th
10th

19th

20th

personal statements)

Careers in the Investigative Industry (Alvarez 302, 7PM)
Writing a Winning Resume (Alvarez 313, 4-SPM)
Getting into Law School (Alvarez 302, 5-6PM)

Find Your Dream Job (Alvarez 302, 1-2PM)

Writing a Winning Resume (Alvarez 302, 7:30-8:30PM)
Ace the Interview (Alvarez 302, 1:30-2:30PM)
Internships: The Competitive Edge

(Alvarez 313, 2:30-3:30PM)

Dynamite Cover Letters (Alvarez 313, 1-2PM)
Networking for Success (Alvarez 302, 10:30-11:30AM)
Find Your Dream Job (Alvarez 302, 10:30-11:30AM)
Ace the Interview (Alvarez 302, 4-SPM)

Business Etiquette (900 RM, 7PM)

Succeeding at a Career Fair (Alvarez 302, 1-2PM)

Upcoming events: ~
- Senior Success Series continues into the fall semester

- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue
throughout the academic year
December 12th

Senior

Break/Reading D

eorhotcocoaina |

Davidson latte mug, sponsored by RLO)

