DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 13

MARrTIN LUTHER KING DAY

Performers in Sunday’s “MLK Gospel Explosion” were some
of many involved in this weekend’s celebrations honoring Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. See page 2 for details.

Pledge season begins anew

85 males accept
bids to fraternities

By Emity Drew
Senior Staff

Eighty-eight Davidson men pledged to the
college’s seven fraternities this weekend dur-
ing Self-Selection 2002. An additional 10
joined the coed eating house, CoHo.

For the second year in a row, Kappa Alpha
led the pack with 20 new members. Sigma
Phi Epsilon came next with 19, followed by
Sigma Alpha Epsilon with 16 and Pi Kappa
Alpha with 14. Phi Delta Theta had 11
pledges, Kappa Sigma nine, and Phi Gamma
Delta one.

The self-selection process applies to both
eating houses and fraternities, but the process
of joining a frat requires a bit more of the
candidates than does the eating house pro-
cess. Women joining an eating house rank
their preferences, while men interested in

CoHo simply select this option; both male .

and female eating house members pay dues at
a later date.

The process of joining a fraternity begins in
mid-September after “First Night Down,”

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
School celebrates Martin Luther King
Day with music, contemplation. Page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6
All the latest movie reviews, including
Black Hawk Down. Page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
The real story behind President Bush’s
energy plan. Page 8.

Sports 9-12
Full men’s and women’s basketball
| analysis. Page 9-12.

when rush officially begins and freshmen are
invited to dinner, parties, and off-campus
activities with fraternities. This process al-
lows the rushees to meet the brothers of the
different houses and decide if they are inter-
ested in the house.

Although men technically self-select at
Davidson, the process usually begins with an
invitation, or bid, from a fraternity to join.

“If a fraternity becomes interested in a
rushee, it votes to give him a bid, which is in
no way binding,” said Jimmy Swansbrough
‘03, president of Sig Ep. “The freshman may
potentially get a bid to every single fraternity
on the court. He and he alone chooses which
one he’d like to join, if at all.”

Bids are usually accepted and announced
publicly at a house party. Later, with activi-
ties during self-selection weekend, the stu-
dent officially becomes a pledge.

Pledges complete the requirements for
membership to the house that they choose to
join. Eventually, they become brothers and
can enjoy the benefits of their house, includ-
ing meals, parties, formals, and other activi-
ties.

Surprisingly, men may also self-select a
fraternity without receiving a formal bid. Ifa
man chooses to receive a “social member-

see Frats, page 2

Choir, Jazz Ensemble,
Orchestra end winter —
break on a sound note

By Coin EAGAN
News Editor

Despite snow and ice threatening roads up
and down the eastern seaboard on the week-
end of Jan. 5, just under 100 Davidson stu-

dents set out to return to school a full week -

early.

The members of the Davidson College
Concert Choir, Jazz Ensemble, and Sym-
phony Orchestra departed from campus to

New noise rules ease’
restrictions on parties

Will be allowed if noise
standards are met

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff

The Office of Public Safety recently
changed its interpretation of quiet hours for
Patterson Court on the weeknights following
a push by Gray Patterson ’03 and other stu-
dent leaders. The move potentially allows
unregistered parties on the weeknights to
continue indefinitely through the night if
students abide by noise level standards.

Campus police officers previously had
misinterpreted Red Book rules regarding quiet
hours throughout campus. Students attend-
ing ‘impromptu’ parties on Patterson Court
on weeknights frequently clashed with offic-
ers over noise rules and quiet hours. Party-
goers complained of officers coming in at
midnight and kicking people out of houses by
quoting quiet hours.

This policy produced a herding effect

whereby students would move to different
houses before officers shut them down and
would eventually make their way to the se-
nior apartments. The resulting effect limited
social activity on the court for students seek-
ing a late night outlet from work.
_ Patterson and others took the initiative to
correct the quiet hours policy after noticing
the detrimental effects of the current system.
To allow students to remain on the court
longer in the evenings, Patterson concluded
that quiet hours must change.

After meeting with campus authorities and
proposing a change of quiet hours to SGA,
Patterson reached an agreement with the of-
fice of Public Safety, which admitted to hav-
ing interpreted the policy incorrectly.

According to Director of Public Safety.
Sam McKelvey, officers “understood the quiet
hours restriction in the Red Book to pertain to
all areas of the campus. The group affected
brought the matter to my attention and pointed
out, accurately, that the Redbook community

see Noise, page 2

SELF-SELECTION 2002

INITIATION: The Women of Turner House celebrated Self-Selection
2002 this Friday, welcoming 35 new members to their ranks. Page 4

Music groups conclude winter tours

tour across the country in the last week of
winter break, performing at such varied loca-

tions as Key West, Dallas, and New Orleans.

More than 50 members of the Concert

' Choir, under the direction of Ray Sprague,

clocked plenty of bus miles, traveling to
cities as close as Birmingham and as far as
Dallas.

A highlight of the tour was a two-night stay
in New Orleans, where the choir performed at
the famous St. Louis Cathedral. Concerts at

Presbyterian churches in Little Rock, Hous- .

ton and Nashville were also on the agenda.
The Chamber Singers, a smaller, select

ensemble composed of members of the Con-

cert Choir, performed at each concert as well.
Choir members enjoyed a balance of per-

formance and recreational time. “I’m so happy
I went on this year’s choir tour,” said Kim-

’ berly Woods ’05. “I had a great time visiting

new cities and getting to know the people in
choir better.”

The Davidson College Symphony Orches-
tra and Jazz Ensemble joined forces for a
southern tour, traveling to various locations
throughout Georgia and Florida.

Orchestra director Milton Crotts and Jazz
Band director William Lawing led students
in performances at the Hill United Methodist
Church in Augusta, and the historic Centro
Asturiano de Tampa, among others. A stop in

“see Tour, page 4
