Steve Martin’s Picasso unites great artist, inventor

By ERIN RAFFETY

Staff Writer

Excitement is in the air. For four nights
this week, audiences at the Duke Family
Performance Hall will travel back in time to
1904 to Paris to meet Einstein and Picasso
before they were famous.
While the budding intellec-
tual has not yet penned his
special theory of relativity,
and the aspiring artist has
not yet painted Les Demoi-
sellesd’Avignon, in Picasso
at the Lapin Agile by Steve
Martin, the two meet for
some mind-boggling dis-
cussion, witty banter, and
plenty of cheap wine.

The play is the first pro-
duction by the Department
of Theatre in the new hall
andis directed by Ann Marie
Costa. Cahit Ece ‘04, Parker
Dixon ‘03, and Molly Shaw
‘02 star in the production.
Also joining the cast is guest
artist Graham Smith ‘77.

According to Smith, his
father, C. Shaw Smith, “al-
ways dreamed of a college
union that would be a real
home for the college com-
munity.” Today, Smith pays
tribute to the fulfillment of
that dream by coming back
to Davidson as an accomplished actor -
interestingly, he also participated in the
production of The Merchant of Venice as a
guest artist here ten years ago. Smith, who
graduated from Davidson in 1977 and re-

ceived his M.F.A. in acting in 1983, perhaps
got bit by the acting bug when he toured every
summer for eight years with his entire family in
a magic show called “Saucy Sorcery.” The
name has since been changed to “Wacky Wiz-
ardry,”’ but the call of the stage is still very real
for Smith, who is a member of People’s Light

Theater Company in Philadelphia He also has
done numerous plays with the Charlotte Rep-
ertory Theatre, and has participated in the
North Carolina Shakespeare Festival for ten
years, making a name for himself as one of the

Mother”

March is Women’s Month

In recognition of Women’s Month, the
Women’s Issues Committee is hosting anum-
ber of events. The schedule is as follows:

20, 900 Room, noon, lunch, discussion of
Madonna’s “What it Feels like for Girl”

21, 900 Room, 4-6 p.m., Poetry Reading

26, 900 Room, 4-6, Panel Discussion:
_ Working Women—Life After Davidson,

27,900 Room, 8pm, Film:‘All About My
25-29, Chambers Building, all week, Photo-

- Journalism exhibit celebrating ‘famous’
_ women at Davidson

best actors in the southeastern region.
Smith says coming to rehearsal here at
Davidson is “a real kick... I get to say

things, and because I’ m older, the students
have to pretend to listen.”

Despite his joking, Ann Marie Costa
stresses that Smith serves “not only as an

actor, but as a mentor.”

Not only does the cast boast Smith’s
local talent, but the play also benefits from
a top-notch design team. With over forty
to fifty people working behind the scenes,

Campus communications

Picasso stars, from left to right, Molly Shaw ‘02, Cahit Ece ‘04, Graham Smith ‘77, and

the production promises to match Steve
Martin’s unique comedic style. Costa said,
“‘We wanted to find a play that would celebrate
the new space and the interaction of all the arts
and sciences on this campus.” She sees the
play as encompassing all Davidson’s many
disciplines and addressing a unique, often over-
looked interaction between art
and science. Because of the
play’s ties to the Davidson com-
munity, the theater department
will feature several programs de-
signed to compliment the pro-
duction (please see schedule at
the end of the article).

With its rich Davidson cast,
interesting set design, and witty
script, Davidson’ s production of
Picasso at the Lapin Agile will
be sure to entertain audiences
during each of its four perfor-
mances.

Picasso at the Lapin Agile
will be performed on March 20,
21, and 23 at 8 p.m. in the Duke
Family Performance Hall. Also,
there will be a2 p.m. matinee on
March 24. Following
Wednesday’s show, there will
be a discussion about creating
Picasso here at Davidson. On
Thursday evening a talk-back
regarding gender, sexuality, cre-
ativity, and the play will be held.
Also, on Saturday evening, there
will be a talk-back entitled
“From. Talent to Genius.” Tickets for the

performances are $10; faculty, staff, and se-
nior citizen tickets are $7; and students, $5.
The discussions are free. For more informa- .
tion, call (704) 894-2340.

Senior’s show opens today

Photo by Julie Failey

“Intuition” from Failey’s Stilled Lives

By ALLISON ONG
Special Contributor

Opening tonight, March 20, is Julie
Failey’s Stilled Lives. Aiming to create a
positive space with her paintings, Failey’s
recent body of work is boldly colored and
representational of insects and the envi-
ronment. Color and subject are the focuses
of her paintings—drawing attention to
small creatures through the aesthetification

and magnification of them. Working in acrylic,
Failey ‘02 controls her paint precisely and ina
very linear fashion, conveying a sense of static
yet nervous energy—suggesting perhaps, an
inner struggle within the artist. Withouta doubt,
Failey’s busy little creatures will suck you into
a trance so that you get crossed eyed and see
gréen when you move your eye from her pic-
tures to a white space. Her exhibit is in the
Smith Gallery of the Visual Arts Center from
March 20 until March 24.
