By Matr GaRFIELD .
Managing Editor

To make a return trip to the NCAA Tournament, the men’s
basketball team will need big contributions from veterans
adjusting to new roles and freshmen adjusting to the college
game.

Experience won’t be one of Davidson’s strengths.

Head coach Bob McKillop summed it up best after the Duke
game: “We graduated five seniors. We have three seniors, one
— Michel Lusakueno — who has never played more than 10
minutes in a game, Wayne Bernard, who is adapting to a new
position, and Peter Anderer, who has not been a starter. So
those three seniors don’t have a lot of experience and expo-
sure,” he said.

The three freshmen that already get heavy playing time
obviously have even less.

All have played admirable four games into the season, but
the Southern Conference tests that decide the champions are
yet to come.

Here are three keys to determining whether the Wildcats will
be one of them:

sists thus far.

14-year tenure.
from beyond the arc.

every game,”

Point guard play

Wayne Bernard was originally recruited to Davidson as a
point guard, but spent his first three seasons at the shooting
guard position. Now a senior, Bernard is adapting well to his
new position, giving the Wildcats a scoring threat they haven’t
had in previous point guards.

Just ask Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski

“The thing that was a little shocking for us, was for the past
five or six years, Davidson has had a little point guard who gets
the ball up court and does a great job of that,” Krzyzewski said.
“We didn’t think Bernard could do that. What we thought was
wrong.”

Bernard missed parts of the past two seasons with academic-

step up.”

related suspensions, and never quite played up to
his potential. But given a full off-season to get
into shape, he’s playing the best basketball of
his career, averaging 17 points and seven as-

“Coming into this year, I knew I’d be play-
ing point guard,” he said. “Over the summer
I worked on things I thought a point guard
would have to do, like ball-handling.”

Three-point shooting

Nearly every player on the Wildcats’
roster is capable of scoring from three-
point range, making this the most perim-
eter-oriented team in Bob McKillop’s

Even forwards Conor Grace and
Jouni Eho are capable of connecting

“We have so many threats that
it opens it up for different guys
said freshman Matt
McKillop. “Our balanced attack is
opening stuff up all over the floor.
When somebody’s having an off-
night, there’s always guys there to

The team proved it Sunday against
Washington & Lee, hitting a school record
19 treys. Senior Peter Anderer is the most
accomplished shooter, finishing last season
as the 12" most accurate in the nation. This
year he has plenty of help.

With so few scoring threats on the interior,
the Wildcats will rely on the three-point shot to
provide the bulk of their offense.

»
Joel
Davidson, NC

101 DEPOT ST.
(704) 896-6739

(NEXT TO BB&T)
joelsgrill.com

NOW OPEN TIL 1AM WED-SAT
DINEIN TAKE OUT DELIVERY

JOEL'S NOW ACCEPTS CAT CARDS
FOR DELIVERIES. PLS. GET YOUR
6 DIGIT CODE FROM THE RLO IF U
DON'T HAVE ONE YET.

HAVE UR OWN SUSHI OR / AND KARAOKE
PARTY AT YOUR PLACE. (INCLUDES SUSHI
CHEF, & FREE USEOF SUSHI BAR DISPLAY
CASE OR/AND KARAOKE SYSTEM).

CALL JOEL FOR DETAILS.

playing like
freshmen —_y

After losing five seniors to
graduation and junior Nick
Booker to an academic red-shirt

year, the Wildcats have huge holes

at the frontcourt positions that will
have to be filled by freshmen.

No one expected freshman Ian
Johnson to outplay McDonald’s All-

Americans like Duke’s Shavlik

Randolph in the season opener, but

Johnson did just that, scoring 23 points
in his college debut.

“Jan Johnson gave us great points
with his back to the basket,” said

Davidson coach Bob McKillop after-
ward. “He’s got terrific foot work and he
really has a soft touch.”

Freshmen guards Matt McKillop and
Brendan Winters will also receive heavy
minutes. Both are dangerous outside

shooters.
The road ahead includes match-ups
against No. | Arizonaand No. 12 North
Carolina—notto mention conteststhis -
week against Charlotte and St.
Bonaventure, both of which reached
the postseason last year. And then
comes the Southern Conference.
“Overall, the talent level is
: there,” said the elder McKillop.
i ‘ a “The experience level, how-
Rs ever, is not. Obviously we’ll
need major contributions from
players who are untested and unproven.”

ig:

et ev gaere’
pet

Men’s hoops Thanksgiving recap

Sunday

Davidson 114 Washington College 51

The practice games are over. Now the real tests begin.

The Wildcats (3-1) used two Div. III games over the weekend to build confidence, get into arhythm
and prepare for three straight home games against tougher Div. I competition.
_ Consider it done.

Every Wildcat saw action in Saturday’s 114-51 beat-down against Washington College, but the

. most damage came from freshman guard Matt McKillop.

A 6-2 guard with a deadly shooting stroke and a famous father, McKillop scored 24 points on 9-of-
11 shooting—revealing yet another scoring threat in a growing arsenal of Davidson shooters.

“We have so many threats inside and out that it opens it up for different guys every game,” said
McKillop. “Our balanced attack is opening stuff up all over the floor. When somebody’s having an
off-night, there’s always guys there to step up.”

The suspense ends quickly in the three or four games against Div. II] teams Davidson plays every
year, but head coach Bob McKillop says they serve a valuable purpose.

“We need players feeling good about the way they’re playing,” he said. “I think both these games
accomplished that.” a

Saturday

Davidson 105 Washington & Lee 48

This is exactly the game Peter Anderer needed.

Struggling to find open shots and misfiring when he got them, the senior guard came into Saturday’s

contest against Div. III Washington & Lee ona cold streak.

The Anderer of old returned in Saturday’s 105-48 victory over the Generals with a game-high 22
points on 6-of-8 three-point shooting.
After managing only seven shots against a stifling Duke defense, and then bottoming out two days

- later with a scoreless performance against Navy, Anderer regained his rhythm against Div. Il

defenders much slower and less athletic than the Blue Devils or Midshipmen.
““They’ve done a good job of trying to deny me the ball, being in my face most of the game” said
Anderer of Duke and Navy. “It’s been tough to get shots off. I was happy to have some (today).”

Wednesday, Nov. 27

Davidson 69 Navy 61

Conor Grace keyed a decisive second half rally to lift Davidson to its first victory of the season
against Navy.

Grace, a 6-8 sophomore forward from Dublin, Ireland, posted his first career double-double with
18 points and 11 rebounds.

With the Midshipmen concentrating on stopping veteran scorers Peter Anderer and Wayne Bernard,
Grace came alive with 14 points in the second half to help the Wildcats hold off Navy’s rally.

“Conor picked up some scraps tonight,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “Navy aed on stopping
other players, and Conor took advantage of his opportunities.”

Joining Grace in double figures were Ian Johnson with 14 points, Wayne Bernard with 13 andj junior
Jouni Eho with 11. Bernard also had a double-double, dishing out a'career-best 13 assists.

“Both teams were coming off emotional games on Monday night, and I was delighted with how
energized and emotional we played, ” said coach McKillop.

ut Cnet eaee Rae Seok Din! ee be ee Ue Oe Ce oe we |

