Students bring Rape Awareness Week to campus
Activities to include First Responder training, noted guest speaker, “Take Back the Night”’

By AMANDA PENNOCK ~

Staff Writer

In the twenty minutes it takes to read this
issue of the Davidsonian, ten women in
America will be raped or sexually assaulted.
In addition, two-thirds of rape victims are
under the age of 18. One in four women will
be sexually assaulted in her lifetime.

Many are unaware of these statistics. To
spread the word about sexual assault, Amanda
Mordavsky ‘02 heads up Rape Awareness
Week between Feb. 6 and Feb. 13.

On Wednesday, Feb. 6, First Responder
Training will take place. According to
Mordavsky, First Responders are a group of
students who return pages from students about
sexual assault. Any student may page the
First Responders to talk about a sexual as-
sault that has just taken place, a sexual assault
that took place years ago, or a friend’s expe-
rience with sexual assault. The First Re-
sponder network is completely confidential;
a First Responder cannot even mention a call

that took place to others in the group. If any
student would like to become a First Re-
sponder, he or she should contact Barbara
Kauffman ’04.

On Thursday, Feb. 7, the second annual
opening ceremony for Rape Awareness Week
will take place at 7 p.m. oh the Chambers
lawn. The committee has purchased artificial
carnations to place around campus at the
locations where sexual assaults have taken
place. Small plaques will be placed next to
the flowers, requesting that the flowers not be
removed. The majority of the flowers will be
placed around the dorms, and Davidson Col-
lege Presbyterian Church has been desig-
nated as the spot where carnations will be
placed to indicate off-campus assaults.

On Friday, Feb. 8, there will be a pizza
lunch discussion at the Union about rape and
sexual assault on college campuses.
Mordavsky explains that many on campus
believe that Davidson, because it is so small,
is not a place where assaults take place. The
aim of the lunch is to dispel this notion in a

casual and low-key setting.

On Monday, Feb. 11, the committee in-
tended to have self-defense classes; however,
no one could be found to teach them at this
time. Self-defense classes will be advertised
and held later in the semester, possibly in
April. Monday’s schedule is still uncertain,
though tentative plans have been made for a
panel discussion.

On Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m., rape victim
Katie Koestner will speak in the Chambers
Gallery. Koestner was a student at the Col-
lege of William and Mary when she was
assaulted, and she made legal history by
being the first woman to take her assailant to
court on charges of date rape. She appeared
on the cover of TIME Magazine in 1991 and
completed a real-life docudrama with HBO
entitled “No Visible Bruises: The Katie
Koestner Story” in 1993. The event is being
co-sponsored by various groups on campus
including Campus Police, RLO, Student
Health, the Student Resource Center, the
Gay/Straight Alliance, and 9 out of 12

Patterson Court Houses.

Finally, the week will culminate with the
annual “Take Back the Night.” Taking place
in the Chambers Gallery at 9 p.m., men and
women are invited to speak about their per-
sonal experiences with sexual assault and
rape. Mordavsky explained that the event —
dubbed a “night of empowerment” — usually
begins with a couple of programmed present-
ers, followed by an “open mic” opportunity
for anyone who wishes to share his or her
story.

Mordavsky estimated that approximately
400 people attended last year’s “Take Back
the Night” and is hoping for an even larger
turnout this year. Red yarn will be hanging
from each chair at the event, and audience
members will be asked to tie it around each
other’s wrists and leave it.there until it falls
off as areminder of the night. Similarly, after
the speakers have finished, the group will
move out to the patio and tie red yarn to a ficus
tree to remember each victim of sexual as-
sault.

a I Na AE ET EO IT EE I OT LS eS EP

Bush, from page 1

officials seated on the stage, and backed by a
billboard advertising the Freedom Corps vol-
unteer organization, the President began his
40-minute speech by echoing the previous
night’s State of the Union address. “Even
though we’ re at war, even though we’re in a
recession, the state of our Union has never
been stronger,” he said.

He exuberently continued, “It is such an
honor to be president of such a fabulous
country.”

Lee felt the day’s speech was more effec-
tive than the State of the Union. “He was

L

CeE

7:30-5:30 M-F

CORNELIUS, NC

8:00-12:00 Sat.

Let’s Go ’Cats!

talking in a less formal manner to thousands
of supporters,” said Lee. “It was easier for
him to get his point across.”

President Bush related that former Senator
and presidential candidate Bob Dole recently
dined with the first couple, then expressed his
disappointment that Elizabeth Dole was un-
able to join them. Barely veiling his endorse-
ment of Mrs. Dole’s Senate candidacy, Presi-
dent Bush said, “My hope, of course, is that
we’ ll be able to dine frequently.”

After acknowledging the political heavy-
weights present, Mr. Bush turned his atten-
tion to the three themes of his two-day tour.
Beginning with the war on terrorism, he
praised the United States’ success in forming

AKE NORMAN

18705 STATESVILLE RD.

“a great coalition of nations, with this mes-
sage: Either you’ re with us, or you’ re against
us. Either you’re on the side of freedom and
justice, or you aren’t. And the good news is,
most people are beginning to see the wisdom
of being on the side of freedom and justice.”

Straying from his script, the President de-
clared, “I truly view this as a battle of good
and evil. There really isn’t much middle
ground—like, none.”

During a brief but assertive discussion of
the future of the economy, the audience an-
swered Mr. Bush with fervent applause for
his plainspoken response to opponents, “You

. don’t raise taxes ina recession. Fer those who

want to do away with tax relief, you don’t

know what you’re talking about.”

The biggest topic of the day, though, was
volunteerism. Acknowledging, “It sounds like
I’m making a pitch and I am,” the President
gave the website and phone number of the
USA Freedom Corps. Reminiscent of his

father’s “Thousand Points of Light,” Mr.

Bush called for “a million acts of kindness,”
or 4,000 hours of community service per
person.

“Stand up to evil with acts of goodness and
kindness,” he said. “Do something kind for a
neighbor. Love somebody. Mentor a child.

“We will show the world that universal
values must be respected. History has called
us to action, and action we will take.”

Receive A 5%

Discount With A
Valid Davidson
College ID

Discount applies to

PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596

Hours

‘Exit 30
Davidson

NC 115

®
Cornelius | -= x
Mee
po

*1°%

Exit 28

Samcestane §=Firestone DAYTON ?2uNtor

Students, Faculty,
and Staff of
Davidson College

FULL LINE OF

Baker GENERAL REPAIR
Sper WORK
Complex

ON FOREIGN &
AMERICAN
AUTOS
Quality Repair
By People
Who Care!!!

MICHELIN iI

