By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

In the months since Sept. 11, 2001, John Ashcroft has quite
possibly become the most-hated man of the American left.

Indeed, it was a position he may well have already occupied
following his much-ado-about-nothing confirmation hearing.

The attacks against him have only increased in volume and
intensity as he has attempted to protect the United States from its
greatest national security threat since the Soviet Union.

Over the past year, I’ve grown tired of hearing how much
John Ashcroft “scares” those who supposedly care so deeply for
American values (I suppose these people are less afraid of
Islamic terrorists who want nothing more than to see us all die),
or how he “just doesn’t get it” (I am really not quite sure of the
“qt” that he fails to grasp).

Such claims about the Attorney General can hardly be said
to come from a moral high ground following eight years of Janet
Reno.

However, even discounting this small problem, there is little
reason to believe that Ashcroft wants to turn the FBI into an
organization akin to George Orwell’s infamous “Thought Po-
lice.” Rather, he is doing what is necessary to protect Americans
from another 9/11.

Ashcroft recognizes the threat terrorism poses to our na-
tional security. In the post-Cold War era, militant Islam may be
the single largest threat to Western civilization (mainland China
also poses a threat which cannot be ignored).

Ashcroft knows that this isn’t some petty game of “cops and
robbers” but a shooting war in which people can (and most likely
will) die. He realizes that, given the nature of the current conflict,

Election controversy

By ZACH WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

New Jersey Senator Robert Toricelli dropped his bid for re-
election on Monday amid allegations of numerous ethics viola-
tions. The veteran Democrat finally gave in to the pressure and

voluntarily ended his campaign against Republican opponent ~

Douglas Forrester.

Toricelli’s decision was undoubtedly a smart one, consider-
ing that public opinion polls have shown him dropping a mon-
strous 14 points to Forrester this past weekend-after documents
concerning the senator’s past ethics violations were made public
Friday.

Those documents revealed Toricelli accepted gifts from a
businessman named David Chang in 1996, and included a
statement from Chang himself asserting that Toricelli would call
him up routinely asking for money, and would be awarded
$2,000 installments in return for the senator’s intervention in
business deals in North and South Korea.

Toricelli responded to the documents by fervently denying his
guilt and adding with a final absurd declaration, “Doug Forrester
does not belong in the United States Senate.”

So now that you’ re up to date on the story, you’re probably
wondering if this recent political fiasco over a New Jersey senate
seat has anything to do with you, or the rest of the country.

Here’s why it does: The Democrats currently control the
Senate by one seat, and the fall of Toricelli, who was at first a
favorite in this race, could tip the majority back to the Republi-
cans, and thus create a situation where early next year, issues
such as those pertaining to Iraq and the war on terrorism could be
_ handled be a wholly Republican presidency and Congress.

But before Democrats start screaming, be assured, there is
hope yet in the New Jersey race. Despite a state law forbidding
substitution of a candidate within 48 days of an election, New
Jersey Democrats are begging for the courts to make an excep-
tion and allow them to introduce someone new to counter

aoe

steps must be taken which under other circumstances would be
unnecessary, or even unwise.

The collapse of the Twin Towers has forced us to treat
terrorist actions as the acts of war they are. An essential part of
winning this war is recognizing that the terrorists are indeed
enemy combatants, not mere criminals.

If reasonably expanded wiretapping and surveillance capa-
bilities are necessary, so be it. When Attorney General Ashcroft
takes measures to ensure that terrorists are given the unfriendliest
working environment possible, we should praise him, not con-
demn him.

Richard Guyer is a freshman from Sanford, NC, with an
interest in international relations and politics.

hits NJ Senate race

Forrester.

After all, why not be able to change candidates if its coming
down to the final days and your current candidate is becoming a
public joke, right? Recount! Oh wait, the election hasn’t even
happened yet and we already have a controversy, and its got
Forrester and the Republicans, sensing a cheap victory, in a
political tizzy.

The fate of this critical election could be decided by the
courts. After all, judges are getting pretty good at this sort of
thing, aren’t they? Election controversy Florida- style, except
this time in New Jersey. The Democrats want revenge, and they
just might get it.

by Jeremy Trantham

I’ve never done
laundry in my life,
why start now?

The laundry service is what really separated Davidson from
other schools I looked at. The college decision comes down to
where you feel comfortable, and wearing clothes that aren’t
faded or shrunk makes me comfortable.

Sure, by 21 you’d think that I would know how to do some
laundry, but I don’t. Mom did it for 18 blissful years. It’s one of
the many perks of being an only child.

And for the past three years, I’ ve had the wonderful folks in
the laundry taking care of my drawers. But after graduation, I’m
screwed.

I would move back in with my parents so Mom would keep
doing my laundry. But since my parents are making me move
out after graduation, it looks like I’m on my own.

I could flunk and hang around here for as many semesters
as I could, but Mom killed that great idea too.

Nudist colony I thought. Just join anudist colony, and then you
only have to worry about washing yourself. I already know how
to do this.

But I remembered an HBO special on nudist colonies I saw. I
was around 15 and anything on late-night HBO with the word
nudity in the title was must-see TV. I thoughtit would be Playboy
models frolicking by the pool. What I got instead was a bunch

«of overweight 40-year olds. It was borderline traumatizing.

Now I understand why all those idiots claim that nudist
colonies aren’t about sex. But with the invention of Viagra, I
wonder if that’s still true. It’s one of the many things I wonder
about but pray that I never learn. Which is on the same level as,
“Do my parents still have sex?” Please God .. . no.

This was really starting to depress me. I’m a problem solver,
but this one had me stumped. And then my friend mentioned he
had a wedding to go to, and the solution hit me like a two-by-four
between the eyes. Marriage.

Marriage is most often the root of male problems, rarely the
solution. But this is just how desperate I am. I have barely dated

_ agirl since I was a freshman, and now I’m looking for the future

Mrs. Trantham.

So I’m currently in the market for a home economics major
who loves to do laundry. We don’t have that here, so I guess I'll
settle for a Chemistry major in hopes that she’ll know the
chemical properties of fabrics and how notto shrink them. Either -
that or start hanging out around the UNCC home ec. department.

Before I’m branded a sexist, let it be known that I’m comfort-
able doing other household chores such as cooking and taking
out the trash. I’ll even get off my ass to get my own beer when
the game is on. I really don’t think asking to have my laundry
done is asking for much. There is little hope of me becoming a
post-graduate Davidson success story if I have to clean my own
clothes. And I do hope to get a feature in the Davidson Journal
someday.

So ladies, if you enjoy washing clothes and wish to elope to
Vegas, then look me up. Any woman that doesn’t mind having
the King preside over her Big Day probably won’t mind a few
loads of laundry.

Why must we display our acts of charity for all to see?

This past week, every hall-
way on campus was adored
with signs encouraging students
to purchase hammers for the
Wildcat Habitat for Humanity
House.

The promotional signs were
in good taste— as opposed to
many other signs that are found
in the same places— and were
intended to raise money for a
very admirable cause.

What was not so admirable was the fact that simply asking
for donations would not suffice. In a culture where a system of
rewards applies to everything, acts of charity must be not only
recognized but also obnoxiously displayed for all to see.

In order to purchase a hammer, you had to write your name

down and physically take the piece of paper with the hammer on
it. Students also had the choice of purchasing half a hammer or
a whole one, just in case they wanted to be quantitative about
generosity.

Invariably, hammers of both sizes were proudly displayed
on windows campus-wide. It was as if they were a triumphant
announcement that the person in that room actually did a good
deed.

__ This may seem like atrivial and cynical detail, but why must
students obnoxiously display the fact that they donated money to
a charitable cause?

I understand that the intent is to persuade others to buy, but
how many people are actually persuaded by a visual representa-
tion of who donated how much money? Why must we induce
guilt before participating voluntarily?

Similarly, why must Davidson stamp its name all over an
organization like Habitat for Humanity?

Ithink, and hope, that just as many students would getinvolved
even if Davidson did not claim its involvement. Of course, if
Davidson did not make Habitat for Humanity T-shirts, then the
media might not give the school any recognition for its commit-
ment to helping the less fortunate. What a shame that would be.

You could argue that regardless of how selfish it was,
Students raised money for a good cause. To this, I say that the
same could have been achieved without demanding recognition.
A discreet act of charity achieves the same results as one that is
not, and there is a difference between publicizing a charitable
cause and claiming a charitable cause.

I think it is in everyone’s best interests to question how
genuine our attempts are at helping the less fortunate.

Are we donating just enough time and money to subdue our
conscience and make an impression on a résumé?

Joe Taylor ‘06
