THe DAVIDSONIAN
_WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 11, 2002

Soccer stunner: Wildcats earn first ever win in Chapel Hill

UNC transfer
Nicholson scores
game's only goal

By Matr GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Matt Spear has heard the talk of this being
a down year for his Davidson soccer team.

The Wildcats’ roster is one of the youngest
in recent memory, with only three seniors—
compared to eight last year—and 11 fresh-
men.

“On paper this is a rebuilding year,” said
Spear. “We see that as a positive. We have a
new style and new leaders. One of the slo-
gans we’ ve used this year is ‘Let’s write our
own history.’”

On Saturday night at North Carolina, the
Wildcats wrote quite a first chapter.

Davidson won 1-0 over the defending
NCAA champion Tar Heels, earning its first
win over UNC since 1997 and first ever win

in Chapel Hill in 26 tries. Entering the match, *

North Carolina was riding a 15-game home
unbeaten streak and an eight-game winning
streak overall. The last loss for the Tar Heels
came in the 2001 ACC Tournament semifi-
nals against Clemson. ,

The win vaulted the Wildcats (2-0-1) toa
No. 17 ranking in the Soccer America poll,
and placed the program in the national spot-
light for perhaps the first time since its im-
probable Final Four run in 1992.

“We’ve gotten an onslaught of phone and
e-mail messages from former players and
alumni,” said Spear, a 1993 Davidson gradu-
ate who played on the Final Four team.
“They’re really excited that this team is so
young, but has achieved something so good,
so early. It’s a sign of things to come.”

Irony emerged in Saturday’s victory in
two major ways.

First, the team’s inexperience may have
actually been an asset, says its coach.

“With a young team, there’s a degree of
innocence,” said Spear. “They didn’t know
to be afraid. They hadn’t been around col-
lege soccer enough to be intimidated.”

And second, even more surprisingly, the
player who scored the game’s only goal
transferred to Davidson last year from....
North Carolina.

Junior Keith Nicholson was offered a spot
~ onDavidson’s roster after failing to make the
UNC team during his first year at Chapel
Hill.

On Saturday, his former fraternity broth-
ers waved a poster that read “Keith Sux” and

taunted him for most of the game—all in good
fun.

But Nicholson got the last laugh on a goal
that some would call lucky. Even Spear can’t
hide a grin when asked how it happened.

Early inthe second half, junior Nick Hansell
dribbled past several UNC defenders to the
left end line and crossed the ball toward
Nicholson just in front of the Tar Heels’ goal.
A North Carolina defender attempted to clear
it, but the ball ricocheted off Nicholson and
sailed past the stunned goalie into the net.

“The goal, I would say, was a fortunate
bounce that went our way,” said Spear. “I
wouldn’t say lucky because luck is always
involved. It wasn’t a true shot per se; it was
more of a rebound. But we’ll take it.”

Nicholson received most of the attention
after. Saturday’s upset, but Davidson’s
defensemen were just as important in keeping
UNC off the scoreboard.

- Of the four defensive players, only junior
sweeper David Peoples has any significant
experience. The other three— sophomore Joey
Bass and freshmen Nahum Navas and John
Latting—are getting their first tastes of col-
lege soccer. °

“They played with a lot of energy and
passion and grit,” said Spear. “We had to play
a lot of team defense, realizing that we might
lose some one-on-one battles. We knew we
had to back each other up.Peoples was flaw-
less in the back and was even winning headers
over UNC towers four inches taller than him.”

And maybe the biggest key to the shutout
was the play of senior goalie Soren Johnson,
who made several crucial saves late in the
game to seal the win.

“He made the difficult saves look routine,”
said Spear. “I think when you have a strong
goalie and sweeper, it makes your other de-
fenders more confident and alert.”

Johnson was rewarded for his efforts on
Tuesday with a SoCon Player of the Week
award.

‘After opening the pre-season with a 4-0 loss
in the annual alumni game and a 2-1 scrim-
mage defeat against UNC Asheville, the Wild-
cats’ prospects seemed fairly dim.

But since then, the team has steadily im-
proved, with solid performances against
Lehigh and Army.

Saturday’s win was only the latest evidence
that this team could be much better than
expected.

“We started out really slow and could’ ve
gotten down,” said Spear. “I hope we remem-
ber that we are a young team and are going to
make mistakes. I hope we learn from them and
remember our goal—to be at our best in mid-
November, when it really matters.”

Davidson opens its home schedule this Sun-
day against UNC Wilmington at 1 p.m.

Josh Greer/DTH

North Carolina defender Sean McGinty fights for control of the ball
with Davidson forward Nick Hansel on Saturday at Fetzer Field.

Women sprint to fourth place finish

By Brooke KITTINGER
Staff Writer

The women’s cross-country team started
its season at the Covered Bridge Open in
Boone, NC on Friday.

The ‘Cats competed against a diverse field
and placed fifth after University of Maryland,
Appalachian State University, UNC Asheville
and Winthrop University, but defeated Lees
McRae College.

Winthrop’s Stephanie Vangsne was the
top finisher at 18:12.

The Wildcats’ top performers for the open-

ing meet were the duo of Freshman Allie
Martin and Junior captain Laura Puckett with
times of 19:41 and 19:42, placing 20" and 21"
in the field.

Racing third for the ‘Cats in a stellar per-
formance was Sophomore Sarah Baxter at
19:52.

Teammates Liz Gross, Emily Einstein and
Lindley Swartz were close behind with times
of 20:15, 20:27, and 20:39, respectively.

Winthrop University in Rock Hill, SC hosts
the Lady Wildcats’ next meet on September
21%:

Davidsonian

Latisha Chapman ‘04

Major: Economics

Hometown: Morganton, N C.

Chapman garnered MVP honors at the Wildcat.
Classic and was also named SoCon player of the week
for leading Davidson to a 3-0 mark last weekend.

Friday:

Volleyball vs. Nicholls State at New Orleans 5 p.m.

Women’s Soccer vs. Saint Louis at Madison, Wisconsin 5 p.m.
: noonenenenen==-Saturday---------------

Football vs. Jacksonville > 1 p.m.

Volleyball vs. Troy State, New Orleans at New Orleans 12:30 p.m.

Field Hockey vs. Catawba 1 p.m.

: Sunday:

Field Hockey vs. Miami (Ohio) at Boone, N.C. ; - 1 p.m.

Women’s Soccer vs. Wisconsin at Madison, Wisconsin 1 p.m.
sconconenn===-- TUCSday---------------

Volleyball at North Carolina 7 p.m

w---------==---Wednesday--------------- 5
Field Hockey vs. Appalachian Sate 5 p.m
