So much is happening in the world of
sports these days.

My interest was captured by the Little
League World Series, which wrapped up last
Sunday when the team from Louisville, Ky.,
edged Senai, Japan 1-0 in front of 41,000
people.

What better than watching our national
pastime played by young athletes driven by
nothing more than a genuine love for the
game?

Juxtapose an event like this with Major
League Baseball, which avoided a work stop-
page by only three hours on Friday, and one
wonders why, as fans, we waste our money
on professional sports when there is a more
pure form of the game being played in the
lower ranks—for free.

For those not captivated by the batted ball,

.a much-welcomed fall favorite returns to-
morrow night when the 49ers visit the Giants
inaclassic pigskin matchup, while only afew
miles away the U.S. Open winds down what
has been a fantatsic display of tennis.

Major League Soccer enters the final leg of
its season with a battle for the top spot raging
in both divisions, and overseas European
champion Real Madrid won the European
Super Cup for the first time on Friday, beat-
ing UEFA Cup-holder Feyenoord 3-1.

None of this really matters, however, be-
cause for the next nine months it will all take
a backseat to perhaps the most impressive
group of student-athletes in the country: the
Davidson Wildcats.

We all had our hometown teams to root for
this summer, but now it’s time to cheer on our
fellow classmates as they look to further
establish Davidson as one of premier aca-
demic/athletic institutions in the nation.

Obviously, our academic prowess is well
known throughout the world, but we can also
prove that a small school with extremely
tough admissions standards and an even more
imposing workload can compete with the
large school juggernauts in the athletic arena,

A small step was taken last winter when the
men’s hoops team knocked off UNC, and this
fall even more opportunities to slay Goliath
will be available with almost each team sched-
uled to face a national powerhouse.

The football team boasts three players who
garnered pre-season All-America accolades,
while the women’s soccer team returns one of
its deepest and most talented squads in recent
years.

Men’s soccer, though young and untested,
will look to improve upon last season’s suc-
cess when, at one point, it was ranked 16" in
the country.

All this points towards a very promising
year for Davidson athletics.

So when the work is done, and it’s time to
relax, head on out to the fields and support the
Wildcats as they strive towards national
prominence.

-Richard Connolly

Sports Editor

F Coach: ‘Remarkable to see the way USA Basketball is So re:

By Matt GARFIELD
Mangaging Editor

‘Bob McKillop combined his pride in
America arid passion for basketball as an
assistant coach on this summer’s USA Bas-
ketball Junior Team.

He traveled with 12 of the nation’s top high
school players to Isla de Margarita, Venezu-
ela to compete against eight squads from
North, South and Central America, and the
Caribbean.

The Americans finished 4-1 in the prelimi-
nary rounds, lost to the host Venezuelans in
the medal round, then rebounded to beat
Argentina in the consolation game to salvage
a bronze medal.

The USA team also earned one of four
spots in next year’s Junior World Champion-
ships in Malaysia. .

Although the outcome was disappointing—
the losses snapped a 21-game winning streak
dating back to the first tournament in 1990—
McKillop says the experience is one he’ll
cherish.

The 52-year-old coach has traveled all over
the globe to teach basketball camps and re-
cruit high school players, but this was the first
time he has:ever officially represented the
United States at a worldwide event.

“Whether it was signing autographs or
friendly handshakes or taking pictures, it was
a remarkable experience to see the way USA
Basketball is so respected,” he said.

“With that respect comes a sense of pres-
sure and expectations of the way you must
perform on the court and act on the sidelines.

We’re helping people shape their opinions
about the United States. That’s a big respon-
sibility on your shoulders, but one that we felt
capable of handling because of the way USA
Basketball educated us.”

It was also only the second time in his 30-
year coaching career that McKillop has served
as an assistant coach—the other coming in
1978-79 at Davidson as an assistant to Eddie
Biedenbach.

Holland chaired the USA Basketball com-
mittee that selected Oregon head coach Ernie
Kentto coach the Junior Team, with McKillop
and Gary Waters of Rutgers as the assistants.

The roster included Oak Hill Academy
product Carmelo Anthony (committed to
Syracuse), Texas. natives Daniel Horton
(Michigan) and Chris Bosh (Georgia Tech),
and Minnesota forward Kris Humphries
(Duke).

Playing the role of assistant was an adjust-
ment, but one that McKillop says ultimately
makes him a better head coach.

“You see things from.a different vantage
point,” said McKillop. “Being an adviser
rather than a decision-maker was a new expe-
rience, but equally as challenging. It’s going
to help me have a better feel for (my own
assistants’) thought-process and what they
go through on the bench.”

Although basketball is considered an

=

THE GOODWIN-EXXON AWARD
You are invited to nominate a student or students for the
Goodwin-Exxon Award. The Goodwin-Exxon Award is
presented annually to a sophomore, junior and senior student.

The criteria for selection include students who exemplify:
! the highest standards of character
! good sportsmanship
! friendliness
! consideration for the less fortunate

Nominations are made by the students, faculty and staff and
the recipients are honored at the Fall Convocation.
Please take a minute to nominate students who you think are
worthy of consideration for this distinctive award. Please pick
up a nomination form in the Dean of Students Office.

: ~ Deadline for nominations: Friday, October 4 -

American sport, McKillop says most outsid-
ers tend to underestimate the quality of the
game overseas.

“I knew we were in for a battle every time
we took the court;” he said. “I’ ve been saying
since the mid-1980’s that there are great

- players throughout the world. If you look at

the college ranks through the past two or three
years, you see there is progress being made
by international players.”

He says the style of play is similar, but
with a few major exceptions.

“The international game is more physical,”
he said. “There’s a more liberal interpretation
of the rules. The two referees (rather than
three) make it somewhat difficult to be con-
sistent. And the language barrier was a‘chal-
lenge.” -

Off the court, McKillop was struck by the

Graduating hoops class sign
pro deals: to play y in Europe

Continuing the trend cr Davideon profes-
sional basketball players are each of the five.

members of the graduating clas§ of 2002 ~ ee
Michael Bree, Emeka Erege, Fern Tonella, :

Chris Pearson and Martin Ides.

_ Both Erege and Pearson are headed to
France to play Pro A, the highest profes-
sional league in France. Eregerecently inked
a one-year deal to play with Bourg en Bresse,

- while Pearson signed acontract with Vichy.
The pro season in France begins in mid-
See and culrninates, with the ery

for everyonsy bu

ve

friendliness of the Verictueliag people, but :
also by the huge separation between the

country’s rich'and poor populations. —.

“I believe our players gained a rem appre-
ciation for the lives they have here in
America,” he said.

He expects the Davidson basketball pro-
gram to benefit from his experience as well,
because the people he met are now familiar
with a school they previously knew little or
nothing about.

“Maybe they’ll see our score on
SportsCenter and say ‘Oh yeah, I remember
that school.’ So now maybe the guy from
Brazil knows about Davidson.

“Plus I can call somebody in one of the
countries, or Ernie or Gary. I can count on
them to give me their input and advice and
support. It’s a win-win all around.”

ns

member of the NBA champion San Antonio

Spurs in 1999.

Ides isheaded to Greece in play in the first.
division with Larissa. Due to a labor dis-
pute, however, that season will not ‘begin
until Oct. 28.

‘Although not signed'as of-yet, Bree and
Tonella are both expected to be paying in
Italy and Spain, respectively. . oe

“These signings are a great statement
about the work ethic of these young men

oe

