Davipson COLLEGE

Election 2002

Above: students gather in the union to watch
the election results roll in tuesday night.
Right: political science professor Pat Sellers
is apparently pleased with the outcome.

STUDENTS POLITICAL LEANINGS

“where do you

fall?

801 Davidson student were in-
vited to take a survey distributed
by Dr. Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion
class. Data is based on responses
of 437 students. “Democrat” includes
all those students categorizing them-
selves as strong Democrats, not very
strong Démocrats, or Democratic-leaning
Independents; “Republican” indicates those
who are strong Repulicans, not very strong
Republicans, or Republican-leaning Independents.

<a enpencronnnee IRR EC see

By Matt GarFiELD
Managing Editor

One of the nation’s most outspoken social

scholars will visit Davidson later this month.
' Dr. Cornel West, a best-selling author and
often-controversial critic of race relations in
America, will speak in the Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall at7 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 21. The
topic is democracy and race in America.

Tickets are free and available at the Union
ticket office Monday. A public reception after
the talk will allow people to speak personally
with West, said Andrew Yancey, chairman of
the Union Board Speaker’s Committee.

“We want this to be an event that sparks
intellectual controversy on campus,” he said.
“Our goal is not to promote one side of an idea,
but to bring in someone you can debate with.

Republican

40.96 %

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 9

Poll finds students lean left

Most on campus call themselves Democrats, “liberal”

By Caro.ineE K. HAUSER
News Editor

Davidson, which perpetually bills itself as “a
highly selective independent liberal arts col-
lege for 1,600 students” can add “politically
liberal” to the pitch.

A recent survey by
political science pro-
fessor Dr. Pat Sell-
ers’ Public Opinion
class found that, de-
spite commonly held
conceptions of the
school as a conserva-
tive stronghold,
Davidson. students
tend to lean left.

Of 437 students re-
sponding, a whole 50.1 percent described them-
selves as either a strong Democrat, not very
strong Democrat, or Democratic-leaning Inde-
pendent.

The more elephantine respondants posted
strong numbers but came in second with 41.0
percent of the campus ranging from Repub-
elican-leaning Independent to strong Re-
& ~~ s publican.

Rather than rely solely on party
identification, though, respon-
dents also characterized their po-
litical ideology on a range of
one to seven, where one indi-
cates strong liberal tendencies
and seven signifies strong
conservative leanings. Here,

swering the question charac-
terized themselves as strong
liberals, not very strong liber-
als, or liberal-leaning moder-
ates.
Just 34.1 percent swung right,
from conservative-leaning moder-
ates to strong conservatives. The re-
maining twenty percent are perched
firmly on the fence as definite moderates.
According to Sellers, the anonymous survey

se ee cara tsuneo ean

Controversial social critic.
to visit Davidson this month

You can agree or disagree, but being there to
hear it is what’s going to make the difference.”

West, who now teaches religion at Princeton,
left Harvard earlier this year following a dis-
pute with its new president, former Treasury
Secretary Lawrence Summers.

Summers reportedly criticized West for re-
cording a spoken word CD and leading a politi-
cal committee for the Rev. Al Sharpton—and
not focusing enough on scholarship. West was

West graduated magna cum laude from .

Harvard in only three years. He earned his
master’s and doctorate degrees from Princeton
University.

West will arrive on Wiganding afternoon in

_ time for the talk, and spend the night in

Davidson before returning to Princeton Friday
morning. The school will pay West $17,000 for
the visit, said Yancey.

“This ends the myth that
Davidson ts only conser-
vative Republicans.”

- Emily Bostian ‘06

45.9 percent of students an-

was emailed to 801 randomly selected students,
and over 50 percent of those students responded.

“We randomly selected the respondents from
the student body,” said Sellers, “and we have
responses from about one quarter of the student
body. So the sample is likely to be representa-
tive, and it is unlikely
that one portion of the
student body, such as
liberals or Republi-
cans, iS Over-repre-
sented.”

Despite the me-
thodical approach of
the survey, many
have a hard time be-
lieving the results.
President Bobby
Vagtresponded to the
numbers with a shocked look. “Youcould knock
me over with a feather,” he said. “I would have
bet a big chunk of change that the numbers
would have been reversed.”

Even the Public Opinion class was surprised
by the response. “The results certainly don’t fit
the conservative reputation of the student body,”
said Sellers. “In my classes, conservatives*are
usually more outspoken than liberals. It’s also
important to consider, however, how Davidson
compares to other schools. Our student body
may still be more conservative than those
at other schools, particularly small liberal arts
colleges like Williams or Carleton.”

Travis Lee ’04, a College Republican, took
the response more in stride. “These numbers are
not completely surprising,” he said. “I believe
that many people, particularly college students,
classify themselves as liberal to escape the
stigma that accompanies declaring one’s self
conservative. Many of those who claimed to be
left or left leaning did so, I think, because they
see it as the sensitive thing to do—to be fashion-
ably liberal.”

Lee continued, “I would love to see the num-
bers regarding political activity. Both ends of
the ideological spectrum on this campus are

see Politics, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Elizabeth Dole is North Carolina's newest senator.
See story, page 4.

News 1-4
How do students spend time? Survey, p.4

Arts & Living 5-6

Dance Ensemble ee fall recital, p.S
}

Perspectives 7-8

The State of the Union Cafe Address, p.7

Sports 9-12
Soccer hopes dashed, see page 12 |

