McKillop gets 200th win; men’s hoops hold on to

By Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

In what head coach Bob McKillop termed a
“heavyweight bout,” Davidson and UNC-Greens-
boro spared for the second time in two weeks
Tuesday tight in Belk Arena. With a coaching
milestone and the outright North Division lead on
the line, the Wildcats beat the Spartans 53-48,
earning a two-game division lead and giving
McKillop his 200th career victory.

“This was a heavyweight bout,” said McKillop.
“Wedidn’tput anybody on the floor, we didn’thave
anybody on the ropes. Greensboro kept fighting
back and nobody backed down.

“But I’m thrilled with the victory. Our guys
showed tremendous cniciee and physical cour-
age.”

In what has become a hallmark of this rivalry,
adouble-digit lead meant nothing Tuesday night.
Up28-17athalftimeaftera slow startoffensively,
the Wildcats saw that 1 1-pointlead whittled away
by the middle of the second half.

“We were up eleven at the half and I wasn’t
relaxed atall,” said junior forward Chris Pearson,
wholed the team with 19 points and 12 rebounds.
“1 knew it was going to be a tight game.”

An 11-point halftime margin was the best of all
evils for both teams. Davidson shot only 30
percent from the field in the first half and was

photo by Sarah Davis

Chris Pearson on the no-look pass.

Did Yow knew that
Griffin. Brothers
ics Sales

rovid Cs wore
Ham just tires?

Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc. has the most advanced diagnostic
equipment & superior customer service.

Trust Griffin Brothers with all your automotive needs including...
major engine work ¢ scheduled maintenance * computer diagnostics

Lake Norman
704.896.8473
19141 W, Catawba Ave.

Mooresville
704.662.0049
278 W. Plaza Dr. (Hwy. 150)

.
GRIFFIN

BROTHERS
TIRE SALES, INC.

of

lucky tocommand an 11-point lead. Meanwhile,
Greensboro, its three leading scorers shut out in
the first half, was grateful for a deficit of only 11.

“We knew we had to get Jay [Joseph], Ronnie
[Taylor], and James [Maye] into the game in the
second half,’ said Spartan head coach Fran
McCaffery. “We were lucky to be down by 11 at
the half when our three big scorers weren’t
producing.”

During that span, Greensboro’s Jay Joseph
drained three three-pointers to push the Spartans
ahead for the first time, 43-40, with five minutes
left. A Greensboro comeback was on.

“A big part of that run was them mixing things
up defensively, which messed with our offensive
rhythm,” said Pearson. “But we practice against
a lot of different defenses and so we were pre-

pared and able to maintain our composure.”

Again, the Wildcat defense responded, stifling
the Spartans in the paint on crucial back-to-back
possessions in the closing minutes.

“This was a terrific defensive performance,”
said McKillop, who carried in his pocket a tiny
clipping from the Dallas Morning News that read,
“Defense wins championships—still.”

As Wayne Bemard sealed the victory in the
final minute with three free throws, the Belk Arena
crowd ignited and the rowdy student section
became awash in paper flyers proclaiming sim-
ply, “200.”

“T’m very fortunate to have been here solong
and to have had the Davidson community support
me the way it has,” said McKillop in humble
response to his milestone. “I am truly grateful.”

Fans, formula win over ASU

By Matt GARFIELD
Staff Writer

BOONE—Dominate early, fall apart midway
through, and recover just in time. That’s the
pattern that nearly every Davidson conference
basketball game has followed this year.

Fortunately for the Wildcats, the result has
almost always been a victory.

It was no different on Saturday afternoon
against Appalachian State, as Davidson’s 21-
point second half lead dwindled to five before the
Wildcats delivered late to secure an 82- 72% win at
Jones Arena.

Roughly 300 Davidson students and fans were
among the crowd of 3,949, many of them riding
on charter buses sponsored by the SGA.

“The students this yearhave been thebest since
*95-96, when we won 25 games,” said Davidson
coach Bob McKillop. after the game. .“‘Our stu-
dents have been loyal, devoted, loud. I thought
[they] were great.”

Once again, the contest appeared to be over
early. Wayne Bernard’s three-pointer with five
minutes left in the first half capped a 16-0 run that
gave the Wildcats a 36-18 lead.

But the Mountaineers, lifeless for much of the
first half, found a spark when guard Graham
Bunn nailed a 30-foot three-pointer as the shot
clock expired, igniting a six-point spurt that cut
the lead to 40-28 at the half.

That momentum didn’t carry over into the
second half, though, as Michael Bree’s lay-up at
ee 11:22 mark increased Davidson’ s lead to 60-

But Appalachian State again founda spark, this
time with some help from the Davidson bench.
The Wildcats were up 60-43 with 10:15 left, when
assistant coach Jason Zimmerman was whistled
for a technical foul for disputing an earlier no-call
on what appeared to be a foul on center Martin
Ides.

He and McKillop continued to argue with the
official, bringing the crowd to its feet howling for
an ejection and the Mountaineers back to life.

Five minutes later, the double-digit lead had
shrunk to 64-59 on Shawn Hall’s back-to-back
three-pointers.

Just as they have all season, the Wildcats were
at their best when the game was slipping away.
Wayne Bernard responded to Hall’s barrage with
a three-pointer of his own at the 4:30 mark.

Two minutes later, Michael Bree hit another
three with the shotclock winding downto push the
lead to.73-63 and turn back ASU’s final rally.

After sitting out two practices torest an ankle he
sprained at UNC Greensboro, Ides finished with
15 points, 12 rebounds and six assists.

Wayne Bernard and Nick Booker each added
13 points, while Chris Pearson had 10, giving the
Wildcats a 34-16 points-in-the-paint advantage.

Bree, bothered by tendonitis in his right knee,
managed only eight points on 2-of-11 shooting
and five free throws, along with five assists and no
turnovers.

“T thought our defense was superb,” said
McKillop. “We dodged a couple of bullets [and]
weathered a tough day for Michael Bree. [He] did
not havea good shooting day, but he had a superb
floor game.”

Defense shuts down Wofford

By Burcin HARDIN
Staff Writer

A revived Wildcat squad came_alive in the
second half last Wednesday night and pulled
away from the Wofford Terriers for a-72-61
victory in Belk Arena.

After struggling to shoot just 33 percent from
the field in the first 20 minutes, amore intense and
methodical Davidson team outscored Wofford
45-20 in the second half.

We became more focused at halftime,” said
head coach Bob McKillop. “We did things a lot
easier in the second half. A lot of the first half, we
were going for home runs.”

Despite their troubles, the Wildcats remained
competitive in the first period—they trailed by
only four at intermission—thanks in large part to
the return of Martin Ides, who scored four points
and grabbed seven rebounds, and the play of
Chris Pearson.

Martin was a huge presence in the paint to-

t,” said McKillop. “And Chris is going to
give everything he has. He always does.”

Pearson, who finished with 19 points on the
night, scored 1 1 of thosein the firsthalf. Thelanky
Englishman also led the team with 11 boards,
giving him his third double-double of the year.

Butitwas Michael Bree, wholed the team with
22 points, and the Wildcat defense that made the

difference in the last 20 minutes.

Bree’s two three-pointers early in the second
half fueled Davidson’ s comeback, while his 7-for-
8 performance from the line in the waning minutes
solidified the victory.

Michael Bree was superb in legislating the
tempo of this game, which is an especially tough
thing to do in our system,” said McKillop.

We were tense, overanxious in the first half,”
said Bree. “In the second half, we adjusted and
relaxed.”

One of the most important adjustments the
Wildcats made was in defending Wofford’s “ee
Nixon, who made the first half his own personal
showcase, scoring 20 points in 19 minutes of ©
action. The Wildcats knew they had to find a way
toshutdown Nixon in order to be successful in the
second half. :

Inwhat McKillopcalleda “staple” ofthis year’s
program, Davidson’s defensive effort limited the
Terriers to just 27 percent shooting from the field
inthesecond half. More importantly, the Wildcats
held Nixon to just six points in the second half.
Wofford was unable to generate any significant
offensive firepower once Davidson reigned in
Nixon.

I was thrilled by the way we defended in the
second half,” said McKillop. “That’s a tribute-to
our entire team of defenders.”
