Erikson scores overtime goal to lift ‘Cats over Virginia Tech

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

In a season that began with tough losses
against strong teams, coach Kevin Hundley’s
women’s soccer team at first struggled to find
positive points during a frustrating stretch in
which the team dropped games against non-
conference opponents Charlotte, South Caro-
lina, Wake Forest, St. Louis, and Wisconsin.

And while the true strength of those oppo-
nents has begun to show as they play out their
conference schedules (as of October 6, they

were a combined 43-12-4), the ‘Cats have
salvaged their record, going undefeated since
September 15.
_ This successful run was put on the line
Friday at home against the Virginia Tech
Hokies of the Big East conference, when it
became evident early that the ‘Cats were go-
ing to have to work to earn their first non-
conference victory.

Tech took 12 shots in the first half and held
a 1-Olead, thanks to Jessica Myers’s breakaway
goal in the 20" minute.

Heather Maloney, last week’ s SoCon player

of the week, who is in hot pursuit of the
Davidson career goals record, evened the score
towards the end of the half.

She scored her seventh goal of the season
and the 34" of her career on a corner kick..

Davidson came out much stronger defen-
sively in the second half and limited the Hokies
to only three shots on goal, but the Wildcat
offense managed only four shots themselves
and could not convert any opportunities.

Sarah Hobart added two difficult saves in
the second half (after seven in the first half) to
preserve the tie.

In overtime, the Wildcats’ positive momen-
tum continued as junior Denielle Erikson con-
verted their third shot of the period after 4:37
of play to seize a 2-1 win.

With the victory, the Wildcats are now .500
for the first time this season.

The ‘Cats have an opportunity to earn an-
other non-conference win and boast a winning
record on Wednesday, when they travel to
Elon.

The team then resumes its conference sched-
ule with crucial games at the College of
Charleston and Georgia Southern on Saturday
and Monday.

The Wildcats play their next home game on
Thursday, October 17, when they host non-
conference foe High Point.

SE gee oR ae fee cage aee cat am ae toe ws fos a age ange amie came <camnesong «ie ge ee ame - ve ap ce
ee eee eT sister esses kteeeeses eee sess tees eee
® ee ee eas Ps
Pee eh eee ee RE ; sere eeegty
Chee ee ee e oe Se eee ee = oe =
OCS HORS 5 6428S 20s OCR ES:
RRA Re 6 Re ERE oe ge FeSO
SR eRG REE Ee HEE S Pee ee
eee & Bee Se AKER SEWERS
oe a ee ee Re 4 ‘ ee Bae ae ty.
Pw ee ae aw pee Y 4 oe. eee Ee
eR eS eS Re te } 2 & & a es
#222 ee x ‘* 3 % a eR 3s
eee eo. ee A P een oe oe > te & |
2 s 2. tee eee 2 i oe 2 ee
% * oe Pe Se # SF d 7 Lk & ee ee ©
® 4 + ee & SR e Pf & Lee ee *
es ok. eee eh ys To 2
bar. ae. a oxy ee EER 4 ¥ eee =e ¥ *
a % RRR EEE , : Cae ae %
% a ee ee | j ee
ee Poet eee ee ™, & 2 Hoe 4
thee 4 ehebeRS <¢ * re
e & & . 2 ee ee ae a Oe Oe . oe i f se Se S
ee 2 2 i‘ ae a oe eR #8 gee 3 . F: ‘2 & eas
ss a * % a a ee ae ee o & Oe x
as ye"k1- ss Ses ‘eos
a ae $ = ’ is i a ose EOS SS
ee > eee FS ORR oes ee @ cee es
Ke a eee fg i : Seaee
ee % te ee eo : "a oe ee
. ae seen e & : <> : ee ee
a eee ee 4 F bs a ae ae eee 7%
:* eee ee 8 * & “xk eee , es 4 2
‘fee eee ¢ & & € ‘ you to: ‘ke d er
a ee ae a * a * es eS =
ey GP ee SS 3 : eo: 1. ee ee ee :
i ee eS + See § * # oe ee Se a Oe Se ee tS x
Cee aS Re BR a ee ae Seer ee a So ae eee
ek Se & SR ROR & ae é oon ef ee ee eS oe ee &
e * eR ee ee # Bobet ted AeA abode et 2 2h 3 Se ee
Pe ee Re aE E * 23 ee SERRE EE HH OD ee Ba
® a ake ee * ree eet 82 SOS ge 4 @
You know it’s The ire to PEE ETRE start where: »
3 eee % —" BERRRASIAST Re
yeeee reeset you should-consider Army-ROTO. 1s a:
‘: wreaepecotesec ttt deve ron
t 2
* ae
- “3
a
“#

first rion -conllinidtice victonty with tournament perfo ;

By Brent McCormick

* Davidson offense took

Special Contributor

The Davidson Roller Hockey Team laced
up the skates last weekend for its first colle-
giate tournament of the season.

With a roster consisting of mainly under-
classmen and less than ten players, the young
squad was written off as a heavy underdog for
the tournament.

Things started out poorly for the ‘Cats, as
the team dropped its first contest to a strong
UNC Charlotte team, 12-2. Senior captain
Ryan Auster notched both goals.

The second game of the evening, against
Clemson, showcased Davidson’s potent scor-
ing abilities.

Playing with just one substitute for the en-
tire 45-minute game, the Wildcats came out in
a fury, netting several
goals in the first few
minutes.

Led by Auster, the

control of the game
early, peppering the
Clemson net-minder

“T took a nap in the park-
ing lot between games, so
I came out well rested for

sisted goals.

Despite a double-digit scoring performance
with the inclusion of three goals by McCormick
and one by Auster, Davidson struggled defen-
sively late in the game, which resulted in a 12-
10 loss.

The final game of the tournament found the
Wildcats once again playing UNC Charlotte.

In this game, however, the roles were re-
versed. “I took a nap in the parking lot
between games,” said junior defenseman Josh
Voorhees, “‘so I came out well rested for the
second game.”

The team took a cue from Voorhees and
came out flying. The Wildcats out-muscled,
out-skated, and outworked the cocky UNC
Charlotte squad.

After two periods, Davidson led the game
by ascore of 6-4, due to the brilliant playmaking
of McCormick and
Connolly, who had
each posted a hat

trick.
The ‘Cats had
UNCC on the ropes,

much to the surprise
of the 49ers’ twenty-

with shot upon shot. the second game. ” man roster, back-up
Senior Marc goalie, head coach,
Naples, fueled by his - defenseman Josh Voorhees ‘04 managers, and statis-

female cheering sec-
tion and booster club,
tallied three goals in
the contest, bringing his season total to a
career-high nine.

Auster continued the offensive dominance
with a record-setting six-goal performance.

Sophomore Richard Connolly and fresh-
man Brent McCormick finished the scoring,
netting three goals apiece to secure a solid 16-
8 victory over the Tigers.

Rookie goaltender Bobby “The Whale”
Kenner posted 20 saves in the victory.

On day two, while still “recovering” from
the homecoming festivities of the previous
night, Davidson faced a well-rested Elon team
at the unnecessary hour of 9:00 a.m.

The ‘Cats fought hard, with Connolly an-
swering Elon’s challenge with seven unas-

tician.

“We had them
where we wanted
them,” said rookie goalie sensation Kenner,
“but I think their coach’s inspirational pep talk
between periods gave them the drive to win.”

Davidson was clearly the better team, but
they lacked the stamina, due to having just five
skaters, to sustain their potent threat. UNCC
scored several unanswered goals late in the
third period, and held on for a 12-6 victory.

Following the loss, self-proclaimed tourna-
ment MVP Voorhees brilliantly commented,
“The only reason we lost is because, at the end
of the game, we had fewer goals than they
did.”

Although it was posted as a loss, last
weekend’s tournament was a big step forward
for the young, undermanned, Wildcat squad.

Temple Owls prove too
much for field hockey

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the Davidson field hockey

.team faced the Temple Owls in what would

prove to be an exciting event. Despite the
team’s strong performance throughout the
game, the ‘Cats were unable to come away
with a victory, losing 2-1 in overtime.

During the first half, Temple had many
offensive opportunities to score, but the
Davidson defense denied them access to their
house. Kathleen Fenn, Courtney Hughes, and
goalie Sarah Nolan led the Cats with their play
in the backfield.

With 18:36 remaining in the game, how-
ever, the Owls’ Rachel Barber scored an unas-
sisted goal to put Temple on top. The Wildcats
responded six minutes later, when Tiffany
Homan answered with her first goal of the
season to force a tie that would push the game
into overtime.

Five minutes into the overtime, the Owls
capitalized on an offensive opportunity. Mor-
gan Faria received 'a pass from Andrea Duva
and pushed the ball past Nolan and the defen-
sive unit. Faria’s winning goal gave Temple
their third consecutive win.

Temple dominated the majority of the game,
holding Davidson to only four shots. Mean-
while, Temple’s offensive unit was able to
take 26 shots on Nolan, who had an extraordi-
nary performance with 11 saves. Erin Conroy

made 2 saves for Temple.

The ‘Cats stand at 5-6 overall after the
defeat, while the Owl improved to 4-6.

The Wildcats take to the road Wednesday,
Oct. 9, to face Wake Forest, the number three
team in the nation. The game will begin at 7
p.m. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele -

' Sophomore Tiffany Homan

scored her first game of the
season on Saturday, RuREDS the
game into overtime.
