Shakespeare in love and lust

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

Anyone looking to laugh at scholarly young
men making idiots of themselves over women
usually heads to the Court instead of to the
theatre. The Performing Shakespeare
Seminar’s production of Love’s Labours Lost,
however, provided ample examples of lame
pick-up attempts — and proved that bad judg-
ment resulting from the proximity of the
Opposite sex isn’t a recent phenomenon!

Since it’s Shakespeare, any complaints
about plausibility or clichés can be immedi-
ately discarded. Shakespearean comedies
aren’t about the plot so much as the language.
That having been said, the plot is admittedly
pretty silly. The King of Navarre and his
three closest friends vow to fast, study and
forswear the company of women for three
years.

Naturally, their vow is immediately fol-
lowed by the arrival of the Princess of France
and her attractive ladies-in-waiting. The men
fall hopelessly in love and wage a brief, half-
hearted battle against their libidos before
deciding to cast aside their oaths and pursue
the ladies. Chaos, deceit, and hilarity ensue —
as does a surprisingly touching and realistic
ending.

Dr. Cynthia Lewis has guided her cast of
student-performers to a pretty bawdy version
of this comedy. To echo my co-editor, Colin
Eagan ’04 (who, by the way, turns in a hilari-
ous performance as the Princess’ nobleman
Boyet), you could almost discover the real
meaning of many lines in this play by tacking
on the phrase “in bed.” Sexual innuendo
drips from almost every scene — and perhaps
by virtue of being college students, the cast
communicates it very well. The production,
however, never became vulgar or offensive —
just very funny.

I suspect that Dr. Lewis and her class were
having a bit of fun at Davidson’s expense
while producing this play. Jabs at self-impor-
tant scholars abound, and the speed at which
the men forsake study for love made me
seriously question all those nights I’ ve spent
trying to decipher some dead historian’s
ramblings. While primarily a silly comedy, I
think Love’s Labours Lost also contains some
valuable advice for those of us who are too
fond of showing off obscure vocabulary words
(and yes, I include myself).

Proceeding to the mandatory commentary
on the cast: the King of Navarre (Aaron
Lohmeyer ’02) and his noblemen (Bobby
Pittenger ’02 as Longaville, Jeff Bender ’02
as Dumaine and Thomas Ward ’04 as

Berowne) are all convincing and amusing as
lovelorn scholars. (Ward’s Berowne, the
resident sarcasm-producer, has most of the
play’s best lines.) [commend all four for the
courage to shriek like girls in my favorite
scene, when their vow-breaking is discov-
ered. Anna Jensen ’03 is a standout as the
Princess, and Katherine (Shauna Callahan
°02), Maria (Amy Poe ’02) and Rosaline
(Melanie Wadkins ’02) all get the opportu-
nity to toss off some witty lines.

I’m not sure if you need comic relief in a
comedy; nevertheless, Shakespeare added
some with the characters of Jacquenetta (Erin
Creznic ’02), Don Adriano de Armado
(Clinton Rickards ’04) and Costard (Chas
Willimon ’02). Jacquenetta, a local dairy-
maid, is the “sexually liberated” object of
affection of both Don Adriano (a loud Span-
ish braggart) and Costard (a clown). The
bizarre love triangle makes for some very
funny scenes. Additionally, Don Adriano
has many amusing exchanges with Moth
(Mary Katherine Stickel ’02), his page, a
witty boy who is much, much smarter than his
bumbling master.

Holofernes, an overly verbose teacher (Hi-
lary Dack ’02), the toadying curate Nathaniel
(Sherry Leverett ’02), and the plain-spoken
constable Dull (Amanda Mordavsky ’02) also
pop in from time to time to add yet more
humor. To be honest some of these charac-
ters seem superfluous at times, but as long as
it gives me an excuse to hear more of
Shakespeare’s attacks on stupidity disguised
as scholarship, I won’t protest too much.

Tonly had one real complaint, which is that
some of the lines get jumbled up and lost in
the faster-moving scenes. I think that’s a
trade-off for the high-energy nature of this
interpretation, but (call me a purist) I think
it’s important to hear every word. Also, I’m
not entirely sure what time period the cos-
tumes were supposed to embody (although I
can’t fault the resourcefulness of the costum-
ers). The set, however, was wonderful —
utilitarian, simple and elegant. Placing the
audience on the Duke stage was a great touch
that made the performance feel much more
intimate.

All in all, the student cast-crew did an
admirable job with a funny, silly, escapist
Shakespearean comedy. I suspect that many
people in the audience didn’t expect to laugh
quite as hard as they did, or be

By ERIN L. RAFFETY
Staff Writer

While it’s the last thing on our minds as we
strain to crank out papers these last few
weeks, conquer the tests, and finish those last
couple pages, I spent some time talking to
some of the “‘artsiest” people on campus for
some suggestions for summer reading this
year. You may not want to look at another
book until you put down your pencil on that
last exam, but keep this article handy. The
Arts Hall of Base and First Cannon promise
not to disappoint with these stellar recom-
mendations.

1. Stardust by Neil Gaiman. We recom-
mend starting the summer off with something
light. This, according to Lindy Baldwin “is a
charming and beautifully written fairy
tale... You can finish it in an afternoon, or
savor Neil Gaiman’s amazing prose for a few
days.” If you’re not interested, start with a
Harry Potter book by JK- Rowling. Eachis an
easy read, and according to Beth Daniel,
“believable, with the caveat, of course, that
you must accept witchcraft and wizardry.”

2. Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen

Wurthering Heights by Emily Bronte

Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte

The women of First Cannon request you
give these classics just one more shot. While
you’ve got the time, get reacquainted with
some of romance’s most treasured gentlemen
and ladies. For those who wrote off these
dust-covered treasures years ago, try Daphne
DuMaurier’s Rebecca for a slightly more
chilling, twisted plotline.

3. Self Help by Lorrie Moore. If summer’s
not going as you’ve planned, tap into this
parody full of humorous stories that Lisa
Wortman claims will, by the end, have you
assured that the failed romances and impos-
sible relationships of life are not your fault.
Don’t let the pink cover discourage you.

4. The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien.
According to Jonathan Schellack, “Tolkien is
a master craftsman of his world, Middle-
Earth, a world that, though not our own,
reflects many of the realities and struggles
that exist around us today.” Beth Daniel
points out that “‘ an added bonus is that your
parents probably read this book, and you can
spend some quality time with them reminisc-

Some summer suggestions

ing about childhood.” Proponents of this
classic also recommend The Hobbit.

5.The Poisonwood Bible by Barbara
Kingsolver. This book comes highly
reccommended and details the life of a mis-
sionary family that goes to live in the Congo;
their selflessness will encourage you to re-
flect upon your own spirituality and choices
in life.

6.A Prayer for Owen Meaney by John
Irving. Another touching tale, this novel is
the story behind the movie Simon Birch,
which follows the growth of an underdevel-
oped child and tackles the tough life issues of
friendship, religion, relationships, and faith.

7. Summer Sisters by Judy Blume

Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood by
Rebecca Wells

These two books just radiate summer. Judy
Blume’s novel tells the story of a constantly
changing friendship between two friends,
while Rebecca Wells’s book is poetic wild
ride through female friendship, war, Catholi-
cism, and love in the sweltering heat of Loui-
siana. I’ve reread this book six times, and
sitting out on the porch on a summer evening
only makes it that much sweeter.

8. Traveling Mercies and Bird by Bird by
Anne Lamott. If you like Rebecca Wellstry
this novel. Lamott is honest, aware, and
poetic. Her chapters read almost like essays
that are absolutely quote-worthy. You'll
want to read these books slowly, because
they’re loaded with wisdom.

9. Gates of Fire by Steven Pressfield.
Lindy Baldwin reccommends this novel about
the ancient Battle of Thermopylae, where a
few hundred Spartans held back thousands of
Persian invaders. “It’s gory, anda bit sad, but
one of the most amazing historical novels
I’ve ever read.”

10. Einstein’s Dreams by Alan Lightman.
I can’t help but put in my own suggestion for
an amazing book in concept and style.
Lightman makes physics accessible by beau-
tifully describing dreams where Einstein
imagines worlds where time moves back-
ward, in a circle, and in freeze frames. Even
if you know nothing about physics, the writ-
ing is excellent. This book subverts the way
we think about space, time, the universe, and
life.

quite as scandalized. Congratu-
lations to the cast and crew for
defying the expectation of bor-
ing, sexless Shakespeare.

Eddie from Ohio will perform in the Duke Family Performance Hall this
Friday, April 26 at 9:00 p.m. Formed in 1991, the band earned popularity a
their mix of bluegrass, flok, calypso, jazz, and rock. General admission ticket:
are $12. For ticket information call 704-894-2135.

Eddie to play on Friday

www.efohio.com/bio.html

University Studies Abroad Consortium
- Your Gateway to the World

¢ Many programs offer Intensive Language Courses in
Spanish, French, German, Basque, Thai, Danish, Hebrew,
Czech, Italian and Chinese

* University credit

* Scholarships available

* Semester, yearlong and summer programs available

* Wide range of academic courses in small class sizes

¢ Enjoy field trips, excursions and optional tours

http:/ /usac.unr.edu
email: usac@unr.edu

University of Nevada
USAC/323
Reno, NV 89557-0093 * 775/784-6

