New tastes of Dawviligen: : fires rettratite 6 open in tiwn

By MARTHA SHOTT
Staff Writer

It’s 5 p.m. The stomach is signaling
dinnertime, but neither Commons nor the
union sounds too appetizing. What’s a Wild-
cat to do? For those seeking an escape from

campus but not wanting to venture far past the

walls of the college, the town of Davidson has
welcomed three new restaurants to the local
area.

O’Donnell’s Main Street Deli, which occu-
pies the previous Village Cupboard restaurant,
opened three weeks ago. “We're trying to bring
aNew York-style deli witha good atmosphere,”
said owner Geoff O’Donnell. The deli boasts

sandwiches made with Boar’s Head meat and
will offer daily blue-plate specials.

Another new addition to the dining scene is
Joel’s Asian Grill and Sushi located on Depot
Street. Server Dana Lindsay said, “We serve a
lot of sushi. The atmosphere is pretty casual.”
In addition to sushi, the menu consists of
Japanese steakhouse entrees, sake, seafood,

photo by Er

m Earley-Thiele

The owner of the Brick House Tavern shows off the renovated Depot building.

and burgers.

Within the next week or two, Shomar’s
Brick House Tavern will be opening up in
place of the Depot on Delburg Street. George
Couchell, founder and CEO of Shomar’s of
America, said that Brick House will ‘fill the
void between fast food and full service. We’ re
ten steps ahead of fast food in terms of variety,
quality, and service, yet we have faster service
and better quality than full service restau-
rants.” The menu consists of appetizers, brick
oven pizza, steaks, and seafood.

In a time of economic instability, these new
restaurants have specific plans to attract busi-
ness. In order to appeal to a youthful crowd,
O’Donnell’s hosts live musical entertainment
every Friday night. Also, the prices are stu-
dent-friendly, running from $3.99 to $5.99 for
entrees. “We cater to everyone, so students are
more than welcome,” O’ Donnell said. “We’re
also heavily involved in Davidson athletics;
we do promotions and sponsorship,” he said.

Since Joel’s opening in February, Lindsay
said the business has been doing well. “We
have a lot of Davidson students coming,” she
said. The restaurant hosts daily special events
such as karaoke and stand-up acts, and for
students wanting a late-night drink, the bar is
open on weekends until 2 a.m.

Brick House Tavern will have live entertain-
ment every night after nine o’clock as well,
according to Couchell. In terms of atmosphere,
the old Depot site is currently being renovated.
“We’ ve added a touch of class,”’ Couchell said.
“For sure, the ambience and atmosphere is
incredible. We’ve partnered with the master
chef of Guytano’s, who will give us the excite-
ment, flair, high energy, good food and great
service that we’re looking for.”

In terms of success for all three restaurants,
the outlook is good. “The response from the
community and the college has been fantas-
tic,” O’ Donnell said.

traffic, filed

paper, stuffed

The Dean of Students Office would like to thank
all 120 Orientation Team members —- O'I’ s -
- who helped with New Student Orientation.

Thanks to all of you who unloaded cars, HAULED BOXES, directed

made sandwiches,
bagged potatoes, rode the Dull, tove golf carts, greeted parents,

delivered ref rigerdteors, made bulletin boards,
HELPED RESNET, SANG THE ALMA MATER, gave tours,
answered phones, (ed book discussion qrouys,

distributed fliers in town, and helped to welcome
our new students in so many ways'

packets,

Special thanks to OT Leaders Mark Williams, Ashlee White,
| Maryanne Warner, Laura Bondesen, Katie Vogel, Adam Duthe,
| Henle Sone, Tete Comets, and Katharine Hubbard.

