12

photo by Chris Keane, Special Contributor

Wildcats’ tailback Christian Hunt (right) is tackled by the Hoyas.

During fall break

Running game stuffed in loss to Hoyas

Most Davidsonians were away on fall break
when the football team hosted Georgetown on
Oct. 12.

Given the Wildcats’ performance ina 25-21
non-conference loss to the Hoyas at Richardson
Stadium, that’s probably a good thing.

In what head coach Mike Toop called the
most frustrating defeat of his two-year
Davidson career, the Wildcats gave up two
fourth quarter touchdowns to lose their second
straight home game after winning the previous
14.

“Any team that can come from behind in the
fourth quarter deserves to win the game,” said
Toop. “Would I like to play them again? No
question.”

The Wildcats (3-3, 1-1) appeared to be
headed for a victory with 12 minutes left in the
game, after three straight Paul Nichols touch-
down passes erased an early 13-0 Hoyas lead.

But on second-and-ten from his 30-yard
line, Nichols fired a short pass toward a re-
ceiver near the home side that was picked off
and returned for a score that gave Georgetown
(2-4) new life.

“He thought he could make the throw, but it
turned out to be a bad decision,” said Toop.
“We were still winning at that point.. When
you’re winning in the fourth quarter, you win
the game.”

The ensuing two-point conversion attempt
failed, leaving the Wildcats up 21-19, But on
the Hoyas’ next possession, fullback William
Huisking caughta three-yard touchdown while
on his back that put Georgetown up for good.

Playing without its star tailback John
Leverett (shoulder) and its fastest wide re-
ceiver, Randall Hardy, the Davidson offense
struggled, especially in the fourth quarter when
fatigue appeared to. set in. The Wildcats fin-
ished with 20 yards rushing.

The defense, meanwhile, allowed 372 yards
while failing to register a single sack.

“When you get into the sixth week of the
season, very rarely do you have all 22 starters
playing. So that’s not an excuse,” said Toop.
“J don’t think we played to our capabilities.
“We didn’t come right out of the gate and play
like we should’ ve.”

- Matt Garfield

Title hopes dashed, football aims for winning season

ft

The Opponent: .

Wesley has a powerful Div. III program,
with an 88-34-1 record since 1990, including
two straight titles in the Atlantic Central Foot-

ball Conference and seven postseason ap-

pearances. q

‘The Wolverines: are experienced, with 17
of 2 starters retiring off ast geason’ s 7-3
‘But Davidson, the only Div. LAAt team on
its schedule this year, is probably the stron-
gest opponent Wesley will face.

The Wolverines enter the game on a hot
streak, having won three of their last four
games, including a 35-0 shellacking of Ap-
prentice last week.

. They feature a dangerous offensive attack
led by senior tailback Fred Edwards, who
leads the conference in rushing with 120
yards per game and seven touchdowns.

Senior Farewell:

Seventeen Davidson seniors will play for
the final time in Richardson Stadium on Sat-

Family Weekend 1 p.m.

THe inihioiedn

WEDNESDAY, :
OcrosER 23, 2002

‘Cats end two-game
slide in Valpo win

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

This was exactly the type of game the foot-
ball team needed.

Its first 100-yard rushing total of the season.
Four touchdown passes by its quarterback.
Three forced turnovers and five sacks by the
defense.

After two tough home losses, the fact that
last week’s 49-32 win came against a winless

- Valparaiso (0-7) team was of little concern to

the Wildcats.

What’s important is that heading into
Saturday’s Family Weekend home finale
against Wesley, Davidson (4-3, 1-1) isin good
shape to notch its fifth consecutive winning
season.

Paul Nichols passed for 293 yards and Chris-
tian Hunt rushed 29 times for 129 yards:and
two TDs as the Wildcats trampled Valparaiso
for the second straight year.

The Crusaders, who entered Saturday giv-
ing up more than SO points per game, surren-
dered another touchdown in just 14 seconds
by fumbling a handoff on their first play from
scrimmage.

Linebacker Raleigh Robinson picked up the
loose ball at the six-yard line and darted into
the end zone for the first of seven Davidson
touchdowns.

That play summed up the contest, as the
Davidson offense scored at will after manag-
ing only four touchdowns in its previous two
games combined.

Rléhardaon Stadium

urday, and several are on the verge of mile-
stones.

Senior quarterback Paul Nichols seats 20
yards to surpass Gordon Slade ’69 for first

-place on the school’s all-time passing list.

Nichols currently has 5,027 yards— just the

second Wildcat to surpass the 5,000-yard

plateau. Nichols also needs two TD passes to
become Davidson’s career leader.

Mike Chase needs 50 more receiving yards
to move into the top 10 all-time at Davidson,
while fellow senior Ryan Tennis is 3.5 sacks
shy of tying the single-season record of - 1 set
by James Cassidy in 1996.

What to Expect:

The Davidson offense appears to be back
on track after rolling to 49 points last week,
butitcame againsta weak, winless Valparaiso
team.

If the Wildcats can come close to duplicat-
ing that performance— and containing
Wesley’s Fred Edwards—bet on a a relatively
close Davidson victory.

‘hae Garfield

The Davidsonian

Player of the Week

Paul Nichols ‘03

Football

Hometown: Dunwoody, Georgia

Major: History

Nichols threw for 293 and four touchdowns in leading Davidson to
a 49-32 win over Valparaiso on Saturday. It was the second best
. passing yards performance of his career and the 12th time he has
thrown for over 200 yards in a game.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Women's Soccer vs. Furman
Field Hockey at Appalachian State

os
7:00 p.m.
8:00 p.m,

Thursday

Men’s Tennis at Omni Hotels ITA Regional (through Sunday)

Wildcat Wrestling Clinic/Intrasquad

Swimming vs. Radford, Gardner Webb (W), VMI (M)
Field Hockey at Radford

Football vs. Wesley

Volleyball vs, Chattanooga

12:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
5:00 p.m. :

Field Hockey vs. Georgetown
Volleyball vs. Western Carolina
Women’s Soccer vs. Wofford

1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m,
2:00 p.m.

Men's Soccer vs. Clemson
Women’s Soccer at UNC Greensboro

7;00 p.m.
2 7:00 p.m.
