From the Sideline

Moving On

By Caro.LinE HAUSER

Sports Editor

While the First Lady looked on regally and
the President slouched in his chair six feet
away—bored until he got to go play with the

athletes—the Oscars-length Olympic opening °

ceremony went off as cleanly and brilliantly as
the fireworks that filled the Salt Lake sky.

There was, however, some surprise when the
torch was lit. Having watched the Olympic
flame make its way across the country (brought
to you by the world, sponsored by Coca-Cola®),
millions tuned in for one of the most well kept
secrets in broadcasting.

Time’ s “Person of the Year” was a favorite to
light the fire within. Since his walking press
conference on September 11, when he calmly
directed New Yorkers and their governing
agencies, Rudy Guiliani has become an icon of
inspiration as recognizable as any head of state.

Five months later, the nation is trying to heal.
If you think that sounds trite, keep in mind it’s
coming from someone who still cringes when
the microwave clock says 9:11.

The decision—made in August, and ques-
tioned but upheld after September 11—to let
the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team light the
torch, then, was truly a sign of returning nor-
malcy, at least in the sporting world.

In pursuit of that mythic level playing field,
athletics have evolved with issues of race, sex,
and politics.

In the past five months, ideas and ideals of
heroism, patriotism, and religion have surfaced
in sports.

Indeed, these issues have been questioned in
virtually every aspect of society.

Routines like singing “The Star-Spangled
Banner’ took on ritualistic connotation in the
days and weeks after September 11.

~ So frequent were the tributes and talks about
heroism and patriotism, such displays became

expected—even habitual.

But the line between ritual and routine is a
fluid one. If everyone expects a September 11
survivor to light the torch, then the country isn’t
moving on.

Some things won’t change for a long time.
Virtually every professional and most college
teams have sewn flags to their uniforms, un-
likely to disappear overnight. Davidson is, as
far as I can tell, the only school in our confer-
ence that has not followed this trend.

That may seem unpatriotic of our little snow
globe, but when one considers that half of the
men’s basketball team is from somewhere
else—take your pick of Finland, the Congo,
Ireland—it makes sense not to brand everyone
with an American flag.

Likewise, every major sporting event can’t
be entrenched in a pre-game tribute to lives
tragically lost.

The last time the Winter Olympics were held
in America, more than 50 Americans were
being held in Iran. The cold war was raging,
and the Soviet Union was not only an oppo-
nent, but also an adversary.

A bunch of college hockey players got to-
gether to bring down the enemy. As recogniz-
able as any image in sports history is footage of
goalie Jim Craig draped in an American flag
after the “Miracle on Ice.”

Team captain Mike Eruzione, who scored
the winning goal, emotionally motioned for his
team to join him on the medal podium.

Last Friday, as he lit the cauldron that will
burn for a fortnight, Eruzione again had his
team join him.

Together, they created another indelible image
for sports fans. Even in times of crisis, when our
national spirit is wounded, we can stand together
as a team and light the fire within.

Forfeits cripple wrestlers

By AMANDA MorDAVSKY
Staff Writer

In an action-filled week of wrestling, the
Wildcats could not shake their losing streak,
despite strong performances from several indi-
viduals.

The week began with a February 6 match
against Gardner-Webb, where the Wildcats
fell 34-3. With forfeits in the 133-pound, 184-
pound, 197-pound, and the heavyweight divi-
sions, the Wildcats could only hope to score in
four weight classes.

Unfortunately for Davidson, sophomore
Mark O’ Hair (174) was the only ’Cat to capture
a win on the day. O’Hair beat out freshman
Matt Klinger, who had entered the match with
26 wins this season.

Senior captain Jeff Bender (157) struggled
against Brian Dixon, losing his match 6-2,
while junior Grant Doornbos (149) had his own
problems with Daniel Elliott, losing his match
by the same score. Sophomore Mo Idlibi (165)
rounded out the competition with a 14-4 loss
against Kevin Fields.

On Friday, the Wildcats traveled to Charles-
ton, SC, to take on The Citadel and the Univer-
sity of Tennessee-Chattanooga in Southern
Conference action. Again crippled by forfeits
in most weightclasses, the ’Cats were unable to
overcome their opponents, losing to The Cita-

‘del 43-9 and to Chattanooga 48-3.

The highlight of the afternoon came from
QO’ Hair’ s two victories, giving him a 2-2 record
in the conference. O’ Hair pinned The Citadel’ s
James Rose at the 5:47 mark to earn his third

pin of the season, setting him atop the team for
pins. His second win came against
Chattanooga’s Chris Bird, whom he easily
held to a 6-1 decision

Other successful ’Cats included Bender, who |

earned his third conference victory with a 4-1
win over The Citadel’s Vince Bartges. How-
ever, Bender could not manage to overtake
Chattanooga’s Quintin Bell, losing 16-3 in a
major decision.

Doornbos struggled with close matches on

the afternoon, losing to The Citadel’s Josh
Mau, 13-8, and then to Chattanooga’s Patrick
Carr, 6-3.
_ Idlibi rounded out the competition with two
losses. The Citadel’s Anthony DelPriore won
ina major decision, while Chattanooga’s Craig
Johnson won after a technical fall, 18-3.

Bender is quick to point out that, despite the
dismal scores from these matches, the Wildcats
are doing well as individuals. “Against The
Citadel, we won two matches out of four with
one pine and one regular decision,” explains
Bender. “They beat us with one regular deci-
sion and one major. So our score from the four
matches would be 9-7 in favor of us”

Bender further clarifies that the cause of the
Wildcats tough losses is not lack of talent from
the squad but lack of members. “Of course [the
other teams] are going to win the duel—even if
we pinned all our guys we would still lose

- decisively 36-24 because of forfeits.”

The Wildcats have two weeks off before
returning to the mats for their lasthome compe-
tition. Davidson will host VMI and Campbell
on Saturday, Feb. 23, at 12 pm.

By ERIN DELK
Staff Writer

Appalachian State University

In a thrilling double-overtime conference
grudge match, the Davidson girls saw their
chance at victory rim in and out with sopho-
more forward Courtney -Laird’s last-second
shot attempt, leaving them two points short of
Appalachian State, 89-87, on Saturday after-
noon.

Almost even in the conference—ASU with
one more loss than Davidson, 10, and the
same amount of wins, 4—the two teams went
inch for inch together for fifty minutes in
front of one of the largest crowds for a
women’s game this season at Belk Arena.

As avid fan Bart Creasman said, “It was a
fast-paced, exciting game to watch.”

The Mountaineers burst out of warm-ups
with more intensity and hustle than the Wild-
cats, winning the tip and scoring the first five
points of the game. Stunned, Davidson
climbed back into the game by applying.a full
court press and forcing ASU turnovers.

A three-point basket by senior guard Janna
Magette at the 16:15 mark brought Davidson

to within four, and a nice putback and foul

| shot by senior forward Bethany Schott with
_ 9:28 to go finally put Davidson up for the first

time, 22-21.
Davidson continued to shoot well, 48.4%

| from the floor, but the Mountaineers hung
| around, draining three after three.

The two teams retreated into the locker
rooms at halftime with ASU ahead by two
points, 41-39.

Davidson erupted from the break with a
nine point scoring streak to break ahead 48-
41, and extended the lead to as many as ten
points in the first ten minutes of the second
half.

ASU, unwilling to let the game slip away,
called on their surefire shooters like point
guard Michelle Conklin, and brought the
game back to within one point, 59-58, with
8:53 to go in regulation.

A combination of Wildcat sloppiness and
Mountaineer hustle allowed ASU to tie the
game with an offensive putback at the 1:30
mark, and to obtain the ball for the last pos-
session of the game with 18.9 seconds. °

Luckily, they were not able to convert, and
play entered the first overtime.

Schott scored first for Davidson, but once
again, Conklin answered with a three-pointer.
The Mountaineers took a four-point lead with
2:50 to play, but the ’Cats clawed their way
back, and a three-point basket by sophomore
guard Robyn Flewelling with 29 seconds left
tied the game.

In a moment of déja vu, ASU called a

timeout With 19.5 seconds to attempt yet

ron by Allison Ong

Davidson dropped a physical game to ASU in double overtime.

Women’s basketball suffers
through four-game skid

Despite thriller against ASU, women fall to 8-15, 4-10

another final, and unsuccessful, shot.

The crowd sat up a little straighter and
edged a little further up in their seats as the
teams prepared for the third tip-off in the 46th
minute of the game.

The patterned sequence of events emerged
once more, as the Mountaineers went up by
four quickly, and Davidson fought back to tie
it up at 87 with 42.7 seconds.

Center Joanie White gave ASU the lead on
alay-up and forced Davidson to calla timeout
with 15.9 seconds left.

Unfortunately, bad luck with last-second
shots plagued the Wildcats as much like it
had the Mountaineers in their two previous
attempts: sophomore point guard Ashley
Hallsted made a slashing drive into the lane,
and, looking to kick it back out for a shot, only
found the hands of an ASU defender.

The turnover forced Davidson to foul with
eight seconds left. ASU missed both free
throws, allowing the ’Cats one last chance to
come back.

Unfortunately, Laird’s three-point shot
could not find the bottom of the net, and
Appalachian recorded their fifth conference
win.

Michelle Conklin led all scorers with 21
points, followed closely by Schott’ s 20 points.
As sophomore center Meghan Bryant la-
mented, “we really stepped up our defense in
the second half and in the overtimes, but they
were just on fire, and we didn’t expect some
of their silent players to step up like they did.”

Wofford

On Monday night, Davidson dropped their
second contest of the season to conference
rival Wofford University, 77-53.

The ’Cats built an early lead with two
baskets from sophomore center Meghan
Bryant, but the Terriers took over with a free
throw from their leading scorer, Jenny Nett,
at the 17:10 mark and never looked back.

Davidson shot a miserable 27.3% from the
floor, and just 7.7% from behind the arc.

Wofford entered halftime with a 13-point
advantage, and continued to roll in the second
half, despite a Wildcat“comeback attempt
around the fifteen-minute mark.

Even though Davidson did not perform.
well offensively, they were pleased with their
defensive effort.

As Bryant remarked, “Our goal was to
prove that we could match up with them
defensively, and we did that. We forced them
to take hard shots, and unfortunately, they
made them. When we had those same shots
on the other end, we just couldn’t convert.”

Leading the way for the Terriers was J enny

"Nett with 20 points; for Davidson, Ashley

Hallsted and Bethany Schott both recorded
13 Points.
