AAT EALEER

ae IN im

Kies

mpany

The RSC’s production of The Merchant of Venice shines

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

Although’ ve never regretted my choice to
come to Davidson, I admit that in the past I
have envied those of my friends who attended
large, well-known universities and do not
constantly have to describe the lo-
cation of their school. No longer.
My Ivy-League pals can keep their
world-renowned postmodern ex-
perts on the “dialectic of consen-
sus” — my school has the Royal
Shakespeare Company, perform-
ing the best production I’ve ever
seen.

For at least an hour after leaving
the Duke Family Performance Hall
on Friday, the only thing I could
say about my experience was
“wow.” The simple, utilitarian set,
the elegant costumes, the fabulous
actors, and the marvelous language
of Shakespeare all combined to rob
me of speech. Every sentence that
crossed my mind seemed clumsy
next to the soliloquies and conver-
sations I’ djust heard on stage. Even
now I feel profoundly awkward
trying to “review” the extraordi-
nary production I saw on Friday
night.

For those of you who have been —
living ina cave and haven’t both-
ered to at least read a Merchant of
Venice plot synopsis, here it is in
brief. Antonio, a wealthy Venice
merchant, wishes to aid his be-
loved friend Bassanio in his at-
tempts to woo the wealthy heiress
Portia. However, all his money is
tied up, and so he is forced to borrow the sum
from the Jewish moneylender Shylock, who
hates him. Shylock agrees to lend him the
money without interest — but if Antonio fails
to pay, his forfeit will be one pound of flesh.
Meanwhile, Shylock’s unhappy daughter Jes-
sica plots her escape from her father’s house
and her impending conversion and marriage
to the Christian Lorenzo.

In Belmont, Portia’s fate in marriage is
determined by three caskets — one of gold,
one of silver, one of lead. Prospective suitors
must choose one casket; the one who chooses
correctly will become her husband. Portia
cares for none of her suitors except Bassanio
— who naturally chooses correctly. The cel-
ebration is cut short by the news that Antonio’s

fortunes are lost at sea, and Shylock is de-
manding his bond. Portia saves Antonio’s
life by dressing up as a man and arguing for
him in court. At the end of the play, Shylock
ishumiliated, Antonio’s fortunes are restored,
and all lovers are reunited at Belmont.

www.davidson.edu

Mr. Bartholomew is Shylock in The Merchant of Venice

This is not, however, a completely merry
comedy along the lines of As You Like It or
Twelfth Night. This play is famous for its
anti-Semitism, and rightly so. Shylock is
subject to all manner of humiliation and
degradation for his heritage. Antonio, one of
the designated heroes, has called Shylock
“dog,” and the moneylender has several
scenes in which he is spat upon and called
names. These scenes (along with a rather
racist comment about Portia’s suitor the Prince
of Morocco) made me a bit uncomfortable.

I do, however, think the production is right
not to shy away from these scenes — although
Shakespeare may not have intended this,
they make Shylock less monstrous and his
actions more understandable. Combined with

oe erg

Ian Bartholomew’s extraordinary perfor-
mance, I actually found Shylock to be a
sympathetic character — embittered and hate-
ful, to be sure, but it was easy to understand
his resentment. During his Act 3, Scene 1
soliloquy (the scene right before intermis-
. sion) I was so absorbed that I lost
conscious knowledge of my body
as I listened to Bartholomew’s
tormented, pain-filled and em-
bittered speech.

In fact, all of the cast members
are excellent. (Did you really
expect anything else?)
Bartholomew is clearly a standout
(his role certainly gives him the
most to work with); equally no-
table are Hermione Guilliford as
the intelligent Portia and Darren
Tunstall as the hilarious clown
Launcelot. (At Friday’s produc-
tion, a couple entered late during
Launcelot’s first scene, and the
actor greeted them with a cheer-
ful “Welcome to Venice!) For
the first time in my life, I had no
problem | understanding
Shakespeare’s spoken words.
Often in American productions,
there are weak links in the cast,
actors who don’t seem to really
understand the words they’ re say-
ing, but this couldn’t be further
from the case here.

The set is fairly minimalist —
it’s basically just a giant wooden
“y backdrop that has lots of swing-
4a ing doors, plus some furniture
and Portia’s three caskets — but it
transforms nicely between a city
street, a moonlit garden and Portia’s grand
home at Belmont. Set changes take place
while actors are still speaking, providing a
nice “fadeout” effect that doesn’t interrupt
the momentum of the play. The costumes
were also excellent — the choice of circa-
1900 fashions gave a slightly more “mod-
ern” feel to the production while still making
the time and place seem separate from our
own.

I feel a bit churlish putting forth any
complaints about a production as excellent
as Merchant — however, one scene. in par-
ticular bothered me a great.deal. Act 3,
Scene 5, finds Jessica (Shylock’s converted
Christian daughter) and the clown Launcelot
debating over the prospects of her salvation.
Earlier in the play, the relationship between
Jessica and Launcelot (Shylock’s former

servant) seemed very caring and supportive;

- both lived unhappily in Shylock’s house. This

production interprets Jessica’s conversion to
Christianity as a difficult and painful process;
in keeping with this interpretation, Jessica is
upset at Launcelot’s jabs at her Jewish heri-
tage. However, in this scene Launcelot seems
downright cruel—a marked and sudden change
from his earlier respect for Jessica’s delicate
situation. This was very jarring, and | think the
scene might have played better if Launcelot
had instead been lightly teasing her and un-
aware of how his banter was affecting her.
This tiny little snag in the otherwise flaw-
less production obviously doesn’t detract much
from its overall quality. I doubt anyone in the
audience will ever see Shakespeare done bet-
ter than this, if even as well. The bottom line
on The Merchant of Venice? “Wow.”

: www.davidson.edu
The women of Warner Hall welcomed several actors from the Royal Shakespéare Company to their

. house for dinner last Wednesday. The Royal Shakespeare Company joined the members in an
amazing opportunity to visit with the talented actors. Warner Hall would like to thank the Royal
Shakespeare Company for coming and spending their time with us!

-Maryanne Warner, president, Warner Hall House

