By Erin DELK

Staff Writer

UNC-Greensboro

Even with four players in double figures, the
Davidson Wildcats could not pull out a victory
against UNCG Thursday night in Belk Arena,
falling 84-73 to the number one-ranked team in
the Southern Conference.

The ’Cats sprang to an early lead with a
three-point basket by senior forward Bethany
Schott, but slowed their scoring to a near halt
until the 10:50 mark with a basket by sopho-
more center Meghan Bryant to bring them to
within five.

Davidson had little problem with
Greensboro’s press, but could not manage to
stay out of foul trouble, allowing UNCG 12
free looks at the basket in the first half com-
pared to Davidson’s 5, and could not connect
on easy lay-ups.

The Spartans also utilized their inside-out-
side offensive threats effectively, allowing them
to widen the scoring gap around the seven-
minute mark. However, the well-known and
deeply respected heart of the Wildcats kept
beating (and if you’re reading this, clap your
hands), and a three-point basket by senior
guard Janna Magette at the 1:18 mark brought
the ’Cats to within five.

Freshman forward Emily Callahan tied the
game with an impressive three-point play the
old-fashioned way with 6 seconds left, and
allowed Davidson to carry the momentum into
the locker-room, even at 30.

The ’Cats stayed tough in the opening two
minutes of the second half, up 35-32 with
18:12 to go, but the Spartans dished out seven
straight points as Davidson’s baskets began to
rim in and out. Once again though, the ’Cats
would not give up, and Magette and Schott

answered with five points of their own.

Play went back and forth between the two
teams, but UNCG’s 61.3 floor percentage and
50% from behind the arc allowed them an
insurmountable lead. A three-point basket from
Schott brought the ’Cats to within 6 with 3:17
to go, still keeping hope alive. Davidson began
to foul the Spartans, but UNCG’s impressive 6-
7 free throw shooting down the stretch proved
too much for the ’Cats.

Schott led all scorers with 27 points.

University of Tennessee-Chattanooga
Despite only a two-point deficit at halftime,
the Wildcats dropped their
sixth straight loss to confer-
ence rival UTC 83-61 on Sat-
urday in Belk Arena.

Alittle shaky after an emo-
tional senior day presenta-
tion for Kelly Copland,
D’Erica Taylor, and Janna
Magette, the “Cats missed
twoearly lay-ups and scored
only four points in the first four minutes of play.
The Lady Mocs’ intense man defense frus-
trated Davidson and forced them out of their
rhythm and into taking low-percentage shots.

But the ’Cats settled down and began to
attack the basket, as sophomore center Meghan
Bryant snagged the offensive board and put-
back at the 9:15 mark to bring the ’Cats to
within four, 23-19.

A steal and basket by freshman guard Joy
Newsome inched Davidson to within one with

“We just

started.”

7:11 to go. Point guard Ashley Hallsted stole the -

show in the remaining minutes of the first half as
she blew past Lady Moc defenders, creating shots
for herself and for her teammates. ,
Asdevoted supporter Joey Bass 05 remarked,
“UTC just did not have an answer for Ashley in

Interested in the Civil War?

Why not look into The Gettysburg
Semester at Gettysburg College,

a semester-long immersion in
Civil War Era Studies.

Applications currently being accepted
| for Fall 2002.

For more information visit our website:
www.gettysburg.edu
[Click on “Quick Links” then “Gettysburg Semester”’]

or contact us at:

The Office of Civil War Era Studies
PO. Box413
Gettysburg College .

_ Gettysburg, PA 17325—

717-337-6598

this time we were going to
finish what we had

-Courtney Laird

the first half.”

The combination of Hallsted’s drives and the
team’s hustle brought the ’Cats to within two,
36-34, at halftime. eee

Unfortunately, the second half was not as
promising for Davidson. According to sopho-
more forward Courtney Laird, Davidson just
“came out so cold in the first part of the second
half, and dug a hole that we could not get out
of.”

The ’Cats brought the lead back down to nine

‘with 12:45 to go, but calls in favor of UTC and
an impressive 26 attempts from the charity
stripe stopped short any chance of a Davidson

comeback. Looking tired ¢

and sloppy in the last seven
minutes, the ’Cats fell fur-
ther and further into the
“hole,” down by as. much
as 27 at one point.

Bryant led Davidson
scorers with 12 points, and
recorded a game-high 16
rebounds.

decided that

Georgia Southern

In their last home game of the season, the ’Cats
upset third-ranked conferencerival Georgia South-
ern (12-13) on Monday night, 69-57.

Clawing back from a 9-0 deficit and a scoreless
opening four minutes, all ten healthy Davidson
players saw action against the Lady Eagles, and
left them stunned when the final buzzer sounded.

As sophomore guard Robyn Flewelling
noted, “Coach Watts was just really excited
that we ended our losing streak and played such
a solid game.”

The ’Cats recovered from the shaky start and
caught the Lady Eagles at the 14:06 mark with
a three-point play by senior guard Janna
Magette. A three by Magette a minute later

| Women’s hoops snap six-game losing streak, stun Ga. Southern

merited a Southern timeout, and put the ’Cats
up by three, 13-10.

Sloppy play ensued for the next couple of
minutes, with the Lady Eagles forcing David-
son to use all of the shot clock before even
taking the first shot.

A basket by freshman guard Joy Newsome
with 8:08 to go put Davidson back up by one 21-
20.

The ’Cats never lost the lead again, and
entered half time up by three, 31-28. While
both teams played relatively equally in the first
half, Davidson emerged from the locker room
looking stronger, tougher, and more in control
for the second half of play. “We came into the
locker room at halftime and just decided that
this time we were going to finish what we had
started,” remarked sophomore forward
Courtney Laird.

The two teams exchanged baskets for the
first two minutes of the half, but a5-O run by the
Cats forced a Southern timeout with 16:40 to
go and put Davidson up by ten, 42-32.

Unlike the uneven first half foul situation,
with the Lady Eagles’ reaching the charity
stripe 12 times in comparison to Davidson’s 3,
the second half saw a complete turn of events.

The ’Cats began to attack the basket more,
and, in one possession, forced three Southern
fouls, all allowing Davidson to reach the foul
line 18 times in the half.

The Lady Eagles made a slight run in the
closing minutes of the game, bringing a 13
point lead back down to 9 around the four
minute mark, but they couldn’t make key free
throws, shooting a miserable 46.2% from the
line in the second half.

Ashley Hallsted led all scorers with 19 points,
and was helped by 14 points and 7 assists from
Magette, and another 14 points and 10 re-
bounds from Bryant.

NOW OPEN

LUNCH BUFFET
Mon.-Sat.. 11:15-3:00 pm *5.25
Sunday 11:30-3:00 pm *6.50

Serving Regular menu 3:00-5:00 pm

| DINNER BUFFET |
Mon.-Sat.. 11:15-3:00 pm *9.25

Sunday 11:30-3:00 pm $41.25

CALL you can eat crab legs)
DAILY LUNCH SPECIALS

starting at *4.25
15% OFF Lunch or Dinner

with Davidson Student I.D.
Buffet _ Regular Dining
19607 Statesville Road CORNELIUS

704-897-0780 _

77 Exit 28 east; right at 1° light
20% off for groups of 10+ students

Dining room available for parties—up to 200

704-987-2090

®

