By KayLeeN HarTMAN, LAUREN LANZA AND
SARAH TYNDALL
Columnists

Once again Kayleen, Lauren, and Sarah
bless us with their words of wisdom. This
week they tackle the issue of “the hook-up.”
Enjoy. i
Boy goes to party. Girl goes to party. Boy
and girl meet. Boy and girl drink. Girl goes
home with boy. Boy and girl wake up half-
clothed with splitting headaches.

Hmm...sound a little too familiar? In the
wake of Self-Selection weekend there are
many of these stories. “As for the authors of
this column, we can mischievously assure
you that we experienced a 66.66666% suc-
cess rate in finding our own midnight misad-
ventures. Damn, we love Self-Selection.

So it is with sheepish expressions that we

have to admit we are guilty of the very social .

phenomenon we are about to condemn.
Well...aot condemn.

We find it curious that amorous encounters
tend to proliferate during those times when
the parties involved are no longer armed with
the inhibitions they carry with them by day.
This is college, right? We’re all young, we
have a healthy dose of curiosity, and we’re
packing libidos that would challenge the quan-
titative abilities of most neo-Freudians. Are
we too scared to open our minds (and blouses)
without kicking back a few beers first? It just
seems unbelievably frustrating that we have
to limit these sorts of encounters, which have

the potential to be so enjoyable, to the times
when we are least capable of enjoying them.

Maybe the answer lies in the fact that a
chemically-induced lack of inhibitions al-

lows us to ignore social cues, limits, levels of:

propriety and our own nagging sense of self-
doubt. An hour or two into the party we all
feel more attractive, unbelievably witty and
much more reluctant to return home alone.
Not to mention that if, on one or two occa-
sions, you cross the boundaries of propriety,
you are equipped with the ready excuse of
intoxication, which many of your friends will
accept with the shake of a head or the roll of
the eyes. It seems an irreversible social trend,
so we will issue a general feeling of regret
that there are not more sober endeavors and
move on.

So where’s the harm in drunken hook-ups?
Is there any? Is it all just fun and games-or do
some people get hurt? Here’s where your

writers begin to disagree. We are allindividu- -

als and therefore hold different tastes and
beliefs, as we suspect most of our readers do.
What’s good for Lauren may not be for Sarah.
Let us tell you what we think:

For her part, Lauren would prefer to steer
clear of episodes in which high blood alcohol
levels and low expectations are the norm. She
acknowledges that while it can be entertain-
ing, for the most part it feels like empty
gratification. Like the open-minded intellec-
tual she is, she doesn’t condemn the practice
for anyone else, but is. firm in her conviction
that physicality alone has no place in her life

‘ A m wb

at this point. That is not to say that she hasn’t
enjoyed her share of late nights with Davidson
dudes. It’s simply that she’s been there, done
that and has walked away looking for the
substance beneath the sensuality.

Hmm, that’s food for thought. As we sit
here picking the remains of our late night
hashbrowns and dry toast, Sarah and Kayleen
pensively sip coffee and let those ideas set in.
It seems valid to argue that there is no point to
pleasure if it does not occur on more than one
level. So while the other two-thirds of our
authorship do not fundamentally disagree
with those statements, they have some ideas
of their own. It’s just that...kissing is somuch
FUN. Sorry, sorry, we’re focused again. Sa-
rah muses that sometimes she doubts the
moral validity of her actions and wonders if
she has some buried regrets about them. It
does seem difficult, doesn’t it, to walk that
very fine line. It seems that for both genders,
but especially for women, there is a precari-
ous balance between being perceived as a
prude and being perceived as less chaste than
is socially acceptable. Maintaining this bal-
ance, as well as carefully negotiating the
balance of one’s own heart and mind, can be
difficult. The young and the restless are called
to find some accord between living in the
moment and thinking about the consequences
of tomorrow. Sarah grudgingly mutters that
she would be much better able to behave
herself if not for Beast - and cute, fun buys
‘ with raging hormones.

Kayleen would like to provide some sort of

Behind | Closed Boars: ‘“<What’s y your ‘naife poss

synthesis of these two ideas. She emphati-
cally, emphatically would like to tout the
benefits of sobriety for producing the desired
effects in both parties. And we can all agree
that experiencing emotional intimacy makes
the physicality more mind-blowing. BUT.
Werestate. Kissing is SO MUCHFUN. Some-
times a kiss is just a kiss; we have the luxury
of being able to say, “we’re all adults” with-
out any of us actually having to be adults yet.
When both parties understand the emotional
premises of the event, when they’ve given
consent (Important: CONSENT IS KEY!)
and they respect the boundaries of individual
morality, than these casual forays and fumbles
serve to enrich rather than to degrade. It
really is all in good fun- just play smart and
make sure no one gets hurt.

Having said that, we return to the original
idea that sobriety is the best aphrodisiac.
Wouldn’t it be great if we could wake up the
next morning, turn to e-mail (the mode of
communication preferred by all Davidson
students) and say something like, “Hey, how’s
your day going? Listen, loved making out
with you. Let’s get together and do it again
sometime.”’ Maybe something worth pursu-
ing comes out of it, maybe not. Either way it’s
out there and why on earth should we shrink
from talking about something both partici-
pants enjoyed? Ithappened. And it was good.
Some day, Davidsonians, some day.

Update: Be advised, all three writers’
“quests for completion” have been concluded
since the last article.

Ridley Scott triumphs with Black Hawk Down

By Curis SCHMADER
Special Contributor

In Black Hawk Down, director Ridley Scott
portrays a disastrous U.S. military operation
in Somalia with the same visceral artistry that
characterizes many of his other films, a talent
recently on display in the dubious Roman
slugfest Gladiator. Even as Gladiator be-
guiled the movie going public and many film
critics, some viewers denounced Mr. Scott’s
stylized depiction of violence in that film as
manipulative sensationalism. Black Hawk
Down finds Mr. Scott working in much the
same visual vein as in Gladiator, but this time
with a nobler purpose: making sense of the
horrific 1993 battle between U.S. forces and
thousands of hostile Somalis in the country’s
capital city of Mogadishu.

The film begins with title screens that

provide a skeletal outline of the politics be- .

hind the incident, interspersed with shots of
Somali citizens dying of starvation. As ex-
plained in this initial sequence and refer-
enced intermittently during the rest of the
movie, the political situation stands as fol-
lows: the vicious Somalian warlord
Muhammad Farah Aidid has attempted to
establish control of the country by seizing
United Nations food shipments and perpetu-
ating famine; in response, the United States
has planned a mission in which helicopter
and ground troops are to invade the Aidid-
controlled district of Mogadishu and capture
several of his key advisors to use as political
leverage against him. The plot occasionally
dips into the issue of whether the United
States has any business meddling in the af-
fairs of other nations, egregious human rights
violations or not, but ultimately the movie
seems less concerned with the battle’ s potiti-
cal implications and more occupied with the
ways soldiers cope with an unexpected mélée
that ultimately claims the lives of 19 Ameri-
cans and 1,000 Somalis.

In the first half hour of Black Hawk
Down, American soldiers mill about a U.S.

Photo Copywright Movledya poreain
Josh Hartnett stars in Black Hawk Down

military base in Somalia, engaged in training
activities and lame banter that clumsily at-
tempts to establish the soldiers as distinctive
characters. At one point, one of these men
informs us that Staff Sergeant Matt Eversmann
(Josh Hartnett) is an idealist, apparently be-

cause our powers of observation are too weak:

to discern this outstanding character trait.
The film introduces other sparsely sketched-

dstises?

out personalities in the scenes leading up to
the battle: the gung-ho but knowing Colonel
McKnight (Tom
Sizemore), the new to
combat Company Clerk
Grimes (Ewan
McGregor), the tough-
as-nails General Will-
iam Harrison (Sam
Shepard), and others.
While the dialogue writ-
ten for these soldiers
presents them as little
more than traditional
military types, the battle
sequences give them a
chance to define them-
selves through action.
Sergeant Eversmann
frets achingly over a fa-
tally wounded friend in
a harrowing nighttime
scene, while Colonel
‘McKnight vents frustra-
tion at the seeming in-
competence of his com-
manding officers as they
attempt to guide his
Humvees. out of
Mogadishu from the air.
Company Clerk Grimes
proves his mettle numer-
ous times, as do two
snipers who embark on
a suicide mission mid-
way through the movie
in an attempt to rescue the pilot of the second
of the two Black Hawk helicopters shot down
during the battle. The crash of the first
helicopter, as the title of the film suggests,
drives the action of the story. As these elite
soldiers find themselves embroiled in a con-
flict that went from being a planned 30 min-
utes to lasting over 15 hours, their struggle to
secure the crash site and save the lives of the

wounded gives them a sense of purpose that
results in gut-instinct bravery as hell breaks
loose around them.

Ridley Scott’s direction in these se-
quences is not for the squeamish; while he
shoots the desert in a beautiful combination
of dusty yellows and deep blue shadows, the
blood from the many gruesome wounds ac-
cumulated by the U.S. soldiers as the story
progresses stands out that much more against
such a pretty background. Bullets and rock-
ets fly constantly as rubble collapses around
the American troops, and every new street
corner seems a haven for hostile Somali fight-
ers. Actual soldiers enmeshed in such a
conflict must undergo a heavy emotional
drain, and Mr. Scott’s direction does a fine
job in drawing the viewer into such a taxing
experience. His success in filming an in-
tense, extended battle sequence makes his
portrayal of the aftermath that much more
disappointing. After emerging whole from
an utter dogfight against a suffering people
that the U.S. has only been trying to help,
Sergeant Norm Hooten (Eric Bana) says that
Americans back home don’t understand that
when it comes to war, for him it’s about “the
man nextto you.” Later, Sergeant Eversmann
says that although soldiers don’t try to be-
come heroes, well, sometimes they become
heroes anyway. These bland reassurances
don’t do justice to the madness the troops
have managed to: survive, serving only to
undermine Mr. Scott’s expert depiction of
heroic camaraderie in the heat of battle.

Yet one image from the final fifteen min-
utes of the film resonates after the closing
credits: a shot of General Garrison kneeling
down to wipe spilled blood from the floor of
a makeshift medical tent. The blood only
smears, refusing to be wiped away just as the
horrors of a bungled mission, the deaths of 19
American soldiers and 1,000 Somalis, and
the psychological toll of the encounter on its
survivors refuse to be sponged from history.
