Bn Leola pea

Wildcat golfers struggle at

Furman Intercollegiate

Davidson finishes 23rd out of 24
teams in weekend play

By Mark Pustay
Staff Writer

Continuing their tune-up for the South-
ern Conference Championships next
month, the Davidson College golf team
fought to a twenty-third place finish at
the Furman Intercollegiate in Greenville,
South Carolina this past weekend.

The ’Cats fought another stacked field,
taking on ranked Virginia Tech and Ohio
State.

The Hokies won the event with a team
score of 868, just four strokes over par.
Coastal Carolina and Furman tied for
second place, both four strokes off the
pace. Ohio State finished eighth.

Virginia Tech’s Brendon De Jonege
shot a five-under par 211 to lead all
finishers.

Furman’s David Sligh and East
Carolina’s Jonathan Hill both finished
one shot back.

Furman’s Matt Davidson, brother of
former Davidson golfer Sean Davidson
and ranked in the top 50 in the nation,
fired a one-under par 215 to finish fourth.

Furman’s 6800-yard, par 72 track was
unkind to the Wildcats. Jon Kropski fired
a 77-75-77 to lead the ’Cats, tying for
58th place overall.

Junior Ben Friedell also shot well,
carding a 76-81-74 for a 231 overall.

Senior captain Dan Carlson contrib-

uted a 239 and freshman Dan Walker
chipped in with a 247.

Of the effort, Wildcat head coach Tim
Straub said, “The team really struggled
in the second round, which dug a hole
for oursleves.

“We rebounded the last day and will
try to build on that round this weekend at
Keith Hills.”

Straub continued, “We have to keep
working hard and things will improve.”

Despite the recent struggles, Carlson
is also looking ahead.

“It’s frustrating that we haven’t been
able to put it together on the course in
tournament play,” Carlson says, “but no
one is interested in giving up.

“We are all dedicated to making this a
successful spring season. We hope to
make some strides towards that goal this
weekend at Campbell.

“At the very least, the weekend at
Furman provided us with an opportunity
to become familiar with the course,
which is important, since the conference
tournament will be held there next
month.”

The Wildcats hope to improve at
Campbell’s Lonnie D. Small Memorial
at the Keith Hills Country Clubin Buies
Creek.

Next week’s tournament is one of just
two more tune-ups for the all-important
Conference Championships in late April.

we throw all kinds of

bsiacles] « y0.

tuition isn’t one of them.

_.) Jeg up on your future

Sure, we'll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for
a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won't
have to worry about. Ta/k to an Army ROTC rep. And get a

For scholarship and enrollment
information visit
Major Leslie
at #7 Jackson Court
or call (704) 892-2165

Horvarl, evens recote at 5

Press RELEASE
Sports Information

The Davidson College women’s lacrosse
droppeda 13-6 decision to the visiting Harvard
Crimson Sunday afternoon at Richardson
Stadium. The Wildcats, who have lost their
last four contests, are now 5-5 with the loss
while Harvard improves its record to 2-1 on
the season.

The Wildcats fell behind early, 2-0, but
pulled within one on a goal by Loren Seaton
11:34 into the first half action. Harvard went
on to have five different players score five
unanswered goals to close out the half and
take a 7-1 lead into the intermission.

The second half proved to be quite similar
for the Wildcats. Davidson opened the half
on a goal by senior Sarah Thornton, but
Harvard scored the next four goals to take a
commanding 11-2 lead. The first two of those
Crimson goals came off the stick of Melissa
Christino.

Senior Sarah Otto scored the team’s third
goal of the game with just under eight under
minutes to play, but the first of Casey Owens’
two goals pushed the deficit back to nine, 12-
3.

The Wildcats managed to score two more
goals on Harvard’s Heather Hussey who
played in the cage the final 3:31 of the game.
She made two saves while Laura Mancini,
who started, made eight saves.

Davidson sophomore Becca Nussbaum
made nine saves on the afternoon while fresh-
man goalie Julie Goff made two saves in just
over three minutes of action.

The Davidson women’s lacrosse team suf-
fered an 11-4 defeat to Richmond last Thurs-
day afternoon at Crenshaw Field.

The Spiders tallied the first goal of the

contest, a Polly Purcell strike, at the 10:15
mark and never looked back: Richmond went
up 2-0three minutes later when Purcell picked
up the loose ball and fed to a driving Kristy
Gallagher. The Wildcats cut into the lead
when Sarah Otto pulled UR goalkeeper Kelly
Johnson out of the box to net the visitor’ first
score. Richmond would then erupt from there.
Spiders midfielder Jen Cielewich won the
ensuing draw and passed to Purcell who took
off down the field, flipping the ball to Libby
Berlacher on the right side. Purcell would net
her second score of the afternoon, a beautiful
finger roll off the stick to lift UR to a 4-1 lead
less than five minutes before the break.
Berlacher and Katie Dolan added two more
scores before the half as did Davidson at- -
tacker Loren Seaton as the home team regis-
tered a 6-2 advantage at the break.

The Wildcats pulled to within three (6-3)
after Otto converted her second goal less than
a minute into the second half. Richmond
would respond, again winning the ensuing
draw. Berlacher drove the field, notching her
first career hat trick. The ’Cats Seaton added
her second goal of the day for the visitors at
the 25:30 mark, Davidson’s last score of the
day. Richmond would score the next four
straight goals, with Purcell assisting on three
of them and scoring the other. Purcell found
a streaking Alexis Brandolini (Berwyn, Pa.)
at the 40:20 mark for an 8-4 lead. Richmond’s
leading scorer Carrie Aitken (Paxton, Mass.)
netted her 16th and 17th goals of the year in
the final 13 minutes to round out the Spiders
scoring attack.

The Wildcats return to action Tuesday,
March 26 in Blacksburg, Va., in a 4:00 con-
test against Virginia Tech. The next David-
son home contest will be Wednesday, April
3, as they host Vanderbilt at 6 p.m.

CLASS of 2002!

SENIORS ONLY:

The 3 Annual
Frisbee Golf Tournament
Is calling your name!

When: Sunday, April 7" from 3-6PM
Where: Meet at the Commons Terrace
What: Play 18 holes of authentic Frisbee Golf
with your friends on Davidson’s own course!
Why: To CELEBRATE being a Senior!

Pizza, drinks, ice cream, LOTS of cool raffle prizes,
And hours of unbelievable springtime fun!

Look for sign up sheets in the Union & Senior Apts.
Contact Molly Shaw x6067 or Michael Clifton x5226 |

FEATURING: 106.5 the END

