te Davipsonian

Women’ s track contiiacs to

improve on road to SoCon

By Jimmy SwWANsBROUGH
Staff Writer

The pieces are coming together for the
women’s track and field team as the Confer-
ence Championships steadily approach. After
a lax weekend over Easter break, the Wildcats
came out in force at the Yellow Jacket Invita-
tional at Georgia Tech University this past
Friday and Saturday.

Junior Liz Gross and freshman Lindley
Swartz have displayed consistent improve-
ment over the season, and their times in the
800-meter and 1500-meter runs reflect this
steady progress. The duo competed in the 1500
at the Raleigh Relays over the Easter Break.
Led by sophomore Laura Puckett in 4:54.57,
Gross ran solidly in 5:06.34 and Swartz fin-
ished in 5:12.69.

At Georgia Tech in the 800-meter, Gross
finished in 2:30.92, while Swartz posted a time
of 2:36.09. In the 1500-meter run, Gross dropped
her season-best time to 5:05.06, while Swartz
followed close behind in 5:08.67. Freshman
Sarah Baxter tailed Swartz across the line in
5:15.84.

Junior Jenny DiCosmo remained resilient in
the 100-meter dash, sprinting to a 14.07. In the
400-meter dash, freshman Clarissa Carr nosed
out junior Jana Yee by less than three tenths of
a second to finish in 1:04.44. Yee ran 1:04.90,
while sophomore Kate Wilson finishedin 1:09.17.

The field events corps demonstrated its con-
sistency this weekend as well. Sophomore

Amanda Yeck leapt to 4.07 meters in the long | _

jump then tried her hand at the shot put. She
threw 7.06 meters, just short of freshman Kim
Pierre’s throw of 8.49 meters.

Pierre also competed in the discus throw.
She posted a distance of 30.57 meters. And
javelin novice McKensey Gruelle, a sopho-
more, recorded a throw of 18.48 meters, just a
few feet off of her personal best on the season.

The Wildcat women will compete this week-
end in the Furman Invitational in Greenville,
South Carolina. The season will culminate in
two weeks at East Tennessee State University
in Johnson City, Tenn., where the Southern
Conference Championships will prove the best
of 2002.

100-meter dash—Jenny DiCosmo, 14.07

400-meter dash—Clarissa Carr, 1:04.44,
Jana Yee, 1:04.90, Kate Wilson, 1:09.17

800-meter run — Liz Gross, 2:30.92,
Lindley Swartz, 2:36.09

1500-meter run — Liz ‘Gross, 5:05.06,
Lindley Swartz, 5:08.67, Sarah Baxter,
5:15.84

Long Jump — Amanda -Yeck, 4.07m

Shot Put — Kim Pierre, 8.49m, Amanda
Yeck, 7.06

Discus — Kim Pierre, 30.57m

Javelin — McKensy Gruelle, 18.48m

|

WEDNESDAY,

APRIL 17
8:00 P.M.
CHAMBERS

GALLERY

HOSTED BY
BOBBY VAGT, President
TOM SHANDLEY,

Dean of Students

¢ RESIDENCE HALLS?
¢ COLLEGE UNION?
e PATTERSON
COURT?
© CHARLOTTE?
© OFF-CAMPUS?
e TRANSPORTATION?

for sale or lease |
Live clas to collagen new, modern units
REE
. QBRI2%B starts at $800/mon.
‘Spn/2e: furnished-1360/mon.; : unfurnished-$1050
" Sale prices start at $96,000
ane
Call David at 704/995-6780

the Wildcats, missing | oun their top play-
ers, came back to win three singles matches
before eventually falling to the Demon Dea-

Zsoldos, juutior Pail Bevan sc Er
Beck, and freshman Amartey N
Amarteifio. ee

The club team’s next match is ‘Seiunlag”
April 20 when Davidson will host UNC-
Wilmington.

Crew teams compete at SERCS, finish in top 5

By Luxe O’Hara AND ANpREA LYTLE
Crew Team Members

. On March 16, the varsity rowers of the
Davidson Crew Club competed in the South-
eastern Regional Collegiate Sprints (SERCS)
regatta in Elberton, Georgia. A glitch in sched-
uling meant that they did not have access toa
school van to transport their trailer, boats and
oars to the regatta. Consequently, they had to
borrow equipment from University of Geor-
gia. Despite this, the Crew persevered with

the Varsity Men’s 4+ capturing a bronze

medal and the Varsity Women’ Aeerowang to
a solid fourth place finish.

- Since it started three years ago, SERCS has
become a popular tune-up for the spring
season because it draws both area southern
schools and several northern schools that are
on spring break. “SERCS is the sort of regatta
that you want to begin. your season with. It

tends to be a small-scaled regatta with jae

competition than we see at later rega
junior rower Monica Siegenthaler said.

Although the crew benefited from slightly

easier competition at SERCS, they were still
at a disadvantage because they. did not have

their own boats and equipment. Women’s ~

coxswain Jamie Causey commented on the
club’s resilience, “The varsity women rowed
a boat that handled completely differently
from the boat that we practiced in. After
changing lineups, the varsity men showed
incredible adaptability by medalling in their
race.”

The varsity men were also upbeat about
collecting the bronze. “I thought SERCS was
beginning to a season that I have very high
hopes for. We raced strong and the entire boat

was focused on the goal at hand,” said junior
rower John Franklin. This year’s team, con-
sisting of returning varsity rowers Ryan Auster
°03 and Luke O’Hara ’03 as well as Ryan
Carvalho ’04, John Franklin ’03, and cox-
swain Andrea Lytle ’03 hopes to repeat the
success of last year’s varsity men, who made
it to a national regatta.

The varsity women are also looking for-
ward to a successful season. They rowed an
extremely solid race in the hotly contested
lightweight event. The women finished fourth
behind highly competitive boats from Geor-
gia Tech and Tennessee. Causey was confi- |
dent about the women’s chances for the rest —
of this season, “We’re capable of medalling,
we just need to figure out how to apply more
pressure and increase our speed at the thou-
sand-meter mark.” Davidson’s varsity.
women’s team has three returning varsity
rowers, Monica Stopcaiet 03, Diana

varsity Coxswain, Jamie Couey 03, as co

‘as second-semester ey: rower, Rebecca -

Stickel ’04.

While the crew joked that their situation
was ill fated because of the lack of equipment
and a striking ability to get lost multiple times
in the small town of Elberton, GA, the rowers
focused and fought hard during their races.
This has become standard practice for the
self-coached, economically independent club.
As Franklin put it, “Beating big schools like
UGA, Auburn, Alabama and Emory always
feels goods. We beat UGA in one of their own
boats.” Regattas like these explain why David-
son Crew Club is quickly becoming respected
by. competitive rowing schools throughout
the southeast.

Gallagher surprises in golf

By Mark Pustay
Staff Writer

The Davidson.College golf team continued
their late season push toward the Southern
Conference Tournament with a fourth place
finish at the Lonnie D. Small Infercollegiate in
Buies Creek last weekend.

Elon College won the event with a 577,
placing them one-stroke ahead of second-place
and tournament host Campbell.

Tom Schupp of Charleston Southern took
overall medallist honors, with Campbell’s
Simon Dunn second and Elon’s J.D. Mitchell
third. Davidson finished six strokes ahead of
Southern Conference rival Appalachian State,
a good sign for this young Wildcat squad.

The ’Cats were paced by the surprising play
of freshman Peyton Gallagher, who was par-
ticipating in his first career collegiate tourna-
ment, Gallagher’s 151 (76-75) was goodenough
to place 18th among all finishers. Gallagher’s
strong finish led a consistent Wildcat effort

throughout the lineup.

Junior Ben Friedell and freshman Joe
Zimmerman tied for 20th place with 153 each.
Freshman Dan Walker and sophomore Jon

Kropski were not far behind, firing two-day
totals of 154 and 159, respectively.

“The final round was one of our stronger
showings of the spring,” Friedell remarked.
“We shot three hundred and beat the teams we
were paired with, which was our goal going
into the last day.

“Tt was also one of the stronger team totals of
the day, and a bright spot leading into the
Wofford Invitational this week.”

Coach Tim Straub shared Friedell’s senti-
ments. “I was very pleased with our perfor-
mance,” he said. “We played very consistent in
the second round. Peyton Gallagher played
very well for his first college tournament. I am
pleased with the progress the team is making.”

With the team’s recent improvement, every-
one on the team is looking forward to the rest of
the season. Coach Straub notes that the team
plays “this weekend in a very strong tourna-
ment at Wofford.” The field at Wofford in-
cludes some tough programs, such as Virginia,
Maryland, Central Florida, and East Carolina.

With another strong finish this weekend, the
team will be in top form to contend for the
Southern Conference title in Greenville, SC,
April 19-21.

