College Communications

Fans gathered in the Union to watch Davidson play Ohio State.

Our Big Dance was about
more than a basketball game

I’m no college basketball guru, but last
Thursday’s NCAA match-up between David-
son and Ohio State was probably one of the
most exciting games I have experienced as a
sports spectator in all my life.

However, it seems strange that despite the
intense feelings of apprehension, nervous-
ness and despair
that it caused, the
game has turned out
to be of little real
significance in the
overall tournament
this year.

How can this be
| true when every
other sporting event
that has affected me
as this one did
turned out to be sig-
nificant in the sporting world?

The answer, at least for me, is that
Thursday’s game was about more than col-
lege basketball. As I watched and heard our
players being applauded, critiqued and ana-
lyzed by the commentators on CBS, I felt this
team had really accomplished something for
the College.

Perhaps one of Davidson’s most signifi-
cant weaknesses, our national recognition,
was eroded on national television during those
two hours. Even as our team nearly pulled off
a heroic upset, the school gained at least a
little more national recognition than before.

|

Zach Williams ‘05

Weall figured the Davidson team had little
chance of progressing further than the second
or third round, simply due to the recruiting
and advertising advantage that larger schools
have over us. ,

So why cheer as wildly as I did in the 900
Room last Thursday? There was more to it
than the fact that our seeding (No. 13) made
us the underdog.

Ouf team was representing an academic-
minded school, with scant recognition in the
sporting world. For Davidson, our team’s
presence and success in the NCAA tourna-
ment would mean more recognition in sports,
but more importantly for our college, more
recognition in the world of academics.

When Gonzaga pulled off its historic up-
sets in the tournament a few years ago, their
recruiting abilities shot upwards, but little
else concerning the school changed.

But when Davidson gained a bid to the
tournament this year, articles in magazines
and Web sites spoke of our school’s aca-
demic excellence, as well as our team’s suc-
cessful season.

If our team: had won (and they certainly
came closer than many believed possible),
our recognition would’ ve certainly been en-
hanced only more. It seems our school owes
much congratulation to the basketball team
this year. ,

Thanks for representing our school val-
iantly, and helping the nation to realize who

.we are.

I have been shocked over the past several
weeks at just what the editors of The
Davidsonian have deemed printable in our
college newspaper. Specifically, Tim Cook’s
two most recent articles, “What to do when
you get offended: deal with it!” and “Tim’s
Spring Break Checklist” have asked the ques-
tion of whether our
school paper has
any standards for
publication. While
the past month has
seen the issues of
censorship and free-
dom of expression
brought to the fore-
front, it was Tim’s
articles that made
me realize that con-
text, not content, is the true issue.

The idea of censoring what students are
allowed to say, whether it is on a radio show,
in anewspaper, in class or in any other venue,
certainly goes against the College’s belief in
the free exchange of ideas. How else can we
deal with issues such as hate, racism, sexism,
etc. if people are forbidden from saying what
they truly think?

That being said, it is also-important to
realize that we are obligated to express our
views certain ways in certain contexts. One
such context is The Davidsonian (since it is
not only read by students but also by faculty,
visitors and the community). The editors of
The Davidsonian seem to believe that the
paper should be a place where anyone can
express anything they want. While it is up to
the editors, not the administration, to decide
just what should be printed, I think it might be
time to reconsider just what is and is not
appropriate.

David Crowe ‘05,

"Say whatever you want,
@: but not in the newspaper

Newspapers, whether they are The New
York Times or The Davidsonian; are meant

- to be places where both popular and dissent-

ing ideas may be expressed. However, the
manner in which those ideas are expressed is
usually subject to some sort of standards.

These standards seem to be far too lax in
our paper. In any other paper, a journalist
submitting, “This is the time in our lives to get
wasted and offend people, especially if those
people really do suck,’ would certainly be
returned to the drawing board for expressing
his views in an insulting and inappropriate
manner. The Davisdonian considers such
writing good enough and important enough
to be read by the entire Davidson community.

What Tim’s articles made me realize is that
the issue is not what is said, but how and
where it is said. We shouldn’t regulate what
people are allowed to say, but we should set
standards on how they are allowed to say
things through our school paper.

The Davidsonian is by far the most widely
read student publication on campus. The pa-
per represents us and our school. Last year, as
I visited various schools, I would always pick
upacopy of the student newspaper to give me
an idea of what the school and the students
were like.

Do we want to be thought of as a school
where drinking games and petty insults are
deemed printable in the premier student pub-
lication? I certainly hope not.

We must remember that there. is a differ-
ence between censoring and editing. People
have a right to say whatever they want, but
not necessarily to say it in The Davidsonian.

It is important for the editors to place the
school paper on a higher plateau and for us as
writers to respect the context in which we are
writing.

What are the Democrats thinking?

Judge Charles Pickering is a racist, big-
oted, right-wing extremist. At least that’s
what Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee claimed last week as they blocked his
appointment to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals — the highest-ranking judicial nomi-
nation to be turned down since President

Bush took office.

According to
Democratic Na-
tional Committee
Chairman Terry
McAuliffe, “By
nominating
Pickering to a
Court that presides
over a_ region
» | heavily populated
s| with minorities,
Bush is attempting
to disenfranchise
this community.”

As much as I may disagree with Demo-
crats, only a fool would use such strong
language if they couldn’t back it up.

Unfortunately for the Democrats, Pickering
is not a racist. James Charles Evers, a re-
nowned civil rights leader for 30 years, re-
cently had this to say about the judge: “Charles
Pickering has an admirable record on civil
rights issues. He has taken tough stands at
tough times in the past, and the treatment he
and his record are receiving at the hands of
certain interest groups is shameful.”

Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle said
last year that the American Bar Association’ s
ratings are the best way to determine whether
a judge is qualified. The ABA has a general
tendency to give conservative judges lower
ratings, which usually plays into Democrats’
hands. However, last year the ABA gave

Sa. aie:

Mike Galdo ‘04

Pickering its highest rating (“well-qualified”).
A bigoted judge is highly unlikely to receive
such high praise. What does Daschle have to
say about the ABA now?

If Democrats have problems with

‘Pickering’s views on abortion (he is pro-life)

or on religion (he is a devout Christian), then
those are the issues they should have stressed
in their attack campaign against him. Know-
ing that such issues would give them no
reason to block his appointment (the presi-
dent has the constitutional right to appoint
qualified judges of whatever philosophy he
chooses), they chose instead to fall back on
their usual tactic of race baiting.

Most analysts predicted Pickering would
have been easily appointed had he passed
committee and been brought up for a vote on
the Senate floor. Unfortunately for the na-
tion, the Democrats’ tactics worked. The will
of the people was subverted since the elected
senators never got a chance to vote.

The ultimate strategy of the Democrats is
to convince Bush to nominate more moderate
Supreme Court justices. By axing Pickering’s
nomination, they attempted to send a mes-
sage to the White House: We have control.

But the contradictory statements coming
from the left have cost them political capital.
With some Democrats claiming Pickering is
a racist unfit to be appointed, while five
others (not on the Judiciary Committee) pub-
licly announced their support for him, the
nation has to wonder if any of the Democrats
are telling the truth.

After all, a mere 10 years ago, Pickering
was confirmed in his current federal circuit
position by a unanimous vote of the Senate.
One has to wonder what has changed since
then, besides the political motivations ofthose
in control of the Judiciary Committee.
