Apply to Davidson in Washington
Dr. Russell Crandall will lead this summer’

program, set for late May to late July. Applicati
picked up Dr. Crandall’ iestatalieetcce
more information.

Snident directed play opens next
__ “The Memory of Water, apy aa ill Ni

CAViruSe Policr BOER

11/8/02 Watson Science Damage to Property

Unknown person(s) did damage a wooden door.
11/09/02 Martin Ct. Outside Ryburn Alcohol Violations
Two students received alcohol violations when officers observed one of
them having a difficult time standing up. Upon seeing the officers, the
intoxicated student tried to run away, but the chase was short lived, as
he fell on his rear.

VEGGIE MELT - ~ VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE.

VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
\ SWEET POTATO FRIES ~ CAESAR SALAD

\

\ GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP

\
Plas: es lila ri Juice 4

nes HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, —_ AND LIMEADE

Bel ope think of us

WZ hiten Eat-in Take-out _

896-7743

Whose cerca
POP me

ie me, St Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9 8-9

4S MAI ST. ST. ‘DAVIDSON. ~ WC

A

. 14
|

he

o— ‘
tye. "Sie

“eee

Since 1951.

CGHMLESTIVIL

Amnesty letter campaign
delays Nigerian stoning

By CLINTON RICKARDS
Special Contributor

Earlier this semester, Amnesty Interna-
tional, DIA, SGA and DASA organized a
campus-wide letter writing campaign urging
the Nigerian government to revoke the death
sentence given to Amina Lawal.

Lawal, charged with adultery for having a
child out of wedlock, was sentenced to death
‘by stoning under Shiri’a law, despite the
worldwide outcry of human rights activists.
Davidson students sent 336 letters to the Nige-
rian Ambassador in Washington, urging the
revocation of Lawal’s sentence.

According to Amnesty International re-
ports, on Oct. 1, a week after the letters were
sent, Nigerian President Obasanjo said, “We
cannon imagine or envisage a Nigerian being
stoned to death. ..it has never happened. And

_

10/29-Hlawer franging 12 : Of
, 11/7- Cooking Qaes 6:30-
12/12-Holiday Centerpieces 12:

Alt classes helo in the Commons..
Faculty, Start and Students welcomed.

ss ae tar Lrgorsi

may it never happen.”

However, on November 4, Nigerian Foreign
Minister Sule Lamido defended the use of Shiri’a
law in Nigeria’s northern states, which has been
in place since 1999. With.no date for Lawal’s
appeal set, many human’s rights activists fear
for Lawal’s life—under law, she is still subject
to the death penalty.

However, the case is not yet closed. Amnesty
International is still flooding the Nigerian gov-
ernment with letters. With over a 70 percent
success rate on its Urgent Actions and Appeals,
these ‘letters can be taken seriously. Students
interested in writing letters can find a sample
letter at www.aiusa.org, and can send an appeal
online. The 336 letters sent in September helped
alter the views of a president. As Annie Snider,
co-president of the on-campus Amnesty Inter-
national group, said in a recent email, “Write a
letter. Save a life. It only takes 15 minutes.”

