oa THE Davipsonian

Eate-parie mistakes haunt

‘Wildcats against Western

North Division
lead drops to one
game after loss

By. Matt GarFIELD
Managing Editor

A team that seemed to have all the an-
swers when they mattered most finally ran
out on Saturday night.

The Wildcats fell 73-70 to Western Caro-
lina in overtime, suffering their first loss in
eight games this season decided by less
than five points. The loss snapped a six-
game winning streak that vaulted Davidson
(13-6, 6-2) into a two-game lead in first
place in the North Division. Now, the team
is one game ahead of the Catamounts (11-
8, 5-3) and UNC-Greensboro (11-8, 5-3).

The Wildcats took the floor of Belk Arena
Saturday in front of a season-high crowd
of 3,784, but without senior starters Martin
Ides, who suffered a sprained ankle three
days before at Greensboro and Emeka
Erege, who missed his fifth game with a
lower Jeg injury.

Playing shorthanded is nothing new for
a Davidson team that has had a full roster
in only four games this season. Even with
their center and power forward on the
bench, the team appeared to be headed
toward a seventh straight win for the first
37 minutes of Saturday’s game.

But the last three minutes of regulation
and the ensuing five minutes of overtime
featured a frantic and unprecedented role
reversal in the type of game that, this sea-
son, Davidson has always found a way to
win. On this night, though, Western Caro-
lina made the big plays while the Wildcats
committed crucial errors.

“T still don’t know how we won that
game,” Western Carolina head coach Steve
Shurina said after earning his first victory

Seby Jones Arena, Boone
Saturday, 3.p.m.

THE TEAMS: Davidson (13-6, 6-2) will
travel to Boone seeking revenge fortwo straight
.losses to the Mountaineers (8-12, 3-6).

‘a six-game Davidson winning streak, but the
eam is still in first place in the North Division
ith a one game lead over UNCG and WCU.
Appalachian State is riding an impressive
wo-game winning streak, witha 78-74 victory
t The Citadel Saturday and a 66-62 triumph
ver WCU on Monday. The Mountaineers are
ame behind ETSU in fifth place.
Donald Payne, Josh Shehan and Jonathan
utler lead the team:at nine-points per game
QUOTABLE: Western Carolina coach
teve Shurina said after his team’s loss that the

n the season.
“The biggest thing is that they're playing
ith confidence now,” he said. “I knew when
hat started to happen, they were going to be a
ery dangerous team. We didn't have the edge
onight. They were more aggressive than us
d got to the free-throw line more than us.
‘They wanted it more. They were hungrier.”
LAST SEASON: Appalachian St. won both
ames against Davidson, by scores of 78-68 in
Belk Arena and 78-70 in Boone.

over his former boss.

Down by six with 3:28 left in regula.
tion, Catamounts point guard Casey
Rogers hit back-to-back pull-up three
pointers to even the score at 58. All of a
sudden, a game that seemed to be well in
hand was tied.

The Wildcats struggled to keep their

- composure. Peter Anderer hit a three-

Davidson vs. Appalachian State

Saturday’s loss to Western Carolina snapped —

ountaineers are a different team than earlier

pointer of his own to reclaim the lead at
61-58. Cory Largent’s put-back pulled
Western Carolina to within one on the
ensuing possession, but Wayne Bernard
hit two free throws to push the lead back to
three with 11 seconds left.

Those seconds would turn out to be
Davidson’s worst of the season. After a
time-out, Rogers received the inbounds
pass and pushed the ball up court to set up
a final shot.

Davidson coach Bob McKillop had in-
structed his team during the time-out to
foul after the entry pass, forcing the Cata-
mounts to inbound the ball again with
only two or three seconds remaining. But
it never happened.

Bernard left freshman Kevin Martin, the
conference’s second leading scorer at 21.7
points per game, to double team Rogers and go
for the steal.

No foul was committed, and Rogers found
Martin open at the top of the key. With 2.4
seconds left, the freshman knocked in a three-
pointer to tie the game.

“We were supposed to be man [defense] on
that last possession,” said Bob McKillop. “We
were supposed to foul before they crossed half
court.”

Twenty-one seconds into the overtime
period, Martin hit another three-pointer,
and Western Carolina never looked back.
Davidson had two chances to win or tie,
but both attempts were off the mark.

For the first time this season, all the
late-game heroics belonged to the oppo-
nent, and the Wildcats were left to con-
template what could have been.

INJURY REPORT: Center Martin Ide
(sprained ankle) is probable, while forwar
Emeka Erege (lower leg) remains Baysto
day.

TRANSPORTATION: The SGA an
Athletic Department are chartering two buse
to take up to 114 students to the game.

Students can sign up in the Alvarez,
College Union, Monday through Thursday,
between noon and 1 p.m. and from 6 to 8p.m.

In addition, there will be sign-ups in
Vail Commons from 6 to 8 p.m. on Thurs-
day.
The cost is $15, which includes a ticket
and the bus ride. All 114 students who sign
up will be entered into a drawing for a free
DVD player. ©

The buses will leave from the Baker

Sports Complex parking lot at noon on Sat-,

urday and return some time between 6:30
and 7:30 p.m. °

Contact Kevin Epps at
keepps @ davidson.edu for more information,

a

\
Mill, sili,

Sarah Davis

Sophomore Jouni Eho launches a three-pointer over Western
Carolina forward Willie Freeman. The Wildcats lost, 73-70.

Finally, Wildcats find
victory against UNCG

By Burcin HarDIN
Staff Writer

GREENSBORO—You knew this game
had to end like this. Somehow.

Even when the Wildcats commanded a
10-point lead, and their sharpshooters
couldn’t miss, your gut told you these wily
Spartans would somehow take the Wildcats
down to the last second. That’s just the way
this series goes.

Before Wednesday night, acombined eight
points had decided the last three contests
between Davidson and the UNC Greens-
boro, with the Spartans winning all three.
Wednesday night did little to increase that
margin.

A desperate jumper by Country Eldridge
missed its mark as time expired Wednesday
night at Fleming Gym, and Davidson held
on to beat UNC-G, 58-57, handing the Spar-
tans their first home loss of the season.

The win gave Davidson a two-gaime lead
in the race for the North Division title.

Eldridge, who spoiled a home win for the
Wildcats last season when he hit a buzzer-
beating 30-foot jumper, laid silently on the
floor with his arm across his face Wednes-
day night as his teammates exchanged hand-
shakes and filed out of the arena.

“This was a big win because we’ ve lost
close games to this team in the past,” said
head coach Bob McKillop. “I tried to erase
it from [the players’] minds, but I just
couldn’ t.”

Unable—or unwilling—to forget the past,
the Wildcats channeled those memories into
intensity Wednesday night in front of a siz-
able crowd of Wildcat supporters that made
the 90-minute drive from Davidson.

After falling behind 5-0 early, Davidson
reeled off 12 unanswered points and never
trailed again. Michael Bree’s back-to-back
three-pointers fueled the run that set the pace

for the remainder of the half.

The Spartans fought to close the gap dur-
ing the second period, and they gained mo-
mentum as Davidson’s shooters went cold.
But the Wildcat defense would not break.

“Tt was tough to hold them off because we
kept getting good looks at the basket and
missing them,” said McKillop.

_ “But tonight’s game was about tough, tre-
mendous defense. Any team that plays great
defense is going to be successful.”

Davidson allowed the Spartans to shoot
just 37 percent from the field. The Wild-
cats—specifically Nick Booker—held
Greensboro’s leading scorer James Maye
(15.9 ppg) to just three points.

Booker’s relentless coverage held Maye
scoreless the entire second half.

“This was Nick’s finest game as a Wild-
cat,” said McKillop.

It was from the charity strip that Greens-
boro inflicted the most damage. The Spartans
went 8-for-11 from the line in the second
half, including David Shuck’ s two free throws
with 44 seconds left that ignited the crowd
and narrowed Davidson’s lead to one, 58-57.

With Chris Pearson having fouled out and
Martin Ides on the bench grimacing in pain,
an ice bag strapped to his ankle, the Wildcats
used a small lineup to nurse their fragile lead
for the remaining 44 seconds.

“We had a feeling it might come down to
the wire,” said junior guard Wayne Bernard.
“But we were just determined to come out
and attack and not relent.”

Pearson led the attack, scoring a game-
high 14 points. He also led the. team in re-
bounding with nine boards.

“The defensive intensity by both teams
was absolutely sensational tonight,” said
McKillop. “Everybody who scored tonight
earned their points.”
