Reunion, from page 1
Holocaust and WWII at 4:15 p.m.

A graduate of the University of Chicago
and Harvard University, Denham is associate
professor and chair of the German and Rus-
sian department at Davidson. His talk will
examine how history makes its way into
popular consciousness
through works such as
Tom Brokaw’s The
Greatest Generation, and
The Diary of Anne Frank,
and the relationship be-
tween popular history,

-cultural myth, and the
truth.

On Saturday, April 20,
at 9:30 a.m. there will be
a solemn service at the
college’s World War II
memorial on front cam-
pus to honor Davidson
alumni who were killed
in the war. The speaker
for the occasion will be
Patty Wheeler, whose fa-
ther, Davidson alumnus
Benjamin Nash, was
killed in October 1943, three months before
she was born. As amember of the World War
II Orphans Network, Wheeler has spent a
great deal of time looking for information
about the father she never knew, and hopes to
meet other Davidson veterans who were his
classmates.

Holocaust survivor Zev Kedem will give
an address at 11 a.m. Saturday in Love Audi-

torium. His is a story of hope and human
endurance. First taken to Auschwitz at the
age of eight, Kedem survived the horrors of
six concentration camps and was one of 1,100
Schindlerjuden whose life was saved by Nazi
industrialist Oskar Schindler. Following the
end of the war, he was sent to England to live
in an orphanage. He consulted on and ap-
peared in Steven Spielberg’s Oscar-winning

photo by www.mrs.cmn.com
Holocaust survivor Zev
Kedem will speak next
Saturday as part of Reunion
Weekend’s tribute to WWII
veterens.

movie, Schindler’s List.

“Tt’s a story of endurance and hope,” said
Merrell. “His message reveals that even in
the midst of such inhumanity, the humanity
of Oscar Schindler and others revealed it-
self.”

Merrell hopes all of the events will spark
interest among Davison stidents, especially
those in classes who are
currently studying the
war, including all those
in the sophomore hu-.
manities program. He
notes that all students
share a bond with the
Davidson veterans, not-
ing that the veterans
were college age when
called not only to fight,
but to lead. “They were
twenty years old, in
charge of seventeen
year-olds, doing incred-
ible things at such a
young age.”

Merrell notes further
that the disaster of Sep-
tember I1 heightens
awareness of the
weekend’s themes. “The events of 911 made
this tribute all the more meaningful,” he said.
“They call us to realize-how precious freedom
is, and how painful war can be.”

Davidson’s Office of Alumni Relations is
publishing a book of memories and anecdotes
from the World War II years in conjunction
with the conference. Entitled “Soldiers and
Sentinels: Davidson’s World War II Veter-
ans Speak,” the 178 page book features sto-
ries from more than 60 alumni, and is on sale
for $10.

To order a book, or obtain more informa-
tion on conference events, call the college
alumni office at 704-894-2114.

- With information from College Commu-
nications Press Release

Mellon, from page 1

is the founder of the Anthropology Society,
the co-founder of Davidson’s chapter of Stu-
dents for a Free Tibet, and was the co-editor
of Libertas and Hobart Park.

He is also a Bonner Scholar, served as
president of the United Community Action
service organization, and established a tutor-
ing program for Hispanic children. Campbell
has also studied abroad in Mexico, Brazil,

Costa Rica, Australia, and Canada.
Campbell joins the group of five Davidson
alumnae who have been awarded the Mellon
Scholarship since the competition began in
1982: Harry S. Bryant ’89, Daniel S. Grau
’89, Mary Adair Woodall 90, Emily E. Setina
°99, and Lauren N. Baird ’01. Setina was
awarded her fellowship this year as well, and

. will use it to study twentieth century poetry.

Information taken from www.woodrow.org/
mellon/and Davidson College Press Release.

Rusk, Kappa Sigma co-host
Homeruns for Habitat _

By Lee BRUNER AND ALYssa SINCLAIR

money for each run scored.

Special Contributors

On Sunday, April 7th, Kappa Sigma Fraternity and Rusk Eating House hosted the 14"
Annual Homeruns for Habitat fundraiser at Legion field. Local sponsors, including
Kobe Express, Lake Norman Regional Medical Center and Liburdi Dimetrics donated

Games began at noon and lasted until 4 Over 150 people participated in the event,
including a faculty team led by President Vagt, along with Patterson Court teams from
KA, Connor, FIJI, CoHo, SAE, Warner, Rusk, and Kappa Sigma.

Midway through the afternoon, a program featured a performance by the Davidson
Generals. Fountain Walker, a local Habitat homeowner, also spoke at the event.

_ This year’s event met the goal of raising $1400, which will be enough to cover the costs
on the foundation for the next Wildcat Habitat in Spring 2004. Kappa Sigma and Rusk
would like to thank all those who participated for their help in making this event possible.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/25/02

This week, a student reported that during the last rash of car burglaries he had
$2,300 worth of CDs removed from his vehicle which was parked in the Greenhouse

Satellite lot near the senior apartments.

_NEWSs

Wepnespay, Aprit 17, 2002

: Robert Pai ton 743, ad Bill Rogers’ “46, wil discuss

various aspects of their service.
Moderated by Professor OF History, C. Barl Edmondson

3:15 p.m. “Resisting the Slide to Total War: American Strategic

: Bombing of Urban Areas in World War II and Its"

Legacy”

C. Shaw Smith 900 Room, Alvarez College Union

Dr. Conrad Crane, Professor of Military Strategy from

the U.S. Army War College, will speak.

“The Holocaust and WWII”

C. Shaw Smith 900 Room, Alvarez College Union

Dr. Scott Denham, Professor of German, will deliver the
third annual Alumni Association Distinguished Lecture.

4:15 p.m.

Saturday, April 20
11 a.m. “Schindler’s List: A Survivor Celebrates Life”

Love Auditorium, Chambers Building

Zev Kedem, a real-life Schindler’s List survivor, will be
our guest speaker.

9:30 p.m. FIREWORKS!

- Join Davidson alumni and friends to suictedte Reunion
Weekend 2002 with a bang!
Front Lawn, Vail Commons

Please contact Reunion Coordinator Ms. Mary Hunter Wylie ‘02 at

(704) 894-2450 or mawylie@davidson.edu with any questions.

_MITSUBISHI’S EDUC

ION EDGE PROGRAM

2002 Lancer s

“Must be o college graduate within the past two yeors, of 0 college senior currently enrolled in o four-year program ond will receive your degree within 12 months from on

oceedited U.S. college ot university of o student curtently enrolled in o U.S. masters or doctoral program, Required to show documentation such os an application for groduation
or a letter from the student registrar's office stating the intent to graduate within one year. See participating retailer for other detoils, **First poyment is due 390 days, ond
finance charges begin 360 days from when contract is signed. In Maine, zero finonce charges limited 10 330 days ond zero payments limited to 360 doys. Program available
through Mitsubishi Motors Credit’s Special Retoil Plon, subject to approved credit and insurance, Applies to new 2001 and 2002 modals only. Excludes 2003 Eclipse and
Eclipse Spyder. Some customers will not qualify. Actual price set by retailer, Retoiler terms ond vehicle availability may vary. Customers must toke retoil delivery from tetoiler
stock ond contract must be signed by program end date of 4/30/02. See participating retoiler or coll 1-888-MITSU2002 for details. ***0®Z Rally Edition shown, MSRP
$15,597, plus $545 destination /handling (S670 Alaska). Extludes tox, tite and license. Actual prices set by retailers. Vehide avoilobility moy vory. Reprinted by permission
from the December ‘01 issue of Kiplinger's Personal Finance,©2001 The Kiplinger Woshington Editors, Inc.

