12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANuARY 23, 2002.

Women’s basketball _
reflects on problems,
progress of last month

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

Through some disappointing losses, a
buzzer-beating comeback victory and close
quarters in a local hotel, the women’s bas-
ketball team experienced some old-fash-
ioned team bonding as it spent all except
four days of Christmas break together.

Thad a chance to sit down with most of the
girls to talk about the games and the ups and
downs of 22 straight days together. Here is
what they had to say.

Looking back on the break, most of the
girls did not focus on losses, but rather on
their evolution as a cohesive team unit.

Sophomore Lindsay Shade spoke in depth
about the team chemistry as she remarked
that Christmas break can be “a difficult time,
because the day after Christmas we have to
leave our families. Luckily, we get to come
here, and be with an even larger family; our
coaches are like parents away from home,
and our teammates are like our sisters away
from home. All three classes are extremely
close, and as different as we all are, our
chemistry is unbelievable.”

Janna Magette agreed with Shade, and
offered some closing words of wisdom about
the future for this dynamic team, “What we
now have to realize is that every single game
is important. Not just because they are con-
ference games, but because they are the
games that we are playing that day.

“The conference is just sitting there, wait-
ing for someone to take it.”

Alabama

Besides exposing the girls toa much larger
university and, consequently, much stron-
ger competition, this game held a closer,
more personal importance for senior guard
Magette as she returned home to Birming-
ham. “It was great being back in Birming-
ham and playing in front of a home crowd.
After the game, I’ ve never felt so much love
when I went on the court.”

The love well deserved, as Magette cur-
rently leads the team in scoring with 16.7
points per game, third-best in the Southern
Conference, and dropped twenty-one points
against UAB. Unfortunately, a home crowd
and twenty-one points could not overcome
the offensively charged Birmingham team.

Led by Deanna Jackson and Natasha Tho-
mas, with thirty-six and twenty-five points
each respectively, UAB forced Davidson
“to play a lot of junk defenses,” as sopho-
more guards Ashley Hallsted and Robyn
Flewelling noted. “As a team we played
really well, but their two girls were a little
much for us. We couldn’t match up with
them as easily as we wanted to.”

Western Carolina

From Birmingham, Davidson traveled to
Cullowhee, NE to face their second confer-
ence opponent, Western Carolina. “Western
was an extremely frustrating game because
they are a team that we fully expected to
beat. Unfortunately, they had an extremely
hot shooting night, and we did not play our
best.”

Senior forward Bethany Schott’s com-
ments explain all too well the essence of the

Western game. The ’Cats played hard and '

aggressively in the first period, down by
only three points at halftime.

However, Western’s impressive 60.6 sec-
ond half shooting percentage, in particular a
whopping 85.7 three point shooting percent-
age, left Davidson wondering, as Flewelling
remarked, “where their A-game went.”

UNC-Wilmington

Like Birmingham, the UNCW game was
an opportunity to play a much larger team,
and to establish a reputation for Davidson
outside of the Southern Conference. Unfor-
tunately, the Seahawks proved too challeng-
ing for the "Cats, and Davidson fell 67-52.

The typical rebounding woes plagued
Davidson again as Wilmington out-re-
bounded them 55-38, and reached the char-
ity stripe 31 to Davidson’s nine. The high-
light of the game for Davidson was Schott’s
18 points.

Three weeks later, it’s not the game that
sticks around in the minds of players, but
rather a challenging post-game talk from
first year head coach Annette Watts.

As sophomore point guard Ashley Hallsted
remarked, “The coaches actually told us that
we need to do some thinking about why
we’ re playing, and what we want out of this
year.”

Teammate Robyn Flewelling chimed in,
“Wilmington was a real low point for us, and
we realized that things needed to be turned
around.”

Furman

The Wilmington post-game talk certainly
lit a fire for the Cats; they pulled out an
exciting overtime victory in their next game,
knocking off conference rival Furman Uni-
versity 80-79 in Belk Arena.

Coming off a six-day break with the post-
ponement of the January 3 UNC-Greens-
boro game due to snow, the girls were rested
and ready for action. The Wildcats recov-
ered from a dismal first half and battled back
with the help of Schott’s career high 19
points to send the game into overtime.

Sophomore forward Courtney Laird sealed
the victory with five seconds left in overtime
with a tough three point shot. “It was the
most incredible feeling when the basket ac-
tually went in, because we wanted to win so

badly, especially since Furman beat us last
year,” Laird said.

Magette chimed in to agree with Laird,
saying, “It was by far the most exciting and
team-oriented game of the season. It was just
a brief glimpse of what this team is capable
of.”

Appalachian State

Just the mention of this game evoked
shudders and moans from all of the girls as
they remembered the disappointing 72-58
loss to conference opponent Appalachian
State University.

Magette, usually a woman of few words,
had plenty to say about this game, ““We were
coming off a high from beating Furman, and
this was an opportunity for us to go 3-1 in the
conference, and to change people’s attitudes
toward us and toward our ability to make a
statement in the conference. This was prob-
ably our biggest opportunity of the season,
and we did not show up, simple as that.”

Sophomore Robyn Flewelling agreed, “For
as well as we played at Furman, we played

Inspirational Quote of the Week

We must combine the toughness of the serpent
and the softness of the dove, a tough mind and a

tender heart.

st ee ee

Om, ys a
is i

Lm

-Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Matt Whited
Chris Pearson drives to the basket during Davidson’s 73-66 victory

over ETSU. See men’s hoops holiday round-up, page 10.

just as poorly at Appalachian State.” David-
son allowed the Mountaineers to shoot 21
three pointers, of which they made eight,
while.the ’Cats only made one three pointer
the whole game, shooting a miserable nine
percent from behind the arc.

Wofford

In the last game of Christmas break against
a tough conference team, Davidson was
overwhelmed by the unbelievable shooting
duo of Jenny Nett and Natalie Walsh, who
combined for 62 of Wofford’s 97 points.

According to Flewelling and Laird,
Davidson’s game plan was “to hold Jenny
Nett to under fourteen points.” As sopho-
more Ashley Hallsted grimly said, “We defi-
nitely did not accomplish our goal—Nett
ended up with 33 points.”

Four Davidson players scored in double
digits, led by sophomore center Meghan
Bryant’s 19, but it wasn’t enough to over-
come Wofford’s hot shooting as the Cats fell
to 2-3 in the Southern Conference, 5-8 over-
all.

MEN’s BASKETBALL SWIMMING
Jan.26 Western Carolina - 7:00 Jan. 26 @ College of Charleston 1:00
Jan.30 Wofford 7:00 Jan.30 Duke University 5:00
WoMEN’S BASKETBALL INDOOR TRACK
Jan. 26 @ College of Charleston TBA Jan. 25-26 Blue Heaven Track & Field
Jan.28 | Western Carolina 7:00 Rumble (Chapel Hill, NC)
