a co
STRESS
Lauren Stutts:
You have 3 papers, 4 finals, 10 meetings, you

lost your cat card, accidentally pressed “reply to

all” on a private email, and bit your tongue.

Face it: if you’re at Davidson, then you are

stressed. You have a couple of options. You

can think about how stressed you are, bite your
nails, and pull out your hair, or you can try one
of the following stress relievers.

Exercise: Work out at the Union or Baker,
run around the track, or dance to music.

- Chocolate: ‘Nough said.

- Take a long, hot shower: Don’t forget to
sing.

- Watch a funny or light-hearted movie:
Disney movies are a must.

- Make a plan: Write down whatever
problem’s stressing you out and decide how
you are going to solve it step by step.

- Get off campus: Cruise on over to Concord
Mills Mall, check out the downtown scene in’
Charlotte, or just go out to dinner in
Huntersville.

- Talktoacounselor, friend, parent, squirrel,
stuffed animal, etc.: Sometimes just verbaliz-
ing your problems to someone or something can
help.

' - Look at the bright side of things: Stress

burns calories!

Jenn Greene:

I have one remedy: baths. Baths are the
epitome of relaxation. There is nothing quite
equivalent to drawing a tub of steaming water,
throwing in some aroma-therapy salts, lighting
a few candles, putting on some Kenny G (that’s
for you, Steve), and easing your tense body into
paradise.

My suggestions for a perfect bath:

- Run the water as hot as you can stand it;
remember, if you are in there a while, the water
gets cool, quick.

- Get some sparkly bath lotion. That’s just
fun.

in by the Health.

- Use ashowercap. There is nothing worse
than getting in the tub, getting soap and such in
your hair, and then having to stand up after you
are all relaxed and have to wash and rinse your

hair. Ugh. Remember: the point of a bath is to

RELAX, not to get clean.
- The more candles, the better.
- Make sure to have post-bath operations

‘ready and waiting. Warm up towels in a dryer

and cover them with another towel to keep the
warmth in. Use the fluffiest ones you can find.
Have bedroom shoes waiting for you as you
emerge so the tootsies don’t suffer. Put a choco-
late or mint on your pile of towels or on your
bathrobe to top off the experience.

- Trytogetthe bath in right before you sleep.
When the body is relaxed, the mind is free to
wander as it will. Embrace what dreams may
come! 4

Felicia Browne

I definitely want to emphasize Lauren’s point
about talking to someone when youare stressed.
Although talking to others may seem whining,
itcan be very helpful to have someone listen and
(hopefully) empathize with you, even if he or
she doesn’t offer any suggestions.

But since I definitely overused that stress
reliever last year, I have resorted to other meth-
ods, like taking a quick nap (my perspective on
stress always changes after a good nap), or
listening to one of my favorite country CDs
(which are always comforting).

However, during my most stressed out mo-

‘ments, sometimes I need to physically leave

campus, whether it be a quick trip home, or a
walk down the road; because living less than
100 yards away from the building where my
classes are held only adds to my stress by
making me feel trapped.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on
WALT 1610 AM: This week we are having a
wildcard show: we’ll talk about anything.

dvisors —

OPPORTUNIT Y “<3 THE
OFFICE OF ADMISSION ~
and FINANCIAL AID >

What: Overnight Host Coordinator

We are looking for four new Coordinators (two
women and two men) to oversee our overnight
hosting program. Responsibilities include
working with the Admission Office to find
enthusiastic hosts, contacting prospective
families, helping out with Admission Visit
Programs, and maintaining weekly visits

through work with the Overnight Host Program

Manager. This is a great opportunity for

students who want to take on a leadership role in

the Office of Admission and Financial Aid.

When: The position will run for a full
calendar year (excluding the summer):
January- December 2003.

_ How: Contact Page Neubert at
paneubert@davidson.edu or x. 2186 with
questions or to set up an interview time.
Interviews will be conducted during the week
of December 2”.

CANCEL YOuR LIBRARY FINES

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

“From now until Peceiawer

you can pay for your Library fines and
_ _ 10Us with cans of food which will be -

given to needy in our area.

HOW: One can of food wits cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines 0 or 10Us
(e. 8, for five cans of food, you can pay for $4. 50 in fines).

, WHERE: Library Circulation Desk _
