Punch-Drunk Love floats on charm and not much else _

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts and Living Editor

After completing Boogie Nights and Mag-
nolia, two unapologetically ambitious films
which featured impressive ensemble casts and
interlocking storylines, director Paul Thomas
Anderson must have felt the understandable
urge to work on a more modest project. His
newest film, Punch-Drunk Love, certainly
qualifies as such, and the resultis a likeable dark
comedy that nevertheless feels insubstantial
upon its conclusion.

That said, Anderson may have retained a -

bit of ambition in his casting of Adam Sandler
in the movie’s lead role. Sandler plays Barry
Egan, an emotionally stunted, socially inept
man who runs his own business selling toilet
plungers in Los Angeles. The film opens with
a shot of Barry talking nervously on the tele-
phone at a desk in the corner of what looks like
an empty warehouse. This shot tells us most of
what we need to know about Barry: he’s
painfully isolated, he has a fondness for cheap

blue suits, and we gather from the content of the
telephone conversation that he’s hatched a
scheme to obtain a great many frequent flyer
miles from a Healthy Choice marketing glitch.

But Barry isn’t merely unsuccessful; like the
title character from Sandler’s The Waterboy, he
has a good bit of anger welled up inside. At a
birthday party for one of his seven sisters, we
see Barry in the center of the shot, standing in
front of a china cabinet as his siblings babble on
about how they made fun of him when he was
achild. Apparently his psyche is as fragile as
the dishes behind him; reacting to his sisters in
a fit of rage, he proceeds to break three of the
house’s windows.

In many of the film’s still shots Anderson
places Sandler in the center of the frame, mak-
ing Barry the uncomfortable object of the
audience’s scrutiny as well as suggesting. his
anxiety at the unwanted attention he receives
from characters within the movie. Part of this
attention comes in the form of affection from
Lena Leonard (Emily Watson), a calmly forth-
right co-worker of one of Barry’s sisters. Inex-

Anything good on TV? Yes -
it just takes some searching

By Linpy BALDWIN
Arts and Living Editor

TV isa vastly unappreciated art form, maybe
because it’s so accessible. It’s hard to mentally
distinguish OK TV from great TV when you
can access both by simply flopping down on
your dorm futon and reaching for the remote.
Plus, not too many of us can carve out signifi-
cant time for TV-watching during the week
anyway. I’m not suggesting you ditch the
homework to slump in front of a flickering
screen for a few hours each night, but if you
occasionally enjoy killing an hour or so by
watching something, you might as well know
what’s worth your time and what’s not. So,
without further ado, here are a few shows worth
checking out — and some you should skip.

Recommended: The Simpsons. You prob-
ably saw this one coming! I’m the first to admit
that the new episodes aren’t as sharp as the ones
from the series’s peak. But if you want to get a
few laughs out of a half-hour, The Simpsons are
a great bet. New episodes air Sundays at 8 p.m.
on Fox 18. Better yet, catch repeats-of the best
episodes at 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. weeknights on
Fox 18.

Skip: Will and Grace. I have to admit that I
never really got into this show, but the two
episodes I’ ve seen this year made me want to rip
off the back of my TV and disable the speakers.
The supporting cast (Sean Hayes as Jack and
Megan Mullally as Karen) is composed of two
one-note actors who seem to be competing with
each other for the Most Annoying Shtick
Award. The title characters (Debra Messing
and Eric McCormack) are adequate, but not
good enough to make the show worth your
valuable time.

Recommended: Buffy the Vampire Slayer.

With a name like

this, you have to fig-

ure the show itself
can only get better
from there — and it
does. Despite the
quirky title, Buffy is
one of the best
shows on TV. Ithas
sharp, funny, cre-
ative writing, like-
able characters, and

a strong cast. It sel- .

dom falls into the trap of taking itself too seri-
ously, which is unusual for a sci-fi/fantasy
series. Buffy airs on UPN 46 Tuesdays at 8 p.m.

Skip: The Practice. It was awesome when it
was anew show about young lawyers in a bare-
bones law firm working interesting but realistic
cases. Unfortunately, the producers ditched
everything great about this show and turned it
into a formulaic drama about rich lawyers who
whine way too much and take on cases not even
Johnny Cochran would touch. Each new epi-

sode seems to be attempting to top the previous.

one in implausibility.

Recommended: A&L movie critic Matthew
Bandyk has high praise for HBO’s Oz. “Origi-
nal HBO
drama shows
like The So-
pranos, Sex
and The City,
and Six Feet
Under have
enjoyed enor-
mous popular-
ity, and critics
rightfully hail
them as the
only television
that’s really
trying to do
something
new and inter-
esting.

“But HBO’s prison drama Oz, which has
been on air since 1997, is oddly absent from
such praises. This is especially strange consid-
ering that Oz is one of the best dramas in
television history. There is no show more fast-
paced; more action and development occurs in
one episode of Oz than an entire season of The
Sopranos. The show accurately explores nearly
all aspects of prison, most notably the power
politics between all the various groups vying for
power, such as Aryans, Italians, and gangstas.

“Oz has incredible amounts of sex and vio-
lence, but it never feels tasteless or gratuitous.
Oz’s ability to actually portray the reality of
prison life in all its form due to the relaxed
censorship of cable TV makes it far more ap-.
pealing than the watered-down doldrums of
network TV. In addition, the show has some of
the best performances found in any current
dramatic medium.

“While the sixth and unfortunately final sea-
son of Oz won’ tbe on until some time next year,
if you want to see the best thing on TV, go out
and buy the complete Season One on DVD, and

see TV, page 6

plicably attracted to Barry, Lena gently wears
away at his shyness to the point where she
coerces him into a dinner date, which goes

relatively smoothly until she asks about an ~

embarrassing incident from Barry’s childhood.
He promptly. excuses
himself and demol-
ishes the restaurant’s
men’s room.

Barry also becomes
entangled in a phone
sex scam operated by a
sleazy furniture sales-
man (the great Philip
Seymour Hoffman, —
wasted in a terrible
role). After four blonde
brothers assault him
and rob him of five-
hundred dollars, he decides to take an im-
promptu vacation to join Lena, who has flown
to Hawaii on business. There, Barry and Lena
enjoy aslightly twisted romanctic idyll—at one
point, they kiss in bed while she tells him, with
loving earnestness, that his face is so cute it
makes her want to chew on it and suck out his
eyeballs.

After Barry and Lena return from Hawaii,
Anderson seems in too much of a hurry to tie up
the plot and send the awkward lovers off into the
happy future, and the quick resolution of our
dysfunctional protagonist’s problems seems too
quick and dirty. Indeed, the same could be said
for much of the rest of the film; while the scenes
between Barry and Lena are quirkily endearing
and the direction generally stylish, Anderson
too often settles for cinematic shorthand as he
attempts to sketch out Barry’s character,

For instance, when Barry goes shopping and

first discovers that he can outsmart Healthy
Choice by exchanging pudding bar codes for
frequent flyer miles, Anderson places him in a
predictably sterile supermarket, all creepy si-
lence and antiseptic white. And in an early
scene, the music on the
soundtrack increases
in intensity to the point
of sounding likea fren-
zied adding machine
as Barry finds himself
pestered by dilemmas
from all directions:
bossy questions from
one of his sisters,
creepy phone calls
from his phone sex
partner from the night
before, and improper
use of a forklift by one of his employees. These
setups imply that the usual suspects, such as
consumer alienation and the excesses of the
information age, are responsible for Barry’s
depressive anger.

As these scenes stand in Punch-Drunk Love,
they’re too unconvincing to give us an adequate
sense of Barry’s character, and though Sandler
does an admirable job acting in sucha restrained
role, Barry’s relationships with other characters
in the film lack substance. That could be the
point, given our hero’s evident emotional re-
pression, but Anderson never provides us with
a salient portrait of Barry’s general estrange-
ment from others. Instead, we see the fre-
quently amusing spectacle of Sandler’s
waterboy thrust into an art film and forced to
fend for himself opposite a British stage actress.
The results are mildly enjoyable, but ultimately
unsatisfying. .

WALT Core Programming
brings new talent to radio

By MEGHAN FeErRITER
Special Contributor

WALT 1610 AM, your student-run college
radio station, is marked by entertainment and
organization this fall. One of the most exciting
features of WALT’ s fall schedule is the creation
of Core Programming. A gathering of eclectic
musical tastes, discussion groups, politics and
entertainment, Core Programming was intro-
duced by WALT News Director Nicholas
Carlton ’05 and developed by the WALT Offic-
ers and Directors.

Station Manager Lauran Halpin ’03 was im-
mediately sold on the programming as a means
of providing solid, structured and engaging
programs for the backbone of WALT’s sched-
ule. Operating within a system of intensive
planning and scheduled program checks and
interviews, members of the Core Program dem-
onstrate specialized knowledge while provid-
ing examples of music, politics, and social
issues each week.

WALT compensates these Core Program-
ming DJs for their efforts if their show demon-
strates its credibility at designated checkpoints.
A secondary feature of WALT, providing mu-

sic and DJing for various functions, generates -

these funds. WALT is ever-present atthe Union
Board’s monthly After Midnight gathering.
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Connor House, CoHo,
Turner and Rusk have also had functions at
which WALT has provided the music.

This semester’s Core Programming boasts a

diverse group of programs, including a Led’

Zeppelin hour, an electronic music hour, and
the Health Advisors. Steve Clugston ’04, one of

.the Health Advisors, explained, “By no means

are we going to attempt to soothe the pain in
your lower back by recommending medicines,

or performing pseudo-psychoanalysis in an at-
tempt to look like smashing intellectuals. We
are here to mediate between the health center
and students, to offer our support and thoughts
if people ask for it.”

The Health Advisors show is an interactive
broadcast, and the group has capitalized on the
opportunity to stimulate open discussion. This
semester, Steve revealed, has prompted conver-
sations on the following subjects: “sex, appreci-
ating life, fears and phobias, diversity. [Our
shows] usually involve discussion and call-ins.
We try to extend opinions across spectrums of
various sorts to touch all kinds of bases.”

“The radio show tends to discuss [issues]
other than those of a physical nature, and allow
listeners to learn without having to confide or
break anonymity,” said Steve when asked about
the ways the radio show benefits the Health
Advisors’ organization. Future programs will
include discourse on homosexuality, diversity,
holiday ideas, social etiquette, and more. There
are also plans to include some interviews and
discussion. with faculty and. administrative
members. The Health Advisors’ show airs
weekly at 10:00 Wednesday nights. To partici-
pate in the program, call in to the show at x2741.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
110% Best Prices!
Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,
Florida, Texas.

Book Now and Receive
Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com
