Staff Editorial
““L_ address you, the members of this new Congress, at a
moment unprecedented in the history of the union. I use the
word “unprecedented” because atno previous time has Ameri-

can security been as seriously threatened from without as it is
today.

“T suppose that every realist knows that the democratic way

of life is at this moment being directly assailed in every part of

_the world —assailed either by arms or by secret spreading of

poisionous propaganda by those who seek to destroy unity and
promote discord in nations that are still at peace.

“AS a nation we may take pride in the fact that we are soft-
hearted; but we cannot afford to be soft-headed. We must
always be wary of those who with sounding brass and a’
tinkling cymbal preach the ism of appeasement. We must
especially beware of that small group of selfish men who
would clip the wings of the American eagle in order to feather
their own nests.

“As long as the aggressor nations maintain the offensive
they, not we, will choose the time and the place and the method
of their attack. And that is why the future of all the American
Republics is today in serious danger

“Yes, and we must prepare, all of us prepare, to make the
sacrifices that the emergency. —almost as serious as.war
itself— demands. Whatever stands in the way of speed and

- efficiency in defense, in defense preparations at any time, must
give way to the national need.

“This nation has placed its destiny in the hands, heads and
hearts of its millions of free men and women, and its faith in
freedom under the guidance of God. Freedom means the
supremacy of human rights everywhere. Our support goes to .
those who struggle to gain those rights and keep them. Our
strength is our unity of purpose.

“To that high concept there can be no end save victory.”

- Franklin D. Roosevelt, January 6, 1941

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢@

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Caroline Hauser Emily Drew
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
- Richard Connolly
Photography Editors.
Eron Earley-Thiele “Matt Whited ,
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Darfimore Gregg Wallace »
‘CireulationManager
“YauraFilosa

pe Be

In the year since Sept. 11, 2001, our nation.
ways. Members of the College community share th

Our worldview

The biggest mistake the Bush Administration has
made in its War on Terror is its initial framing of
9/11 as an attack on our “freedom” and “democ-
racy.” The phrase makes great sound bytes for
President Bush, and his words have rallied the
American people behind him during deeply
troubled times.

However, such rhetoric is misleading, and
therein lies the problem for a long-term battle
against terror. Does anybody really believe that
an impoverished, hunger-stricken Saudi (or Egyp-
tian or Pakistani) wakes up every morning upset
that American women are wearing mini-skirts on
Wall Street? Do you actually think they care that
the President was democratically elected? Oris it
more likely that they resent the fact that their own
governments repress them, yet still receive mili-
tary and economic support from the U.S.?

To paraphrase the eloquent Arundhati Roy, the
anger that led to the attacks has its taproot not in
American freedom and democracy, but in our
government’s track record of commitment to the
opposite of freedom and democracy outside
America.

The American people, starting with those in
the White House, need to change their worldview
so that 9/11 is phrased and understood in a
holistic (and therefore realistic) way. In the long
run, unless we change our more dubious foreign
policies, attacks on Americans will inevitably
occur. If we can reevaluate the way we perceive
9/11, then perhaps we can begin making real
progress in the War on Terror.

- Roshan Paul 03

On the morning of...

I woke up on the morning of Sept. 11 with a pretty rough hangover.
I flipped on the TV to catch a dating show while I downed Alka-
Seltzer Morning Relief and got dressed. I was initially dismayed
that someone would pre-empt “The Fifth Wheel” with an important
news report. .

“Well, these news briefs usually only last a minute or so,” I
thought to myself.

Nothing, not even Morning Relief, sobers you up faster than
watching the Twin Towers crumble.

“Oh, how’s that hangover treating you this morning?” my
roommate asked as he came in from his shower.

“Somebody crashed planes into the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon.”

“Huh? The World Trade Center and the Pentagon aren’t even in
the same city. That doesn’t make any sense.” —

. He was right. It didn’t make any sense then. Hell, I doubt if it
ever will.

- Jeremy Trantham 03

Victimized by ignorance

“Somebody better check that girl’s shoes!”

When I look in the mirror, I definitely do not see a shoe bomber.
But according to the Caucasian teenager who shouted at me from
her sports car soon after 9/11, I obviously must be wrong.

- Sept. 11 was clearly a tragedy for-all people — regardless of
ethnicity. To be seen as a potential terrorist instead of a grief-
stricken American was a blow I just couldn’t handle.

However, for many Arabic and even Indian-Americans, it was
not just a time of mourning, but a call to prove our patriotism. As
many of my friends were spit on at grocery stores, accosted at the
mall and even cursed at while driving down local streets, I realized
that ignorance in America is far from over. Perhaps it has just gotten
worse.

- Amee Patel ’06

How can students better

What can a Davidson student do in such a conflicted world? In
order to answer this question, we must.ask ourselves, “What do
we want to do with this life?”

Do we want to live comfortably in the security and forgetful-
ness typical of college graduates, aiming towards getting mar-
ried, buying a house, having two children and having barbecues
with our neighbors on weekends?

Do we want to become men and women of importance, who,
once we get up there, begin to support a few charity groups so that
our conscience allows us to sleep comfortably every night?

Ordo we want to become men and women of service, not to our ©

con
peo

L
20 «
mal
alst
the

A

- Mai

sibl
