‘THE DAVIDSONIAN"

Disqualifications for
illegal campaigning
prompt review of rules

By Evans McGowan
Special Contributor

Unknown to many students across campus,
three candidates of the 2005 class were dis-
qualified in the previous class senator elec-
tions. While the SGA resolved the issue
peacefully, questions remain about the way
elections are conducted. Asa result, the SGA
has appointed a committee to thoroughly
review the entire elections process.

The current rules are quite specific. Ac-
cording to Article VI.D.2.c, “there will be no
campaigning

within 50 yards of
any polling “ : °
otace.” The integrity [of all

In a handout
given to the can-
didates in a man-
datory pre-cam-
paign meeting,
the area from the
physical plant be-
hind Belk to the
Martin Chemical
Building is off limits, except for Dorm Row:
Little thru Duke and the Union. Online
voting causes the computer labs to become
polling place, and therefore restricted areas.

Three candidates - Andrew Schapiro ‘05,
David Pope ‘OS and Scott Ferguson ’05 —
were disqualified for the same reason: plac-
ing campaign ad(s) in restricted areas the
night before Election Day, Monday, March
25.

Two people campaigning under Pope wrote
a chalk ad on the brick walk between the
flagpole and Chambers.

Within the hour, Pope had returned to erase
the chalk, but a member of the Elections
Council had already seen it.

Though the incident occurred around
1:30a.m., the campaign rules obligate an Elec-
tions Council member to report any violation.

Schapiro also breached the campaign rules
by hanging painted paper plates on the mag-
nolia tree outside of Little, not realizing they
were within the restricted area.

Later he acknowledged his mistake and
said the campaigning experience was still a
positive one.

Ferguson also had a flyer placed out of
bounds: the lamppost to the right of the stairs
leading up to the flagpole. No one cam-
paigned for him, and he denies posting the

mised.”

SGA campaigning rules will
undergo thorough review

the senators] would
have been compro-.

- Alexander Pope ‘05

flyer.

Although he was satisfied with the deci-
sion, Ferguson is concerned about others
placing flyers in restricted areas, however
innocent or malicious their intent. A single
person could derail a campaign by. placing a
flyer in a restricted area without a candidate’ s
knowledge.

The Student Executive Council.catled an
emergency meeting into session immediately
after the polls closed on Monday, following
campaign bylaws.

They decided to disqualify the candidates
because (a) all the candidates had received
the rules; (b) each candidate had campaign
ads illegally placed; (c) the committee wanted
to be fair to all those involved.

Pope said he supports the decision, re-
marking that if
the committee
had not ruled as
they did, “the in-
tegrity that all of
the senators
bring to their of-
fices would have
been compro-
mised.”

Due to evident
difficulties in the
campaign by-
laws, the SGA formed the Elections Revi-
sions Committee to review the entire elec-
tions process. Chris Pratt-Dannals, class of
2005 president and one of six members on the
committee; wants simple and clearly-worded
rules so that “we don’t draw arbitrary lines.”

Kevin Epps ‘03, rising senior class presi-
dent and also a member of the elections
board, notes that electronic voting has changed
the face of elections. Upwards of 80% of the
students vote online, doubled from the previ-
ous amount of 38%.

While the bylaws were old and outdated in
some respect, with every dorm room now a
polling booth, Epps feels the committee had
to enforce the rules as stated.

According to SGA president Gray Patterson
“03, the elections council “put some teeth into
the rules” by enforcing them quite literally.

The rules have not always been enforced,
leading two years ago to an election of two
senators who had violated campaign rules:
namely campaigning in Commons, then a
restricted area.

The rules are now up for revision, and it is
up to Davidson students to bring about de-
sired change.

As always, the SGA is looking to further
involve the entire student body in the deci-
sion-making process.

CAMPUS FOLicE PLOnlER

3/30/02

Two juveniles were caught trespassing on Davidson College property.

The Few. The Proud.
THE NEws STAFF.

Have an article idea? Want to write about it?
Contact Colin (coeagan) or Lindy (libaldwin)

Dear Student Body,

At last week’s meeting, the Senate decided upon policy changes that they would like
to see on campus in regards to our on-going discussion on academic affairs. We were
privileged to have Dean Ross and Dean Shandley attend our meeting and directly answer
questions pertaining to issues that we are exploring. After several weeks of discussion the
Senate is going to ask that the appropriate committees look into increasing the availability
of minors and concentrations, particularly in the more popular departments. We would
also like to make revisions to the process of assigning freshman to their to faculty advisors
as many students, particularly athletes, are concerned with not only the amount of time they
spend with their advisor, but also the advise they receive when it come to web tree planning.
If you have any suggestions about either of these topics please email Katherine Hubbard
or Trip Young in the near future.

If you’ve been following the discussion on academic affairs you'll notice that the
Senate has decided not to pursue changing the attendance policy. Senators felt it was a
teacher’s right to decide attendance policies inside the autonomy of their class. The SGA
also felt that every class on campus should be worth one credit no matter if it required
additional class time outside the 2.5 hours a week or not. ,

The next big issue under discussion directly involving students on campus is that of
parking. It was brought up last year and voted down, but some students feel the issue is
still relevant, especially in light of the recent run of cars being broken into in satellite
parking. If you are interested in this topic or want to learn more about how SGA might be
getting involved with campaign finance reform in the state of North Carolina, please feel
free to come to our meeting on Thursday night at 9 pm in the Sprinkle Room of the
Union.

Sincerely,

Grady Patterson
SGA President

Notice of Proposed Amendment to the College Constitution

At its February meeting, the Board of Trustees was informed
that, over the years, some of the College’s governance documents
have become inconsistent in their definition of “Faculty”. In an
effort to bring come consistency to the documents, the Board of
Trustees is considering an amendment to the College Constitution
that would adopt the definition of “Faculty” currently used in the
Faculty Bylaws. The following proposal was “laid on the table” at
the February meeting, and will be considered for adoption at the
April 12, 2002 meeting.

RESOLVED, that the Davidson College Constitution be
amended by deleting the first sentence in Article II, Section 1 which
defines the Faculty of the College and inserting in lieu thereof the
following:

“The voting Faculty consists of the Prssident of the College;
the Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty; the
Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students; the Director

‘of the Library; the Registrar; all persons holding the ranks of |
Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Instructor, or
Lecturer; and “visiting” academicians whose appointments cover
a minimum of a regular academic year and entail full-time teach-.
ing.”

As required by the Collies Constitution, members of the
Faculty, staff and student body are encouraged to provide. com- -
ments on this proposed amendment. Comments should be directed
Dr. Clark Ross, Vice President for Academic Affairs and De:
Faculty. 3

"Notice from the Office of the Presi¢ at

