Le

Di Davinsoman

— ae

_ News _

Wabhcsoars Marcu 27, 2002

‘Reproductive Rights Alliance’s “Faith and Choice Week”
sparks discussion on religion’s role in reproductive issues

-RRAD sponsors week of
lunchtime discussions, clos-
ing dinner and lecture

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

. Being the President of a pro-choice organi-
zation on asmall, conservative Southern cam-
pus might prompt most people to shy away
entirely from religious issues and activities.
Kristine Harrington ’03 and the Reproduc-
tive Rights Alliance of Davidson, however,
have done exactly the opposite by devoting
an entire week of planning and participation
to “Faith and Choice Week.”

Held the week of March 18, Faith and
Choice week was meant to foster discussion
about the role religion and religious issues
plays in reproductive politics — especially the
abortion question. Aside from organizations

like NOW (National Organization for
Women) and Planned Parenthood, some of
the biggest voices in the abortion debate are
those of people like Pat Robertson, head of
the Christian Coalition. . Clearly, religion
plays a large role in American reproductive
politics. With this event, RRAD sought to
explore the issues of faith and choice more

deeply than is .often done on the national
scene.

Four lunchtime discussions on a variety of
topics were spread out through the week.
Harrington led round-table discussions on
“The Bible and Personhood” and “Religious
Diversity in America.”

Wednesday’s moving discussion was led
by Rev. Brenda Tapia, who spoke about her
experiences as an
abortion counse-
lor in Atlanta
prior to her ordi-
nation as a Pres-

“It seemed like there

screened an episode of “60 Minutes,” in which
a fundamentalist Lutheran minister asserted
that it was a Christian’s duty to kill abortion
clinic workers, especially doctors. After-
wards, those in attendance discussed the video.
Many pro-life students argued that such ex-
tremism counters the values and goals of the
pro-life movement. _

The culminating event of “Faith and Choice
Week” was
Thursday night’s
dinner and dis-
cussion, cO-spon-
sored by the Lilly

byterian minister. was areal diver sity of Program. Stu-
She bluntly as- ° dents who at-
sertedthat“abor-  Opinionsrepresented  tendedthedinner
tion is the taking 7 sat with a discus-
of a life” but also at all events. sion leader.

argued that “there
is nothing we can
do that God can-
not forgive” and
emphasized that the vast majority of women
she counseled were not using abortion as
“birth control.”

The final discussion, on “The Bible and
Sexuality,” was led by Rev. Craig Kocher of
Davidson United Methodist Church.

On Tuesday evening, RRAD members

CATEGORY Hl ELECTIONS RESULTS

- Kristine Harrington ‘03

RISING SENIOR CLASS PRESIDENT
Kevin Epps

_ RISING SENIOR SGA SENATOR
Susanne Francis
Graham Watson

RISING JUNIOR CLASS PRESIDENT
Adam Sperling

RISING JUNIOR SGA SENATOR
Tiffany Hollis
Elizabeth Matthews

RISING SENIOR HONOR COUNCIL
- Matt Chapman
Rebecca Stewart

RISING JUNIOR HONOR COUNCIL
Welles Campbell
Zeb Kelley
Bryan Stonestreet
Beth Vazquez

RISING SOPHOMORE CLASS PRESIDENT
Chris Dist enpels

AED

RISING SOPHOMORE SGA SENATOR 2 RUN-OFFS :
Adam Gerstenmier
Kathrine Hubbard

RISING SOPHOMORE HONOR COUNCIL
Adam Hart
Jamie Felton
Trisha Blackwell

Three local reli-
gious leaders —
Davidson Col-
lege chaplain
Rob Spach, Rev. Kocher, and Barb Bagnall
from Catholic Campus Ministries — volun-
teered as discussion leaders. All those present
listened to the keynote speech from the Rev-
erend Alec Alvord, a United Methodist min-
ister and member of Clergy for Choice.

A native of Zimbabwe, Alvord earned his

PhD from Duke University and preached in
Africa and the United States for thirty-five
years before retiring in June 2000. His speech
centered on Clergy for Choice’s motto -
“Pro-Faith, Pro-Family, Pro-Choice” - and
cited the book of Genesis to argue that the
Bible equates life with breath. Others present
at the dinner argued that there was also sig-
nificance to a heartbeat, and wondered about
how this definition of life might be affected
by modern medicine’s ability to sustain life
even when independent breathing is no longer
possible.

Overall, RRAD members were delighted
with the week’s results. “I think “Faith and
Choice Week” was an enormous success
overall,” stated Harrington.

“We gota great response from students and
faculty alike, and it seemed like there was a
real diversity of opinions represented at our
events. The week was a testament to the fact
that it is indeed possible to have respectful
discussion about this very important issue.

The success of this year’s endeavor has
bolstered RRAD’s determination to continue
exploring issues of religion and reproductive
rights. “We definitely plan to make this an
annual event, and we welcome any sugges-
tions or input about how to make it better,”
said Harrington.

Trials, from page 1

provision to fund legal assistance. Some
students cannot afford to bring their parents
to a trial either, often creating a bias in favor
of those who can. Under the new wording, all
those acting as additional council are asked to
sit outside of the trial, thus reestablishing
equity between those who can and cannot
afford to have such counsel in the first place.

“The new changes serve to make sure that
all Honor Council trials are fair and consis-
tent,” commented Honor Council Chair
Rebecca Moore ’03. “No outside people will

Original Policy

be permitted to attend the trials, and Honor
Council members will not be influenced by
their presence. This helps to ensure that the
trials are completely student-run, preserving
an important part of Davidson’s honor sys-
tem.”

Vagt concurred with Moore’s assessment.
“T think it’s a very thoughtful change, and
probably one which is more consistent with
what the process is intended to be,” adding
that the modification may help guide honor
trials away from the trappings of “L.A. Law”-
type court proceedings.

(g) Right of counsel. In addition to the Defense Advisors, the accused has the right to be accompanied at the
hearing by counsel of his or her choice, and to be advised by counsel in the conduct of his or her defense. To
aid this the Council may provide appropriate recesses from time to time. But counsel may not participate directly
in the hearing either by questioning witnesses, offering evidence, objecting to procedures and rulings, making

statements or arguments to the Council, or otherwise.

Amended Policy

(g) An accused student may request additional persons (i.e., family member, minister, lawyer) be allowed to
sit in a nearby waiting room during the proceedings of the Honor Council. To facilitate personal support and
counsel to the accused, the chair may provide appropriate recesses from time to time. However, such persons
shall not be permitted to sit in the hearing room during a closed hearing. Additional students may be permitted
in the hearing room during the hearing at the discretion of the Chair; these additional students may not speak

during the proceedings.

~ To view the changes on-line please go to

http://www.davidson, edu/student/redbook/honordiscipline.html

Break

The Soda Shop

SINCE 19581

fast Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

ms

ot Dods
b| etilkshakes

104 $.Main St. Davidsen, NC

Eat-in Take-out

