UA ty et yous changed nan
Fs - Yes. ae

L: it'yod could change anything about WALT, hat wonlaiioet ee Se,

_F: It would be nice if more people could hear WALT...so I guess | would ike to see te es
FM or become available over the internet. oe a

L: You and me both! So what is your pons thing about Davidson? :

_ F: My classes sure are fun.

L: O.k., last question. What’s your least favorite thing shout ‘Davidson?

Pp Febthink phe seident i is culturally boring. People don’t seem to be excited about -

Merce ot

iyi 2 j i ao £
Cc AEG EE Fee 2) ayer Be ego rer te

S40 saree “al > la Pishijies

Ay ER

Frank Chemotti is a hacen DJ for WALT. His is shai which focuses on electronic
music, airs garciier th from 9-1 1pm.

o
| Joed’s
Davidson, NC

101 DEPOT ST.
(704) 896-6739

(NEXT TO BB&T)
joelsgrill.com

NOW OPEN TIL 1AM WED-SAT
DINEIN TAKEOUT DELIVERY

JOEL'S NOW ACCEPTS CAT CARDS
FOR DELIVERIES. PLS. GET YOUR
6 DIGIT CODE FROM THE RLO IF U-
DON'T HAVE ONE YET.

HAVE UR OWN SUSHI OR/ AND KARAOKE
PARTY AT YOUR PLACE. (INCLUDES SUSHI
CHEF, & FREE USEOF SUSHI BAR DISPLAY.
_ CASE OR/AND KARAOKE SYSTEM).
CALL JOEL FOR DETAILS.

a column by the Health Advisors

HOOKING UP

‘Steve:

Alcohol, close dancing, intimacy, hook up,
nothing happened. Intrigue, introduction, din-
ner, hook up, connected. __

So many ways a hook up can happen. I will
try to steer clear from adopting a judgmental
stance on such a topic, lest I plunge back into the
pit of blatant hypocrisy. Before coming to
Davidson, I criticized hooking up, heavily.
Gradually throughout my time here though, in
light of an unexpected situation or two, this has
changed.

On the one hand it can be adventurous, excit-
ing, enthralling and sensual. But there are two
sides to every coin. With every physical interac-
tion there is an emotional one. And this is part of
the problem — the intensity of the emotional
connection in a hook up (of any level) is not
always mutual.

Sometimes, when the emotional connection
felt by each ‘hooker-upper’ (should be a word)
isn’t the same, complications can arise, awk-
wardness can develop, friendships shattered
and feelings hurt. When it isn’t, there can be this
awkwardness and pain. However, when the
level of emotional connection is mutual, ah...
something truly special just might flourish. I
guess that the intentions behind the interaction
are something to be considered and something
that both hooker-uppers need to clarify. This
way, one can understand how the interaction
will end and hopefully awkwardness and hurt
will be avoided.

I see no need to encourage hooking up, just as
I see no need to condemn those who do it.
Although I have done it before, on the whole I
try to avoid it due to the potential complications
that can arise. In the end though, it’s each to his
own. But be aware that you should take respon-
sibility for your actions and be prepared to face
the consequences — sometimes unwanted,
sometimes truly desired.

Jenn Greene:

Forgive me for taking the eraphic approach,
but I believe that “hooking up” is a way to
become more comfortable with oneself, both
physically and psychologically. I’m not advo-
cating prancing around half-naked and inebri-
ated, throwing yourself at the closest person
who will get iton with you. Instead, lam saying
that intimate physical contactcan help you learn
what you like, what you don’t like, and how to
communicate your needs and desires to the
person you are with. Communication about
private matters (be they of bliss or
of boundaries) is bettered only with practice, as
in a sport.

[hate to use sports analogies, but this one fits
well: playing things out-in your head is one
thing, but involving other people is an entirely
different story.

I realize that hooking up in an atmosphere
where news spreads quickly can be detrimental
to a reputation. As such, I don’t think that
random hookups are such a great idea. (In my
opinion, hookups are not always one-night
stands, nor are they necessarily random. Notice
that nowhere thus far have I mentioned the word
“random.”’)

Exploration with friends, on the other hand, is

a different story. Again, let me clarify, or else
I might get myself in a lot of trouble. I am not
advocating “friends with benefits.” I am sup-
porting the idea of acting on a mutual interest
that stems from initial attractions with some-
one. :
There is a potential danger that comes with
intimacy if there isnodetachment. The fine line
here comes between not caring and realizing
that the physical interaction that is taking place
isnotlove, butamomentary, mutual indulgence
in self-exploration. That can be very satisfy-
ing.

Some last words: use protection if it’s
needed, shame is never becoming, mistakes are
made so we can learn from them, and regretting
the past doesn’t change it. And gentlemen, if
something does happen that was unexpected,
put your arm around her the next. morning.
You'd be surprised how much hurt it heals.

: Felicia Browne:

I think hooking up is fine as long as the people
involved are aware of the consequences. Per-
sonally, I refuse to let a guy get physically close
to me unless I know and trust him, and most of
the time hooking up precludes this process. But
if others feel comfortable “hooking up” and
take the necessary precautions (physical and
emotional), then by all means, go ahead and
enjoy! In regards to what hooking up means, I
do not have a definite answer; some people
equate it with a peck on lips, while others
associate it with sexual intercourse. The phrase
is so vague that maybe we should just remove
“hooking up” from our vocabulary, and instead
say what we really mean.

Lauren Stutts:

“Hooking up?” Everyone seems to have a
different definition for it, but I think most people
use it as a word with a negative connotation. If
two people “hooked up,” then that sounds like
they were together temporarily and had a casual
relationship without any strong feelings in-
volved. I’m not saying hooking up is necessar-
ily a bad thing; some people need a break from
a serious relationship. However, constantly
hooking up with different people is obviously
not healthy, physically or psychologically.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on
WALT 1610 AM: This week's topic is “Com-
ing Out.”

Chamber, from page 5

more than four decades.

Along with well-done performances from
kids and adults alike, the directing of Chris
Columbus, the special effects, and other techni-
cal aspects complete this incredible adaptation
of the J.K. Rowling classic. Columbus’s direc-
tion allows both the incredible sets and the child
stars to be the focal points of the film, with one
never overshadowing the other. As for the spe-
cial effects, they create a sense of wonder and
awe in the characters and the audience as the
effects work to make the extraordinary magical
world seem almost possible.

The high and low points of the special effects
both occur very early on in the film. When first
heard that Dobby the House Elf was going to be
completely digital, I immediately thought the
worst —another Jar Jar Binks. I’m pleased to say
that my concerns were for nothing. Dobby and
the human characters work seamlessly in con-
versation and interaction, which is a word of
praise for both the human actors and the special
effects coordinators. However, Ron and Harry’s
drive to school in the bewitched flying car,

while humorous, looked poorly done in com-
parison to the rest of the effects. Attimes during
the sequence, I thought it looked like a toy car
being maneuvered in front of a painted back-
ground or model. This marks a surprising low
point in a film full of otherwise incredible
special effects, creating monsters, heroes, and
everything in between.

So is Chamber of Secrets worth seeing? The
fact that my two friends, who shall remain
nameless, had the desire to see the film twice
within a 24-hour period, might be the best
evidence of a resounding yes. Combining in-
credible sets, special effects, acting, humor,
action, and adventure, this well-done film adap-
tation of Harty Potter and the Chamber of
Secrets will continue to drive the Harry Potter
phenomenon until the release of Book 5—Harry
Potter and the Order of the Phoenix—sometime
next year. For all you fans of the series (and I
know you are numerous on campus, even if
you’ re not willing to admit it), be happy know-
ing that this film is everything you could have
hoped for. For those who are not yet fans, go and
become acquainted with the people and places
that make up this magical world.
