Fry A ae oe es ;
*

From the commercials to the
legendary TV announcers to the
thrilling finish, Super Bowl XXXVI

was one to remember

Summerall’s swan song a
fitting end to a great career

The Pat Summerall-John Madden
sportscasting duo has flourished for 21 years,
but finally came to an end in prime fashion as
Adam Viniatieri of
the New England
Patriots kicked the
game-winning 48-
yard field goal to
complete a miracu-
lous Super Bowl
upset.

It was a perfect
opportunity for
viewers to hear Pat
Summerall’s last
play-by-play
call: “It’s right
down the pipe. Adam Vinatieri. No time on
the clock. And the Patriots have won Super
Bowl XXXVI. Unbelievable.”

Zach Williams ‘05

After 21 years, Summerall has finally de- .

cided to step down from his post as the “voice
of football” alongside John Madden.

The 71-year old Summerall began work
with Madden in 1981 at CBS but then moved
with his partner to FOX in 1994 when the
latter network bought NFL rights.

Summerall was always known as the ever
well-spoken and logical play-by-play caller,
and Madden provided insightful, often hu-
morous, commentary.

Summerall and Madden have become two
of the most beloved voices and personalities
in televised sports. Some people watched
games just to listen to Pat and John.

While football fans like myself may have
poked fun at Summerall’s dryness, or
Madden’s goofiness from time to time,
their presence on big game days was always
expected and appreciated.

It is seldom that sportscasters are able to
add as much character and knowledge to their
commentary as the Summerall-Madden team
did.

While it seems that in many cases, net-
works are resorting to the young and attrac-
tive as prime pickings for live television jobs,
Summerall and Madden represented the old-
school philosophy of wisdom and experi-
ence. ,

It is sad to see the duo come to an end, but
many would agree that the time is right.
Summerall has slowed down increasingly
over the last few years.

In an article regarding Summerall’s retire-
ment, Richard Sandomir of The New York
Times wrote: “Summerall was more loqua-
cious than he is now, his speech faster- paced.
Madden wasall exuberance, his insights good,
but not as strong and abundant as they are
now.”

Some have accused FOX of driving
Summerall out due to old age. These accusa-
tions are blindly inappropriate. Summerall
remains a brilliant sportscaster, but his best
days are behind him. at

Summerall will be replaced by Joe Buck,
FOX’s current play-by-play baseball an-
nouncer. Madden will remain in his second-
man position, lending amusing one-liners to
Buck’s wordy play-by-play. While his
weekly football performances are over,

Summerall has talked of possibly continu-
ing his career in other sports such as golf or
baseball. Although it is the end of an era in
pro football, there is much consolation for
football fans in the fact that Madden remains,

along with the character and understanding

he brought to the game alongside Pat
Summerall.

The New England Patriots celebrate after winning Super Bowl XXXVI.

More than just a game

In the same vein as the eternal “tree falling
in the woods” dilemma, there has arisen a
new question, one that will forever plague
beer connois-
seurs and
Britney Spears
fans the world
over.

Which is bet-
ter, the Super
Bowlor the tele-
vision commer-
cials? I won’t

: : : even attempt to
_ Ali Fitzgerald ‘04 a icwer this
question, but I will go out on a limb and say
that we all like to watch the bombastic, over
the top commercials between passes made by
sweaty, athletic man-gods (sigh....).

Even a Davidson student can appreciate
the sophisticated humor in a little hamster
shaking his moneymaker for Blockbuster
Video, or a preview for the newest, loudest
Schwarzenegger action flick. (Does anyone
else think that Arnold should have bowed out
after Last Action Hero?). Some other hits
from Sunday’s main event includeda plethora
of “m-life” commercials, some anti-smoking
ads and numerous trailers for the third Austin
Powers installment.

Even after being bombarded with these
“m-life” advertisements, I can honestly say

that I still have no idea what the heck this

. company is, or what it sells. They could be

marketing a Michael Jackson at-home plastic
surgery kit, for all Iknow. Andas for the anti-
smoking commercials, the “truth’s” depic-
tion of a large person in a rat costume wheez-
ing on a street corner didn’t really hit home.
It seems that the same directness lacking in
cigarette ads is also apparent in their more
politically correct counterpart.

Usually, I would comment on my former
“favorite” part of the Super Bowl: the half-
time show. However, I was not able to watch
it this year as the TV was commandeered by
certain “Y “chromosome carrying persons
who insisted on watching “Fear Factor” fea-
turing Playboy Playmates.

In this show, vacuous top-heavy “entrepre-
neurs”’ (Playboy models) were asked to expe-
rience some of their greatest fears. This is
supposed to appeal mainly to guys, but some
sadistic part of me enjoyed seeing Miss Sep-
tember writhe in her fake (yes, they are fake)
boots. I mean, who cares about U2 when you
can watch unnaturally thin supermodels
dangle precariously, inches away from death.
It’s my new favorite show!

All in all, ’'d say that it was a rather
entertaining evening. It had everything:
Arnold, Mini Me, animated hamsters and
terrified, skinny girls. Oh, and the whole
football thing was okay too.

We can’t afford to relax our stance on Cuba

An interesting judicial case is taking place
in Belgium against a self-serving leader who
imprisons political dissidents, kills rivals,
harbors terrorists, supports anti-democratic
__ revolutions and
sells arms and
_|drugs to other
_| nations.
| The legal ac-
|tion is taking
_|place in Bel-
| gium because its
_|laws allow for
_| the prosecution
of human rights
violations, no
matter where
they occur on
the globe. The
same system was recently used to bring
charges against the Chilean dictator Pinochet.

This legal action is not against leaders of
Iran, Iraq or North Korea (the Bush described
“Axis of Evil’).

No, these charges have been filed by an
American citizen, Jose Basulto, against Cu-
ban dictator Fidel Castro.

Basulto is the sole survivor of a Cuban air

Mike Galdo ‘04

force attack on a Brothers to the Rescue plane
(a group that aids Cuban defectors). About
160,000 others have joined his suit, charging
crimes that include rape and murder. Castro
is apparently taking the legal proceedings
rather seriously, having hired an expensive,
left-leaning defense team to represent him in
the case.

Although a conviction would mean little in
practical terms (I sincerely doubt that Castro
I going to leave “his” island and submit to the
Belgian court’s decision), a ruling against
Castro would send a message to the Cuban
people that the world has not forgotten their
plight.

The current administration’s reluctance to
condemn Castro’s human rights violations,
combined with Sen. Arlen Specter’s recent
call for the U.S. to end aid to Cuba, have led
many to believe that our nation has weakened
its stance against the violent despot.

Weakening our position is hard to defend
when you take a look at Cuba’s aggressive
acts against our nation.

According to the FBI, there are 77 known
federal fugitives being harbored in Cuba.
Castro should be forced to send them back to
the U.S. to face justice. Also, the Cuban

government often welcomes Columbian,
Spanish, Irish and Puerto Rican terrorists into
its borders. Any cooperation with Cuba would
fly in the face of our nation’s recent call to
rout out terrorists wherever they can be found.

Closer to home is the discovery of a large
Cuban spy network operating within our bor-
ders.

As much as I would like to think that all
Cubans seeking refuge inside America are
trustworthy, Castro has taken advantage of
America’s immigration policy by sending in
many spies. Ann Belen Montes was a rising
star in the Defense Department as a senior
analyst.

‘On Sept. 22, 2001, it was discovered that
she was actually working for Cuban intelli-
gence,

Of course, America was still coping with
9/11 when Montes’ treachery was uncov-
ered. We were all dealing with much more
important matters then.

Now that we have the time to view the
facts, we should look at routing out terror
closer to home. —

Since I have relatives in Cuba and would
enjoy seeing more than a crater if I ever get
the opportunity to see where my grandfather

Castro

and father grew up, I am not suggesting some
sort of bombing campaign.

However, now that the dust has settled, and
America has decided it is time to act, perhaps
we should cast a glance to a nation that
harbors and funds terrorists located only 90
miles off of our shores,
