Connor j joins faculty, staff i in ‘Varsity baseball bond si

discussion of women’s issues service work at local farm |

By SHANNON BisHop
Special Contributor

Last month, Connor House welcomed ten
female staff and faculty members to its weekly
meeting to moderate informal discussions of
issues facing women at Davidson. The evening
enabled Connor members to praise Davidson
successes, find
comfort in shared
experiences, and
gain an apprecia-
tion for the female
role models we

“I think this event ts a
great idea and hope it can As

a great perspective on Davidson due to the fact
that she was a student herself, as well as a hall
counselor and now a faculty member. It was
comforting to know that these issues were just as

‘pertinent to her as they were to us girls. I

definitely think we should do more of these,”
commented Ashley Finn ’0S.

The evening allowed Connor Women to take
advantage of the fe-
male resources we
have on campus and
get to know one an-
other a little better.
Elizabeth

have on campus. . " Matthews ’04 noted,

“I think this continue. “I was so impressed
eventis a great idea . with the openness of
and hope it can = Sally McMillan, our group, and their
continue,” com- , willingness to share
mented history history P roft saautd the imperfections of
professor Sally quer themselves while

McMillen. Group

discussions ranged from Connor women vent-
ing about self-selection to the moderators shar-
ing their own college experiences.

This low-key event enabled Connor mem-
bers, faculty, and staff to interact casually out-
side the academic environment. “The part that
I enjoyed the most was hearing the feedback
from Rosie Molinary, our leader. She had such

still realizing that we
are all gifted in some way and really apprecia-
tive of our Davidson experience.”

Connor House would like to thank all the
faculty and staff members who facilitated this
experience.

It is crucial for Patterson Court and Connor to
continue this type of conversation, camaraderie,
and development.

GRILLED CHEESE -

Ll

VEGEIE MELT - - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGeIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

Bet: you didn't think of US
~~ Ras ive fare! —

VEGETABLE SOUP

‘Eat-in Take-out __

espace AOE

aati

___ 896-7743

Det
eons tintin hain:
sa

: <—_ sat thur 8-8 Fri8-9
1. DAVIDSONNC_

an

see

ACT NOW! Guarantee the best Spring break prices! South Padre,

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras.
TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARNS$$$. Group Discounts for 6+.
1 888 THINK SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626)
www.springbreakdiscounts.com ***

By Emi_y Drew
News Editor

Though the varsity baseball season does not
start until next semester, on Feb. 15, the team is
already developing individual workouts, team
conditioning, and, most importantly, team
unity.

On Saturday, Nov. 2, 15 baseball plays par-
ticipated in community service at Joshua’s
Farm, thanks to planning efforts by varsity
pitcher Stephen Choate ’03, who felt that com-
munity service would ‘help strengthen the
team’s already-close bonds outside training
and practice.

“IT think being an athlete comes with a
responsability to give back to the community
and to lead our fellow students in constructive
activities off the playing fields,” said Choate,
who chose the Joshua’s Farm project after
discussing options with Mary Kathryn Ross in
the Community Service Office. She pointed
Choate to a number of local service organiza-
tions that could use and accommodate an entire
team of service volunteers.

“Tts important for everyone to remember that
athletes on this campus don’t just play sports,”
said pitcher Erskine Wells ’03. “They take part
in helping the greater community, too.”

Joshua’s Farm in Charlotte is designed to be
a destination with therapeutic, educational, and
fun activities for children and adults living with
disabilities. Programs include therapeutic
horseback riding and animal interaction
therapy. The Farm hopes to extend its offerings
to horticulture therapy soon, as well.

Through these activities, participants
can improve motor skills, balance, posture,
muscle strength, confidence, self-esteem, and
independence ina safe, supportive environment
designed specifically for the disabled.

Along with their hours of service, the base-
ball team also donated a Rubbermaid Long
Handle tool organizer, a shovel, and a pitchfork.

One of the highlights of the day, said Choate,
was watching senior catcher Chris Emond, a
New Jersey native, make friends with a pot-
bellied pig.

Many of the players told Choate that they
really didn’t know what to expect going in, but
they enjoyed the experience and thought that it
was a good thing for the team to be involved in
during the off-season.

“Tt was good for the team to take time away
from Davidson, where all people worry about is
grades and due dates, and contribute something
positive to other peoples lives,” said Wells. “Its
a great cause that provides a tremendous service
to others. It was also good for us to participate as
a team.”

Joshua’s Farm was established in 1996, in
memory of a boy named Joshua who suffered
from Hurler’s Syndrome, a degenerative dis-
ease that left him in a wheelchair for the last two
years of his life. Joshua never allowed his dis-
abilities to interfere with his love of the out-
doors, and in an effort to extend Joshua’s legacy
of courage and joy, the Farm was established.

Joahua’s Farm exists exclusively on dona-
tions and is managed by volunteers.

For more information on Joshua’ s Farm, visit
www.joshuasfarm.org.

SUBMISSIONS ARE NOW BEING
ACCEPTED FOR THE
STUDENT PHOTOGRAPHY SHOW

Drop OFF YOUR WORK ~ COLOR,
DIGITAL - AT SENTELLE 110 By Nov. 1.
WILL BE DISPLAYED IN THE VAC Nov.

FoR MORE INFO,
CAHAUSER, OR CHPIKE.

EMAIL ERROSINTOSKI,

B&W, CONVENTIONAL,
ENTRIES

21 - Dec. 4.

SASTANHOPE,

