SCC rules on Honor Code fe resdtatibi. con

Plagiarism change re-
jected, but constitution and
counsel resolution approved

By Linpy Batpwin
News Editor

On Wednesday, January 30, the Student
Conduct Council handed down rulings on
three pieces of legislation submitted by the
Honor Council last November. While a reso-
lution clarifying the policy on “counsel” dur-
ing hearings and a new Constitution for the
Honor Council were approved, a high-profile
proposal to change the definition of plagia-
rism in the Honor Code was not. Despite the
rejection of the plagiarism change, however,
outgoing Honor Council officers regard the
past semester’s work as productive and ben-
eficial.

The Student Conduct Council is composed
of Dean of Students Tom Shandley, SGA
officers, class presidents, several faculty
members, and other students specifically
elected to SCC. All of the SCC’s rulings are
conditional on the approval of College Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt.

The “legal counsel” resolution, approved
by the SCC, involved a minor change in the
Code of Disciplinary procedures. “As they
were written, students were ‘entitled’ to have
a legal adviser present at hearings. However,
since the school would not provide this attor-
ney to students who could not afford legal
advice, there was an inequity,” said outgoing
Honor Council Chair Will Parker ’02.

The approved change allows for parents,
spiritual advisors or legal counsel to sit in a
waiting room outside hearings; it does not,

however, admit such persons to closed pro-
ceedings. Fellow Davidson students may sit
in the hearings provided that the Chair agrees,
and will be expected to remain silent.

A more unusual submission to SCC was an
Honor Council Constitution, authored by
Adam Hill ’03. According to Hill, the Honor
Council does not usually submit a constitu-
tion. “[Parker] assigned this project to me in
order to solidify some traditional ways that
the Council works as a body.

“Now that this document exists, the Coun-
cil may only send policy proposals forward to
the SCC with 2/3
favorable vote.

Another
significant gain
from this constitu-
tion is the precise
definition of the
Council’s purpose

. We also in-
cluded regulations
for our internal and
campus-wide elec-
tions, standards for
council leadership and representatives, dura-
tion of leadership/officer terms, etc.”

Another major provision of the Constitu-
tion is the transformation of the Honor Coun-
cil Secretary into the Honor Council Vice-

Code.”

Chair, who will sub for the Honor Council’

President if he or she is unable to serve ona
hearing. This particular change will be added
to the Code of Disciplinary Procedures.
Perhaps the most visible proposal sent to
the SCC was the only one that did not pass —
a controversial resolution which would have
changed the definition of plagiarism to in-
clude “negligently representing ‘another’s
words or ideas as one’s own.” This proposal

Caller to show may have

WALT, from page 1

in to explain why he was kicked out of a
recent party at the Black Student Coalition—
he asked the DJ to play a bad song. Some
callers used racial terms during the course of
theircomments. The hosts promised to present
a list of “Top 10 Sketchiest Guys” on next
week’s show.

During the show’s first episode on Jan. 27,
the hosts announced a list they called the “20
Most Terrible” people at Davidson.

Administrators received several phone calls
and e-mails from offended listeners in the
days following, and on Monday Dean of
Students Tom Shandley met with Carvalho
and Nijie to share those complaints.

“He wanted to have us in to hear our side of
the story,” said Carvalho, of Austin, Texas.
“He was just bringing to our attention what
people are saying. He wanted us to think
about how to.clean up the show.”

Both hosts said they regret targeting indi-
vidual students three weeks ago, and plan to
discuss more serious campus issues in future
episodes.

“After that first show, we’ ve been trying to
change,” said Carvalho. “The first show was
a disaster. That was just us trying to learn the
ropes. I think if we left it this way, it would get
old. It’s moving in a direction towards less

‘personal attacks and more discussing contro-

versial issues on campus. At the same time, |

I’m not going to say it’s all serious.”

Added co-host Njie, a Serekundah, Gambia
native whose family now lives in Macon,
Ga.: “We’re going to address more serious
issues, but it’s still going to be a comedy
show. If we do [attack someone], we’ ll talk to
them first. We’re going to move to group
attacks now. You can’t get as easily offended
as a group.as you can as an individual.”

Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray
Merrell serves as chairperson of the Media
Board and said it hopes to meet sometime this
week, A little-used but powerful oversight

committee in charge of ensuring quality con-
tent in campus media outlets, the board has
the authority to appoint and dismiss editors,
approve annual budgets and review stan-
dards of decency.

The radio show will be “one of the issues
on the table,”’ said Bray Merrell, a former
associate dean of admissions. The hosts will
not attend the closed meeting.

Bray Merrell declined to discuss specifics,
but in a written statement said, “I would hope
that the Board’s definition of decency would
include, ata minimum, a respect for the rights
of the people involved in the news and a
degree of civility in the treatment of the
people in this community.” .

Asked if he believes the Media Board will
decide to cancel the show, Nijie said, “They
might. Besides the first show, which we've
already admitted was a mistake, I don’t see
what we’ve done to get taken off the air. I
hope the [Media Board] would have the com-
mon courtesy to come talk to me and ask me
about my own show.”

The Judicial Board will also hear argu-
ments on whether violations of the Code of
Conduct were committed by a caller on the
show’ s first episode. Administrators declined
to discuss specifics of the case, but some
shared their opinions on the “20 Most Ter-
rible” list.

“T find that particular show reprehensible,”
said College President Bobby Vagt.

Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano,
a former member of the Media Board as
Associate Dean of Students, said her office
also received several complaints from resi-
dence hall advisers acting on behalf of of-
fended students. She encouraged them to
contactthe Dean of Students Office and speak
directly with Carvalho and Njie.

“T don’t think it’s quality programming,”
said Marsicano, who was provided with ex-
cerpts of the show but has not listened to it. “I
think it’s inappropriate on a number of levels.
It does not meet our community standards

“The SCC vote is a
victory for the student
body and the Honor :

- Mike Anderson ‘02

had been in the works for over a year before
it was submitted to SCC.

“The plagiarism resolution was the Honor
Council’s attempt to expand the treatment of
plagiarism within the Honor Code— in ef-
fect, to make it easier for the Council to
convict the student who denies guilt despite
considerable documentary evidence to the
contrary,” explained Parker.

“One of the reasons that the plagiarism
resolution failed is that there is wide dis-
agreement among the faculty as to which
varieties of plagiarism constitute an honor
code violation,”
said Phil Reed ’02,
a member of the
Honor Council.
“Some claim that
unintentional pla-
giarism should be
considered a vio-
lation of the Honor
Code while others
insist it must not.”

However, Reed
argued, “the
Council must take fault for wanting to pass
this resolution because it attempts
to compensate for an unfortunate idea among
the members of the Council that we should be
reluctant to convict those who plead innocent
to plagiarism.”

Parker agreed with Reed’s assessment of
the reasons for the proposal’s rejection, add-
ing, “Plagiarism as an ‘issue’ has lost its
urgency after over a year of discussion and
given no particular cases that have seemed to
signify the need for change.”

This sentiment was echoed by College
President Bobby Vagt, who said, “part of the
decision is a result of discussion, enhanced

and it’s just lousy radio. .. Minimally speak-
ing, [the hosts] need some advice on how to
improve their product.”

Marsicano said improving the show doesn’t
mean avoiding controversial topics, but takes
“some preparation, creativity and skill.”

“T don’t think the goal is not to offend
anybody. One reason for coming to college is
being exposed to new ideas. Sometimes that
means you get offended. I’m less concerned
about making sure nobody gets offended than
I am about...a high quality discourse be-
tween people.”

Junior Adam Dutko said he was labeled
during the show’s second episode on Feb. 3
as one of the six “most annoying” people at
Davidson, despite not knowing either of the
hosts. “I’ ve never had interaction with them,”

clarity and comfort oncraushiie. Ineffect,the
process initiated last spring reduced the need
for a wording change.”

Although the proposal did not pass, the
members of the Honor Council still look on
its creation as one of the past year’s major
successes. “It’s a perfect example of the
process working,” said Honor Council mem-
ber Mike Anderson ’02. “We saw a need,
considered it thoroughly, and found that our
efforts to amend the Code actually threatened
to make matters worse — by putting well-
intentioned students in danger of an inadvert-
ent Honor Code violation. With that in mind,
the SCC vote is a victory for the student body
and the Honor Code, not a failure.”

Parker echoed Anderson’s sentiments.
“The resolution process required Council
members to think about their jobs in abstract
terms— beyond the walls of the hearing
room— and it beckoned people from all parts
of the campus community to think about our
Honor Code ina more sophisticated way. Our
Honor Code necessitates ongoing discussion;
there is more to it than its components than
what we rightly display in our ‘store-front
window’ admissions literature.”

“Tt [the plagiarism issue] has forced the
council to look at the code differently and
forced them to examine and attempt to an-
swer some difficult issues,” concluded out-
going Honor Council Vice-Chair Tara
Davidson ’02.

“The SCC may also be encouraging pro-
fessors to get together within each depart-
ment and decide how each department is
going to define plagiarism and whatever nec-
essary steps they need to do to ensure that
students understand proper methods of docu-
mentation, etc. for that department. That is
a very positive result of this discussion!”

violated Code of Conduct

he said.

After hearing parts of the discussion, Dutko
said he went to the studio to confront the hosts
and ended up cursing at Njie, an action he
says he now regrets.

“T do in a sense regret it because I acted the
same way they were acting toward me,” said
Dutko. “If all they’re going to do is incite
hatred between fellow students, then they
shouldn’t be on the air. I don’t see how they
could have issues with someone they didn’t
know,” he said.

Just after Sunday night’s broadcast,
Carvalho said listeners should not take the
show seriously.

“We're just out to have fun,” he said. “It’s
ajoke. I wouldn’t say our views are represen-
tative of anyone.”

prXGJERRy

vel DMONT’S FINI ST;

202 South Main Street Y Davidson, NC
892-0604
