24 Hour Party People: Manchester’s post-punk adventure —

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

24 Hour Party People wastes no time plung-
ing its audience into the extreme subjectivity of
its principal character; namely, Tony Wilson,
co-founder of the Manchester, U.K.-based Fac-
tory Records, resident guru of the post-punk
club scene that flourished in the same city from
1976 to 1992, and promoter of such bands as the
darkly intense Joy Division and the hedonistic
Happy Mondays. The film begins with Wilson,
alowly regional television journalist, preparing
to hang-glide. After crashing into the base of a
hill, he directly addresses the camera and tells us
that he has one word for us: “Icarus.” All too
appropriate, since the movie unfolds like the
flight of an Icarus on Ecstasy: by turns thrilling
and disorienting, but always striving for an
incredible high.

Although loosely representative of the his-
torical figure of the same name, the character

‘we meet in 24 Hour Party People is more like
Tony Wilson the legend as self-consciously
portrayed by the actor Steve Coogan. Mr.
Coogan, who gives a hilariously deadpan per-
formance as the endearingly self-inflating Wil-
son, repeatedly draws attention to the film’s
tendency to distort the facts. As such, he’s not

to be trusted as a narrator; upon making one
exaggerated claim, he justifies his light han-
dling of the truth by quoting a John Ford film:
“Print the legend.” Director Michael
Winterbottom and screenwriter Frank Cottrell
Boyce have heeded this advice, doing their best
to blur the line between fact and fiction as they
recount Wilson’s quixotic career.

Here, the legend filmed is that of the
Manchester music scene that grew out of punk
in the late “70’s and evolved into the beginnings
of rave culture by the late-80’s. Wilson claims
to have originated this scene by founding Fac-
tory Records, a label that doesn’t bind any of its
artists to contracts, thus leaving nothing to sell
out when the opportunity arises. He even goes
so far as to sign the original Factory charter in
his own blood as Joy Division looks on.

The film’s generally thin, unclear character-
izations may bewilder most American viewers,
but they’re worth looking past in order to see
through the eyes of our unreliable narrator. At
any given point in the movie, the cultural explo-
sion in progress captivates him. The early scene
in which Wilson and his first wife Lindsay
attend the first Sex Pistols show in Manchester
could serve as a template for the rest of the
movie as it conflates, history with legend by
interweaving footage of the Sex Pistols with

Red Dragon

By CHARLES CUMMINS
Staff Writer

With the long awaited opening of. Red Dragon

last Friday, Sir Anthony Hopkins returns to the
role of Dr. Hannibal “the Cannibal” Lector that
he made famous. What few moviegoers know is
that while his performance as Lector made
audiences shiver in Silence of the Lambs and its
sequel Hannibal, Hopkins did not originate the
role.
In fact, the original Dr. Hannibal Lector was
renowned Scottish born actor Brian Cox, who
portrayed the psychiatrist with a thirst for “[hu-
man] liver with some fava beans and a nice
Chianti” in Michael Mann’s 1986 adaptation of
Thomas Harris’ book Red Dragon called
Manhunter. Without the services of Anthony
Hopkins or the all-star cast of the remake,
Manhunter skillfully portrays the cat and mouse
game between FBI Detective Will Graham and
The Tooth Fairy, a killer on the lookout for his
next victim family.

In a prologue to the opening credits, we see
the slow entrance of an unknown intruder into
a wealthy looking home. The camera offers the
audience a Point of View angle shot in which we
see what the intruder sees. Going from bedroom
to bedroom, he finally stops at the master bed-
room. With the flashlight blazing, the intruder
(and the audience) focus upon a sleeping wife
and husband. As the wife arises to the blinding
light, the screen fades to a black screen and the
title.

Soon, we the audience sees the bloody after-
math of that intrusion. After thus being intro-

CUMAIN' ATTRACTIONS

precursor Manhunter
a skilled cat-and-mouse thriller

duced to the killer, we are subsequently intro-
duced to Will Graham (William Peterson), a
retired detective who is requested to return to
aid in the capture of one last killer, the Tooth
Fairy, before he strikes again. Reluctantly, Gra-
ham agrees. Thus begins the intense rush to find
the killer or his next intended family of victims
before he gets to them first.
The film focuses on the cat and mouse game

between Graham and The Tooth Fairy (who -

calls himself The Red Dragon). In order to
visually convey this game, the film, particularly
inthe second half, alternates between Graham’s
investigation and The Red Dragon’s search for
another victim. In one of the most memorable
and well-done sequences from early in the film,
Will Graham begins the investigation with a
nighttime search of the latest family’s home.
As the camera again takes a Point of View
angle in which we see what Graham sees,
Graham slowly inspects climbs the stairs and
inspects the blood soaked rooms, in an eerily

., Similar manner to that of the killer during the
prologue of the film. Thus, the connection be- -

tween Graham and the Red Dragon are visually
conveyed. As Graham becomes more and more
obsessed with catching the killer overthe course
of the film, he gets closer and closer until the
final showdown with the Red Dragon.

So how does the infamous Hannibal Lector
fit into this picture? Brian Cox’s Hannibal Lec-
tor is confined here to the similar role Hopkins
shared in Silence of the Lambs — that of a
consultant to the desperate FBI detective. How-
ever, Dr. Hannibal Lector is here limited to
three scenes (if I counted correctly). Most other

that of the actors. Later, in a characteristically
absurd moment, Wilson compares’ the histori-
cal import of the Sex Pistols show to that of the
Last Supper.

Manchester has a reputation for being an
industrial wasteland, but by the end of the film,
Tony Wilson the legend has painted a captivat-
ing portrait of his beloved hometown as acity of
unlimited possibility. Though he does acknowl-
edge evils such as (lead singer of Joy Division)
Ian Curtis’s suicide, problems with guns and

drugs at his famous club the Hacienda, and the
extraordinarily bad business practices of Fac-
tory Records, he never lets them compromise
his celebratory vision of Manchester and its
music scene. Thankfully, 24 Hour Party People
ends on a high note, as Wilson presides over the
final night at the Hacienda by encouraging the
wildly happy partygoers to loot the club’s of-
fices before they leave. <We see the peak of
Icarus’s ascent, but we’re spared the spectacle
of watching him fall.

Talented cast prepares pow-
erful, touching Anne Frank

By ANpy HEsTon

Staff Writer

In the first moments of Frances Goodrich’s
and Albert Hackett’s drama adaptation of The
Diary of Anne Frank, the Frank family walks
with trepidation into the tiny annex in which
they must live in fear of the Nazi regime for an
indefinite amount of time. For the first thirty
seconds or so, not a word is spoken, but it is
nonetheless a powerful scene. The fear, the
confusion, the uncertainty, all of the conflicting
emotions one would expect of a normal middle
class family in an unthinkable situation are
present in the faces of the four:members of the

Frank family as they face their bleak and uncer-

tain future.
In many ways the confusion present at the
heart of this first scene prevaits-throughout the

~ play. It is simultaneously about the resilience

and brutality of the human spirit, the joys and
the agonies of adolescence, the love and the hate
experienced between a child and her parents,
the revulsion and intrigue caused by members
of the opposite sex, and the hopelessness and
strange optimism of Jews living in Nazi-occu-
pied Amsterdam. In short, it is a play as
confused as only a thirteen year old girl can be,
and makes us all into‘confused' and awkward
adolescents struggling to understand coming of
age in the Holocaust.

And Anne, that thirteen year old girl, is by far
the center of the play’s attention. Beth Gardner,
last seen in Boy Gets Girl, does a superb job with
an incredibly complex and difficult character.
She seems to effortlessly portray Anne’s in-
credible vivacity and optimism as well as her
self-centeredness and immaturity.

The defining characteristic of Anne, espe-
cially as played by Gardner, is that of innocence
struggling not to become disenchanted with the
ever-intensifying hatred of the world. In the
first moments of the play, while the rest of her
family seems overwhelmed at the prospect of
living in the tiny annex and the future in store for
them, Anne alone is optimistic and naively
excited: the presence of acatin the annex seems
more prevalent in her consciousness than the
fact her family has been forced from its home.

_ It’s truly touching to see such an incredible

spirit and watch it be silenced by the Nazis.
The rest of the cast is no less talented, and all

do equally superb jobs with their roles. It is a

diverse group with regard to previous theater

experience, yet together they possess an unde-
niable chemistry. It transfers off,the stage as
well: in rehearsal they are relaxed, easygoing,
and friendly with each other. Yet they are also
dedicated to doing justice to an incredibly diffi-
cult play, set during an incredibly difficult time.

The Holocaust is still araw nerve nearly sixty
years after its horrific crimes were committed,
and this group seems to have put no small effort
into attempting to truly understand the mindset
of victims ina world gone mad, and they portray
such confusion with flying colors.

While the cast was joking around after the
rehearsal, one of them remarked something to
the effect of, “We should advertise this as a
musical. More people would come.” Such is

‘the plight of the serious play. Anne Frank is

thoroughly entertaining, yet also very unset-
tling. It’s a story many people would like to
forget, and yet‘a story that must be told. ‘There
is an interesting dynamic at work, performing a
Jewish play at a Presbyterian school, and for
that matter a Presbyterian school that hosted the
greatest theatre company in the world perform-
ing what is in many ways qn anti-Semitic play.

Yet where The Merchant of Venice mocked
Jewish stereotypes, The Diary of Anne Frank
celebrates the indomitable spirit that has de-
fined Judaism for centuries. There are more
than a few unanswered questions within the
Diary of Anne Frank. But that’s what makes it
such an incredible play. ;

The Diary of Anne Frank runs Oct. 23 through
the 27.

Beth Gardner ‘03 as Anne Frank

aspects of Hannibal Lector’s character are
learned through the dialogue of other charac-
ters. Here, the focus remains on Graham and the
Red Dragon. x

If the theatrical trailer for Red Dragon is any
indication, Hopkins’s Hannibal Lector will play
a much more prominent role, allowed for by
showing what is alluded to in Manhunter
through flashbacks and other techniques. While
I hope that this balance between Hannibal Lec-
tor and the search for the Red Dragon can be
maintained as well as it was with Buffalo Bill in
Silence of The Lamb, | fear the worst — that Red
Dragon will become an average attempt to

complete the Sir Anthony Hopkins / Hannibal
Lector trilogy and reap the financial benefits in
the process. However, keeping in mind
Hopkins’ work in the first two films, I’m still
eagerly anticipating the latest installment.

Butif you’re stuck outside a sold out showing
of Red Dragon, head over to one of our three
local (Exit 28, 25, or 23) Blockbusters and pick
up Manhunter. You won’t be disappointed in
this great cop/killer thriller, because “Hannibal
Lector’s legacy of evil begins here.”

Watch for our review of Red Dragon in the
next issue. — ioe ee
