INH:

Bush energy plan doesn’t
solve long-term problems

As the recent instability in the Middle
East and the attacks on America have demon-
strated, our dependence on oil from volatile
foreign sources jeopardizes our national se-
curity. President Bush is absolutely correct;
we do need to gain energy independence. We

owe it to our-
selves and to
future genera-
tions
Unfor-
tunately the en-
ergy plan of-
fered by Mr.
Bush does noth-
ing to help us’
| achieve long
|. _ cen, | term energy in-
Alex Massengale ‘04 ‘ependence. It
* centers almost
entirely on measures to increase supply and
consumption of oil and other resources, not
the promotion of more efficient use of re-
sources. More consumption and drilling are
not long-term solutions to our energy prob-
lems. Nor is drilling in the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge. Even if Bush’s widely opti-
mistic projections are correct, then ANWR
will provide less than 1% of the oil needed by
the United States. That won’t exactly provide
us with the kind of energy self-sufficiency
that we need. The fact is the U.S. lacks the oil
reserves to ever drill itself into energy self-
sufficiency.

While Bush’s energy plan may bring us
cheaper energy in the short-term, it does little
to prepare us for the inevitable switch to
renewable forms of energy, hurts the envi-
ronment and does very little to reduce our
reliance on Middle Eastern OPEC nations.
To make matters worse, the plan actually
reduces the amount of funding we are giving
to research on renewable energy.

Last week the Bush administration de-
cided to scrap the Partnership for New Gen-
eration Vehicles, which was designed to help
automakers develop vehicles that got better
fuel economy. Instead, they decided to put
that money into hydrogen research. They
seem to see a dichotomy between conserva-
tion and research. In reality, there is none. A
good, responsible and effective long-term
energy plan must work to both conserve
existing resources in the short-term, and work
to develop renewable energy for the long-
term.

Despite what Mr. Bush may think, basic
logic dictates that if you use less of some-
thing, you need kess of that something. Our
nation’s energy policy. and increasing con-
‘sumption over the last 20 years is shameful.
While other nations have taken proactive
- steps to use the world’s limited resources
more responsibly, the United States has con-
tinued to use more and more energy. The

average car sold in the U.S. today gets fewer
miles per gallon today than in 1980. Our total
energy consumption continues to rise annu-
ally.

The program cut by Bush, called a fail-
ure, had great promise and was very near its
goal. Prototypes cars like those shown at auto
shows could seat five, get over 70 miles per
gallon and cost nearly the same as any other
car. That’s three times the-gas mileage of
what the average new automobile gets today.
The benefit of having cars like these on the
market would be tremendous. Unfortunately,
it would also harm the bottom line of the oil
industry, and oilmen tend to stick together, so
Bush axed the project.

Technology is not the problem. We have

the technology to save fuel. The problem is
demand. As long as gasoline is a buck a
gallon, only the most socially conscious con-
sumers will make a switch. Government pro-
motion of conservation has been very suc-
cessful in the past and can be in the future. In
fact, between 1979 and 1983, the United
States actually reduced its energy usage.
Unfortunately, as memory of the long gas
lines of the 1970s became distant, we lost our
commitment to conservation. The govern-
ment needs to take the long view and help
promote conservation once again.
_ First, CAFErequirements must be raised
substantially and enforced. The loophole ex-
empting SUVs from these standards must be
closed. CAFE has proven effective in the
past, doubling average fuel economy in its
first ten years. Unfortunately since 1985,
standards and fuel economy have basically
been stagnant. Raising CAFE standards would
force automakers to implement and market
some of the technology they already have
developed.

Bush’s energy plan should include tax
credits and incentives that reward consumers
for making responsible decisions when pur-
chasing automobiles and building homes.
Using better insulation and techniques like

passive solar heating in ourhomes can greatly.

reduce our energy needs. Tax credits, subsi-
dies and incentives should also be offered to
make it economical for energy producers in
the private sector to produce energy through
more efficient, cleaner or renewable ways.
America is at a crossroads. If Congress
and the President provide firm and effective
leadership on the issue of energy, then we can,
not only reduce our current energy usage, but
develop renewable energy forms for the fu-
ture. If they don’t, they will only be leaving a

. problem for future generations to confront.

Hopefully Mr. Bush will be able to see
beyond his ties to the oil industry and do
what’s right for the future. Eventually, and in
our lifetimes, we will be forced to take these
steps. Sooner is better than later.

- Cannon Hodge ‘04

.

Parking tickets aside - unity over laundry

You know [have to say that there are only .a few days out of the year that students should
actually feel safe about parking whereever they so choose. I for one tried to take advantage —
of one of these days, but I was taken advantage of instead.

- So, for the amusement of all and for the sake of losing

Tim Cook ‘04

those readers captivated only by cheap thrills and boring sub-
plots, it’s story time..:

It was a dark, cold night. In fact it was three days ago and
I was just returning to Sentelle after a long, tough hockey
practice and had a huge load of groceries consisting of eigh-
teen bottles of ketchup, or Catsup for the old fashioned folk.
I pulled into the laundry bay parking lot, you know the one that
looks like a dream to good people of Cannon, Sentelle and
Duke. Well, anywho, I thought to myself, “Hey Tim, tomor-
row is the great holiday of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and
since we as students are out of school, I will make the
assumption that the great physical plant and laundry workers

ei will also receive the day off as well.” So I parked my car and
hauled my groceries, hockey equipment, bible and statue of Martin Luther King up to my third
floorroom. “Whew! I sure am glad that tomorrow is MLK day soI didn’ thave to park in Baker
with all of this stuff,” said Tim to his little gnome friend.

I then went about my merry way and did my homework and went to bed before 11 pm like
momma always said. The next morning, after waking up bright and early around noon, I was
horrified to find my first ever parking ticket lying across my windshield, now stripped of its
innocense. As you might have guessed, I immediately considered the social reprocussions of
the events surrounding my violation. Why are we out of school if the staff who we owe so
much to still putting in a.full day? I guess maybe I am really bitter about getting a ticket for
a simple mistake, but I truly believe that we as students could have gotten by with one more
day without laundry service as long as our brethren could celebrate along with us the

achievements of the great Dr. King.

“For writers are frequently carried away by artificials emotions of their own making which
have nor elation to their subject matter. Like drunkards, they are beside themselves, but their
audience is not, and their passion naturally appears unseemly to those who are not moved at

all.”
Longinus
A long time ago

kkk
Pied tear
RA ALN

AAA Ae

i
tkrekk ta:

When tragedy strikes,
cherish those you love

I’ve always wanted to live somewhere else.
There was always some place on the map that
seemed much more exciting than the dismal
suburban metropolis of Fort Worth, Texas. I
usually dreaded my return home because it
was areminder of what once was familiar and

now remains be-

plates of a pic-
ture frame. This
year, however, I
was welcomed
with a surprise.

A family
friend presented
my family with
astory that Inow
want to share
with the
Davidson fam-
ily. The friend
reminded us of a national hero, Todd Beamer,
a passenger on United Airlines Flight 93 who
in the final hour of his life united with strang-
ers in order to defend our country. The words
“Let’s roll” are the last we. heard from him.
Todd Beamer had no conception of the im-
portance that those words would hold or how
much they would be cherished. They became
our country’s motto during the War on Ter-
rorism.

hind the glass~—

Back to my home at Christmas time. The
stockings had returned. All six hung on the
stone mantle beneath my brother’s collection
of nutcrackers. For the first time since my
sister’s death several years ago, my family
had begun to feel a new sense of homeliness.
Suddenly I felt the presence of the two miss-
ing family members whose names were
monogrammed on the stockings. This year
my family was able to celebrate without the
harrowing reminders of the family that once
was. I was able to recognize the unity of my
small family and appreciate the strength of
my mother, the determination of my eldest
brother, Trey and the sensitivity of my other
brother, Daniel.

Although we are often presented with trag-
edies, we must find ways to move on with our
lives. Had Todd Beamer and his partners not
confronted the Flight 93 hijackers, another
plane would have flown into another build-
ing, endangering thousands.

If my family continued to mourn the deaths
of my sister and father, then our Christmas
would not have had the same significance and
Fort Worth would not have become home
again. For the year 2002, I recommend that
you relish the relationships with those you

cherish and renew you have lost. This year is
what we make of it, so — let’s roll.
