Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

The 15th-ranked Penn State women’s la- ~

crosse team defeated Davidson 13-5 Friday
afternoon amid lightening strikes and sudden
downpours to improve to 5-7, 2-1 in the
American Lacrosse Conference. The Wild-
cats fell:to 5-9, 0-3 in conference action.

Senior midfielder B.J. Lucey got the Lions
started off quickly, scoring less than three
minutes into the game on a pass from fresh-
man Emily Chambers, bit Davidson answered
with a goal of their own by senior Blair Otto
at the 24:32 mark.

Another Lucey goal nine seconds later put
the Lions up 2-1, and marked the beginning
of an 8-0 Penn State scoring run that would
last until 17 minutes left in the second half.

Senior Brooke Bailey converted a shot
from sophomore Katie Jeschke at the 21:10
mark, followed by two goals within 20 min-
utes from freshman Kristen Burke. Senior
Molly Ford tallied a goal on a free position
shot with 1:25 remaining in the half to put
Penn State up 6-1 at the end of the first stanza.

Penn State picked up where it had left off,
with Lucey scoring her third goal of the game

just 20 seconds into the half. Junior Colleen
O’Hara mimicked Lucey two minutes later,
putting the Lions up 8-1.

A converted Bailey free position shot with
17:04 remaining pushed the score to 9-1. But
the Wildcats. charged back, tallying three
goals, two by senior Sarah Otto,-within a two
and a half minute span to make the score 9-4
in favor of the Lions.

Then Mother Nature took over. A lighten-
ing strike suspended play with 11:41 remain-
ing in the contest, forcing fans and players

alike scrambling for cover as a sudden down-

pour enveloped Jeffrey Field.

Twenty minutes later, play resumed as the
sun returned to Happy Valley. Davidson’s
Loren Seaton tallied the first goal after the
break, bringing the Wildcats to within four
goals with seven minutes to play.

A free position goal by Penn State sopho-
more Jamie Donahue increased the margin to
five and goals by Lucey, Donahue and sopho-
more Katie Hartman made the final tally 13-
5.

Davidson’s Becca Nussbaum notched 17
saves while PSU goalkeeper Lee Tortorelli
recorded 7 saves .

The next day, the team dropped its ninth

ing 7-6 loss to Northwestern.

Davidson falls to 5-10, 0-4 in conference
action.

Davidson got into the scoring column first
with a goal by senior Christin Raimondo, but
Northwestern scored the next four goals and
took a 4-1 lead at the intermission.

Northwestern continued its stretch of con-

secutive goals to six with a pair of goal to
open the second period. -

Raimondo tallied her second goal of the

game to make the score 6-2 in favor of North-
western.

The Davidson Wildcats continued to rally,
as the Otto twins scored the next three goals
of the game.

Sarah Otto scored with just over 20 min-
utes to play and then had her sister, Blair, add
two more to cut the lead to just one goal, 6-5,
with 12:34 left in the game.

Northwestern scored the game-winning
goal with just over six minutes to play before
Sarah Otto added a final goal with 1:04 to
play in the game.

The Wildcats close out the season next
weekend with games at Ohio on April 26 and
at Ohio State on April 28.

Uptown Area

(704) 334-4400

(901 S. Kings Dr. Location)

Dip 1 into something different.

Experience one of Charlotte's most unique restaurants.
Come any evening to relax, unwind and enjoy fabulous
fondue, fine wine and fun times.

The Q-

Melting | Dot,

a fondite reste restaurant

RESERVATIONS RECOMMENDED

www. meltingpotcharlotte.com

yf

University Area
(704) 548-2432

(230 E. WT Harris Blvd. Location)

straight contest with a close, but disappoint-

Crew Club Secretary

In the past, the Davidson crew has only
gone to the Southern Intercollegiate Row-
ing Association Regatta (SIRA) as a learn-
ing experience and to see some of the best
clubs in the nation compete. This year,
Davidson surprised those incredibly power-
ful teams and showed them that it can no
longer be taken lightly.

Although the varsity men’s team cap-
tured medals at each of the spring regattas
this year, hardly anyone thought they could
achieve a top ranking amidst SIRA’s stiff
competition. Even when they made a strong
showing in the earlier heats, placing second
in the preliminaries and third in the semi-
finals, it still seeried MAURY iat 4 snes
was in reach.

In the finals, however, the varsity men
stepped up their performance and fought

hard against the University of Texas to tie

for the bronze medal. Asa matter of fact, the
battle for third place was so close that the
race officials could not decide which boat
finished first even after watching the video-
tape. The judges finally compared race times
and found that the two teams both: com-
pleted the race in exactly 7:17.43 seconds
and granted both teams the bronze.
The men’s victory is even more impressive
considering that crew at Davidson is a club
sport and does not have a full-time coach,
unlike most of the other teams at SIRA. The
varsity men will advance to the Champion
Collegiate Regatta which will be held in
Gainsville, GA, in mid-May. This will be the
first time in the history of Davidson crew that
a boat will attend a national regatta. a
Despite their amazing finish at SIRA, the
varsity men remain humble about their vic-
tory. While sophomore varsity rower, Charlie
Babcock, acknowledges his boat’s accom-

plishments because it “represents a phenom-
enal race” and “attests to the importance of

determination in achieving one’s goals,” he
quickly points out that the rest of the team also
made an impressive showing.

“The attention we have received,” says
Babcock, “neglects the novice men and var-
sity women who also had spectacular races.”

Bar, cat atest og ie un acd, s

