Eipine the
Enron collapse

ne right: Enron
documents are protected

A common criticism of Conservatives is
their close ties with big business. Excluding
the obvious counter-example of Ted Turner

(who some-
times makes
Ted Kennedy
look like a
fascist), they
often have a
valid argu-
ment. There
has been a
great deal of
crossovers
between
“right-wing
political con-
sultants and
several large corporations. The result of this
mixing is a dubious mix of economic inter-
ests and political power.

After the energy corporation Enron de-
clared bankruptcy on Dec. 2, 2001, informa-
tion concerning a possible link between the
White House and the corporation have come
to light. Cries of impropriety from the press
bring back memories of the Clinton years.
White House officials withholding files, an
angry Congress demanding documents be
revealed, and leaders denying responsibility.
Does the stench of scandal emanating from
the Bush White House smell as rotten as its
predecessor’s? The simple answer is a re-
sounding, “no

When the General Accounting Office, a
body created by Congress to monitor itself,
asked White House officials for documents
concerning the financial interests they readily
complied. No violations were found. How-
ever, some members of Congress are not
satisfied. They and the GAO are demanding

Mike Galdo 04

Time is now for campaign finance

Campaign finance reform was one of the
top issues in the 2000 election largely be-
cause of the efforts of rebel Republican can-
didate John McCain. Over the past year,
House Republican leaders have done a very
effective job of si-
lencing any ef-
forts to reintro-
duce a campaign
finance bill. Now,
with the Enron
scandal. showing
just how corrupt
and damaging
soft money can
be, campaign fi-
nance is knocking

on the House doors once again.

Last week, a petition was signed by the
required 218 members of Congress to require
House speaker Dennis Hastert to allow a vote
on the Shays-Meehan Bill, the name of the
new campaign finance bill. Now that the
legislation will finally be brought to the floor,
it is important to step back and realize just
how important campaign finance laws would
be to our political system.

The Shays-Meehan bill would limit soft
money donations and would ban political
advertising by outside groups. Enron was just
one of many examples of large corporations
that made significant soft money donations.

.In fact, since 1989, Enron has contributed
over $6 million in soft money donations.

to see notes from all of Vice President Dick
Cheney’s meetings with Enron executives. In
response, the Vice President has avowed sev-
eral times that records of his private meetings
will not be made public. The press cries foul,
but I believe he is in the right legally and
morally.

My libertarian leanings make me firm be-
liever in the stringent policing of govern-
ment. Unless national security requires that
an institution overstep its bounds, every law
should be strictly enforced. As Thomas
Jefferson said, “It is the natural progress of
things is for government to gain ground and
for liberty to yield.” If Cheney broke the law,
he should be held accountable.

On the other hand, I am concerned with the
long-term implications of the GAO’s actions.
By extending this institution’s powers to the
executive branch it raises troubling implica-
tions for the future balance of power within
our government. It could also impede the
Vice President in his main responsibility:
advising the president.

Congress demanding a list of everyone
who met with the Vice President, as well as
notes from the meetings, is a severe en-
croachment on executive power. Enron is not
the cousin of Watergate or any of the “-
Gates” that haunted the Clinton White House.

It is, however, a crumbling corporation that |
should be thoroughly investigated to protect |
stockholders, as well as an issue that the |

administration should discuss openly.

But the GAO should cease its attempt to
acquire the Vice President’s records. Not
because of faith in Cheney’s morals, but for
the simple reason that to do so would be a
serious degradation to the Constitutional pow-
ers of the executive branch.

Donations of this magnitude by such large
corporations lead to political parties being
indebted to these companies. Such feelings of
indebtedness in turn lead to political favors
that benefit these corporations, not the coun-

WE YEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2002 =

Imagination, memories

hold the key to happiness

It’s important to
cherish the
insignificant

The other day I received a telephone call
from one of my YaYas, Rory. The YaYas
were my closest friends in boarding school.
We were the girls who snuck Cosmopolitan
into Sunday
chapel services,
sang karoake
on our dormi-
tory desks, read
the same books
atthesame time
and blamed un-
fortunate
freshman girls
for our own
messes and mis-
takes. The
YaYas made
boarding school memorable.

I hadn’t thought about them recently, and
calling them hadn’t even crossed my mind.
These were the girls who knew my secret
fears and loved me because of them. They
made me brave and they made me smile,
oftentimes without their own knowledge.

Live out of your imagination instead of
your memory — Les Brown.

The YaYas thrived on imagination. A dull
Saturday night in our dorm was transformed

Cannon Hodge ‘04

try. For instance, President Bush’s energy | |

policy, which would increase our reliance on |

large energy companies rather than trying to
increase our energy efficiency, helps those
very companies that contributed to Mr. Bush’s
campaign. ;

Soft money contributions undermine our
democracy. Very few corporations can’ af-
ford to donate to the political parties, and
those that can often gain unfair influence over
legislation and policy-making.

The result is an increasingly small group of
wealthy businessmen having an increasingly
loud voice in how our country is run, all at the
expense of smaller companies and individu-
als.

It is essential that Congress pass the Shays- .

Meehan Bill in its current form. Some mem-
bers of Congress, such as Representative Bob
Ney, have tried to introduce alternative cam-
paign finance bills that essentially ignore the

key issues. Mr. Ney’s plan would simply cap, -

not ban soft money donations, and at a level
nearly equal to that of past donations.
Campaign finance reform is too important
to brush aside in this manner. It is anissue that
will help shape the future of our political
system, and therefore our country.

into a steak cookout on the patio, an explora-
tion through the campus woods in search of
the perfect location for our fort, sneaking
below dorm levels after hours for late night
phone calls, planning imaginary trips to
Mexico and making ‘Top 10 randoms’ lists.

These memories remind me that although

my YaYas now are far away — there once was
a time when we were all that mattered in our
simple world of censured boarding school
meals and basketball games.
_ What seems so vital now will, in time, be
just another cobwebbed chore. We won’t
remember that excellent thesis statement or
the grade that we received on a research
paper.

We will, however, remember the time that
our football team beat Georgetown and ev-
eryone rushed the field and eventually tore
down the goal posts, the way that students
met in the new Union to pray for the victims
of Sept. 11 or that time when a bunch of crazy
boys decided that it would be really cool to
put vegetable oil on First Richardson Hall
during Self Selection Morning.

It is important to relish in what seems
insignificant—the long walks with your friends
discussing what it would be like to fall asleep
while walking in the middle of the airport, the
words that yourroommate mumbled last night
in her sleep, or that one feature of.your best
friend that will always and only remind you
of them.

Maybe Les Brown is right. But I’d like
to think of it as using one’s imagination to
live and cherish the moments that once
existed.

