@ ALENDA LU

DAvipsSON COLLEGE

‘WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2002

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 12

CLOSE CALL IN CAMERON

By Mart GarrFiELD
Managing Editor

It’s not often that a 15-point loss will change
your outlook on an entire season.

But judging by the reaction from opposing
teams and media commentators, the men’s bas-
ketball team’s 95-80 loss to Duke may have
done exactly that.

Coupled with a road win over Navy and two
blowouts against Division III opponents, the
Wildcats (3-1) are off to a surprising start in
what many thought would be a rebuilding year.

Three more tests come in the next six days,
when James Madison, Charlotte and St.
Bonaventure visit Belk Arena in key non-con-
ference games.

Saturday’s contest against the 49ers will
likely draw Belk Arena’s biggest crowd in four
years. More than 5,000 people, including 2,000
49ers supporters, may come close to selling out
the 5,700-seat arena, said Ticket Office Man-
ager Lee Sargent.

That would make it the best-attended game in
Belk Arena since 1999, when 5,500 fans

watched College of Charleston continue a 15-- -

game winning streak with an 84-80 victory.

“This is a game to to there early,” s aid. :

Wayne Bernard and Peter Anderer (right) pressure Duke’s Dahntay
‘Jones during last Monday’s 95-80 Blue Devils win. Story, page 12.

Showdown with Charlotte
highlights big basketball week

The Wildcats’

Week Ahead
THURSDAY

vs. James
Madison

8

eae S RDA Y ‘

vs. Charlotte

TuEspay.

vs. St. |
Bonaventure :

All games begin at 7 p.m.

Saigenr
Davidson hasn’t beaten the 49ers since a.56-
a pes ied 1996, losing six times since then. But

see Charlotte, pages

rn

News — 1-4
How stressed are you? Artists make stress
part of a campus-wide display. Story on
page 4.

Arts & Living 5-6
8 Mile reviewed. Story on page 5.
Perspectives - 7-8

Student supports smoking in dorms. See
letter on page 8.

Sports ; 9-12
Men’s basketball challenges Duke, falls
95-80. Story on page 12. :

INSIDE THIS WEEK a

The lights are on the Chambers tree, and David
for Christmas. See schedule of celebrations on page 2.

Peace Group founded to
examine alternatives to war

Founders hope new

group will propose
peaceful solutions

By JuLiz Gorr
Staff Writer

Today, with the U.S. potentially on the brink
of war with Iraq, many Americans are reviving
discussions of peaceful progress, just as King
and Mahatma Ghandi did through the 20th

. century.

Thatrevival is finding its way to the Davidson
campus, where faculty and students are holding
regular discussions about war and peace to talk
about alternatives to war in a peaceful setting.

The idea for the group came about in a
backyard meeting between neighbors and
Davidson faculty-- Biology Professor Malcolm
Campbell and Ruth Pittard of the Community
Service Office.

They decided they wanted to see an alterna-
tive voice raised on campus in response to the
media-driven, pro-war sentiment that they say
seems to be the norm amongst most Americans
today.

The product of their discussion is the newly
formed Peace Group.

Pittard and Campbell are adamant that this is
a personal endeavor for them both; they take
great interest in making peace a viable alterna-
tive to the violence that our Western culture

Alternative gift fair

By EvizaBETH CAMPBELL

Holiday giving projects ,

seems to apply to all conflicts, large and small.

The Peace Group aims to discuss why devas-
tating wars are not the answer, and how societies
can go about revolution in other ways.

While this may reek of Vietnam-era anti-
warism, the Peace Group makes sure to differ-
entiate its peaceful views from violently dem-
onstrated anti-war beliefs.

In their discussions, the group starts with the
idea that war, throughout history, has not com-
pletely accomplished each of the goals that it
sets out to achieve. Thus, peaceful alternatives
are more civilized means to the same good
intentions that may begin wars.

Pittard describes the discussion atmosphere
as peaceful; participants can offer differing opin-
ions, but the tone of the sessions has little anger
or aggression.

Recent topics of discussion have included the
effects of war, children of war and the conse-
quences of Sept. 11. Talks usually center on
documentary films or guest speakers from the
Davidson community.

The Peace Group has met each Friday after-
noon this semester, and there has been a consis-
tent core of about 20 attendees. The group plans
to continue weekly discussions next semester,"
and all members of the community are wel-
come. Also, the group hopes to co-sponsor more
prominent outside speakers in evening lectures
this spring.

Next semester should also bring interesting
discussion, as the U.S. government may take
military action over the Christmas holiday.

Still Pittard says, “We [the United States]
should be looking to be Solomon, not the Termi-
nator.”

Toys for Tots

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH

Special Contributor

Ever had trouble shopping for someone, the
person who has everything that Belk and Target
can provide, or the person who you can never
seem to please?. Why not stop by the Union
Atrium this Sunday. from 2-4p.m.? Various
organizations from campus will be there for the
Alternative Gift Fair, an event that sponsors
gifts to help people worldwide.

Over 30 gifts will be available and range in
price from $1 to $330. Gifts include a night of
shelter for a homeless person in the United
States, access to a solar computer for a student
in Loas, materials for a well and pump to a
family in Brazil, and mountain bikes for needy
families in Mali.

“Alternative gifts are special gifts,” said one
of the organizers of the event. “They help us
focus on the real meaning of Christmas, and
where else you could purchase a llama in honor
of your parents? It’s a wonderful opportunity to
purchase a gift for someone you love that really

» makes a difference.”

The Alternative Gift Fair is supported by the
Chaplain’s Office, Sanctuary Fellowship, and
other service work through many other campus
organizations.

Special Contributor

There’s more than sports on the mind: of
Davidson’ s Student Athletic Advisory Council
this winter. The SAAC will join with the United
States Marine Corps’ Toys for Tots program to
coordinate a campus-wide collection of toys for
underprivileged youths.

On Dec. 2, the SAAC will place donation
boxes in the Patterson Court houses, Alverez
College Union, team locker roonis, and other
prominent campus locations. Davidson students
and faculty will then have until December 3) to
fill the boxes with toy donations.

On Dec.10, the college’s donations will be
displayed at the men’s basketball game against
St. Bonaventure to encourage donations from
the Davidson community.

After the game, all donations will be col-
lected by the Marine Corps and prepared for
their holiday destinations. The SAAC hopes to
elicit a large response from both the college and
the town. Everyone is urged to donate gener-
ously.

For more information about the Toys for
Totsdrive, contact Erin Rosintoski
(errosintoski) or Meggie Patterson

(mgpatterson).
