The Union Board brought several
entertainers to the evening, including a
caricature artist and clown (right).

_ Popular cover group
- Rubber Band returned to
- Davidson to play for the
_ Jamboree.

Chen, from page 2

what we call the “economic miracle,” said
Dr. Rigger after the talk. “When Taiwan
began to plan industrialization, they looked
to other countries and said, ‘what do you need
made and how much do you need?’ Then,
with confidence, they figured out how to
make marketable goods, and created an ex-
plosion of small-scale manufacturing.”
However, this small-scale manufacturing
is being threatened, as businesses are moving

across the sea to China, where land and labor ©

is cheaper and more readily available.

Chen stressed the need for Taiwan to main-
tain close ties with the US through threats of
growing economic competition. He attrib-
uted US aid as an important factor in Taiwan’ s
development, and recognized the need for
continued travel, study, and trade between
the two countries.

He also insisted that both the U.S. and

Asia, from page 1

C.J. Chen at a Jan. 24 public lecture. Chen
highlighted U.S.-Taiwan-China relations, and
stressed the importance of cross-cultural in-
tegration and understanding. These themes,
said Rigger, are exactly what the private
donor hoped to support with the financial

Taiwan could gain from established ambas-
sadorships. “The closeness of our relation-
ship is really unprecedented, but there are
things that we cannot do because we have no
diplomatic ties.”

Throughout his speech, Chen expressed
confidence in the Taiwan-U.S. relationship,
saying that the U.S. would never sacrifice
Taiwan in order to strengthen ties with the
PRC. “Wetrust the American people, and we
share common interests and values,” said
Chen, reiterating the importance of civil lib-
erties and political competition in each of the
two democratic systems.

Chen’s visit marked the first activity funded
by a new $1 million grant to the Dean Rusk
Program in International Studies. Over the
next four years, the grant will be used: to
develop an East Asian component to the
Asian studies program. The grant will also

“support two new professorships, one full

scholarship, and faculty and student research,
study, and travel. :

contribution.

The grant will fund another lecture on Feb.
10, featuring Dru Gladney of the University
of Hawaii. He will speak on “Islamic Ex-

tremism in China: Cana 9-11 happen there?”
Dean Rusk grant applications are due by
Feb. 14. Interested students should contact
Irene Middleton or Dr. Shelley Rigger for
more information about grant possibilities.

J anuary €€

Friday, Jan. 25, 2002

Photos by Amanda Young

A Union Board Event

Forum, from page 1

yet to be determined.

Some students, however, were unsatisfied
with this answer. “Many students, including
myself, came to discuss the reopening of the
Outpost, and we were told that it was not a
topic of conversation. Reopening the Out-
post makes so much sense to so many people,
it’s a shame to skirt the issue,” said Union
Board Vice-President Adam Hill ‘03.

The Outpost, formerly a late-night eatery,
was closed for food services when the Alvarez
College Union opened in Fall 2001.

After the group addressed previous issues,
Vagt led a discussion on current concerns.

The rest of the hour addressed eight specific
topics: school-sponsored transportation, cam-
pus programming, the use of the campus
center, the enhancement of student/faculty
relationships, communication with campus
police, sports clubs, student conduct on week-
ends and the role of alcohol in the social
scene. Aftera brief discussion, the group split
into committees to formulate specific action
plans.

“The social forum was great because it
focused not on just identifying problems, but
also on encouraging attendees to be pro-
active and develop solutions for the issues
raised,” said Nancy Kohler ’03, PCC Chan-
cellor. .

Staff writer Roland F. Foss contributed to
this article.

Summer Camp in Atlanta

Westminster Day Camp seeks employees with integrity and character to fill all
positions (swimming, canoeing, archery, arts and crafts, etc., and general camp
counselors). Campers are 4-13 years old. Camp dates are June 1 0-July 19,
Monday-Friday, 8:30-4:00 and orientation June 4-7. Please call 404 609-6265 for
application and salary scale or apply on-line:

www. westminster.net/campstaff

SPRING BREAK 2002
Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida.
Join Student Travel Services,
Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.
Promote Trips at Davidson College
Earn Cash or Free Trips.
On Campus Contact
Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
Information/ Reservations: 1-800-648-4849

Or www.ststravel.com

