discussion continues:

rec

Davidson has “a long way to go,” but administrative committment to diversity i is strong

By AMEE PATEL

Staff Writer

In his State of the College address over Fam-
ily Weekend, President Vagt said, “Things go
well at Davidson. This means we have good
days and less good days. When the demo-
graphic numbers for this year’s incoming class
came out, it was a less than good day.”

According to Dean of Admissions Nancy
Cable, “Diversity is the top priority of both this
institution and of Admissions.” Indeed, much
of this semester, has revolved around diversity.
SGA’s Council on Minority Affairs has held
several panel discussions on minority issues,
Diversity Week gave students and staff
glimpses into different cultures, and the BSC
has sponsored a series of forums on topics such
as “Diversity at Davidson” and “Interracial
Dating.”

These efforts, however, are limited to those
on campus, and can have little effect on pro-
spective students. A recent survey by Dr. Pat
Sellers’s Public Opinions class found that 61%
of respondents feel that “‘the fact that Davidson’ s
student body is primarily white deters minority
students from enrolling here.”

To address this problem, the admissions of-
fice is pumping up their recruitment of minori-
ties. According to Cable, “When the applicant
pool grows, it allows increased opportunity for
a racially diversified class.”

For the class of 2006, only 152 black stu-
dents applied. Of these, 65 were accepted. And

of these 65 students, only 15 enrolled.

The campus was left asking not why the ©

actual number of first-year black students is so
low, but rather why only 15 of those accepted
chose Davidson,

Inasearch for insight, the college has funded
recruitment projects aimed specifically at black
and Hispanic students. Resultantly, the school
has attained the names of National Achieve-
ment Scholars, in-

similar, though not as conspicuous, trend has

surfaced among Hispanic applicants, which in- -

creased from 56 to 97 within the same time
frame.

Still lacking is similar recruitment program
within the Asian-American population. Cable
admits that the focus on recruitment has re-
mained on black and Hispanic students. Per-
haps because of the lack of recruitment efforts

for Asian Americans,

creasing potential re-
cruits; organized mi-
nority parent-to-par-
ent letter campaigns
and held phone-a-
thons to show stu-
dents around the
country the opportu-

nities Davidson §of- ; pool has remained at
fers. - Bobby Vagt in the State approximately 100.
Another major im- of the College Address each year. Of the 101

provement involves
the increased travel of
admissions officers around the country. “In the
past two years, urban, inner-city, magnet high
schools have been added to recruitment travel,”
says Cable. “‘Admissions officers travel to cit-
ies such as Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati,
and even Charlotte. In the last eight weeks, our
ten admissions officers have been to over 40
states.”

Improved recruitment has increased the ap-
plicant pool for black students from 61 in the
class of 1998 to 152 in the class of 2006. A

PiKA brothers bowl for
Leukmia and Lymphoma

By Jerr Nick
Special Contributor

On Saturday, Oct. 19, the brothers. of Pi
Kappa Alpha converged on Moor Lanes to put
one of their worthless talents to good use. In-
stead of just bowling for jollies, they devised a
way to manipulate bowling into a fundraiser for
The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. They
found people whose feeling of outrage at the
disease’s existence rivaled theirown, and deftly
convinced them to sponsor the outing, either
with a lump sum or a per-pin donation.

The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society has a
mission that is easy to identify with—they aim
to cure leukemia, lymphoma, Hodgkin’s dis-

ease and myeloma, and to improve the quality
of life of afflicted patients and their
families. Fired up by the cause, many brothers
had career games, bowling well over their sea-
son averages and emptying the pockets of their
sponsors.

Particularly helpful in making the afternoon
a success were the donations made by Connor,
Warner Hall and Rusk eating houses and
O’Donnell’s Main Street deli. Coupled with
the uncanny bowling abilities of the brothers,
these donations pushed the grand total to over
$1000. This money will be donated and used to
hopefully aid the Society in devising a cure for
blood-related cancers.

History professors partner
with local high school teachers

Press RELEASE
College Communications

Four professors from Davidson are collabo-
rating with Charlotte/Mecklenburg School sys-
tem (CMS) history teachers to improve student
achievement and appreciation of U.S. history.

Their partnership is being funded by a recent
$979,000 “Teaching American History” grant
from the U.S. Department of Education. CMS
received one of the largest of 114 such grants
awarded to school systems in 39 states and the
District of Colombia. Grants ranged from
$19,561 to $1,000,000.

Although CMS enrollment numbers for ad-
vanced placement courses in U.S. history have
steadily increased in recent years, test scores
have not followed suit. Becky Finger, the CMS
K-12 Social Studies Curriculum Specialist, ex-
plained that the new initiative comes as a re-
sponse to teacher complaints about the diffi-
culty of preparing students for written essay

portions of the AP test.
’ When CMS received its grant, Finger con-
tacted Professor Sally McMillen, chair of the
Davidson history department, about establish-
~ ing a partnership under the grant to help train

and support CMS teachers. McMillen and three
other department members, Assistant Profes-
sor Daniel Aldridge, Professor Ralph Levering,
and Associate Professor John Wertheimer, ac-
cepted the offer.

The grant will fund a-week-long training
session at the Smithsonian Museum in Wash-
ington, D.C., next summer for about fifty CMS
teachers and the Davidson faculty members.
The local group will-be the first trained under a
new program that has been co-developed in the
last year by the Smithsonian and the College
Board staff.

The Smithsonian program will train both
high school AP U.S. History teachers and
middle school American History teachers in
using artifacts, primary documents, and other
resources to make history tangible for students.
The grant also enables the school system to
create a “vertical teaming” advising program
that establishes continuity and consensus in
subject matter and pedagogy from the eighth
grade to the eleventh grade to the college level.
Davidson’s professors will observe the
Smithsonian training session to prepare to serve
as ongoing advisers to the CMS teachers.

“When the demographic

numbers for this year’s in-
coming class came out, it
was a less than good day.”

their applicant and
enrollment numbers
have remained un-
changed for eight
years. Except for the
class of 1999’s 112
applicants, the Asian-
American applicant

applicants inthe class
j of 2006, only ten
Asian Americans enrolled.

Cable also emphasizes the importance of
preserving Davidson’s academic excellence.
She says, “Davidson does not have any quota
for any cohort of students.” Once recruitment
efforts have diversified the applicant pool,
Davidson neither gives preferential treatment
nor relies on predetermined numbers of racial
groups in admitting students.

While the admissions office has initiated new
recruitment programs, the student body is not

the only source of concern. According to Cable,
“The faculty is as important in increasing diver-
sity as admissions. Here at Davidson, we need
to ask ourselves if we are making each student
feel welcome.”

Diversity within the faculty provides poten-
tial students with a more encompassed view of
the college. Clark Ross, Dean of Faculty, ob-
serves, “Having a more diverse faculty is ben-
eficial for all students because they are all taught
in an environment that better reflects the real
world.”

According to Ross, each department is
“strongly encouraged” to broaden their pool of
potential employees, from secretaries to profes-
sors. Under the recommendations of each de-
partment head, the Dean of Faculty and Presi-

‘dent make final decisions on hiring new faculty

members.

Ross says, “The objective of the Dean of
Faculty office is to increase faculty diversity
from a demographic point of view and the
number of potential faculty who are of color and
women. In last ten years, we have gdtten much
better.”

With the same optimism, Cable admits,
“Davidson does have a long way to go. How-
ever, I hope the campus can understand that the
depth of commitment within this institution
cannot be any greater. We are dedicated to
making Davidson a welcoming place to all
students.”

Fr ats, from page 1

ing the institution of a historically black frater-
nity. This time, they have the numbers.

With Shandley’s encouragement, the men
sought and received support from both PCC and
the BSC. With strong backing, the proposition
went before CCRL, who recommended its ap-
proval to the president. With President Bobby
Vagt’s approval, a committee formed, chaired
by Robert Norfleet and including students, fac-
ulty and staff. Five historically black fraterni-
ties were invited to apply to establish a chapter
at Davidson, two of which accepted the invita-
tion.

Jason Scott ’04 and Vincent Benjamin ’04
are among those spearheading the movement.
“Tt all began during our freshman year,” ex-

plains Scott. “Many of the males discussed how

we could become more a part of the campus and
improve our Davidson experience. We also
believed that the presence of ahistorically black
fraternity would increase the diversity and cul-
tural awareness not only on campus, but also

Matt Whited
Phi Beta Sigma representative Charles
Amerson addresses the group: at
Tuesday’s meeting.

within the community.”

“Patterson Court is an integral
part of Davidson’s social life,”
says Benjamin, “and it should re-
flect the growing diversity of
Davidson.” . Indeed, the black

' male population on campus has
doubled since the 1991 push for a
new fraternity.

“The lack of African-American
members of Patterson Court
speaks for itself,” adds Benjamin.
“In order for African-American
males to truly feel a part of this
campus, a historically black fra-
ternity is a necessity.”

The: administrative stance on
the prospect of chartering a his-
torically black fraternity is posi-
tive. Jeffries commented, “Weare
very limited on campus when it
comes to black male role models.
This will expose students imme-
diately to aninternational network
of role models. The benefits go
well beyond the college experi-
ence—this is a life- -long commit-
ment.”

Scott agrees, “Historically
black fraternities have the primary goal of bring-
ing males together, reaching out to the youth,
and acting as role models. That is what many of
the youth in not only the Davidson area, butalso
in the Charlotte area, need.” ;

About thirty sharply dressed Davidson stu- .
dents joined faculty, staff, alumni and adminis-
trators at last night’s presentation for Phi Beta
Sigma. Southeastern Regional Director of Pub-
licity Charles Amerson gave a PowerPoint pre-
sentation explaining the history of the organiza-
tion, outlining the ways the fraternity could
benefit the school and stressing an emphasis on
leadership. Among the points Amerson made
was that historically black fraternities could
encourage diversity in the applicant pool, and
that the organization is dedicated to encourag-
ing academic success among members.

A Lenoir-Rhyne charter brother in the audi-
ence, though, encouraged Davidson students to
think carefully about this decision. “Regardless
of which organization you choose,” he said,
“make sure it’s from your heart. Know that
you’re going to make a difference.”
