Reflect

ions on another successful

semester for Wildcat athletics

Well, the end of the semester is rapidly
approaching and this is the last issue of The
Davidsonian until mid-January.

Many Davidson students (and probably a
few parents and alumni for that matter) will
now have to look elsewhere for material to
read while sitting on the john.

Looking back on it all, I’d have to say it’s
been a pretty successful four months for
Davidson athletics.

Coach Mike Toop’s football team finished
sixth among Division I-AA mid-major teams,
and senior linebacker Jim Carney was named
the Pioneer Football League South Division’s
Defensive Player of the Year.

Men’s and women’s soccer each had suc-
cessful seasons, finishing third and fourth,
respectively, inthe Southern Conference, while
senior goalie Soren Johnson garnered Verizon
Academic All-America First Team honors for
his outstanding work on and off the field.

Led by all-SoCon selections Roberta Quis
and Tisha Chapman, the volleyball team en-
tered the conference tournament as the third
seed, only to drop a tough semifinal match to
second seeded College of Charleston in five
games. ,

Both cross-country teams participated in
the NCAA Southeast Regionals where senior
Brad Becken finished 17th overall, and the
lady runners placed third at the SoCon Cham-
pionships for the team’s best finish since join-
ing the conference in 1985.

Of course, we can’t forget Ben Friedell and
the Wildcat golf team, whose first place fin-
ishes at the Sea Trail Invitational were the first
individual and team victories for Davidson at
a golf event since...well, no one really knows,
but it’s been awhile.

As for this sports section, Ican only hope we
have brought you “all the news and informa-
tion fit to print”, as the New York Times might
say.

This column has covered everything from
the Red Sox (Yankees Suck) to ESPN (Max

Kellerman Sucks), and taken a few too many
cheap shots at New Yorkers in the process.

But!’ ve also discussed the role of the under-
dog in American athletics, the effects of 9/11
on the sports community and the wild world of
North Carolina public golf, among other things.

And let’s not forget the now infamous Divi-
sion III article, which seemingly caused more
controversy among students, faculty and
alumni than Davidson’s currentdiversity prob-
lem.

If there were space this week, I probably
would have written about high school football
in Massachusetts, where all rivalries are played
out on Thanksgiving—one of the greatest tra-
ditions in all of sports.

Speaking of giving thanks, we should all be
very thankful for the staff writers who have
diligently and professionally reported on
Davidson’s teams this fall.

Walker Saik, Geoff Fehling, Becca
McDevitt, Justin Neill, Brooke Kittinger and
Managing Editor Matt Garfield all did fantas-
tic work bringing you, the reader, all the scores
and highlights from Wildcat athletics.

I’d also like to thank my co-sports editor
Mike Giglio, who did all the behind-the-scenes
work for this section, editing many of the
articles and tediously putting together “The
Week Ahead” box for every issue.

As you know, the winter season has already
begun, with several important basketball
match-ups this weekend--including a huge
men’s game on Saturday against Charlotte at
Belk Arena. The women’s team is also off to
a promising start, with a big win over Char-
lotte on Tuesday.

. Until we return in January, though, you’re
on your own to follow the success of
Davidson’s winter teams.

For the time being, I suggest keeping a few
back issues of The Davidsonian lying around
the bathroom.

After all, the best seat in the house deserves .

only the finest literature.

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia! |
Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

www-philactr-edu

“eb5s?35«7300.

Vol eybal ;

Quis, Martin,
Teichgraeber finish
careers in one of ‘best
matches of season’

By MIKE GIGLio
Sports Editor

“Our season had an almost perfect ending,”
said Roberta Quis after the Davidson volley-
ball team lost in the semi-finals of the South-
ern Conference tournament, held in Belk Arena
from Nov. 22 to 24.

The Wildcats did indeed play on the brink of
perfection in that match against College of
Charleston, which went on to sweep Georgia
Southern for the championship the following
day.

The ‘Cats chal-
lenged the Cougars
for five games be-
fore eventually los-
ing the close battle
30-22, 26-30, 30-
23, 23-30, 15-11.

In what Quis
- calls “one of the
best matches we
played all season,”
the Wildcats
achieved an im-
pressive amount of success against the most”
powerful team in the Southern Conference.

After dropping the first game of the match,
the ‘Cats bounced back to win the fiercely
contested second game by taking the last four
points. r

In game four, Davidson dominated defen-
sively, holding Charleston to a .000 hitting
percentage. After ties throughout the early

Quis

Bookstore

with tournament kc

portion of game five, the Cougars managedto .
pull away, putting the ‘Cats at 23-11 on the
year. ,

Quis led the team in kills with eighteen,
while Rebecca Teichgraeber capped off her
season in fitting fashion with an eighteen-kill,
nineteen-dig double-double.

Kaitlyn Martin also came through with fif-
teen digs, as the senior ‘Cats stepped up in
their final showing to the delight of the home
crowd.

A day earlier, those seniors and their team
had stepped up in a big way, sweeping Appa-
lachian State (30-22, 30-24, 33-31) in the first
round of the tournament.

Playing with passion and determination, the
‘Cats never trailed in games one and two
before taking game three for the victory.

Quis again led the team with twelve kills,
and she added a .409 hitting percentage. Tisha
Chapman posted fourteen putaways and a
.571 attack percentage.

Quis was named to the All-Tournament
team, and she was selected to the All-Confer-
ence team along with Chapman.

Despite a missed opportunity to go to the
NCAA competition for the third time in four
years, Martin and her teammates have positive
memories of the tournament.

“With anew coach and team, this season has
been challenging, but the tournament showed
how we could play,” she says.

“We definitely appreciated the extra sup-
port of the student body. I’m impressed with
how my teammates stepped it up and played
the best we have all season.”

Quis agrees, “We came a long way from the
beginning of the season, and I am so proud of
everyone.”

The Wildcats return 10 players next season,
including probable all-conference selections
Latisha Chapman and Nicole Tonelli, both
juniors. Sophomores Julia Hueckel and
Meredith Lorenz join them to form a solid
nucleus.

Christmas Sale

Dec. 13th -

25% OFF

Clothing, General Books, Stationary,

Cards
& Imprinted Gifts

(Excludes Textbooks)

Merry Chrisbmeis

The Bookstore Staff wishes you a very
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Dec. 20th

