Dance Ensemble prepares for recital on Nov. 8, 9

By BrREWTON BROWNLOW
Special Contributor

This Friday and Saturday the Davidson
Dance Ensemble performs its annual fall con-
cert. This recital gives the dancers the opportu-
nity to showcase what they have learned in their
dance classes throughout the semester. Stu-
dents have choreographed all of the pieces in the
show and the works successfully represent the
wide variety of dance backgrounds found at
Davidson. Here is a quick preview of some of
the different dances that will be on display this
coming weekend.

Emily Wilson makes her debut this semester
as.a choreographer with a modern dance to The
Smashing Pumpkins song “33.” She describes
the piece as “pretty low key with simple moves
and lots of repetition, but the syncopation of the
music and the mirrored moves add com-
plexity to the dance.” For many of the
dancers in this dance it will be their first
performance, so it will definitely be a
new and different dance, and not just
because it is “modern” dance.

Hoping to get people up and on their
feet, “Dillyo, Drillyo,” choreographed
by Joy Gerdy, is not technically consid-
ered a hip-hop piece because it does not
espouse any one type of traditional hip-
hop. It pulls from various styles and
combines them to form one dance. This
high-energy performance will have the
audience ready to jump up in the aisles.

*Southside,” choreographed by Clinton
Rickards and performed to music by Moby, is a_
fast paced modern dance, featuring 5 dancers.

Itrapidly shifts from the dancers flying through —

the air to sliding across the ground, but it still
maintains a “chill out” attitude. This piece
features 4 new freshman dancers making their
Davidson debut.

Also in the modern category this fall will be
my dance “A Date with Alice,” performed to
music by Rob Zombie and Alice Cooper. The
dance is an unusual juxtaposition of music and
movements. The choreography shifts with the
song from sharp and intense to fluid and creepy.
Featured in this piece are 13 dancers,

Next we move on to the international portion
of the show. In many ways Dario Roque and
Katie Miles-English have disregarded the tradi-
tional salsa by choreographing a spicy and

That’s a masterpiece? Our
critics ID overrated flicks

MatTHEW BANDYK

Moulin Rouge (2001): This film represents
everything that’s wrong with movies today: A
complete rejection of substance for style. Any
possibility of an intelligent moviegoing experi-
ence is thrown out by its walking cliché of a
storyline. Director Baz Luhrmann apparently
thinks that it’s not necessary to actually write
original song material when one can simply rip
off the classics, ranging from “Like A Virgin”
to “Smells Like Teen Spirit.” However, this
joke of a movie still captured the hearts of
millions of easily entertained people.

ALTERNATIVE - South Park: Bigger,
Longer, and Uncut (1999): While certainly
many people regard South Park as one of the
few really good movies based ona TV show, it’s
also one of the best film musicals to be released
in recent memory. SP creators Matt Stone and
Trey Parker are at their wittiest in this hilarious
parody of censorship, and the Oscar-nominated
music is not only funny, but also oddly stirring,
having been written by Broadway composer
Marc Shaiman.

The Blair Witch Project (1999): It's one of
the biggest jokes ever played on the public by
the film industry: The hype machine actually
convinced millions that this amateur home
video was worth seeing on the big screen. It
boggles the mind that anyone ever thought that
drunken college students running through the
woods in complete darkness was scary. Noth-
ing else needs to be mentioned about this mind-
numbingly boring movie.

ALTERNATIVE -— The Omen (1976): Like

most great horror movies such as The Exorcist,
this film is psychologically frightening. It tells
the story of a young boy named Damien who
may or may not be the Antichrist, and Gregory
Peck gives an urgent performance as the boy’s
father. Also like The Exorcist, The Omen uses
a slow buildup of increasingly eerie events to
create a strong sense of terror. But unlike The

Exorcist, The Omen.has not been remembered ,

as well, and is one of the all-time underrated
movies.

The Matrix (1999): It’s hard to argue that The
Matrix is a bad movie. After all, its amazing
action sequences really did show audiences
something never seen before and were a leap
forward in film technology. But this film is
definitely overrated, due to the nonstop hype
that led to a laughable number of people claim-
ing it to be one of the best movies ever made.
Good? Yes. Great? No. The lobotomized script
(which isn’t helped by Keanu Reeves’s acting)
and lack of a real message or theme other than
“freedom = good” prevents The Matrix from
being great sci-fi.

ALTERNATIVE - Blade Runner (1982):
This film is a perfect example of what sci-fi
should be. Unlike Matrix, Blade Runner uses
its sci-fi setting not merely as a way to create
cool action sequences (which this movie has
anyway), but to explore its theme, a complex
questioning of what it is to be human. Also,
director Ridley Scott’s unique vision of urban
Los Angeles in the near future is one of the most
compelling settings for any film.

CHARLES CUMMINS

Titanic (1997) — Although it stayed in the
theatres for months and quickly became the
highest grossing movie. of all time, this $200
million action/love story is not worth the three
dollars torent itat Blockbuster. James Cameron,
who gained my respect with such films as
Terminator, Terminator 2: Judgment Day,
Aliens, and True Lies, lost much of that same
respect when he took the helm of this movie.
This film does succeed in becoming a guide to
the historic Titanic and all the excess and hubris
of the early 20th century that this unsinkable
ship embodied. However, Cameron makes two
rather large oversights historically. First, any
interaction between class passengers and third
class passengers was highly unlikely. Even
more historically inaccurate is the fact that, if I

cultured Cuban salsa. Come watch 3 couples

- heat up the dance floor with a sizzling salsa

show.

Included in the international category is “Ojos
Asi,” (accent over the ‘i’) a modern flamenco
piece by Joy Gerdy. Although it is very much
influenced by the modern flamenco of today, its
roots are in traditional flamenco ballet. The
music is by Shakira, who is Colombian, not
Spanish, but Shakira is of Lebanese descent.
This particular.song reflects her ethnic history.
You’ ll hear in the music obvious-Middle East-
ern influences. -Much of flamenco music has a
hint of Middle Eastern sound because of the

closeness of Spain to northern Africa...

Other works in the show include a ballet by
Katie Wilson, jazz and lyrical pieces by Emily
Oldham, and a jazz dance by Jessikah Byington
and Joy Gerdy. Also rounding out the variety of
the show will be examples of tap and African
dance. If you want to see how far the Dance
Ensemble has come over the past couple of
years you should definitely check out the shows
this weekend.

Dance Ensemble performances are. Nov. 8
and 9 at 8pm in Duke Performance Hall. Tick-
ets are $2 and currently on sale at the Union Box
Office.

Russian bluegrass? Bering
Strait will perform Nov. 8

By Anpy HESTON
Staff Writer

There exists a Russian bluegrass band.

Yes, this is a bit strange. It seems that of all
indigenous American music, authentic country
would be.the least likely to cross the cultural
divide of the former Iron Curtain. Country and
bluegrass clichés are just too American, and
beyond that incredibly localized, so much so
that a good portion of Americans think it’s all
the same: moonshine, whiskey, pickup trucks,
dead dogs, ramblin’, rednecks, cheatin’ hearts,
highways, lonesome old graveyards... The
cliché vocabulary of traditional country music
is rife with these images, none of which would
seem to hold much relevance or interest to a
young Russian musician in search of an idiom.

Yet somehow, they did. Maybe it’s not that
much a stretch: just replace the Appalachians
with the Urals, the Mississippi with the Volga,
moonshine with vodka. Or maybe the attraction
behind bluegrass to other cultures is more an
opportunity to let instrumental virtuosity shine
inan environment not so boring and stuffy as the
classical world.

Well, whatever the reason, that most Ameri-
can-of American music isn’t just for Americans
anymore. Nowhere is there a more immediate
example of cross-cultural musical pollination
than in Russia’s very own band of bluegrass
virtuosos Bering Strait. The group began as a
sort of bluegrass N Sync, assembled by an
ambitious guitar teacher from a bunch of prom-
ising young musicians who gladly gave up their
more traditional (read: boring) instruments for
good ole guitar, fiddle, and dobro.

_So what exactly is the draw for bluegrass
music in Russia? Quoth Alexander “Sasha”
Ostrovsky: “Bluegrass was one of these things
that people got interested in. Cowboy hats.
Funny fast music. Very cool.”

Yet don’t think for a second Bering Strait
is some sort of novelty act. “Hey look, it’s
Russians playing bluegrass!” Nope, they have
serious scene credentials. All the right names
are referenced: Earl Scruggs, Bela Fleck, Bill
Keith, Waylon Jennings, Mark Knopfler. More-
over, the band has existed more or less as it is
today for nearly ten years. And any band that
can survive coming to America and being
thrown directly into the ultra-competitive Nash-
ville country scene has definitely proven its
mettle.

Yet for the members of Being Strait, all roads
led to Nashville; the group had to come to the
U.S. Says guitarist/ banjoist Ilya Toshinky of
the music scene in Russia, “It’s very pop there.
Trying to be a country band’in Russia, we’d be
bound to play. clubs for all our lives.”

So Bering Strait, in all fairness, is not a
Russian bluegrass band. They are a seriously
talented group of bluegrass that happens to be
from Russia. Few bluegrass bands can claim
the chops, pedigree, and mastery of the Cyrillic
alphabet that Bering Strait can. Their heritage
may beeffective enough at getting attention, but
without the musical substance to back it up,
Bering Strait would have lost relevance long
ago. As it is, they’re set to show Davidson that
maybe the Southern U.S. shouldn’t rest on its
bluegrass laurels.

Bering Strait performs Nov. 8 at 10 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

remember correctly, the second class passen-
gers are never even referred to in the film. It is
as if an entire class of people did not exist. The
only redeemable aspect of this film is the final
sequence once the liner hits the iceberg. The
special effects are amazing, making this final
sequence the best visuaLaccompaniment to any
written depiction of the tragic sinking of the
Titanic. However, these final moments do not
make up for the difficultly of sitting through the
awful love story for the first two hours. If you
care to see a much better romance set to some
historical event or time, and one of the greatest
movies of all time, Irecommend Gone With The
Wind.

2001: A Space Odyssey — With movies such
as Lolita and A Clockwork Orange, Stanley
Kubrick established his career directing films
with controversial subject manner from nym-
phomaniacs (in Lolita) to the re-education of
criminals and the subsequent lose of their free
will (in A Clockwork Orange). While Kubrick
had succeeded well in those films listed above,
2001 never develops into a great movie. Using
brilliant sets, the film does create an interesting
vision of the future. Made in 1968, the film does

present several: technological inventions that:

have already been developed, and it is enjoy-
able to look for what we have accomplished in
35 years, and what we haven’t. However, the
film moves ata painfully slow pace as it initiates
the battle between man and machine (HAL).
Further, the final sequence that occurs in the
final minute of the film is a visually fascinating
but ambiguous and confusing ending that left
the film feeling incomplete. If you want a good
man vs. machine film, check out either of the
Terminator movies instead.

ET: The Extra Terrestrial — OK, [know ’'m
going to get hate mail for attacking this piece of
so many people’s childhoods, but ET is a highly
overrated film. The premise had so much poten-
tial, as alonely young boy finds a friend in a lost
alien, but the final result is a mess of good
performances and poor static ones. The high-
lights of the film are the performances of Drew
Barrymore in her first role as Gertie and ET
himself. The sequences where Gertie dresses
ET up and thenight of Halloween when the kids
try to keep ET covered under a costume are
hysterical. However, I think that the acting
performance of Henry Thomas as Elliot, the

see Overrated, page 6
