College needs to step up and

demand respect for athletics

Boy, does life get more interesting when
400 student-athletes desperately want to burn
you in effigy.

I’m referring, of course, to the reaction
most Davidson “jocks” had to my column
regarding a possible swith to Division III.

Three weeks later, the article may have run
its course, but I do feel that a little clarification
is in order. ;

Somewhere along the line the column in
question became an attack on all athletes here
at Davidson.

Sure, I singled out one or two teams, but
most of the article was factual (despite popu-
lar belief). ;

At no point did I directly insult anyone.

When I wrote the piece, my intention was to
create some kind of meaningful debate around
campus. .

It would have been just as easy to bang out
1000 words arguing, as I did in my first
column, that Davidson athletes are among the
most impressive in all of Division I.

In light of the Sports Illustrated article,
however, it made sense to put a different spin
on things and question our athletics program
for once instead of celebrating its mediocrity
(in terms of wins and losses).

Davidson teams win games, of course, but
most do not excell on the national level.

That’s a simple fact. Yet, so many people
(mostly athletes) reacted to my article as if I
had just kicked their dog. :

People I have never met, never had any
contact with, suddenly hated me.

One alumnus chimed in, “Lordy, lordy...I
hate Davidson students who are only about
15% developed in their argument making!
There is always that interim period between
Davidson adolescence and Davidson adult-

‘hood, when our younger students try to make
‘grown-up’ arguments and sound really stu-
pid in their over-simplicity of explanation.”

Where was this guy when my first article
was published?

Funny that not one person said anything
about that column, which included excerpts
such as, “Obviously, our academic prowess is
well known throughout the world, but we can
also prove that a’ small school with extremely

tough admissions standards and an even more
imposing workload can compete with the large
school juggernauts in the athletic arena.”

Wasn’t anyone else slightly embarrassed to
be ranked 195" out of 324 schools?

Please, prove to me that this ranking is
actually good for the school.

Show me evidence that prospective students
are attracted to Davidson because it is the 195"
best sports school in the country (or 129"
worst, if your glass is half-empty).

We draw all sorts of attention to our US
World News and Report ranking, but not one
word (aside from my column) was dedicated
to the Sports Illustrated article.

Every other national ranking Davidson re-
ceived this year has been published on the
school’s website.

Not our 195 out of 324.

Maybe I’m the only one at Davidson who

subscribes to Sports Illustrated.
. This would explain why no one else cared
that a major publication, read by millions of
Americans, does not respect Davidson athlet-
ics. _

Now, I'd be surprised if a single
Davidsonian—student, faculty, staff, alum,
whoever—wrote a letter to Sports Illustrated
defending the college and our athletics pro-
gram (admittedly, I didn’t either).

Yet, I’m public enemy #1 for suggesting
that Davidson move to division III.

Granted, The Davidsonian sports editor is a
much easier target than one of the world’s
leading sports magazines, but what exactly is
the difference between my article and the
Sports Illustrated special report?

Perhaps the major problem, then, is not the
reaction to my article, but that the Davidson
community entirely ignored our ranking as the
129" worst sports school in America.

Where’s our sense of pride?

While the NCAA Academic Achievement
Award is a fine honor, we should not be
satisfied that such an award does justice to our
athletics program.

- Davidson’ s academic success needs to some-
how be mirrored on the playing fields.

That, fellow Davidsonians, is the challenge
our college now faces.

ask about our US Stylists
$20 cut & style

spa pockages

body treatments

Shi cone

gift certificates

By BEN FRIEDELL
Special Comtributor

Recently, there have been many opinions
expressed on the issues that face the College
and its status as a Division I athletic and
academic institution.

After three-and-a-half years as a student
athlete at Davidson, I must admit to having
some pretty strong opinions regarding this
issue.

The debate, in my eyes, has nothing to do
with whether or not we compete at the Divi-
sion I or Division III level.

Davidson really has no other option but to
compete at the division I level based on the
region of the country we are in.

The Southern Conference is a mid-major
athletic conference that produces teams every
year that make a splash in their respective
sport’s national tournament (football, soccer
and golf are most prominent).

The traditional argument for Davidson to go
Division III is based on the idea that we should
be competing against our “peer” institutions;
small liberal arts colleges.

But this is exactly why we should not go the
Division III route — Division I athletics make
Davidson unique in relation to our “peer”
institutions.

One would be hard pressed to find a school
our size and with our academic standards that
offers Division I athletics.

This should allow Davidson to draw some
of the most talented athletes from a national
applicant pool without compromising the aca-

We should start small
and look to dominate
the Southern Confer-

ence athletic picture.
“\

demic integrity of our fine institution.

At Davidson it seems there is a battle that
takes place between the people in Chambers
Academic Building and the people in Baker
Sports Complex—the constant push and shove
over allocation of money and the “caliber” of
students who fit the Davidson mold.

In the end all that ever occurs is the two sides
cutting each other’s legs out from. under one
another.

Where does this get us?

Does this help the school develop and grow
into a premier institution?

I should hope that these two sides could find
a way to work together and recognize the
goldmine they are sitting on.

What other school in the country offers
what we are able to offer? —-A small liberal
arts education with division I athletics.

The Ivies don’t have it, as they are all non-
scholarship sports, though they do compete at
the division I level.

The Middlebury’s and Williams’s don’ toffer
it, as they are Division III.

Our mold should look more like a Stanford,
which has us beat based on sheer numbers
alone, but the idea should be the same: nation-
ally recognized academics as well as athletics.

Or maybe a Rice University would be a
better example as they have an undergrad of
2,700, which is closer to that of Davidson’s

1,600 or so.

We should start small and look to dominate
the Southern Conference athletic picture.

What other school in our conference offers
what Davidson does to its student athletes in
terms of the-overall college experience?

No school comes close, which should give
us the most recruiting power.

Beyond our conference we should look at

the Ivies.

The Ivies, based on conference regulations,
do not allow scholarships to be offered.

Davidson offers an “Ivy-esque” education
and we can provide scholarships to students
based on merit.

What does this mean?

Basically that we should have more funding
than the Ivy programs and should be able to
pluck the elite athletes who end up at Ivy
League institutions away from them simply
because of financial reasons.

The question of academic integrity may
become an issue for somé.

- This has a great deal to do with why our
athletic department is not fully funded—be-
cause Davidson does not want to be seen as a
“jock school”.

But the reality is that athletic prowess is a
positive thing for a community.

Duke’s applicant pool increases each year
after they win a national championship, while
Stanford has become a great research institu-
tion over the last 50 years partially because of
its athletics tradi-
tion, which has
yielded alumni
pride and dona-
tions along with
profits that result
from nationally
recognized athlet-
ics programs. : :

But in the end it :
comes downto the - o
students of ese: shad
Davidson Col- Ben Friedell ’03
lege.

This small liberal arts college states its goal
as something to the effect of preparing young
people for lives of service.

And having strong Division I athletes walk-
ing our halls by no means jeopardizes this
goal.

Admissions, from what I have come to
understand, does not help the athletic depart-
ment in a fashion that resembles even the
Ivies, let alone a Duke, Stanford, or Rice.

Why not? Why not view athletes as talented
individuals?

Just in the way a writer is viewed as a
talented individual or a promising physist is a
potential Nobel Prize winner.

Why can’t a great runner be viewed as a
potential Olympic gold medallist?

Is there anything wrong with bringing to-
gether talented, competitive people?

Whether their specialty is athletics or aca-
demics or theatre or art, talented people are
competitive and self-confident and often make
the people around them better simply based on
their presence.

Davidson presents a setting to bring to-
gether talented people from all walks of life
and allow them to feed off one another and
grow.

This is what should be exploited; this is
what the goal should be.

The administration needs to realize the po-
tential in front of them and embrace it rather
than fight it.

Ben Friedell is captain of the golf team and
a former Canadian hockey player.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
110% Best Prices!
Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,
Florida, Texas.

Book Now and Receive
Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com
