LIFE IS SHORT

Steve:

Throughout my life, I have lost some of my
closest friends; car accidents, suicide and drug
overdoses mainly. The emotional impact from

each has been immense. In light of such losses,

I have learned that life is definitely short and
unpredictable.

Ironically and sadly, it can often be those that
we love the most and believe should die last,
that die first. So life is short, but how does that
change my perception of life?

Well, I think that a life well lived (with regard
to the physical, psychological and emotional),
is a thrilling life full of surprise, excitement and
adventure. If there is anything in life of which
we are certain, it is the present, so make it a
fabulous one.

Love every day you live by doing something
every day that you love. Quench your passion
and desires and never cease being passionate,
for with passion we can accomplish virtually
anything. If you have a longing desire to do
something, doit. If itis something spectacularly
challenging, by all means take the challenge,
because if you haven’t tried you haven’t lived.

I am by no means encouraging you to ignore
the future. Rather, I want to encourage you to
enjoy and love the path you take in preparing for
a future steeped with prosperity. All in all, 1am
merely suggesting that sometimes, itis too great
a risk to delay a thrilling life full ecstasy for a
future that is unknown.

Jenn:

Life is indeed short. Considering the average
life span is about 78 years old for women, I’m
a quarter of the way through with my life.
Amazing, isn’t it? Consider this: if my parents
live to be 80, I only have 25 more years with
them. Marrying the love of my life in three
years only leaves me 50 years with him if we are

‘ies health advisors

lucky.

Granted, that outlook seems very pessimistic
at first glance; however, it makes one very
appreciative of the time we have now with those

people we love. It is a happy compromise

between living life day to day because of the

notion that today may be your last, and con-
stantly planning for a future we are not guaran-
teed.

How can you secure a future for yourself if
you are living in the present, and how can you
enjoy the fruits of your labor if you aren’t
around to celebrate them? It seems like a lose-
lose situation, so we must settle for the lesser of
two evils: planning like you’ ll live until 80, but
appreciate those people in your life like tomor-
row will never come.

Realize that love is not in vain. They who
love beyond the world cannot be separated by it.
Death cannot kill what never dies.

Lauren:

Since I don’ thave acrystal ball foretelling the
day I’m going to die, then I try to live as if lam
going to be alive for a long time. I try to adopt
a healthy lifestyle and plan for the future, so I
can enjoy life later. However, I sometimes find
that I am overly future-oriented, which can

tem ead Cet]

i Grand Opening |

oe

Chinese Food

A
3
4

Dine In / Carry Out
Call Ahead For Fast Carry Out Service

Hext to Food Lion
I-77 Exit 28

20121 - D North Main Street,
Cornelius, NC 28031

2

<

) 115 Hwy
BUSINESS HOURS.:

Sun. - Thurs.: 11:00am - 10:00pm

| Fri. - Sat.: 11:00am - 11:00pm

«

Tel.: 704-896-6576
| 704-896-0338

ER ere ne ere tale tayreeee re

Fe isos to sagy te paeeent
I think it is best to find a balance in living life

a to the fullest and preparing for the future. Then
if Idietomorrow, Iwill be glad that did the best
I could with the timé I was given and would

hopefully not have any regrets (though I might
wish I had not passed up the ice cream the night
before).

Felicia:

I will be the first one to tell you, “Life is
Short,” but if you ask me if I live my life like it
is—I will tell you “No” because I do not. At this
point in my life, I am so focused on Davidson,
graduate school, my future career, etc. that Ido

not have time to put things into proper perspec-

: In high school, I was worse—I popped caf:

feine. pills daily, and had “emotional break-
downs” almost as often (might have been why
I was voted “Most Stressed Out’), so I am
pleased that I have made a little progress by
realizing academics are not worth jeopardizing
my health. At least, I have recognized I do have
a problem—I guess my next step is doing
something about it. -

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday: nights between 10:00-11:00 on
WALT 1610 AM: This week’s topic is “Life is
Short”

Brickhouse, from page 5

The cake was super-decadent, thick and rich
with a wonderful sundae sauce drizzled over the
top. This option is definitely for major choco-
late lovers only; the four of us had a hard time
finishing off every last bite. The apple pie, a
lighter option, was covered in cinnamon and

was also a good choice.

Overall, the Brickhouse Tavern is a very
welcome addition to the Davidson community,
and a great improvement over the Depot in
atmosphere and quality of food. Judging from
the packed tables that Friday night, it should be
around for a while.

Breakfas

The Soda Sho

Since 1951

4 Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

Eat-in Take-out

PREPARING LEADERS

> WITH A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE

INTERESTED IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS? .
INTERESTED IN A DYNAMIC INTELLECTUAL COMMUNITY?
INTERESTED IN MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD?

THE FLETCHER SCHOOL OF LAW AND DIPLOMACY IS THE OLDEST EXCLUSIVELY
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS IN THE UNITED STATES.

e MASTERS AND DOCTORAL DEGREES OFFERED IN TWENTY FIELDS

_ © MULTIDISCIPLINARY AND FLEXIBLE ACADEMIC PROGRAM

¢ JOINT DEGREE AND EXCHANGE PROGRAMS

THE FLETCHER SCHOOL | TUFTS UNIVERSITY
MEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS, USA 02155 *
WWW.FLETCHER.TUFTS.EDU
