By Marr GarrieLD
. Managing 1g Editor

WALT managers reached an agreement
with the Media Béard last week to change the
way they run the campus radio station in
response to complaints about a controversial
talk show.

The station will host a campus-wide forum
tonight at 7 p.m. to field criticism and hear
ideas on how programming can be improved.

“The Black Man and the Mexican,” was
held off the air during its normal Sunday
night time slot to give its hosts time to meet
new requirements agreed upon on Thursday

by the WALT executive board and the Media -

Board, a nine-member oversight committee
comprised of administrators, professors and
students.

The new guidelines come in the wake of
widespread criticism from students and ad-
ministrators who were offended by the show’s
aggressive, sometimes profane format. Ad-

ministrators received several complaints in.

the days after Carvalho and Njie broadcast a
list they called the “20 Most Terrible” people
at Davidson, prompting the Media Board to
meet for the first time this academic year.
Before the show returns to the airwaves
this Sunday at 9 p.m., Carvalho and Nijie, as
well as all WALT talk shows, will be required
to submit an outline to station manager Lauran
Halpin ‘03 detailing the topics they will dis-
cuss. Hosts will no longer be allowed to make
on-air phone calls unless an interview was
previously scheduled. Callers will be more

OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 3, 2002

<
CMe oOUry”

19712 One Norman Bivd.
Exit 28, Cornelius (in front of Bilo)

895-7696

= Inside the YMCA lobby, Davidson.
892-6161

APPLY TO TEACH FOR AMERICA.
www.teachforamerica.org

Application deadline - Feb 21, 2002

Cancun,

Jamaica i
www atiiclantex bre: econ

Call Now:

1-800-787-3787

SPRING BREAK 2002
Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida.
Join Student Travel Services,
Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.
Promote Trips at Davidson College
Earn Cash or Free Trips.
On Campus Contact
Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
Information/ Reservations: 1-800-648-4849

Or www.ststravel.com

Mexico/Caribbean:
_ $300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

closely screened to prevent improper lan-
guage. And personal attacks against students
or specific groups will no longer be permit-
ted. Hosts who violate these rules will be
taken off the air.

“We're all trying to figure out what is ok
and what isn’t ok,” said Halpin, WALT’s
production manager. “It’s a tough question
because you run into the freedom of speech
issue. We’re trying to make sure that issues
can be talked about without being aggressive
to certain people in a mean way. You can raise
questions just as long as it isn’t attacking.”

Halpin said WALT’s six-member Execu-
tive Board and the Media Board agreed there
wasn’t enough time between Thursday’s
meeting and the show’s Sunday airdate for
Mbye and Carvalho to make the necessary
changes.

“Both parties decided that we needed some
time to explain things to Ryan and Mbye and
give them some time to reformat the show,”
she said. “We didn’t want them to get upset
and convey that on the air. They weren’t in
any trouble. It wasn’t any sort of punish-
ment.”

Halpin stressed that she believes Thursday’s
agreement was a mutual compromise between
WALT’s student managers and the Media
Board, not censorship.

“We don’t want them to place any censor-
ship on us, and I don’t think they do either,”
she said. “I honestly believe they were just
trying to help. They believe we need to clean
up the show to avoid legal and personal situ-
ations. For a long time, people thought that
nobody was listening. But that’s all changing

WALT | agrees to new talk show guidelines

now. We have to clean up our act without °
stifling anybody’s creativity. The Media
Board definitely understands that.”

Njie said Tuesday night that the show will
adhere to the-new guidelines, but believes it,
is being unfairly singled out.

“We'll agree to do the show on those
conditions, but if it gets to a point where
we’re not happy with where the show is
going, we won’t [continue the show],” he
said. “I think we’ re being punished for being
a popular show. There are other shows that
are worse than we are in terms of content. To
a degree [the conditions] are fair, but if

they’re going to start censoring shows, they

should do it all the way around.”

“J wish the Media Board would’ ve come
asked me and Ryan what we said on our
show,” he said. “They never even talked to
us. I don’t think it’s really fair how they did
it.”

Sunday’s show will include a discussion
of the new conditions, as well as race rela-
tions on campus and the recent acts of van-
dalism‘on Patterson Court, said Njie.

Tonight’s forum will allow “listeners to
share ideas and suggestions on how hosts
and managers can provide better entertain-
ment.

“Tt’s basically going to address the contro-
versy around Ryan and Mbye, but it also will
address what we can do to get students more
interested in us,” said Halpin. “It’s not just
about Ryan and Mbye. We’re going to use
that to spark a debate. I’m looking for the
students to tell me how we can become a
better radio station.”

CAViPUS Ole! DLOIlER

Feb. 14, 8 a.m. - Sigma Phi Epsilon house
Unknown person(s) entered the house, causing damage to rear win-
dows of the house. While in the house, person(s) caused approximately

$500 worth of damage.

Feb. 14, 1:30am - CoHo

Unknown person had damaged the kitchen door window, causing the
window to break. Aninvestigation revealed a suspect and in compliance
with the Honor Code, the responsible person confessed.

Feb. 15, 2:15 a.m. - Rusk Eating House

Officers were at the Rusk house at the end of a party and observed a
male kick in the basement window of the Kappa Alpha house. When
confronted by police, the student was asked why he kicked in the window.

He replied, "it's my house.”

Feb. 16, 12:40 a.m. - Ryburn apartment building

A complainant called in to report a large group of people in the
roadway on Ridge Road. When officers arrived, they witnessed students
drinking alcohol, in bottles and cans, sitting in a circle in the roadway.
Officers had the students move into the designated party area. The party

was subsequently shut down.

Feb. 16, 1:30 a.m. - Warner Hall Eating House

Damage was done to the Warner Hall kitchen door, as if someone was
trying to gain access. This caused approximately $100 in damage. The
door was repaired but was later damaged again, this time resulting in

approximately $200 in damage.

Feb. 16, 1:05 a.m. - Rusk Eating House

At approximately 1:05 a.m., it was reported that s someone had entered
the Rusk house without permission and removed 13 cases of beer. The
beer was valued at $150.. In order to gain access to the locked beer
cabinet, it was ripped from its hinges, causing $25 worth of damage.

Feb. 18, 8:30am - Richardson Hall

It was reported by Physical Plant that two doors in Richardson had 2
been damaged. Estimated damage is $400.

