Friedell shoots sterling
67 on Sunday to capture
1st individual title of year

By Perry Lewis
‘Staff Writer

The men’s golf team posted its first tourna-
ment victory of the season this past weekend
at the Sea Trail Men’s intercollegiate golf
tournament at Sunset Beach, North Carolina.

After day one, the Wildcats found them-
selves in fourth place, but their second day
performance propelled the team to victory.

Davidson shot an outstanding eight under
par on Sunday for a combined 593 (293-280)
to win the championship, just barely edging
out host Elon College, which shot 576.
Bethune-Cookman wasn’t far behind, firing a
579.

“We were really pumped up for the match
because we thought we had areally good team
with a great chance to win,” Freshman Chris-
tian Davis said following the tournament.

Davidson senior Ben Friedell won the indi-
vidual championship with a two-day total
score of 136.

After the first day of competition, Friedell
found himself in second place after posting a
very impressive three under 69.

On Sunday, Friedell shot a five under par
67 to take the individual title by three strokes
over Matt Bliss (139) of Bethune-Cookman.

Hansell provides offensive

By GEOFF FEHLING,
Staff Writer

Looking to rebound after a loss to UNC
Wilmington, the men’s soccer team faced off
against two very worthy opponents last week.

The Wildcats defeated conference foe Col-
lege of Charleston, 1-0, on Wednesday, but
then dropped a 2-1 overtime decision to High
Point on Saturday night, leaving the team at 3-
2-1 on the season.

Davidson, playing in its first Southern Con-
ference game, scored ona goal by junior Nick
Hansell with about 15 minutes left in the
match to pick up the 1-0 win on the road at
Charleston.

Generating scoring opportunities was easier
with senior Joel Saddler in the lineup, as he
returned from knee surgery and a bout with
the flu.

“This was the first game in which Joel
really displayed his creativity and he was
directly involved in the game-winning goal,”
commented head coach Matt Spear.

Despite being out shot 5-0 in the first 45
minutes, the Wildcat defense proved impen-
etrable, earning senior goaltender Soren
Johnson his third shutout this season.

“Again our defense was excellent as we

Sophomore Dan Walker admires his drive during Sunday’s round.

“Ben played some really great golf this week-
end for us. He was very consistent with his
game the entire weekend,” head golf coach
Tim Straub said.

“The whole individual thing was a nice
bonus,” Friedell said. “ But, to be honest, it was
not on my mind all that much during the

bent, but did not break,” said Davidson head
coach Matt Spear. “A shutout on the road
against a good program is awesome.”

Spear also partly attributed the defensive
success to freshman talent. “Nahum Navas
and John Latting in particular were excellent,”
he noted.

Although the team came away with a win,
Spear did not feel that the offense played up to

. par.

“We did not piece together as much fluid
offense as we would have liked,” he said. “But
as the game wore on, we began to generate
opportunities. This was a big win as it’s our
Conference opener. Charleston was picked
ahead of us, again, in the pre-season poll, so
there was extra motivation. Every time we
play them, it’s close and intense.”

With some heavy momentum from the con-
ference win, the Wildcats eagerly looked for-
ward to the High Point contest on Saturday
night.

Following a 30 minute delay due to technical
difficulties in getting the lights on, the game
commenced with Davidson grabbing a quick
lead when Hansell tallied his team-leading 5"
goal of the season by scoring at the 24:06
minute mark off an assist from sophomore Ben
Kittinger.

Despite out shooting the Panthers 9-3,

tournament. I thought about the indiviidual
title but realized that I had to continue to play
aggressive golf and keep making birdies be-
cause we, as a team, had to go low to have a
chance.”

Sophomore Dan Koernke also placed in
the top ten for the Wildcats, finishing ninth

THE DAVIDSONIAN

- WEDNESDAY,

SEPTEMBER 25, 2002

for the tournament. Koernke shot three over
for the tournament by firing a two-day total of
145 (71-74).

After a somewhat rocky start on <Saniniay,
freshman Christian Davis rebounded from a 75
to post a one over 72 on Sunday. Davis had a
two-day total of 147 that was good enough for
14" place in the tournament,

Fellow freshman Tim Dillon finished just
one stroke behind Davis, shooting a two-day
total of 148. Dillon posted a 78 on day one,
only to be backed up by a very strong 70 on
Sunday.

Rounding out Davidson’s top five was Dan
Walker who shot 152 for the tournament.
Walker shot an 81 on Saturday, but returned
Sunday with a solid round of even par of 71.

“It was exciting to be part of the first win for
davidson college ina long time, “Friedell said.” It
is a difficult sport to judge success in because
there are plenty of good teams and good play-
ers who never actually win: Winning takes a
little luck and alot of good timing.”

Coach Straud added, “The whole team played
really consistent golf this weekend and I thought
Bendisplayed really great senior leadership for
our team.”

Thirteen teams competed in the event in-
cluding Southern Conference rivals Western
Earolina and Citadel.

The team:next competes at the River Land-
ing Intercollegiate in Wallace, N.C. in mid-
October.

spark against Charleston

Davidson went into halftime
leading just 1-0.

Halfway through the second
half, a foul committed inside the
Davidson box gave High Point a
penalty shot.

Driving a well-placed kick into
the bottom right corner past
Johnson, High Point’s Kenzo
Tochiki evened the score, and
the game would go into over-
time.

-Throughout the extra period,
Davidson failed to convert nu-
merous opportunities to end the
game. 5

Sophomore Dan Ferriter
ripped a shot from 30 yards out
that bounced off the crossbar,
coming just inches away from
winning the match.

Just minutes later, High Point capitalized
on aball that slipped through Johnson’s hands
to give the Panthers the 2-1 upset win.

Once again Spear was not impressed with
his team’s offensive production.

“We need someone to step up offensively
besides Nick Hansell,” he said. “I felt like we
outplayed them, ‘but in soccer that doesn’t
necessarily mean you’re going to win the

Photo by Matt Whited
Two players fight for possession.

game. High Point did what they needed to do
to gut out a tough away win.”

The ‘Cats return to action this week with two
upcoming home games, one against SoCon
challenger VMI on Wednesday at 4:40, and the
other on Sunday against USC at 3:30 p.m.

by OT

TO

M

The Davidsonian

- Player of the Week

Ben Friedell ‘03
Golf

Hometown: Shaker Heights, Ohio

Major: Political Science

With rounds of 69 and 67, Friedell led Davidson to its
first tournament victory this year, while also capturing the
individual title at the Sea Trail Invitational.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Friday
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Great American (Charlotte)

Women’s Soccer vs. Chattanooga

Field Hockey vs. Southwest Missouri State
Football vs. Emory and Henry

4:00 p.m.

1:00 p.m.
1:00 p. m.

Sunday

Field Hockey vs. Southwest Missouri State
Women’s Soccer vs. Western Carolina
Volleyball vs. Georgia Southern _

Men’s Soccer vs. South Carolina

Men’s Soccer at Duke

11:00 a.m.
1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m. -
3:30 p.m.

7:00 p.m.
