DAvIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002

‘Balancing Act’
A year after 9/11, College
prepares to remember

By CaroLineE K. HAUSER
News Editor

The calendar says a year has gone by. The
emotions do not.

What began as a brilliant late summer
morning in Davidson quickly became a day
that no one can forget. As the first anniver-
sary of Sept. 11 nears, Davidson hopes to
recreate the unity of last year’s response.
Early in the summer, President Bobby Vagt
contacted chaplain Rob Spach to initiate plan-
ning for commemorative activities.

The committee subsequently formed con-
sists of Spach; Dr. Neil Lerner, music depart-
ment professor; Dr. Christopher Alexander,
Director of the Dean Rusk International Stud-
ies Program; Tim Beach-Verhey, Director of
the Program for the Theological Exploration
of Vocation; Nidhi Paul ’03, DIA president;
Gray Patterson ’03, SGA president; and Kate
Fiedler 03, Union Board president.

Paul, an Indian student who was cursed at
by a stranger in Charlotte the day after last
year’s terrorist attacks, is sensitive to the
effect of commemorative events on interna-
tional students. While no specific instances
of discrimination were reported at Davidson,
Paul cites a “blanket disregard” for other
countries. “Some people get so wrapped up in
the American perspective, they fail to see the

. into the North Tower of the

rest of the world has been
affected,” she said.

As the anniversary ap-
proaches, though, Paul says
she feels “very reassured”
about the school’s attention
to inclusiveness and under-
standing. Current plans for
September 11 begin with a
campus meeting at 8:46 am,
the moment when American
Airlines Flight 11 crashed

World Trade Center. Paul
explained that the morning
gathering will be a time to
honor America, while events
later in the day will recog-
nize the widening circle of worldwide in-
volvement and consequence.

Froma more domestic standpoint, Patterson
expressed reservations about the lack of pa-
triotic emphasis in the initial plans.;“I under-
stand,” he said, “that not only Americans
were killed. But only America was attacked.”

In what Patterson termed “an extremely
hard balancing act,” however, a “good com-
promise” was reached. “It’s foolish not to
recognize these emotions [of patriotism],”
said Patterson, “and it’s important to direct
the emotions to a sense of greater community

and unity.”

At last week’s SGA meeting, Patterson’s
suggestion to purchase and distribute 1000
small American flags was abandoned when
discomfort among international students was
raised.

Senior senator Graham Watson ’03 said,
“If any student feels alienated, the cost out-
weighs the benefits.” SGA members also
mentioned the possibility of flags being im-
properly discarded. =

Continuing with the theme of inclusion, an
interfaith prayer vigil will take place at 5:15

Freshmen students gather for the traditional Orientation picture on Chambers
lawn. For a recap of Orientation weekend, see page 4.

p.m. A variety of religious traditions will be
observed. Planners expect those to include
Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Native
American beliefs, and both Protestant and
Catholic Christianity. To the degree possible,
a flag from every country represented in the
student body will fly in the amphitheater
during the gathering.

Fiedler, who was scheduled to leave on
Sept. 13, 2001, for a semester in Spain under-
stands the need to accommodate as many

See Anniversary, page 2

Campus gets summer facelift, music building opens

By Jason Hut
Staff Writer

Students returning to Davidson this fall
have probably noticed considerable changes
in the structures of the school. Along with the
recently completed renovation of the Grey
College Union and Knobloch Campus
Center, Chambers building is in the
midst of a major face-lift.

The Sloan Music Center

building formally
known as Grey.
This is not, how-
ever, the
building’s
first

reincarnation. It opened in 1941 as the stu-
dent union. In 1975, the building was
reconfigured into a library, and now it is a
music center. The new center contains the
200 seat Tyler-Tallman Recital Hall, new
offices, practice rooms and a high-tech class-
room that can double as a practice area for
musical ensembles.
Concurrent with the
completion of the Sloan
Center was the
start of
_reno-

Guttep: Construction work on Chambers’ east wing began this summer.
When completed, the space will house six classrooms and 28 offices.

vations on Chambers. The five-stage, $21
million process is the first renovation since a
$750,000 touch up in 1969.

The phased completion of the project mini-
mizes the impact on Davidson’s academic
program. While the renovation of one part of
the building takes place, professors still teach
and hold office hours in the other sections.

The ongoing first phase will transform
Love Auditorium into two floors of six, state-
of-the-art classrooms and 28 offices. The
classrooms will be equipped with computers
for professors, overhead projectors, DVD
equipment, descending projection screens and
digital document cameras.

Director of Physical Plant David Holthouser
explains some of the summer’s activity, “It
was three months of demolition, noisy demo-
lition.”

Builders removed the ceilings and inner
walls of the auditorium and the large, bricked

over windows have been opened. The con- .

struction is on schedule, on budget and largely
incident free, save for a ladder slip during
demolition resulting in a broken ankle:

Holthouser reports that though there have
been some complaints about the construction
noise during class, “people have been really
cooperative, and excited about the long term
benefits of the project.” No classes are dis-
placed this academic year.

However, in the fall of 2003, construction

on the north wing will close more classrooms

than construction will have created in the
new, east wing. Due to the difference, some
classes will meet in Cunningham Hall, Oak
Hall and Elm Row. The versatility of these
spaces facilitates such changes.

Although the completion of Sloan and the
progress on Chambers this summer are sig-
nificant, the Operations staff took on many
other tasks as well.

Holthouser explains that the Chambers con-
struction seemed “minor, in some ways, when
compared with everything else that was go-
ing on.”

In addition to the standard maintenance of

See Construction, page 2_

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
Schedule of Sept. 11 events, page 2

Arts & Living 5-6
What to do around Davidson, page 6

Perspectives 7-8
Columnists weigh in on hot issues like
Iraq and UNC reading debate, page 8

