Court, from page 3

tion,” said Hesp.

In an e-mail to the house presidents, Hanks
informed members of the court that he had
also met with Dean of Students Tom Shandley
and Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano.
The e-mail, which Hanks requested be for-
warded to members of the Patterson Court
houses, warned anyone with information to
step forward. If not, Hanks said all the houses
might be shut
down indefinitely.

College Presi-

completion, development thus far has been
successful according to Hanks. The investi-
gation will continue into next week though no
completion is apparent in the near future.

These vicious acts have aroused sentiments
of shock and anger from members of both
organizations and from students across cam-
pus.

SPE president Jimmy Swansbrough ‘03
expressed his strong sentiments over the de-
struction to their house.

“My initial reac-
tion and that of our
brotherhood was

dent Bobby Vagt “There’s no way you Can. shock and then an-

noted, “I hope and : : : : . There’

trust the PCC wit“ SPin this crime to call it a voi “ean pln this

determine who it drunken prank or any- crime to call it a

was that did this.” . . Wy drunken prank or
Unfortunately, thingmeantingood will. anything meant in

the vandalism did
not stop there. Ac-
cording to Cam-
pus Police,
Warner Hall’s kitchen door was twice broken
open and 13 cases of beer were stolen from
Rusk over the weekend.

Hesp described the unclear motives of the
destruction as stemming from a long line of
simple pranks built up over the past months.

“The history behind this may have been
over a time period. It may have started as
harmless inter-court pranks which have built
up and gotten out of hand over time. This
always happens with pranks, and because of
this, the [PCC] president is aware of the need
to prevent them from occurring in the future.”

Acts such as these, he says, are anything
but jokes.

“Glass and feces are not jokes, nor is the
fact that the organizations are now having to
pay to clean the houses. The Physical Plant
staff is having to go above its normal workload
to clean. There is general disruption across
the coutt.”

’ Though the investigation is far from

- Jimmy Swansbrough ‘02

good will. What I
find sad is that this
community is so
small and intercon-
nected, yet individuals still find the ability to
hate others just because of a few letters they
represent. I’d guess roughly three-fourths of
current fraternity members got bids to other
houses on the court, and to think that some of
these people condoned or at least knew about
the incidents without preventing them seems
sadly ironic. The individuals responsible in-
sulted our chef by ruining his kitchen, and
insulted two eating houses who take little or
no part in the yearly court pranks.”

Sinclair also felt disillusioned over the
vandalism.

“What I still don’t understand is what would
possess anyone to do this. I understand that
fraternities play pranks on each other, but
why would a bunch of guys trash an eating
house? I can’t see how that would be funny
no matter how drunk you are. It’s just mean.”

“We, at PCC, were tremendously disap-
pointed to discover that such activity took
place last Wednesday night. There is a clear

line between funny pranks and needless van-
dalism, and, here, the line was blatantly
crossed,” said Hanks.

“Fraternity pranks are fun to some extent,
but in this instance the amount of damage was
out of control. Whoever is responsible should
be punished,” said Amanda Mordavsky ‘02,
former president of Rusk.

At a Monday night meeting between the
Patterson Court presidents, Public Safety of-
ficials and administrators, President Bobby
Vagt gave a speech in which he offered "a
confession, a plea and a promise." The con-
fession was that he has been aware of the rise
in vandalism at the school. The plea was to
the Court members to find out who was
responsible. And finally, the promise was

that, "Someone has torespond. If these things
don't happen you force me to do something
else."

Hesp informed the attendees that four in-
dividuals had come forward. One of these
four has admitted to vandalizing SAE and
SPE. The other three admitted involvement
with SAE, SPE, CoHo and Rusk.

Phi Delta Theta president Jordan Case ‘03
apologized on behalf of his fraternity for a Phi
Delt member who had confessed.

Those guilty will likely face charges under
the Code of Responsibility for what Hesp
deems “by far the worst acts of vandalism I
have ever seen.”

Managing Editor Timothy Cook contrib-
uted to this article.

CAREER- BUILDING
INTERNSHIPS THAT OFFER A
PAYCHECK... AND MORE

Each year, two students from Davidson College are among eight students
in the Carolinas selected to receive paid summer internships sponsored by The
Duke Endowment, a private foundation located in Charlotte. This innovative
program allows selected students great leeway in constructing customized
internships in the fields of higher education, health care, children’s welfare,
spiritual life, and communications.

The Endowment helps students develop and arrange internships, pays for
interns’ housing for eight weeks on the Duke University campus, and pays each
intern a $3,000 stipend.

Applications for summer 2002 are now being ac-
cepted, deadline is February 22nd.
For more information, contact:

i homas C. Shandley
Vice President for Student Life and
Dean of Students

Davidson College
(704) 894-2225

Did yow know + eat
Griffin Brothers
Tire Sales

E shen wore

n west turese

Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc. has the most advanced diagnostic
equipment & superior customer service.

Trust Griffin Brothers with all your automotive needs including...
major engine work ¢ scheduled maintenance * computer diagnostics

Raney

704.896.8473
19141 W. Catawba Ave.

Moonceville
704.662.0049
278 W. Plaza Dr. (Hwy. 150)

CRIFEIN x

‘BROTHERS <

TIRE SALES, INC.

Cee
Ss

