EVERY DAVIDSON STUDENT’S
WORST FEAR: FAILURE

Lauren Stutts: Addressing First-Years

I’ve been talking to a lot of first-year students,
and the general consensus seems to be that
many are really scared of getting bad grades in
classes and not living up to the perfect grades
they were able to make in high school. I
remember feeling the exact same way when I
was a first-year student; I was terrified of failure
mainly because when I was a prospective, sev-
eral Davidson students told me horror stories
about tests and papers.

Itend to overreact to even the smallest failure.
However, when I find myself getting upset and
depressed about something, I try to step back
and look at it from a broader perspective, and
the failure usually seems inconsequential. If
you try your best and still do bad, then you
shouldn’t feel like a failure. Rather, you should
only feel like a failure when you didn’t give it
your best effort, and even then, you shouldn’t
dwell on it but should try harder nexttime. Also,
you should not avoid doing certain things or
taking certain classes for fear of failure. As
first-year student Athena puts it, “The fear of
failure is the fear of living.”

Felicia Browne: Addressing Sophomores

As amember of the sophomore class, I could
rattle off my biggest fears in a heartbeat. How-
ever, since I refuse to speak for my classmates,
I decided to ask my fellow sophomores to let me
in on their biggest fears. The top 3 were:

* Choosing a major

* Succumbing to the dreaded “Sophomore
Slump”

* Dying of boredom

Luckily, I just have ONE solution to all of
these fears: take advantage of the extracurricu-
lar opportunities at Davidson! As strange as it
sounds, participating in activities around
Davidson will help you discover your interests,

s EE. 7 RTs
: A fe aa

and help you stay busy, thereby avoiding all
three fears. As for those who are already in-
volved in many extracurricular activities around
campus, I would advise them to try something
new. After my freshman year, I assessed all the
activities I had participated in throughout the
year; the ones that I liked doing, I stuck with
them; the ones did not, I gave them up-and
chose other activities to replace them. I believed
there are a plethora of opportunities at
Davidson-so there is no reason to not participate
inactivities that are of interest. As one Davidson
student said, “Take advantage of Davidson,
don’t let Davidson take advantage of you.”

Steve Clugston: Addressing Juniors

So freshman year was a blast, and sophomore
year even more so. . . but now? Work simply
flows from those 300-level classes, not to men-
tion the deadly stats classes that a good portion
ofus aretaking/need to take. The grades weren’t
as friendly freshman year, but that was fine
since we were going to make up for it as
sophomores . . . but, we were still too young to
miss out on life then, so it never happened. And
now there is a mélange of desire to have fun yet
still feel reassured that we are going to make it
somewhere- essentially the pressure of our fu-
ture is taking a gentle stab at us—- BUTI WANT
TO HAVE FUN!!

This is when we panic because we want to go
abroad, but doing so can jeopardize the quality
of our major... and we need good grades in our
major cos if we don’t have good grades. .. then
we aren’t as good . . . we are failures!! Seri-
ously?

Failure comes in all shapes and sizes, its one
of those things that embraces all forms of life. A
positive way to look at it though is that the next
time we try, we will succeed where we last
failed—it’s a big learning experience that makes
us stronger. It simply depends on how you
perceive it, there is absolutely no reason why

The Nancy K. and C. Shaw Smith Artist Series Presents

HICSS

r ad 1 ies
United States and overseas,

rm kuropean music

LO college

and an

students

W ith the sole

and dance. Colorful.

]
|

laAZINY

from Duquest

Ye
Purpose
traditional

7 ,
Cneregy ali COM)

ody and Soul: a column by the Health ‘Aiivisors.

society’s perception of failure can be your suc-
cess. It’s only a failure if you make it one.

Jenn Greene: Addressing Seniors

Whenever I’m with my senior friends, the
topic of conversation inevitably comes to what
each might be doing next year. And the same
thing happens each time: heavy breathing,
panting, cold sweat, jitters, and basically wig-
ging out because the future is still fuzzy (or
completely blank in some situations). The
biggest fears for seniors: Finding a job, finding
a job they actually like, living on their own...
basically, metamorphosizing into an adult. .

Bless their hearts. It is really-quite entertain-
ing to watch one of these spasms. I think
everyone is freaking out for no reason. Every-
thing works out in the end. If it’s not okay, it’s
not the end. Right?

" While I agree that being prepared and having
some sort of plan probably eases the tension and
makes for better conversations with parents
(“My son is going to do... uh... something
when he graduates...”), there are so many op-
tions. It’s okay not to have it figured out quite
yet. Some of the best stories I’ve heard are
about how people went to extremes to survive
(read: having an unknown number of injections
in a psych experiment to earn some extra
money). You'll always do what it takes, and
you'll always get by. Big picture, ladies and
gentlemen- focus on the big picture.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on
WALT 1610 AM: This week’s topic is “Fears
and Phobias”

Speculum captivates viewers

By SALLY STANHOPE
Special Contributor

While not the first artist to capitalize on the
human interest in reflection, Jimmy O’Neal is
the first to use mirrorized paint. Because the
viewer becomes a participant within each paint-
ing, his exhibit Speculum, which is currently on
display at Davidson, directly engages the
viewer. Depending of the viewer’s height,
movement, and outfit, the composition and
color arrangement of the painting transforms.

- It is impossible to merely wall-surf through
the gallery. Monumental paintings engulf the
viewer. Each painting uses the reflective quali-
ties of the mirrorized paint in different ways. In
some, it is in slashed across the painting in huge
energetic brushstrokes; in others the mirrorized
paint is used to create bubbles of pattern. Still
in others, it is employed to form bizarre imag-
ery, which catches the viewer off guard.

Stars, profiles, crowns, nudes, and animals
subtly appear in the paintings. O’ Neal does not
limit himself to mirrorized paint; dead butter-
flies, ink, and bright glasslike colors are used in
the paintings as well. Further playing with the
properties of reflection and distortion, certain
pieces have been shaped to fit into corners.

Speculum is overwhelming. Visually, it
stimulates the viewer to connect with each
piece. Yet, Speculum conceptually challenges
the viewer, as well. Seemingly random, num-

‘bered philosophical laws, which the artist de-

rived from a book on magic, surround the
paintings. In themselves, they provoke thought;
combined with the paintings, they are sure to
produce a lively theoretical discussion among
the student body.

Speculum is on display in the Van Every
Gallery of the Visual Arts Center through Dec.
4.

Tickets: $10,.$15, and $20 at the Union Ticket Office (x2135)
Monday - Friday 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Cat Cards accepted!

Saturday, November 2, 2002 - 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall

| eee :
University, perform ca,

]
Teservinly and Pgs

ithnent

OStUMmMCS

reate a §

the
