ea

THe DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
_ SerreMpeR 18, ‘2002

Offense awakens, defense
clamps down in 28-10 win

Davidson (1-1) at Newberry (1-1)
Saturday at 7 p.m.
Setzler Field, Newberry, SC

THE HISTORY: This is the first con-
test between the two schools since 1985
and just the eighth meeting ever, dating
back to 1913. Newberry holds a 5-2 advan-
tage.

THE TEAMS: After Saturday’s 28-10
drubbing of Jacksonville, the Wildcats ap-
_pear at No. 9 in The Sports Network’s I-
AA Mid-Major Top 10 Poll.

Wide receiver Mike Chase caught six
passes for 106 yards and three touchdowns,
while defensive lineman Ryan Tennis had
3.5 sacks and one tackle-for-loss.

Both received Pioneer League. ne of
the Week honors.

The Newberry Indians of the Div. Il
South Atlanti¢ Conference posted a 35-7
win over North Greenville last week after
opening the season with a 48-0 loss to
Wofford, a Southern Conference school.

Newberry was picked to finish last out
of eight teams in the SAC after losing 16
Starters off last year’s 4-7 (0-7 conference)
team.

Against N. Greenville, sophomore QB
Brian Shealy threw for three touchdowns,
including two to wideout Kendal Brown
(171 yards). Tailback Daniel Gray rushed
33 times for 160 yards and a TD.

WHAT TO EXPECT: The Wildcats
appear on paper to be more experienced
than the young Indians, but playing on the
road against an unfamiliar opponent is

never a sure bet. If Davidson follows
Saturday’s formula—avoid turnovers and
win the field position Balle < capes asec-
ond straight victory

_CATCH THE BUS: The SGA is spon-
soring a bus to take students to and from
Saturday’s game. The cost is $15 for the
bus ride and $10 for a game ticket.

The college is located in Newberry, SC,
about 90 minutes from Davidson. The bus
will leave at 4:30 p.m. and return around

TE30 pie te

Sign up in the Union from 6 to 8 p.m.
on Thursday and 1:30 to 3 p.m. on Friday.
Contact Kevin Epps ‘03 for more informa-
tion. :

-Matt Garfield

By Mike GIcLio
Staff Writer

Revenge is always sweet.

After suffering a humiliating defeat to Jack-
sonville last year, the Davidson football team
was committed to emerging victorious in
Saturday’s contest. And players do not hesi-
tate to voice their dislike for the Dolphins.

“When I worked out during this last off
season, all I thought about was beating Jack-
sonville,” says defensive lineman Ryan Ten-
nis. “Basically we just hate them.”

That hatred, combined with a year’s worth
of hard work since last year’s disappointment,
led to considerably different results this time
around.

The Wildcats dominated in every aspect of
the game, gaining more yards and more first
downs in a 28-10 Pioneer League victory.
~ Said linebacker and defensive captain Jim
Carney after the game: “to lose to those guys
like we did last year and then come out and
play the way we did is a real testament to this
team’s character.”

The defense, led by Carney and Tennis, all
but shut down the opposing offense.
Jacksonville’s lone touchdown came in the
second quarter after a blocked punt gave them
possession on the Davidson two-yard line,
and they managed only three more points on
a previous field goal.

Carney had a game-high 15 tackles, includ-
ing 10 solos. Tennis complemented these
numbers on the defensive line with 4.5 tackles
for losses and 3.5 sacks, one half sack shy of
tying the school’s single game record.

The two combined for a one-two punch that
proved nearly impossible for the Dolphin
offensive line to keep in check.

The play of the big men up front served as .

another area where the Wildcats could boast
dominance. The Jacksonville quarterbacks
were sacked nine times for a combined loss of
54 yards, while Wildcats’ QB Paul Nichols
remained virtually untouched.

But sack numbers alone fail to show just
how many times the Dolphin backfield was
harassed by the Wildcat defense. The biggest
hit of the day came when Tennis broke through
the pocket and smashed into quarterback Mike

_ Sturgill just after he released a pass, leaving

him lying on the field until he was eventually
carried off on a stretcher and into an ambu-
lance.

Reports on Sturgill’s health were positive,
and he is expected to be fine.

Davidson would enjoy similar supremacy
on the offensive side of the ball. Halfbacks

Wer

photo by Doug Jackson

Sophomore tailback Christian Hunt attacks the Jacksonville defense.

John Leverett and Christian Hunt ran over
the Dolphin defense for 98 and 83 yards,
respectively. Meanwhile, Nichols and tight
end Mike Chase were busy putting on their
own shows.

Chase accounted for six of Nichols’s 10
completions to go over 100 yards receiving
on the day. Among those catches were all
three of Davidson’s touchdowns and a spec-
tacular 38 yard grab in which he reached
over a defender, then dragged him down the
field. e

Commented Nichols on the touchdowns;
“Personally, the opportunity to get the ball to
Mike Chase in the end zone was special
because 'it had been so long since we con-
nected for a touchdown, and doing it against
Jacksonville made it that much better.”

The victory, which extended the Wild-

cats’ home winning streak to 13, gives the.

team a solid start to its conference schedule.
The next chance comes on Oct. 5, when
Davidson hosts Morehead State in its sec-
ond Pioneer game.
“This win was important because it gives

bob OTT O M LE EN

us a chance to go out and determine our own
destiny within the conference,” Carney ré-
marked. “Now we don’t have to worry about
what the other teams are doing.”

Nichols agrees, “The game allowed us to
really display our team’s true talent. Our de-
termination was motivated not only by last
year’s loss but also by our goal of winning the
Pioneer Football League.”

The Wildcats will continue in their quest
this Saturday night at 7 p.m. when they take
the field at Newberry for a non-conference
game.

“T think the challenge for next week will be
to maintain that level of intensity and not just
rest on our laurels,” Tennis predicts. “This
win gave us confidence, and that will be the
key for this weekend.”

Nichols and the rest of-the team are just as
focused.

“Newberry provides another challenge and
opportunity for us to improve as a team,” he
says. “We must remember our intensity in
practice last week and carry it over in order to
win again.”

Davidsonian

Player of the Week

Mike Chase ‘03

Position: Tight end
Major: Biology
Hometown: Medina, Ohio

i his second career start since moving from
wideout to tight end, Chase caught six passes
for 106 yards and three TDs in Saturday’s
football win over Jacksonville.

neceeneenenennn Tt hursday-—---m-——-———-
Women’s Soccer at Appalachian State 8 p.m.
Friday ‘
Field Hockey at Richmond S 4 p.m.
aoo--e---------Saturday---------------
Football at Newberry 7 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Winthrop Invitational
Men’s Soccer vs. High Point 7 p.m.
Volleyball at Western Carolina 2 p.m.
Golf at Sea Trail Invitational, Sunset Beach, N.C.
i mreneeneeeennnn Sunday---------------
Field Hockey at Towson 1 p:m.
Women’s Soccer at East Tennessee State 2 p.m.
Volleyball at Chattanooga 2 p.m.
moceennenenenn= Tuesday---------------
Men’s Soccer vs. VMI 4:30 p.m.
Field Hockey at Duke 7:30 p.m.

Volleyball at UNC Greensboro

7 p.m.
