2

Tue DAvIDSONIAN
_ WEDNEspAY,
Apri 17, 2002

Tennis teams wrap up regular season, prepare for SoCon

Men focus on developing young line-up

photo by Erin Berry

Chad Winebarger, No. 1 singles, launches a serve.

Best of the decade: Women go 17-5 overall

By AMANDA MorDAvSsKY

Staff Writer

Posting its best record in ten years, the
women’s tennis team defeated Georgia South-
ern 6-1 to improve to 16-5 overall, and 6-2 in
the conference. A tough loss to the College of
Charleston dropped them back to 17-5 and 6-3.

In the Georgia Southern match-up on April
13, the Wildcats dominated from the begin-
ning, sweeping the matches in the doubles
competition. Freshmen twins Meghan and
Kelly Fillnow teamed up to beat Amy Bartlett
and Callie Ward, 8-4. The combination of
freshman Meggie Patterson and sophomore
Katherine Hatch proved deadly as they beat

Charlotte Bruneteaux and Brooke McNamee, -

8-4, while senior captain Kelley Cantrell and
junior captain Yasamina Hilu defeated Sally
Williams and Sarah Iqbal, 8-5.

Despite losing the doubles point, the Eagles
bounced back inthe singles competition. Barlett
defeated Kelly Fillnow, 6-4, 2-6, 6-2 to tie the
game. However, the Wildcats would not allow
the Eagles to get any closer, as they dominated
the other matches. Patterson defeated Iqbal, 6-
1, 6-1, while Meghan Fillnow pulled out a win
over McNamee, 3-6, 6-4 (10-6). Cantrell proved
too strong for Bruneteaux, winning the match
6-4, 6-1, while Hilu snuck by GSU’s Ward, 6-
3, 6-4. Finally, Hatch sealed the win with a
crushing 6-1, 6-1 win over Williams.

On April 14, the Wildcats returned to action,
_ taking on a tough College of Charleston team.
The Wildcats came out strong, winning the
doubles point 2-1. The Cougars’ Marcella
Valkenhoff and Gabriella Moreira defeated the
Fillnow duo, 8-6, but Hatch and Patterson
bounced back for the Wildcats to defeated
Rachel Magory and Maike Harting, 8-5. Hilu
and Cantrell cinched the point with their crush-
ing 8-0 win over Whitney Malina and Emily
Scatuorchio.

Moving into singles action, Magory came
back from her doubles loss to defeat Kelly
Fillnow, 6-2, 6-4. The Wildcats would pull
back ahead with a Patterson win over Moriera,
7-5, 6-4. However, the ’Cats would not see the
lead again as the Cougars came away with the
last four points. Valkenhoff defeated Meghan
Fillnow, 6-4, 6-1, while Malina pulled away
from Cantrell, 7-5, 6-4. Harting delivered a
crushing blow to Hilu, 6-1, 6-0, while
Scatuorchio easily overcame Hatch, 6-2, 6-2.

Coach Caroline Price explains, ‘They com-
peted well. [It was an] exciting match and

atmosphere in Charleston; we just came upa ||

little short. [However,] we get another shot
with the Conference Tournament.”

The Wildcats last regular season match is on
April 16 at UNC-Charlotte. The Wildcats will
then move ontothe Southern Conference Cham-
pionships from April 18-21, where they hope to
earn a NCAA berth.

By JONATHAN CRoomMs

Staff Writer

Over the weekend, the Davidson men’s ten-
nis team wrapped up jts regular season with a
home win against Virginia Military Institute

and an away loss against 66th nationally ranked _

Furman University. The matches marked the
end of a Jong and challenging season for the
young Davidson squad.

Last Friday, the Wildcats defeated the
Keydets 6-1 on Senior Day to send senior co-
captains Chad Winebarger’02 and David Webb
’02 out victorious. The team had no trouble in
the doubles matches. At number one doubles,
Winebarger and Rob Gould ’04 won easily
over Brian Ahmes and Tom Huffman 8-2,
while Webb and Bryan Stonestreet ’04 de-
feated Ted Nevatt and Slobodan Stipic 8-5 at
number two doubles. Jonathan Britt 04 and

~ Geoff Mullen ’03 won by default at number

three doubles.

The Wildcats experienced little resistance in
singles, dropping only one match. At number
one singles, Winebarger defeated Huffman 6-
1, 6-3. Rob Haywood ’04 emerged victorious
over Ahmes 7-5, 6-4 at number three singles.
At number four singles, Britt defeated Navatt
6-2, 6-0, while Donald Miles ’05 blanked Wes
Tatum 6-0, 6-0 at number five singles. Mullen
was awarded a victory by default at number six
singles. The only loss of the match came at
number two singles, where Stipic defeated
Webb 6-0, 6-0.

On Sunday, the squad was blanked 7-0 by an
older, more experienced Paladin team, which
marked the end of a tough regular season
schedule. Despite two close doubles matches,
the Wildcats were unable to pull out the doubles
point. James Cameron and John Chesworth
defeated Haywood and Miles at number one
doubles, while Winebarger and Gould lost 8-6

to Peter Netzler and Andrew Rogers at number

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Our greatest glory is not in never
falling, but in rising every time we

-Confucius :

Kelly Fillnow, one half of the dynamic freshman duo.

two doubles. At number three doubles, Chris
Henderson and Allen Simmons defeated Britt
and Mullen 9-8 (5).

The Wildcats did not experience much better
luck in the singles, as Furman did not drop a set
in any match. At number one singles,
Winebarger lost his match 6-2, 6-4 to
Chesworth. Cameron defeated Webb 6-1, 6-0
at number two singles, while Haywood lost 6-
2, 6-3 to Henderson at number three singles. At
number four singles, Britt could not pull out the
second set, as he fell 6-2, 6-4 to Patrick Gaughn.
Miles lost his match 6-1, 6-1 to Patrick Fillnow
at number five singles. Despite two close sets,
Mullen also fell 6-4, 6-3 to Ryan McCarthy.

Throughout the course of the season, the
Wildcats struggled against stronger Confer-
ence USA and Ivy League opponent, but these
matches have made the team stronger and more
determined to improve. The Wildcats have
gained vast amounts of experience from the
season, which has resulted in the development
of its younger players, starting in line-up forthe
first time. The team looks to carry their gar-
nered experience into the Southern Conference
Tournament, which begins ‘on Thursday in

‘Charleston, SC.

In anticipation of the Southern Conference
tournament, Gould commented, “Hopefully,
we can take something out of these matches
and see improvements in the conference tour-
nament.”

The team’s hard work and effort will be more
visible in seasons to come if not in the upcom-
ing conference tournament. The Wildcats pos-
sess a great deal of talent ‘and potential, which
is only beginning to show.

At the close of the season, the team compiled
an 11-12 regular season record aad a 4-6 South-
ern Conference record. This wéek, the Wild-
cats will prepare for the Southern Conference
Tournament in which they will likély face VMI
or Wofford in the first round. !

Photo by Erin Berry

THE WEEK AHEAD

: BASEBALL Men’s TENNIS
Apr. 20 Western Carolina (2) 12:00 Apr. 18-21 Southern Conference Tourna-
Apr. 21 Western Carolina 1:00

GOLF

ment, Charleston SC

Women’s TENNIS

Apr. 19-21 Southern Conference Champi-
onship @ Furman University

Apr. 18-21 Southern Conference Champi-
onships in Charleston, SC

TRACK & FiEtp

LACROSSE
Apr. 19 @ Penn State — 4:00
Apr. 20 @ Northwestern . 2:00

Apr. 18-20 Southern Conference Outdoor
Championships, Johnson City, TN
