s taff Editorial

The New York Times reported last week that cheating is more
common than ever at colleges and universities. Last year, 41% of
students surveyed said that plagiarism happens “often or very of-
ten on campus.” The same percentage of students admitted to
copying and pasting information from the Internet into a paper
without citing the source.

And professors aren’t neces-
sarily complaining. Two years
ago, more than 90% of professors
said that copying directly from
the Internet was a serious offense.
Last year, only 51% of teachers
agreed with that statement.

To combat the increases in
cheating, more schools are turn-
ing to honor codes. They’ re also
reexamining punishments and
making the consequences for
cheating more clear.

Honor codes don’t always work. Many of us remember what
the Times goes so far as to call a “cheating scandal” at the Univer-
sity of Virginia last year.

And the honor code doesn’t always work at Davidson. At the
end of every semester we read about the handful of individuals
who were found guilty of honor violations.

Nowweknow that at most American colleges, cheating iscom-
mon. How does Davidson fit into these statistics? Clearly, we con-
tinue to function under the honor code. Exams remain
unproctored, papers are pledged and tests are frequently take-
home.

Is our honor code so effective, and so well-ingrained in our con-
sciousness, that we have managed to defy a trend sweeping col-
lege campuses? Or have we convinced ourselves that cheating
doesn’t happen here so that we don’t see it when it does?

Now we know that at most American
colleges, cheating is common. How does
Davidson fit into these statistics?

From the rélatively small number of honor violations pros-
ecuted each semester, it seems as if our school is a little different
from the rest. Other campuses are just discovering the efficacy of
honor codes, something we’ve known all along. .

If Davidson really is the exception to the cheating rule, we all
have something to be proud of.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Emily Drew Caroline Hauser
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
Richard Connolly Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager —
Laura Filosa
Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

Dear Danae-

DEAR COM
" ; ’ | always Seem to -
Nour online home Leracked tot

How can | break //f ae
khis stupid cycle VOTING.
| & bad decisions?

—>

CONN

I, you ask?
Here’s your final answer

By MICHAEL KRUSE
Special Contributor

Understand something right from the start: Davidson is a Di-
vision III school playing Division I sports.

That doesn’t mean it shouldn’t play Div. I sports. It doesn’t
even mean it can’t. But this much is flat fact: Most'l ,600-student
colleges are Div. III. There are, however, oodles of reasons ours

isn’t.
ON Sports editor Richard Connolly ex-
SX:  humesatired Davidson debate in won-
dering whether Davidson should com-
pete at the Div. I level. “That,” the
headline states, “is the question.”
Really? Is that the question? How
about these: .

-Who the heck would we play were
we to go Div. III? Most of our academic peers sit in the Northeast,
the Midwest or even all the way out on the Left Coast — but not in
the South.

-How the heck would our teams get to away games? (Please
don’t say 15-passenger vans or expedia.com.) And without miss-
ing excessive class time?

-And what about the alums? Always, always, always, there are
the alums. And the fear, especially with respect to football, is that

see Division, continued on page 8

Hear ye, hear ye: State of

the Union Cafe address

PROBLEMS:

The Meal Plan Debacle

The Theory of Normal Eating (Will Jordan):

Chicken Sandwich + Fries + Drink + Banana = Average Size
Meal

The Theory of Beneficial Starvation (Union Café):

Davidson students should be forced to pay huge sums of money
(in addition to their meal plans) if they find it necessary to eatmore
than an average size poodle would eat for a typical dinner.

Rollin’ the Dice ,

You neverreally know what you will pay for your food because
the cashiers don’t really know which buttons to push. If you
haven’ t noticed this yet, watch the little register screen next time
you go through. Don’t be surprised if your bag of Baked Lays
comes up a granola bar.

SOLUTIONS:

The Wheel of Fortune

If we don’t know what we’ll pay for our food, might as well
have some fun with it. So whoever’s in charge of the Union Café,

‘write this down: Remove the boring card swipe machines and

computers, and install a slightly modified Wheel of Fortune.
Picture this scene. ;

You step up with your purchase and spin the giant Wheel of
Fortune (clapping and chanting “Big Money, Big Money,” while
the wheel is in motion is optional, but highly encouraged).

Possibilities on the wheel would include paying for the food of
all students in line behind you, getting your food at half price (also

known as the “normal price” possibility), and getting your food

for free along with an all-inclusive trip to the Carolina Raptor
Center with one Union worker of your choosing.

Ladies and Gentlemen....... Oh, Never Mind, Just Eat

Unlike other establishments that overcharge for sub-par food
(sports games, concerts), the Union Café has no form of entertain-
ment. : eo reenter metope idignnlrtatonts

Suggestions: student/faculty boxing matches, dancing midg-
ets, leapfrog races.

Make us feel like we’re paying for the atmosphere, not just the
fried chicken sandwich that we ordered grilled.

Will Jordan ‘04

_ We welcome
letters to the editors.

We edit for content,
or brevity and grammar.

Please e-mail contributions
of less than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu

—

Lip

ANY Mf

Wy
es
E

LECTION

*\ -
“4

I ty
Mig
