DaAviIpsoN COLLEGE

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 4

New ch ubs
form, focus"
on diversity

CDSA, JSU, GSA
promote acceptance,
education on campus

By JULIE GoFF
Staff Writer

Itis only appropriate that amidst a chang-
ing world and an increasingly diverse stu-
dent population that Davidson’s list of stu-
dent-run special interest groups is reshap-
ing itself this year. Several new groups like
the Jewish Student Union and the Chroni-
cally Ill & Disabled Student Association
have been created this fall, while existing:
groups like the Gay-Straight Alliance, are
currently revamping.

Fostering tolerance amongst students of
differentreligions, sexual orientations, gen-
der and physical abilities seems to be the
theme across this new flux of student
groups. As their names suggest, these new
groups cater to small minorities on campus,
which consequently have received little at-
tention. In Davidson fashion, though, stu-

dent leaders who are passionate about their. .

causes have taken the initiative to begin
bringing students of similar circumstances
together, proving support and promoting
awareness on campus and elsewhere.

Chronically Ill & Disabled Student
Association

Fligabeth Barnes ‘03 donned the Chroni-
cally Ill & Disabled Student Association

see New Groups, page 3

l

on

CASE YOU MISSED IT

~
pera,

ca

D.O. Does tHe Gautey: Leslie Thompson '04 (front right) helped lead a D.O.
trip last weekend on the Gauley River in West Virginia. Ranked as class V
and VI rapids, the river provides the most challenging whitewater in the
eastern U.S. Also pictured: Katharina Schallmaier '06, Anja Rasel '06, Andi

Altmeyer '06, and Juan Estrada '06.

photo by Davidson Outdoors

Staley lecturer preaches
need for science and faith

College welcomes
Polkinghorne for
lectures, class sessions

By Emity Drew
News Editor

From his opening worship service on Mon-

day to the second public lecture tonight, the: .

2002 Staley Lecturer has provided his audience
with provocative insights into the relationship
between science and theology.

The Reverend Doctor John C. Polkinghorne,
from Cambridge, England, has discussed the
vastness of the universe
and the scientific wonders
of cosmic creation over the
past two days.

But as he reminded the
congregation in Lingle
Chapel on Monday, the
universe’s most complex
creation is only a few
inches this side of the tele-
scope lens.

Polkinghorne is amath-
ematical physicist and
Anglican priest whose
work strives to take reli-
gion and science with
equal seriousness and to
recognize that the two dis-
ciplines each seek “‘a truth
whose attainment comes
through the pursuit of
well-motivated belief,” he
says.

Since he arrived at
Davidson on Sunday,
Polkinghorne has actively
participated in life oncam-
pus. Besides his two lec-
tures, Polkinghorne’ s itin-
erary has included lunches

The Rev. Dr. John Polkinghorne

and dinners with professors, students, and staff.
He also acted as a guest lecturer in the team-
taught class of Drs. Gfroerer and Robb, which
deals with philosophical issues in modern phys-
ics.

“We're delighted with the community’s re-
sponse and with Polkinghorne’s prescence and
articulation of a Christian faith perspective that
is so carefully and beautifully conceived and
explained,” said College Chaplain Rob Spach
after Tuesday night’s lecture.

In that first lecture, “Is Science Enough?”
Polkinghorne admitted that he wants to explore
how methods of exploration in science and
theology can be pushed together while main-
taining real intellectual integrity.

The mathematics of science, he argued, give
real insight to the beauty and mysteries of the
physical world, however, he insisted “science
is not enough.”

“Testing,” he said, “must give way to trust-

ing” in order to better understand the “astonish-

ingly rational transparency of the universe.”
Mathematics may be the key to unlocking
mysteries of the physical world, but he asked,

see Lecturer, page 2

“Vamanos Van

parked after
alcohol found
on board

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

Administrators shut down the Vamanos Van
indefinitely after six students were ticketed for
alcohol possession following a traffic stop late
Saturday night.

The Davidson Town Police stopped the van
on Griffith Street around 10:30 p.m. on Satur-
day after being notified by a Cornelius restau-
rant that alcohol may be on board.

Officers discovered an open cooler of beer on
the van, and issued citations to six of the roughly
nine students on board, said senior SGA Senator
Kevin Epps, who manages the van and was on
board Saturday. Epps did not receive a citation.

On Monday, school administrators ordered
the van parked until the SGA formulates a new
policy that defines the alcohol policy more
clearly.

Since 1997, the SGA and Patterson Court
Council have provided the 14-passenger van as
a free service to transport students anywhere
from exits 25 and 36 on I-77 on Thursday
through Saturday.

It’s often used to carry students from area bars
and restaurants after they’ ve been drinking al-
cohol. Epps said Saturday wasn’t the first time
alcohol had been consumed on the bus.

It was Epps’s understanding that the van is a
privately run service similar to a limousine,
meaning that it could legally carry alcohol.

Epps said he believes local police knew stu-
dents frequently drank alcohol on the van, but
didn’t take action as long as the driver was sober.

“Has there been drinking on the bus? Yes,” he
said. “Has it ever been caught? No. The town

. knew it was a program that supplied a safe ride

for people who had been to parties and bars that
could not drive because they were impaired.”

see Vamanos, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News one 1-6
Meet the new SGA senators. Page 5.

- Arts & Living 7-9
_, Filter releases new album. Page 9.

Perspectives 10-11
Controversy surrounds Augusta National
Golf Club. Page 11. :

Sports 12-16
Golfers bring home tourney title. Page 16.

