THE DAvIDSONIAN

Berkey, students lead discussion 4
about Middle East conflict

T-shirts, from page 1

learn about the historical basis of the current
problems in the Middle East.”

“We are not a campus where many people
bother to think or talk about serious issues.
We wanted to spark debate and make people
think about complex issues of far greater
importance than which frat they plan to get
trashed at this weekend,” he claimed.

Both students also noted the skewed per-
spective of the pro-Israeli media.

Brooks and Massengale both feel the pro-
test was a success
because it pro-
duced discussion
on the issue be-
tween students,
faculty, and staff
on campus, and
led many people
to ask the protest-
ors questions.

“T had a lot of
people come up to
me and thank me
for what we were
doing,” said Massengale. “The shirts got no-
tice and mention in most of my classes.”

“It showed the Davidson community that
there were students who were outraged and
horrified of the actions of Israel as they at-
tempted to ‘root out terrorism,” noted Brooks.

The shirts were chosen as a form of protest
due to their visibility and uniqueness.

“We thought that T-shirts, in coordination

_with signs, was the best way to make our
statement visible,” said Brooks.

“Furthermore, we hoped that people would
see the signs and then discuss them and the

“We wanted to spark
debate and make
people think about
complex issues.”

- Alex Massengale ‘04

issue with people wearing the shirts.”

Protestors encountered little conflict
throughout the day. “Most people I talked to
were very polite and wanted to learn more
about the situation,” said Massengale.

The students decided to continue the pro-
tests and use additional means to elicit dis-
cussion across campus. On Thursday, April
18, 20-30 new students gathered in Chambers
318 after watching “Children of Fire,” adocu-
mentary of the First Intifada shown by the
History department’s Dr. Jonathan Berkey.
There they designed shirts much like the first
group had. Thenext
day previous and
new shirt protesters
wore their shirts
across campus.

Also on Friday
the students orga-
nized a solidarity
lunch/teach-in at
the amphitheater in
front of the Union.
There Dr. Berkey,
along with his Is-
lamic Civilization
and History class,
led a discussion about the current situation in
the region. Many other students showed up to
participate in the discussion.

Later last week the group posted additional
flyers and ran a tabling campaign.

“Our goal is to have twice as many people
join us,” said Massengale.

“We also plan to begin a letter writing
campaign to United States Congressmen and
Senators urging them to support a fair and
balanced foreign policy concerning the con-
flict between the Palestinians and the Israe-

lis,” said Brooks.

The Few. The Proud.

‘Have an aricle feat Want to write about it?
Contact Colin (coeagan) or Lindy Caneicyn)

‘Dear Student Body, :

At last week’s meeting, the SGA voted on two very important issues; parking on
campus and the level of political involvement of the SGA outside campus. We first voted
on a resolution by Alex Massengale and Josh Craft asking the SGA to support campaign
finance reform in the state of North Carolina. Alex reported to us that many other
colleges in the state had passed similar resolutions and that the endorsement of Davidson
College would help their efforts. The Senate then decided that they didn’t wish to .
involve themselves with political matters outside of Davidson College. While the SGA
realizes that there are some issues to be addressed that would affect students as citizens
of a greater community, this was not one of them.

The second issue that was voted on concerned the class of 2006 and where they
should be allowed to park next year. A resolution was written by Kevin Epps (President
03) and Susanne Francis (Senator ’03) that asked for all incoming freshmen next year
to be forced to park in Baker parking lot. The proponents for this resolution sited the
recent rash of break-ins occurring on campus and by forcing freshmen to park in Baker,
perhaps we would help make this campus safer foreveryone. However, several senators,
including myself, did not feel that safety was a valid reason. If satellite is so dangerous
then why is it full most of the time? Why not ask residents of Duke, Sentelle and Cannon
park there, since they are the closest anyway? The SGA voted down the resolution.

This week the SGA will be evaluating the relationship between campus police and
students, particularly on Patterson Court. Graham Watson (Senator ’03) will be a ‘year-
in-review’ to the Senate. We will also be approving appointments to the faculty

_ committees, and voting on suggested changes in the elections process. Please come to

our meeting on Thursday night at 9 pm in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Sincerely,

Grady Patterson
SGA President

LUDACRIS —

in concert

Wednesiay, May 1° 8:00 p.m.

~ Davidson College
Union Ticket Office
Monday —Friday
1:30pm - 5:30nm

$25 General Admission

