- WEDNESDAY,
Marcu 27, 2002

~ Staff Editorial

Does anyone actually like’
Lottery Night? The.system is,
of course, designed to be im-
partial and to award the best
rooms in the fairest way. And,
aside from the painful hour we
spend locked inside a confer- :
ence room waiting to choose a room, the system usually
works, °

But there are some significant flaws in the process that need
improvement. In West Hall, there are 64 single rooms
clustered into pods of eight. Students going through singles
lottery cannot choose to cluster for the pods. It seems that
living in a single provides the most potential for isolation.
Wouldn’t it make sense if we could choose our neighbors?

It is understandable that eight students can’t go in together
for a whole pod; that would make it too hard for students
without clusters to getasingle room. But shouldn’t we be able

to cluster with a couple of friends, just like we can for

doubles? ;

On a similar note, we’re told that randomly-assigned lot-
tery numbers are the best way to make sure everyone get s a
fair shot at choosing aroom. In theory, this makes sense. But
don’t we all know people who have had great numbers every
year, and others whose numbers are consistently high?

In the registration lottery, our second number is determined
by our first. So if the first number is terrible, the second won’t
be as bad. Lottery should work the same way. A high number
one year should mean a low number the next year. Complete
randomness is a good idea, but it has the potential to shaft the
same people every year.

Clearly, it’s important to the atmosphere — and administra-
tion — of our school that most students live on campus. But
there are 418 rising seniors, and only 338 spaces in Martin
Court.

So almost 100 seniors must either live off-campus on ina
residence hall (and not many will choose that option after
three years of dorm life). Next year’s class is even bigger.
The senior apartments contribute a lot to a student’s last year
at Davidson.

As we look at long-term planning, the school should make
it a priority to ensure that every senior has an apartment
available to them.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Timothy Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Emily Drew (Assistant)
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh . Gavin Weber
Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser ~ .
Photography Editors
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager .»
Maggie Kozicharow

by WILEY

000K, THAT'S K NKSTY
LITTLE HERD COLD You've
GOT THERE, SiR.

TAIS WAX TH NOUR TABLE...

€

if

; WHEN PROFILING NORKSG
$

HOV) SEQUiTUP. COM

ANILEN QHON -SEQUITUR. CONS Dist BY UPNEREPL PES SIMO. WWW.

In Such a Night...

I went to see the RSC production of “The Merchant of
Venice.” I have always been grateful for the pervading
concept that education at Davidson was premised on a Mat-
thew Arnold belief that knowledge was in itself not enough,
but that scholarly inquiry should add to happiness.

From what I see as the Davidson experience, art is not
merely made for itself in the Greenbergian sense, but it has a
moral responsibility. And so, as I watched and responded to
that wonderful week of thinking about “Which is the mer-
chant here and which the Jew?” |
reflected on my own view of a
half-century of experiences of
being a Davidsonian.

For Davidson, like Venice (or
even Vienna or Berlin as sug-
gested by the shifting semiotics of
the minimalist set from the Wail-
ing Wall to Albert Speer’s classi-
cally symmetrical, rusticated Nazi
architecture to the carefully balanced rows of ingots in this
production), was at one time an isolated community (if not
exactly an island) of highly selected white males. All loans
could be reasonably settled and all demonstrable need could
be met because the stewardship of our bonds was carefully
and responsibly placed on the high seas of the post-war
economy. Belmont was not really in Belmont, N.C., but was
to be found in those weekday fantasies of Queens, Salem
College, and Converse College...which eventually melted
away in the headaches and dry heat of Sunday chapel and the
realties of another upcoming week of work.

But then things became more complicated and the economy
of our community began to change. “Foreigners” begin to
arrive: Hungarians and other Europeans, Asians and Afri-
cans, and then black Americans and women and different
social classes. They too began to be converted into
Davidsonians. But then the winds began to fall out of the sails
of our financial ships and all demonstrable need could not be
met for a period. We were all concerned that some debts and
obligations to being “inclusive” could not be met.

But, mirabile dictu, our ships have recently come in safe;
demonstrable need has been once again met and our world
righted. But while conversion into being a Davidsonian is
possible to more and more different people, do we not still
have an alien card to play, one more insurmountable obstacle
to full citizenship? All tenure-track faculty members at
Davidson are obliged to sign a declaration of “sympathy” for
the Christian principles. Conversion is possible, but if you are
not a “Christian Davidsonian,” one remains an “alien.” In
their subalternity, “aliens” at Davidson cannot become “di-
rectly or indirectly” a member of the Board of Trustees
(required to be “an active member of the Christian church”),
or president of the college (required to be “‘a loyal and active
church member whose life provides evidence of a strong
Christian faith and commitment).

Elie Weisel began to retell his story in such a Night. “In
such a night,” a champion of the rights of “aliens,” Martin

Luther King called for “such a day” when all could come to
the table together. Was that to exclude the boardroom table of
our community of scholars? What could be really new on the —
Rialto? —

Shaw Smith, Art Department

We want your news

In his piece about watching the Wildcats in the NCAA
tournament, Zach Williams mentioned one of the biggest
challenges we face in the Office of College Communications:
raising the national visibility of Davidson College. It’s true.
A wonderful by-product of our athletics program is spreading
the word about Davidson.

We need all the help we can get. Our news staff is always
on the lookout for good stories to pitch to the national media.
It’s not easy to get their attention, because most of what goes
on here is not “news,” no matter how important we may think
it is. Even The Charlotte Observer can be a hard nut to crack.

But you can help us. When you see a story in the news that
relates to something going on here, give us a call. Trend
stories are very popular with the media. If you have a friend
who is doing something really different, particularly if it
relates to popular culture, give us a call.

Faculty and staff can help as well, and many do call us when
they see a good story. But often, if your eye is on another ball
(like, say, teaching!), you might overlook the news value of
that quirky project or that surprising combination of interests.

We know there are great stories on our campus that we
never hear about. Think like a reporter and tip us off. Call me
at x2242 or Bill Giduz at x2244, or email us. Together, we can
make Davidson a household word.

Meg Kimmel, Director

College Communications

Union Cafe comments

Last week, we invited readers to respond to our list of
suggestions for the Union Cafe. Here are their ideas.

Here’s my two cents for the Union Cafe:

1) black bean burgers (they used to have them at the old
Union) .

2) Boca sausages (it’s a vegetarian thing)

3) wheat buns for burgers

4) breakfast AND lunch available on Saturday and Sunday
afternoons (like at Commons)

5) bowls (why do they have cereal in boxes and oatmeal in
packets when we have nothing to make them in but really tall
cups?)

6) baked potatoes offered around the clock (not just for a
few hours on weekday afternoons)

The Union should definitely stock up on some soy milk like
Commons has. I think Edensoy even packages soy milk in
individual juice box-like units that would be easy to sell
separately.

Anna Rainey ‘05

I saw your article. and thought it was very respectfully
done. I have one suggestion to add: Please give faster
service.

This does not represent “fast food” service with the slow,
laid-back attitude of the employees. It would be nice to have
it at least appear that they are trying to get orders out quickly.

Thanks.
Monica White ‘05

