Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

Construction continues on music building -

Music department’s new

home will have more space
in impraved facilities

By Linpy BaALpwin ©
News Editor

Music majors, piano players, singers and
those who just love music will soon have
reason to rejoice. .The Music Department’s
new home — the historic Grey building, for-
merly the College Union — is slated to open in
Fall 2002, with a new recital hall, bigger
music library and improved practice facili-
ties.

According to Tim Brotherton, the Associ-
ate Director of Engineering and Construc-
tion, the new music building is “truly on
schedule.” This news should calm the fears
of students and faculty who remember the
multiple postponements of the Alvarez Union
opening. The major project — lowering the
entire basement floor by four feet — has al-
ready been completed. “Everything else after
that is pretty easy!” Brotherton noted.

Except for a few remaining staircases, the
old Grey College Union is practically unrec-
ognizable. Brotherton said that the “vast
majority” of the building’s inner architecture
was redone; only one wall and a handful of

Far right: The door
remains from the old
college union, but the
basement floor has
been lowered four feet.
The extra space will
enhance the acoustics
of the new practice
rooms.

Near right: Workers
stand on scaffolding to
paint the ceiling of Dr.
Bill Lawing’s future
band room.

stairwells remain. A small atrium has been
added to give the building a more “open”
feeling.

Most of the old Union’s randomly placed
small rooms are gone in favor of larger and
more utilitarian spaces. A freight elevator
has also been added to assist in the moving of
pianos and other large instruments.

The basement level consists mostly of
faculty offices and practice rooms. Unlike
the current practice rooms, these newly-con-
structed spaces will have double-thick walls
that will completely damp out the noise from
adjacent rooms. The acoustics in each room
will also be improved thanks to their asym-
metric shapes, Brotherton explained.

The first level will contain more faculty
offices, plus the new Music Library. This
new library will be a vast improvement over
the old one, currently tucked away in a win-
dowless room of the Cunningham Fine Arts
building. There will be a separate “group
listening” room where multiple students can
listen to music, and there will be much more
space for computers, tables and bookshelves.

Also on the first level is a new lecture hall
(which will be shared by the Chemistry de-
partment) and a smaller seminar room.

The second level will be home to Ray
Sprague’s new tiered choir hall. Brotherton
explained that this new choir room will also
feature a system of sliding filing cabinets

where Sprague can store his music. Across
the hall, Music Department chair Bill Lawing
will find his new band room — with a high
ceiling and a separate room for instrument
storage. :

Rounding out the second floor is a dramatic
new recital hall. The venue will seat 150 on
the ground level; the rows of seats will be
slightly tiered for better viewing. Like the C.
Shaw Smith 900 room, there will be a bal-
cony overlooking the stage from all angles —
an ideal place for singers, or extra audience
members. Brotherton calls the recital hall
balcony. “my favorite spot in this building.”

One of the most exciting features of the
new building will be its recording capabili-
ties. On the basement level there will be a
traditional recording studio, with a glass win-
dow separating the performer from the re-
cording equipment. .

The recording studio will also be capable
of communicating with and recording per-
formers in the second-floor recital hall.
Brotherton said there may even be a camera
to give the people in the recording studio
visual contact with the performer; an inter-
com will also enable the musician to commu-
nicate with the recording studio.

With its increased space and improved
facilities, the renovated Grey building will be
a welcome home for the growing Music pro-
gram. .

Students work on Dole, Bowles campaigns

High-profile North Caro-
lina Senate race attracts
Davidson volunteers

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer

Interest in politics and a tight local senato-
rial race have drawn many students from
across campus to volunteer for local cam-
paign efforts. ne

Two students in particular have volun-
teered extensive amounts of time supporting
their party. Junior Matt Paramore ’03.plans
to serve as a summer intern for the leading
democratic candidate Bowles at campaign
headquarters in Raleigh. Trevor Stanley ‘02
volunteers for leading Republican contender
Elizabeth Dole in Salisbury, 30 minutes north
of Davidson.

Both are currently helping to organize stu-
dents on campus to volunteer as well.

Though the primary elections have yet to
occur both volunteers expect their candidates
to win and eventually face each other next fall
in a tightly contested senatorial election.

Paramore looks forward to this summer,
during whichhe’ Il have the opportunity nearly
everyday to work with senior staffers who
run the campaign. He has limited experience
with campaign politics; but in the past he has
attended numerous events and rallies and
even helped stage one local campaign effort.

He claims that thus far Bowles has “run an
outstanding campaign” and though the pri-
maries will be contested, he “expects Bowles
to pull through.” “He has the best name

recognition of any primary candidate and
formidable experience.”

The two main primary challengers to
Bowles include Elaine Marshall, N.C. Secre-
tary of State and Dan Blue, former speaker of
the N.C. House. .

_ He expects next November’s general elec-
tions to be a tough race as well. “Assuming
Bowles wins the primary, the general elec-
tion will be the tightest, most hotly contested
Senate race in the country,” noted Paramore.

Paramore encourages others to support the
local race through volunteering, noting that
“there is all kinds of volunteer work in cam-
paigns. If you’re interested in volunteering,
there’s something you can do to help.”

If interested in helping, students can con-
tact Paramore, who will put them in touch
with campaign officials.

“We’re working with the Young Demo-
crats to have a campaign representative avail-
able to meet with students all day in the Union
on Friday April 26". She’ll be able to help

students find opportunities to volunteer and —

assist with voter registration.”

Paramore also notes the importance of stu-
dents registering and voting in the primaries.

With the Republican primaries quickly
approaching sometime in May, volunteers
for Dole are also working intensely to gather
support for their candidate.

Like Paramore, Stanley is recruiting stu-
dents to help with the campaign. He has

signed up 40 people already, and Stanley

currently hopes to gather 50.

“Davidson students are lucky to attend the
school at a time when they can become in-
volved in the most important Senatorial race

in the country,” said Stanley.

The campaign is drawing many volunteers
from colleges around the area, including
Davidson, Duke, Cattawba College, and High
Point University.

Stanley enjoys the volunteering, empha-
sizing in particular the camaraderie amongst
workers. On the night of the Oscars, he said,
Dole campaign representatives invited
Davidson student volunteers Lauran Lightmas
‘04, Nancy Kohler ‘03, Brandon Hood ‘03,
Welles Campbell ‘04, and Andy Wright ‘02
to their house to watch the event.

Dole announced her candidacy only two
months ago, so volunteers are currently work-
ing with official representatives to help her
garner the support to claim the seat of the
retiring Jesse Helms. He expects that the
current work Davidson students are doing
will create greater future opportunities and
responsibilities.

The ultimate goal, he claims, is to bring
Dole to Davidson next fall for a debate be-
tween her and the Democratic candidate.

The campaign is currently going well, and
Stanley expects Dole, the former head of the
American Réd Cross, to win the general elec-
tion on Nov. 5" by focusing on bringing jobs
and better education programs to North Caro-
lina. Students interested in helping with the
Dole campaign should contact Stanley.

However, as he and Paramore both note,
victory is not assured for either candidate. “It
will come down to who runs the best cam-
paign,” noted Stanley. “I know the efforts of
Davidson students will be instrumental in
helping either Dole or Bowles claim the Sen-
ate seat over the summer and into the debate
season next fall.”
