By Grorr FEHLING
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team fell to top-ranked Wake Forest last
night amidst a downpour in Richardson Stadium. The Dea-
cons shut out the Wildcats 4-0, ending a month long Davidson
unbeaten streak. With last night’s loss, the Wildcats drop to 9-
5-4 and the Demon Deacons remain unbeaten at 13-0-4. |

“As we've done on several occasions this year, we came out
flat," said head coach Matt Spear. "Usually we can hold a team
as we gather our confidence and gain our rhythm, but Wake
Forest got the early goal to gain the momentum. They feasted
on that for the rest of the game.”

Wake applied pressure early into the match and got a quick
goal about the six minute mark. About 10 minutes later, the
Deacons scored again to make the score 2-0.

Finally, Wake got its third goal of the game a few minutes
before the first half ended. The Wildcats had a myriad of
opportunities throughout the first half, two of which came with
the score still 2-0. Freshman Will Carroll had a shot in the first
few that ricocheted off the post and freshman Matt Allain had
a great scoring opportunity around the 25 minute mark.

Returning from the half at a 3-0 deficit, the Wildcats did not
make acomeback. The second half was controlled by Wake’s
stalwart defense and all-around quickness.

The Deacons got their final goal of the game midway
through the second half off a cross that was almost cleared
away from the goalmouth.

“T think they were a good team,” commented freshman
starter John Latting, “but everyone knew it was going to be a
battle.”

This was the first loss of this kind that the team had faced this
season, and they hope to prove themselves against Furman and
in the Southern Conference Tournament. “It could have gone
either way,” Latting added, “and it didn’t go in our favor.”

Davidson hopes to rebound from the loss as they face their
last match of the regular season before heading to the SoCon
tournament next weekend.

They face nationally-ranked Furman this Sunday. The
opening kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m.

Saturday ;

Pollak leads wrestlers in
season opener at VMI

LEXINGTON, Va. - Ten Davidson wrestlers started the
2002-03 season Sunday at the Keydet Invitational, hosted by
Southern Conference rival VMI.

Heavyweight freshman John Pollak had perhaps the best
day for the Wildcats as he placed third in his bracket. Pollak
dropped his opening match before rebounding to pick up back-
to-back wins in the consolation round to earn third place. In the
consolation finals, he defeated Stelios Adractus of Old Do-
minion, 4-3.

In the 125-pound division, Davidson had four competitors
entered including freshman Patrick Coman who reached the
consolation finals. Coman fell to eventual champion Ryan
McClester of The Citadel in the semifinals of the champion-
ship bracket, but rebounded to defeat teammate and fellow
freshman Derek Stroke, 4-0, to reach to consolation finals.

Freshman Henry Blue (133 pounds) also notched two victo-
ries in the tournament. He downed teammate Ronnie Lofrese,
7-2, and then Mauro Bria of The Citadel, 6-3, in the consola-
tion round.

The Wildcats now gear up for the Pembroke Classic on Nov.
15 and 16 in Pembroke, N.C. --Sports Information

Caroline Hauser
Die-hard soccer fans battled rain and cold for
Tuesday’s game against Wake Forest.

Davidson 3, The Citadel 0

Graduating seniors Soren Johnson, Joel Sadler, and Hussein
Nasreddin participated in their last conference game at
Richardson Stadium with a 3-0 win against Citadel. The win
was a good tribute to the time the three players gave to the
program.

One record that is close to being beaten is the all-time career
shutout record. Johnson recorded two saves against Citadel
and also got his 19" shutout. He is only one shutout away from
tying the all-time shutout record at Davidson, held by Alex
Deegan ’93.

Wednesday

Davidson ‘1, Clemson 1

Battling yet another nationally ranked team in Richardson
Stadium last Wednesday, the men’s soccer team equaled eighth-
ranked Clemson with a score of 1-1. The action packed game
moved the Wildcats to 8-4-4 and the Tigers to 10-2-3.

Although they did not get a win, the Wildcats did not buckle
under their third ACC challenge of the season. The win puts
their record against top-ten national ranked teams at 2-0-1 and
maintains a sense of confidence heading towards the tourna-
ments at the end of the season.

Tue History:

The Wildcats have won each of the team’s three meetings
since 1999, including last year’s season finale 17-12.

Several offensive starters missed that game with injuries,
including Paul Nichols, John Leverett, Mike Chase and Barrett
Johnson.

Davidson turned the ball over six times, but got a big day
from senior Ward Gibson, who rushed for 110 yards.

Both Wildcat touchdowns came from two players no longer
on the team, cornerback Mo Idlibi and tight end Chris Caison.

Tue Opponent:.
‘The teams will battle for second place in the Pioneer

League’s South Division on Saturday.
The Governors are enjoying their best season since 1984,

DAVIDSON (6-3, 1-1) VS.
AUSTIN PEAY (6-4, 1-1)

3 p.m. Governor’s Stadium Clarksville, Tenn.

Tigers in shootout

Paul Nichols and Mike Chase have already secured their
places in Davidson football history with numerous individual
records and plenty of wins.

In Saturday’s 41-38 road victory over Hampden-Sydney,
both seniors showed they’re not done yet.

Nichols passed for four touchdowns—two of them to Chase—
to hold off a late Tigers rally and assure the Wildcats (6-3, 1-
1) of a fifth consecutive winning season.

Chase’s 11.touchdown receptions tie a single-season record
set by George Hannen in 1969. Another senior, kicker Daniel
Hanks, converted three of five extra-point attempts to become
the team’s all-time leading scorer with 204 points.

And sophomore John Leverett, who will likely set his own
records before his career is done, rushed for 101 yards and two
touchdowns—including the game-clinching score with seven
minutes left.

It almost wasn’t enough.

The Wildcats blew a 27-7 halftime lead by giving up four
scores and a 32-yard field goal in the second half. Leverett’s
second touchdown run from two yards out provided just
enough separation to seal the win.

Hampden-Sydney drove to the Wildcat 35-yard line, just
beyond range of a game-tying field goal attempt, before
running out of downs with 1:09 left.

The late rally provided some nervous moments for Hanks,
who missed two extra point attempts that could have proved
disastrous.

“T guess I’ll never live down the fact that Fmissed my first
chance to break the record,” he said. “But at least I got another
chance, so I don’t have to worry about it anymore.”

Hanks blamed the misses on muddy field conditions and a
case of the jitters, but also thanked his teammates for providing
him with plenty of scoring opportunities.

“Had I not had a successful offense around me, no way (I
would have broken it). I’d be just another kicker,” said Hanks,
who has 57 points this season after 33 last year.

The 38 points are the most the Wildcats have ever surren-

dered in a victory in the program’s 106-year history.

-Matt Garfield

the last time they finished with a winning record. A 45-0
victory over St. Joseph’s (Ind.):was their first shutout in the
last 180 games. The Govs have already doubled last season’s
victory total of three wins.

Senior running back Jay Bailey leads the attack with 1,368
yards and 15 touchdowns on the season.

Wuat To Expect:

This game is the difference between a respectable season
and a mediocre one for the Wildcats.

.The senior class, one of the most productive in team
history, deserves to go out with a win. If the defense can
contain Bailey and prevent big plays (unlike last week), bet
on a fourth straight Davidson triumph to close another
winning season.

-Matt Garfield

Player of the

Daniel Hanks ‘o3
Football
Hometown: Rome, Georgia
Major: Economics

Hanks eclipsed former running back Eric Ferguson’s all-time
scoring record of 202 points on Saturday by kicking three PATs,
giving him 204 points in his four years as kicker for the Wildcats.

THE WEEK AHEAD

Field Hockey at Norpac Tournament in Stanf

Women's Soccer at UNC G boro (Soutt

Swimming at East Carolina
Football at Austin Peay

Women's XC at NCAA South

Volleyball at Georgia Southern

Men’s Soccer at Furman

Volleyball vs. Wofford

Region Champ

Thur
d, CA (through Saturday) -
sonsenecennnnnnne= Friday------------------
n Confe Tournament game) 5:00 p.m.
S ei
12:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
Sunda: ly 4
hips in Greenville, NC
2:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.

7;00 p.m.
