Staff Editorial

“That was awful.”

Such was the remark overheard at Saturday’s Family Week-
end luncheon on the front lawn of Chambers Building. It was
made by a parent who had just finished a boxed lunch comprised
of turkey on cold, damp bread, and accompanied by brown let-
tuce, pale tomato slices, a bag of chips and two round, hard ob-
jects posing as cookies. Rumor
has it the pimento cheese vegetar-
ian option was even worse.

That’s what a whopping $10 —
bought guests at the annual event,
courtesy of the College’s very
own Catering Department,
which on the school Web site
claims to be “one of the
community’s preferred caterers
for full-scale special events, ban-
quets, receptions and other cel-
ebrations.”

Yikes. If the food they serve at these “special” events is any-
where near as lousy as Saturday’s lunch, how does this operation
manage to stay in business? Whether it’s at Family Weekend,
admissions events or alumni get-togethers, their boxed lunches
are consistently terrible.

Askany upperclassman who has eaten them over the years, first
as a prospective student at “Discover Davidson” and then on
through Family. Weekends during their four years in college.

It’s incredibly ironic when you think about how much money
the school spends marketing itself to high school students and
bigwigs from around the country, trying to demonstrate why
Davidson is better than all the other liberal arts colleges out there.

If US News & World Report ever decides to include catered
lunches in its college ranking formula, Davidson is in deep
trouble.

Why can’t the Catering Department officially retire the tacky,
overpriced boxed lunches, and instead fire up the grills and give
us some good ol’ North Carolina barbecue, along with veggie
burgers (or something similar) for the non-meat eaters among us?
An occasional hamburger, hot dog or grilled chicken sandwich
would more than suffice as well.

Guests should never be charged more than $10 no matter
what’s on the menu, and even that price is pushing it. Although
the school might end up losing some money on the increased food
bills, the impression it makes on guests would be more than worth
the investment. Rather than remembering their meals as “awful,”
folks might actually enjoy chow time as much as any other activ-
ity during their visit.

Other small colleges don’t seem to have a problem serving
good tasting, reasonably priced food at their gatherings, and we
should expect nothing less from Davidson.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Emily Drew Caroline Hauser
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
Richard Connolly Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa
- «Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

War in Iraq demands
students’ attention

Ipraise The Davidsonian for telling students to pay attention to
the possibility of warin Iraq. The everyday pressures of work and
extracurricular activities do make it somewhat difficult to stay
well informed about current events. But I think war requires
particularly close attention and evaluation. Time should be taken

_ off from some activities to monitor important international

events.

I am gravely concerned about President Bush’s push for an
attack on Iraq. Saddam Hussein is a brutal monster, but that by no
means justifies a preventive bombing and invasion campaign.
Such a war is sure to breed more resentment against the United
States, making international terrorist attacks more likely.

And for what? Bush has presented no solid case that Saddam
Hussein is linked to al-Qaeda. Even the most recent CIA report
argues that the threat of Saddam helping anti-American terrorists
is unlikely if the U.S. doesn’t attack Iraq.

Also, we should be wary of attacking any country without di-
rect provocation. Bush’s doctrine of “anticipatory self-defense”
is little more than masked aggression. The result of attacking Iraq
for “disobeying Security Council resolutions” (an offense of
which far too many countries are guilty) or to spur “regime
change” will be to lower the bar significantly for attacking another

* country. Such a policy is sure to increase the risk of conflict by

giving China the green light to attack Taiwan, or India and Paki-
stan to attack each other.

Fortunately, not all students have been apathetic. Students
helped to organize last Monday’s peace vigil. And I have help in
starting a group of students that helped to bring a speaker to talk
about Iraq last Sunday. Democracy demands active citizenship
that determines the direction its leaders follow, not the other way
around. I urge other students to educate themselves about the
situation in Iraq, and become involved in our country’s decision-
making process.

Josh Craft ‘04
‘America-bashing’
makes for poor
Convocation speech

Icame away from Fall Convocation underwhelmed and unim-
pressed. The keynote speaker and recipient of an honorary Doc-
torate of Letters, Dr. John Hope Franklin, delivered an address
devoid of ideas and innovation. It was especially disappointing
coming from a man of such superior lifetime achievement.

“America-bashing” was the core of Dr. Franklin’s address.
Essentially, the speech was a laundry list of the world’s ills, all
caused by America. It was composed of the same rhetoric as that
which could be heard from a talking head on cable news. I was
so disappointed notto be challenged with new ideas and solutions
to existing problems. The speech snubbed academic stimulation
in favor of transparent political indoctrination.

There were points in the speech where Dr. Franklin’ s assertions
were simply troubling. The man has worked hard in his life as an
activist for human rights. Yet he chastised America for seeking

an end to Saddam Hussein’s murderous rule over Iraq. How is.

opposing the removal of a thug who has killed thousands in line
with the defense of human rights?
Dr. Franklin used America’s detonation of nuclear bombs in

Japan nearly 60 years ago to make us the bad guys in today’s .

world. Our use of weapons generations ago apparently makes us
at fault today for Iraq’s desire to acquire and use the same weap-
ons. What is the sense of comparing two different countries in
two different eras?

Political differences and the exchanges they produce are fun-
damental to democracy. In this spirit, I am criticizing Dr.
Franklin’s speech not for offering political views that are differ-
ent from my own, but rather because it failed to include ideas
about how to combat the problems blamed on America. I want to
hear not only that someone is opposed to removing Saddam
Hussein, but also why he holds this view and what alternative plan
he has. The lack of analysis is precisely what was wrong with Dr.
Franklin’s speech. ~

Dr. Franklin squandered a great opportunity by presenting
empty political rhetoric. Davidson students are expected to sup-
port their ideas and think innew ways. It was startling to see that
acandidate for the honorary Doctorate of Letters at Davidson was
not held to the same standard.

Khoury N. Ashooh ’03

Take pride in playiz ving
at the highest level

Although I respect the Davidsonian as a student-led publica-
tion for students, I want to express my own feelings as a coach.

Connolly’ s column [“To Div. I or Div. III,” Oct. 16] was dis-
appointing to me in several ways, but what is important are the
feelings and opinions of the Division I student-athletes on cam-
pus, which happen to be 25% of the student body. They relish the
opportunity to represent the College, live their dreams and com-
pete against the best their sport offers.

Does winning at a lower level equate to more athletic satisfac-
tion or greater national recognition? What matters much more to
athletes (and to Davidson students) is the challenge to be great.
And toexpose themselves to quality, excellence and competition.

In many ways, Davidson is today more the exception than the
rule. colieee sports at the Division I level used to be modeled like
Davidson - when the term “stu-
dent-athlete” still meant some-
thing. You can only imagine how
important the formula is to count-
less alumni and myself.

As one alumnus e-mailed me:
“Tt’s a great privilege to be able to
get nationally ranked, A+ aca-
demic training and the highest
level of college athletic competi-
tion available. Surprising and disturbing the writer can’t see that.
Every athlete wants to win more, but no athlete wants to play
weaker competition to achieve that end.”

And another: “As a lightly recruited high school athlete, my
dream was to compete against the best college soccer programs
in the country and test my mettle in the classroom as well. Look-
ing back, the fondest memories are the friendships that developed
and the sacrifices we each made to earn Davidson national respect
on the field and in the classroom.”

With all that said, these arguments are hypothetical, because
the College as a whole is extremely proud of Davidson in Divi-
sion I. And the recent national publicity around our athletes’

. graduation rates celebrates just that. Now’s the time to stand up

- be proud of who we are and what we represent.

Matt Spear ‘93

Men’s Soccer Coach -

Farewell to a
political hero

America lost one of its greatest public servants when a plane
crash killed Minnesota Senator Paul Wellstone last week.

Wellstone, the son of poor Russian immigrants, first saw the
power of grassroots political activism while attending the Univer-
sity of North Carolina. Despite juggling the responsibilities of
student, husband, father and athlete, he became a “foot-soldier in
the Civil Rights movement” during his college career.

Wellstone always believed in that power, and his incredible
1990 Senate campaign was proof. Running against a heavily fi-
nanced opponent, Wellstone, then a political science professor at
Carleton College who had never held elected office, traveled all
over Minnesota in an old beat-up school bus. Trailing at one point
by 30 points and with no money, Wellstone managed to improb-
ably win by using the same grass-roots philosophy he had been
preaching to his students for years. He was the only challenger to
upend an incumbent that year.

Once in the Senate, Wellstone focused tirelessly on traditional
progressive issues like national health care and welfare reform,
campaign finance and responsible foreign policy.

He never backed down from his principles regardless of how
popular his stances were. Principles. always came first with
Wellstone, andherespected those who followed theirconscience,
regardless what their conscience told them to do. He was one of
only a few Democrats to attend the funeral of Sen. Barry
Goldwater, the father of modern conservatism. He followed his
conscience rather than polling data down to the very end, as he
was the only Congressman to vote against granting President
Bush the power to wage war on Iraq.

Wellstone used to say that he represented the “democratic wing
of the Democratic Party.” Hopefully his tragic death will make
other Democrats realize that they too need to represent the little
guy. Paul Wellstone’s life should be an inspiration to all Ameri-
cans, liberal and conservative, that we can make a difference in
people’ s lives if weare active in ourcommunities and always stay
true to what we believe.

Tom Anstrom ‘04
