fron New Groups, page 1 ;

(CDSA) in hopes that other disabled or chroni-

cally ill Davidson students would find support’

from others facing similar difficulties while
here at school. Much of what her group does is
an extension of the many resources Davidson
already has available to students with special

needs. Assisting freshmen in their acclimation.

process, making Davidson more accommodat-
ing for disabled students, faculty and visitors
are just some of the ongoing tasks taken on by
Barnes and other members of the CDSA. The
group is currently working closely with the
Admissions office to have campus tours for
wheel-chaired prospective students led by cur-
rent wheel-chaired students to ensure that ap-
plicants understand all resources, available to
them at Davidson.

Barnes is excited about the goals of
Davidson’s CDSA. “We hope to make
Davidson’ s disabled community active and vis-
ible,” she says. “Throughout society, persons
with disabilities comprise both the nation’s
largest and most under-represented minority
population. As a distinct community, disabled

Student Union (JSU), which, Kopeikin says,
seeks 'to “provide for the needs of Jewish stu-

. dents on campus as well as to educate the »

general Davidson College community on Jew-

-. ish traditions.”

As the group gathers members, it hopes to

celebrate the Jewish religion as well as plan

community events which would both educate
and promote tolerance.

Like the CDSA, the JSU is working with
admissions to help prospective students under-
stand that Davidson welcomes Jewish students,
despite the present small percentage.

Group members attend local services and
team up with local colleges to find and plan
community events.

Gay-Straight Alliance

With approximately 40 members, the re-
newed Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA) is another
group committed to their cause. GSA president
Matt Talbert ’05 says, “This group is not only
important but also an essential part of the
Davidson community.

“Davidson’s southern conservative atmo-

“As a distinct communty, disabled persons have a
unique set of interests and concerns that need to be
addressed, and Davidson is net an exception.”

- Elizabeth Barnes ‘04

persons have a unique set of interests and
concerns that need to be addressed, and
Davidson is not an exception to that.”

CDSA hopes to ease the frustrations and
difficulties disabled Davidson students face, by
providing information, support and a commu-
nity built on relationships with others who have
shared similar experiences.

Barnes says, “We also hope to galvanize
Davidson’s disabled community in construc-
tive and practical ways—seeking to enact or
alter policies to make Davidson more accom-
modating for disabled persons, raising aware-
ness on campus of various disability-related
issues, and challenging the common percep-
tions of physical disability in general.”

Jewish Student Union

Jewish students on campus are banding to-
gether to continue their own religious tradition
amid a large Christian population at Davidson.
Kelly Kopeikin ’03 and Jessica Heilweil ’03
are co-leading the Davidson College Jewish

sphere necessitates the creation of a unity be-

tween those of this frequently ignored and op-

pressed minority and its supporters in the major-
ity.”

He continued, “We not only serve as a voice
of this minority but as a symbol of
the importance of adhering to basic human self-
honesty and truthfulness and the need for
society to accept not just one, but all forms of
humanity.”

With increased membership, new leadership
and continued support by campus administra-
tion, the GSA is becoming a more dynamic
group. Last night, the first annual Gay and
Lesbian Film Festival was held on Belk lawn,
screening HBO’s The Laramie Project.

Cultivating community amongst members of
a minority—albeit large or small—on

_Davidson’s campus seems to be the mantra of
_these new or renewed groups. Finding identity

with other students and together raising aware-

ness in the majority is something that will al-.

ways build stronger communities like Davidson.

Committee questions drop/ —
add deadline for new students

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

SGA turned over a new leaf on Thursday
night, swearing in a brand-new class of first-
year and independent senators. Among those

sworn in were Wiley Becker, Christina Evans,
Ryan Inman, Bridget Kane, Jeff Larrimore,
Charles Pierce, David Pope, Walker Saik,
Francois Trappey, Marc Vinson, Erskine
Wells, and Kathryn Wells.

In new business, senators Marc Vinson ’05
and Trip Young ’03 noted a few different
directions in which the Education Committee
is moving. Among these is research into the
possible extension of the drop/add period for
first-year students.

Because of Davidson’s rigorous curricu-
lum, each year many incoming students find
themSelves over their heads by the end of the
first few weeks of classes. By this time, how-
ever, it is often too late for students to change
their class schedule, since drop/add only lasts
for two weeks.

Vinson explains, “The issue here arises from
students who enroll in classes and might not be
completely aware of all that is or will be re-
quired/expected by the teacher. [The biggest
problem arises] when the student is in a course
that does not have a lower level to drop to. [At
this point], the student may end up ina situation
where his or her failure is almost certain and
want to drop the course.”

Vinson and Young are investigating the pos-
sibility of extending only the “drop” period to
6 weeks for first-year students. Vinson ex-

plained that this would give new students more
time to make this decision. He also emphasized
that these issues have not yet been proposed, but
only discussed.

SGA President Gray Patterson ’03 raised the
second main point of the evening. Though SGA
will have its annual retreat on Sept. 29 to discuss
its goals for the semester, Patterson suggested
the hot topic of the Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility as a potential point of focus for
the current academic year.

SGA discussed this point for quite a while,
bringing up various questions relating to this
issue that might be considered in the future.
How does the Code of Responsibility relate to
off-campus activities? Does it extend to student
activities in Charlotte? Why do we have to
pledge tests if we are supposedly operating
under the constant aegis of the Honor Code?
What should happen with the occasional mix-up
with final exam envelopes? How should the
Code of Responsibility deal with Patterson
Court? How does it apply to the issue of the Red
Bikes? Should upperclassmen have to take “re-
fresher courses” in the Honor Code and the
Code of Responsibility to remind them of its
importance at Davidson? :

Though these issues appear to point out the
weaknesses of the Codes, Patterson said. he
believes that the constant critiquing of the Honor
Code and the Code of Responsibility is a posi-
tive thing in that it keeps the Codes strong and in
the forefront of people’s minds. At its retreat,
SGA will determine if these questions are ones
it will pursue answers to in the 2002-03 aca-
demic year.

Meet the new senators!
a Seepage 5 |

_ Make
news!
At least

write it!

Interested in writing for
the section? |
Email cahauser or

. emdrew
