Should the Beltway snipers receive the death penal ty?

Yes: Death is the only justice

The issué in question is not whether the death penalty is a de-
terrent to crime, a form of retribution or even a comfort to the
victims’ families. All of those things may or may not be reasons
to support the death penalty (although I believe some are).

The issue in question is whether the death penalty is simply
justice. In this case, it is.

As a society, we must ask ourselves whether some crimes are
so horrendous that the perpetrators can no longer be allowed to be
a part of our society. Are there cases in which the only just thing
to do is to remove a person from society altogether? Is it impor-
tant for us to make a statement that some actions will simply not
be tolerated?

The best way to make such a statement is to apply the death
penalty to certain criminals. Many will contend that it would be
worse punishmentto spend a lifetime in prison, orto live out one’s
days in an Alaskan labor camp.

But there are three problems with this argument: First, there is
no reason for American taxpayers to fund “three hots and a cot”

No: Penalty violates human rights

How should we deal with those who commit the most heinous
acts of murder, men like John Allen Muhammad and John Lee
Malvo? Despite their actions, I stand firmly opposed to the death
penalty being applied in their cases.

In 1948, the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, a pledge among nations to promote fundamen-
tal rights as the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the
world.

The Declaration proclaims each person’s right to protection
from the deprivation of life, and it categorically states that no one
shall be subjected to cruel or degrading punishment.

The death penalty, the premeditated and cold-blooded killing
of prisoners in state custody, violates both of these rights.

But aren’t some crimes so unspeakable and heinous that the
criminal should be executed? No. Human rights are inalienable,
and are accorded equally to every individual. Whether or not
Muhammadand Malvo show remorse or not, whether they killed
one or 50 people, whether they believe they are justified in their
actions or not, they are still people. ,

Criminals give up their freedom, not their rights.

The death penalty is asymbol, not a solution. I have the deep-

By Richard Guyer ‘06

for Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo from now until their death.

Secondly, our aim is not to be as cruel as possible (a point for _

which civil libertarians and the Eight Amendment will surely
testify). And finally, death is the highest form of punishment that
a society can inflict.

There is nothing in the world more valuable than a human life,
and it is what most people hold dearest. Individuals often rank
other things near it, and in some cases even higher (for example,
Patrick Henry claimed to value liberty more than life).

Although an individual may choose to die rather than lose
something else, there is nothing societies should hold more sacred
than human life. As a result, societies should only take life away
froma personas the ultimate form of punishment (and in no other
circumstances). Indeed, from a societal standpoint there is noth-
ing more that can be done to punish acriminal than to execute him.

There is no doubt that, if convicted, John Muhammad and John
Malvo deserve the highest form of punishment we can deliver as
a society. They deserve the death penalty.

By Clinton Rickards ‘04

est sympathy for the victims of these violent crimes. However,
the death penalty teaches that under the “right circumstances”
killing is right. Yet, there is no “right” circumstance for violence,
especially government-sanctioned execution. The only way to
demonstrate that killing is wrong is to refrain from killing those
who kill. I know it is a cliché, but why do we kill people who kill
people to show that killing people is wrong?

What this debate boils down to is justice. The crimes allegedly
committed by Muhammad and Malvo where heinous and un-
speakable, and they should not go unpunished.

Butatthe same time, we mustnotcontinue the cycle of violence
started by these two men. Althoughthey have committed horrible
crimes, they should still be afforded the basic rights guaranteed
to all people, which include the right to life and freedom from
inhumane or degrading punishment.

The premeditated and cold-blooded murder that is capital pun-
ishment violates both these rights. If justice is to be served, it can
only come from supporting the very rights that America, and the
world, stands by.

And this means being firmly and unequivocally opposed to the
executions of the Beltway snipers.

With free booze and single women,
weddings are worth the hassle

I find myself getting invited to more and more weddings these
days. Seems likethose college relationships have blossomed into
deep and committed love, or else she finally wore the poor guy
down. Either way, I have a couple of weddings to attend in the
coming months.

The mere mention of the word “wedding” is enough to make
most guys my agecurl up into a fetal position for about five hours.

It’s like my dad once told me, “Son, not many guys like going
to weddings... even their own.” Weddings are an inherently

If you are the type of guy that
doesn’t mind preying on the vul-
nerable, then this is what you'd
call a target-rich environment.

feminine event—not that there’s anything wrong with that. It’s
just that most guys would rather pierce themselves with a stapler
than attend a wedding. I used to be the same way.

Recently I had the pleasure of attending a friend’s wedding.
And I’m standing at the bar throwing back drinks like they’re
free—because they are—when I stumble upon the realization that
this whole wedding thing isn’t so bad.

After the lame ceremony (more on this in a second), you go to
the reception. And if you can ignore the bad DJ/band, things are

Senor
ource

by Jeremy Trantham

really great. They have.free food, which is usually quite edible,
and if it’s not who cares? It’s free. And then of course there is the
open bar.

Open bar. Are there any words that sound better together in the
English language? Probably not.

And the open bar isn’t even the best part about the reception.
It’s definitely the single women in attendance. Particularly the
bridesmaids.

Whenasingle womanattends a wedding thatisn’ ther own, she
becomes emotionally vulnerable, wondering, ““When is this go-
ing to happen for me?” or, “Will it ever happen for me?”

If you are the type of guy that doesn’t mind preying on the
vulnerable, then this is what you’ d call atarget-rich environment.
Bridesmaids are even better targets because they always have to
wear the worst looking dresses this side of Milan. Not only do
the, “Will I ever get married?’ questions pop up, but there’s also
the element of, “This outfit makes me look fat.””. Womanizers
everywhere use this to their advantage.

So the reception redeems the wedding as an ratienion worthy |

. = F Sativa | ae —
misleading picture
of our diversity

Davidson’s Diversity Week began on Saturday with the
International Festival in the Union Atrium. The festival gave
minority students a chance to display their rich heritages
through music, costume, and of course, food.

But it would be a lie to say that Davidson is culturally di-
verse. I don’t think I need to rattle off a long list of statistics
to prove this point.

Is it really a coincidence that the only event spotlighting
the minorities at Davidson occurred during Family Week-
end? As parents flooded onto campus, they were greeted with
displays of diversity around every corner.

And whata great festival it was. The booths of each coun-
try represented in the Atrium were as impressive as the stu-
dents who took part in the festivities.

To the untrained eye, the entire scene would have passed
off as just another event that a diverse student body would

‘hold. There were dances and songs from around the world,
and everywhere you turned, you were treated to a different
flag, costume, ethnicity and language.

As my mom and I were walking out of the Union on Sat-
urday, she turned to me and said, “See, Amee, there is diver-
sity at Davidson.”

Having heard my continuous complaints to the contrary,
she was one of the many parents misled by the International
Festival.

Isn’t this exactly what it was intended to do? Having par-
ticipated in it myself, Idon’t mean to disparage the event. But
as much of a success as it was, it continued to give parents a
false perception of diversity on Davidson’s campus.

I remember coming to admissions events a year ago and
seeing a seemingly diverse campus, as suggested by an awe-
some step show and the internationally-themed fliers plas-

Their eyes immediately see the doz-
ens of flags in the Union — when all
I can think about is the lack of diver-
sity in my classes day after day.

tered to every wall. Even before coming to visit, I remember
getting those glossy brochures with pictures of smiling
Davidson students representing every ethnicity possible.

Having been here for only a few months, I can already see
through those misperceptions. However, my parents, along
with many other students, are still being misled. Their eyes
immediately see the dozens of flags hanging in the Union—
whenall I can think aboutis the lack of diversity in my classes
day after day.

The numbers are too appalling notto vile off: Out of 1,673
students last year, eighty-nine were African American
(5.3%), 42 were Asian American (2.5%) and 47 were His-
panic or Latino (2.9%),

This year’s freshman class includes only fenittneth African
Americans, which school officials openly admitis not nearly
good enough.

Ican’t blame anyone for trying to increase the presence of
diversity on campus. Could you imagine what kind of event
would have replaced the International Festival if the only
culture being represented the white, Christian, English-
speaking majority?

As Diversity Week continues, we should put these issues
into proper context. How can begin to solve the problems we

face here if they are kept hidden behind a facade of decep-
tion?

of your presence. But what of the suckfest that is the ceremony?
I was thinking of ways to improve the ceremony one day when I
was channel surfing and the perfect solution fell into my lap via
the Travel channel.

Vegas baby. Vegas.

A wedding in Las Vegas has many advantages. The whole
town is just one big bachelor party anyway. In fact, I think Vegas
could legitimately change its name to, “World’s Biggest Bach-
elor Party”(WBBP). It just fits.

Sure, my ideal ceremony isn’t exactly every little girl’s dream
wedding. But then, what is? I’m betting there has to be at least
one girl out there who shares my vision. And when I find her, I
just might propose on the spot.
