teal world at new local bar

By BraNnDOoN CARROLL
Staff Writer .

Davidson alumnus Denis Cowarden, who
graduated this May with the other members of
the Class of 2002, didn’t have a long summer
vacation before becoming general manager of
Bottletops, a new local restaurant/bar. Opening
its doors on June 1, Bottletops is recent enough
for most upperclassmen to have never heard of
it, despite its significant Davidson connection.

Small town —
Davidson seems a
very unlikely place
for a bar to open,

“We want an exciting

be 21 to come in here and eat,” Cowarden adds.
Cowarden, who was born in Phoenix, Ariz.,

but raised in south Charlotte, has worked at the:

Graduate Food & Pub’s Lake Norman fran-

chise with owner Kelly McCullough since his

sophomore year at Davidson, and served .as
general manager there, too. McCullough also is
the owner of Bottletops.

Though the bar serves alcohol, Cowarden
also emphasized the selection of food served all
ages. “We have sandwiches, melts, wraps, sal-
ads, and_ cold
drinks—a little
something for ev-
erybody. We serve

especially given the ” pretty healthy
past failures of other place for everyone. foods. Most of our
establishments such meats are very lean,
as the Depot. : . 4 and we don’t kill
Though Davidsonis Denis Cowarden ‘02 you with condi-

acollege town, most
21-year olds seem to
satisfy their thirst
for beer on Patterson Court or at the senior
apartments, with other options just down the
interstate in Huntersville or Charlotte.

So it might surprise some that Bottletops has
opened on Main Street Cornelius at the former
SubStation II location, not far from Carolina
Cones or the YMCA and just over the demarca-
tion line splitting Davidson from Cornelius.
Nevertheless, Cowarden says, “We want an
environment where college kids can come and
have a good time. We’ re hoping folks will come
out and enjoy themselves [as we] offer a good
product at decent, competitive pricing.

“Earlier in the day, I focus more on my
business lunches, and I don’t really sell a whole
lot of alcohol. Then we look for the people that
come in after work, and at night, for the most
part, that’s when the kids come out. We want an
exciting place for everyone. You don’t have to

DAVIDSON 4&4

ments. We don’t

have a fat fryer, so
‘we offer sides of
coleslaw and pretzels, that sort of thing. It is
something other than bar food in a bar.” As
priced on Bottletops’s menu, all of the entrées
mentioned above cost around $5 to $7.

It was Cowarden’s affinity for restaurant
work that led to his current job, and his days as
a member of Pi Kappa Alpha at Davidson, not
his B.A. in art. “PiKA pushed me to want a
social job, where I’m around people and ac-
tively working. I’m not the type to sit down at a
desk job,” Cowarden admits. His degree will be
useful for “decoration,” he jokes.

“J am very busy. Once I can delegate more
duties to employees equally, then my degree is
something I'll be able to pursue. I’ m still working
on a couple of side projects, and right now I’m
marketing my work from college. Hopefully that
can be what I will do for my career, with this line
of work on the side,” Cowarden says.

Music

College ranked | ninth by

U.S. News & World Report

CoLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Press Release

While US News and World Report ranks
Davidson number nine among 218 national
liberal arts colleges in a report released today, a
college official says the story behind the num-
ber is what’s important. -

“More important than the absolute number is

’ what the components of the ranking say about

us,” said Nancy Cable, vice president and dean
of admission and financial aid. “All of these
ratings validate our focus on students as whole
individuals.”

The ninth place overall ranking was up from
number ten last year, and number eleven in
1999 and 2000.

The magazine based its rankings on seven
factors this year—academic reputation, gradu-
ation retention, faculty resources, student se-
lectivity, financial resources, graduation rate,
and alumni giving.

Davidson ranked number one in the country
in faculty resources, a number that it compiled
from statistics on class size, proportion of fac-
ulty with highest terminal degree, student/fac-
ulty ratio, and faculty compensation.

Cable said, “The faculty resources ranking
emphasizes how we remain grounded in our
historical mission to provide the best education
possible for our students. Students who enroll
here enjoy a great classroom experience with
top-rated teachers in small classes where they
will be both personally nurtured and intellectu-
ally challenged.”

Davidson ranked number five in graduation
retention, with an average of ninety percent of
those who enroll graduating. Cable said, “The
retention number illustrates our college’s com-
mitment to build community on campus. Stu-

SERIES

2002

dents are successful here, and there is plenty of -
help from both the faculty and staff to address
any obstacles that may get in their way.”
Cable said she is extremely proud that
Davidson is the only national liberal arts school
in the top ten (and one of only two in the top
twenty-five) located in the southeastern United
States. “If a high school senior is looking for a

US.News
Best

GE

America’s

OL

great liberal arts education in the Southeast, but
with a national and international student body,
Davidson will naturally emerge as a top con-
tender,” she says.

The rankings also don’t include any mention
of athletic programs. However, Cable noted
that Davidson is the only college in the top 25
that plays a NCAA Division I schedule. About
twenty-five percent of Davidson’s 1,600 stu-
dents are varsity athletes.

WINNER OF THE 2002 NAMMY FOR SONG OF THE YEAR

O

p Davidson Class of 1996

1 N

CONCERT

Saturday, September 28

8:00 P.M.

Duke Family Performance Hall

Concert will be simulcast

into the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room
Tickets are required and are available
at the Union Ticket Office

Admission is Free

2003
