SAE holds bike ride for Project Life

By CHRISTOPHER PARKES
Special Contributor

David Lindsay ’93 entered Davidson as a
freshman in 1989 having survived a battle with
leukemia one year earlier through chemo-
therapy treatment.

But during the winter of his freshman year,
his cancer reappeared and he required a bone
matrow transplant. Through bone marrow typ-
ing, doctors determined that his sister was a
perfect donor, and after his transplant, he was
able to resume his career at Davidson and live a
healthy life.

Each year, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater-
nity seeks to raise awareness and funding for a
program called Project Life, with the hope of
aiding in similar success stories in the future.

To raise money for the program, SAE will
hold a bike-a-thon on Friday, April 11 at 4 p.m.
Participants will make a 10-mile bicycle trek
through Davidson, and top finishers will win

prizes donated by local merchants.

The entry fee is $10 and participants can
register by contacting community service chair-
man Andy Heston (x7397).

Although it has been a small event in recent
times, this year, the brothers of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon would like to invite all members of the
Davidson community to participate in the event,
not only so that we can raise more money but
also so that we can raise awareness.

Lindsay’s struggle exposed our community
to the importance of bone marrow research. It is
stories like this that make the importance of
Project Life hit home in our community. Project
Life strives to type every member of the college
community, including all 450 members of each
incoming freshman class.

The annual cost for this effort exceeds
$40,000. To date, Project Life has typed more
than 3,800 people, and at least 12 Davidson
students have donated their bone marrow for
transplant.

Connor house aids breast cancer research

CoLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

A Davidson student eating house’s effort to
raise money for breast cancer research has
attracted the support of U.S. Congresswoman
Sue Myrick. Myrick, a breast cancer survivor
herself, will speak about her experience at the
third annual “Bosom Buddies” dinner and auc-
tion at the college on Sunday evening, April 6.

Initiated in 2001 by Connor women’s eating
house as an ongoing project relevant for women,
this year’s “Bosom Buddies” gala will begin at
6:30 p.m. in the Harrison Room of Vail Com-
mons with appetizers, drinks, and a silent auc-
tion. Dinner and Rep. Myrick’s remarks will
follow. The cost is $25 per person, or entire
tables may be purchased. For reservations and
information, call 704-894-5076 or 704-894-
6018.

Connor house service chairs Caroline Bennett
‘03 and Rebekah Rush '03 said the house hopes
to raise $8,000 at this year’s event, building on
the $3,000 raised in 2001 and $6,000 in 2002.
All proceeds are donated to Friends. .
Count On, a Greensboro-based organization
that works toward finding alternative methods
of earlier breast cancer detection.

After discovering that ten percent of women
who die each year from breast cancer have
symptoms that go undetected by mammograms,
and knowing that breast cancer is the leading
cause of death in women between the ages of
40-59, Connor House made the decision to
devote its service efforts to Friends. ...You Can
Count On. With the money Connor House
raises, Friends....You Can Count On funds
innovative approaches to reduce breast cancer
cases that go undetected by current technology.

In addition to the dinner and speaker each
spring, the house promotes breast cancer aware-
ness throughout the year with T-shirts sales,

.. You Can,

Seniors Lauren Perny, Shannon
Bishop, Rebekah Rush, and
Caroline Bennett (clockwise) all
helped launch Bosom Buddies
three years ago.

bumper stickers, and educational programs. In

the week leading up to the event, the house will

make available a ficus tree in the Alvarez Col-
lege Union for students, faculty, and staff to tie
pink ribbons to, bearing the names of breast
cancer survivors. Luminaries will be placed
around campus the night of the event.

Bennett and Rush thanked the many indi-
viduals and local businesses who have donated
items for the silent auction. They are excited
about the event, and said house members are
proud of the ongoing awareness about breast
cancer that it brings to campus. “We’ ve really
found a project that people believe in and are
willing to dedicated time to because it’s a con-
cern that affects all of us either personally or by
association,” Bennett said. “We are all proud of
this service project and hope it carries on for
many years to come.”

AQUATICS

CAROLINA, inc.

us. LIFEGUARDS

WANTED!
We offer top pay, great
incentives, and flexible hours.

Call Kim for an appointment:
704-665-7544

KA fights muscular ayetrapny with lock-up

By WILL CHAPMAN.
Special Contributor

If you did not notice on Thursday, November
21, there were over 30 criminals, including your
fellow students and professors, “locked up” in
mock jail cells for an hour each. They were
helping raise money for KA’s annual Lock Up
for the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

The event was held in the Brown Atrium of
the Union from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Each partici-
pant volunteered to be “locked up” in the make-
shift prison consisting of tables, cell phones, a
police man, and several brothers of The Kappa
Alpha Order keeping the prisoners on the horn
raising money. When all was said and done
over $7700 was pledged to MDA, which is
currently being collected.

KA was helped in putting the event on
through the guidance of Rosie Molinary, and
the help of Officer Beaver.
participants were quite surprised when he ar-
rived at their door, hand cuffed, and drove them

A few of the»

to the Union in the back of his patrol car. Brody
Dawson ’05 and Liza Tanner ’03 were two of
the surprised criminals, but all was carried out in
good jest. Some of the top earners for the event
were. Katherine Swain ’06, Melissa Cornwell
’05, Merideth Lorenz ’05, and Jennifer Walcott
05, raising $950, $900, $785, and $425 respec-
tively.

The Muscular Dystrophy Association re-
searches cures and treatment for the disease.
MD simply put, is the wasting away of the
muscles associated with 40 diseases with the
most recognizable being ALS or Lou Gehrig’s
Disease.

Also, on April 27, the Sunday after Spring
Frolics, KA will host KArnival on the Town
Green. Last year, the proceeds from the event
went to the Jimmy V Cancer Research Founda-
tion. The event is put on to incorporate the
school as well as the community in supporting
local charities. There will be many fun games
and activities, and the fraternity invites the
public to join in.

Senior Experience Calendar

FINAL FROLIC

Plan to enjoy ice cream and

celebrate with your classmates as

the Spring Frolics festivities begin on
Friday, April 25".

Details coming soon!

Career Services Events:

Landing Your Dream Job: Thurs., April 3 @ 6 pm, 408 Alvarez
Networking for Success: Wed., April 8 @ noon, 302 Alvarez
Ace the Interview: Wed., April 9 @ 12:30 pm, 313 Alvarez
Careers in Consulting: Thurs, Aprit 10 @ 8 pm, VAC

The Senior Class Gift has reached 32% pledged + paid participation!
Many seniors stilt kave outstanding pledges to The Senior Class Gift. Log
on to https://www.davidson.edu/giving to pay your pledge. When the

Class of 2003 reaches 75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt
will donate $12,003 on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual
Fund. Support Davidson and show your class pride!

Upcoming. evenis:

- Senior Banquet: Dinner and fun with your classmates, April 30
- President’s Party for the Class of 2003: May 7, Bobby’s backyard
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue

throughout the academic year

Ms. Singleton Is available for
counseling appointments
Mondays 9:00 am—4:00pm .

She’s our
Hewes
counselor!

Meet
Shivonia
Singleton

e A.B., Davidson College ‘98

e Masters in Counseling,
UNC — Charlotte

dal a ca i ce a a ak BR ae Ca a a ale
