‘Thirteen?’ skillfully executed and acted

By Dsrex Lou

Arts & Living Editor

_ “Thirteen’”’s opening scene puts
two girls on a bed. They do whip-
pets and squeal with delight, “Hit
me! Hit me harder!” It’s “Fight
Club,” but effective.

Catherine Hardwicke’s writing
and directing debut tells the story of
a good seventh grader, Tracy (Evan
Rachel Wood), who succumbs toa §
bad seventh grader, Evie (Nikki
Reed). Evie is the most popular and
attractive girl in school; she likes
boys, drugs, (stealing) clothes and
her popularity. Evie has the intelli-
gence to avoid trouble with the au-
thorities, but lacks the foresight to
know better. _

Wisely, Hardwicke, who co-
wrote the screenplay with 14-year-
old Reed, never suggests didacti-
cally that the word “foresight”
should be replaced with “parents.”
Evie lives with a distant relative,
Brooke (Deborah Kara Unger in an
eccentric and economic perfor-
mance that avoids implausibility),
who could be Evie 20 years from now. She ob-
sesses over her appearance and her booze, but
underneath her cool fagade, a heart beats. We
sense that, simply, this woman cannot raise a
child and that Evie and her actions are no one’s
fault.

Often; Tracy’s mom Melanie (Holly Hunter
in a buzz-worthy performance).clings to the
phone and her AA sponsor. Alone, she man-
ages two teenagers and a full-service, in-home
beauty salon. There’s also the occasional squat-
ter-or three that she boards generously and un-
questionably.

At the beginning of the film, it seems that
Melanie is doing well: Tracey and her brother
(Brady Corbet) excel in school and have good
friends and extracurricular activities. The
household’s only tension concerns alimony.

But then comes The Day That Changes
Everything. Donning a cute T-shirt, Tracy
catches Evie’s eye. There’s a compliment, a
phone number, and a rush of adrenaline, The
girls plan to shop after school, but when Tracy
calls Evie to confirm their date, she realizes
that Evie duped her: the number is fake.

With foolish optimism that only children and °

naive adults posses, Tracy takes a bus to the
clothing store. Evie and company avoid Tracy
and lift accessories. Dejected, Tracy finds a
street bench, and Fate sits next to her. A woman
talks loudly on her cell phone, and while the

Open @ 11 a.m. 7 days wk. - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!

" SUNDRIES: pressure
Lake Norman - Harborside

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

Nikki Reed.and Evan Rachel Wood

conversation distracts the woman, Tracy re-
moves the wallet from her purse. Tracy returns
to Evie’s clique a heroine, and the group buys
lots of Sketchers.

Evie and Tracy become fast friends. The

. former all but abandons her guardian for her

new friend and her family— or maybe Brooke
abandons her—and the latter eagerly trades her
gymnastics leotard and bookish friends for tight
jeans and popularity.

As she does in almost all her movies, Holly
Hunter proves herself as an actress for whom
words are expendable. Hunter’s face and body
are an elegant solution to the problem of com-
municating acharacter’s thoughts. Without any
dialogue, “Thirteen” conveys Melanie’s
thoughts more thoroughly than any speech
could. She is a woman struggling to understand,
guide and respect her daughter.

Even after Tracy throws an unwarranted
tantrum, Melanie only watches Tracy in con-
fusion and distress. Her passivity is not bad
parenting or heartlessness; rather, itrepresents
her fear of making one false, irreparable move.
If Melanie does not understand her daughter’s
behavior, at least she understands and fears the
situation’s volatility.

Despite her efforts, there’s so much that
Melanie could never understand or fathom. The
profusion of sex and drugs brings “Thirteen”
into parable territory. I hope never to meet the

Every honday
1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-n only)

Every Tuesday
1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque
-(dine-in only)

BARAOKE NIGHT
EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING
|| STARTING SEPT 16

ide Dr

atawba to

(704)896 9013
side Dr. Follow to end

Harb

13-year-old who dabbles in vio-
lence, drug abuse, sex and unlaw-
fulness as enthusiastically as Evie
. and Tracy do.
- Mirroring the film’s young pro-
_ tagonists, the style is colorful, fast-
paced, and bubbly. Director of pho-
tography Elliot Davis and editor
Nancy Richardson use skewed
angles, fast cutting, anda myriad of
other techniques to give “Thirteen”
art-house and chaotic textures. Led
by Hunter, Wood and Reed, the per-
formances are as excellent as the
costumes and sets are believable.
“Thirteen” is a skillful movie in ev-
ery way.

The various comments heard
_ leaving the theater were lukewarm:
H the audience in which I sat com-
| plained, “So what?” It seems that
“Thirteen” was too uncomplicated
and too meandering. But just the
opposite is true. “Thirteen” does not
simplify its subjects with manufac-
tured plot, with turning point, then
climax, then neat resolution and
take-to-heart message.

Forexample, Larry Clark’s simi-
larly titled and themed “Kids” looks at its mis-
fit teens pornographically, reducing its char-
acters to plot devices for cheap effects. During
a viewing of “Kids,” our horror grows as the
film reaches its AIDS-is-coming-to-get-you

conclusion. We, therefore, isolate ourselves

from Clark’s story because, naturally, we are
better than those silly, misguided; STD-spread-
ing hoodlims.

“Thirteen” knows that those hoodlums have
motives, too. It is not only sex and drugs, but
also much more. During the eventual confron-
tation between mother and daughter — a se-
quence without words — we realize how much
Hardwicke involves us in her story. Isolation
(moral superiority) is not an option. While
“Thirteen”’s characters may be unbelievable,
Hardwicke respects and expertly tells their

inconclusive stories.

Thirteen

Directed by:
Catherine Hardwicke
Written by:
Hardwicke and Nikki Reed
Starring:

Evan Rachel Wood, Nikki Reed,

Holly Hunter

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_  WeEbNEspDay,
OcTosBeER 8, 2003

‘Naw ® Strokes,
same folks

By Anpy HEsTon
Staff Writer

With their to-be-released sophomore album
“Room on Fire,” the Strokes seem to have set
themselves up for the biggestsophomore slump
since the Stone Roses. Following the incred-
ible success of “Is This It” is a challenge I cer-
tainly wouldn’t want to square up against: love
it or hate it, the Strokes’ last album became a
sort of litmus test for critics to weigh their
opinions against. Along with the White Stripes’
“White Blood Cells” the standard-bearer for
the entire garage rock movement, even if the
Strokes and Stripes happen to sound nothing
alike.

Add to this reputation the recording and re-
leasing of the album, which included several

They started living the dream of
rock star excess: hanging out
with models and magazine
writers, being photographed
only with a cigarette, bottle of
Heineken, and an ironic T-shirt.

false starts and postponements; a switch from
Radiohead producer Nigel Godrich to Gordon
Raphael (“Is This It’s knob-twiddler); and the
hallmark of every hotly anticipated album these
days, internet leakage, thanks to which I am
able to review the album several weeks before
its Oct. 21 official release date. (In case the
RIAA is reading this, I plan on buying it any-
way.)

With’“Room on Fire” the Strokes legend
seems to have eclipsed the Strokes the band.
They started living the dream of rock star ex-
cess: hanging out with models and magazine
writers, being photographed only with a ciga-
rette, bottle of Heineken and an ironic T-shirt.
“Room on Fire” almost became “‘Chinese De-
mocracy,” a perpetual joke whose the punch
line never comes.

The Strokes proved more resilient than that:
contrary to the hopes of some and the fears of
others, they didn’t self-destruct. “Room on
Fire” exists, and is actually pretty solid. Time
will tell how it is received as the follow-up to

“Is This It,” but after a few initial listens, the

album seems like it will be taken seriously at
least. The Strokes have always been a band that
explored how much they could do within the

see Strokes, page 6

