-THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

SGA survey will gauge interest in cable, smoking

BY AMEE PATEL

News Editor

Today’s e-mail survey will provide the SGA
with vital feedback on student attitudes toward
three pressing issues facing the student body
and administration.

Written by the SEC--Senate Executive Com-
mittee--of the SGA, the short survey asks stu-
dents twelve questions regarding off campus
Catcard use, cable TV in dorms, and smoking in
dorms. The three issues have become a staple to
SGA agendas in the past few years.

SGA President Charles Washington ’04 ex-
plained the reasons for each issue.

Regarding off-campus Catcard use, Wash-
ington said, ““We’ ve already convinced the ad-
ministration that it is a good idea. Once we
prove that students want it, we’ll be well on our
way.”

According to Washington, Mayor Kincaid
originally approached the SGA with a chal-

tricked out casuals
for the late nights

at the library.

the tall and short of it

for the fall evenings

For the love of shoes.

so poll ani eunmiail canyon |e vate, ae eh

Poe Must present college 1D.

lenge to “increase student presence in the town
of Davidson.” If the results show students favor
the Catcard use, the next step will be to work
more closely with the mayor and risincssts on
Main Street.

The survey also addresses the issu¢ of cable
TV in dorm rooms. Unlike in the past, when
cable was a debated yet unsuccessful venture,
Washington said “the issue is now at the top of
RLO’s list.”

The financial points of making cable acces-
sible, one of the hotly contested aspects of the
topic, are addressed in one question of the
survey. “If you had to pay a monthly fee would
you elect to have cable access in yout dorm
rooms?” :

Washington spoke optimistically about the
survey results on cable.‘“We hope this survey
will not only prove that students want [cable],”
he said, “but prove that students are willing to
pay for it.”

With cable onthe the agenda for tomorrow’s

CCRL meeting (see related article), the next

_ Step will be to “present the results from the

cable part of the survey to them.”

Last spring, an RLO policy banned smoking
in all residence halls. SGA senator Roland Foss
’04 circulated a petition last semester to mea-
sure student reactions to the change. According
to Foss, the petition got overwhelming support.

He also found the change went practically
unnoticed by the student body. “In discussing
this issue with others, I found that many. ..never
even knew the decision had been made,” said
Foss via email.

While Washington is a more ambivalent
about the survey results regarding smoking, he
said the SGA will purse the issue further if
students support bringing smoking back into
dorms.

Washington said “[I]f these four questions
show that students do feel strongly about smok-
ing, we will pursue this further with Dean
Marsicano.”

in the rain

of rush parties.

jong. with coupon at time

check out additional styles and store locations at

rackroomshoes.com

serious boots *
for slogging to that
early morning class

Not redeamable
parchase. Expires 11/15/03.

WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 22, 2003 5

Cable, from page 1

The proposal quickly picked up momentum
as it garnered the support of several student
organizations on campus. In the spring semes-
ter, the SGA passed a resolution supporting
Hubbard’s proposal with only one dissenting
vote. Hubbard then volunteered to take the issue
before the Union Board, a move that resulted in
several board members requesting further in-
formation before an official vote could be taken.

“JT don’t think the Union: Board’s opinion is
nearly as relevant as the CCRL’s as a cross-
section of campus,” Hubbard says, adding, “I’m
moving on to the CCRL and opinion polls
directed to the student body.”

These opinion polls include both the recent
survey conducted by Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Leslie Marsicano and RLO, as well as the
upcoming online survey focusing on three con-

_ troversial topics, including off-campus Cat Card

use, the availability of smoking dormitories,
and cable TV access in dorm rooms.

Hubbard notes that students expressed dis-
satisfaction with the current cable service in the
RLO survey, and he expects the next survey to
reflect similar opinions. With regards to the
college’s current Adelphia cable service, both
Hubbard and Marsicano have expressed con-
cerns over stability and efficiency.

The online poll, which will be launched on
Oct. 22nd, will likely be instrumental in indicat-
ing the consensus of the student body. It ques-
tions whether or not students would support the
initiative to whether they would be willing to
pay a monthly fee for the service.

Hubbard says, “There are a number of finan-
cial options for [the cable proposal], and once
we get the go ahead, those can be explored even
further and a decision can be made.”

Katharine Hubbard ’05, a member of both the
CCRL and the SGA (and no relation to Jack),
expects the poll to influence the CCRL’s Thurs-
day meeting in a significant way.

“T think that the student response will play a
big part in CCRL’s opinion on the issue,”
Katharine says, adding, “My ultimate opinion
on the issue will come from the outcome of the
survey. My jobas an SGA member and member
of CCRL is to represent the overall opinion of
the student body.”

Jack Hubbard and Katharine Hubbard both
place a high value in the CCRL’s decision.

Katharine says, “Since the CCRL is com-
posed of so many different people representing
so many different aspects of the community, its
recommendations show the opinion of not just
the students but the greater Davidson College
community.”

Pre-Calc Tutor Needed for a
High School Junior.
Please call after 7 PM

704-662-8182

Ask for Lisa.
Movie Extras/Models Needed

No Experience Required
‘All looks and ages

Earn $100 - $300 a day

1-888-820-0167, ex. U260
STST RAV EL.C . M

1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com
