2. THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

-Wepnespay, SEPTEMBER 24,2003“

Alcohol, from page |

Walker says, “You put yourself in the situ-
ation where you are committing a blatant vio-
lation of a college rule, then the officer has an
obligation to come talk to you.”

According to Public Safety, there were less
than twenty alcohol citations during the week-
end of First Weekend Down.

“T think it went great. The one thing that I
asked was not to have the ambulance down on
the court, and it did not come. I saw a lot of
people having a great time,” Walker said.

In a letter to the presidents of the Patterson
Court fraternities and eating houses, Walker
wrote, “This first weekend was proof positive
that you can party and be safe.”

The inconsistency between the data show-
ing an increase in alcohol citations this semes-
ter and claims from administrators that party-
ing on the Court has been safe reflects a far
larger shift in alcohol enforcement than in
student’s alcohol attitudes.

Georgia Ringle, Campus Health Educator,
claims the increase in citations does not corre-
spond to the “myths and self-fulfilling proph-
ecies” of drinking on Davidson’s campus.

Ringle also said that the increase in citations
was a result of more freshmen, not more alco-
hol, since the ratio of hospital visits to fresk-
man class size has remained fairly constant.

According to Lyon, four students have been
hospitalized so far this semester in relation to

CAMP

9/20 Eating House

~

“Statistics are reflective not necessarily on the students’ atti-
tudes and perceptions about alcohol, just on our consistent

enforcement.”

- Lt. Jim Lyon, Campus Safety

~~

alcohol.

There has been an especially large interest
this year in educating students about alcohol
safety. President Vagt claims, “I’m not mak-
ing moral judgments about drinking. The health
and safety of you all is the key.”

Dr. Tom Shandley, Vice President for Stu-
dent Life and Dean of Students, agrees that
alcohol education is vital for safety and claims
that the school is doing all in its means to keep

the students safe. “We work hard to do what

we can to educate students about the abusive
use of alcohol and its impact on their safety
and health. We do a lot and will continue to do
so,” he said.

The SGA also has a big role in linking stu-
dent alcohol-related issues to the larger admin-
istration. Charles Washington ’04, President
of the SGA, said, “The SGA is responsible for
acknowledging the changing trends in policy
and procedures. It is our job to relay new infor-

IFOLICE DILOULER

Simple Physical Assault

Known student willfully pushed another student off the back porch of an eating house,
causing minor injuries. Student has been referred for disciplinary action.

9/20 Eating House

Vandalism

Unknown person(s) willfully damaged contents inside an eating house. Damage is

estimated at $20.

Students with information about campus
crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously
by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

West Nile at Davidson?

Officials downplay dangers
but encourage awareness
as skeeter season nears end

By BLevin SHELNUTT
Staff Writer

Since it first appeared in New York in 1999,
the West Nile virus has swept across the United
States, infecting city after city and state after
state. As of this summer, Mecklenburg County
has become the latest area of the nation infected
with the disease.

The first human case of West Nile virus
(WNV) in Mecklenburg County occurred in
July when a 30-year-old woman claimed she
was bitten by mosquitoes while gardening and
then complained of mild flu-like symptoms.
She was diagnosed with West Nile fever, a very
mild form of the virus, and did not spend any
time in the hospital.

The second WNV case in Mecklenburg
County was more serious. On September 13th,
a man in his 40’s was hospitalized with West
Nile meningoencephalitis, the most acute form
of the illness. Fortunately, he remained in stable
condition.

Not only have human WNYV cases been re-
ported, but five dead birds have also tested
positive for the disease in the past few months.

What does this mean for Davidson students,
arid should we be concerned about contracting
West Nile?

Although the virus might appear threaten-
ing, only approximately one in 150 patients
infected with WNV developamore severe form
of the disease. Those most at risk for critical
illness are.very young children, adults over the
age of 50, and people who are immune system-

impaired.

Young, healthy adults infected with WNV
will most likely not develop a dangerous form
of the virus, but will instead only experience
cold-like symptoms. Supervisor of the Student
Health Facility, Jan Poole, stated, “Anyone in
an area where WNV activity has been identi-
fied can acquire the disease, but most people
who are infected will not have any type of ill-
ness.”

Many times, the virus does not produce any
symptoms in an affected patient. In more se-
vere cases, however, WNV can produce flu-
like symptoms including fever, headache,
melancholy, muscle or joint pain, and occa-
sionally nausea or vomiting. Sometimes WNV
also causes encephalitis or meningitis — swell-
ing of the brain and spinal chord, and photo-
phobia— sensitivity of the eyes to light.

West Nile is carried by infected birds and
transported to humans through the bite of an
infected mosquito. There are several precau-
tions students can take to prevent being bitten.

Because mosquito populations thrive in
aquatic habitats, students should avoid bodies
of water and eliminate any potential sources of
stagnant water in their dorm rooms, such as
live plants and flowerpots.

When outside, students should wear long
sleeves and long pants to shield skin. Students
can also protect themselves by wearing an in-
sect repellent containing the substance DEET
and avoiding outdoor activity during the times
when mosquitoes are most active, dawn and
dusk.

If a student suspects he has contracted the
virus, he should see a physician. Testing for
the disease can be done by the Mecklenburg
County Health Department with a physician
order.

mation to ourconstituents via word-of-mouth.”
Washington also related information about the
new public safety policy which “will now send
a police officer to every registered party.”
So, is there a substance abuse problem on
Davidson’s campus? Could our students be
honorary members of the Delta House? While

the numbers contradict themselves onincreases

in substance abuse, President Vagt stressed the
notion that alcohol will always be an issue
because of safety concerns. As the administra-
tion continues to improve their methods of
education,:so too will students continue to
improve their social scene. In the words of
Otter,’““You guys up for a toga party?”

$y

Lounge, from page 1

cable access in their rooms, there will not be
a need to provide more lounges.

“Cable will lead us into the 21* century,”
says Hubbard. “The lounge system hurts the
community because it creates disagreement and
tension over what to watch. One lounge per
floor is still not enough.”

Hubbard insists that cable is not the “bad
thing” that the school makes it out to be. He
believes that not having cable service inrooms
puts Davidson behind. the.times, and makes
students less able to deal with real world dis-
tractions when they leave college.

Dean Marsicano believes that it will be dif-
ficult for our infrastructure to provide addi-
tional cable service to the residence halls.
Current construction and high costs are all
challenges to the expansion of cable service.

“Expanding cable access to any great degree

probably means cutting other amenities to stu-
dents,” explains Marsicano. -

Dean Marsicano says that the RLO is cur-
rently beginning a study to explore options
about expanding cable and making the current
service more satisfactory. She hopes that the
RLO can share the results of the campus study
with the SGA and work with them on this issue
in the future.

Hubbard is pleased about the progress that
is being made and glad that RLO is now ex-
ploring options.

“J want to make sure the student body, and
especially the sophomore class, realizes that I
am still hard at work on this issue,” Hubbard
adds. “The fight continues.” ,

Though the future of additional lounges and
the expansion of cable service is uncertain,
discussions with the SGA and RLO will con-
tinue in the coming weeks and months to find
a sensible solution to the situation.

obs hts, hah hed

Two students watch cable TV in First Belk i busi, one of now 27
lounges on campus. Lack of access to cable TV lounges has
prompted RLO to consider them in student dorm rooms.
