5

Movie Review

Green’s sophmore effort
full of emotional truth

North Carolina’s premiere filmmaker explores love
in the best movie romance since ‘Say Anything’

Zooey Deschanel and Paul Schneider star in Green’s ‘Real Girls’.

By Jimmy NEwLIN
Special Contributor

Consider director David Gordon Green the
anti-Tarantino. While there may still be a
handful of film school grads who want to
make another “Pulp Fiction” or “Clerks,”
Green is influenced by quiet, haunting films
from the 1970s like “Walkabout,” “McCabe
and Mrs. Miller,’ and “Days of Heaven.”
Other filmmakers want quick cuts of inten-
sity and violence, and devote their screen-
plays to smarmy dialogue and Mametisms.
Green is much more devoted to long deep
shots and elegant zooms, and his characters
speak in lyric.

A graduate of the North Carolina School of
the Arts, Green’s first feature was 2000’s
“George Washington,” an ethereal portrait of
a group of children growing up in a dilapi-
dated Winston-Salem which won numerous
film festival awards. His newest film, “All
The Real Girls,” won a special jury prize at
Sundance “for emotional truth.” Fitting, con-
sidering “‘All The Real Girls” is probably the
best movie romance since “Say Anything.”

“All The Real Girls” concerns the courting
of Paul and Noel, the sister of Paul’s best
friend Tip home from boarding school. The
ups and downs of their story cannot be done
justice in this piece, and summaries are bor-
ing anyway. This is a movie for unabashed
romantics, and fans of J-Lo mistaken identity
comedies need not apply. The performances
by near unknowns Zooey Deschanel and Paul
Schneider are extraordinarily powerful, flaw-
lessly capturing all of the passion and fragil-
ity of a first love. “I just hope that in a million
years from now I canstill see you up close and
we’ll still have amazing things to say,” Paul
tells Noel, tragically unaware that he is fore-
shadowing a less idyllic destiny.

Schneider and Deschanel are outstanding,
but they hardly steal the show. “All The Real
Girls” is blessed with a wonderful supporting
cast. Paul’s mother Elvira and his uncle Leland
make up Paul’s impression of the older gen-
eration; like the film’s younger characters,
Leland and Elvira are equally capable of
pain, humor, and understanding. There is
Paul’s clueless friend Bust-Ass, an unlikely
competitor for Noel’s affections, and who
hits on girls by talking at great length about

‘carbohydrates and how long he has played

the lap-steel.

Like “George Washington,” “All The Real
Girls” utilizes child actors, who emit such
natural and beautiful performances that I
hope someone takes that brat from those
Pepsi commercials to see this film. Leland’s
Asian daughter Feng-Shui provides one of
the movie’s most poignant moments of sad-
ness, relating a nightmare to her father that a
less capable actress would tell as a joke, but
which she makes extraordinarily affecting.
There is also Noel’s younger, mentally handi-
capped brother Justin, who is refreshingly
portrayed so as to emit neither laughs nor pity
from the audience.

Whereas “George Washington” was awash
in color, as the characters ran and played in
junkyards, abandoned mini-golf courses, and
graffiti-strewn alleys, “All The Real Girls” is
all yellows and browns, capturing the moun-
tains of Asheville in autumn. Tim Orr, the
cinematographer from “George Washington,”
is responsible for the visuals of “All The Real
Girls” as well, and the result is spectacular.
The movie’s deliberate pacing is determined
by a combination of lengthy tracking shots
and brief vignettes of the landscapes and
vistas. The film seems to say that when you’re
in love you feel that everything around you is
beautiful, and when you’re out of love, you
begrudgingly admit that everything around
you is still pretty beautiful.

David Gordon Green is a remarkable tal-
ent; under 30 years old with two excellent
feature length films already under his belt.
Considering that “George Washington” and
“All The Real Girls” were both madewithin
two hours of Davidson, maybe we should pay
particularly close attention to Green’s projects.
Artists like David Gordon Green are true

~ testaments to the independent spirit; showing

us that original and startling films can be
made anywhere.

Theater Review

‘Angels’ provoking and. moving;
Beth Gardner steals the show

By Linpy BALpwin

Staff Writer

What a semester for the Duke Family Per-
formance Hall. Did anyone ever expect
Davidson to host two major productions deal-
ing with AIDS and homosexuality in a three-
month span? First “RENT” had us humming
“525,600 Minutes” and tearing up at Angel’s
death. Now a student cast gives us Tony
Kushner’ s Pulitzer-winning masterwork “An-
gels in America, Part I: Millennium Ap-
proaches, ” and wins a four-star review from
the Charlotte Observer.

Despite their similar subject matter, how-
ever, “Angels” and “RENT” could not be
more different. “RENT” was an exercise in
style rather than in substance. The themes
were powerful, but the characters were broadly
drawn, and ultimately the play’s treatment of
AIDS and homosexuality seemed somewhat
thin, a plot device rather than an issue. We
could spin through Angel’s illness with a
loud rock music montage and cut straight to
the tearjerking funeral farewells.

“Angels,” on the other hand, is not about
themes. “Angels” is about its characters, all
of whom are adrift in the confusing moral sea
of 1980s America. These characters do not
exist merely to prove a point; they are human,
fallible, in pain and in love. Kushner does not
spare us the agonizing process of dying from
AIDS in the 1980s. Wesee Prior (Bill Neville)
writhing in pain on the floor, his body cov-
ered with lesions. We feel Louis’s (Ryan
Hastings) agony as he watches his lover sink
deeper and deeper into the illness, and ques-
tions whether he’s strong enough to stay.
Although the three and a half hours in the
theatre didn’t feel that long while I was watch-
ing, by the time I left I felt exhausted just from
the sheer power of the play.

This is not a “tolerance” piece. Likeable

but clueless straight characters do not grow to

accept homosexuality through contact with a
saintly gay man or loveable lesbian. No one
gives an impassioned speech about why we
should accept and love one another. “Angels”
does not manipulate us or demand a certain

reaction to a given situation. It simply places
its flawed, three-dimensional characters in
front of us and lets us draw our own lessons
from their pain. In short, it asks us to think.
Not just .about homosexuality, either, but
about race, gender, democracy, justice and
faith.

’ Thus far [have made “Angels in America”
sound like an ordeal, something to be sur-
vived and analyzed rather than enjoyed. How-.
ever, Kushner’s play contains many. funny
moments and deft one-liners, and while it’s
an intense three hours, I never found it de-
pressing. Part of that can be attributed to the
first-rate cast. Ryan Hastings, as Louis
Ironson, was exceptionally adept at portray-
ing his character’s neurosis, self-absorption
and genuine pain.

Alan Stevens hit all the right notes as Roy
Cohn, a hypocritical and corrupt historical
figure. Marc Vinson fit easily and naturally
into both of his characters, one a compassion-
ate nurse and ex-drag-queen named Belize
and the other a showy (and imaginary) travel
agent. Bill Neville had perhaps the most
challenging part as the AIDS-stricken Prior
Walter, but the talented Neville made it look
easy. Anna Jensen and Sara Romeis both
played several minor characters, all to great
effect.

However, senior Beth Gardner stole the
show as Harper Pitt, a Valium addict miser-
ably married to her closeted husband Joe
(Parker Dixon). Whenever Harper was
onstage, it was hard to look anywhere else.
Everything Gardner did — from clutching a
pillow, to conversing with imaginary figures,
to merely staring at her husband with her
mouth set in a grim line — drew a flawless
picture of her unhappy character.

The cast will conduct a read-through of
“Angels in America, Part II: Perestroika” on
April 4 at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. For all
who missed the performance in Duke, I would
encourage you to clear your calendars. Our
professors often encourage us to think for
ourselves, and “Angels in America” provides
us all with an unparalleled opportunity to do
just that.

Sardonic and Irreverent

Cool

Skynyrd, “Red, White, and Blue”: Some
lyrics from their newest, epic single: “My
hair’s turning white, my neck’s always been
red, my collar’s still blue.” We all can relate
to this one. Destined for anthem status.

Text Twist: If you’re on the internet and
can’t look at pornography, it’s the best way to
waste time. Even better than Snood and less
annoying than Instant Messenger. You can
play at games.yahoo.com.

Rape Awareness Week: Not exactly the
most cheerful of campus happenings, but
certainly one of the most important. Unfortu-
nately, the people who should be more aware
didn’t attend any of the week’s events.

lynyrdskynyrd.com

The Celine Dion Las Vegas Spectacular:
Caesar’s Palace built a colosseum for the
French Canadian diva’s show. The stage in-
cludes the world’s largest LCD screen.
Ticketmaster.com is selling tickets for $83 to
$200, and if you buy one, you are very not
cool.

The Common’s Special Sandwich:
Tuesday’s speciality was turkey with lettuce,
tomato, and onion on white bread. Someone
should tell them not to get too culinarily
creative.

SARS: The Davidsonian officially believes
that deadly diseases are not cool. a
