THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003 3

Recent vandalism prompts security increase

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Over the past few weeks Davidson has wit-
nessed destruction of campus property rang-
ing from knocked over lampposts to acts of
arson intwo Patterson Courthouses. Currently,
Campus Security has no suspects.

The latest act of vandalism targeted Warner
House. Unknown persons broke into the house,
damaged property inside, vomited ina sink and
left the gas stove running overnight.

The recent acts of vandalism began on Fri-
day, Sept. 6 with two knocked over lampposts,
each costing $1200 to repair. That same night
two fires were set, one by the back porch of
CoHo, and the other on the newly tiled kitchen
counter of KA.

On the following weekend, two Davidson
College signs were ripped up and put on the
house lawn of SAE. Also that weekend, paper
was ripped off the walls in Warner Hall, and
food was thrown in the kitchen.

Campus Security is considering both stu-
dents and non-students in its search for van-
dalism suspects. While students may be respon-
sible for fecent damage, Campus Security is
also considering people not affiliated with
Davidson.

According to Campus Safety Chief Walker,
the population outside of Davidson has grown
substantially in recent years, making it more
difficult to control the perimeter of the school.
Davidson’s campus is very open, allowing easy
access to trespassers.

Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm enter-
tained the possibility that most of the destruc-
tion was not fraternity related, saying, “I cer-
tainly don’ tthink Co Ho or KA members would
have set fire to their own houses. And, I am

hesitant to think that a member of SAE would
have removed the signs and then placed them
in the yard of their own house.”

In an effort to prevent further vandalism,
public safety has increased patrols. “Lodk out
for each other,” Chief of Campus Security
Fountain Walker said.

Acknowledging that Campus Secutity is
notorious for issuing alcohol citations and
parking violations, Chief Walker stressed that
student safety is the primary goal of Campus
Security.

“Davidson is one of the most*prestigious
schools in the nation, so you should have’one
of the most prestigious public safety
departments in the nation,” Walker
said.

He also enlisted the help of the
community and student body in keep-
ing Davidson College a safe place.
“We have very few eyes, so we de-
pend on the community.”

Echoing a similar sentiment,
Hamm urged students to be proactive
in preventing vandalism. “I hope that
by making Court members aware of
the damage that has occurred in
houses, members will look out for
each other and for other houses."And,
that if anyone has information about
who might have been involved, they
will come forward and let us know
who is responsible for the damage.”

The costs for the damage to
Patterson Court houses had not yet
been determined.

Residence hall damages have to-
taled $788.77 thus far this year,
though only $68.00 has been in com-
mon areas, according to Director of

iY

Costa Rica, Cuba, England,
Ireland, New Zealand, Northern
Ireland, and Scotiand

Learn about our outstanding student
services and programs

Monday, September 29

Student Information Table

10:15 am - 12:30 pm

Outside — In Front of Chambers Hall
Rain Location - Lower Level Student Union

Meet Representative
Steve Seaworth

800-858-0229
Wan lisa-hutler.org

i

BUTLER UNIVERSITY

Residence Life Leslie Marsicano.

The residence hall damage is not out-of-line
with past years.

According to an excerpt from an annual re-
port authored by Marsicano, “When all dam-
age and late fees are compared, academic year
2002-2003 shows a $37 1.95 reduction in fines
as compared to academic year 2001-2002 ($16,
103.97 vs. $16, 475.92).”

While damage was down overall, common
area damage increased 67 percent in academic
year 2003-2003 as compared to the previous
year ($5,743.99 vs. $3422.67).

photos by Peter Roady ,

ON THECAT WALK

What do those 17%
signs posted around
campus mean?

We have no
clue.

Shenae Brackhinw '07
Shari Reid '07

SGA, Media
Board approve
new publication

Decision based on unscien-
tific survey; Media Board
meets with no student reps.

By Biair McGraw
Staff Writer

A charter proposal for a new student publi-
cation was the main topic of debate at last
Thursday’s meeting of the Student Government
Association. Called “The Third Person,” the
bimonthly publication will be in magazine

‘format and will focus primarily on Davidson

College issues.

The main concern brought forward by the
SGA was funding, as the magazine is estimated
tocost $790 per issue. The managing staff asked
the SGA to fund up to $600 for the first issue,
saying the rest would be covered.

Some senators also expressed concern that
the magazine does not seem different from
current student publications. In the end how-
ever, the vast majority of senators approved
the charter. On Friday, the charter went before
the media board for approval.

Usually the Media Board meeting takes place
before final SGA approval, but a scheduling
conflict allowed the charter to be passed be-
fore the Media Board discussion. “The Third
Person” still has to setup an official budget to
be approved by the Activities Tax Council.

Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-
Merrell said, “The Media Board will support
their request for funds, although the ultimate
allocation decision will be made by the ATC.”
She added that normally there is student repre-
sentation on the Media Board, but the SGA had
not yet chosen those appointments for this year

Billy Ferguson ’05, the general manager, and
Andrew Devlin ’05, the managing editor, pre-
sented the charter to the SGA. Ferguson said
the magazine would provide “in-depth and
creative coverage of Davidson news” with
“humorous and more detailed” stories. He
added that the format of “The Third Person”
would fall somewhere between the freestyle
form of Libertas and the more formal report-
ing of The Davidsonian. Andy Martin ’05, the
editor-in-chief of the magazine, did not present
the charter because he is currently a member
of the SGA.

According to the charter proposal, each is-
sue will include columns on arts, athletics,
social life, academics, and humor, and also one
longer staff editorial. Shorter features on books,
movies, music, and other general interests will
be included as well.

A survey of 282 students by the managing
staff found that 48 percent are not satisfied with
the variety of student publications and 80 per-
cent would like to see more student publica-
tions added. The staff surveyed students at a
booth outside the Union over one day, and
members of two eating houses also filled out
surveys. Ferguson called the survey “com-
pletely informal.”

If approved, the managing staff hoped to
have 1000 copies ready for distribution in the
Union and residence halls by late October.

Also present at the SGA meeting was Rich-
ard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, to
answer senators’ questions. The main concern
was the reduction of meal plan features at the
Union Cafe, as senators voiced disappointment
over the change. Terry understood about the
concern, but said Auxiliary Services had to
“change the way we’re doing business.”
