Young Democrats urge
SGA to pass resolution
opposing war in Iraq

By GeorGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

From anti-war protests to campus debates,
Davidson students have been active in voicing
their opinions about war with Iraq. Some stu-
dents want the college to adopt an Anti-War
Resolution.

The Young Democrats proposed the resolu-
tion and they are currently obtaining signatures
from students in support of the document. 10
percent of the student body (160 students) must
sign the petition to present it to the Committee
on External Affairs of the SGA.

According to Sean Brooks ’04, founder of
Studnts Against War in Iraq, the petitions have
been stalled as they pursue other projects.

“A lot of people have problems with making
the SGA political. Right now [the resolution] is
nothappening. We’ re focusing on other things,”
Brooks said.

The organization may do some more tabling
of the resolution in the future, but they have
recently been busy collecting 100 letters to US
senators, which support a bill calling the presi-
dent to go to the Senate before declaring war on
Iraq. At this time, if the resolution were ever
presented to the SGA by the Committe on
External Affairs, changes might have to be
made to the document. Currently, the docu-
ments outline several reasons that the United

States should not participate in war.. :
Among these reasons is the lack of evidence

showing that Iraq has made a direct threat

against the United States.

The resolution also states, “The United
States’ Government does not have a credible
plan to replace Saddam Hussein and stabilize
the region after military engagement.”

The document briefly states that military
force would not only disable the Middle East
and worsen the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, but
also jeopardize Iraqi people, innocent civilians,
and American soldiers.

Lastly, “An attack on Iraq would be contrary
to international law and the consensus of the
community of nations.”

The resolution does face student opposition.
The resolutions states, ‘““We, the students of
Davidson College, strongly oppose the use of
military force against Iraq.” Clearly, not eyery-
one will feel comfortable having this statement
represent his or her beliefs.

“Unlike many similar liberal arts institutions,
Davidson actually has intellectual diversity,
ranging from stereotypical ‘knee-jerk liberals’
to ‘Bible-thumping conservatives’, so I think
that trying to get the entire student body behind
aresolution like this will be tough,” Jon Kropski
’04, head of the Committee on External Affairs,
said.

If the resolution passes, the SGA and Young
Democrats would like to see it published in the
Charlotte Observer and the Davidsonian. They
hope that it not only presents the position of the
student body as a whole, but also provokes
thought on the issue.

“T think it will foster more thought and dis-
cussion of the issue, something I think is good
simply because it’s very easy to lose sight of
what goes on around us when we live inside the
Davidson ‘bubble’ ,” Kropski said.

“This has the potential to be a very polarizing
issue on campus. It'll be interesting to see how
it pans out,” Kropski said.

Deadline March 21

Bank of America
Kemp Scholars Program

The Office of the Vice President for Academic
Affairs at Davidson College encourages
_ students from the classes of 2004 and 2005 to
apply for the Bank of America/Kemp Scholars
Program for the 2003 calendar year. The
program provides $2,000 in reimbursable
expenses to support independent study, travel,
and research as well as an award of $1,000.
Frequently, projects have had an international
focus with the Kemp award sponsoring travel
outside the United States, however, domestic
projects may be considered. :

Students from all majors are encouraged to
apply. Prof. Mark Foley in the Department
of Economics is the current program director
and more information and application forms
are available through his website
(navigate to the Department of
Economcs Homepage).

More than
200 students,
as well as the
local media
corps, turned
out for last
Wednesday’s
debate. Sean
Brooks ’04
does an inter-
view (right),
but a shirt is
worth a thou-
sand words.

Joseph Adams ’06
The case for war

Iam here tonight to explain why I believe that
Saddam Hussein poses a danger to our national
security interests and a threat to the stability of
the Middle East. I will also explain that, based
upon Saddam’s history of refusing to comply
with U.N. sanctions, continued inspections will
only give Saddam more time to increase and
even distribute his stockpile of weapons of mass
destruction.

...Disarmament works only when mutual
cooperation exists. The world saw a clear ex-
ample of what disarmament should look like in
the example set by South Africa, which had a
political leadership committed to eliminating
that country’s WMD programs. However, as
Iraq’s history of delaying, denying, and deceiv-
ing clearly shows, Saddam cannot be legiti-
mately expected to comply at this, or any future,
juncture in any sort of weapons inspection
process.

...At present, Iraq is run as a police state. We
have all heard many horrifying stories of the
lengths to which Saddam will go to keep his
population in submission. The only world leader
in modern history has been responsible for
causing more people to simply disappear than
Saddam Hussein was Joseph Stalin, a man
whom Saddam openly admires and, to some
degree, emulates.

...Containment is a policy that has never
been implemented toward a regime that has
been regarded as irrational. It is illogical to
apply a policy of containment to Saddam
Hussein, as he has proven time after time to be
an irrational leader with truly horrifying ambi-
tions. The Iran-Iraq War, invasion of Kuwait
and the attacks on Israel and Saudi Arabia that
accompanied the invasion of Kuwait are al-
ready regarded as three of the worst military
decisions in the entire twentieth century.

This time, we owe it to the world to live up to
our own word at the United Nations and to
refuse to continue to give Saddam more time in
which he can delay, deceive and deny the world.

_ As British Prime Minister Tony Blair so elo-

quently stated last week, the concessions that
Iraq makes are suspect. Unfortunately, the
weapons are real.

photos by Eron Earley-Thiele

Students face off over war in Iraq

Excerpts from the student leaders of last Wednesday’s debate:

Jonathan Wu ’04
The case against war

The question of Iraq is a difficult one. As
college students, we do not claim to know more
than the government. However, as
American citizens, we can demand that our
government sufficiently lay out the case for war
against Iraq. We feel that the government has
failed to make this case.

Hiding behind hollow walls of rhetoric, they
have not adequately supported their accusa-
tions with evidence - at least evidence enough to
justify a war.

... While inspectors are on the ground search-
ing meticulously for undeclared weapons of
mass destruction, is Iraq not contained? Are we
unable to monitor and contain Iraq with a U.N.
inspections team of over 250, with the surveil-
lance of U-2 planes as well as other aircraft and
satellites, with immediate access to all facilities,
and with the aid of worldwide intelligence?
Indeed, Hans Blix, the chief U.N. weapons
inspector has stated that the current intrusive
inspections are “ a form of containment.”

..-Questions have not been answered. They
have only been met with the persistent rhetoric
that Saddam is an evil man who threatens the
region, our country, and the peace of the world.

...At this time, how dangerous is Iraq? Does
Iraq really pose an imminent threat to the United
States and our allies? Is Iraq planning to stage a
pre-emptive attack on U.S. troops or nearby
countries, or even the U.S. mainland? With
150,000 troops surrounding Iraq, would that not
be a suicidal gesture?

...In addition, if U.S. troops were to invade
the country, would Iraq have any reason to hold
back, to refrain from an all-out attack? Using
this logic, as CIA Director George Tenet did in
October, is Saddam not a greater threat if we
choose to attack him than if we choose to
contain him? Thus, does not the doctrine of pre-
emption place our country in greater danger?

... The Bush administration is relying on the
old adage that if you say something enough
times, then it becomes true. Repeat the “big lie”
until it is swallowed.

They need to stop claiming and start proving.
We demand answers because we will not sup-
port a war on faith alone.
