by Peter Roady
Smiling students prepare for long night outside the tiolaet w window

One night at Baker
Campers pitch tents in

McKillopville to get tickets

Hardy hoops fans get in line early for UNC game

By Witson McCrory
Staff Writer

College basketball hasn’t even begun prac-
tice yet, as Midnight Madness looms on the
horizon in just a few weeks.

The Wildcats won’t play their first game for
another six weeks, yet the excitement for the
basketball season has already begun to spread
throughout campus.

Tickets for the North Carolina-Davidson
match-up in. the Charlotte Coliseum went,.on
sale Tuesday at 7:30 a.m., but students were

given the opportunity to camp out for tickets -

outside of Baker Sports Complex on Monday
night, with the first rights to both the $5
student section tickets and $20 courtside seats.

This occasion would mark the first time in
school history that students had camped out
for basketball tickets and the birth Davidson’s
very own “McKillopville.”

Here’s a look back at my experiences.

5:24 p.m.

Population: 7

My friends and I had decided weeks ago that
we would camp out for the November contest,
just as we had for the Bill Cosby concert at the
beginning of the year. For the Cosby show, we
ventured to the third floor of the. Student
Union, where we enjoyed carpeted floors, air-
conditioning, and indoor plumbing.

We could have cared less about the actual
event at stake, as most of us were camping just
to do something different. That was hardly the
case for this event.

As I walk up to the entrance of Baker, I am
soon introduced to the founders. of
McKillopville, seniors. Paul Pineau, Willy
Jordan, Jeff Wheeler, Mike Malenbaum, and
Elizabeth Redpath.

As Pineau states, “We’ve been jociking for-

ward to this game for a long time and had

planned on camping out for tickets. Sopho-
more year a group of us came early in the
morning to get good tickets to the UNC game
[in Chapel Hill], and we ended up winning.
Now it’s in Charlotte, and it’s our senior year,
and I can’t wait for the moment of the game.”

McKillopville looks nothing like its rela-
tive, the infamous K-ville upin Durham, North

At the University of New Jersey at Durham,
K-ville is packed with tents, where hundreds
of students camp out for weeks in anticipation
of the annual UNC-Duke game in Cameron
Indoor Stadium.

K--ville has strict rules on how to retain your :

spot in the ticket line, including random spot
checks, day or night, to
is there 24/7. Worst of all, Duke admissions
brochures brag about the multitude of internet

that each group.

ports dispersed throughout the campground,
allowing the Dukies to steadfastly work while
awaiting the big day.

McKillopville, on the other hand, is cur-

- rently made up of two tents. The founders of

McKillopville are playing basketball on the
recently purchased plastic mini-goal, with
“McKillopville” scribbled on the backboard.

The sounds of Blues Traveler’s “Hook”
resonate above the banter of the H-O-R-S-E
players,.and I.am the eleventh student to
register into the site.

5:43 p.m.

Population: 3

McKillopville is hurting. The tent, plastic
picnic table, and stereo are here, but few
people remain in the makeshift village. The
inhabitants are allowed to come and go pretty
much as they please, as long as they spend the
majority of their time here before the morning
ticket sale (Even some don’t do that).

So while‘a few die-hards persist, most have
left with a laundry list of excuses and promises
of a return later in the day.

8:15 p.m.
Population: 12
.McKillopville has gained a few followers
since dinner, including a.group of zealous
freshmen ready fora taste of big-time college
athletics.

The 58-54 victory over UNC in:2001 is still

on the forefront of many a mind in
McKillopville, and expectations of another
in-state upset drive many.
_ As Andrew Ruth ’07 states, “Historically,
UNC. has been one of the best basketball
programs in the nation, and we’re hoping to
prove that we can contend with the best... Two
years ago we proved that we could beat them,
when they were down, but this year they’re a
top-ten team again.”

While Davidson sports atalented andhighly-
touted roster for the 2004 season, the hopes of

another victory may be a taller order than

many realize.

UNC returns every player of impact from
the 2003 season, including sophomores
Raymond Felton, Sean May, David Noel,
Rashad McCants and junior Jawad Williams.

The Tar Heels areranked ninthin the Athlon
preseason college preview, and they have ex-
pectations of erasing the last few years of
disappointment under the new: Jpadeaship of
Roy Williams.

Despite the long odds, as Pineau claims,
“This is as close to a big-game as we’re going

-to get, and this is probably the last time we’ ll

get to play them since Coach Williams doesn’t
like playing in-state rivals.”

i

©. astack of pizzas. But when I glance up again,
_ ‘I realize that few pizza-guys are 6’5” with
* : hite hair, nor are they generally accompa-

_ 9:33 p.m.

tion: 15
ig hardly even notice as a group of men walk
"past the group to the head of the line, carrying

ied by an entourage of 20-sometliings to

5 a them.

‘Ts that McKillop?

Two of the men walk up to me and introduce
themselves as assistants of the men’s basket-
ball team.

Then, Coach Bob McKillop walks over and
proceeds to talk with the clustered group of

_. freshmen, most of which are still amazed that

the head coach has actually come down to see
them on a Monday night.

He speaks of the upcoming season, the
Wildcats’ Southern Conference competition
(Charleston, Chattanooga, and East Tennes-
see State), and a recent high school basketball
game he and his staff had witnessed on one
ofnumerous recruiting visits.

Finally, he attempts to make a connection
with each of the McKillopville citizens and
appears genuinely interested in talking with a
group of over-expectant fans even though he
could be watching the Red Sox-A’s game.

The group of men leaves McKillopville, but
not without endearing themselves to the fans
that still have a long way to go this night.

As Pineau states, “[McKillopville] may be
a lot smaller, but the coach still brings us
pizza,” referring to the traditional visit from
Coach K at his namesake every year.

Mac Skelton ’07 adds, “I'll take Coach
McKillop over Roy Williams any day.”

11:19 p.m.

Population: 17

Predictions of the UNC-Davidson score:
Andrew Ruth: Carolina 72, Davidson 67
Mac Skelton: Davidson 105, Carolina 0
Brian Helfrich: Davidson 71, Carolina 64

2:08 a.m.

Population: 26

By now, all the overnight residents of
McKillopville have arrived, and most have
settled into their sleeping bags for a short few
hours of sleep. Only the faint sounds of “Sex
and the City” and “The Matrix: Reloaded”
drift about from portable laptops.

7:03 a.m.

Population: 45

Slowly, the residents of McKillopville awake
from their slumber, only to discover they have
gained a few new followers in the early morn-
ing hours.

The Wildcat. basketball staff has returned,
this time to pass out Krispy-Kreme doughnuts
and to help with the ticket process.

Meanwhile, the debate begins for many
over which type of tickets to buy: the baseline
student seats or the courtside seats in front of
the grumpy season-ticket holders. The
courtside tickets are undeniably a better view
of the game, as fans are seated a few feet from
the action throughout.

Meanwhile, the baseline section will be the
rowdier bunch, allowed to stand throughout
the game and heckle the teams as they come to
their end of the court.

My group eventually decided on the student
section, simply because we don’t want to be
limited by sitting in front of other fans. I will
be on the first row on the left side of the basket,
Row 4. |

7:51 a.m.

Population: 36

Tickets in hand, we walk away. from the
booth satisfied with our efforts. The game is
still a month and a half away, and the chances
of another upset may be slim this year. But the
night, the first ever for McKillopville, was a
success.

Those who came in the morning will prob-
ably still get great tickets, and may claim that
they did better to get the sleep, or to not have
had to spend the night on the brick walkway
outside of Baker. But only the proud few-can
claim to be charter members of McKillopville.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2003

11

Haywood
leads men’s
tennis effort

at UNC

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

Rob Haywood ’04 has come a long way. As
a freshman, Haywood’s name was-nowhere to
be found in the singles starting lineup, playing
only at the number three doubles position
during the 2000-01 season.

Fast-forward three years and not only will
you find Haywood cemented in the top spot of
both the singles and doubles lineups, you'll
also see his name advancing through star-
studded Flight A draws as he competes well
against some of the country’s best players.

Three weeks after the team’s younger play-
ers opened the season with success at the
W&L Invitational, Haywood and the other
four returning starters of the men’s tennis
team made their presence known amidst a top-
tier field at UNC-Chapel Hill’s Top of the Hill
Carolina Classic.

Haywood, seeded third for the event, paced
the team last weekend, tying with second seed
Raian Luchici (UNC) for third place honors in
the Flight A singles draw. He defeated players
from Campbell and UNC-Asheville on his
way to the semifinals before losing a hard-
fought three set match to the eventual cham-
pion and #43 ranked player in the country
Nick Monroe (UNC).

After losing the first set 6-2, Haywood fought
back against Chapel Hill’s number one player
to take the second set in a tiebreaker. The top
seed was too much for Haywood in the final
set, however, wearing him down and winning
the set 6-2. Haywood was matched up with
second seed Luchici for the third place playoff
but withdrew due to an ankle injury incurred in
his semifinal match.

Head coach Jeff Frank was pleased with
Haywood’s play, commenting, “He played
very, very well in what was probably the best
match of the tournament. He was only at about
90 percent due to the injury, but despite that he
served. really well and gave Monroe all he

. could handle.”

Haywood was not the lone bright spot for
the team. Donald Miles ’05 also faced even-
tual champion Monroe in Flight A, matching
up against the top seed in the first round and
suffering a tough 6-3, 6-4 loss. The first-round
setback did not deter him, howgver, from
bouncing back to win his next three matches
and claim victory in the Consolation draw
with victories over players from Charlotte,
Wake Forest, and UNC-Asheville.

Russ Burns ’05 also fared well in singles,
representing Davidson in the Flight C draw.
Burns fought his way to the semifinals with
victories over players from Charlotte and Rich-
mond before eventually falling 6-4, 6-2 to
Zorick Toltsan of Campbell. He bounced back
quickly, though, following his tough semifi-
nal loss with a three-set victory over Eric Hage
(Richmond) to claim third place honors.

Jonathan Britt ’04 and Rob Gould ’04,
Davidson’s most successful doubles team last
season with a 13-8 record, defeated teams
from Richmond and UNC-Asheville on their
way to the finals, before losing a tough match
to UNC-Chapel Hill’s number two team.

Coach Frank was pleased with the tourna-
ment, adding, “We got to play against some
teams that we’ Il face again in our spring sched-
ule, and performing well against them this
weekend gave us some confidence.”

Haywood and the upperclassmen will be
joined by the rest of the team October 17-18 at
the Davidson/Jim Causey Fall Classic, as they

. hope to maintain the momentum and confi-

dence gained this weekend.
