12

" photo by P Peter Roady
Matt Allen 06 traps the ball during a recent
soccer game. The soccer team heads to
Charleston Thursday as the No. 1 seed.

THE DAvVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 12, 2003

first regular season title since 1971

By GEorF FEHLING
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team ended their season with another
Outstanding feat as they beat Georgia Southern 2-1 Saturday
night to win the Southern Conference outright. The top-place
finish of 6-1-0 in the SoCon, their first outright win since 1971,
was a terrific end to a 12-5-2 overall season.

Matt Allen ’06 was the star of the match, netting both
Davidson goals. Allen’s goal’s were scored off of senior David
Peoples’ corner kicks.

With a desire to dlinch the conference title, the "Cats came
out strong in the first half. Peoples sent a cross from a corner
kick to Allen four minutes into the game that Allen redirected
into the net.

“As expected, this was a hard-fought battle,” said head
coach Matt Spear. “(Georgia Southern is a strong, physical team
that is tough to break down.” ,

Neither team showed any signs of letting up, as Georgia
Southern retaliated in the 30th minute with a goal of their own.
Eagle forward Tony Moffat crossed the ball toa player waiting
at the far post who was able to put the ball away and even the
score at 1-1.

“As the half wore on, we were unable to get that key second
goal,” said Spear. “We have a lot of respect for Moffat. He
really created their goal.”

Corner kicks proved to be dangerous to both teams, and, with
under a minute left in the half, an Eagle forward sent the ball
towards the Davidson net in what was sure to be a goal.
Defender Nahum Navas ’06 blocked the ball to end the half

with the score still tied.

Entering the second half, both teams pushed to get a game-
winning goal. Davidson found their chance in the 73rd minute
on anther corner kick from Peoples. His cross found Allen,
who tallied his fifth goal of the year and second of the game.

“It was good for Matt Allen to come up big in this situation,”
Peoples said. “He has really come on strong in the past couple
of games; he also had the game-tying goal in the overtime win
at South Carolina.”

Both goalies came up big in the second half, especially the
Georgia Southern keeper Adam Webb. Webb had several key
saves, including one on a second-half bicycle kick by Keith
Nicholson ’04 and another on a tough shot by Nick Hansell 04
from the middle of the box. Wildcat goalie Bart Creasman ’05
was also up to the challenge. Creasman ended the season with
five saves to seal the SoCon title.

“The conference title is so important to this team because we
set very high goals this year,” said defender Justin Porter '04.
“We may have felt we came up short against some of the
highly-ranked powers this season, but our primary goal was
still to win the conference. It is also special for us (seniors)
because it is important to leave a program better than you found
it.”

With the regular season completed, records no longer matter
as #1 seeded Davidson heads into the Southern Conference
tournament this Thursday night. The ’Cats completed the
team’s first twelve-win season since 1995, when the team went
12-11-1.

Davidson will head to Charleston to begin the first round of
the tournament against eighth-ranked Wofford. The opening
kick is scheduled for 4 p.m.

By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Men’s soccer ended a stellar regular season last Saturday
afternoon by defeating their last Southern Conference oppo-
nent Georgia Southern 2-1 and clinching the regular season
title outright.

The team has been through a number of triumphs already
this season: posting a fourth straight winning season, getting
the number one seed in the conference tournament, and
defeating SoCon rival Furman.

None of those accomplishments will matter as the team
heads into the conference championship against eighth-seeded
Wofford Thursday night.

“With [Davidson] coming off of a strong finish to the
season it’s important that we continue to strive forward every
day,” said co-captain Justin Porter ’04. “It’s sometimes easy
for teams to get complacent when they are playing against
teams that are lower seeded, especially when that team is
coming off of some big victories and good performances.”

Complacency is not an option with the final feat in sight: a
chance to make a run for the NCAA title with a bid to the
national championship. While the chances are only average
for an “at-large” bid to the NCAA’s, the best opportunity to
get there is by winning the SoCon tournament.

The strong finish inthe regular season is a great advantage,
according to Porter. “Fortunately, our team is not likely to fall
victim to [becoming complacent],” he explained. “We have

Wildcats open ‘second season’ as top
seed Thursday afternoon in Charleston

No. 1 Davidson vs. No. 8 Wofford
4:30 p.m. Thursday
Semifinals vs. Furman/App. St. winner
Saturday 3:30 p.m.
Championship game
Sunday, 1 p.m.

put all of our efforts on each game at a time during the regular
season, and I do not think that will stop now that we’ re in the
postseason.”

The ’Cats already faced Wofford once this season, defeat-
ing the Terriers by an agonizingly close 1-0 margin. Davidson
has won its last eight meetings against the Terriers, dating
back to 1980.

Past wins and future expectations are insignificant, said
defender Nahum Navas ’06. “We need to take the postseason
one game at a time,” he said.

“We are right where we wanted to be at the beginning of this
season, and the team is very cohesive and consistent,” added
Porter. “I love playing with this team because the effort is
always there every day.”

The opening-round match against Wofford is scheduled for
Thursday at 4.p.m. The tournament, held in Charleston, SC,
runs through Sunday with the second round games on Satur-
day afternoon and the final match on Sunday.

““Youcan see the passion that we have forthe game and each
other in the way that we play,” Porter said. “It’s going to be
exciting to see how we continue to build upon our accom-
plishments.”

| Red Day, an SGA-sponsored spirit rally, will

Basketball Update

+. &
2 rarery

Tonight’s men’s exhibition
Davidson vs. Vasda USA
Belk Arena 7 p.m.

The Wildcats get their first test of the season with
an exhibition game tonight against Vasda USA, a
collection of former high school and college players.
Vasda’s eight-game 2003 schedule includes
Gardner-Webb and Chattanooga.

Davidson won last year’s contest 114-76. Seating
is on a-first-came, first-serve basis.

Texas Tech party in 900 Room:

culminate with a Davidson vs. Texas Tech viewing
party in the 900 Room at 9 p.m Tuesday. The event
will feature an ice cream bar, prize giveaways and a
performance by the Generals. Students can also join
the Cat Pack for $5 during the party, said Athletics
Committee co-chair John Marshall ‘04.

North Carolina game bus update:

Marshall says four buses have been reserved for
224 registered students. There is a waiting list for
students not yet registered. Contact Marshall at
jomarshall@davidson.edu for more information.

Coming Next Week: Your
complete preview of the men’s
and women’s basketball seasons

eS tt OM

‘Player of the Week |

Matt Allen
Men’s Soccer
Hometown: Crofton, MD

Major: Undecided
In the final game of the regular season at

Georgia Southern, Allen scored both Wildcat goals
to secure the 2-1 win. The victory gave the ’Cats
their first outright league title since 1971.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

For the third time in as many weeks, a Wildcat swimmer broke the women’ s team
record in the 1,000 freestyle event.

In her first ever collegiate meet, Eli Trefzger ’07 broke the record, only to be
outdone a week later by teammate Casey Grimes ’06; however, Trefzger
rebounded in amazing fashion, not only re-setting the record but also
beating the best men’s time at the meet on Saturday.

As it appears Trefzger’s only competition seems to be coming from
within the team, she continues to be a positive influence on her teammates
and likely has a bright future in store.

