For you

sports
fans..

picks of the week

' the stands at one of James’ pay-per- *-

Sports

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003 9

Shag and Kobe should learn from LeBron

About a year ago, I thought LeBron, James

embodied all that was wrong with the NBA.
The Hummer-driving high school hero was

being touted as the number owe pick in the
2003 draft before he even finished his senior
year. The most hyped player in the basketball
world was a year younger than me, and we
both had the same amount of NBA,
and even college, experience (none,
in case you were wondering).

I shook my head in disdain at the
sight of Shaquille O’ Neal watching in

view games. Just another example of
an over-hyped and (soon to be) over-
paid player being rewarded for skip-
ping college and entering the pros
based solely on his performance
against 17 and 18-year-olds, I thought.

Maybe Shaq should watch James
more closely.

Just two days before the start of the
NBA season, and a year after report-
ing to the 2002 Lakers camp “fat and out of
shape,” in the words of Kobe Bryant, “Diesel”
ignited yet another media controversy by pub-
licly bashing Bryant for shooting too much
and not being a team player. He went on to
claim that the Lakers are his team.

Bryant, the poster boy for the NBA before
he admitted to adultery and was charged with
rape this summer, responded by defying a
team order and doing an interview with Jim
Gray in which he blasted back at Shaq.

These embarrassing actions directly con-
trast the professionalism and selflessness

©)

BY MIKE GIGLIO.

shown by veterans Karl Malone and Gary
Payton, who took drastic pay cuts and agreed
to play forthe league minimum in order to help
the Lakers win a championship this year. Both
have acted as babysitters so far, trying to keep
the crying and whining in the locker room and

away from the newspapers.

James, meanwhile, has been a perfect pro-
fessional in handling all of the hype surround-
ing his rookie campaign. After spending much
of the summer personally donating athletic
equipment to schools, he spent the preseason
trying to ignore the attention and “stay fo-
cused” on improving his game and
helping his team. Teammates have
praised him for his passing skills
and respect for the game.

Instead of mouthing off to these
teammates, James brings them
doughnuts and carries their bags, in
true rookie fashion. When asked
about playing against the best play-
ers in the world, James responded,
“There is no sense of intimidation.
Just respect.”

Shaq and Kobe could learn a lot
from this kid. Maybe they belong on
the court, not in the stands, at high
school games.

One thing is certain: James belongs in the
NBA.

He’ ll be a welcome addition and a much-
needed replacement as the biggest star in the
game.

(Source: USA Today)

Back to normalcy after last week’s baseball
interviews, I would like to start by talking
about John Daly. Daly has called it quits as far
as the two remaining events scheduled for the
PGA tour. It has been rumored that he has
stopped for rehab reasons, but those rumors
have been denied and the only word that has
come from a valid source is that he needs to

figure out personal rea-
§) sons. We'll let you de-
cide which of these per-
- sonal reasons has kept
Daly from finishing the
| 2003 campaign. Since
| winning the 1991 PGA
» Championship, Daly has
F entered alcohol rehab
| twice. This year his wife,
} five days after giving birth
to their child, was given,
along with her parents,
» drug andillegal gambling
~ charges. Then, Daly ran-
domly pulled outa win at the Korean Open and
pulled out of his next tournament because of
hyperventilating that was caused by dehydra-
tion. In his final tour event of the year, Daly
carelessly backhanded puts and took one-
handed shots from the rough. He scored an'83,
his fifth round in the 80s this year. I’d guess it
was the hyperventilating . .. As many Red Sox

" fans sat on the edges of their seats in Game

Seven of the ALCS in distress as to why Pedro
Martinez continued to pitch, no one was
thinking about the future of the manager,
Grady Little. It took Little two innings and a
blown three-run lead to remove Martinez from
the hill, and it took Sox General Manager,
Theo Epstein 11 days after the fact to remove
Little from his office .. . 10 NFL players have
been subpoenaed to

game since 1987 in the inaugural World Cup.
Their victory on Monday was a 39-26 route
over Japan. Japan, who the U.S. beat in their
first Cup game in 1987, now currently holds
the record for losses in Cup competition at ten
games... It was a rough weekend for former
Lightweight boxing champion Paul
Spadafora. Friday started off bad and Sunday

wasn’t any better. On Fri-

testify for accusa-
tions of use of the
designer drug,
tetrrahydrogestrinone
(THG). Seven of the
10 players are onthe
Raiders. THG is said

“10 NFL players have been
subpoenaed for accusations
of the drug THG...a steroid
authorities are just finding

day night, Spadafora was
arrested on charges of pub-
lic lewdness and intoxica-
tion as he was seen urinat-
ing down a public street.
On Sunday, he was again

arrested on a warrant ac-
to be a steroid that out about...some drugs cusing him of shooting and
authorities are just authorities have known for injuring a women earlier in
finding out about. . ° : ° the day. It’s an understate-
. Some drugs that au- a while are being fe ound in ment to say he might have
thorities have bodies of British SOCcCer had one rough case of the
known of for awhile Mondays . . . Five-year-
are being found in P laye ers. Those drugs are olds are setting records
the bodies of Brit-- Cocaine and ecstasy.” across the pond. Rebekah
ish soccer players. Noakes became the young-
Those drugs are co- est person to climb each of

caine and ecstasy. The names of the players
who tested positive for these two drugs haven’t
been revealed, but apparently they provide a
better feeling then steroids . . . Good news
brought to you from Australia, the United
States rugby team won their first world cup

Great Britain’s tallest three peaks. She con-
quered the 4,409 ft. Ben Nevis in Scotland, the
3,207 ft. Scafell Pike in England, the 3,558 ft.
Snowdon in Wales. Yet in reports from her
mother, she still complains about walking to
school.

Mid-season moves made Marlins champs

By Erik SWANSON
Guest Columnist

July 12, 2003: The day a World Series
Champion was born.

The Florida Marlins, who entered the league
as an expansion team in 1993, were recently in
the playoffs for only the second time, the first
of which resulted in a remarkable World Se-

ries Crown.

You know how the story ends; the Marlins
won their second title in six memorable games
against the Yankees.

But the Marlins’ improbable run to the
championship began long before their domi-
nating pitching carried them past the Giants,
Cubs, and Yankees in the playoffs.

On July 12, the Marlins surrendered one of
their top prospects to acquire right-handed
relief pitcher Ugueth Urbina from the Texas
Rangers, at the time the American League
leader in saves.

A seemingly meaningless trade for which

mostbaseball insiders congratulated the Rang:

ers, this transaction signified the Marlins’
never-say-die attitude that won them the title.
Florida, only two games above .500, trailed
the N.L. East-leading Braves by double digits,
and their wildcard deficit was 4 1/2 games and

growing.

The Marlins already had a reliable closer in .

Braden Looper, and Urbina was only expected
to be used as a set-up man.

But by September, Urbina had assumed the
closer’s role, and the Marlins were one of the
hottest teams in baseball.

Even the notoriously disgruntled South
Florida fans were taking notice, and the Mar-

lins’ home attendance began to grow to levels

unseen since their World Series victory in
1997.
__ Urbitia’s acquisition may not have been the
catalyst for Florida’s championship run, but it
demonstrated the Marlins’ confidence that a
72-year-old manager could carry a team void
of superstars to the top.

Jack McKeon took over the team with a 19-

29 record in May and directed them to the

league’s best record from May 23 to the

season’s end.

McKeon hadn’t managed a game in three
years, yet he took over a young, inexperienced
team and created champions by stealing a
league-leading 150 bases. McKeon’s mana-
gerial skill in the World Series cannot be
argued.

His decisions to move a dominating
Dontrelle Willis to the bullpen and to send
Josh Beckett to the mound on three days rest
were the driving forces behind the World
Series victory.

Inearly July, when teams around the league
were inquiring as to the availability of All-
Star third baseman Mike Lowell, the Marlins
turned the suitors away because they were
preparing for the playoffs.

Their aspirations seemed ambitious in July,
but in retrospect, Florida knew exactly what it
was doing.

The team’s prescient midseason decisions
provided them with the confidence and per- -
sonnel they needed to complete the puzzle and
begin their miraculous run to their second
championship.
