By Matt Banpyk
Staff Writer

“Adaptation,” the newest oddity from “Be-
ing John Malkovich” director Spike Jonze and
screenwriter Charlie Kaufman, is a film about
flowers, obsession, love, evolution, insecurity
and writer’s block. Tackling so many and seem-
ingly unrelated themes in one film may seem
like an impossible task, but thanks to one of the
sharpest and cleverest scripts of any recent
movie, “Adaptation” makes it look easy. It also
features amazing performances by great actors
like Nicholas Cage, Meryl Streep and Chris
Cooper. Similar to “Malkovich,” one of the best
films of 1999, “Adaptation” is strange and
unlike few movies seen before. However, its
uncharacteristically conventional finale pre-
vents the movie from being thoroughly impres-
sive, all of its positive elements withstanding.

“Adaptation” revolves around one of the
least glamorous parts of filmmaking, the script
writing process. Nicholas Cage plays Charlie
Kaufman, ascreenwriter who is drafted to adapt
a book called “The Orchid Thief’ by Susan
Orlean (Meryl Streep), the true story of eccen-
tric Florida orchid hunter John Laroche. How-
ever, Kaufman finds it nearly impossible to give
narrative structure to the sprawling, rambling
“New Yorker’-style piece. Kaufman, Orlean
and Laroche are all real people, and Kaufman
did try to adapt “The Orchid Thief” into a film,
and did suffer from writer’s block in that at-
tempt. From there the reality of the story ends.
The movie portrays Kaufman as fat, balding,

Columbia Pictures

Nicholas Cage stars as Charlie and Donald Kaufman in Adaptation

shy and self-loathing, ignored on the set of his
movie “Malkovich” and with the nasty habit of
sweating heavily during social interactions. The
real Charlie Kaufman is supposedly nothing
like this screen variant, so perhaps this pathetic
character is meant to represent the impotence
the real Kaufman felt because of his writer’s
block. Cage also plays Charlie’s twin brother
Donald, who is optimistic and oblivious to

Clooney’s ‘Confessions’ stylish
and entertaining, if not memorable

By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Confessions of a Dangerous Mind” is an
adaptation of Chuck Barris’ journals. Barris, in
addition to creating the Dating Game, the New-
lywed Game, and hosting the Gong Show,
claims to have been an assassin for the CIA.
Whether or not Barris actually killed matters
only to Barris and his supposed victims.

Sam Rockwell stars as Barris.in a role that
requires a fair amount of range and a lot of butt
shots. He’s one of those actors that we sort of
recognize, but can’t quite place. I’ll save you the
trouble of going to imdb.com: he was the bad
guy in “Charlie’s Angels,” Wild Bill in “The
Green Mile” and “Head Thug” in “Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles.”

In a sense “Confessions” is a bio-pic, show-
ing us how Barris broke into the television
industry, how he became famous, how he
freelanced for the CIA. There is a story, charac-
ter development and all that good stuff. But this
film, down to the smallest detail, is about style.
Director George Clooney, who produced and
stars in the film, uses every trick in the book:
photography, filters, costumes, sets (particu-
larly sets), music, voiceovers, humor. Youname
it, he uses it to create his film’ s unique feel and
tone.

Clooney, JuliaRoberts, and Drew Barrymore
give exciting supporting performances.
Clooney plays Jim Byrd, Barris’ supposed CIA

contact. Roberts is a kinky, double (triple?).

agent for the CIA. Their characters — just as
much as the cinematography and sets — add to
the feel of the film. As for Barrymore’s Penny,
I suppose her character is meant to add to the
film’s humanity, to show that in spite of the
cruel, capitalist world of television and the
deviousness of the CIA, there are still good
people out there. Good people for bad ones like

Barris. People that Barris can have sex with,
cheat on, bring flowers to, make up with, cheat
on again, and then marry and live happily ever
after. And she’s cute!

But seriously, superfluous style and subtle
misogyny aside, “Confessions of a Dangerous
Mind” is one of the more entertaining movies
I’ve seen recently. It’s got some funny moments
and an attractive cast, and it’s also interesting to

see what that guy from “E.R.” can do behind the

Miramax

Sam Rockwell as Chuck Barris

camera. It also goes one step further and gives
us a few things to think about; just a few, but
that’s still more than “LOTR: The Two Tow-
ers” can say.

Charlie Kaufman wrote “Confessions, ” his
third film to hit theaters this past year. It’s
certainly a solid movie.

I'd definitely recommend it, but it’s a step
down from “Adaptation,” Kaufman’s other film
currently in wide-release. When the most
memorable moment in a movie is a cameo by
Mr. Aniston and the former Mrs. Affleck, you
know you’ ve seen better movies.

criticism, unlike Charlie. Donald’s hilariously
clichéd and blatantly “Hollywood” attempts at
screenwriting are a major source of humor for
the film and a constant source of frustration for
Charlie. Cage fully realizes Kaufman in all his
insecure, paranoid glory, and remains fully
convincing even when acting with himself as
the other brother Kaufman.

Chris Cooper also gives amemorable perfor-

Director: Spike Jonze —

mance as Laroche, the toothless but strangely
charming redneck horticulturist who moves
through obsessions like he was changing shirts.
His lines are among the funniest of many in this
film. The comedy in “Adaptation” is based on
clever interactions between characters that dem-
onstrate layered character development, instead
of resorting to gross-out gags and cheap one-
liners like many of today’s comedies.

Unfortunately, the conclusion of “Adapta-
tion” isn’t as satisfying as the film as a whole. It
falls back on the same chases and deus ex
machinas that the movie seemed to criticize
earlier with the humorous portrayal of Donald’s
script. “Adaptation” should have focused itself
more as a comedy, where its strengths lie,
because some of the dramatic elements at the
end of the film drown in sappy sentimentality.

Despite the bad taste that the conclusion left
in my mouth, all the things I liked about “Adap-
tation” are enough to make me look forward to
the next wonderfully weird effort by Jonze and
Kaufman.

Written By: Charlie Kaufman

Starring: Nicholas Cage, Mery!
Streep, Chris Cooper

Running Time: 114 minutes

Rating: 3 out of 4.

What Do You Think?

We continue to interrogate the student body about art and life
on campus and beyond. This week’s question:

What did you think of last week’s RENT production? ?

“T liked it, because it was a good perfor-
mance, an interesting story, and it pre-
sented an unfamiliar lifestyle. It’s im-
mediate in that it makes you think
about how you examine your own life.”

“Tt had a lot of charisma, but it didn’t
have a lot of meat to it. The perfor-
mance wasn’t fun enough to justify
sacrificing realism, and the way they
treated AIDS seemed kind of trite.”

“T’ ve wanted to see it since it came
out, and it far surpassed my expecta-
tions. The singing was powerful,
especially Angel’s.”

“I was not wowed. I thought the
music sounded thrown together, and
the band was unenthusiastic. The
whole thing didn’t seem polished
enough.”

Aravind Dileepan ’03

Kevin Bell ’05

Courtney Hamilton ’05

Anna Lauzon ’04

