16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 22, 2003

Men’s hoops ahead of schedule early Two straight wins

Doherty watches first
practice; team picked 2nd

By Matt GarFIELD

Editor

The men’s basketball team officially opened its season with
the first day of practice on Saturday, skipping the annual
Matinee Madness community event in favor of team-only
drills and an intra-squad scrimmage.

There were no screaming kids this year with the madness on
hiatus, but there was at least one noteworthy spectator: former
North Carolina basketball coach Matt Doherty.

Doherty, who resigned in April after three tumultuous sea-
sons at UNC, now lives on Lake Norman and recently took a
commentating job with a new college sports TV network.

He returned Saturday to the place he began his coaching
career as an assistant to Bob McKillop 12 years ago—but just
to watch.

Associate head coach Matt Matheny said Doherty asked the
Davidson coaches for permission to watch the Wildcats, ironi-
cally the team that beat his Tar Heels two seasons ago—
possibly hastening his departure from Chapel Hill.

“It’s his first year away from (coaching) in a long time,” said
Matheny. “It gave him an opportunity to be close to it. Opening
day of practice, when you’re a basketball coach, you get an
itch. I would expect to see him at quite a few practices. He’s a
great guy.”

A large photo of Doherty sitting courtside at Saturday’s
practice appeared in USA Today on Monday as part of a cover
story on the coaching transition at North Carolina.

Team progressing ahead of schedule

Matheny said the team is a couple of days ahead of schedule
thanks to its experience. Only one player, Richmond transfer
Jason Morton, is new to the program, and he’ II sit out this year
to meet NCAA guidelines.

Transfers Logan Kosmalski and Kenny Grant, along with
Nick Booker, didn’t play last year, but all took part in practices.

“We're able to do some things in practice that we haven’t
been able to do in the past,” Matheny said. “We don’t spend as
much time teaching drills as performing them. It’s advanced.
(But) we’re not in conference shape yet.”

A major focus early on has been limiting turnovers, which
” plagued the Wildcats often last year, said Matheny.

A bright spot has been the conditioning improvements made

Davidson (3-5, 1-1) vs.
Austin Peay (2-6, 0-2)
1 p.m. Richardson Stadium, Family Weekend

photo by Peter Roady

Brendan Winters ’06 drives to the basket
during Saturday’s season-opening practice.

by strength coach Ryan Martin, who joined the athletic staff in
2001 after a stint with the NFL’s Indianapolis Colts.

“Ryan Martin has done a heckuva job,” said Matheny. “We
look better physically. We’ re stronger. Our team is somewhere
around nine-percent body fat.”

Preseason polls put Wildcats second in South

Coaches and media members picked the Wildcats to finish
in second place behind Charleston in the SoCon’s’ South
Division, which came as no big surprise to Matheny.

What was surprising, though, was that no Davidson players
were voted on to the pre-season all-conference teams.

“In that regard, there’s not a lot of respect fdr our individual
talent. But our program isn’t based on that,” he said. “We have
guys on our roster that can make all conference (by season’s
end).”

The History: Davidson has owned this series in recent years. The Wildcats won 49-28 in last year’s season finale
to earn their fourth victory in as many years over the Governors of Clarksville, Tenn.Paul Nichols ’03 threw five touchdown
passes, and John Leverett ’05, who will start at tailback, rushed for 127 yards and two TDs.

Scouting Report: The Governors posted a 7-5 record last year to break a string of 18 consecutive losing seasons.
They’ ve regressed this year.Davidson seems to be catching them at the right time, as Austin Peay is coming back-to-back
shutout losses, including a 50-0 drubbing at Morehead St. and a 30-0 blanking by Jacksonville last week.

What to Expect: Barring a major turnaround by the Governors, Davidson ought to win this game handily. Excluding
Saturday’s stumble against a talented Morehead St. team, quarterback Damion White and the offense have clicked well,
and they should find plenty of scoring opportunities against a struggling Austin Peay defense. Avoiding turnovers, like
White’s four interceptions on Saturday, will likely be the key to the game.

-Matt Garfield

= vault soccer into Ist

By GEOFF FEHLING

Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team has posted two straight victories,
with a 4-2 win Oct. 11 over Elon and a 4-0 shutout against
Appalachian State on Saturday night. Two huge offensive
showings have put the ’Cats at 9-3-2 overall and the top of the
Southern Conference at 4-1-0.

The Davidson offense stole the show against Elon, as all four
of the Wildcat goals were scored by different players, includ-
ing the first of the season for Marco Antunez ’07 and co-
captain David Peoples ’04.

Elon gave us a good fight,” said Davidson head coach Matt
Spear. “While we controlled much of the game, Elon was
always dangerous on the counterattack.”

The Wildcats opened up the scoring in the first 15 minutes
of play off of a cross by senior Keith Nicholson. Nicholson’s
ball found Antunez, who sent a shot past the Elon keeper giving
Davidson the 1-0 lead.

Elon responded less than 15 minutes later when Brennan
Farrell sent a header past goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05.

With about five minutes to play in the first half, Davidson
regained the lead on a goal from Jeff Davis ’06. Davis’ goal
was not enough to sustain the lead into halftime, however, as
Elon equalized again from a ball by Anthony Catalano that got
through Creasman’s hands in the 44th minute.

Davidson came out of the second half with an offensive push
and never looked back. They controlled the half, opening with
a goal by co-captain Justin Porter 04. Porter’s goal came off
of a corner kick by Preston Davis ’06 that was shot off the
crossbar by Cass Baltz ’07 right to Porter.

Near the end of regulation, the ’Cats got a late insurance goal
from Peoples, who had been recently moved to forward after

see Soccer, page Is

Key Week for Soccer
vs. No. 3 North Carolina,
Tonight at 7 p.m.
vs. Furman, Saturday at 3 p.m.
See preview box on page 12.

photo by Peter Road
Matt Allen ’06 fends off an Appalachian St.
midfielder in the ’Cats’ 4-0 win on Saturday.

Player of the Week

Eli Trefzger ‘o7
Swimming
Hometown: Hickory, N.C.
Major: Undeclared

In only her first collegiate meet, Trefzger blew away the competition in
both the 1000- and 500- free style races. While free style is her strongest
event, she also placed second in the 200 fly competition.

In addition, Trefzger’s time of 10:34.81 in the 1,000-free style shattered the
previous Davidson record. On the day before, she swam in the Red and Black
meet and set two individual records while also participating in another two
record-breaking relay teams.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

to more recognition.

With six minutes left in Saturday’s game against Appalachian State, the men’s
soccer team held a tenuous 1-0 lead. Then Jeff Davis ’06 took over and led the ’Cats
on a quick three-goal scoring barrage.

First, Davis received a crossing pass from David Péokiie 04 and netted his
seventh goal of the season. In the next three minutes, Davis assisted on
goals by Robbie Reynolds ’07 and Matt Allen '06.

. Having already been awarded SoCon Player of the Week honors amonth
ago for his hat trick against Mt. St. Mary’s, Davis may well be on his way %

Semen

