14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

The Schedule

_ Charlotte Coliseum, 7 p.n., ESPN2
Comment: Could break Wildcats’ all-time
home attendance record of 11,666 set two
years ago at the Coliseum against Duke. Roy
Williams makes his first appearance in Char-
lotte as coach of the Tar Heels.

Nov. 29 Rhode Island College

Comment: Former Davidson assistant
Mike Kelly now coaches this Div. III team.

Dec. 1 at College of Charleston

Comment: An early season conference
battle between South Division favorites.

Dec. 3 Hampton

Dec. 6 at Georgetown

Comment: Wildcats travel to MCI Center
for a very winnable non-conference game
against a weak Hoyas team.

Dec. 11 at Charlotte

Comment: The 49ers will seek revenge
after getting embarrassed 75-56 in Belk Arena
last year. Halton Arena gets loud.

Dec. 13 Haverford (Div. I)

Dec. 19 Clarkson (Div. ITI)

Dec. 22 at Seton Hall

Comment: A visit to the New Jersey Mead-
owlands, alleged “home” of Jimmy Hoffa.

Dec. 29 at Duke (ESPN)

Comment: The Blue Devils were pushed
to the brink in Cameron last season, but held
on to win 95-80 in a game that was much
closer than the score suggests.

- Jan. 3 Iona

Comment: Coach Jeff Ruland’s Gaels play
in the Mid-Atlantic Conference and beat North
Carolina last year.

Jan. 6 The Citadel

Jan. 10 at Chattanooga

Jan. 13 Western Carolina

Jan. 17 at Wofford (Fox Sports South)

Jan. 21 at ETSU

Jan. 24 Elon

Jan. 27 at Georgia Southern

Jan. 31 UNC Greensboro

Feb. 3 at The Citadel

Feb. 7 College of Charleston

Feb. 10 at Furman

Feb. 14 Georgia Southern

Feb. 18 Wofford

Feb. 24 at Appalachian State

Feb. 28 Furman

Mar. 3-6 SoCon Tourney, Charleston, SC

Comment: The port city hosts its third
straight tournament before Chattanooga gets
it for a year next season. Hotels are expensive,
but it’s a nice place to spend spring break.

Sports Information
Oak Hill product lan Johnson ’06
scored 23 points in his college
debut on the road against Duke.

Men’s basketball preview 2003-04

Wildcats hope versatility,
depth lead to another title

Two transfers, Booker join
three key sophomores on
talented but youthful team

By Matt GARFIELD
Editor

The Wildcats played their first game of the
season last night, but in the Southern Confer-
ence, it’s how you're playing at the end of the
year that really matters.

That's when the NCAA and NIT bids are
earned, and at the mid-major level, it’s a
challenge to get into either one.

Here are three reasons to be optimistic and
three reasons to worry about the already-un-
folding men’s basketball season.

Be optimistic about:

Improved depth

The Wildcats wore down physically toward
the end of last year because the roster only
went seven or eight deep in most games.
Fatigue played a major role in the SoCon
quarterfinals loss to VMI.

Injuries exposed the Wildcats’ depth prob-
lems. The loss of shooting ace Peter Anderer
to a broken hand was costly, and injuries to
Jouni Eho and Eric Blancett made things worse.

This year, Davidson has a little more insur- [

ance.

Coaches expect at least nine players to get
significant minutes, and there are experienced
back-ups at every position.

The team was forced to rely on point guard
Wayne Bernard too much last season, but with
Lafayette transfer Kenny Grant joining re-
turning back-up Terrell Ivory this year, head
coach Bob McKillop believes he has two
players capable of sharing duties.

“Kenny and Terrell at the point will give us
said McKillop. “Al-
though both can score, their primary contribu-
tions will be their ability to lead and quarter-
back a team. Terrell has gained great experi-
ence doing that in his three years here, and
Kenny’s talents appear custom-made for our
style of play.”

Versatility

Davidson may be one of the few teams in
America to have five dangerous three-point
shooters on the court at all times.

Big men Conor Grace, Logan Kosmalski
and Jan Johnson should score mostly from the
low post, but they are also capable of shooting
from the perimeter.

“The versatility of our frontcourt will be one
of our biggest strengths,” McKillop said. “We
have three battle-tested players in Conor, Ian
and Logan who all have the ability to make
plays with their shooting, ball-handling and
passing abililty.”

A weaker South Division

The Wildcats move to the South Division
this year in a SoCon re-alignment. It could
make for an easier conference season, because
they'll play twice against three teams ex-
pected to be pretty bad: Wofford, Furman and
The Citadel.

Wofford lost talented guards Lee Nixon and
Mike Lenzly to graduation. Furman was also
hard-hit, losing starters Guillermo Da Luz,
Karim Souchu and Kenny Zeigler.

The toughest opponent by far is College of
Charleston, a team that packs John Kresse
Arena with fans and is often mentioned as a
national mid-major program to watch.

Former Virginia assistant Tom Herrton en-
ters his second season with a roster that in-
cludes guard Thomas Mobley, a SoCon Player
of the Year candidate with NBA aspirations.
Junior Mike Benton, a burly 6-9 forward,
could have a breakout season.

two true point guards,”

Matt McKillop ’06 earned a start-
ing spot at shooting guard.

As usual, it’s difficult to predict how good
Georgia Southern will be. The Eagles lost
leading scorer Julius Jenkins (22 points per
same) but return several athletes who excel in
Head coach Jeff Price’s up-tempo offense.

Inthe North, meanwhile, at least three teams
could vie for the division tite. East Tennessee
State returns all five starters off last year’s
NCAA Tournament team and could dominate
the conference.

Chattanooga reached the SoCon champion-
ship game with new coach Jeff Lebo and
returns forward Ashley Champion (15 ppg).

UNC Greensboro should improve after an
injury-plagued down year.

Even Western Carolina could do some dam-
age, thanks to the scoring of Kevin Martin (23
ppg, first in SoCon).

Appalachian State and new SoCon member
Elon will probably struggle in the North.

Worry about:

How’s the chemistry?

There is plenty of talent on this roster, but
much of it—Logan Kosmalski, Kenny Grant
and Nick Booker specifically— hasn’t shared
any real-game action with the returners.

How fast the Wildcats are able to gel will
largely determine their success this year.

“The new players will need to assimilate
said McKillop.
“It is already obvious that practices will be
very competitive because of the number of
players who are capable of earning a spot in
our line-up.”

Are they quick enough?

Just like last year, the strength of this team
is its shooting ability.

But only a handful of players are quick
enough off the dribble to create their own
shots.

Bernard’s play-making abilities made up
for that shortcoming last season, but now
Grant and Ivory will need to step in and break
down defenses to find scoring opportunities
for their teammates.

Can they stay healthy?

Injuries have hampered the careers of Jouni
Eho and Eric Blancett. Wingman Nick Booker
missed last year to an academic redshirt.

Twg seasons ago, Davidson reached the
NCAA Tournament despite injuries to starters
Michael Bree and Emeka Erege.

Every year, injuries threaten to dampen the
Wildcats’ potential.

They’ll need to stay healthy so that the
roster will be fresh come tournament time.

themselves into our system,”

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

The Roster

-guards?

ne ters Soph. 6-5 195
Comment: All-conference candidate who
shouldered the scoring load at times last
year. Top returning scorer at 12.4 points per
game. Can hit the jumper and drive. Son of
former NBA player Brian Winters.

F Conor Grace Jr. 6-9 215

Comment: Led the SoCon in rebounding
last season. The Irishman can hit the straight-
away three-pointer and bang in the paint.
Must avoid getting into foul trouble.

F Logan Kosmalski Jr. 6-8 230

Comment: Some: say the transfer from
Baylor is better than older brother Landry,
who twice eamed all-conference honors as a
Wildcat. Scored 23 points against Colorado
as a freshman. Along with Johnson, gives
Wildcats a dangerous tandem in the low
post. Can also shoot the three-pointer.

Off the bench

F Ian Johnson Soph. 6-9 215

Comment: The crafty Oak Hill product
has a knack for playing well in marquee
games, scoring 23 points against Duke and
21 points at Arizona. Watch his array of old-
school moves in the post.

F Nick Booker Jr. 6-5 210

Comment: Heralded as one of the best
perimeter defenders in the SoCon, Booker
returns after an academic redshirt season.
He’ Il guard opponents’ top wing scorers and
could earn a starting spot before long. Needs
to improve outside shot.

PG Terrell Ivory Sr. 6-1 185

Comment: Could move into the starting
line-up if Grant falters. Hell get plenty of
minutes as a back-up. Younger brother of
former Penn State star Titus Ivory.

F Jouni Eho Sr. 6-6 205

Comment: Injuries have prevented the
Finn from fully adapting to the American
game. He has one final chance to break out.

G Eric Blancett Soph. 6-4 185

Comment: Made his doctors rich with
multiple knee operations last year. Has been
called the Wildcats’ best pure shooter. ©

F Jeff Severinghaus Soph. 6-6 195
F Chris Clunie Soph. a 3,210

G John Falconi Fe 6-4 185

G Puff Summers Jr. 5-9 170

Sports Information
Brendan Winters ’06 might be the
Wildcats’ best all-around player,
thanks to his shooting and
driving abilities.
