ne

Arts & Living Editor

“About Schmidt” is one of the more de-
pressing movies I’ ve seen ina long while. It’s
not Holocaust-movie depressing; it’s more
that-dude-is-pathetic-I-hope-I’ m-never-like-
him depressing. Here is a movie about a man
who is lonely and knows he is lonely, but
doesn’t have the social skills to do anything
about it. In that sense, “About Schmidt” is
rather monotonous. There’s not much char-
acter development: he ends the movie just as
pathetically as he began it, whichisn’t always
a bad thing.

Warren Schmidt’s wife dies aiid leaves
him with an Adventurer mobile home, too
many knickknacks, a daughter, and not much
else. He retires from his job, which leaves
him with time and money. His life is loveless
and empty. His one friend betrays him. He
painfully, yet subtly, discovers that in spite of
his retirement party, he was all too expend-
able. As for his daughter, he and she might
love each other, but there’s so much disap-
proval and resentment between the two that
any proof of their love exists only at airport
gates. A widower in his sixties with nothing
and-no one to live for. So begins the story
about Schmidt.

The script, written by Jim Taylor and direc-
tor Alexander Payne, puts Warren in that
Adventurer and sets him on the road from
Omaha to Denver for his daughter’s wed-
ding. “About Schmidt” is aroad picture to the
core, but it’s no buddy movie. This is pretty
muchas lonely as movies get. The trailers and
TV spots present the film as a comedy. In-
deed, I laughed alot. But as Warren putters on

doesn’t have.”

lyrics.”

Check this new Arts & Living feature each week to see what
your fellow Davidsonians are saying. This week’s question:

What is your favorite Dave Matthews song (and why)?

“My favorite is ‘The Space Between,” because
it’s very musically interesting and emotional.”

“T like “The Dreaming Tree,’ because, despite
its meditative sadness over the loss of dreams
and ideals, it conveys a sense of the harmoni-
ous beauty of existence.”

“Mine is the original ‘Two Step,’ because it
has a Latin twist that the album version

“My favorite is ‘Crush,’ because I love the

Melissa Patterson ’05

movies.yahoo.com

Jack on top of his Adventurer, not at the top of his form in Schmidt

in that Adventurer, it becomes clear that he
will putter on alone.

That’s not to say the film itself is boring.
It’s full of many bizarre and often hilarious
situations. The movie’s most inspired mo-
ments occur while Jack is at a mobile home
park. There he meets a couple, and the three
discuss mobile homes, life on the road, and
life in general. After a little too much “truth
serum,” the female half of the couple tells
Warren that she can see he’s a sad man. She’s
right, Warren knows she’ s right, but being the
man he is, his reaction is miscalculated. Their
meeting ends as it should, and as Warren
drives away, we’re laughing at what has just
happened, but if we’re going to show emo-
tion, shouldn’t it be tears?

The movie has a clever way of chronicling

D4

Susan Robison ’04

Jonathan Wu ’04

| Lee Wheless 05

Warren’s thoughts. Motivated by Angela
Lansbury, Warren sponsors a child in Tanza-
nia, little Ndugu. With just $22 a month,
Warren provides Ndugu with medicine and a
chance at a better life. Lansbury’s organiza-
tion encourages its supporters to write to their

- adopted children. Throughout the film, we’re

periodically treated to “Dear Ndugu”
voiceovers. The first time I heard the words,
“Dear Ndugu” on the soundtrack, I laughed
and laughed and laughed. I was the only one
in the theater who laughed. As Warren wrote
more letters, the rest of the audience began to
laugh, while I no longer found humor in the
phrase.

I think the audience missed the point. “Dear
Ndugu” is funny the first time and sad the rest
of the time. It’s funny at first because it’s
ridiculous: an American man in his sixties

s “About Schmidt’ ha 1 apered by star power

By Derek Lou

pouring his heart out to a 6-year-old boy in
Tanzania, a boy who doesn’t know English,
who doesn’t know how to read, who cannot
relate to any of his problems. That is very
funny. But Warren continues to write to
Ndugu, simply to express his pain and

‘thoughts. All he needs is an ear. That is

pathetic and sad, not funny. I’m not necessar-
ily saying that the audience was stupid and
mean and that I am smart and sensitive — to
the audience’s credit, hearing Jack say, “Dear
Ndugu” is, to a considerable degree, inher-
ently funny. My point is that the film’s tone
could be confused for comedy.

I think much of that confusion has to do

‘with casting. Jack is not right for Warren

Schmidt. Jack is a big movie star. He is Jack.
Maybe Jack can play a wide range of roles,
but at~this point in his career, a pathetic
Midwesterner is not one of them. He’s had
sex with Lara Flynn Boyle. That’s more than

men like Warren Schmidt dream about. Here,

his star power is a distraction. But to be fair,
can you blame anyone for casting Jack in any .
movie?

I can’t complain ‘about the rest of the cast.
As Warren’s daughter, Hope Davis creates a
character that doesn’t feel out of place. She’s
exactly what we’d expect in Warren’s off-
spring: calm on the surface, but full of pain
and anger on the inside. As ridiculous as he is,
Dermot Mulroney’s awkward son-in-law is
always funny but never over-the-top. How-
ever, it’s Kathy Bates who steals the show as

_ the mother of the groom. Come March, it’dbe

nice to see her name on an Oscar. -

This review may sound a bit unenthusias-
tic, which probably is a correct assessment. I
really wanted to love “About Schmidt.”
There’s so much that’s great in this movie,
but I think it would play better witha different
leading man, at least someone who needs a
last name to be identified. Maybe Nicholas
Cage in twenty years? My dad’s golfing
buddy?

Spoiler ahead: The final moments of
“About Schmidt” are especially poignant and
appropriate. When Warren cries while look-
ing at Ndugu’s painting, is it because he is
happy? Or because he finally realizes how
pathetic he is? I think it’s the latter, and if you
disagree, you probably laughed every time
you heard the phrase, “Dear Ndugu.”’

