March Madness hits home

Sometime last week I came down with a
nasty illness, and was thus confined to my
room with just a gallon of water and the
NCAA Tournament to keep me company.

Before I go any further, let it be known that
I am not a basketball-expert by any stretch of
the imagination.

In fact, I have never played in an organized
game of basketball in my life.

My childhood essentially revolved around
hockey, baseball and soccer, and the only time
I ever handled a basketball was at a camp run
by my uncle (the former assistant at Holy
Cross and former head coach at Bryant Col-
lege) where I won the “most-improved player
award” for three consecutive years.

Anyone who has ever played sports (or done
anything competitive, for that matter) knows
that the “most-improved” award is a nice way
of saying, “Well, kid, you sucked when the
week began, but by the end of the week you
didn’t suck as much.”

What’s more, I’m not even a basketball fan.

The NBA bores me to death, and (embar-
rassing as it may be) I’d be hard pressed to
name the starting-five of my hometown Bos-
ton Celtics.

Iam, however a huge fan of college sports—
men’s and women’s alike—simply because
the element of error has yet to be eliminated
(as it essentially has been in the pros—that’s
why they’re called professionals).

Take, for example, baseball; in the pros
groundballs are considered routine, whereas
in college most any grounder can turn into
extra bases and runs scored.

That’s the beauty of amateur sports—the
line between a great play and a massive mis-
take is dangerously thin.

Furthermore, these college athletes are com-
peting for their schools, their family and them-
selves, not for money, and the amount of pride
these young men and women display is some-
thing to be envied by all. ’

And so, sitting on my couch watching the
Men’s NCAA tournament for the better part of
four straight days, I was as happy as David
Wells at cheap bar the night before a sched-
uled start.

Now, to be perfectly honest, the only teams
Tever actually root for are Davidson and Holy
Cross (where most of my immediate family
went), and if neither of these two schools is
playing I’ll usually just pull for the underdog.

Of course, this makes it nearly impossible
for me to fill out a legitimate bracket, and,
unlike most males in the 18-35 demographic,

I have no money riding on this year’s tourna- ©

ment.

How anyone can ever root for a team like
Kentucky to beat the likes of IUPUI is beyond
me.

To so many people, March Madness is all
about the Cinderella Story (I’ll pause while
you all do your best Carl Spackler
impression). ..and the allure of this great tour-
nament is defined by those games where a no-
name team knocks off a perennial top-10 squad.

I’m talking about teams like the 1985
Villanova squad, which, as the eight-seed,
pretty much played a perfect game, shooting
22 for 29 (9 for 10 in the second half), en route
to beating the heavily favored Patrick Ewing-
led Georgetown Hoyas.

And, of course, we can’t forget Gonzaga,
the school no one East of the Washington/
Idaho border knew anything about until 1999
when the 10°-seeded Bulldogs (or ‘Zags, if
you prefer).defeated basketball powerhouses
Minnesota, Stanford and Florida before bow-
ing to Connecticut in the elite eight.

Davidson was oh-so-close to becoming the
next Gonzaga last year, and our SoCon rival
East Tennessee State nearly ascended to such
immortal status on Friday, barely losing to
second-seeded (but very inexperienced) Wake
Forest.

But, as Craig Kilborn says in the latest
Coca-Cola commercial, “There are so many
Cinderellas, yet only one slipper.”

And while it’s too soon to present any team
this year’s glass slipper, a few schools are
making very strong cases.

Butler appears to be the leading candidate,
as the twelfth-seeded Bulldogs downed the
fourth-seeded Louisville Cardinals 79-7 1 Sun-
day afternoon, just days after knocking off
fifth-seeded Mississippi State.

Interestingly enough, Butler plays its home
games in the same gym where the ultimate
underdog movie, “Hoosiers,” was filmed.

If that’s not destiny, I don’t know what is.

As far as I’m concerned, Butler has this
tournament wrapped up.

All I’m waiting to see is whether the Bull-
dogs ‘can run the’“picket fence” and if they
have anyone who can shoot like Jimmy
Chitwood.

By Nick CROCKER
Special Contributor

Up until March of 2002, collegiate squash
in the south was non-existent.

Last spring, however, six schools came to-
gether to form the first Southern Conference
squash tournament at Chapel Hill.

Briefly, forthose who see squash and racquet
ball as indistinguishable, squash is played
with a much smaller ball, which feels like clay
the first time you hit it, on a much smaller court
with actual defined boundaries.

Requiring touch and power, squash is a
finesse game.

It is played all over the world, but in this
country it is especially popular among north-
ern prep-schoolers and businessmen.

UNC coach and tournament director Tom
Generous organized the event and arranged it
so that there were separate competitions for
players in the order by which their teams rank
them.

That is, the numbers ones play against each
other, the number twos against each other and
so on down through number eight.

In that contest Virginia, with experienced
players dominating each flight, took home the
team trophy.

Davidson, on the other hand, did not have

-the depth that the Cavaliers and most other

teams possessed and as a team finished fourth
overall.
The story of this year’s tournament, which

took place this past Sunday at Chapel Hill, was _

similar to last years except that a seventh
school, Washington &Lee, participated and

Johnson earns

Sports INFORMATION

The Southern Conference announced that
Soren Johnson ’03, standout goalie for the
Davidson soccer team, is the TIAA-CREF
Graduate Scholarship recipient for the 2002-
03 academic year. Johnson is one of six stu-
dent-athletes to be honored with a SoCon
postgraduate scholarship.

Johnson played a large role in the Wildcat
success during his entire career. He finished
his four-year tenure with a goals against aver-
age of 1.50, including 1.07 as a senior while
tying a single-season Davidson record of seven
shutouts.

Two of those shutouts came against highly-
ranked North Carolina and South Carolina.
Johnson tallied 20 career shutouts, tying the
all-time Wildcat record.

Tennis, from page 12

All three doubles matches were competi-
tive, with the Wildcats winning two of three
and gaining first blood in the match.

The duo of Haywood and Miles won 8-6
over Mark Finnegan and Lashia Janashia,
while Gould and Britt defeated Noah Tyler
and Uli Ebensperger 8-6 to claim the doubles
point.

At three doubles, Stonestreet and Mullen
suffered a shocking loss, falling to Georgia
Southern’s Danie Van Den Heever and Vincent
Patry 8-3.

Britt felt that “the doubles point was key and
we were able to get it after a comeback. It also
gave us the momentum going into the singles
and set the tone for the match.”

The match could have gone either way,
since three matches went into third sets, but
the Wildcats demonstrated maturity and

‘stamina by pulling out all three.

Atnumber one, Haywood faced an Irishman
in a bad mood.

Finnegan lost his temper multiple times,
receiving a verbal warning, a point penalty,
and then a game penalty from the umpire.

Haywood kept his cool and came back after
being down early in the third set, winning 6-3,

silver bracelets acd i aod eqnetig Sa
the tournament director.

Davidson returned with only four players:
myself, Richard Connolly ’05, Drew Heckman
03 and Dave Albo ’06, but with a zeal to
establish Davidson in the Southern squash
circle.

Each player played roughly twelve games
in four matches, making for a long, tiring day.

It turned out to be a frustrating day for the
Davidson four.

Nearly all of Connolly’s games at number
two came down to the wire, with his oppo-
nents (of which two claim Malaysia and
Bangladesh as their home soil) eking out those
last points.

Heckman, a veteran high school player,

enjoyed the competition right up until he lost *

a match to an old girlfriend of his.

Dave Albo struggled some and evidently, at
one point, blew off some steam in the direction
of the tournament director, telling him that
Wham broke up ten year ago.

Facing some of the toughest competition
that I’d seen since my prep school days, I
could not seem to close out a game when I
needed to and left with a disappointing 1-3
record.

Next year we hope to return to the Southern
Conference squash tournament a more fit and
larger team.

With Davidson’s one squash court and four
racquetball courts, the choice for a quick, easy
way to beat a ball around is obvious.

If you’re looking to compete
interscholastically, however, in an informal
setting at least, it’s time you pick up squash.

scholarship

He graduated a semester early with a 3.79
grade point average as a neuroscience major.
Johnson earned first team All-SoCon honors
and was named to the Verizon Academic All-
America Men’s Soccer first team and the 2002
NSCAA/adidas Scholar-Athlete All-America
team.

“Tt am thrilled to receive the scholarship
from the Southern Conference,” said Johnson.
“Tt is always an honor to receive any scholar-
ship, but receiving a scholarship from an ath-
letic conference is twice the honor: academic
and athletic.”

Southern Conference postgraduate scholar-
ships have been awarded since 1991. Davidson
has had four previous winners, the most recent
being track and cross country athlete Dan
Gibson in 2002, who received the first-ever
Sony Graduate Scholarship.

3-6, 6-3.

Stonestreet won his tenth match of the sea-
son 6-3, 6-4, pulling out the only Wildcat
victory in straight sets.

In his best match of the year, Burns com-
pleted a three set victory, winning 2-6, 6-4, 6-
et ig

With Davidson up only 3-2 in the match
(Haywood’s match was still in progress), the
pressure came to rest on the shoulders of Miles
at number two.

According to Miles, “The coach came over
to me and said we needed one more win and
that Haywood was down early in the third set.
The team rallied behind me, and I was able to
break my opponent to take the third set 6-4.”

Both Britt and Mullen played well in their
matches but fell in straight sets.

Despite his loss, Mullen said, “Our team
benefited Sunday against Georgia Southern
from our warm-up match against M.I.T. on
Saturday.”

The victory gives the Wildcats an overall
record of 9-4.

The Wildcats face East Tennessee State at’

home on Friday in another important confer-
ence match.

ww

,

bee |
