o

st

Tae DAVIDSONIAN

Complaints
and

Comments

“TJ think what we’ ve had hereis a little social
concern in the NFL. The media has been very |
desirous that a black quarterback do well.
There is a little hope invested in Mchlabb,and
he got a lot of credit for the performance of this
team that he didn’t deserve. The defense car-
ried this team.” H

This statement, made on Septem- 5.
ber 28 by Rush Limbaugh on ESPN’s
Sunday NFL Countdown, has resulted
in a wave of controversy and, on
Wednesday, Limbaugh’s resignation
from the show. Players, coaches, and
fans have expressed their disappoint-
ment, while members of the media
have bashed Limbaugh for his insen-
sitivity.

With all the attention and criticism
that these remarks have drawn, some
have begun to wonder whether things
are being blown out of proportion.
Are people overreacting?

Absolutely not.

Limbaugh is right about one thing. There is
social concern in the NFL, as well there should
be. Racial inequality exists in the league as it
does in every facet of American society, and it
cannot and should not be ignored. The lack of
black coaches in the NFL is perhaps the most
well documented of these problems. It is not
the only one.

For years the quarterback was seen as a
“white” position, and black signal callers were
constantly under intense scrutiny. Recently,
with an influx of black players at the position,
this misconception had seemingly faded away.
As Titans QB Steve McNair is quoted as
saying in an ESPN.com article about the race

Apologies for. last weekend’s column. It

' was brought to my attention that I made two

errors in my writing. It is the 62 Mets who
hold the record for most losses in a season
(excuse: typo), and the high school record for
the longest field Boe is 68 yards by Dick

a .» Borgonone, set in 1985
in Reno, “Nevada (ex-
| cuse: stupidity). Thanks
_ fellas... The Los Ange-
} les Lakers canceled
practice on Sunday to
take a field trip across
the island of the Oahu in
Hawaii. Phil Jackson
thought it would be a
} good idea for the team to
| get out of the hot gym
where ._ reporters
scrapped to ask ques-
tions about the Kobe
Bryant case and treat the team to play some
paint ball. Poor Shaq, at 7-3 and 340 Ibs., was
picked last . . . Continuing with big-bodied
basketball players, 6-9 power forward Chris
Webber recently signed with the Leicester
Riders of the BBL, that’s British Basketball

___ Sports
Limbaugh’s remarks: Ignorant and intolerable

issue inthe NFL, “Until this episode, I thought
it was gone.” The league is making significant
strides towards shifting the focus from skin
color to ability.

~ Which is why people like Rush Limbaugh
have no place in the NFL. His comments take
a significant step backwards from the progress

towards racial equality in the NFL. The asser-
tion that McNabb is given undeserved acclaim
based on the color of his skin discredits
McNabb and all black quarterbacks and play-
ers. To suggest that a black person is given any
type of benefit based on the color of his or her
skin in a society where the exact opposite is
often the case is nothing short of ludicrous.
Not to mention that the statement about
McNabbis completely unfounded. The Eagles
have had a great defense since McNabb has
been in place as the starter, but that does
nothing to explain his 82.7 passer rating from
2000-2002 — his three years as the full-time
Eagles starter (though he missed six games

last year with an injury) — or his throwing for

League for you: sncfane: (iknow what y you’re
- thinking: this @rror fias to bé’on purpose). This

Chris Webber, however, is white, from Canada,
and went to Western University in Ottawa...
Andontolittler basketball players, 5-2 Kendall
Marshall is twelve years old and getting ready
for his second year

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2003 9

63 touchdowns (with just 31 interceptions)
and rushing for 14 more.

Furthermore, why would the media place
their supposed desires for a black quarterback
to succeed squarely on the shoulders of
McNabb? Steve McNair is currently the sec-
ond-highest rated passer in the NFL, and
Daunte Culpepper, Michael Vick, and
Aaron Brooks are all proven premier
quarterbacks who also happen to be
black. Even with Vick and Culpepper
currently out with injuries, seven black
quarterbacks started on Sunday.

Instead of taking these issues into
account, Limbaugh seems to have been
more concerned with discrediting black
players and any members of the.media
who attempt to give them the credit
they deserve. Whether his goals were
simply getting himself some of the pub-
licity that he is known to love or pure
bigotry, they are intolerable, hurtful,
and nothing short of racist. And they must not
be dismissed.

Despite the backlash that has followed
Limbaugh’s unfortunate remarks, he has re-
fused to back down.

He has forfeited his chance to claim the
comment as an ignorant mistake, saying, “All
this has become the tempest that it is because
I must have been right about something. If |
wasn’t right, there wouldn’ tbe this cacophony
of outrage that has sprung up in the sports
writer community.”

Racism itself is enough to incite outrage.

Limbaugh should not have been given the
opportunity to resign. He should have been
fired.

d other nuggets

Penrith Panthers upset the Sydney Roosters
in the National Rugby League final in Sydney,
Australia. On Sunday, in the pouring rain, the
Panthers outscored the home team 18-6, and
the Rooster fans cheered ‘“cock-a-doodle-
booooo!” . . . In NHL action, the Buffalo

Sabres beat the Columbus

of high school var-
sity basketball.
Marshall, dubbed the
best 6th-grade bas-
ketball player in the
country, led his highs
school team in as-
sists and was second
in points as aneleven
year old. And you
thought Lebron was
cool . . . Let’s talk
about the AVIVA
Asian Bowling
Tour (pause) now

“Columbus defender
Andrej Nedorost checked
Sabre forward Jochen
Hecht into the boards
from behind. Nedorost re-
ceived a five-minute ma-
jor and a one game sus-
pension while Hecht is
out 6 to 8 weeks...life’s
just not fair sometimes”

Blue Jackets 4-1. During
the game, Columbus de-
fender Andrej Nedorost
checked Sabre forward
Jochen Hecht into the
boards from_ behind.
Nedorost received a five-
minute major and a one
game suspension while
Hecht is out 6 to 8 weeks
with a broken arm. Life’s
just not fair sometimes... .
Tennis. pro Steffi Graf
\. gave birth to “Jaz” on Fri-

that we are on the

subject. Pervis Granger, an American, and
Shalin Zolkifli, a Malaysian, both won their
divisions at the Pearl Bowling Center this past
weekend. Congratulations to both . . . The

For you sports fans...
DAVIS’ PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of

the week:

Women’s soccer vs. Elon roli

Thursday at 7 p.m.

Reason: Elon, new to the Southern Conference this year,
beat the ’Cats a year ago on their home turf. The ’Cats are 1-1-1
in conference play and stand at 8th in the conference. Elon, at
1-3, is 10th in the conference. With fall break this weekend, the
game will be your last chance to catch Davidson athletics before

heading out.

~eoaday. Graf and husband

Andre Agassi were both
present in Las Vegas for the birth. Jaz, named
after the type of music playing when she was
conceived, is the couple’s second child. Email
me.

Outside the Den:

vs. Indi lis Col
Sunday at 1 p.m.

y . Reason: Why else? Both teams are undefeated, and someone has
to lose. If you’re stuck here over fall break, plan to spend Sunday
afternoon watched the Colts’ awesome offense take on the tough
defense of the Panthers. After that unbelievable comeback against

the Bucs on Monday night, we’ll see if Indianapolis can duplicate its

success against Carolina.
