By Matr Matt Banbyk
Staff Wi Writer

“Hey you, get your damn hands off her’-
with this line in the comedy classic “Back to
the Future,” Crispin Glover fully realized his
uber-nerd character George McFly and made
his mark on Hollywood as a terrific charac-
ter-actor. Since that film Glover has devel-
oped his career with similar supporting roles,
mostrecently in “Charlie’s Angels.” But with
“Willard,” the remake of the 1971 cult horror
film, Glover takes on a lead role. In that
effort, he is successful, as he gives a highly
emotional and exciting performance. Unfor-
tunately, “Willard” as a film doesn’t deliver
the thrills it promises.

Glover’s Willard Stiles makes George
McFly look like the Fonz. This friendless and
timid man, depressed over the loss of his
father, lives alone with his disgusting shrew
of amother ina creepy dilapidated house, and
is at the mercy of her every whim. He has an
office job at a dirty, bare-walled manufactur-
ing company, where his boss (R. Lee Ermey)
humiliates and berates him on a daily basis.
This is the same man who cofounded the
company with Willard’s late father, but is
now trying to drive Willard out of-the busi-
ness.

One day, Willard meets his first and best
friend in the basement of his house: a white
rat who he names Socrates. But Socrates has
brought along hundreds and hundreds of his
own rodent friends, including a monstrous,
groundhog-sized rat that Willard names Ben.
Willard trains the rats to do his every bidding,
including slashing the tires of his boss’s new
Mercedes. This creative and well-shot scene
is the best in the movie; the problem is that it
comes about 20 minutes in. The movie soon
takes a turn from the bizarre to the grue-
somely bizarre, as Willard is unable to con-

Villa: a? fails; Glover excels

trol Ben, who is jealous of Willard’ s love for
Socrates, and his loyal rat horde.

Glover creates a believably disturbed char-
acter. His every movement reflects Willard’s
self-hatred. From an acting standpoint, the
movie’s best payoff is when Willard finally
releases this rage, with a dramatically im-
pressive performance by Glover. It’s also fun
to see Ermey reprise his drill sergeant role
from “Full Metal Jacket,” this time as the
boss from hell. But the strength of Glover and
Ermey as actors can’t save this film from its
clunky script. They do the best with what
they’re given, but their uninspiring lines fail
to draw the audience into the story, which
turns out to be all too predictable.

I'd be willing to overlook this problem if
“Willard” worked as a horror movie. How-
ever, while swarms upon swarms of killer
rats may sound frightening at first, the nov-
elty wears off early in the film, especially
because all they seem to do is crawl around.
Horror films shouldn’t have to rely on gore
for their scares, but “Willard” could have
benefitted from more. It doesn’t help that
some of the climactic rat-attack scenes are
done in low-budget, painfully obvious CGI.

Crispin Glover can be as effective in lead-
ing roles as he has proven to be in supporting
roles. Let’s just hope that he finds a better
vehicle for his talent than “Willard.”

What Do You Think?

Do you think the students involved in the
goose killing should be kicked out of school?

“T think that if they were expelled permanently
it would be an excessive measure, but I believe
that the Honor Council should have the right to
exercise that option.”

Paul Masi ’06

“No, because I don’t believe that at the time
they realized the implications of what they were

doing, and I think that the pressures of being ina
fraternity have to be taken into consideration.”
Rachael Voyles ’05

“No, although I think the punishment should be
severe enough to send a strong message to the
community that this is not reflective of the values
of the Davidson student body.” :

David Wheeler ’03

“Although it’s a horrible act, you have to for-
give kids because that’s what we are. We all make
mistakes, and everyone deserves a second

chance.”

Lane Smith ’05

an experts round-up |

Mooresville Mexican food

BY ANNA Lauzon & Curis SAID>
Staff Writers

Two new Mexican restaurants battle it out

on opposite sides of N. Main Street,
Mooresville. Pueblo Grande, an attractive
version of El Cancun, offers patio seating, an
attractive interior with colored glass panels
and slate accents and the fastest service ever
(less than five minutes), Along those lines,
the Speedy Gonzalez lunch special costs just
$4. Overall, we were impressed by the rea-
sonable prices (entrees starting at $6, side
orders and a la carte items like tacos $1.35,
Mexican beers $2.75, domestic $2.50,
margaritas and daiquiris starting at $3.75 ),
the huge menu, and the fireplace-located in
the middle of the dining room.

Being overly discriminating Texans, we
were under whelmed. Although the food was
very fresh and the service was prompt, the
food wasn’t exciting. The cheese enchiladas
burst forth in a melted cheese blob, and the
salsa fell flat. We wanted something spicier
and less greasy.

We’d go back to enjoy a beer on the patio,
but we’d steer clear of the menu and the
practically virgin margaritas.

Located up the street, Prickly Pear is a
modern Mexican restaurant in a converted
church. It combines vibrant presentation with
innovative, yet simple flavors. First off, the
interior is gorgeous. The attractive metal-
backed chairs with the prickly pear logo, the
wood floors, the modern cutlery and the gui-
tarist in the corner made Prickly Pear a great
place for an elegant, but affordable evening
out.

Prickly Pear does not subscribe to typical
Mexican dining protocol. Instead of chips
and salsa, they served rolls speckled with
green herbs alongside roasted pepper and
honey butter. The menu is innovative, but it

does not include vegetarian items (although
they were willing to hold the meat). We
enjoyed the fresh guacamole, served with tri-
colored (red included) chips. The black bean
soup, which came with the entree, was light
and simple.

I enjoyed Pollo Acapulco, grilled chicken
breast stuffed with black beans, onions, yel-
low bell peppers and queso fresco, topped
with roasted tomato cream sauce. It was served
with rice and a delicious stuffed poblano
pepper on a plate decorated with sprinkles of
sauce. The enchilada lover can delight in
either the enchiladas rojas or verdes (that’s
“red” and “green,” in reference to which kind
of chilies are used in the sauce). The green
chili sauce was milder, and complimented the
lightly fried cheese enchiladas (of which you
can order one, two, or even three!). Forego-
ing the grease-laden tendencies of many non-
indigenous Mexican restaurants in the South,
Prickly Pear’s entrees distinguished them-
selves with variety and profundity. We
beamed in the freshness of the well-crafted
flavors, accented by their very simplicity.

Though initially intrjgued by the “Fat Bas-
tard Shiraz” ($5.00 g/ $19 b), l appropriately
decided on the “Prickly Pear” margarita. For
$6.50, it came equipped with Sauza Hornitos
tequila, triple sec, lime juice, Grand Marnier
and our choice of crimson or green prickly
pear fruit. My mind reeled after the first sip.

We hope to return to Prickly Pear and try
the Queso Fundido con Championes
Adobados (shitake mushrooms served with
queso, tomatillo sauce, and warm tortillas),
the red snapper tacos and all of the margaritas.

Pueblo Grande
241 S. Broad St.
Mooresville, NC
28115
704-799-8499

Prickly Pear
761 N. Main St.
Mooresville, NC
28115
704-799-0875

Where to go after Dave and Tim

By Anpy HEsTon

Staff Writer

As I looked out over the crowds of people
gathered in Baker Sports Complex last Tues-
day night, all waiting anxiously for the ap-
pearance of Dave Our Lord and Savior, I had
one reaction: boredom.

Call me an elitist, but there’s something
askew when Charlotte thirtysomethings
crowd our stadium wearing Dave Matthews
T-shirts from his last tour. Don’t get me
wrong:-I enjoy a number of Dave Matthews’
songs, think Tim Reynolds is an extremely
talented individual, and even (somewhat)
liked his between song-banter. I generally
enjoyed the show if only for the unity and
gratitude expressed by the portion of the
student body present, and I have no wish for
arefund. My problem was just how mediocre
it was, how utterly pleasant and likeable the
entire experience was.

The feigned coffee house atmosphere, the
trendy cup of tea, the earth tones, all wonder-
ful things, but are they necessarily worth the
$150,000 needed to create a pastiche of an
environment when any number of
hardworking and sincere balladeers sing their
plaintive songs of love lost or never found in
real, honest coffeehouses and dirty bars all
across the nation every night of the week
hoping for some acknowledgement? When
people ask what I thought of the show, my
response is always the same: at best pleasant,
at worst boring. Hardly catharsis.

This is college. This is not the time to be

_ inoffensive and pandering to the mall major-

ity. This is not the time to tread lightly. This

is atime for conviction. Consider that three of
the last four major concerts of Davidson seem
to fit this mold: the Counting Crows, John
Mayer, and Dave Matthews are all very nice
young men, but never terribly exhilarating. If
Davidson College continues to seek out bands
of some visibility, each of whom charts vary-
ing numbers of middle of the road main-
stream rock hits to rise to some significance
before fading into obscurity only to be un-
pleasantly resurrected at the dentists’ of-
fice, well, that strikes me as rather lame.

I fully understand there’s a bottom line to
this all and that we won’t be able to put any
concerts on at all if there’s no money to. But
at the same time, who are we to be such slaves
to public opinion, when the musical taste of
the public for the most part sucks?

Compare our other campus cultural events:
we put on controversial plays, we invite con-
troversial speakers, we show controversial
films, and yet we invite the Nilla Wafer of
popular music. It’s time to go out on a limb
here and get somebody just a touch more
esoteric than Dave Matthews. In my heart of
hearts I hope Dave Matthews made us a lot of
money and convinces hundreds of worthy
applicants to attend Davidson. But I also
believe that there’s better and cheaper music
out there.

‘How do you follow Dave Matthews? You
don’t. You get somebody completely differ-
ent. Someone who may not have had any
chart success or appearances on national TV.
Someone who will play every show like it’s
their last because they can’t afford not to.
There is music like that out there; all we need
to do is find it.

