By Lucy Lona
Staff Writer

The two weeks before spring break were
stressful for all of us with midterms, papers and
trying to make summer plans. I decided to take
some time out during break and challenge my-
self with a week in the wilderness for a quick
reality check. After looking into the trips of-
fered by Davidson Outdoors, I chose the canoe-
ing expedition through the Everglades. It was
just the kind of adventure I was looking for.

It all started at 4 a.m. on a rainy Saturday
morning. It was a 17-hour road trip to the lovely
resort of Barron River RV Park located in
Everglades City, Fla. As our parade of vans and
canoes pulled into Barron River, we marveled
at the finely crafted RV’s consisting of Holiday
Ramblers, Galaxy Premiers, Dutchmens, and
Weekend Warriors.

We were given the premier campsite at the
resort: a wonderful plot of dirt in the parking lot.
Luckily, the owner roped off our site with police
caution tape so we were sure to find it. Sounds
of Lynnard Skynnard echoed throughout the
park from the Catfish Bar as we set up our tents,
only to find that we had three functioning tents
instead of four. Note: if you are ever cramming
four people into three-man tents, be sure every-
one is spooning in the same direction for maxi-
mum use of space.

Our first night on Lulu Key after,an eight-
mile paddle began with setting up the tents and

making a delicious dinner consisting of pan-’

cakes and hash browns. However, during our
scrumptious dinner party, some uninvited
guests arrived. Perhaps I wasn’t paying close
attention to the warning from our trip leaders
regarding the sociable raccoons that would be
visiting with us nightly.

Before our journey into the wilderness, we all
stated our goals for the week. Mine consisted of
two things: getting over my fear of animals (and
I mean all animals) and coming home free from
skin cancer. At bedtime, it was time to literally
come face to face with goal number one: those
damn creatures would stare me down in the tent
with their beady green eyes that glowed in the
dark. My lucky roommate awoke to my furious
clapping each night as I tried unsuccessfully to
scare them away. Let’s just say the raccoons and
I never really got along.

oth OFF Total Check

ach visit for Lunch or Dinner

Valid any day of the week

\ ;
\

(704) 895-2363

$301 Magnolia Estate Dr.
CORNELIUS

Magnolia Plaza Shopping Center

? Lucy Long: Paddler
P extraordinaire

The 14-mile trek the next day to Pavilion Key
wasn’t too bad, for we had gotten the hang of
paddling. However, our return trip from Pavil-
ion was a bit more interesting. We used the rain
fly of a tent attached to paddles as a make-shift
sail. Not everyone was convinced that this plan
was worth the subsequent smashed fingers and
dislocated shoulders (okay, not really) from
holding on for dear life in the high seas. In the
words of Hannah Noll, “This ain’t no catama-
ran.”

When we stopped for lunch and received a
beautiful Flipper-like show from the posse of
dolphins that had been accompanying us, our
spirits were restored. Or so we thought. The
passengers of both Clippers went into a state of
delirium. With our sunburn and swollen bellies
nauseous from scarfing down a GORP mix of
peanuts and M&Ms, mental chaos broke lose.
Two paddlers kept it real by rapping 50 Cent’s
“In Da Club.” Others learned the fifty states in
alphabetical order. Charles Cummins, how-
ever, pretended to paddle while smearing on his
secret stash of sunscreen. When we finally
made it to shore on Tiger Key, we ended our day
with swimming, napping and fondly recounting
our brief stint with insanity.

For our last night in the Everglades, we
decided to all sleep under a tarp and leave for a
3 a.m. paddle into the sunrise. We had an dinner
of chicken quesadillas before bed and ended the
night with our usual sessions of group bonding.
Sitting around our kerosene lamp, we told em-
barrassing stories, talked about how we ended
up at Davidson, and sang old church camp
songs.

Using only moonlight as our guide, the final
night paddle was surreal. As we came to our last
stretch with the ranger station in sight and the
sun rising behind the tower, we laughed and
sang our way to the end an amazing experience.
The best parts of the trip included great mishaps

and funny moments. With the confusion of:

betadine for soy sauce in our stir-fry dinner, the
constant complaints of rumpy rash, and the
pilgrimage to Cracker Barrel, the 12 of us came
together through our daily adventures. When

" life is stripped down to the bare essentials,

unbelievable discoveries are made.

P.S. Charles, you’ll be footing the bill from
my dermatologist. Should have shared the sun-
screen, man.

RESTAURANTE MEXICANO
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN CUISINE

The Pianist: simple, definitive

By Derek Lou

Arts and Living Editor

The Pianist is what Cast Away should have
been: the objective-as-possible story of a man’s
struggle to survive.The film in four words:
setup, hardship, survival, credits. Its simplicity
is noteworthy.

Adrien Brody plays the title character in
Roman Polanski’s film based on Wladyslaw
Szpilman’s memoir. Jews living in Warsaw
during Nazi occupation, Szpilman and his fam-
ily are forced to move into ghettos. Some years
later, they line up to board trains bound for death
camps. At the train station a Jewish police
officer and friend of the Szpilman family recog-
nizes Wladyslaw and saves his life. Wladyslaw
remains in Warsaw and moves from one brush
with death to another. The film ends when
Russian troops arrive. Credits.

Brody is an interesting actor, and it’s unfortu-
nate that critics and the Academy recognize his
work only now. He is a Best Actor nominee for
this Sunday’s Oscars. In the past he has worked
with great directors (Spike Lee, Terrence
Mallick, Ken Loach) and has had prominent
roles in their films, but appreciation eluded him.
His performance in Lee’s Summer of Sam is
more impressive than his work here. But to be
fair, Wladyslaw is not meant to be an impres-
sive figure.

Along the same lines, Polanski does not
sensationalize his material, but he doesn’t hide
his camera from the horrors of Nazi occupation
either. We and Wladyslaw witness murder after
murder because murder after murder is what
happened. A.O. Scott of’ The New York Times
calls The Pianist “one of the very few

nondocumentary movies about Jewish life and
death under the Nazis that can be called defini-
tive.”

However, a definitive film is not inherently
one worth recommending. A movie worth rec-
ommending is at least one of the following:
enjoyable, informative, thought-provoking, in-
novative, technically skilled, moving.

Almost no film about Jews during WWII is
enjoyable (Divided We Fall and Life is Beauti-
ful are exceptions). The average moviegoer
learns nothing new from The Pianist, and it’s
certainly not thought-provoking or innovative.
Adrien Brody gives a strong technical perfor-
mance, but we see actors grow shaggy beards
and play sick all the time.

That leaves its emotional impact. Is The Pia-
nist moving? Of course. But it’s moving by its
nature, not by its design. The story doesn’t earn
tears; it demands them, which is something any
sad story can do.

But I recommend The Pianist; especially in
the days before the Oscars. I’ ve yet to see Gangs
of New York, but of the other three best picture
nominees (The Hours, Chicago, LOTR: The
Two Towers), The Pianist is surely the best. It’s
an experience that subtly reminds us that we are
not always the masters of our destinies. There
are no characters and few choices; there are
homo sapiens and situations.

The film’s climax, for example, puts
Wladyslaw at the mercy of a Nazi officer. How
he survives is explained not by his agency, but
by the nature of the situation in which he is: the
officer’s personality and passions and the Na-
zis’ failing efforts. Wladyslaw survives not by
his wit, but by, for lack of better words, luck and
coincidence.

a

+ Ef vols iarte::plotining: 6-de resedPth/work=on camps OR

e Efiyou: adregoing to. be emplayed in- the area.OR:

°Tfiiyou:are. attending cldsses. at /UNICC...
Sf *

We, Vs
¢

Seewiaa.

oe *

ar

Dawidsan. can: ph revi

; »: 4 int 4 g {
Ser te a pe FP
pe toen ee

mebiieNousing for. <thhe- éntire- sul wie

SALOME LEE EO te

<P E ESS
le ee ae ae ag BA
ey gf eee
F EEE
ed ws oe Re &

a CS 4

ror

onie a. weenty. basis in the Martin Court 4 Apartinents, at

nti

very-competitive rates.

Rent ot nea eeees cable

hopkup:=kitch h one. 2 pa a betfrdomi:.
=< sot eS ee _¢ Ed ton” “ $

hs Servi includes one cénimo for-all- Four:
Sid ot Ty irernet hoekup.is entre Sig eee
Seaaee att Co Bere es.
es rs jumhx: soe tye a
| be availa’ file i in RL@ mw O7" ih. Be
ie Pe arch 3 3rd 2 a ac AR
i. ieee

Ot ples 4 Ate ptic ns along, wr sa $100
& gt es si NE SSiiahi. ce CEES Bs:

a ck os! —fege sit anda gh eee m

enipla Pande ature: cecbepourennndste#2 Saree * ag

Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or

juklein@davidson.edu.
