Survey, from page 1

ence, and motivation. All these things are com-
pletely independent of a geographic location,
religious affiliation, or skin tone,” Pitts said.
Party lines

This difference of opinion mirrors compari-
sons between: Democrat and Republican re-
spondents in the importance of diversity.

In another question, the survey asked ques-
tions about political party identification: stu-
dents chose from seven levels, ranging from
independent to strong party affiliation as either
Democrat or Republican. Respondents identi-
fying with the Democratic Party consistently
had higher percentages for the importance of
diversity than those identifying with the Repub-
lican Party. _

The largest disparities between party lines
appear in racial and socioeconomic diversity.
On both issues, 74 percent of students leaning
Democratic believed racial and socioeconomic
diversity to be “very important.”

Conversely, 35 percent and 36 percent of
Republican-identified students considered ra-
cial and socioeconomic diversity to be “very
important,” respectively.

“This is not to say that diversity is not impor-
tant, we just need to make sure we approach
diversity in a way which is both fair and effec-
tive at building the best possible college,” Pitts
said.

Other students believe all types of diversity
have a positive impact on the college’s atmo-
sphere.

“An academic experience isn’t just about
inside the classroom,” Gagan Gupta ’07 said.
“Diversity and lack of diversity can both teach
you something.”

Racial differences

Besides partisanship, race also divides opin-
ions on certain diversity issues.

The difference between the two on racial
diversity is six percent, where 63 percent of
non-white students and 57 percent of white
students felt racial diversity is “very impor-
tant.”

Race factors into the diversity equation,
Gupta said. He explained he felt minorities in
his hometown were underrepresented, but when
he returned after fall break, he realized that
Davidson has much less minority representa-
tion.

A larger difference rests between the opin-
ions of white and non-white students on socio-
economic issues. 55 percent of white students
felt socioeconomic diversity is “very impor-
tant,” while 71 percent of non-white students
said it was “very important.”

“If we had a better financial aid system we
could actively seek students from diverse back-
grounds,” Quinn said.

‘Who's Who’ Ann

Religion and the college

Quinn said he was not surprised religious
diversity received only 47 percent of support as
a“very important” form of diversity oncampus,
giving it the lowest percentage in this category
of importance.

“The first thing I noticed when I came to
Davidson was a large Christian majority on my
hall,” Quinn said.

College Chaplain Rob Spach explained that
as a college affiliated with the Presbyterian
Church, part of the College’s statement of pur-
pose includes being “‘a place where there is ‘a
loyalty to the whole human community and...an
openness to and a respect for the world’s vari-
ous religious traditions.’”

Nine percent of students surveyed believed
that religious diversity is “not at all important”
for a better educational experience.

“I wonder if people don’t think that diversity

- isimportant or they’ re hesitant to say they don’t

want that kind of diversity,” Sellers said in
response to the ambiguous category.

Spach believes that plenty of students do feel
that religious diversity is important but more
growth remains for the future of the college.

* “Talso think another kind of ‘work’ tobe done
at Davidson is continuing to encourage greater
understanding and appreciation of each others’
faith and religious traditions, so that we be a
place where there is respect, appreciation and
genuine caring between people of different
religions,” Spach said.
Diversity at its face value

“It’s a common misunderstanding that di-
versity is racial diversity,” Gupta said. “We’re
not just going to encounter racial diversity.”

Nancy Cable, Vice President and Dean of
Admission and Financial Aid, argues that while
racial diversity is the most visibly definable
type of diversity, the goal of the Admissions
Office “is to have the most broad-gauged ex-
change of ideas.”

“The Supreme Court this summer said that
diversity allows for a rich set of perspectives,”
Cable said. “I like to have a variety of life
experiences, and that is infinite.”

Cable explained that for admissions, the Col-
lege looks for all the categories surveyed, but
also looks for other types of diversity, such as a
balance between genders and students from
rural, urban and suburban backgrounds.

Jacquin Gilchrist ’05 is in the Public Opinion
class that organized the poll. He agrees that
diversity means more than just race, geography
and socioeconomics.

“The key is thateach member of a group only
represents themselves,” Gilchrist said. “You
take a group and say they think a certain way,
but you can’t do that. There’s a lot of diversity
between each person.”

"Fro.Law Sochety revived

Group to ‘serve as a pro-active yet responsive resource’

By Jor TAYLOR
Staff Writer

In the 2003-2004 academic year, the Davidson
College Pre-Law Society will be transformed into

_ an_active student run organization.

According to Monica White, Pre-Law Advisor
and Associate Director of Career Services, the Pre-
Law Society was Previously run by the Pre-Law
Advisors.

This year, the crigmnization is guided by students
themselves.

Kristal High ’04. and David Dupee’04, co-chairs
of the Pre-Law Society, are both eager to revive the
organization.

“We're excited about the new direction of the
Pre-Law Society” said Dupee.

“We’ve developed a new mission statement:
“While primarily a service organization for students
contemplating careers in the legal profession, the
mission of the Davidson Pre-Law Society is to
serve as a proactive yet responsive resource for the
Davidson College community on relevant legal
issues and related concerns.”

High explained that in previous years the Pre-
Law Society was an inactive organization with a
“somewhat ineffective” executive board. This in-
spired her to take action.

“I didsome planning this summer and by the time
I got back to school David Dupee and I began
restructuring the Pre-Law Society” said High.

Dupee and High have implemented a number of
changes to the Pre-Law society, including manda-
tory membership requirements, an induction cer-
emony andacompletely revamped executive board
comprised of students.

The board is apportioned as follows: Newsletter,

aes

Students lak aca ra

Web site, Community/Social Service, Internships,
Panels/Speakers, Publicity and Research Team.

“Basically, we’ re trying to more proac-
tive and more of a student run, organization that
focuses on studeritneeds” explained Dupee.

High agreed: “We both have a vision of the Pre-
Law Society being an active student organization
on campus, not just a list-serve distributed by

Currently, the Davidson Pre-Law Society has 50
active student members and continues to grow each
week.

The organization has had a number of successful
events this semester, including career panels and a
school fairs.

Most recently, the Pre-Law Society organized a
law school fair in the atrium of the Union.

More than 150 students attended the fair and
browsed through information from 60 of the most
well-respected law schools in the country.

According to Monica White, the national aver-
age for law school applications has risen 34 percent

‘in the past two years.

“Despite this rise,” said White, “more and more
law schools continue to recruit here at Davidson.
We had to turn some down this year because of
space.”

White added that many of the law school repre-
sentatives declared the event “the biggest and best
fair they have ever been to.”

The Pre-Law Society has many events planned
for upcoming months, including:

-Tour of Wake Forest University Law School

-Careers in Legal Industry Panel

-Lectures by Julian Bond, chairman of the
NAACP, and Mel Watt, Congressman from the
12" district of North Carolina.

VY petit ee Miya OHSETOHE

key Southern elections

By ZAcH Kazior
Staff Writer

Southern politics have dominated the domes-
tic coverage in the national” media recently.
While Democratic, presidential candidate
Howard Dean made headlines with his “Con-
federate flag” remark, last week also boasted
two gubernatorial elections in Kentucky and

"> Mississippi and will host another later this week

in Louisiana. Louisiana’s election is scheduled
for Nov. 15.

The national media have portrayed these
races as “bellwether elections,” testing the abil-
ity of the Democratic Party to win in what once
was FDR’s “Solid South” as it has grown in-
creasingly hospitable to Republicans.

Davidson College sits at the crossroads of
this debate as a southern school boasting a
student body drawn about half from the South,
while remaining a nationally recognized liberal
arts college. Its students might be in a unique
position to understand this confluence of south-
ern and national politics,

Mill Graves ’07 of Kentucky said, “Ken-
tucky is conservative nationally, but we’ ve had
Democratic officials in the past... Local de-
pends on where you are from.”

‘Mill said that people would vote Democrat or
Republican depending upon region. For ex-
ample, eastern Kentucky tends to vote Repub-
lican, while more industrial areas such as Lex-
ington or Louisville vote Democratic. George
W. Bush won Kentucky in the 2000 presidential
election, but Kentucky has had a Democrat in
the governor’s seat for over three decades.

When discussing the prospects of Louisiana
electing a Democratic governor, Adrienne
Langlinais ’06 said, “I think it’s possible but not
probable,” indicating that conservatism is very
much established in her state. She was unsure

about how Louisiana voted in national versus

local-state elections.
Francois Trappey ’06, also of Louisiana,
said, “Louisiana is a hard state to pin down to

_ one or the other party, but for the most part, I’m
’ pretty sure we vote Republican on both the

national and state levels.” _

Despite past Democratic traditions in Louisi-
anaand Kentucky, election results indicate these
students may be on to something.

In Kentucky, Representative Erie Fletcher
attempted to curb more than three decades of
Democratic rule as he faced off against state
Attorney General Ben Chandler. Democratic
incumbent Ronnie Musgrove tried to hold off
Republican challenger Haley Barbour, a Wash-
ington lobbyist and former chairman of the
Republican. National Committee, in
Mississippi’s very close race.. In Louisiana,
former state and federal health department offi-
cial Bobby Jindal, of Indian descent, is running
against Lt. Gov. Kathleen Blanco, a Democrat.

Dr. Pat Sellers, Associate Professor of Politi-
cal Science, offered his interpretation of the
elections. He said, “the possibility of slowing
the Republicans difficult but not impossible.”

Dr. Sellers cited Senator Mary Landrieu from
Louisiana, who won reelection in 2002, and
Erskine Bowles from North Carolina, running
for the Senate seat left vacant by John Edwards,
as Democrats who are talented and experienced
enough to make an impact in the southem
bubble.

At this time, however, it seems that the ball is
in the Republicans’ court. In Kentucky, Mr.
Fletcher defeated Chandler. Haley Barbour also
handedly defeated Democratic incumbent
Ronnie Musgrave in Mississippi by seven

Only November 15 will see whether the
Republicans will be able to successfully sweep

_ the elections, thusimplying anew “Solid South”

for President Bush in 2004.
