CAMPUS POLICE BLOT

9/23 Grounds of Little

Larceny of a Bicycle

Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked and unregistered green Mongoose Sycamore

bicycle from the area behind Little without
of bicycle is to be $200.

— 921 Patterson Court

permission from the owner. Estimated value

Damage to Property

Unknown person(s) willfully damaged the ignition to a golf cart located on Patterson Court
while driver was at a party. Anunknown object was jammed in the ignition causing damage.

Damage is estimated at $200.

9/28 Residence Hall

Aid to the Ill

Student was transported to Lake Norman Medical Center as a result of mixing medication

and alcohol.

9/27 Patterson Court

Underage Possession of Alcohol

Prospective student was observed carrying a beer in public. Prospective student-athlete

was turned over to his parents.

9/28 Residence Hall

Damage to Property

Unknown female entered a female’ s room and urinated on the floor while complainant was
in bed. Female subject proceeded to get in bed with complainant, and then with the

complainant’s roommate.

9/28 Laundry Parking lot

Damage to Property/Intimidation

Unknown person(s) willfully wrote the letters “KKK” on a wall and sidewalk near the
laundry building. The crime is still under investigation.

Students with information about*campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

Cable, from page 1

provides service to the Davidson area,to ac-
quire new wiring, and workers will soon begin
installing it underground. The process could
take several weeks or months to complete, but
it’s still the most immediate solution to the
problem, Marsicano said.

“Tt will take us a while to do, but at least there
is light at the end of the tunnel,” she said. “I’m
confident this makes the cable less vulnerable.”

The school hasn’t been satisfied with
Adelphia, which declared bankruptcy last year

following a corporate scandal similar to that of

Enron. The company’s customer service has
declined dramatically since then, Marsicano
said.

RLO is exploring whether to hire another
cable provider that will offer more reliable
service, or to abandon cable altogether and
move to satellite-provided TV.

For now though, students can only hope the
underground cables will cut down on the num-
pa aa ah
nent solution.

seniors on Sunday urging them to contact
Marsicano about the outages, was glad to hear
of the new solution.

“I wanted to prod someone into telling us
what was going on, to make sure it was under-
stood that we’re concerned about this,” he said.
“Tt goes to show that both sides should remain
open—the College shouldn’t hesitate to .say
what’s going on, and the suajents shouldn’t
hesitate to ask.”

The school suspended Lindsay’ s e-mail ac-
count for three days because he broke the rule
prohibiting mass e-mails. But Lindsay said he
knew about the rule and wasn’t upset about the
suspension— only satisfied that he received a
prompt explanation from Marsicano and that
the problem is being addressed.

“Too often we’re a little quick to damn the
administration,” he saitt. “This time, we can
admit they got it right.”

Marsicano said she sympathizes with Lind-
say and other students who miss their favorite
TV shows and sports games whenever the cable

But what does thet term ‘minority’ mean?

By. Ros Hewricx ~
” Staff Writer

After a disappointing year in terms of minor-
ity student enrollment, the College reports that
numbers forthe class of 2007 haverisen sharply.
' Associate Dean of Students -Emest Jeffries
said that this year’s freshman class boasts “60

ethnic minority students,” as compared to the -

29 in the enrolling class of 2006.

Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable reported
that applications from African American, His-
panic American, Asian American, and Native
American students reached record high num-
bers this year.

Numbers of enrollments from these groups
were also unusually high, with 29 African
Americans, 12 Asian Americans, 21 Hispanic
Americans, and 1 Native American joining the

- class of 2007.

“Admissions worked really hard in trying to
raise those numbers, to target those students,”
said Jeffries, who served on a ‘multicultural
recruitment committee, with the goal of devel-
oping personal contact between prospective
minority students and those already on campus.

“We came up with strategies [to recruit more
minority students], and made sure that when
these students. came to campus they’d be
touched by the students already here,” said
Jeffries. “The key is that itis acommunity effort
in moving in that direction.”

Admissions defines the term “minority”

‘How exactly do school officials define the
term “minority?”

Jeffries said, “We define them more as ethnic
minority students; African American, Hispanic
American, Asian American, and so on. We at
some point might consider international stu-
dents in that number.” -

He added, “You don’t hear me saying ‘mi-
nority students.’ I refer to ‘ethnic minorities’ or
“students of color.”

Cable said that, when asked a question re-
garding minority students, “I turn it back on the
question-asker and ask them to define ‘minor-
ity.” We define ‘minority’ as generally
underrepresented populations in the student
community. They can be ethnic minorities,
students from various religious traditions, even
students interested in the hard sciences. Those

are all minorities at Davidson.”
Committee works to improve micelles

In order to cultivate this diverse, community
environment, the admissions office the
help of various students, alumni and faculty

- members. These individuals seeks to reach out

to members of the applicant pool who might
bring-a more diverse experience to the College.

The group, composed of six faculty members
and Cable, formerly read each application, but
in light of the recent spike in applications, now
reads a random 20 percent grouping.

Ortmayer described the committee’s tasks as
“creating an interesting and diverse student
class and looking out for the constituent inter-
ests of the College.”

He described some of the cibsimnittes"s “spe-
cial contacts,” certain targeted communities
that might yield more diverse applicant pools.

Recently, Rudy Jackson of the Education
Department worked with a diversely populated
school outside of Washington, DC. Following

_ his interaction with this community, 5 of the

school’s top 12 graduates applied to Davidson.

“For minorities, you’ ve got to go a few steps
further and show them what it is that Davidson
can offer them,” said Ortmayer, noting that
Davidson’s southern location and small-town
atmosphere could be intimidating factors for
ethnic minorities from urban communities.

Indian American student Sean Sonni ’06
agrees that his experience with the definition of

“minority” is “usually in terms of ethnicity; you
categorize based on what you can see.”

He believes that the school’s reputation as a
mostly-white school hinders a significant rise in
minority population.

“Tf the school keeps doing what it’s doing, it
will eventually become diverse, but not in my
time here,” he said.

As the admissions office and its committees
begin to recruit and assemble the Class of 2008,
Davidson's diversity remains a question con-
stantly on the minds of students and faculty.

Sonni said the benefit of a community like
Davidson’ s lies in its overall friendly nature and
the ability of its students to cross racial lines in
forming these relationships.

“You start to open your mind as you meet
people,” said Sonni, “and this idea of ‘minority’
just falls away.”

SGA candidates’ posters
called offensive by some

By Leslie Hempson
, Staff Writer’

The debate between freedom of expression
and respect stemming from music in the fitness
center has extended in SGA senator campaigns.

Freshmen running in this week’s SGA elec-
tions have covered the walls of residence hall
buildings with campaign fliers, some of which
students consider offensive.

Although many of the fliers display little
more than a photograph of the candidate, a few
picture scantily clad celebrities like Tyra Banks
or Britney Spears and numerous others exhibit
sexually suggestive messages.

Some students believe that candidates should

‘think more carefully about what they include on

their signs. While candidates have aright to free

speech, some students say they havegn obliga-

tion to refrain from expressing themsctves in a
fashion.
Martha Shott "06 said, “I do think that some

type of standard needs to be set in terms of that

is appropriate and what is just getting attention.
I think it’s common courtesy.”

According to Elections Chair Jordan Gratrix
04, candidates are issued only two standards

Benen’ bee “may not post fliers in
academic buildings may spend no more
- than fifteen dollars on their campaign. — ae3

content just because it’s assumed that people

~ will follow the school standards of decency.”

Students complained in recent weeks when
school administrators posted a sign in the Union
workout room urging them to monitor the con-
tent and yolume of their music. Some viewed
the sign as an infringement upon their right to
free speech and claimed that they could express
themselves however they saw fit.

Candidates mentioned similar concerns about
campaign fliers.

Candidate Jenny Bromley ’07 said, “I don’t
think that theré should be any rules limiting
what the signs can include unless it is blatantly
derogatory. If the candidates want to portray
themselves with questionable posters, I'd think
these decisions would be reflected :in the elec-
tions. No one will want to vote for someone who
is posting signs that they find offensive. They

~ would not want to be represented by that.”

Gratrix agreed, noting that since the fliers are
not permitted in academic buildings, mainly
students see them. Faculty at the college rarely
visit areas where the signs are posted.

Andy Agcaoili ’07, another candidate for
Freshman Senator, claimed that candidates have
to create unusual fliers in onder: to generate
publicity. :

He said, “Ireally think that now, you kind of
have to catch people” seyes. Youknow, just be —

e . different. It’s kind of.a hard line to cross
et - einren getting Gecple’ s attention and offend-

ing them.”
