THE DAVIDSONIAN

mic 2 INS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003 3

Gender, from page 1

have “effortless perfection.”

One Duke sophomore quoted in Raleigh’s
News and Observer said, “&veryone around
you is smart, so that not going to get you
anywhere.”

Women in the Duke study were also dissatis-
fied with the dating scene. Many women felt
that fraternities dominated the social outlets,
which gave men an edge in the social scene.
Dating consisted of going to fraternity parties in
large groups, followed by “hook-ups,” sponta-
neous sexual encounters. This dynamic caused
some women concerns about safety on campus
at Duke.

Davidson students expressed many different
reactions to this study. Students were ques-
tioned in an informal, unscientific survey con-
ducted by the Davidsonian about Patterson
Court, dating, and exercise habits among other
issues. 28 respondents—half male, half female,
and from different classes—were asked both
general questions about the campus and spe-
cific questions about their own lifestyle.

Students were asked if Davidson women
thought they had to live up to the model of
effortless perfection. Women were generally
split on this issue while men generally did not
believe that women felt this pressure. These
numbers are much lower than that found in the
Duke study, showing that Davidson students
may be less susceptible to this type of thinking.

The fact that women responded affirmatively
more often than men suggests that some women
do feel this competitive strain in their relation-
ships.

When asked about Patterson Court, students
generally did not think that the fraternities sti-
flingly dominated the social scene the way they
did at Duke. As for eating houses, students

_ expressed different opinions on whether they
were better than sororities at promoting self-
esteem among women.

One thing was agreed upon: the self-selection
process is healthier than a rush procedure.
“You're not just being judged on appearance,
you’ re basically assigned to your house,” said
Rachael Voyles ’0S. “I think its good that we
don’t have rush.”

Most men and women expressed dissatisfac-
tion with the dating scene. “Dating? What dat-
ing?” asked Haley Acuff 06, “It’s either girl-

friend and boyfriend or single with your girl and

guy friends.” Similarly, most Davidson stu-
dents believe that there is a double standard for
men and women who hook up.

All of the students surveyed said that they felt
safe on campus. This sense of safety is most
likely has alot todo with the Honor Code, which
Davidson students take very seriously. “I’m not
sure that is a good thing,” said Sarah cain
Mattingly ’06, “in light of the recent break-in:
in Rich, I think we should all be locking our doo:
more.” j

This was in response to several break-ins in
the basement of Richardson dormitory that took
place last weekend, when unknown burglars
entered dorm rooms and took money. Some of
these break-ins took place while students were
in their rooms asleep.

Students were also questioned about their
exercise schedule and eating habits. These hab-
its, whether healthy or not, appear to be very
individual to the student, without a clear pattern
emerging.

It seems that many people have already been
working to minimize gender problems at
Davidson. Jessica Zesch ’05

has been working for the past year to start up
the Body Image Support Group. This group is a
network of women who help other students deal
with negative self body images.

“We want to make more open discussions’
about body image, whether its an eating disor-

der issue, whether its compulsively exercising,
or whether its just discomfort with your body,”
said Voyles, who has been instrumental in
getting the group off the ground.

The Body Image Support group has its pager
number listed in all the bathrooms on campus,
so anyone can call at anytime. They also have a
budget for the first time this semester, so they
are working on getting speakers to campus,
among other things.

The Gender Resource Coalition also pro-
vides resources for students dealing with gen-
der problems. These resources include the
health advisors, firstresponders, and other coun-
selors who can help students one-on-one,

These organizations are definitely a step in
the right direction to correcting gender inequali-
ties. “Davidson is a very perfectionistic com-
munity to begin with,” said Voyles, “Coming to
Davidson, you’ve chosen to challenge your-
self.” These organizations are challenging tra-
ditional gender roles in hope for better relation-
ships at Davidson.

photo by Dorsett Clark

Pre-Vet Society aims to satisfy
rising demand for veterinary study

Program may bring vets to
campus, form relationship
with Humane Society

By Auicia JANos
Staff Writer

Last week SGA approved a Davidson Col-
lege Pre-Vet Society. The move will help
students interested in veterinary medicine bet-
ter organize for graduate school.

Krista Heiner ’06 spoke toSGA members on
behalf of the organization, detailing the need
for Pre-Vet to be “recognized as an on-campus
society.” The passage of the charter will enable
the society “to provide for the needs of pre-vet
students on campus and present programs that
will enhance their ability to enter veterinary
school,” according to Article II of the Davidson
College Pre-Vet Society Constitution.

Such programs include obtaining speakers
specialized in various animal studies, planning
field trips to open houses of veterinary schools,
and providing direction in fitting in the neces-
sary Classes to apply to vet school.

SGA member Alaa’ Odeh ’05, who wel-
comed the addition of this new society, said
that currently, “Pre-Vet has very disorganized
advising and society.. Since pre-vet has a lot
more requirements than pre-med... it needs to
be more organized, and probably more orga-
nized than pre-med.”

Pam Hay, Associate Professor of Biology

Textbooks, from page 1

According to the NY Times “At one presti-
gious university, a sophomore imported 30
biology books from England this fall and sold
them outside his classroom for less than the
campus-bookstore price, netting a $1,200
profit.”’ Others have skirted high prices by shar-
ing texts, Xeroxing, using e-reserves, suggest-
ing textbook rental systems, or simply not pur-
chasing the books at all.

The recent explosion of textbook importing
is partly due to a 1998 Supreme Court decision,
allowing Americans to reimport texts sold
abroad by American publishers at cheaper
prices.

According tothe NY Times, “...federal copy-
right law does not protect American manufac-
turers from having the products they arrange to
sell overseas at a discount shipped back for sale
in the United States.”

In addition to losing business, textbook im-
portation has caused many college bookstores
to come in conflict with various publishing
companies. «

Through e-mail, Gwen Gardner, Manager of
the Davidson College Bookstore and President
of the National Association. or College Stores
(NACS) commented on the issue. “‘As an asso-
ciation, NASC is an advocate for all college
stores.

“Ata meeting with several publishers’ presi-
dents last year, we asked them why they felt this
was fair to our students. They believe that
development and marketing costs are covered
by direct sales in the U.S.

“They told us that 10 percent of their sales
were international and that for humanitarian
reasons they thought we should understand
their sales into third world countries. We re-
sponded that Germany, France and the UK are

and Pre-Vet advisor for six years, said that both
veterinary school and medical school “have
the same basic requirements (Chem through
Organic, two semesters of physics, and two
semesters of Intro Bio), but the Pre-Vet
requirements usually also require genetics, .
biochemistry, and statistics, as well as several
hours of shadowing a vet. It does vary from
school to school so people need to check with
each individual school for their specific re-
quirements.”

Odeh confirmed that saying, “The pre-vet
track is very difficult and students on it have to
be very focused in order to get all their require-
ments in on time.”

When asked why he voiced his desire to pass
the charter, SGA President Charles Washing-
ton ’04 said,’“‘I knew that we really needed
one,” a common response. The fact that there
is not one uniform path that must be followed
in obtaining the necessary course requirements
for Pre-Vet students, but merely specific
classes that must be taken, emphasized the
need for an on-campus society.

The passing of the charter this past Thursday
“will allow us to have the option of bringing in
a panel of vets and at least offer them pizza for
their time, help us to make a trip to the zoo to
observe what a zoo vet does on a day to day
basis, and other projects,” said Hay.

She hopes for the Pre-Vet Society to “estab-
lish a volunteer program with the Humane
Society or Raptor Center and bring in a panel
of veterinarians to discuss options in Vet.
Medicine” in the future.

Currently, there are between ten and 15 Pre-
Vet students who have attended the first meet-
ing this semester.

not third world countries, and that our students
should not have to bear this burden.”

Despite efforts to eliminate price differen-
tials, many publishing companies maintain that
textbook prices must remain consistent with
market conditions in different countries.

Gardner commented, “During the last year,
our Board issued a resolution asking the pub-
lishers to stop the practice of different pricing
for international books at our expense, but the

- communications have stalled with little

progress.”
When asked why textbook prices have in-
creased so much recently, Gardner sited the

_ economy, printing and distributions costs,

growing market expenses, intense competition
between publishers, demand for better color
and printing quality and bundling as some fac-

tors.

Gardner also added “all bookstores base their
price on the price set by the publisher/distribu-
tor with a margin added to cover expenses to sell
(salaries, postage to get the books, rent, etc.) As
this is the required part of college store’s inven-
tory, most make the.least margin on textbooks
of any category sold.

“College bookstores are generally there to”
support the academic mission of the college by
providing all necessary course materials. ..not
to make a large profit.”
