Lacrosse trounces Va. Tech,

ends 24-game losing streak

Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

Senior Loren Seaton scored six goals and
added an assist as the Davidson women’s
lacrosse team downed Virginia Tech,10-7 on
Tuesday evening at the Turf Field.

With the win the Wildcats snapped a 24-
game loosing streak and improve to 1-12 over-
all, while the Hokies fall to 3-11 on the season.

Virginia Tech got on the board first, when
Katie Madden and Kate Threadgold each found
the back of the net for the Hokies.

Two minutes after the Hokies took a 2-0
lead, Seaton fired a pass from sophomore
Lindsay Frank into the net.

Davidson tied the game several minutes
later when sophomore Millie McKeachie con-
verted on a free position shot.

The two teams traded goals with Threadgold
and Seaton each scoring their second goals of
the game.

The Hokies scored with just over four min-
utes remaining in the first half to take a 4-3
advantage.

Seaton scored to the tie the game at 4-4, just
two minutes into the second stanza.

The Hokies and Wildcats traded goals to
keep the score tied, 6-6.

With just under ten minutes remaining,
Seaton tallied her sixth goal of the season to
give the Cats a lead they would not relin-
quish.

Sophomore Whitney Diefendorf scored two
goals and senior Allison Matlack added an-
other to seal the 10-7 victory.

On defense, sophomore Molly Pickall and
senior Emily Rice were outstanding.

Rice, who ranks third in the nation in caused
turnovers, forced four turnovers and grabbed

four ground balls, while Pickall scooped up
five ground balls in her first collegiate start.

In the cage, freshman Leslie Smith made 18
saves and allowed only seven goals. Carrie
Hill made four saves for the Hokies.

“We played as a team today,” head coach
Mary Schwartz said. “Loren was unbeliev-
able. The attack did a great job of sticking to
the game plan and taking the ball to the cage.

“On the defense, the girls really stepped it

up. Leslie played amazing in the cage and.

Molly was otitstanding on defense. The girls
really deserved this win today, they played
their hearts out.”

The Wildcats return to action against con-
ference foe Northwestern on Monday, April
20. ,

The Battle of the Wildcats will take place at
Lakeside Field in Evanston, Ill., at 4 p.m.

‘Senior ’ : uble
for lacrosse and field h U

By SARAH NOLAN

3-on-3 basketball tourney
planned for spring frolics

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

_Going through post-March Madness with-
drawal right now?

Don’t worry, the NBA isn’t the only oppor-
tunity left to enjoy competitive basketball.

Thank goodness.

Although most students associate Spring
Frolics with the excitement of visiting bands,
snow cones, and endless water wars at Patterson
Court, the real fun can be found in Baker
Sports Arena with Davidson’s own 3-on-3
basketball tournament, sponsored by Dick’s
Sporting Goods.

The games last all day Saturday, April 26,
with tip-offs starting at 10 a.m.

The tournament will feature two separate
playing divisions, and teams are guaranteed to
play multiple games.

The tournament will have the same rules as
5-on-5 did, but the games will be played on
one half of a regulation size court, and teams
will have fewer players.

Game are played until one team reaches 21
points, and baskets count for one point apiece.

Games must be won by 2 points. Time will —

not be kept. Each team must have a minimum
of 5 players.

Potential players have several options to get
involved or to register a team.

On the main athletics webpage, there is a
logo link that leads straight to a registration
form.

There are also yellow flyers around campus
that have a registration form on the back.

Either mail the form to P.O. Box 7158
through inter-campus mail, or drop it off at the
promotions office located just past the Hall of

Fame room in Baker.

Regular registration for Charlotte area
teams is $35, but Davidson student teams cost
only $30.

The price to register might seem steep, but
each person on the winning team will receive
a prize package including a $50 Gift Certifi-
cate to Dick’s Sporting Goods, anew Spalding
Infusion basketball and a free ticket to next
season’s Davidson-North Carolina basketball
game in the Charlotte Coliseum.

All participants receive a free tournament
T-shirt.

The deadline to register is Friday, April 18,
by 6 p.m., so start organizing your team!

DON’T LEASE
UNTIL YOU SEE US!

$459 Special

on our spacious
1 BR apartments!

1 mile off I-77 & Exit 30
near Davidson College
Hurry! They’re going fast!

704-892-1859

835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036

Staff Writer

Every student at Davidson experiences the
pressures of academics during their career
here.

Many students at Davidson experience the
pressures of Davidson academics combined
with Division I athletics.

Very few, however, will ever experience
the pressures of Davidson academics in addi-
tion to two Division I sports.

In fact, right now the only non-track/cross
country female two-sport athlete is senior
Allison Matlack.

For the last four
years, Matlack has
managed to suc-
cessfully divide her
time between la-
crosse, fieldhockey
and academics.

During her four
years on the field
hockey team,
Matlack was a key
player.

After walking on
to the team during her first year, she was a
starter through her sophomore year and most
of her junior year, until her season ended early
as a result of an injury.

Matlack then came back this season to end
up tied for second in team scoring and to rejoin
the starting line-up.

As a member of the field hockey team,
Matlack was named to the National Field
Hockey Coaches Association’s All-Academic
Team for all four of her seasons.

In order to qualify, an athlete must have at
least a 3.30 grade-point average and be a
starter or a key reserve.

Head coach Lisa Thompson commented on
Matlack’s accomplishments, saying, “The
commitment, and dedication that Allison dem-
onstrates is truly remarkable. Not only does
Allison balance two D-I sports while main-
taining a strong GPA and a rigorous course
load, she is also very involved in the commu-
nity.”

Outside of the classroom and off of the field,
Matlack has been involved in several campus
organizations, including Campus Outreach
Ministry and tutoring at the Outpost.

While she was an irreplaceable member of
the field hockey team, Matlack originally came
to school with the intention of playing la-
crosse.

Since the beginning of her sophomore sea-
son, she’s been part of the starting rotation,

Matlack

=
cE
®
KR
x
Od

contributing on both the defensive and offen-
sive ends.

Head lacrosse ‘coach Mary Schwartz praised
her player, saying, ““You don’t find too many
D-I athletes that play two sports at such a
tough college academically and starting for
both sports.” ~

In terms of balancing the two sports,
Schwartz said, “One, of the things we talked
about after her freshman year was that she
needed to. focus on both sports in the
summer. She needed to devote a good major-
ity of her time to field hockey, but she needed
to work on her stick skills for lacrosse.”

In order to obtain both of her starting posi-
tions, Schwartz said,’“‘She always did both
workouts in the summer, and that is what
really helped her develop into a better athlete
for both sports.”

As far as what she values most from her
eight seasons, Matlack is quick to say, “What
T enjoy most and what I will miss the most are
the friendships that I have made on both teams.
In the end, it is those relationships that will
stick with me.

“Sure, I’m excited to finish my college
athletic career and be able to have more free
time and try out new activities that I’ve never
gotten to invest time in, but I will certainly

Miss being part of a team where you get the

sense that you are striving towards something
greater than yourself: supporting your team-
mates and encouraging them to reach their
potential.”

Sunday
Vanderbilt 17 Davidson 4

On Sunday, the lacrosse team took on
Vanderbilt University, currently ranked sev-
enteen in the nation.

Whitney Diefendorf ’05 put the *Cats on the
board in the first half, trying to come back
from a 9-1 first-half deficit.

In the second half, Loren Seaton ’03 as-
sisted goals scored by Becca McDevitt ’03
and Kiften Stevens 06. ;

Seaton also put an unassisted goal away,
putting her with a team-leading thirteen goals
on the season.

Goalkeeper Leslie Smith ’06 had an impres-
sive game, coming up with fifteen saves.

Although they weren’t able to come up with
the win, Coach Schwartz said of her team,’ “We
did have a good day with transition up the
field, and our attack had one of its best shoot-
ing days.”

The ’Cats travel to Chicago next weekend to
meet Northwestern University and the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame.

