4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003.

Trustees, from page 1

are as an academic institution.”

President Vagt noted that the Board of Trust-
ees has become increasingly diverse in the years
since the College’s inception. He said, “If you
go back 30. years, the number of non-males and
non-whites would have been much less.”

According to the Trustee bylaws, only 12
trustees are required to be Davidson alums.
President Vagt remarked that while “some rela-
tionship with the college is clearly important,”
non-Davidson alums can achieve that relation-
ship by sending children to Davidson, employ-
ing Davidson graduates or possessing expertise
in a field relevant to Davidson’s needs.

Trustees have also contributed a significant
sum of money to the college. Davidson is cur-
rently engaged in a campaign to raise $250
million, and trustees have already pledged $71
million.

President Vagt said, ‘““Whether it is cause or
effect, the trustees have been a group that have
given a generous gift to the college.”

All five of the trustees are expected to help
Davidson fill a specific need. Salyer, President
and Chief Executive Officer of Public Radio
International, has extensive experience in the
field of media relations. He will join Davidson’s
College Relations Committee.

Thomson, Chief Operating Officer at
Citigroup, will draw on his financial back-
ground as amember of the Budget and Finances
Committee.

Notable trustees include Edward Crutchfield,
former Chairman of Wachovia Corporation,
and Paul Leonard, Jr., Habitat for Humanity
International’s Chairman of the Board.

Although numerous other trustees have great
success in such arenas as business and academia,
President Vagt stressed that commitment to
Davidson is their most important qualification.

According to President Vagt, “the one thing
that joins everybody is affection for the institu-
tion.”

College Bowl season kicks off with tourney

By CHRISTIE KILBY
Staff Writer

Dust off the buzzers — it’s time for another
season of College Bowl tournament play.

Teams of four students (and an alternate) will
soon begin the battle of wits in a tournament
here on campus, culminating in the selection of
an all-star team to represent Davidson College
in regional competition. If you missed the reg-
istration deadline, you. can still catch some
College Bowl action by volunteering as a timer,
scorekeeper, or spectator.

As James Gibert advises, “Come out and
watch! It’s more fun for everybody.”

Gibert, who now works as the College’s
Director of Planned Giving, remembers the
days when College Bowl caused even more of
a stir than did last year’s basketball victory
against UNC.

Exactly twenty-five years ago, Davidson won
the National Tournament with a 405-110 vic-
tory over Harvard and even traveled to play
England’s University Challenge champion,
Sidney-Sussex College, Cambridge. Gibert, a

senior on the 1978-79 champion team, now
coaches Davidson’s yearly all-star team.
Despite a grand history, Davidson has not

-always held a College Bowl tournament. Will-

iam Brown, Union Director for twenty years
now, says that the College’s first Bowl compe-
tition was a 1955 television game show.

Sporadic participation also won Davidson an

undefeated season in 1969 and second place in
the nation in 1981.
~ Registrar Hansford Epes, whom some stu-
dents know as the Davidson: Wizard, helped
organize teams for several of the following
twelve to fifteen years.

David Crane ’06 walked onto campus last fall
with legends of his father’s College Bowl victo-
ries here. Wanting to resurrect a team, Crane
contacted Gibert and helped initiate last year’s
tournament that saw twenty-three teams par-
ticipating.

Gibert said, ““Anytime you can get a hundred
busy Davidson students to turn out for anything,
it’s a big accomplishment!”

Brown adds that considering the size of our
student body, last year yielded “perhaps the

Traffic, from page 1

cord Road, and College Street at Concord Road

Dr. Dave Martin, member of the town Board
of Commissioners and Professor of Economics,
explains the purpose of the changes. “We are
not building to roads simply to facilitate auto-
mobile traffic from point A to point B. The
roads are built to accommodate bicyclists and
pedestrians also.”

The town plans to extend the building project
to Griffith Street by creating a bike lane and
installing roundabouts at the intersections.

Martin hopes that the bike lanes and

Book 11 people, get 12th trip Great for students or a single professional.

free. Visit the official website
for Spring Break ‘04.
The best deals to the
hottest destinations.
Group discounts for 6+

www.springbreakdiscounts.com .

or 800-838-8202

Located | mile from campus ina
new neighborhood in old Davidson.
$600/month unfurnished
or $800/month furnished.
Includes utilities and basic cable,
A security deposit is required.

Contact Janet Lowder at (704)896-7962

roundabouts on Griffith will help with the
speeding issue on that road. ;

Along with the physical changes, there will
also be changes in traffic enforcement. Martin
says, ‘We’ ve asked the police to enforce pass-
ing-on-the-right, the pedestrians having the
right of way at crosswalks, and the speeding,”
and he also notes that “in many cities people are
not used to the enforcement levels we have
here.”

Such heavy enforcement is best exemplified
with the penalty for passing-on-the-right: four
points on the license, a $125 ticket plus court
costs, and a mandatory court appearance.

Davidson Chief of Police John Kearin said

ADULT CUT

Ss. 108

‘Seqpsane - Exltt 23--ONLY.
a i

emi oak Redeerabla
- En -ONM
1a.

most active College Bowl program in the coun-

‘Today: Btown, Gibert, and Quinton
McKissick with RLO are working together to
produce the Intramural College Bowl Tourna-
ment. On behalf of the Union, Brown says, “T
just try to take'care of all the logistics. The
students in the 1979 tournament called me the
‘General Manager.’ I just wanted to make it
easier for Gibert, and that’s the role I’ll be
playing now.”

Brown and Gibert look to see about twenty
teams register this year and hope that students
will want to come watch. What Gibert loves
about College Bowl is that’’‘until you play this
game, you have no idea if you’re going to be
good at it.”

Heencourages students to give College Bowl
a try, regardless of their major or class. Last
year’s all-star traveling squad was comprised of
two freshmen, one junior, and two seniors. All
are welcome to participate in what will soon
return to campus as a Davidson tradition.

the new police motorcycle will play a majorrole
in enforcement and in public safety since it has
an automated external defibrillator (AED).

“With the use of a motorcycle, we can work
our way through traffic and make an emergency
visit to either side of town.”

' COLOR SERVICES |

a. | lox

