"By WALKER SAIK

Staff Writer

The Easter Bunny delivered goodies to the track teams ada
early.

Both teams competed in the SoCon meet Easter weekend
and topped off a great season with some impressive perfor-
mances.

On the women’s side, Allie Martin ’06 got a nice bag of
goodies with her team-leading fourth place finish in the 1500
in 4:48.02, while sophomore Ashley Griffith followed close
behind in eigth in 4:57.85.

In the field, Amanda Yeck ’04 led the way as usual. Her sixth
place in the high jump (1.55m) helped the team earn its 10th
place finish. She also competed in the two-day heptathlon
where she finished ninth.

“Tn training for the heptathlon, I improved significantly in all
the events,” said Yeck. “In the high jump, 5’3” was a personal
record I had not beaten in five years!”

Even the Bunny himeself—with his own impressive vertical
jump—was impressed.

Anna Brew hada strong showing as well, coming in ninth in

the steeple with a time of 12:21.57.

The Bunny was speechless, rewarding her instead with
beaucoup gifts the following morning.

“Records were broken; PRs were set, and our goals for next
season will keep us working hard in the off-season,” added
Yeck enthusiastically.

“Our team was young this year, so we’ ll be lucky to have a

great group of returning athletes.”

For the men, junior Greg Scott led the way with his fourth
place finish in the 1500m (3:55.06) and eighth in the 800m. His
prelim 800m time of 1:53.54 was less than a second away from
the Davidson school record held by Dan Gibson.

Too bad he melted all his candy with his blazing speed.

Jimmy Swansbrough and Greg Schernecke—both graduat-

Easter comes early for tracksters; men win academic award

|

ef aut aan

TRACK & FIELD.

.

Junior Amanda Yeck placed sixth in the high
jump at the SoCon championships.

ing seniors—each had their part in the Easter action as well.

Swansbrough ended his steeplechase career—hopping
hurdles and puddles not even the Bunny would challenge—
with a sixth place finish and a season best time that places sixth
best all-time for Davidson performances.

Schernecke got double the candy, as he contributed in two
placing sprint relays—the 4x100m (Schernecke, Andrew
Pratt—’04, Chris Rouisse ’04, and James Taylor ’06) and the
4x400m (Pratt, Schernecke, Taylor and Paul ‘Wyatt ’05).

“Tt felt really great to-pull together a quite respectable time
for the conference meet for the relays,” said Pratt. “All of us
worked hard during the season, and it appeared to pay off.”

Schernecke, holder/partial holder of multiple school records;
Swansbrough, holder of numerous Davidson top performances
in cross country and track; and 10K specialist Brad Becken ’03
will all be missed. cs

“Each has had an outstanding career at Davidson and is a
four-year letterman.

“Leaders in their own way, they have had a positive impact
on the team,” said head coach Gary Andrew.

In the 400m hurdles, Johannes Norling ’04 earned his
chocolate bunny after fighting out a seventh place finish.

“There were some really gutsy performances out there,” said
10K runner Chris Schmader. “On the whole, the guys stepped
up when it mattered most, and the team ended the season on a
high note.”

A little lagniappe Easter treat was the men’s cross-country
team being honored as a 2002 All-Academic Cross-Country
Team as recognized by the U.S. Cross-Country Coaches Asso-

-Ciation.

“The guys have shown that at Davidson you can train and
race at a high level while maintaining high academic stan-
dards,” said Andrew about his team’s 3.25 GPA.

It’s the fifth consecutive year for the team to earn: all-
academic honors, requiring 3.0 GPA, while it’s the first with
distinction (3.25 GPA minimum). :

Cross-country, indoor track, and outdoor track have now all
passed. There’s little rest for these athletes, though, as the
distance runners prep up for the cross-country season.

While the Easter Bunny snuggles up in his home for the
summer, these men and women will put in the miles after long
working days in preparation for another grueling season of fun
and excitement.

“Tt’s time to show our stuff,” said junior Ben Gaspar.

“May, June, July and August will make or break our season.”

Greg Schernecke
Philadelphia, Pa.
Track

Every time you put on a
Davidson uniform, you rep-
resent the college in a way no
other student can.

Your individual or team
achievements are more than
just yours, they are
Davidson’s and you are in-
stantly placed in a rich his-
tory of sports success that is
more than any athlete alone.

Athletics teaches a mod-
esty and a selflessness that one can only learn when they are
part of something bigger.

Furthermore, you learn friendship and compromise that is
fundamental to being a social entity, something that athletics
at Davidson prides itself on.

I am proud to have been able to experience fours years of
athletics at Davidson and I consider the time I have put into my
sport some of the most gratifying hours of my life.

As I leave, I hope that the current and future athletes at
Davidson understand how vital they are to the college atmo-
sphere and cherish their place as Wildcats.

Loren Seaton
Moorestwon,N.J.
Lacrosse

I know years from now I
will not remember the num-
ber of games we won or lost,
or the number of ground balls
I had in the 2003 season.

In my opinion, that is not
what athletics are about.

*. When Iremember my years
as a college athlete, I will
always remember what it
means to be a member of a
team. I am lucky enough to
know 21 girls who share my passion and love for the game of
lacrosse. Itis love for the game that brings individuals together,
but it is dedication to each other that makes a team.

Over the last four years I have been blessed with a team that

has become my family. Girls who I am barely friends with
have dropped everything to help and support me when Lneeded
them.

Through athletics I have learned a lot about being a leader,
but more importantly, about being a friend. My experience as
an athlete has been wonderful because of the girls Ihave shared
it with.

Hussein Nasreddin
Atlanta, Ga.
Men’s Soccer

The Davidson men’s soc-
cer program is one built and
characterized by relation-
ships, not only. between play-
ers and coaches but also more
importantly between each in-
dividual member of the
program. The team rapport in
the Davidson locker room is
unlike that of any program
across the country, and it con-
tinually proves to be a
critical element to any success the team witnesses.

Over the years our program has come to be known asa “giant
killer,” consistently upsetting and defeating top-10 programs.

While these victories may surprise and amaze the general
public, to members of the program they are simply a testament
to the to the energy of the coaching staff and the hard work of
the players.

The off-field chemistry builtin relationships between mem-
bers of the program come to create the on-field magic that is
Davidson Soccer, something I am truly proud to say I was a
part of in my four years as a Davidson student.

eggie Patterson ‘os
Women’s Tennis
Hometown: Raleigh, N.C.
Major: Undecided

Women's Tennis at Confer Te

Baseball at Wake Forest

Track and Field at Confe T

Golf at Southern C T

Lacrosse at Northwestern

Patterson garenedall-conference honors for the second
straight year. Only a sophomore, Patterson has shone
brightly at the number two singles spot, and with parter

Lindsay Powel has also been a force at two doubles.

Lacrosse at Notre Dame
., Baseball vs. Charlotte

Baseball at South Carolina

(through Saturday)
2:30 p.m.

(through Saturday)
(through Sunday)

4p.m.

4 p.m.
7 p.m.

1k onde
