16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Team pla YS at Coastal Carolina on Frida Y

By Erik SwANSON
Staff Writer

An unusually large crowd gathered around the big screen.

television in the 900 Room on Monday.

No, they weren’t watching Monday Night Football. They
weren’t enjoying an action-packed match of college bowl
trivia either.

At 3:30:on Monday afternoon, several dozen students,
coaches and staff focused their eyes on ESPN News, an excited
buzz moving through the crowd like a wave as NCAA officials
unveiled the draw for the 2003 NCAA Soccer
Championships.

Davidson soccer has been there tietore: But
any time a Davidson team gains national
recognition and an opportunity to compete
against the country’s best, excitement will
assuredly ensue. So the men’s socéer team
celebrated with their fans their first NCAA
tournament berth since 1995 — a first-round
loss — and gathered for the announcement of
their first-round foe, Coastal Carolina.

“We are extremely excited to-be in the
tournament,” said head coach Matt Spear. “It is great to be
back. It was a lot of fun to have a good group of the student body
with us to hear the announcement.”
~ Matt Allen ’06 added that he was “shocked to see how many
people showed up to the union, and. it made me extremely
happy to see how many supporters of the soccer team are out
there. The enthusiasm that I felt from that room was incredible,
and it made myself and the rest of the team even more anxious
to get through the week.”

The men will be heading to Conway, S.C., this Friday,

hoping to avenge an early season loss to the 12th-ranked
Chanticleers. The Wildcats faced Coastal Carolina in their
second game of the season, losing a tight 1-0 battle in which

Davidson held a 10-8 shot advantage.

While the Chanticleers, 24 in the preseason rankings, have
undoubtedly improved since the early-season competition, the
Wildcats are also playing a different brand of soccer, heading
into the NCAA tournament on a four-game winning streak,
including three consecutive shutouts in last weekend’s South-
ern Conference tourney. Their recent success has not gone
unnoticed, as the Wildcats made their first appearance of the
season in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America/
Adidas Division-I poll and will be entering the season-ending
tournament as the No. 22 team in the country.

Perhaps Davidson will experience the same
success as the last time they played Coastal
Carolina in the NCAA tournament. In 1992,
Davidson’s first appearance at the NCAA’s,
the Wildcats tied Coastal Carolina 0-0 in a

past the Chanticleers on penalty kicks,
Davidson advanced to the semifinals before
falling to San Diego in overtime.

The game kicks off at 6 p.m. this Friday, so
fans should get an early start on the 180-mile
drive to Conway, located near Myrtle Beach.

Coastal Carolina gets the benefit of home-field advantage in
this match-up due to their early-season victory over Davidson,
but if enough Wildcat supporters make the trip east, the men
may feel as if Richardson stadium just moved a little closer to
the Atlantic.

Allen related the team’s feelings about their host opponent,
“Not only do we get to seek revenge on a team that served us
an early defeat, but we get to embarrass them on their home
field.”

At stake in this initial game is the opportunity to play UNC-
Chapel Hill on Wednesday, Nov. 26. If the Wildcats get past
Coastal Carolina, they would head to Chapel Hill to attempt to
avenge yet another regular season loss, also a 1-0 heartbreaker.

pivotal second-round match. After moving .

Keith Nicholson ’04 traps the ball in the
SoCon Tourney last weekend in Charleston.

Is it acoincidence that, in the Wildcats’ run to the semifinals
in 1992, they followed their victory over Coastal Carolina with
an overtime win against the Tar Heels?

Make the trek to Conway, Wildcat fans, and help history
repeat itself.

Defense eams shutout wins over Wofford, Furman, Charleston

Ben Kittinger ’05 cuts around two defenders.
He started for the injured Nahum Navas ’06

Barrett Johnson ‘o4.
Football
Hometown: West Chester, OH
Major: Economics
Despite a disappointing 30-10 loss in the season finale, Johnson
managed four receptions for 41 yards. Well under his season averages, the

41 yards were enough for Johnson to set a new Davidson career receiving
mark with 2,157 yards, passing Mike Kelly ’70 by a mere three yards.

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

CHARLESTON, SC-- Last weekend saw a lot of firsts for
Davidson men’s soccer. For the first time in its history, the
team won both the regular season and Southern Conference
tournament titles, sending it to the NCAA tournament for the
first time since 1995. The ’Cats showed amazing poise and
resilience in all three tournament games.

Thursday’s game against Wofford served as a perfect ex-
ample of Davidson’s refusal to get frustrated and give up when
chances weren’t being converted. With their 20 shots to
Wofford’s meager three, the game looked similar to theregular
season match-up between the two teams. In both games,
Davidson dominated and won with a late goal.

As co-captain Justin Porter ’04 said, “Wofford was bunker-
ing in the entire game and attempting to take the game 0-0 to
a shootout and knock us out that way.”

Davidson was not without its chances; Porter’s shot from 18
yards out was blocked by the keeper, as was sophomore Jeff
Davis’ follow-up, and freshman Robbie Reynolds’ header was
stopped on the goal line.

Finally, in the sth minute, Joey Bass *05 “took the ball and
played it to me,” recounted Porter. “Hansell. made a run in
behind their defense, I played it to him, and he played it back
to the middle to Joey who smashed a shot at the goal. The
keeper saved that, too, but Davis was there to put it in the goal.”

Friday’s game against defending Southern Conference cham-

pion Furman proved even more impressive, as the ’Cats played
some of their best soccer of the season and recorded a com-
manding 3-0 victory, the first time ever for Davidson to beat
Furman back to back in one season.

The game started out relatively slow. At the 1 1-minute mark,
a Furman cross from the left side found a man in the middle,
whose shot was sPepped by a great save from goalie Bart
Creasman ’0S.

The ’Cats answered two minutes later when, off a corner,
sophomore John Latting’s shot was deflected by the goalie
back into the center of the box. Somehow, in the midst of
apparently all 20 field players scrambling for the ball, Hansell
managed to come up with it and stick the ball past the keeper,
giving Davidson the 1-0 lead.

As Keith Nicholson ’04 noted, “Getting the early goal was
crucial because it made Furman frantic to score the equalizer.”

Furman’s franticness resulted in some cheap fouls. With
only seconds remaining in the half, a Furman defender took
Nahum Navas ’06 out with a kick to the leg as the ball was
rolling out of bounds. The injury suffered on the play sidelined
Navas for the rest of the tournament, a significant loss to the
Cats, as Navas was:one of three Davidson players to win
Southern Conference second-team honors. Furman continued

‘the fouling in the second half, with a dangerous tackle on co-

captain David Peoples ’04 that led to Furman’s second yellow
card of the game.

see Soccer Tournament, page 13

PLAY OF THE WEEK

second apart.

The strong start gave the Wildcats the momentum necessary to
finish where they began. Davidson went on to record a decisive
victory over arch-rival College of Charleston, 202-96.

This past Saturday, despite having to travel four hours to Charleston, the women’s
swim team came out strong from the opening race. By placing first and second in the
opening event, the ’Cats set the tone early and never looked back.

Led by Sara Laws ’04 and Meghan Hollar ’06, the women domi-
nated the 200 medley relay, with both teams finishing less than a half

