_ PERS

Staff Editorial
Davidsonian 101

Last week’s editorial generated some of the most positive
student response and negative administrative response this staff
has ever seen.

Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry’s letter (at right)
suggests the Sept. 3 editorial failed to provide sufficient con-
text about Union Cafe operations, a complaint first brought to
the editors from high- level school administration. -

Additionally, administrators objected to the language used,
particularly terms like “for-profit” and “stealing.”

Our peers’ comments on the editorial, however, affirm that
our piece voiced what a lot of people were thinking. No one
feels cheated because of our editorial; rather, student frustra-
tions were manifested in what we wrote.

Students made meal plan decisions based on precedent. They
expected to use meal plan equivalency to purchase anything
they wanted in the Union Cafe.

The policy driving some students’ meal plan purchasing
decisions changed without warning. Such abrupt reversals—
particularly when made with little or no student inpet—natu-
rally makes students feel robbed.

Rather than feeling attacked or victimized when students
voice frustrations, administrators should examine the source of
such frustrations.

Subjects who do feel attacked or victimized, of course, should
respond.

People often complain about the Davidsonian. And that’s fine.
But it’s far more constructive to be complained fo rather than
about.

Before issues were raised about last week’s editorial, we
initiated a semester-long self-study designed to improve con-
tent and coverage.

The first step of this study happened when Subject Satisfac-
tion Surveys went out the people and/or organizations featured
on the front page of last week’s issue. Respondents were asked
to rate their interaction with Davidsonian reporters, to verify
the accuracy of information and quotations, and to comment on
the balance of the stories.

Of course, no one needs a survey to comment on our cover-
age. This page in particular is designed to voice reader opinion.
Our newspaper is a public forum for acommunity that stresses
interaction and communication.

If you have a comment or complaint about anything in this
paper—be it a story, editorial, column or cartoon—this is the
place to voice it.

The

@ ALEMNDA LU

.

Managing Editors.
Caroliié, Hauser
._Colin Eagan

News Editors

Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll
/ Rerépectiy rama
" David-C
~ Arts &.Li Editors"
a4 Dertk Loh & Schmader.
1 ‘Sports'Editors |

Peter Allison. & Mike Giglio.

Patent Sweater

CTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Ali Fitzgerald

‘Uke THe Mont?)

AcuMLY, 1S

‘ 1 0. E The
ora =) [CRS Geern
SS
z ~

Y You SEE, THE

\OcTOpER REVOLUTION ”
OF (FN'7 IN PRUSSIA GAVE
PEORLE THEIR JST GLIMPSE
or A NeW, MORE UST /

CX. ONTO Someone
WITHOUT A COMM) E —uVIN?
. p NICKNAME. MARK...

Cafe not motivated by ‘almighty dollar’

Some members of the campus community have expressed
unhappiness about the recent decision to alter the existing meal
equivalency program at the Union Cafe.

While we would like to give customers everything they want,
some times in order to manage resources responsibly we have
to make decisions that will not necessarily be popular with
everyone.

Dealing with the inevitable complaints comes with the ter-
ritory, but it is disconcerting when they appear to be built on the
perception that Cafe policies are
motivated exclusively by profit.

The Union Cafe is not operated as
a “profit center.” No individual that
works on the Cafe staff and no man-
ager at any level inAuxiliary Services
benefits personally through bonuses
orcommissions based on its financial
performance.

Further, no outside entity or corporation benefits from the
Cafe’s bottom line. The Cafe is self-operated by Davidson Col-
lege and its employees are Davidson College employees.

The mission of the Cafe is to provide great service, food
quality, menu variety, and pricing while responsibly managing
its budget. The Cafe is expected to cover all of its costs — labor
and benefits, product expense, utilities, consumables, account-
ing support, etc — so that funds do not have to be siphoned off
from other college needs to keep it afloat.

Should the Cafe finish a fiscal year with surplus income, this
income reverts to the general college budget for use in areas
where it is needed.

Each of the past two years in the new Campus Center stu-
dents and staff have seen vast improvements in the quality and
breadth of offerings at the Cafe. Coincidentally in each of these
years the Cafe has only managed to finish in the black by di-
verting income designated for long-term replacement of equip-
ment and future renovations (funds that any responsible busi-
ness accrues) to cover costs.

In other words, while the Cafe broke even on paper, it did so
only at the expense of future improvements.

With respect to the recent change in the meal equivalency
program, it may be helpful to note that most colleges do not
allow this transfer of plan use between dining units and that
Davidson only permitted it beginning about five years ago in
an effort to allow students who had unusual schedules to have
a later dinner-time option. Initially the equivalency was limited
to items that constituted ‘‘meal entrees.”

The limitation was imposed to make sure that meals ina plan
that were priced based on Vail Commons production costs did
not get traded for products that had very narrow margins. Al-
lowed to occur on a large scale, this type of revenue transfer
would eventually force Vail to consider diluting its program by
reducing menu variety, reducing hours, or purchasing lower
quality foods.

The meal plan equivalency restrictions were relaxed two years
ago, butas Campus Center and Union Cafe activity has increased
dramatically since then, the concern about the impact on our
overall.dining program resurfaced. This prompted the reintro-
duction of restrictions on the equivalency.

And at the risk of trivializing how important certain foods
are to certain people, we believe a hard look at the list of re-
stricted items will show it to be a very modest change.

We are very proud of the program at the Union Cafe, and I
am particularly proud of the personal investment each member
of that staff makes every day to serve students, faculty, and
staff.

Certainly there will always be room for improvement and I
believe we have proven that we are willing to listen carefully
to customer concerns and wishes.

But there should be no mistake that the program and the
employees at the Cafe are motivated by their earnest desire and
commitment to provide the best service and product they can
while covering costs, not in pursuit of the almighty dollar.

Richard Terry
Director of Auxiliary Services

and now A DOSA’ FILOSA

You DO REA'TZE.
CoecGce crass€s
ARE susTt «A semes

lLonG ?

OH - TWAT a
Wry we've coven? 2

WITH LAURA FILOSA

eeu

~
=

'
Hy
Y
an
AN
‘~
k>
=
Ne

CenTuvRy in q
REN AI SSANCE
Y¢
a jl a . =——— _.
2 ————— ee
SY ——— GY
; a WALZ, an —
RS _

