Staff Editorial

The clarity of hindsight

In light of another bumpy housing selection process, it’s
time for some common sense changes to be made.

RLO should add phases to the lottery system to address
student complaints. Just as the mini-lottery for Martin Court
F worked beautifully, RLO should devise a mini-lottery for
both vacant four-person apartments and substance-free hous-
ing.

When students selected rooms this year, some who had
petitioned RLO for substance-free housing chose larger or
otherwise better rooms in other dorms, leaving Little open
for rising sophomores who did not desire to be sub-free.

As Little filled up with non-sub-free kids, some who had
signed the petition were left without housing, and will likely
not get sub-free housing.

As a result, both groups are unhappy. If a substance-free
lottery were to be held first, this problem would largely dis-

_ appear.

Happy (activities) tax day!

SGA is guaranteed five percent of Activity Tax Council
allocations upon request, a sum of roughly $20,000. Last year,
SGA had a hard time spending its $12,500 budget and made
honorable but questionable donations to charity out of its
special projects budget.

The special projects fund itself is a sort of slush fund. By
not defining what the funds are used for, the money escapes
oversight and can be directed into uses such as the dona-
tions, which bring no direct benefit to student life. This money
could be better spent if it were allocated to other campus
organizations.

The ATC frequently criticizes chartered organizations for
end-of-year spending sprees to exhaust funds that would oth-
erwise return to ATC control. In making these donations, SGA
has done just that.

The donations themselves lead down a slippery slope, as
no guidelines have been established to determine what makes
a charitable cause worthy of receiving an SGA donation.

The five percent clause should be abolished. No organiza-
tion should have a guaranteed cut of ATC dollars. As the
flagship student organization, SGA should be the leader in
submitting to ATC guidelines, and it should quit dragging its
heels.

ae i iia ba) he

iy fe Seen tors N+
-_ f a : ‘Darcie is % Gon Cael
fives Editor

Be aware of rise in -
Internet plagarism

As newly elected Chair and Vice-Chair of the Honor Coun-
cil, we’d like to take this opportunity to introduce ourselves
and express a growing concern.

The Honor Council has noticed a disturbing trend over the
past year. There have been an increasing number of honor
infractions involving plagiarism. In many of these recent
cases, students have taken large por-
tions of Web-based documents in a
“cut and paste” fashion without us-
ing proper citation.

The Honor Council considers
such cases of plagiarism serious vio-
lations of the Honor Code. Using
another person’s ideas without
proper citation, regardless of where
they are found, is dishonest. It’s also not very smart because
professors’can use Yahoo and Google. In most of the recent
cases relating to plagiarism, professors discovered the aca-
demic dishonesty in that very manner.

The Honor Council and professors here do not want to see
any more instances of plagiarism stemming from improper
use of academic sources on the Web. Take responsibility for
your work. Don’t allow a stressful academic period to be-
come an excuse to sacrifice your honor. In the long run, your
personal integrity is far more important than any letter grade.

If you have any questions about the proper way to cite an
electronic source, please make sure and consult with your
professor to clarify any of your concerns.

Jamie McNab ’04 (Chair) &
Megan Kota ‘04 (Vice-Chair)

Pe ery

Create -yoor-own -Corteor' Ax lA. Your. O48 (TERT
—~

this Cortoon. Fuaniese text will
be Selected ond eee

rf ex
aK SX

LOAN TAA

BAGHDAD NEXT WEEK...

College can never
replace McKelvey

Last week Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety, was
forced by the administration to resign. It is important for the
student body to know about his resignation because of his
close relationship with many students and his dedication to
the Davidson community. Sam’s resignation is a disappoint-
ment to us all.

Sam has a distinguished record in public and college law
enforcement. His forced resignation came as a shock to him,
his office and his many friends in the community.

Sam’s dedication to the College ranged from riding with
students for hours looking for their bikes to attending stu-
dent performances and sporting events. In addition, he has
strengthened campus police and student relations.

On behalf of the senior class, I want to thank Samm for five
years of service to the College. Although the administration
will soon begin a search for a new director, there is no re-
placement for Sam McKelvey.

Good luck Sam, and I hope you find an employer that ap-
preciates your hard work.

Kevin Epps *
Senior Class President

» axdnow ABBE ALBSA
‘eS LS FP ieee!

rete tee etter eee erate
