ee

SAS I ace teca amc napipnatac

A sporty spring break

“Hey! How was your break!?”

“Oh, it was so much fun! I really needed the
time off to relax! How was yours!?”

“Yeah, mine was super awesome too!”

“That’s so neat.”

“Yeah, it is.”

(Total silence. Very awkward.)

If I had a nickel for every time this conversa-
tion took place during the past ten days I would
be an extremely rich man.

All over the world people who don’t really
know each other feel compelled, for one reason
or another, to strike up meaningless conversa-
tions, and such instances increase exponentially
- after long breaks like the one we just had.

So, in an effort to avoid what my good friend
calls “awkward teenage moments,” this week’s
column is dedicated to my Spring Break.

Before any of you throw a conniption (‘what
about sports!?”), let it be known that my first
week of March was spent skiing in Colorado.

And yes, skiing is a sport. That is an indisput-

able fact.

Tucked away down here in the Piedmont
region of North Carolina many of us are not
exactly privy to the athletic ability required to
safely maneuver down asteep, slippery slope on
six-foot planks all the while trying to avoid
kamikaze skiers and first-timers employing the
age-old snow-plow technique, not to mention
any natural obstacles, which, as you will see, can
be rather dangerous.

And so, after spending last year on a beach in
Florida, five buddies and I decided to drive
cross-country to Breckenridge, Colorado, for
another week of fun in the sun (on average the
Centennial State receives 300 days of sunshine
per year).

Indeed, atroughly 12,000 feet above sea level
the UV rays were powerful enough to give most
of us pretty solid “goggle tans,” and now we all
look like raccoons with windburn.

But we didn’t drive 1700 miles in one car for
sunshine and warm weather—we get enough of
that here. Snow is what we came for, and snow
is what we got.

When we arrived that Sunday, Breckenridge
was reporting 220 inches of snow for the season,
slightly below average but certainly enough to
operate a multi-million dollar ski resort.

DON'T LEASE
UNTIL YOU SEE US!

$459 Special
on our spacious
1 BR apartments!

1 mile off -77 & Exit 30
near Davidson College

704-892-1859

835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036

Hurry! They’re going fast!

Overthe next fivedays, 10 inches of “freshies,”
as they call new snow out there, coated the
slopes, making for some pretty fun powder
skiing.

As akid from New England where skiing is
extremely cold and predominantly icy, learning
to ski in the powder was like Monica Seles
learning a one-handed forehand.

You see, when you’re shin-deep in snow
turning isn’t exactly the most natural move-
ment, and you are forced to completely adjust
style by sitting back and steering with your toes
(how’s that for a free lesson?).

To make matters more difficult, my buddy,
who now skis for the University of Colorado-
Boulder, took us to “the backcountry” where
there were acres upon acres of untracked trails,
with plenty of trees, boulders and small cliffs.
Surprisingly enough, no one in our camp was
significantly injured during our five days of
skiing (one guy hurt himself in the snowboard
park, but skiers aren’t supposed to be there
anyway).

That is not to say we were not involved in any
injuries. To be-sure, one of my buddies thought
it would be a good idea to use a trail sign as a
jump, and after catching some pretty good air he
landed backwards and collided with a 40-some-
thing year old man, who then went careening

‘into the nearby forest. Ski patrol was on the

scene immediately, and while the 40-year old
did not seem to be badly hurt, we still aren’t sure
because he refused to speak to anyone.

Another forest-related injury occurred on our
last day at Breckenridge, when my friend from
Boulder brought one of his hotshot teammates
along.

This guy went bombing down a double black,
made a turn across the entire trail, ran into
another skier and, like a squirrel escaping dan-
ger, headed directly for the trees.

Unfortunately, he had to be carted off by ski
patrol and spent the remainder of the day in the
infirmary.

We have both of these crashes on tape (one of
my buddies is in love with the camcorder) and
are seriously considering sending them into one
of those cheesy television shows that exploit
idiotic human accomplishments.

This same camcorder, though, nearly got my
buddy ambushed by a group of snowboarders
when he positioned himself on the other side of
ajump, thus ruining any chance for these ’board-
ers to stick their landings.

As a result, both words and snowballs were
exchanged, but differences were eventually re-
solved over a cup of cocoa at Ten Mile Station,
the resort’s version of our Union Cafe (jacked
up prices and all).

We left Breckenridge on Saturday morning
with a full car and high spirits and arrived at
Davidson on Sunday afternoon totally sleep
deprived and reeking of BO, the products of a
24-hour car drive. —

Instead of closing with one of those overused
Spring Break cliches (“it was so memorable!”),
which I’ m sure you’ ve heard (and used) a dozen
times since returning, I’ll leave you with a
“super neat” fact we learned about Colorado:
snow storms begin in the southeastern part of the
state, where there are seemingly more cows than
people, and so the few hours before it snows in
the mountains the air. becomes saturated with a
heavy scent of cow manure.

Weird.

By Joun HEIMBURGER
Special Correspondent

This year’s NCAA Men’s Basketball Tour-
nament should be memorable, with about 20
teams capable of making runs deep into the
second week. For those of you who live and
die with the ACC (yes, I realize I’m talking to
90% of the campus), the second weekend
shouldn’t be too stressful for you because
none of your teams will still be around.

My Final Four Picks |

For those of you who have short attention
spans, I’ll give you my Final Four up front, and
you can read on if you want detailed explana-
tions:

Kentucky, the pro-
hibitive favorite
(with an easy draw),
out of the Midwest.

Kansas, the regu-
lar season champion
| of the toughest con-
ference in America,
the Big XII, out of
the West bracket.

Texas, another
Big XII powerhouse that essentially gets to
play home games in San Antonio, in the South
Regional. —

Syracuse, the Big East regular season co-
champs, who also get to play close to home in
the East Regional in Albany.

Heimburger

The East Region

The No. 2 seed in the East, Wake Forest,
may be the single most overrated team in
college basketball this year.

The Deacons are extremely inexperienced
with several freshman and sophomores play-
ing big minutes and should bow out in the first
two rounds.

That’s right, don’t be surprised to see Wake
go downto SoCon champion ETSU in the first
round.

As for the rest of the East, look for No. 1
seed Oklahoma to breeze through the first two
rounds, including a second round matchup
with the hot NC State Wolfpack. It should be
fun to watch Hollis Price run circles around
Scooter Sherrill while Jabari Brown laughs in
Herb Sendek’s face.

Mississippi St. should meet Oklahoma in
Albany where the Sooners will be looking for
revenge. It should be one of the best games in
the entire tournament, with the winner falter-
ing against Syracuse (in a virtual home game
for the Orangemen) in the regional final.

The South Region

A favorite since Sunday’s bracket came out
has been defending national champion and
sixth-seeded Maryland, due to its “tourna-
ment toughness.” This team lost twice this
year to Virginia (a miserable team) and didn’t

down ete] in New Orl

even appear interested in any an ACC
quarterfinal matchup to a mediocre North
Carolina team.

Look for these guys to have trouble with
UNC Wilmington (a team that beat Southern
Cal in last year’s tournament) in the first round
before getting a virtual bye in the second
round after a Troy St. upset over Xavier, then
ultimately getting blown out by Florida in San
Antonio.on March 28.

The rest of the South should shakedownlike .
this: Texas over UConn in the Round of 16,
followed by a hard fought Regional Final
between Texas and Florida with Texas, led by
sophomore point guard TJ Ford, prevailing.

The West Region

A quick rundown of the most difficult
bracket, the West, with self-professed West
Region specialist Nathan Bohon ’04:

It’s a brutal road for top seed Arizona. If
Cincinnati is able to beat Gonzaga, look for no
Pac 10 teams in the Sweet 16 due to a Cincy/
Arizona upset, thus proving that the West
Coast is a laughable basketball coast.

There will be two upsets by No. 12 seeds in
the tournament. Wisconsin-Milwaukee over a
Notre Dame team that plays embarassing de-
fense will be one of them.

Ilike Kansas beating Illinois in the Regional
Final to come out of the West after Arizona
checks out early. The Jayhawks are on a mis-
sion to get their boys from Iowa back to the
Final Four.

The Midwest Region

Now to Kentucky’s cake-walk to the Final
Four, otherwise known as the Midwest bracket.

As I said, Kentucky has the easiest road to
the Final Four of any team.

The weakest four and five seeds, Dayton (a
team that played home games in its conference
tourney) and Wisconsin (a team that faces a
tough first round test against Weber St.), re-
spectively, are both in this bracket, and it’s
highly possible neither will make it out of the
first round.

In the bottom half, there are five teams
talented enough to make the regional final -
Pittsburgh, Marquette, Indiana, Alabama and
Missouri, but each one is. also more than
capable of playing 40 minutes of appalling
basketball.

Look for either Pitt or Mizzou to go down to
the boys from Lexington in Minneapolis.

As for the Final Four games on April 5 in
New Orleans, look for Kentucky to finish off
Kansas with a second half surge, and look for
Texas to get by Syracuse in what will likely be
Orangemen superfrosh Carmelo Anthony’s
last NCAA game.

As for the final, look for Kentucky and
Tubby Smith, 22-0 in the 2003 part of the
season, to cut down the nets April 7 in the
Superdome.

Heimburger is a junior from St. Louis.

Srey INFORMATION
“Press Release”

Getting back to its winning ways, the

match losing streak with a 7-0 victory over
Elon ste snbioph Tenis Cees ca Fey

Women’s tennis iting Elon

Davidson women’ stennis team ended athree-_

