By ZacH WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

Having been in existence for barely more than a month now,
the Department of Homeland Security has succeeded in making
quite a name for itself in the past few weeks.

After raising the color-coded threat meter to a menacing “or-
ange,” the second-highest level which signifies a “high” threat of
terrorist activity in our country, public anxiety and hysteria have
lead to duct-tape buying binges from Washington, D.C., to New
York.

Although the terror alertremains at an orange level, Tom Ridge
responded to the public’s rush to raid the shelves of grocery and
hardware stores by urging a calm but ready mindset for common
citizens living in the country.

In order to instill some of that traditional American spirit of
sturdiness and power, Ridge stated, “Today America’s families
declare, we will not be afraid and we will be ready.”

That may be a happy little feel-good proverb, but the mixed
messages given by Ridge and President Bush over the last few
weeks over terror threats have left the general public understand-
ingly ambivalent as to what to take seriously, and what to brush
off as meaningless political banter.

It was only a week ago that Ridge was talking in such fatalistic
terms that it seemed an imminent catastrophe was sure to occur.

By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

Enough talk already. It is time to start dropping bombs, if that
is our intention.

Over the past few months, everything which can be said has
been said. If, at this juncture, the French and Germans have not
signed on to an invasion of Iraq, they likely never will. Besides,
I’ll give even money that once the chips come down, Old Europe
will be clamoring for a place at the table.

By now, we all know that Saddam is an evil person. It is com-
mon knowledge that he tortures his people, gasses Kurds, rapes
women and invades foreign nations for recreational purposes. He
wishes to see Israel, one of our most loyal allies, destroyed and all
of her citizens to massacréd. He has defied the world for over a
decade, and he most likely possesses weapons of mass destruc-
tion. And he once tried to assassinate the President of the United
States, which, even ifnothing else does, most certainly constitutes
causus beli.

All of us have also heard about how a war in Iraq could desta-
bilize the Middle East. Thousands of Islamic youth will rush to
join Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, Hamas, and other militant organiza-
tions. Pakistan will experience civil unrest of epic proportions,
inevitably resulting in Osama obtaining her nukes. The Jordani-
ans and Syrians will be left with no choice but to invade Israel;
Sharon will respond with overwhelming force — which will most
likely include nuclear weapons — and the Battle of Armageddon

And yet, despite the advanced intelligence that lead Bush and
Ridge to raise the terror warning in the first place, all that tran-
spired was a citizen-wide buying spree of common goods to con-
struct little “kits” to save our lives from the evil work of Al Qaeda.
Mathew Purdy spun it well in the Sunday Times when he joked,
“No wonder so many see Mr. Ridge as the boy who called duct.”

Any use for the rainbow of colors used to symbolize national
terror threats has long escaped my logic. It seems that the only
good an issuance of “code orange” or “code red” could do would
be for the government to hide behind a senseless “I told ya so” in
the wake of a true attack.

A roll of duct tape and a lunchbox of goodies will probably do
little to protect Americans from the unpredictable viciousness of
a second major terrorist fiasco on US soil.

Is our invasion of Iraq going to prompt an indefinite state of
“severe” alert? Few doubt the implications of future terrorism that
such an invasion will generate.

The more practical-minded Americans would gladly ditch the
futile self-protection lessons in exchange for a government more
mindful of preventing terrorism than defending against it. The
War in Iraq could probably be the first war in almost 200 years
that we sustain a serious counterattack on our own Jand.

Many are worried about Iraqi civilian losses should a war take
place. Perhaps Tom Ridge and Bush should account for the pros-

’ pect of American civilian casualties as well.

will shortly ensue. The world will then have an everlasting peace
because we will all die from the fallout.

If you have not yet heard all of this, then a) you have been
stranded on aremote desert island for at least 12 months, orb) you
are the most news-apathetic person currently alive. As for the 99
percent of cogent humans who do know all this, we have already
decided where we stand on the issue. Lr

A large majority of Americans think we ought to remove
Saddam and go about rebuilding his nation. Similar majorities of
Frenchmen think otherwise. At this juncture, neither nation’s
populace is likely to do an about-face and declare that they have

changed their minds.

Opinions have been formed. Information has been dispersed.
The cases have been made both pro and con. If the Bush Admin-
istration is serious about this thing, itis now time to put up or shut
up.

It may be that a war in Iraq could destabilize the Middle East,
although Armageddon is not a likely outcome. Similarly, a suc-
cessful war in Iraq will quite possibly lead toa freer, more unshak-
able Arab world, but conservatives should not expect to see a
democratically elected Iraqi parliament taking its seat six months
hence.

The hour is growing late. If the administration has still not
convinced our once-allies of Old Europe, it never will. That is, it
never will until the war is won, at which time they will beat a path
to Iraq, demanding to lead the victory parade. Itis now time to start
that parade.

Protests should focus on Saddam,

By Matt BANDYkK
Staff Colummist

During the recent worldwide protests against the war on Iraq,
left-wing activists expressed a broad range of arguments in oppo-
sition to regime change.

Many say that the motivation for the war is solely based on
Bush’s desire for oil. Others say that this war is just another ex-
ample of U.S. imperialism. Some embrace pacifism and reject
war as a method in foreign policy. However, the majority of the
protesters have one thing incommon: they only criticize America,
never Iraq.

As Georgetown professor Michael Kazin (who opposes the
war) wrote in the Washington Post, “the organizers of the recent
Washington and San Francisco marches refuse to say anything
critical of Saddam Hussein.” This unwillingness to confront Iraq,
the true threat to international security, has the exact opposite
effect that the protesters are hoping for: it increases the chances
that war with Iraq will occur.

This war is Saddam Hussein’s fault, not George Bush’s. The
U.S. government is trying to enforce the many U.N. resolutions
that Saddam has thumbed his nose at for the last decade. If he
would only cooperate and give up his weapons of mass destruc-

. tion as the United Nations has commanded many times, then the
march to war would cease. :

If these activists are anti-war, then they should be protesting

Saddam. Instead, they have chosen to encourage Iraq’s defiance.

When Saddam sees thousands of people around the world pro- .

testing the war, he is convinced that maybe war will not happen.

Without a credible threat from the United States, then Saddam
has no incentive to comply with inspections, and the protesters
are undermining that credibility.

Whatever your opinion on the Iraq issue is, it is unrealistic to
think that the United States will reverse its position on Iraq. Bush
has invested too much political capital into the war, and the
American public supports it. Furthermore, backing down in Iraq
would ruin our ability tobargain with North Korea, so withdrawal
is an unappealing course of action as well as infeasible.

However, an Iraqi change in position is not as unrealistic.
Saddam clearly responds to pressure; even Hans Blix has said that
the threat of waris the only reason that Saddam has agreed to these
new rounds of inspections.

The more pressure the United States puts on Saddam, the more
likely he is to voluntarily disarm. Instead of attacking the United
States, the protesters should oppose Saddam and demand that he
comply with U.N. resolutions. Since war is inevitable in the cur-
rent state of affairs, this is the best option for even the most anti-
war of people.

Iam not so naive to think that Iraq would give up all its weap-
ons the moment public opinion shifted against it. But the fact
remains that the “peace” activists are making a bad situation even
worse.

Jeremy Trantham

Life at school brings
comfort and worry

“Your grandpa is back in the hospital,” my mom told me the
other day. Ihave been getting some variation of that call alot over
the past few nionths. Grandpa chain-smoked his entire adult life.
I guess frequent trips to the hospital should be expected.

Now, every time my phone rings, I ama little scared. Worried
that this time the call won’t just be: “He’s back in the hospital,”
but, “It’s time. You’d better come home.” Apprehension is not
the type of emotion you want to have when you answer your
phone. But the phone is my only real means of communicating
with home. I am here and home is there.

College does offer a lot of advantages over living athome. Not
having to be around to deal with family problems—squabbles,
gossip and, yes, sickness—is just one such advantage. I cannot
tell you how often my parents will tell me a story and I will think,
“Wow, thank God I wasn’t around for that.”

So, in a way, I am glad that I am in school right now. I hate
hospitals, and I hate watching people I love die there. Especially
when it is from smoking. Instead of those cheesy the Truth ads,
they should show kids watch someone dying of emphysema. The
word god-awful does not even begin to describe it. Joe Camel has
nothing on Joe Tracheotomy.

But another, larger, part of me wants to be home. It sucks not

Ultimately, some of the things
we deem most important in
life really are not.

being around. Sure, there is not anything to do but sit and worry,
but at least I could sit and worry there. Instead I am stuck in a
classroom two hours away, and too preoccupied to pay enough
attention. Growing up really sucks sometimes.

I feel stuck here. Stuck in the life that I have created for my-
self—separate from my family. Responsibilities, both wanted
and unwanted, creep into our lives: academics, athletics, clubs,
organizations, friends, fraternities, work/study, meetings and
such. I want to tell them all to go to hell for a minute because I
need a break. I would really like to go see my grandfather.

Responsibilities help though. Being busy keeps you from
dwelling on your reality. Sitting around doing nothing only gives
you time to wallow in self-pity.

You could try to drink it all away, but in the morning you wake
up with the same problems and a headache.

The problem is that you go through all of this—you live your
life—and still, in the back of your mind, is pure, naked concern.
Itcolors everything you do. Concern makes all these responsibili-
ties seem less important, which isn’t necessarily bad. It does pro-
vide a certain amount of perspective. Ultimately, some of things
we deem most important in our lives really are not. Just like some
of the things we find funny really are not; I guess sometimes you
just can’t help but laugh.

I am only a two-hour drive across I-40 West from home. The
first time I was driving back over fall break freshman year I was
struck by how beautiful the mountains were. I had never noticed .
them growing up.

I have made that same drive enough times now that I do not
notice the two hours anymore. The journey has become routine
enough to be short. It really isn’t a long trip anyway. But every
once in awhile, two hours can seem like an eternity.

