THE DAVIDSONIAN

RLO, from page 1

For singles, there are 26 women on the waitlist
and 15 spots and 1! men on the list for eight
rooms.

Possible Solutions

“If a student has ever thought about living
off-campus, now is the time,” says Marsicano,
noting RLO won't be as strict about granting
off-campus housing permission for the spring
semester.

Other solutions involve the renovation of
Davidson-owned houses located next to the
College and, as a last resort, possible renova-
tions of small men’s halls, if more than half of

News

the hall has moved.

Problems arise for Davidson students who
lived on-campus this semester and now have to
move out of their rooms and back home or into
anew room before Winter Break begins. These
students will have to coordinate with people
living in their room for the next semester in
order to make a smooth transition.

“If you have changes, you really need to let
RLO know,” Marsicano says. Students return-
ing to campus want a bed.

Marsicano added that it is up to students
whose roommates are leaving to find new ones
for the spring, and no one will be able to live in
a double without a roommate.

photo by Dorsett Clar

Endangered species? Next semester women’s lounges such as this
one will be rare; as students retruning from abroad seek beds.

Downloading, from page 1

Penn State has set a precedent in the fight

against piracy that, if the recording industry has
its way, likely will be emulated by many major
universities.

Will Davidson follow suit?

In,the wake of this groundbreaking deal, the
pertinent question is, could this happen at
Davidson?

“It’s a possibility, given enough student sup-
port,” says Executive Director of IT Services
John Casey. “It’s always a good idea to provide
a legal alternative to illegal file-sharing.”

Just how big a problem is internet piracy at
Davidson? According to Casey, ITS does not
directly monitor students’ online activities, but
it is no’ secret that illegal downloading occurs.

“We don’t monitor the students so we have
no way of knowing who or how much. All we
do is limit the amount of traffic, though we
realize that the demand probably exceeds the
limit.”

illegal file swapping, no policing of students’
online activities and no attempts to educate
students about copyright laws. :

The prevailing opinion in the national fight
against internet piracy is that the epidemic is a
result of a generation gap. While many adults
view downloading music as the equivalent of
stealing, younger people have grown up in'an
ever-improving technological society in which
programs such as the original Napster and Kazaa

are commonplace and accepted.
Many questions remain untanswered. Should
students be j ved for p inactivi- |

ties they have known since high ? Those

Currently there are not any efforts to curtail

students with a Macintosh would not even have
the option of this service. Is it fair to offer a
service to which not everyone can subscribe?

How does Davidson’s Honor Code fit into
this argument? Individual interpretations of the
Honor Code abound, but while it explicitly
forbids stealing, some believe the general state-
ments seem to focus more narrowly on academ-
ics. (See related article for Davidson students’
views).

Pros and Cons

The Napster service, if adapted at Davidson,
would put the issue of the Honor Code to rest, as
it is completely legal and recording industry-
supported. But while the service is easy to
implement, do the benefits of legality outweigh
the negative aspects of this service? First, the
option of listening to music directly from the
Napster player is an imperfect method.

“Streaming audio is a flawed technology,”
reported Casey. “In many cases, it does not

trahsmit a satisfactory continuous stream of:

music. Itis a false promise.” In addition, stream-
ing audio would slow down the network signifi-
cantly, as would the option of downloading.
To prevent impacting crucial school operat-
ing systems, ITS would limit the bandwidth of
downloads as they do now, resulting in the same
slow transfer rates that students currently expe-
rience with programs such as Kazaa.
Students would also not have the option of
downloading movies, a currently popular op-
tion with programs such as Kazaa, Essentially,
the decision comes down to the current state of
slow, illegal music or movie downloads with
option of buming freely, or slow, legal
"music downloads with a 99 cent fee for burning

Songs.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003 5

eee Qi Clark

An ‘unidentified Davidson student downloads music files while listen-

ing to mp3’s on his iPod.
Survey, from page 1

Davidson's Honor Code. 76 percent of students
answered that downloading music should not
be an Honor Code violation, yet 44 percent of
polled students indicated that it was illegal to
download and share music over the Internet. 3 |
percent of all polled students took this inconsis
tent position.

The survey also explored the degree to which
recent lawsuits regarding music downloading

Davidson students echoed these concerns.

“It sounds like a great system, especially
given the safety from the prosecution that has
been targeting college students lately,” com-
mented Joe Cheaney ’06. “But I’m concerned
about the limitations of the service. Most people
download mu-
sic to listen to
away from
their computer
and would
rather do so
freely than be
forced to pay.”

Merin Frank
‘06 said, “I
think it’s a great
idea to offer a
legal alterne
tive to illegal
downloading. I
just hope |
could figure out
how to use it.”

These com-
ments reveal an
important
point, that the
Napster system, with so many options, could be
difficult to maneuver for the less computer-
savvy students.

Is it Davidson College’s responsibility to
better educate students about the dangers of
illegal downloading? Casey says no,

“It isn’t the place of academic people to
police for the music and movie industries.”

But until students understand and care about
their illicit actions, any regal altemnative i is un-
likely to succeed.

30 summer programs throughout t

of International Programs Abroad

800-251-9674
hitp://s

Is it legal to share music on
the Internet?

have affected the downloading activities of
Davidson students. 29 percent of students indi
cated that they would encourage a friend to stop
downloading music in light of recent law suits,
though 83 percent of students said they would
stop downloading ifhypothetically 10 Davidson
students were the targets of such lawsuits

Why the difference? Dr. Sellers explained
that the first question was framed generically.
while the other question was framed in a much
more personal manner.

File-sharing has become more controversial
as it has become more popular in recent years.
The poll sought to determine the legal know!
edge of the student body regarding download-
Ing practices, as well as ethical views on the
matter.
study the issue later this year, though represen-

The Honor Council has indicated it will

tauves declined re
quests for com-
menton the poll re
sults.

The survey was
randomly distrib
uted to

mately half of the

APProXxt

school’s) students
with acuive e-mail
\ addresses. and re
ceived a 59 percent
i response rate

While
tion

Informa

Technology
Services al
Davidson does not
monitor the content
of individual com

puters, 1tdoes regu

late the bandwidth
used by a student.
According to ITS Director John Casey. “When
we findacomputer that is using a disproportion

ate share of the total bandwidth available to the
entire college, we contact the owner and work
with that person to limit the traffic volume they
generate. Such cases are extreme. Anyone us-
ing | percent of the total bandwidth over a
couple of days is sending a huge amount of
data.” In brief, ITS asks that students be well
informed and responsible about music down

loading.

