ES

sess —
»
bs
\.

Staff Columnist

The 2004 election season is upon us, with the first debate

among Democratic presidential candidates imminent. As the:

last issue of the Davidsonian hits the presses, it is fitting to
look forward and discuss the factors that will determine Presi-
dent Bush’s chances at reelection in 2004.

The biggest problem the President will face is the economy.
It really is not fair to the president to say he has mismanaged
the issue: in fact, he got something of a lemon when he took
office. In early 2001, the technology bubble was bursting,
equity markets were about to begin their long-anticipated dip,
and economic growth had slowed considerably from the late
Nineties. :

Then along came September 11, the Argentine fiscal cri-
sis, corporate scandals, continued business woes in Europe
and Asia, and, most recently, SARS. All of these were things
beyond Bush’s control. And, just for the record, the reces-
sion was nota result of the 2001 tax cuts, which were not yet
in effect when the downturn began.

So while it is not fair to blame the sluggish economy on
Dubya, it still presents a political reality with which he must
deal.

' A key move for him- both politically and economically - ©

is securing the repeal of the dividends tax. This will provide
an immediate boost to the stock market, thus increasing the
ability of firms to raise equity, raising the level of disposable
income available to many households, and giving firms less
incentive to perform sketchy debt-hiding transactions. The

By.MIKE GALDO

Staff Columnist

‘[ thought ’'d comment on a couple of topics for my last
article of the year. The first is Spring Frolics at Davidson-my
favorite time of year.

Naked people going down the water slide, drunken mud
fights, people waking up on Saturday morning still intoxi-
cated and deciding to keep drinking instead of sobering up.
Realizing on Sunday morning that you have various cuts and
bruises all over your body-and having no idea how they got
there. Having to piece your weekend together by the various
places you were “sighted” by friends. The feeling that you
actually go to college and not an institute of learning.

It’s the debaucherous kickoff to the term paper and exam
season, the last gasp of fun before the due dates come crash-
ing down. For the seniors it’s one of last times they can act
like an imbecile and suffer no consequences (except for a
possible alcohol violation).

Each year Spring Frolics has restored my faith that there
are people here who enjoy acting like retards every once in
awhile. We take ourselves way too seriously.

Sure, we are all intelligent-well, most of us are.

Sure, we attend a top 10 liberal arts college, so what?

We are still 18-22.year olds who need to throw off the
oncoming pressures of adulthood every once in awhile and
get stupid.

That doesn’t necessarily mean imbibing ridiculous amounts
of alcohol. But it does mean letting loose, letting the conse-
quences be damned.

Maybe I’ve lost some of my work ethic after being abroad,

FR RELY

boost to the markets would aise dos a ee to firm up consumer ‘
confidence.

On the foreign policy front, the Aaniiulstration seems to
have the backing of most voters. However, it needs to re-
build Iraq quickly, and prevent radical Islam from arising
there.

All of this is eamiee said than done, but giving the Iraqi
people a large and prominent role in the reconstruction pro-
cess should go a long way towards winning good will for the
President, both at home and abroad.

The President should certainly make it clear to voters that
he is not going to allow a rouge state like North Korea to
intimidate us. By pushing ahead with plans for missile de-
fense and taking a hard line in multilateral talks with the
North Korean regime, the President will appear to be taking
positive steps towards resolving the crisis brewing in north
Asia. While there is not easy answer to the current situation,
as long as Bush appears to be making progress it should not
be a drag on his reelection chances.

To date, the President has accomplished an enormous
amount.

He has begun a trusade to reform the tax code, signed into
law a monumental education reform, quickly and effectively
organized a Department of Homeland Security, and toppled
totalitarian regimes in two states. Other achievements, such
as a ban on partial birth abortion and sweeping tort reform,
seem imminent.

If the administration continues on the path it has been fol-
lowing for the past two years, its chances of re-election should
be very good.

but since coming back spending more time with people has
become a much higher priority. It seems like Spring Frolics
is the only time the entire campus wakes up and realizes that
we are all people and not just students.

The second goal of this article is to offer up a bit of advice
for everyone going abroad next year. I spent a semester in St.
Andrews, Scotland, so if you are going to Australia or any-
where in Asia then I have nothing to offer. But, to the rest of
you, here are a few things you should know.

First of all, go to Ireland. The pubs are great, the people
are usually friendly (especially when you aren’t in a city),
and the natural beauty of places like the cliffs of Moher and
the Dingle Peninsula is amazing. Watch out for your wallet
in Dublin (especially when a shady person bumps against
you and runs away). The police won’t do a thing, except ad-
vise you to cancel your credit cards. Anyways, despite the
thievery, it’s a great country.

Second, go to Italy. I got the chance to spend several days
in both Rome and Florence. Go there. You can get cheap
flights if you plan ahead and hostels won’t run you that much
either. But if you are traveling by train from Rome to Flo-
rence make sure you get on the right train. Waking up from a
nap arid finding yourself in Naples is an awkward experi-
ence.

My last bit of advice is to travel alone in a country where
you don’t know anyone and don’t know the language.

Finding your way from the airport to your hostel with no
map and without being able to really communicate with a
soul is one of the most rewarding things you will ever do.
Then again, you could end up dead in a ditch, but if you
survive, traveling will never seem difficult again.

his Trentham
Signing off with
some parting advice

I can hardly believe this is my last column. It seems like
yesterday I strolled into this rag’s organizational meeting and
signed up to be a columnist.

I’m not sure where the term “Senior Source” came from,
but I hope I haven’t disappointed. In all honesty, I never
wanted to be the source of anything other than a weekly dose
of B.S. Really, I just wanted to write.

Four years at Davidson and despite my best efforts, I’ve
actually learned a couple of things. So for my last column I
thought I’d share some of the more important things I’m tak-
ing with me from Davidson:

-You’re never as smart as you think you are. I learned this
one really early freshman year. The first paper-I got back
from my W-course had a big D at the top. That wasn’t nearly
as disconcerting as the words at the bottom: “What are you
trying to do here? I can’t tell if this is sarcastic or serious. It
makes no sense. You are a moron, and I’m calling Admis-
sions tomorrow to tell them they made a horrible mistake.”
Ok, I made that last sentence up, but I think it was implied.

-You had better get in line at Commons early on chicken
tenders day. Show up late and you can kiss the BBQ sauce
goodbye. Show up real late and you won’t even get any ten-
ders. I’ve seen people cry about this. I know I would.

- You have to plan ahead when the laundry is busy. There is
nothing worse than wearing the same pair of underwear all
weekend because you let the laundry pile up till Thursday.
By Sunday you are one smelly mofo.

-Late night Waffle House runs with your friends are the
best five dollars you’ ll ever spend.

-Brick paths are everywhere, but if you walk around star-
ing at them, with your eyes downcast, you miss a lot.

-Right field at Wildcat Park might provide the best atmo-
sphere in college baseball, and there were games when Belk
Arena was absolutely electric.

-Beirut is easily the best game ever.

-All-nighters are no fun. They make the world really hazy
and surreal though. If that’s what you’re looking for, then
sleep-depravation is a solid alternative to those drugs that
make you dance with glow sticks to horrendous music.

-8:30 classes start two hours too early.

-Four years of college last about five days. And four of
those days are real hazy.

There are still things I haven’t figured out. I’ve never
learned what the Sparrow’s Nest is. For all I know Saddam
Hussein and Osama Bin Laden are in there playing Beirut—
without me. Those two were always bad about starting up a
game and not calling anybody.

So this is goodbye, Davidson. Oddly enough I’m going to
miss you. I’m not going to miss the work, but I am going to
miss things like staying up late night and taking stupid
drunken pictures with my friends. That’s the stuff you re-
member anyway, not some lecture. Is it just me, or is it get-
ting dusty in here? I should go.

Oh, and Davidson, stop taking yourself so damn seriously.
Please.

Disappointing frolics a sign of social changes on campus

By ALI FITZGERALD
Staff Columnist

Like an asthmatic in the “Cake Race,” Spring Frolics has
limped and huffed its way to the finish line. And with this
departure of debauchery, the campus social scene is deader
than a cooked. :.you know.

In desperate caffeine-guzzling times like these, I refer to

my oracle—the large whiskey-swilling silhouette of Belushi.

If you think about it, our little college is similar to “Animal
House.” Just replace that Jim Beam with a $7 Snapple pro-
cured at the Union, switch the great wooden frat-house to a
Physics Pizza party, and add a few accordion solos. Blend
all these together, and you will get a homogenous dollop of
Davidson.

I’m not in any way suggesting that we turn our comforters
into togas and live in an alco-topian society (Although, for
those interested,-“‘Jello Shot-crates” will be meeting bi-weekly
in the not-Kappa Sigma-house).

The fact is, nerdiness and hermit-like habits are as much a

part of the Davidson spirit as neurosis and premature hair
loss. As type-A personalities, we all feel driven to “learn” by
some great Oz-like force. But, where is the fun Auntie Em?
(tired of this metaphor yet?)

Since when does a well-located carrel warrant a gold leaf
engraving and a 400-person waiting list? No one showed up
to see “Blue Merle” on Saturday because the library is the
new place to party.

Below I offer my meticulously objective, entirely thorough
account of the fall of our very own “Inebriation Empire” (little
did you know my solo cup was really an elaborate recording
device) :

Freshman year: Beirut is banned; ping-pong ball sales
_ plummet and I wear a black sash as a sign of mourning. Car-

pal tunnel syndrome increases markedly from the year be-
fore, and Lil’ Bow Wow’s record deal signals the apocalypse,

Sophomore year: Impromptus are shut down faster than
Urkel on a Saturday night. Local po-po obviously train ex-
tensively; running up frat stairs Rocky-style and inventing
new cup-taking techniques. A loner lifestyle is slowly gain-

ing acceptance. Then the unthinkable occurs—the student
body is cheese-lessly stripped of Papa D’s talents when the
Outpost closes. A great darkness falls over the land.

Fall 2002: I live the insomniac’s dream in Sunny southern
‘Spain. I find myself missing Davidson.

Spring 2003: No more sangria. No self-selected noise.
Weekday nights are about as exciting as a Gore home video,
and my cinched pleather pants have met an untimely death—
because ‘Pimp and Ho’ is no mo’. And that brings us to this
weekend.

Whereas the Spring Frolics of yesteryear rolled in like a
tsunami of sin, this one was more akin to a blow up baby
pool. Connor House stepped up to the straw-laden plate by
taking over the slip and slide, but there was still something
missing. A shirtless Bobby Vagt, perhaps? :

But hey—I will take what I can get, because I know for
the next couple of weeks, I will have to rein in my academic-
jargon A.D.D. and <gasp> study. While reading Kant, Keats
and Kevorkian, I will dream of next year’s frolicking. That
and the exciting and equally over-hyped X-Men sequel.
