How should NCAA deal with
allegations of academic fraud?

We’re all familiar with the dumb-jock ste-
reotype. Somewhere along the line athletes
became associated with academic probation
and ridiculously bad SAT scores, and even
today, at schools like Davidson where we
graduate an astounding 91 percent of our
“jocks,” there are tutoring programs specifi-
cally designed for student-athletes.

Indeed, the “academic support unit” for
athletes at the University of Oklahoma covers
31,000 square feet in the football stadium.
These athletes are spoiled, if you will, with
classrooms, faculty on site, seven learning
centers for writing and other skills, 215 com-
puters, 138 tutors on every course under the
sun, specialists in learning disabilities and
advisors who help athletes pick majors and
courses.

Oklahoma spends $1.2 million a year on the
support unit, and, as such, the university ex-
pects athletes to utilize the service and gradu-
ate—“on time,” which by today’s standards is
within six years of initially enrolling.

But what may come as a shock to some, or -

simply the result of an overemphasis on athlet-
ics to others, Oklahoma’s basketball team has
a zero-percent graduation rate. That’s right—
no one has graduated from that program in the
last five years.

Recently, the idea that athletes can’t per-
form in the classroom has become a major
issue for the NCAA, and in the last two months
alone there have been three instances (St.
Bonaventure, Georgia and Fresno State) of
alleged academic fraud in men’s basketball.

“There must be a base below which aca-
demic performance is unacceptable,” NCAA
President Myles Brand said last weekend at
the Final Four in New Orleans. “Under no
circumstances can it be acceptable not to gradu-
ate any men’s basketball player in five years,
which unfortunately has recently occurred at
36 Division I schools.”

Even as Brand spoke, an NCAA-sponsored
committee was at work putting finishing
touches ona potentially controversial package
of reform proposals, which would put teams
like Oklahoma in jeopardy of being punished.
In the future, teams with low academic suc-
cess rates (the measurements for which are
currently being worked out) could face the
loss of scholarships, or in extreme cases, ban-
ishment from postseason competition.

Teams with stellar academic records, on the
other hand, could be rewarded with extra
scholarships or recruiting advantages. The
proposal would apply to teams in all sports,
but men’s basketball has been singled out for
close examination, as its 34 percent gradua-
tion rate nationally for Division I-A schools
pales in comparison to the 59 percent rate for
all athletes and 60 percent for all students.

ESPN.com reports that of the 65 teams that
competed in the 2003 NCAA Tournament, 29
graduated no more than 33 percent of their
players in the four years of recruiting classes
leading up to the 1995-96 class, the most
recent one evaluated by the U.S. Department
of ‘Education. And—what some consider a
more controversial statistic—black players (26
percent graduation rate) are less likely than
whites (49 percent) to finish their careers with
degrees, according to the study of NCAA
graduation rates.

The framework of the aforementioned pro-
posal will be finalized this spring, with the
expectation that implementation will begin in
August 2004. According to a certain NCAA
document, the first aspect of the system to go
into effect would be incentives to programs
with “exemplary” graduation rates, meaning
schools like Davidson would be rewarded.
Full implementation of the program will come
in the fall of 2006, when the NCAA can begin
to keep teams out of postseason play. That
leaves some schools, like Oklahoma and Syra-
cuse (25 percent), with three years to turn
things around, and some coaches aren’t happy.

“There’s a myth out there that all these guys
are just going to school, and leaving, and they
end up unemployed someplace in the gutter,”
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. “That’s not
what happens. Every player who ever played
at Syracuse has got a job today. Every one.”

To me, this whole graduation issue has been
a long time coming. Big time colleges and
universities have transformed into virtual mi-
nor league systems for professional sports,
and the term student-athlete has all but disap-
peared from the lexicon at too many schools.

Of course, we must also examine the stu-
dent-athletes’ side, and many of them will tell
you that they feel more like employees than
students.

“You go from 9 in the morning, and I’m not
even back in my room until 10:30 or 11 at
night,” Creighton senior Kyle Korver said at
the West Regional. “It’s basically a full-time
job. And then there’s travel.”

Most NCAA officials agree with these stu-
dent-athletes and admit that amateurism has
taken a backseat to the commercialism, espe-
cially at the Final Four where fans are ex-
pected to pump some $100 million into the
local economy.

According to a recent edition of Business
Week, the NCAA is “the best little monopoly
in America” because it has successfully sup-
pressed financial competition in college sports
and its strict limitations on scholarships and
payments to athletes has boosted the profit-
ability of college sports programs. But, the
general public doesn’t see this nasty side, and
most fans are only aware of the NCAA’s
ability to maintain what critics call the moral
high ground.

Interestingly, according to arecent Chicago
Tribune article, the NCAA and its Division I
conferences are now working out the details of
a plan to funnel $750 million to athletes over
the next 11.years. The bulk of the fund is a
windfall from the $6 billion CBS is paying the
NCAA for exclusive broadcast and Internet
rights to the Division I men’s basketball tour-
nament through 2013, and the money will

_ provide financial assistance to all student-

athletes for such items as clothing and school
supplies.

Personally, paying collegiate athletes make
very little sense to me. After all, the money
CBS and other institutions earn comes, in part,
from revenue generated by broadcasting col-
legiate games on national television. What 20-
year old doesn’t want to be seen by millions of
viewers?

That, combined with the opportunity to re-
ceive a quality education, should be compen-
sation enough for these student-athletes.

Expectations higher
with team losing
only three seniors

By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Spring may have just arrived, but the men’s
soccer team already completed their spring
season with a doubleheader last Saturday.

Ending with a final record of 2-2-2, the
Wildcats are headed into training for the 2003-
2004 season with much enthusiasm.

“This spring, like all spring seasons, is
centered on player development and develop-
ing new leaders and chemistry,” said Davidson
head coach Matt Spear. “With fewer players
on the spring squad, there is a great opportu-
nity for the coaches to work with each player
and an expanded chance for the players to
play in the matches.”

“The spring is also a time when we are
working on improving all over the pitch,”
commented Nick Hansel ’04, “but emphasiz-
img goal scoring.”

Hansel rose to the challenge, scoring the
only goal in the Davidson’s first spring match
against UNC-Asheville.

The win avenged last year’s tough loss and
gave the needed momentum to begin the new
season.

In the next game, the "Cats matched up
against Catawba but fell to a two-goal deficit
in the first half. Davidson then rallied to come
back and tie with two goals from Hansel.

With a 1-0-1 record, the Wildcats took on
the challenge of playing the Charlotte Eagles,
part of the men’s A-league.

The Eagles, members of the second-highest
tier of soccer in the US, controlled the ball the
majority of the first half. Davidson could not
equalize in the second half but tallied one
goal, making the final score 3-1.

Despite the loss to the Eagles, it was a good
learning experience.

“The reason we play against a pro team is a
fun challenge and learning experience,” said
Spear. “We did some good things, and we did
some bad things, but I am convinced it will
help us in the long run. Once you stretch
yourself, you never come back to the original
shape.”

The team’s next challenge was against
Southern Conference rival Appalachian State.

The Mountaineers scored two goals in the
first half on spectacular plays. While Dan
Ferriter’’05 scored a goal in the second half,
the ’Cats could not manage to pull out the win.
The final score was 3-1.

“Losing to a conference foe is never a fun
result,” acknowledged Spear. “But we picked
up several positives from the match. We
controlled possession for large segments of
the game. The ball movement in the back and
middle thirds of the game are much improved.”

As the season was more than halfway over,
the team quickly shifted focus to its finale, a
doubleheader against West Virginia and Uni-
versity of Virginia.

This was the last part of the spring season,
and the Wildcats certainly ended it on a good
note.

The West Virginia game got off to a good
start with a goal from Keith Nicholson ’04.

His goal proved crucial, as the second half
was a defensive battle, resulting in a 1-0
Davidson victory.. :

Next, the Wildcats faced national power-
house UVA in their second match of the day.

The Cavaliers struck first with a goal in the
first half. Davidson quickly regrouped and
countered with an equalizer by Preston Davis
’06 to make the score even at half.

Although the ’Cats showed determination
in the second stanza, neither team could get

_~ Hansell was a dan-
/gerous scorer last year.
As a senior, he'll be
counted upon to be the
team’s top goal-scorer.

4

Justin Porter
Rising senior
Defender |
Porter will be a major
cog on a defense that
carried the team through
much of last season.

another goal, andthe game ended in a 1-1 tie.

Last weekend was by far the best we have
played all season,” said David Sartorio”’06,
“and ending on a note like that makes me
excited about next fall.”

Sartorio’s excitement is warranted consid-
ering the team has only lost three seniors to this
year’s graduating class.

One of those seniors, four-year starter Soren
Johnson, has already elevated his athletic ca-
reer since he left the fields of Richardson
stadium last fall.

Johnson had an astounding tryout for the A-
League Rochester Rhinos and was signed for
next season.

“It’s important to know that Rochester is
widely considered as the best franchise in the
A-League,” said Spear,’’“‘both in terms of win-
ning, in producing MLS players, and in pack-
ing fans into the stadium. So it’s especially
exciting for Soren and Davidson soccer to join
such an amazing organization.”

The spring season was also played without
both captains for next fall, David Peoples ‘04
and Justin Porter ‘04, who are both abroad this
semester.

Even with the loss of some scoring power,
players like Hansel and Davis rose to the
challenge and produced much need offensive
power.

The entire defensive unit, anchored by
Peoples, will return intact next fall.

A deep goalkeeping squad of Bart Creasman
’04, Jordan Hauser ’05, and Shihab Sugeir ’04
will mind the nets.

The midfield is also solid with standouts
Sartorio, Davis, and Nicholson.

Finally, forwards Hansel, Ferriter, and Jeff
Davis ’06 will be on the Wildcat attack.

Adding to the pool of talent for the fall are
four incoming freshman recruits who will bring
a lot of scoring potential.

The recruits hail from New York, Califor-
nia, Connecticut, and North Carolina.

“We are expanding recruits to the national
level, instead of just the southeast region,” said
Nicholson, “Many will have the opportunity
to see a lot of time, as was the case with this
year’s freshmen, since we are a young team.”

All four recruits are offensive threats and
will be good additions to the strong roster of
young players.

Ultimately, the team looks forward to win-
ing the SoCon tournament and getting an op-
portunity to play in the NCAA tournament.

“The experienced players we have returning
and the talented recruits coming in mean we
should be able to improve,” said Hansel. _
