THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Grammy nods too conservative

By Anpy HEsTon
Staff Writer

Several days ago I was painfully reminded
of why the Grammy awards have lost any and
all relevance, credibility, and merit.

Exhibit A: the Grammies’ continued insis-
tence on complete irrelevancy. The first rap
Grammy was not given until 1988, more than
a decade after the genre’s birth. In the year of
Public Enemy’s groundbreaking album “It
Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back,”
the firstrap Grammy wentto Will Smith’s song
“Parents Just Don’t Understand.”

As hard as it is for me to believe it, a rock
artist did not win the song of the year award
until 1977, when the Eagles won with “Hotel
California.” In 1967 the Beatles’ “A Day in
the Life” was passed over in favor of the 5
Dimensions’ “Up Upand Away.” “Up Up and
Away” received five Grammies,” “Sgt.
Pepper’s” only two.

The Best New Artist award for 1977 was
given to Debby Boone. In 2001, Album of the
Year went to Steely Dan’s “Two Against Na-
ture,” rather than Eminem’ s “Marshall Mathers
LP” or Radiohead’s “Kid A.”

Exhibit B: the Grammies’ refusal to recog-
nize the past careers of artists nominated for

the Best New Artist award. The Fountains of
Wayne, also nominated for Best New Artist,
released their debut album seven years ago in
1996. What kind of sense would it make for an
band to win Best New “Artist for its third al-
bum? There are also several artists in this
category who, while “new,” aren’t even close
to “best.” Evanescence springs to mind. Natu-
rally, they’re also nominated for Best Hard
Rock Performance and Best Rock Album.
So how does that leave us for this year’s
Grammy nods? ‘Pretty predictable: a decent
mix of big sellers (Justin Timberlake, Beyonce,
50.Cent), edgy-yet-still-acceptable-to-the-

mainstream-press acts (OutKast, the White .

Stripes), and the old, venerable, and typically
deceased (George Harrison, Warren Zevon,
Johnny Cash).

Yet for all its conservatism, this year’s
Grammy nominations remind me of just how
good a year for music 2003 has been. Finally,
the return of some decent pop music! A great
deal has been made over the numerous Rap/
R&B/urban nominees (OutKast and Beyonce
with 6 nominations each, Justin Timberlake
with 5), and all I can say is it’s about time.
Perhaps forgettable teen pop and angst-metal
have finally loosened their hold on the popular
music scene? One can only hope.

“Bad Santa,” from page 5

sive? Sure, but less than saccharine entertain-
ments that are too embarrassed and oversim-
plified for comedy.

Bill Murray was supposed to play the title
role in “Bad Santa.” In an interview with the
New York Times, director Terry Zwigoff said
that he wanted Murray because,”“[t]here are
few actors whocan be funny.” Luckily, Murray
pulled out, and Thorton took his place. The
problem is that Murray, even when he plays a
scrooge (see “Kingpin’), is so likeable and the
lead in “Santa” is so deplorable that it requires
a deadpan performance undeliverable by
Murray.

Perhaps Thorton is the only actor grungy

enough to pull off the role. He looks, as much
as anyone can, like atactless alcoholic. His dia-
logue, which provides most of laughs, consists
mostly of vulgarities about “retards” and
“midgets.” There are approximately 280 pro-

fanities, which are funny because they’ re aimed
at children. The film dedicates itself to politi-
cal incorrectness to such a degree that it’s kind
of brilliant. Audacious is an understatement.

Bad Santa

Directed by:
Terry Zwigoff
Written by:
Glenn Ficarra and John Requa

Starring:

Billy Bob Thorton, Tony Cox,
Brett Kelly, Lauren Graham
Running time:

93 minutes

ON THE CAT WALK

What’s your exam-taking strategy?

6

Corner

* IK &

with Cannon Hodge

The papillon searchers

How is it possible that an eleven-week-old
puppy is more recognized than a senior who
writes for two college publications? Seriously,
Fred and I’ll be walking across campus and
people will stop in their tracks, call him by
name, cuddle and coo at him, and then (out of
common courtesy, of course) give me a sweet
little smile and say, “Hi.” Honestly, he’s only
been in my life for two weeks.

Papillons (that’s French for “butterflies”’) are
what I call frou-frou dogs: they have
humongous ears and can fit nicely into one’s
pocketbook. Now pretend that you’re me fora
second and imagine the vision of having some
teensy-tiny dog with humongous ears peering
out of the top of my purse. I know. It’s just
perfect. Who wouldn’t want one?

Rule #1: When going on the puppy search,
always leave your wallet in the car. Watauga,
Texas — which once had a population of sixty-
five and now only ten minutes north of Fort
Worth—is where the Jolly family lives. De’ anne
Jolly had put an ad in the paper announcing
that they had papillon puppies for sale. Momma
and I responded.

De’ anne had a very clean and modest brick
house complete with papillon street signs.
Momma believed that this was a good sign.
There were doggies everywhere and, aside
from the jingling cat bells, all of the dogs were
silent. Imagine that! A frou-frou dog that
doesn’t bark!

It was love at first sight. I never had seen a
papillon before and just couldn’t believe that
these tiny creatures were really dogs. Their
entire bodies were wagging. And those ears!
(They are related to bats, aren’t they?) Momma
wanted a puppy. I wanted a puppy. And you
would have wanted a puppy had you been there.
Momma and I were ready to buy the entire lit-
ter.

Rule #2: Beware of llamaholics. We located
a breeder in Southlake, Texas — just north of
Watauga — and Momma and I hoped that this
breeder would have a puppy that could whet
our appetite.

Well. Let me tell you. Sally and her husband
were not only papillon breeders but also were
llama breeders. Yes. That’s right: llama breed-
ers. They also had this “show-quality” papil-
lon, Charlie, who was a national champion or
something. He was beeeeee-u-tiful.

But Charlie didn’t sire the litter. No. Two
mangy dogs resembling the sweet, fluffy
Charlie were the parents. From the looks of
these two, the llama breeders seemed to focus
their efforts only on Charlie and their llamas,

***ACT NOW!

Book 11 people, get 12th trip
free. Visit the official website
for Spring Break ‘04.

The best deals to the
hottest destinations.

- Group discounts for 6+
www.springbreakdiscounts.com
.. or 800-838-8202

which grazed in the front yard.

None of the dogs were potty-trained. But,
even worse; it seemed that the llamaholics
hadn’t cleaned their house since 1931. AndI’m
not exaggerating. It was disgusting: there were
stacks of junk piled everywhere. It was a do-
mestic black hole that reeked of dog mess and
cigarettes. Fearing ringworm, Momma refused
to sit on the carpet. She squatted instead.

It was decided. About two seconds after leav-
ing Sally’s menagerie, Mommaand I called up
Jolly house and said, “Yes!” We wanted their
male puppy.

Fred only weighs two and a half pounds - so
everything that Fred does is absolutely ador-
able. It’s just impossible. to discipline a crea-
ture that looks like a mix between a dog, cat,
rat, rabbit and gremlin, especially when he
jumps up and down like a yo-yo.

And Fred’s especially adorable. All of his

Yourtg:

Fred at Warner Hall’s chanipagrie
party on Friday night

toys are mini-sized and his bones are bigger
than he is. Have you seen him hop up the stairs
or bound across a stretch of grass? Oh. My.
God. It’s just precious. He’s like a wind-up toy.

Ofcourse Fred’s been all over the place, both
in Texas and North Carolina. During his first
trip on an airplane, the flight attendants took
pictures with him. Fred also helped my thirty-
nine-year-old cousin pick up women at the
annual Thanksgiving Drunk party in Forth
Worth. Naturally, Fred’s been to the liquor
store, the bar and a couple of parties. He’s one
hell of a social butterfly.

Fred’s instant popularity continues to amaze
me. Suddenly, the entire college knew who Fred
was and began calling him by name. Fred’s
chummy with the basketball team and union
regulars. And youcan’t believe how much more
approachable a girl is when she has a puppy in
tow. Fred and I can’t even make it across cam-
pus without being stopped at least four times.

STSTRAVEL. COM

www. ststravel.com

800-648-4849
