10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Team picked to finish
sixth in conference

By Jerr Davis
Staff Columnist

This fall the women’s soccer team prepares f¢
a tough and exciting schedule in and out of thé
Southern Conference. The 2003 team is com-

prised of a mix of new faces with talented veter-:

ans.

A three year starter and 2002 All-Conference
selection, Leigh Anne Hoskins ’04 will look to
lead the ’Cats alongside 2002 Southern Confer-
ence Rookie of the Year, Kara Koehrn ’06. Ten
freshmen join the team and as many as four could
earn starting roles. With the loss of five seniors
from last year, many players will need to change
roles and adopt new positions.

Highlighting the schedule are ACC power-
houses Duke and Wake Forest and SEC foes
South Carolina and Kentucky. For the first time
in history the ’Cats will take on Ivy Leaguers
Dartmouth University. In Conference play,
Furman will be a target for Davidson to triumph
after last year’s 4-0 loss to the Paladins.

Line-up-wise the ’Cats return two starters to
their defense, in Jenny Soldano ’06 and Liz
Mannino ’0S5. Fully recovered from a season
ending broken foot just a year ago, Lauren
Hungerland ’06 will add speed and skill to the
back line. Also look for Robin French ’07,
Cameron Hardesty ’07, and Kara Hawkesworth
*07 to contribute defensively.

To back up these defenders all season long is
co-captain Sarah Hobart ’05. Hobart recorded a
1.75 goals against average and 114 saves during
the 2002 campaign.

The midfield returns four starters from last
season’s squad. Co-captain Amy Leitch ’04 will
look to use her leadership and determination to

SPORTS
‘Women’s soccer hopes tough schedule pays off i In SoCon

Alia Antonucci-Alter ’04

solidify the ’Cat’s midfield. Fellow senior
Deneille Erikson and Stephanie Bouts.’05
are both capable to create goals and put a
few in themselves.

Tocomplete the midfield will be Koehrn,
a preseason All-Conference selection, who
will be looked on to go forward as much as
possible and have a go at goal. A tremen-
dous leader on the field, she scored two
goals and had two assists last season.

Also seeing time in the midfield will be
Sarah Hubert ’04, Catie Williams ’04, Cady
Blackey ’06, Jessica Lahre ’07, and Anne
Stevens ’07.

The experienced front line of Davidson’ s
offense. Hoskins and Alia Antonucci-Alter

eigh Anne Hoskins ’04 (r) and

°04, will pair up to pose quite an offensive
threat to opponents. Hoskins is coming off an
eight-goal, four-assist season. She currently
stands in the Davidson record books with 28
career goals and 15 assists. Antonucci-Alter
will use her quickness and dribbling abilities
to add to Hoskins’ dominance.

Coming off what turned into a productive
spring, this year’s ’Cats will be challenged in
every match. They are picked to finish sixth in
the Southern Conference.

Must see home games for this fall include
Wake Forest on Sept. 9, Duke on Sept. 26, and
the last game of the season with UNC-Greens-
boro on Nov. 2.

Lage Forest

COMMUNITY CHURGH

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

‘The women’s 5 soccer 5 teas teveled $0
UNC Asheville on Sunday afternoon, and
managed to hold on for a 2-1 win in the
midst of some rough weather.

Davidson scored its first goal 25 sec-
onds into the match and led’2-0 before
lightning delayed the game for 20 minutes
with 5:23 left in the first period.

Davidson took a quick lead when senior
Alia Antdnucchi-Alter scored on a pass
from Leigh Anne Hoskins right after the
opening whistle. After being shutout by
Kentucky on Friday, Alia’s goal was
Davidson’s first of the season.

Both defenses were strong following the
quick opening goal, keeping the score at 1-
O, until preseason all-conference selection
Kara Koehrn’ scored on a cross from
Hoskins at the 32:04 mark. It was Koehrn’s
first goal of the season and Hoskins” sec-
ond assist of the game.

Following the weather delay, the Bull-
dogs (0-1-0) got on the scoreboard when
Kelsey Dawson found the back of the net
just before halftime. Davidson was able to
hold onto the 2-1 lead in the second period
thanks to a strong defensive effort and the
goalkeeping of junior Sarah Hobart. .

The win was particularly gratifying, as
the team was coming off a 6-0 loss to the
University of Kentucky just two days ear-
lier.

‘

Davidson
Street

Carolina
Cones

Catawba Avenue

