Surveying the wide world of
sports, the good and the bad

Before I begin, let me remove my foot from
my mouth,

On Friday, just four days after being cleared
of any wrong doing by the Ohio High School
Athletic Association for accepting a $50,000
car from his mother, LeBron James was de-
clared ineligible to compete as an amatuer,
effectively ending his high school basketball
career.

This time, James recieved two vintage jer-
seys, valued at roughly $850, for free from an
Akron area clothing store and thereby violated
an OHSAA bylaw that states, “[no athlete
may] capitalize on athletic fame by receiving
money or gifts of monetary value.”

I don’t blame James for taking the merchan-
dise; after all, he did pose for photos that are
now displayed in the store and the jerseys
could be considered payment for his service.

As Deion Sanders recently said, “ If we

really did our homework, I don’t think we

would have anyone -eligible.’’ Surprisingly,
Prime Time makes a good point.

Of course, at some point James, who boasts
a 3.5 GPA at St. Vincent-St. Mary’s, needs to
use just a little common sense.

He is filmed and followed more than most
“Real World” participants and, given his ce-
lebrity status and impending wealth, he must
understand that people are trying to knock him
down from the pedestal America has built for
him.

For his part James said, “When I went in (the
store), you know, I was just going in there as
being, you know, another player, and they was
trying to reward me for my good grades.”

As you may remember, two weeks ago this
column reprimanded our nation’s sports me-
dia for obsessing over an 18-year-old’s car.

I supported James for driving the Hummer
and encouraged him to enjoy his final months
in high school.

After the whole jersey incident, though, I
lost a lot of respect for the kid. When he
accepted the free gifts, James put himself over
his team and let down some of his best friends.
_ All For what, a Wes Unseld jersey?

Come on, LeBron; your team has been
ranked number one in America by USA Today

for several weeks now and was pretty much a

shoe-in for the state championship.

Not all is lost for James, though, as he could
play professionally in Europe until the up-
coming NBA draft in July. Unfortunately, his
new threads won’ t help him too much with the
European ladies. How many folks inGermany
or France have ever heard of Wes Unseld?

Yale car accident hits home

On amore (very) serious note, by now most
of you must have heard about the four Yale
students who died in a car accident about two
weeks ago.

One of the victims, Nick Grass, played on
my team at a baseball showcase we both
attended after our junior year in high school.

While we really haven’t talked since, Nick
and I hung out a lot over those three or four
days and he drove me to most of our games.

Nick graduated from Holyoke (Ma.) High
School in 2001 with honors, and was selected
All-Western Massachusetts in football and
was named Most Outstanding Player in West-
ern Massachusetts baseball.

“He was hysterical,” Yale baseball captain

a eo a shee ewe

Steven Duke said. “He was the kid you wanted
to have in your group. He was funny, outgoing
and caring. He wouldn’t be mean to anybody.
He was just a great-hearted kid.”

I write about this for no other reason than to
state the obvious: bad things can happen to
good kids.

No matter how many precautions we may
take (designated drivers, obeying the speed
limit etc.) there is absolutely no way to avoid
some circumstances.

The accident happened around 5 a.m. on
Jan. 22 on Interstate 95, as nine fraternity
brothers were returing to campus in the same
SUV after a night in New York City.

The driver of the vehicle was not drunk, and
preliminary findings confirmed that lights on
the icy highway were out and that the car was
“not grossly exceeding the speed limit.”

The tragedy, needless to say, devasted the
Yale campus, and several athletic events were
postponed.

Along with Nick, Yale pitcher Kyle Burnat
also died in the crash.

“T’ve got a big hole in my roster, I’ ve got an
even bigger hole in my pitching staff, but the
largest hole of all resides right here in my
heart,” said Yale baseball coach John Stuper,
“and I wish somebody could tell me what to do
about that.”

The Yale baseball team visits Davidson on
Mar. 19 for a3 p.m. game at Wildcat Park.

X-Games aren’t so bad

Now, for the good stuff. While many of you
were out frolicking in the Court on Saturday
night, I stayed in and watched the X-Games.
You really ought to watch them sometime.

With events. like Skiing SuperPipe and Moto
X Big Air, how can anyone resist?

The competitors are ridiculous athletes and
the atmosphere is a cross between a frat party
and a Green Day concert.

Of the 271 X-Gamers, 30 are Olympians
and, of those, 13 have won a medal.

Boys and girls who can’t even legally drive
are busting out 1080s and “Alley-hoop
McTwists” (hard to explain) in the halfpipe.

Indeed, Shaun White (aka “Slope Ninja’),
the 16 year old phenom with Carrot Top-esque
hair, took home gold in men’s SuperPipe, and
he was up against the broze, silver and gold
medalists from the Salt Lake City Olympics.

Along with an entirely unique form of
athleticism, the X-Games also require an en-
tirely different vocabulary.

Tobe sure, the words “nardly” and ‘“‘stoked”’
have been used so much in Aspen this week
you would have thought it was. 1986 and the
cult-classic “Rad” just debuted in theatres.

You see, LeBron James isn’t the only teen-
age athlete making headlines these days.

Sure, he can dunk, but let’s slap some skis
on the kid and see what he can do. .

Snow sports don’t get the kind of recogni-
tion they deserve, and America has been
hooked on mainstream games like football
and basketball for way too long.

It’s time for the X-Gamers out there to get
their 15 minutes of fame, and show us whatit’s
like to be totally wicked sick athlete.

An interesting mixture of sports, I know;
but I though I'd shake things up a bit. Remem-
ber, variety is the spice of life.

Have a good week.

Soe

Men set school record
in distance medley _
relay; women improve

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Entering UNC-Chapel Hill’s. brand new
indoor track facility brings only one thing to
mind: “Geez, there’s more baby-blue in here
than outside in the sky.”

The color schemes weren’t much of a prob-
lem for the Wildcats, though, as the men’s
team set a school indoor record in the Dis-
tance Medley Relay with.a team consisting of
Nick Lehman ’05 in the 1200m and Paul
Wyatt ’05 in the 400m, and Greg Scott ’04 in
the 800m and Ben Gaspar ’04 in the 1600m.

Scott also ran the seventh fastest mile in
Davidson indoor history with a 4:23.64 and
fifth place finish.

Likewise, Jonathon Baker ’06 joined the
top-ten indoor 3k-performer list for his 8:57.44,
9th place finish. _

“Tt was a fun race anda nice facility; I really
enjoyed it. I just kept focusing on the guys
ahead of me and ran my own race,” com-
mented Baker.

But the story of the day was the DMR. The
team finished third with a time of 10:37.24,
over seven seconds faster than the previous
record.

“Today, it was really the sum of the parts
that helped us crush the school record. It was
atrue team effort,” explained Gaspar, who ran
his first race following’a winter surgery.

Gaspar also competed in the mile earlier in
the day, earning himself a tenth place finish
with his time of 4:31.01

Added Lehman, “I’m excited about the
solid race and the school record, but I’m even
more pumped of what’s to come and the
season ahead of us.”

at Carolina Fast Times _

Junior Adam Sperling puts the heat on an opponent.

Coach Gary Andrew agreed, “Overall, I was
very happy with the guys’ efforts today. We
made a lot of progress from the last meet. That —
was one of our goals today, but we still have a
lot of work to do.”

The Davidson Sk team swept the top two
spots in the 5k, being the only two runners
competing.

Austin Mercadante ’06 ran his winning time
of 16:24.5 basically by himself, with Joe Crowe
’05 following in 17:23.99.

Joining Baker in the 3k was the future 10k
duo of Chris Schmader ’05 and Brad Becken
03.

They finished in 9:10.79 and 9:15.60, re-
spectively.

The women’s team performed on low re-
sources but came out with some hard-fought
improvements.

Amanda Yeck ’05 quadrupled in prepara-
tion for the pentathlon, competing in the high
jump, 60m dash, open 200, and the 400m leg of
the DMR.

Her 60m time of 8.64 was a personal record.

The 4X4 also competed well, finishing eighth
with a time of 4:24.63.

The team consisted of Jana Lee ‘03, Clarissa
Carr ’04, Kate Wilson ’04 and Hilary Leister
06.

Their overall time was a 13 second improve-
ment over last week’s.

Carr also competed in the open quarter and
200m dash with times of 66.82 and 29.69,
respectively, as many athletes had to double
and triple due to low numbers from sickness
and injury.

“Tt was another learning experience for the
women. We got out there and discovered a
little bit more about paces and challenges. It
was our first time on this type of track, but we
gained a lot of confidence today,” said assis-
tant coach Pete Loeb, who was filling in for
head coach Jen Straub. :

Both track teams return to competition this
upcoming Saturday at the Carolina Heels Chal-
lenge at UNC.

Wrestlers fall to Mocs, Devils

By Bossy KENNER & BRENT McCormick
Staff Writers

The wrestling team took on Chattanooga
and Duke this weekend at Belk Arena.

Despite an impressive showing by heavy-
weight John Pollak ’06, who notched two
victories by decision, Davidson was unable to
overcome the deficit created by three forfeits
versus Chattanooga and four against the Blue
Devils.

Despite the disappointing losses, however,
two grapplers came away with impressive
performances.

Matt Leonard ’06, who now leads the team
with seventeen wins, earned decision against

B.J. Malone of UT-C.

The other win went to Henry Blue ’06, who
pinned Andy Soliman of Duke.

The strong performance by freshmen has
been a recurring trend throughout the season.

Nine of the 11 grapplers on the squad are

. first-years, and they seem to be “gelling as a

team,” says 125-pounder Derek Stroke ’06.
Teammate and fellow frosh Patrick Coman
agrees.
~ “The freshmen class is really starting to turn
the corner in making the transition from high
school to college wrestling,” he said.
“We show a lot of promise for the future.”
The squad next wrestles Duquesne, at home,
on Friday night.
