Wepespay, Ocroser 29, 2003

College expects to name new
Business VP by December

More than 140 apply for top administrative position
vacated after the resignation of Robert Norfleet

f By Erik SWANSON
U Staff Writer

In August, college administrators began a
search to find a replacement for former Vice
President of Business and Finance Robert
Norfleet, who stepped down last summer to
pursue other interests.

With the applicant screening process nearing
its end, the candidate pool has been narrowed,
and the new V.P. should be selected by Decem-
ber, said college President Bobby Vagt.

The recruiting involves both telephone and
on-campus interviews

tions for the opening, the college emphasizes
the role the new V.P. would play in the Davidson
community: “Along with five other members of
the College’s principal management group, the
Vice President for Business and Finance reports

directly to the President, and, as such, partici- -

pates with this group and the President in for-
mulating broad strategic and managerial poli-
cies and decisions, across all areas of the Col-
lege, for the direction and future of the institu-

tion.”
In addition to these broad goals, Vagt stresses
the importance of growth in endowment, infor-
mation technology, and

with more than 140 appli- physical infrastructure,
cants led by an in-house “iis is q good job, andI?’m mong various other
committee—Clark Ross, boone needs.

V.P. of Academic Affairs not talking just salary.” As the search for
& Deanof Faculty; Verna Norfleet’s successor

Case, Biology Depart-
ment Chair; Nancy
Cable, V.P. and Dean of Admission & Financial
Aid; and Carl Sorenson, Director of Human
Resources—and by national recruitment
agency A.T. Kearney.

While the in-house committee and search
agency: A.T. Kearney control the screening
process, “ultimately the decision rests with the
trustees,” according to Vagt.

“They will be engaged [at the point of making
the decision].”

While the administration initially hoped the
process would be completed by November, the
delayed culmination reflects the overall size of
the applicant pool.

Case said, “There are a number of highly
qualified candidates, each of whom would bring
a unique perspective to Davidson College.”

The position vacated by Norfleet is a chal-
lenging role.to fill. The V.P. of Business and
Finance reports directly to the president regard-
ing business, finance, information technology,
and administrative services.

In the advertisement placed to elicit applica- ©

- President Vagt

ones ne. BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside
Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

comes to a close, the ad-

- ministration outlines the
advantages of the position.

“This is a good job, and I’m not talking just
salary,” said Vagt.

He accentuated the benefits of the position,
both professionally and personally, such as the
community in which the individual would work
and live.

Norfleet, who graduated from Davidson in
1970, served the college at this position for over
a decade, bringing about several positive
changes and innovations to the Davidson com-
munity.

Most notable of these in recent memory was
his role in the construction of the crew team’s
boathouse in 2000.He was particularly sympa-
thetic to the biology department, supporting
many of their projects and valuing the impor-
tance of recycling.

Currently, Norfleet is serving the college on
an interim basis as the Sr. Executive Director of
I.T. and Investments, focusing primarily on
endowment enrichment and Information Tech-

‘nology Services.

Open @ 11 a.m. 7 daysiwk, - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!

Every Monday

Every Tuesday
1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Berbalo, Barbeque

~ (dine-in only)
Every Wednesday
Burger Madness

, Fri, Oct 37
1/2 Price Appetizers (dne-n on) $I > 00 @ ween HARAORE

Costume
Party

(~ Wrednesd lay is —" :
! All You Can Eat :

aghetti Night! ;

del et baked from scratch
704-987-9060
(Behind Town Hal, Ne to Food Uy

Ghosts, from page ss

student. Around the turn of the 20th century,

a medical college was established on campus.
The dissection lab changed buildings several
times — first a house called “Old Danville”
across from the President’s home, and eventu-
ally an old wooden building in the forest behind
Chambers. A quick check of campus geogra-
phy reveals that the dissection lab rested where
the library is today.

Hardworking students would have no reason
to fear studying in their carrels late into the night
had the dissection lab been a normal, decent,
scientific facility. Not quite so.

A local teenager, Sam Thompson, knew that
the medical college dissection lab would need
cadavers — and he knew where to find them.

After a funeral, he would visit the old cem-
etery, now behind the golf course, and dig up
corpses.

Once when Thompson was delivering a body
back to the lab, some folks caught sight of the
canvas-covered bulk in his cart. Shaking the
body, he whined, “Come on, you’re not THAT
drunk!” and escaped accusation.

Thompson’s schemes were eventually un-
covered. Someone in the lab recognized his
cadaver’s prominent gold tooth and realized he
was a man who had just died in town. The
college was sued for a few thousand dollars, but
Davidson’s self-admitted “gravedigger” con-
tinued his crimes. He later attended the College

and graduated with the class of 1904.

‘Blodgett suspects that the unsettled spirits of
stolen cadavers may be haunting the site of their
injustice. “The conditions are right,” she ad-—

_ vises. Seniors—the new. class of—’04—are

especially cautioned’ to avoid the library this
Halloween.

Pranks from the past

The “roaring *20s” was a decade of spooky
campus hoaxes.

On Halloween of 1922, some students de-
cided to enthrone the Biology department’s
favorite skeleton by the Old Well. As they
worked, they noticed a dark cloaked figure
approaching. The students were spell-bound
with fear until one of them sneezed. The stu-
dents seized the opportunity to run. The faculty
member just chuckled.

Not to be outdone, the students of 1923
orchestrated a Halloween decorating frenzy,
converting Phi Hall into a “fire hall” and hang-
ing furniture like piano stools and stoves in the
trees on Chambers Lawn. They decorated Main
Street as well, changing its sign to read “Fifth
Avenue” and Depot Street to “Wall Street.”

Halloween 1924 saw streamers hung from
trees and some classrooms and offices littered
with hay and populated with cows and rams.

Though it’s been awhile since these elaborate
schemes occurred, Davidson’s ongoing ghost
tradition attests to the age-old Halloween spirit
that still lingers on this campus.

Vandalism, from page 1

residents living in the target areas.

She warned that residents are charged for
damage to the lounges and bathrooms of resi-
dence halls if no one agrees to take the blame.

Marsicano said, “All residents are respon-
sible for unclaimed damage in the common
areas of the building. For example, all Knox
residents shared the $275 fee for an inappropri-
ately discharged fire extinguisher when no one
acknowledged setting it off.”

Those guilty of vandalizing property are taken
before the Judicial Committee, which proceeds
to.determine an appropriate punishment for
their specific offense.

Walker is taking several steps to prevent
future acts of vandalism. His plan includes
increasing the number of officers on duty during
the weekend and encouraging community in-
volvement in protecting campus property.

Some students think that the sporadic nature
of the vandalism makes it difficult to inhibit.

Chuck Ostendorff ’06 said, “I don’t think
vandalism can be prevented because the inci-
dents are so random; they can’t try to protect
everything.”

Walker recognizes this obstacle but hopes ts to
overcome it with collective student participa-
tion.

“As anagency we are addressing the issues as
best we can; unfortunately, it is more of a
reactive response because the acts are
random...Our agency would like to take a more
proactive approach which would mean the
Davidson College community would have to
help.”

This proactive response will include a crime
prevention program that is based on students
aggressively looking out for crimes around cam-
pus and consistently reporting incidents.

Vandalism incidents from this year as well as_

last year have impacted the future of various
projects on campus.

Because of the consistent mistreatment of the
community “Red Bikes” in the past, bikes are
now being assigned according to freshmen hall.
Each hall will receive one bike and will be

No Experience eciuirec
‘All looks and ages

Earn $100 - $300 aday —

1-888-820-0167, ex. U260

responsible for its maintenance in order to
instill a sense of ownership and discourage
future damage.

Several SGA plans have been affected by
vandalism as well.

In response to the KKK graffiti, SGA intends
on doing some sort of project, such as a mural
near the site of the graffiti, to send a message of
peace and unity.

SGA is also considering funding more of the
popular. green lawn chairs for the upcoming
spring, but because of students’ past abuse of
the chairs, it is now attempting to put out a
heavy-duty porch swing instead so that stu-
dents will not be able to harm it. SGA expects
to dedicate the swing in memory of Katherine
Costa ’03 and hopes that, as a result, students
will have a sense of respect for the swing and be
less inclined to damage it.

The reopening of the Belk computer labs as
24-hour labs is also contingent on students’
treatment of the facility (see SGA column). The
labs were previously closed because students
did not respect them, and if future vandalism
occurs, it will resume its earlier hours.

Students have expressed varied reactions in
response to the recent vandalism. Some stu-
dents are not interested in the incidents at all.

Pat McConville ’06 said, “The administra-
tion cares more about vandalism than students
because they are more concerned with the
school’s image and appearance.” —-

Students also debated about the root cause of
the vandalism. Graham Hunter ’06 said, “When
parties are forced to end at 2 a.m., I think some
people become aggravated and bored and start
taking out their frustration on school property.”

The administration encourages students to
accept responsibility for their actions concern-
ing vandalism and report anyone they know
who has mistreated campus property. -

Marsicano criticizes students who have failed
in the past to report certain acts of vandalism,
saying, “It is a bit disturbing that Davidson
students are not taking responsibility for their
actions and that their neighbors are not holding
them accountable.

“I hope we can work on that.”

STSTRAVEL. COM

www.sts trave iy com
