GZA’s latest Liquid Sword

disappointing, uninspired

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

Legend of the Liquid Sword, the latest release
from Wu-Tang Clan mainstay GZA (aka Ge-
nius) attempts to channel the zeitgeist of the
group’s mid-’90s heyday. For those not in the
know, the title is a reference to GZA’s hallowed
1995 release Liquid Swords, one of the defini-
tive solo documents crafted by the Wu-Tang
Clan in the wake of the group’s classic Enter the
Wu-Tang (36 Chambers).

~s

wutangworld.com
GZA’s latest Sword needs sharpening

Though the title of the album clearly estab-
lishes Liquid Swords as its primary reference
point within the Wu-Tang mythos, Legend of
the Liquid Sword does not quite live up to its
predecessor. The production of Wu-Tang mas-
termind RZA on Liquid Swords created an aural
landscape both gritty and ethereal; punctuated
by creepy samples of kung-fu flicks and laden
with eerily dissonant hooks, the album’s atmo-

sphere was an ideal backdrop for the mean .

streets mythology GZA wove on songs like
“Liquid Swords” and “4th Chamber.”
Unfortunately, RZA only produces one song
on Legend, and while the overall sound of the
album evokes that of Liquid Swords, this time

Sardonic Irreyerence: hamburgers,

By Derek Loh
Arts & Living Editor

Libertas: | wanted to make a
Condoleezza Rice joke, but
then I saw _ Libertas’
Condoleezza Rex puzzle.

Papa John’s: In spite of the
inclement weather, they still
delivered in 30 minutes or less.

Shanghai Knights: thaven’t
seen it, but everyone seems to
love this one.

Union Café burgers: Ku-

around the sonics are smoother and less absorb-
ing.

Overdramatic strings ruin the likes of ““Auto
Bio” and “Animal Planet,” and most of the
album’s later tracks only stab half-heartedly at
the distinctly urban sense of mystery that is
RZA’s trademark. Yet songs worthy of Liquid
Swords do emerge, such as “Silent,” which
features a verse from the. incomparable
Ghostface Killah, and “Knock, Knock,” with its
spare beats and confrontational lyrics.

As on so many Wu-Tang albums, the lyrics
here function both as chronicles of
inner city existence and as co-cre-
ators of the album’s mood. For the
most part Legend’s lyrics are ex-
cellent, consisting of tales of vio-
lence and oblique personal history
that well suit GZA’s deep, nasal,
slightly deadpan delivery. The con-
tent only falters on “Animal Planet”
and “Fame,” which consist of
rapid-fire wordplay involving the
names of animals and celebrities,
respectively. Clever and amusing
at first, the lyrics to these songs fall
flat after repeated listening. (“Ani-
mal Planet” also features an awful
cliché in its chorus: the compari-
son of city streets to a jungle.)

Yet these complaints about the
lyrics and the production are rela-
tively minor quibbles. Over half
the album is top-flight Wu-Tang
material, especially “Did Ya Say
That,” “Stay in Line,” the RZA-
produced “Rough Cut,” and the
afore-mentioned “Silent” and “Knock, Knock.”
Each of these tracks has a clear aural style that
relates well to the rest of the album. “Did Ya Say
That” sounds like funk in a casino, with GZA
weighing in on the backstabbing world of the
rap business; on “Stay in Line” he broods over
a gloomy guitar sample and a female vocal
hook; and the aptly titled “Rough Cut” is a
compelling mess.

With Legend of the Liquid Sword, GZA dem-
onstrates that he’s still among the master MC’s
of both the Wu-Tang Clan and rap generally.
But if you want to hear this lyrical swordsman
at his best, listen to the old style he uses on
Liquid Swords.

dos to Shane and company for Jackie and Owen go ca-razy in London

their ground-beefy goodness.

So good, I’ve seen even Warner girls chowing
down. “Hey Shane, make it assymetrical.”
Mmmmmm. Enjoy it, man. Thanks
man; I always do.

Black History Month: Whether
you love them, hate them, or just
don’t want your daughter to marry
one, black people have a history
worth celebrating. “Celebrate good
times, come on!” (Kool and the
[Black] Gang). You go stand in the
street, and Ill spray you with water
from a big canvas hose. For once the

agwa on the prow

ethnic villain du jour is a white guy.

‘Sagwa the Chinese Siamese Cat”: PBS
airs Amy Tan’s animated
series more often than the
phrase “My vagina...” ap-
pears in The Vagina
Monolouges. Until this
week’s episode, which
explained the origin of
catfish, my feelings had
been lukewarm. But now
I love Chinese cats more
than women should love their vaginas.

A look at a potential
‘Matthews setlist

By Lee WHELESS
Special Contributor

After all the griping about how much we paid
to have Dave Matthews perform here at
Davidson has ended, we all should come to
realize the weight of our spoils: Dave Matthews
and Tim Reynolds are coming to Davidson to
perform an acoustic concert!

Some thoughts and predictions:

First, we are not likely to see an epic jam of
the sort that has made the band’s live shows so
popular. That is not to say that Dave and Tim
won’t drag out a song or two into the 10-minute
range, but without the chemistry of the band and
the blend of all the instruments, a jam just
wouldn’t be the same. As the show. will be
acoustic, we will be hearing songs based on
strong guitars, while more studio sounds, such
as nearly the entire Everyday album, will have
to wait for all five members. Then again, Live at
Luther College, Dave’s only acoustic album,
does contain “What Would you Say?” a song
normally equated with its sax solo. I guess we’ ll
have to see. But without further ado, the songs
I think most likely will be played:

“Warehouse,” “Jimi Thing,” “One Sweet

Antiwar Protests: Think Dick, Colin,
Connie and Donnie give a poop about our
opinions? Save some platinum-priced gas and

skip the drive to the nearest rally. If your
young, passionate heart is really seton making
a difference, try a hunger strike outside the
next College Republicans meeting.

Dean Rusk Proposals: By now they know
that projects on Shinto temples and
Guadalajaran markets are covers for boozin’ it
up international style. Next year just cut to the
chase: “The Drinking Behavior of American
Students in Reykjavik, Dakar, Toronto, etc.”

“Joe Millionaire’: And so, the journey
comes to anend. Sarah really is ahooch; Zora
really is a good girl. Couldn’t they have

nicest guy ever?
I’m just waiting
for “Heidi and
Mojo: the Series.”
Those big, hip
belt things: Are
they gone yet?
Horror films:
* With Soderberg’s
Solaris and the
upcoming Matrix

gsequel, science

What will Dave play?

Chinese cats,
Not Cool

picked a breast-zealous SOB instead of the -

World,” “Satellite,” “Typical Situation’: all
classics off the Under the Table and Dreaming
album that lend themselves well to an acoustic
show

“#41,” “Two Step”: two fan favorites from
Crash that most often find themselves being
longer than the line at Commons at 12:30. I
would go so far as to say that Dave will play
either #41 or Two Step, but not both.

“Bartender,” “Big Eyed Fish,” “Grey Street”:
originally off the bootleg Lillywhite Sessions,
these three, written in the midst of a bout with
depression and alcoholism, are darker than most
DMB songs, exploring death, religion, and re-
gret. :

“Crush”: off the Before these Crowded
Streets album, this song is reminiscent of the
smoky jazz clubs of the 50s, driven by its bass
line.

“Crash Into Me”: need I say more?

Some others possibles include “The Stone,”
“Everyday,” “The Space Between,” “JTR,”
“Raven,” “Don’t Drink the Water,” “Ants
Marching,” “So Much to Say,” and “Granny.” .
My one guarantee for the evening is that Dave
will sit back for a song and let Tim Reynolds
play something that will prove Michael Flatly’s
feet are no match for Tim Reynolds’ fingers.
Weare also likely to hear one or two new songs,
a spontaneous jam, or a story song, like “Little
Thing” from LaLC. All in all it should prove to
be quite an event. .

John Mayer

A big, hip belt thing

fiction leaves horror alone on the endangered
genre list. Is Final Destination 2 all that’s left?
To be fair, Signs scared me almost as much as
Cats, but that film lacked the terrifying patience
of great horror. Terrifyingly patient: The Birds,
Rosemary's Baby, Carrie, The Exorcist, The
Blair Witch Project.

John Mayer: Your body is a wonderblah
blah blah biah. Almost as bad as Kid Rock.
