THE DAvVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Men’s tennis earns revenge over SoCon
opponents in annual home tournament

Freshmen Bolton and
Jetli help tennis earn
undefeated singles record

_By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

Just under seven months ago, the men’s
tennis team was grinding through its spring
season, facing off against SoCon rivals in the
stretch run to the conference tournament.

In a period of three weeks, the team played
tough matches against Appalachian State, Elon,
and The Citadel, all of which resulted in losses
and a combined 7-11 singles record and 2-7
doubles record.

Back to the present and the Davidson/Jim
Causey Invitational.

Davidson’s annual fall tournament was held
last weekend and featured those same SoCon
foes, each of which surely realized by the end
of the weekend that this year’s Wildcats are
not the same team as last year.

Because the fall tennis season emphasizes
gaining experience and match play opportuni-
ties, each match consisted of eight singles
matches and four doubles matches. Riding the
wave of success the team has enjoyed for
much of the fall season, Davidson walked
away from the tournament with a 15-9 singles
record and 8-4 doubles record. These records
exhibit the vast improvements the team has
made since last season, as the Wildcats also
won two out of their three matches as a team,
the only blemish being a 6-6 tie with Appala-
chian State.

Two freshmen, John Bolton and Porus Jetli,
competed in every match, combining for a 9-
0 record. Bolton and Jetli filled the six and
seven singles slots, respectively, against Ap-
palachian St., then moved up to fill the five and

Rob Gould ’04 hits one of many
strong serves during match play.

six slots against The Citadel and Elon. The
two also teamed up at the #4 doubles position.

Head coach Jeff Frank commented, “I was
very impressed with the play of our freshmen,
both in singles and doubles. As a coach you
can’t expect freshmen to be able to make an
immediate impact like that, but it was a pleas-
ant surprise to see Bolton and Jetli play so
well.”

The team was without Rob Haywood ’04
for two of the matches this weekend due to an
ankle injury suffered in advancing to the semi-
finals of the UNC Invitational two weeks ago.
Haywood teamed with Donald Miles 05 at #1
doubles against Appalachian St., suffering a
tough 8-4 defeat, and then hobbled through
two sets in his singles match against Elon’s top

“son

player. After winning the first set, Haywood
was unable to close out his opponent and
withdrew from the match after losing the sec-
ond set. Haywood did not play the remaining
matches of the weekend, hoping to recuperate
fast enough to play in this weekend’s Omni
Hotels/ITA Regional Championship.

Without their top player, the rest of
Davidson’s players were forced to play higher
positions than usual. Miles played at the top
singles position for the rest of the weekend and
found a new partner in Nick Lewis ’04, with
whom he won two matches at the #3 doubles
position. The players at the bottom of the
lineup adjusted to the position shift seemingly
better than anyone. Along with Bolton and
Jetli, Russ Burns ’05, Joe Cheaney ’06 and
Thomas Jeter ’06, and Jay Chitty 07 com-
bined for a 12-0 record in the #5-8 singles
slots.

Cheaney praised the team’s ability to to
adjust to Haywood’s absence: “Everyone did
a great job of stepping up and pulling out some
big wins after Haywood went down. Our suc-
cess this weekend while missing our top player
bodes well for our chances in the spring sea-

Indeed, the Wildcats are optimistic. Says
Coach Frank, “We proved what we needed to
prove this weekend, but we’ Il be even better in
the spring. Our freshmen will be much im-
proved with their experience this fall, and
everyone should be healthy. We’ll also be
adding a player in the spring, as we have a
transfer coming in who should challenge for
the starting lineup.”

Only next weekend’s regional champion-
ship remains on the schedule, and only the top
singles player and doubles team will represent
Davidson at the tournament. The Davidson/
Jim Causey Invitational concluded for the
majority of the team what has been a very
successful fall campaign.

Pair of freshmen provide spark for golf team

Mayo, Knoll post low
scores in early stages of
career for improved team

By Perer ALLISON

Sports Editor

The golf team recently finished third out of
a field of 14in the UTC Fall Golf Classic. This
marked the third consecutive top-five finish
for the ’’Cats and the third tournament in which
their two outstanding youngsters
aided Davidson: Steve Mayo ’07
and Alex Knoll ’07.

Mayo and Knoll can still be
considered rookies. Still, in ev-
ery tournament Davidson enters,
these two play, and play well,
gaining valuable competition ex-
perience.

The junior circuits are socom-
petitive,” Knoll says, “making
freshmen . . . more prepared for
competition [at the collegiate
level].”

While these two freshmen
have had a similar impact so far
this fall, both Mayo and Knoll
come from different golfing
backgrounds and came to
Davidson due to slightly differ-
ent réasons.

Mayo, a native of upstate New York, has

resided in Austin, TX for the past nine years. .

In Texas; he played under the same system he
does now, in which a low ‘combined team
score is the goal, rather than simply a solid
individual round. :

Still, Mayo explains, “Theres always pres-
sure on you to perform when you have team-

The golf team poses after

mates playing behind you.”

Meanwhile, Knoll is completely new to this
type of scoring, coming from his hometown of
Bethlehem, PA. Despite the fact only the low
four scores out of the five-person team count,
Knoll always assumes that his round will
count on the day, and that keeps his focus and
determination.

In his first collegiate tournament, Knoll
countered the added pressure of teammates
relying on each other by reminding himself,
“you’ ve been playing golf for eight years. It is
just like any other tournament.” As expected,

though, he was still a little nervous.

The bait that attracted these men to come to
Davidson was, in both cases, head coach Tim
Straub. His experience playing on both the
Wake Forest national championship team and
the pro tour makes Coach Straub, in the eyes
of Mayo and Knoll, an invaluable mentor.

Neither freshman has ruled out playing pro-

the UTC tournament.

fessional golf at some point, and in Knoll’s
words, “Coach Straub can give guidance to-
wards the pro tour down the road.”

Despite this, Mayo clarifies that Straub was
not his only motive for attending Davidson: “I
was excited about the idea of playing for
Coach Straub . . . [but] I was also wanted to go
to a good academic school.”

Which is one of the biggest differences that
Mayo has experienced between playing high
school and collegiate golf. “The work load is
that much greater,” he acknowledges, “itis all
a balancing act.”

Another difference, on the
golf course, that both players
notice is the blatant step-up in
difficulty. “I pictured college
golf as much more competitive,”
Knoll says, “and it has lived up
to that.”

Mayo adds, “Par is not quite
as good a score as it used to be.”

Despite both the added pres-
sure of teammates and the higher
difficulty of the playing field,
Mayoand Knoll are on the same
page when it comes tothe team’s
expectations.

With our skill level,” Knoll
believes, “we have a legitimate
chance at winning the Southern
Conference.”

Mayo takes a more definitive
tone, saying, “We should win
the conference tournament, and play well in
the NCAA regional tournament.” Although
he quickly adds a prerequisite: “In order for
this to happen, everyone will have to be play-
ing to his ability.”

If the two freshmen continue to play as they
have, Mayo’s predictions may not be too far
out of the question.

1

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

15

photo by Peter Roady
Jeff Davis ’06 sets up one of his
two assists vs. Appalachian St.

Soccer, from page 16

starting on defense for three years. His goal
was the final of the match, giving Davidson
the 4-2 victory over the Phoenix.

It is exciting for two guys to get their first
goals of the season and will help us expand our
attacking capabilities,” Spear commented. “We

‘are glad to be back on the winning track.”

The ’Cats looked to continue their winning
ways as they hosted Appalachian State in their
second SoCon game of the week.

The match against App State, one of the
most physical of the season, boasted a Davidson
shutout and a second four-goal game in the 4-
0 victory.

Both teams started the game physically, and
the tough style of play was consistent through-
out the match.

The teams totaled 43 fouls and 6 cards.
Davidson managed to maintain possession of
the ball and kept pressuring the App State
defense with numerous scoring opportunities.

Overall it was a dominating performance,”
said Spear. “We scored four quality goals and
applied attacking pressure from the opening
whistle. It was a very physical match, but we
were able to withstand and overcome that part
of the game.”

Appalachian State found the ball in their
defensive third for the majority of the game.
Davidson came out strong with 11 shots in the
first half but were unable to capitalize on any
of them, entering halftime with the score stuck
at 0-0.

Having controlled much of the first half, the
Wildcats struck early in the second with the
game-winning goal from Antunez.

Antunez’s second goal in as many games
came from a powerful shot from Baltz that
slipped through Appalachian keeper Philip
Cavicchia’s hands.

With the game in Davidson’s favor 2-0,

Mountaineer forward Keon McPherson chal- a

lenged Creasman on a dangerous play, earn-
ing him a red card.

Soon after at about the 30th minute, Appa-
lachian State’s Mark Thornton received the
second red card of the game after a hard tackle.

The Mountaineers were forced to play two
men down for the final 30 minutes, and
Davidson took advantage.

Increasing their shot total by adding ‘11

more shots in the second half, the Wildcats
found the net again with six minutes left in
regulation.
. Davis scored off of a cross by Peoples
before assisting goals by Robbie Reynolds ’07
and Matt Allen ’06 within the next few min-
utes.

All three goals in the second half came
within a three-minute span. “The three goals

‘7

va

in succession were certainly exciting,” Spear ¥*

said. “We had great finishes off three quality
services.”

To complement the second four-goal game,
Creasman posted another shutout with three
saves. Creasman has only allowed 10 goals in
13 games this season.

The ’Cats look forward to two big home *¥*

games in the upcoming week, tonight against
North Carolina and Saturday against Furman.
