THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

11

Players and fans rejoice during Saturday’s win over Charleston.

Men’s soccer opens strong

with home win over Charleston

Hansell, freshmen
lead team to victory

By Erin Delk
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team pulled out
a close conference win against College of
Charleston Saturday afternoon in their first
game of the season. The ’Cats return 18 play-
ers, five of whom are seniors and nine of
whom are’ starters, and welcome five fresh-
men: Cass Baltz, Byron Hayes, Robbie
Reynolds, Marco Antunez, and Mac Wilkie.

Captains Justin Porter 04 and David
Peoples ’04 believe that the freshmen “are not
one step behind and will be able to immedi-
ately contribute.”

Contribute they did this weekend, as Mac
Wilkie and Cass Baltz started Saturday in the
center midfield positions. As head coach Matt
Spear states, “We are placing a lot of trust in
Wilkie and Baltz, but they play with such
poise, and their abilities speak for themselves.
I am not worried about how they will transi-
tion to college ball. They are that good.”

The Wildcats controlled possession in the
game from the beginning and immediately
began sending quality thru balls down the
wings. One such ball at the 28:07 mark from
John Latting ’06 sent Nick Hansell ’04 down
the left side, where he promptly took on two
defenders to slide the ball past the keeper on
the near side.

The ’Cats continued to pressure Charleston’s
defense, as a thru ball from Porter a minute
later to Matt Allen ’06 resulted in an amazing
one-handed save from the.Cougar keeper. As

the half wore on, the heat began to affect both
teams and play settled down.

Realizing their situation, the Cougars
stepped up play in the second half and began
sending more balls forward. A quick clear
from Charlestan’s defense up to their forward
in the 58" minute resulted in a near goal ina 1-
on-1 attempt with Davidson goalie Bart
Creasman ’05.

Charleston’s first goal came only a minute
later with a controversial call in the Wildcat
box to set up a penalty kick. The equalizer
forced both teams to step up their attack.

As head coach Matt Spear stated, “The
players’ reaction to Charleston’s goal was one
of resolve. You can’t get your head down, but
rather you push on.”

On an excellent cross from the left corner,
Baltz fed Keith Nicholson ’04 far side for a
shot on goal that was stopped on the goal line
by a Cougar defender. Their efforts paid off,
however, as another cross from Baltz in the
74" minute found Latting in the air. His header
back across the goal set up Hansell for his
second goal of the day.

The players were excited about their perfor-
mance in the game. As Porter and Hansell
remarked, the ’Cats “controlled the game with
the way we possessed the ball and by the many
players we involved in the attack.t We were
much more fluid and on the same page than we
usually are at this point in the season, and that
has a lotto do with how our freshmen adapted.”

Latting agreed: “The freshmen adjusted well
to the faster pace and physical nature of a
Division I soccer match.”

The Wildcats fell 0-1 to #20 Costal Carolina
Tuesday night. See next week’s issue for
more coverage.

“FREE FOR LIFE!”

FREE TRAVEL/FREE HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS!

i‘ bi | Sarpy Eve
Ilion O

ing And Show You How To Cash In On

lar Travel industr tf)

Cross country

teams begin

season at Mountaineer Open

Runners optimistic about
new legs, workout regime

By PETER ALLISON

Sports Editor

This past weekend, beginning a week ear-
lier than usual, Davidson Cross Country opened
at Boone, NC in the Mountaineer Open. For
the men, it was a starting point from which
they were able to gauge the results of an
unprecedented summer training regimen. As
for the women, it was an opportunity to dis-
play their newest, and no longer secret, weapon:
first year runner Kelley Fillnow ’05.

A nationally ranked tennis player in Divi-
sion I women’s singles, Fillnow always ran as
training for tennis. This year, however, as a
junior, she also decided to demonstrate her
naturally running ability in a different type of
competition. Fillnow verified both her ath-
letic and competitive talents by finishing num-
ber | for Davidson and 10th overall.

Remaining very humble, she admitted, “I’m.

so inexperienced . . . I learned a lot from that
one race.” She recalled the start of the race,
how “‘the other runners looked really intimi-
dating . . . they knew what to expect . . . the
mid-race pain.”

Still, Fillnow acknowledged that her inex-
perience and, in a way, naivetE allowed her to
remain calm and run the race, in terms of her
emotions, as if it were just another practice.

As for tennis, Fillnow was initially worried
that cross-country was going to detract from
her court time. Fortunately, the team opted for
morning practices in order to avoid running in
the height of mid-day sun, leaving her after-
noons open for her other successful sport.

When asked about the similarities between
the two sports, Fillnow stated that while both
sports have an individual component, she “did
not realize how team-oriented cross country
was . . . teammates running together, helping
to pace each other.”

She went on to list many of the similar
athletic attributes such as the mental compo-

Volleyball splits

Chapman earns first
SoCon honors of year

By WiLtson McCrory
Staff Writer

.Coming into the year, it was evident that the
women’s volleyball team would rely heavily
on the strength of its two returning seniors,
Latisha Chapman ’04 and Nicole Tonelli ’04.
While the team is bolstered by a strong core of
underclassmen, including four new freshmen
recruits, they have looked up to Chapman, a
2002 second team Southern Conference selec-
tion, and Tonelli for the veteran leadership in
the opening weeks of the season.

Says Chapman of their role this year, “With

- three graduating seniors and a young team,

[Nicole and I] knew we had to step it up this
year as the only two returning starters. We’re
really good friends off the court, so that hasn’t
been hard at all.”

Atthe Duquesne/Robert Morris Invitational

’ this past weekend, the seniors proved to be up

to the task. After falling to co-host Robert
Morris in the opening match on Saturday 3-0

_ (30-28, 30-24, and 30-22), the women fought

back from a 2-1 deficit to defeat Saint Peter’s
in the second match of the day 3-2 (30-18, 29-
31, 23-30, 30-27, and 15-13). After going into

the 2-1 hole, Davidson limited the Peahens to

a meager .048 attack percentage in the final
two games to pull out the victory.
Shining in the victory was Chapman; who

nent, confidence, and competitive drive. Al-
though tennis may seem to involve more deci-
sion-making and competitiveness, Fillnow
openly showed a fondness for her new sport,
as she concluded with a shy smile, “finishing
my first race was kind of exhilarating.”

Men’s team

While the women show off their new trea-
sure, the men’s cross-country runners are just
as excited about the possibilities of the up-
coming season. All but acouple of top runners
returned for this season, and due to intense
summer workouts never before undertaken in
Davidson cross-country history, Captain Greg
Scott 04 expects the team to “have a bigger
impact than in years past.”

True to cross-country form, Scott has set a
lofty goal for the team, one that can only be
accomplished through hard work, dedication,
and lots of sweat. “Although it has not hap-
pened since the 60's,” Scott admits, “we would
like to finish in the top three in the Southern
Conference.”

Coach Gary Andrew agrees that is “the
ultimate goal,” but he goes on to say that it will
not be the determining factor of a successful
season. Coach Andrew is extremely excited
about the excellent job of training over the
summer, as he believes it “has put the team in
a position to be more successful this fall.” He
also commented on the higher confidence
level and the ability to start at a higher level as
by-products of the team’s impeccable effort.

He attests to the fact that a lot of people do
not understand the different workouts involved
in cross-country. While one might think that
the team simply goes on a long jog every day,
Coach Andrew explains that each practice
“involves lots of hard training, intervals, speed
workouts, hills, simulated races, ect.” The
training intensity will of course increase
throughout the season, leading up ultimately
to the conference championships, which will
be held at home this year on November Ist.

Because of this, they are preparing espe-
cially hard to take full benefit of their home-
course advantage.

four to start year

tallied 20 kills in the Saint Peters match after
netting 19 in the Robert Morris contest. The
new class also got a chance to show their
mettle, with Jenna Dykstra 07 and Jenny
Mills ’07 each registering 10 kills against the
Peahens. According to Chapman, “(The fresh-
men have] come a long way already, and have
really found their roles on the team.”

On Sunday, the final day of the tournament,
Davidson split a pair of matches, including
another come-from-behind victory against
Loyola (Md.) in the opener. Down 2-0,
Chapman and Tonelli led the comeback effort
for the Wildcats, as the team pulled out a 30-
32, 29-31, 30-22, 30-24, and 15-12 victory.
Chapman notched a career-high 33 kills and
finished with a .549 attack percentage in the
win, while Tonelli was two blocks short of a
triple-double in the marathon contest with a
stat-line of 54 assists, 11 digs, and a career-
best 8 blocks.

Following the victory over Loyola, Davidson
wasn’t able to maintain the momentum in a 3-
0 (30-21, 30-20, 30-16) defeat to Duquesne. It
was a disappointing way to end the tourna-
ment, but Chapman describes the 2-2 week-
endas a “good starting point” for the rest of the
season.

The Wildcats finished fourth overall in the
six-team field, and Chapman was named to the
all-tournament team and was named Socon
player of the week. Davidson returns home
this weekend to host the annual Wildcat Clas-
sic, which also includes Radford, Troy State
and Memphis. °
