Georgia Congressman
John Lewis comes to
Davidson Monday

By MALLory MacDonaALD
Staff Writer

U.S. Representative John Lewis of Atlanta,
Ga. will speak at Davidson College on Monday,
February 24 at Tyler Tallman Hall in the Sloan
Music Center.

While at Davidson, Lewis will visit several
classes and give a lecture on resistance and
public service today. The lecture is open to the
entire Davidson community, and all are invited

to hear Congressman Lewis share his memo-_

ries, concerns and thoughts.

Known for his outstanding contribution and
dedication to human rights throughout the coun-
try, John Lewis is currently serving his eighth
term in Congress. Lewis is renowned not only
for his current position as Congressman for the
fifth District in Atlanta, but also for his world-
wide contributions to the Civil Rights move-
ment. He has served as chair of the Student
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC).

In the past, Lewis has organized several
marches, freedom rides and voter registration
drives across the South to actively promote civil
rights.

Congressman Lewis was born in Troy, Ala-
bama. He attended segregated schools until
enrolling in Fisk University. At Fisk, he earned
a Bachelor Degree of Arts in Religion and
Philosophy. He is also a graduate of the Ameri-
can Baptist Theological Seminary in Tennes-
see.

Congressman Lewis has earned numerous
awards including the coveted Martin Luther
King, Jr. Non-Violent Peace Prize. In 1963 he
was Chairman of the SNCC and one of the “Big
Six” leaders in the Civil Rights movement.

Speakers: Looking Ahead

Absolute Zero”

and interests, not just science majors.

Nobel Prize winning physicist Eric Cornell will deliver the annual
Smith Lecture on Wednesday, March 12 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
His talk is entitled “Stone Cold Science: Bose-Einstein Condensa-
tion and the Weird World of Physics a Millionth of a Degree from

Cornell’s lecture is geared toward listeners from all backgrounds
Cornell is a Fellow of JILA and an Adjoint Professor of Physics at

the University of Colorado in Boulder. He shares the 2001 Nobel
Prize in Physics with Carl Wieman and Wolfgang Ketterle.

Civil Rights activist to speak —
on service, sacrifice next week

photo by Action for Boston Community Development

Congressman Lewis, a reknown
civil rights activist will speak

In 1986, Lewis was elected congressman of
Georgia’s Fifth Congressional District repre-
senting Atlanta and still holds that position
today.

The congressman’ s visit is a remarkable op-
portunity for the college community. Lewis
will relay his struggles and speak about civil
rights today.

Lewis’ visit is the result of student interest.
Adam Chalker ’04 met Congressman Lewis on
a recent outreach program and invited him to
come to Davidson. Chalker said, “It is a true
honor that he will join the Davidson Commu-
nity, for he is a man of true spirit and courage
and has so much to offer to our community.”

The Davidson community can look forward
to hearing the distinguished congressman’ s re-
marks next week.

Iphia. Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of

Washington vows to ‘get big
things done’ as SGA prez

By GEorGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

Thursday’s meeting marked the beginning

of a new term for the SGA. Recently elected |

SGA president Charles Washington ’04 and
SGA vice president Katharine Hubbard ’05
were both sworn in to office.

During the meeting, SGA president Gray
Patterson delivered his farewell address, which
outlined the accomplishments of the SGA dur-
ing the past year and highlighted a few of his
hopes for the future of Davidson student gov-
ernment. He also addressed what has become
known as the Kappa Sigma goose-killing inci-
dent. He stated the Davidson College student
body must demonstrate that they are against
what happened. He suggested giving $300 to
the Humane Society in order to prove that
Davidson is not just about talk, but action. The
SGA voted in favor of the motion.

Washington, in his inaugural address, also
mentioned the incident and said that the student
body should be responsible for showing that
what occurred is an aberration, not what is
typical of Davidson students.

“My mother says ‘sometimes one bad thing
outweighs a hundred good ones.’ If that’s the
case, we need to encourage the student body to
do 101 good things,” Washington said.

Washington spoke about his plans for the
SGA. He wants to continue boosting school
spirit and supporting athletics. He also hopes to
increase communication between organizations
on campus, especially between the Patterson
Court Council and the SGA. He believes com-
munication has become especially pertinent

because of the Kappa Sigma incident and the
coming arrival of Alpha Phi Alpha, Davidson’s
first historically black fraternity, to Patterson
Court.

“Changes in Patterson Court and in
Davidson’s Social life are coming. There is no
question about that. I think it is important that
the students present a united voice that is heard
by the administration when decisions affecting
our social lives are made,” Washington said.

In order to accomplish this goal of increased
communication, Washington suggested creat-
ing a Patterson Court relations committee to
regularly attend PCC meetings and serve as a
medium of communication.

He also wants the SGA to be more creative,
especially with the money that has been allotted
for special projects, and more proactive in their
decision-making.

Additionally, Washington felt the SGA
should follow through with its past accomplish-
ments, such as its suggestions for the Honor
Code and Code of Responsibility, as well as the
Improve Davidson Fund initiated last week.

“We won’t forget the lessons we learned and
will continue to work with the administration to
get big things done. But we will also work on
creative, new initiatives as well. And we will
work to improve social life and communica-
tion. We will work to support our athletic teams.
Wherever there is a student concern, a problem
that needs to be addressed; we will work,”

‘Washington said.

Knowing both accomplishments past and
pending, most at the meeting agreed the SGA
was on track for a successful year.

Debate, from page 1

tions on the conflict, the debate will provide
details and sufficient support for each stance.
Dr. Ortmayer said, “Hopefully the forum will
articulate what exactly we are talking about.”

Potentially the first preemptive war in US

_ history, the conflict deserves more attention

than it has received’ on campus. Although
Ortmayer recognizes Davidson is not as politi-

_ cally active as it should be, he is still “kind of

surprised not much has been done before this.”
In its history, Davidson has had its fair share

ions,” passions are sure to arise from this con-
troversial issue. Lee agreed, “...the crowd will
be made of those who are most committed to
their convictions and beliefs, and, so, will be.
made of those most passionate on both sides of
the debate.”

However all of those involved hope passion
will be accompanied with open minds and ears.

For many students, participation is vital. Five
Davidson students traveled down to Charlotte
this weekend to join hundreds more in one of the

“I feel that getting visibly involved- taking a
stance and demonstrating my beliefs- is extremely

America’s greatest cities.

Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and

Academic Credits transfer!

? seg

www-philactr-edu onS- 745-7a00.

important right now.”

- Putnam Ivey ‘05

of political debates and forums. Just like those
all around the country, Davidson students used
debates to express their opinions during both
the Vietnam and Gulf Wars.

Evenifno one has ahuge change of heart over
the solution to the Iraqi conflict, Alexander
hopes the debate will raise more awareness of
the issue. He said, “Contact between people
who hold different views helps both sides think
more rigorously on the position they hold.”

While Alexander describes the debate as a
“civil dialogue with people of different opin-

many anti-war protests which took place around
the world. One of the attendees, Putnam Ivey
°05 said, “I feel that getting visibly involved-
taking a stance and demonstrating my beliefs-is
extremely important right now.”

Tonight’s Debate
Time: 7:30 p.m.
Site: Union Atrium

ae

