Tae DavipsoniaN

Davis’ picks
of the week

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003 11

Goats and Babes: a guide to being cursed

Here’s how a curse works: :

First, you need to have a great team. You
need all-stars at the plate and on the mound.
You must have above-average role players to
compliment those stars, as well asa respected
manager that can hold the team together.

In addition, your cursed team ‘has to play
extremely well for a long period of
time. They must play so well, in fact,
that their self-pitying fans will be in-
clined to say over and over again, with
certainty, “This will never last.”

Bad teams are never cursed. For
example, when you finish 67-95, as. .
the Cubs did last year, the curse does
not-apply. You lost simply because
you had a bad team. When the Red
Sox finish second in the standings to
the Yankees, however, as they have
the last six years, supernatural forces
may be to blame.

Finally, and most importantly, you
must master the fine art of choking. Last week,
the Cubs and Red Sox, two of the best ex-
amples of these “cursed” teams, put on aclinic
about how to do just that.

A key difference between standard choke-
artists, such as the New York Jets, and truly
cursed teams is finding a scapegoat (pardon
the pun, Cubs fans). There must be some
ridiculous event from the past on which to
blame all of your troubles. The Sox cite the
selling of Babe Ruth to the Yankees as the
reason they, can never get the best of the
pinstripes.

The Cubs have managed to find an even
more absurd cause for their curse. In 1945, the
last year the Cubbies made it to the Fall Clas-
sic, a Chicago tavern-keeper by the name of

Due to the uproar and electricity around
televisions in the union and dorms, I feel the
need to switch my column from the dotted
blah of sports info. This week, I will focus on
the most popular pro sports event televised on
campus since the Wildcat basketball team
dribbled into March Madness (2002).

I have interviewed four die-hard fans of
their respective baseball clubs. One fan each
from the Yankees, Sox, Cubs and Marlins
have shared their thoughts on the AL and NL
™ _ wee, Championships and
the teams thereof.

At this point I
would like to thank
those who graced me
with their knowl-
edge and passion
about the magnetic
force attracting them
to FOX in October
(and I am not talking
about the OC).

Representing the
Yanks we have
Derek Stroke ’06
from Long Island.
Coming out of
Beantown and spitting her knowledge on the
Sox is Amanda King ’06. The saddest of the
bunch from Chi-town is Arch Mcclure ’06.
And lastly in the teal corner from southern
Florida is Jayson Powers ’05.

Let’s talk about the American League se-
ries. Amanda, who should have won?

Amanda: This was Boston’s year, espe-
cially against the Yankees.

Derek, a rebuttal please.

Derek: This year’s ALCS and game 7 will go

_ down as one of the most memorable moments

in baseball history, but the best team always
comes out on top.
Derek raises a good point: the Yankees have

“Billy Goat” Sianis was denied entrance into
Game 4 of the series after he insisted on using
his second ticket for his pet goat. Supposedly,
angered at this treatment, Sianis placed the
“Billy Goat Curse” on the Cubs, which en-
tailed that never again would a World Series
game be played at Wrigley Field.

BY MIKE GIGLIO

Next, you must reach the brink of reaching
your greatest goals, as both unlucky teams
managed to do in the playoffs this year. For the
Red Sox, this means either beating the Yan-
kees in the playoffs (or in a playoff) or winning
the World Series. The Cubbies only want to
get back to the Classic.

True to form, Chicago was up three games
to one in the NLCS vs. the Marlins with two
home games remaining. Boston, like true vet-
erans, managed to go into the eighth inning in
Game 7 of the ALCS vs. the Yankees with a
three-run lead.

Now for the beautiful, well-orchestrated
collapse. Keep in mind; this can’t be any
normal collapse. There must be an abnormal
factor that causes your team to play like some-

won the last five ALCS’. Amanda, why is
that?

Amanda: They think like winners and we
think like underdogs, winning underdogs, but
still climbing from a lower rung on the ladder.

Derek, why do you think the Yankees al-
ways beat the Red Sox in the playoffs?

Derek:

The Red Sox vs. Yankees is a great rivalry,
but is a dog vs. a fire hydrant really a rivalry?

Interesting point, Derek, but what fun is it to
be a fan of a team that always wins?

Amanda: It’s probably pretty satisfying to
be a Yankee fan because you can rely on your
team from some big wins, but I think the
excitement is probably more measured due to
the Yankees’ consistency.

So does losing year after year make the
disappointment measured? Or does that jus-
tify more blame on the “curse”?

Amanda: Because the curse is so hyped up
it weakens the team’s morale. Subconsciously
I think it affects the way we play.

Derek, how do you feel about the curse?

Derek:

I don’t know, there might be a curse, but
over the past eight years the Yankees have
simply had the better teams.

And how does that make you feel, being a
Yankees fan?

Derek: Like the most well-endowed man
on campus. Make that North Carolina.

Let’s pinch hit ideas here and sub in the
World Series. Amanda, how did you feel when
there was potential for a Cubs vs. Sox series?

Amanda: As cheesy as it sounds, I loved the
idea that it could have been an old school

world series with two teams changing their’

fates. *

I like that, “changing their fates.” Let’s
allow Jayson to talk, who has been waiting
patiently on deck. Jayson, your thoughts on a
Cubs vs. Sox Series please?

one is hitting their voodoo dolls with a corked
baseball bat.

In Game 6, with the Cubs up by three in the
eighth, a fan pulled a ball out of Moises Alou’s
glove and into foul territory. As if possessed,
the Cubbies went on to commit a costly error
and give up eight runs in the inning. They
might as well have stayed home for
Game 7. The curse had already made its
presence felt.

For the Sox, the Babe must have
worked his way inside of Pedro
Martinez’s head. Already tired from
starting on short rest, Pedro insisted on
pitching through the eighth when man-
ager Grady Little came to take him out
after a New York hit. Maybe Martinez
was overly anxious to get revenge for
his Game 3 loss and brawl. Maybe he
actually thought he had something left.

More than like, however, the curse
had poisoned his mind as wellas Little’ s.
The Yanks tied it up, sure enough, and went on
to win in the 11th on Aaron Boone’s Bucky-
esque homer. The fans couldn’t have been too
disappointed, though. They saw it coming.

After all, that’s the final ingredient for a
well-developed cursed team. You must have
the most cynical, paranoid fans around. No
matter how close you come, the fans must
“know” you will lose. The media must pick up
on this tension and write an obscene amount of
articles about your curse and how it will affect
the players. They will question your players
unmercifully about these effects.

Playing under all of this added pressure, the
players will break down and choke.

Your curse will be safe for another year. It
will probably be safe for another century.

Jayson: Who would want to see a Sox/Cubs
series? Somehow both teams would lose.

Well, I don’t know if that’s possible. But we
did see some strange plays involved in both
series. Fights between a pitcher and seventy
year old men and a fan interfering with a foul
ball. Jayson, your thoughts on the fan’s catch.

Jayson: Those fans who continue to whine
about it are simply grasping for excuses. It
certainly affected that inning, but not the se-
ries.

Arch, step up to the plate, did that fan lose
the series for your Cubbies?

Arch: I wish I could say it was the stupid
fan’s fault, but the Marlins just outplayed us.
They are an annoyingly pesky team that drove
me crazy!

Thanks for being honest Arch; for that I'll
let you speak again. What are your thoughts on
the Marlins/Yankees World Series?

Arch: I love playoff baseball but I hate the
Yankees. I won’t watch the games. I just hope
the Marlins win and prove that the Yankees
are the most expensive failure in sports.

Derek, you have to have something to say
about that.

Derek:

Many people would have enjoyed watching
abattle between the lovable losers, but in order
to make it to the World Series, you have to win
the pennant.

Good point, Mr. Stroke, a suicide squeeze
short of genius. For that ridiculously obvious
statement, I’m going to let each of the other
three get one final statement.

Amanda: It takes a lot of heart and determi-
nation to love a team that consistently lets you
down in the 11th hour.

Arch: :

_Pma little biased, but I expect the Cubs to,
be in the playoffs next year.

Jayson: In the Marlins’ two postseason runs
(1997 and 2003) they have never lost a series:
