8 THE DaAvIDSONIAN

All I want for
Christmas is an end
to grade deflation

Ah, Christmas. The time of year for carols and mistletoe and
pretty soon those wonderful presents from our professors known
as grades.

I just have one message for all the students cramming away
right now hoping for that elusive A: you better cram a little bit
harder, at least if you have one of the professors who gives the
one present less desired than a fruitcake at Christmas, an arti-
ficially deflated grade.

That’s right, for anyone who thought
Davidson just wasn’t challenging enough
onits own, now itcan be justa little bit harder
to be rewarded for all your hard work.

We all know how tough Davidson is, and
especially how hard it is to get an A here.
The truth is I’m secretly a little proud that
Davidson is sohard. None of that sissy grade
inflation my friends at Harvard get. We ac-
tually have to work to get what we truly
deserve.

The problem is that some professors don’t give students the
grades they deserve.

For instance, one professor states in his syllabus that an A-
= 92-94, a B+ = 89-91, a B = 86-88, and well, you get the pic-
ture.

Another professor starts grading from a 95 rather than from
100. Seven points off an assignment results in a grade of an 88
rather than a 93, a B+ rather than an A. That’s a pretty big dif-
ference.

Maybe Davidson should include a
note with every transcript when a stu-
dent applies for a job or to graduate
school: “Please be aware that at
Davidson College, not all grades are cre-
ated equal.”

I have been told that these grading systems that artificially
deflate grades do have a purpose: some professors feel they
should be able to reward and differentiate the work of students
who go above and beyond what would normally be considered
an A. That thinking seems justified, but should all other stu-
dents be penalized in the process?

Maybe Davidson should include a note with every transcript
when students apply for a job or to graduate school:

“To whom it may concern: Please be aware that at Davidson
College, not all grades are created equal. Some students who
receive a B actually deserve a B+, but to reward that one guy
at the top of the class who did all that extra work we lowered
everyone else’s grades. Feel free to try and guess which profes-
sors do this and which don’t.”

No, that really doesn’t look very professional, does it?

I guess Davidson students will just have to deal with not
getting into the graduate schools they deserve or not getting
those highly competitive jobs our buddies at the Ivies are shoe-
ins for. What else are we to do?

Wait, I have a novel idea. Why not create a grade that could
be set aside for students who do go well above and beyond what
is asked for, in order to separate those students from the rest of
the “normal A’s.” That way, professors could reward their top
students without hurting everyone else in the process.

We could call this crazy new grade the “super-duper A,” or
the “I did way more than the teacher asked me to do A,” or why
not just the “A+.”

Yes, that’s an original idea, the A+. All the other letter grades
have a plus, why should A be left out.

And while we’ re at it, why not create a standardized grading
scale so that an A with one professor is the same as an A with
any other. That way, students won’t be punished for taking a
class with one professor rather than another.

The bottom line is students here work really hard, and we
should not be punished when we do all that is asked of us. At
the same time, those students who truly do go the extra mile on
an assignment deserve to be rewarded for that effort.

So please Bobby, please Dean Shandley, please Dr. Epes, all
I want for Christmas is an A+, No, I’m not asking for it as my
grade (although I'll certainly take it), but rather I’m asking for
the school to offer this option so that those who do the extra
work can be rewarded for it, and the rest of us will not be pun-
ished.

We work hard and deserve to be recognized for that hard
work without our grades being artificially deflated. Believe me,
rewarding us for our efforts will be a present none of us will

forget.

«

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

‘Christmas in Davidson’ has lost its magic

Atthis pointin December, knee-deep in holiday extravaganza,
those familiar Christmas tunes have become literally burned
into our brains thanks to the ceaseless hum of seasonal com-
mercials and the drone of department store background music.

The flickering of Christmas lights accompanies our other-
wise dreary night-time drives and every-
where we turn, festive decorations remind
us that truly, this is the most wonderful time
of the year. - |

Although it might mean I’ve become
somewhat of a scrooge-like cynic in my
college years, for one reason or another, the
“Christmas in Davidson” event that occurred
on Main Street last weekend failed to fill me
with the holiday spirit.

In an attempt to fend off the many readers
who might be screaming “grinch” at this point in the article, I’d
like to make it clear that I’m normally a sucker for these sorts
of holiday gimmicks (I nearly incurred frostbite while string-
ing up hundreds of white lights outside my home the night after
Thanksgiving).

However, I think my problem with “Christmas in Davidson”
had more to do with the town and less with the holiday.

While making my way through the sudden hordes of people
on Main Street last Friday night, I couldn’t help but assume the
demeanor of a distanced sociologist observing social patterns.
To be honest, the whole event reminded me of the artificial
small-town atmosphere so commonly seen in the nascent
Birkdale community onexit 25. Recognizing this, itnow seems
fairly obvious to me that Davidson’s small-town mystique is
failing.

With a main street often populated by more vacant lots than
people, Davidson has become neither self-sustaining nor his-
torically “quaint.” Cornelius is now the center of all social
gathering for Davidson residents, save the occasional Sunday

ZACH WILLIAMS

morning breakfast at the Soda Shop or perhaps the weekly ATM
at Wachovia.

I'll admit, “Christmas in Davidson” is indeed a valiant at-
tempt to resurrect the small-town aura of traditional Davidson.
Unfortunately, I found myself unable to enjoy the holiday fes-
tivities, as I remained saddened by indications of a dying com-
munity. \

se

With Main Street often populated by
more vacant lots than people, Davidson
has become neither self-sustaining nor
historically “quaint.”

My skepticism could also be buoyed by what I think may be
sensory overload of holiday music, flashing things, and deco-
rations. Perhaps I’m no longer able to take the constant barrage
of catchy jingles and ornaments in stride.

Has my Davidson education made me such a scrutinizing
analyzer that I can no longer enjoy the simple joys of the holi-
day season? I’m fairly certain that this isn’t the case.

Admittedly, the “Winter Wonderland” melody is starting to
get pretty annoying, but I'l] take it over Avril Lavigne any day.
Holiday pop culture will always be superior, in my eyes, to
everyday pop culture.

That tangent aside, I’d like to reaffirm my love for this time
of year. There’s nothing like a little bit of good cheer to lighten
up the morose lives of us Davidson students during exam time.

Maybe Main Street will flourish again someday and wel-
come the people of the Davidson community on nights other
than “Christmas in Davidson.” Until then, I’ll keep one hand
on the mute button and the other on my candy cane in my at-
tempt to not only survive the holiday season, but to enjoy it.

To Pink: No one cares about your opinions °

Pink is disappointed with us, America. Apparently, we aren’t
educated enough on the important political issues of today. If
we were, we would join her in protesting animal cruelty and the
partial birth abortion ban.

I am not making this up. I was up around 3:30 a.m. the other
night, as Lusually am, and decided to see if MTV could fit some
music videos into its busy reality TV programming. I was in
luck. The new Britney Spears video was on. Her songwriting
is pure genius. Anyways, after Ms. Spears’ masterpiece, MTV
News (10 to the hour, every hour) came on with a riveting in-
terview with Pink.

Basically, the “news” brief was a big pep rally for Pink and
her political activism.

Recently, the acclaimed singer/songwriter wore a hat that
had “pro-choice” written on it. A bold political stand if I’ve
ever seen one. Pink blessed me with her musings on life, love,
women’s rights and the sad political state of our country.

To put it bluntly, she’s not happy with our recent decisions.
But, it’s not the fault of the average American citizen. We are
merely uneducated.

If only we grasped politics, philosophy and morality to the
degree that Pink does. Then we could truly be free to make the
correct political choices; Pink’s political choices.

When I am looking for solace in these republican dominated

times I put on my favorite Pink track “Missundaztood.” The
words comfort me: “There might be a day everything, it goes
my way/Can’t you think I know I’m superfly? /I might see the
world in a world inside of you /Then I just might say goodbye.”

Ah, exam time—harbinger of migraines, mono, and anexam
dispensing Mephistopheles.

Speaking of mischievous imps, I’ve taken
the lead from Saddam and hired a body
double to take all my exams for me this year.

You can be fascist-fab too, just google
“dictator shopping online” or go straight to
www.dicts.com (you need to read it aloud to
get the full effect). Don’t bother IM’ ing
Saddam though (his name is 2cuteforU.S.)
he’s been really bummed lately. On top of
missing the Lifetime special entitled “‘Tyr-
anny of the Heart” (about a love affair be-
tweena Britney look-a-like anda grumpy ole’ despot), he missed
a bid for a weapon of mass destruction on Ebay.

On a happier note, the winning bid made Iowan farmer
Huckbert Janglethorp feel like a big man.

While mail order Ali is taking all my exams (unfortunately
not in her native language of Tajikistani), will be lost to the
embrace of reality TV.

There are quite a few makeshift celebrities hosting their own
Christmas specials this year. I think MTV is having a sing-a-
long entitled, “Sleigh Bells Bling” emceed by P. Diddy and

ALI FITZGERALD

Ok, sorry. I know it’s unfair to pick on
Pink. It’s like kicking ahandicapped child.
But, the blubbering ignorance spewing
from the mouths of some celebrities is not
only tolerated, but glorified by some me-
dia outlets. It chafes my gizzard.

Of course I am glad Pink has opinions.
I wish that every citizen in the U.S. had
strong opinions on every issue—even one
as insignificant as animal cruelty (c’mon,
health care, the war on terror, job creation,
abortion and my decision to wear either
snowflake or reindeer boxers are all more important).

However, the elitist attitude that always seems to accompany
celebrity opinions makes me want to go on a rampage.

If Pink wants to make horrid music and have political opin-
ions, fine. I’d prefer to never be subjected to hearing either one.
But, if I have to choose, I'll choose a song.

Sorry for the bitterness. I wanted to end the semester on a
happier note, but Pink had to be born.

It’s that time of the semester, especially for many of us se-
niors. ‘

Underclassmen, expect a rowdier bunch in the spring; cause
all of us will have gotten a job, gotten into graduate school, or
decided that we just don’t care. Combined with all of the jun-
iors coming back from abroad and it should be a fun semester.
As long as I survive this semester’s exams and remember not
to watch anymore MTV. .

rant from the right

MIKE GALDO

What I’ve been doing instead of studying

Christina Aguilera (don’t adjust your television: her skin really
is that shade of orange). .

Their renditions of old favorites will include, “All 1 Want For
Christmas Is My Two Gold Teeth,” “Jacko the No-Nosed Re-
indeer,” “I Saw Paris Hilton On A Wide Screen With Santa
Claus,” and “Frosty the Pharmacist” (sung by the Betty Ford
Pill-Poppers, with guest vocalist Rush Limbaugh).

Also making an appearance will be Eminem, with his mov-
ing interpretation of a ““Crip-mas Carol.” The 12 days of Christ-
mas will be replaced by 50 Cent’s account of his 12 bullet
wounds.

Whew, I just inundated you with pop trivia. Now write an 8-
10 page essay delineating the meaning of my manic ramblings.

Juuuuuuust kidding, I wouldn’t do that you guys. Make it 15,
and please procure authentic 14th century calfskin scrolls and
pen nibs to write with. Don’t forget the blood seal!

Ok, now I’ve got to study. It seems that mail order Ali has
hopped a plane bound for Quebec. In her horticultural igno-
rance, my illiterate overseas doppelganger mistook Canada’s
“Maple Leaf” for a different variety of plant life. Poor thing.
The wide-eyed optimist sought utopia, and instead will only
find a spéedo-ed Tom Green and a bunch of croissant eaters.

_As usual, I blame Canada.
