THE DavipsoniAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003 3

CCRL: yes to cable in dorms

Resolution passes 8-7, Vagt to decide proposal’s future «

By Ros HEIDRICK
Staff Writer

The Council on Campus and Religious Life
approved in its Thursday meeting the cable
resolution proposed by sophomore class Presi-
dent Jack Hubbard ’06.

The resolution, which outlines a plan for
allowing access to cable television in individual
student dormitory rooms, has been a topic of
debate on campus since it was originally intro-
duced.

By presenting the cable plan to the CCRL,
Hubbard hoped that he would be able to garner
the support of the board’s cross section of
students, faculty, and administrators.

“T think that the student body will be glad to
see the enormous progress of the SGA on this
important student issue that is years old,” said
Hubbard. “I can’t speak for [the college fac-
ulty], but the resolution passed with a majority
in the CCRL, in which all relevant groups were
represented.”

The CCRL’s vote, which split 8 to 7 in favor
of the measure, was largely divided along stu-
dent and faculty lines. All of the students on the
board but one voted in support of the proposal,
while all faculty members but one voted against
it.

Some CCRL members took issue with the
proposal’s stipulation that first-year students be
excluded from the plan.

“To distinguish interest like that would be
unacceptable,” said CCRL Chairman and Dean
of Students Tom Shandley. “If you do this, you
do this; if you don’t, you don’t.”

President Bobby Vagt added, “I would al-
ways be very reluctant to allow something for
one group or class that would not be allowed for
others. I struggle with that logic.”

Originally intended as an “attempt at com-

promise,” according to Hubbard, the stipulation .

was directed at concerns tlfat having cable in
individual dorm rooms could be detrimental:to
community life on campus. A

“Tf it was the other way around, j wouldn’t be
surprised to be hearing the same people saying
we shouldn’t be letting freshmen have cable,”
Hubbard said.

Another problem arising at the meeting was
the issue of student paymenit-for cable services.
In last week’s online SGA survey, 80 percent of
respondents indicated that cable should be made

available in individual dorm rooms, and 69

percent claimed that they would want it in their
own rooms, but only 40 percent of the students
said that they would be willing to pay for cable
service (see full results of the survey below).

“This is the second time the issue has really
come up,” said Shandley. “This time there is
more support for it, but not if [students] will
have to pay forit,” adding that the costs for cable
service would eventually have to be passed on
to the students.

Despite these misgivings, the board’s deci-
sion could have a major impact in implement-
ing the policy, essentially placing the proposal
directly on Vagt’s desk. ;

Shandley said, “The CCRL acts as an advi-
sory board to the President. If we pass a resolu-
tion, it would be shared with the president for
his ultimate decision.”

Vagt conceded that many of the CCRL’s
recommendations are ultimately put into action
to some degree, some more readily than others.

As for Hubbard’s next steps, he said, “Right
now, the plan is to wait and see what the
president will do... Obviously, I hope his deci-
sion does not contradict the opinions of the
majority of the CCRL and the student body.”

Address, from page 1

- Police might never learn who spray-painted
“KKK” ona sidewalk and wall near the Laun-
dry building, but VYagt said it was “kind of an
odd place for someone off-campus” to vandal-
ize.

- A parent asked Shandley whether Campus
Police officers regularly hide in the bushes to
catch students drinking, which the Davidsonian
reported in a recent issue.

Shandley said there was “no evidence” that
officers had used such a tactic, but téld the
audience that new Director of Public Safety
Fountain Walker encourages his staff to be
more pro-active in patrolling the campus.

“One of the things he has insisted is that
(officers) get out of their squad cars and walk
around the campus,” said Shandley. “They’re
not instructed to hide in bushes.”

- Another parent pressed Cable about Admis-
sions’ efforts to increase minority enrollment.

“We don’t claim to be proud or that we’ ve
‘arrived’ at any point. We have work todo,” said

Cable. “Our standards are not different for any
group,” she added in a line that drew applause
from several parents.

Asked to name specific steps the College is
taking in its diversity campaign, Cable said she
recently co-signed a letter to 500 black alumni
around the nation asking for help with minority
recruitment. Each letter included admissions
applications.

- An audibly distressed mother asked for
advice on repairing her daughter’s computer.

Vagt advised her to take it to a repair shop.

. Speaking generally about the College*4com-
puter network, from which roughly 200 stu-
dents with faulty computers are still discon-
nected, Vagt said ITS technicians likely need to
use a different approach to combat viruses in
future years.

- In response to a question about faculty
retention, Ross acknowledged the school’s me-
dian faculty salaries are below those of many of
its peer institutions.

“The College is committed to bringing the
base salary levels up,” he said.

Goal of 24 hour lab becomes reality

~ By BLAIR McGraw
Staff Writer

At last week’s SGA meeting, Bobby Vagt
dropped by to let the SGA know that the large
computer lab in Belk will now be open 24 hours.

He congratulated the SGA on their efforts
and told them they deserved credit. He also
asked that they help to maintain the lab, as
longer hours would lead to larger messes.

The SGA had been hoping to open another
lab for about three weeks, as it was first brought
up at the leadership retreat.

SGA President Charles Washington ’04 said,
“Initially, it was our own complaints” but then
“people had started to complain.”

Washington explained that one student had
waited for a computer three nights in arow from
12 a.m. to 4 a.m. without luck at the smaller
Belk 24-hour lab.

The importance of maintaining the lab was
also stressed by Washington, as he said “‘it’s on
atrial period.” He said it will be up to the users
to keep it running smoothly.

John Casey, executive director of Informa-
tion and Technology Services understood the
SGA’s concerns.

Casey said the large lab in Belk was opened
because “there was an undeniable need for
machines in the overnight hours and there
wasn’t an alternative” besides the smaller 24-
hour lab.

Casey said that he hopes students realize the
large Belk lab has the college’ s “most precious”
machines and that “only time will tell” if the lab
will be able to keep its new status.

The other item of business involved approv-
ing a new charter for the Davidson College
EMS, which was presented by Laura Filosa 0S.
The organization is officially called “Davidson
Rescue,” and technically is new, although a
previous charter had expired last spring.

The goal of the organization is to “raise

‘awareness in the college community about

Emergency Medical Services.” Filosa said
Davidson Rescue wanted “to change the focus
from just EMT workers to people interested in
EMS,” as well as students interested in becom-
ing EMS or firefighters.

Davidson Rescue will educate students on
issues such as when to call 911, what happens
when 911 is called, and how to use CPR among
others. The organization also educates all first-
year students during Davidson 101.

Late night paper-writing will never be the same. The larger computer

lab in Belk is now open 24 hours.

85% Yes 14% No

42% Once a month 5% Never

wereres ns atamrecwctis 2

Last week 802 students responded to a campus-wide e-mail survey concerning off-
campus Cat Card use, cable TV and smoking in dorm rooms. Here are the results:

Are you interested in expanding Cat Card services off-campus?

How often do you currently patronize Main St. businesses?
44% Once a week 9% More than once a week

How often would you patronize Main St. businesses if the Cat Card was available for use?
43% More than once a week 37% Once a week 17% Onceamonth 1% Never

.

+

PEO as

eae

Should cable TV be available in the Residence Halls? 80% Yes 20% No
Would you choose to have cable TV in your dorm room? 69% Yes 31% No
If you had to pay a monthly fee, would you elect to have Cable TV? 60% No 40% Yes

beg aa

How often do you smoke tobacco products? 82% Never 14% Occasionally 4% Frequently
If the option were available, would you smoke in your dorm room? 93% No 8% Yes
Should students have the option to smoke in Residence Halls? 79% No 21% Yes —
Given the option, would you live on a hall where smoking is allowed? 89% No 11% Yes

See CR ee sites pep tt

a
ee

