8 . THE DAVIDSONIAN

Media critics should eals on real

Whether in attendance or not, most students probably caught
a glimpse of the yellow fliers advertising Monday night’s
“Weapons of Mass Disappearance” feature by New York Times
“critic,” Bill Jackson.

Understandably recognized by many as
nothing more than a 900 Room get-together
for poli-sci majors (or at least the more lib-
eral of us), the lecture predictably addressed
the supposed “bias” of New York Times re-
porting on the sensitive “Weapons of Mass
Destruction” debate since the beginning of
the war in Iraq.

Casting himself as somewhat of an ex-
pert on the Times (he’s been reading the daily
publication at breakfast for 40-some-odd
years now), Jackson suggested that the paper’s star-WMD re-
porter, Judith Miller, had been consistently skewing her report-
ing so as to support the administration.

Most notably, it was shown that the presence of co-author-
ship on a few of Miller’s articles somehow indicated clandes-
tine activity. Moreover, it appeared obvious that something fishy
was going on when Jackson pointed out that the Times had
frequently amended or changed its conclusions on the WMD
issue over the past few months.

After all, what business does a major newspaper, as wells
respected as the New York Times, have offering opposing view-
points on an issue so obviously understood as the search for
WMD in Iraq?

While my preceding sarcasm-drenched diatribe should at least
give the reader a hint of my initial reactions to the WMD lecture

ZACH WILLIAMS

PERSPECTIVES
issues

(D stands for Disappearance. ..get it?), on a more serious note,
the public would be better served if the real experts concen-
trated on figuring out where those weapons actually went. You
don’t have to be‘a poli-sci major to have found yourself at least
ruminating on the WMD debates of the last few months, if not
plugging out incensed tirades on this or that particular Web
blog.

To be honest, the Davidson community deservesa speaker at
least brought by a non-partisan group. It seemed rather ironic
that the Young Democrat-sponsored Bill Jackson felt the need
to talk about partiality. Jackson clearly addressed the audience
with the assumption that the majority joined him in scoffing at
the Bushies and their belief that WMD might have actually
existed in Iraq in the first place.

Perhaps I’m being overly cynical. Jackson’s long-winded
discussion did occasionally highlight the uncertainty of jour-
nalism when reported from the battlefield. Judith Miller wrote
several front-page articles from her embedded position in the
American military. Jackson fairly questioned the legitimacy of
such pieces since Miller’s sources and positions understand-
ably remained anonymous for the purposes of security.

Unfortunately, the debate over the role of the media during
wartime is an entirely separate topic and does little to validate
claims that the Times has published sketchy WMD articles since
last fall, a good six months before the war even began.

In what many might view as a blind stubbornness, I’ ll con-
tinue reading my morning Times in hopes of gaining the most
“fair and balanced” news that I’ ve been able to find in my five
or so years of political curiosity. Then again, I might be a Re-
publican.

College transmits ruling-class ideology

By RIcARDO AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Educational institutions like Davidson College have the
potential of providing the perfect environment for the trans-
mission of ruling class ideology across generations. This po-
tential is realized on our campus.

Why this potential? Generally, the members of the Davidson
College community are substantially detached from their local
surroundings. This facilitates the transmission of (inaccurate)
ideas since there are no social facts that might contradict them.

Consider the fact that, as students, we hardly have to con-
front the difficulties that most Americans do. Thus, our expo-
sure to social confrontation and problems, for example, is
minimal. (How much do most of us know of the local social
problems such as the absence of labor unions, rising tensions
between the abundant minority communities and state authori-
ties, and teenage violence in less than a three-mile radius?)

Therefore we, as students, are often unable to empirically
verify what we learn in the classroom.

One could object to this claim by saying that many students
indeed become exposed to social problems on various occa-
sions, such as during an internship over the summer or through
community service. It seems to me, however, that it is often the
case that even these kinds of experiences are insufficient to call
them “social experiences.”

Of course, this is not true of all student experiences; but how
many of us would take a summer job as a factory or agricultural
worker? Personally, I wouldn’t and wouldn’t expect most of us

here to do so since we would be violating our own rationality.

Why is this potential an actuality for us? Consider that the
median household income for this college is substantially above
that of many other colleges in the nation. To be practical, the
fact is that we, together with students in other similar institu-
tions, are the children of the bourgeoisie.

What results from this fact? It is likely that our entire lives
have been, for the most part, a fantasy. We do not have a de-
pendable empirical foundation for our ideas. Thus, in class,
when we read the works of a bourgeois poet, listen to bourgeois
classical music, see a ballet dance, or read an essay by a bour-
geois historian, these works sometimes make perfect sense to
us even if they are totally far from actual social conditions.

In a word, institutions like Davidson house a vast discourse

of ideas (e.g. love, honor, religious faith, justice, morality), most -

of which come from the ruling classes of the past and the present.
We will accept those ideas that make the most sense to us based
on our experiences. But the fact is that, for most students here,
our experiences are similar to that of those who formulated the
ideas that are part of this discourse. Therefore, we accept bour-
geois ideology as a valid and accurate set of beliefs.

This follows along with the compartmentalization of activi-
ties that is typical of capitalist societies that allows us to be
more efficient under the system (we study in the library, party
in the court, eat in the Commons, separate ‘higher-learning’
from its social and historical context).

Is this good or bad? I am not interested in making moral claims
here. Instead, I am interested in making sense out of the dynam-
ics of this campus.

Commons in need of a major overhaul

By Danny Troy
Guest Columnist

“Is itcooked today?” So asked a friend who was ahead of me

in line at Commons this afternoon when she ordered the baked ,

chicken. Unfortunately, her question was an entirely reason-
able one, as I had ordered the baked chicken myself recently,
and cut into it to discover that it was highly unlikely that it had
ever spent much time inside an oven.

Tonight was the breaking point. My dinner choices were
chicken parmesan for the fourth time in as many weeks, or a
quesadilla for the fourth time in as many days. Even the salad
bar looked worse than usual, as various unrelated items were
thrown together in the same bin in what was undoubtedly given
a name that involved the word “casserole” or “medley.”

Two of my roommates, like myself, are both independents
and too lazy to cook. As a result, we’re among the few upper-
classmen, and even fewer seniors, who eat regularly at Com-
mons. We are convinced that Commons has taken adownward
plunge over the past four years — in not just the quality of the
food, but the menu selection as well.

Ilooked tonight at the menus for the past three weeks that are
posted on the Dining Services’ Web site. During that time pe-
riod, Commons has served beef in different varieties on no less
than 20 separate occasions.

Of course, there is nothing wrong with beef. Moderation,
however, is of vital importance, particularly since on roughly
75 percent of these occasions, it was the same beef, only cut
differently, seasoned differently or given a new, exotic name.

Things get even bleaker when it comes to chicken. In the
same time period, chicken was served a total of 34 times. Like-
wise, the majority of these dishes involved a grilled chicken
breast covered ina different sauce at each meal and given anew
name: grilled balsamic chicken, key west chicken, lemon rose-
mary chicken, grilled chicken barbecue. The list is endless.

The thought process seems to be that if it’s given a different
name (and anything involving a foreign language is optimal)
perhaps we won’ t notice it’s the same chicken breast they served

for lunch yesterday.

There are other types of meat besides chicken and beef. Hot
turkey can be served for more meals than just Thanksgiving
dinner. Depending on costs, baked ham, pastrami and lamb also
come to mind. There is nothing wrong with chicken, butahigher
quality brand would not hurt, nor would expanding its uses
beyond that of a grilled fillet covered in a new sauce each day.

Most importantly, students need to be given more input re-
garding the Commons menus. SGA should work with Com-
mons to revive the Dining Committee, which has been defunct
for the better part of a year now, to give students a greater voice.
Additionally, on the Commons Web site, there is a link called
“E-meal,” which students can use to e-mail the Commons staff
directly.

I do not know if the root of the problem lies with the funding
received by Dining Services or if it is poor allocation of funds
in detérmining the menu. If it is the former, surely that can be
remedied with the money that this school has at its disposal.

If the problem is the latter, a serious overhaul of the menus
is desperately needed.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003
College must trust.
students with their
own social lives

There are some things I enjoy about Davidson. I have met
many interesting people inmy three plus years here. Both fel-
low students and faculty have challenged me intellectually and
enabled me to think in new ways. There are many people here
I am proud to call my friends. I have also really enjoyed the
chance to watch some great D-1 athletic teams free of charge.
However, in my time here I have also managed to develop an
intense hatred for much of what goes on at Davidson.

I guess the best way to explain myself is
to describe what I have.realized Davidson
does not stand for: its students’ social lives.

I have watched the Court devolve from
arelatively care-free environment to a bu-
reaucratic regime. Each year decisions are
being taken away from the students and
codified. Or, to be more accurate, rules and
regulations long-ignored are now being
vigorously enforced.

I liken it to traffic cops suddenly giving
massive fines for anyone going more than
one mile over the speed limit on the high-
way. Imagine the anger and frustration of receiving a thousand
dollar fine for going 67 in a 65. That’s what it feels like to try
and have fun at Davidson College. You always have to look
over your shoulder to make sure a school official doesn’t have
their legal radar gun out.

Fraternities and eating houses are more than social clubs.
The wild behavior exhibited on the Court is not something to
be tamed and caged in. Kids 18 to 22 are going to need arelease;
especially ones who are as stressed out as Davidson students
tend to be.

When I was a freshman students felt a sense of ownership
and responsibility for their actions. Sometimes we made bad
decisions when given the opportunity, but at least they were our
decisions.

Iremember the “Great Beirut Crackdown” that occurred my
freshman year. I assume it was part of the College’s four year
plan of reducing fun. Drinking games were always illegal, but
the college ignored them and students chose to play them. Sud-
denly the police were performing raids, handing out citations,
and placing fraternities on social probation.

Of course, the school could point to the Judicial Board, com-
posed of Davidson students, and blame them for those cita-
tions. But, we all know that those students have no real power.
Not only do professors often dominate discussion at J-Board

MIKE GALDO

trials, if the school doesn’t agree with the punishment they:

simply inform J-Board that a harsher punishment needs to be
handed out. Davidson student self-government at its finest.

Perhaps the most blatant example of a poor administrative
decision was the closing of the Outpost. I know, everyone has
been whining about the Outpost being shut down for three years,
but there’s a reason for that: it bound the campus together in a
way that the Union never will. It not only feels like each year
there are fewer and fewer students going out, it also seems like
there is less and less social interaction between those who go
out and those who don’t.

The new Pattersori Court houses are also causing frustration
for many students. The old houses may have been worn down
and falling apart, but they felt like our houses. The walls were
painted our colors, we could duct tape to our heart’s content
without receiving memos from RLO, and nailing something to
the wall wouldn’t result in a fine.

The school wonders why the new houses get destroyed; it’s
because the students don’t feel like they own them. The houses
may be leased to students by the school, but an illusion of
ownership would go a long way to reducing problems of de-
struction. I’m a lot less likely to wreck my own house than the
motel room I stay at during Spring Break.

As usual, I can’t offer many solutions. Removing some of
the rules and regulations students have to face is one solution.
Creating a place like the Outpost on the Court would help, too.

Another would be the students that attend Davidson. I think
there has been a significant shift in our student body. More and
more people come to Davidson to work, and only to work. I
don’t want to attend a school where the only thing on my mind
ishow much work Ihave todo, where every conversation begins
and ends with discussing my workload. Admit students bright
enough to excel in the classroom, but also human enough to
have a life outside of school.

I am not speaking for my fraternity, so J hope this doesn’t
result in retaliation by the administration. I also cannot claim
to speak for everyone I know. There are many students per-
fectly content with the way things are at Davidson.

However, I know that a growing number of students from
different ethnicities, income levels, fraternities, and social
groups harbor some resentment towards Davidson. Maybe it’s
just our misplaced teenage angst. Or, maybe some things really
do need to change around here.
