Staff Editorial
t itorial

With the remnants of Winter Storm 2K2 still littering our cam-
pus and another storm predicted for the end of this week, it’s worth
revisiting the school’s response toan event that left Mecklenburg
County in a state of emergency.

An afternoon spent dodging snowballs and running around in
boxers turned into a night filled with blue flashing lights and fall-
ing branches. While’most students experienced minimal incon-
venience—say, a computer that restarted after a power surge—
residents of Belk and Richardson residence halls had to face a
night with varying (if any) power.

Ironically, had the storm happened after winter break, both
buildings would have been as unaffected as the rest of campus.
Timing is everything, though, and Mother Nature cares little for
utilities planning.

Nevertheless, the typically pampered Davidson students
bucked up for the crisis. Community members—among them
professors and college staff—went days without power, and
Davidson appropriately opened its doors to them. The Union
became affectionately known as the Alvarez Refugee Center,
where food, heat and some degree of entertainment were offered.

In addition, many students took time out of their studying
schedules to participate in clean-up efforts on the west side of
town as well as on campus. President Vagt said recently he didn’t
hear a single complaint from students or faculty in the days after
the storm, and you can bet a college president gets quite a few
complaints on a typical day.

To apply some of the critical thinking that all our classes seem
to encourage, though, what could we have done better?

Getting Belk and Rich on the power source that sustained the
rest of campus—check. Making sure the community knows that
Baker and the Union are available for food, showers and shelter—
check. Making students understand the situation—hmm.

Students who tried to goto lunch at Joel’s on were disappointed
by a “Closed” sign. It didn’t seem to register that Davidson Col-
lege was virtually the only place with power in the northern part
of the county. Come on, kids—turn on the news.

Two things the school might consider: Warn students in ad-
vance when a severe winter storm is in the forecast. Most of us
check the Internet to get the latest predictions, but it couldn’t hurt
to be reminded when a dangerous situation is on the horizon.

Also, warn everyone about the risk of falling tree limbs. No one
was seriously hurt by debris during the December storm, but it
was certainly possible. If you looked up in the trees, you could see
limbs and branches dangling precipitously, ready to‘crash to the

' ground at any second. In the future, it would be nice to be warned
where the trouble spots may be.

Overall, the response was great. Professors were understand-
ing, Physical Plant and Dining Services had their game on, and
the students didn’t completely shut down. If another storm hits
this season, we’ Il beready. But think sunny thoughts—that’s why
you came to school in the South.

The Dayvidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield
Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser
News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll
Perspectives Editor
David Crow
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader
Sports Editors
: Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele & Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore & Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa

g T 1

ayeampuAg ssaig jesvenuy) Aq ySIQ/ UI “Spudus pue A86:7 C902

4
3 wih @-

Recycling: Just do it

It has come to our attention that a nasty rumor is circulating
around campus. We are writing to dispel this misconception.
Many faculty, students and staff are under the impression that our
recyclables are thrown away with the trash. This is NOT so!
Here’s how it really works:

1. Physical plant staff places the garbage from inside the dorms
in the big gray bins located behind each building.

2. The staff puts recycling on the ground next to the big gray~

bins.

3. Johnny Ray hitches the garbage
bins to the back of his cart and puts re-
cycling in the truck bed.

4. Both garbage and recycling are
. ttansported to Satellite where they are
placed into the appropriate bins.

5. An outside contractor collects the
recycling from there and trash is sent to
the compactor at a physical plant facility.

If we make a group effort, we can limit the amount of waste that
Davidson contributes to landfills. You can help by putting your
recyclable waste in the appropriate bins and making sure not to
put garbage in the recycling containers. We hope that this good
news encourages more.people to conserve our natural environ-
ment by recycling their waste.

Jessica Carlson ‘06
Haley Lambert ‘03
Greg Harris ‘05

Cheer ‘Cats with class

I write this letter with an open.acknowledgement that I use
every available opportunity to lend loud vocal support to
Davidson’ s great student athletes and their teams—and have even
been known to make the officiating group the beneficiary of my
correction, suggestion and advice (to the extent that my wife Ruth
Anne often deigns to sit elsewhere on the grounds of sheer vol-
ume alone).

I also recognize that in the arena of fan support, there are situ-
ations when the progression from positive encouragement to

heckling—and then to inappropriate comment—can be subtle.

However, I regret very much that during Saturday night’ s bas-
ketball game against Furman, a very small group crossed a very
bright line when it directed shouts at a Furman player which were,

“in content and fake accent, clearly a function of his Hispanic

surname. Many in that section of the stands expressed shock and
disappointment. Several simply left the game.

Ihave called President David Shi at Furman, offered my deep
apology, and expressed my hope and expectation that such will
not reoccur.

The actions I cite were those of only a few, and area far cry from
the standard students set for themselves on this campus, which
standard I have come to both cherish and respect. I would ask you
to join me in rooting loudly, VERY loudly... but appropriately.

President Robert F. Vagt

Thanks for your
warmth during storm

Our families were among the many Davidson folk who took
refuge inthe Union Thursday [Dec. 5], and we thank all those who
welcomed us there.

It was great to have a place to take our children that was warm
and lighted and filled with friends. Italso was good to see so many
students and to have supper with colleagues and friends.

We extend special thanks to the dining services workers who
prepared and served the meal. Many of them surely left theirown
families in dark homes tocome and take care of us and the college
students. We appreciate their sacrifice.

Shelley Rigger, Political Science
Suzanne Churchill, English
Malcolm Campbell, Biology

Honor Code applies to
cable TV splicing, too

As my term as Honor Council Chair comes to a close, I wanted
to let you know about a potential honor code issue we have on
campus.

Specifically, the issue I want to address is cable splicing. It is,
in fact, an honor code violation to splice cable into your dorm
room. This includes splicing cable from the lounge into your
room, and from the common room to a bedroom in the apart-
ments.

Splicing cablei is considered stealing, because you are using the
cable service in a way that the college has not paid for it to be
used. It additionally makes the picture quality worse for those
legitamately using a lounge/common room TV.

Anyone found to be splicing cable will be charged with an
honor code violation of stealing. fam presenting this to you now,
to avoid potential problems in the future.

Thank you in advance for your cooperation. If you have any
questions, please do not hesitate to email me at:
remoore @ davidson.edu.

Rebecca J. Moore ‘03

and now ADOSH ALOSA
WITH LAURA FILOSA

,

AREUIGIOUs-

30 Years later, what? Ss the biggest ae: Facing Bee da?

Dehn Ashcrof: + |

Apc\itica® women,
ages rer

ExTR &MISTS
Eat

a V. Wade 2

‘Ma Thar oa “The.
Bouhsoate ight?
or

< V AWK Weds

