THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003 7

Health Advisor

Blevin Shelnutt, in the Oct. 8 issue of the
Davidsonian, suggests that the 17% CORE

about drinking, whereas the statistic itself
only represents a minority of students on
campus (15% of the student body partici-
pated in the CORE study). However, her
article also reflects a minority of student
opinion. As I have spoken with a variety of
students on campus, I have realized that a
significant number is satisfied with the sta-
tistic. Many students thought 17% accu-
rately reflected the percentage of students
who do not really drink oncampus. Aneven
greater number were completely indiffer-
ent to the statistic altogether.

17% of the campus drinks less than once
a year. What does the other 83% do? They
drink more than once a year. Period. This
does not imply that the 83% drink every
weekend, that 83% are consistently wasted,
or that 83% gently sip on one can of
Milwaukee’s Best each month.

The statistic itself implies absolutely
nothing; meaning stems from the eye of the
beholder. Think of the 17% CORE statistic
as a quasi-Rorschach test. If a guy looks at
an inkblot, and anaked woman appears, he

survey produces a negative perception

The Student Bod

Kristin Lothman '04, Chris Ahearn ’05, Jonetta Johnson ’04, and Kim Newton ’05
By Kristin LOTHMAN

is 83% your typical male. But if someone _

looks at the 17% statistic and sees 83% of
the students shot-gunning beers, he or she
has a skewed perception of the drinking
mores on campus.

Nevertheless, the 17% CORE statistic is
disturbing for some. Perhaps this reaction
reveals my own distorted conceptions, be-
cause I, too, found the statistic unsettling at
first. Yes, I have put up some of the 17%
signs; Ihave given away free mugs and pens,
and I definitely drink more than once a year.
I wasn’t part of the elect 17% that I was
placing on easels in the lobby of Chambers.

Instead, I felt corralled into an obscure
group of drinkers that ranged from the bian-
nual consumer of “Arbor Mist” to Frank the
Tank. The statistic sheds no light on drink-
ing responsibly and itis an ambiguous num-
ber altogether - is 17% a good or bad num-
ber, really? But, the statistic has fueled much
discussion, which, I believe, is the primary
reason for the CORE survey—for students
to question their assumptions of drinking on
campus.

If you haven’t had enough of this 17%
CORE statistic, do not fret. If you find a Stu-
dent Health Advisor this week and quote this
statistic, you will be compensated. Also, if
you would like to start akitchen setof CORE
mugs, a new statistic will be coming soon.

On THE CAT WALK

Who will win the World Series?

Opera, from page 1

of cat and mouse, a tale of misunderstanding,
‘broken ‘promises, and revenge. As the Mon-
ster discovers his own power, Frankenstein
realizes his work’s implications and, in vain,
retreats from his creation.

_ The highlights of the show are Victor’s pro-
posal to Elizabeth and the diary confrontation
between Monster and creator. The love scene
is one of the show’s few slow moments: after
hurrying from song to song, “Frankenstein”
finally settles down for a few minutes.

The confrontation scene is effectively tense,
even though the Monster looks like a bohemian
drag queen complete with peasant top, linen
bellbottoms, and purse/satchel. (The Monster
wears the peasant top and bellbottoms through-
out the show; it’s the addition of the purse/
satchel that makes this scene’s costume dis-
tracting.)

stb ee BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

As for the music, it’s mostly hummable.
Indeed, I whistled a tune or two on my walk
home. pray e: at first, the rock and roll as-
pects of the score eventually find their place,
adding an interesting tone to Shelley’s story.

Regardless of “Frankenstein’’s strengths
and weaknesses, the story of its creation repre-
sents a triumph. Working for an English class,
Ty Morse ’04 and Justin Perkinson ’01 com-
posed songs based on Shelley’s “Franken-
stein.” From those original tracks emerged the
36-song “Rock Opera.” John Greenlee helped
Morse and Perkinson with the writing. Theater
Department Chair Joe Gardner directs the cast
of 16, and Rick Dior conducts the orchestra.

“Frankenstein: the Rock Opera” plays at 8
p.m. tonight through Saturday. There is a7 p.m.
performance on Sunday, Oct. 26. The Friday
and Saturday shows have already sold out.
Tickets ($6 for students, $9 for faculty/staff,
and $15 for the public) are available at the

Union Box Office and are general admission.

Every Monday

[neste BARAOKE MIGHT
EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING

18665 Harborside Dr. -
1-77 to Exit 28 - Go W. on Catawba to Harborside Dr.

1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque
(dine-in only)

Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine in only)

(704)896-9013

Follow to end.

EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES
ww Www ieasternfederal

-com

@€@LLECE NICHT Evcay Tuvaspay

Trievers On Sac Now For
SPECIAL
MIpAirTE

Srxr90Ww 10/23 |

Anp Opraine WEEK

fariase Bickel

1-77 Exit 25, Huntersville
in Birkdale Village

704~-895 ~7997
%* Student Pricing with Valid College ID
* Online Ticketing Now Available
* 16 Wide Curved Screens
¥ DTS Digital, Dolby Digital and
EX-Surround Sound

Get Your MOVIE MANIA CARD to

Advance Tickets Available 10/23
MACE Ra X
REV OL U FI OFS

Opens November 5 at

MOVIES AT THE LAKE

1-77 Exit 28, Cornelius
Behind the Post Office in Livérpoo!l

704~892~—3841

* SPECIAL DISCOUNT PRICES

ALL THE TIME

* Advance Ticketing At The Box Office
* DTS Digital, Dolby Digital and

EX-Surround Sound
Earn FREE Movies

and Snacks!
