By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

A selection process that began last summer is
drawing to an end, and soon Davidson College
will have filled its five tenure-track faculty
openings. The openings result from retirement
of current faculty members and funding for a
new position. The entire process can last nearly
a year.

At present, three of the openings have been
filled. Anne Blue Wills, a 1988 alumna of
Davidson and Phi Beta Kappa, will join the
religion department. Tim Chartier, currently in
a post-doctoral research program at the Univer-
sity of Washington at Seattle, will join the
mathematics department and has the education
to also teach computer science courses in that
department. Finally, Mike Gwasco has accepted
the position to teach history courses focused on
the Colonial Period in America. Gwasco was
about to finish a two-year stint as Visiting
Assistant Professor in History. The two other
positions should be decided upon in the near
future.

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean
of Faculty Clark Ross explained the college’s
selection method.

First, Ross said, current faculty will announce
their retirement or, alerting the college to the
need to find a replacement. The academic de-
partment involved will identify the area of need
in the field.

‘tensive search yi

This year, Dr. John Kuykendall’s retirement
created an opening for an American Religion
professor, while Dr. Malcolm Partin’s retire-
ment and Russ Snapp’s departure leave open-
ings in the history department. In addition,
Professor Todd Will’s departure created a va-
cancy in mathematics, and a grant from the
Freeman Foundation has enabled the college to
create a tenure-track Chinese Language posi-
tion. Partin’s expertise was European History,
whereas Snapp taught Colonial and early United
States History.

After identifying the need, departments re-
quest permission from the Dean of. Faculty,
currently Ross, to authorize a search for tenure-
track positions. Typically, advertisements are
placed in professional journals to invite appli-
cations.

While each department has its own variation
on this process, members of each department
then gather and select from the received written
applications 15 to 25 applicants that they would
like to speak with more closely.

Most disciplines have an annual meeting
which members of the department and most of
these applicants attend. Ross said that Chemis-
try and Political Science are notable exceptions
to this, since their national discipline meetings
do not coincide with the hiring process. If a
candidate does not attend the meeting or there is
no such applicable meeting, phone interviews
are usually able to suffice at this stage.

“One of the advantages we have as a depart-

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/18 Residence Halls

Larceny of Bicycle

Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked bicycle without permission from owner. Total

loss is estimated at $400.

2/21 Baker Sports Complex

Larceny of Money

Unknown person(s) entered a Baker Sports Complex office and removed money from

office desk. Total loss is $150.

2/22 Residence Halls

Alcohol Violation

Known student was referred to the Dean’s office for underage drinking.

2/22 Suspicious Person

College Student Union

Known person was identified by Union staff and students attempting to solicit on

campus. Person was escorted from campus.

2/23 Damage to Property

Patterson Ct. Parking Area

Victim reported that the windshield of her vehicle had been smashed. Unknown suspect or

cause at this time.

2/23 Residence Halls

Alcohol Violation

Two students were referred to the Dean’s office for underage drinking.

por a

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

pls three new professors

fal Pay Es. ae Ra
SESE RY 35 ON Tisekoe ansioe a oe

ment is the National Mathematics meeting oc-
curs in early January,” said Dr. Stephen Davis,
Professor and Chair of Mathematics. “We de-
cided on 25 [individuals to talk to], and 24 were
at that meeting in Baltimore. The entire depart-
ment went to the meeting, and by the end, 10 of
them had met all of us.”

After interviewing these individuals, a de-
partment will recommend two to three candi-
dates to the Dean for the purposes of inviting
them to campus. These on-campus visits occur
in January or early February.

During the on-campus visit, the candidates
meet with faculty in the department, student
majors, the Dean of Faculty, President Vagt,
and faculty in other departments. Davis empha-
sized that the visit involves “a luncheon with the
students, students-only.”.

All candidates usually do some kind of pre-
sentation. Ross said, “Each candidate is ex-
pected to do some kind of presentation for
faculty and students; in fact in some depart-
ments, a candidate both teaches a class and
gives aresearch-related presentation.” The pre-
sentation offers the department an opportunity
to gauge the teaching ability of the candidate,
portraying them in a classroom or lecture set-
ting versus the interview setting or merely on
paper.

Davis said, “We have them do a math coffee.
We don’t have them teach a class,” to observe
their undergraduate level of research.

The department then recommends a decision
to hire to the Dean of Faculty, who usually
consents. The president then extends the offer
of a tenure-track position.

“On the last visit, the person left on a Wednes-
day morning, and on Monday we met to decide
on who to recommend,” Davis said. During that
time, the members of the department “let our
thoughts settle, and got input from students.”

Autism, from page 1

deficit in theory of mind. This last symptom is
especially important because it means an autis-
tic child cannot assume what another person is
thinking or understand another person’s emo-
tions.

Each year, more and more children are diag-
nosed with the condition. The disorder affects
about two in 1000 children, meaning that ap-
proximately once every twenty minutes, an-
other child will be diagnosed with autism. As
we learn more about the condition, however,
there is hope for improved quality of life or a
cure.

Currently, many believe that somewhere be-
tween eight and 20 genes contribute to autism,
and this is only one of many advances that have
been made in the understanding of the condi-
tion. Most of these advances have come since
research into the disorder increased over
roughly the past decade. With increasing fed-
eral funding in the form of the Children’s Health
Act and donations from organizations like Cure
Autism Now, more scientists are taking on
autism research and making progress.

Following Popkin’s presentation, Andrea
Bertrand spoke more directly about what Cure
Autism Now does. She talked about the
fundraisers that the organization sets up, as well
as the gene bank that CAN helped establish. She
emphasized the important role that CAN plays
as the largest non-federal funding organization
of autism studies in the United States, and she
ended by detailing what the Davidson chapter
can do to help.

D-CAN hopes to involve students in national
fundraising. D-CAN also wants to forge links
between students and families with autistic
children through various outreach programs. In
order to get involved in D-CAN, contact John
Pitts at jopitts@davidson.edu. For more infor-
mation about Cure Autism Now and how you
can help, go to www.canfoundation.org.

WAKEMBA_

Wake Forest University

Top-ranked school
Looking for top-ranked
undergraduates

Application deadline May 1, 2003

Apply online at
www.princetonreview.com or
www.mba.wfu.edu

¢

THIS 1S YOUR WAKE-UP CALL

Contact us at 800.722.1622 or
admissions@mba.wfu.edu

WAKE FOREST

Bascock GRADUATE
SCHOOL of MANAGEMENT

Internationally Ranked |
Internationally Recognized
Internationally Respected

www.mba.wfu.edu

