Meggie Patterson and Lindsey Powel compete at number two doubles.

Women’s tennis wins two of three

Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

The Davidson women’s tennis team im-
proved its home record to 8-1 last Wednesday
afternoon, with a 5-2 victory over Appala-
chian State. Appalachian (5-9, 0-6) remained
winless in the conference with three more
SoCon matches to play in the regular season.

Sophomore sisters Kelly Fillnow and
Meghan Fillow got the Wildcats off to a good
.. Start, winning 8-4 at the number one doubles
position. Davidson’s number three tandem of
junior Katherine Hatch and sophomore Sarah
Borkowski secured the doubles point for the
Wildcats with their 8-3 win Sophomore Meggie
Patterson and Lindsey Powel ’06 took care of
business in the number two position, earning
a 8-6 victory. Davidson opened up singles
action with quick victories at the top three
positions to ensure the win

The team fell to conference foe College of
Charleston, 6-1, on Saturday. The win was the

17th in a row for the Cougars (17-2, 7-0) who
remain undefeated in league action.

For the first time at home this season the
Wildcats lost the doubles point.

Men’s tennis drops three matches

By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team endured three tough
losses this past week, falling to UNC-Char-
lotte, the College of Charleston, and Furman.

In the first match of the week, the Wildcats
fell 4-3 to the UNC-Charlotte 49ers.

Opening up with three quick doubles wins,
the ’Cats seemed to be on their way to an easy
victory.

At the first singles position, Haywood de-
feated Arturo Aguirre 6-2, 7-5.

Using a strong serve and precise
groundstrokes, Haywood set a fast pace for the
match that Aguirre could never handle.

At number two, Marlo Santoso beat Miles
6-4, 6-0, and at number three, Jonathan Clark
of Charlotte overpowered Stonestreet.

Britt started out slowly against Christofer
Boman and got down early, falling 6-0, 6-4.

Geoffrey Mullen ’03 won the first set of his
match against David Bolin 6-3, but Bolin was
able to change the momentum of the match,
winning the second set 6-3.

The last set, won by Bolin with a score of 6-
3, gave the 49ers a hard fought victory over the
Wildcats.

One bright spot in the loss was Burns’ three
set win over Zvi Lantsberg at the number six
spot.

The win was his ninth straight at the sixth
position and his 12th of the year.

After the close loss on Wednesday, the
Wildcats faced the Cougars of Charleston to
open the weekend.

College of Charleston won its eighth straight
match, out-muscling the Wildcats 5-2.

The Wildcat duo of Gould and Britt won at
number two doubles, 8-3, but the Cougars
took the doubles point by winning tight matches

at the number one and three positions.

Inthe singles competition, the Cougars domi-
nated, winning five of the six matches. Hatch
was the lone Davidson victor of the day,
defeating Lauren Stewart, 6-4, 6-2.

The team won its ninth home victory of the
season defeating SoCon rival Georgia South-
ern, 6-1, on Sunday afternoon. The Wildcats
improve to 9-5 overall and 3-3 in league ac-
tion, while the Eagles are 9-7 overall and 5-3

in conference play.

The Fillnow sisters put the Wildcats on the
right track, winning 8-6 at the number one
doubles position. Patterson and Powel se-
cured the doubles point with a 8-6 win. The
Wildcats are 9-0 when they claim the doubles
point.

In singles action, K.Fillnow earned her 14th
singles victory of the year. Powel and
Borkowski picked up victories at number four
and number six singles, respectively, to give
the Wildcats the 6-1 win.

The team has three league matches remain-
ing before the conference tournament on April

16-19. The Wildcats next bout will be at UNC
Greensboro on Tuesday, April 8 at 2:30 p.m.
Georgia Southern will face Charleston South-
ern on Wednesday, April 9 at 2 p.m.

The Cougars won three of the six singles in
straight sets with Timo Siebert beating
Haywood at number one 6-4, 6-3, Artie Peller
defeating Britt 7-6 at number four, 6-1, and
Philip Koller winning over Mullen 6-3, 6-3 at
number five.

At the third position, Stonestreet played a
masterful match but lost in a close three setter,
7-6 (4), 1-6, 6-3.

Miles defeated Eyal Omid of Charleston at
the second spot and Burns won his tenth in a
row over Liran Kling.

With this loss to Charleston, the Wildcats
fell to 10-8 on the year and 3-4 in the SoCon.

In their last match of the week, the ’Cats
seemed to be fatigued, falling to Furman 6-0.

Furman swept the doubles matches and
notched the first point of the match.

Although all of the singles matches were
competitive, the Paladins won the top five,
with the sixth match being cancelled before it
could finish.

At the first singles spot, James Cameron
beat Haywood 6-2, 7-5 while Chris Henderson
defeated Miles in straight sets 6-4, 7-6.

At the third position, Andrew Rodgers
handed Stonestreet his third straight loss, and
Britt lost the closets match of the day 6-2, 3-6,
6-1 to Pat Fillnow, the older brother of
Davidson’s Fillnow twins.

Atnumber five, Ryan McCarthy beat Mullen
6-2, 6-3, and at number six, Burns was unable
to finish his match because Furman had al-
ready won.

Burns had split sets with B.J. James at the
sixth spot but did not have the chance to win
his eleventh straight.

At 10-9 for the season ahd 3-4 in the

conference, the Wildcats still have a chance to
pull out a good season.

They take on the Citadel in their final home
match of the season on Saturday, April 12.

Scott, Martin and Brew
all prove victorious over
SoCon competitors

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The Davidson track squad hit the bus once
again, this time to the Furman Invite, on their
first road trip since Davidson’s own Irwin
Belk Invitational two weeks ago.

No one missed a beat or, more appropri-
ately, a step.

Greg Scott ’04 nailed down another first-
place finish in the 1500m, and Nick Lehman
05, Ben Gaspar ’04, Jimmy Swansbrough
03, and Paul Wyatt ’0S all raced home to
impressive finishes on the beautiful, although
a bit steamy at times, April afternoon.

Scott wasn’t distracted by challengers, as he
sprinted out to an early lead in the 1500.

He stayed calm and collected, traits he claims
as his own, and blew past the tiring runners on
the late laps.

His 3:55.35 was good enough for a personal
record (PR) and edged him closer to the SoCon
leading time of 3:52 and change.

“This was a good last 1500m to take into the
conference meet,” said Scott, the SoCon run-
ner of the week last week, “because not only
did I bring down my time, but I felt confident
enough to be able to run the type of controlled
race early on that is often the hallmark of
conference races.”

Lehman and Wyatt both continue to play
lumberjack with their times.

Lehman fought off some oncoming runners
in the last sprint to earn third place in the 800m
with a time of 1:58.29.

Although it’s a PR, he’s still looking to peel
off a few seconds to put him in the thick of
conference competition.

Wyatt, who has struggled on and off due to
illness and fatigue, battled to the finish with a
time of 52 flat, good for third place in the 400.

“T was glad to run a long-awaited PR in the
800, but now is not the time to revel in small
accomplishments,” said Lehman about his
performance.

“We have less than two weeks left in the
season, so we all need to be focused on elevat-
ing our physical and mental state to a lofty
zenith for the conference meet,” finished
Lehman poetically.

The Davidson 5000-meter crew failed to
disappoint as usual.

Gaspar led the way, as his booming strides
just outpaced teammate Swansbrough for sec-
ond place.

They ran it in 15:27.17 and 15:33.31, re-
spectively.

‘mances at Furman

Kevin Crosby from Furman was inspiring
in victory, conquering the field with a time of
15:03.81.

He ran nearly the whole race unchallenged.

Perhaps the talk of the day, however, was
Austin Mercadante ’06 handling steeplechase
duties for the afternoon.

His time of 10:33.25 for the 3000m race
wasn’t record-breaking, but he handled his
jumps well and survived to tell the tale.

Said Swansbrough, who will be steeple-
chasing at Conference, of the effort, “I ex-
pected him to fall or at least almost drown in
the water pit, but Austin impressed me.

“He shows great promise for the future if he

_can ever get jacked enough to increase his pain

threshold.”

Coach Andrew was bubbling with excite-
ment after the meet.

“J’m just a happy man. Really. The meets
have been going really well. Our goal is to
make a splash at Conference, and with the way
guys are sticking their necks out, we should
make some noise,” he said.

The women’s team looked just as promis-
ing.

Allie Martin ’06 and Anna Brew ’05 notched
victories in their respective events as the youth
movement continued to impress.

Martin ran away with the 1500m witha time
of 4:50.60, holding off teammate Liz Gross
’03, who finished second.

Martin also took third in the 800m.

“T really wanted to push it early to see what
I could handle,” said Martin, describing how
she left the other runners behind early. “It
ended up that I had enough to finish well and
get a pretty good time, but I still hope to do
better next time.”

Brew tried the steeplechase for a change,
earning a victory in yet another event.

Her winning time came out to be 11:31.83,
as she tired out the second place opponent with
her relentless pacing.

Kim Pierre ’05 performed well for the field,
as she edged out a College of Charleston
opponent for third place in discus with a toss
of 31.91m.

She also placed fifth in the shot put with a
put of 9.51m.

Finally, Carolyn Mohr ’06 put in another
stellar race as she drafted behind a Furman
runner until the final straight when she blew
past her for second place.

Her time of 19:08.02 sets a new personal
best as she edges closer to the 19-minute
barrier.

The track teams travel to UNC Charlotte
this upcoming Saturday.

It'll be the last chance to catch them locally
in 2003, as they have the Southern Conference
Championships on Easter weekend at Appala-
chian State.

el phia. Center

Education at Work

