THE DAvIDSONIAN’

Player Spotlight .

SPORTS

‘Chapman embraces role as
volleyball’s ‘go-to person’

_By Witson McCrory
Staff Writer

In many ways, the fortunes of the 2003
volleyball squad ride on the leadership and
play of Latisha Chapman ’04.

She’s one of two seniors on the team, a two-
year starter for the Wildcats, and a preseason
First Team All Southern Conference selec-
tion.

Gorie this year are four starters from a
strong 2002 team, leaving the 2003 squad with
three freshmen starters, and a need for senior
leadership. Both Chapman and fellow senior
Nicole Tonelli ’04 have embraced that role,
especially since they’ re “such good friends off
the court,” according to Chapman.

Her hope, she said, “is to lead not only
through example, but also [to] show the under-
classmen the dedication and hard work it takes
to succeed. Each senior class that has led this
team since I was a freshman has led the team
by setting the standards high and accepting
nothing but 110% from each individual on the
team. I hope to do the same [this year].”

Still, the primary means of leadership comes
on the court, where the team looks up to the
6’1” middle blocker for much of the offense,
as well as defensive support.

After Chapman’s breakout 2002 season,
however, her offensive and defensive prowess
no longer escapes opponents. Instead, as coach
Tim Cowie notes, “It is no surprise that
Chapman is our go-to person.”

According to Cowie, the key is to “not get
frustrated” with the increased attention, and as
a result, the increased difficulty in making
plays. While Chapman may be the most expe-

Position: Middle blocker
| Major: Economics

_ Hometown: chai NC

rienced and perhaps talented front-line player
on the team, it is the progress of her team-
mates, and their ability to draw attention away
from Chapman, that will truly dictate how she
plays this season.

So far in the 2003 campaign, though,
Chapman’s play has shown to be a good indi-
cator of Davidson’s success. In wins against
Radford, St. Peters and Robert Morris,
Chapman has tallied 73 kills, while registering
only 65 in the four losses.

Her struggles were particularly evident in
the Memphis match this past weekend, when
she notched 11 kills and 16 errors for a -.104
attack percentage in the 3-0 loss.

Despite a few struggles and the continued
adjustment to her new role on the team,
Chapman has proven herself to be worthy of
her preseason recognition. In the first two
tournaments this year, Chapman was twice
named to the All-Tournament squads, and she
was named the Southern Conference’s Player
of the Week after registering 89 kills and a
.323 attack percentage at the Robert Morris/
Duquesne Invitational August 29-30.

It seems strange for Chapman that this is
her senior season, likely her last in organized
volleyball, but she says she has enjoyed it all
and is looking forward to the culmination of
her time here at Davidson. As she says, “It has
been a great four years of volleyball that has
given me experience that I never thought a
sport could do. It has taught me new meanings
of friendship and family, and I will cherish
those no matter what I do after I graduate. I
have dreams of continuing to play, but right
now they are just dreams. I am working on
finishing strong in what I al: have.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

11

Toreros pile up points,
drop football team to 0-3

By Peter ALLISON
Sports Editor

In what already could have been considered
a rebuilding year, the injury-plagued roster is
taking an even greater toll on Davidson foot-
ball. This past Saturday, the ’Cats suffered
their worst loss in the last 14 years, losing 54-
7 to San Diego.

The Toreros wasted little time before begin-
ning their onslaught when, on the third play of
the game, quarterback Eric Rasmussen con-
nected with wide receiver Nick Garton for an
80-yard touchdown pass.

Unfortunately for those home fans looking
for the ’Cats’ first victory of the season,
Rasmussen was only just getting warmed up.
By the end of the game he would set a school
record by throwing for 467 yards on 19-of-29
passing, with a total of six touchdown passes.

Sloppy play on the offensive side of the ball
did not help the Wildcats either. After the
ensuing kickoff, a fumbled handoff by the
*Cats on their own 15-yard line set up another
quick touchdown pass by Rasmussen, this
time to receiver Adam Hannula.

Later in the first quarter, a pass by Tom
Cook ’06 was intercepted by the Toreros and
returned 46 yards, leading to yet another touch-
down. The final mistake of the first half came
with around 4:00 minutes to go in the second
quarter, when the Wildcats fumbled on their
own 10. San Diego capitalized once more, this
time with a l-yard touchdown run.

Had the offense been in better coordination,
the outcome of the game most likely would not
have changed. The Wildcat defense consis-
tently gave up big plays, including the initial
80-yard touchdown pass, a 72-yard touch-
down completion off of a quick slant on 3rd-

and-3 at the end of the first quarter, and an 83-
yard touchdown pass off another quick pass
with just under two minutes left in the half.

All of this led to a 45-0 Torero blowout by
halftime.

Over the course of the game, Davidson
mustered a mere 191 yards of total offense, led
by Barrett Johnson ’04. Johnson recorded his
third career 100-yard game, earning an exact
100 yards on 6 receptions.

Davidson’s woes at quarterback continued
as Cook threw for 61 yards and one intercep-
tion on 5-of-11 passing before being knocked
out of the game with a shoulder injury. Cook
is questionable for this week’s game.

Freshman quarterback Jackson Whetsel ’07
finished the game for the ’Cats, going 5-of-16
for 59 yards with one touchdown and one
interception.

The sole comfort in the game was the superb
play of the special teams unit. Punter Chris
Costello ’04 followed up his PFL Special
Teams Player of the Week honors from last
week with another solid outing, punting six
times for an average of 41 yards.

Return specialists John Leverett ‘OS and
Yates Anderson ’06 recorded 118 and 138
yards, respectively. In fact, Leverett averaged
39.3 yards-per-return including a 54-yarder at
the start of the third quarter, setting up
Davidson’s only touchdown of the game.

The ’Cats finished their three-game home
stand to start the season at 0-3, averaging less
than 10 points a game. They can only hope the
upcoming trip out to Indianapolis to play But-
ler will bring a spark their cold offense.

Atthe very least, they must return with their
starting unit intact, as this team can ill afford
any more injuries if it wishes to have some
positive memories come season’s end.

Men battle to tie with UNCW

By GEorF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Trying to avenge last year’s heart-wrench-
ing 2-1 defeat, the men’s soccer team traveled
to UNC-Wilmington Saturday night to play
the Seahawks on their home turf.

This year’s match had no winner, as both
teams went scoreless, and the double-over-
time game ended in a 0-0 tie.

Goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05, who played
all 110 minutes, including both overtime peri-
ods, was not challenged with many Seahawk
offensive opportunities.

“We played well and did all the right things
to win the game. We were able to hold the
majority of the possession, play solid defense,
and create some good scoring chances,” he
said after the game. “As long as we do these
things, goals will come.”

Creasman, who recorded five saves, came
up big on the few shots he faced, especially as

. Wilmington pushed for a goal in the second
half.

- Opposing rookie goalkeeper Brad Knighton
recorded the first shutout of his career, stop-
ping all ofthe Wildcat shots. Despite heavily
out-shooting the Seahawks 15-4, Knighton
proved to be up for the challenge.

He had to make only three saves on shots on

goal, preserving the tie and sending the game
into overtime.

“Anytime you play away from home, you
expect a hard-fought game,” said Davidson
head coach Matt Spear. “We controlled most
of the game, created many quality scoring
chances, and played with passion and intelli-
gence... At the end of the day, that is all we
ask for - even as we strive to win.”

Davidson had numerous shots, 10 total in
the second half, as they started to challenge the
UNC-W defense.

Offensive pressure by forwards Keith
Nicholson ’04 and Nick Hansel ’04 proved
fruitless, forcing the team to look towards the |
upcoming Vanderbilt Tournament next week-
end for a chance to score.

“After the game, I think that Bart Creasman
summed it up perfectly when he said, ‘That’s
soccer.’ Some days you dominate games, but
it’s just not quite enough,” explained Spear.

Watch for an offensive push as the team
travels to Nashville, Tennessee to participate
in their second tournament of the season.
Davidson hopes to match their success in the
Vanderbilt/Puma Fall tournament, as they went
undefeated in their last road trip.

In Nashville, the ’Cats play Vanderbilt on
Sept. 19 at 9 p.m. and Western Kentucky on
Sept. 21 at 1 p.m.

At a Glance

spark the 'Cats offensive attack.

Women’s Soccer: Junior Sarah Hobart posted her first shutout of the season against
visiting Gardner-Webb on Friday to help the Wildcats to a 3-0 victory. Davidson's dynamic
forward duo of senior Leigh Anne Hoskins and sophomore Kara Koehrn each netted goals to

The women (3-3) visit South Carolina tonight at 7 p.m., and open the Southern
Conference season on Saturday at Western Carolina.

Field Hockey: The Davidson field hockey team (2-4) completed
a weekend sweep, winning its second game in as many days by beating
the Miami (Ohio) RedHawks 3-1 Saturday on the road.

The Wildcats hosts NorPac rival Appalachian St. today at 4:30 p.m.

‘a 2

