‘Seif Editorial

Let them watch cable

Cable television in Davidson dorm rooms. It’s a topic of
debate that dates back even further than the Outpost. ‘We
haven’t heard much talk about it lately, but after questions
were raised at.a recent SGA meeting, as detailed on our News
pages, the cable TV question may surface anew.

Arguments on both sides of the debate certainly have their

merits, but we believe it is time for cable TV to be made
available.

Opponents argue that if students had cable in their dorms,
they’d have no reason to congregate in the hall lounges, the
Union or any other social setting. They’d sit in their rooms,
alone or with their roommates, missing out on chances to
hold spontaneous conversations and interact with their peers.
And to opponents, that’s not what the Davidson experience
is supposed to be.

Others say installing cable TV would be too expensive an
undertaking, perhaps costing as much as $200,000 per year.
To them, the cost simply isn’t worth the benefits gained.

Still others worry that freshmen, and upperclassmen too,
might neglect their studies, fail to take up extracurricular
activities, or lose sleep by devoting time to readily available,
distracting entertainment.

But there is another constituency on campus, often silent,
who heretofore have not advocated their beliefs. These pro-
ponents have been given a voice in incoming Sophomore
Class President Jack Hubbard, who campaigned on the issue
and has brought the matter before the SGA.

Supporters say that if they are willing to foot the bill, they
ought to have the convenience of access to cable news and
sports in their rooms so as to avoid fighting for control in the
hall lounge. In the age of high-speed Internet and multime-
dia, TV shows and programs are already available to those
who seek them, sometimes in violation of ResNet policy.

And they dispute the fact that they would lose out on so-
cial interactions by viewing in their room and not the hall
lounge or Union. Students already can join their friends in
watching videos, DVDs, or playing video games with friends
on dorm room TVs.

The hidden force driving the cable issue is that many dorms
are already wired—the cable is simply not turned on. Lack-
ing an installation cost incurred to the college and given the
student demand, we feel Davidson students ought to be given
the chance to prove they can handle cable TV.

oe:

The, Day idsonian

A LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield
Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser
News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll
Perspectives Editor
“David Crow
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader
WE Sports Editors —
.~.. Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio
\\_ aPhotography Editors.) /
‘Eron Barley-Thiele& Matt Whited
ertising & Business Managers,“
artimore & Gre

College should explain affirmative action stance

Davidson College recently joined 27 other higher learning
institutions in submitting an amicus brief to the Supreme
Court in support of the affirmative action program at Michi-
gan University. The verdict of the case will have ramifica-
tions for the admissions process at Davidson and eventually
the composition of our student body.

Affirmative action policies are complicated, potentially
sensitive, and will afféct us all in the
years to come. Realizing this, why
did the College elect not to involve
the student body in a dialogue con-
cerning the brief?

The amicus brief speaks for us all
but is suspiciously lacking our
voice. For the vast majority of us,
the first time the issue was brought
to the fore was through an article buried on page four of the
Davidsonian two weeks ago.

It may be true that this type of decision can only be effec-
tively made within the upper echelons of administration lead-
ership, but that does not preclude the college community from
participating in the dialogue. The gravity and impact of the
issue deserves far more attention than we have given it. There
does exist a healthy and vibrant dialogue about race rela-
tions on campus, but that dialogue is for the most part played
out in closed, small group interactions. _

The Michigan case has set the stage for the beginnings of
a truly substantive and open dialogue about affirmative ac-
tion, college admissions, and race relations on campus.

MOA WOS
in the new

CLASS OF 45
Saco. Hopkins |

| Davidson throu gh

Davidson should seize this historic opportunity by process-
ing the outcomes and ramifications of the verdict as a com-
munity.

Both President Vagt and SGA President Charles Washing-
ton have graciously agreed to lead a panel discussion in the
coming weeks on these vital issues, and it is my hope others
in the administration, faculty and student body will join them
in initiating this dialogue. ,

John Pitts ’04

“i i

IDSON DROP-ONT
Daeg 73-74
UWeedrow Wilson

% Years:

Some things | Change SOML things don't.
