THE DAVIDSONIAN

[ News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003 3

Walker, Hamm take on roles
with high student impact

New Director of Public Safety and Patterson Court Advisor
will affect Patterson Court environment in 2003-04 —

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer
e
The start of the school year has welcomed
some new faces to the Davidson administra-
tion even though, in the words of College Presi-

dent Bobby Vagt, “The turnover is [still] very ©

low.”” Some new figures include Chief Foun-
tain Walker, Director of Public Safety, and Joy
Hamm, Patterson Court Advisor, both admin-
istrators whose jobs highly affect the student
body on campus.

Along with having served in the U.S. Ma-
rine Corps, Chief
Walker has also
had eight years of
experience work-
ing with the
Cornelius Police
Department as a
partner with the
community anda
major crimes in-
vestigator. He
wants to focus
this year on estab-
lishing arelationship between the students and
the campus police, saying, “I want to improve
on the relationships among the students and
the police department and the faculty and staff.”

Walker’s goals focus on increased educa-
tion about student safety. He said, “If we can
respond proactively instead of being alerted
after the fact, then we will be ahead of the
game.”

In terms of enforcing the alcohol and drugs
policy, he is mostly concerned with educating
the students about safe living. “The more you
put the hammer down, the more people resist.

Walker

But if you can show them the benefit of safe
practices and being responsible not: only for

themselves but for each other, I think we can
see a reduction in

the alcohol-re-
lated incidents,”
Walker said.

Chief Walker
also commented
on the fact that
students have
been calling him
strict in terms of
his enforcement
of the alcohol
policy. He said,
“Part of what they see as strict is actually fair,”
and he elaborated by explaining his obligation
to enforce the rules in a consistent manner as
opposed to arbitrarily picking on certain prac-
tices or people.

Joy Hamm is another new face on campus,
serving as a Patterson Court Advisor. She spent
the last three years at Wingate University
working as an advisor for campus Greek life
along with serving as an area director for an
apartment complex on campus.

Hamm plans to spend the year getting. to
know the students and in her words “forming
those advocacy and support relationships.” She
is looking for more student involvement in
decision-making for the Court and mentioned
that, along with the physical changes brought
on by the renovations of the houses, this year
will see changes in the structure of the panel
for the Lifestyles Speaker Series. In the past
the panel has been composed of the Patterson
Court advisor and the campus health advisor,
but Hamm said that now students would be
more involved.

Hamm

the Court, from page 1

New Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm
said that while she does not personally antici-
pate major changes to the overall Court sys-
tem from her standpoint, “There are going to
be some big changes with the recommenda-
tions of the task force, and I will be a big part
of helping to carry out their recommendations.”

The suggestions proposed by the task force
include the implementation of a quota-based
recruitment system dependant on the size of
each eating house, with the goal of “equalizing
the size of each house.”

The task force also proposed that the current
process of self-selection would no longer be
called by the same name.

“With the name ‘self-selection’ it seemed
like the only factor at play was the student’s
preference,” said Hamm. “We’re looking for
student input on what to call it.”

Other proposed changes to Court procedures
include the limitation of fraternity bid season
to after Fall Break and a proposed plan to
shorten the pledge education process to an 8-
week period in the spring semester. President
Vagt and the task force are still discussing the
details of these proposals.

In addition to these guidelines, Hamm said,
“We’re working on getting more information
to the students about each of the houses, to give
them a better idea of what happens on the
Court.” Hamm cites the first-annual Patterson
Court orientation program as evidence of this
progress.

In the midst of the discussions, two fraterni-
ties will begin to-establish new presences on
the Court scene. Phi Gamma Delta is now back
oncampus, in the former Outpost building. The
fraternity, commonly known as FIJI, moved
off campus in 1971 rather than conform to self-
selection rules.

Also, Alpha Phi Alpha, a nationally known,
traditionally African-American fraternity,
plans to begin recruitment this fall. —

According to Hamm, Alpha Phi Alpha will
not have its own house, but will base itself and
host many of its events at the BSC house.

While relatively few students have been
aware of the Task Force and its recommenda-
tions, many more have witnessed the physical
transformations to Court houses and landscape.

David Holthouser, Director of Facilities and
Engineering, reports that renovations for the
houses on the court are ahead of schedule and
running smoothly.

“T’m really kind of pleased about where we
are now,” reports Holthouser, adding that some
individuals have voiced concern about con-
struction possibly taking longer than expected.
“Tt’s not running late. We’re actually running
ahead of schedule.”

The houses are being renovated on a sched-
ule of 3 houses per summer and 1 in each of the
fall and spring semesters. Renovations on Rusk
House, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa Alpha, and
Connor House have all been completed, and
the latter three should be open soon after press
time.

Holthouser said that the timetable for the
renovations was an effective choice for get-
ting the work done as quickly as possible.

“When we first started I never thought we’d
be able to release these houses around the first
of September.”

Workers extensively remodeled the house
interiors, adding improvements for the water,
sewage, and electrical systems as well. Anum-
ber of “life safety features” have been added,

‘ including smoke detectors, more exits, and

exhaust hoods for cooking. The apartments in
each of the houses have been eliminated to
make space for larger restrooms with several
stalls.

“It’s going to be easier to maintain for the
houses, as well as for the food services,” said
Holthouser.

Shandley admits police ‘overzealous’

In

By Bair McGraw
SGA Correspondent

Putting spring back in Spring Break was the
main topic of discussion at the Student Gov-
ernment Association’ s first meeting of the year
last Thursday. The academic calendar for
2006-2007 was presented to the SGA for ap-
proval or recommendations, before it is sent to
the administration.

While almost no senators from the current
government will still be attending Davidson in
the spring of 2007, many still expressed con-
cern over the timing of the break that year,
currently scheduled from Feb. 24 to Mar. 4.

Recounting stories of previous “Spring”
Break snowstorms, many senators suggested
that the break should occur one week later. The
SGA then overwhelmingly voted to recom-
mend that Spring Break be pushed back one
week.

Also of interest to the SGA was Dean
Shandley’s announcement of a new program
involving the distribution of free newspapers.
Beginning sometime this semester, 160 news-
papers including USA Today, The New York.
Times, and either The Wall Street Journal or
The Charlotte Observer will be distributed in
the Union and in eight residence halls daily.
An informal poll of the senators by Dean
Shandley showed strong support for The Wall

handling some alcohol violations

Street Journal over The Charlotte Observer.

One senator also raised concern over the
stricter police enforcement seen so far this year.
Jon Kropski ’04 indicated that police have been
over-aggressive and said someone had “re
ceived acitation for ‘having blood-shot eyes.’”
Dean Shandley urged the SGA to invite the new
chief of police in for discussion. However,
Shandley also said there may have been some
“overzealous officers” and that they had been
talked to.

On the business agenda for the SGA was the
swearing in of three new senators. Laura Noyes
’0OS and Alaa’ Odeh ’05 were sworn in as eat-
ing house representatives. Elizabeth Redpath
04 was sworn in as an independent represen-
tative.

President Charles Washington ’04 also dis-
cussed the summer activities in which the SGA
had been involved, including the creation of
new SGA t-shirts. A “Kiss the Pig” contest
and Operation Care, in which 20 boxes of sup-
plies were sent to American troops abroad, were
among the government’s summer charities.
Washington also spoke of improved relations
with the PCC and the Union Board, as well as
expanded Catcard use off campus.

Washington hinted that a significant issue
on next week’s agenda would be the discus-
sion of reduced meal plan features at the Union
Cafe. .

Should we trust Princeton
Review, US News rankings?

Rankings, from page 1

USNews

COLLEGES

Davidson was ranked Seventh among —_
Liberal Arts schools nationwide

Vagt. “We are not trying to manipulate or con-
trol these rankings.” Regardless of the rankings,
said Dean Cable, “Davidson is responsible for
the education of some of the nation’s most
talented students.”

While the methodology used by “US News
and World Report” to produce such rankings
is considered to be reasonably legitimate, oth-
ers sources use less reputable techniques.

One such source, “The Princeton Review,”
recently published an article ranking Davidson
one of the “Best in Southeast.” Moreover,
Davidson was ranked as follows: #3‘‘Profes-
sors Bring Material to Life”; #7 “The Tough

‘comes to making this place wor!

est to Get Into”; #9 “The Professors Make
Themselves Acessible”; #16 “Their students
Never Stop Studying”; #6 “School Runs Like
Butter”; #14 “Happy students”; #3 “Town-
Gown Relations.”

How did school administrators react to such
rankings?

“You cannot rank anecdotal data, and these
‘rankings’ are based solely on anecdotal infor-
mation collected from a less than representa-
tive group of students on college campuses,”
explained Linda LeFauve, Director of Planning
and Institutional Research at Davidson.

“Even more unfortunate this year,” noted
LeFauve, “is that its [“The Princeton Review’ s]
near-concurrent release with ‘US News and
World Report’ college rankings lends it the ap-
pearance of legitimacy-by-association that i is
not warranted.”

According to LeFauve, some schools have
begun to boycott sources such as “The
Princeton Review” because of questionable
criteria. Dean Cable concurred with this state-
ment, saying, ““The Princeton Review’ ’uses
random student self-reports. It doesn’t have a
rigorous statistical analysis to it.”

Such rankings do, however, raise some fas-
cinating questions. For example, how does a
school “Run Like Butter,” and, furthermore,
does Davidson meet the buttery criteria?

“[Davidson] is fortunate enough to have
faculty and staff that know no limits when it
” said Vagt.

What about Davidson students? Are they re-
ally that jovial?

“My observation over the years,” said Dr.
DeWitt Crosby, counselor at the student health
center, “is that students here are very happy
with Davidson and at Davidson.”
