4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Patriot, from page |

person or to protect against international ter-
rorism or clandestine intelligence activities.”

A federal judge would look at the applica-
tion to determine whether the cause is neces-
sary. Unfortunately, many organizations, in-
cluding the American Library Association, feel
that the amendment leaves too much of a gap
that could easily violate First Amendment
rights.

The amended clause opens up arguments,
mostly dealing with the rights concerning the
privacy of the individual. At Little Library, Dr.
Leland Park ’63 states, “for a number of years
there has been a state law that says we are not
allowed to tell who has a book out.”

Currently, when a student returns a checked
out book from the library, all ties between the
student and the book are disconnected, and
basically the same procedure occurs for inter-
library loans. Even though completed records
separate the name of the book loaner from a
particular book, any law enforcement agency
may take active files if they have the backing
of a court order.

Since the ratification of the act, A.L.A. has
put forth many protestations ofa person’s right
to privacy.

Park states that for research purposes,

“people should be able to inquire about a sub--

ject without someone looking at your motive.
The government doesn’t know what your point
of reference is at the time.”

For example, a teenager wanting to learn how
to build or repair a video game should have the

Movie Extras/Models Needed

No Experience Required
All looks and ages

Earn $100 - $300 a day

1-888-820-0167, ex. U260

STSTRAVEL. COM

|. 800- 648-48 49 / www.ststravel.com

News

right to look up how to do so without the gov-
ernment believing that he will use the knowl-
edge to create mayhem.

With the strong reaction from A.L.A., At-
torney General Ashcroft inquired: about the
amount section 215 has been used, and so far,
there have been zero investigations that have
wanted to look at any library records. Currently,
Congress is looking at several amendments that
could ensure the privacy of an individual.

As far as oncampus, Travis Lee ’04 believes
that if a library record were used in an inves-
tigation that “not much would come from the
information given, it’s useless.” Lee sights the
reaction as a little “hysteric,” but that it shows
a healthy concern for laws that could poten-
tially affect liberties.

Likewise, Park sees a “delicate balance be-
tween investigating terrorism and privacy, we
have to be protective of it.” Nocomments from
students have been made, but Park believes that
“the general population trusts libraries to go
after problems.”

Both see the opposition as an example of the
American government in action. The town’s
recent support for the protests has shown an-
other example of the protective community we
live in.

Previously, in the 1850s a book was written
by Hinton Rowan Helper that pointed out the
economic downfall of slavery. His brother
Pinckney owned the Carolina Inn at the time
and in support, Davidson College bought the
book and the community supported and in-
cluded Helper, rather than boycotting his ho-
tel.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Where have all the green chairs gone?
Cowell hopes to replace light-
weight plastic with sturdy wood

By ALLISON WHITEMAN
Staff Writer

Students may have noticed something miss-
ing when they returned to campus this fall: the
green Adirondack lounge chairs that were in-
troduced last spring are nowhere to be found.

The chairs were purchased by Mac Cowell
’06, who got the idea after seeing similar chairs
at Swarthmore College. “My motivation
stemmed from wanting to take advantage of
some of the beautiful days we have here,” said
Cowell, “Chairs would do a lot for the general
mood and air of the campus.”

Cowell fundraised last fall by walking door-
to-door on freshman halls and asking for do-
nations. “The real wooden chairs are way too
expensive of one student to fundraise for, so I
elected to get a whole lot of cheap plastic ones,”
he said. Cowell hoped that the concept would
make an impression even if the plastic chairs
did not have the longevity of wooden ones.

Of the 34 chairs, only nine or 10 were re-
maining by the end of last year. The chairs
suffered considerable abuse last semester as
most were broken.

The remaining chairs are being stored at the
physical plant. The chairs were never collected
by the grounds staff but were often taken there
when they were found far from campus or bro-
ken. Cowell is working to get the chairs out of
storage and back on the campus.

Before redistributing them, Cowell wants to

Swedish
Program

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
(315) 737-0123

www.swedishprogram.org

meet with members of the grounds staff to
discuss their maintenance. “I’m sure it is an-
noying for the physical plant to have to pick up
chair remains all the time and more the chairs
when they mow,” he said.

Cowell also wants to work with the physical

plant to support new wooden chairs, chairs that
would have more permanent locations.
“I fully support more durable devices,” said
David Holthouser, Director of Faculties and
Engineering, “More durable, permanent op-
tions are needed if this program is to continue.”
Holthouser added that the physical plant would
be glad to help with their distribution and ar-
rangement.

Cowell is also looking to student erganiza-
tions as a possible source of funding for new
chairs. The Student Government Association
has shown some interest in the project. Repre-
sentatives from SGA and the physical plant met
last week to discuss the possible placement of
new benches around campus.

The chair project was also discussed at the
last SGA meeting. Some senators are con-
cerned that new chairs would be broken. “We
have already seen the destruction of one of our
major projects in the red bikes, and I am not
sure that we would want to make any serious
investment before we knew the durability of
the new chairs,” said SGA president Charles
Washington 04.

Mac Cowell is exploring many options to
get chairs back on campus, both through stu-
dent groups and college offices. With any luck,
we may see wooden lounge chairs on campus
by spring.

Public Policy
Literature
Economics
Film
Psychology
History

Soviology

Art History
Women's Studies :
Politics

Environmental
Studies

