Tue DAVIDSONIAN

10

Men’s soccer prepares |
for SoCon postseason play

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

With the Southern Conference tournament
only three weeks away, the men’s soccer team
finds itself at a crucial point in the season.
Coming off a close loss to #3 North Carolina
and an important 1-0 win over conference
rival Furman in this past week, the "Cats now
have two of their toughest opponents left to
face: South Carolina and Wake Forest.

As head coach Matt Spear noted, “South
Carolina is a big-time program and we last
won there in 1999. Wake Forest is, in my
opinion, one of the.

top-fiveteamsinthe {jimm Fie
nation; they are un- ¥ vas 0
believably talented a

and are coming off a ‘
4-0 thumping of W
North Carolina.”

ted
¢ a
Pa a f
> “ ,
f

In order for the
’Cats to win either
game, they must at-
tack from the begin-
ning like they did
against UNC and
must convert ontheir
scoring opportuni-
ties. Co-captain Justin Porter ’04 sees these

games as “great building blocks for us to fine- °

tune our attack and to continue to rely on
intense defense to make a run at the NCAA
tournament.”

In order to make it to the NCAA tourna-
ment, though, Davidson must make it past the
SoCon tournament, unless they want to hold
out for an at-large bid (in which they were

uns e 2 ar at D ment weath

ae See ;
Teammates and opponents look on
as Peoples ’04 takes the penalty kick

prematurely ended the tournament and
Davidson’s chances to make it past the semis).

As Jeff Davis ’06 said, “After the disap-
pointment from last year’s tournament, I think
everyone is anxious to get back to Charleston
and prove that we are the best team in th
Southern Conference.” ;

Right now, the tournament favorites are
College of Charleston, UNC Greensboro, and
Davidson, but, as Spear remarked, you should
definitely “not count out Furman due to their
stellar history in tournament play. The South-
ern Conference Tournament will be particu-
larly exciting this year because of the in-
creased parity. Part of the changeis that Furman
is no longer the undis-
epee =o puted leader, and with
fi Bd on Elon replacing VMI
and the Citadel, the
overall quality of the
teams top to bottom
has improved.”

The team knows all
too well that rankings
going into the tourna-
ment do not matter
once the tourney be-
gins, as they found out
two years ago with a
stunning first-round
loss to Georgia Southern. If the Wildcats con-
tinue to play with the same aggression and
control developed throughout the past weeks,
they should be a serious contender for the
SoCon title and for NCAA tournament upsets.

As Porter confidently stated, “Do not be
surprised to see Davidson claiming a SoCon
crown and making arun deep into the NCAA’s.
These guys are ready to step it up to the next

¥
*

SPORTS _

Soccer, from page 12

and inspirational, and he is now-making a

major impact for us on the offensive side o
play. ‘

“Justin Porter is the heart and soul of this
team. You never have to worry about his focus
or motivation; it’s there every day. He treats.
each game like it will be his last, and that is
why he is such a great leader, on top of being
an amazing student.

“Keith Nicholson was a gift as a transfer
student and quelled any questions as to his
ability to adjust academically with a 4.0 GPA
in his first semester. On the field, Keith’s
dribbling, defending abilities, and flexibility

have helped us in several positions, andhe has “

always been one of the team’s most athletic
and technical players.

“As a converted midfielder, Nick Hansell
has learned the art of being a dangerous and
prolific forward.through his natural ability.
There are moments in games when Nick just
takes over, despite constant and tight marking
by one or more opposing: defenders. He was
born with the ability to score, but that talent
has been honed by dedication and develop-
ment.

“Shihab Sugeir represents much of what is
special about Davidson Soccer. A talented,
hard-working keeper, Shihab’s work ethic and
dedication to the team is second to none and a
tremendous statement on Shihab as a role
model, leader, and person of character.”

North Carolina 1 Davidson 0

In front of 2000-plus fans, the men’s soccer
team suffered a heart-wrenching 1-0 loss to #3
North Carolina Wednesday night. Both teams.
were out to prove something: UNC not want-
ing to repeat last year’s loss at home, and
Davidson trying once again to prove their
ability to beat top-ranked teams.

The first 27 minutes of play boasted beauti-
ful soccer on both sides, with controlled, pre-
cise passes and amazing footwork, particu-
larly by co-captain David Peoples ’04 for the

Information Technology Services
is pleased to announce that the
Student Computing Center in Belk.

isnow a 24 hour lab!

following:

_ Be aware that ITS computers are also available in the following locations:

Support for this lab will be available:

M-R, 8:30am-1:00am

. F, 8:30am-6:00pm
Sa, 1:00pm-6:00pm

Su, 1:00pm-1:00am

This is in response to the Chambers 24 hour lab being closed for the year.
The SCC will remain a 24 hour lab as long as you cooperate with the

Use only paper provided by ITS in the printers. Let our student
staff fix paper jams and replace toner.
Print ONE copy of each print job.

Keep the lab clean. Remove personal items when you leave.

e
e The lab will be in 24/7 card access mode. Keep the door to the lab
closed and allow only Davidson students to use the lab.

1* floor of the Library - southeast side of the main floor: 10 computers (Library hours)
Chambers 3130: 17 computers (limited hours)
Belk 24 hour lab: 11 computers aly
Knobloch Campus Center: 2 computers on level with post office and 2 computers on Cafe level

3

_. Wepnespay, OcTOBER 29, 2003 :

‘Wildcats. Numbers and ranks were forgotten

as Davidson aggressively attacked the UNC
defense. .

Unfortunately, the electric atmosphere cul-
minated in a goal-not for Davidson, but for
UNC. At the 27:25 mark on a free kick, UNC
player Ray Fumo played the ball into the
Davidson box on a frée kick, where teammate
Tim Merritt, off a perfectly-timed run, redi-
rected the pass just past'Davidson keeper Bart
Creasman ’05.

As Preston Davis ’06 stated, “The goal
caughtus a bit by surprise because we felt like
we were dictating the play of the game.”

Whether it was shock from the goal or
fatigue from the hard-fought first 27 minutes,
the ’Cats seemed to lose some of their confi-
dence and control after the disappointing goal,
and they recorded only two more shots for the
rest of the half. Davidson emerged from half-
time with a greater sense of urgency and
immediately began attacking the Tarheels;
however, even with four corner kicks and
seven shots, the ’Cats could not find the back
of the net. Their best effort came midway

through the second half, with senior midfielder

Keith Nicholson’s near finish from 10 yards
inside the box.

Despite the offensive efforts, the real MVP
of the game for Davidson was Creasman.
Tallying six saves for the game, all coming in
the second half and many on one-on-one
sprawling stops, Creasman limited UNC to
only one goal and kept Davidson in the game.

As Peoples noted, “Bart has been tremen-
dous all season. It really isn’t surprising when
he makes those types of saves because we
know he can and we almost expect him to.
The second half was all his.”

Even though the ’Cats suffered the loss,
head coach Matt Spear sees the game as “a
great game and a tremendous example of
quality college soccer. The crowd was elec-
tric. I’m proud of the guys; they came out
assertive and really took itto North Carolina.”

