4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Answering the mysterious
‘Sparrow’s Nest’ myth

Historic former servant

quarters now provides
offices for Physical Plant

By Curistit Ki sy
Staff Writer

Ever paused outside the college laundry and
wondered what's inside that tiny building? As
is the tradition with Davidson buildings, the
“Sparrow's Nest,” has a personality all its
own.

Inthe 1840s, when Davidson College was a
fledgling farm school, Thomas Sparrow and
his family lived in a home beside the present
Richardson dormitory. The Sparrow family
was prominent in town, and had a few servants
who needed their own housing. Thus, the
small brick building we pass on our way to
Commons.

“Papa Sparrow” had four lovely daughters
whom Davidson boys would come to court at
the Sparrow home. Supposedly, the
atmosphere grew so cozy that the home earned
the nickname “Sparrow's Nest.” The
which today we attribute to the
servants’ quarters — must have been fairly
accurate, since all four Sparrow daughters

nickname —

married Davidson men.

The College obtained the Sparrow's Nest
and converted it into a small
boarding house, running
trom 1915 through the
“20s. After
remodeling in 1974, the

roaring

College used the Sparrow's
Nest as campus security
headquarters for 16 years.
The physical plant office
called the Sparrow's Nest
home from 1990 to 1999,
when the base moved to
Jackson Court.
this

Today historic

gem—peck through the old-
slot

the

offices of some Physical

fashioned mail

sometime—houses

Plant staff. Like the Sparrow’s Nest,
Davidson’s Physical Plant is more than meets

the eye.
Ninety-one full-time staff members and
additional seasonal workers direct

construction, renovate facilities, maintain the
grounds and operate the Lake Campus. The
Physical Plant also preserves the Davidson
campus as a nationally registered arboretum
with more than 3,000 tagged trees. Though
our student body is relatively small, Davidson
boasts 511 acres of campus and 105 buildings
adding up to about 1.5 million square feet of
indoor space. Keeping the college running is
no small feat.

Yet the Physical Plant’s vast efforts all point
toward their mission statement: providing a
“comfortable, clean, and safe environment
that fosters learning and meets the operational
needs for all programs of the college
community.”

Even for projects as small as a leaky faucet,
choking heater or wasp nest in the closet, the
Physical Plant staff is always at our students’
Service.

The Sparrow’s Nest is now a different type
of servants’ quarters — this time home to self-
avowed servants of this campus.

The next time you pass this quaint and
humble landmark, remember the selfless
behind-the-scenes workers that keep
Davidson College feeling like home.

photo by Kenny McConnaughe

The mysterious Sparrow’s Nest is one of the
older buildings on campus.

Staff benefits package altered

By Biuryvin SHELNUTI
Staff Writer

The Davidson Employee Benefits program
will undergo a significant change concerning
health care at the beginning of the 2004 semes-
ter.

Previously, the college had paid 80 percentof
health care, and the individual had paid 20
percent of health care. As insurance increased,
however, lower-wage staff members spent an
increasing portion of their salary on health care
every year.

In some cases, employees were paying up to
25 percent of their salary, while others were not
even receiving health care because they could
not afford it.

Davidson has decided to initiate a new pro-
gram in an attempt to lower health care costs for
lower-paid staff members.

With the new health care program, health
care will be proportional to salary. The higher
your salary, the more you will pay on your
premium. Although the new program makes
health care more expensive for those with the
highest salaries, no staff member will pay more
than an eight percent increase of the amount
they paid last year.

“Everybody has reacted very favorably,” said
Assistant Director of Human Resources Pam
Tesh.

A new employee assistance program will
also take place in the spring.

As faras otheremployee benefits, Tesh main-
tains that Davidson’s benefit program is com-
parable to those of other colleges and universi-
ties, particularly concerning retirement pay and
vesting period. Faculty and staff members also
receive discount prices on tickets to college
events and access to all college facilities, such
as the fitness center.

Staff members who have been employed at
Davidson for over seven years can also benefit
from a child tuition assistance program. The
college contributes 50 percent to their children’s
Davidson tuition if they are accepted to
Davidson or 50 percent of their tuition of an-
other accredited institution.

Davidson faculty and staff members ap-
proached for this article seemed generally con-
tent with their benefits.

Physical plant staff worker Shirley Johnson
said, “It’s always seemed pretty fair to me.”

Professor of Religion Dr. Trent Foley said he
was satisfied with the benefits but found one
area where they were partially lacking. Foley
remarked, ‘‘As society changes and we have
more and more women working and men taking
on child care roles, we need some sort of child
care here at Davidson.”

On Friday, the annual Employee Benefits
Fair was held in Chambers Gallery, and repre-
sentatives from all of the benefits offered were
present. The fair allowed faculty and staff mem-
bers the opportunity to learn about their benefits
program as well as to enroll online for more
benefits.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

photo by Dorsett Clark

More than 200 Wildcats fans gathered in the 900 Room to watch
Davidson’s season opener last night. SGA members scooped ice
cream for fans and the CatPack fan club signed up new members.

Rep. Watt criticizes Iraq
policy at town hall meeting

Town's Congressman hears
concerns in 900 Room

By Lestit HEMPSON

Staff Writer

Mel Watt, representative for the congres-
sional district that includes Davidson, warned
his audience to prepare for “troubling times” in

his conversation with students and members of

the community Saturday afternoon.

The Young Democrats organized the “town
hall meeting” with Watt, who has represented
North Carolina’s District 12 in the U.S. House
of Representatives since the district was created
in 1992.

Matt MacKenzie ‘06, Speakers Chair for the
Young Democrats, said, “We wanted to hold an
event and we'd invited [Watt] in the past. We
thought he had some interesting things to say on
the issues, encourage some debate.”

Watt discussed the war in Iraq and the domes-
tic economy in his opening remarks.

Concerning the war, he said, “Officially, the
president has told us that the war is over. But we
know better because substantially more mili-
tary troops have been killed since the war was
declared over than before the war was declared
over.”

Watt wenton to list additional evidence for an
ongoing war and confided that after a meeting

with the president before the military campaign
even started, he had sensed that “this president
and this administration were making up the
rules of engagement as they went along.”

Nearly 40 people attended the meeting, and
roughly one-third were non-students.

After Watt's speech, members of the audi-
ence had an opportunity to ask the congressman
questions. Most appeared to share Watt's oppo-
sition to the war in Iraq and conviction that the
U.S. needs a new president.

Watt struck a somber tone for the majority of
the meeting. When asked by one attendee for
words of encouragement, he jokingly replied,
“You came to the wrong person.”

Watt repeatedly used the word “troubling” to
describe the country’s current state, atone point
saying, “I think we are in for troubling times
domestically, and I think we are in for troubling
times internationally.”

He advised his audience that the economy
and situation in Iraq would almost certainly get
worse before the next presidential election in
the fall of 2004.

Although Watt spent little ime speaking
specifically about Davidson and the greater
Charlotte area, he noted that Charlotte and its
surrounding regions are doing “relatively well”
economically. He added that other parts of his
district, North Carolina’s most urban and
stretching from Charlotte to Greensboro, are
not so fortunate.

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

