Passing on the right now a

costly mistake on town roads

By Joe TAYLOR
Staff Writer

As of Monday, driving haphazardly in: the
town of Davidson became more of a costly
mistake.

The Davidson town police will designate one
officer per shift to prevent drivers from passing
other vehicles on the right. The fine for breaking
this law is $125, $25 plus an additional-$100
court fee: This violation will also earn a driver
four points off his or her license.

With 90 percent of calls to the police related
. to traffic incidences, the police department felt
this particular enforcement is a necessary part
of the community.

Aware of this need, a two-man traffic safety
team — Sgt. Ron Messer and Officer Dave
Howie — formed late last year with a
Governor’s Highway Safety grant. Their re-
sponsibilities include educating the public, re-
ducing accidents and enforcing the town’s speed
limit.

“The Davidson Police Department Traffic

Safety Unit is driven by citizen’s complaints,
crash statistics, and officer’s personal observa-
tions,” explains Sergeant Ronnie Messer of the
Davidson Police Department. “We have estab-

lished a Traffic Complaint Hotline for citizens .

to call in traffic violations that occur [in town]
outside of an officer’s presence. In the past six
weeks, passing on the right has been the number
one complaint.”

According to Sergeant Messer, most viola-
tions occur on Concord Road and Griffith Street
when vehicles stop to permit pedestrians to use
crosswalks.

In the past 12 months, vehicles that passed
illegally on the right struck two pedestrians.
One of the victims sustained minor injuries,
while the other more serious ones.

Messer hopes the strict enforcement will
promote safety for the entire community. He
says, “[I] would like to see the motoring public
voluntarily comply with this law.”

These law enforcement officials plan to edu-
cate the public via newspaper articles and media
presentations in addition to enforcement.

_ photo by Matt Whited

Experience Li e:

www-philactr.-edu

Iphia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

215-735-7300

SGA, from page 1

lounges, fraternity houses and eating houses by
the middle of this week. Along with the boxes,
several flyers will be posted to advertise the
project. A mass email will also be sent to the
Davidson community to publicize Operation
Care.

The desired items for the care packages in-
clude Davidson apparel, books and magazines,
sports items such as balls and Frisbees, music,
and packaged foods such as candy. Food items
such as chocolate should not be donated be-
cause they could melt or spoil during their trip
across the ocean.

The SGA has also been communicating with
the College Relations office while planning the
project. Jack Hubbard, President of the rising
sophomore class, spoke with Matt Merrell, Di-
rector of Alumni Relations, about using
CatCards to buy items for the care packages.

“{Merrell] added some suggestions includ-
ing placing a bucket on the counter at the union
so people can buy candy with their CatCard and
simply drop it off,’ Hubbard said.

There will also be cards in the Union.so that
students can write messages to the Davidson
alumni. The cards will be included in the pack-
ages.

The SGA feels that student involvement in
this project is key. Not only is this a project that
involves outside matters, but it also involves
Davidson community members.

Trappey has a personal connection to Opera-
tion Care due to his involvement in Air Force
ROTC.

“While some are likely to have been mem-
bers of the Air Force community, most of the
people serving overseas were likely members
of the excellent Army ROTC program here on
campus,” Trappey said.

“Asa member of the ROTC community
I realize the sacrifice I might be called up to
make one day, and the fact that some of the
alumni members of my community are pres-
ently answering that calling strikes inside me an
especially poignant and real chord.”

The Operation Care committee is busy plan-
ning shipping procedures and hoping that ev-
eryone will do their part by contributing gifts for
the packages.

“Operation care is a great way that all of us
can recognize the selfless service of all of the
men and women Davidson alumni presently in
the Gulf,” Trappey said.

Consult your class representative with fur-
ther questions. Class representatives are listed
at www.davidson.edu/sga.

Support Davidson
Alumni in Iraq

SGA and the Alumni Office are working to send
care packages to Davidson Alumni who are
currently serving in the military in Iraq

Boxes will be placed on each residence hall for
you to donate items to this cause

Suggested items include:

Beef Jerky* Magazines Razors

Books Moist Wipes Sardines*

Cameras (disposable) . Music CDs Sheets of stationery
Camper style foods* Nerf toys Snacks* (cookies,
Candy* (small footballs, etc.) granola bars)

Cards Odor Eaters (for boots) Tea bags*
Chapstick Pencils Toiletries (travel sizes)
Dental floss Pens Toothbrushes

Facial tissues Personal message Toothpaste

Fast food Hot Sauce Phone cards Travel games
packets” Playing cards Travel mugs
Flashlights Postage Tuna snack kits*

Girl Scout cookies* Powdered drink mix* . Valentines

Gum (non-alcoholic) Vienna Sausages*

If you would like to donate money instead of supplies

(to help cover the cost of postage), you can contact
~ Charles Washington or another member of SGA.

E-mail brcarroll
or ampatel

Write for the

In the interest of having the supplies to troops in a
timely matter, the deadline for putting items in the
boxes will be 6pm on Friday April, 4

Davidsonian

