2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

. Briefly

History Lecture on Cuba set for Thursday afternoon

Dr. Rebecca Scott of the University of Michigan will deliver the Kendrick K.
Kelley History Lecture entitled “Winning and Losing the Right to Have Rights:
African American Soldiers and the U.S. Military Occupation of Cuba, 1898-1902”
Thursday at 4 p.m. in the 900 Room.

The Carolinas Latin Dance Company

The dance troupe, which promotes the Latin American culture in the spirit of
diversity and understanding, will perform various dances from Spain and many
different Central and South American countries on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Duke
Family Performance Hall.

Vail Commons hosts annual Thanksgiving Feast Luncheon

The luscious lunch will be tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 1:45 p.m: Turkey and sliced
ham will be accompanied by all the traditional fixings. Meal plans, bonus buck and
declining balance accepted or $7.35 at the door.

The Theatre Dept. Presents: The Complete Works of William Shakespeare
Abridged

Opening tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre in Cunningham Fine Arts
Building, the play promises to act out all of Shakepeare’s plays in two hours. Shows
will run from tonight until Saturday at 7:30 p.m. There will be a matinee show on
Sunday at 2 p.m. General admission is $4, tickets can be purchased at the Ticket
Office.

Ramadan Celebration

Interfaith and the Muslim Student Association will be celebrating the month of
Ramadan on Sunday from 6:30 to 8:00 p.m. at the Carnegie Guest House. Discussion
on the traditions surrounding the holiest month of the Islamic faith will be followed
by a feast. If interested, please RSVP to jopalatinus.

Poetry Slam... and so much more

Union Board Coffeehouse presents a night of poetry reading this Friday at 10 p.m.
in the 900 Room. Come read you own poetry, short story, or spoken word. Or read
your favorite poet or author’s work. All styles wanted, from comedic to dramatic.
Free fondue and pastries will be provided. If interested, email japrotos by today.

Jingle Jog

Lake Norman YMCA presents the annual Jingle Jog, a 5K run benefiting the
YMCA and the Our Towns Habitat for Humanity Youth United Build, Saturday,
Dec. 6 at 9 a.m. Pick up a registration form from the Lake Norman YMCA or from
Our Towns Habitat for Humanity thrift store, or email Christy Gepfert at

christy.gepfert @ ymcacharlotte.com.
fo a a

Campus safety is looking for new ideas to decorate their patrol cars. Students are
encouraged to submit suggestions that include the college seal. The winning
submission would win $100. Exact dates for the contest, which will end before
Christmas break, will be announced in the future.

11-14 ~— Faculty Dr. and Concord Road

Incident: Two non students were arrested and transported to Mecklenburg Country Jail for
larceny of two bicycles that had been taken from bike rack at Belk dorm. One subject was also
charged with carrying a concealed weapon, a large lock blade knife.

Squad-car Design Contest

11-14 _ Richardson Hall
Incident: Student reports that his Magna Mountain Bike was taken from the rear of
Richardson Dorm. Bike is blue/black and has Davidson Registration #2267

11-15 Hart senior apartment

Incident: Student reported that her 2002 Toyota Four runner was damaged in the parking
lot. Unknown person(s) damaged the wiper assembly located on the rear window by pulling
and bending the wiper arm. Damage estimated at $200.

11-15 Hart senior apartment

Incident: Student reported that her 2001 Hyundai was damaged by unknown person(s)
who pulled and bent the wiper arm on the rear window of the vehicle. Damaged estimated
at $200.

11-15 Tomlinson Hall

Incident: Graffiti drawn on walls of stairway between second and third floor. Drawing
of a penis along with some descriptive writing. Similar drawing found on the elevator wall
in Tomlinson. Name, signs and posters were torn from the wall on the third floor.

11-16 CoHo House

Incident: Unknown person(s) made entry without force and ransacked the eating area.
Chips and animal crackers were thrown all over the floor area and a smiley face was drawn
on the floor with chocolate syrup.

News

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

a

Waste audit finds improved
recycling habits over last year

By Bieyin SHELNUTT
Tah Writer

In honor of America Recycles Day on No-
vember 15, 2] student and staff volunteers
participated in a waste audit last Monday spon-
sored by the Davidson Environmental Action
Coalition.

Participants
adomedinlatex gloves
and sanitary shoe cov- -
ers removed and |
weighed over 230 2
trash bags taken from * :
dumpsters on campus. ['# * .
They sorted through gv
nearly 2,250 pounds of
garbage.

Of the 2,250
pounds, students re-
covered 793 pounds —
35 percent of the total
weight — worth of
recyclables, Over S00
pounds of paper, 100
pounds of cardboard,
769 aluminum cans, |
490 plastic bottles, and
181 glass bottles had
been thrown away.

The contents of the

dumpster came from Mupur Hiremath ’05 lends a hand
Dorm Row, Belk, in the EAC waste audit.

Richardson, and West
from Friday through Sunday, November 7
through 9,

The EAC conducts the audit annually in an
attempt to learn how efficiently students are
utilizing the recycling facilities available on
campus. EAC Vice President Greg Harris '05
said, “Reeycling does a lotto serve our commu-

nity. Although we seem to have improved since
last year’s waste audit, there is lots of room for
more commaunity-friendly disposal of waste.”
"The EAC hopes to improve levels of student
recycling by creating a program of recycling
talks on first-year halls during orientation and
also seeking more joint efforts between the
administration and stu-
dents.

As there is currently
no method to ensure that
cm Tecycling takes place on
Patterson Court, the
EAC is also trying to in-
oe ie, troduce a reeycling pro-
> + gram for court houses,
ag \ specifically pinpointing
‘ ~. aluminum cans. The
program would provide
receptacles for each
house and require the re-
cycling of aluminum
cans to be part of the
g house’s standards score

) for inspections.

The EAC wants to
make sure that these po-
tential regulations would
‘not burden houses but
still accomplish the goal
of recycling.

EAC member and co-
ordinator of the project,

Jon Atkinson ’06 said,
“Recycling is something that we want people to
become accustomed to doing because they want
to do it, not because somebody tells them they
have to, The fate of this project is going to
depend on the willingness of students to take
this up as their own cause and see that the bins
get used and used properly.”

Faculty encourage greater
gender diversity in sciences

By ALLISON WHITEMAN
Staff Writer

More and more, colleges and universities are
pushing to attract women faculty to their cam-
puses, especially in science fields.

In 2001 Princeton University established the
“Task Force on the Status of Women Faculty in
the Natural Sciences and Engineering” to study
gender issues in their science fields. Early this
semester, the task force reported that Princeton’s
record has improved in the past 10 years, but
there’s still work to be done.

Princeton found that the percentage of women
faculty in science fields rose from 8.4 percent to
13.9 percent in the past 10 years, but that these
increases were not equally distributed across all
disciplines. The study found that there were no
discrepancies between men and women over
salary or tenure track.

Davidson has recently fared well in attracting
women faculty to the sciences, though faculty
insist there is more work to be done.

“Generally speaking our departments have
done pretty well in recent hires in striving for a
gender balance,” says Dean of Faculty Dr.
Clark Ross.

Dr. Verna Case, Chair ofthe Biology Depart-,
ment agrees that Davidson has done well with
their recruiting, especially in the past few years.
According to Case, Davidson's role as a small
liberal arts college with a focus on teaching
attracts many women candidates because
Davidson is more flexible than many large
research-oriented universities.

“Y ou find more women pursuing PhD’s who
want to teach at an institution like Davidson,”
Case said, “so we have been successful from the
point of view of our department here because
we can tap those women who are great scien-
tists. We have really awesome young women
who want to have balance in their lives.”

Agreeing with the Princeton study, Case says
that some science fields have more trouble
attracting women candidates than others na-
tion-wide, “In the biological sciences women
are fairly well represented now,” she said. “The
physical sciences, physics and chemistry, have
lagged behind in being able to recruit Jarge
numbers of women to the field.”

At Davidson, the biology department has
about a 50/50 ratio of men to women in its
faculty. “That’s what you have typically in the
general population, so we're doing as well as
nature in that respect.” Case said. “We now
have a female faculty member in physics and
we certainly have female faculty members in
chemistry, and that has been true for a while.”

Women faculty members serve as role mod-
els for undergraduate and graduate women. “It
is true that if you have good role models, you
tend to emulate them, and its more likely that
women will be encouraged by other women to
pursue those types of degrees,” said Case.

Colleges also seek women and minority fac-
ulty members to create a diverse atmosphere on
campus, This applies not only to the science
fields, but also to all disciplines at Davidson.
“We wish to have a faculty that has diversity —
gender, ethnic, experience,” said Ross, “so it is
important for a department to look at what an
individual can contribute to both the depart-
ment and to the larger faculty and community.”

In their study, the Princeton task force ana-
lyzed hiring records, as well as information
about salaries, tenure, lab space, and research
funding for its men and women on faculty.

As a result, Princeton has adopted an ambi-
tious plan to “promote the recruitment, hiring,
and retention of women.” They are discussing
plans for childcare for faculty members who are
parents as well as moreclearly defining policies
on promotions, allocation of resources, and
discrimination.
