_ Arts and Living Editor

A force to be reckoned with has risen
over the past two years in underground hip-
hop: namely, the independent record label

Definitive Jux, which has introduced the in-.

quisitive music fan to artists such as Mr. Lif,
Cannibal Ox, Aesop Rock, RJD2, and Murs.
Masterminded by former Company Flow rap-
per El-P, Def Jux has provided talented DJ’s
and rappers from around the nation with a
forum where they can translate their anxiety
over living in George W. Bush’s America
into dense, atmospheric, and lyrically deft
hip-hop. The dystopian view of the United
States proferred by the Def Jux crew should
be required listening for those of us living in
a college-town American dream. Following
is a guide to some of the label’s most engag-
ing releases since 2001.

Cannibal Ox,
“The Cold Vein”:
This is the record that
kicked off Def Jux’s
two year streak of al-
bum after excellent al-
bum. “The Cold
Vein” sets the stan-
dard for future re-
leases on the label in many ways, with El-P’s
dense, lurching, atonal production and the
oblique wordplay of MC’s Vordul Megilah
and Vast Aire. Their vocal flow is irregu-
lar—the raps rub against the backing tracks
and throw you off-balance, forcing you to
give due attention to brilliantly non-sequitur
lines like “You got beef but there’s worms in
your Wellington/ I'll put a hole in your skull
and extract the skeleton.” Recommended
tracks: “Raspberry Fields,’“Battle for
Asgard”

CLATITVEAL GA

-out’“No Regrets.”

Aesop Rock, “La-
bor Days”: Cer-
tainly one of the most

Def Jux roster, Aesop
Rock has few rivals

of rapidness and ver-
bal dexterity. His

‘piercing, nasal vocals may be off-putting

upon first listen, but have some patience and
his waterfall-like delivery will wind its way

‘into your subconscious. On “Labor Days”

Aesop Rock’s lyrics spiral from working
class angst into heady word association, un-
derscored by doleful beats that create a faintly
unsettling ambience. Plus he’s effective at
weaving a narrative when he has to; for a
sample of his storytelling abilities, check
Recommended tracks:
“Daylight,” “Coma”

EI-P, “Fantastic Damage”: Def Jux
founder El-P’s “Fan-
tastic Damage” pre-
sents the most chal-
lenging sound of any
album in the Def Jux
catalog. El-P spits out
his raps like venom
as the beats under-
neath stutter forward,
evoking the image of a living machine as they
wheeze with siren-like drones, pulsing bass,
and the humming of what sounds like broken
appliances in the background. The lyrics are
social criticism attacking everything from
deadbeat dads to corruption within hip-hop;
combined with the technological nightmare
of the backing tracks, they elicit a profound
sense of alienation. Recommended tracks:
“Stepfather Factory,” “Constellation Funk”

RJD2,“Deadringer’”’: A DJ/producer hail-
ing from Columbus, Ohio, RJD2 creates the

‘You can dance, you can jive,
having the time of your life...’

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

There’s no reason to criticize the Davidson
Dance Ensemble. It’s grown from a small
group to one of the largest’— and best attended
— student performance groups on campus.

Dancers and choreographers work hard all .

semester for only three concerts. And watch-
ing them on stage, you can tell it’s fun and
funny not only for us, but also for them.

With Betsy Pinchak’s and Catherine
Foster’s opening words, this semester’s per-
formances took on even greater meaning.
Here are the dances that stuck in my head
most.

“Au Contraire”: A Tool song? Sure, why
not? They had dancers that popped out of
pillowcases, too. One of the night’s more
intense performances.

“Puttin’ on the Ritz”: Tap, tap, tap. Energy

and the concert’s best synchronization.
Enough high-kicks for a lifetime of groin-
injuries number.

Sean Gantt ’03: I got tired just watching his
“traditional Native American warrior society
dance of Northern Plains Tribes” (from the
program).

“My Soul, The Other I am...”: Athena
Stevens’”’06 and Kendal Stewart ’06 per-
formed a gentle, simple dance that, for too
many people in the audience, redefined the
concept of limitations.

“Cry Me a River”: More like,”““Cry Me a
River of Chairs.” Joy-Gerdy ’02 choreo-
graphed the 32 dancers, each with her own
seat, and it didn’t get sloppy. You slap that
chair, girl.

“Stuff Like That There”: Katey Zeh ’05
tapped her way through this routine with
enough chutzpah to have the stage to herself.

If you can beat these prices start your
own damn airline! Mexico/Caribbean
only $125 each way, all taxes included!
Or Europe for $179 one way.
Book online www.airtech.com
or (212) 219-7000.

gifted MC’s on the

inrapatlargeinterms

music out of nothing
but samples, work-
ing in the tradition of
musical collage art-
- ists such as DJ
Shadow and DJ
Spooky.
“Deadringer” mostly
consists of drum breaks and bass pokes
interlayered with borrowed film music, in-
strumental atmospherics, bizarre vocal
samples, and other found curiosities. These
elements combine to form tracks whose struc-
ture makes them listenable both as individual
songs and as background music. Though
most of the album’s vocals snippets are
samples, the songs’ “June” and’’“Final Fron-
tier” feature guest turns from rappers
Copywrite and Blueprint, respectively. Rec-
ommended tracks: “June,”*The Horror”

Mr. Lif, “I Phantom’’: Debatably the best’

album of the six pro-
filed in this column,
Boston native Mr.
Lif’s first full-length
studio LP traffics in
fractured funk simi-
lar to that of El-P’s
“Fantastic Damage,”
albeit with a some-
what lighter touch. Here, futuristic synthe-
sizers, robotic bass lines, and funky drum

vast majority of his

samples cohere. into a groove that’s more
infectious than anything else on Def Jux—all
the while retaining the sense of post-Cold
War paranoia and distrust of government that
marks “Fantastic Damage.” Although he
fantasizes about annihilating the entire planet
on’”“Earthcrusher,” Lif also details smaller-
scale feelings of estrangement on the likes
of’““The Now” (absentee fathers) and “Live
From the Plantation” (dead-end jobs). Rec-
ommended _ tracks: “New Man
Theme,”’“Earthcrusher”

Murs, “The End of the Beginning”: Cali-
fornia native Murs may be the most conven-
tional Def Jux lyricist, firmly rooting his
rhymes in tales of inner-city gang violence
and its psychological ramifications, as well
as in fondly recollected scenes from the
sweeter moments of urban life. The produc-
tion on “The End of the Beginning” favors
spare, steady grooves that seem almost bouncy
in comparison to the opaque backing tracks
of “The Cold Vein”
or “Fantastic Dam-
age.” This style of
production perfectly
suits Murs’s laid-
back, West Coast-in-
flected delivery; next
to the rest of the Def
Jux MC’s, he sounds
practically deadpan. Recommended tracks:
“Happy Pills,”’““Last Night”

What Do You Think?

What was your favorite cartoon show as achild?

Katie McVane ’05

- “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.’”

Nicole Mah ’05

“Attack of the Killer Tomatoes.’”’

Graham Honeycutt ’06

“My Little Pony’ or ‘Care Bears.’”

Courtney Ward ’04
