Unknown person(s) willfully damaged a steel roll-up door located at the loading dock of

the Union. Damage is estimated at $1,000.

10/5 Knox Bike Rack
Unknown person(s) willfully remov

Larceny of a Bicycle

student’s unlocked and unregistered red, white and

lack Fuji bicycle from the bike rack in front of Knox. Estimated loss is $800.

10/5 Warner Hall

Damage to Property

Unknown person(s) willfully threw a projectile or otherwise broke out a rear window of the
house. Damage is estimated at $50 and investigation is ongoing.

10/4 Turner House

Burglary/Larceny

Unknown person(s) willfully entered into the Turner house and entered into a locked
refrigerator to remove the beer inside. Estimated damage to the lock and the larceny of beer
is approximately $90. Still under investigation.

10/5 Martin Court

Aid to the Ill

Identified student was seen stumbling and falling numerous times before being approached
by officers. He was found in an unconscious state, lying on his back in the grass. Student was
transported to Lake Norman Medical Center, where he was treated.

10/4 Patterson Court

Damage to Property

Known students and alumni called attention to themselves by dancing on a table while
drinking beer from a can. While doing so, they damaged the ceiling tiles. Damage is

estimated to be $180.

10/4 Turner House

Damage to Property

Unknown person(s) willfully damaged Turner house by throwing food items all over the
kitchen area and pouring beer all over the floor. The intruders also left behind vomit. Damage

is estimated at $200.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafery.

Vandalism, from page 1

inside the car, but that it did not appear to be
Davidson students.

“There’s nothing concrete toit at all,” Walker
said. “It’s a lead.” _

Walker entered the description of the car into
a computer database shared by other North
Mecklenburg police departments.

“T ve asked them if they see it again, to let me
know,” he said.

That’ stwclligtee balicchave so far received,
and Walker said it’s possible the car could be
unconnected to the incident.

“There is no residual evidence and we don’t
have any witnesses,” he said. “Ican’ttell you for
certain if we’ll ever find a suspect. (But) I’m

Walker, former Cornelius Police Chief be-°

fore coming to Davidson in July, said cases like
these often take several weeks to unfold.

“Most cases are solved over time. A case may
go dead fora while and then something may pop
up a month from now that is connected,” he
said.

Appointments, from page 1

ittees and asked people to nominate people,”
said SGA President Charles Washington ’04.
“We emailed that list to the Senators to ask the
nominees if they were interested.”

When asked if this method was as fair as the
procedure in the bylaws, Washington said, “I
think it allows students to participate. I feel that
the way we do it gets people who the senators
know will do a good job.”

Other inconsistencies arise in the appoint-
ment process. For example, SGA minutes from

Sept. 11 indicate that nominations were taken

for positions on the Media Board with the
understanding that the nominees would be no-
tified over the following week, and the Senate
would discuss them in the next meeting. Atleast
, one nominee was not notified and such a discus-

sion never took place.
Another violation stems from the class com-
position of the . According to the

bylaws, “At leasttwomembers of each commit-
tee must be of different classes, unless there is
only onestudent representative on the commit-
The reacted ie mere

50-year old departiend

decides against offering
photography classes

By RAcuEL Ecan
Staff Writer

As the art department faces its 50th anniver-
sary, there is excitement and curiosity about
what the future holds for the faculty and stu-
dents.

Herb Jackson ’67, the recent recipient of the
new Houchens professorship, has been a pro-
fessor at Davidson since 1969. It is largely
because of Jackson’s “untiring efforts” and
dedication that the Visual Arts Ceriter is a
reality, said Nina Serebrennikov, Chair of the
Department and Professor of Art History.

Both professors are excited about the consid-
erable progress the department has made over
the past 50 years. “The arts have really come of
age here; they used to be a footnote to the
‘liberal arts’ title. We have the VAC now... It’s
extremely satisfying to see the department as-
sume its rightful place,” said Jackson. .

When Jackson first came to Davidson, there
were only two art professors; now there are
seven. The demand for classes has never been as

- strong as it is now, and not because of the core
_. requirement, Jackson said. “If we didn’t limit

the number of students, we could fill classes to
twice their capacity.”
_ He anticipates that when he retires in seven
years a lot of change will occur, and there is the
potential that new disciplines will be taught.
The Principles the department now teaches
-its drawing, painting, and sculpture
classes’ “are, the basis of All ‘others,” Jaékson
said: “They endute no matter what new technol

~ ogy emerges.”

Why photography won’t be added

- The issue of timelessness was a major decid-

ing factor for Jackson when he settled against

adding new classes like photography and ce-

ramics to the curriculum. With the digital revo-

lution, photography now has the potential to
become’obsolete.

“Photography was definitely on our minds ‘

when the VAC was built ten years ago, though,”
Jackson said. In fact, a large space on the lowest
level was left unfinished for the purpose of

crest a 5s gation .

The chief problem Jackson sees with institut-
ing photography is that there is no professor to
teach it - all the current professors have respon-
sibilities to their disciplines.

“Tt would require a donor to come forth and
establish a photography professorship, and fin-
ish the darkroom, to the tune of probably41.5 or
$2 million dollars,” Jackson said. If students
want to pursue photography classes and don’t
mind the commute and extra tuition, they can
take classes at other nearby institutions, like
UNC Charlotte and Queens.

“J want to stress that we are not a university
[and] there is only so much we can offer. We
aren’t prejudiced against photography, but the
judgment and discipline of the eye that it re-
quires are taught by our drawing and painting
classes,” Jackson said.

Erin Rosintoski ’04, president of the Photog-
raphy Club, has a different opinion. “Everyone
would love to see photography classes here, but
the Art Department’s focus is the ‘fine arts’.
They think photography is a hobby, like arts and
crafts.”

Rosintoski claims that the addition of pho-

tography classes would be a lot less difficult
than the department claims.
’ “If we combined the Photography Club and
College Communications’ equipment, the de-
partment wouldn’t have to buy anything,” she
said.

Rosintoski said, “Some people may do it
recreationally, but the artistic skill and creativ-
ity involved in making the shot, and then even
in the darkroom, is huge. There’s a lot you can
teach about it.”

Ofcourse, the future of the department and its

lasses is in the hands of the future faculty. “The
ture of art departments all over the U.S. is
ing increasingly strong,”.said Jackson.
“People are realizing how much more impor-
tant art is to them now.”

Abanyie and Ian Spurlock, are both seniors.
Additionally, only one student, Megan

Baskin ’04, was appointed to the Library com-

mittee, which SGA bylaws stipulate has two

student representative spots.
SGA officials explain that the delay and

confusion in appointments was the result of a |

travel decision. “We elected students to the
committees in the spring of last year, so that
they would be ready to jump right in this semes-
ter,” said SGA Vice President Katharine
Hubbard ’0S. “Unfortunately,” she said, “our

chancellor went abroad...As a result, we were

unable to find our records indicating who we
had elected to these positions. We did not hold
elections because we were hoping that we would
be able to locate the names of the people
elected.”

SGA President Charles Washington 04
elaborated on how this ‘year’s appointments
were ‘made, “We. filled the majority of the
faculty committees last spring. A little over a
week ago I found some of the appointments in

somé notes that I kept from last year, and I’

appointed the others.” .
Washisigton indicated that appointments to
seven of the er Ratios were

made or re-made this fall. “We did a lot of them
[last spring],” he said. “The ones I didn’t find I
don’t know if we did or not.”

The Davidsonian contacted Garcia, whocon-
firmed via email, “The SGA made the appoint-
ments last semester. I have the record book with
all of last years’ appointments. I decided to take
the records with me in order to archive them
correctly.. However, I would like to make a

' Statement and that is, SGA has acted responsi-

bly in accordance to deadlines and responsibili-
ties.”

Appointments to seven committees—Inter-
national Education, Academic Computing,
Educational Policy, Library, Media Board, Pre-
Management and Public Lectures—were not
made according to deadline, and none of the
appointments | followed the procedure outlined
inthe SGA bylaws. Et

‘When asked about the deviation from bylaw
procedure, Washington said, “Since I’ ve been
here, that’s never been done. I’m not saying it
‘shouldn’t be done, .. I think a lot of things get
done the way they’ ve always been doneinstead -
of by the letter of the law.” ;

_Neverttieless, + sppplotioents up beea made

Seer Ae oso oi
