olumnists

respond to goose incident

ource

Jeremy Trantham

Despite the fact that the subject has been beaten to death, I fig-
ured it was time that I weighed on the whole goose incident. I
found out about it via the e-mail from President Vagt while in
Chapel Hill. “What a strange message,” I thought to myself.
Apparently there was more going on here that weekend than
usual. I mentally kicked myself for not being around.

My first thought was that this was some alcohol-fueled frater-
nity prank. If you think about it, the booze theory would have
made the event understandable. Not excusable, but at least you
could fathom how it happened. I returned to find that the individu-
als involved were stone-sober, and I was instantly confused. The
goose slaying became the strangest story I’d heard about since
coming to Davidson.

I could claim indifference, but I hate being predictable. Really
I’mjustconfused. Clearly the actions of Feb. 7 are not on par with
how Davidson students normally behave. Hell, they aren’t even
rational.

I’m not opposed to anyone wanting a goose for dinner. I’ ve
never had it myself, but I imagine it tastes like chicken. Wouldn’t
it be simpler to get some from a gourmet, “It may Taste like

Chicken, but it’s Not” store?

Obviously such a store does not exist. If one did, I think the
Davidson community would be a little happier right now. Fortu-
nately we live near a pond where fowl often stop over for a quick
drink.

So the decision is made to go procure one of these birds from
our nearby park—in broad daylight with families around. I

’ couldn’t believe it either.

Only a group of males under the age of 24 would think that
beating a goose to death with a golf club in the middle of the day
is a good idea. Andeven then usually someone in the group points
out the stupidity of the idea and everyone sees his point. Some-
thing went wrong that day, and now we are all paying the price in
one way or another. It is such a stupid event to receive so much
publicity. .

Like my dad told me the other day, “If these kids had beaten up
a drunk they wouldn’t have gotten this much publicity.” Some-
times Dad is wiser than I give him credit for. There are worse
things in this world happening around us every day, and we never
hear about them.

Usually I can explain pretty much anything. At the very least
I can see what the person was thinking. I can’t do that here. I’m
ata loss. [just can’t see at what point beating a goose to death with
a golf clubin broad daylight seems like a good idea. Not that doing
it during the night is a good idea either, but at least it makes a little
more sense.

The last question I have is did anyone yell, FORE! before
swinging? Probably not. After all, hunters don’t scream, BOO!
before shooting a deer.

By MIKE GALDO
Staff Colmnist

I was completely shocked when [ heard the news. Kappa Sig
pledges beat a goose to death with golf clubs? That’ s just disgust-
ing. For the next few days the goose surpassed work as the num-
ber one topic of discussion among Davidson students. The story
was a bad joke waiting to happen. I must admit to formulating and
spreading some particularly awful ones myself.

It is now the accepted opinion on campus that Kappa Sig will
be no more very shortly. Heck, people are even discussing who
will get their house (the basketball hoop really ups the property’s
value).

For a lot of people, especially self-avowed court-haters, this
incident proves the inherent evil of fraternities. After all, regular
Davidson students would never commit such a heinous crime.
Pledging must end!

I am not “frat-tastic.” I love my house, but some things, like
killing animals, are outside the realm of brotherhood. However,
being in a fraternity has enhanced my Davidson experience. I
have done my share of stupid things in college, many of them at
my house, but my fraternity has resulted in many more positive
actions than negative ones.

Killing an innocent animal is obviouiily not acceptable behav-
ior—even if the intent was to cook and eat the goose. The rather
brutal nature of the attack, luring it with bread crumbs and beat-

ing it with golf clubs, makes one wonder about those involved.
The stupidity of killing the goose in a public place in broad day-
light forces me to question their intelligence. If that was the best
plan of attack they could formulate, then upper level Davidson
classes may pose a bit of a problem.

Nevertheless, it would be just as foolish for the school to pun-
ish the entire fraternity, let alone all of Patterson Court, for the
actions of individuals. I know people in Kappa Sig. We all do.
Every house has its troublemakers, but overall Kappa Sig is made
up of good guys. I am positive that they did not meet as an orga-
nization and sanction such a cruel and retarded act. A rogue ele-
ment ina house should not have the power to destroy a fraternity.

Some punishmentis warranted. After all, a fraternity is partially
responsible for its members’ actions. Community service would
more than atone for the killing. As for the people who actually
committed the crime, suspensions are probably in order. They did
participate in a criminal act. Psychological help should probably
mandatory as well. The pledges either did not have the guts to say
noto the brother who wanted to kill the goose, or they themselves
desired to kill the bird: Either way, they need some help.

It would be easy for Davidson College and the national Kappa
Sigma organization to put the story to rest by closing the house.
Hopefully Davidson College and the Kappa Sigma national
power structure will both show some backbone. Both institutions.
should resist outside pressure and take the right course of action,
not the easy one.

Pass-fail grading system should be revised

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Columnist

As far as I know, Music 122: Music of the United States, is the
most fun anyone can have in a Davidson classroom. Any class in
which listening to Buddy Holly, Louis Armstrong, the Beatles
and the Beach Boys counts as homework has to be great, right?

Unfortunately, one of the dumbest decisions I’ve made at
Davidson relates directly to this class. For a variety of reasons,
the first week of October last fall was honestly one of the worst
weeks I’ve ever lived through. I’Il spare you a sob story — the
upshot is that the pass-fail deadline came on the Friday of this
lousy week, and in a desperate attiffipt to reduce my stress level
I turned ina form declaring that I wanted to take Music 122 pass-
fail. A week later, when things had calmed down, I began to re-

alize what a stupid decision that was, but of course by then it was.

too late.

I’m sure situations like mine are not unique, and I think
Davidson ought to reconsider its pass-fail system. It’ s difficult for
students to assess their semesters as early as Week 6 of Week 15;
many professors don’t even return graded work by then. The

decision to take a course pass-fail shouldn’t be the result of guess-

work, it should be an informed and well-thought-out choice based
on a solid assessment of the course in question.

I realize I’m not the first person to complain about Davidson’ s
pass-fail policy, so let me stress that our system is actually one of
the more reasonable ones out there. At Wake Forest, for example,
students must request pass-fail grading by the end of their drop/
add period, only two weeks after classes start. Duke requires its

- students to get the instructor’s permission, and at the University

of Chicago, pass-fail grading “may affect eligibility for the
Dean’s Honor list.”

However, compared with some other top liberal arts colleges,
Davidson’s policy isn’t very flexible. Williams’ spring semester
deadlineisn’t until April 10, and Williams also allows its students
to revoke a pass-fail declaration. Haverford College allows stu-
dents to uncover their true ABCD final grade at the beginning of
the next semester (although the course taken still won’t count
towards a major or minor).

It is my understanding that the pass-fail option is designed to

let students explore without the fear that their transcripts will be
adversely affected. However, our early and absolute deadline
makes the decision to take a course pass-fail something of a
crapshoot, which I am sure no one intended.
_ If we pushed the deadline back, or allowed students to revoke
their decisions once they knew more about the course, students
could make informed decisions and use the pass- -fail option
wisely, instead of guessing.

only reflect anti-
American sentiments

By Danny Troy
Guest Columnist

I visited Ireland for the first time last week.

Unfortunately, my trip to Dublin coincided with an anti-war
protest sponsored, ironically, by Sinn Fein, a political organiza-
tion with its origins rooted in as warfare and fighting for
universal rights.

On Saturday, as I was hitting the tourist sites, I could not help
but run into the crowd of 100,000+ protestors. What I realized
while watching the group march through the streets is that it was
not really an anti-war protest.

Yes, afew people who actually opposed military action in Iraq
used the same tired “No Blood for Oil” slogan and protested what
is apparently every American’s wish that Iraqi babies die. But
most hijacked the large gathering merely to present their indi-
vidual views and opinions.

There were socialists, communists and anti-globalization
groups. There were the professional protestors gathered around
drum circles, and there were the token anti-Semites (one tactful
sign featured a giant swastika inside a Star of David). Finally,
there were the crowds of pre-teens who couldn’t find any better
way to spend a Saturday.

The widespread anti-American
and anti-Israel sentiments
exist simply for the sake of
following current trends

What I have noticed in the past six months in‘England is that
the widespread anti-American and anti-Israel sentiments exist
simply for the sake of following current trends. The recent ap-
pointments of Libya to the U.N. Human Rights chair and Iraq to
the Disarmament chair—and the United Nation’s willingness to
pass resolutions condemning Israel any chance they get—are
prime examples.

Likewise, these sentiments are well illustrated by France’s
staunch opposition to any military action in Iraq, at least until they
are paid back what Iraq owes from years of financial and arms
support.

Of course, in order to pay France’s opposition any credence,
you’ ll have to disregard its unilateral military action in the Ivory
Coast in an effort to effect regime change to ensure “friendly.
relations” between the two countries (also known as “continued
colonial-dominance’”).

However, the best example was Gerhard Schroeder’ s willing-
ness to adopt an anti-American campaign to win a few votes for
re-election as chancellor. These sentiments are everywhere, not
just outside the U.S. borders. However, in the United States, the
dominant opposition comes from the “‘anti-anything-Bush-does”
camp. I don’t recall similar protests when President.Clinton was
willing to launch a preemptive strike against Haiti all in the name
of regime change.

In other words, the opposition that we’ ve heard so much about
inrecent months is not so much an opposition to American policy
as itis anti-Americanism abroad for the sake of being anti-A meri-
can, and anti-Bush at home for the same reason.

There is, of course, the occasional professional protestor as
well. These are the ones who hate everything America does and
stands for, yet are more than happy to claim it as home
(*cough*Noam Chomsky*cough*).

Danny Troy ’04 is spending his junior year abroad in Bristol,
England.

