2 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws_

Fall dance recitals pack Duke
Two-night run sells 947 tickets, raises total of $1,906

By RACHEL EGAN
Staff Writer

The Dance Ensemble sold 947 tickets for its
two shows Friday and Saturday nights, raising
an expected $1,906 in revenue. The show has
come a long way since it began nearly two
decades ago.

When the Dance Troupe got its charter in
1986, it consisted of half a dozen dancers, a
make-shift studio, and some homemade cos-
tumes. Paulette Kurani, a student dancer, sched-
uled classes and performances, but some years
nothing happened at all.

The Troupe struggled along for the next nine
years, hampered by a lack of interest and even
less funding until 1995, when Carrie van Deest
and Erin Steffensmeirer, two student dancers,
decided to take action to pull the group together.

They began The Neglected Artists, recruiting
acts from poets, singers, and other “neglected”
performers to fill in the gaps of their dance
performances.

This innovative decision caused audiences
and interest in the Troupe to increase dramati-
cally. The name changed to Dance Ensemble in
1999.

The Union Board took over The Neglected
Artists, and audiences grew even more. Just
before the Duke Performance Hall was built,
Dance Ensemble drew such numbers that
people were standing at the back of Hodson
Hall, the Ensemble’s previous performance
hall, and on furniture outside of the Hall to
watch the shows.

When the Duke Performance Hall was com-
pleted, and the Ensemble began performing

there in spring 2001, they faced a larger issue.

The technical costs of performing in Hodson
Hall were negligible —‘the sound system was
basically someone sitting offstage and pressing
a button on a tape player,” said Jan Scott
Swetenburg ’04, treasurer of the Dance En-
semble. Butin Duke, the tech costs were around
$3000 — more that the Dance Ensemble’s entire
original yearly budget.

The next year the Ensemble asked for a much
larger budget, and the administration met them
halfway.

The ATC gave the Ensemble a bigger budget
and suggested that the Ensemble charge admis-
sion to their performances. '

At first the Ensemble was hesitant to agree.
“We had always wanted our performances to be
a gift to the community,” said President Betsy
Pinchak ’04.

In the end, the Ensemble decided to y charge a
small admission to cover the technical costs, so
the regular budget can cover costume and other
costs.

The ATC has been noticeably flexible and
reasonable with the group. “I think they look
favorably on the growth of the Ensemble and
the fact that we took their advice,” said
Swetenburg.

Despite previous problems with asking for a
larger budget for costume reasons, the ATC
seems now to recognize that the Ensemble has
been extremely prudent with their funds. “Ev-
erything we ask for we use,” said Pinchak.

Dance Ensemble is expanding its role as the
only dance performance group on campus by
adding master classes as well as instructor
classes, due to student demand.

S POLICE milo

11/7

Patterson Court Larceny of Cell Phone

Unknown person(s) willfully removed a tan Verizon Samsung cell phone from student’s
purse. Total loss is estimated at $200. Still under investigation.

11/8 Irwin Dorm

Aid to the Il

Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center for possible alcohol related

heath issues.

11/8 Building F

Larceny of a Bicycle

Unknown person(s) willfully removed an unlocked, unregistered bike fro the bike rack in front
of building F. The bike is described as a Next Power Climber, dark maroon in color. Estimated

value is $75.

111 _—_— Hart Parking lot

Damage to Property-Case Solved

eo ahah ies i mah age a a di Toyota Corolla

parked in the Hart parking lot.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

Wgeessy, Novas oa

Head of pre-med program
receives national health post
Students praise Putnam for deep commitment to College

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY

Staff Writer

Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Director of Pre-Medi-
cal Advisory at Davidson, was recently elected
to a six-year term as president of the National
Association of Advisors for the Health Profes-
sion (NAAHP), a group that organizes conven-
tions and deals with issues pertaining to advis-
ing in the allied health professions.

In 1993,
Putnam started
the Health Pro-
fession Advisors
of North Carolina
organization that
was later incor-
porated into the
NAAHP. The or-
ganization
proved to be in-
strumental in en-
hancing the pres-
tige of the
Davidson pre-
medical program
with the nation’s
medical schools.

In 2003, 22
people who sur-
vived the
Davidson Pre-

‘
school and is still waiting to here from the other
schools.

She said, “He’s very honest with you about
what you need for your application. If you need
better grades, he’s going to tell you. If he thinks
you have a weak reason for wanting to be a
doctor, he’ll tell you.”

But she added that he helps the students
tremendously throughout the process and is
“really your biggest advocate.”

In 1999 Putnam was
popularly elected as
President of the South-
east Region of the
NAAHP and went on
to serve on the National
Board of Directors in
2002.

As President-elect
from 2004 to 2006,
Putnam will be respon-:
sible for organizing a
speaker series to be
held in Washington,
D.C.

The convention will
host various medical
school deans from pro-
grams suchas Stanford
and Washington Uni-

_ versity along with

speakers on the MD/

Medical Advi- photo by Dorsett Clark PhD programs and on
sory Committee Dr, Jeremiah Putnam was recently _the financial debt asso-
(PAC) applied to elected as the president of the Na- — ciated with funding
medical schools. tignal Association of Advisors for —_‘™edical education.

20 of these appli- the Health Profession. When asked how he
cants were ac- plans to balance his ad-

cepted into medical schools, including some of
the most prestigious institutions in the nation.

Dave Shelburne ’04 said, “When I went to
interview for med schools, Putnam’s name
came up alot. Dr. Putnam knows a lot of people.

He definitely gives aname for Davidson, and
his signature behind your name for med schools
means a lot.”

Putnam notes that for most classes there is an
85 percent or above acceptance rate into medi-
cal school, though it is difficult to calculate an
exact percentage since students are continually
in the process of applying and thus the numbers
are constantly changing.

Jennifer Swails ’04 is a Davidson pre-med
who just received acceptance into medical

vising duties at the college with his new national
position, Putnam said, “I work seven days a
week... I love what I do.”

George Edwards ’04 confirms Putnam’s
dedication, “I would not be applying to medical
school if it wasn’t for him because of some
complications with my application.

He truly cares about his students. He’ll tell
you that he loves getting up everyday just
because of the students.”

Since he came to Davidson in 1973, Putnam
has taught various anatomy and even Victorian
literature classes while serving on the Pre-Medi-
cal Advisory Committee.

In 1992 he’ took on the leadership of the
college’s pre-medical program.

phia. Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’ S greatest cities. -

demic credit living, working —

and ened in icinienual

