4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Cosby, from page 1

definitely discussed the possibilities of musical
acts, we looked into Ben Harper and Coldplay
[both touring abroad this fall]. But we haven’t
done comedy lately, at least since I’ve been
here, so this will be something different and
fun.”

student demand for diversity. “People are ex-
tremely vocal on campus about concerts, some-
times complaining, ‘We’re so tired of college
rock,” she said. “Bill Cosby was a good, di-
verse option. We knew it would be aclean show
and would attract various generations. Students
are our top priority, but it’s really cool when we
can attract faculty, staff, and other members of
the Davidson community.”

Some administrators worried that Cosby
would only attract an older generation. Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt admitted, “When the idea first
came up, | said to William [Brown, Director of
the College Union], ‘I don’t know if students
these days, though they may have watched The
Cosby Show, will be interested.”

Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-
Merrell agreed. “I think he’s the funniest man in
America,” she said, “but when they first started
talking about it, I wondered if it would just
appeal to us old fogeys. I’m thrilled that stu-
dents are excited about it.”

From ticket sales and the mass of students
who camped out at the union for premium seats,
most people are excited. More that half of the
almost 5,000 tickets have already sold, and
those remaining are selling quickly.

“The response has been really good,” said
Bannerman, “We had great response from fac-
ulty and staff when their tickets went on sale.”
Bannerman said she even heard from students
studying abroad this fall who are disappointed
to miss the show.

Smith thinks the student rate is particularly
enticing. “I think $25 is really reasonable for
any concert,” she said. “From Justin Timberlake
down to a semi-national act at the Visualite
Theater, you’ re going to pay at least $20 or $25.
And it’s $15 cheaper than Dave.”

Comparisons with last year’s concerts extend
beyond ticket prices. Bannerman remarked,
“Cosby is pretty Jow maintenance, which is
refreshing. He doesn’t travel with an entourage,
except maybe one personal assistant. Very dif-
ferent from Dave Matthews or John Mayer.”

“He’s been doing this for so many years, he’s
not going to have a big head like some of the

\ :
Smith stressed the committee's goal to meet

newer bands we’ ve had,” agreed Smith.

Despite the relative ease of accommodation,
Cosby still comes with a hefty price tag.
Bannerman puts him in the $75,000 - $150,000
price range for a performer, but Smith is quick
to clarify that cost.

“T think a lot of people—for whatever rea-
son—misunderstand those figures,” she ex-
plained. “For Dave Matthews, people were
saying,—‘I can’t believe you spent $150,000
on this show,’ when in fact, based on income,

’ we only spent $12,500. We make back a lot of

the artist bid with ticket sales.”

A few tickets, however, are going for free.
The Brickhouse & 95.1 are sponsoring a com-
edy contest with a prize of four front row seats,
limo service, and free dinner at the Brickhouse.
Joel’s and Ben & Jerry’s are each giving away
two tickets. “There will be some intense, high-
profile promotion” of the show, said
Bannerman.

Anyone interested in helping with the show
should contact Smith. “When we do these big
shows, I usually have 35-40 volunteers,” she
said. “We work with the staff at Baker and tech
services, starting at about 7:30 or 8 in the
morning. We unload sound and stage equip-
ment, check lights and sound, build the stage
from the ground up, and set up dressing rooms.

“Then, when the show is over, we do it in
reverse. It’s usually a 20-22 hour day. I’m
always amazed by the willingness of students to
volunteer for these shows. They’re not getting
paid or anything, they just get a t-shirt.”

For other students, says Smith, “Attending
shows is really underestimated. Just merely
showing your support by buying a ticket, com-
ing to a show and having a good time is really
important.

“We try to have fun shows that help releases
the stress of being in class. And going along
with the whole Davidson idea of building a
whole person, we try to reflect that in the
diversity of our acts.”

Diversity was another topic in the Readers’
Digest interview. When asked about affirma-
tive action in light of the recent University of
Michigan case, Cosby responded, “It has al-
ways been my belief that\if people in the audi-
ence connected with what Said, and if they are
laughing at what I am saying, then where is our
difference? They always saw the color of my
skin. I didn’t turn white while I was on stage.

“Yet if you’re laughing at what I’m saying,
and we’re connected, why am I a person who
has to have affirmative action to keep you
honest?”

campus.

| 758 ballots submitted.

226

Ben Harper/Jack Johnson

Coldplay 133

Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers 126

James Taylor 117
50 Cent 111
Dixie Chicks - 11
Eric Clapton 90
Bill Cosby 85
Paul.Simon 76
Snoop Dogg 72

The votes are in ec

Last spring, the Concert Committee, in con-
junction wth SGA, surveyed returning students
_ for interest in potential performers to bring to

| The following are the top results from the

Ben Folds 284
O.A.R. 193
Dave Chappelle 154
Nickel Creek 133

_ Pat McGee Band 122

Nappy Roots 121
Jars of Clay . 118
Dashboard Confessional 108

’ India.Arie 86
Pat Green 66

\

Over-enrollment, from page 1

yet 39.5 percent of the admitted students
decided to enroll.”

The larger enrollment could potentially lead
to a host of problems from an administrative
standpoint. Hou considerations, for example,
have lately become a source of contention. RLO
Director Leslie Marsicano asserts that the prob-
lem is largely under control.

“We have 20 students living in what were
formerly lounges, 9 living in college-owned
houses on Thompson Street, and 136 living off
campus,” reports Marsicano, adding, “These
people living in unusual spaces are not at a
disadvantage.”

Marsicano concedes that 50 more students
requiring on-campus housing may not seem
like an impressive statistic. Nevertheless,
Marsicano says, “At a place the size of
Davidson, it’s a hit.”

In order to’ prepare for this “‘hit,” the Admis-
sions Office spent the summer coordinating
with school officials, departments, and parents
in order to make the transition as smooth as
possible.

Marsicano recalls being told of the rising
population in early summer, shortly after en-
rolling freshmen mailed in their deposit checks.

“At one point, we had 505 students,” she
says, adding that typically 10 to 20 students

Cafe, from page 1
enjoy more flexible dining-hours; it was not
designed to assist students in accumulating
snack items. Nevertheless, Terry noted, “The
vast majority of the stuff included in the Cafe is
still on the meal plan.”

Some students expressed frustration with the
new policy, observing that they have to use
Bonus Bucks or cash to pay for items they
consider normal components of dinner. Allison
Kavanagh ’06 remarked, “The last meal I
bought, I had a sandwich and yogurt. The sand-
wich was on my meal plan but the yogurt
wasn’t. I don’t understand why if you buy a
sandwich, you can’t buy a cup of yogurt, too.”

Terry stressed that Auxiliary Services would
review the policy throughout the year, saying,
“We think it’s the right thing to do, but we’ll
certainly be interested in the feedback we get

Class of 2007 at a Glance

° 29 African Americans
20 Hispanic Americans
16 International students
1 Native American student

20 more men than women

15% from North Carolina
176 through Early Decision
91 recruited athletes for Davidson’s 21 sports
76 students with family connections to Davidson (legacies) :
Median SAT score up from 1330 to 1350
93% of students were in the top 20% of their HS class
34% of students receiving some variety of need-based aid.

change their minds over the summer. Neverthe-
less, RLO began making the necessary prepara-
tions immediately. .

“Once the Admissions Office accepts aclass,
it’s our job to get everyone a room, a bed, an
Internet port.”

During the summer flurry, the Admissions
Office also had to consider another important
factor — financial aid.

“This over-enrollment did press our aid bud-
get, as did returning upper-class students,” says
Cable. “We are still within our budgeted
amount, but we did spend more this year.”

Most areas of student life seem to be func-
tioning routinely as usual. Registrar Hansford
Epes ’61 reports that class registration has gone
“smoothly”, and Admissions officials have little
concern that the rising population will cause
instability anytime in the near: future,

Cable says that in coming years, “We will use
our traditional caution in who we admit, and we
will exercise conservative judgment on yield
numbers. Itis our intention to have no more than
465 students in the class of 2008.”

“The good news is that there’s some really
great talent in this class. This is a positive
problem to have,” Cable says, “but we mist be
responsible for controlling it.”

' Source: Admissions Office

from folks.”

In fact, his staff has already made at least one
modification to the plan. For most of the sum-
mer, bottled beverages were not included on the
list of items that could be purchased with a meal
plan. However, school officials soon decided
that this provision did not make sense and
adjusted their policy accordingly.

Kavanagh feels encouraged by the recent
revision, commenting, “I think it’s great that
they were reasonable about the drinks.”

Even so, other students remain dissatisfied.
Candy Baffourawuah ’06 hopes that Auxiliary
Services will drop the policy completely.

She said, “If I want to have a granola bar with
yogurt, then that’s a meal for me. Once you’ ve
chosen your meal plan and paid for your meal
plan, you should be able to eat whatever you
want.” ,
