THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Staff Editorial

Union meal plans
rob students of
more than money

Summer is a time of change at Davidson.

Construction abounds, the fiscal year rolls over, new profes-
sors join the faculty and new faces take their place.in the Wild-
cat family.

This year, students arrived or returned to campus optimistic
and excited about the coming year. However, one change left a
bitter taste in many mouths.

During the summer, the Union Cafe changed its meal plan
program. The.Cafe stopped counting a variety of pre-packaged
items including bottled drinks, snack bars, candy, gyros and
other sandwiches, and other items formerly covered by the $5
credit allotted to meal plan users between 6 and 8 p.m. In re-
turn, students got a paltry 10-cent increase in the value of the
equivalency, to $5.10.

The change flies in the face of the Union Cafe’s mandate.
The Union Cafe’s monopoly of on-campus, non-cafeteria din-
ing is not justification for abdicating its primary mission of
serving the student community.

This profit-increasing measure denies students the ability to
purchase the foods they want with the money that they have
paid.

The. problem is more significant in that it is part of a trend
designed to decline the value of student meal plans. Already
in some meal plan options, the value of Bonus Bucks and aver-
age cost per meal does not equal the financial cost of the meal
plan, assuming every meal is used.

While the Union Cafe is not directly responsible for this
change, they ought not play along in decreasing the value of
student meal plans.

Further, freshmen are forced into buying a 19-meal plan, and
are now denied the option of obtaining the foods they desire—
having already paid for them. Forcing students to pay for meal
plans that bar certain items from appearing on that list amounts
to double-charging students. .

If Davidson intends to continue running the Union Cafe as a
for-profit business, as is becoming more and more evident, ad-
ministrators ought to open up on campus competition. Any-
thing less allows monopolistic price-setting that robs students
blind.

Since when did a school so proud of its Honor Code condone
stealing?

Patent Sweater — °

w

[HE ACT OF FAINTING IS
LiKE BEING \N A TENDER
EMBRACE -

Your LIPS ARE THE
Toot S Ante “OUR CANVAS
\S THE OBJECT OF ‘TOUR }

4

Ali Fitzgerald

K\-KiLTHINK ‘You
MAY BE SLIGHTLY
Too LITERAL FOR

Thanks from alumni serving in Iraq war

Thank you so much for the wonderful boxes of goodies I
received from Davidson. They arrived at just the right
time!

My unit is leaving Kuwait for Baghdad tomorrow. We
are a Military Police unit that will be responsible for
establishing criminal detention facilities throughout the
city. The lotion, snacks, chapstick and baby-wipes will all
come in handy.

I shared the box with other soldiers and they were both
appreciative and incredulous that
my Alma Matre sent me a Care
Package.

I told them, “‘That’s the
Davidson way - Serving Others!”
Please pass along my thanks to all
those who contributed. I particu-
larly appreciated the note from the
3rd Rich Women (my own Freshman hall).

Unfortunately, I will not have e-mail access once. we
leave Kuwait, but I will send a snail-mail update to
Davidson once things settle down. Thanks for thinking of
those of us in the military!

eR

CPT Kelly Davis Uribe (’93)

P.S. The Maxim magazine went over well with the
guys!

Just wanted to extend my thanks, and that of the soldiers
serving with me, for the great care package sent from the
“Girls of 3rd Rich” on behalf of the Davidson Alumni
Association. Shared the goodies with my whole team -— it
went fast. Also handed out the thoughtful toiletries to the
guys who were running short.

We’ ve been traveling fast across the whole country of
Iraq. We’ ve been through Baghdad, Tikrit, Baqubah, Tuz
and are currently in Kirkuk. Everywhere we’ ve traveled
we’ ve been greeted warmly by a nation of liberated
people. The broad smiles of the children, waving as we
pass through, have convinced us all that our mission is
worthwhile.

Would like to pass on particular thanks to those young
ladies that included their inspirational words along with the
package: Claire Shelhamer 3rd Rich ’06, Allie Martin,
Sarah Cantrell 3rd Rich ’06, Rebecca Moore ’03, Leslie
Hemspon 3rd Rich, Allison 3rd Rich. All did a lot to make
our day. We-really appreciate all the support from the
homefront.

Ironhorse!
Vv

Rocky Kmiecik '85
Lieutenant Colonel, Armor
OIC 4th Infantry Division Assault

‘The ‘Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. |

Please e-mail. See tins of. less than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu.

thin

ENV Row MENTAL FRIEWDUN

THERE are MANY REASONS To to

@Lio Protects SLOPPY siPPpeRs,

Minimizes ScEnr o¢ STRowe- SMELLING
BEVERAGES.

PLARGE Hanne
A

FRoem Reve Ron. s:

®
HANDY ador. size

E MAKES Hop WE CoP
'NCH EVED WHEN You (ee CLumsiesr.

HIDES Comtents ——p

We reserve the right to edit for |
content, brevity and grammar.

and ow ABBSA ALBSA
THIS Fae

CUPPS / Are Better
Sole Cu S see

SS ASIDE,
VE Cu.P.Ps.

sgt Just sii Ware newer war aa o¢tval
Rute”
7 je too, is there no Gurps exception.

