By JEFF Davis
Staff Writer

In a crucial series with the East Tennessee
State Bucs, the ’Cats came away with one win
and two losses; results good enough to keep
them tied with ETSU for eighth place in the
Southern Conference.

With the final playoff spot on the line, if the
’Cats remain tied with ETSU, they would lose
the first tiebreaker; ETSU having won two out
of the three games.

In game one on Friday night, a Buc’s grand
slam in the sixth inning proved too much for
the ’Cats to handle as they lost 7-5.

The ’Cats pressured the Bucs with a three-
run fifth inning which saw both Justin Hartanov
’05 and Michael Muniz ’05 double, and Jay
Heafner ’06 drive in two runs with a single up
the middle.

Leading 5-3 in the sixth, the ’Cats victory
hopes were diminished with well-hit ball that
caught the wind and sailed over the fence,
giving ETSU a 7-5 lead.

“A fly ball that got up in the wind was the
difference,” said Coach Cooke. “I though both
teams played good defense; it was a fun game
to watch.”

Andy Carter ’05 pitched a season high 7.1
innings but picked up the loss after giving up
six earned runs. He did strike out eight, tying
the season high by a Davidson pitcher.

Heafner lead the ’Cats with four hits, and
two RBI’s and Eli Benefield ’05 contributed
three hits, two runs scored, and one RBI.

Overall, the ’Cats amassed 14 hits but man-
aged to leave 11 runners on base.

Game two of the series was won by the ’Cats
in the bottom of the ninth with two outs.

“Saturday’s game was.a great one-for the
baseball purist,” said Cooke. “as it had some
good pitching, some great defense and then,
with our trailing by one with two outs in the

SoCon tournament bid

ninth, we scored seven runs.”
Trailing 6-5, Erskine Wells ’03 started the

last chance comeback with a single up the —

middle scoring Sam Navarro ’05. D.J. Dailey
’04 later singled in arun, and Benefield cleared
the bases with a double off the wall. Timely
hitting was the answer as the ’Cats enjoyed
their biggest inning of the season in the last
inning of the game.

Starting pitcher Derrick Wolpert ’03
couldn’t have been more pleased with the run
support he and winning pitcher Stephen Choate
’03 received.

“We stepped up and met the challenge that
was before us,” said Wolpert. “The game was
a battle back and forth all game. We did what
it took to win the game.”

Wolpert pitched 6.2 innings surrendering
nine hits, three earned runs, while striking out
six. Choate forced one batter to ground into a
double play to earn the win, his first of year.

Dailey collected three hits, four RBI’s and
one run scored. Brett Peiffer 04 added three
hits two RBI’s and two runs scored.

’ Game three proved a disappointment as the
*Cats lost the rubber match 16-3. In the game,
ETSU pounced on everything the Davidson
pitchers had to offer and totaled 20 hits for the
game.

The ’Cats weren’t bad from the plate them-
selves, scattering 11 hits, but couldn’t contain
ETSU’s offense.

“We scratched and clawed all game,” said
Cooke. “We just couldn’t find enough runs.”

With six conference games remaining for
the ’Cats, a three-game series with Furman
could be the deciding factor in whether the
Davidson baseball team earns a berth to the
conference tournament.

ETSU hastwo three-game series left, against
Furman and Georgia Southern.

The ’Cats play Furman at home on May 2 at
7 p.m., May 3 at 2 p.m., and May 4 at | p.m.

Haywood earns all-SoCon Honors

Junior Rob Haywood was voted first team
all conference by the Southern Conference
coaches last week. Haywood, who finished
the season with a 13-7 record, played consis-
tently throughout the season and is the first
Wildcat to make all-conference since the duo
of Scott Briggs and Justin Sutherland in 1999,
Throughout his career at Davidson, Haywood
has always put in extra time and-has vastly
improved his game since freshman year.

Haywood admitted that he was a little
surprised about the award but said, “I am very
honored that the SoCon coaches think so much
of me and this award belongs just as much to

the team as’ it does to me. Without them .

»}
a

H Teeter

uuels

backing me, I would not have won all of the
matches that I pulled out.”

Throughout the season, Haywood played
tight, long matches, usually coming up big in
the third set.

Always modest abouthis matches, ‘Haywood
admitted that one of his favorite matches was
against South Carolina, a match that he nar-
rowly lost in three sets. At the time of the
match against the Gamecocks, USC was ranked
20th in the nation. By taking their number one
player to three sets, Haywood showed that he
has the game to compete with the best.

- by Webster Harrison

Golf, from page 14

Wildcats, Coach Tim Straub was named South-
ern Conference Coach of the Year.

Straub is the first coach of the Wildcats to
ever win the award, which began in 1978.

Straub was recognized as Coach of the Year
for the outstanding success he had with such a
young team.

“I thought it was really awesome for

Coach. The award just goes to show how

DON'T LEASE
UNTIL YOU SEE US!

$459 Special

on our spacious
1 BR apartments!

1 mile off I-77 & Exit 30
near Davidson College
Hurry! They're going fast!

704-892-1859

835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036

much hard work he has put into this program
and the improvement he has created over the
past three seasons. He is really respected by
his peers,” Dillon said.

“Coach definitely deserved the recognition
he received through his hard work this season.
He gives a lot to the team, and we weren’t
surprised that he won the award,” Davis added:

Coming off the second most successful sea-
son in Davidson golf history, the Wildcats are
anxious to start a new season.

In addition to a stellar 2002-2003 season,
Coach Straub is bringing in a superb recruiting
class:

The highlight of the recruiting class is Alex
Knoll from Bethlehem, Pa. Knoll was the
2002 Eastern Pennsylvania Amateur Cham-
pion and qualified for the United States Junior
Amateur Championships.

Stephen Mayo from Austin, Texas, is an-
other promising recruit. Mayo was the winner
of the Future Collegiate World Tour.

Christian Gallon, a second place finisher at
the regionals of 2002 PIAA State Champion-
ship, rounds out a superb recruiting class for
the Wildcats.

“Only losing one senior, all three of these
players will help us fill that void. We area very
young team and the addition of these individu-
als will increase our taleonleryl. oe ated
said.

Although the 2003 season has just tien
completed, the Wildcats are still hanes for-
ward to next season. __

“Tam really looking.
Weare only losing mr
