SEPIA

Watching the game is only

half the fun at the Super Bowl

The game itself wasn’t everything we hope
for in a Super Bowl.

So what?

Since when has America’s biggest media
event been just about the actual action on the
field?

Not since a man named Lombardi roamed
the sidelines or disco was popular, that’s for
sure. .

Before the game even began an Oakland fan
“hacked” into the Bucaneer’s official team
Web site and changed one of the headlines.

The original story on the.site dealt with the
Bucs’ final walk-through session for Super
Bowl XXXVII.

But after the Raider fan, most likely dressed
liked Darth Vader, invaded enemy cyber-space
the headline was changed to “Bucs Suck!! Go
Raiders!”

And then there were all those super sub-
plots; the number-one offense facing the best
defense in the land; MVP Rich Gannon against
survivor Brad Johnson, who once played be-
hind Gannon in Minnesota; Bucs’ coach Jon
Gruden against his former team.

By game time the media had disected and
over-analyzed every possible theme and sce-
nario, save maybe the outfit Shania Twain
would wear at halftime (nice choice, by the
way).

As one Boston Globe columnist wrote,
“There [was] enough newsprint used on Super
Bowl XXXVII this past week to wipe out a
small forest.”

And let’s not ignore ABC’s presentation of
starting lineups, when Simeon Rice claimed
“Hard Knock University” as his alma mater
and Charlie Garner claimed he attended “Uni-
versity of the Untouchables” only to be over-
shadowed by Rod Woodson, who gave a shout
out to his Pop Warner team.

Some 131.7 million people watched the
2002 Super Bowl—nearly half the US popula-
tion and about 30 million more than the num-
ber who voted in the 2000 presidential elec-
tion—and the audience for Sunday’s game
was expected to be similar.

A more interesting stat would be how many
people tuned in solely for the commercials and
muted the televison when Al Michaels and
John Madden started yacking about nothing
important at all.

Year after year we faithfully expect every
single ad to provoke hysterical laughter—the
kind of commercials people talk about at the
office water coolers on Monday morning.

2003 proved to be a down year for Super
Bowl commercials, however, with only about
a handful of ads meeting my approval (for

whatever that’s worth).

A personal favorite was the NFL spot that
opened with the line, “Crazy knits sweaters for
hampsters.”

A close runner up was the Reebok ad with
fictional linebacker Terry Tate as the office
disciplinarian, tackling every naughty em-
ployee.

And, boy, weren’t we all happy when Jon
Bon Jovi took the stage for the post-game rock
concert and performed “It’s My Life” for the
billionth time this millenium.

Remember those commercials that asked,
“How many licks to the center of a tootsie
pop?”

Bon Jovi has apparently become the poster
boy for America’s latest question, “How many
times can a pop star sing the same song before
going insane?”

As for the game, the Raiders definetly proved
they deserved to be there.

At one point during the fourth quarter it
looked as though Oakland might actually over-
come the 34-3 third quarter deficit, as the men
in silver and black rattled off 18 unanswered
points to pull within 13.

But in the end that over-used cliche ‘defense
wins championships’ proved true and when
Derrick Brooks turned a Rich Gannon inter-
ception into a touchdown with under two-
minutes in regulation, Tampa Bay secured its
first Super Bowl win in the franchise’s 27 year
history.

Dexter Jackson, the game’s MVP as an-

‘nounced by ABC’s Mike Tirico following the

game and predicted by magicians Penn and
Teller before kickoff (yeah, right), was al-
lowed to select any Cadillac he wanted.

For so many male senior citizens, Jackson
instantly became the most envied man in
America.

One post-game tradition that needs to be
weeded out is interviewing the champion’s
owner.

Did you hear Tampa Bay’s Malcolm Galzer
after the game?

This guy said, in front of the aforemention
130 million or so viewers, “If you hadn’t heard
of the Bucs before, now you have!”

Who. watching that game wouldn’t have
known one of teams playing?

You would have thought Glazer was talking
to a local access statién in Slovakia.

When all was said and done, though, Super

- Bowl 2003 did, in fact, give us all an excuse to

sit down with friends for a good five hours,
over-indulge on Dominoes delivery and for-
get about everything else except football, Bud
Light commercials..,.and twins.

By Weester Harrison
Staff Writer

Although the Davidson men’s tennis team
has a youthful appearance, don’t be deceived.

Five starters return to this year’s squad,
with only one senior playing in the top six. -

Last season, the Wildcats finished 12-13
overall, with a 4-6 record in the Southern
Conference. :

Davidson will be forced to replace its top
two players, both of whom graduated last
year. For the third time in four years, there will
be a new number one singles player.

According to senior Matt Peters, “Rob
Haywood is the best number one that I have
seen in my four years here.”

Haywood, who played at the third position
last year, will have to step up to the number
one spot with the departure of Chad
Winebarger. For someone who rarely played
during his first year, Haywood has made great
strides in his game by bulking up and improv-
ing his groundstrokes.

Playing at the number two spot will most
likely be Donald Miles, a sophomore who had
a 14-10 record at number five last year.

Miles won his flight at a Wake Forest tour-
nament this past fall and said that he “has more
confidence and experience in his game.”

Bryan Stonestreet and Jonathan Britt, both

juniors, wl vie forthe third an
tions on the team. —

Stonestreet recorded a 15-7 record at the ;
number six position last year while Britt won
ten matches playing at number three and some-
times number four.

Atnumber five will be Geoffrey Mullen, the
lone senior starter.

A transfer from North Carolina State, Mullen
had a record of 13-11 last year splitting time
between the fourth and six spots.

Seniors Matt Peters and Leroy Butler may
also see some playing time against Southern
Conference foes.

The number six spot has yet to be deter-
mined, but Coach Frank believes that either
freshman Joe Cheaney or sophomore Russ
Burns will fill the void.

Junior Nick Lewis will also see time through-
out the season. Two other freshmen, Thomas
Jeter and Andrew Reichel, will contribute in
strengthening the team. .

The Wildcats will have the “home-court
advantage” this year, playing seventeen of
their twenty-two matches at home. They will
be challenged by the usual Southern Confer-
ence opponents, along with national power-
houses UNC-Chapel Hill (#26) and South
Carolina (#20). The team opens its schedule
on Feb. 1 with matches against Queens Col-
lege and Belmont Abbey.

Swimmers exact revenge
with win over Old Dominion

By Joanie Gipas
Staff Writer

After a close loss to Old Dominion last
winter, the women’s swim team returned to
the Monarch’s JCS Chandler Pool this past
Friday and Saturday for the annual quad meet
with a vengeance.

Revenge was had upon their hosts with a
206-140 victory, giving the girls another con-
ference win in addition to their earlier victory
over Towson to complete the season with a 2-
3 record in the conference and a 7-7 record
overall. In the quad meet, the women also
came dangerously close to rival William &
Mary, losing 199-154 after falling to UNC
Wilmington 224-123.

The men’s team left Norfolk with some
strong individual performances as well but
was ultimately outscored by Old Dominion
239-100, William & Mary 237-96, and UNC
Wilmington 236-91. They closed dual meet
action this year with a 0-5 conference record
and a 2-10 record overall.

Junior Sara Laws’ versatility and sopho-
more Jamie Sasanfar’s sprinting talent proved
to be enormous advantages for the Wildcats,
with Laws capturing firsts in both the 100 and
200 backstroke and second in the 400 IM,
while Sasanfar swam acollege best of 25.07 in
the 50 free to nab second. Sophomore Trisha
Blackwell and junior Leslie Cook helped com-
plete an impressive 1-2-3 sweep in the 200
back and junior Vanessa Witt, along with
freshman Casey Grimes, came through with a

2-3-4 finish in the grueling 400 IM. Ironwoman
Kelsey Holmberg earned her team a third
place finish in the 1650 as well, swimming
even faster than she did at Conferences last
year. Such swims this past weekend inspired
captain Ashley Cain’s to say, “We really pulled
together and kept our spirits high. It was a
wonderful way to finish out our dual meet
season and I am very enthusiastic about our
upcoming conference meet.”

The men’s’ team anticipates an equally in-
spiring performance at Conferences this year,
especially after Chris Wrobleski (named
Rookie Diver of the Year at Conferences last
year) placed third on the 3-meter board this
past weekend and with the return from abroad
of butterflyer-backstroker Charlie Hunter, who
also captured a third in his 200 back. Recover-
ing from the recent stomach virus that has ©
been plaguing the campus, sophomore Michael
Flowers rallied to place seventh in the 1650
and 500 free and classmate Foster Matthews
earned the ’Cats some points with his sixth and
seventh place finishes in the 200 IM and 100
breastroke, respectively. Freshmen stars Brad
Poole and Steve Tolson each racked up points
of their own in the sprint freestyle events and
combined with Flowers and captain Robert
Koch to complete a stellar 400 freestyle relay.

Fueled by their strong swims at ODU and
thankfully anticipating a final taper in train-
ing, the Wildcats now enter into the final
weeks of their season before heading off to
Conferences at George Mason University in
Virginia this Feb. 19-22.

scorpecger John Pollack oe his

teenth win of the year.

opponent, Andy Leffler, 16-0 for his ‘sie

