The Wildcats walloped Winthrop by a score of 10-3.

| ia

photo by Billy Stephens

Men’s club lacrosse makes debut

_ By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Last Sunday, the Davidson men’s club la-
crosse team finished its regular season’ de-
feating Winthrop University by a score of 10-
3.

The Wildcats entered Sunday’s game, held
on the turf field, coming off a close game
against Elon last Wednesday night under the
lights.

The game Wednesday was the first men’s
lacrosse game at Davidson in eight years.

Elon quickly put away four goals in the first
half, making the score 4-0 a few minutes into
the second quarter.

The ’Cats rallied after a run by freshman
defenseman and co-captain Geoff Fehling to
get Davidson’s first goal of the season.

The momentum allowed for another quick
score to cut the deficit to just two goals.

Sophomore midfielder and co-captain Evans
McGowan scored off a left-handed shot that
beat the Elon keeper to his stick side.

Sophomore midfielder Marshal Brown
scored the Wildcats fourth unanswered goal
right after halftime.

The goal, a sweeping run down Davidson’s
offensive half straight to the net, made the
score 4-4.

Soon after, Brown fell to an injury and the
*Cats begun to fall to the Phoenix’s pressure.

Although sophomore goalie Tim Curlett
made numerous key saves to preserve the tied
game into the third quarter, Elon tallied four
more goals by the sound of the final whistle to
defeat Davidson by a score of 8-4.

Despite the outcome, Davidson eagerly an-
ticipated the next game against Winthrop to
get their first win.

The Eagles opened up the scoring in the

first quarter by scoring two quick goals.

Shutting out Winthrop for the rest of the half
and adding five goals, one of them off good
man-down execution, Davidson made the score
5-3 at the end of the second quarter.

The second half was dominated by the Wild-
cats, outscoring the Eagles 5-1. |

Although Winthrop came out of halftime
and scored the first goal, Davidson answered
with five unanswered goals to make the final
score 10-3.

The offensive surge was primarily due to
freshman and co-captain Garen Riedel’s ex-
cellent scoring throughout the game.

Riedel had five tallies on the day and ied the
team in scoring.

Sophomore attackman Richard Connolly
also had a strong offensive presence in the
attacking end, scoring three goals.

Finally, McGowan added to Davidson’ S
lead by scoring twice.

McGowan, the team’s president, thought
ending the first season in eight years with a 1-
1 record left men’s lacrosse at Davidson with
a positive outlook for the future.

The team is blessed with the expertise of
anthropology professor and coach Eriberto
Lozada, who played lacrosse during his col-
lege career for Harvard University.

“I think the season went well overall,”
McGowan said. “It was a good start, espe-
cially without being in a league or anything-
basically did it all on our own.”

“We’re looking to join the SELC (South-
eastern Lacrosse Conference) next year,”
McGowan added, “but need to raise between
three and five thousand dollars by then.”

The athletic department has been showing
interest in the club and the players hope to
make the sport a varsity organization in the
near future.

Golf ends season in struggle

By Perry Lewis
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team concluded its sea-
son with a seventh place finish at the Southern
Conference Tournament at Forest Heights
Country Club in Statesboro, Ga.

Georgia Southern was crowned Southern
Conference Champion after a three round total
of 872. The Wildcats posted a score of 904.

The Wildcats were led by sophomore Dan
Koernke, who shot eight over par for the
tournament. Koernke was fast out of the gate,
shooting a one under-par 71 on the first day.
Koernke carded a 75 in the second round and
a 78 in the third round, good for 17th place
overall.

Freshman Christian Davis finished 20th
overall in the tournament for the Wildcats, just
one stroke behind Koernke. Davis began the
tournament with a 78, but came back to fire a
73 in round two and a 74 in round three.

“T thought my scores were much better than
the way I actually played, so that was a real
confidence boost. The course was playing
really difficult and I was having some trouble
off the tee,” Davis said.

Inhis last collegiate tournament, Ben Friedell
placed 27th overall. Friedell opened the tour-

nament with a solid 75 and added an even-par
72 in round two. Friedell posted an 80 in the
third round.

Tim Dillon, who led the Wildcats most of
the year, rounded out the scoring for the team
by finishing 14 over par for the tournament.

Dillon carded a 77 in the first and second
rounds, then added a 76 in the third round.

“T felt that I was hitting the ball really well,
I just couldn’ t get the putts to fall. The course
was difficult and I caught some bad renal
Dillon said.

After the first two rounds of play the Wild-
cats were in pouncing distance of the lead,
sitting just a mere 12 shots back.

“As a team we played fairly well the first
two days, we just couldn’ t quite get it together
in the third round,” Dillon said. “I was really
pleased with our playing in the first tworounds.
Although we didn’t play well in the third
round, I thought it was a successful tourna-
ment in a way that we beat some teams that we
weren’t expected to beat,” Davis added.

The Wildcats may not have won the confer-
ence tournament, but they did not come home
empty handed.

After just three seasons as head coach of the

See Golf, page 15

‘ ‘Rookie of Year’ by CAA

By Aten FINN

Staff Writer

First-year student Megan Hollar was hon-
ored 2003 Rookie Swimmer of the Year byt the
Colonial Athletic Association.

The award is a highly prestigious and cov-
eted honor that is voted upon by CAA coaches
at the finale of the NCAA championships.

Hollar held the highest scores as a female
freshman through out the championship con-
ference and tied for 10th place with an indi-
vidual score of 44 points.

She dominated in all events during the four-
day CAA championship, where she competed
in the 100-breaststroke (with a new Davidson
record), the 400-medley relay team (new school
record), the 200-individual medley, 200-breast-
stroke and 200-medley relay team.

In all five events, Hollar achieved a top-10
ranking. Breaking records is not an unusual
occurrence for the Knoxville, Tenn., native,
who has managed to break over 10 school
records in her first season on the Davidson
swim team.

As the female Bryan Scholar for the class of

-2006, Hollar has not only been recognized for

her athletic achievements but for her academic
strengths as well.

She plays a vital role on the Davidson Wild-
cat swim team.

Casey Grimes ’06 attests that “Megan has
been a key asset to the swim team in and out of
the pool this year. Her motivation for others as
well as her enthusiastic spirit (not to mention
her natural talent in the water) was contagious
among the team.”

Jamie Sansafar adds ’05, “Our. swim team

has greatly improved partially on behalf of her
silent leadreship she has provided. Her contri-
butions extend beyond that of her stellar
breakstroke record and place on the national
relay. She has produced numerous top- 10 times

_ and has greatly improved many of our relays.

“She is the epitome of a true competitor but
does so in such a manner that is reflective of
sportsmanship. Her presence on the team is
felt not only in the pool but outside of the pool
heavily contributing to the team’s Gynamics,
She rocks!”

When asked about her Rookie of the Year
award, Hollar honestly remarked that she was
really surprised.

“Tam really pleased and very honored to get
such an award. It makes me feel really good
when people come up to me and tell me
congratulations. I feel like all the hard: work
paid off in the end”.

Hollar’s hardwork and dedication did in
fact pay off, not only in her NCAA recogni-
tion but also in the incredible times that she has
worked so hard to achieve over this past sea-
son.

Both men and women’s captains, senior
Diego Marquez and junior Ashley Cain, com-
mend Hollar on her athletic achievements. -

They both attest to the fact that she has
played acrucial role not only in gaining points
for the team but in providing a strong sense of
team spirit and energy through out every meet.

Clearly Hollar’s achievement as a first year
student and swimmer only foreshadows what
is to come of this incredible talent.

With a successful first season completed,
the Davidson swim team is looking forward to
see what Hollar will achieve in future seasons.

CELEBRATE
vadualion
al

Jaspers

We will be open on
Sunday, May 18, 2003
from 12:00pm until 4:00pm.

Make your reservations for
sraduation weekend today.

704 — 896 - 1881

