Bahidsoit

First CLass
U.S. PostaGe Patp
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

|

@ TEE: SCOUT SS POOREMOIST COLLEGE WEERDY~ &

x

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

VOLUME 95, NUMBER I]

Overflow will
force more to

live off-campus

By Sarath ROBINSON
Staff Writer

With the fall semester approaching its end,
the Residence Life Office is scrambling to find
beds for upperclassmen returning for the spring
semester.

Returning students greatly outnumber those
transferring for a semester to study abroad,
creating an overtlow of students and a shortage

of rooms.

What’s the problem?

Inrecent years, the gap between those who go
abroad in the fall and spring has widened.
Before, an equal number have come and gone
each semester. Now, a greater number leave
during the fall semester and come back expect-
ing housing. The gap results from each student's
personal decision, but has created a trend and
with it, many complications.

“Davidson doesn’t set limits for how many
people will go abroad like other schools do,”
said Leslie Marsicano, Dean of Residence Life.

Already Davidson students have faced prob-
lems regarding the housing lottery last: year.
Further complications include a large freshmen
class, causing many lounges to be renovated
back to dorm rooms.

Current numbers show that RLO is 35 beds
short for women—a figure that includes reno-
vating lounges—while men have enough room.

see RLO, page 5

LOOK OF A CHAMPION

The men’s soccer team celebrates after winning its first ever Southern Conference Tournament title with a 1-0 win over
Charleston on Sunday. The Wildcats open NCAA Tournament play Friday at Coastal Carolina. See stories, page 16.

College weighing decision to ban double majors

By Amer PATH

News Editor

College officials are considering a decision
to prohibit double majors for incoming Classes,
a decision that has support among many faculty
members but strong opposition among. stu-
dents.

The decision, which will be made by May,
would apply to incoming classes and would not
affect students already enrolled in Davidson.

The proposal came up for discussion at a

recent Educational Policy Committee m e e t -
ing. While no consensus was reached, many
arguments against double majoring were given.
The topic will be further discussed in the faculty
portion of the Committee meeting set for early
December.

The option has quickly become popular

First offered as an academic option in 1996,
double majors have quickly become a popular
choice among students.

Dr. Jonathan Berkey, professor of History,

remembers when the faculty first discussed the
option in 1995, At the time, Berkey supported
the option and asked, “Why shouldn't we give
[the students] the opportunity?”

Berkey and other faculty members originally
thought the prospect of double majoring would
attract a few students. “It has grown to be a
much larger thing than we anticipated,” said
Berkey.

The College graduated 38 double majors in
2003. This year, the number has risen to 40,

see Majors, page 6

IN FOCUS: THE FUTURE OF MUSIC DOWNLOADING AT DAVIDSON.
Survey: Most students don’t
see file sharing as immoral

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

A recent poll conducted by Associate Profes-
sor of Political Science Dr. Pat Sellers’ public
opinion class reveals Davidson students” atti-
tude towards music downloading, finding that
65 percent of the surveyed students found music
downloading “morally acceptable.”

The poll also tested Davidson students on the
difference between music downloading and file
sharing. Vic Lindsay °04, one of the poll's
creators, distinguished between the two.

“The RIAA (Recording Industry Associa-
tion of America) has only been targeting those
people who were sharing their files publicly

with others. Technically there is nothing illegal
about making a copy of a CD for yourself and
keeping it on your computer or burning it to a
CD. At is illegal, however, to make that copy
available to the public,” Lindsay said.

According to the poll however, this distinc-
tion is somewhat hazy. When asked the ques-
tion “Is it legal to share music on the Internet or
to download it onto a personal computer,” for
which the correct answer was “no,” 44 percent
responded negatively. The other 56 percent
answered either incorrectly, or that they didn’t
know.

The poll also questioned whether or not

downloading music should be a violation of

see Survey, page 5

Could Davidson join Penn
State in offering Napster?

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

Penn State made headlines recently with its
decision to subscribe to the new Napster ser-
vice, providing its students with free access to
over half a million songs. Could Davidson
College follow suit?

The Penn State service, which will go into
effect in the spring semester, allows students
two primary options for accessing the music for
the remainder of their years at Penn State.
Students may choose to listen to the music
directly from Napster via streaming audio, or to
download to their own computer an unlimited
number of songs. The songs, however, are

encoded with copy-protection software that
prevents students from copying or burning the
music without first paying a 99 cent fee per
song.

The funding for this project comes from the
$160 information technology fee that each stu-
dent pays annually, thus the students are not
paying extra for the service.

Some Penn State students are not convinced,
though, arguing that the service 1s not truly free
if funds are being diverted from other services
in the interest of file-sharing software. Another
issue concerns the limitations of the Napster
service, which is currently only operable on
Windows systems.

sce Downloading, page 5

SPORTS: Your complete basketball season previews pnets 14-15

As.L, PAGE7

SPORTS, PAGE 11
