4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

How foreigners view the U.S: Impressions from students abroad

By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

The U.S. presidential candidates have fo-
cused their campaigns largely around foreign
policy issues, including America’s credibility
around the world.

Of the 167 Davidson students currently
studying abroad, the Davidsonian asked sev-
eral students about their general experiences
and their impressions of how the politics of
American presidential election is affecting
people of foreign nations.

According to the Davidson College website,
about 65 percent of students study abroad at
some time during their Davidson career.

The Dean Rusk International Studies Pro-
gram coordinates Davidson-only Study Abroad
programs and those and embodies Davidson’s
belief that knowledge of other cultures and of
the social, economic, political, and scientific
influences that shape the world are important
to a liberal arts education.

India

Brian Orland ’07 reported that many of his
conversations with young Indians involved
American politics. To varying degrees, they all
criticized the United States’ actions in regard
to the invasion of Iraq.

“A 27 year-old named Ajay who I took tea
with in the backroom of his tiny statue and pipe
shop in Calcutta agreed with his slightly older
brother that the United States acted selfishly
and irresponsibly in regards to the invasion of
Iraq. They question whether President Bush
has adequate intellectual ability to lead the
United States,” he said.

“Most people were interested in American’s
opinions. I shared with them the strongly di-
vided state in which the United States now finds
itself on the issue,” he said.

Orland chose India for its culture and wild-
life, which differs so greatly from that of the

United States. So far in India he has seen “‘in-
spiring expressions of spirituality, commit-
ment, and community.”

“T have done little else in my life as engag-
ing and wonderful and sad as wandering down

“It’s definately Kerry-country here
in spain, and from my impressions,
all over Europe.” ;

-- Mark Agerton ’0

a street in India,” he said.

Katherine Sorrell ’06, who is also studying
in India this fall, believes that Indian news
media, to the detriment of local communities,
often focuses on American news more than on
Indian news.

One example was the Clinton/Lewinsky
scandal, which overshadowed local news of
mass suicides and infanticide in a farming
community.

“That’s what sold,” she said.

She has been traveling extensively within
the country and said that her experience has
exceeded her expectations.

“Itis fascinating to be ina country where the
ancient life still infuses the present and where
society repeatedly questions modern norms that
we often take for granted,” she said.

Sorrell has seen how the Indian people are
“grappling with national, regional, and local
identities” and how “religion, culture, and poli-
tics all play a role.”

Orland and Sorrell are studying at Madras
Christian College in Madras in Davidson’s 14th
consecutive Semester-in-India program, led by
Davidson Professor of History Jonathan
Berkey.

Spain
Mark Agerton ’06 is studying in Madrid

The Deadline for the George L. Abernathy

Foundation is November 12th!

| 2) Cross-cultural study opportunites for
students during the academic year

| 3) Collaborative research by students &

faculty. The student must have a

clearly defined independent role in
the research.

At the request of the donor, applications
are limited to projects that fall within
the humanities and social sciences.

Friday,

Abernathy Funds are available to students
in the following three categories:

| 1) Independent student research,
either in the US or abroad

FYI: LAST YEAR THE ABERNATHY ENDOWMENT
SUPPORTED PROJECTS WITH GRANTS UP TO $3,500;
THE AVERAGE AWARD WAS ABOUT $2,000.

Application forms are available

in the Office of the Vice President

for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283).
Completed application forms are due back

in this office before 5:00 p.m. on
November 12,
The announcement of awards will occur on
or before Jan.15,

2004.

2005

independently from any Davidson Abroad pro-
gram.

“Ttis definitely Kerry-country here in Spain,
and from my impressions, all over Europe,” he
said.

Last spring in Madrid, a terrorist bombing
of four commuter trains killed nearly 200
people days before Spain’s presidential elec-
tion.

“The Bush response to terrorism is extremely
different from the response of Spanish Presi-
dent Zapatero, who is of the view that terror-
ism will be eradicated not by military opera-
tions and might, but. by multilateralism and
development in under-developed countries to
rectify problems of hunger and poverty.”

“Coverage of the [U.S. presidential] debates,
of the candidates’ political moves and counter-
moves, and the polls and forecasts for the elec-
tions is very thorough.”

Agerton, a native Texan, said he enjoyed
living with a Spanish family and commented
on their political views.

“My family here in Spain is vehemently anti-
Bush,” Agerton said. “I think the US —or, more
accurately, the Bush administration - is viewed
as arrogant, isolationist, and unjust.

“(In Spain] there’s a real conscience that the
U.S. elections don’t just affect the U.S.
economy, society, and security, but also the
global economy and global security.”

About his experience more generally,
Agerton said “I am taking interesting and yet
less demanding classes, making new friends,
and exploring a cool city that has everything.”

He has had adjust, however, to bizarre hours,
eating schedules, and anight-life that begins at
about | or 2 a.m. and ends at dawn.

He was also very happy to find “an incred-
ible ballroom dance studio.”

Switzerland
Brandon Carroll ’06 is participating in a Kent
State-sponsored study abroad program in

Geneva, Switzerland with a focus on Econom-
ics, Political Science, and French.

Carroll has also heard a lot about American
politics in his travels around Europe.

“Generally, if you want to make a friend in
France, it doesn’t hurt to not like Bush,” he
said. “WhetherI’ ve met folks from Strasbourg,
Annecy, er Marseille, all of them are vehe-
mently against the war, and if they choose at
all, they’re rooting for Kerry.”

“There are exceptions, though,” he said.
“Among the older French, those who still re-
member World War II vividly, there is a more
conservative bent. This sentiment was on dis-
play during the 60th anniversary of the
Normandy invasions.”

“T should also say that anti- Americanism has
been limited. Most French still continue to
distinguish between the average American citi-
zen and the American government,” Carroll
said. “But that could change if Bush is re-
elected.”

“There is a lack of academic rigor in my

“Generally, if you want to make a
friend in France, it doesn’t hurt to
not like Bush.”

-- Brandon Carroll ’06

classes here compared to Davidson, but I am
still learning alot,” he said. “I learn justas much
from hearing [my professors’] stories about
how the [World Trade Organization’s] bureau-
cracy works as I do doing a home-stay with a
French-speaking family here.”

The highlight of Carroll’s experience has
been the Eurail pass, which allows one to travel
all over Europe.

“Between my stay in Tours, some traveling
this summer for a project, and my travels
through this program, I’ll have seen about 17
or 18 different countries,” he said.

CAFES, COFFEEHOUSES & ROASTERY

$eare Up Your

isSCOUNt

DRAW FROM THE MAGIC PUMPKIN AND WIN

10%, 20% UP TO 100%*

OFF YOUR MORNING
COFFEE PURCHASE

“IN-STORE PROMOTION, DISCOUNT APPLIED AT REGISTER. ONLY
APPLIES TO PURCHASES BEFORE 12:00 NOON.

WE OPEN MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

FRESH BAKED
PASTRIES * MUFFINS
+ BAGELS

19930 West CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS

Near MCcALLIsTeR’s DELI -

Exit 28, OFF 1-77

704-896-1900

