THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond the Brickhouse

In the college tradition of “going out,” loca-
tion determines everything. Can’t you just feel
your inner-realtor screaming location, location,
location? ;

Therefore, it is quite obvious that some bars
are heavily frequented (i.e. the Brickhouse),
others are considered but avoided due to atmo-
spheric pressures and a few of them are com-
pletely lost behind suburbia.

These unseen and hidden bars, pubs, what-
have-you are overlooked niches that are loaded
with local personality and flavor. They are
small, crowded and laden with the grime of
smoke, history and God knows what else.
Usually, these spots veer away from the shop-
ping-center locale and hackneyed American
bar motif.

You can find these gems hidden in the nooks
and crannies of country roads and unfamiliar
neighborhoods. They are — or should be —
Davidson College’s local treasures. But still,
our beloved Davidson 21 year-olds march in
droves to the nearest squat across the railroad
tracks. Aren’t we adventuresome?

Therefore, I dare you, my anonymous reader,
to step out a bit. Once you search beyond the
comfort of Leave-It-to-Beaverville, you will
discover a range of local stops where you can
spend the evening. Stop lolling around in your
poster and tapestry draped room and explore —
you’ Il be shocked at what waits for your foot-
steps. And, suddenly, you will discover that a
little nighttime reconnaissance is just as simple
and entertaining as stumbling to and from the
Brickhouse (again—and again). Forget the
geographic and transportation minutia —
Vamanos or designate. Have fun. I dare you.

Top Five Local Dives:
Saeed’s Palm Bar - Beach volleyball, ping-
pong, billiards, foosball, karaoke nights, indoor

and patio seating. Thursday is open mic night.
Cute boys, too. Located in Cornelius: take 115
south until Catawba Avenue and take a right
on Catawba Avenue. Saeed’s is behind the
Carolina Wine and Beverage Company (and
gas station). 704-896-3633.

Galway Hooker Irish Pub — “Traditional”
Irish pub brought to Cornelius. Claims to be
home of Charlotte’s Best New Year’s Party.
Hosts trivia nights, live Irish music, Irish meals
(dark beer, potatoes, yum). and a leprechaun
door. Boasts the mission of being the highest
quality authentic Irish Pub in the market.
Located in Cornelius: exit 25, take a right on
Highway 73, go 1.3 miles, turn right on Kenton
Drive. 704-895-1782.

Vinnie’s Sardine Grill and Raw Bar -
World famous crab legs and right on the lake.
Features fab seafood, indoor and outdoor seat-
ing, as well as spaces to dock your own sun-
fish. All you can eat crab legs on Monday night,
live music at monthly oyster roasts, and dollar
beer every day. Note to male readers — wait-
resses dress like Hooters girls. Location: take
77 N to exit 36, take a left onto NC 150, take
a left onto Williamson Road. The address is
643 Williamson Road. 704-799-2090.

Korner Pub — A true southern pub where
old men drink beer. Token effect: no windows.
Location: take 115 N for about one mile, Korner
Pub is on your right. 704-655-0000.

Summit Coffee — Your base camp for ex-
cellent times. Closer than close and, don’t
worry, there’s no climbing involved (except to
the second floor). Have fun gazing at hundreds
of photographs and posted advertisements.
Now serves live music, beer and wine during
the evenings. Look for the Davidson College
alums and renowned mountaineers. Location:
128 S Main Street (right next to Main Street
Books). 704-895-9090. .

SNAPSHOTS OF DAVIDSON

Each week we will be featuring different photographs of Davidson

‘ College and its students. Please email either Cannon Hodge or Chris
Schmader to submit photographs. This week’s snapshot, depicting
Court Selection festivities, is by Katherine Younger.

- LIVING

Dance company to showcase

WEDNESDAY, January 21, 2004

diverse repertoire at Davidson

By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

In honor of Davidson’s focus on diversity,
Ailey II, Alvin Ailey’s premier junior dance
company, will perform this Sunday in the Duke
Family Perfomance Hall. Ailey (1931-1989),
born in Rogers, Texas, was introduced to dance
by the performances of the Katherine Dunham
Dance Company and the Ballet Russe de Monte
Carlo. His formal dance training began when
a friend, Carmen de Levallade, introduced him
to Lester Horton’s classes. Ailey’s “blood
memories” of Texas, the blues, spirituals and
gospel inspired the artist when he began to
create dance, and culminated in “Revelations,”
his most critically acclaimed work. He started
the Ailey School in 1969 in Brooklyn, NY, with
125 students. Inspired by his belief that dance
training should be available to all, Ailey joined

diverse troupe, the evolution of Ailey’s com-

pany and its repertory has paralleled America’s
own changes. Today the school and its com-
panies seek to honor Ailey’s dream of a com-
pany dedicated to “the preservation of unique

black cultural expression and the enrichment

of the American modern dance heritage.”
Despite creating 79 ballets in his lifetime,
Ailey claimed that this company was not merely
a repository for his own creations. Since his
death, Artistic Director Sylvia Waters has
honored Ailey’s wish by having the company
perform significant works of the past and
supplementing the repertoire with new pieces.
In addition to original works by both Ailey and
Jamison, in recent years Ailey II has performed
works by masters such as Talley Beatty and
esteemed choreographers like Donald Byrd,
Shapiro & Smith, Avila/Weeks, Lar Lubovitch,
Kevin Wynn and Ulysses Dove. Their 2002-

with Pearl Lang to open the American Dance
Center in the following year. Ailey’s aim was
to create a dance school and company that
would influence how people view the African-
American aesthetic, American music and
dance.

The school, now under the direction of
Denise Jefferson, enrolls 3,500 students annu-
ally from across the United States and around
the world, and serves as an educational facility
and the official school of the acclaimed Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theatre Company and
Ailey II, the junior company. This troupe
formed in 1974 when Ailey handpicked his
most advanced students to develop their own
skills while gaining performing experience. As
this initially small, largely black ensemble has
developed into a large, racially and ethnically

onconcerts.com

2003 tour spanned nearly 40 major cities and
received unparalleled praise for performances
at colleges, universities, and other educational

‘institutions.

Since its inception, 30 members of Ailey II
entered the Theatre Company. Others joined
elite dance companies around the world or
found success as teachers, directors, choreog-
raphers and performers .in theater, film and
television. Through its emphasis on a diverse
repertoire, superior technique and outstanding
performance, the company has emerged as one
of the most critically acclaimed companies in
the United States. Faithful to the Ailey’s vi-
sion, the company continues to use “dance as
a medium for honoring the past, celebrating
the present and fearlessly reaching into the
future.”

Atkins, from page 7

a loud and long lambasting, but such is the ~

nature of media whiplash: a trend cannot be
quietly replaced, only rudely ousted. And the
worse the insults, the more extreme the trends.

Thus I suggest we embrace this disgusting
show of devotion to what is primarily an obese
marketing push. Let us gorge ourselves on
proclamations of the Truth of Protein as a way
of living life. The recent Christian best seller,
“The Purpose Driven Life,” can now be re-re-
leased as The Protein Driven Life. Commun-
ion wafers can be easily replaced with Ameri-
can cheese.

Atkins bumper stickers could feature slogans
such as: “I Do Not Brake for Cows Because I
Want to Eat Them” or “Cholesterol is Best of
All”. The blindly indoctrinated will perhaps

be shaken into awayeness. Extremismcanslay -

any’great ideology. Or, if that does not work,

millions of passionless Americans can be

thrown even further into a “cause”. When one
loves pork products, what better to be than a
sheep?

COMPLETELY UPDATED!
The Must-Have NEW Editjon

DR. ATKINS’
NEW

DIET F
REVOLUTION

© The latest on the safety and cifectivencss

of the Athins approach
* Dozens of new recipes ad tips
te jump-start weight loss

* Felead ich bestectier that's

Robert C. Atkins, M.D,

The book that (re)started it all

