THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Checking in with D.U.E.F.

By Brian HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

Ultimate Frisbee requires high degrees of
stamina, speed, agility, and more importantly
in the case of Davidson’s Ultimate Frisbee
teams, DUFF, fun. Often, people look at
Frisbee as a recreational activity, and largely,
it is. DUFF, however, offers both male and
female students an equal opportunity to par-
ticipate at either an intramural or interscho-
lastic level of competitive fun.

For those who are unfamiliar with the sport,
it is acombination of many sports that closely
resembles football. The positions mirror the
setups of most other sports, with three sepa-
rate groups of players. Two teams of seven
players battle non-stop in a framed field of
play, trying to score points by entering the
opposing end zone. The teams toss the Frisbee
from player to player, trying to avoid the op-
position while still advancing the disc. A
player may not run with the Frisbee and if it
hits the ground, it changes possession. While
the game is often unorganized, especially on
a recreational level, DUFF actually draws up
plays to create order.

Much like the Wildcat varsity teams, the
DUFF squads (Folk: Men/Coed, Foxes:
Women) compete on a high level and often

defeat teams that draw from a larger student
population. Senior Katherine Rockwell ’05
said, “Both the men and women went to a tour-
nament in Berea, KY in the beginning of No-
vember where both teams were third and the
girls won the spirit award. The spirit award
means the other teams thought we best encom-
passed the spirit of the game and sportsman-
ship.” The men’s team also went to a tourna-
ment in Tennessee, knocking off the Univer-
sity ef Tennessee in the process.

This fall, DUFF also hosted a successful
“Witch’s Bréw” Tournament over Halloween
weekend. The tournament brought in six
teams from all over the southern region and
players are hopeful that the tournament will
evolve into an annual event.

More important to the athletes than the com-
petitive aspect, however, is the social oppor-
tunity that the organization provides. Students
participating in DUFF build unique relation-
ships, much like fraternities and eating houses.
Sophomore Jeff Yeakel 07 comments,’ “The
balance between the two [athletic and social
aspects] is what makes it such a special orga-
nization, one I feel is an essential part of
Davidson.” ,

If you’re looking to get outside, have a great
workout, and meet awesome people, than
DUFF is waiting for you.

2 Sa)

DUFF prides itself on being a frisbee family on and off the field.

Swimmers come out strong
at Davidson Invitational

By Britr MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

The swim team hosted the Davidson Invita-
tional Nov. 19-21, and both the men and
women continued to show promise in the early
season en route to second and third place fin-
ishes respectively in the four and five-team
events.

Freshmen Will Broughton ’08 and Fiete
Stegger’’08 continued to impress on the men’s
side, as the two simmers combined for six first-
place finishes between them in individual and
relay events. Broughton destroyed the com-
petition in the 1650 free, winning by more than
20 seconds over the closest competitor to set a
season’s best in 16:18.48. In all, Broughton
totaled three individual wins and a team relay
win over the weekend, earning the Colonial
Athletic Association’s Swimmer of the Week
award for his efforts.

In the 100 free, Stegger touched the wall at
:47.37, more than a second and a half faster
than the next closest swimmer. Freshman Robb
Broughton” 08 was also impressive, swimming
to a second-place finish in the 200 fly at
1:58.16.

The men capped the meet on a high note, as
Stegger, juniors Brad Poole ’06 and Steve
Tolson ’06 and senior Michael Flower’’05 in
a first-place finish for the Wildcats in the 400

free relay.

Stegger was happy with the outcome of the
meet, as he believed it gave the team “‘an op-
portunity to swim fast and build confidence.”
Fellow freshman Will Broughton agreed, as

‘he said, “The meet showed that the Davidson

swim team has really improved since last
year...Everyone put forth a strong effort to
swim their best...[but the team] has a long
way to go.”

Davidson finished with 975 points overall
and lost by just 45 points to James Madison.
The Wildcats finished ahead of both College
of Charleston and VMI.

On the women’s side, senior Trisha
Blackwell ’05 finished first in the 200 back,
and freshmen Kirsten Allen ’08, Maddie
Stough ’08 and Ivey McAliley’’08 all per-
formed well over the weekend.

Eli Trefzger’’07 also finished second in the
100 fly, and Kirsten Shielders ’07 was sec-
ond in the 200 free. i

Overall, Stough said, “[The] team did re-

-ally well despite having several girls sick or

injured,” while Allen believed “it was a nice
warm-up meet for conference.”

For the weekend, the women finished third
behind both Gardner-Webb and James Madi-
son and ahead of College of Charleston and
Radford.

Both teams next swim at Duke on Jan. 21.

Po gee) SORTER aes pete NTE eee dpe gw TST

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

Fr

