THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Working-classes hurt most by amnesty

BY RICARDO AmPupiA
Staff Columnist

i

When asked to comment on Bush’s new immigration policy
in a recent debate among the democratic presidential candi-
dates, Al Sharpton commented that his ancestors were brought
from Africa as slaves as a result of “bad trade policy.” Nowa-
days, he added, we have immigrants from Latin America who
are coming to work in this country under slave wages as a result
of an essentially similar situation.

Before I continue, I should make it clear that the present article
is far from serving as propaganda for the Democratic Party. In
fact, I believe that the “capitalism-lite” policies of most Demo-
crats are a legitimate waste of time. Plus, most of their offers
Jack substance; for instance, presidential candidate John Kerry
is careful enough when he says that he promises equal access
to healthcare to all Americans as one of the greatest novelties
in the past fifty years.

Despite what the media would like to say, it seems like the
difference between Democrats and Republicans is practically
non-existent.

The two parties disagree on catchy but marginal issues like
abortion and the death penalty while they rarely implement
divergent policies when it comes to central issues like trade,
privatization, and campaign finance.

Putting that issue aside, let us try to make sense of Sharpton’s
comment.

Consider that 80 percent of the US economy consists of ser-
vices, two percent consists of agriculture, and the rest consists
of industry. Consider further that most of several millions of

jobs that have been lost over the past few years belonged to
services and industry. It is likely that it will be more difficult for
the private sector to reinsert those employees that were laid off
into lower-paying sectors of the economy than without the help
of that sweet mass of illegal immigrants that came from Latin
America. ;

Ineffect, to grant millions of undocumented immigrants with
legal status is to increase the supply of labor and thus to in-
crease unemployment. From a business perspective, I have to
admit that this is a quite bright electoral move by Bush: in a
crucial time for fundraising, he has shown CEOs that he is willing
to do business. Plus, he gets a few reserved compliments from
more ‘liberal’ news outlets (and-not to mention minority inter-
est groups) when elections are around the corner because, after
all, the very few lucky immigrants who will find jobs will be
better off.

From an American working-class perspective, however, this
move is not so welcome. See, labor unions, like that of retail
workers in California, now have one more thing to worry about:
if they go on strike—which they recently did—they can now
become easily replaced—which they recently were—by pick-
ing out a few immigrants from what is now one of the largest
unemployment pools in the nation.

You might argue that literally everyone benefits from taking
the immigrants out of the—”shadows” and putting them back
on track towards the American dream. But I doubt that many
would be willing to do so at the expense of his or her own job.
The Democrats, as another business-implanted group, are not
likely to change this, but for the sake of votes, they will do what
they can to criticize it while the ball is out of their court.

Contrived accusations won’t hurt Bush

Sonow President Bush’s military credentials are being ques-
tioned. Did he shirk National Guard duty? Did Bush’s family
connections keep him from going to Vietnam? What about
Democratic frontrunner John Kerry? Did he use botox? Was he
giving speeches a few years ago decrying
the use of military credentials in a presi-
dential race only to now talk about his
Vietnam service every single time he is on
television? Was his noggin as large as it is
now before Vietnam, or was it the result of
Viet Cong torture?

I really don’t care, do you?

Even the most ridiculous charges have
been cloaked in a veil of urgency. Accord-
ing to Bush’s former Treasury Secretary,
Bush was planning for regime change in
Iraq as soon as he was elected. Somehow, according to the me-
dia, these meetings over Iraq’s future prove that the war in Iraq
was all a set up by the neo-conservative conspiracy that se-
cretly rules the White House.

Personally, I was shocked. I couldn’t believe that Bush had
the nerve to continue the stated policy of President Clinton:
regime change in Iraq.

These ludicrous, worthless, but often entertaining “Daily
Show”-esque headlines will soon fade away into obscurity. No
one really cares about these stories, except for comedians and
the same ignorant people who buy tabloids and don’t vote in
November anyways. As the effects of the recovering economy
are felt throughout America over the next 10 months, the Demo-
cratic candidate—whether it’s Kerry or the bitter little man
Kucinich—will have very few issues he can manipulate to his
advantage. ‘

rant from the right

MIKE GALDO

Bush talks like a southerner, was raised by rich Yankees,
spends like a Democrat, and has a foreign policy vision similar
to a Republican. That combination is pretty much unbeatable.
The “he is a retard” argument used in 2000 no longer sticks to
Bush. Either he is much more politically savvy than the Demo-
crats gave him credit for, or he is smart enough to surround
himself with the right people. Since the beginning of the War
on Terror, everyone knows that under his guidance the United
States won’t fall apart. America may head in a direction that
goes against your own particular worldview, but that is a dif-
ferent matter.

Personally, I would rather have someone with different spend-
ing priorities in the White House for the next four years. How-
ever, Bush’s advisors allow me to sleep a little bit better at night.
Powell, Rice, Cheney, etc. all realize that the United States still
has enemies. ;

Global politics is not about hugging your neighbor, but about
making sure your neighbor doesn’t stab you in the back. Most
historians agree that foreign relations rarely determine a presi-
dential election. However, in post-9/11 America, foreign rela-
tions and the ability of every American to sleep soundly at night
(aka Homeland Security) have meshed into one issue. John “The
Bobble-Head Doll” Kerry just doesn’t give me that same sense
of security—and I have a feeling that a majority of the Ameri-
can people are with me on this one.

So, look for the Democrats to keep lobbing random shots at
Bush and at each other while they scramble to find an “elect-
able” candidate. Look for the Republicans to stop laughing at
their antics and start firing back.

Oh, and watch Dennis Miller’s new show on CNBC—he’s
not quite as funny as Jon Stewart, but he uses enough GRE-
prep vocabulary words to make it worth your time.

Diversity of ideas also important

Last week’s Davidsonian staff editorial got it right in assert-
ing that “[t]he recruitment of minority faculty has been among
Davidson’s greatest weaknesses in achieving true diversity
throughout the school.”

However, the editorial failed to ad-
equately address—indeed, ignored—
what can be argued to be the most
important form of diversity that our
campus seems to lack: a diversity in
ideas.

Muchattention has been paid in re-
cent months to the argument that
minority students (particularly racial

A Kaee a
ee ee,

minorities) are hesitant or hostile toward the idea of attending ©

an institution of higher learning at which they will be taught by
instructors with whom they do not share racial, ideological,
religious, or other commonalities.

However, a liberal arts education is supposed to both chal-
lenge students’ minds and inspire them to excel. Indeed, the

educational mission of the college is “to teach all students to
think clearly, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discrimi-
nate among values, and to communicate freely with others in
the realm of ideas.” Davidson is failing in this mission.

Some students here—particularly, it can be argued, political
and religious minorities—are strongly challenged in the class-
room to the point that they are often ridiculed by members of
the faculty. Other—indeed, most—students on this campus,
however, do not have their ideas challenged; they have them
reinforced.

For example, how is Davidson going to challenge students
of more liberal political beliefs by having a Political Science
department that has not a single Republican, and arguably only
acouple of conservative, members? Unless and until Davidson
makes an honest effort to open all students’ minds, it will con-
tinue to fail in its mission.

Joseph B. Adams ‘06

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 11

Depot-Day;
February 7, 2004

It began when a man fell off a bike, just off Delburg street.
The police saw him and he was carrying a fifth of Popov.

He pointed, when they asked, at the Depot Apartments.

Officer Campbell didn’t have to think, he’s a well-trained
officer of the law.

““We’ ve got a code niner niner,” he said to
his shoulder radio in the pale moonlight. His
features were fixed, stern, as he allowed him-
self to draw a‘deep breath. He’d been on the
force now for eighteen months.

This was it.

Back into the cruiser, he fired the ignition.
The Crown Vic roared in anticipation of the
operation just ahead.

They were all there at the mobile command
HQ in the parking lot. The energy was thick
like last night’s fog; courage, determination, and pride shone in
their eyes. “I wouldn’t go to war with anybody else,” thought
Campbell. Then one of Fountain’s boys showed up.

“T hope you’re aware of jurisdiction here,” said Sarge through
a cigar clenched in his mouth.

“Don’t worry boys, this is your show. We’ re just here to help
if we can. This is bigger than all of us.”

NICHOLAS CARLSON

The energy was thick like last night's
fog; courage, determination, and
pride shone in their eyes.

“Good to see we can all rally around the law,” thought
Campbell as he felt a warm flush of humanity. Just then they
heard the throaty growl of Hartman’s Harley.

“Glad to see ya Hartman, we’ re gonnaneed your special brand
of justice tonight.”

Then they planned. Sarge growled out the orders:

“Let’s hit’em square in the mouth. You, you, and you. Swing
around back and cut-off their escape. You, you, and you. Man
the radio, we may need the chopper and reinforcements.
Hartman, Campbell, and myself—we’ II take’ em at the front door.

“Campbell, this is your bust, so I want you to bang on the
door as hard and loud as you can. I hope you’ re ready for this.”

Ready? Could he remember a time when he wasn’t? His chest
swelled. He gave Sarge a long meaningful look, “I’ve waited
my whole life for this, boss.”

“I know you have, son.” He grasped his shoulder tightly,
released, and gave him a hard slap on the back.

Sarge turned back to his troops.

“Ready yourselves men. We few, we happy few, we band of
brothers; for he today that sheds his blood with me will be my
brother. All the guys not here will curse the day and hold their
manhood’s cheap whiles any speaks that fought with us against
these raucous disturbances of the peace at the Depot Apart-
ments.”

If their eyes shone before, they now glistened with a pride of
so just a cause. Sarge unfastened his holster, turned to them
once more and said with a ferocious whisper:

“Let’s roll.” ,

Liberty lacking

The Davidson College motto enshrines liberty as a prerequi-
site for an atmosphere of learning. Indeed, I believe that our
vibrant and free exchange of ideas is one of
the most socially and intellectually stimu-
lating aspects of our college. But unfortu-
nately, some of us have apparently rejected
this notion of liberty and decided that stu-
dents are not free to express certain politi-
cal ideas.

Last week I designed and helped to dis-
tribute throughout dorms up the hill some
posters advertising a meeting for the Col-
lege Republicans. Just a few hours after we
had finished, I noticed that someone had torn down many of the
posters in my dorm, Sentelle. The next day I learned that nearly
all of the posters throughout campus had been torn down.

I don’t think there was anything offensive about these post-
ers, but I apologize if anyone was insulted by our attempts at
humor. However, disagreement with a poster doés not warrant
its removal. Itisimpossible to have a real public discourse when
some ideas are suppressed.

With the overwhelming majority of professors and a slight
majority of students in agreement with their political beliefs,
one would think that liberals at Davidson would feel more
secure. But a few of them feel so threatened by some conser-
vative posters that they refuse to even allow others to see
them. What are these people so afraid of?

what i think

MATT BANDY
