8 THE DaviIDSONIAN

Restaurant Review
Camille’s and Panera: A

_Anrrs &

Culinary Comparison

By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers _

The name Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe brings
to mind a chic Parisian establishment. How-
ever, we were surprised to find that Camille’s
at Exit 36 is merely one of hundreds spanning
the country and does not stand out among the
countless chains popping up all over the area.

The cafe’s interior is neither inventive nor
intimate, but it suggests the bright airiness of
Southern California. Purple banquettes offset
lampshades of green Perrier bottles and red
paper lanterns. The staff pays little attention to
the artificial flowers on each table, but they do
a good job of keeping the restaurant clean.

The cafe’ s distinguishing mark, its sidewalk
eating area, hardly brings to mind cafes along
the Champs-Elysees in Paris as we expected.
Rather, standard black metal tables dot a ce-
ment patio that is oddly similar to Salsarita’s
patio next door. Salsarita’s, as well as
Coldstone ice cream and Caribou Coffee
nearby, might be Camille’s biggest asset.

The strip mall is one stop shopping for a
group of people with different palates. Friends
could disperse in search of coffee, a salad, or
a burrito and then congregate at one of the
outdoor tables to enjoy their meal together.
However, it might make more sense to avoid
the Winslow Bay shopping complex altogether
and head across Route 1 SO to the newly opened
Panera Bread.

Both Panera and Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe
are chains that started in the Midwest, Panera
being nearly fifteen years Camille’s senior.

Withits fresh bread baked in-house and com-
petitive prices, Panera plays the part of the more
established cafe chain. Its golden walls glow,
high back booths offer privacy, and a crack-
ling fireplace with two large leather chairs
inspires indulgence incomparison to Camille’s
immediacy.

Even the menu at Panera tops that of its ri-
val, not in variety of options, but in quality and
creativity, which we found more refined than
at Camille’s. While Panera lacks the wraps that
dominate Camille’s menu, it is true to its title
as a bakery cafe and sells breads, bagels and
desserts.

“Simplicity and quality of

ingredients at Panera result

! !
In more consistent, { .vor-

able dishes.’

Since Camille’s is a new chain in town, we
choose to try what they had to offer compared
to their nearby competitors. A glance at the
menu reveals the good news: not only are there
over adozen wraps, but they also offer paninis,
traditional sandwiches, entree salads, break-
fast wraps, baked goods, and even smoothies.

The wide selection makes Camille’s a good
compromise when you are dining with friends
who have trouble agreeing on a restaurant.
Unfortunately in attempting to offer so many
different options, Camille’ s sacrifices the qual-
ity of the ingredients resulting in food that is
only mediocre.

Two of the wraps that we tried would have
greatly benefited from being served hot, and
we wished that we had asked for them to be
grilled.

According to the description, the Spicy
Chicken Tender Wrap includes bacon, provo-
lone, Romaine lettuce, sprouts, salsa, and ranch
dressing wrapped with chicken tenders in a
jalapeno-cheddar tortilla. We never found any
evidence of ranch dressing, and the jalapeno-

Outdoor dining in an capitalist atmosphere across from SuperTarget

‘het Sidewalk Cate

Food: B-
Service: B
Ambiance: B
Price for entree: $5-7

cheddar flavor of the tortilla was undetectable.
The chicken tenders were fairly unimpressive
and tasted like the frozen, processed type that
you would buy in the grocery store.

The Poblano Chicken Natu-Wrap boasted a
honey-wheat tortilla steamed and stuffed with
jasmine rice, grilled chicken, black beans, red
onion, green peppers, cilantro, chives, spinach
leaves, and roasted poblano dressing.

The wrap had a tasty, bold flavor when you
got a bite that included the “Daredevil BBQ
sauce”, but once again the grilled chicken
turned out to be the precooked, frozen strips,
and within in minutes of arriving at the table,
the rice was cold and chewy.

A healthy standout on the menu was the
Veganini, which included grilled eggplant,
roasted red peppers, red onions, Feta cheese,
sun-dried tomato pesto, pesto mayonnaise, and
a balsamic glaze.

Atthis point, you might notice the heavy use
of sauces, mayonnaises, and dressings, which
are ubiquitous in almost all the wraps. This is
another area where in an effort to be creative,
Camille’s goes a little too far resulting in fla-
vors that are hard to distinguish and overly
complex. Simplicity and quality of ingredi-
ents at Panera result in more consistent, favor-
able dishes.

There are other redeeming qualities that
should not be discounted. All the wraps are
served with fresh, crisp chips and spicy salsa
that tasted homemade.

For the carb conscious, mixed greens witha
raspberry vinaigrette can be substituted at no
additional charge. Salad lovers are guaranteed
to be satisfied with the large entree salads that
include fresh ingredients and a wide variety of
dressings such as sesame Oriental and bacon-
tomato.

There are anumber of vegetarian options and
also quite a few salads that include chicken or
tuna salad, grilled chicken, or deli meat.

Camille’s seems most suited for a casual
weekend breakfast as it is one of the only spots

- in town that offers breakfast wraps, gourmet

coffee drinks, and half a dozen creative

_ Smoothies such as Banana Split and Straw-

berry-Coconut.

-Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe
690F Bluefield Road
(by SuperTarget)
Mooresville, NC 20117
704-799-6940

Bright and snazzy inside.

LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Nails Up & Spa
Specials!

Full Set
$25
Free Alrbrush

Manicure

Pedicure

Fill in Gel Nails§ White and Pink
apa

$:

$35

Fill In
$15

Special deluxe pedicure $40
: Waxing available :
Walk-ins Welcome

227 Griffith St. (704) 896-6994
? Davidson, Nc 28036 -Mon-Sat 10 am-7:30 pm
Sadler Square Shopping Center 1-77 North, exit 30

