By Curis SCHMADER
Staff Writer

Many critics charged Quentin Tarantino’s
“Kill Bill, Vol. 1” with being a soulless rip-
off, a hyper-violent exercise in genre-raiding
with thin dialogue and no character(s) to jus-
tify its flash. In a sense, these accusations had
some merit; not many of “Vol. 1’’s admirers
claimed that it was anything but a marvelous
pastiche of the conventions of Japanese genre
cinema, blaxploitation flicks, and Westerns.

But now “Kill Bill, Vol. 2” has arrived, and

it dispels many of the criticisms levied at “Vol. .

1.” The second installment of Tarantino’s re-
venge epic features dialogue that, while not
worthy of “Pulp Fiction,” attempts to do more
than merely advance theplot. Stretches of the
film are downright cofttemplative, though of-
teninso stylized a manner that Tarantino seems
to be winking at the audience.

Take, for example, the reverent organ music
that plays on the soundtrack as Budd (Michael
Madsen), brother to Bill (David Carradine) and
former member of the Deadly Viper Assassi-
nation Squad (DiVAS), claims that the Bride
(Uma Thurman) “deserves her revenge.”
That’s just more of Tarantino’ s ceaseless myth-
making; Budd’s scenes eventually tease out a
portrait of a larger-than-life low-life. He’s a

-man who, despite working as a bouncer at a
strip joint and living in an isolated trailer, re-
mains a sly and cold-blooded killer.

Myth-making is indeed the agenda in “Vol.
2,” even more so than in the first volume. For

anyone whohas only now stumbled upon these

movies, or for anyone who saw the first vol-
ume and forgot the premise amid all the blood-
shed, here’s a short synopsis of the story so far:
Bill and his assassins show up on the day of the
Bride’s wedding rehearsal, kill the wedding
party. and leave the very pregnant Rride for
dead—though in actuality she’s only comatose.
Four years later she wakes up from her coma
and vows to kill each of her betrayers: Vernita
Green (Vivica A. Fox), O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu),
Budd, Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), and, of
course, Bill himself.

The Bride did in Vernita Green and O-Ren

‘Taxi dancers

By HANNAH NOLL
Special Contributor

An art student once asked in my drawing
class if the hours spent thinking about a work
counted towards the class’s required working
hours. If the thinking is realized in the doing,
then sure...think away. But you could think a
great deal about a paper, a logarithm or an art-
work without ever doing anything.

Russ White’s current art exhibition, “Taxi
Drivers of the Revolution,” combines both the
artist’s thinking and doing in a remarkable
display of his recent sculptures on view in the
VAC’s Smith Gallery (open through Wednes-
day).

“Taxi Drivers’ is the first exhibition this year
to feature all sculpture. Sculpture can be a dif-
ficult medium to appreciate (this is true
throughoutart’s history). When western sculp-
tors began to depart from depictions of the
human form (the Michelangelos and Rodins }—
critics questioned the purpose and power of
sculpted works. Marcel DuChamp’s 1917
“Fountain” (a ready-made porcelain urinal)
was at first vehemently rejected from an NY
modern exhibition—but later, this very toilet
bowl, would be loved and embraced as a revo-
lutionary marker in sculpture and art-making.

‘Maybe it’s that people are accustomed to
viewing art (painting, drawing, film) in 2-D
form, and so works in 3-D appear too intimi-
dating to enjoy. Maybe we relate more to paint-
ings of people and landscapes, than construc-
tions made of wood, iron, toilets, and hair.

The truth is, whether we’ re used to it or not,
sculpture can be deeply affecting.’ ‘Success’
in art is determined, not by medium, but by the
artist’s ability to affect and engage his/her in-

Uma Thurman in “Kill Bill, Vol. 2”

Ishii in the first film, leaving Budd, Elle, and
Bill as her targets in the second. Her victims
from “Vol. 1” seemed more like iconic refer-
ences to genres (blaxploitation for Vernita
Green, Yakuza gangster films for O-Ren Ishii)
than characters.

This trend continues in “Vol. 2” with Budd,
who dresses like a cowboy on the skids and
who, with his chewing tobacco, shotgun, and
Johnny Cash records, adds to the film’s West-
ern ambience. (The soundtrack deserves a nod
here ac well, with the spaghetti Western score
perfectly suiting “Vol. 2”’s exaggerated emo-
tional pitch.) Madsen’s performance is superb;
he plays Budd as the modern equivalent of a
pathetic, washed up gunfighter. Underesti-
mated by the audience and the protagonist, he
still has enough cunning to place the Bride in
the most daunting predicament she faces in

LIVING .

et ee ee
‘Kill Bill, Vol. 2’ walks between hype and fact

either film.

The white eye browed, white-bearded monk -

Pai Mei (Gordon Liu), who appears as the
master in a flashback to the Bride’s martial arts
training, is another loaded reference to a B-
movie genre—this time 70s kung fu. And Elle
Driver is a femme fatale who functions as the
ultimate doppelganger, just as blonde, tall and
vicious as the Bride (and Bill’s new lover, no
less.) Daryl Hannah plays her with a cruel ar-
rogance that is apparent from the moment she
saunters from hercarto Budd’ s trailer. The fight
sequence between Elle and the Bride would
have fit right in with the carnage of “Vol. 1”;
it’s athrilling showdown that ends with a grue-
some, yet fitting twist.

Thrilling, that is, if you buy the East meets
West mythology that Tarantino is selling. And
in order to buy this mythology, you have to buy
David Carradine’s Bill.

Inasmuch as “Vol. 2” has a soul, that soul
resides in two scenes book ending the film. In
the first, Bill shows up for a “last look” at the
Bride before she weds; in the last, they rehash
their turbulent relationship before one final
face-off and a death scene for the pulp-cinema
ages.

These scenes portray Bill as wheedling,
charming, and above all in love with his own
power—especially his power over the Bride.
He’s Quentin Tarantino dressed up as a kung
fu cowboy, feeding us a line about how Uma
Thurman is the Superwoman. He’s either the
biggest bullshitter you’ ve ever encountered or
the demigod of violence who legitimizes the
Bride’s killing spree by outlining the film’s
twisted code of ethics: “don’t break the heart
of a killer.”

If you believe that the Bride and Bill are
potent distillations of the mythic gunslingers

-and samurai who roam our collective uncon-

scious, their story will be strangely moving at
the last—both in spite and because of the ironic
cloak of references in which Tarantino wraps
his tale of revenge. If, however, you think of
them as the bankrupt creations of an over hyped,
over privileged fan boy without an original idea
in his head...well, “Kill Bill, Vol. 2” isn’t the
movie for you.

of the revolution’: Art exhibit

tended audience.

Artists take an idea and choose the medium
which lends to expressing this idea. For White,
sculpture has proved to be a fitting medium.
He prefers pencil and tablesaw to paint, and
sees sculpture as a way to “express ideas/jokes/
emotions that cannot be exactly put into words.”
No matter how much the artist enjoys his/her
own work, White notes, it’s up to the viewer
whether these ideas, etc are worth a peruse of

the gallery. “If I’m doing a good job, the ideas

emerge from the aesthetic. In the end, though,
I don’t care at all if someone has a completely
different take on a piece, unless their interpre-
tation is clearly half-baked. The pieces in the
gallery are just objects, nothing too special,
and at their best, they have no specific agenda
(even if I do).”

Sonow the question remains did he.do a good
job? Is “Taxi Drivers of the Revolution” worth
a cruise-through? In White’s case, all signs
point to ‘Yes’, and here’s why:

Fitting a collection of sculpture into Smith
gallery’s small, somewhat claustrophobic rect-
angular space is itself an art. White’s combi-
nation of standing and hanging sculptures de-
feats this spatial challenge. White both varies
and unifies this collection, so as to keep the
viewer engaged and interested. While White’s
works incorporate elements ranging from hair-
filled test tubes to pearl-wearing cow bones, in
a strange way the show makes sense.

A common viewer response to these works
was:’“‘I just want to touch it.” You might think
twice about pawing the fur in “1993
Combover” when you hear that it comes from
adeer he killed back in ’93. If it weren’t for the
glass encasement, you might also like to get
under the red fur carpet in the “Tower” (a work

. which features an undulating massage-like-

device that has incited numerous interpreta-
tions—mostly naughty).

White’s odd sense of humor successfully
resonates in these works. A grisly bone pro-
trudes a Target picture frame in “My Tumor

Has a First Name,” and the bone returns in

“Aghast, with Pearls.”

Beyond just laughs, his choice of objects
(both found and manipulated), along with titles,
and overall composition—attest to the highly
intelligent, and well-crafted care that he put into
the works and viewers can’t help but admire
each and every nuance.

Please note that the annual student show
opens in the VAC on Thursday (with a recep-
tion from 3-Spm, i.e. FOOD). You’d be amazed
to see the art your friends have hanging up there
and maybe if you show up you could guilt trip
them into attending your piano recital.

Apartment For Rent
New 1 bedroom Garage Apartment
in a quiet upscale nieghborhood
1 mile from Davidson’s campus
*new appliances
* designated parking space
“private entrance
“deposit required
$600 a month unfumished
(704) 896-7962.
ask for The Lowders

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

‘Oops... :
comedy show
for all ages

By Steve KALIsSKI
Senior Staff Writer

In search of a wacky Warm-up to Spring
Frolics? Looking for a laugh without having
to bear a sensible storyline and an intellectual
message? Still in mourning over Will Ferrell’s
retirement from “Saturday Night Live?” Ach-
ing for something funny?

Unfortunately, you may be out of luck. Al-
though any half-informed patron of the
Davidson arts should be anticipating the up-
coming “Oops...” sketch comedy show “Who
Says That?” with an eager eye, the troupe’s
official website lowers all expectations with,
“So it will be funny? Well we can’t make any
promises...funny is a really subjective term.
Whatis funny to one person can be completely
tragic to another.”

But who we kiddin’?

This week’s production of “Who Says
That?” promises to be nothing if not sensation-
ally absurd and off-the-wall hysterical. After

“all, “Oops...” president Ryan Hastings” ’05

cites some of the lampooned topics of the show _
as, “the Union Cafe, ham, the wonderful world
of S&M fetishes, breakfast, the Jennifer Grey
classic movie ‘Dirty Dancing,’ sleepovers (not
the college kind, but the kind you had when
you were 10), airlines, psychotherapy, classic
bands from the 70s, and mimes.”

Although “Oops...” is known around
Davidson as an exclusively improvisational
comedy troupe, “Who Says That?” is actually
the second sketch comedy show in their brief,
four-year history. Back in 2001, when they still
bore the illustrious title “Oops, I Crapped My
Pants,” the notorious jokesters performed the
similarly elaborate “Boxed-in.”

To clarify, sketch comedy largely does not
involve the potluck, hit-or-miss spontaneity of
such improv formats as “Whose Line Is It,
Anyway?” Think more of “Saturday Night
Live,” in which the sketches are scripted, re-
hearsed, and guaranteed to entertain.

In fact, “Oops...”ers have been crafting
“Who Says That?” for most of the year.
Hastings says, “Earlier this year some mem-
bers of the troupe expressed an interest in writ-
ing some sketches, so we took advantage of
that desire and started writing. We would meet
once a week to read through new sketches,
comment on them, and re-work parts.”

The process has yielded acompact show with
an extensive variety of topics. “Some of the
sketches were inspired by improvisations that
we had done in shows or rehearsals, and other
ideas came from wherever it is ideas come
from,” says Hastings. “In the end we came up
with about fifteen sketches. Out of those
sketches, we have chosen ten to be in our show.

The authors of the selected sketches include
Hastings himself, Ryan Arnold ’06, Anna
Jones ’06, Thomas Lodato’07, Annie Wadman
06, and Jeff Wright ’07. Hastings credits
Arnold for the show’s title, owing it to “his
constant talent for saying something inappro-
priate, off-the-wall, and sometimes completely
stupid. But, he would always respond imme-
diately with the phrase: ‘WHO SAYS THAT?’
It caught on.”

The title “Who Says That” beat out several
potent alternatives, such as “The Portrait of an -
Artist and a Baked Ham,” “Talking Muffins,”
“American Idolatry,” and “Moist?!” ©

But don’t be fooled. Although some may
mistake “Oops...” as a simple forum for fun
and games, each performance teaches the
troupe something new about the art of com-
edy. Melanie Farmer’.06 says of the upcom-
ing show, “It’s anew way forus to look atcom-
edy. Improv is very immediate, and what hap-
pens is spontaneous and exciting, but this gives
us a chance to craft the comedy more and to
develop more complete characters.”

“Who Says That” is on Friday and Saturday
at 8 p.m. in Cunningham Black Box Theatre.
Tickets will be sold at the door for $3. “Imma-
ture Audiences Only” will be admitted. Don’t
take that literally.
