By Steve KALIskI
Senior Staff Writer

Near the end of “Closer,” the seething new
relationship flick from Mike Nichols, the pa-
thetic and self-confident Larry (Clive Owen)
confronts the pathetic and desperate Dan (Jude
Law) with a dose of reality. “Have you ever
seen the human heart?” asks Larry rhetorically.
“It’s a fist, soaked in blood.”

No other image than this quite as accurately
captures the brilliant and demoralizing passions
of “Closer,” a talky drama more vicious than
any action movie on the market today. This
adaptation of Patrick Marber’s play is a ro-
mance, yes. It is about love, sex, and honesty,
true. But it addresses these sensitive issues with
such a feverish anger that it obviously has no
interest in painting the human heart as a beau-
tiful thing. “Closer” is out for blood, and with
mesmerizing performances, piercing dialogue,
and riveting direction, it succeeds as this holi-
day season’s official downer.

“Closer” opens with a few moments of fairy
tale harmony. Dan and Alice (Natalie Portman)

Starring: Jude L
Clive Owen, Nat
Portman, and Julia
Roberts’
Dtrected by: Mike
Nichols
Running Time: 98
minutes :
Rating: * & * 1/2

fallin love-at-first site after eZ spoteach other
across a busy London intersection. Sadly, Alice
forgets to look both directions before she steps
onto the road, leading to a lost fight with an
oricoming taxi. Dan takes her to the hospital,
and they fall in love.

Cue the romantic intrigue. Dan eventually
falls for his photographer, Anna (Julia Rob-
erts), who doesn’t love him back. To play a
joke on her, Dan pretends to bé Anna in a
London sex chat room, asking the cluelessly
horny Larry to meet him/her at the London
Aquarium. Larry and Anna do meet, and even-
tually they marry. But Anna now loves Dan.
And Larry likes Alice. But Larry really loves
Anna. And each character has sex with pre-
cisely the wrong person at the wrong time.
Multiple times. Or something.

To make a long story short, love is not pa-
tient and love is not kind. These four souls are
all relentlessly drawn to one another, and the
reasons behind their countless liaisons span the
continuum between true love and physical
desire. Tragically, not one of these characters
recognizes whether their attractions are spiri-
tual or sensual, and the result is hellish cycle of
give-and-take that drives each of them into
deeper and deeper deceit.

On the surface, “Closer” appears an abra-
sive and irrelevant study of truly miserable
people. Mercilessly chronicling the banal be-
trayals that result from the romantic overlap-
ping among these four lonely individuals, the
movie is consistently unpleasant, asking the
audience to accept an idea that no one this side
of fatalism would ever want to believe—that
love is an inherently ugly practice.

Viewers will no doubt consider the plights
of Law, Owen, Roberts, and Portman as ex-
ceptions to the rule. After all, don’t most
couples enjoy clean relationships that effec-
tively avoid the repeated backstabbing ex-

plored by the film? The only joy some people
may experience in this film is determining
which of the characters is the most dismal.
However, a closer look at “Closer” reveals
something deeper about the nature of human
trust and honesty. Even if the film does not

resonate for some on its literal, sexual level, it

‘does challenge viewers to question whether or

not they can ever truly trust anyone other than
themselves. The hyperbolic brutality of the
characters may seem forced, but it makes the
movie’s pout abundantly clear.

Why do people ask for the truth if they do
not have maturity to hear it? I will not give
away the ending, but I will say that Nichols’s
searing staging of the final reveal between
Portman and Law poses this interesting ques-

Natalie Portman and Clive Owen in ‘Closer.’

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
DECEMBER 8, 2004

Movies VANOO.CO

tion, and the answer is not a clean one. If you
really want the truth, Nichols seems to say, be
ready for a deadly answer.

Regardless of how audiences react to the,
subject matter of “Closer,” no one can deny
that the quartet of performers triumphs in ev-
ery respect. As the manipulative Anna and the
despicable Dan, Roberts and Law each deliver
their most uncompromising megastar turns to
date. The stunning Portman continues her rapid
recovery from Star Wars Amidala syndrome,
and Owen is nothing less than a revelation. As
Larry, this rising British star conveys perver-
sion, fear, humor, and confusion in deft, bal-
anced strokes. If the Academy hands out only
one nomination out to this superb ensemble, I
hope it goes to _

A ‘Festivus’ for the rest of us: ‘Seinfeld’ tradition carries on

George’s father and the Festivus pole.

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

As the finals pile on and my tenure at The
Davidsonian ends, I am reminded of the many
crazy things students at this time of year. There
have been sightings of multiple people on single
bikes, signaling a much-needed break from
reality. However, the time of holiday cheer is
here and as Davidson celebrates diversity, a
question was recently posed to me about the
lack of recognition of other religious holidays,
most particularly, the presence of a Christmas
tree in the Union without any thought to the
traditions of Ramadan and Hanukah, which are
also celebrated this time of year. Sadly, this
goes overlooked as we scurry around to the

library and computer labs.

One holiday which stands out from the rest

around this time is Festivus. While it is not a

holiday, Festivus is a special tradition in
the minds of select Davidsonians who partici-
pate each year.

For those who don’t know, Festivus was
created by the writers of “Seinfeld.” In a “The
Strike,” the crew discovers that George’s fa-
ther created Festivus because he was “tired of
the commercial and religious aspects of Christ-
mas.” The celebration includes an airing of
grievances, the feats of strength, anda Festivus
pole. The airing of grievances allows people to
tell others what they think of them, while the
feats of strength display who is strongest. The
pole replaces the tree or menorah as the sym-

bol of the holiday.

At Davidson, the 3rd Watts hall of 2002-
2003 carried on this tradition. People watched
the episode and than ventured down to Com-
mons to enjoy ameal of... somewhat good food
and better company. It concluded with the air-
ing of grievances and feats. of strength. During
this time of the year, this break between the
monotony of finals comes at a great time. It
became something to anticipate and provided
the opportunity to see people outside of the busy
rat race of December.

Last year, the tradition grew exponentially
and the room in which students watched the
episode was quite full. The fact that it was in
Little might help explain the claustrophobic
feeling. Festivus was still “organized” by the
guys of 3rd Watts and they guided the growing
group downto Commons... forgetting to warn
the establishment of the flux of people. The
facility had no reasontocomplain because their
side of the dining hall was left the way it was
found.

Excited about the continuation of the tradi-
tion, Michael Flake ’06 and Barratt Park ’06
have organized this year’s festivities. Asked
why they participated the first year, both re-
sponded, “we were just kind of there.” Explor-
ing the growth of the tradition at Davidson,
Flake explained “we tried to put our own spin
on it.” Including the viewing of the episode
serves as a tribute to the originators of the
holiday. Some anti-Commons students. will
also be in attendance, breaking their resolu-
tion to not eat in the dining facility so that they
may participate once again. As one of the Anti-
Commons crowd, Joseph Adams ’06 stated,
“If there’s anything that can motivate me to
visit Commons, it’s Festivus.”

This year, the feats of strength will include
arematch between Park andhis roommate, Ben

Meza ’06, who competed last year when Park
emerged as the victor in a contentious match
that took place. When asked the point of ob-
serving the holiday Park stated, “that should
be left as a rhetorical question.”

While no one likes taking finals, this is nev-
ertheless is a time to enjoy the end of another
semester. Itis atime when you can talk to your
friends, have fun, and not run around to all the
meetings normally scheduled. We are the most
in control of our lives, and we can choose when/
ifto study, take exams, sleep, eat, andcelebrate ©
the holidays.

Itis ahint of what is tocome; yet, itis.a unique
time because life does not have these breaks.
Whatever comes in our grades, we know that
four more classes are done and we are that much
closer to joining the real world.

For those interested, Festivus will commence
on Monday, Dec. 13 at 5:30. The “Seinfeld”
episode will be aired at this time in the rooms
of Ist Cannon. Everyone is welcome and may
your holidays be bringht.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s $1 Student Tor Operator

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
