9

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sunday night’s performance began the week.

A bit of diversity: Asian awareness week

By Amoura CARTER

Staff Writer

The Asian Culture and Awareness Associa-
tion was created in 1997 to provide an outlet
through which all Davidson College students—
Asian or non-Asian—can explore and cultivate
their interests in Asian and Asian-American
culture.

But until about two years ago, when it was’

revived by Sean Chan ’06, the ACAA was a
dormant club. To make sure the club never
becomes inactive again, the ACAA has been
steadily creating a name for itself by offering
anumber of events like Chinese New Year and
comedian Eliot Chang, who will be perform-
ing again this November.

Community service is also an important part
of ACAA. Members tutor elementary school
students from 3:30-4:30 and 5 p.m.-6 p.m. at
Torrence Chapel in Cornelius every Monday
and Wednesday.

One of the ACAA’s most important events
for this semester is Asian Awareness Week,
which runs from October 24-October 28. Ying
Zang 07 said“We tried to make this week spe-
cifically geared towards not only promot-
ing awareness of Asian cultures but educating
people on the Asian culture—hence the lec-
ture and trivia night and sushi workshop.”

The ACAA looks to bring activities to
Davidson College to help diversify the cam-
pus and expose students to something differ-
ent, new, and interesting on campus.

The kick off event for Asian Awareness
Week was a showcase of performances featur-
ing a Tibetan dance, a fashion show featuring
some of Davidson College’s own students, a
children’s dance, a Thai dance, a Filipino dance,
and Japanese souran bushi.

“The ACAA event was marvelous. I loved
the way it displayed various traditional dances
from cultures throughout Asia,” exclaims
Darren Morgan *08.

Monday’s event was a tea time discussion
given by Dr. Fuji Lozada, a Davidson Anthro-
pology professor, entitled “Ichiro and Tiger:

The Impact of Sports on Asians and Asian-
Americans.”

The nighttime Sprinkle Room discussion
was extremely intimate, so students were able
to feel comfortable asking questions and rais-
ing topics for discussion freely. The topics
ranged from Asian stereotypes, to Asian mas-
culinity, to the affects of Asian-Americans in
mainstream media on Asians and Asian-
Americans. ,

Free Sushi anyone? Many hungry students
enjoyed Tuesday’s event, a “Sushi Making
Workshop.” Students were able to learn how
to make their own Sushi, thanks to the mem-
bers of ACAA. Students also had the benefit
of a free demonstration and lesson in Chinese
calligraphy writings by Linda Zheng.

Wednesday’s event is for students who are
in need of a study break. And what Davidson
College student is not in need of that? “Better
Luck Tomorrow” will be shown in Hance
audtiorium (formerly Perkins), on the 4" floor
of Chambers, from 5-7 p.m. “Better Luck To-
morrow” is about an extremely intelligent per-
fectionist, Ben, an Asian-American teen.

As he struggles to achieve social success in
highschool, we discover his darker side. Along
with two friends, Virgil and Virgil’s cousin
Han, Ben leads a double life of mischief and
petty crimes that alleviate the pressures of
perfection. Ben meets up with another over-
achiever and perfectionist at school, maybe the
most dangerous of them all, and they band
together to form a suburban gang. ,

“Itis acontemporary movie that seeks to treat
the character’s race as a secondary trait and
their personalities as the primary. This movie
depicts the versatility of the characters with-
out type-casting them as the token, stereotypi-
cal Asian,” says Chan of the film.

The final event of the week is Thursday,
Asian Trivia Night, from 4-6pm in the 900
room, featuring free food and fun trivia. Bring
your smartest friends to create a team for Asian
Trivia Night and try to win great prizes by
answering question about Asian history, mu-
sic, culture, etc.

A

THANK YOU TO ALL OF
THE BUSINESSES
WHO DONATED TO
SGA DAY 2004!

Caribbean Breeze Tanning Resort
Davino’s
Hair Thirty-Three
Sauza’s
Legends
Iron Grill Japanese Express
The Davidson Studio
The Smoothie Shop
Kyoto Sushi at the Lake
Summit
Fuel
Home Economist
Dolce Gelato
Carrabba's
Wendy's
Movies at Birkdale
Brixx

Please join us in frequenting
these establishments, _
in return for all they do for the
Davidson community.

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004 7

Light deficiencies in dorm life

By Sara Sams
Special Contributor

Perhaps the hardest adjustment to make in
the transition to dorm life is, for many of us,
the lack of plentiful sunlight. Let me empha-
size that this complaint is not a selfish one; I
am currently mourning the death of my bright
yellow garden mum plant named, appropri-
ately, “Sonny.” Sonny was an important addi-
tion to the room; s/he was, in fact, a comrade.
But I will avoid writing an extended obituary,
for it is the hostile environment dorms provide
for plant life that I wish to call attention to.

The windows in most Richardson rooms pro-
vide some sunlight—enough, hopefully, to
keep its human inhabitants healthy—but not
enough to sustain the other organisms that share
these homes. Certainly there is a certain peace
to be found in living with plants, a somewhat
higher level of happiness in their continual
presence—they do remind us, after all, that
there is more to the world than the monoto-
nous, asphalt road we can’t seem to exit. With
this philosophy in mind, imagine how tragic
the speedy shriveling of a plant-friend might
be. Sharing a grief for the shriveling of flora,
Kealy Devoy admitted “I just wasn’t my usual
happy self when my daisies withered away.”

With the dimness of the dorm room as the
primary suspect, Sonny’s death was investi-
gated. According to ACES, an Alabamian or-
ganization that published a scholarly article on
garden mum production, these fastidious plants
do require “full sun.” They also, however, are
very susceptible to water stress. At about this
point in the inspection arather large, guilty knot
formed in the throat of Sonny’s nurturer. Was
it possible that the waning of Sonny was due to
neglect? Instantaneously, another delayed re-
alization occurred: your correspondent had at-
tempted to cultivate a garden mum indoors. So
Sonny was an outdoor plant, and perhaps not

Mourning the death of a plant.

cause plant death

watered religiously. Obviously, a couple of
other factors were involved in the demise of
the yellow garden mum that used to brighten
up the window of this mournful Richardson
room.

Sunlight-deficiency, however, is still the
number one suspect behind the fatality of
Sonny. This can be explained by the follow-
ing facts: 1) the mum was served water at least
every other day, 2) your correspondent is still
in a stage of self-denial, and 3) the window
Sonny used to occupy is excessively shaded
by the massive trees outside the Commons
exposure of Richardson dormitory. If this
hypothesis is accepted, and the truth is that
there is a severe deficiency of golden rays in
many dorm rooms, what might it suggest about
the health of the students living there? And if
this darkness in rooms with shaded windows
is damaging, what dangerous dimness are
basement dwellers being exposed to?

“For every sensory system, physical energy,
light energy, is a source of stimulation,” learn
students of General Psychology. And there
seems to be a connection between brightness
and happiness. Response from basement-
dwellers on this subject seemed to agree upon
the primary use of their rooms: to sleep. ““The
darkness in my room makes me lethargic.” —
acommon complaint. Isn’t sleeping too often
a sign of depression?

Sonny’s specific color, and that s/he was so
cherished, might serve as further evidence of
astudent’s desire for more sunlight. Yellow is
the most popular color, representing 26 per-
cent of the market, followed by pink and lav-
ender at 22 percent, white, bronze, and red at
14 percent each, salmon at 6 percent, and or-
ange at 4 percent (for this information your
correspondent is indebted to the same agricul-
tural company). Yellow was definitely the most
appealing, and probably so because it is remi-
niscent of the golden rays of sun for which the
rooms are found wanting.

Are some students—particularly the “cave”
or “dungeon” inhabitants, as Andrew Johnson
refers to his home on Base Rich—at risk of
despair? Johnson—who, notably, has a win-
dow—asserts that the living situation is not
the problem. “I wouldn’t say I have ever been
overcome by any particularly gray emotions.
We are allowed frequent visits to the outside
world, so I wouldn’t say our location in rela-
tion to ground level is the problem.”

Anentirely different hypothesis concerning
the well being of basement dwellers was pro-
posed. Michelle Navas (joint-custodian of
Sonny) noted that, sadly, the guardians only
engaged in conversation with the mum on one
ortwo occasions. Learn from this tragedy, and
if you are planning to brighten your room with
a plant, as the evidence demands a student do,
do not neglect it. Hum tunes in its presence if
you find yourself lacking words to express
yourself to the amazing botanical friend.

Peninsula. China Bistro

704 987-2299 ©

4 “Bach aoe a ah os aa
