Advice to fellow freshmen:

because you haven’t gotten
enough of it already

By Sara SAMS
Special Contributor

Gobonkers. I brooded over possible phrases
for awhile, and in the end this one won. There’s
really no other option. I found myself—in the
first three weeks of college—bogged down by
homework. Of course, I feel it my Davidsonian
duty to proclaim myself a nerd and proclaim
my love for academia, etcetera, etcetera, etcet-
era. But no matter how much we love our
classes (blah, blah, blah...), we must come to
accept the fact that time for silliness must be
allotted. I had been repressing this desire for
quite some time. I’m supposed to be serious
here, focused. I kept telling myself this.

The past month or so, we have been reluc-
tantly exposed to gobs of advice—I took the
wise recommendation not to rape my friends
into serious consideration, and I seriously hope
the rest of our class did. But no counsel ex-
ceeds the impact that a certain professor’s
words had on me a couple of weeks ago at a
poetry reading. As the ever increasing, never-
decelerating to-do list jumbled up thoughts
inside my head, he told me: “We didn’t bring
you here to be logical.”

Before I could officially become a Davidson
student I was forced to display a poster that

By MIcHacEL CAVELL

Staff Writer

Five Iron Frenzy is by far the greatest band
ever—or at least they were until they broke up.
lamaself-described hardcore Five Iron Frenzy
fan. As adevoted listener since middle school,
I have often been perplexed by the flat-out
weirdness of some of their songs, but some-
how I find myself continuously drawn back to

their music—it’s as if their lack of appeal is"

endearing.

Don’t get me wrong—Five Iron Frenzy has
written some great serious songs, but the rest
of their song list reads like a greatest hits of
Weird Al. From singing about pants, mullets,
Canada, and getting hit by cars in the street and
then making mashed potatoes, there is no end
to the silliness of this band.

Nonetheless, I will admit that Five Iron, as
fans call them, was a source of inspiration for
me during middle school. As a saxophone
player, being exposed to the music of Five Iron
inspired me to think that I too could make it as
rock and roll superstar in a sweet ska band. In
fact, if you would have asked me in seventh
grade what I wanted to do when I grew up, I
would have told you in all seriousness, “Dude,
I want be a rock star saxophone player, like in
a ska band or something.”

Obviously, things change, and along with .

my career aspirations, things have changed
drastically for Five Iron Frenzy with the most

proclaimed proudly: “I used to make A’s!” and
surrender.as smile for what I’m sure will be a
painfully meaningful photograph. Needless to
say, I’m pleasantly distracted from my school-
work to write this in the wee hours of the
morning. That’s a strange sort of giggle-snort-
ing going on a few doors down; I’ve come to
expect this and actually feel quite empty in its
absence.

So abandon the books at | a.m. for a Waffle
House run. Stay up three hours later talking
about the philosophy of time-travel with your
newfound friends, kindle the creativity inside
of you regardless of the massive amount of
chemistry homework you have. It doesn’t have
to make sense.

www. goodfoodfast.com
Reasonable food, good times.

A fan’ s farewell to Christian ska band

prominent change being that as a band, they no
longer exist.

Within the past year, one of the greatest bands
of Christian rock has thrown in the towel and
disbanded. Finishing up their farewell tour in
2003 and releasing their farewell CD, “The End
is Near,” sold at Five Iron concerts first in June
of 2003 and in stores in 2004, their passing has
been mourned by myself and other fervent fans.
Rivaled by only the O.C. Supertones as the
kings of the expansive Christian ska world, Five
Iron was loved and revered by many in the
Christian rock community. In this article, I will
attempt to convey the singular greatness of this
band.

Five Iron released their first CD in the spring
of 1996, an independent release entitled “It’s
Funny But Not Very Creative.” I never heard
this CD, but based on the facts that it was re-
corded in two days and only sold five hundred
copies, I assume that it was pretty terrible.

Five Iron’s first recording for Five Minute
Walk Records, the label they would spend al-
most their entire career on, was “Upbeats and
Beatdowns” recorded in November of 1996. I
have also never listened to much of this CD,
but the band’s opinion of it as posted on their
website reads, “15 songs of cosmic vomit.”
That most likely means Five Iron does not think
very much of this CD.

Five Iron’s first big hit was “Our Newest
Album Ever,” released November 11, 1997.
This came out around the time of sixth or sev-
enth grade for me, and back then, for me and
all the other kids in my church’s youth group,
it was the best thing ever. Consisting of en-

couraging and upbeattunes “Suckerpunch” and -

“Every New Day,” hilarious classics “Blue
Comb ’78,” “Oh, Canada,” and “Where ‘is
Micah,” and staple tongue-in-cheek Five Iron
tunes “Superpowers” and “Handbook for the
Sellout,” the release of this CD represents a
high point for the band. All of the elements that
make Five Iron Frenzy great can be found on
this CD.

Five Iron Frenzy’s next big CD was “Quan-
tity is Job 1.” Released in 1998, this CD is
hilarious. This CD not only contains the great
song, “Untimely Death of Brad,” which tells
the story of an unfortunate trumpet player, but
also features ““When I Go Out” and the fabled

“These are not My Pants Rock Opera.”

Remember when I mentioned weird Five
Iron tunes earlier? These are some prime ex-
amples. “These are not My Pants” goes through
eight different genres of music ranging from
Heavy Metal to Salsa singing about a pair of
pants whose owner remains unknown. “These
are not My Pants” is always good for a laugh
and the country version is hilarious.

Five Iron’s first live CD came out in 1999.
Entitled “Proof that the Youth are Revolting,”
this CD is my favorite. Combining well-done
live versions of old “classics” and new songs,
funny dialogue from the band, and great inter-
action with the crowd this CD sticks with the
established norm that live CDs are almost al-
ways better than studio recordings.

Between “Proof that the Youth are Revolt-
ing” and “The End is Near,” Five Iron came
out with “All the Hype that Money Can Buy”

THe DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

(2000), “Five Iron Frenzy 2: Electric Boogaloo”
(2001), and “Cheeses of Nazareth” (2003). The
best song off of “All the Hype That Money Can
Buy” is “Phantom Mullet.” If you are a fan of
the movie “Joe Dirt” like me, this song is for
you.

Five Iron Frenzy’s farewell, CD, “The End
is Near,” is a great two-disc set. One CD is live
and the other is from the studio and contains
mostly new material. The studio CD contains
alot of good tunes, with “Wizard Needs Food,
Badly” being my personal favorite. The live
CDis also well done, witha good variety of old
favorites and newer songs.

Even with Five Iron Frenzy officially dis-
banded, I still often find myself listening to their
CDs. As one of the most creative recorded
bands ever lyrically, they deserve to be heard,
even though are just a little bit on the weird
side.

Snapshots of Davidson

Last week’s bonfire kicked off Homecoming weekend events.

