10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Diversity about more
than just skin color

By Jor TAYLOR
Staff Columnist

According to every single article posted on the campus
homepage, Davidson is “a highly selective independent liberal
arts college for 1,600 students.” These articles fail to mention,
however, that most of those 1,600 students are Caucasian.

Across the country, institutions of higher learning face the
dilemma of maintaining a diversified student body without
overstepping legal boundaries of preferential treatment. The
U.S. Supreme Court’s investigation of the undergraduate and
law school admissions processes at the University of Michigan
is one exemplary case of the controversy involved with affir-
mative action.

The media present these investigations as exaggerated, melo-
dramatic stories about discrimination and intensify the debate
to such a fevered pitch that there is stigma associated with being
content with any type of student body whatsoever.

Consequently, schools are forced to create picturesque cam-
puses filled with every single type of ethnicity on the planet. In
a horrendous submission to the status quo, anxious admissions
officers combat uniformity with a barrage of minority scholar-
ships and disingenuous view-books depicting kaleidoscopic
student landscapes.

The real problem is the misconception that diversity means

a wide range of skin pigmentation. Rather than attracting people -

with different types of personality, talent, perspective and cre-
ativity, admissions offices attract people of a certain color or
nationality and assume that they will have the aforementioned
qualities.

Some claim that it is racist for Davidson to have such a dis-
proportionate number of white people as compared to other
ethnicities; I think that it is more racist to equate diversity with
skin color. Is it not racist to claim that a black person is different
from a Hispanic person because he or she is black?

True diversity is exhibited through intellectual rather than
corporeal forms. Most admission officers, however, operate
with the assumption that someone of a particular color or
ethnicity will contribute more to a society than someone of a
more common color or ethnicity.

Students are also to blame for this debauchery. Rather than
differentiating themselves with accomplishments, thought and
circumstances within their control, some students exploit things
beyond their control and hope that “under-representation” will
help them succeed in life.

Rather than attracting people with
different types of personality, tal-
ent, perspective and creativity,
admissions offices attract people of
a certain color or nationality and
assume that they will have the
aforementioned qualities

People need to stop identifying themselves with certain coun-
tries and/or religions and start thinking for themselves.

One example of this useless segregation is the historically
black fraternity here at Davidson. Rather than integrating ev-
eryone together, this fraternity is actually causing a schism in
the social atmosphere. Why don’t Hispanics have their own
fraternity or eating house? How about black women? Should
we have an Asian fraternity? How about an Icelandic eating
house?

It seems that everyone wants to feel like a part of their own
little isolated comfort group in this fabulous “melting pot” called
America. Everyone hides behind some group for their identity
and exploits that group whenever possible. White people think
they are disadvantaged because they are white and black people
think they are disadvantaged because they are black; every single
group claims to be the victim of one type of discrimination or
another and it is disgusting.

I once read in the Davidsonian “Cat Walk” that white people
are stuck in their little white worlds. If this is true, then black
people are stuck in their little black worlds and Christian people
are stuck in their little Christian worlds. Although every group
claims to be a victim, every group is to blame. We need to stop
segregating ourselves into our special, exclusive groups and
start integrating with one another. I don’t care what skin color
you have; stop demanding attention and special treatment be-
cause you are exploiting an incidental technicality.

So, is Davidson to blame for its lack of “diversity?” If the
1,600 students here are the most intelligent, qualified, and cre-
ative applicants available and the majority of them just happen
to be white or black or Asian or Hispanic or whatever, then so
be it. :

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Immigration: an inevitable concern? .

By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

Few things get conservatives riled up like immigration policy.
I should know — as a summer intern at-the Republican National
Committee, I got used to being yelled at by the daily immigra-
tion caller. I am admittedly not so familiar with liberals and
their reactions to the question at hand; I have never, I’ m afraid,
worked at the DNC. But in my experience, liberals are just as
willing to get angry over immigration policy as Republicans.

So President Bush was sure to kick up a storm with his recent
immigration proposals. The core of his proposal is to give legal
status to currently undocumented workers. This would amount
to temporarily legalizing lots of illegal immigrants.

As we know, the public at large has not disappointed. There

has been predictable cackle among pundits of all political
stripes. Some have endorsed the plan, some condemn it, and
all feel that God Himself told them the correct way to handle
things. -
Since this is the Perspectives page, I’m supposed to tell you
what to think. But I’m afraid I’m going to bend that rule, be-
cause I don’t know what the correct policy is. Both sides have
compelling arguments, and I question whether there is a per-
fect solution.

There are certainly reasons to be concerned about immigra-
tion, specifically from Latin America. Immigrants take jobs
away from Americans, although I don’t think that’s always bad.

Impoverished immigrants strain our welfare and healthcare
systems; just ask any doctor how often he is compensated for
life-saving surgery on a migrant farm worker. However, immi-

grant patients — who often arrive in the ER in worse-than-nor-
mal condition with no available medical history to guide the
surgeon — are just as much of a malpractice threat as John
Edward’s wife would be.

This result is higher healthcare costs for anybody who actu-
ally pays. Human rights watchdogs also have reason to worry,
as recent events at Wal-Mart show. !

On the positive side, immigrants are a source of relatively
cheap labor; even at minimum wage they live better here than
in Tijuana slums. They are often hard working folks who just
want to live a better life.

Many immigrant workers send large portions of their income
to friends and family back home. In fact, such transfers to fam-
ily members make up a significant portion of the national in-
come in Central American nations, and cutting off this flow of
money could severely hamper Latin American development.
As Latin nations develop, the incentive to immigrate to America
will decline, and immigration will fall accordingly. So the prob-
lem should alleviate itself—at least to a degree —as time marches
on.
It is clear that the immigrants who are here want to be. If they
ever wished to return,home, Tom Ridge would be happy to pay
their travel expenses. What’s more, many come with the knowl-
edge that they are riot welcome. Since we assume that they are
rational folks, this means that conditions in the homeland are
pretty crummy. So perhaps the optimal way to handle immi-
gration — legal and otherwise—is to aid in the economic devel-
opment of Latin America.

This is a problem that’s not going away, so interns at the RNC
better get used to it.

Pornography Today: No Joking Matter

By GeEorGIE AHRENDT
Staff Columnist

On one of the most popular sitcoms in the country, Friends,
Chandler cracks a joke about pornography while the group hangs
out in a quaint, New York coffee shop. Canned laughter imme-
diately follows. Television stars and college students alike joke
about porn because they think it’s funny. We’ re laughing in the
face of a serious problem in our country. There is nothing hu-
morous about pornography. It’s degrading; it’s addictive; and
it leads to horrible consequences.

I hate it and I can’t get away from it.

Porn has just recently infected my computer. This jaded vi-
rus puts an “Adult Links Daily” icon on my desktop. It also puts
links in my favorites bar and on a toolbar in Internet Explorer.
Ialso have been getting pornography pop-ups, which are noth-
ing more than pornography itself.

There is something obscene about this picture. Some loser
out there is forcing me to look at pornography. I feel violated,
but others see a joke.

One day at lunch, I casually mentioned the porn icons on my
computer desktop. A fellow male student teased, ““Why don’t
you just click on it and enjoy it?” It is easier to laugh at a prob-
lem than to solve it. It is easier to say, “If it doesn’t harm any-
one, then it’s okay,” than to see porn for whatit really is: a four-
letter word. But I'll get to that later.

The fact that porn is available to any child with access to a
computer frightens me. But pornography also harms families.
Porn is acatalyst for divorce, breaking families apart with every
secretive click and scroll of the mouse and every cautious push

- of the play button on the VCR. People have been known to get
addicted to porn, just as if it were a drug.

Our society has normalized pornography to the point that it
is as ordinary as checking CNN.com for the latest headlines.
I’ve heard fellow students laughing about porn as though it
were nothing more than a dirty little joke between friends. The
thinking is, if you’re male and you don’t enjoy pornography,
you aren’t masculine.

Children are learning about sex from pornography, and so
are college students. If watched enough, porn can change the
way its viewers regard sex. The sex in pornography is not nor-
mal sex. Itisn’t real. In real life, women are not always sexually
aggressive nor are they always submissive. Also, it has been
proven that men who watch a great amount of porn are more
likely to find violence against women acceptable. So while
society has been normalizing pornography, it has also been
normalizing violence against women and a view of sex that is
miles away from reality. Is this what we want to teach kids
about sex? Is this what you are learning at Davidson along with
economics and music theory?

I know that not everyone who looks at pornography is a ~
pervert. I also know that sex isn’t a dirty subject. Healthy fami-
lies and societies talk about it. But it isn’t necessary to defile a
natural and personal act by portraying it publicly as something
obscene. Porn should be regulated, kept in check and made a
serious issue instead of a joke. I would at least like to keep it off
of my own computer.

No, sex isn’t a four-letter word. And some would say that
pornography isn’t either. But that’s because they don’t see it for
what it really is: smut.

See

So I was planning on writing an article about Cults at
Davidson, like the Davidson Outdoors crowd, always smiling
and rustic looking. In brainstorming with a friend, we threw out
afew others: Libertas, the KA Order, WALT and “hold on,” she

perm Said. “What do you mean KA?”

Well, you know, the pearls and sundresses
crowd, out for a Saturday afternoon of home
football, pastel Polos with the collars turned
up.

To which she responded, and I quote, “if
you are going to write this thing you are only
going to‘alienate these people and thus make
eet your chances of joining them very slim.”

Now there’s a frightening prospect. And I
just finished decorating my cooler for Old South Day.

Here’s the point: at Davidson we have acrowd of “elite” who
don’t know that they’ re only ones who hold their breath when
they enter a room. An,example: :

I was drinking a Tetley’s in a pubscalled The Anchor by a
river named the Cam in the town of Cambridge last summer
and an acquaintance of mine turned to me and said, “If you tell
anybody what you just heard, I’ll make your life a living hell

next year.”

Examining the Davidson ‘Elite’ .

Shocking, isn’t it?

I might add that the position has already been filled. Thank
you, Dr. Kuzmanovich, may I have another?

Sorry Phi Delta Theta, I stole your line. Oops, there goes my
Talibanaza invite too.

What if my friend is right, though? What if out there, after
college, in the “real world,” we have to worry about alienating
people like that and thus making “our chances of joining them
slim’’?

The pearls and sundresses crowd...pastel
Polos with the collars turned up

What if that’s what getting a promotion is about, or becom-
ing a partner, getting your own practice, opening your shop,
publishing your story, securing charitable underwriters?

It’s just a thought for your nightmares, loyal column readers.

I guess the good news is that individually these people aren’t
bad people. [know my friend is particularly funny, big-hearted,
and admirably strong-willed. There’s one KA who used to play
Warcraft III with my roommate all the time. (Don’t worry, your
secret is safe with me.) .

Next week in Part 2: What are Jamie Shelton and the rest of
Davidson Outdoors smiling about all the time?
