Staff Editorial

True to who we are?

Davidson is certainly a school with a lot to be proud of.

We have areputation for academic excellence, a strong Honor
Code, Division I athletics, and many other qualities that set us
apart from other liberal arts colleges.

When we market Davidson to prospective students we are
not shy about telling them what sets us apart from other schools.

Yet two unique qualities that we fail to adequately convey to
prospective students is our heritage based in the Reformed
Tradition and the role that religious life plays on campus.

Davidson is sets itself apart from almost all other similar
academically elite liberal arts colleges in our continued con-
nection to a religious tradition and in the prominent role played
by the many different campus religious organizations from all
different faiths.

Yet scanning through a Davidson view book, or looking at
the Admissions Office webpage, one would be hard pressed to
find even a single mention of Davidson’s religious heritage or
the prominent role religious life plays on campus.

As The Davidsonian reports this week, some students feel
that Davidson does not do an adequate job of accurately repre-
senting both Davidson’s Reformed heritage and the prominent
role that religious life plays for many students.

The Admissions Office argues that it is not up to them to
decide what to tell prospective students about Davidson, but
rather to listen to what questions prospective students ask and
respond to those questions.

We respectfully disagree.

It is the responsibility of the Admissions Office to present as
accurate a picture as possible of what Davidson is as an insti-
tution and what life here is truly like. «

While students who care deeply about religious life may think
to ask questions about Davidson’s religious heritage and how
it affects campus life, many other students may not even think
to ask such questions, only to arrive at Davidson and find that
life here is not exactly what they expected.

The true task for both the Admissions Office, and for Davidson
as an overall institution, is determining how best to accurately
and completely represent who we are without turning off some
students who may not want to go to a “religious school.”

Davidson wants a diverse student body, but rather than not
mentioning the role religion plays here, we should seek to in-
form all prospective students about the positive aspects of our
religious heritage.

Our Honor Code, our dedication to service, our focus on
learning about other cultures and our commitment to diversity
all stem, either directly or indirectly, from the Reformed Tradi-
tion on which we were founded.

But what is not in the spirit of our heritage is not being true
and upfront about who we are.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ©
‘Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography. Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
. Nick Horton
Circulation Manager
Sam Spencer
Advertising Managers
Page Persons & Sarah Bogue

PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘WEDNESDAY
DECEMBER 8, 2004

Letters to the Editors

Renovations
should keep
character

Davidson has done a lot of great work
during the renovation process. One of the
best things I think the College has done is
re-use old buildings for new purposes in-
stead of demolishing them and starting
again, a perfect example being the new
Union. (Though the Alvarez Union actu-
ally has less meeting space than the older
one, it has been said, it is very airy.) The
renovated dorms are comfortable and
homey. Information about the high points
of Davidson’s highly active architectural
community is available on the news por-
tion of the Davidson website, but I have
become so distressed at the changes that
have occurred only in the past year and a
half since I’ve been a student here that I
thought I would make one call for a re-
evaluation of the renovation processes and
policies.

One morning I woke up and found that
I in fact go to class on Wachovia Hall.
Every last column and brick and toilet
paper dispenser was named with a donor.
I understand that fundraising is compli-
cated and immortality is best sold in
$1,000, $10,000 and $100,000,000 incre-
ments, but how do donors feel if by the
time of the next renovation, we erase their
place on the campus and put a new brass
panel on the door?

What I refer to is the old Perkins audi-
torium, newly Christened, if for a short
while, Hance Auditorium. It is my most
recent insight into renovations gone
wrong and a depressing result of what
happens when builders and planners have
little respect for the history that the walls
contain. Perkins Auditorium was one of
the last bastions of authenticity on cam-
pus, and not only according to stodgy
types like me either. Hard-wood floors and
the uncomfortable chairs reminded me of
how many generations of students had
learned within that room. The renovation
of Perkins birthed a top-notch Ramada Inn
conference room. It is possible to have a
state of the art system and retain history at
the same time. I encourage builders and

architects to please work around con-
Straints that would prevent nothing less
than a true renovation, a restoration of
what we already have, with all the new-
fangled teaching tools to boot.

There aren’t too many spots on cam-
pus left that have been unmarked bythe |
white-washing of renovations that
cover up every spot or imperfection but
also every inch of personality. Going to
class nowadays is.a daily battle to rec-
ognize that Davidson was founded in
1837 and not 1998. Oak and Elm Row
and Phi and Eu Halls remain so far
untouched and are my last hope. As a
member of Philanthropic Society but -
mostly out of concern for the deperson-
alization of the campus, I urge the ad-
ministration and builders to’ “improve”
our space, if it must be done, but to
please do itresponsibly. Retain what we
love about it — the beautiful curtains,
carpets, old chairs, chandeliers, and
remnants of all the other members who
have passed through the room. Once the
history is gone, it’s gone.

Sarah Dotts ‘07

GAM! EDITING
THESE POLITICAL
ARTKLES Is so

y)
ss UNFULFILLNG!
a

WE'LL SANE You,

Casie & Janelle: Dangerous & Dynamic

Ss | Raariks
BS | WITH PANACHE!

iS

INo- 2 Someons)

SOMETHING
Witt FLAIR!

. NEON

iJ) WHAT

WOULD
T 00
witt-
lour You
GIRLY.

Dear Readers,
This issue marks my last as Editor-in-Chief of The

ithas been among the greatest privileges I have had as a student
at Davidson, and it was an experience I would not have given
up for anything.

As my term comes to an end, I feel it fitting to both review
what has happened on these pages during-my tenure, and to
thank those who made it all possible.

Over the past year The Davidsonian has grown in both size
and breadth. We have expanded our News, Arts and Sports
sections, and we have added the popular humor section, The
Yowl.

the past two semesters. We have reported on an admission scan-
dal, a shake-up in Public Safety, the effects of grade inflation
and deflation, the scheduling of Homecoming on Yom Kippur,
and we have told the stories of alumni and community mem-
bers serving in Iraq.

Perhaps most significantly of all, we broke the story that the
Board of Trustees proposed changing the requirement that all
trustees be active members of a Christian Church.

I am proud. of the way these and all the rest of our stories
were covered on these pages.

Ofcourse, none of these many accomplishments could have
been possible without the hard work and dedication of an in-
credible group of students who perform the all too often thank-
less job of working on this newspaper.

First, I must thank my predecessors, Matt Garfield, Colin
Eagan and Caroline Hauser. The leadership of these three in-
dividuals really transformed The Davidsonian into a serious
student newspaper in both looks and content, and much of the
work we have done over the past year would not have been
possible without the foundation they put in place.

I also must thank three people at the College who always

Davidsonian. My year as editor has not always been easy, but |

These pages have also reported many important stories over —

‘name. Their work made all of our successes possible.

_ paper to even greater heights.

provided help and guidance. President Vagt, for always be-
ing open and candid with us; Dean Bray-Merrell, for provid-
ing guidance through tough times, and always letting me learn
from my mistakes; and Bill Giduz, for always coming through
with his excellent photos.

I thank the many section editors who sacrificed so much to
make this paper come together every week: Zach Kazior,
Adam Martin, Ruchi Turakhia, and Sarah-Grace Wesley with
News; Cannon Hodge, Andy Martin, Sarah Robinson and
Chris Schmader with Arts and Living; Colin Eagan and
Brendan Parets with The Yowl; Nich Carlson and Zach Wil-
liams with Perspectives; Peter Allison, Drew Brookie, Mike
Giglio and Wilson McCrory with Sports; and Dorsett Clark
and Ryan Thompson with photos.

Also, while many people do not realize it, this newspaper
is really a business, and we could not operate without those
people who kept us funded and made sure papers were deliv-
ered every week: Sarah Bogue, aura Filosa, Nick Horton,
Jeff Larimore and Page Persons.

To my Managing Editors, Brandon Carroll, Amee Patel
and Zach Williams, I owe special thanks. These three more
than made up for my many faults and weaknesses and kept
me sane and level throughout all the tough times.

I also give my thanks to all the writers, too numerous to

Finally, and most importantly, I must thank all of the read-
ers. Without you, none of the rest of this would matter.

Next semester Brandon Carroll and Amee Patel will take
over asco-editors. They are two of the most capable and dedi-
cated people I have ever met, and I know ney will take this

David Crow
Editor-in-Chief

