THe DAVIDSONIAN .

Ada, from page 1

We wanted to give students autonomy and a
chance to explore, while also honoring the
ideals the Bonners had when they founded this
program,” said Director of Community Service
and Bonner Scholars Rosie Molinary.

Bonner Scholars are required to volunteer
for the After School Program during their fresh-
man year and are then allowed to pursue their
individual service passions the remaining
years. However, many Bonner Scholars come
back to Ada Jenkins following their freshman
year.

“Several Bonners have stayed with the same
kid for all four years,” said Molinary.

Davidson students also participate in the Free
Clinic of Our Towns at the Ada Jenkins Center:
This program is run by Davidson College stu-
dents and a small group of doctors who receive
no compensation for their services.

“The Free Clinic of Our Towns provides
primary care, prescriptions, check-ups, and
referrals to patients without health insurance,”
said Stuart Tomko ’05, a volunteer at the Free
Clinic of Our Towns.

News

Helen Nguyen ’05 andtwo local doctors, Dr.
Craig White and Dr. Steve Williamson, estab-
lished the center about a year and a half ago
after another free clinic in the area shuf down.

“Dr Craig White, a Davidson College grad
who has a family practice office in the build-
ing behind the Soda Shop, and myself worked
for several years at a free clinic in Huntersville,
This clinic was also staffed by séveral Davidson
College students. When the clinic closed im the
summer of 2002 Dr. White and myself began
to explore the possibility of starting a clinic in
Davidson,” said Williamson.

A majority of the patients are Hispanic for
whom English is a second language. Students
ease communication between the doctor and
the patient by serving as-translators.

“I volunteer as an interpreter-at the clinic,
basically helping any Spanish-speaking patient
who comes in that does not know enough En-
glish to appropriately communicate with the
doctors, nurses, and students of the clinic. It is
a vital part of Free Clinic of Our Towns as I
would say at least fifty percent of our patients
are limited English,” said Timothy Fuller ’05.

November

12-14

Alumni, from page 1

These surveys allow the office to draw conclu-
sions about different generations of alumni;
they also reflect the changes that Davidson
College has undergone over the years.

Davidson graduates remain consistently at-
tracted to the legal and medical professions, as
ten percent of alumni are lawyers and fifteen
percent are either doctors or work in the.medi-
cal field. Seven percent work in education.

The number of Davidson alumni who go on
to become ministers, however, has dropped
drastically over the past fifty years. In the 1950s,
fifteen percent of graduates went on to semi-
nary; today less than four percent choose a
spiritual profession.

“In the Class of 1949, out of 191 students,
42 became ministers,” Merrell said. “They had
just gotten back from the war, and they had
been influenced by what they saw.”

College Chaplain Rob Spach attributes this
drop to the strong connection that Davidson
had to the Presbyterian Church in the past and
to the school’s current acceptance of a variety
of religious traditions.

“Thirty or forty years ago, most of the fac-
ulty was Presbyterian,” Spach said. “The en-
tire religion faculty consisted of ordained Pres-
byterian ministers. There was a much more
homogenous religious life, which contributed
to more students being interested in ordained
ministry.”

Although the number of alumni who become
ministers has dropped overall, it has increased
over the last ten years.

The renewed interest in the ministry resulted
from the strengthening of the pre-ministerial
committee, a faculty committee that adminis-
ters scholarships and grants and provides in-
formation to students interested in attending
seminary.

The committee also hosts representatives
from seminaries and divinity schools on Theo-
logical Education Day, in addition to sponsor-
ing a dinner with a religious speaker and local
pastors who are Davidson alumni.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004 5

Although Davidson graduates differ across
the generations, the Alumni Office has recently
been trying to bring together alumni who share
common interests but did not graduate in the
same class.

“We recognize that people make strong con-
nections at Davidson outside their class,”
Merrell said.

“We are finding affiliations and groups of
common interest and inviting them back.”

In 2002, Davidson alumni who served in
World War II returned to campus and published
a book of their experiences. During the 2005
spring reunion weekend, the Alumni Office will
host areunion of jazz band members. They will
be given time to rehearse together and will
perform a piece on the Saturday of reunion
weekend.

One of the most significant gatherings oc-
curred last spring. Bill Eskridge, a Davidson
alumnus who is a faculty member at Yale and
one of the premier legal scholars on same sex
marriage, spoke to the campus at large and then
joined gay alumni and their partners in a din-
ner and a breakfast sponsored by the Alumni
Office.

“The event was extremely well received,”
Merrell said.

“Many of our gay alumni didn’t have a posi-
tive experience here, and it was very meaning-
ful to them that the college reached out to them
in such a significant way.”

Although the research conducted by the
Alumni Office often highlights the differences
between different generations of alumni,
Merrell believes that past and present Davidson
students share the same characteristics.

“Students today have a reputation for hav-
ing a real decency and a real selflessness.”

Merrell said.

“If you look back fifty years, all those same
qualities apply to the alumni. We call the
Davidson minister or small business owner the
‘go to guy,’ the guy you need to run the PTA or
coach the baseball team. They are dependable,
responsible leaders in their communities.”

D@'t forget about on-
campus activities!

CLIMBING WAlal open
Mon-Thurs 3%0-5:30

7:0029:00

Friday 3:30-5:30

AK R@LLING.in

Baker pool every

7

hursday at 8:00

Beginners alway

