5

z LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 28, 2004

A canvas of tiny paintings: Chuck Close’s ‘Prints and Process’

By ANNIE OLSON
Special Contributer

“Tsaw that each grid was in facta tiny paint-
ing.” —Chuck Close

The show is “Chuck Close: Prints and Pro-
cess.” The appeal should be obvious. While
Davidson College hosts this exhibition, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York
hosts “Chuck Close: Process and Collabora-
tion.” Yes, I am comparing Davidson College
to the Met, and I am not the only one. The prints
exhibited for us show nine intricate methods
of creation that internationally recognized and
celebrated artist Chuck Close has explored and

rae Oe 9 ®; 3

os

win. dawdsomedtt

A 2000 self-portrait by Chuck
Close (screen print)

employed since his discovery of the advantages
of printmaking in 1972.

An American photorealist born in 1940,
Close is known for his self-proclaimed larger-
than-life “heads.” Close uses the familiar hu-
man face (either his own or those of his friends)
because he suffers from severe dyslexia.

This condition prevents him from easily re-
calling the faces of loved ones. The process of
flattening these faces into huge portraits helps
him understand the face and then remember
that person in reality. Thus we see an entire
collection of Chuck’s family and friends (such
as “Phil,” which shows Close’s strong effort to
win this battle).

Close has also struggled through another dis-
ability. Many predicted his career would end
in 1988 when he became paralyzed, but life as
a quadriplegic made him determined to move
again so that he could produce art. After re-
gaining some movement in his arms, Chuck
learned to paint and make prints in a wheel-
chair and has succeeded, both before and since
then) as one of the most famous artists of our
time.

Close says that printmaking has been an in-
tegral part of his career. After his paralysis, his
composition of choice has been acombination
of a grid with a face. This grid creates an over-
all composition out of mini-paintings. “Prints
and Process” shows that Close has explored
every aspect of the printmaking process, from
etching to fingerprinting to processes that are
new to my eyes.

In his screen-print portrait “Lyle” he has used
a variety of 149 colors. In black and white

75%

Senior Class Gift Update
100%

Congratulations, Seniors!
The Senior Class Gift has
reached 67.1% PAID

- participation
IF THE CLASS REACHES
797% PAID PARTICIPATION,
PRESIDENT AND
MRS. VAGT WILL
CONTRIBUTE $12,004
To pay your pledge online,
visit The Annual Fund website at
www.davidson.edu/ giving
or mail check or cash to The
Annual Fund, Box 7170. -
Please contact Molly

'/ Shaw (x2831) or Maria
Tardugno (x2113) with questions.

works, such as his reduction linocuts, the lu-
minosity contrasted with shadow is so intense
that the facial highlights shine as if wet.

The work on display right across Main Street
is mind-boggling. The size of the larger screen-
prints is overwhelming. The viewer’ s eye gath-
ers the tiny abstract pieces within each print

and fuses them into the very delicate and be-

lievable image of a face. This show is a must-
see for artists and non-artists alike.

“Chuck Close: Prints and Process” runs
from Jan. 22 to Feb. 27 in the Van Every Gal-
lery of the Belk Visual Arts Center. The exhi-
bition is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on week-
days and 12 to 4 p.m. on weekends.

photo by

Cannon Hodge

The sexual (r)evolution
of the Davidson hook-up

By KAYLEEN HARTMAN
Senior Staff Writer

If you’ ve ever been out on Patterson Court,
chances are, you may have kissed someone you
don’t know. Kissing happens—often, as it turns
out. As a former frequenter of the Patterson

Court scene, the thing I remember with the most,

fondness in my heart is how blissfully conse-
quence-free all the kissing was; I kissed friends,
strangers, crushes, men, women, seniors, fresh-
man, frat boys and GDI’s and, although I did
not always wake up the next morning with an
expression of pride on my face, most of these
little episodes were overlooked with a friendly
smile and a casual chuckle. After all, every-
body was doing it, right?

But what if, in the months, weeks, and se-
mesters since the days of the meaningless make
out, the rules have changed? It seems to me,
that over the past four years, expectations have
changed; people are having sex, and a lot of it.
Talking with friends, I’ ve begun to notice that
having sex with someone the first night you
meet them is becoming the rule, rather than
the exception. Uncertain whether or not I was
simply imagining a better more innocent time
than had ever existed, I polled some older
friends—turns out that male or female, they
feel it too.

One anonymous senior, no stranger to the
Patterson Court scene and a veteran of the
fabled Golden Days of Just Make Out confides,
“Lately, boys have become fairly aggressive
about things other than kissing.” Although she,
like the others, attributes some of the cause to
extenuating circumstances, it seems that in
general there is a trend. More people are hav-
ing sex. ,

In the interest of maintaining gender equal-
ity, I called in a Y chromosome (to see if we
could get confirmation from their half of the

population). This anonymous senior admits that
he has more sex than he used to, but attributes
part of that good luck to the fact that the women
he’s taking home these days are a bit older,
they’re people he’s known a bit longer, and
often, they’re people who he’s hooked up with
before.

Which is interesting, because maybe expec-
tations haven’t changed at all among the gen-
eral Davidson population. Perhaps it’s just that
as you get older, sex just happens more often.
As one senior puts it, “I mean, we’ re too old to
give hand jobs.” So, we have sex with strang-
ers more often than we used to because the other
options are becoming a bit tired?

“J think that the people I’ m friends with now
realize that they have the option to say no, but
they don’t because they’re so used to saying
yes. It’s just easy to go ahead and do it [...] it
just feels normal, they’re not virgins. At some
point their body just takes over.”

The interesting thing here is not the decision
to have sex, but the decision not to not have
sex. I suspect that the distinction is an impor-
tant one. From what everyone is telling me, it
isn’t just that seniors are growing into their own
sexual appetites. The rest of the campus is mov-
ing forward too; beginning with freshman, more
sex is being had—or at the very least, more sex
is being talked about.

In general, I’m a fan of sex and any spike in
that statistic tends to make me feel more warm
and fuzzy than anything else, but in this case I
can’thelp but experience a sense of alarm. What
happens when the same friendly reason that no
one socially exiled me for my penchant for
spreading my saliva around the court, becomes
the same reason we socially accept the mass
spread of sexually transmitted disease around
the court? Or even more infectious, the men-
tality that sex is easier to do than not do?

We live in close quarters; we purport to be a
tightly knit community. If 1 am wrong and our
growing acceptance of casual sex means that
the entire Davidson student body is experienc-
ing a sexual revolution, then more power to us
all. Good sex, had under the right conditions,
is exactly what this campus needs. But more
lemming-like flocking right over the cliff of
sexual irresponsibility is, I think, dangerous to
both our minds and our bodies. Sex is best when
you can have it again the next day, the next
week. Sex is much nicer when the give and take
you’re concerned with is about sharing, not
syphilis. :
