THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 5

Diversity, from page 1
agreed. -

“Our beliefs and traditions are well-re-
spected,” she said. =

Odeh cited the college’s willingness to learn
‘and its desire for community gratification as
reasons for Davidson’s commitment to reli-
gious diversity.

“The school was open to allowing a Muslim
Student Association, and President Vagt even
looked for a prayer room for us immediately
upon request,” she said.

“T think students and other members of the
community want to make sure that Davidson
is a place of comfort for Muslim students, and
in the three-years that I have been here aware-
ness of the Muslim tradition has grown tremen-
dously.”

Other members-feel the same way.

“I would like toexpress my utmost gratitude
to President Vagt and how he has, along with
the many other special people on this campus,
helped this school become more diverse and
accepting of minorities,” said Faris Al Mazrui
’07, also a member of the Muslim Student
Association.

Jill Williams, Assistant Director of the Lilly
Programs for the Theological Exploration of
Vocation, believes that it is because of our
Reformed Christian tradition that we are re-
spectful of different religious traditions. How-
ever, she also feels that the college is currently
experiencing an identity crisis with regard to
its Presbyterian heritage.

“It is because of our Presbyterian heritage
and not in spite of it that we are open to and
respectful of all of the world’s religious tradi-
tions,” she said. “Some people think that the
Reformed Christian tradition points us back-
wards to something that existed here at
Davidson in the past to which we need to re-
turn and some people think that it points us to
amore inclusive community toward which we
are working in the future.”

Williams specified “the non-Christian stu-
dent religious groups,” such as the Jewish Stu-

dent Union (JSU) and the MSA, “all of Rob
Spach’s programs, courses offered through'the
religion department and other departments,
admissions office focus on recruitment of mi-
norities of all kinds, and many of the Lilly
Programs (Vocational Vertigo, Sustained Dia-
logue Groups, Summer Internships, Profs on
God, Lilly Lecture Series, etc.), to name a few.

Efforts to promote religious diversity have
recently increased.

Both the JSU and the MSA have been
founded in the past three years, as well 4s ad-
junct chaplains for the Jewish and Catholic
traditions and a Religious Life Council:

' “This council provides a space where every
student religious organization is represented,
so that a variety of voices from different faith
traditions can offer input into the options for
religious life present at the college,” Said Spach.

This past year, the college also approved an
additional line item to the Chaplainry budget
to provide college funding to help support
activities and events planned by the Jewish
Student Union, the Muslim Student Associa-
tion, and Interfaith.

Although many believe that respect for dif-
ferent religious traditions has been sufficient,
they also feel the college can improve in this
area.

“We are more receptive than the community
at large, but are we as accommodating as we
could be? The answer is no and that’s why we
keep working atit,” said President Bobby Vagt.

Spach said that more attention should be
tended toward the needs of different religious
traditions.

“We can provide students from other faith
traditions (and the religious organizations that
they form) with greater support and resources,”
he said. “We can also raise awareness of the
importance of various religious practices and
holy days for various members of our commu-
nity, so that we are better-informed college-
wide in making decisions about scheduling
events and potential conflicts with holy days.”

He also felt that the different faith traditions

on campus should be more educated and con-
nected with each other.
“We should be promoting dialogue and ex-
periences in which people of different faith
_traditions can learn from each other and each
other’s religious practices. Some of that has
already begun to happen, but more could be
done,” said Spach.
Williams agreed.
“More sustained attention should be paid to

- the’ unspoken messages we send to prospec-

tive and current students, faculty and staff
through things such as scheduling important
campus-wide events on major religious holi-
days and even the food we serve during these
events,” she said.

Williams also said the college should focus
more on the spiritual aspect of students’ lives.

“T think we should recognize the importance
of all of Davidson’s employees and students
because of who they are as opposed to what
they do,” she said.

“This could be done by placing more value
on ‘Sabbath’ time for students and employees;
a staff those program would be another

aus excellence.”

wit an emia sel ede of their intellectual powers.
Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if
Davidson is to realize and maintain this particular vision of

way to live out our Reformed Christian heri-
tage in a progressive way.”

Spach also said the continued recruitment
of students from diverse faith backgrounds is
essential to bridging the gap between different
religious groups on campus.

Many believe that allowing a non-Christian
member on the Board of Trustees is essential

.to maintaining an openness and respect for all

different religious traditions on campus.

“T think keeping the requirement that trust-
ees be Christian would prevent movement to-
ward a more ideal and inclusive community,”
said Williams.

“Davidson is made up of many religious tra-
ditions, and each student, Christian or not, has
spent four years here taking the same classes,
participating in activities, and in general being
part of Davidson’s community in the same
way,” said Odeh. “I feel that everyone with a
close connection to the college can contribute
just as effectively to the Board of Trustees, and
even non-Christians can bring a different per-
spective to the group and college to maRe it an
even better environment.”

MON

DAY,

LEARN HOW YOU CAN LEAD THE MOVEMENT TO END eaters INEQUITY.

Wednesday, October 18, 8:00 pm * Tomlinson Hall
With alumni guest speaker Lindsay Hughes, '00

OUR GENERATION MUST TAKE ON THIS ISSUE.
TEACHFORAMERICA

www.teachforamerica.org

For individuals of all academic majors and career interests. Full salary and health benefits.

