4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

RFK Jr.
to speak on
environment

By LypiE White
Staff Writer

On Thursday, November 18, Robert F.
Kennedy, Jr. will speak on issues of the envi-
ronment in the Duke Family Performance Hall
at 8 p.m.

His lecture,“Crimes Against Nature: Our
Environmental Destiny,” is sponsored by the
Union Board Speakers Committee, the Black
Student Coalition, and the Public Lectures
Committee of Davidson College.

Brandon Zeigler ’05 of the Union Board
committee came in contact with Kennedy
through a speaking agency.

“T believe that RFK Jr.’s visit to Davidson
will help spread environmental awareness even
further amongst the student body and continue
to raise issues that are pertinent to Davidson
College and the surrounding communities,”
said Zeigler.

Kennedy , who is deeply committed to envi-

ronmental issue awareness, has a long list of
experiences in working with environmental
_ concerns.
‘As an environmental lawyer, he represents
two New York centered companies, the Hudson
Riverkeeper, which is concerned with the
clean-up and protection of the Hudson River,
and the Natural Resources Defense Council, a
national lobbying and litigation group.

He is also an Environmental Law professor
at Pace University.

In July 2004, Kennedy released his latest
book, “Crimes Against Nature: How George
W. Bush and His Corporate Pals are Plunder-
ing the Country and Hijacking our Economy.”

He spoke to the National Press Club about
his disagreement with President Bush’s envi-
ronmental agenda.

Kennedy is a graduate of Harvard Univer-
sity, and later he attended the London School
of Economics.

He received his law degree from the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

At Pace University he received a Masters
Degree in Environmental Law.

Kennedy’s published works include “New
York State Apprentices Falconer’s Manual,”

“New York State Department of Environmen- -

tal Conservation,” “Judge Frank M. Johnson,
Jr., A Biography,” and “The Riverkeepers,”
which was cowritten with Hudson Riverkeeper
John Cronin.

Kennedy has published several articles in the
New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, The Wall
Street Journal, Esquire, The Village Voice, The
Boston Globe, and The Washington Post as
well.

SLAC, from page 1

school application process.”

Davidson also participates in the Big Apple

Recruiting Consortium (BARC), a pre-ar-
ranged interview day in New York each Febru-
ary, mostly for communications, legal and re-
search jobs. Students can also meet with
Davidson alumni working in the city.

The Metrolina Job Fair is another event that
provides selected students with the opportu-
nity to be interviewed this February in Char-
lotte by various companies.

Moving geographically away, through
SLAC’s website, Davidson students will have
access this spring to the Coast to Coast Virtual
Career Fair, a two-week online job fair.

In conjunction with SLAC, Davidson al-
ready participated in First Look, a website that
allows seniors to post their resumes early in
September for companies mostly in the areas
of investment banking and accounting that need
more notice for employee recruiting.

SLAC has a similar program for Davidson
juniors, connecting them to internship inter-
views in New York. Juniors can apply for this

Internship Advantage Program which gathers
students in New York for a day of internship
interviews in January. Adams knew four jun-
iors who applied for an interview.

Most graduate schools and employers know
Davidson’s reputation personally, but for those
that don’t, the problem is numbers. A school
the size of Davidson can make its presence
known only little by little.

The main job of Career Services is to con-
stantly go after employers to come and find
out more about Davidson because, said Adams,
it is this personal relationship and familiarity
with Davidson that elevates Davidson students
in the eyes of employers.

Many pleased employers report back that
Davidson students have “integrity, a hard work
ethic, the ability to rise to a challenge, and the
ability to learn on the spot,” said Adams.

In past comparisons with similar schools,
Davidson students have about the same em-
ployment success as other students.

In addition to connecting students to inter-
view opportunities, Career Services offers stu-

.dents six dedicated staff members who are

eager to assist, a huge information database of
jobs and internships on the Career Services
website, and services such as workshops, on-
campus interviews, and resume review.

Career Services will provide the results of
the Myers-Briggs Personality Test adminis-
tered by the Residence Life Office to match
studenits with acompatible roommate. This can
help guide students in the direction of a major
or careef choice.

The most valuable resource that Career Ser-
vices provides, she said, is the alumni database
that reaches across the nation and includes
almost every field of interest. Networking, she
said, is the number one way to secure a job.

Now that Career Services has conducted a
101 seminar that all first year students are re-
quired to attend for the past three years, hope-
fully more students will take advantage of the
resources at hand right here on campus.

The other 11 members of SLAC are Bryn
Mawr, Carleton, Dickinson, Franklin and
Marshall, Grinnell, Haverford, Vassar, Kenyon,
Oberlin, and Pomona colleges, and Washing-
ton and Lee University.

Watson, from page 1

According to Green, a language dies roughly
every two weeks, and over half of the world’s
six thousand languages are endangered.

“Language revitalization is important be-
cause of the connections between language and
identity as well as language and worldview,”
she said. “By living in and working with these
three communities, I hope to gain a better un-
derstanding of the dynamics of language loss
and revitalization, especially how it affects
personal and community identity and
worldview.”

Marynak explained her motivation for
choosing her topic.

“Music programs are being cut from school
budgets in the United States. I have researched
countries where preserving human life is often
difficult, but where the youth symphony seems
to be thriving. I want to learn the creation sto-
ries of these symphonies, whose existence
communicates the message, we want music for
our children,” she said.

Marynak also proposes to study the “thera-
peutic aspect” of this music on the children and
their societies through cooperation in a musi-
cal setting.

Nelson has applied to study the origins of
southern fiddle-banjo tradition in West Africa,
Scotland and Ireland.

For his project, Nelson wants to play in the
musical community of Senegal and learn to play
two lutes that are possible precursors to the
banjo introduced to the United States through
slaves. —

After six months in Africa, Nelson proposes
to turn his attention to the fiddle.

In order to do this, he plans to travel through
Donegal County, Ireland and the Scottish High-
lands and learning to fiddle in the Scots-Irish
tradition.

“The fiddle and banjo seem inseparable when
you hear them played in the context of South-

cond Meal at
(Equal ¢

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www-.sushiatthelake com

» Hibae
Noniay and Pager

chi Grill S
with Schoo is!

ern traditional music, but history indicates that
the two instruments originated in two distinct
cultures that followed vastly different paths into
the South,” he said. “Through my Watson
project, I hope to link these cultures with each
other and with my own, discovering new mu-
sical and cultural connections that I can bring
home with me and share.”

The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship was
founded in memory of Thomas J. Watson, the
founder of IBM, in 1968.

The Fellowship corresponds with Watson’s
interest in education and global affairs.

Since 1969, Davidson has graduated 63
Watson Fellows, the most recently being Gray
Lyons ’04.

Lyons is currently studying bread- making
customs in France, Hungary, India, Vietnam
and Trinidad.

The next step for the Watson nominees is to
meet with members of the Watson Foundation
this winter for interviews.

Fellows will be notified by the Foundation
by March 15.

The Dean of Students Office is responsible
for selecting nominees for the fellowship on
campus.

To learn more about the Thomas J. Watson
Fellowship, visit the Career Services Website
or www.watsonfellowship.org, or contact the
Dean of Students Office.

Surprise your college kids or
campus chums with a yummy
ice cream cake. Birthdays,
study breaks, exazn
time, graduation

or just for fun!

Ghee & bot’ 's Reman Aare. fe, 9
FAERIE

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
704-892-0604 -

10Z Off with School IP
Monday-Friday Z2pm-G6pm
Saturday 11:30am-Spm

ee 1 VF.

