14 THE DavIpsoNIAN

SPORTS

Freshman already taking control on field

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Kayli Maxwell ’08, a forward/midfielder for
the field hockey team, was selected as Rookie
of the Week in the Northern Pacific
Conference’s Eastern Division last week af-
ter registering two goals and an assist against
Longwood University on Sept. 19. The honor
was long overdue, however, as Maxwell has
carried the Wildcat offense throughout the
early season.

Maxwell comes to Davidson from Edmond,
Oklahoma, where she attended the Casady
School. There, she was a first team all-con-
ference selection for both field hockey and
soccer, as well as MVP of both teams her jun-
ior and senior years.

She led Casady to the conference champi-
onship and was a Regional All-American in
field hockey. A four-sport athlete, she was also
a member of her high school’s track and bas-
ketball teams.

The main reason I decided to play field
hockey was because it was my strongest sport.
At one time I had to choose between soccer
and field hockey, but I decided that field
hockey would be better,” said Maxwell, who
ended her senior year with twelve goals and
thirteen assists.

Growing up and watching the older girls at
her school play field hockey had a huge influ-
ence on Maxwell. “I always thought that it was
so cool that they were really good and every-
one knew it. I wanted to be like them,” she
said. Her high school has consistently boasted
a high-quality squad, winning the Southwest
Preparatory Conference numerous times, in-
cluding Maxwell’s senior year.

“The major difference for me between high
school and college field hockey is the pace of
the game. I have never played on turf before,
and so it feels a lot faster. Also, the attitude on
this team is a lot different. In my high school,
some people were on the team because it was

a

— ae
ee

“
SE te

ee 8

SSA RA aye

aoe cr: ia

Kayli Maxwell 08 takes a shot in a Sep. 19th game versus Longwood.

cool, not necessarily because they wanted to
play field hockey. But on the Davidson team,
everyone loves the sport and loves everyone
on the team,” says Maxwell.

Davidson has been a very comfortable fit
so far for the 5’8” freshman. With its reputa-
tion as a college that expects scholastic ex-
cellence from all its students, many athletes
would be intimidated. This is not true for
Maxwell, who chose her school based on both
athletics and academics. Maxwell says, “[I
am] thinking about majoring in either chem-
istry or biology. I am hoping to go to medical
school, but I’m not sure yet.”

Time management is of the essence, how-
ever, for this young field hockey player, who
said that,”“balancing academics has been
much harder than I had thought it would be. I
do not have a lot of spare time between sports,
classes, and the other things that are required
for the freshmen to do. But I think [my full

schedule] helps me get things done. Since I -
have such limited time, I am able to sit down
and do my work without wasting time.”

While the transition to the college game has
been tough on several levels, Maxwell has not
shown. any struggles on the field, where she
leads all Wildcats with eight goals on the sea-
son, including three game-winners.

Despite the contributions from Maxwell and
the other five incoming. freshmen, team chem-
istry is also excellent according to the fresh-
man forward, who said, “The girls are so awe-
some, and there is no division of classes within
the team. It’s great. Being a freshman has not
at all affected [my ability to be a leader].”

Head coach Lisa Thompson says, “Kayli
contributes a great deal to this program in ev-
ery capacity. She is a fast and finessed player,
as well as a supportive and positive teammate.
I believe she is just beginning to tap into her
true potential.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 29, 2004

from Field Hockey, page 16

sensation Kayli Maxwell ’08 assisted on the
goal.

A string of goals followed Cowley’s open-
ing score, as the Wildcats held a commanding
7-1 lead at the end of the first half. Tiffany
Homan ’05 and Maxwell both added a pair of
goals, with Emily Davis ’06 and Carrie Lewis
"06 adding one goal apiece.

Maxwell, chosen as the Nor-Pac Conference
East Division Rookie of the Week for her ac-
complishments against Longwood, dominated
the second half as she burned the Catawba
defense for three more goals, giving her eight
goals on the season. Homan, not to be over-
shadowed, added her third goal of the game
and fourth on the season. Homan has the same
amount of goals in the first half of this season
as she had all of last year. Head coach Lisa
Thompson was excited about her team’s per-
formance, as she said they “played with con-
fidence and drive. They were not afraid to take
risks on the field. In doing so they created a
lot of great opportunities.”

The Wildcats returned Sunday to Belk Turf
Field in an important match-up with the
Radford Highlanders, 4 member of the Nor-
Pac East Division, and the Wildcats were look-
ing to bounce back in the East Division after a
disappointing 3-0 loss at Appalachian State
earlier’in the year. Radford got on the board
early with a score only two minutes in to the
first half, and the Wildcats were unable to
solve the Highlander defense over the final
68 minutes of play. Davidson outshot Radford
12 to six in the game, but was unable to con-
vert any of those opportunities into scores.

The loss drops the Wildcats to 3-5 on the
year but, more importantly, 0-2 in the Nor-
Pac East Division, which they won in the regu-
lar season last year. The Wildcats will have to
forget about the game with Radford, though,
as they face some tough competition in the
next couple of weeks. Three of their next four
games, which are all on the road, come against
teams ranked in the top ten in the nation: North
Carolina (No. 2) on Sept. 28th, Duke (No. 5)
on Oct. 3rd, and American University (No. 10)
on Oct. 10th.

Men’s Soccer loses first SoCon match against Charleston

By BriAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team traveled south on
Sunday into the heart of Hurricane Jeanne’s
bad weather to face the College of Charleston
in the Wildcats’ Southern Conference opener.
’ In what has become an early season trend,
the ’Cats played a game of two very different
halves. Davidson dominated the play early on,
but then surrendered three unanswered sec-
ond-half goals en route to a 3-1 loss to the
Cougars.

Davidson same out of the gates quickly, us-
ing the strong wind that was at their backs to
produce a handful of great scoring opportuni-
ties early on in the match. The ‘Cats almost
got on the board early as David Sartorio’s ’06
attempt to finish a rebound from a Mac Wilkie
’07 shot sailed just wide of the net. With just
under ten minutes to play in the half, how-
ever, forward Matt Allen ’06 was able to put
home another rebound opportunity off a
Wilkie strike.

Allen’s first goal of the season gave the vis-
iting team a 1-0 lead. Two great saves by se-
nior goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05 allowed
Davidson to enter halftime with a one-goal
advantage.

“We dominated the first 60 minutes of play,”
head coach Matt Spear said. “We talked at
halftime about managing the wind and get-
ting a few more goals. Holding on to a lead is
always hard on the road. We need to score not
just one goal, but two or three.”

Unfortunately for the ’Cats, with the change
in halves also came a change in the momen-
tum. Just 15 minutes into the second period,
Charleston’s Ben Hollingsworth delivered a
highlight-reel goal to knot the game at 1-1.
Although Davidson battled hard throughout,

The.last time the ’Cats played at home, they beat UAB 1-0 in overtime. Since that game, they have gone
lost three straight on the road. They play their first game at brand new Alumni Stadium today.

the Cougars tallied two more goals in quick
fashion as the Wildcats dropped their third
straight match. :

“They played an efficient yet unattractive
style—it was very direct,” Spear said. “We
were able to withstand it for a while, but when
they scored their first goal, they,gained a lot
of confidence and were able to score a few
more.”

The loss drops the Wildcats to 3-4 on the

season, including an 0-1 mark in the South-
ern Conference. The sub-par record, while
somewhat misleading because Davidson has
played a difficult early season schedule, shows
that therd is still plenty of room for improve-
ment.

“T like the way we are playing and I like
our effort,” Spear said. “We need to stay strong
as a unit. Our schedule has been extremely
difficult—much more challenging than last

year—and the players know that.”

The ’Cats return home from the winless road
trip this Wednesday night at 7 p.m. for a cru-
cial match-up against the South Carolina
Gamecocks, who this past weekend upset na-
tionally-ranked Wake Forest. The game will
be yet another test for the Wildcats, and will
be the second part of a double-header with the
women’s team to open up the brand new
Alumni Stadium.
