THE DavipsoniAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004 TT

For you
sports fans...
we lek S PICKS OF

Pole

NY TeIBIS

Before this weekend I decided that, if the
Panthers won, I would not write this column.
I figured I would just sit back and let all the
Panthers fans enjoy themselves as they ran
around in their newly purchased black and
Carolina blue jerseys pretending to be die-
hards. I knew that Richard and Jeff, hailing
from the cold New England corner of the
country, would fill the columns below mine
with pro-Patriot propaganda. I guessed it
was only fair that I suppress my bitterness
from the Jets’ lost season and continue to
patiently explain to the Panther “faithful”
watching games with me that the clock is
supposed to keep running after first downs
in the NFL.

But after going to Charlotte on Sunday
to watch the games at a friend’s apartment,
I just can’t help myself.

Upon arriving in the Queen City and
walking to the nearest supermarket for some
lunch, I found myself hoping and praying that
I wouldn’t bump into some fan who had for-
gotten to take the price tags off of his Jake
Delhomme jersey. I pictured him saying some-
thing like “Don’t mess up my Delhomme” or
“Watch the Delhomme,” proudly pronounc-
ing every syllable with practiced accuracy
while patting himself on the back for being
such a terrific fan that he could say the
quarterback’s name.

This would undoubtedly send me into a ti-
rade about how he had just learned to pro-
nounce the name of “Number 17” two weeks
ago when the playoffs started, in what must
have ac a city-wide informational session

on learning the names and colleges of all the

‘starters on the team. Then, when he went out

of his way to mention that his favorite new

star had attended Louisiana-Lafayette, I might —
‘launch into a speech about how Panther fans

were nothing but fair-weather followers who
didn’t pay an ounce of attention to the team
during their 7-9 campaign last year, which I

promised myself I would refrain from doing.
Luckily, I didn’t find a single Panthers jersey
inside.

The one person I did see wearing team col-
ors in that Harris Teeter was the guy in a faded
Donovan McNabb jersey who was standing
in front of me on line. Once the cashier fi-
nally recognized that green and white were
the colors of the team Carolina was playing
in a few short hours, she refused to bag his
groceries. When he politely protested, she
accused him of being a bandwagon jumper
before pointing to her glittering Panthers but-
ton and storming off.

I bit my tongue.

Panther fans ride bandwagon into Houston

Real Panthers fan do exist, however. Two,
as far as I know. I sat down to watch the game
with my two friends who have owned season
tickets since the franchise came into existence,
and who actually went to games last year and
even during the 1-15 debacle of 2001.

Unfortunately, they were far outnumbered
by those Panther fans who were rooting for
Carolina because “They’re the next clos-
est team to me and the (insert random
crappy team here) didn’t make the play-
offs” or, simply, “We're going to the Su-
per Bowl!!”

Then, the epitome of all that it is wrong
with “Panthermonium” (cleverly coined
by the Charlotte Observer) walked in.
Wearing his trendy new Panthers jersey
with a matching black sweatpants and hat
ensemble, my friend’s neighbor let out a
few enthusiastic cries of “Yeah Baby” as
Ricky Manning Jr. collected his third in-
terception of the night before announcing to
the Eagles fans in the room that he was from
Philadelphia. When they asked in disbelief
what team he was rooting for, he responded
that, actually, he would be happy no matter
which team won, since both of “his teams”
were playing. This is quite possibly the most
annoying thing a fan can say.

In other words, he was a die-hard Panthers
fan as long as they were having a good year
and in the playoffs and beating his other fa-
vorite team and not being overshadowed by
the Tar Heels or Blue Devils or Wolfpack or
Braves.

I bit my tongue again.

-.. stories to look forward to in 2004 —

Former major leaguer Pete Rose, after
enduring a 13-year ban from Major League
Baseball, succeeds in being inducted into

: the baseball hall of fame.
- In his second-to-last year
of eligibility for the hall,
Rose accomplishes for-
giveness and acceptance
with the league he once
bet on. After admitting to
his fault, publicly apolo-
. gizing for it, and proving
_ a change in his lifestyle,
the former Cincinnati Red
gets voted in with 215
votes. In his acceptance
speech in Cooperstown
on August 8, Rose begins, “What was it? 3 to
1 odds that I’d be standing up here today?” ...
Trade talks between the Texas Rangers and

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Columnist

How ‘bout them Patriots!? Say what you
will about Boston and our fans. Talk about
how obnoxious we are and how we have no
respect for anyone outside New England. We
all know we’re the city everyone loves to hate.
And while most of us feel as though we’re
just misunderstood—after all, how would you
feel if your baseball team hasn’t won the World
Series since the Woodrow Wilson administra-
tionthere is no denying New England has
an exciting-and talented football team this year.

After dismantling the Indianapolis Colts 24-
14 on Sunday afternoon behind three inter-
ceptions from Ty Law and five field goals out

of Adam Vinateri, New England is going to.

the Super Bowl for the second time in three
years. And make no mistake about it, this is
no fluke squad: we have won fourteen straight
games. The last NFL team to put together such
a streak was the 1972 Miami Dolphins, over
thirty-years ago. In 1972 none of you were
born, disco was all the rage, and experimen-
tal drugs were not exactly frowned upon.
Sure, most of our victories have been rather
unconvincing, some may even say “lucky,”
but on Sunday night we scored six times (one

ngland Patriots: no one’s Cinderella

the Boston Red Sox come to a close in late
January. The two teams come to an agree-
ment with their two multi-million dollar
players, Alex Rodriquez and Manny
Ramirez. After months of discussion, a short
break, and a final push, the teams decide not
to trade the players, but to trade teams. Yes,
that’s right, the Texas Red Sox and The Bos-
ton Rangers. A-rod stays in Texas and Manny
in Bean Town. And the fans, well, you can
begin trade talks with families in the other
region . .. Ericsson Stadium and the Caro-
lina Panthers set an NFL record on Sun-
day, September 22, just four weeks into
their post-Super Bowl season. After starting
the 2004 campaign 0-3, the once Super Bowl-
bound Panthers play the Atlanta Falcons in
front of a record five fans. Head coach John
Fox is quoted after the game: “I don’t know
what has happened; the stadium seemed to fill

touchdown, five field sale, not including that
abominable safety), while holding what many
were calling the NFL’s hottest offense to just

f .
two touchdowns. In most other sports a 6-2
score is considered a blowout. Had we turned
some of those field goals into touchdowns, the
celebration would have begun long before the
final whistle.’

Our defense is simply insane, especially the
secondary, which treated the Colts receivers
the way Johnny Knoxville treats his body. In-
deed, some of the hits thrown by the likes of
Eugene Wilson and Rodney Harrison made
the WWE look like the WB. And after watch-
ing Peyton Manning surrender four intercep-
tions, one couldn’t help but think the hard-
working co-MVP had burned out his retinas
watching all that game film he digests after
each practice. Manning is a phenomenal quar-
terback, but up against the “Homeland De-
fense,” as they are calling it in Foxboro these
days, the young star looked utterly

_ “flummoxed,” as the oh-so-smart Jim Nantz

accurately stated.

As good.as the defense is, though, we
wouldn’t be winning ballgames without some
offense. Tom Brady threw one interception in
ten home games and spreads the ball out like

up last year when we were winning”
WUSA, the women’s soccer league that
went bankrupt and shut down in the sum-
mer of 2003, begins talks to build up their
once-beloved league. The main problem with
their failure was a lack of money through spon-
sorships, so the league joins up with the
WNBA to participate in mooching more
money from the NBA. Other women’s leagues
also erupt in talks — the WNHL, WEL, and
WHY? ... Lastly, look forward to the
nation’s most widely watched sport, ‘“‘Most
Extreme Elimination Challenge,” as it goes
global. ESPN buys the sport and
commentating rights to the once Spike TV-
owned phenomenon. Americans, Mexicans,
Canadians, and anyone else will be able to
compete in the outrageous games, and the likes
of Stuart Scott, Dan Patrick, and Dick Vitale
provide the silly remarks.

no other, and Vinateri has been unconscious
this postseason. Against the Tennessee Titans
two weeks ago, Vinateri drilled a 46-yard
game-winning field goal in sub-zero tempera-
tures. Kicking a football in such conditions
can feel only slightly better than kicking a tele-
vision set.

In a perfect world, Super Bowls would be
played all over the country, not just in tropi-
cal climates more suitable for daiquiris and
beach volleyball than beers and football. But,
like restricting the men’s golf tour to men only,
this logical concept has not yet been accepted
by the higher-ups. Instead, the biggest sport-
ing event of the year is played in such fan-
friendly and warm-weather cities like Hous-
ton, where the Pats will clash with the Caro-
lina Panthers in two weekends.

For so many of us Pats fans at Davidson,
friendships will be put on hold that weekend,
as we do our best to avoid any and all Panther
supporters and unite for the greater good of
our team. I'll be at my place watching with
several other members of Patriots Nation, and
if any of you can show a valid drivers license
from any of the five New England states (ex-
cluding southwest Connecticut, of course) feel
free to come join the fun.
