tae

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Little * stars~ amid clouds of smoke

By now, people are well aware of my. columns on cults at
Davidson. So as I stood amongst various clouds of smoke on
the porch outside the 900 room last Tuesday night, I was not
surprised to hear one of them say, “What’re you gonna say about
the ’tas, man?”

I looked at the cloud’s shoes and, noticing the holes in can-
vass, determined that it was none other than the group’s one-
time guru, Russ White.

Good question, Russ. There are the shoes. There’s the pre-
tentious unpretentiousness (Quick, gimme your Top Five all
time Jean Claude van Dame films, not including “Hard Tar-
get”). There are the parties and their song lists 25 pages long.
There are the wardrobes of forest green, dark green, and green.

Mostly, however, there are the emails.

Like this one that I received from the cloud
of smoke next to Russ:

Dear [expletive],
Your silly articles are weak. You aren't

[expletive]. Make us cry. Bring it.

Love,

Sterling Rozear

Emily Drew

Andrew Haupt

Jimmy Newlin
Oh! Oh! We use bad words AND irony! Yeah! We’ re the ‘tas!
Or how about the invitations to Libertas meetings?
1. do you like nintendo?
2. do you like Chick-Fil-A?
3. do you like Kristy Marynak?
4. do you hate Kristy Marynak?
5. are you interested in writing, editing, laying out libertas?
6. do you like nintendo?

NICHC

LAS CARLSON

if you answer to any of these questions is yes, you should
come to the Libertas meeting, this tuesday, 9 pm (21 military/
eurotrash time) outside the office on the third floor. there will
be chicken and sweet tea, and possibly punch and pie. Come
plan the first issue! Join Us and make the world a safer place
for children and cows!!

He said Nintendo AND Kristy Marynak twice! And who saw
that line about cows coming? Woah-ho!

What would a cult be without parties? What would Libertas
emails be without a just-plain-wacky salutations?

friends, associates, and other ne’er-do-wells:

consider this your official invitation to “THE SPACE-STA-
TIONS OF THE CROSS” party saturday at the depot apart-
ments. for more information, visit: http://www.angelfire.com/
rings/braindeer/

bring friends and also (lots of) booze.

I’ve come up with three reasons why they never capitalize
words. 1) Damn the man. 2) It’s lame. 3) Didn’t you read the
issue on corporations man? It’s CAPITALism, man.

Far be it from me, however, to paint an even nearly negative
picture of Libertas and its followers. I, a columnist for the sell-
out, establishment-serving The Davidsonian could just never.
Yet, in my tongue-in-cheek language, there may be some truth.

Until the Yowl or Purple Bunnies makes a nighttime raid on
one of our two Union offices, The Davidsonian and Libertas
stand as the only two substantial publications on campus. And
while Libertas has a cult administered through email, preten-
tious or not, the Davidsonian un-cult admittedly socializes solely
through scientist.davidson.edu as well. Sometimes, we get crazy
and go with desdemona.

The ’tas crowd may be a cult, but at least they’re offering
some kool-aid to drink on the weekends. *

Life, liberty, and the pursuit of perfection?

BY GEORGIE AHRENDT

Staff Columnist

Go to the fitness center at any time of the day or night, and
you’ ll be sure to see dozens of students in their usual 24-7 pursuit
of perfection. They chug away on their machines with eyes to
the television or noses to their books. They pull away at weights
with expressions of pain and determination. They sweat with-
out noticing and focus their stare with drive, resolve and pur-
pose.

Welcome to a day in the life of the Davidson College student.

The activity in the fitness center, just as it is in the classroom,
is indicative of the lives of many of the students here at Davidson.
There is no room for failure, there is always room for improve-
ment, and time is a precious commodity.

The computer labs on campus also harbor this driven atti-
tude. There are always people in the labs on any day or at any
time. With tired eyes and mechanical hands they type away,
passing the hours and maybe skipping a meal or two.

I wonder where itis we learned this habit of striving for nothing
less than perfection. Perhaps it began at birth, but it has un-
doubtedly been reinforced as we’ ve grown up. As we’ ve gone
through school, we’ ve learned to believe that ourGPAcan meter
our worth. After we received our high school yearbooks, many
of us couldn’t help but look at the superlatives and buy into the

S

belief that there may be such things as the most attractive, the
most intelligent and the best overall.

We hold onto the belief that we can mold our futures into the
perfect shape with the intention of fitting into them like a glove.
We believe that out in the real world there waits for us the perfect
job, the perfect husband or wife and the perfect life. Most of us
here at Davidson have been so far very privileged, making it
difficult sometimes to accept the fact that perfection is not a
realistic goal.

So perhaps during our hurried days of time crunching, dedi-
cation and sacrifice we can take the time to put our lives into
perspective. That’s not to say that we should settle for less than
our personal best, but being realistic never hurt anybody.

The old adage “stop and smell the roses” would be appropri-
ate here, but allow me to offer an alternative: stop and take a
taste of the unsavory truth. Not everyone can get a 4.0, not
everyone will have the “perfect” body, not everyone is going to
like you, and no matter how hard you try, there will always only
be 24 hours in a day.

But there’s nothing wrong with all that. To quote Hamlet,
“This above all: to thine own self be true.” I agree wholeheart-
edly with this piece of advice.

The perfect kind of life is living for you and no one else.
Achieving your own personal perfection is doing what makes
you happy. Perfection is impossible, but happiness is very real.

Fear, ignorance, keep Bush against gays

BY LESLIE SMITH
Guest Columnist

It appears as though our president, George W. Bush, is afraid
of homosexuals. This seems to be an unwarranted fear since
homosexuals are not weird creatures with too many append-
ages and fireballs coming out of their eyes. They will not de-
stroy the U.S. if they are allowed to live freely and are treated
as equals. Rather, homosexuals are just the same as heterosexuals
with only one difference, they are attracted to members of their
own sex.

One thing that needs to be understood is that one cannot choose

to be a homosexual or heterosexual any more than one can

choose to be African American or Hispanic or White. Thus, the
discrimination against homosexuals can be seen to equate it-
self with racism and other severe forms of prejudice.

Consequently, having George W. Bush imply the need for a
constitutional amendment against same sex marriages would
be similar to a president in the late 50’s early 60’s implying the
need for a constitutional amendment against inter-racial mar-
riages, or even further saying that only whites can marry. Why
is it then that Bush holds these prejudiced beliefs towards ho-
mosexuals?

There is an old adage that says, “One hates that which one

oe Cr er or whe et eee ee ee ee ee ee eo <ees

fears and fears that which one does not understand.” Thus, the
reason Bush hates homosexuals ‘and wants to deny them the
freedom and happiness that heterosexuals enjoy, is because he
fears homosexuals. This fear is bred out of his own lack of
understanding about homosexuality. The most unfortunate part,
however, is that Bush hides behind this ignorance, and refuses
to listen and learn more.

Ten percent of all the people in the U.S. are homosexual,
though many are still in hiding due to this hate they feel from
people like George W. Bush. It would then appear that Bush is
turning a blind eye to ten percent of the population to which he
is supposed to represent.

Looking at a similar statistic, this is comparable to Bush
turning a blind eye to all African Americans in the U.S. (12.3
percent of US population); or to all Hispanics in the US (12.5
percent of US population); or to ten times more people than all
the Native Americans in the US (.9 percent of US population);
or to roughly three times as many people as there are Asian
Americans in the US (3.6 percent of US population).

It does not appear that Bush intends to lead America. Rather,
he intends to lead White-Heterosexual America. If you do not
fit this category, then you join the ranks of the OPPRESSED
and the FEARED; so much for the land of the FREE and the
home of the pene.

Se er ee or a rs

to something.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004 11

Don’t blame the
mass media for
‘Cult of Thinness’

BY Joe TAYLOR
Staff Columnist

On Monday night, people who attended “The Cult of Thin-
ness” were really enlightened about “The Cult of Stupidity.”

Totting publications and formal degrees, Dr. Sharlene Hesse-
Biber presented her disorganized, unprofessional, and rambling
sermon of recycled garbage to a large group of students and
faculty.

According to Dr. Hesse-Biber, the’“‘Anglo Saxon” culture
presents unrealistic depictions of body image via media and
consequently is responsible for the creation of a “Cult of Thin-
ness” throughout the world. Capitalism, apparently, is respon-
sible for eating disorders.

Stupidity, not capitalism, is responsible for eating disorders.

Why does everyone blame eyerything on big, generic, mean-
ingless words like “media” and’“‘capitalism?” Media is a re-
flection of what people want to see. Why, then, is the media
blamed for things like sex, violence, and thinness? In all forms
of media, including television, music, and movies, exaggera-
tions are compelling; who would watch a movie if it were full
of everyday events and everyday people?

Ratings, not reality, determine media. Dr. Hesse-Biber may
have laughed at a 1980’s Virginia Slims advertisement for its
presentation of “the logic of thinness,” but she failed to realize
that the people producing those ads do not necessarily believe
what they write; they merely exploit insecurities in people and
outsmart them.

The problems arise when people don’t think. The media
presents thin women and muscular men because they are part
of natural sex appeal and health; it is perfectly natural for hu-
man beings to want to exhibit those qualities. Do scantily clad
plus sized models turn you on? How about overweight men
romping around without shirts?

There is nothing wrong with men wanting to be muscular
and women wanting to be thin. There is something wrong,
however, when people take things to extremes and stop think-
ing altogether. Sure, everybody wants to look great. But don’t
throw up after you eat, don’t starve yourself, and don’t go on
some absurd and temporary diet fad that encourages consump-
tion of saturated fat and abstinence from food that can be burnt
off.

Stupidity, not capitalism, 1s re-
sponsible for eating disorders.

Contrary to what Dr. Hesse-Biber claims, being physically
fit does represent discipline, self control, and resilience; main-
taining a reasonable weight and an attractive body does im-
prove self esteem, first impressions, overall health and quality
of life. Ironically, people who blame the media for unhealthy
body images do not have attractive bodies.

Everyone who feels insecure about their body always has an
excuse; people claim that being overweight is a result of ge-
netic factors but they are not the ones eating grilled chicken
sandwiches and working out six days a week. Surely some have
faster metabolisms than others, but they also maintain that
metabolism with diet and exercise; work on things within your
control rather than complaining about things beyond it.

Without elegance or logical flow, Dr. Hesse-Biber continued
to blather on about how our media has created superficiality.
How could our media be,responsible for eating disorders and
vain manipulations of the body? In her own presentation, Dr.
Hesse-Biber brought up ancient Chinese foot binding and Greek:
gods; how, then, could our modern culture be responsible for
this supposedly new superficiality? Did Dr. Hesse-Biber ever
consider circumcisions to be gross, vain, and purposeless dis-
tortions of the human body?

In a stunning sequence, Dr. Hesse-Biber appealed to the
superficiality of society by relaying a story about a thin college
student who was denied the opportunity to tryout for the
cheerleading squad because she didn’t make the “weight cut.”
Dr. Hesse-Biber thinks that the people responsible for the weight
cut were superficial? How about that thin college student who
was devastated for years of her life because she didn’t fita certain
stereotype? Damn J Crew! Damn Barbie! This girl’s life is over!

Ironically, Dr. Hesse-Biber has made significant contribu-
tions to her conception of our superficial society. Rather than
focusing on blind adherence to religious or political ideolo-
gies, Dr, Hesse-Biber focused on blind adherence to weight
and body image.

Rather than holding people responsible for their own thoughts
and actions, Dr. Hesse-Biber blamed the media and pretended
like people were part of a Cult of Stupidity. Perhaps she is on
