THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 5

Iraq, from page 1

Having completed well over four-years of
active duty obligations connected with his
ROTC scholarships, Dugan entered the Army
reserve last month.

Dugan was stationed at a base camp in Ar
Ramadi, a major town in Western Iraq between
August 2003 and March 2004.

He served as a Battle Captain for an engi-
neer battalion tactical operation center, track-
ing engineer troops in the area and assigning
them to missions.

Dugan also assisted Task Force Restore Iraqi
Electricity (TF RIE), a group of United States
expatriate contractors working torestore a400
kHz power line spanning a 250 kitometer
stretch of Iraqi soil.

“By the time I rotated out of Iraq, the resto-
ration was 75 percent complete,” Dugan said.
“Once you’ re gone, you are out of the loop, so

“What makes me sick is to hear about
a soldier who's been injured and
who's given up. I spend all my time
trying to find those guys and weed
them out. I take it personally. That's

my purpose.”
--David Rozelle ‘95

I don’t know if the project is fully complete
yet.”

Dugan said that the firsthand ground perspec-
tive shed light into the conflict in a way that no
media outlet could.

“The guys on the ground get to see the ben-
efits and dangers of being over there on a per-
sonal level,” Dugan said. “You have to weigh
in your own mind if it’s worth it. Every kid you
see in the streets waves to you and is happy
you are there. To me, that makes it worth it.”

Although Dugan has experienced progress
in Iraq firsthand, he recognizes the incredible
danger inherent in occupying a country witha
dangerously unstable political climate.

“Anyone on a military convoy, anyone who
drives from one base camp to another, is at risk
for a road side bomb,” he said. “Everyday we
have soldiers wounded.”

During Dugan’s first week in Iraq, Dugan’s
convoy hit a remote control bomb buried on
the side of the road.

“Luckily they missed and detonated it too
late so it blew up between two vehicles rather
than under one,” he said. “All I can say is that
I was lucky. Things like that happen every day
over there.”

In dealing with the tremendous loss associ-
ated with war, Dugan said that the support and
camaraderie among his fellow soldiers was
invaluable.

“T was fortunate to have an excellent set of

_peers, fellow captains now some of my best

friends,” he said. “We were all under the same
stress. Under those situations, solders justkind -
of bond together.”

Although Dugan had nearly completed his
obligatory four years of active service before
September 11, 2001, the tragic events of 9/11
compelled him to remain active in the Army
for several more years. ;

“Having the opportunity to go over twice,
serve my country, deal with the stress and come
back safely was one of most fulfilling experi-
ences in my life,” he said.

David Rozelle ’95

U.S. Army Captain

On June 21, 2003, Army Captain David
Rozelle ’95 lost his foot and a portion of his
lower leg when his Humvee hit a powerful
landmine.

After an amputation in Iraq and several sur-
geries in Washington, DC, a determined
Rozelle underwentextensive physical therapy
to regain full mobility.

By Christmas 2003, Rozelle was able to hit
the ski slopes and enjoy his favorite winter
pastime since childhood.

Rozelle has also regained the strength to train
and compete in climbing, mountain biking,
triathlons and weights.

Lauren Stutts ’05 contacted Rozelle last
spring after hearing about his story.

Stutts, who suffered a spinal cord injury as
a teenager, and Rozelle ‘shared their experi-
ences in coping with an unexpected
physical disability.

They have stayed in contact informally for
the past several months.

“T was very impressed with him,” Stutts said.
“Despite his disability, he snow-skis and runs
inraces. Heis just a genuinely wonderful guy.”

Rozelle’s story has received publicity from
many major media outlets, including NBC’s
Today show and USA Today.

Rozelle uses his experiences to encourage
and support other war amputees struggling to
regain an active life in the military or back at
home.

“I’ve never thought of myself as being re-
ally inspirational, but because of what I’ ve been
through, I’m the one that can talk to them,”
Rozelle told Davidson Journal writer John
Syme ’85 in an interview last spring. “What
makes me sick is to hear about a soldier who’s
been injured and who’s given up. | spend all
my time trying to find those guys and weed
them out. I take it personally. That’s my pur-
pose.”

The U.S. Army has recently declared Rozelle
“fit for duty.”

Currently, Rozelle is in command of
Remington Troop, 3rd Armored Calvary Regi-
ment in Fort Carson Colorado, right outside of
Colorado Springs.

Rozelle intends to return to Iraq sometime
next year.

Above: Keith Carmack, son of
Economics Department

t Barbara Carmack, left
irsday tor his first tour’

het # lerry’s Hememeds Seitrgs, ine 2D

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
704-892-0604

