THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘The tha is over. Some oft us won: some Dips us lost: Re-
gardless, it is time to move on. For once in my life, I find
myself agreeing with the President. It is time for a reconcili-
ation of the American people —s_.

-- Regardless of ‘who is our Commander-in-Chief, the Coun-

If America re-elected

By HALLEY AELION

Staff Columnist

When [hear that “moral values” were what got our President
into office, my stomach drops. When I hear what those “‘moral
values” were, it drops even a little lower. America’s decision in
2004 is aclear sign this country’s citizens are not only confused
about what constitutes a good leader, but also that the morals
we value are outdated and embarrassingly backwards.

Let’s pretend, at first, that Bush’s moral values are exactly
what they ought to be. I know it’s a stretch. Even then, even if
George W. Bush was Saint Teresa incarnate, it still would not
validate the fact we, as a country, voted him President of the
United States. There is a difference between a role model and
a leader. This is something so basic, yet it is constantly blurred
in America’s society, where everyone’s personal life is public
business.

A role model’s job is to exhibit good moral values. These
values include providing first and foremost for their family,
living life by their chosen religion, and leading a balanced
existence of work, leisure, faith, and family. Arole model would
do anything to prevent his or her son from going off to war in
order to ensure the safety and survival of their family.

Aleader, on the other hand, has a different job. A leader must
guide the country, no matter what the cost..A leader puts the
country first, lives his life by the laws of the land, and makes

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004 = 11

Tomfoolery, rubbish, and overall silliness

By Sam SPENCER
Staff Columnist

Alot of things have been on my mind lately. I’ ve been troubled
by the reluctance of some of my peers in SGA to ad€quately
fund our fledgling club baseball program: I’ ve felt the prés
of numerous assignments in my physics class, and endless
demands from various organizations on campus. I feel spread
thin, like too little butter over too much toast. And don’t even
get me started on the election; every time I see Joey Suits, a
rancorous look comes over my face,

We are living in troubling times. We have so much freedom,
and yet it would still be very easy for a group of terrorists to
affect our country again. There is a war abroad in which people
are dying. I have friends who are being legislated against for
something that they can’t help — an identity that they are proud
of. And for some reason, reality TV and Clear Channel are taking
an even firmer grasp of our media.

But there is something— someone— who gives me hope.
Comfort. Strength. The ability to persist in the face of Vegas
odds and Richard Branson-esque challenges. The assurance,
more so than any Capitan Picard tire commercial, that I belong
on this Earth as a human being with a purpose.

This someone is Nich Carlson.

I first saw Cap’n Carl, as we call him at the Davidsonian, [no
we don't -ed.] when I was visiting Davidson College during my
junior year. I went into Summit Coffee and saw this Adonis of
aman, with golden blonde hair and a face that launched a thou-
sand word processing programs.

He was dressed in a stunning casual coat ensemble that may

have been stolen from that season’s GQ’- or maybe he got a
sneak peek at the next one.

My infatuation with this frisky Floridian didn’t end there.
[ed. has a girlfriend -ed.| When I was a naive, vulnerable fresh-
man, Nich took me under his wing, and got me a ride home
‘Om a Radiohead concert. [Zach Williams claims he was driv-
ing -ed.] Such great taste in music is by itself a cause for admi-

He is like my Rabbi, a wise elder
whose editorial chopping is like a
magnificent journalistic bris

ration, but later that year, as Nich and I reminisced about our
Radiohead experience under the night sky on the back porch of
Rusk, I tried to look up at the beautiful night sky, but I couldn't
take my eyes off Nich. Maybe it was the lemon drop shots in my
system from Rusk’s around the world ... but something in Nich’s
eyes spoke to me that night. [Were they saying, “Sam, you're
making me uncomfortable” ? -ed.|

This year, Nich has been a mentor, and a friend.

He is like my Rabbi, a wise elder whose editorial chopping
is like a magnificent journalistic bris, chopping the extraneous
parts of my stories down to the candid meat that editorial writ-
ing is all about. [shalom -ed.] He has been there for me.

And] think if everyone could have a little Nich in their lives,
we could forget about all of the pain in the world and sit at the
table of brotherhood once again.

Hypocrisy reigns in right’s gender politics

By Jor REED
Staff Columnist

In the third presidential debate, the candidates were asked if
they believed homosexuality was a choice. To this question,
Senator John Kerry gave an answer that, inexplicably, was seen
by many on the right as stunningly offensive. After noting that
“we’re all God’s children,” Senator Kerry pointed out that “if
you were to talk to Dick Cheney’s daughter, who is a lesbian,
she would tell you that she’s being... who she was born as.”
The Vice President’s wife, Lynne Cheney, went particularly
apoplectic over this statement, calling it a “cheap and tawdry
political trick” which revealed the senator as “not a good man.”
This outrage on the part of many Republicans, given both the
context of Senator Kerry’s remark and the fact that Mary
Cheney’s sexual orientation was not exactly a state secret prior
to the debate, seemed a bit excessive even at the time.

However, given recent statements by certain anti-gay groups,
that outrage now seems downright absurd. Joe Glover, presi-
dent of the ultraconservative Family Policy Network, seeing
Mary Cheney and her partner on the stage with her father and
the Bush family at a victory rally, expressed outrage that the
administration would show such disrespect to the Christian
conservatives whose high turnout was so crucial to the
president’s re-election.

Glover was furious that President Bush, after receiving such
political help from the religious right, would “allow his vice
president to not only put his lesbian daughter on the platform,
but to bring her lesbian ‘partner’ up on the stage with him.” The
suggestion that it was wrong for the vice president’s daughter
to be allowed to enjoy such an important moment with her father

the work of governing the top priority. Would you respect a
president who took an extended vacation because he or she felt
their family needed some extra “together time?” Would you
respect a leader who did his or her best to avoid sending their
own child to war? Would you respect a president who drags his
or her personal religious beliefs into political policy work?

No. And that is why electing a president on the basis of moral
values, while it sounds good, is actually completely invalid,
and dangerous to the personal rights of all citizens.

Now let’s stop pretending. Let’s face reality. As disappoint-
ing as the election results they are the results, and now we

have Bush, with his backwards’“moral values,” in office for -

the next four years. As pointed out time and again, the “hot
issue” moral values in this election were gay rights and abor-
tion. By electing George Bush president, the voters of America
have made aclear statement: they do not value the equality and
personal liberties guaranteed to all citizens in this so-called land
of the free. To me, as I hope to others, that is a disgrace.

As for the more basic, elementary, moral values, Bush has
not exhibited those, either. For most, these fundamental moral
values include honesty, compassion, and respect.

The current,President of the United States does not possess
any of these. To claim that Bush has compassion is to show
blatant ignorance regarding the situation of minorities and the
lower class in America. How can you honestly call a man who
offers tax cuts to the most wealthy Americans compassionate?

would seem to be an infinitely more offensive attack on Mary
Cheney than Senator Kerry’s statement during the debate.
Where, then, is the Republican outrage at Glover’s remarks?

‘Where are the right-wing bloggers condemning such a blatant

attack on the family of the vice-president? Perhaps most of all,
where are the angry Cheney parents who appeared after the
third debate to condemn Senator Kerry’s statements about their
daughter?

As of this writing, no high-profile Republicans have stepped
forward to condemn Glover’s statements, and even if some do
in the future, it will have taken about a week to find the same

Where are the angry Cheney par-
ents who appeared after the third
debate to condemn Senator Kerry's
statements about their daughter?

anger that came out about five minutes after the debate.

When John Kerry mentioned, in passing and in the context
of an argument that homsexuality is achoice, that Dick Cheney’s
daughter is a lesbian, Republicans appeared absolutely furi-
ous. When Joe Glover argued that Mary Cheney should not be
allowed to appear in public with her loved ones and her father,
those same Republicans have kept largely silent.

Unless Republicans,-in particular the Cheney family, say
something to condemn Glover’s outrageous remarks, one will
be forced to conclude that their outrage at Senator Kerry’s state-
ment was no more than well, acheap and tawdry political trick.

President Bush on moral values, for shame

How can you honestly call a man compassionate when his do-
mestic policies have cut back funding for after school programs
in lower class neighborhoods? And furthermore, how can you
honestly claim Bush is honest? I have only to look at the most
prevalent event in American news for the past year, the war in
Iraq, to see a plethora of Bush’s lies and deceit. The man claimed,
“Saddam Hussein had the materials to produce as much as 500
tons of sarin, mustard and VX nerve agent” during the State of
the Union Address last year. There have been NO, absolutely
zero, chemical weapons found in Iraq. The man lied! This
deliberate lie to an entire nation proves a lot about Bush’s char-
acter. It also shows the lack of respect Bush holds for the intel-
ligence of the citizens of his country.

But maybe this is where I can almost agree with the Presi-
dent. If this election is a reflection on America’s moral values,
frankly, I’m a little embarrassed, and I can see why we, as citi-
zens, don’t get the respect we may think we deserve. I can’t
decide whether I should be more worried about the blurry line
America has drawn between role models and leaders or about
the moral values the country has elected into office. And 1 know
I’m not the only one. The rest of the world is embarrassed for
us, too. Every country that disagreed with Bush’s policies dur-
ing his first term (quite a few, if you’ re wondering) saw America
as a good country with a bad president. Now they see a country
of stupid people who have elected one of their own kind. I can
only hope the next four years pass quickly.

/
