THE DAVIDSONIAN

Camis obice bleiter

8/28 Belk Dormitory Suspicious Characters

Officer received a call that there were four young males outside the west side of Belk
Dorm who were talking to female residents of the dorm. The only description given was
of a white male with blonde hair and a green shirt with the number six on the back. The
officer searched the area but was unable to locate anyone fitting the description.

-

8/28-8/29 Vehicle Damage

Richardson Dormitory
Between 9:35 p.m. on August and 10:35 a.m. on August 29, some unknown person(s)
attempted to take a golf cart locked to the bike rack in front of Richardson Dormitory. The
golf cart had two scratches on the front and a bent bumper, and the bike rack had been
dragged about 10 feet. The estimated damage was $500.
8/29 Akers Dormitory Vehicle Theft/Damage
Between 2 and 10:30 a.m., some unknown person(s) broke the lock attached to a bike
rack in front of Akers Dormitory and took a golf cart. The golf cart was found covered
in grass and with damage to the top. The estimated damage was $500.
8/29 Parking Lot Theft

Between 9 a.m. on August 24 and 10:15 a.m. on August 29, some unknown person(s)
entered a vehicle and took items. Estimated value of the items is $600.

PC TROUBLESHOOTING:

Virus or Spyware Removal, Maintenance Repairs and.PC Training
Does your PC need maintenance or suffer from infection?
ae Here are some of the symptoms:

9 * PC seems sluggish, especially online » Programs, especially e-mail, not functioning properly
A * Mouse and keyboard not behaving properly * Unexplainable shut downs or slow performance

if your PC has been infected, the virus/spyware should be removed before file

[2 OP ALITA IDNA Sasaas

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Chambers renovation
finishes one year early

By SARAH BoGuE
Staff Writer

The renovation of Chambers has been fin-
ished a year ahead of schedule, while Belk
Dormatory finished on time thanks to a
hardworking team of faculty, architects, engi-
neers and workers.

This wraps up an eight-year series of build-
ing projects at Davidson.

The new and improved Chambers will ad-
vance Davidson’s learning capabilities. With

- immaculate bathrooms, beautiful walls, and

ample space, Chambers is far more aestheti-
cally pleasing than the somewhat dark build-
ing of years past.

Rooms now have amazing technological
capabilities, allowing professors freedom to
teach with PowerPoint, the Internet, or any sort
of audio-visual apparatus.

David Sheibley ’07 said, “It’s really cool how

. the building still looks old on the outside, but

has such a new look on the inside.”
The venture was no easy task to fund.
Costing a whopping $21 million and requir-
ing approximately 300 workers, this project
would not have been possible without the “Let
Learning Be Cherished” Capital Fund.

This campaign, which spanned five years, .

will provide $250 million to support the vari-
ous building projects on campus.

Many students are enjoying Chambers’s new
look.

Andrea Applebee ’06 said, “(Chambers is
classy and it smells like newness, and, even

though it feels more corporate, elite, and insti-
tutionalized, Iam grateful to the immense funds
that have made it a modern sort of lovely.”

Chambers is not the only building on cam-
pus that has a brand new look. Incoming fresh-
men and uppérclassmen alike marveled at the
new interior of Belk Dormitory.

A new plumbing and electrical system, and

. afaint smell of fresh paint greeted Belk’s new-

est residents.

Director of Residence Life and Associate
Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano oversaw
the renovation, which costthe college $4.5 mil-
lion dollars and followed those of Little and
Martin Court.

Former ‘Belk resident Ryan Creighan ’07
said, “It just doesn’t seem fair. Last year I
couldn’t wait to get out of Belk and now it’s
practically a hotel. I wish I had never left.”

Director of Physical Plant Facilities David
Holthhouser said, “Originally, Belk was sched-
uled to happen over two summers because of
the magnitude.

But a decision was made to squeeze all of
Belk into one summer.”

In just 88 days and with virtually no hassle
for the students, Belk was transformed.

The renovation of Chambers was no differ-
ent. In the initial plan, each of the four phases
of the transformation was to take a whole aca-
demic year and would be completed in August
of 2005.

Many faculty members were required to
move their offices several times during the
construction.

Landscaping behind Chambers replaces a former construction zone.

Council, from page 1
100 percent of the organization is the samie as
the websites,” he said.

After the questioning by Dr. Thomas con-
cluded, Powell testified in his own defense.

Powell admitted to using the websites that
Dr. Thomas had found but stated that he had
simply memorized what the sites had said rather
than copied the information directly from them
during the test.

He described how after doing poorly on the
previous tests in that class, and after finding
that the texts for the class did not provide all
the information he. felt Dr. Thomas wanted,
Powell decided the only way to study for the
final exam was to “study the websites and
memorize them.”

Powell’s mother and best friend also testi-
fied on his behalf.

Both said that Powell had talked to them

-about how he planned to study and memorize

websites to prepare for his exam.

Powell’s friend also stated that he helped him
study and saw how peepee Powell was for
the exam.

“By the endhecoulduse the same language,”
he said.

Finally, Dr. Ed Palmer testified as a charac-
ter witness for Powell.

Dr. Palmer said Powell had rented an apart-
ment from him last year and he saw that Powell

had “adeep respect for honor and the military.”

After seven hours of deliberation the Honor
Council rendered their guilty verdict.

This trial was significant for being the first
Honor Council trial since the fall of 2002 in
which the defendant chose to open the proceed-
ings to Davidson’s entire student body. Most
Honr Council trials are closed, leaving many
students unaware of exactly how the trials are
conducted.

Chris Knowles ’05, Chair of the Honor
Council, said of the trial, “I hope that it gives
the student body an appreciation for the hard
work that the Honor Council puts in to each
case.’ .

For at least some students, the trial seems to
have done just that.

Craig Carlson ’08 said after the trial,’“I was
surprised that the Honor Council had actual real
power. I had thought that the Honor Council
would just watch the faculty make a decision
and then put their rubber stamp on the their
decision. It was great to see the proceedings
completely student-run.”.

Yet watching the trial also made some stu-
dents call into question just how fair a trial
Powell received.

“Tt seems that Powell had to prove his inno-
cence instead of the professor having to prove
his guilt,” said Carlson, “it just seemed that
by the time Powell spoke most people made.
up their minds that he was indeed guilty, and
did not even listen to him.”
