THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

BOOKSTORE

HALLOWEEN SALE

OCTOBER 297 8:15AM - 5PM

25% OFF

CLOTHING, TRADEBOOKS § CANDY

?

HAPPY HALLOWEEN FROM

THE BOOKSTORE STAFF

Bookstore Hours

Sunday----Closed
Monday - Friday 8:15am - 5pm
Saturday----10am - lpm

Parents, students enjoy
Family Weekend events

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

|
Parents and loved ones came from all across

~ the country for Family Weekend. With a wide

variety of campus activities being held, par-
ents and students had plenty to do and see.

“It’s been nice just seeing the son and enjoy-
ing the weekend,” said George Park, father of
Barrett Park ’06.

“Beyond seeing his parents, Barrett cited
“good food” as one of the biggest perks of
Family Weekend.

Alana Calvin ’07 was excited to have her
family come from Seattle. Her family watched
her compete in Davidson Crew's Fall Classic
on Saturday.

“It’s been really great,” said Calvin. “I’ve
missed them a lot.”

Family Weekend also allowed parents to see
their child’s living habits.

“His room’s is nice, but messy,” said Mary
Anne Richardson, the mother of Matt
Richardson ’07. “He’s in his element.”

Matt’s mother made clear, however, that he
is “going to get a haircut.”

Katherine Henckler, mother of Sarah
Henckler ’08, was pleasantly surprised with her

daughter’s room.
“It’s in better shape than her fomy home

ever was,” she said.

Henckler traveled from New Jersey and
brought her daughter a “huge suitcase” full of
cold-weather essentials, which ranged from
sweaters to hot chocolate.

Among the weekend’s events were the presi-
dential debate, several concerts, a play, and the

annual International-Festival.

At the International Festival, students with
international backgrounds were given $50 sti-
pends to purchase ethnic food, which they pre-
sented at the festival.

This year’s festival drew an unusually large
crowd.

“Usually there is a football game which
draws away half the people, but this year there
isn’t one,” said Davidson International Asso-
ciation president Stella Kenyi ’05.

Still, the International Festival was far from
the only: attraction.

“J enjoyedthe play production, the jazz band,
the choral presentation and look forward to the
debates this afternoon,” said Betsy Davenport,
mother of Sarah Madison Davenport ’07. “The
students here inspire us all.”

Family Weekend benefits from a local ef-
fort by the Habitat of Our Towns, a chapter of
Habitat for Humanity.

“The Habitat of Our Towns organizes home
stays so that parents can stay with local fami-
lies,” said Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Laurie Heyer.

The visiting parents only have to give a small
donation to the Habitat or Our Towns and the
overall cost is far less than local motels.

Despite all the attractions on campus, the
focus of Family Weekend remained the oppor-
tunity for families to get a peak at their child’s
life away from home.

Delia Loney, who traveled from Brooklyn,
NY to see her daughter, Charisma Loney ’08,
said “I have missed her, but I know this is a
place for her to experience another phase of
her life.”

B AIDS “)

The Jameson faniiid samples laraell food at the International Festival.

Campus Police Blotter

10/23 Sports Fields

Property Loss

Student said that they lost their 35 mm camera at the field hockey game at 3 p.m. on

October 23. The camera is in a green case.

10/21 Chambers

Property Theft

Victim reported that between 2 and 3 o.m. on September 30, someone stole their silve
Verizon wireless flip phone. They left the phone on a desk in Chambers 3068, and when
they returned a short time later, the phone was gone. The phone is valued at $50.

w
10/20 Patterson Court

Property Theft

APi Kappa Alpha member said that two blue Dish Network receiver cards had been
stolen out of the Pi Kappa Alpha house. One card was located in the basement and the other
in the dining hall. The cards were last seen at 6 p.m. on October 19.

