4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Orientation, from page 1
on the town green. CROP is an international
organization that fights hunger.

The walk was an attempt to get new students
acquainted with the community of Davidson
and their new environment.

Shandley recalls of his CROP walk that “the
students were more interested in getting to
know one another after the information over-
load of recent days.” ,

Students, too, reported wishing there was
more time to get to know their hallmates and
other incoming freshman.

An opportunity to do just this came in the
form of Freshman Olympics and the famous
Freshman Cake Race, both of which Misty
Stallings ’08 thought were “an awesome way
to bring the class together.”

Shandley admitted that the honor code sign-
ing, required of all first years, is among his fa-
vorite traditions of the college.

He described the look on students faces when
they pledged that seemed to say, “This is why

I came here.”
Stallings recalled similar feelings of satis-

- faction when she attended Convocation in the

Presbyterian Church.

“Tt gave mea great sense of pride in the school
I had chosen to attend,” she said.

While some students felt that Orientation was
hectic and tedious, other students reported a
new awareness and appreciation for Davidson’s
resources.

Stallings affirmed the success of this year’s
Orientation. ;

“Orientation showed me that this year is
going to be very tough, but that everyone is
here to help me,” Stallings said.

The committee in charge of Orientation
spends the majority of the school year plan-
ning for the upcoming class.

Bray-Merrell stated that one of the main
goals for orientation is “introducing the new
students to those people who will be most help-
ful to them in their first year, including their
advisor, various professors and other faculty

NEWS

Left: A book discussion group
sits on the steps of Martin
Chemistry Building.

Right: Davidson President Bobby
Vagt fills out some paperwork
during Orientation

Below: Members of the
Orientation Team (OT) help move
furniture into newly-renovated
Belk Dormitory. Among other

things, the OT helped first-years

to move in during the first day of
Orientation.

Photos courtesy of College Communications

and staff.”

While Orientation tries to accomplish a lot,
Shandley noted this is really the beginning of
a longer Orientation process.

Shandley said that though “finding one’s
space at Davidson starts during Orientation,”
it is by no means complete by the beginning of

classes. oo

Bray-Merrell and the rest of the Orientation
Committee strongly encourage all first years
to fill out their Orientation Evaluation Form,
which will ensure that future Davidsonians
benefit from their Orientation experiences as
well.

Bylaws, from page 1

powers by granting admission to an applicant
without the support of the majority of voting
members.

The new guideline approved by the Execu-
tive Committee of the Board of Trustees on
August 10 implies that this assertion is incor-
rect and refers to presidential authority under
the College’s Constitution.

Since coming into effect on July 1, 1976, the
Constitution has superseded all other gover-
nance provisions of the college, including the
Faculty Bylaws.

The discrepancy in official protocol will be
the next line of business for Vagt, the Board of
Trustees and Faculty.

“We need to make sure that the faculty hand-
book [in which the Bylaws are found] is con-
sistent with the Constitution,” said Vagt. “What
lies ahead of us is improving the clarity and
consistency in that document.”

New procedure calls for shared authority

Despite this legal power provided to the
President under the Constitution, the Board
acknowledged that the President must cooper-
ate with the Committee.

According to the new guidelines, “While the
President of the College has the authority
through the College Constitution to determine
the final admissibility of an applicant, the Presi-
dent shares that authority with the Faculty
Committee on Admission and Financial Aid.”’

The new process stresses early notification.
According to the new procedure, the President
must “send written communication with ratio-
nale about the candidate’s significance to the
College... well in advance of final delibera-
tion on the applicant pool.

Additionally, the guideline states, “In the
spirit of shared governance, thorough consul-
tation and deliberation are encouraged.” The
President must consult the Committee about
“applicants who have special significance to
college-wide priorities.”

If disagreement over an individual applicant
remains, “the President must re-approach the
Committee to restate the reasons for the use of

Presidential authority.” The President is re-
quired to submit his rationale to the Chair of
the Board of Trustees and the Vice Chair pro
tem of the Faculty.

“We have adopted a procedure that should
improve communication and clarify responsi-
bilities,” said John McCartney, Chairman of
the Board of Trustees. “We’ ve discussed the
issue of going back and attempting to make
congruent the various governing documents
where they are not clear.”

The President’s role: a balancing act

Vagt praised the Board’s new procedure,
stressing that while he is still accorded the fi-
nal say, the shared authority is crucial.

“The role of the faculty in the admission
process is unique and vital. It is important to
maintain this level of engagement,” he said.

McCartney also stressed the unique role that
faculty play in the admissions process.

“The Davidson faculty dedicates an extraor-
dinary amount of time and energy to the ad-
missions process and we are unusual in that
the faculty makes the effort to address not just
the academic ability of our applicants but looks
at them as a whole,” he said.

The new guidelines emphasize Davidson’s
commitment to looking beyond just the aca-
demic talent of applicants by encouraging the
enrollment of students who “would further
institutional priorities.”

“Institutional priorities mean a broad range
of things beyond just academic ability,” said
McCartney. “It could mean, for example, spe-
cific skills in arts or athletics . . . and special
attention to legacies.”

Vagt added that, “[Legacies] are important
because this is who Davidson is. It is a piece of
Davidson heritage.”

Given the need to take so many factors into
account, the most important task for Vagt may
be the balancing act he must perform.

“I am accountable to at least a half dozen
groups,” he said. “Certainly the Board of Trust-
ees, but also the Faculty, staff, students, par-
ents, alumni. I hear from each and every group.
Balancing their interests is what my role is.”

