_ ARTS

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

From the opening line of “war,” Timberlake

Wertenbaker’s “The Love of the Nightingale” °

examines the effect of sexual violence in An-
cient Greece.

Based on the myth “Procne and Philomel,”
the play tells the story of two sisters seeking
revenge against the elder’s husband who rapes
the younger. The play, directed by Assistant
Professor Sharon Green, provides a modern in-
terpretation of the myth, bringing to mind com-
parisons with the present day.

I sat in on the first full run-through last
Monday. With an understanding of the con-
stant development of a production during the
last rehearsals, I was deeply impressed by the
unity that the cast demonstrated throughout the
evening.

No Greek play is without its chorus and the
male chorus, Ryan Creighan ’07, Ryan
Hastings ’05, and Athena Stevens ’06 provide
an amusing dialogue, introducing the setting
of the show, while carefully pointing out the
problems which silence can cause.

It would have been pleasing to see more of
them in Act II, but Wertenbaker shifts their re-
sponsibility to the female chorus, who are
Procne’s companions in Thrace after she is
married.

Also of note, the two soldiers, Colin Smith
’06 and Will Kuchinski ’08, provide the show
with comic relief. As the show progresses this
comedic point of view becomes another com-
mentary on the actions of the three central char-
acters.

As an ensemble, soft tones and blurred an-

nunciation can be a weakness at certain points,
but they succeed in creating interesting char-
acters throughout Act II. Seeing more charac-
ter development would help the play’s begin-
ning, a time when it is most critical to ensnare
the audience. Throughout the first half of Act
I, the tempo could slow a bit, as the actors

seemed to be getting ahold of their characters. _

By the time of Philomel has headed to Thrace,
these problems have gone away.

Of the ensemble, an important commenta-
tor of events is the nurse, Niobe, played by
Kayce Thompson ’05. Niobe holds the stage
as a wizened woman who has survived the hos-
tile takeover of her homeland by the Athenian
army. Thompson brings a refreshing clarity to
the show as her blunt monologues explore the
role of witnesses in crime, trying to convince
Philomel that sexual violence is the way of the
world.

In lead roles are Lisa Burr ’05 as Procne,
Pete Schild ’08 as Tereus, and Hanley Smith
°07 as Philomel. Together; the three share
chemistry, which is clearly strongest between
Smith and Burr.

Burr gives Procne a mature edge, which does
not display any nervousness over her arranged
marriage. However, as we see her in Act II, I
liked the whimsical side she introduces as
Procne spends more time in Thrace.

Her transformation highlights the differences
associated between Thrace, a sport-oriented so-
ciety, and her homeland Athens, a city of phi-
losophers.

Smith opens the show with the enthusiasm
of a young girl in love with life. She has fun
with her character as Philomel dreams of be-
ing married. She approaches the challenge of

IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
OcroBER 20, 2004

Smith uses dolls to tell her story during Act Il.

acting without words well and the party scene,
in which she reveals her fate to her sister, may
be one of the most gripping moments of the
show.

Schild brings depth to the stage as he sees
his life crumble before him. As the villain
Tereus, Schild has the challenge of appearing
strong, while being weak at heart. He seems
to have trouble with this dualism at points, but
his little boy tantrums show Tereus as a mili-
tary man, and one who cannot allow a woman

speak her mind.

The set, designed by Professor Joe Gardner
69, compliments the show with its striking sim-
plicity. The arches dominate the set, covered
in prickly vines, drawing a stark comparison to
the intrusion of sexual violence.

“The Love of the Nightingale” runs Oct. 20-
21 at 7:30 p.m., Oct. 22-23 at 8 p.m., and Oct.
24 at 2 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall.
Tickets are $12 for adults, $8 for faculty and
staff, and $6 for students.

Online Facebook attracts scads of students: good or bad?

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

_ “Are you onit?” The question has been heard
so often around campus the past few weeks
that it’s lost virtually all ambiguity; everyone
who’s anyone knows about the new online hot
spot for Davidson students. Rivaling the
popped-collar fad in popularity on campus,
“TheFacebook.com” has become the new so-
cial scene for those wishing to virtually con-
nect with friends and acquaintances. Able to
access all available pictures and profiles on the
site, students are now only amouse-click away
from fellow college students across the hall
and across the country.

Davidson was added on October 9 to
TheFacebook’s list of participating schools,
becoming one of over 150 colleges now con-
nected to the ever-expanding network. The
tally of Facebookers from Davidson has grown
exponentially in the past couple of weeks, now
surpassing the 800 member mark. With nearly
half of students participating, the “Facebook
Phenomenon” seems to have overtaken the
inboxes, and in some cases the lives, of many
Davidsonians.

Mike Parsons ’08, a major Facebook enthu-
siast, sums up his perception of TheFacebook
fanaticism with just a few words. “I guess the
best way to explain it all is just to say this: it
is an obsession.” Sandy Salazar ’06 agrees,
stating that “TheFacebook is addictive. Iknew
it would be a bad idea to join this week be-
cause'I had so many tests to study for,” she
says, “ but I went ahead and did it anyway.”

Joining requires only alogin name and pass-
word, but most students choose to provide a
small portrait and general biographic informa-
tion in their custom-made profile.
TheFacebook also features a formatted pro-
file system, where students can answer ques-
tions about anything from political affiliation

-to potential relationship interests.

After a student submits all of their informa-

tion, TheFacebook sets up an individual ac-
count, which can then be accessed by thousands
of other connected students across the coun-
try. A student can provide as much informa-
tion about themselves as they desire, which
makes TheFacebook adaptable to the social
inclinations of any connected individual. Many
students choose to include their contact infor-
mation both at home and at school, in hopes
that they can get in touch with acquaintances
and friends more easily.

Fountain Walker, Davidson’s campus chief
of police, has a few words of advice for these
eager participants. “I’d be very leery about
sharing certain information on the web,” cau-
tions Walker. “Anything that is man-made can
be tampered with, and there is always an op-
portunity for something bad to happen.” Walker
essentially warns against giving out one’s
phone number and address on a public profile,
because “‘it is difficult to know the extent that
a stranger out there would go to get into con-
tact with you.”

Lizzie Tiernan ’08 agrees, stating that
TheFacebook has the potential to be a “‘stalker’s
heaven.” Though Walker understands that
“giving young people an opportunity to com-
municate is good,” in a Facebook-type forum,
his bottom line is “take steps and be cautious
about it.”

Some students have chosen to avoid the
“Facebook frenzy,” citing anything from pri-
vacy reasons to their tendency to avoid trends.
Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08 says that it “seems
like a waste of time” to start and keep up a
personal Facebook profile, a statement that
many students seem to agree with. As Graham
Jaenicke ’07 puts it, “you get all these ‘friends,’
and then what do you do with them?”

Jaenicke’s reference to “Facebook friends”
touches on the foundation of TheFacebook’s
popularity. When someone joins TheFacebook,
they are given the chance to add other mem-
bers to their Friend List, which enables them to
have their friend’s profiles readily accessible

from their own account. However, one person’ s
concept of Facebook “friendship” often dif-

fers from anothers, as Parsons readily admits. —

“T become friends with people in real life so I
can friend them on TheFacebook,” he states,
“and friend people on TheFacebook in the vain
hope that Ill meet them in real life and be able
to justify myself.”

Students on TheFacebook are given the op-
portunity. to accept or reject being an addition

to a friend list, which allows for some choice _

in the matter of whom one does or doesn’t as-
sociate with. Other Facebook features include
groups and networks that members can be a
part of, which offers some variety in how
people connect and keep in touch on the site.
Parsons anda few other Davidson students took
the initiative in starting their own themed
Facebook groups, which range from Young

Democrats to the “Family Guy Festigios.”

Parsons also started the Coalition Against
Popped Collars group that now boasts 115
members, taking an ironic jab at a trend that
has caught on quickly around campus.

No matter the perspective, Davidson’ s “fas-
cination with TheFacebook” is an obvious re-
ality, whether or not one chooses to sign up.
Ashley Cramer ’08, an avid Facebook mem-
ber, can find both the positive and negative
aspects in hér decision to join. “I like connect-
ing with friends, especially those that I haven’t
seen in a long time,” she says, “but I don’t like
the amount of time that I feel I waste on it.”

Parsons recommends keeping in mind what
she terms the “‘Paradox of Online popularity”
when it comes to using TheFacebook. “Keep
your list of friends confined to acertain range,”
he says, “‘and you should be fine.”
