By Steve KALIsKI
Senior Staff Writer

The Coen brothers weren’t born for a large
audience. For most of their careers, which
began with “Blood Simple” and“Raising Ari-
zona” and which peaked with “Fargo” and
“The Big Lebowski,” their visions have been
too acutely twisted to appeal to'a broad demo-
graphic. In fact, legend has it that the idiosyn-
cratic filmmakers accompanied the casting of
the endlessly marketable George Clooney in.
“O Brother, Where Art Thou?” with a warning
like, “You may be famous, but don’t screw this
up.”

So it’s sadly appropriate that on the same
weekend that indie icon Kevin Smith whored
himself to the mainstream with “Jersey Girl,”
the Coen brothers officially betrayed them-
selves. Believing that Tom Hanks would be
the key to Hollywood gold, they have created
a flat, one-note, and thoroughly off-putting
parody with “The Ladykillers.”

Trying to recapture the deep fried Southern
charm that made “O Brother” such a hit, the
Coens have instead manifested something
shockingly unimaginative and borderline rac-
ist. With Hanks getting as much mileage out of
exaggerated eloquence as possible, “The
Ladykillers” wears out its welcome long be-
fore you understand the meaning of the title.

Irma Hall reprimands Marlon
Wayans for not ‘speaking proper’

By Liz BILLET

Senior Staff Writer

“America’s Next Top Model” is areality tele-
vision program that manages to both repulse
and intoxicate its viewers. Hosted by the un-
likely Tyra Banks, bountifully filling time slots
on UPN, “America’s Next Top Model” is quite
the sleeper hit of cable television.

From whence does the glitter come for this
diamond in the rough of the rotting reality TV
genre?

Imagine placing 12 hot girls between the ages
of 18 and 25 in a small Manhattan loft. Now
make them confident or conceited enough to
believe they can make a living off of their
hotness. Then dangle a modeling contract and
other prizes before their little upturned noses.
Promise them success as long as they can de-
liver a nude or almost nude pose for every
episode, all of which aired on the family-
friendly time slot of Tuesday at 9 p.m.

The recipe is interesting to those with an
understanding of contemporary fashion, those
who enjoy ridiculous spectacles, and those who
like to see “naked chicks.” Clearly almost no
segment of the American population is left
unaccounted for in taste, thanks especially to
the “ridiculous spectacle” clause.

No need for the grotesque formulas of other
“reality” television shows— pregnant, poorly
edited pauses, overdubbed noises signifying
sex and scandal, and alleged twists in “plot”
that are so underwhelming, they have actually

Asadvertised by the film’s shrewdly intrigu-
ing previews, “The Ladykillers” pits Hanks’s
Professor Goldthwait Higginson Dorr against
Irma P. Hall’s sweet old Mrs. Munson. Profes-
sor Dorr, aremarkably retro Ph.D. with a mys-
terious mind to rob a casino riverboat of its
bounty, takes shelter in Mrs. Munson’s home,
aresidence nearly adjacent to the casino’ s vault.

Masquerading as musicians, Dorr and his
“ensemble” of fellow criminals plot their score
in Mrs. Munson’s basement. They plan to tun-
nel through the earthen walls of her cellar with-
out her ever suspecting that they are doing
anything more than creating beautiful music.

The ensemble includes some of the most
dedicatedly stereotypical caricatures ever con-
ceived: Gawain MacSam (Marlon Wayans),
the black janitor and “inside man” for the
riverboat; Garth Pancake (J.K. Simmons), an
explosives expert with severe irritable bowel
syndrome; the General (Tzi Ma), an Asian so
hardcore he can swallow a lighted cigarette;
and Lump Hudson (Ryan Hurst), a moronic
football player who dumbly offers his muscles
to the scheme.

From this tantalizingly promising setup,
“The Ladykillers” becomes both too much and
not enough at the same time. Too much of
Hanks’s uber-English contrasting with
Wayans’s numbing profanity, and not enough
genuine social commentary. Too much atten-
tion to Garth Pancake’s IBS and not enough
self-awareness from the Coens to realize that
fart jokes are way beneath them.

In fact, the problem with “The Ladykillers”
is that itnever becomes more than areally great
premise. The Coens recycle the same material
over and over, allowing the one token manner-
ism of each character to reinvent itself in as
many ways as possible.

While I don’t take much stock in the often
prudish accusations of the presence of racism
in mostly innocent movies, the failure of the
Coens’ parody here could result in some dis-
turbed audience reactions. Wayans, Hall, and
the town’s raucous gospel church each portray
Southern blacks as cartoonish and simple-
minded. A scene in which the patronizing Dorr

stopped heart attacks.

These disgustingly obvious malignancies
marring the face of primetime television are
unnecessary when one considers the basic and
brilliant premise of ANTM.

Girls breathe, sleep, and eat their desire to
be objectified. Well, some of them don’t eat.
As supremely hormonal young women, or
overgrown girls, they love each other with
ardent passion, and hate each other with rummy
malice.

The fights are sharp, crisp and filled with
prettily-mouthed curse words, not the booze-
induced screaming of other live-in reality
shows. Tears flow freely from Episode One, in
which no one wakes up Jenascia for the 5 a.m.
nude body-paint shoot, all the way to the an-
nouncement of the winner.

The editing is altogether much less showy,
except during elimination time, when Ty-Ty,
as she calls herself, demands 10 minutes of
close-up on her face as she dramatically an-
nounces the loser. Afterwards, all parties elicit
touching, choking sobs, or wildly funny grins
of glee.

This emotional tornado touches down repeat-
edly in studios, fashion shows, photo shoots,
and Milan. The girls must sprint to a makeup
table in arace to complete a Sophia Loren look.
They must swivel their bony hips madly as they
play backup dancers in Ty-Ty’s new music
video. They are given five minutes to magi-
cally reshape a Hanes Beefy-T into a hip club-
bing shirt (under the premise that models don’t

%

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Marcu 31, 2004

Marlon Wayans and D.K. S mmons fight dirty in ‘The Ladykillers.’

explains to Mrs. Munson that there are more
good books than just the Bible is more offen-
sive than charming.

The question then naturally becomes, to fault
Tom Hanks or to-not fault Tom Hanks? Admit-
tedly, his performance is sickeningly well stud-
ied and executed. With a better showing from
the Coen brothers, this may have become his
best comic role.

However, as the movie launches into its
absurd, unwatchably unfunny conclusion, Pro-
fessor D.H. Dorr’s clever but exhausting lan-
guage loses the novelty of its appeal. As al-
ways, Hanks does his job well, but “The
Ladykillers” is that rare example of

have much time to cut up their Beefy-T’s be-
fore going clubbing), this was dubbed by
Hannah Noll ’04, as the most idiotic challenge
in the history of reality television.

And yet Hannah watched the show every
week.

There is a dichotomy inherent to “ANTM,”
if such a word can be applied to a television
show about modeling on a secondary cable
channel. It is the ideal reality show; it takes
itself seriously and yet is completely unlike
most realities, such as those of “appearance”
or “work.”

Sometimes I laugh at the self-importance of
these pretty girls, of their frustration with me-
nial tasks like enduring a haircut, or posing
underwater. But sometimes I think the compe-
tition might be rather difficult, particularly
considering the privileged lives most of the
contestants have led: Their pathos is real, and
yet ridiculous.

What of the “unreality” of these wannabe
models? Their blatant and lustful desire to be
recognized only for their sex? Surely it has
translated into great entertainment, but what
does it mean for them, or for all American
women? If it is all to be mocked, then these
women are worthless. But if their goals are
taken to be legitimate, does this legitimatize
objectification for everyone else? ~

From inside the industry, I imagine, a model
is like a garbage man. Garbage men stink.
Models get objectified. After becoming “used
to it”, the stink and the objectification go un-

Hollywood’s most reliable actor signing on to
some seriously disastrous material.

The Ladykillers

Directed by: Ethan and Joel
Coen

Starring: Tom Hanks, Irma
Hall, Marlon Wayans, D.K.
Simmons, and Tzi Ma

Running time: 1 hour, 37
minutes

Rated: R

noticed. However, garbage men are an essen-
tial part of the functioning of our posh nation.
Models, most would argue, just aren’t.

It’s a good thing the producers stuck
“America” in the title. Although Tyrahas taken
pains to pick a smattering of races, backgrounds
and sizes, all women work through one lens.
This is the lens of American fashion, which
naturalizes an unbelievable (because uncom-
mon) set of appearances. Of course, “America’s
Next Top Model” champions this vision of per-
fection and beauty. Butit alsorather deliciously,
and often unintentionally, unveils the reality
behind the camera.

Banks plays host in the latest
“reality” show, ‘ANTM.’
