THE EAVSONIAN

Caption: “Here's me alone on a Saturday night playing
computer games.”

“Check out my photos,” “Look at what
fun I’m having at college,” or “I have sooo
many friends, look at all of them.” Any
one of these statements can be found on
one of many Davidson/College students’
profiles. And, connectedto the statement
will be a hyper-link to “Webshots.com.”
Webshots, a website where people can
post photos of their choosing, so that
friends and family can view the photos, is
extremely popular on the Davidson cam-
pus, and at many colleges. Often times, a
student’s album will feature photos of the
individual relaxing with friends, partying,
or if the student is of legal age, drinking
alcohol. One student though, posted pho-
tos that fit under none of these categories,
and instead published pictures showing
his solitary daily life.

For many, the Webshots album of
Mark Gehrig ’07 is depressing as it shows
Gehrig seemingly lonely during his
college life. Said Clarissa Hinds ’08, “After
IMing Mark to ask him about a group
project that we’re doing for Econ, I
checked his profile. Underneath a quote
from a Modest Mouse song, he had a link
to his Webshots. When I clicked on it, I
couldn’t believe his photos, because they

were all of him alone looking sad and
stuff, especially the one with the caption
‘Here’s me alone on a Saturday night
playing computer. games.”

The photo of Gehrig playing computer
games was one of the many photos which
he posted that did not show a glamorous
side of college life. Other photos posted on
his album included one of him eating
alone at Vail Commons, one of him eating
alone at the Union, one of him studying at
the basement of the library, and one of
him drinking a Dr. Pepper while sitting in
his single in Knox watching a movie. Not
all of them, though, showed him by him-
self. He also posted several photos show-
ing him sitting in his Biology class as well
as one showing him with a female ac-
quaintance.

Gehrig felt that he should post an accu-
rate accounting of his existence at
Davidson. “Well, I guess I don’t really
have that many friends here at school. I’m
really involved in my work, and don’t re-
ally have time to socialize or go down to
the fraternity houses. On the weekdays, I
pretty much just wake up, go to class, eat
alone at Commons or the Union, and then
usually study in my room or in the library

Caption:

__HUMOR

PRES LEEAS iiitd S)

“Me and Jessica chilling in the Union”

basement. Sometimes, if I need to print
stuff out, I'll go up to the Belk Computer
lab. On weekends, I do allow myself to
relax a bit, and I'll usually either play
some computer games or watch a DVD.
Once in a while, I'll go up to Watts to visit
some of my old hall mates from last year.”

Acquaintances from Gehrig’s high
school also were able to check his photo
album. Said Emily Rosen, a sophomore at
the University of Pennsylvania, “For some
reason, I never deleted Mark’s screen
name off of my buddy list. The other day,
I was bored and checking people’s pro-
files. When I came to Mark’s profile, I saw
his Webshots link. After checking to make
sure that he didn’t have one of those
things to see who clicked on his link, I
went to his Webshots. Let me tell you, it
was depressing. I mean, he was always
kind of a quiet loser in high school, but
still, I expected him to at least have a
couple of friends at college. It would have
been so easy to show everyone how he’s
gotten cool in college; all he would have
needed to do was to put up a photo of him
doing a keg-stand or something, and a
bunch of pictures with him and some
good looking girls.”

Davidson College Head of fidmissions
replaced by Head of Rejections

In a stunning move that
shocked all current Davidson College stu-
dents, as well as living alumni, the Board
of Trustees of Davidson College promoted
Ursula McGill from Dean of Admissions
and Financial Aid to the esteemed
position of Dean of Rejections.

The Dean of Rejections is known for
spreading misery to high school mail
boxes around the country, but what is not
known about this honorable position is an
injustice to our community. The position
was created in 1994 with a grant from the
J.C. Nickel foundation. The position was
created amidst growing concerns that
Davidson was admitting too many stupid
people.

Nowadays, the position is essential.
The Dean turns away thousands of un-
worthy charlatans a year, while using a
healthy mix of bribery, slightly roguish
charm, and Yakuza goons to keep
Davidson at the top of Seventeen
Magazine’s influential “Top Ten Colleges
for GC Fans” list.

Outgoing Dean of Rejections Timothy
Restor, Jr. is retiring at the end of this
admissions season so that he can be a
“more active member of the community.”

“I feel like my opus — my life’s work —
is finally producing tangible results.
Davidson made that happen for me,” said

THE YOWL

Your Davidsoian Hienor Section

SEEN AT A RAVE:
NaTe BrAdShAw
SaM sPeNcEr

SENIOR STAFF WRITER:
Jeffy Yeakel

Eprtor:
Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or
interested in writing should contact the
editor at brparets@davidson.edu
Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for
the past six months, then you should know that
the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the
Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be
taken as truth.

Restor.

But Restor still thinks there’s work that
needs to be done before he leaves. “Each
year, we try and reject a valedictorian
from every county in North Carolina that
has a Davidson applicant. It makes us feel
good about oyrselves, being the first
people to welcome these kids to the real
world — by telling them that bad luck and
grave misfortune will haunt their pathetic
souls for all eternity.”-

McGill is already looking ahead to next
year. “By next year, I want to have our
average SAT scores at 1570, even if it
means only admitting 400 people. Obvi-
ously, the exceptions for athletes, spoiled-
brat-children-of-faculty townies, and
legacies will still exist, but it’s time to let
learning be cherished where fascism has
arisen, no more ‘educational handouts.”

Filled to the brim with ideas, McGill’s
controversial break from the common
application has already been approved by
the Board of Trustees. “I want everyone
to express their dedication to Davidson
College’s Honor Code with a rhythmic
poem in the style of David Byrne’s I
ZIMBRA.”

How about extracurricular activities
and faculty recommendations? They’re
out. “All we want now is your transcript,
your board scores, a picture of you ina

bathing suit, and a bank statement from
your parents. We believe that will cut
down on all the paperwork, because that’s
really all we need to make a decision.”

Even with less paperwork, this coming
Admissions season will be tough. Three
thousand idiots who don’t have a chance
are already starting their applications.
Little do they know, it’s the geniuses,
procrastinators, and AP Diploma
cheerleaders who send their applications
via FedEx overnight who get in.
According to McGill, “If a person uses an
expensive mail service to send us their
application right on the deadline, we
know that they care, and that they've been
working on the application. And we know
they have a disposable income.”
Prospectives, take heed — there’s a new
sheriff in town, and this college ain’t big
enough for the both of you.

Write for the Yowl!
contact

brparets@davidson.edu

with your suggestions,

ideas, cemments, and
already edited articles that
can be printed immediately

fl Jiff of Jeff by Jeff Yeakel

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004 9

TELLERS

RET APRS

TERRE

Caption: “Eating at the Union alone”

It was pretty obvious on Friday night
that Meredith Jifes ’07, a performer in
the dance ensemble has a lot of friends.
Jifes, a participant in the ‘Steaming and
Smoking’ act, had her name yelled out by
anumber of friends, acquaintances, and
admirers. Said Tina Allen ’07 “At the
outset of the dance number, I gave her a
couple of shout-outs. I yelled ‘Yeah,
Meredith’ a couple of times followed by a
whistling sound.”

Allen was not her only fan, as her
name could clearly be heard screamed at
least a couple dozen times, along with
some generic yells of “You go girl,” and
other screaming noises.

Others screaming for Allen included

r clearly popular
her roommate, three girls from her
freshman hall, eight members of her eat-
ing house, two friends of her ex-
boyfriend, and her chemistry partner.

Said her chemistry partner, Peter Tiles
’06, “Even though I don’t know her that
well, she’s still a cool girl, and I know that
she worked really hard on her dance. Plus,
she’s pretty hot, so if other people see me
screaming for her, they'll think that we’re
friends.”

Allen was flattered by the attention.
“I’m so happy that all of my friends came
to watch me dance. I really appreciate the
support that everyone expressed. I just

hope that none of my fans noticed I was
off by a half of a beat.”

The department of Business Services
has announced the hiring of a new mem-
ber of the team. Joan Clayton, Davidson
class of 1997, will take on the
responsibilities of the new position of
Individual Tuition Archivist beginning fall
semester of the 2005-06 year. Said
Clayton of her job, “It should be an inter-
esting position with lots of challenges to
fulfill. I don’t believe any other college has
ever undertaken an effort such as this one,
so I will be striking out into unfamiliar
territory.”

The Individual Tuition Archivist’s job
description, according to Business Ser-
vices, is that the archivist shall “make his
or her best effort to determine the exact
amount of money from each student’s
tuition that goes to each branch of college
expenses, so that students may know
what specific purposes their money
serves.” This year’s freshmen will have a
slight preview of how the system works
during spring semester, as Clayton plans
to calculate the use of some 100
freshmen’s tuition and post the results in
the Union. “It’s basically a random sam-
pling to let students know how the system
works,” said Business Services Fellow Rob
Thompson.

Clayton has expressed an interest in
determining what she calls “an appropri-
ate division of expenses” for each student.
Explained Clayton, “I take the entire op-

Staff Spotlight:
Tuition Archivist

erating budget of the school, subtract
donations and endowment contribu-
tions, and then amortize it based on
respective student tuition expenses.”

She continued,”“I have found some
interesting trends about how much each
student contributes towards each expen-
diture of the school. For example, did
you know that one dollar and thirty
cents of each student’s tuition went to-
wards adding the new napkins dispens-
ers in Commons and the Union? And,
twenty cents went to updating the
Davidson web page. Moreover, while six
dollars went to the fund for hiring a Pro-
fessor of Philosophy, forty-eight dollars
went towards the new locker rooms at
Alumni Field.”

Students have varied reactions to this
new practice of the Business Services
Department. James Freeman ‘07 is very
excited to know where his money goes,
and “what aspects of Davidson I can take
pride in saying I helped pay for.” Preston
Hawkins °05, however, asked the
question, “How much of my tuition is
going to payClayton’s salary?

Thompson finds such criticism to be
unnecessary, but expected. “A major
point of this endeavor is to determine
how the college can more efficiently di-
vide tuition money among its expenses.
If we have to spend a little more money
on a new position to save money, I think
that’s justifiable. Obviously the trustees
and the administration agree.” Clayton’s
sample report will be posted in the
Union shortly after spring break.

