Tue DAvIpSONIAN

SPORTS

By AustIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

In the 2003-2004 season, a senior laden line-
up defined the women’s basketball team and
carried them to a 16-12 record, including a
13-7 record against Southern Conference
competition. This was the best record that
women’s basketball has had since the 1998-
1999 season. However, last year’s postseason
was cut short by a first-round loss to Western
Carolina.

Davidson graduated five seniors + from last
year’s squad, and only one player, 2003-04
SoCon Freshman of the year Katie Hamilton
’07, returns from last year’s starting line-up.
As aresult, there are multiple positions up for
grabs this season, and Davidson will see many
new players making contributions to the team
effort.

Fortunately, many returning players are
versatile enough to fill many holes in the
lineup. Emily Callahan ’05 says, “Despite the
loss of five seniors last year, I think we’re
going to surprise some people. Every
individual can fill many roles, which gives our
team a lot of depth.”

Coach Annette Watts says, “I would list
youth and inexperience as both our weakness
and our strength. As a weakness, it simply
takes time and playing experience to feel com-
fortable and to gain confidence in a much
stronger and faster paced collegiate game.
Youth and inexperience are also strengths of
ours in that we just go hard trying to learn
faster and gel with each player combination
that goes onto the court.”

Strengths

The Wildcats still return several key play-
ers from last year’s squad, including Hamilton,
Janell Crayton ’06 and Emily Callahan ’05.

Hamilton, while just a freshman last year,
led the team in scoring, three-pointers made,

‘ and steals. Callahan was named to the All-

Conference team her sophomore year, and
looks to be a strong, experienced leader for
this young (mostly freshman and sophomore)
team.

Both Hamilton and Callahan have shown
the ability to be consistent scorers on the of-
fensive end, and should ease the load on the
rest of the inexperienced line-up as they ad-
just to featured roles on the hardwood.

The young Wildcat team, however, will be ©

thrown into the fire early and often, as they
have a loaded early season schedule that in-
cludes match-ups against national: power-
houses such Duke, Wake Forest, and Virginia
Tech before they take on the normal slate
Southern Conference teams. “Our conference
is competitive, but I think we will fair well.
We have some big time non-conference games
which should help to prepare us” noted Katie
Hamilton ’08.

While the early season may be a tough
stretch for the team, it will force the team to
grow up in a hurry and build its character be-
fore entering conference play.

Weaknesses

Eight of the 13 players on this year’s squad
are either freshmen or sophomore, and the
youth will likely define the fate of the 2004-
05 squad.

Coach Watts says of the challenge that youth
presents, “The speed at which the players can
gel and mature will be the determining factor
of our early success. Use of confidence and
solid defense will create consistency with each
passing game.”

With so many young players, it will also be
interesting to see who steps out from the crowd
and elevates her game. Says Coach Watts,
“While we are a very young team we are not
afraid of hard work. This team came into the
season in good shape and ready to learn, from

_ day one they have all been on the same page.”
One of the most significant losses for the .

The versatile Janell Crayton ’06 will look to
provide points in many ways for the ’Cats.

Wildcats comes at the point guard position,
where the trio of departed seniors Ashley
Hallsted ’04, Robyn Flewelling ’04 and Lind-
say Shade ’04 controlled the Wildcat offense
for the past three years.

No point guard currently on the roster reg-
istered more than 103 minutes of playing time

Nov. 12, at Duke

As part of the Preseason WNIT, the Wild-
cats will take on a Blue Devils squad that was
a No. | seed in the NCAA tournament last
year. Duke finished 30-4 last year, and this
year they are ranked sixth in the USA Today/
ESPN/WBCA Division I Top 25 Preseason
Coaches Poll and second in the ACC pre-
season poll.

Nov. 19-20, C & L/Lancer Invitational

Davidson will be playing Farleigh
Dickinson, Longwood, and Winthrop over
these two days.

Nov. 23, Charlotte

The 49ers made it to the Postseason NIT,
and should be a good challenge for the Wild-
cats in the early season. This cross-town ri-
valry is also critical for local bragging rights.

Nov. 27: at Georgia Southern

Davidson defeated Georgia Southern twice
last year, but the Eagles are ranked ahead of
the Wildcats in the SoCon Preseason Poll. This
is the first conference team that the Wildcats
play, and should provide a great start to con-
ference competition.

Nov. 30, at Wake Forest

The Demon Deacons were only 12-17 on .

the season last year, but no ACC team can be
taken lightly.

Dec. 20, Western Carolina

The Catamounts beat Davidson three times
last year, including the first round conference
loss that ended the Wildcats’ season. This
could aptly be described as a grudge match.
The Wildcats again play Western Carolina on
Jan. 25.

Dec. 29-30, Lady Luck Classic
The Wildcats are slated to play Southern

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

15

last year for the Wildcats, so
the position is largely an un-
known for the upcoming sea-
son. The Wildcats will look
for some combination of
Amanda Horne ’06, Jessica
Mitchell ’07 and Tia Wash-
ington ’07 to step up and pro-
vide leadership, ball-handling
and scoring as the floor gen-
eral.

Davidson struggled with
turnovers last year, giving the
ball up almost 19 times per
game, so ball security will be
essential for whoever mans
the point for the Wildcats.

Furthermore, while the
strong schedule should help
the Wildcats in their search
for an identity in the early sea-
son, it could also turn into a
weakness if the team does not
respond well to some of its
stiff early season challenges.

Teams either respond by
elevating their game to a new
level against great team or
they shut down, creating a
cascade of losses that can ruin
a season. Last year’s team re-
sponded very well against na-
tional competition, and car-
ried that momentum to the
games against conference teams. Hopefully
this year’s team will respond in the same man-
ner.

Coach Watts tries to make her athletes treat
each game in the same, focused manner, “Our
goal is to prepare for each game the same; one
play at a time, one game at a time.”

Miss on the 29th and Virginia Tech on the 30th.
The Hokies are ranked fifth in the ACC pre-
season polls, so they will be quite a formi-
dable opponent.

Jan. 4-Feb. 24

In this two month span, Davidson will play
16 games against Southern Conference oppo-
nents. It will be in this streak of games that
the Southern Conference standings will be
decided for the SoCon Tournament. Key
games include match-ups against East Tennes-
see State, Chattanooga and Furman.

March 2-5, at Chattanooga, TN, SoCon
Tournament

The conference tournament moves to Chat-
tanooga this year from Charleston, and the
Wildcats will look to improve upon their
quarterfinal exit in last year’s event.

Callahan ’05 will counted on
for leadership as a senior.

