THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS-WIDE FORUM
All Students, Faculty, and Staff

Are invited to a campus-wide forum
to discuss the upcoming

SACS

(Southern Association of Colleges and Schools)
Reaffirmation of Accreditation for Davidson College

As part of the accreditation process, the campus community
is asked to generate ideas for a
QEP
(Quality Enhancement. Plan)

The QEP is intended to result in “a course of action
for institutional improvement that addresses one of more
issues that contribute to institutional quality, with
special attention to student learning.”

The QEP is a campus-wide endeavor. It should:

1. Show a direct link to student learning

2. Specify its target student population

3. Demonstrate a connection to previously un-addressed
or under-addressed issues.

4. produce measurable results

Bring Your Ideas!!!

Thursday, October 28th: 4PM
Hance Auditorium —
(4th floor of Chambers - formerly
3 Perkins Auditorium)

NEws
Injuries lead to questions

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

about safety of lofted beds

By Ben WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

. While lofted beds free up large amounts of
space in Davidson dorm rooms, two recent
accidents have raised concerns about their
safety.

Both students sustained serious injuries, and
RLO is reemphasizing its offer of free bed rails
to all students.

Elizabeth Ireland ’08 suffered a broken arm
after falling from her bed on the morning of
September 21.

“I woke up and I reached for my alarm clock
under my bed,” said Ireland. “Then I lost my
balance and fell.”

Ireland fell directly on the floor with her arm
stuck under her body. Fortunately, her fall
landed her within reach of a phone and she
called for help.

Within minutes Director of Public Safety and
Police Fountain Walker, Assistant Dean of
Student Life Emest Jeffries, the Davidson Fire
Department, and seven EMT’s were on the
scene.

“We've had students fall off before,
. but we've never had such serious
injuries...If you want a lofted bed,
but are scared of falling off, we'll
provide you a bed rail.”
--Assistant Dean of Students
and Director of Residence Life
Leslie Marsicano

Ireland was transported to Lake Norman
Hospital for treatment.

Ireland now finds her lofted bed “‘intimidat-
ing”.

“I’m not going up there again,” said Ireland,
who plans to lower her bed to a safer level.

Carlos Paredes ’08 suffered a serious injury
to his face after falling out of bed on Septem-
ber 29.

Paredes’ head struck his roommate’s chair,
knocking a bone into his mucus canal and caus-
ing massive bleeding.

Unable to stand, Paredes crawled into the
hall. Ahall counselor saw the bleeding Paredes
and sought help.

Paredes was hospitalized for three days as
doctors operated on his face and installed a
titanium plate near his right eye.

Paredes has since lowered his bed.

Student reactions to the string of accidents have
been mixed.

“J just wedge myself between the wall and
the bed a lot more,” said Paredes’ hall mate Dan
Griffin ’08.

Jonathan Holman ’07, whose bed rests about
three feet off the ground, feels comfortable with

‘his current sleeping arrangement.

“T support lofted beds,” said Holman, “It

provides a lot more space for the rooms.”

Holman understands that sdme people pre-
fer lowered beds.

“When people come over they don’t always
like the height of my bed,” said Holman.
“Maybe it’s just because r m a tall guy, but I
don’t mind.”

Holman has never suffered a “roll off.”

The tallest beds, however, rest over five feet
off the ground, allowing any falling student to
reach dangerously high speeds.

Physics professor Laurence S. Cain de-
scribed the mechanics of such a fall.

“Tf they’re falling out of their bed, they’re
probably not free-falling but dragging their
feet,” said Dr. Cain.

Assuming ‘free-fall, however, a student
would hit the ground at approximately 13 miles
per hour.

“That’s accepting a lot of assumptions,”
cautioned Dr. Cain.

The potential harm of falling from a lofted
bed has long been a focus of RLO, which has
offered bed rails for 10 years.

“We’ve had students fall off before, but
we’ ve never had such serious injuries,” says
Assistant Dean of Students and Director of
Residence Life Leslie Marsicano.

RLO lofts beds before students arrive to
ensure that all beds are lofted properly in ev-
eryroom.

“We certainly don’t require students to sleep
on lofted beds,” said Dean Marsicano. “If you
want a lofted bed, but are scared of falling off,
we’ll provide you a bed rail.”

According to Marsicano, RLO was chiefly
concerned with intoxicated students falling
from lofted beds when they first started offer-
ing the bed rails.

In both recent incidents, however, the injured
students were sober.

‘Some current seniors, however, are unaware
that RLO offers free bed rails after three full
years at Davidson.

. “It seems like a good idea to have bedrails
on the beds, because I’ve definitely heard of _
people falling out,” said Charlie Hapgood ’05.
“TJ didn’t know they actually had them though.”

Dean Marsicano emphasizes that RLO needs
to do a better job on getting the word out on the
bed rails, which are currently mentioned in the
Resident Life Section of the Student Hand-
book.

“T write a letter to the incoming students’
parents and I will probably write a paragraph
about bed rails,” she said.

Marsicano also suggested RLO might put
fliers up in the halls to advertise the bed rails.

Paredes learned about the bed rails during
his stay at the hospital.

RLO is already ordering more bed rails as
they expect the recent accidents to increase
demand.

Only between 30 and 40 Davidson students

, arecurrently taking advantage of the bed rails,
,said Marsicano.

Campus Police Biotter

10/14

Belk Dormitory

Bicycle Theft

Victim states that between October 2 and October 3, an unknown person removed their:
red and silver Giant Recon Mountain Bike from Belk Dormitory. The bike is valued at

approximately $400.

10/13

Irwin Dormitory

Bicycle Theft

Victim states that between October 5 and October 6, their black and blue mountain bike
with a white and green Umbro water bottle was taken. The bicycle was unsecured in the

bike rack in front of Irwin Dorm.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

