THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004 5

Career Services completes
2003 graduate survey

By CHRISTIE KILBy
Staff Writer

The Career Services Office recently com-
pleted an exhaustive survey study to find out
how graduates of the class of 2003 are spend-
ing their time.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley said that the
first few years of life after Davidson often in-
volve moving around and trying new things.
Many students soon afterward attend graduate
school.

The numbers from the survey only represent
alumni who are in their first year after gradu-
ation.

In summary, the survey shows that approxi- -

mately 62 percent of 2003 graduates are em-
ployed full-time; 27 percent are enrolled in
graduate studies; five percent are taking inten-
tional time off; four percent are still seeking
employment; and two percent are conducting
fellowships.

The survey’s results will be officially dis-
tributed on April 16 among the Davidson com-
munity, parents, the Board of Trustees, and
current students. ;

Shandley pointed out that the overarching
purpose of the survey is to show students what
opportunities other graduates have pursued,
and thus to offer guidance as current students
make future plans.

“When we bring in such a talented group of
students and provide an outstanding education,
we need to take those talents, critical thinking

skills, and communication skills into the world
of work,” Shandley said. -

The Career Services Office asked the’ ’03
graduates last May what their plans would be,
and then asked again six months later to in-
clude those who had not yet finalized their
plans.

The survey process has been a priority of
Career Services for several years now.

- Referring to Davidson’s mission statement,
Shandley emphasized that the College remains
confident that its graduates will lead lives of
“leadership and service.” re

As for the survey measuring service,
Shandley said, “It doesn’t tackle that question.
Service is an inherent value” and one that in-
coming students already demonstrate and thar
the institution hopes students will carry into
their work.

Shandley noted that according tothe survey,
“we are not immune from the economy.”

Students’ employment numbers shift as the
job market fluctuates. Yet the survey does re-
veal that Davidson students are learning that
“how you find a job is changing,” he said. “As
employers often opt for internet applications
over campus recruitment visits, students would
do well toresearch possibilities on their own’’—
and early.

When the entire survey is released to the —

public, students will be able to look up by major
what jobs or other opportunities 2003 gradu-
ates have found and exactly where those op-
portunities have taken them geographically.

Lottery, from page 1

There was also a greater opportunity for stu-
dents to obtain a single room.

“Some rising sophomores got singles, which
is kind of unusual,” Marsicano said.

At the singles lottery last Wednesday, 60 fe-
males applied for single rooms and 55 received
them. Of the 66 males applying for singles, 55
were able to obtain one. The students who did
not get a single remain on the waiting list.

_ Tonight all the remaining double and suite
rooms will be assigned during “Lottery Night.”

Not all the double rooms will be available at
this time, and those not receiving rooms will
be put on a waiting list.

Space will be reserved on the center first floor
of Belk dormitory for upperclassmen until May
1, when the size of the freshmen class is deter-
mined.

Some upperclassmen students have ex-
pressed distaste regarding their current place-
ment on first Belk.

“Tt was unfair that I had to live as a sopho-
more on a freshman hall with only three other
rooms of sophomores,” said Will Stoudemire
06.

Most problems are expected to come from
the unusually large size of next year’s sopho-
more class, along with rising sophomores who
receive high lottery numbers.

“Our hope will be that we can find a bed for
all sophomores,” said Marsicano. “Our goal is
that everyone who wants a bed on campus will
have one.

Despite this, rising sophomores who have
poor lottery numbers are still anxious.

Jim Rastetter ’07 says that his lottery num-
ber is’“not bad enough to get on a good wait-
ing list and not good enough for a good room.”

“One of my friends with a good number made

a sacrifice to give me the option of living on
campus,” said Keith Farrow ’07.

On the other hand, some see high Iottery
numbers as a benefit.

Eric Peterson ’07 and his roommate for next
year have high numbers and thinks they might
be forced off campus.

“I’m kind of excited about the prospect of
living off campus,” Peterson said.

“Our hope is that we can find
a bed for all sophomores.
Our goal is that everyone
who wants a bed on campus
will have one.”
-Leslie Marsicano,
Director of Residence Life

Marsicano said that RLO’s “biggest chal-
lenge is about trying to guess about how many
people will change their plans” and thus free
up space, allowing students to be taken off the
waiting list.

One of the changes that will occur next year
is that Watts will become an upperclassmen
dorm, while Little will become a freshman
dorm. Both Watts and Little will, however, re-
main substance-free.

During last year’s lottery, Little was reserved
for upperclassmen because RLO thought they
would like the newly renovated dorm.

The upperclassmen, however, seem to pre-
fer the larger rooms and movable furniture in
Watts, and so the switch was made.

Triples will also be eliminated from the
fourth floor of Belk .

April at the Lake
Friday, April 16th—Band (Monticello Road) and Cookout
» — Thursday, April 22nd—(night) student music*, s mores, bonfire

Friday, April 30th—water skiing, tubing, DJ

Every week: balls for pick-up games, canoes and paddleboats,
Vamonos shuttle from Rich, t-shirt giveaways,
and everything else the Lake Campus has to offer

*If you're interested in playing at the Lake, contact Andy Martin at anmartin@davidson.edu.

Brought to you by SCA

Co-Sponsored by Vnion Board and PCC

ASSES AAREFAADERREARRAARARERAADRHEE TEES HS 4OBRAKHHELEABR HAH HAARH RD AD

