THE DAvVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Women’s Soccer remains

atop Southern

By Monica JAMOUNEAU

Staff Writer

Women’s soccer continues to rebound from
a disappointing 2003 season, as the Wildcats
remained atop the Southern Conference stand-
ings this week after a tie against Wofford and
a victory against ETSU this weekend. The next
week of games will determine whether the
Wildcats can climb all the way back to the
top and claim a Southern Conference cham-
pionship.

On Senior Day against Wofford on Wednes-
day, regulation and two scoreless overtimes
led to a 0-0 tie, the Wildcats’ first of the sea-
son. .

The Wildcats out-shot their opponents
eleven to ten, with six shots on goal during
the contest. Leading the ’Cats’on the offen-
sive end were Anne Stevens ’07, Heidi
Wilbrandt ’07, and Cady Blackey ’06, as each
registered two shots apiece in the game. Goal-
keeper Sarah Hobart ’05 played a solid 110
minutes, recording eight saves’ and yet another
shutout.

Hobart then registered her fourth shutout
of the season at East Tennessee State this past
weekend in Davidson’s 1-0 victory in

Despite depth,

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Two home matches over Parents’ Weekend
resulted in two tough losses for the Wildcats,
as Davidson fell in four games to Appalachian
State on Friday before losing to Western Caro-
lina in five on Sunday.

First, the Mountaineers of Appalachian State
took three out of four games, all within six
points, to frustrate another evenly balanced
effort by the "Cats. Three players had double
digit putaways and captain Tam Gallen ’05 led
four Wildcats in double figure digs with 28.
Gallen says of the team’s evident depth on both
offense and defense that they are all “open-
minded when being called on to step in to
play.” They were unable, however, to trans-
late that depth into a victory, as the Wildcats
allowed a .211 attack percentage to the first-
place Mountaineers.

The Wildcats returned to Belk Arena on —

Sunday for another SoCon contest against
Western Carolina, but this time Davidson was
without preseason All-Southern Conference
member Jenna Dykstra ’07, who suffered a
concussion in Friday’s game against Appala-
chian State. As a result, Katie Pierucci ’08 and
Erin Balak ’06 were forced to split duties at
Dykstra’s chief setting position, and both filled
in admirably in registering 35 and 33 assists
respectively.

Unfortunately, their emergency efforts were
not enough to put the Wildcats into the win
column, as Davidson eventually fell to the
Catamounts in five games.

The Wildcats came out strong and took
game one by ascore of 30-22. The Catamounts
managed to come back in the next two games,
although the Wildcats dragged the third con-
test to a 34-32 score. The Wildcats steamrolled
to a 30-17 win in game four, and seemed to be
in line for another SoCon victory. In game five,
however, Western fought back to force extra
points and finally capitalized on a Wildcat er-
ror to win 16-14.

Again, the effort was one spread over much
of the Davidson team, as different players were
forced into new roles with the absence of
Dykstra. Liz Williamson ’07 and Pierucci led
the offense with 26 kills apiece, while Lindsey
Woeste ’08 followed with 10. Pierucci was one
of four ’Cats with double-figure assists to
notch her first career triple-double with 35

Conference _

Johnson, TN. “Although it wasn’t the pretti-
est match we’ve played, we really created
some great opportunities in the first and sec-
ond half - some of our best combination play
yet,” said Hobart.

After another scoreless 80 minutes against
ETSU, the Wildcats finally registered a score
when Jessica Lahre ’07 hit the ball inside left
post for the only goal of the game. She was
assisted by teammate Kara Koehrn, the Wild-
cats’ leading scorer on the season.

“Lahre had a tricky goal from a gréat ser-
vice by Koehrn. The defense was pretty solid
as well, with Nancy Haskell making two foot
saves on the goal-line,” said Hobart.

Koehrn also tallied a team-high eight shots,
followed by Jenny Soldano ’06 with four.
Throughout the course of the very physical
game, Davidson’s dominated on both ends of
the field as the Wildcats out-shot the Bucca-
neers twenty-three to ten. Davidson was par-
ticularly dominating in the second period,
as the.’Cats held their opponents to two shots
after halftime.

The Wildcats’ next game takes place this
Thursday at UNC Greensboro. The match-up
will be an important determinant for the regu-
lar-season SoCon championship, as the two

Volleyball drops two at home

oe an

Many players, such as Lisa Cuellar 07, were forced into new roles

Jessica Lahre ’07 scored the only
goal in the game against ETSU.

teams are currently tied for first place in the
conference. After Thursday, Davidson, will
finish the regular season with a tough game
against College of Charleston, who is in third
place in the conference.

“We are getting really geared up for our
game at UNC-G. It will be a battle of the num-
ber one seeds in the conference, but I think

. it’s something we’ re prepared for. They have

some talented players and have had a good
season, similar to us. But I think this Davidson
squad is ready to clinch the season conference
championship,” said Hobart.

when Jenna Dykstra ’07 suffered a concussion in Friday’s game.

assits, 26 kills and 16 digs.

Said Gallen of the two matches, “I think that
we just have to be more consistent in our play.
We play great for a game or two, then we taper
off sometimes. I do think that Erin and Katie
had great matches [against Western]...they
really stepped up, as did Liz, Lisa [Cuellar

’°07], and the rest of-the team.” Balak and
Cuellar combined for 35 digs against WCU.

Davidson next has a pair of games on the
road this weekend against the Citadel and
College of Charleston before returning home
to conclude the season against Georgia South-
ern, Wofford and Furman.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

15

Football gets

‘shut out by

San Diego

56-0 loss means ‘Cats no
longer in running for PFL
Championship game berth

By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

The football team traveled to California this
weekend to play the University of San Diego,
a member of the Pioneer Football League’s
North Division. Davidson lost 56-0, suffering
its first shutout loss in 57 games, as well as its
worst loss since 1986.

As a result of Morehead State defeating
Jacksonville 28-14 this weekend, Davidson
also lost the possibility of going to the PFL
championship game.

San Diego dominated the game on both
sides of the ball, amassing 438 yards of total
offense and holding Davidson to only 188. San
Diego also forced four Davidson turnovers,
while not turning the ball over themselves and
dominating time of possession.

To open the game, San Diego scored on
three of its first four possessions to take a quick
21-0 lead after the first fifteen minutes of play.
The Toreros began all three scoring drives in
Davidson territory, including one from the
Davidson 36 after San Diego recovered a
Wildcat fumble.

Davidson showed no signs of improvement
in the second quarter, either, as the Wildcats

~ surrendered three more touchdowns through

the air as well numerous third and fourth down
conversions, including a 19-yard touchdown

“Our passing game
struggled for the third
week in a row and the run
game was never a factor.”

toss on 4th and 1 to give San Diego a 28-0
lead.

In the second half Davidson’s struggles con-
tinued, as they could not contain the Torero
offense and were unable to sustain much of
anything on the offensive end. Faced with such
a huge deficit, the Wildcats were unable to
resort to their offensive strength on the ground,
and instead had to force opportunities through
the air.

Regarding the team’s offensive struggles,
head coach Mike Toop said, “Our passing
game struggled for the third week in a row
and the run game was never a factor.”

Quarterbacks Damion White ’05 and Beaux
Jones ’08 split time in the contest, but neither
was successful in putting together sufficient
offense. White was 7 of 17 with an intercep-
tion and Jones went 3 for 15 with two inter-
ceptions.

Running back John Leverett ’05 gained only
68 yards on 21 carries, ending his four-game
streak of 100 yard games and leaving him 132
yards short of the all-time career rushing
record with two games remaining.

Special teams also continue to plague the
Wildcats, as San Diego’s average field posi-
tion during the first half was on the Davidson
49. A lack of offense as well as a struggling
kicking game led to this problem, which con-
tributed heavily to San Diego’s 42 points in
the first half.

The ’Cats have a bye this week before trav-
eling to Austin Peay Noy. 6. Davidson then
returns home for its season-finale against
Georgetown on Nov. 13.
