THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Liz BILLet
Senior Staff Writer

If you have time to read The Davidsonian,
then you have time to go see the Annual Stu-
dent Juried Exhibition at the VAC. The show
will be up until May 5, and it’s a delightful
study break.

Though not everyone loves a good gallery
crawl, this show is pleasurable to all comers.
You probably know at least one of the artists,

_ and you will certainly have empathy for all their
hard work.

What’s more, the variety of medium and
subject, and their juxtaposition in the hanging
done by Brad Thomas, are veritably mouth-
watering as well.

I always love the slightly overwhelming
feeling of walking into a gallery full of art I’ ve
never seen before. But it’s even better when I
encounter sculptures, prints, paintings and
drawings all by different artists.

Walking in, one is immediately confronted
with a menacing, crouching figure wearing a
hat of rough wooden spokes (“The Envy of
Ralph” by Garen Reidel). The texture of the
rough gray surface is a fine contrast against
the smooth wood of the gallery, particularly
when the hands of the figure press urgently
against the floor. Immediately behind is an en-
trancing painting by Katie Mixon. The com-
position fed my greedy eye by letting it rest
nowhere and offering up delicious colors at,
every turn.

Right next to that is an etching by Anna
Lauzon, entitled “Dance With Me, Juan Di-
ego,” which won third place in the judging.
Juan Diego was a lonely, poor Aztec who wore
a cactus cloth, converted to Christianity, and
saw many apparitions of the Virgin Mary on
his daily three-hour walks to Tenochtitlan. The
tiny dancing skeleton tossing up his cactus cloth
embodies the idea of fragility, rendered with
aesthetic strength. And, haven’t we all wanted
to dance with an Aztec saint?

And that’s only the first three pieces I laid
eyes on—what ecstasy! The following room
contains gorgeous drawings by Hannah Noll
and David Burr—one large and abstract, one

figural and small. I joyously flock around the
candy store! How can I resist the canvases filled
with intense color, as in “Raandn” by Lucy
Corwin and the hot orange “Torso” with very
taut buttocks by Belvin Shelnutt? Or the nuclear
hands of a sculpture by Warren Christian that
peeks from one room of the gallery into an-
other? Or giant shoe-polished nose crafted by
Jonathan Wu?

The punch of that large piece contrasts with
a commion thread among many,of the sculp-
tural works: their structures function like al-
tars. .

Open suitcases become display trays deco-
rated with ribbons and feathers in works by C-
Fun Thawley and Lindsey Smith. A glass case
turns a variety of small personal affects into
relics in a piece by Sarah-Grace Wesley. A
small, unidentifiable object is placed ona black
pillow in Eron Earley-Thiele’s “Lifeboat.”
That pillow is set in the end of a giant welded
boat-shape which, frighteningly, has no sides
or bottom.

These small art objects on pedestals crafted
by the artist give a bit more intimate to look at
than the larger abstract works—which is not to
say that many of these are not stunning. Inti-

macy—light-hearted or intense—seems to be |

the theme of the show, intended or not. One
can see the life cycle in the interior of a board
in Stuart Harrell’s “2x4,” and in a particularly
humorous number by Adil Bahalim, one looks
into the interior of a round roll of masking tape
to find a triangle of cardboard.

Weare invited into achicken’s dressing room
in “Poultry Paradox” by Caroline Holmes,
which won Best in Show. She cast a rubber
chicken in bronze and then designed and sewed
a wardrobe for the poultry, which seems aghast
that it has nothing to wear. However, the
chicken stands in front of a mirror which
Holmes said was designed to be large enough
to include the viewer. We are invited into the
frustrated world of the bronze-rubber stage
chicken, and stay to see the bountiful creativ-
ity of a fellow student.

So go see the art that your friends make and
have fun with it, because who couldn’t use a
little aesthetic pleasure at this time of year?

Arts & LIVING

a

Cannon celebrates some of her last days at Davidson.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004 7

Farewell ‘My Davidson’

By CANNON HopGeE
Arts and Living Editor

The Davidson College that I have etched into
nostalgia is different from the campus that we
see today.

The school that I celebrate is almost quix-
otic in its flashes of shiny smiles, dewy lawns
and twinkling nights. Once upon a time, end-

. less celebrations extended beyond campus

designations, and Patterson Court was this
dingy but enduring place that permitted any
behavior. I was naive, but My Davidson Col-
lege still feels quite real.

There was, of course, my first academic all-
nighter when I shared the sterile 24-hour room
with a fellow classmate. I can’t remember the
paper topic; but I recall watching the outside
air progress from black to December gray and
later heaving my haggard body up the library
steps. My Davidson recollects the library be-
fore the first floor computer lab was installed
when there was the whirr of swift-footed stu-
dents hoping to claim one of the library’s con-
servative handful. The library was where older

‘Wicked’: the newest Broadway sensation

poret

dthentsical.com
Chenoweth and Menzel as Glinda
and the Wicked Witch.

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

Broadway is a place that leaves a chill run-
ning up and down your body. Good theater can
be hard to find, but you know a show’s genu-
ine, when it makes it to Broadway. Not to say
that flops don’t occur there, it is just less likely.
Or that you will always like the show. Just like
any music or movie, each person has different
tastes. .

But for those inclined, there is something
magical about the area surrounding Times
Square. Over Easter Break, I saw “Wicked”
the new musical by Stephen Schwartz. It is the
new smash hit of the year. Look for this musi-
cal as the Tony nominations are announced on
May 10. .

When Glinda the Good Witch says “why
don’t you let the little girl and her dog. ..Do-do
go?,” you know you aren’tin Kansas anymore.
Kristen Chenoweth and Idina Menzel star as
Glinda the Good Witch and the Wicked Witch

of the West, respectively. Incorporating the
show with smart one-liners, fantastic special
effects, and innovative costumes the produc-
tion leaves you wanting more as the curtain
drops.

Galinda is the popularity-grabbing roommate
of Elphaba, the future Wicked Witch, the “beau-
tifully tragic” unpopular smart girl (she’s
green—doesn’t make for good first impres-
sions). Chenoweth moves the character from
being a shallow, rich kid to a powerful witch,
ultimately ousting the corrupt Wizard (played
by Joel Grey of “Cabaret” fame). Unknown to
the citizens of Oz, she pursues the political am-
bitions of her best friend.

Yes, the witches become friends and while
some may wonder, Chenoweth and Menzel
compliment each other in acting style and voice,
producing a plausible background to the friend-
ship formed.

Likewise, Menzel adds a witty and sarcastic
twist to the ‘Wicked’ Witch. An Animal rights
activist (Animals, with a capital A, can speak,
whereas animals cannot), Elphie is misunder-
stood as her burgeoning powers prove to be
beyond her control. She declines the Wizard’s
several invitations to join the ‘in-crowd’ after
unknowingly adding hirh in his plot to destroy
Animals.

In.the end, the audience leaves satisfied as
Dorothy (who only appears by shadow when
killing Elphaba) heads home and Glinda helps
stabilize the problems of the Ozians. The Scare-
crow, Cowardl)\Lion, and the Tin Man also
make appearances throughout the production.

Based on the novel by Gregory Maguire,
“Wicked” holds a solid story line, which com-
pliments the original by L. Frank Baum. The

production carries a political undertone, focus-
ing on the deception appearances can cause and

’ the overwhelming influence of public opinion.

The music is catchy, with power ballads pre-
dictably approaching as the tension mounts.

However, it follows the new trend on Broad-
way to focus on social issues. With
“Hairspray,” “Rent,” and “Assassins,”
“Wicked” follows the life of something that
society has deemed unacceptable. These mu-
sicals provide a fresh outlook. They try to ac-
cept those who are different and do not fit into
the correct personality, concerning weight,
sexuality, and appearance. They are a power-
ful set of musicals for their honesty, testing the
limits by challenging the audience with what
they know.

Wath all of that combined, “Wicked” pro-
vides a stellar production that is a must-see
when visiting Broadway.

Joel Grey as the V

boys, including my brother, played wildly fun
pranks and drunken games of book-tag. We
laughed at the library’s weekend early closing
hours and joked about the school’s nerdiness.

My Davidson recalls the rush of anticipa-
tion during my first self-selection. There I was,
hiding in my dark Little dorm room, pretend-
ing to be asleep, and just hoping that chance
placed me into my first choice eating house.
The girls were all so pristine and mature, and
their confidence seemed unending. So I tim-
idly sipped my breakfast champagne and
watched the roomful of new “sisters” dance in
their pajamas. None of these girls, I believed,
ever could have a bad hair day.

Suddenly, like morning visions after a
drunken night, My Davidson has stirred an-
other glazed situation, and memory dizzily
stumbles into the Outpost. No one ever believed
that the Outpost would close - it was our space,
and the painted walls and familiar din reaf-
firmed our ownership. Maybe I would see my
brother and follow him into the kitchen where
we'd talk with Dixie and eat greasy pizza ba-
gels. Maybe | would slide into a spell of brav-
ery and sputter out my musical talent onto the
piano’s dull keys. Sometimes, in a flourish, |
would brush against some older boy that |
crushed, but most of the time I was cornered in
gossip and dotty conversation.

Everybody knew everybody else, and I felt
completely out of my element. Wide-eyed and
confused, I obsessively took class notes while
mentally replaying weekend events in slow-
motion. Sometimes ] felt like everybody - even
strangers - knew about some drastic mishap
that I provoked, and other times I just felt like
“Hodge’s little sister” - a faint shadow of some-
thing overwhelming and real.

But, My Davidson was more than a few
places and events that recently have been erased
by administration and reputation. It was a sen-
sation - no, an intimation of old school cama-
raderie. This Davidson has almost died, and-
we rarely recognize how we contribute to our
school’s suffocation. Instead, we echo our
rankings from the “Princeton Review” and
boast that Davidson is more than having the
seventh most competitive acceptance rate in
the United States. We are negligent and some-
times forgetful. Our peers may petition to dis-
play student artwork around campus or pre-
serve some of the school’s fine traditions; but
where are all of the photographs that once
decked the walls of the old 900 Room? Are
they trapped in one of the stacks of taped-up
cardboard boxes? Does anyone ever rebel
against library codes anymore? Will there ever
be another impromptu down on the Court, or
feel like a dizzy jungle again? I don’t know.
There’s so much that I want to revive and re-
live before my tenure ends, but I have a few
more all-nighters to pull and papers to finish.
But maybe I’ ll initiate one last whirl of giddy
exploits. ;

Have fun y’ all, and keep up the steady work.

s
