Todd’s Music: jam band heaven

Courtesy-of Todd’s Music

Local record store offers
‘music for your head’

By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

Todd Farmer is “just looking to turn every-
body onto some live music.” He plays mando-
lin in a local jam/bluegrass group called Ba-
nana Pudding. One of these jam-band friends
introduced Farmer toa store that he later bought
and named Todd’s Music. Since its opening
last March, live music has been the store-
owner’s primary objective.

Todd’s Music offers a middling assortment
of DVDs, videos, new and used CDs, and vin-
tage records. The store and its stock generally
cater to Farmer’s personal interests, “[wlJe try
to carry a little bit of everything, but I guess
we’re more into the hippie jam band stuff. I’ ve
seen 85 Dead shows, so I guess I’m just an old
Dead Head.”

Still, Farmer guarantees that any media item
that is not in stock can be ordered within two
days and free of shipping costs.

While the media selection is limited, Todd’s
Music is more than a record store. The shop
embodies Farmer’s passion by promoting lo-
cal and live music and selling Mountain Per-
cussion instruments, acoustic guitars and bass,
mandolins, banjos, and accessories. Farmer

offers basic repairs and lessons to those who
have purchased instruments, and he hopes to
host local park drum seminars this spring.

In addition to Farmer’s programs through
Todd’s music, he plans to promote live music
through his band. Banana Pudding is sched-
uled to play numerous springtime arena gigs
and participate in local festivals.

These events will also act as a venue for other
store merchandise (such as incense, hemp jew-
elry and clothing, belly rings, posters, candles

etc). Farmer hopes that these items will adver-_

tise his store and its music.

If youare searching for music that isn’t found
within this genre, I personally would not rec-
ommend Todd’s Music. On the other hand,
considering that there isn’t a Best Buy within
a thirty-minute drive, Todd’s special order
policy might save you in gas money what you
lose in time. However, if you’re really inter-
ested in hearing live music or playing you own,
Todd’s Music offers everything that you need.

Directions: Take 77 South to exit 28, take a
left at the stop light, take a right on Torrence
Chapel Road (located in the shopping center
on your left). Hours are Mon-Thurs 10-6; Fri,
Sat 10-7. Visit’ their website at
www.Toddsmusic.net.

‘Snapshots of Davidson

been sending mixed
ghostly NASCAR logo.

ne: Above is an interior view of the
banner that unidentified ‘icuataters used to make the clock display a

oCk face of the DCPC has

Wepnespay, Fepruary 4, 2004

Student exhibition a compelling
blend of color and geometry

By Jessica STRAUS
Special Contributor

The “Beware of the Square” sign hanging
on thé door of the VAC should alert you to the
explosion of color in the Smith Gallery. If you

thought Chuck Close had it going on, walk
across the hall and discover the room that has
been engulfed by the work Trevor Dienes 04.

Dienes is an abstract artist. But he doesn’t
alienate his audience or leave you feeling that
you could have done the same thing with a
couple of crayons and construction paper. He
brings you into textured layers of paint and
fascinates you with his colors. His acrylic and
oil paintings are an amalgam of colors that
somehow fuse into an entrancing whole. His
rhythmic brushstrokes give his paintings in-
credible energy.

“T have always just preferred working with
colors and their interactions tocreate aharmony
onthe canvas, rather than be too concerned with
capturing the objective reality,” said Dienes of
his work.

But I think Dienes does capture a striking
dimension of reality. His distortion of appear-
ances only augments his ability to capture the
emotion and life of his subjects. He is able to
project their essence through intricate use of
color and through flat, simple shapes. In

Dienes’ work, complexity and simplicity are
equally riveting.

Dienes lets his artistic influences shine
through in his work. His exhibition’s title piece,
“Beware of the Squares,” gies a nod to Aus-
trian painter Gustav Klimt. Klimt made pow-
erful use of patterns, especially squares, in his
work. Dienes’ theme of squares and patterns
dually encourages us to ‘beware’ conformity
and awakens his audience to the captivating
quality of intricate pattern.

Austrian artist, Egon Schiele, also influenced
Dienes. A little side note here; before his death
at age 28, Schiele was expected to be the “new”
Gustav Klimt.

So, clearly Dienes has a thing for Austrians.
Either way, Schiele’s influence can be seen in
Dienes’ use of bold contour amidst a colorful
chaos. In contrast to Schiele’s grotesque eroti-
cism, Dienes makes provocative use of the
nude, almost camouflaging it with abstract
designs.

Dienes’ work is vibrant with energy, an
energy that the Davidson community should
not miss.

“Trevor Dienes: Beware of the Square” runs
from January 31 to February 7 in the Smith
Gallery of the Belk Visual Arts Center. The
exhibition is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on
weekdays and 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. on weekends.

An advertisement for Trevor Dienes’s show, ‘Beware of the Square’

For those of you keeping score, here’s A&L’s index of current
trends, tracking what's cool - and what comes up way short.

Making the best
of your private
Space

Indepe

ndent

recora

not

Pasties at the
Super Bowl

-»

Brown snow a’
week later

Wasting Owen
Wilson’s talent

Over-priced
jeans

