The DB

sontan

First CLass
U.S. PostacE Paip
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

a 2 ‘THE SOUTH'’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 16

Overa dozer nomi ser
during the sthool y

Gender balance policy
to affect admissions

Competition expected to be especially strong among females

By BRANDON CARROLL
Managing Editor

As reported last week, the Admissions Of-
fice has received a record number of applica-
tions from students wishing to be part of a
smaller-than-normal incoming freshman class,
making getting into Davidson extremely com-
petitive this year.

A little-known secret of the admissions game,
however, is that not all applications are created
equally.

Specifically, the Office of Admission and Fi-
nancial Aid must abide by Trustee policy, as
must all agencies of the college.

In regard to admissions, the Board of Trust-
ees have created a policy that the college will
maintain a gender balance of roughly fifty
percent men and fifty percent women over four
years.

Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy
Cable said,‘‘We are well within Trustee policy.
We currently have two classes that are a few
more men than women, and two that are a few
more women than men.’

Belk to be renovated during summer

By BLeviN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

Belk Dormitory is slated to undergo several
major renovations this summer.

The most significant renovations will con-
sist of redoing the building’s electrical, plumb-
ing, and heating and air conditioning systems.

The Residence Life Office (RLO) hopes
these improvements will help eliminate the
mold problem that has persisted in the dorm.

The renovations will also allow the dorm to
be much more handicap accessible. An eleva-
tor will be installed in the building, and two
additional handicap suites will also be added.

The handicap suites have a private bath with
aroll-in shower and handicap-accessible sink.
Currently there is only one handicap-accessible
room in Belk.

The lounge areas on first and fourth Belk
will be expanded and enhanced as well. Along
witha television area, the first Belk lounge will
have a reading area located where the Writing
Center is currently situated. Two double dorm
rooms in fourth Belk will be reduced to singles
in order to enlarge its lounge.

The building’s bathrooms will also be modi-
fied. Several of the urinals will be removed so
that there is only one on the wall of each bath-

«Let the Yow! fill
the void in your
life on Feb. 14...

room. Bathrooms will also offer more privacy,
as some showers will have dressing areas.

Other than a few alterations, the appearance
of the dorm rooms will not change significantly.
New movable computer desks will replace the
existing built-in computer desks, and the floors
of the rooms will be carpeted.

Dean Leslie Marsicano, Director of Resi-
dence Life, commented on the renovations.

“The most important elements of the reno-
vation will not be immediately apparent to stu-
dents but will make a big difference in their
Belk experience throughout the year. We’re
bringing the electrical, plumbing, heating and
air conditioning systems into the 21st century
so that students will enjoy much more reliable
service,” Marsicano said.

Because the renovations will require the
entire duration of the summer to be completed,
RLO is insisting that students currently resid-
ing in Belk leave the building within 24 hours
after completing their last exam. They are en-
couraged toroom with a friend in another dorm
if they wish to stay through graduation.

RLO will move into the second floor of
Martin Court F during the renovations. Since
RLO anticipates that renovations will not be
complete until the first day of move-in in Au-
gust, neither students living in Belk or F next

semester will be able to return to campus early.

Marsicano said that student athletes affected
by this arrangement will probably reside in
otherdorms with team members until the regu-
lar move-in date.

Marsicano encourages students living in
Belk to start thinking about taking exams early.

“‘We’ re working on an accelerated construc-
tion schedule in order to complete this enor-
mous job in 12 summer weeks. We’ll really
need the cooperation of this year’s residents in
moving out promptly and next year’s residents
in moving as scheduled to meet our goal of
having the building ready for students,”
Marsicano said.

The same company that is currently work-
ing on Chambers will also be handling the reno-
vations of Belk.

The cost for the improvements will be ap-
proximately four million dollars, and funding
is coming from room rents.

Belk’s renovations are part of an eight-year
plan to renovate all of the residence life halls.
Davidson is currently in the second year of the
plan. So far, Richardson, Ryburn, and Flowe
have been completed.

After Belk is completed, Marsicano says
RLO’s next biggest concern will be Duke Resi-
dence Hall. ; ,

However, some question the gender require-
ment, due to the fact that on the whole, the set
of applications from females are frequently bet-
ter than those from men, making getting into
Davidson more competitive for women than
men.

“The long term trends of applications are that
applications of women are increasing and qual-
ity is increasing, while numbers for men have
plateaued,” said Lou Ortmayer, Professor of
Political Science and chair of the Faculty Com-
mittee on Admission and Financial Aid.

President Bobby Vagt defended the trustee
policy.

“This is not a matter of saying we’re taking
someone just to get a matter of equity.

“We look at achievement, [and] we look at
potential,” Vagt said. “In terms of actual mea-
surable performance, women have matured”
earlier in their high school years.

“With respect to men, one of the challenges
with the Admissions group is to find somebody
who can come here and do well, and when.the
goddess of maturity does strike,” they will be

see Admissions, page 5

Education prof
critical of Teach
for America

LEgSLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Teach For America’s efforts to recruit
Davidson students into its program will con-
clude on Sunday, the application deadline,
but the controversy surrounding this program
will most likely continue.

Although Teach For America’s on-cam-
pus coordinators have blitzed students with
e-mails and informational meetings promot-
ing their program for the past several months,
Dr. Rudy Jackson, Assistant Professor of
Education, warned interested students to
think twice before making such a serious
commitment to the organization.

According to Jackson, Teach For America
is a wonderful idea, but it suffers two seri-
ous flaws.

First, itsends recent college graduates with
little to no teaching experience to some of
the most challenging public school districts
in the country. The children in those districts
often perform below grade-level and need

see Teach, page 3

SPORTS: It’s Valentine’s Day, love sports

SEE PAGE 12

HUMOR, PAGE 9)

Who will get
your vote next

Monday?

NEWS, PAGE

How to win
the heart of an
A&L editor.

Aad, PAGEG
