Carter ’05 pitched a gem against Wofford, going seven innings and giving up one earned run in the win.

SPORTS

3 by Dorsett Clark

’Cats creep by Crimson, go 2-1 at Wofford

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

After winning this weekend’s series against
Wofford, the baseball team improved to 7-8
in Southern Conference play, but the team has
not been above .500 since March 9th, stand-
ing at 12-17 on the year.

Co-captain and team ace Brian Akin ’04
improved to 5-0 on Sunday, scattering six hits
in six innings work while allowing four earned
runs, as the Wildcats roared to a 10-5 victory
over the Terriers.

Davidson grabbed the early lead and never
looked back, as Jay Heafner ’06 ripped a
bases-clearing double to center to give the
’Cats a 3-0 advantage in the first. Davidson
tacked three more runs on the board in the
second, highlighted by an Alden Crissy ’07
homerun to left.

Heafner made the most noise offensively,
scoring once while driving in four, and Alex
Entrekin ’06 scored twice and knocked in three
more. Justin Hartanov ’05 replaced Akin in
the seventh, holding Wofford to one run off
six hits while striking out seven en route to
his first career save.

On Saturday, Davidson and Wofford split a
doubleheader, with the Wildcats winning the
front end, 3-1, and the Terriers taking the

ae 6 eS OS OO eS Oe Se Bee Be 6 BB kt

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

“PANINI”

FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET

Shops on the Green + 177@ Exit 28
704-896-3190 + www.ferruccis.com

nightcap by a score of 10-2.

Andy Carter ’05 (1-3) turned in a brilliant
performance in game one, surrendering just
one run over seven innings. Rob Wilson ’07
held Wofford at bay in the eighth, and Heafner
struck out one and induced a game-ending
double play in the ninth to notch his league-
leading seventh save.

Ronnie Shore ’06 drove in Sam Navarro ’05
in the second to give Davidson the early lead.
Wofford drew even on the fourth, but Entrekin
singled in Andrew Musashe ’05 with two-outs
in the fourth with what proved to be the game-
winning run. Shore plated Navarro in the sixth
for some added insurance. Offensively,
Navarro led the ’Cats going 3-for-4 and scor-
ing twice, while Shore went 2-for-4 with two
RBIs.

In game two, Wofford grabbed a 1-0 lead
in the fourth and never looked back, as the
Terriers rolled to the 10-2 victory. Heafner
provided all the offense, going deep in the
sixth for his third home run in 2004 and nearly
clocking a grand slam in the eighth, coming
up just short but driving in the other run with
the sacrifice fly.

Last Thursday, Davidson hosted the
Harvard Crimson in a game that went to an
extra frame before the ’Cats pulled out the 6-
5 victory.

a a

\

Harvard jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead in
the first, but was then held scoreless until the
ninth. Davidson finally got on the board in
the fourth, as both Musashe and Eli Benefield
’05 crossed the plate. The ’Cats took the lead
in the fifth when Benefield doubled to left,
scoring both Michael Muniz ’05 and Shore,
and then increased their lead to 5-3 in the sev-
enth when Crissy crossed the plate on a field-
ing error.

The Crimson plated two in the ninth to send
the game to extras, but Navarro laced a two-
out single in the 10th to score Muniz and give
Davidson a well-fought victory.

Matt Meade ’07 pitched five strong innings,
yielding just two hits while striking out eight,
but Heafner was given the win as he improved
to 2-1 in 2004.

Last Wednesday, N.C. State scored 11 runs
on just 10 hits and cruised to an 11-2 victory
over Davidson in Raleigh. The lone bright
spot for the ’Cats was Brett Pheiffer 04, who
had two of Davidson’s three hits.

Davidson returns to action on Friday, trav-
eling to Appalachian State for a three-game
SoCon series, then faces Wake Forest in Win-
ston-Salem on Tuesday. The next home game
will be April 16th, when SoCon rival College
of Charleston comes to town for a three-game
weekend series.

We'll help you move

even if your friends wont.

ou with that.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

» We carry everything you
need for your next move.

A variety of moving boxes Turnberry Place on Catawba,
Bubble cushioning eae with Anthology,

Packing peanuts

: We can ship boxes to
F your new address for you.

Low rates direct from UPS®
82003 United Parcel Service of America, Inc.

19

from Men’s Tennis, page 20

over at number six. Georgia Southern main-
tained its momentum from the doubles
matches, winning in straight sets at positions
two, three, and four, the first three matches to
finish.

Davidson did not give up despite already
having lest,the match. Haywood, Jetli, and
Bermeo won their matches at one, five, and
six, respectively, in three sets, leaving the fi-
nal margin of victory for Georgia Southern at
a narrow 4-3.

. With two consecutive conference losses, the
team hoped to turn things around on Satur-
day against Wofford. The Wildcats hosted the
Terriers at Covington Courts on Senior Day,
the team’s last home match of the season.

Davidson got the match off to a great start
with wins in all three doubles matches. Coach
Frank made another slight change to the
lineup, inserting John Bolton ’07 at number

two doubles with Gould. The resulting 8-6
victory validated Frank’s adjustment, as the
two played well together in their first action
as a team.

The singles matches went back and forth,
with Davidson winning at positions one and
six, and Wofford prevailing at two, four, and
five. With the match knotted at 3-3, the atten-
tion turned to Britt on court three. Both play-
ers played quality tennis throughout the match,
battling down to the wire in the third set.

After Britt was broken while serving for the
match at 5-4 and his opponent held serve to
go up 6-S, Britt served an excellent game to
force a tiebreaker. Britt fell behind early, with
his opponent racing to a 6-3 lead, before mak-
ing his comeback.

After evening the tiebreaker score at 6-6,
the players traded points back and forth be-
fore Britt finally toppled his opponent 14-12.
The final match score of 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (12)
indicates the closeness and quality of the
match, but the most amazing statistic was
Britt’s ability to hang tough in the pressure
points, saving eight match points before
emerging victorious.

The hard-serving senior punctuated Senior
Day with an amazing victory, his eighth of
the year, which Frank called “the most monu-
mental match I’ ve had in my 32-year career.
I’ve never seen somebody stave off eight
match points like that.

“It showed a lot of character for the team to
win Saturday, with everyone knowing how big
Donald’s loss is for our team,” Frank said.

The win over Wofford elevated the team’s
conference record to 2-5, with three confer-
ence matches and a non-conference match
against Charlotte remaining. The remaining
matches will be tough tests for the ’Cats, es-
pecially-given their new positions in the
lineup.

“‘We’ ll have to play our best tennis of the
season,” said Frank. “But we have some tal-
ented young players, so we can put some good
players in the lineup [in Miles’ absence].”

The UPS Store

19722 One Norman Blvd.
Cornelius, NC

Half mile west of I-77 in

bucks & Sushi-at-the-Lake.

M-F 8:30 - 6:00
Sat 10:00 - 3:00

704-892-9760

store2193@theupsstore.com

