THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Apri 21, 2004

ARTS

By way of introduction:

IVING

Davidson’s latest spring fashion

This week, the Arts and Living section de-
votes two pages to fashion. Now A&L must
justify its decision to highlight the most su-
perficial, materialistic, and malleable aspect
of our daily lives.

Why think about clothes when there’s
Virgil or Foucault?

Simply put, most Davidson students pre-
fer reading about the trivial (say, fashion) to
an obscure dance troupe or manifesto on
semiotics.

Fashion is something that is ever chang-
ing and easy to discuss. How many times
have you wondered why another student de-
cided to wear something unconventional or
just plain ugly? Clothing is obvious. While
serving its purpose, a tee shirt or pants de
fine its exhibitor. ;

Fashion, clothes, dress and style describe
asetof symbols that, at a place like Davidson,
relay information about economic status, so-

y.operagloves.com

Josh Morrow ‘04 models couture
Hawaiian shirt.

cial status, and personality.

Even the lack of clothes is a signifier: re-
member those students who walked around
with no shoes?

In the symbolic sense, a Louis Vuitton
purse isn’t just a purse, and by the same rea-
soning, anondescript purse isn’ tjust a purse.
A Red Sox hat is not a Yankees hat, and a
Sox hat worn to the side is a very different
thing than one worn straight. And when
there’s a hat when there’s no sun, the hat
isn’t a hat at all: it’s pure symbol.

Baseball caps show that an unavoidable
tension exists between function and sym-
bol, and it’s with this tension in mind that
A&L hopes that you read this week’s sec-
tion.

Yes, fashion is - in an ideal world — trivial,
but until we are all in uniforms, we should
celebrate our freedom to dress and dress well.

Trends we see

Burberry-scarves, umbrel-
las, purses, baseball caps,
quilted jackets; everything.

Coach-CCCCCCCCCCCCCCC

Croakies - Obviously, your
sunglasses are going to fall off
on your way to the library.

Fake Vintage Tees-- Thereal
thing’s cheaper, and New Jer-
sey isn’t for lovers.

GrayNewBalances - Theygo
with everything!

Jelly Bags- Atleastthese Jel-
lies aren’t on the feet.

Little Louis Bags - Who knew
that an accessories pouch
could be so popular?

Short, Pleated Skirts-- Tennis
anyone?

Uggs - Wool-lined boots to
keep you warm during those
cold Spring nights.

Trends to be
' .

A.C. Slater Jeans - Stone-
washed preferred.

Costume Jewelry and Dainty
Church Gloves - Not just for
dress-up or Grandmoms.

I.D. Bracelets - More indi-
vidual than new Tiffany’s
charm.

Keds - White, lace-less, and
canvas.

Short-Shorts - For boys or
girls, they’restill hot. Especially
on boys.

Speedos - Eurotrash is in.

Vintage - But real.

Wellies-- The new Uggs.

Arts & LIVING FASHION IS BROUGHT TO YOU BY AN
UNDERGROUND SLEW OF FASHIONISTAS WHO JUST
HAPPEN TO HAVE MORE STYLE THAN YOU DO.

Boys & girls: classic closet essentials

It is so easy to become trapped in fashion’s
sphere of mediocrity. At some point during
freshman year, the alarm clock snooze button
becomes a familiar friend and the idea of try-
ing to look presentable becomes a lost art.

We’ ve come up with essential items that are
classic cool and necessary for every closet.
Boys and girls: read carefully, take notes, and
paste this up on your closet door because Arts
& Living has organized what every college
student must have in their wardrobe.

Ladies:

1.) Silk Scarf — This is a good item because
of its versatility. You can wear it in your hair,
around your waste or neck, or you can tie it to
your purse. Get a simple pattern so that it isn’t
easily remembered.

Where to get it? Stein Mart: 704-895-8477.

2.) Little Black Dress - It all started with a
“Breakfast at Tiffany’s”... The little black
dress is the perfect flirty item to wear at night
or even during class. For a more casual look,
wear your dress with a jean jacket and flip-
flops; if you care to dress it up, don a pair of
sassy heels. We suggest Anthropologie’s Jer-
sey Drape Dress ($98) because it flatters any
figure and does so without revealing too much
skin. The price is justified by the number of
times that you'll wear it.
www.anthropologie.com or 800-309-2500.

3.) Sassy Stilettos - Who ever thought that
platform clunkers flattered any leg? Today’s
popular stilettos range from a sweet kitten heel
to hot FMTs. Isaac Mizrahi’s Michelle Ring
Sandals can be worn with jeans or dresses and
won’t empty your pocket-book.

Where to get it? Target: $19.99, 704-896-
1813.

4.) Nice Dark Jeans - This is yet another
splurge but it is something that you will wear
every day. The fashion world now is leaning

toward a higher-waisted jean that flatters the
hip and elongates the leg. The best fitting jeans
are Earl Jeans, Seven for All Mankind, Express,
and Miss Sixty.

Where to get it? Luna’s, 704-892-1004;
Kohl’s, 704-896-1020; or T.J.Maxx, 704-799-
3757.

5.) Vintage Jewelry - Whether found in your
great-aunt’s drawer or ata flea market, vintage
jewelry works well with casual or formal wear.
Earrings are the most versatile, but anything
works well.

Where to get it? Oak Street Mill. 19725 Oak
Street, Cornelius; 704-895-2653

It all started with a “Breakfast
at Tiffany’s”’ ... The Little
Black Dress —

Gentlemen:

1.) Jeans that fit - This means pafits that don’t
stop an inch above your ankle. It also means
pants that don’t look like I could survive jump-
ing out of a plane by holding on to them. Go for
“dirty” washes and dark colors to avoid the
sandblasted look of the 80s. Look for styles
like “standard fit” or “low rise boot fit.” Avoid
“loose fit,” which really just means ill-fitting.
This may be one of your most expensive es-
sentials, but that’s okay cause you will wear
them over and over again.

“Where to get it? Diesel Jeans
www-.diesel.com or The Gap, 704-896-2328

2.) Black or gray pants - They aren’t just for
girls: black pants are instantly dressy and suit-
able either for work or for going out on the
weekends. Buy one pair that fit well and you’ Il
instantly multiply the possible combinations
in your wardrobe.

Where to get it? Banana Republic or Saks
Off Fifth.

3.) Polo shirts in unexpected colors - There
are so many polo shirts on campus it seems
like they multiply on their own. To stand out
from the preppy crowd go for shirts in unex-
pected colors. Pink is a favorite with girls and
boys who are confident in their sexuality. Try
yellow for a cheery spring look. Avoid orange
unless you are bold and don’t have red tones in
your face. If you must have green go for lime
green and avoid all dark colors. Where to get
it? Syms, 704-532-0018.

4.) Shoes that aren’t dressy - You shouldn’t
be going anywhere but the gym in the shoes
you work out in. Look for fashion sneakers

like Sketchers or Steve Maddens—you can
get for cheap at discount stores like Payless.
If you want to show off your manly feet, go
for leather sandals. Avoid Birkenstocks and
make sure you clip your toenails.
Where to get it? Rack Room Shoes.
5.) A tie that stands out- When you graduate

you'll be interviewing for jobs. You want .

something that’s going to set you apart from
the crowd and make you feel confident. Look
for brightly colored or stylishly patterned ties
that can make you unforgettable.

Where to get it? Banana Republic or Brooks
Brothers Factory Store.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

1.) Old-S¢hool Flip-flops —Remember when
simple rubber flip-flops were cheap? Old-
school flip-flops are the perfect spring/sum-
mer item to wear to class, the Lake Campus, or
out on the Court. We like Target’s Mossimo
Rubber Thongs that come in bright citrus col-
ors and sell for about $5, or Foodlion offers a
cheaper, more traditional style for about $3.

2.) White Oxford Shirt— A button-down shirt
is good because you can either dress it up by

tucking it into a pair of slacks or dress it down
by leaving it loose with jeans. We especially
like the jeans look on girls if a feminine cami-
sole (found at the Gap for $6) is worn under-
neath the Oxford. A very classic, very sexy look
when you wear it with nice dark jeans and roll
up the sleeves. Don’t spill anything onit. Where
to get it? $29.99 at Syms: 704-532-0018. 3600
N. Sharon Amity Road, Charlotte.

3.) Old, Old tee-shirts — So comfy that they
feel like an old one-dollar bill. Should fit well
and not be purchased from trendy retail store.
Wear with dark jeans, leather skirt or old cor-
duroy pants. Where to get it? Value Village,
the Goodwill or your father’s closet. _

Jessica Cooley ‘05 dons the
vintage tee.
