THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Men’s Soccer ends six game
losing streak against Mercer

By Brian HELFRICH
Staff Writer

The Wildcats men’s soccer team defeated
Mercer last Friday in the opener of the UNCG/
adidas Classic to halt their losing streak at six
games. After squandering a tremendous upset
opportunity last Tuesday night against #1
UNC Greensboro, the "Cats won their first
game since defeating UAB in early Septem-
ber during the Davidson/adidas Classic.
Riding the momentous wave from the victory,
Davidson tied Coastal Carolina in a rematch
of the 2003 NCAA Tournament battle.

Davidson finally played their first game in
the new Alumni Stadium, hosting undefeated
Southern Conference rival UNCG. In what
proved to be a hard fought and closely con-
tested battle, the ’Cats were unable to over-
come a 2-goal deficit and fell to the nations
top-ranked squad 2-1. After holding the ex-
plosive Spartan offense at bay for most of the
first half, a miscommunication in the Davidson
box allowed Greensboro midfielder Randi
Patterson, the country’s top goal-scorer, to
score easily. The game entered halftime with
the same score, as the Wildcats were playing
stride for stride with the best. Just 15 seconds
into the second half, however, a Spartan striker
snuck in behind the defense to give the visi-
tors a 2-0 lead. Davidson continued fighting,
nonetheless, and Freshman Tom Lavan ’08
tallied his second goal in as many games
(scored only goal in 4-1 loss at Virginia on
October 9th) to cut the lead in half. The goal
was too little, too late as Davidson fell to a
disappointing 3-7 on the season.

“We played hard, but not particularly sharp
or focused,” head coach Matt Spear said. “It
was a huge loss of opportunity to upset a great
team. I was very disappointed.”

Three days later, the Wildcats traveled north
to Greensboro for the UNCG/adidas Classic
and a Friday afternoon clash with Mercer.
Davidson got on the board first when David
Sartorio ’06 capitalized on a misplay by the
Mercer goaltender. Mercer struck back soon
thereafter, finishing a penalty kick to knot the
score at 1-1. Davidson Co-Captain Ben
Kittinger ’05 helped the ’Cats regain the lead,
finishing a Mac Wilkie ’07 cross with just 4
minutes to play in the opening half. Mercer
rebounded just 21 seconds later, however, ty-
ing the game at 2 goals apiece. Not to be out-
done, Wilkie capped of the fury of goals by
scoring his own. Wilkie’s second goal of the
season, assisted by Preston Davis ’06, gave
Davidson the 3-2 lead at half time.

Contrary to early season struggles, the Wild-
cats continued their domination of play in the
second half of play, holding a 14-3 shot ad-
vantage in the game. Freshman Aaron West

from Connolly, page 12

waiting for the wheels to fall off. Speaking’ of
bad wheels, did you see Papi’s slide in the
12th? If the guy goes either head- or feet-first
he’s safe; instead, he opts for the combo, lead-
ing with his feet then rolling over in mid-slide
to reach for the bag—out. The Russian judge
gave him a 3.5.

Fortunately, six bullpen pitchers, including
Tim Wakefield of the Aaron Boone debacle,
combined for eight scoreless innings as the
Cinderella story in Boston moved on to New
York. And since we’re dealing with this whole
Cinderella idea, anyone else feel good that
Schilling had a cleat specifically made for
Tuesday’s start?

All I’m saying is Halloween’s around the
corner, and someone needs to turn a pumpkin
into a magical carriage. So, if you’re sitting
around reading this on Wednesday night,
you’re missing out. After all, game seven is
probably in the middle of the sixth...

’08 notched his first goal early in the second
period, and the superior Wildcats held on for
a 4-2 win. The victory ended the longest los-
ing streak since 1998 for Davidson.
“Sometimes you have to remember how to
win,” Spear said. “Mac Wilkie came in and
provided a huge spark. Aaron West played
very well off the bench— Preston Davis, too.”
In the second and final game of the tourna-
ment, the ’Cats battled powerhouse Coastal
Carolina to a very solid 1-1 draw. Off-the-field
issues caused Davidson to start a less experi-
enced group of players and the Chanticleers
exploited the new lineup to gain a 1-0 lead
just five minutes into the game. The extremely
athletic opponents continued to attack, but
strong goaltending by Jordan Hauser ’06 in
the first half and Co-Captain Bart Creasman
’05 in the second, as well as a defensive re-
grouping, held Coastal Carolina at bay. Late

According to Coach Spear,
Wilkie ’07 sparked the Wildcats.

in the first half, Co-Captain Joey Bass ’05
headed in the tying goal from a Cass Baltz
’07 free kick.

The second half proved more of the same,
exciting soccer as both teams battled up and
down the field relentlessly for 45 more min-
utes. After a scoreless second period, the teams
entered a grueling overtime in which
Creasman made a huge point-blank save to
preserve the tie.

“It was a fun game—lot’s of chances for
both teams,” Spear said.” It was tough to come
out and scored on early, but I think the result
was appropriate for how the game went.”

The fury of games continues this week as
Davidson goes on the road for two important
conference clashes with Furman and Wofford
before returning home next Tuesday night to
host Elon. These three games are vital to the
*Cats’ Southern Conference season, as they
hold a 0-2 record thus far in conference play.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004 3

| Students, Faculty, and St
eceive 20% off with CatCar

