THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

Our hectic schedules at Davidson allow little
time for dining out. Special occasions demand
a nice dinner on the town, while the burgeon-
ing fast food scene comes in handy when hun-
ger strikes. This week, we chose to explore
inexpensive food spots that offer little by way
of atmosphere but heaps of flavor. Word of
mouth led us to each of the three diverse places,
and our expectations were high. Each stop on
our list touched upon a distinct ethnic cuisine,
and all outshined traditional meals eaten on the
run.

If high prices at Griffith Street’s only gas
station turn you away, then Ron’s Pig Palace
on Wheels should steer you back, if only on
Fridays. Ron Haynes’ nephew Bobby manned
the grill on our visit and claimed that their
“palace” was the first kitchen ever built in an
automobile eleven years ago.

Operating between Davidson and South
Carolina throughout the week, the barbeque
stand’s sandwiches, ribs, and hush puppies
could induce a week’s worth of mouth water-
ing. Neither of us claims to be a barbeque ex-
pert. Nevertheless, the meal we enjoyed there
rivaled those we have had in the past at Greg’s
in Mooresville.

Tender pulled pork melded with crisp slaw
on a toasted sesame seed bun. Sliced pork
absorbed a smoky mustard sauce and fell apart
into succulent pieces as we ate. We sampled
all four of Ron’s sauces and found that each is
true to its name. The vinegar sauce tasted like
spicy vinegar, the hot sauce was loaded with
cayenne pepper, and the mustard sauce had a
faint mustardy burn. Ron’s traditional sauce

oe & a

La Patisserie is available to satisfy the passing customers.

was our favorite, a perfect balance of sweet and
tangy flavors that would win over any barbeque
enthusiast.

The 32 tons of pork that Ron’s cooks each
year bear witness to the Pig Palace’s extreme
popularity. While perfect for lunch on the.run,
we found that Ron’s barbeque tastes equally
as good as a makeshift picnic on the curb. The
Pig Palace parks at the Exxon on the corner of
Griffith St. and Jetton Rd. from 10:30 to 3 on
Fridays. Tuesdays and Saturdays, look for it at
the Cashion’s near Birkdale Village.

Just under ten miles south of Davidson in
Huntersville, a small white trailer occupies a
good portion of the Tienda Mexicana’s front
parking lot. Inside the unassuming vehicle,
proprietor Dave and his wife are simmering

bi rad
Chicago City Limits in performance.

Artist Series provides a laugh

By MICHAEL CAVELL
Staff Writer

Davidsonians looking for a good laugh can
do themselves a favor by attending this
Saturday’s Artist Series performance by Chi-
cago City Limits. The New York based improv
comedy group is almost sure to be a crowd
pleaser in what is the second out of four Artist
Series performances offered for the 2004-2005
school year.

Chicago City Limits was originally founded
in Chicago in 1977, relocating to New Yorkin
1979 and establishing its own theater there in
1980. The group has been there since and is
now New York’s longest running comedy re-
vue. Chicago City Limits has made frequent
television appearances including “The Today
Show” and Comedy Central and has received
rave reviews from the New York Times and
others.

On Saturday night at 8:00 pm, Chicago City
Limits will perform in the Duke Family Per-
formance hall. Tickets can be bought from the
box office in the Union, online at
www.davidson.edu/tickets, or by calling 704-

894-2135. Ticket prices are $15, $20, and $25
depending on seating.

In addition to presenting their show on Sat-
urday night, the members of Chicago City
Limits will be conducting an improvisational
workshop Friday evening from 4:00 to 6:30
p-m., giving students an exciting chance to learn
from some of the best in live comedy. Students
wanting to reserve a spot for this event should
contact Lee Ann Bannerman by campus e-mail
or by dialing extension 2192. There is a limit
of thirty for this event, so it would be smart to
try and reserve a spot as soon as possible

As would be expected, members of
Davidson’s own “Oops...” improv group are
anxiously awaiting the arrival of Chicago City
Limits. “Oops...” President Ryan Hastings
said, “I feel that their show is going to be a
great time for anyone who comes.” Referring
to the improv workshop on Friday evening,
Hastings said, “It is going to be a great educa-
tional tool for the troupe members and will help
them improve their improv.”

Even for the uninitiated in improv comedy,
Saturday’s show should Provide ai laughs
and good times.

and sauteing some of the area’s most authentic
Mexican cuisine. With no sign, no address, and
no known name, the taco stand’s obscurity adds
to its charm.

Upon spotting a crowd of Mexican work-
men on their lunch break, we realized that we
were in the right place. Like Ron’s Pig Palace,
everything here is cooked within the confines
of a trailer, but the menu is in Spanish and a
few chairs and benches outside make eating
slightly less humbling than the Pig Palace’s
curbside dining.

We sampled four of the tacos and found each
one to be piquant and delicious. Cilantro and
chopped onion garnished most of the tacos,
which are served in homemade corn tortillas.
With acombination of sweet and spicy flavors,
the pork and cactus taco was the most unusual
mix.

Another variety not found in most Mexican
restaurants was a mixture of ground beef, chil-
ies, tomatoes, and onions accompanied by
refried pinto beans. Others comprised of
chicken and barbequed pork are equally suc-
cessful. Dave also offers quesadillas of Oaxaca
cheese with salsa verde and pinto beans as well
as less authentic, enormous burritos.

All of the items are very reasonably priced;
tacos for instance cost only $1.50 each. Since
Dave only serves food, venture inside the tienda
to find bottled drinks typically rare north of the
border. From the college, drive south on Main
Street about 10 miles through Huntersville and
look for the Tienda Mexicana on the left side
of the road.

Despite its French name, La Patisserie Bak-
ery is actually owned and operated by Elsa and
Manuel Mendoza, both natives of Colombia.
The bakery has been open about two and a half
years, and all of the pastries and cakes are baked
in house daily. If the scones and other pastries

ES NOVEMBER 4, 2004 7

ERAS x tp agi

taste familiar, you might have enjoyed one at
Summit, which La Patisserie Bakery supplies
along with Legends Coffee Shop and Camille’ s
Sidewalk Cafe.

The selection at La Patisserie is plentiful, and
we had a difficult time narrowing down our
choices between the myriad scones, muffins,
croissants, sweet breads, and cinnamon rolls.
For those who come craving dessert, there is a
vast assortment of standard cakes, cupcakes,
and cookies as well as delicate eclairs, cannolis,
key lime tarts, and baklava.

According to Elsa Mendoza, the pumpkin
muffin, once only around during the fall, is now
a permanent menu item due to high demand.
Both it and the blueberry muffin were surpris-
ingly moist and packed with both freshness and
flavor.

La Patisserie’s sweet breads also took us by
surprise. A sprinkling of sugar on top accented
the sweet dough and filling. While we espe-
cially enjoyed the sweet bread filled with straw-
berry jam and cream cheese, the guava version,
native to Colombia, calls for an acquired pal-
ate.

Some items like the chocolate croissant and
cinnamon stick reflected Méndoza’s under-
standing of traditional French pastries. Neither
seemed to come directly from a Parisian
patisserie; however, their light flakiness satis-
fied us. Other bakeries in the area can hardly

s Photo by Andy Martin
The taco stand provides a quick
meal with good results.

rival these buttery indulgences.

The variety of pastries and cakes at La
Patisserie proves that Mendoza is equally tal-
ented at baking South American, European, and
American classics. Illustrating this diversity, a
Tres Leches cake behind the glass counter was
sandwiched between a tray of Italian cannolis
and a classic coconut cake.

With little seating space, the bakery is con-
ducive to purchasing sweets for the road. All
of the breakfast items cost no more than $2,
and a variety of fresh coffees and fruit
smoothies are also reasonably priced. La
Patisserie is located at 188 North Main Street
in Mooresville.

Ron’s provides good BBQ for reasonable prices.
