THE DAvIpsoNIAN

12

For you
SPOrtus tans...
BROOKIE S PICKS

OF THE WEEK
Wildcat game of
the week:

Women’s Soccer
SoCon Tournament
November 4-7
Greensboro

Despite falling from a potential first seed to
the fifth seed after two losses, the women.
are serious contenders in this year’s
“ae

SPORTS

By WILson McCrory
Sports Editor

While it may be a surprise to most around
here, even in the Charlotte area, NBA basket-
ball is returning to the Queen City this Thurs-
day night when the Bobcats begin their inau-
gural season in the Charlotte Coliseum against
the Washington Wizards.

The Bobcats’ arrival, unfortunately, is far
different from that of the former Coliseum
tenants, the Charlotte Hornets.

When the Hornets came to North Carolina
16 years ago, the region embraced the team
like it did college basketball and NASCAR.
The Hornets led the league in attendance ev-
ery year when players like Kelly Tripuka and
J.R. Reid were the “stars” and the Hornets
limped to last place finishes in the East’s At-
lantic Division.

That enthusiasm continued into the 1990s,
as the Hornets drafted college stars Larry
Johnson and Alonzo Mourning in successive
years to give the team one of the strongest
young duos in the league. Years of prosperity
appeared eminent for the Hornets franchise,
and NBA Championships didn’t seem out of
the question for the still-young franchise. The

Taking a short break from

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

While the World Series was far and away
the number one sporting event of the past
seven days, I fear people will start throwing
bricks through my window if my column fo-
cuses on Boston for the 82nd straight week.
So, without further ado, join me as I desper-
ately endeavor to entertain the four of you
readers...

(This is me staring at my computer for three
hours, trying to think of non-Boston events
while pondering whether or not to join
thefacebook.com. I hear you can get dates that
way.)

On Saturday, Connor sponsored its 2nd
Annual 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament to ben-
efit breast cancer. Winners received a $50 gift
certificate to the Brickhouse, but a number of
diehard tailgaters brought the Brickhouse to
the tournament, if you know what I mean—
and if you don’t, that’s just sad.

Indeed, the atmosphere was straight from
College Gameday, except instead of watch-
ing the Running Rebels or Screaming Eagles

Disney plot for Red Sox in 20

By Drew BrookIE
Sports Editor

If a screenwriter wrote the story of this fall’s
playoffs, producers would throw out the script.
It’s too cheesy, too unbelievable. The only stu-
dio that would have anything to do with such
a screenplay is Disney.

But the story is true. It’s almost too true to
be good, if that makes any sense.

October was not a month-long dream, yet
some Red Sox fans still can’t believe their
team actually beat the evil Yankees. The fans
really can’t be blamed for hopelessness. Their
spirits fall perennially when the leaves do in
October. That’s why victory over the Yankees
brought more shock than satisfaction initially.
Red Sox nation is more accustomed to play-
off hell than playoff paradise.

This year was different. Hopes and predic-
tions actually aligned with reality. Spirits were
lifted back up after eighty-six years of per-
petual plummeting. The team formulated a
plot worthy of its own Disney movie.

Maybe the players had a good story in mind.

city continued to embrace the new profes-
sional franchise, and the Hornets games were
the social hot-spot for Charlotteans.

Somewhere in the mid-90s, though, some-
thing went wrong in Charlotte. Maybe it was
George Shinn’s sexual assault trial on Court
TV, Anthony Mason’s endless run-ins with the
law, or Shinn’s refusal to sign his stars to long-
term deals. Forward Bobby Phills’ fatal car
accident after he had been drag-racing in the
streets of Charlotte with teammate David
Wesley may have been the final straw.

The Hornets continued to put a decent col-
lection of talent on the floor, making the play-
offs in six of their final nine seasons in Char-
lotte, but the enthusiasm that defined the
team’s initial existence in the Queen City
quickly evaporated into apathy and even ani-
mosity toward the hometown team.

When owner George Shinn demanded that
the city build the team a new, state-of-the-art
arena in downtown Charlotte after only 10
years of play in the Charlotte Coliseum, the
voters decisively turned down a stadium ref-
erendum. And with that, NBA basketball was
gone from Charlotte, as Shinn and his cohort,
Ray Woolridge, packed their bags for New.
Orleans and never looked back.

toss the pigskin, one could see Slowe Flowe
or the Screaming Ditzels toss up bricks.

Two of my roommates and I entered and,
not surprisingly, lost to an all-freshman team
in the second round. However, the fact that
we even made it to the second round was a
small miracle. You see, I have never played
organized basketball in my life—more of a
rink rat—and so our team was basically two
guys playing hoops and me imitating Sandy
Lyle (“Raindrops!”) from “Along Came
Polly,” the most underrated movie of our time.

On the day, I had one point, garnering
“Please Don’t Enter Our Tournament Again”
honors. Never before, though, has someone
so bad made it look so good. Sporting a David
Wesley Hornets jersey and yellow shorts that
defy ugly, my one point came on a sky-hook
that would make Yao Ming cringe with jeal-
ousy. (Truth be told, I’m pretty sure my eyes
were closed.)

In all, there were 11 teams in the men’s
bracket and seven in the women’s, with a
nameless team taking the men’s title and the
‘Lax Girls’ winning the women’s division.
Apparently basketball talent and team-name

Rather than taking batting practice before
Game Seven against the Yankees, the Sox ac-
tually watched the movie “Miracle” in the
clubhouse. I guess they needed tips.

Their own plot might be formulaic, but it
works.

Every story needs nasty villains for the he-
roes to knock down. Who makes better foes
than Steinbrenner, Jeter, A-Rod, and the rest
of the Yankees? The context of the rivalry and
the history between the two teams allows for
a great background on which to build tension.

There was also the typical rut for the pro-
tagonists, the low point, when the Sox were
drubbed by the Yankees 19-8 to fall to 0-3 in*
the series. All hope seemed lost.

But the loyal fans showed up at Fenway for
Game Four with signs that said, “Keep the
Faith.” Disney theme: Don’t give up! David
Ortiz, Big Papi, came through with a walk-
off home run that gave Red Sox Nation more
reason to believe.

The home run began the rapid ascension to
the climax of the story. The Sox won Game
Five with Pedro on the hill and Ortiz deliver-

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

The NBA still felt that Charlotte could be a
successful home for professional basketball,
however, and awarded the town a new fran-
chise under the ownership of Bob Johnson,
the former CEO of BET, in 2002.

So now we have a new team with new own-
ers and new players promising to put the fail-
ure of the former regime behind them.

Still, I’m worried that the latest NBA ex-
periment will end just as the last one did} with
another NBA franchise quickly packing up
their stay after a brief flirtation with the city.

In theory, I’m elated that Charlotte is get-
ting another team, and can’t wait for the Bob-
cats to take the court on Thursday. The new
arena will be another draw for the ever-grow-
ing area of downtown Charlotte and the team
will provide Charlotte with the name-recog-
nition it deserves as the second biggest bank-
ing city in the country. After the success the
Hornets displayed in their first 10 years in
Charlotte, the city is clearly big and diverse
enough to support a second professional fran-
chise along with the Panthers.

Furthermore, the winter months didn’t seem
quite the same these past few years as the

see McCrory, page 14

creativity are inversely related. Connor raised
nearly $450 by organizing the tournament, and
will add that sum to the $749 its bake sale
raised, thereby contributing almost $1200 to
Friends You Can Count On.

Such a worthy cause deserves better par-
ticipation next time around, and anyone out
there on Saturday will attest to how fun the
tournament was, even kids who suck at bas-
ketball. Like me.

(This is me Googling myself, discovering
that Richard Connolly is actually one of
Australia’s top composers of Church music
and not some clueless college student in North
Carolina. Phew, that takes a weight off my
parents’ shoulders.) _

Did you know that in every presidential
election since 1936, if the Washington
Redskins won their last home game the in-
cumbent won the election, but if the Redskins
lost their last home game the challenger al-
ways won? On Sunday the ’Skins lost 28-14
to Green Bay in Washington.

If I knew enough about politics, I’d prob-

see Connolly, page 13

04 playoff:

ing a walk-off hit (again), this time in the 14th
inning. Unrealistic? Too much drama? Only
on paper.

Curt Schilling, the main hero, turned in his
Oscar-worthy performance in Game Six. He
overcame pain from his dislocated right ankle
tendon to pitch seven innings while only giv-
ing up one run. The man’s tissue had to be
sutured to make sure the tendon remained out
of place and immobile. Viewers all over the
country let out a collective “aaaaaaouch!”
when Joe Buck explained the procedure. The
description combined with the image of the
bloody ankle might have brought the rating
up to PG-13.

That was also where the story got a little bit
absurd. Symbolism just arose randomly within -
the plot. Red socks? Hmmm...

When the “idiots” finally won Game Seven,
I wanted to stand up and cheer but I couldn’t.
I was too amazed, paralyzed in a state of
shock.

One would think that such a plot would be

see Brookie, page 14
