14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

A fresh start: Bobcats set to begin season

By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

Charlotte coach Bernie Bickerstaff had the
chance to bring in big-name players like
Antoine Walker and Jerry Stackhouse for the
expansion Bobcats this summer, but decided
not to weigh down the Bobcats’ with huge
contracts and declining talents. Instead, the
Bobcats will try to build through their youth,
as they used the expansion and amateur drafts
to bring in players that are raw and athletic.

As a result, the roster is primarily a list of
young, NBA no-names that have languished

on various benches across the league and come:

to Charlotte in search of playing time and a
chance to prove their talents on the court.

There is some potential on the inaugural
roster, including Emeka Okafor, Gerald
Wallace, Primoz Brezec and Melvin Ely, but
the Bobcats will have a tough time transform-
ing that talent into wins this season as they
learn to play together and against fellow NBA
competition.

The Bobcats have been sloppy with the ball
on the offensive end, they do not have a proven
scorer on the roster, and their shooting has
been woeful at times during the preseason.

Management insists that the Bobcats will
rely heavily on their youth this year to develop
what talent is on the roster, and that defense
alone will win them games in their first sea-
son, but the Bobcats will have to find a way
to knock down shots to contend in more than

from Brookie, page 12
predictable, but happy endings never crystal-
lize for the Red Sox. The history of the fran-
chise has never allowed any such tale of re-
demption. Yet there they were, the Sox re-
deemed, celebrating and drinking champagne

-in Yankee stadium. It was beautiful; it was

eery.

The theme of redemption ‘iisinénsted the
individual side stories as well. For everyone
out there who has ever gone 2-29 at the plate,

Okafor and the Bobcats will play host to Antawn Jamison and the
Washington Wizards on Thursday in the Bobcats’ franchise-opener.

a handful of games this year.

It is also more likely that they will depend
heavily on veterans such as Steve Smith and
Brevin Knight to carry the load during big
spots. Charlotte’s inexperience has been glar-
ing at times during the preseason, and

keep the faith! There’s a chance to hit a grand
slam in Game Seven, climbing out of the dark
hole of slumpdom and into the spotlight of
heroism, ala Johnny Damon.

For anyone who has ever been booed in a
home stadium, a few hits can win forgiveness

Bickerstaff has already shown a propensity to
go to his veteran leadership down the stretch
of close games.

Still, no matter what combination the Bob-
cats have on the floor, it will be a tough sea-
son for the first-year team.

cording to popular opinion, because Bellhorn
hit two crucial home runs in the last two
games.

The MRP (Most Redeemed Player) goes to

“ Derek Lowe. He had fallen from the top of

thd rotation to the bottom of the bullpen after

from the fans! Everyone in Boston thought a miserable second half. Nobody expected him

that Mark Bellhorn should be demoted to the
end of the bench (or Pawtucket) after he
looked absolutely lost at the plate through the
first five games. The Sox are lucky manager
Terry Francona did not write his lineup ac-

to play a part.

When the playoff rotation was torn to shreds
by extra innings, Lowe’saved the Sox in Game
Seven. He also pitched like an ace in the World

Series clincher against the Cardinals. Sox.

from McCrory, page 12
Hornets no longer highlighted the sports sec-
tion, and I instead had to watch hockey be-
tween big ACC match-ups on the hardwood.

Best yet, a successful team can rally a town
together, as we saw. with the Panthers’ run to
the Super Bow! last ygar.

At the same time, however, a team can serve
to divide the community, as the Hornets so
effectively did during their final years here in
Charlotte.

To bring the Bobcats to Charlotte, the city
council had to allocate over $200 million in
‘public funds to. build a new uptown arena,
going against the wishes of a referendum on
public financing held only a year earlier.

The refereridum was non-binding, and it

.technically dealt with an arena for the Hor-

nets, but the voters had made their opinions
about a new stadium clear. When the city
council ‘went behind their backs to secure the
league’s 32nd franchise, a level of distrust and.
hostility towards the new team was established
before they could even suit up for the first
game.

Two years after the approval of a new arena,
there is still an undercurrent of resentment
geared towards the new team and the leader-
ship that brought it to Charlotte.

Fortunately, there is positive interest in the
Bobcats, as they have already sold more than
9,000 season tickets for the upcoming year.
This total puts the Bobcats right in line with
the average for other NBA teams for the 2004-
05 season. In contrast, when the Hornets left

after the 2002 season, their season-ticket num-

bers were down to 6,000 and attendance was
just above 10,000 per game.

On the other hand, while there are no sea-
son-ticket numbers for the Hornets before
1997, the team sold out the 24,000 seat Coli-
seum on a nightly basis when it opened in
1988. Even in the late ’90’s, when the city
was growing disenchanted with the falling

franchise, there were still 15,000 season ticket

holders.
So while there is a moderate amount of sup-
port for the new expansion franchise, there is

_ not the same grassroots, community-wide fas-
- cination with the Bobcats that existed for the

Hornets 16 years ago. That rabid fan base was
able to weather the years of losing that Char-
lotte endured, as the Hornets won only 20 and
‘19 games respectively in their first two sea-
sons in the NBA.

In 2004, however, the fans will not be as .
forgiving as the losses again mount for the
expansion franchise. On sports radio, in the
newspaper, and at the water cooler, people are
still talking about the Panthers’ 1-6 start, who
will win the Nextel Cup and the upcoming

* college basketball season. The Bobcats are an

afterthought.

Fans will likely pack the Coliseum on
Thursday night and for most of the 41 home
games this season, and they will return next
year when the new uptown arena opens up in
the middle of the:city.

But when the losses begin to pile up, as they
inevitably will, I am not sure people in the
area will still show up in the stands out of loy-
alty. Instead, I worry attendance and fan sup-
port will nosedive, and the negativity that sur-
rounds the return of NBA basketball will
drown out any positives the Bobcats can show
on the court.

If that happens, we will be saying goodbye
to the NBA for the last time in a few more
years.

Nation can consider him forgiven, if not re-
signed as a free agent.

Speaking of the Cardinals, the Sox really
did play them in the World Series. I mention
this because many fans were still paralyzed,
like I was, after Game Seven against the
Yanks. The sweep might have been fun, but
the climax had already been reached.

Expect Disney to be the first, and only, stu-
dio in line for movie rights. Pedro and David
Ortiz did not go tc Disneyworld after Game
Four to celebrate; they went to negotiate.
