THE DAVIDSONIAN

Diversity, from page 1
that, to some degree, the same types of preju-
dices and differences exist here as anywhere
else inthe country, ” Brookshire said.“‘We have
the same social triggers here as we do any-
where else.”

Salter adds that while it is important to have
focused discussion within minority groups,

“It’s essential to stress that
diversity should not only be
discussed in a forum or after a
racist event happens. If you
only adress diversity in that
light, it seems like a hassle.”

--Erika Dean ’05

diversity issues affect the entire community.

“People always walk into our cafeteria and
ask why all black students sit together,” Salter
said.

“I walk in and see a bunch of white students
sitting together.”

Several minority students expressed a sense
of exhaustion connected to feeling that they are
obligated to speak for a certain race or minor-
ity group.

“Not only are you highly visible because of
your skin color, you are constantly breaking
stereotypes,” Brookshire said. “I keep want-
ing to tell people that I’m not the ‘black view,’
I’m Trenita.”

By spending the second semester of her
sophomore year participating in a domestic
study abroad program at a historically black
college or university (HBCU), Salter alleviated
some of the stress connected to being a minor-
ity at a predominately white college like
Davidson.

“T’ ve been in situations in classes at Davidson

News
Campus Christmas party

where I’ ve felt torn between saying what I really
think or saying what most black people think
on a certain topic” Salter said.

“The most striking difference about my

HBCU experience was that I felt more com- |

fortable expressing my own views in the class-
room. When I came back to Davidson, I did a

lot better academically, personally and so-

cially.” ‘

Although Davidson has become-more wel- -

coming for gay students in recent years, Matt
Talbert ’04, president of the Gay Straight Al-
liance, said that the majority of the student body
still remains “unabashedly indifferent” to the
challenges facing the gay community on cam-
pus.

“Student attitudes toward homosexuality at
Davidson can be divided into three main cat-
egories: the quiet and indifferent majority, the
loud objectors and the loud liberals,” he said.

Talbert said that the demands of being a
minority student combined with the demands
being a Davidson student can be overwhelm-
ing.

“For those of us who are in the minority and
are outspoken, we are oftentimes seen by our
differences and our differences alone,” he said.
“T personally don’t mind the spotlight and the
public eye, but it grates on you.”

Despite the challenges, the personal nature
of Davidson offers students the opportunity to
become leaders and enact change in a support-
ive environment, Paul Wyatt ’0S said.

“It’s important that we nurture and develop
our diversity so it is more than just faces in a
crowd,” he said.

Erika Dean ’05, president of the Black Stu-
dent Coalition, said that ongoing discussion
about issues relating to diversity is vital to
building a strong community.

“It’s essential to stress that diversity should
not only be discussed in a forum or after a rac-
ist event happens,” she said. “If you only ad-
dress diversity in that light, it seems like a
hassle.”

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

5

Your

Dream want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with Strong academic records to

apply to the | best’ 1 schools by giving |

tion, the necessary
ses, and one-to-one

academic Tvising,

If you or someone you Know? Warts to pursue a
career as a doctor, apply during the
application period of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit
www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Your -~

Reality:

“I don’t have the
required courses

for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS

PW: Beer S21

iscancatniraaie.
Premedical Program

