THE DAVIDSONIAN

North Carolina Dance Theater will

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

Dance has the power to give people the abil-
ity to express themselves without words. The
dancer, through a simple movement in their
body, can show terror or excitement, happi-
ness or sadness. At clubs and parties, students
let go of themselves. Dancing without worries.
For others, dancing provides a career; some-
thing to which they have devoted their life.
Professional dancers observe our culture and
produce dances that reflect society (which is
not always shown in a good light).

Combining the heritage passed down to
North Carolinian dancers, North Carolina
Dance Theater (NCDT) present their program,
“Dance! Balanchine to Bluegrass.”
Tomorrow’ s show promises a variety of dances
that will express the choreographer’ s interpre-
tation of everyday life.

‘Brave,’ choreographed by Nicolo Fonte,
explores the question of what bravery means
to people. The dance starts with the phrase “I
spoke,” which was one of the answers Fonte
received when he asked his dancers, ““What was
the bravest thing you have ever done.” He
began choreographing “Brave” because of his
interest in exploring the different parts of the
human psyche. The dance exposes the vulner-
ability that people feel, while portraying the
dancers’ perception of bravery in an abstract
way. The audience may interpret the meaning
of bravery.

Set to the familiar music of John Phillip
Sousa, George Balanchine’s ‘Stars & Stripes
Pas de Deux’ displays the patriotic sentiments
Balanchine admired in Sousa’s marches. A

rform tomorrow.

Russian immigrant, Balanchine became en-

chanted with Sousa’s marches and American ~

culture, therefore he choreographed the piece,
which is part of a larger ballet. The duet fea-
tures bravura, ashowcase of technical strengths
of the dancers.

With tongue-in-cheek, Heather Maloy’s
‘Couch Potatoes’ examines the growing im-
portance of television in American culture. The
dancers begin on a couch, enacting fantasies
while dressed in bathrobes. Society shows it-
self, as we see that the obsession with televi-
sion causes people to forget the real world and
live through the lives of those on sitcoms.

Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux’s ‘Shindig’ rounds
out the dances in a light-hearted ballet that is
set to the music of a local band the Greasy
Beans. The piece bears the influence of coun-
try dancing and clogging, intermixing ballet
and bluegrass. Relationships are explored,
while a party goes on, and people can see the
making of a fun, spontaneous night that show-
cases the heritage of North Carolina dance.

As a part of their mission, NCDT acts as a
community outreach for dance. Locally, they
have been teaching master classes at Davidson
College since last spring, and the Davidson
Dance Ensemble is co-sponsoring tomorrow’s
production. NCDT has helped dancers improve
their technique and choreographing abilities.
Later this semester, DDE will perform.

After the show, NCDT will present a free
open-forum. “Dance! Balanchine to Blue-
grass” will be presented in Duke Family Per-
formance Hall on Thursday, March 25 at 7:30
pm. Tickets are $15 for general admission, $10
for students, faculty, and staff. For informa-
tion, call (704)-894-2135.

The Davidson College Department of Music Presents

Liederabend

A Student Vocal Recital
with composers ranging from varlat to Ooo Granados to SINNILM

Sunday March 28, 2004 at $:00 p.m.
Tyler- [allman Recital Hall
Sloan Music Center

Admission is Free

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004 7

Studies from behind the
circulation desk

By JerF MCKINNEY
Special Contributor

There are a tearful many students who, like

“me, are known as the library workers.

After spending many hours behind the
library’s circulation desk, I’ve theorized that
there are several breeds of library attendees,
and they don’t use the library for studying.

First, if you are the species like my room-
mate, you probably go to the library for three
main reasons: (1) to stare at the back of your
carrel, (2) occasionally glance at a book, and
most importantly, (3) pick up girls. Second, if
you resemble the more determined breed, you
go when you absolutely have to buckle down
and start that due-tomorrow seven-pager. Third
in the group is the light-hearted studier who
works on the hourly cycle: 30 minutes study-
ing, 15 minutes checking e-mail, and 15 min-
utes socializing. Fourth, we have the most
evolved species that apparently only frequents
the library to talk, and to talk loudly. The fact
of the matter is that the library is not just for
studying.

Let’s discuss the average library user: Bob.
Bob walks into the library and, like most eve-
nings, he marches straight to the computer to
check his e-mail (which he probably did 5
minutes ago in his room, but that is completely
irrelevant). And of course, he will see one of
his friends working at a nearby computer. So
fittingly, they talk, 15 minutes and 2 friends
later, Bob says “Sorry man, but I have to go
study.”

This, of course, is a lie. Bob truly has to sit
in his carrel and stare vacantly for 10 minutes.
Then, Bob proceeds to read for maybe an hour.
This of course includes 15 to 17 minutes (de-
pending on how much is written on the walls
of the selected carrel) of not actually studying.
But that is still 45 more minutes than the aver-
age Bob at State U.

Then Bobchecks his e-mail again. Thus, the
cycle continues.

There is also Ralph who only comes to the
library to talk. He spends most of his time hang-
ing around the computers. On occasion you
might see Ralph checking out a book, but do
not be fooled, this is merely for show.

It is quite beautiful to watch Bobs and the
Ralphs unite. This is called group work. Nor-
mally, each group has three Ralphs (the talk-
ers) and one Bob (the worker/ vacant starer).
Ralph’s strength is not staying on the task. Nor
is it whispering. So, when there are three of
them, the problem can only grow. This is when
Bob comes in handy. No staring now buddy;

‘ Bobisthe workhorse forthe group. The Ralphs

get to reap the benefit. Ahhh, group work.
Backto my point: the true social potential of

the library (which Ralph has overshot and Bob
is on the brink of discovering). As I overheard
someone say, “the library is where all the cool
people are.” And as my roommate tells me,
“there’s always hot girls there studying.” For
the most part, there is always quite a bit of
people there, hot or not. On any given school
night, I’d say at least one third of the student
body frequents the library. AndI’d say that one-
third spends about half of their time legitimately
accomplishing their work. The library has be-
come a place not just to study, but also, to talk
to friends.

Honestly though, compared to other loca-
tions for socializing, the library is not that bad
of an option. When comparing E.H.Little to the
Court, weekend revelers can’t exactly dance
every night - especially not witha stomach full
of Commons. ,

Plus, parties can have only so many themes.
Most important, how many times have you
jumped up the next morning and thought, “Man,
[really shouldn’t have brought that book back
to my room.”

Compared to the Union, I’ ve got two words
of advice: carpet selection. Plus, the library has
the perfect cover. You can call home and tell
mom and dad that you’ ve been in the library
for ‘hours.’ Honestly, youcan’t really do work
in the Union, but you can socialize in tKe li-
brary. And for those of you seeking visual plea-
sure, the library has a much larger and more
intellectual selection of movies than the Union
does and they’re free. We’ve got Playboy on
microfiche (but sometimes the slide is a little
sticky). Or youcan always have a ball perusing
the 750’s ‘Painting and Paintings.”

As alibrary employee, the way I look at it is
that there are endless reasons for you and your
friends to socialize in the library. The more you
are in there talking, the less you are in there
checking out books. That, for me, translates into
less desk-work and much less shelving.

Abhh, work study. I can just sit at my desk
and listen to your completely interesting con-
versations. Or I can check my e-mail and occa-
sionally do some homework. Or I can write
newspaper articles. Thanks to you, I have op-
tions - so talk, talk away.

-TERRY’S TAXI

Serving Iredell and
Mecklenburg County

24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704)663-941 1, (704)663-9413
Evenings: (704)663-94 15, (704}663-98 12
If you need transportation to and from
the airport, bus station, or other areas

call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

Snapshots at Davidson

