News

WEDNESDAY, AprRIL 7, 2004 3

Fall semester goals set

By Joun HELMs
Staff Writer

With the end of the term nearing, SGA drew
out its three primary goals for the rest of the
semester and into next fall.

Members approved three out of the five sub-
mitted proposals.

The first goal sets out to establish an ad hoc
committee, “Accessibility and Accountability,”
that would inform current members and the
larger student body about the intricacies of SGA
procedure.

Explaining the broader goal of this commit-
tee, SGA president Katharine Hubbard ’05 said,
“This not only deals with SGA members but
will also strive to expand to the whole student
body. We discussed possible SGA office hours
where students could come ask questions.”

Some SGA members were concerned about
the fact that members would not be paid for
extra office hours. They noted that other uni-
versities such as Elon had mandatory but paid
office hours.

The second item approved as a goal for SGA
was to have bimonthly meetings during which
students could meet with members of the ad-
ministration. ,

Hubbard said, “That [bimonthly meeting] is
just a possible time frame depending on par-
ticipation. But we would like to host an event
in which Bobby Vagt, Dean Shandley, etc. came
and where students could come and just chat

or ask questions.”

The last and most complex goal approved
by SGA was concerning costs involved with
the upkeep of various campus organizations.

Committee member Rhett Merrill ’04 em-
phasized that there is only a tentative plan at
this point regarding the matter of equipment
upkeep.

“The problem is that there is not currently a
system in place to track when equipment was
last replaced, and since ATC is a student com-
mittee, its members don’t have the institutional
memory to know [about equipment upkeep and
depreciation expenditures] without a record
system,” Merrill said.

With equipment being replaced too soon, too
late, or not at all because of replacement costs,
Merrill observed the need for a system that
would provide a certain level of upkeep. He
noted that ATC struggles with equipment re-
quests from various organizations every year.
Many of these requests go unfulfilled.

While the program is still in its preliminary
stages, the first steps would be to inventory all
of the equipment for the school’s organizations
in order to produce a replacement schedule.

“Tt’s important to keep the organizations up
to a certain standard,” said Merrill.

Concerning the establishment of the fund,
Merrill said, “By creating an account that builds
funds equal to depreciation expenses, we will
ensure that there is money available when
equipment needs to be replaced.”

Sanctuary, from page 1

The 2003 Freshman Orientation planners
purchased these “sweat-free” t-shirts last year
for the Orientation Team.

Associate Dean of Student Life Kathy Bray-
Merrell said, “The t-shirts were no more ex-
pensive than what we had paid in the past, even
including shipping costs. And, the quality was
every bit as good as what we would have ex-
pected from any other supplier.”

CoHo, the co-ed eating house, has already
agreed also to purchase their t-shirts from the
Women’s Co-op.

Buying cheaper t-shirts directly from over-
seas also strikes the nerve of some with larger
concerns about outsourcing and textile indus-
try protection, issues already proving to be
political battle grounds for the upcoming presi-
dential election.

This is especially true in North Carolina
where nearly 82,000 jobs were eliminated on
net in the textiles industries between 1977 and
1997.

Sanctuary is not protesting against local dis-
tributors who buy their t-shirts from non-
certified“‘sweat-free” companies. Rather, they
are proactively supporting the livelihood of a
particular Nicaraguan community that mem-
bers of the Davidson community have formed
relationships with.

But what are the possible effects on current
relationships between the College, the town and
local businesses?

Hageman estimates that Davidson Screen
Printers makes about nine to 10,000 shirts a
year for Davidson College. ;

He worries that a significant cut in business
would make it even harder for him to provide
the benefits and fair wages he believes in for
his seven employees.

“I’m «trying to provide my people with a
livable wage, but our medical insurance bill
went up 38 percent this year... People may have

to start paying a little more just to keep Ameri-
cans working,” Hageman said.

Hageman spoke of two local textile plants
that recently shut down in the past five years;
Burlington denim factory in Mooresville and
Pillowtex sheets and towels factory in
Kannonville, 12 miles west of Davidson. To-
gether, over 5,000 people lost jobs.

“Unemployment is usually transitory,” said
Professor of Economics Vikram Kumar.

According to Kumar, the falling employment
nationally and statewide in traditional indus-
try sectors, such as textiles and apparel, is a
normal effect of global market capitalism.

“These domestic industries have been pro-
tected by the government for the last twenty
years under the Multi Fibre Arrangement
(MFA) and they’ re still not competitive in the
global market,” Kumar said. ,

“T don’t want to downplay the hardships of
those who lose their jobs, but at the same time
America has a fairly good social safety net for
the unemployed.”

Student Costs of “sweat-free’’ shirts

The actual cost of t-shirts could rise slightly,
depending on quality of fabric, quantity, and
color. White t-shirts can be bought $2.75 per
shirt through the Presbyterian Church USA,

_which ships them internationally and ware-

houses a stockpile cost-free to consumers.
Colored t-shirts (blue, grey, yellow, cream, red,
etc.) can be purchased for $4.23 per shirt
through a company called North Country Fair
Trade (NCFT) which transports shirts for a
charge but does not make a profit, according to
Brew.

Organizations may have to make two sepa-
rate orders: one for shirts and another for screen
printing.

The Women’s Sewing Co-op has custom
silkscreening services, but if buying through
the Presbyterian Church or NCFT, students
would have to bypass this option.

Alumnus promoted to position
of U.S. Associate Deputy General

By BLEvIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson graduate John Davis ’81, has re-
cently been promoted to the position of Asso-
ciate Deputy General of the United States.

Originally from Charlottesville, Virginia,
Davis majored in philosophy at Davidson and
went on to graduate from Harvard Law School
in 1985.

Davis now lives in Richmond, Virgina with
his wife Susan and daughters Natalie, Staige,
and Lucy.

Although Davis has always been a prosecu-
tor, he has dealt with many different types of
trials, including drug cases, violent crimes, and
environmental law.

Davis began his legal career in New Hamp-
shire, working for a year as a judge’s clerk
before proceeding to work in the state’s Attor-
ney General’s Office where he handled homi-
cide cases.

In 1990, Davis moved to Atlanta and joined
the United States Attorney’s Office as an As-
sistant U.S. Attorney.

Davis was promoted to Chief of the Crimi-
nal Division in 1994 and maintained that posi-
tion until 1997.

One of the more famed cases Davis worked
on during this time is the Olympic bombing
case and the prosecution of Eric Robert

~ Rudolph.

Davis moved to Richmond in 1997 in order
to be closer to family. There, he began work-
ing in the Eastern District of Virginia Richmond
Office. As the Criminal Supervisor in Rich-
mond, Davis worked on several high-profile
cases.

Davis was the second chair attorney involved
with the Saudi terrorist bombing of Khobar

Towers complex in which 19 U.S. Air Force
members were killed in 1996.

Davis was also involved in the John Walker
Lynn indictment, in which the American
Taliban member pleaded guilty in 2002.

While in Richmond, Davis befriended Jim
Comey — the head prosecutor in the city at that
time.

After Comey was made Deputy Attorney
General of the United States in 2003, he re-
quested that Davis be a part of his staff and
made him an Associate Deputy General.

As Associate Deputy General, Davis works
within a large organization concerned with
policy management for the Department of Jus-
tice. The organization is comprised of more
than 100,000 employees and includes the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office.

Davis has recently returned from Baghdad
where he has been working on an Iraqi war
crimes project concerning the establishment of
an Iraqi court — the Iraqi Special Tribunal —
which will try the most serious members of
Saddam Hussein’s regime, specifically con-
cerning the atrocities that occurred during the
first Gulf War and the Iran and Iraq war in 1987
and 1988.

Davis’ department is setting up to advise
prosecutors, investigators, and judges to assist
with the trials.

Davis’ roommate of four years, the college’s
current Director of Auxilary Services, Rich-
ard Terry, describes John as a “truly remark-
able person and friend.”

“He is one of the kindest and giving people
I have ever known. He’s one of those people
we always knew would do something special
and important. He is selfless, ego-less, and an
amazingly hard worker,” Terry said.

Dear Prospective
Students,

The Davidsonian would
like to invite all
prospective students
interested in writing for
the paper to visit us
during Decision Davidson
weekend at the Activities
Fair, 1:30 p.m. in the
Atrium of the Student
Union.

If vou can’t make it to the fair
but are still interested,
email davidsonian @ davidson.edu

for more into.

