PAGE 4

BRIEFLY

explain to her aunt that Davidson is not in Pennsylvania.

Politically liberal friend os
makes comment about Birkdale

HUNTERSVILLE—On a trip to Huntersville’s Birkdale to see an early movie last
Friday, self-proclaimed liberal Josh Anderson ’04 launched into yet another tirade
against the popular neighborhood/shopping district.

“This is what’s wrong with America today,” began Anderson to his friends, for
like the thirtieth time this year. “This place is little more than a poorly guised pre-
tense for modern yuppies to live in their own artificial capitalist paradise free from
the harsh reality of the real world’s problems. Don’t tell me it doesn’t creep you out
just walking around here. Please shoot me if I ever even consider residing in such

a place. And I mean that, I really do.”

Following Anderson’s oft-heard speech, he asked if everyone would mind waiting
for just a sec outside American Eagle so he could run in before it closed.

Junior now too cool for Court

TOMLINSON—Junior Emily Otagel declared Monday that she no longer has any
interest in attending Patterson Court parties. The startling news comes following
her return from a semester abroad in Seville, Spain, during which time she did not
attend a single Court party. “The night life is so amazing in Europe,” said Otagel,
while admiring her new, ill-fitting flamenco shirt in a long-ways mirror. “Here it’s
just a bunch of crappy music and drunk frat guys hanging all over you. Well, those

’ philistine piss-water pukers are no longer for me, thank you.” In lieu of the Court,
Otagel has plans to go into Charlotte for the first time ever this weekend, assuring
her friends that’s where “the adults” go to party.

PROF from page 1

can remember who said what? Shit, they
can barely remember where their new of-
fices are. You kids really do live in a
bubble.”

This realization has raised some under-
standable concern with students, includ-
ing sophomore Todd Ketchum. A recently
declared anthropology major, Ketchum
took Holt’s 374 Behavioral Evolution class
last semester as part of his graduation re-

“He also wore
very ugly shoes.”

didn’t take hold because students there
seemed to get As regardless of whether
they participated in, read for, or even
came to class at all.

Down at Davidson, however, the grade
has become something of a Liberal Arts
tradition, with professors continuing to
assign the small yet often break-water
percentage based on a variety of arbitrary
factors, such as general inklings, fleeting
intuitions, and hair-color preferences.

“Sometimes I'll just randomly ask my
wife or kid what they would give,” said
Holt. “I'll be like, ‘Honey? Jill Smith:
Whadda’ ya think.’ And she'll go, ‘Aw, she
sounds cute.’ And I'll say, ‘Alright, full-
credit.’ Once I asked my dog for help—
that was good times.”

Somewhat discouraged by the whole
situation, Ketchum is considering a
change of major. “Maybe I'll try art or
theatre or something,” he said. “I wonder
if you have to participate in those classes.”

quirement. Yet while his test and paper
grades for the course clearly added up to
an 81.7 %, he received a C+. “It must have
been that participation grade that brought
me down,” said Ketchum. “Which is
weird, because I definitely contributed.
Not all the time or anything, but I tried to
say at least one thing per class. And I
thought everyone really liked my report
on gorillas.”

When questioned about Ketchum’s
overall grade, Holt maintained it was
right on target. “Who? Oh, Ketchum,”
said Holt. “From day one, I knew that kid
was a slacker. Just the type of person
who’d be more than willing to sleep
through my class. Not that he did. In fact,
I think he had perfect attendance. But he
definitely looked like he could have. He
also wore very ugly shoes.”

“Look, I honestly don’t care when he
showed up or didn’t show up, the kid is a
jerk-off,” Holt continued.

The actual history of the class partici-
pation grade dates back to at early 1900s,
when the system was created to scare kids
into actually doing reading assignments.
“It was a big innovation at the time,” com-
mented college archivist Jan Blogett, “and
a great way to get students in line after the
whole ‘either read the book or go fight the
Civil War’ thing petered out. Still, I don’t
think the founders of the participation
grade could ever have perceived how en-
during their concept would become—or
how arbitrary.”

Blogett went on to explain that the par-
ticipation grade system was briefly imple-
mented by certain Ivy League schools, but

HOOKUP from page 3

for the next twenty to thirty-five minutes.
During this entire time, the topic of con-
versation did not once stray from details
relevant to either’s past relationships.

Talking would soon give way, how-
ever, to greater expressions of affection.
“Taken by the moment, and really begin-
ning to freeze my ass off because the car
had been dead so long, I stopped, looked
Lisa more or less in the eyes, and kissed
her,” recalled Stern. “Then we went back
to her room and rounded some bases
until her roommate got back from Gospel
Choir.”

Both parties reported great satisfaction
as a result of the evening’s emotionally
intimate events, sighting the mutual intu-
ition of exciting new levels of compatibil-
ity. “I’m so damn sick and tired of shallow
college life, the relationships based on
nothing, the impulsive one-nighters,” said
Stern.”“It’s just nice to finally feel some-
thing so intimate and enduring. Not just
any girl is willing to share so many aspects
of her life with you just like that. Lisa is
something special, make no mistake
about it.”

At press time, neither of the pair had
spoken with each other since the consum-
mation of their incredible conversation.
Campbell reported feeling slightly awk-
ward when Stern didn’t say hi to her in
Friday’s theatre class, but figures he was
just nervous about their skit performance
of “Bozo the Happy Turtle.” She briefly
flirted with the idea of e-mailing him this
past weekend, but couldn’t remember his
last name.

Twn

Seiad ee

Dear Davidson College Voice Mail Pro-
cessing System:

I don’t want to go to class. Should I go?

-Bored in Belk

DEAR BORED: Thank you for calling
Davidson College. Our hours of operation
are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through
Friday. If this is an emergency, please dial
704 894 2178. If you still wish to contact
your party, continue to stay on the line.

Dear Davidson College Voice Mail Pro-
cessing System:

My roommate Jane secretly wants to
be a majorette and keeps practicing her
marching in our common room. This
wouldn't be a problem if she didn’t make
us watch her. I know that I should be flex-

fisk the Davidson
College Voice Mail

Proceggipg System

ible with respect to my roommate’s life
plans, but when they interfere with my
time and living space, I feel a strong desire
to remove her brain. I don’t know what to
do to keep her from marching. Please
help!

-Writhing in Ryburn

DEAR RITHING: Welcome to the
Davidson college voice mail processing
system. If you’re calling from a touchtone
phone, enter your party’s extension now.
If you don’t know your party’s extension,
press nine. If you have a mailbox on this
system, press pound. Press zero to hear
this message again.

Dear Davidson College Voice Mail Pro-

cessing System:

I’ve had a hard time adjusting to life at
Davidson, especially since I brought my
dog from home and he’s not allowed in
residence halls. I’m thinking about killing
him. What would you do?

-Ruminating in Richardson

DEAR RUMINATING: Thank you for
calling Davidson College. Our hours of
operation are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday
through Friday. If this is an emergency,
please dial 704 894 2178. If you still
which to contact your party, continue to
stay on the line.

The Davidson College Voice Mail Processing Sys-
tem ts a syndicated columnist appearing in over 250
college papers nationwide. To contact the Davidson
College Voice Mail Processing System please call
someone and then have them hang up on you.

thanks for
reading!

THE YOWL

THANKS FOR READING THE YOWL,
DAVIDSON’S LAFEST ATTEMPT TO WASTE
YOUR TIME. IN THAT VEIN, HERE’S
SOMETHING ABOUT OUR LOGO:

THIS CUPOLA ORIGINALLY CROWED THE
BUILDING OF OLD CHAMBERS, WHICH
HOUSED THE COLLEGE UNTIL BURNING
DOWN IN 1921. PICTURED STANDING
NEXT TO IT IS SOMEONE WHO WAS NOT

AFRAID OF HEIGHTS.

THE YOWL NaME IS NOT NEW ITSELF,
BUT BORROWED FROM A PREVIOUS
PUBLICATION ON CAMPUS BY THE SAME
TITLE. FOR MORE ON THAT, TUNE IN-
TWO WEEKS FROM NOW...IF WE HAVEN’T
BEEN SHUT DOWN YET AGAIN

Cool guy doesn’t
Signal in turn lane

Davidson sophomore and really cool
guy Russ Limson doesn’t use his car’s
turning signal while waiting in turn lanes,

sources reported Monday. “Signaling in “

turn lanes would demonstrate unneces-
sary effort and concern for traffic regula-
tions,” explained friend and driving com-
panion Gina Garner’06, “a concern that
Russ, as a cool guy, can simply not afford
to show.”

According to Garner, drivers behind
Limson, and especially female drives, are
consistently aware of his chill, relaxed
attitude towards life as a result of his sig-
nal abstention practices. “Signaling in the
turn lane is unnecessary, because it’s al-
ready obvious that you want to turn,”
Garner continued. “Signaling would just
scream ‘oh my god, I’m so uptight, please
don’t sleep with me.” Cool guy driving
skills have always come quite naturally to
Limson, whose ’98 Kia Rio has also been
seen coming to rolling stops at area stop
signs.

Girlfriend makes
parking car than

BELK—First east Belk resident Peter
Bryson ’07 couldn’t help but feel a little
distressed this Friday when he mentally
noted that his girlfriend was making more
noise over a parking spot than she ever
has in bed. .

“We were pulling back into Belk park-
ing lot after dinner, and there turned out
to be a spot in that first row there, you
know the one by RLO?” recalled Bryson
while reaching for another beer. “Anyway,
Annie [Weathers ’07], who was driving,

just starts shrieking and yelling ‘OH! OH!
OH! really freaking loud, like it was Tom
Cruise or something. And for whatever
reason I just remember thinking“Man,
she’s never been that into it when we
sleep together...’ So yeah, that was a little

more noise
having sex

weird, if you know what I mean.”

Weathers, who was indeed quite eu-
phoric over her parking success, spoke of
little else for the rest of the evening.
“What an incredible feeling!” the first
west Belk resident exclaimed while wav-
ing to her car from her dorm room win-
dow. “After all these months of parking
unfulfillment I’ve finally found the right
spot!”

Weathers has refused to drive any-
where since finding the spot on ‘Oh Row,’
noting that if she does she'll probably
never get such a good spot again, and
therefore should save herself the long
walk while she can.

Bryson, for his part, plans to drink
more.

IN DEPTH

Hobart Park

The Chiller Plant

Baker Hall of Fame Room
Best Western Room 314
Libertas office

World War II Memorial

Sprinkle Room A
The Gnome District

Sparrow’s Nest

Lake Campus

Kappa Sig

Where are we holding
second semester classes?

Oak Row foundation crawl space

Tyler Tallman Hall elevator

That pothole on Faculty Drive

Duke Family Performance Center catwalk
Bottom shelf of 2nd Belk first-aid cabinet

24 Hour Workout Room men’s handicapped toilet stall

Chambers
renovations
and a larger-than
expected freshmen
class have strained ©
campus classroom
space to the max.

What are some of
the empty locations
now being used for

class meetings?

.

