ave 3. LIVING

By ANDREW SCHAPIRO &V VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

E] Paraiso is at best one of a series of restau-
rants that come and go on the Main Street void
between Davidson and Cornelius. The owners
have barely curtained the space where Annie’s
at the Lake once stood with a veneer of Latin
flavor, resulting in a dining experience that fails
to satisfy the senses or the wallet. Its most di-
rect competition, Zapata’s Cantina in
Cornelius, soars above El Paraiso in nearly
every category.

El Paraiso’s decor instantly turned us off.
Maroon napkins set atop Formica tables, black
metal cafe chairs, and a green and white tiled
floor hardly satisfy the true American in us that
longs for tin lanterns, cacti, and sombreros in
inexpensive Mexican restaurants. Artificial
flowers in sconces on the walls combine with
the emptiness of the restaurant to create an eerie,
morose feeling. Large windows and what
looked to be outdoor light fixtures provided
adequate lighting but hindered the interior’s
intimacy. That said, the restaurant was clean,
and oversized booths could easily fit large
groups of friends.

_ We. only spotted two members of the staff
upon our visit: one server and one chef. How-
ever, with only two other customers in the res-
taurant, attentive service proved no issue. Our
waitress, the owners’ daughter, was pleasant
and conscientious, if slightly rushed in taking

Hood: C+
-Atmopshere: C+ -

"Service: B-
alee: C+

our order. When asked for her suggestions
regarding meat entrees, she quickly pginted out
the most expensive item; then again, she ac-
commodated our special requests without er-
ror. .

The stereotypical menu includes fajitas,
burritos, and enchiladas as well as a few sur-
prises like fried sea bass and the daily specials.
Tuna fish salad and a hamburger with fries on
the lunch menu was slightly discouraging since
we anticipated what was advertised as “authen-
tic Latin cuisine.” Latin turned out to be en-
tirely Mexican to our discerning palates, which
we found to be El Paraiso’s true downfall.

Inaneight-mile stretch between Mooresville
and Cornelius with Mexican restaurants rang-
ing the gamut, El Paraiso could best distinguish
itself by offering dishes from various Latin and
South American countries rather than run-of-
the-mill fare. Instead, its mediocre value and
uninspired cuisine will have a hard time com-
peting against the more established Zapata’ s.
Furthermore, it does not have a liquor license.
There is not a margarita in sight at El Paraiso,
though they do offer a selection of beers and a
few wines as well as some non-alcoholic ex-
otic drinks.

Our meal started out with the requisite chips
and salsa, which we have typically found to be
a good predictor of the rest of the meal. The
salsa was fresh and clearly homemade, but it
was slightly watery and did not have the cus-
tomary bite that we expect from Mexican food.
We ordered asupplement of guacamole, which
proved to be very fresh. The cilantro added a
zesty flavor to the dip, but we were surprised
by a lack of tomatoes, which are customary in
most guacamoles.

Even though it was recommended by our
server, the Plato Azteca, a combination platter
of grilled steak, a chicken tamal, and a cheese
enchilada, did notimpress us. The steak, nestled
onabed of iceberg lettuce, was tough and could
have greatly benefited from seasoning. The
tamal seemed undercooked, and the cornmeal
surrounding the scant chicken was still very
mushy. Its accompaniments (rice, beans, and
asalad composed of shredded iceberg lettuce,
chopped tomatoes, and sour cream with no

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

£1 Paraiso If
| Beescurs nt

Latin.
Cuisine
20700 N. Main St.
Cornelius, NC 28031

| 704-896-606

dressing) were equally bland and disappoint-
ing.

‘Our best solution was to wrap the various
components in the flour tortillas provided in
hopes of creating a makeshift fajita. The
chicken chimichanga, which also came with
beans and rice, was slightly better. Unlike some
chimichangas, this one was not overly greasy
and had just the right proportion of crisp, fried
tortilla to complement the pulled chicken found
inside. Again we found that the traces of mole
sauce and cheese, which were supposed to be
on top, did not provide the necessary kick to
make the dish memorable.

Menu items are reasonably priced, but when
compared with the quality and portions that
Zapata’ s offers at a discount for Davidson stu-
dents, they seem high.

We left El Paraiso unsatisfied both with our
food and the fact that yet another opportunity
for an eclectic dining experience in the area
was wasted. Mai Cafe, the last restaurant we
reviewed, was the antithesis to El Paraiso in
that its owners provide consistently tasty and

Food that is too much like the run of the mill Mexican fare.

Nadrow Schapiro}

interesting food at a good value. It easily dis-
tinguishes itself from other Southeast Asian
restaurants by offering a cuisine not before
represented in the area. El Paraiso, on the other
hand, not only falls into a list replete with
Mexican restaurants, but it has already fallen
somewhere near the bottom. We genuinely
hope that as a young restaurant, El Paraiso will
realize its faults and work to improve the qual-
ity and variety of its offerings. A few cacti
would not hurt either.

El] Paraiso Restaurant
20700 N. Main St.
Cornelius NC, 28031
(704)-896-6064

Open 11:00am-9:30pm Monday-Thursday
11:00 am-10:00 pm Friday and Saturday
Closed Sunday

Prices: lunch specials and combos $4-$6
Dinner: $6-$12 entrees

nae and Unhung: Davidson’s Art Collection an
Underutilized Teaching Tool in the VAC

By Darryt F. Ratcuirr, I
Staff Writer

Davidson College has a permanent art col-
lection of over 2,800 works of art: Most mem-
bers of the college have seen the VAC’s Rodin
sculpture. Some have heard about the Romare
Bearden Collage. But few know that those two
works are just the tip of the iceberg. In the
basement of the Visual Arts Center one can
find works by Picasso, Rembrandt, Matisse,

Dr. Jackson and Thomas pull out some of the art collection.

de Kooning, Motherwell, Goya, Rauschenberg,
Jackson, Dine, Hockney, Hesse, Seargent, and
Noland. _

All of these drawings, paintings, or prints,
Davidson owns. Yet few Davidson students
ever view them, because most of these master-
ful works of art remain in a room full of draw-
ers, unhung, unframed, collecting time and
shadows, if not dust.

By 1953, Davidson had a permanent collec-
tion. It consisted of fewer than 10 works of art

which, although small, were very important.
Then, in the 1970’s, William H. Williamson
Professor of Art Dr. Herb Jackson came to the
college and started the National Print and Draw-
ing Show. This jump-started the permanent
collection, bringing national recognition to
Davidson’s growing art program. However,
most of the acquisitions were made during the
1980’s as many collectors and corporations
started to consider donating art to Davidson.
Brad Thomas, curator of the permanent col-
lection and gallery director of the William H.
Van Every and Edward M. Smith Galleries,
says that during these years there was “a great
deal of vision for the art collection and art
gallery.”

Thomas describes the permanent collection
as a “teaching collection” and stresses that it
does get utilized. There is an “Art in the Of-
fices” program, where pieces from the collec-

tion are displayed in various staff offices around

campus.

. Also, every three to four years there are se-
lections from the permanent collection ina gal-
lery exhibition. In addition, there is the Herb
Jackson and Laura Grosch gallery endowment,
which allows for special programming, publi-
cations, and acquisitions for the permanent
collection.

Finally, Davidson’s permanent collection
gains recognition by loaning out works to other
museums. Works from the permanent collec-
tion have been loaned to the National Gallery
in Washington, D.C., the North Carolina Mu-
seum of Art, the Whitney Museum of Ameri-

can Art, New York’s Metropolitan Museum
of Art, and the American Embassy in Caracas,
Venezuela.

Thomas encourages students who want to
see the permanent collection to contact him for
atour, calling the collection “an incredible rich
resource, like a library, and perhaps even that
is underutilized.” Thomas and Jackson are
hopeful that students will start taking advan-
tage of Davidson’s greatest untapped resource.

Regardless Jackson believes that the perma-
nent collection is still a valuable attribute of
Davidson College. “It isn’t wasted because it
is underused. Our job is to take care of it ina
careful manner and the let the future of the
college decide how to use the collection.”

eo eee

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
