ieee
Staff Editorial

Re: Name recognition

To those in the know, Davidson has a reputation as among the
American colleges where grade inflation has not reared its head.

The Davidsonian’s investigation this week into the grading
policies at Davidson proves that reputation well deserved. While
many elite schools are beginning to take steps to combat what
many consider an outrageous level of ‘A’-range grades,
Davidson average GPA has remained nearly constant for over
20 years, hovering around a 3.1.

While Davidson’s faculty and administration should be
praised for continuously flying in the face of outside pressures
and steadfastly sticking to our philosophy of holding Davidson
students to a more rigorous standard than most of our peers, we
must pause and consider the implications of our decision not to
follow the path traveled by nearly all other colleges and univer-
sities.

Even if other schools follow the plan recently adopted by
Princeton University and cap the number of ‘A’-range grades
at 35 percent, those more demanding standards will still fall
short of those to which Davidson students are held.

To any Davidson student who will be applying for a job or to
graduate school in the near future, these figures may be fright-
ening.

Davidson is fortunate to have a well-deserved reputation with
many companies and graduate schools which many alumni work
for or have attended, but what about those students wishing to
gointo less typical fields where few Davidson connections exist?

While Davidson embraces the liberal arts idea that students’

should be free to explore all different disciplines, including those
outside of the mainstream, our grading policies might be hurt-
ing those students who take up the challenge of pursuing less
traditional fields in which Davidson’s name may not be well
known.

Since our reputation is largely derived from our alumni,
Davidson’s small size means that we are already at a disadvan-
tage compared to most other schools. Therefore, it is up
Davidson’s students, both current and former, to take extra efforts
in order ensure we not hurt by our stringent grading policies.

As The Davidsonian reports this week, one new organization
- oncampus, the Davidson International Development Initiative,
is making such an effort by organizing a website and database
of alumni and contacts for students interested in international
development.

This group’s idea and others like it ensure that Davidson stu-
dents are not punished for our commitment to upholding such
high standards. Yet our reputation can only grow if others fol-
low the same path.

It is up to us to show seek out new opportunities and prove
the true quality of a Davidson education.

Che Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LUBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams
Arts & Living Editors
Carinon Hodge’& Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor
_Colin Fag
Sports Editors
Peter Alison & Mike Giglio jn. j
Dorsett Clark & RyawThompsonz = ~* /

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Apri 28, 2004

11 SO CUTE,
HE THINKS

“LADDER” MEANS NICKNAMES
7] FOR SANTA
*Goop MORNING abel

Survey will make
for useful analysis

Thank you to everyone who participated in the Alcohol Policy
Questionnaire!

For those of you unfamiliar with the Questionnaire, it is a
tool to gather student opinions about the Alcohol Policy, in
order to assist the Review Committee (that includes only five
students) inrecommending changes that should be made to our
current Alcohol Policy.

The questionnaire was sent toaran-
dom sample of 800 students that was
produced by the Institutional Re-
search Department. As of now, afew
hours before the questionnaire is
scheduled to close, 458 students have
participated in the study. This is over
a quarter of our student population, a

; huge sample!

[understand the questionnaire was long and I appreciate each
and every one of you who took the time to answer the ques-
tions.

More importantly, the Administration recognizes the fact that
if this many people took this much time to complete the ques-
tionnaire, the student body must truly want its voice heard; the
Administration recognizes that this is something that matters
to us.

As a result, the Review Committee for the Alcohol Policy
has extended the deadlines for when formal recommendations
for changes to the Policy will be made. In the next two weeks,
preliminary analysis of the data will be sent to Dean Marsicano
and the Review Committee.

Over the summer, a more complete, formal analysis of the
data will be performed. The report will then be sent before
student organizations, such as SGA and PCC, in the hope that
these student groups will review the results and add their own
commentary/recommendations.

Again, we want to make sure the data that goes to the Review
Committee is representative of the entire student body.

On this note, I want to assure everyone that a wide variety of
student opinion is represented in the data. I make this assertion
based on the responses in regard to the extracurricular involve-
ments, alcohol consumption patterns, and additional comments
of the participants thus far.

Iam thrilled at the response we received from all of you, and
I am pleased to know that the Review Committee will have a
much more accurate representation of student opinion as they
make their recommendations this year.

’ Again, thank you for participating.

Rachael Voyles ’05

«““ »

ow oe, ty ~ommeni

Frolics a success
despite low turnout

Thank you so much to everyone who made Spring Frolics
this year happen. Can you please bring back Fall Frolics? I
_ wonder, though, as I do every year: where is everybody? For
just four hours on Saturday, sun, fun, music, games, food, and
craziness came together on this campus.

Yet I would guess that at its busiest, the Court held not more
than 400 or 500 Frolickers.

Could it be that over the course of the day, not even half of
the school paid a visit to the festivities? Four hours out of your
lives could have paid dividends in memories.

There is no better time to shake off the clamps of work and
go party than Spring Frolics!

Roland Foss ’05

od

