6

IVING 2°

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY

ZachBraff blending into his surroundings in ‘Garden State.’

Actor, writer, director Zach
Braff impresses audiences
with ‘Garden State’

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff

Do you find periods sexy? Have you ever
looked at a “dot dot dot” at the end of a passage
and thought “Wow, that’s hot?” If you have,
then “Garden State” may set the grammar geek
in you spinning.

Both the period and the ellipsis play brief
but pivotal roles in“Garden State.” To finish
with the old and start with the new, or to leave
the old dangling, perhaps with the hope of re-
capturing it in the future—these are the ques-
tions explored by the versatile Zach Braff in
his stunning film debut.

Still, for all you non-English majors who do
not regard punctuation marks as aphrodisiacs,
“Garden State” will not let you down. This story
of an emotionally catatonic twentysomething
who discovers the solution to Gen X-er inad-
equacy in an unlikely place hits cinematic high
points in every respect. By creating a comfort-
able mix of understated drama and deadpan
comedy, the amiable star of TV’s “Scrubs”
exhibits more directorial confidence than film-
makers who have been in the business for far
longer. ,

Aside from acing the Hollywood hat trick of
writer/actor/director, Braff also deserves credit
both for assembling an evocative soundtrack
and for coaxing one of the year’s finest perfor-
mances out of Natalie Portman. I would love
to eavesdrop on the inevitable phone conver-
sation in which George Lucas offers Braff a
cut of Episode III’s earnings in exchange for
tips on how to avoid making the gorgeous star-
let look doped up on OxyContin while on
screen. ;

Revealing the kind of subdued acting chops
that never reach the surface in television, Braff
plays Andrew Largeman, a. wannabe Holly-
wood star who must work in a yuppie Viet-
namese restaurant while fighting the backlash
from his pseudo-breakthrough performance as
a mentally challenged quarterback. When his
father (Ian Holm) informs him that his mother
has passed away, Andrew puts his Oscar
dreams on hold and journeys back to New Jer-
sey.

While mourning his mother and reconciling
with his father, Andrew also schedules plenty
of time to catch up with his old buddies, none
of whom has quite achieved the spitting image
of success. His best friend Mark (Peter
Sarsgaard) works as a gravedigger. Another
acquaintance has made enough money off of a
“silent Velcro” patent to spend his days doing

absolutely nothing.

While visiting a neurologist to inquire about
some mysterious headaches, Andrew meets
Sam (Portman), a spunky and afflicted girl
whose infectious spirit distinguishes her from
the characters of his dysfunctional past. Dur-
ing a thoroughly eventful couple of days, An-
drew and Sam become entangled in a romance
that offers each person a benefit; he gives her
stability, and she nudges him out of a lifelong
state of numbness and depression.

The principal actors, namely Braff, Portman,
Holm, and Sarsgaard, give “Garden State” its
gentle dramatic depth. Most of the hilarity takes
place on the periphery, as Andrew’s wander-
ings bring him face to face with some loopy
characters pulled straight from the’recent land-
scape of “Napoleon Dynamite.”

’ Having struck such an enthralling and off-
beat balance with these two genres, all com-
plaints with the film are minor. Mark leads
Andrew and Sam on an excursion that mean-
ders for too long, and with “Garden State’s”
countless provocative epiphanies, it is hard to
believe that Andrew’ s visit to New Jersey lasts
only a few days.

The soundtrack, featuring perfectly chosen
entries from Coldplay, Simon and Garfunkel,
and the Shins, far surpasses the generic teeny
mixes tossed together for most movies aimed
at this demographic.

Thematically, very few films have shown as
nuanced an understanding of the struggle for
self in the 21st Century as “Garden State.”
When Braff spews out and eventually recon-
siders a fairly dorky line about those wonder-
ful punctuation marks, you may just want to
stand up in the theater and exclaim, “That’s
what I’m talking about!”

r Feeling stressed?: the art of

relaxation and meditation

By SARAH RoBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

First Night Down marks the change of the
Davidson College academic season. Beware,
we are now approaching that time when pa-
pers and tests come upon us, and soon we will
be stuck in the library attempting those all-
nighters in an effort to get that really important
paper done; the one you meant to start earlier.

However, in all of this, we seem to forget
that one elusive detail— relaxation. No, I do
not mean relaxation through procrastination,
but that thing, which you are supposed to do,
which enables you to think more clearly. A
dictionary definition (from www.m-w.com):
Torelax (v.): To relieve from nervous tension.

While procrastination is presented as one of
the several types of relaxation; the startling jolt
back to reality required afterwards is too much
for my taste.

What exactly is relaxation? As we get fur-
ther into the semester, the need to relax be-
comes an important part of the Davidson lingo.
However, methods toward this state of mind
vary as much as the names of the many veg-
etable medleys inCommons. With the legend-
ary work-load being what it is, and the press-
ing need to be involved in more than our school
work, little time is devoted to pursuing what
can be referred to as “sanity time.”

Being who I am, stress has become a word
used fairly regularly in my vocabulary, as sev-
eral friends have become accustomed to point-
ing out. For me, nothing is better, after a long
Tuesday in The Davidsonian office, than lay-
ing on my floor, listening to the my music
choice for the week, contemplating the vari-
ous paint jobs my ceiling has gone through over
the years. .

This is an intense period of contemplation,
where, metaphorically speaking, the answers
to life’ s questions jump down to me and hit me
on the head. Or, in the case of my air condi-
tioning unit, spray me with water.

Being here for the past two-and-some-
change years, I have observed the habits of
others as they go about their nightly lives. There
are those who remain in the Union until ridicu-
lous hours, eating quesadillas after 11 p.m.,
playing pool or ping-pong, or even working
out. This period of the day seems to be the most

calming, due either to lethargy or to the accep-
tance that the person will be up for awhile.

You have the people who talk loudly, inhib-
iting those who try to study; the people who
study; the Union Cafe workers, about whom
you wonder: “How are they in that good amood
this late?” Overall, these late night visitors
mellow out the hyperactivity that takes place
inthe Union, which remains constant from 9:30
a.m. to 10 p.m.

Walking about campus, I asked some peers
what their favorite relaxing past time was. Ina
scary manner, the first-years were the ones who
were able to answer me without thinking too
hard: It seems that the older a student gets, the
more they forget how to spend their free time.

In Russia, free time is filled not with what
someone does in class or for extracurricular
activities, but what they do for fun. Finally,
when an upperclassman answered me, it was
with several answers. Requiring them to nar-
row their answer down to their most favorite,
I discovered that the favorite methods were,
often, the most simple.

The top answer getter was listening to mu-
sic, either accompanied by dancing, drinking
coffee, or other actions requiring less thought
than that necessary to divine what two plus two
equals. Music is a classic way to relieve stress.
With the instant availability of music on the
web, we are now able to find the perfect music
to fit any mood. Some preferred to listen to
classical music, while others chose the more
moody presence of jazz. .

Other popular past times include massages,
sleeping, and chopping wood. Massages would
be great and I think more people need to learn
how to give them on this campus. The Davidson
Choir starts out every rehearsal with a massage
circle, and I think that is a great way to spend
the first five to ten minutes of any activity.

Now granted, my little investigation has its
faults, including that students knew that their
answers would be published when asked. But
this politically correct, made-for-public con-
sumption article hopefully establishes that fact
that as students at “a highly selective indepen-
dent liberal arts college” we all need to let our
hair down occasionally.

So, while you are scheduling how to finish
all that work, remember to add some time just
for what you want to do.

Snapshots of Davidson

Alaa Odeh and Meredith Harry celebrate First Night Down.

