4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Budget, from page 1

turning faculty is unclear,” according to Ross.

Departments are currently in the process of
hiring new faculty for the upcoming academic
year.

Ross expects to hire eight potentially per-
manent professors and four or five visiting
professors by mid-April.

The administration will then distribute the
remainder of the faculty salary fund after those
positions are filled or not filled.

In terms of sources of revenue, the adminis-
tration this year will rely more heavily on tu-
ition, which already accounts for over half of
budget revenue.

Two other principle sources are generated
by alumni giving (the Annual Fund) and
Davidson College’s endowments. The endow-
ment funds are invested diversely across the
market.

Every year Business and Financial Services
average the returns of the last five years. That
amount is budgeted into the annual budget.

This year’s endowment income decreased

a : “
; S Gh

slightly due to the three years of recession in

°

the middle of that five-year sample.

Tohelp compensate, the percentage increase
in tuition increased, from the 3.9 percent in-
crease in 2003-2004 to a 4.9 percent in 2004-
2005. This increase still remains relatively low
compared to other small liberal arts schools.

The 2004-2005 budget is also confident that
Davidson alumni will continue to give gener-
ously to the Annual fund. The budget assumes
a four percent increase, expecting Annual Fund
revenue to rise to about $6 million.

Last year the 2003-2004 budget required the
use of extra reserves in order to keep tuition
from rising higher than 3.9 percent.

Former Vice President of Financial Affairs
Robert Norfleet cited the endowment’s perfor-
mance in the late 1990s, donor generosity, and
“modest over-enrollment” for providing the
surplus funds in the operating reserve.

Expecting recession, Business Services and
President Vagt decided to allow the surpluses
accumulate into a modest rainy day fund.

“It looks like we won’t have to tap into the
reserves,” Vagt said.

Bowl, from page 1

nearly every topic he mentioned during the long
ride to Knoxville made an appearance at some
point during the tournament.

Davidson rolled through the tournament
nearly undefeated. Their only loss came to
Rhodes College, early Saturday morning.

Victories ranged from a narrow one over
Georgetown College (of Kentucky) by five
points to the collosal win against Hampton-
Sydney (350-35).

The final rounds of the tournament gave
Davidson convincing victories over Rhodes
and then Georgetown, rewarding the tired team
with the opportunity for even more matches,
this time at the National College Bowl Tourna-
ment. The tournament will be held at Auburn
University in Montgomery, Alabama from

April 23 to 25.

Interestingly, it was in the very same room
25 years ago that Davidson’s College Bowl
team won the regional tournament to advance
to the national championship, which they then
won.

“Winning was eerie,” said Kirkland, “since
it was 25 years ago that our coach won with the
*79 Davidson team.”

As for the team’s chances in the nationals,
Coach Gibert summed it up by saying “I know
there’s not a single [team] we can’t beat. . . I
think we’ll give at least a few of the longtime
powerhouses a shock or two.”

Gibert feels that the team has skills needed
to win the tournament.

“Our team is fast and smart,” Gibert said.
“They have broad knowledge and nimble in-
tellects.”

ad

Summer Research Opportunity

Get Paid to Conduct your
own Study

The Office of the Vice President for Academic
Affairs at Davidsoncollege encourages students
from the classes of 2005, 2006, and 2007 to
apply for the Bank of America/Kemp Schoalrs
Program for the 2004 Calendar year. The
program provides $2,000 in reimbursable
expenses to support independent study, travel,
and research as well as a stipend of $1,000.
Frequently, projects have had an international
focus with the Kemp award sponsoring travel
outside the United States, however, domestic
projects will be considered.

Prof. Mark Foley in the Department
of Economics is the current program director.
More information and application forms
are available through his website.
(navigate to the Dept. of Economics page)

Students of all majors are encouraged to
apply. Deadline is March 17

4

S WEDnEspaY, FEBRuARY 25, 2004

March 22, 2004
8:00 p.m.

¥

‘Atnion

Tickets are free but required Some Ean EeT One
y Students beginning March &
¢ beginning March 15

