8 THE DAvIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

D.O. it the outdoors way: a mark on campus life

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

After a stressful week of class and carrel
confinement at Davidson, it’s not rare to wit-
ness some students literally “climbing the
walls.” Just ask Ben Ashton ’08, whocompletes
his work-study by supervising the rock-wall
climbers in the office of Davidson Outdoors.
“It’s a good resource to have,” Ashton says of
Davidson’ s climbing wall, available for use by
any Davidson student. Open from Monday
through Thursday, the wall is a popular spot
for those seeking to air their frustrations and

have some fun. It ranges in height from 10 to

20 feet, allowing students to choose how chal-
lenging to make their ascent.
Sometimes, though, “getting away from it

sari rt" OEIC

First-years on Odyssey this summer.

Photo courtesy of D.O.

all” requires spending time off of the Davidson
grounds. So where does one go for a chance to
escape the grind and get back to nature? Stu-
dents are now able to do so with a quick visit
to the website or office of the college’s ever-
expanding Davidson Outdoors program, which
provides details about various excursions of-
fered throughout the semester.

“D.O. trips are-a great way to get to know
new people, forget about school, and enjoy the
outdoors. You can really be present in the
moment on our trips,” says Jamie Shelton’05,
the current president of Davidson Outdoors.
Some of the upcoming ventures include a be-
ginner climbing course from October 16th to
17th on Pilot Mountain, as well as a Parent’s
Weekend Day Hike around Davidson.

Later in the year, featured outings include a

Mt. Roger’s backpacking trip and an Ever-
glades canoeing expedition, which has become
apopular winter-break retreat over the last few
years. “My trips to the everglades have been
incredible,” said Shelton.

Even though he acknowledges that he’s “‘al-
ways been a hiker,” Shelton is quick to point
out that “most of our trips are at the beginner
level, so if it’s your first time, all the better.”
He credits many of his own outdoor learning
experiences to D.O. “Even at Davidson, the full
range of outdoor activities is easily available,
so I’ve learned to paddle while I’ ve been here
as well.”

Laura Beach ’07, the program’s co-presi-
dent, agrees. Although she has always loved
the outdoors, Beach states that “D.O. has given
me a lot of skills to help me enjoy it more, as
well as opportunities to learn fun new stuff like
climbing and kayaking.”

Outdoor opportanities have not always been
soreadily available. As a student Ed Daugherty,
*85, a Davidson alumnus and the current direc-
tor of Davidson Outdoors, became frustrated
that the school didn’t offer more for those
wanting to experience the local wilderness. Due
in part to Daugherty’s efforts, Davidson Out-
doors has become much more than the modest
“outing club” that years ago occupied a small
room in the Union Atrium.

“The Club owned about six sleeping bags,
and most of the equipment was never returned
once it was borrowed” recalls Daugherty. As
Union Board chair for the club, Daugherty
teamed up with the Residence Life Office in
1984 and helped to create the school’s initial
Odyssey trip. Davidson Outdoors became an
extension of that program, eventually acquir-
ing two full-time staff members and a much
larger office on the Union’s base floor. D.O.
now boasts a very active participation level.
The program tallied 1,976 active accounts last
year for students who attended trips, used equip-
ment, tackled the Challenge Course, or attended
Odyssey.

In the Odyssey’s first year, Daugherty man-
aged to gather a group of 13 freshmen for that
initial pre-orientation program, which lasted a
total of 3 days. Now, the Odyssey has around
180 participants, who come out for one of the
three week-long excursions offered during the
summer. Incoming first-year students tackle the
great outdoors by either backpacking along the
Appalachian Trail or completing an intensive
service project.

“The Odyssey made such a huge impression
on me. [had the best experience,” reports Anne
Weaver ’08. Though it provides all first-year
participants with a chance to get to know each
other before orientation begins, Odyssey
prompts some of the more eager returnees to
become involved with D.O. themselves. “Af-
ter my experience on Odyssey, I would defi-
nitely consider becoming a trip leader,” says
Weaver. “Both my leaders were amazing” she
recalls, “and I think it would. be awesome to
make the same lasting impression on incom-
ing students.”

Getting a bit of shut eye before a day of hiking.

Becoming a trip leader, or “TL” in D.O.
shorthand, is hardly a walk in the woods. The
position involves a sizable time commitment
and an excess of positive, energy. One of the
four requirements for becoming a TL is a se-
mester-long Wilderness Leadership Course.
The course involves weekly meetings and a
few group excursions. TL’s are also expected
to keep up current certification in Wilderness
Advanced First Aid and‘CPR, as well as com-
plete a driver training course. All these provi-
sions, however, are necessary for ensuring the
enjoyment and safety of everyone on the trips.

Everyone who ventures out on a D.O. expe-
dition, however, is expected to pitch in.

“Another philosophy we have in D.O. is that
we want to give trip participants the skills to
be able to do a lot of the essential tasks on their
own,” says Beach. “Everyone takes responsi-
bility, which makes it a lot more fun and re-
warding.”

“D.O. trips are a
great way to get to
know new people,
Jorget about
school, and enjoy
the outdoors.”

-Jamie Shelton

So what about those folks who are in charge?
Many people consider D.O. trip leaders to be
“hippies,” as Ivey McAliley ’08 put it. “We
do kind of stand out in our flannel and over-
alls,” says Beach. Though she understands that
the TL’s are often considered a Davidson sub-
culture because of “similar philosophies and
attitudes toward life,” as Beach terms it. “We
try to be pretty inclusive, and all have friends
who aren’t involved in D.O. stuff.”

Shelton agrees. “The outdoors is a great place
to get to know people, because there is a clear
common goal and no distractions.” He praises
the Odyssey as his “best group experience, be-
cause of the amazing sense of community
among the leaders.”

“Something about going into the wilderness
and relying on each other makes us let go of a
lot of pretenses and just be ourselves,” sug-
gests Beach. Most obvious is the fact that it
allows you to escape all the stress that can build
up around classes and even social life here.

Before you pack up and head out, though,
be sure to take along some nutritious grub.
Beach suggests that ypu use the D.O. “dehy-
drator,” which dries food making it longer last-
ing and lighter. “My next new food experiment
is dehydrated watermelon,” says Beach excit-

_ edly. “I expect it to have the consistency of the

gummy orange slices they used to sell in the
Union.” Sounds like good eating.

