THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004 u

High hopes justified in 2-0 ~
start for women’s tennis.

By Erik SWANSON |
Senior Staff Writer

If ever there were a season for Davidson
women’s tennis to put its name on the map,
this is it. ;

With all six starting singles players and all
_ three doubles teams returning from last year’s
Southern Conference runner-up team and the
addition of four talented freshmen, the Wild-
cats are poised to take the next step toward a
SoCon championship and a NCAA tourna-
ment berth. The women embarked on their
campaign on Saturday with a doubleheader
against Liberty University and Gardner-Webb
University.

At 9 a.m. Saturday morning, the Wildcats
kicked off their spring 2004 season with a solid
7-0 victory over the Liberty Flames at the
Knobloch Tennis Center. With a lineup fea-
turing the same three doubles teams that
earned the Wildcats an 11-0 record when cap-
turing the doubles point last season, Davidson
made quick work of the Flames in all three
doubles matches. Kelly and Meghan Fillnow
’05 won at the number one doubles position,
8-4, while the teams of Meggie Patterson ’05
and Lindsey Powel ’06 at the number two slot
and Sarah Borkowski ’05 and Katherine Hatch
’04 at number three doubles were each victo-
rious by an 8-2 score.

The singles matches featured more of the
same dominance, with no Davidson woman
losing more than five games. The singles
lineup remained much the same as last sea-
son, with the only noticeable difference being
the addition of Kate Levitt ’07 in the number
five position. This substitution shifts Hatch
down to the number six singles slot, a posi-
tion at which, given her strong play in the fall
season, she will likely experience great suc-
cess.

Several hours after their victory over Lib-
erty, the Wildcats remained undefeated with
an impressive 7-0 performance against the
Gardner-Webb Bulldogs. While the Fillnows
remained at the number one doubles position
and recorded an 8-2 victory, the rest of the
doubles lineup was altered to give the team’s
younger players more experience. An all-un-

derclassmen team of Levitt and Shelby Rooke
’07 posted an 8-4 win at the number'two slot,
and Kelly Meadors ’05 teamed with Erin
Moakler (‘07) for an 8-5 victory at number
three doubles. If their morning singles matches
were not impressive enough, the Wildcats
were even more commanding against the Bull-
dogs, with five out of the six-women losing
no more than one game.

With all their starters returning and a tal-
ented group of freshmen to add in to the mix,
the Wildcats have compiled one of their stron-
gest teams ever. Assistant coach Kelley
Cantrell called the team “the most talented
we’ ve ever had.” The surplus of talent on the
team gives the Wildcats many options for the
lineup, and multiple backup plans in case of
injury. The success of all the players Satur-
day exhibits the team’s depth, especially in
doubles.

Entering the 2003-04 season, the women
recognized the potential they had for success
and pushed themselves hard with a rigorous
off-season training regimen. ““We’ ve definitely

had a greater emphasis on conditioning this

year,” revealed Hatch, the team’s senior cap-
tain.

Cantrell observed the benefits to this in-
creased focus on training: “I think it’s defi-
nitely paid off. I can see a lot more quickness
on the court.”

Saturday’s matches demonstrated the team’s
talent that is expected to take them far this
season. “We had great contributions from all
of our healthy players,” commented head
coach Caroline Price. “Everyone got some
early-season experience, and we’re looking
forward to some more good matches next
week, especially against SEC competitor
South Carolina.”

The Wildcats travel to Columbia today for
an early-season test against a nationally ranked
team. The Gamecocks began the season
ranked #47 in the nation. The ’Cats have not
competed against South Carolina in recent
years, so the match-up will be unfamiliar for
both teams.

“South Carolina should be tough, but it will
be good for us to see how we match up against
a top-50 team,” said Cantrell.

Henry Blue ’06 and company have shown vast improvement this year

—

Wrestlers suffer three tough
defeats in weekend meets

Strong performances from
O’Hair, Coman keep ‘Cats
competitve until the end in
nail-biter with Keydets

By Mike CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Coming off a stellar weekend at Washing-
ton and Lee in which the wrestling team had
six champions, the ’Cats traveled back to Lex-
ington this past Friday to face VMI with hopes
of a similar turnout. Unfortunately for the
squad, these hopes appeared to be easily at-
tainable until the last three matches.

“The difference between us and VMI is that
we knew we were in good shape and we knew
we would win the close matches,” said Patrick
Coman ’06. Davidson did win the majority of
the close matches; it was the lopsided ones
that just didn’t go their way.

Leading 19-17 before the final match of the
evening, heavyweight Kevin Klein ’06 was

Public Policy
Literature
Economics
Film
Psychology
History
Sociology

: Art History -

‘Woment’s Studies

Politics

Environmental
Studies

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
(315) 737-0123

wav. swedishprogram org

pinned at the 1:24 mark, allowing the Keydets
to pull off a 23-19 comeback victory. Davidson
had acquired a comfortable 19-6 lead with
three matches to go, but subsequently gave
up a technical fall and two pins to give VMI
the win.

Although the loss was disappointing emo-
tionally, it was further evidence of how far
the program has come under second-year head
coach T.J. Jaworsky.

“We knew going into the VMI match that it
was going to be tough,” said Coman. “Last
year they shut us out 54-0, but we really came
together as a team and almost came away with
a win.”

After the tough loss on Friday evening, the
team had to travel to Charlottesville to face
formidable ACC opponents UNC and host
UVA the very next day.

Davidson lost its first match against UNC
30-7. Coman opened the match with a bang
as he defeated his opponent 8-6 in overtime
at 125 lbs, but the Cats couldn’t win another
match until the 174-pound bout, with Mark
O’ Hair ’04 winning 8-0.

Immediately following the loss, the team

’ had to regroup and prepare for their match

against UVA.

Jim Avola ’07 won his match 12-2 at 133
pounds, but the team was once again unable
to get another victory until the 174-pound
match, with an 11-0 O’Hair victory. UVA
went on to win the dual 38-8.

“Virginia and North Carolina are also tough
teams,” added Coman. "wey hard, but
we had a tough time coming off the emotional
high from the VMI match the night before”

Despite the disappointing team losses, two
Davidson wrestlers had outstanding individual
performances this past weekend that are worth
noting.

O’Hair improved his record to 15-4 on the
season by winning all three of his matches this
weekend in the 174 pound weight class. He
gave Davidson their biggest lead of the night
on Friday against VMI by pinning his oppo-
nent at the 5:58 mark. The following day, he
shut out both of his opponents with victories
of 8-0 and 11-0 against UVA and UNC, re-
spectively.

Coman won two of his three matches this
weekend at 125 lbs, both of which came in
overtime. Against VMI, he sparked the team
from the start with a 4-2 overtime win, and he
followed that performance up the following
day with an 8-6 overtime victory against his
UNC opponent. .

Davidson invites all of its wrestling alumni
back this weekend as it holds a wrestling re-
union for the team’s home matches against
SoCon rival Chattanooga and local rival Duke.
Play begins at 1 p.m. on Saturday.
