Staff Editorial

Davidson students
remain responsible

College students may not always be the most mature people
around, but at least at Davidson, we are usually responsible
enough to know how to manage our own time.

Last year’s discussion over whether or not to allow all stu-
dents access to cable in their dorm rooms brought to light a
series of arguments suggesting that Davidson students could
not handle such a responsibility.

Some administrators argued then, and a few continue tocom-
plain, that having cable TV in dorm rooms is “too tempting” for
students who are supposed to spend their time studying.

Another complaint raised argued that cable would keep stu-
dents isolated in their rooms rather than being forced to social-
ize around the cable TVs provided in the lounges.

But as The Davidsonian reports this week, a recent survey of
Davidson students finds that the addition of cable has not sig-
nificantly changed the study habits of most students.

In fact, the survey found that while students are watching
slightly more television, students are also studying more every
week than they did last year before having access to cable in
every room.

Furthermore, a lack of student lounges, which seemed to rarely
hold large social gatherings even when they did exist, would
make it less likely, not more likely that students would find
themselves locked in solitary confinement in their dorm rooms
watching cable TV.

The recent election night event in which hundreds of stu-
dents crowded into the 900 Room to both watch the election
results on CNN and to socialize is just one example of how
students will not fail to come together in public spaces just
because they have cable TV in their rooms.

College students are social by nature, and cable is not going
to change that.

Yet the recent election also demonstrates just how important
it is to have easy access to cable TV.

With network news networks broadcasting a total of three
hours of each the Democratic and Republican national conven-
tions, where else could students truly follow the news and the
election?

Some will surely argue that cable TV has brought more MTV
than CNN tostudents’ rooms, yet the fact remains that most of
the fears about cable causing students to study less and hide in
their rooms have not occurred.

And besides, aren’t we old enough to make our own deci-
sions about how and with whom we spend our time?

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory ay
Photography Editor ©
Dorsett Cie

PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Letters to the Editors

Bush must
value fiscal
responsibility

Last week, Nathan Bradshay wrote that
moral values were not just about abortion
and gays. And he’s right. Although it may
have looked like “moral values” are what
won the election for George W. Bush, the
numbers tell a different story. Yes, more
ballots were cast for Bush in states with a
gay-marriage amendment on the ballot:
57.9 percent, versus 50.9 percent in states
without an amendment. That’s a difference
of 7 percent in terms of vote share. But
Bush won by 7.3 percent in the same states
in 2000, which means that gay marriage,
if anything, decreased the President’s vote
share.

Clearly, moral values mean something
more than gay marriage and abortion.
Values, Bradshaw says, should be defined
in terms of “honesty, respect, and compas-
sion.” To that, I would add responsibility.
And this week, President Bush and the
Republican leadership in the House are not
being responsible to the American people.
Republicans are expected to raise the debt

$8 trillion because otherwise the United
States would technically be bankrupt.

This will be the third time the Admin-
istration has requested a higher debt limit
since 2002, and the Republican leadership
will probably try to do it discreetly, pos-
sibly by tagging it onto another bill—
where’s the honesty in that? Moral values
can mean more than family values, they
can mean valuing families—protecting
working Americans from the spiraling
debt, which, like it or not, will have a se-
rious effect on the economy if left un-
checked. There is nothing “elitist” about
that. Would John Kerry do better? I don’t
know, and frankly it does not matter; Bush
is in office, and he needs to start acting
responsibly.

Matt Hasset ‘08
‘Bike-cop’
should be
commended

Over the past few weeks ithas been hard
to ignore the growing amount of tension
between students and public safety. °

I know campus pollice is often put in

’ difftcult situations, and forthe most part

take the correct course of action, but oc-
casionally they don’t.

One example was Pikedawgs last
Wednesday night when Sergeant Will-
iams, known to mostas “bike-cop” shut
down the party too eafly without any
apparent reason.

Were students angry at the time?
Absolutely. .

Still, what most students probably
don’t know is that the next day at din-
ner Sergeant Williams came to PiKA
said he was wrong and publicly apolo-
gized to all members of the house.

He even went as far as to say that he
lost sleep over it that night.

On behalf of PiKA, I would like to
thank Sergeant Williams for his integ-
rity.

I have been at Davidson for nearly
three years now and even I have seen
certain changes in the life on the court.

I agree some things should change
over time, but integrity between stu-
dents, campus police and the adminis-
tration shouldn’t be one of them.

Perry Lewis ‘06
Pi Kappa Alpha

limit, currently at $7.384 trillion, to above

ARAFAT'S
SUCCESSOR
WILL NEED To
FILL SOME

BIG BOOTS...

As anactive member of Patterson Court

The Davidsonian wel-
comes and strongly en-
| courages letters to the
| editor. Please e-mail
submissions of less than
250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu.
We reserve the right to
edit for.
content, brevity and
grammar.

caglecartoons.com,

Liberals must learn to lean on the left

By AsHISH GEORGE
Guest Columnist

If there was any doubt that the Democratic Party was occu-
pying the minority position, Nov. 2 ought to have erased it.
Despite going up against a president who was loathed with gusto
on the left and performed miserably even by the standards of
traditional conservatism, the Democrats could not make their
presentation palatable to enough Americans. After the compul-
sory drowning of sorrows in alcohol and self-pity, liberals have
posed the question: Where do we go from here?

Well, first off, how about back to liberalism? Unfortunately,
recent defeats have pushed the Democrats to the right. The only
way to beat the Republicans, some maintain, is to out-Repub-
lican them. Red America has derived much pleasure from thun-
dering at liberals about how they need to stop being conde-
scending elitists and reconnect with “middle America.”

This charge is dripping with insincerity. “Elitism,” that
gratingly ubiquitous buzzword of the aw-shucks conservative
punditocracy, is a term that has lost all meaning because it is
invoked so often as a smear against liberals. Everything per-
ceived as liberal is apparently by definition also elite. But it is
hard to see how the conservatives who level this accusation—
you know, those my-heart-lies-on-the-prairie, Ivy League-edu-
cated, six-figure earning, urbanite George Will types—are
somehow more in tune with everyday America than their equally
comfortably situated liberal counterparts.

It might be true that liberals nonetheless condescend to cer-
tain segments of the population that con$ervatives don’t, espe-
cially those who tend to be more fervent in their religiosity. But
what exactly is the problem with this? If someone holds an
irrational prejudice because of their religion, it is perfectly fair
to call them out. Unlike race, sex, and other such congenital

accidents, a person’s religion is a voluntary enterprise; people
choose to believe whatever they believe. It is generally neither
smart nor useful to mock someone for their religious views, but
neither is it sensible to pretend that the prescriptions of the Bible
are by themselves a respectable source of one’s opinions on
stem-cell research, homosexuality, and abortion. Divine com-
mand does not an argument make. i.

The mistake John Kerry made was nota failure to try to appeal
to people who view the world through the lens of the Old Tes-

There is a truth on the lips of hon-
est liberals that is only uttered
with great difficulty

tament; no, John Kerry’s mistake was that he tried too hard to
mollify this demographic. In refusing to endorse gay marriage,
Kerry made a move that was ethically inexcusable. These days
it is polite to say that we must compromise and concede on this
or that matter.

But the biggest problem of the American left is precisely
that—its platform is nothing less than abject capitulation on a
whole host of issues. There is a truth on the lips of honest lib-
erals thatis only uttered with great difficulty: Those who conflate
the words of the Bible with grounds for public policy simply do
not deserve compromise. Liberalism cherishes tolerance, but
tolerance is different from respect.

No Democrat should ever afford an anti-gay bias the same
respect he or she would, say, disagreement over Social Security
or affirmative action.

And that’s a form of condescension that’s worth any number
of electoral defeats,

