)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2004 7

From the hands of our masters in residence, a
sual Arts Center

‘ eS DRA ON Pe by) d
Russ Warren’s ‘Mr. Sincere
Opening Man.’
By BriANA HUNTER
Special Contributor

Walking through the faculty exhibition, I
found it impossible not to notice the very dis-
tinct and resonating style of each professor. It
should also be no secret that there is somewhat
of a bias in the way I scanned over.the exhibi-
tion for the first time. Being a studio art stu-
dent myself, it was great to see my own instruc-
tor, Herb Jackson, put himself out there—and
even better to have the tables turned. However,
ignoring this immediate inclination to return
the favor, I did enjoy what professors Herb

_Jackson, Russ Warren, Cort Savage, and vis-

iting professor McArthur Freeman II have to
share with the public.

Professor Savage brings a unique and un-
conventional style of artwork to the forefront
of the exhibit—using not oil, not acrylic, not
clay, but x-ray light box images and large rub-
ber bands. The rubber bands were worked to
create intriguing spherical objects, and as you
view these pieces from the outside, your mind
will immediately think of how the matter

‘The subconscious ocean that
the artist swims in is deep and
grows deeper with the years.’

-Professor Herb Jackson

progresses toward the center. Of course, this is
completely contrary to the way they were con-
structed, which raises the question asked by
Savage:—‘‘What is real and what really mat-
ters?”

The acrylics on canvas that Herb Jackson
presents all share common textures and char-
acteristics that scream his name, whether you
see his artwork in the gallery or in our very
own Vail Commons. Despite similarities to
earlier work, his section of the gallery is far
from boring or predictable.

The painting that stood out to me in particu-
lar was “Releasing.” At first sight, one imme-
diately experiences the colors actively playing
with each other; one will outshine another,
which will in turn be outdone by another, etc.
First the pinks, the reds, greens, and blues, then
the lighter tones tend to set in. Their brightness
and solidarity or depth are striking and certainly

contribute to the overall feeling of release or _

other powerful emotion bursting onto the can-
vas.

Cort Savage’s ‘Inevitable Form.’

McArthur Freeman uses symbols of childhood.to combine the gro-
tesque and capricious in his ‘Soapbox.’ .

While the painting may have personally been
an act of release, the painting itself appears to
have several differing elements congregating
toward the center as the colors and textures
shoot in from the corners and edges of the
painting. As a composition, where all of these
different elements come together, this paint-
ing seems to be a paradox. The emotions of the
artist have exploded and been released onto the
canvas, and those emotions expressed in the
paint seem to contract in a way toward the
center, and towards each other. .

Moving into the next room of the gallery, I
was instantly intrigued by Warren’s series. It
suggests.a sense of humor in his art, as well as
depth and profundity. It made me feel as if he
had taken people, events, and emotions from
his life, and put them into these unusual forms.
Itis as if he painted them the way he truly views
them: in the way “Mr. Sincere Opening Man”
has two faces, “Silent Go” seems to have his/

Warren’s ‘Surviving C+,’ explores
the head, while being painted on
tin, rather than canvas.

her mouth wide open, and “Surviving C+”
seems to show ahead exploding and while it is
doing just the opposite. Warren seems to play
with variations of light and dark quite a bit in
the beiges and whites. He even comes away
from the traditional canvas, and puts his oil
creations on tin.

Upon entering the McArthur. Freeman II
exhibit across the entryway, there was a com-
pletely different experience to be had in the
separate gallery space alloted to Davidson’s
new visiting professor. Freeman has taken the
mystical worlds of our youth and given them
phallic, grotesque, raw, and real new perspec-
tive. Through his use:of just about every me-
dium from graphite (pencil), to clay, to oil on
canvas, the canvases, scultpure and drawing
present images coming together in a terribly
interesting combination of the whimsical and
the cynical that you can’t take your eyes off of.

The faculty exhibition'gives the students a
chance to see the artist never stops evolving or
learning, no matter how many years of experi-
ence he or she may have on you. The show is
a laboratory environment where students can
see, from the hands of their own professors,
“the subconscious ocean that the artist swims
inis deep and grows deeper with the years,” as
Jackson says it. While the thought of this may
be frustrating (the process will never end) it is
also comforting to know that the “junk” a stu-
dent paints today may only get better.

‘Herb Jackson’s ‘Releasing.’

