16

THE DAvIpSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
. OcTOBER 27, 2004

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

After starting the season a disappointing 3-7, the men’s soc-
cer team has finally begun to fulfill their preseason expecta-
tions in October. With the Wildcats’ 3-2 overtime victory over
-Elon on Tuesday night, Davidson extended its unbeaten streak
tq a season-high five games, including three straight overtime
victories.

Trying to ride the momentum from a successful weekend at
the UNCG/adidas Classic, Davidson traveled south to battle
Southern Conference rival Furman. After a scoreless first half,
Furman was able to get the all-important first goal in the 62nd
minute when a Paladin defender headed home a corner kick.

Unlike earlier in the season when the second half goal might
have meant disaster for the ’Cats, the team could not be de-
nied. Less than three minutes later, sophomore midfielder Cass
Baltz ’07 took a feed from roommate Mac Wilkie ’07 and
drilled a shot into the middle of the net. The goal was the first
for Baltz on the season and the assist was Wilkie’s team lead-
ing ninth point. “Cass’ goal was uplifting to him,” said head
coach Matt Spear.

The teams continued to remained at one goal apiece after
90 minutes of regulation and the first of two 10-minute over-
time periods, Davidson finally broke the tie in the 103rd
minute. Freshman Tom Lavan ’08 found senior Joey Bass ’05
open just 20 yards out and the co-captain defender made no

Field Hockey
beats Billikens in
Saturday rematch

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

After winning the Nor-Pac East Division last year for the
first time ever, the field hockey team entered the season with
high hopes. Unfortunately, their first two conference games
of the 2004 season did not turn out in their favor, as they fell
to Appalachian State 3-0 and Radford 1-0 earlier this year.
The Wildcats had a chance this weekend to dig themselves
out of their early-season hole, however, when they hosted the
Saint Louis Billikens for two games at home.

On Friday night, the Wildcats squared off for the first time
this season against the Billikens, who head coach Lisa Th-

* ompson termed a “talented team with a lot of speed.”

The Wildcats were able to contain the Billikens in the first
half, as the teams entered the locker room scoreless.

Fifteen minutes into the half, the Billiken finally capital-
ized on their offensive opportunities, and St. Louis then trans-
formed into full defensive mode as they succeeded in shutting
down Davidson for the rest of the game.

The 1-0 victory gave the Billikens their third win in the
Nor-Pac East Division, while it dropped Davidson to 0-3.
Thompson was not down after the loss, though, saying, “We
felt good about our game, but we didn’t finish. We [need] to
really challenge their keeper on Saturday. We are not going
[to leave] until we earn the win.”

The following day, the Wildcats returned to Belk Turf Field
for the second half of their double-header with the Billikens.
The first half was more of the same for the two teams, though,
as they: again enteréd the half deadlocked at 0-0.

Katie Pierucci ‘o8
Volley
Hometown: Bakersfield, California
Major: Undeclared

A weekend loss to Western Carolina didn’t stop Katie

Pierucci from having the best game of her young college

career. The freshman posted her first-ever triple-double,
registering 26 kills, 35 assists, and 16 digs. She also helped fill

in at setter for injured Jenna Dykstra ‘o7.

ball

mistake, burying the chance for the ’Cats first victory at Furman
since 1998:
“Furman has always been a big nemesis,” Spear said. “It

was good to get back on track. It was our first away win and —

our first conference win.”

Four days later, playing their final match of a four game
road stretch, Davidson dominated a weak Wofford side but
needed overtime once again to secure the win. After scoring
just minutes into the game, the host Terriers proceeded to pack
ten players into their own goal box in attempt to keep the Wild-
cat offense at bay. The tactic proved successful for the major-

ity of the game, but unfortunately for Wofford, John Latting _

06 came alive.

“We put John Latting up front with about 20 minutes to go
and he just took over the game,” Spear said, “He was a man
amongst boys up there—it was scary.”

Latting tied the game with just over ten minutes to play in
regulation and then won it moments later in the first overtime
session. The score marked the second golden-goal for Latting
this season and the ’Cats finally prevailed 2-1 in a game that
they outshot Wofford 27-2.

“Soccer is a funny sport that way,” Spear said. “Eventually
though, our ability took over. I was impressed with our com-
posure.”

On Tuesday, for the first time in two weeks, Davidson re-
turned home for a SoCon match-tip*with Elon. The Wildcats

see Soccer, page 14

Field Hockey finally earned its first NorPac
win with 2-1 overtime victory over St. Louis.

In the second half, St. Louis broke the stalemate five min-
utes in, and it looked like a further replay of Friday night’s
loss. ,

Just when it seemed that Davidson was headed for its fourth
straight Nor-Pac loss, Emily Davis ’06 netted her third of the
season to bring the Wildcats back into the game at 1-1. And

‘for the first time this season, 70 minutes of regulation was not

enough to decide the outcome; as the teams stayed knotted at

see Field Hockey, page 14

ee N

Defender Joey Bass ’05 netted the game-
winning goal in overtime against Furman.

Women’s Cross
Country freshmen |
make presence felt

Team looks to defend Southern Con-
ference Championship this weekend
with strong trio of underclassmen

By Pierce TRUMBO
Staff Writer

Coming into the season, it was clear that the women’s cross
country team was one of the strongest in the Southern Con-
ference, and perhaps one of the best in school history. The
Wildcats won the SoCon Championship last year, and had a
solid group of returning runners such as seniors Anna Brew
’05 and Kelly Fillnow ’05 to continue the success in the new
year.

What was unexpected, however, was that the newcomers to
the 2004 squad wasted little time in making an impact on the
veteran team. Instead, the five freshmen made their presence
immediately known this year.

The freshmen trio of Annie O’Donnell ’08, Brenna Burns
’08, and Brittany Crawford ’08 in particular has made an im-
mediate impact. In the recent SK races at Furman and Wake
Forest, O'Donnell, Burns, and Crawford were all among the
top five runners for the team, and they have been running at
the top of the Wildcat line-up for most of the year.

Perhaps the most unexpected contribution to the team has
been made by O’Donnell, a walk on to the program. Origi-
nally from Wilmington, N.C. she went to boarding school in

see Freshmen, page 14

I

PLAY OF THE WEEK

With Davidson trailing 1-0 against Socon foe Wofford last week, head coach
Matt Spear resorted to drastic measures by moving junior defender John .
4 Latting '06 up to forward in the second half of play to apply more offensive
pressure against the Terriers. Latting responded emphatically to the move,
netting the equalizer in the 79th minute and striking again, in the first overtime
period by slipping a left-footed attempt past the Terrier keeper for the game-
winner. The goal was Latting's third of the season, and his second golden-goal

along with the game-winner against UAB in the adidas Classic:
