4 THE DavipsoniAN NEws WEDpNEsDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004
Cable, from page 1 thing.” tion to president Bobby Vagt that cable TV be _ tions.
tion last year. Although the issue ofbringingcableTVinto allowed in dorm rooms. “We’re going to start small,” Boye said,

“RLO certainly wants to support the aca-
demic mission of the college,” said Associate
Dean of Students and Director of Residence
Life Leslie Marsicano. “On the other hand, we
were really happy to be able to provide this
because students complained to us all the time
that they didn’t have it. We do try to provide
services that students want.”

The results of the survey are not surprising
to SGA senator Jack Hubbard ’06.

Hubbard chaired an ad hoc committee last
year devoted to the passage of the SGA Cable
Resolution.

“T think that the type of people Davidson
admits are responsible enough to handle watch-
ing TV,” Hubbard said. “It’s not something
novel; we’ ve had it in our homes all our lives.
I think that students are acting responsibly, and

they’re being treated like hans Tat sa 1 good

Hours per week

Hours students watch TV per week

dorms surfaced years ago and was periodically
discussed among students, no action was taken
until 2003.

Then, last year, SGA drafted a cable resolu-
tion and conducted a survey that determined
that there was enough student interest in bring-
ing cable TV todormrooms to warrant the extra
costs of providing it.

“Over the years that we had been talking
about it, more and more students had cable TV
in their bedrooms at home and were accus-
tomed to that,” Marsicano said. “Also, we were
overcrowded and were using lounges as
rooms.’

The resolution was debated within the Com-
mittee of Campus and Religious Life, a group
of students, faculty, and staff who meet regu-
larly to advise the president.

The CCRL eventually sent a recommenda-

Hours students study per week

Vagt agreed to this resolution in January
~ 2004.

Although the majority of students and staff
supported the decision to bring cable TV into
residence halls, there were nevertheless some
people who objected to the passage of the cable
resolution.

Assistant Dean of Community Service Ruth
Pittard addressed the CCRL and spoke out
against the resolution.

“First of all, this is college, and the main thing
you do in college is read,” Pittard said. “TV
takes away from that. lam certainly not against
watching TV, but I think that having it in rooms
is too tempting.

“Having it inrooms makes it too solitary and
takes away from community. There are lots of
other things you can do in your life rather than
sitting passively in front of the TV, especially
in college.”

Marsicano believes that it is too soon to as-
sess the effects of cable TV in dorms on com-
munity life among students.

“At the end of the year, it will be interesting
to do some research into that and talk to hall
counselors to see how their hall operated com-
pared to the one they were on as freshmen,”
Marsicano said. “My impression so farhas been
that it has not made a big difference.”

RLO and SGA are now focusing on devel-
oping the two cable TV stations that are allot-
ted for Davidson programming.

The stations may be used in the future ‘to
broadcast Davidson games, SGA meetings,
speeches by guest lecturers, and even movies
provided by RLO.

Christina Boye 06 is the SGA representa-
tive on a new committee composed of repre-
sentatives from ITS, the physical plant, and
RLO that will decide how to use the two sta-

“maybe with announcements, the Crier, and
the social calendar. My committee, the RLO
committee, is investigating other schools and

“RLO certainly wants to support
the academic missiom of the college.
On the.other hand, we were really
happy to be able to provide this [cable]
because students complained to us all
the time that they didn’t have it. We do
try to provide services that students
want.”

--Associate Dean of Students and —
Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano

what they are using their cable for.”

Students for the most part are excited about
having cable TV in their rooms.

“T think it’s a nice feature because I’m not a
huge sports fan, and I can watch my own pro-
gramming without feeling bad for taking the
TV away from people who want to watch
sports,” Johnny Cummins ’08 said. “I like be-
ing able to watch the news whenever I want. It
helps me stay up-to-date because I can just have
the news on in the background while I’m do-
ing other things.”

Hubbard said that in general, students were
“thrilled” about having cable TV in their dorm
rooms.

“T have met very few students, maybe twoor —
three, who are fundamentally opposed to it
{cable in dorm rooms],” Hubbard said. “Even
people whodon’t watch cable TV want the right
to be able to do it.”

Your

application

Dr CaM iI want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical schools by giving
them the personal attention, the necessary
science and math courses, and one-to-one
academic advising. ,

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a
Career as a doctor, apply during the
period of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit
www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516- 7748.

U NI

Your |
Reality:
“IT don’t have the

required courses
for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS

VER: 81

PesiiGiacealiuivate
Premedical Program

