THE DavIpSONIAN

SPORTS

Denver downs lacrosse with late comeback

Frank ’05 nearly broke the school
record with seven goals.

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team left last Thursday for a
three-day road trip to play non-conference
opponents George Washington University and
University of Denver.

On Friday afternoon, the ’Cats played on
GW’s home field, losing 17-6 to the Colonials.
Then on Sunday, Davidson traveled to Col-
lege Park, Maryland, to play Denver, with the
Pioneers taking a slim 11-10 victory over the
Cats. Davidson is currently 2-7 overall and

0-3 in conference play. :
The ’Cats struggled offensively against GW,
and although Eloise Grose ’06 scored three

goals, they could not fight,off the Colonials. «

GW’s Lauren Bower scored five goals, and
Jamie Lee and Laura Hostetler tallied three

apiece, creating a large gap for: the ’Cats to .

overcome.

The Colonials led 2-1 when they went ona
scoring rant, notching eleven consecutive
goals with 21:06 remaining on the clock in
the first half. At half time, George Washing-
ton held a 24-3 shot advantage over Davidson.
Goalie Becca Nussbaum ’04 had fifteen saves
in the match-up, but GW ended with a 39-12
shot-on-goal advantage. The loss was a frus-
trating one for Davidson, as last season GW
won in overtime on Davidson’s home turf.

The ’Cats took on Denver away from ei-
ther teams home field. Denver is on their
spring break and has traveled throughout the
east coast playing teams this week. The tre-
mendous efforts of Lindsay Frank ’05 were
not enough for the ’Cats, with Denver scor-
ing the final goal in the match-up with 1:30
left in the second half.

Although Davidson controlled the follow-
ing draw, they were unable to even the score.
Frank almost broke the Davidson school
record, scoring seven goals in the contest.
Frank scored five of Davidson’s first six goals,
creating a 6-1 lead with seven minutes remain-
ing in the first half. The Pioneers came back,
netting two more goals before the end of the
half.

Denver started off the scoring in the sec-
ond half, cutting the Davidson lead to just two.
Whitney Deifendorf ’05 quickly responded,
scoring off a feed from Molly Pickall ’05.
Frank tallied her sixth goal of the contest to
push the Davidson lead to 8-4 with twenty

minutes left.

The Pioneers responded by netting three
consecutive goals, making the score 8-7. Frank
then notched her final goal of the contest.
Denver went to score two more, clinching the
tie at 9-9 with under
seven minutes left
in the game.
Davidson asserted
their lead with
Millie McKeachie
05 scoring off a
feed from Frank.

The - Pioneers
would not relent,
however, with
Denver’s Patience
Brown scoring the
final two goals,
edging out the ’Cats
11-10.

Defensively, the
*Cats held strong, with Nussbaum making
eleven saves on the day, including eight in the
second half. Erin Morris ’06 created two Den-
ver turnovers to lead the Wildcats in defen-
sive play.

The ’Cats look forward to their next match-
up on Friday, under the lights, playing St.
Francis (PA) at 7 p.m. on the Mary Belk Turf
Facility.

McKeachie ’05,
a midfielder, is
captain of the
lacrosse team

from Benchwarmers, page 12

Where’s Joy Hamm when you need her?!

Don’t get the wrong idea, though. Not ev-
eryone on this campus feels the need to run
up the score faster than Union Cafe Deli
prices.

“Not all our opponents were cold-hearted

WEDNEsDAY, Marcu 17, 2004

13

and cruel individuals,” said Bahls (pro-
nounced, in case you were wondering, Bales).
“Two teams were kind enough to take a for-
feit instead of subjecting us to yet another hour
of shame and defeat.”

Why might any team pass up a seemingly
easy win? Well, it’s probably because these
are some of the spunkiest and feistiest girls
you will come across. They come to games in
high spirits, and this appearance intimidates
such insecure opponents.

Physical intimidation might also come into
play.

“Were the other teams better than us at bas-
ketball? You better believe it. But we could
take any team in a fist fight,” said Lisa Collett,
whose new nose stud intimidates even her own
father. “They don’t call her Katie ‘Muhamad
Ali’ Fitzpatrick for nothing.”

Luckily, the Benchwarmers don’t rate
games based on “the meaningless statistic” of
wins and losses. It all goes back to points. Why
might one game be better than another?

Because this one goes to eeelaiven!

But don’t let the utter cheerfulness of these
happy few overshadow the real problem at
hand. Intramural basketball is meant to be fun.
Playing to win is one thing, but taking your
sexual frustration, grade deflation, and every
bit of social anxiety out on unsuspecting op-
ponents is shallow and unlike the typical
Davidson style.

Collett’s account of their tournament elimi-
nation game summarizes the season.

“We knew that if we lost that game, it was
over,” said Collett, as if recounting a war story.
“We held them 2-0 for the first 15 seconds,
but then our defense broke down, and we never
quite recovered. We almost pulled out a win,
but they edged us out with a narrow 16-52
win. We’ll get ’em next year.”

That’s right. Mark your calendars. The
Benchwarmers will be back.

Women’s tennis heads West for Spring Break, goes 3-2

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

In what has been a yearly tradition, the
women’s tennis team spent their spring break
traveling and playing against teams they nor-
mally would not have the opportunity to play.
After previous destinations such as Coastal
South Carolina and Florida, this year the team
traded in its bus pass for round-trip plane tick-
ets to San Francisco, where they played a gru-
eling schedule of five matches in five days.

The trip got off to a rocky start, as far as
travel and tennis were concerned, but the
women got stronger every day—so much so
that head coach

at number five and Katherine Hatch ’04 at
number six managed to win for the ’Cats, leav-
ing the final score at 5-2 in favor of the hosts.

The Wildcats rebounded quickly on Tues-
day afternoon against a Division-II San Fran-
cisco State Gator team that offered little re-
sistance. Davidson dominated every match for
a 9-0 sweep of the Gators, losing a total of
only 16 games through both the singles and
doubles competitions.

The ’Cats carried the momentum from
Tuesday’s win into Wednesday’s matchup
with the Santa Clara Broncos, gaining an early
advantage with victories from Meggie
Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 (#2) and

Hatch and = Sarah

Caroline Price wanted
to stick around for an-
other week and another
five matches by the end
of the trip to finish with
a 3-2 record against sev-
eral solid west coast
teams.

After fighting
through I-77 traffic on

“ ‘T really like the play
of our doubles ...We're
playing some of the best
doubles we've ever.
played’ - Coach Price”

Borkowski ’05 (#3) in
the doubles matches.
The Broncos were too
tough for the Wildcats in
singles action, though,
as only Patterson and
Hatch could muster vic-
tories, leaving Davidson
on the losing end of a
tight 4-3 match.

an icy Saturday morning, the women finally
reached the airport, only to discover that they
had missed their flight. They arriving in San
Francisco much later than they had planned,
forcing the team to miss their Saturday after-
noon practice session and making them un-
able to secure courts on Sunday to prepare for
their first match on Monday afternoon against
The University of the Pacific Tigers.

The Tigers proved to be too tough an oppo-
nent for a Davidson team that was unable to
‘work out its kinks on the practice courts fol-
lowing the cross-country travel. The Pacific
team—now boasting an overall 9-2 record
with losses only to top-30 teéams—jumped on
top of the Wildcats quickly, earning victories
at one and two doubles for the early lead. The
Tigers continued to control the match in the
singles competition, as only Kate Levitt ’07

Against the St. Mary’s
Gaels on Thursday evening, Davidson began
the match in the same fashion as the day be-
fore, winning the two and three slots in
doubles to secure the 1-0 advantage. The Wild-
cats refused to suffer the same singles fate two
days in a row, storming out of the gates to
win the first five singles matches in straight
sets. Only Hatch was unable to close out her
opponent, losing 5-7, 6-0, 5-7 at the sixth po-
sition in what would prove to be the only
blemish on her resume for the entire trip. The
match finished under the lights with chimes
from a nearby chapel echoing off the rolling
hills surrounding the courts, a perfect setting
in which to recover from Wednesday’s heart-
breaking loss. :
Friday evening featured the final installment
of the ’Cats’ California tour, with Davidson

taking on the University of San Francisco
Dons. The Wildcats once again started off
strongly, winning all three doubles matches
this time for the early lead. In the singles com-
petition, Patterson, Powel, Levitt, and Hatch
won tough matches at the two, four, five, and
six positions, respectively, earning the ’Cats
a 5-2 victory.

Many players turned in impressive perfor-
mances over the five intense days of tennis
competition. In doubles, Patterson and Powel
completed the week with a 4-1 record at the
number two slot, while Hatch and Borkowski
finished with an undefeated 5-0 record at num-
ber three.

“T felt really good about our doubles,” com-
mented Price. “We’re playing some of the best
doubles we’ ve ever played.”

Patterson and Hatch experienced similar
success in singles and were joined by Levitt
as owners of the best singles records on the

week for the ’Cats at 4-1.

Price praised the leadership of the team cap-
tain, Hatch: “She played awesome. Her se-
nior leadership and mental toughness were
great for the team.”

- The trip was a great experience for the
women, both on the court and off. With morn-
ing excursions to Chinatown, Alcatraz, and
other locations, and afternoon matches set in
pristine rolling hills and parks, the women
experienced more than just the five tennis
matches. “‘We got to play ball for five days,
see the city, and live it fully,” Price recalled.

The Wildcats’ record now stands at 7-6 on
the season with only today’s home match
against South Carolina State remaining before
the commencement of the conference season.
The conference is as deep as it has ever been,
according to Price, but she feels the team is
“well-positioned to enter the conference sea-

”

son.

