THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Wepnespay, Marcu 31, 2004 11

New technology for RLO Just Peace Iraq film both biased and false

and the Union Cafe

Davidson College, always at the very forefront of progres-
sive movements, is on the cutting edge once again as the school
plans to introduce sweeping technological innovations to the
campus.

In the fall of 2004, students will return to an entirely new set
of interfaces with the college community. Instead of dealing

students will now interact primarily with
highly efficient robots and computers.

Naturally, the various staffs of these de-
partments will remain employed, only now
they’ Il be free to attend to their primary job
functions rather then dealing with pesky stu-
dents.

The first changes to be affected happily
occur in the department of the greatest need.
With self-checkout machines handling the long lines at lunch
and dinner, cafe workers will be free to pursue their primary
work-place objective of restocking V8s and peach flavored Diet
Snapple ice tea. An unexpected but tremendous side-effect is
that the cafe workers, desperately important ambassadors to
the non-college community, will have no have time to fully
flush out the greater truths in their intimate, precious phone
conversations.

Though some may be concerned about the inhuman, perhaps
colder interactions one may have with a machine instead of the
usual warm approving smile ringing up your late night queso,
fears should be eased and hearts will be warmed when our new
checkout bots emit, in that charming metallic voice, “Enjoy it,
dude.”

Administrators feel that students won’t mind the new neces-
sarily simplified menu. Said one, “They’ Il be happy as long as
they’ ve got their Feeling Blue Burger and that other popular
favorite, the Chicken Baby Blue.”

The new computer handling the especially peevish aspects
of residence life work, called rlOS, will not only work to main-
tain the fifteen day cooling off period after student-placed work
orders, but also continue to assign terrible lottery numbers to a
few specifically targeted students year-after-year, and photo-
shop face book pictures to the standard horrific proportions.

The highly efficient mainframe, first designed by Bechtel
Corporation to organize the rebuilding of Iraq, will of course be
necessarily turned off once a year on doubles lottery night.

The primary purpose and greatest effect of these technologi-
cal advancements is that it will allow the human workers of
RLO to perform, even practice, with appropriate joy and con-
demnatory zeal their main purpose at Davidson, that is to
say with confidence and disdain, “No.”

RLO is also looking into clip-board carrying rollers, fully
equipped with the appropriate amount of tranquilizers.

Plans to replace professors with teaching robots were
scratched when a group from the philosophy department met
with board of trustees and convinced them that this may have
already happened. A few students voiced the same opinion, but
for entirely different, unexplained reasons.

The board of trustees themselves immediately rejected the
idea of robots joining their ranks due to an inability to satisfac-
torily define the machines’ views on Jesus of Nazareth.

Asked by ITS if any robots could help them in their work, the
dean of admissions smirkingly replied:

“Are you kidding me? We’re way ahead of the game; we’ ve
been bringing robots onto campus for years!”

NICHOLAS CARLSON

with employees in RLO and the Union Cafe, .

Last Wednesday, the pacifist organization Just Peace pre-
sented the film “Uncovered: The Whole Truth About the Iraq
War.” The film is;mostly composed of interviews with experts
in the intelligence and foreign relations com-
™ munities.

However, it quickly becomes clear that the

filmhas cherry-picked these “experts” solely
from the radical anti-war camp. This strik-
ingly biased and unbalanced film is not a
documentary; it’s a commercial for the anti-
_ Bush position.
Space permits me to debunk only a small
number of the film’s many
mischaracterizations and false claims. First, the film asserts
again and again that Bush lied about Iraq’s weapons of mass
destruction. Apparently, Bush somehow knew that Iraq had no
WMDs.

The film ignores the fact that if Bush was lying, then the
Clinton administration and every major foreign intelligence
service must have been lying as well, because they all agreed
that Iraq still had weapons of mass destruction.

The film also says that Bush and others lied when they sug-
gested that evidence of Iraq’s WMD program could come in the
form of a “mushroom cloud,” because Iraq never developed
the missile capability to hit the U.S. But these statements never
said that the mushroom cloud would appear over the U.S.”—
Iraq could have struck one of our allies. After the war, inspec-
tors in Iraq found missiles with ranges in violation of the U.N.
arms regulations, as well as advanced design on missiles with

what i think

MATT BANDY

ranges of up to 1000 kilometers.

Yet even in the light of this damning evidence, some of those
interviewed in the film still contend that inspectors had com-
pletely disarmed Iraq by 1998. Ironically, this argument was
long ago refuted by one of the film’s own sources.

Scott Ritter, who conducted the inspections in the late 90s
and speaks in the film profusely, angrily wrote in an article for
The New Republic in December of 1998 that the U.S. had
bungled the inspections, as Iraq still retained biological and
chemical weapons and nuclear weapons infrastructure. Ritter
has now inexplicably reversed his position and claims that he
somehow knows that Iraq was weapons-free.

Ritter and others in the film argue that Iraq couldn’t have had
any sarin nerve gas or anthrax, because both have a short shelf
life and would have depleted long ago. In the case of anthrax,
this is a lie. New Scientist writes that anthrax is such a popular
weapon because “anthrax spores ... have along shelf-life: spores
seized from a World War One German spy targeting allied pack |
animals in Norway were revived after 80 years.”

The sarin gas that Iraq used during its war with Iran did have
a shelf life of only a few months. But a declassified CIA report
from 1996 shows that Iraq had designed a “binary” chemical
weapons delivery system that stores the sarin components sepa-
rately, making the shelf life “irrelevant.”

Just Peace tried to make the appearance of objectivity by
passing out flyers to the audience that purportedto explain “how
each side tried to manipulate opinion.” But these flyers only
talked about trivial stylistic points in the film. Why did Just
Peace leave the film’s weak factual basis S unchallenged?

Love, not politics, defines gay marriage

By AsnisH GEORGE
Guest Columnist

The poet Philip Larkin expresses what we all know but are
afraid to say. His words are a warning to us about the harm we
risk inflicting on those who ask for the harmless:

In everyone there sleeps

A sense of life lived according to love.

To some it means the difference they could make

By loving others, but across most it sweeps

As all they might have done had they been loved.

That nothing cures

Just as gay marriage has arrived as a major political issue—
wonder of wonders!—the progressive sentiments of many
politicians have bid us adieu. Indeed, John Kerry, whose lack
of conviction might be troubling were it anomalous, has made
the choice before us a candidate who opposes gay marriage and
a candidate who opposes gay marriage a little less sincerely.
(Oh, and some Nader guy too.)

Republicans, who suffer from no minor cognitive dissonance
these days, believe the best way to affirm their belief in the
Constitution’s sanctity and their reverence for the Founding
Fathers is to amend the document to fight the gains of a minor-
ity for which they have an aversion. The president contends
“after more than two centuries of American jurisprudence and
a millennia of human experience, a few judges and local au-
thorities are presuming to change the most fundamental insti-
tution of civilization.”

But it is Bush who is being presumptuous. The Federal

Marriage Amendment he has endorsed declares “Marriage in .
the United States shall consist only of the union of a man and —
a woman.” The implication of this is disturbing. Is it to be

impermissible for a private church to give gay marriage the
thumbs up and conduct ceremonies accordingly?

But let’s back up a moment. Why do Republicans seek an
amendment at this juncture when gay marriage has hardly
reached epidemic proportions? The answer is the full faith and
credit clause of the Constitution, which says “Full faith and
credit shall be given in each state to the public acts, records, and
judicial proceedings of every other state.” Republicans believe
that legalizing gay marriage in one state will lead to gays and
lesbians flocking to that state, getting married, and returning
home with a marriage that must obligatorily be recognized in
their native state. But the full faith and credit clause does not
necessarily cover gay marriage.

Todd Gaziano of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative
think tank, observes that the clause applies to lawsuits and court
orders and that a marriage is neither. Gaziano adds that “Con-
gress has the authority — and the states themselves have full
authority — to take things outside the scope of full faith and
credit clause.” This explains why interracial marriage was not
such a simple matter during the era of Jim Crow and why the
entrenchment of gay marriage will be more a state-by-state battle
than a fait accompli.

The primary argument against gay marriage has been that
marriage is an inherently heterosexual institution since it pro-
motes the raising of children. Stanley Kurtz, a vocal opponent
of gay marriage, writes “...children are society.They are us,
and they are our future.” Thank you, Whitney Houston.

Marriage is about raising children. But when marriage is
reduced to its potential to yield a healthy new generation, hu-
man beings are reduced to little more than instruments of breed-
ing. Love is the alpha and omega of human relationships, and
marriage is its greatest expression.

The War on Terror: taking a look at the bigger picture

So, let me get this straight. The day after 9/11, Bush asked
Clarke to explore a possible link between Iraq and the suicide
attackers--the same Iraq that Clinton had bombed less than a
decade ago--the same Iraq that tried to killa
former president-- the same Iraq that was
ruled by.a dictator hell-bent on pre ein
the United States.

This is somehow the smoking gun that

proves the whole Iraqi war is nothing more
than a pet project of the neoconservative
cabal that controls D.C.?

I am not going to lower myself to a full
discussion of this ridiculous story. I'll leave
Mu Redmttesed that to classier publications like Parade and

The New York Times.”

I think amidst the blame game now going on in Washington
it’s beneficial to take a step back and take a look at some issues
that are having an impact on the fundamental i issues that define
the War on Terror. é

_ Aserious story that does concern me is the recent shift by the
terror masters to softer targets outside of the United States. It
seems that al-Qaeda was smart enough to realize that directly

{ attacking the United States would not weaken our resolve, es-

rant from the tight

pecially after the first attack resulted in America’s invasion of
Afghanistan.

Instead, they have figured out that fat, weak, socialist Europe
is a better target. By attacking Europe the terrorists hope to
make this war a U.S. vs. the world battle. European political
figures can piggyback on this issue, blaming the ruling parties
of their nations for the terror attacks by connecting them with
the United States. It’s an easy distraction from their own inter-
nal problems and an easy way to win swing votes.

The terrorists hope to make this
war a U.S. vs. the world battle

Abroad, the Islamic extremists claim their fight is against
American global dominance and aggression. At home, their
reasons for attacks are much different. They preach a holy
cultural jihad against the West. Europe must realize that bin
Laden does not only have issues with America. Pundits and
politicians have been trying to steer clear of this fact, but the
War on Terror is a cultural war.

The War on Terror is.not a crusade. Contrary to what the
Wahabbists and bin Laden claim, it is not simply Christian

against Muslim. On one side are the free societies of the world;
nations that are composed of citizens with rights and duties that
are not defined explicitly by any specific religious sect. The
opposing side’s ranks are made up of a motley group of thugs
and religious fanatics—men whose chief goal is either personal
gain at the expense of others (like the leaders of North Korea)
or men whose desire is to impose their version of heaven on
earth (like those in charge of Iran and al-Qaeda).

Western society experimented with both forms of govern-

- ment for centuries. It’s not a religious, ethnic, or racial issue.

The people in Western society are not naturally “better” in any
way. The issue is what form of government works the best, and
the terrorists are certainly on the losing side of that argument.

Certainly the Western governments have some responsibil-
ity for the current situation in the Middle East and in Africa.
However, just because the West committed wrongs in the past
does not mean that it should fold and succumb to those who
want to destroy 500 years of institutional progress.

Sorry to go on this long spiel. I know I am not saying any-
thing that most of you do not already know. I just think it’s
important once in awhile to step back and look at the big pic-
ture. To not only take a look at what we are fighting for, but
what we are fighting against.
