2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

Campus Police Blotter

1/27 ' Patterson Court Larceny of furniture
Unknown person(s) entered the unsecured Phi Delta Theta house and threw toilet paper
all over the house. While the suspect(s) were in the house. They removed 6 couches and
2 composites from the common area of the house. The items were later located on Richardson
Football Field. Estimated damage $2600.00
1/27 Martin Court Apartments Larceny of Camcorder
Student reports that unknown person(s) removed a camcorder from their room. The

camcorder is described as a Sony black & silver in color in‘ablack leather bag. The camcorder
was equipped with a memory stick. Value $658.00..

“Damage to Property

Sometime between January 30th and February 1 unknown person(s) damaged a white
plastic bench causing approximately $125.00 in damage.

1/30-2/1 Stowes Tennis House

Students opt for new

skills in sign language

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Every Tuesday night a group of Davidson
students are using their free time to learn the
art of sign language, the third most-used lan-
guage in America.

The students are now midway through an

accelerated five-week program aimed at de-

veloping a functional vocabulary and the abil-
ity to communicate through signs.

Dr. Anne McIntosh, the course’s instructor,
has plenty of experience teaching sign lan-
guage. Born deaf, she has written textbooks on
the subject, one of which is used for the class.

McIntosh said, “Normally, covering the text
would encompass two full 15-week semesters,
sO One can imagine the speed at which we go
to cover the book in five weeks.”

Despite compressing a year’s worth of ma-
terial into five weeks, students are enjoying the
class and note-sparse homework.

Gillian Siple ’07 said, “Everyone is doing it
on top of what they are already doing, so we’ re
all pretty committed to it.”

The class features Davidson students along
with members of the community. The class is
not affiliated with the college, and students
receive no credit for their participation.

Jarred Taylor ’07 said, “I am taking this

course just for my general caltuti enrichment,
but I hope with enough exposure I might be
able to communicate on a basic level with a
deaf person.”

Rather than simply focusing on teaching sign
language, McIntosh expands the five-week
program to touch on issues surrounding hear-
ing loss and deaf culture. Every lesson begins
with a lecture on an aspect of deafness in
modern society and helps to provide students
with a full understanding of all issues relating
to sign language.

According to McIntosh, the course exposes
students to “hallmarks of Deaf Culture,
assistive devices used by people with hearing
loss, and integrating hearing conservation and
protection into our everyday lives.”

Class member Jamie Glenn ’06 said, “Sign
language should be a second language to us
all. No one can say that it wouldn’t be useful to
them.”

By then end of the five-week program, stu-
dents will have developed some signing skills
and learned a basic vocabulary. However, the
subtleties of sign language allow for confus-
ing mistakes to be made by beginners.

While students may leave the program with
enough knowledge to communicate, they will
still be prone to mistakes. As Dr. McIntosh said,
“you know enough to be dangerous.”

Daniela Villarreal-Alvarez ‘07 and Gillian Siple ‘07 practice their sign

language in the five-week intensive course offered this semester.

Career Services offers
Major Decisions Series

By ZACH Kazior
Staff Writer

Academic affairs, individual academic
departments and Career Services are offering
a series of informational sessions designed to

help undeclared students in deciding a’

major.

The panel will c consist of a professor talking
about the department, the major and
opportunities in the major, along with alumni
talking about how they decided to major in this
subject, what they are doing now, and how
their major relates to their current occupation.

The series runs from Jan 21 to Feb 23, with
meetings in Biology, Chemistry, Classics,
Economics, French, History, Mathematics,
Philosophy, Physics, Political Science,
Psychology, Religion and Sociology.

The Major Decisions Series is one part of a
series of different career oo designed

for all students.

The sessions are generally led by John
Adams, Director of Career Services, Monica

- White, associate director or Libby Westley,

assistant director. Together they have over 40
years of experience in the field of college
career services.

The other career service workshops are
geared more toward getting organized for
one’s future.

The workshops include Dynamite Cover
Letters; Defining Your Goals; Getting into
Graduate School;. Internships: The
Competitive Edge; Ace the Interview;
Landing Your Dream Job; and Writing a
Winning Resume.

‘Each workshop has at least two dates,
allowing for as much of the campus as possible.
to attend.

Adams said that these workshops are a“‘way
to provide instructional info-at one time to a
small group,’ ” allowing” for more. focus and
interaction. ‘
