pl)

Staff Editorial

Long live the Outpost

Eating greasy quesadillas at 2 a.m. in a room covered in
colorful murals and packed with students may not sound like a
good time to everyone, but for years this ritual held a’special
place in the lives of most Davidson students.

The Outpost, the former late-night student hangout where
these get-togethers took place, was a unique space on Davidson’s
campus. Where else could Court goers and non-Court goers
alike meet on weekends in an environment almost completely
run and controlled by fellow students?

With the opening of the Alvarez College Union nearly three
years ago, the administration decided to close the Outpost, both
to allow for the relocation of fraternities and eating houses during
renovation, and to help ensure that the Union became the late-
night center of student activity.

Now, as The Davidsonian reports this week, President Vagt
is looking into the possibility of reopening the Outpost after the
renovation of Court houses are complete.

We commend President Vagt for realizing that as successful
as the Union has been in many areas, it is not and will never be
a late-night student hangout the way the Outpost once was. Any
student to ever visit the Outpost knew that it was unlike any
other spot on campus. Whereas the Union has aclean and struc-
tured feel at its events, and fraternities and eating houses are
often the domain of partiers, the Outpost always remained one
of the few bridges between the too often divided worlds of
Davidson.

By being run and even decorated by students, the Outpost
became one of the few areas on campus, outside of individual
dorm rooms, where students felt a true sense of ownership and
control.

In the years since its closing many students have felt that the
gulf between Court members and the rest of campus has in-
creased even more than in years past. This separation of stu-
dents is certainly not in the interest of the College and it is the
duty of the administration to seek out ways of fixing the grow-
ing divide.

A new Outpost would clearly be among the most promising
solutions to this problem.

While we realize there are still logistical obstacles to over-
come, setting aside one building on the Court for the Outpost
would not only create a late-night student hangout, but also a
building that could be used for other student functions during
all other hours of the day.

We urge the rest of the administration to follow President
Vagt’s lead and seriously pursue the creation of a new Outpost.
Doing so would create a facility all students could enjoy and
could help to revive the relationships among Davidson students
currently separated by social affiliations.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDDA LUX UB! ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley

Perspectives Editor

Zach Williams _
Arts & Living Editors

Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor :
Colin Fagan -

BaureFilést

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Marci 31, 2004

Ali Fitzgerald

j Pp,
‘IMMACULATE: EMPHYSEMA’?
OH, LIKE You LEFT ME
ANY OF THE GOOD ONES:

Honor council elections
should be revised

In modern political society, we seem to charge three dis-
tinct branches of government with particular rights and respon-
sibilities. More often in this country, we pay close attention to
our legislative and executive branches of government. Less
often, we consider the critical role of our judiciary. The distri-
bution of power in our government is emulated at practically
every level of American society, from bank boards to student
organizations and bodies on this campus. When we charge a
particular group or individual with a task that is clearly of a
legislative, executive, or judicial nature, it seems reasonable to
provide for its establishment and sustenance in a manner con-
sistent with bodies of similar purpose.

The Davidson College Honor Council is very much a judi-
cial body, weighing evidence of charges of wrongdoing, issu-

Code, and approaching the cases that it takes up with due de-
liberation and objectivity. If it is reasonable for us to establish
and maintain the Honor Council, as a judiciary body, like we
would establish and maintain any other judiciary body, then it
is incontrovertible that we are failing in this task. The rationale
behind the way we elect members of the Honor Council is nearly
as arcane as the proceedings of the group. While there are rea-
sonable explanations for the maintenance of a veil of privacy
around the proceedings of this important body, there can be no
justification for the use of the current system by which we elect
its members.

Judiciary officials and bodies have historically been estab-
lishéd in one of two ways. North Carolina, like many other states,
allows for the free election of its judges—including, even,
members of the North Carolina Supreme Court. Thomas
Jefferson, among others, steadfastly supported a theory of
elected judicial officers and bodies. Another principled means
of establishing judicial bodies is to have members appointed
and confirmed by a third party. Under the current system at
Davidson, members of the Honor Council are elected. How-
ever, there can be no justification for the way in which these
elections are conducted. :

One of the principal purposes of election is to provide people
with the power to directly determine who shall serve in these
bodies to which we are to cede some of our power. In order to

. complete this task with prudence, we must be informed of the
options before us. If there are to be elections, then there must
be open campaigns. No state in this country that allows for the
free election of judges prohibits those same judicial candidates
from openly campaigning. What kind of system do we have
when we forbid those who comprise a body in which we vest
power from speaking to us of their venerable intentions to serve
and the goals they hope their service will accomplish?

. " ;
v, f
£.

ing rulings on probative questions of breaches of the Honor —

One might object to the establishment of a true electoral
process for the Honor Council by arguing that the election of
the body will devolve into a popularity contest. However, the
current system of electing its members—what can reasonably
be called a reputation contest—has much in common with the
universally loathed notion of so-called popularity contest elec-
tions. If the strongest objection to opening this body to an elec-
toral process is one rooted in the Honor Council’s own distrust
of the people it purports to serve, then its abolition will become
necessary, and the question will rightly return to the people as
to how we want such a body to serve and to govern us.

Joseph Adams ’06
®

With globalization comes
greater responsibility

Richard Guyer’s argument in his column last week, “Long
term gains exceed short term pains” is well-made, especially
his recommendations for policy to alleviate the pains of tem-
porary structural unemployment. But the same point can be
made to pursue world trade with more thought and precaution.

A system of comparative advantage is based off a trust that
it will bring prosperity through its ability to create a higher
consumptive capability. But what if this trust, even in the long
term, is too shortsighted? What if our long-term prosperity has
less to do with’ our consumption and more to do with the politi-
cal, social, and economic development of other countries?

This possibility should not be too hard to imagine: look what
the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan did for our country.
This is the flip-side of globalization: we are given more oppor-
tunities to gain, but we are also given more responsibilities as
world citizens. Our economic decisions are at the core of those
responsibilities, since our purchasing power is what the rest of
the world seeks to win.

Because of our economic weight and the structure of the
system as a whole, we have driven manufacturing standards
down below an acceptable bottom line. Our purchases are
perpetuating sweatshops, environmental damages, and chal-
lenges to social development in every continent.

For our own sake, we need to consider our economic choices
under a wider lens, taking globalization and long-term interest
into account. We should realize the power our dollars yield to
affect the well being of the rest of the world, and realize that our
long term well being depends on theirs, We can do this through
market measures, but only if we consider thoughtfully and
responsibly what actions to take.

Nicole Mader ’06
Sd

THE BUBBLE-WRAP CANDIDATE

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

