Tue DaviwsoniIAN

Nikki Giovanni is a leader in African American literary art.

Renowned poet to give
lecture on race relations

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

As long as Davidson College continues to
mull over the politics of diversity, the Davidson
community at large can hope to benefit from
ongoing programs suchas this year’s Reynolds
Lecture Series, entitled “Desegregating Ameri-
can Culture: Fifty Years after Brown v. Board
of Education.”

This lecture series has already brought us a
debate between celebrated African-American
authors Ishmael Reed and Al Young; now, poet
Nikki Giovanni will speak at Davidson’s Duke
Family Performance Hall. Giovanni will give
her talk on Thursday, February 19 at 7:00 p.m.
Admission is free and open to the public.

A professor of English and Black Studies at
Virginia Tech University, Giovanni is most
recently the winner of the NAACP Image
Award for Literature and the Langston Hughes
Award for Distinguished Contributions to Arts
and Letters. She published her first book of
poems, “Black Feeling, Black Talk,” in 1968;
in 2003 she released her most recent collection
of poetry, “Quilting the Black-Eyed Pea,” as
well as acareer-spanning overview of her verse,
entitled “The Collected Poetry of Nikki
Giovanni: 1968-1998.” This collection has
been nominated for the NAACP Image Award,
and her spoken word CD, “The Nikki Giovanni
Poetry Collection,” was nominated for a
Grammy award. (Not to mention the fact that
a biologist at Texas Tech has recently named
anew species of bat after Giovanni because of
his high regard for her poetry.)

Giovanni, who was born in Knoxville, Ten-
nessee and grew up in Ohio, became involved
with creative writing as editor of the school

literary magazine at Fisk University. Shortly
after graduating from Fisk, she took a signifi-
cant step toward linking art with an African-
American political identity by organizing the
Black Arts Festival in Cincinnati. Since that
time she has embarked on a literary career
marked by a willingness to make bold state-
ments.

In recent years Giovanni has been vocal in
her defense of rap music as an art form and as
a positive social force. She sports a tattoo of
the words “Thug Life” on her left forearm as
an homage to the late rapper Tupac Shakur,
who was shot to death in September of 1996.

Her poem “All Eyez on U,” which can be
found in her collection “Love Poems,” pays
tribute to Shakur with the lines, “Don’t tell me
he got what he deserved he deserved a chariot
and/ the accolades of a grateful people/ he
deserved his life.”

That poem, which amounts to a fierce po-
lemic against the society whose ills 2Pac ex-
posed in his music, also features the lines, “If
those who lived by lies died by lies there would
be nobody on wall/ street in executive suites in
academic offices instructing the young.”

If Giovanni’s anger has not abated since she
penned “All Eyez on U,” her talk at Davidson
may prove to be more than dry academic chit-
chat. She may have something provocative to
say to our community, though even the most
challenging speaker cannot force an audience
to engage with his or her message.

If Giovanni can offer a coherent critique of
contemporary American race relations, one that
gets at the heart of the anxieties necessitating
the creation of the “Desegregating American
Culture’ lecture series, it will be up to Davidson
College to wrestle with the consequences.

_Arts & LIVING

Welsh band rocks out, dons

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

costumes, with mixed results

By Brian F. Moore
Special Contributor

Last Friday a semi-famous Welsh band
named the Super Furry Animals played a con-
cert at the Cat’s Cradle in Chapel Hill. The band
rarely leaves Great Britain so I was pretty ex-
cited to see them come visit us on American
soil. As the name might suggest, the band is
wacky.

Forinstance, in the middle of their first song,

the lead singer abruptly left the stage and re-
emerged in a bright red Power Rangers cos-
tume. This got an instant laugh from the audi-
ence as he sang the rest of the song in his goofy
costume. The singer, Gruff Rhys, was really
tall and skinny, had a giant mouth, and you
couldn’t understand a word he said through his
bizarre, thick Welsh accent. If you were to see
him randomly on the street his features are such
that you mightindeed think he sings for a loony
psychedelic band!
_ Rhys also has a tendency to sing weird lyr-
ics, like this line in the song “Do or Die”: “We
ride tomatoes. We eat tomatoes.” To top it all
off, the band had a screen set up behind the
stage to accompany the music with psychedelic
visuals. The people standing in front of me,
among others, seemed to be peculiarly en-
thralled with the visuals, suggesting that‘the
images were definitely effective in creating a
super furry atmosphere.

Unfortunately, after about three or four fast
songs to open the set, SFA began to play a long
line of slow, mid-tempo songs, which left my

The men 5 oF Super Furry Animals

ears ringing and me temporarily uninterested.
I left my spot and quickly went and had a drink
to regroup. It seemed they would never stop
playing their slow ballads.

Just as I was about to start thinking about all
the unfinished homework I had left behind to
come to the show, the band began performing
one of their best slow songs, “Juxtaposed With
You.” The song, which I have always thought
to be asilly play on words, put some wind back
in my sails because they played an extended
version replete with a backing orchestra.

With a hop in my step I reclaimed my old
spot and began grooving to the Animals’ unique
mix of pop sensibilities with psychedelic
sounds. The band then turned it up another
notch with their rock song, “Out of Control.”
The crowd immediately began banging their
heads to the beat in unison just like we loved
to do back in the old days. The energy was
awesome.

As the set wound down, the band then began
playing an extremely long political song, which
asserted that politicians lack the necessary
concern and compassion for the citizens they
serve. Simultaneously, clips of George W.
Bushand Tony Blair were shown on the screen
behind the band to rousing applause.

After the band departed for about fifteen
minutes they returned to play the same song
again for an encore, except this time they were
dressed in outlandish dog costumes! I thought
the absurdity of the costumes typified the four
jokesters that are the Super Furry Animals.
Thus ended the show and | left with a chuckle.

Bring your old

GRAND OPENING
WIRELESS CHAMPS

EXCLUSIVE AGENT FOR

Special Sale for Davidson Students and Staff
(please bring your student/staff ID card)
Panasonic(very small!) GD55 .... free*
Samsung(flip,color!) SGHx427 . .
Motorola ¥400 flip, color, CAMERAI$89, 99* (after $100 rebate)
LG 4010(cool phone) . . : free"
FREE LEATHER CASE ,CAR ADAPTER & EARPIECE WITH EVERY
ms ACTIVATION —
We carry | a wide selection of accessories for most phones
phone for free upgrades
134-C Town Center Drive,corner of Brawley School and Williamson

SRG Wiretess-
cing ular

. free*(after $100 rebate)

Linda Daye

Spring Break Waxing -
VAs ae

a
“TAT
704-651-6668

$10.00 Off ist Brazilian or Back Wax!

Licensed Esthetician
With Over 10 Years Experience

Main Street, Davidson/Cornelius
Heritage Plaza - Suite 105 (Next to Carolina Cones)

Ge

Shanaman

