THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEws

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004 3

Club baseball funding resolved;

new visual arts group created

By LypiE WHITE
Staff Writer

Last Thursday’s SGA meeting resolved the
question of how much money was to be allo-
cated to the Davidson club baseball team.

SGAalso ratified the creation of Davidson’s
first visual arts organization, Ars Longa.

SGA approved the Activities Tax Council
(ATC) suggested funding of $1400 to the club
baseball team.

Currently, SGA policy grants new clubs and
organizations a maximum of $250 for first year
funding.

However, Club Baseball differed in that it
lacked playing fields, and therefore was forced
to pay for local field use as well.

Club Baseball president Roland Foss ’05
spoke to SGA on behalf of the team.

“The SGA made the right decision to grant
Club Baseball the money it needs to pay for
renting field space for the year. Unlike other
club sports, ours is one that has no on-campus
field--baseball or otherwise--to play on. It is
only fair, then, that the school reimburse Club
Baseball for the costs of renting a field that the
school cannot provide,” he said.

SGA president Katharine Hubbard ’05 said
the decision was hard to make.

“As a general practice, we do not like to al-
locate more than $250 to newly chartered clubs.
However, Club Baseball was not so cut and
dry because they are chartered by club sports,

not SGA,” she said.

Hubbard commented that the bylaws regard-
ing the $250 allocation limit tonew clubs would
be discussed in later meetings.

SGA also approved the creation of a new
visual arts organization called Ars Longa.

The group will incorporate a variety of vi-
sual arts-related events and activities, includ-
ing photography, ceramics, general artistic
projects, and visiting art-related professional
lecture series.

They also plan on a travel component to or-

ganize and facilitate student travel to area lec- -

tures and exhibitions.

“We are currently working on a number of
projects including securing facilities for stu-
dents interested in photography and ceramic,
sponsoring A Day Without Art, monthly trips
to Charlotte’s NODA district to peruse galler-
ies and learn about local artists and we have
recently secured a wonderful visiting artist,
Kendall Buster, who will visit in March,” said
Jessica Cooley ’05, who is the organization’s
leader.

SGA also approved a $160 allocation to the
Chess Club and a $250 allocation to both
MECCA and the Students for New Learning
organization.

SGA also made concrete plans to provide
transportation to the Davidson-Duke basket-
ball game. ;

Students can sign up for transportation at the
Union. Transportation will cost $10.

Eid Al-Fitr, from page 2
coast), he would wake up to attend a special
prayer just before sunrise.

“We would be wearing our best (new) dress
by then. Then we return home and greet our
parents, brothers and family members.”

The rest of the day, Ismail said, he would go
torelatives’ and friends’ houses “to greet them
and most likely enjoy lunch and dinner with
them.

“Children celebrate this day by collecting
money from their parents, uncles, grand

parents, etc.”

The three biggest mosques, or Muslim
houses of worship, in Charlotte jointly held a
special sunrise prayer service in the Charlotte
Convention Center.

Amr Elrafei, a homebuilder in Moresville,
attended the Sunday service and estimated
about 4000 people were present. Elrafei is also
the son of Karima Elrafei, one of Davidson’s
Arabic Self-Instructional Language speaking
partners. They attended Davidson’s Eid Al-Fitr
with the rest of their family.

Monday and Tuesde
Second Meal at
(Equal °

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www-sushiatthelake.com

» Hipae
hoe wi

10Z Off with Sehoo| IP
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-Spm

_ Noted Civil War historian

speaks on war interpretation

By JackiE MCKEON
Senior Staff Writer

Dr. Gary Gallagher, distinguished Civil War
historian and the John L. Nau III Professor in
the History of the American Civil War at the
University of Virginia, gave the Kendrick K.
Kelley Program Lecture on Tuesday, Novem-
ber 9 in Tyler-Tallman Hall.

Gallagher’s lecture was titled’““A Contested
Historical Landscape: Understanding and In-
terpreting the Civil War.”

Kelley Scholars Sian Jones ’05 and Becky
Behizadeh ’05 introduced Gallagher’s lecture,
along with Dr. Robin Barnes, professor of His-
tory and faculty advisor of the Kelley Program
for the 2004-2005 academic year.

“Everyone was pleased with Gary
Gallagher’s lecture. Whether you agreed with
him or not, you had to respect the manner in
which he presented his research, which was at
once entertaining and scholarly. In his interac-
tion with the Kelley students outside the lec-
ture, he proved a wonderful resource for inves-
tigating the life and methods of a historian,”
said Behizadeh.

Gallagher focused his lecture on three major
interpretive traditions:

“The Lost Cause,” “the Union Cause” and”
“the Reconciliation Cause.”

“The Lost Cause” interpretation of the Civil
War was’“‘how the white South attempted to
come to terms with their loss,” he said. “[The
South] did not want to think that [it] had fought
without a cause.”

“The Union Cause” was a “direct challenge

to ‘the Lost Cause,”” said Gallagher. The North
used this interpretation of the Civil War to
counteract the beliefs of the South.

“The Reconciliation Cause” concentrated on
the bravery and honor of the soldiers while
ignoring troublesome issues, such as slavery.

“*The Reconciliation Cause’ celebrated the
valor and pluck of the soldiers,” said
Gallagher.’*‘Americans were devoted to their
causes and sacrificing themselves in a way that
subsequent generations should look to.”

Gallagher tied his lecture to contemporary
American issues and he stressed the impor-
tance of understanding the history of the Civil
War in relation to current events.

“The-Civil War is the most important point
in American history. It would be impossible to
understand us now if you do not understand
the Civil War,” he said.

“His most important statement was that to
understand American history and current
events you have to understand how we view
the Civil War as a nation,” said Brian Jennsen
05.

“He was extremely informed, a dynamic
lecturer, and he really held the attention of the
audience,” said Professor and Chair of His-
tory Sally G. McMillen.

The Kendrick K. Kelly Program in Histori-
cal Studies was established in memory of a
Davidson College honors history graduate,
Kendrick K. Kelly ’63, who was killed in the
Vietnam War. In addition to supporting the
Kelley Lecture series, which occurs once a
semester, the program provides accepted stu-
dents with funds for travel and research.

Jeopardy, from page 1
all went and tried out. I was just the only one
who made it,” she said.

During tryouts, Jendrek completed a writ-
ten test with fifty questions, thirty-five of which
had to be answered correctly in order for par-
ticipants to advance to the next round.

She then competed in a mock version of the
game with buzzers before interviewing with
the show’s staff.

“Basically they want to see if you’ re able to
talk to them and if you’ Il be good for TV or if

- you’re going to clam up,” Jendrek said of the

tryouts.

Jendrek did not receive any information
about the results of the tryouts until Sep. 14.
- Her mom received a FedEx package from
the show andimmediately called to tell her that
she would be competing in the “Jeopardy!”
College Tournament over Davidson’s Fall
Break.
Jendrek did not go to much extra effort to
prepare for her appearance on the show.
“Kither you know it or you don’t,” she said.
“Tf you make it that far, you know you must be
good. My roommate and I would sit, and she
would ask me trivia questions. My friends came

over, and we played the ‘Jeopardy!’ computer -

game.”

Jendrek received an outpouring of support
from family and friends both before and after
her appearance on the show.

“My roommate went all out,” Jendrek said.
“She had signs in the Union and signs outside
of Belk. She made me acard before I left. When
I got home, all of my friends from Knoxville
threw a huge party because it was right after
my birthday.”

Cash prizes were awarded to all the partici-
pants. The winner received $100,000, and sec-
ond and third place received $50,000 and
$25,000 respectively.

As asemifinalist, Jendrek won $10,000, and
participants in the quarterfinals received
$5,000.

Jendrek plans to put most of her winnings
toward her Davidson tuition, but she hopes to
have enough money to help her family take a
trip this summer. Their destination will either
be overseas or Disney World. ©

As a participant on the show, Jendrek had

the chance to make “Jeopardy!” host Alex
Trebek laugh with her response to one of the
questions.

“The question was in NASA technology,”
Jendrek said.

“Tt was Black and Decker developed this for
astronauts to use on the moon. I buzzed in and
was really excited because I was kind of be-
hind. I said, ‘what is an extension cord.’ Alex
Trebek started laughing and said that that would
have to be one long extension cord to go from
the moon to the earth. The answer was cordless
technology.”

Although she did not win the entire tourna-
ment, Jendrek enjoyed competing on the show
and meeting students from colleges all over the
country, including Georgetown, Williams,
Florida State, Columbia, the University of
Texas, and Stanford. ,

“Treally justhad so much fun,” Jendrek said.
“It was a surreal experience. The other contes-
tants were sonice. The people whorun the show
are Hollywood people, but they make it really
fun.” ~

Jendrek is the fifth Davidson-affiliated con-
testant to appear on “Jeopardy!”

College Registrar and Professor of German
and Humanities Hansford Epes competed in
1992. Shari Gravett ’81, Michael Schill °89,
and Emily Eagan ’99 have also appeared on
the show.

STSTRAVEL.COM

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

