14 THE DAvVIDSONIAN

| SPORTS |

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Wildcats fall to Gamecocks

to snap four-game streak

Playing without top player
Rob Haywood ‘04, ’Cats
can’t compete with no. 24
South Carolina

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team’s four-match win-
ning streak came to an end on Sunday in Co-
lumbia, as the shorthanded and hobbled Wild-
cats fell 7-0 to the University of South Caro-
lina Gamecocks, the 24th-ranked team in the
nation. With the loss, Davidson falls to 4-2 on
the season, though their only losses have come
to teams ranked in the top 50 nationally and
whose current records are a combined 12-0.

Despite failing to win a single match against
the Gamecocks, Davidson played well under
the conditions and made the most of a short-
handed lineup that lacked the Wildcats’ top
player, Rob Haywood ’04. Haywood was held
out of the match due to a lingering foot injury
that he suffered in the fall, which continues to
ail him despite numerous preventative mea-
sures. The coaches have held Haywood out
of practice for the past week and will continue
to hold him out for the next week, hoping that
some rest and recuperation will be enough to
get their number one player back on the court.

Haywood’s inability to play resulted in a
lineup shift that elevated Donald Miles ’05 to
the top spot in the Wildcats’ lineup, in addi-
tion to every other Davidson player sliding
up one spot. The doubles lineup was altered
as well. Jonathan Britt 04 and Rob Gould ’04,
entering the contest undefeated on the season,
took over the top doubles position. But the
pair was unable to handle the Gamecocks
number one doubles team, falling for the first
time this season 8-3. After Bryan Stonestreet
’04 and Russ Burns ’05 lost 8-3.at the number
two slot, giving the Gamecocks the opening
doubles point, the remaining doubles match
was suspended to save time. Despite being
unable to finish their match, Miles and Nick
Lewis ’04 played perhaps the best doubles of

the afternoon for the ’Cats at the number three
position, trailing only 5-4 when their match
was suspended.

“We played all right in the doubles,” com-
mented head coach Jeff Frank. “They just hit
the ball really hard and served really hard, giv-
ing us lots of trouble on our returns.”

With South Carolina leading 1-0, the Wild-
cats took the court in singles hoping to erase
the early deficit. Miles, still feeling the effects
of a lingering groin injury, played a tight match
at number one. He fought hard to get the first
set into a tiebreaker, which he ultimately lost,
but in the process
expended much of
his energy, leaving
him without much
in the tank for the
second set. He lost
the match 7-6 (3),
6-2.

Also giving the
Gamecocks as
much as they could
handle were Porus
Jetli ’07 and Daniel

Daniel Bormeo

Bermeo ’06 at the ’06 had the
five and six singles “Closest match
positions. Jetli fell Of the day,

7-5, 6-4 and_ losing 6-4, 7-6
Bermeo lost 6-4, 7-

6 (1), though both performed capably in their
elevated roles.

“(South Carolina] is deep at the top, and
when you take Haywood out you’ ve got guys
playing higher positions than they’ re used to,”
said Frank. “But we got to see some of the
freshmen and new kids in a match that counts
against a good team.”

Though their winning streak came to an end,
the team remains in a good position heading
toward the conference season. The Wildcats
have only one match remaining before em-
barking on their grueling conference sched-
ule, as Atlantic-10 representative Richmond
will travel to Davidson this Friday at 2 p.m.
The Wildcats will once again be without
Haywood, but if they step up and play their
new positions like they did against the Game-
cocks, the win could fall Davidson’s way.

1 %&

x,
a

Iphia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working §
and studying. in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits bansfer!

www-philactr-edu

WW. Ion sia

Photo by Dorsett Clark

Jim Avola ’07 helped Davidson to victory with a pin at 133 pounds.

Wrestlers disappointed in
splitting weekend matches

By Mike CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Coming off a tough run on the road, the’

wrestling team came back to Belk Arena for
the first time in two weeks this past Sunday to
face American and Gardner-Webb in a tri-
meet.

The ’Cats began their homecoming in style,
tallying a 25-21 win over American in the first
match of the day, but they were unable to
knock off Gardner-Webb in the final match.

The outcome from this weekend’s matches
was slightly different than we had antici-
pated,” said co-captain Adam Sperling ’04.
“We were hoping to go 2-0, but unfortunately
things didn’t go our way.”

Davidson came out strong early against
American, winning the first three matches to
put the team ahead 13-0. Just as they have been
doing for the majority of the season, Patrick
Coman ’06 and Jim Avola ’07 jump-started
the team with a major decision and a first-pe-
riod pin at 125 and 133 pounds, respectively.
Co-captain Matt Leonard ’06 added some
spark of his own with his close 11-8 decision
in the 141-pound weight class, pushing the
team’s overall lead into the teens.

American ended up winning five of the last
seven matches, but they gave up two forfeits
to both of the Wildcat seniors, Sperling at 157
and Mark O’Hair at 174. With these forfeits
and the early lead combined, Davidson was
able to hang on to their lead for the win.

Following Garner-Webb’s 39-8 win over
American, Davidson was set to face the Bull-

dogs to end the day. Unfortunately for the
’Cats, they were able to win only two matches,
losing the rest mostly by decision.

Coman extended his win streak to five in a
row by pulling off a 7-6 decision at 125 lbs,
his winning point being earned through riding
time. Sperling wrestled a tough match in the
157-pound weight class but lost 2-1 in over-
time. Marcus Boyd ’07 posted his third win
in his past four matches, a 14-6 major deci-
sion at 165 Ibs.

Gardner-Webb went on to take the last four
matches, comfortably winning 31-7.

“It was nice to pick up the win against -
American, but we’d hoped to beat Gardner-
Webb, since we had set it as one of our goals
for the second half of the season,” said
Sperling. “On the day, many of us felt that we
did not wrestle up to our potential, even in the
win against American.”

The wrestlers get this weekend off, but they
are back in action in Belk Arena next Satur-
day, February 28. Davidson will host

Campbell and James Madison in a tri-meet,

the last dual meets of the season for the ’Cats.

For Sperling and O’ Hair, this will be their
last chance to compete in Davidson colors at
home.

“I’ve been trying not to think too much
about it,” stated Sperling. “In the mean time,
I'll just be keeping my-nose to the grindstone
and will be looking forward to this last set of
duals against Campbell and James Madison,
so hopefully we can finish off the regular sea-
son with a little momentum going into the
SoCons.”

The match begins at noon.

Golf gets mixed results in
season opener at Orlando

By Perer ALLISON
Sports Editor

In what could easily be considered a pre-
liminary tournament to begin the season, the
golf team did not fair nearly as well as they
would have preferred.

Playing against a stiff field in the UCF/Rio
Pinar Intercollegiate, the team opened on
Monday with a disastrous first two rounds,
ending the day in a tie for 14th place. As a
team, the Wildcats shot a 309 and 310 in the
two rounds, respectively, for a combined 43
over par. The top finisher on the day was Tim
Dillon ’06, who shot 78 and 74 on the par-72
course to finish in a tie for 36th place.

Alex Knoll ’07 carded a 155 (77-78) on the
first 36 holes to finish tied for 48th place. Steve

Mayo ’07 and Christian Davis ’06 were right _

behind Knoll, recording totals of 156 (78-78)
and 157 (77-80), respectively. Dan Walker ’05
shot a 164 (77-86).

Probably the single highlight of the first day
for the struggling Wildcats was the beautiful
weather. The tournament, hosted by the Uni-
versity of Central Florida, was held in Or-
lando, with temperatures in the mid-seventies
and a slight breeze.

A mark of both the maturity and ability of
this year’s team could be seen in how the men

bounced back on Tuesday. The ’Cats appeared
to ignore their previous day’s play to shoot 15
strokes lower in the final round, recording a
295. Although this moved the ’Cats up only
two spots (they finished 12th-out of 18
schools), only seven schools shot better on the
final day. ~

Dillon continued his solid play by carding
a 75, ending the competition in a tie for 34th
place with a 227. As it turned out, he tied with
Mayo, who scorched his final round with a
one-under 71.

As Dillon would say later, “the team really
did not play as well as anyone would have
liked. We were clearly rusty from the recent
rain, snow, and other bad weather.”

He continued, “Still, it was our first tourna-
ment of the season. We plan on playing much
better in the future.”

In a tournament that included much larger
state schools, such as Kansas, Indiana, and
East Carolina, Davidson did not fair too badly.
Still, the team expects to be able to compete
with such teams and come out victorious in
the future. The only other Southern Confer-
ence team was Wofford, which Davidson
bested by three spots.

The Wildcats will be back in action next
Monday and Tuesday at the Charleston South-
em Kick-Off Classic. The tournament will be
held at the Coosaw Creek Country Club.
