Staff Editorial

How to respect our
Christian heritage

Davidson is a college committed to a “Christian tradition,”
yet we also claim to reach out “beyond the Christian commu-
nity to the whole human community and necessarily includes
an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious
traditions.”

This is an honorable statement of purpose, and one that we
can and should all look to.

Unfortunately, we do not currently quite live by those words.

Davidson’s Board of Trustees has continued to maintain a
requirement that all trustees be “active members of a Christian
Church.”

That requirement could well change very soon.

Last spring, the Board of Trustees held a retreat in which they
explored “what it means to be a Church-related college in the
Reformed tradition.” After that retreat the executive committee
of the Board was asked to look into the trustee religion require-
ment in greater detail.

On Friday, that committee will report its findings to the Board.

Although we do not yet know what it is they will report, we
can step back and take a look at what steps Davidson has al-
ready taken to bring us closer to our statement of purpose.

Today, Davidson is more racially, geographically, economi-
cally, and religiously diverse than ever before. Nearly a fifth of
Davidson students identify themselves as either having no re-
ligious faith or belonging to a religion other than Christianity.

The College has taken enormous stridés in recent years to not
just accept students of various religious faiths, but to actively
embrace students with different beliefs.

While we are certainly not perfect in our respect for all faiths,
as the recent scheduling of Homecoming weekend on Yom Kip-
pur clearly showed, Davidson is working hard to get there.

Among the steps the College has taken in recent years in-
clude the addition of an adjunct Jewish Chaplain and the des-
ignation of funds for events planned by the Jewish Student
Union, the Muslim Student Association and the Interfaith groups.

We have taken these steps not just because we want to, but
also because we have to if we are to fulfill our stated purpose.

As acollege founded in the Reformed tradition of Christian-
ity, we as an institution affirm an appreciation of and a respect
individuals of all different beliefs.

It is precisely because of our Presbyterian tradition that the
Trustees should seek to change this requirement. .

Doing so would allow us to both maintain our heritage by
reaffirming the Reformed traditions of our founders, and to look
to the future by fully embracing students of all beliefs as full
members of the Davidson community, entitled to all the rights
and privileges that come along with that membership.

The Babidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

“5 TSE
ree wekaeing Rane. aA
Zach Williams '
~ Nev “te
Zach Kazior,Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakthia %
é Perspectives Editor : -
Nicholas Carlson, ok
“Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Satah Robinson
Yowl ya
“Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Eaitor
Tiialtiees Manialiges
Nick Hotton»

abi Persotig atid Sarah Pogue

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 6, 2004

Letters to the Editors

U.S. keeps N.
Korea at bay

Did anyone notice that Kim Jong-II has
been mighty quiet lately?

It is about time that liberals shut up
about North Korea. August 28, 2003 was
the last time we heard a bad word out of
the Asian third of the “Axis of Evil.” Over
a year later, North Korea has not made
good on any ofits alleged threats or prom-
ises regarding the testing and deployment
of tactical nuclear weapons. The BBC has
confidently stated that the country fears
an American invasion similar to that in
Iraq.

Yes, I said it, Iraq: that dirty word that
connotes everything from imperialism and
unilateralism to failure and poor judgment.
It is now time to put a Kerry comment in
perspective. Ninety percent of casualties
in Iraq, he says, are American, and that
because Bush did not go through the UN
(which, oddly enough, would never have
gone thanks to the oil for food programs
of France and Russia). The most official
UN war ever to take place saw nearly
37,000 Americans die in Korea. As part of
the joint UN police action, with all the
approval and global test-passing Senator
Kerry could desire, the US fatalities were
93 percent of the UN side. Since then, we
have gotten Poland on our side and cut our
casualty percentage by 3. Coincidence?
Or is just that Poland is more helpful than
the U.N. in wartime?

Say what you will about being a bully
to poor little Saddam; the Iraqi Freedom
Coalition did not go in with only Iraqi free-
dom on their minds. Bush and other lead-
ers specifically stated early on that, by
demonstrating the price of supporting in-
ternational terrorism and weapons prolif-
eration, they hoped to give nations such
as Iran and North Korea incentive to talk
peacefully, rather than ignite conflicts. You
do not have to win by taking out the stron-
gest players. In this case, taking on the
weakest nation of the “Axis of Evil” has
been a rather effective tactic for intimi-

dating anyone who might otherwise have
an itchy finger on the button.

As far as I’m concerned, a terrorist is ~

anyone who wishes to instill terror in ci-
vilians. Judging by how anxious most
Americans get when Kim Jong-II comes
up in serious conversation, I would call
him a terrorist. Senator Kerry may talk a
lot about how he will do a better job keep-
ing WMDs out of terrorist hands, but the
fact is that they are already there. Clean-
ing out the Soviet Union’s old nuclear
weapons is a wonderful idea—one that
every candidate after Ronald Reagan has
emphasized. The biggest threat, however,
is not in Russian storage, but in what may
be in KWP silos.

But personally, I will sleep well know-
ing that Secretary Kim is still more afraid
of us. Sleep tight.

Nathan Bradshaw ‘08

War in Iraq
closer than
we realize

Thank you so very much for your ar-
ticle, “War in Iraq hits Davidson.” I very
much enjoyed reading the article and once
again was in awe of our military person-
nel and their wonderful spirits and cour-
age.

Just as a note to you, I bet that if you do
a little exploring you will find that there
are several students on your campus who
have brothers, sisters, parents, cousins, etc
who are presently serving in Iraq or Af-
ghanistan. It might be interesting to see
how many students are affected by the
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Davidson isa small supportive commu-
nity that supercedes politics when itcomes
to taking care of its own members and I
think it might be surprising to learn how
many people are impacted.

I ask this question because I know that
my daughter, who is a sophomore, has a

brother serving with the Marines in Iraq
and I am sure that she ik not alone.

I would be very interested to learn
the outcome of your research if you
should be inclined to do a little
exploring. Again, many thanks for your
article.

Judy Wright
Parent ‘07

Bookstore
survey

From textbook availability, to store
hours, and product selection, the staff
of the Davidson College Bookstore
wants to know what students think
about the store’s operations.

The Bookstore is conducting a com-
prehensive customer satisfaction sur-
vey on the web beginning Friday, Oc-
tober 8. The survey questionnaires will
be sent to each student e-mail account
on that day. Acoupon for 20 percent off
one imprinted item will be used as an
incentive. The survey will run through
October 15, 2004.

All surveys will be compiled, tabu-
lated and analyzed by the research staff
of the National Association of College
Stores (NACS). NACS is the non-profit
trade association for college and uni-
versity bookstores across the country.

The goal of the survey is to help im-
prove store operations and services to
Bookstore customers.

Gwen Gardner
College Bookstore

No flip-flopper, Bush is consistently wrong

By HALLEY AELION

Staff Columnist

Mixed signals. Bush is very very concerned about mixed

signals. So worried, in fact, that he was willing to sacrifice the

majority of his time at the debate last Thurs-

DECISION day to harping on Kerry’s so-called flip-flop-

200 ping tendencies. Good thing Bush is coming

through loud and clear. What’s his message?

He’s right, and to Hell with anyone who does not agree with
him on anything and everything.

Bush’s main (and most repeated) complaint during the de-
bate was that Kerry cannot offer the American voters a concrete
stance and plan of action in regards to the war in Iraq. Which
raises a good question. How does one comment on a war di-
rected against the wrong country? Can one really support such
a thing and be considered presidential material? Though fight-
ing the correct country may seem a minor point to a man as
great and busy as George Bush, it actually makes a difference
to most Americans, not to mention most of the world. Consid-
ering this fact, does Bush honestly expect Kerry to stand up and
endorse his misguided “war on terror,” which is targeting the
wrong country and costing precious American lives in foreign
territory? It would be political suicide! Something Bush is well
on his way to committing in the minds of all logical American
voters, tired of seeing their sons and daughteys die far from
home.

As Bush loved to remind us during the debate, Kerry did
endorse the war in the beginning, and then later stated that it

as “the wrong war at the wrong time in the wrong place.” In

fact, the way Bush was obsessively repeating this phrase dur-
ing the debate would lead many to think he was actually begin-
ning to believe it. Too bad he’s trapped into his blusterifig, un-
supported, dangerous and misdirected plan of action against
Iraq and its people. When it comes down to it, the leader of our
country really is leading a war in the wrong country. He is after
the wrong bad guy. Saddam Hussein may very well be in prison,
but he wasn’t the one whoattacked us. It was Osama Bin Laden,
the Afghanistan terrorist, who led the attack on America on
September 11. The good news is, America is not trapped into
that same ill-fated plan, not yet at least. Not if we make the right
decision in November at the polls.

Bush needs to open those infamous squinty eyes. He needs
to realize the American people do not need a brick wall as their
commander in chief. They need a man (or woman) with aheart
and a good head on their shoulders.

If Hitler, midway through the Holocaust, realized the massa-
cre of the entire European Jewish population might be a mis-
take, and ended his policy of mass genocide, would Bush have
thoughtless of him as a leader because he “flip-flopped?” From -
the number of times he condemned Kerry’s attempts to adapt
his war-time policy to the reality of the situation in the contem-
porary world, the logical conclusion would have to be yes.

So open your eyes as well, America. The past four years have
been far from our country’s finest when it comes to foreign
relations. We have lost allies, we have lost the world’s respect,
and we have lost thousands of our soldiers. Itis time for achange.
It is time for us to show the world we can adapt to the situation
around us. It is time to take Bush out of power, and put Kerry
where he belongs: in office.
