16

; THE DAvVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTERMBER 1, 2004

STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

Wildcats look to bounce back after rough 2003 season

J

After a disappointing ’03 season in which thé-Wildcats went
3-8, including an 0-6 home record, Wildcat football is look-
ing to come back strong for 2004. With the return of Damion
White ’05 and another year of experience for the still-young
team, the outlook is far more promising than a year ago.

Offensively, under the leadership of White and senior
tailback John Leverett ’05; the ’Cats look ready to put up points
in bundles, Head coach Mike Toop hopes to have a more bal-
anced offensive output this season, instead of having to rely
on a quick-strike passing attack to keep the Cats in conten-
tion.

If the Wildcats can avoid the early deficits they so-often
faced last year, the team will be able to take advantage of
White as well as the stable of runners in the backfield, includ-
ing Leverett, who rushed for over 1,000 yards last year,
Jonathan Hubbard. ’07, and Christian Hunt ’05, who missed
time last year with injuries after leading the team in carries
during his sophomore season. A more experienced and healthy
offensive line also promises to greatly assist the team’s run-
ning attack.

The biggest question mark is White, who is trying to come
back*from season-ending reconstructive knee surgery after
tearing his anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, at the end of
last year’s season. Before going down with the torn ACL,
White threw for nearly 1300 yards and 12 TDs in only 9 games
of action, despite struggling with his consistency and sharing
time at the starting position.

It will be tough to replace the receiving threat of recently
departed Barret Johnson ’04, the school’s all-time leader in
receiving yards. But, Brett Dioguardi ’07, the school’s all-
time leading freshman receiver and tight end Jeremy Sundheim
’06 lead a deep group of talented receivers.

This group includes emerging juniors Jake Rice ’06 and

Brian Purcell ’06, as well as sophomore Rob Manire ’07. Toop,

is quite pleased with this year’s corps, and has bright hopes

Baseball
£ ; Hometown: Louisville, Kentucky

f, Major: Mathematics
Following a stellar senior season, Davidson graduate
f Brian Akin ‘04 was selected in the 14th round of the Major
/ League Baseball First-Year Player Draft by the Los Angeles
Dodgers. He is now pitching for the Ogden (Utah)
Raptors, a minor-league rookie level team.

Brian Akin ‘o4

Damian White takes the snap in the ’Cat’s 34-0 exhibition win over Greensboro College. The

offensive line hopes to stay healthy this year after an injury-plaqued 2003 campaign.

for its future.

The offense should also improve with a more mature of-
fensive line. Last year, the line was decimated by injuries that
forced three freshmen into the starting line-up and contrib-
uted to Davidson’s Pioneer Football League-high 41 sacks al-
lowed. This year the line, led by fourth year starter Blair
Reynolds ’05, hopes to show great improvement, and should
help the offense prosper.

On the opposite side of the ball, the ’Cats defense appears

Cake Race shows off speed, sweets and Willy

J (0) ha

to be sound and turnover-hungry, with a line anchored by se-
niors Chris Leftwich’05 and David Welch ’05, as well as all-
PFL candidate Jim Walter ’07.

The linebackers are looking to have another strong year,
led by tri-captain Brandon Dete’05 and returning starters Ra-
leigh Robinson ’05 and Alex Arinsmier ’06. Mark Nesselroad
’05 is the only new starter in the 3-4 system.

see Football, page 13

the Wildcat

AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

The summer of 2004 will be remembered for the Olympic
Games in Athens, the political events leading to the presiden-
tial election, and, most importantly, the 68" running of the
annual Cake Race for incoming freshmen.

Each year, hordes of wide-eyed first-year students toe the
line seeking fame, glory, and cake. The race is approximately
1.7 miles, and the course starts in Richardson stadium, winds
around campus, and finishes back on the track. The Cake Race
was originally used to determine the fastest runners in the
school to form a cross-country team, but is now all about the
cake. .

The men’s race started five minutes before the women’s
race, and the 75 men tore off across the field as they would
have in Pamplona for the running of the bulls, minus the white
clothes and red sash. The pack exited out the back gates and
immediately started running off the course. If it hadn’t been
for the quick thinking of a few level-headed freshmen, the
whole race would have been a disaster. As it was, everyone
made it back on the designated route, none worse for the wear
after the quick detour.

-When the men re-entered the stadium, Andy Kifer ’08 and
Sam Morris ’08 were running stride-for-stride, twenty sec-
onds ahead of the next closest runner. Both are members of

see Cake Race, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK

EA aad

Midway through the first half of the soccer team’s
opening game of the 2004 season, Jessica Lahre ’07
lofted a perfect corner kick to classmate Robin French
’07, who drilled the ball past the Charlotte keeper for
the first and only goal of the afternoon by either squad.
As aresult, the ’Cats beat their cross-town rivals for the
first time in eleven match-ups since 1994, and opened
up new coach Greg Ashton’s tenure at Davidson on a

winning note.

/

