THE DAVIDSONIAN

photo courtesy of Sports Information

Brendan Winters ’06 drives to the
basket during an early-season
loss in Cameron Indoor Stadium

With one of the most diffi-
cult schedules in the na-

tion, it is no wonder wins
have been hard to come by

By Ertk SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Men’s basketball head coach Bob McKillop
wishes he could restart the season today. Sure,
you could point to the team’s 7-9 overall
record or 2-3 conference record as obvious
reasons to shake the Etch-a-Sketch of this sea-
son and start anew. You could point to the slew

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004 13

Men’s basketball hopes tough schedule will
pay off in the second half of the season

of lopsided early-season losses or the turn-
overs that have evaporated many a Wildcat
lead or comeback. ,

There are many aspects of this season that,
given the opportunity, the team would choose
to rectify, but Coach McKiHop’s desire is not
to erase a few unpleasant memories but to
capitalize on the valuable knowledge the Wild-
cats have gained thus far. In short, he believes
that Davidson basketball is better for having
endured its early-season struggles and will
benefit from its experiences as the season
progresses.

The Wildcats’ season until now can be di-
vided into two definitive parts: non-confer-
ence games and the ,
still-young confer-
ence season. Aside
from handing the
Wildcats a collective
0-5 record, tough
November and De-
cember games
against the likes of
Texas Tech, North
Carolina, Seton Hall,
Georgetown, and Duke earned Davidson the
top-ranked schedule in the nation. Are the
losses worth the title of Most Difficult Sched-
ule?
“I'd do it again,” reveals McKillop. The
players, the coaching staff, and even the fans
entered the season with high hopes; conse-
quently the team’s struggles were disappoint-
ing for many. But the advantage of playing
such a difficult schedule, observes Coach
McKillop, is learning what it takes to be a top-
ten team.

Not to be forgotten is the players’ lack of
experience with each other. Transfers Logan
Kosmalski and Kenny Grant join Nick Booker
on the list of Wildcats who sat out last season.

...the advantage of

_ playing a difficult
schedule, observes
McKillop, is learning
what it takes to be a
top-ten team.

As aresult, the players had to accustom them-
selves to each other without much of a grace
period at the commencement of this season.
McKillop defined this transition as a learning
experience: “Players were adapting to roles
they had never had to play before.”

The conference season, while barely under-
way, has already shown much more promise
for the Wildcats. An early-December game
against perennial conference favorite College
of Charleston went down to the wire, with the
Wildcats falling after leading for most of the
game. January signals the official opening of
the conference season, and the Wildcats have
already posted victories over The Citadel and
Western Carolina,
while losing two more
heartbreakers to Chatta-
nooga and Wofford.

Despite the ‘Cats’
current losing confer-
ence record, McKillop
emphasizes how close
the games were, saying,
“In each of those games

we were a possession or
two from victory.”

Additionally, all three conference losses
came on the road at venues that have been less
friendly than Belk Arena.

While the first half of the season can be
summed up as a learning experience, the fu-
ture seems to hold a better outlook. More than
half of the Wildcats’ remaining games are at
home, where Davidson is a perfect 7-0. Addi-
tionally, the ’Cats have protected the basket-
ball better lately, committing more than 14
turnovers only once in the last five games, a
vast improvement over their consistent for-
ays into 20+ turnovers earlier in the season.
Let us not forget that the large-scale measure
of success in the mid-major conferences lies

_in aconference championship and a bid to the
NCAA tournament.

Through all the ups and downs of their 16
games, the Wildcats have not given up.
“We’ve been disappointed in the losses, but
never the effort,” comments Coach McKillop.
“The tremendous effort of these players has
been constant.”

photo courtesy of Sports Information
Conor Grace ’05 grabs a rebound
during the ’Cats’ blowout at Duke

Retail Price of » Used Texthook based on data from Ms

Copyright 2003-2004 Half.com. Hellzom, the Hallcom logo, eBay and the eBay logo are t

Retail

Half.com

Natural selection.

agg Half.com Price for New and eed Textbooks based on on August/Sep
dueranteod and will vary due to supplyand demand, Cosipon is for firat-timve buyers only. Limited time offer: vacludes shipping and handling; offer subject to change oF

How smart is this: All the textbooks you
need for up to 50% off retail prices. New or
used, all you have to do is go to half.com
and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers.
Then let nature take its course.

rademerke of eBay Inc, Al Rghis reserved. "Average Retail Price of a Now Textbook beeed on deta from Follett Cons (as reported by The Associsted Press in darasary 2009). Average
of over 500,000 books anid on Helfcom, Quantities, pricing and availability are not

bese 2003 gnats

fon without prior notice.

Same textbooks.
Smarter prices.

