Ece 04 portraying Jack, the troubled uncle who returned from Africa.

Despite strong cast, weak
script hounds ‘Lughnasa’

By Steve KALIsKI
Senior Staff Writer

I don’t know if you could classify “Dancing
at Lughnasa,” the Theatre Department’s spring
main-stage play, as an against-all-odds produc-
tion. After all, Brian Friel’s acclaimed 1992
work touts both a Tony Award and a Meryl
Streep film adaptation on its impressive re-
sume.

And yet, as Icrept into a routine run-through
last Friday night, I certainly had my doubts.
Subtlety and student theatre often don’t mix,
and with the potentially unstable combination
of an Italian director, mostly gumshoe actors,
and a distinctly Irish 1930s setting, this project
seemed doomed from the start.

The doubts, for the most part, turned out to

be unfounded.
_ With “Dancing at Lughnasa,” the Theatre
Department and_ director Roberto
Prestigiacomo have assembled an elegant and
sophisticated rendering of this renowned play.
Beautifully produced and proficiently acted,
“Lughnasa” should offer the Davidson com-
munity a satisfying evening of drama.

Melancholy and nostalgic, this play closely
resembles Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass
Menagerie” in both tone and structure. It is
told through the eyes of Michael (Ryan
Creighan ’07), a young man who vividly re-
calls the tumultuous events of the summer of
1936, a time in which his closely knit family
began to fall apart.

Raised by his mother Chris (Jax Lacaire ’07)
andher four sisters (Lisa Burr’05, Tammy Ivins
07, LizSykes ’04, Amy Trainor ’07), Michael
enjoys a childhood free of outside tension.
However, when both his troubled uncle Jack
(Cahit Ece ’04) and his playful father Gerry
(Andrew Reichel ’06, afew octaves away from
Pierce Brosnan territory) return to the family’s

home, old memories open new wounds, test-
ing the strength of Michael’s loved ones.

Returning from extended missionary work
in a Ugandan leper colony, Jack battles with
both his health and his sense of self, which
identifies far more with Africa than with Ire-
land.

Also, the smug Gerry mounts a serious cam-
paign at winning Chris’s hand in marriage,
something that arouses deep anxiety within the
rest of the family. The sisters believe that they
have enough to worry about, especially with
the vulnerable emotional state of Rose
(Trainor).

Given the acclaim of the source material,

most of the weaknesses in the production are-

consequences of weaknesses in the script. Friel
writes with almost frustrating restraint, imply-
ing much but showing very little. In fact, he
leaves most of the high drama to Michael’s
monologues, which ultimately provide a de-
pressing “Where are they now?” glimpse of all
of the characters.

Although the performances are quite skilled
all around, a couple of the actresses create
particularly lasting impressions. As the eldest
sister Kate, Burr mixes her role with appropri-
ate amounts of kindness and genuine concern
for her sisters. In a relatively smaller role,
Trainor masters the required understatement
of the trapped, yearning Rose. In a scene in
which Burr interrogates Trainor, these two
women ignite the truest suspense in the entire
play. |

The good sport award goes to Crieghan for
his earnest portrayal of the omnipresent narra-
tor. Through a theatrical convention that poorly
mimics the stage manager from Thornton
Wilder’s “Our Town,” Creighan unnecessar-
ily remains on stage for the entire show. Around
of applause to him for holding character for
the duration of this inexplicable and distract-
ing staging choice, which assumes that the
audience is not smart enough toremember that
this play is actually a slice of Michael’s
memory.

Again, this happens at no fault of the cast
and crew. Prestigiacomo nobly and profession-
ally leads the ensemble through this intermit-
tently moving drama, and the result is about as
good as “Lughnasa” can get. :

Expectedly, Joe Gardner’s set design is ab-
solutely enchanting. Rich with detail and geo-
graphically specific, the sprawling stage
manages to be both intimate and vast at the same

_ time.

Note: although the title includes the word
“dancing,” don’t expect to see the sisters launch
into “Riverdance” mode. The few times when
these ladies do break it down are entertaining
but not particularly, ...Michael Flatley-caliber.

“Dancing at Lughnasa’”’’runs. March 17-20
at 8:00 and March 21 at 2:00 in the Duke Fam-
ily Performance Hall.

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 17, 2004 7

Figure-study elevates the
body beyond normal view

By HANNAH NOLL
Special Contributor

Every Wednesday night from 8 to 10p.m.,
in the VAC drawing studio the flesh of our
brethren is exposed in the name of high art. For
$5 a session (an excellent deal) students and
faculty can study and draw from a live and
kicking model.

On a larger campus, figure study models
would probably go unrecognized, yet in this
pint-sized community the model may be some-
one you know—a chain smoker or churchgoer.
As off-putting as this may seem toanewcomer,
the maturity of the models and students along
with the professional atmosphere of the ses-
sions provide an incredibly productive and
rewarding studio art opportunity. Models are
made comfortable with an optional space
heater, pillow, and control over musical selec-
tion.

Anyone with an interest in drawing from life
is encouraged to come to this very informal
drawing session.

From cave paintings to Picassos the human
figure has been acritical study (in Western art)
for great, mediocre. ..and aspiring artists. The
complexity of the human figure provides end-
less outlets and challenges for the artist to ex-
plore.

Proportion and perspective are skills which ,

can be first mastered in the figure, and explored
further in representational and abstract works.
Furthermore, the longer you study the figure
the more he/she becomes less of a person and
more of a series of lights and darks, sharps and
blurs, curves and straights.

Texture and tonality begin to define a figure
more so than outline or precise representation.
With these skills developed, an artist can ap-
proach any subject.

This is not to say, however, that character or
personality does not emerge from a figure into
a drawing. Every subject (whether human or
not) has an identity or charm to it, and this is
what makes new weekly models an exciting
investigation for the draughtsman.

Every person has a different approach to
drawing the model—some focus on a three by

three inch square patch of the body as others .

attempt to capture the whole figure in precise
detail.

Either way, the figure inspires. An animate
object is easier to bring to life than an inani-
mate object.

Viewers seem also to respond most posi-
tively to art works which feature human fig-
ures, or anthropomorphized shapes. Perhaps
all we really want to see and draw is ourselves,
but I think more likely we see in nature this
animation and it is satisfying to see that inter-
preted through art.

Traditionally, the term ‘nude’ is applied to
academic art which depicts the human figure
in a state of classical splendor—these figures
couldn’t be imagined in clothes, they are Greek
gods Venuses and Zeuses. A person who is
‘naked’ is aware or embarrassed by an element
of surprise—the startling reality that someone
is watching them. We turn a spotlight on the
nude, but dim the lights for the naked.

In recent travels, I have pieced together a
flesh mosaic from Ft. Lauderdale flashers to
Charlotte strippers. As beautiful as these bod-
ies may be, the intent of both model (we’ll
kindly grant them this undeserving title) and
participating viewer is about something other
than art or education (or anything of value for
that matter), and more about money, attention
and sick fetishistic pleasure (on behalf of the
viewer).

Participants, or oglers, at a strip club reduce
the stripper (or model) to an object but not one

_ whichis celebrated, instead one which debases

and perverts the human body and the individual.

The participants or artists in a figure study
elevate the model through an intelligent study
and appreciation of the human body. I find that
most figure study models are interested and
curious about the artworks they inspire.

VAC figure study sessions are alittle known,
yet important extracurricular activity (which
includes music, popcorn, and full frontal nu-
dity).

Francisco Goya’s ‘Clothed Maja’
painted in 1797.

Snapshots of Davidson

William High roughs itona Davidson Outdoors trip.

ee ee oe ed

Perera trerevermcrcr trey fur trer iris tere rer er rie errr ra ta

OPA FE Se OOR Bob Ek bee eens
