-

2 THE DavipsoNnIAN | NEws WeEpnespay, J ANUARY 21, 2004

| MLK, frompagel

The first annual King Day 5K Fun Run/Walk
launched Monday’s activities. Over a hundred
participants ran through the town of Davidson.

Children were also able to directly partake
in the commemoration of Dr. King as Davidson
students led activities for them to learn about
Dr. King’s life and his impact on the civil rights
movement. . y

The majority of Monday’s events centered
around guest speaker Myrlie Evers- Williams.

After her husband’s death, Evers-Williams
became one of the most prominent civil rights
activists and was elected as the first female
chairperson of the NAACP in 1995.

In her speech at the Community Convoca-
tion, Evers-Williams emphasized the impor-
tance of consistently remembering and acting
upon Dr. King’s message rather than acknowl-
edging it only once a year.

She stressed that the same issues dealt with
during the civil rights movement are still preva-
lent today but need to be addressed in different
ways.

Evers-Williams also commented on the
problem of motivating young people to con-
tribute to the modern struggle for equality and
the importance of helping them to remember
Dr. King’s message. She encourage students

~ not to forget the past, as “where we are today
is a direct result of the past,” and spoke about

) : Photo by Dorsett Clark the need for “strong leadership at all ages in all
Above: Evers-Williams spoke at a regions.”

fire-side chat following her lecture in = Sarah Cantrell ’06 described the address as
Duke. Below: Students and commu- _ motivating.

nity members help children learn “She challenged all of us to make a differ-
about King through coloring. ence and make sure we are living in the type of

“ny

Fite. photo by Dal

community we want to live in,” Cantrell said.

A community lunch and question-answer
session led by Evers-Williams followed the
convocation. Later in the afternoon, small

Public Policy group discussions were held regarding race at”
Davidson and in society.

Literature A panel discussion concerning affirmative
action concluded Davidsan’s MLK Day activi-
ties. Students, faculty and community mem-

Economics bers gathered in the 900 Room to converse on
whether or not affirmative action should still

Film hold a place in contemporary American soci--

ety.

Psychology , Panelists represented a range of views on the

issue and included Davidson faculty members
Dan Aldridge, professor of History, and Mary
Thornberry, chair and professor of Political
Science, as well as conservative radio talk show
host and vice chair of the Tennessee Republi-
can party, Kevin Moxley.

Students expressed a variety of reactions in
response to the debate.

Brian Creech ’05 said, “The discussion
helped to shape my opinion of affirmative
action as something that should change froma
numerical or quota system to a process where

_ we consider both the individual applicant as

well as societal factors, such as lack of oppor-

Studies tunity as a result of poverty, class, or geogra- -
phy.”

Braxton Winston ’05 said, “I think affirma-

, ; tive action should still have a place right now,

The Swedish Progtam, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323 because there are a lot of open wounds that still

’ need to be healed. As far as the argument about

{315) 737-0123  www.ewedishprogram.org fighting racism with racism, you have to fight

fire with fire sometimes in order to be effec-

£ ”
.

tive

