THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 11

Traq will be a victory John Kerry ate Bush’s lunch in first debate

By MATTHEW HALL

By Joe REED

Staff Columnist

Whether you speak to democrats or Republicans, the war in
Iraq seems to be the big issue this fall. If you talk to most any
Kerry supporter on campus, you will inevitably hear them

complain about our damaged international

DECISION repute, our lack of an effective plan in Iraq,
200 the hundreds of killed Americans, and that

the information we went to war on was
wrong, and that therefore our war was illegitimate. These same
people blame President Bush, labeling him a moron, a monkey
or worse. The haters of Bush have misled themselves, how-
ever. They refuse to accept the truth about what happened be-
fore and after our invasion, and they remain defeatist while our
troops continue the fight. They fail to appreciate our achieve-
ment.

. The United States went to war in 2003 based on seemingly
solid information. The intelligence services of the United King-
dom, Germany, and Russia supported the CIA’s conclusions.
The majority of the international community was convinced
that our information was correct. The issue became not whether
Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, but what to
do about it. It is crucial to realize this. Many people these days
criticize the war, because it turned out that the information we
relied on was incorrect. One must realize, however, that our
experts, and experts around the globe, thought this information
was excellent.The United States went to war on substantiated

-information. In a matter of weeks, we defeated Saddam’s forces,
and were in control of Iraq. Nevertheless, the bloodshed did not
end, and more and more Americans began to die. Many said
that our losses were the result of our lacking a plan. The fact of
the matter is, however, that we have had a plan. Our troops and
contractors have been tirelessly trying to improve Iraq’s infra-
structure, army, education, government, and basic social ser-
vices. Those that say we do not have a plan, or that our plan has
failed should realize that there has never been a single war or
occupation that went according to plan. Secondly, we beat the
Iraqis too quickly. We overpowered their troops, and declared
ourselves the victor. And while we had decimated their army,
we had not decimated their spirit. Once we began our occupa-
tion, they began doing what any people used to centuries of
tyranny would do, they resisted. People should realize that very
few countries coming out of a war are stable.

Let’s look at the results of our war. We may have chilled
relations with Europe, but that is not new. Throughout the Cold
War, while we were defending their backyards, we had numer-
ous disagreements with France and Germany. And while the
information we went to war on may not have been accurate, our
intentions were the best. We were and are fighting for the secu-
rity of ourselves the world. There may be violence in Iraq now,
but give the Iraqi people a few years, and we may all be pleas-
antly surprised. In our battle for a safer world, we have over-
thrown a despot. .

We have given the Iraqi people, and the Middle East, the

opportunity to claim freedom and democracy for themselves.
For hundreds of years their history has been one of decline,
degradation, and suppression. With our help, thefuture could
‘ be one of justice and advancement. It may take decades, indeed
the implementation of new ideas and new institutions takes time,
but wouldn’t it be worth it? Let’s just hope that we have the
courage to help them, and they have the wisdom to accept it.

Staff Columnist _
Immediately after a presidential debate, in one of the media’s
favorite traditions of the election season, campaign operatives
and pundits on both sides begin furiously
DECISION - “spinning” the result in an effort to show that
200 their candidate was the victor. It’s quite rare
indeed for supporters of a candidate to come
right out and say, essentially, that their man got stomped. This
is why it was so shocking to see commentary from conserva-
tive pundit Joe Scarborough referring to the debate as ‘“‘a very
clear win on points for John Kerry,” as well as an article from
the right-wing magazine “National Review” admitting that the
author, were he a swing voter, would vote for Kerry if his de-
cision were based solely on what he calls “that infernal de-
bate.” So what happened to make even such Republican-bi-
ased observers unequivocally declare Kerry the winner?

Was Kerry really that dominant?

Yes, he was.

This is the John Kerry the Democrats nominated to take the
fight to President Bush—calm, resolute, aggressive, and ut-
terly incommand of the issues. From the very first question, he
put the president on his heels, and kept him there for the vast
majority of the 90-minute debate, stepping boldly onto Bush’s
turf early on by flatly declaring, “I can make America safer than
President Bush has made us.” His firm and succinct statements

of position on Iraq should help to neutralize, at least for now,
the “flip-flopper” charges that have plagued him.

Perhaps his finest moment came when, responding to Bush’s
mockery of one of his infamously vague statements on Iraq, he
simply said, “I made a mistake in how I talk about the war. But
the president made a mistake in invading Iraq. Whichis worse?”
That is the question Kerry should have been asking for the past
several months, and Bush was never able to give a credible
response.

The president, for his part, was not awful by any stretch. He
did, however, seem on the defensive all night, and a few of his
attempted counter-punches simply missed the mark. For in-
stance, his (repeated) emphasis on the importance of the sup-
port of Poland in the Iraq war would have made him look des-
perate to make his “coalition” appear legitimate even if Presi-
dent Kwasniewski had not been quoted in March as saying his
country had been “taken for a ride” on Iraq. -

President Bush’s worst moments, though, came when his
opponent was speaking. As Kerry offered his dissection of the
president’s record, Bush fidgeted, scowled, and generally ap-
peared to be totally uncomfortable-having to defend his record
without his usual crowd of cheering partisan supporters.

Foreign policy, was supposed to be President Bush’s stron-
gest issue.

Some columnists went so far as to describe the foreign-policy
and national-security issues as Bush’s “meal ticket.” Well, if
that’s the case, then John Kerry just ate his lunch.

Can faith withstand the scrutiny of study?

By Ros Ruscu
Staff Columnist

Many of us take God as a given in our lives. Yet the fragility
of His existence often makes us leery to question Him. Since
God is primarily based on faith, questioning Christianity can
naturally lead to deterioration in religious belief. In college,
we are taught to analyze and question everything, including the
Bible, the literary foundation of Christian belief. Surprising to
some, an in depth analysis of the Bible shows great disparity in
many of its stories. From creation to the flood, we see multiple
and different accounts. These discrepancies come from the fact
that the Bible is an agglomeration of tales written by different
authors during different periods of time, but they still serve to
call into question the Bible’s validity as a historically accurate
document. ;

So how what is the most beneficial way to study the Bible?
According to Professor Trent Foley of Davidson’s Religion De-
partment, the Bible should be studied both as a religious and a
historical document. He says that he doesn’t buy the fact that
the Bible describes “what really happened if we could take a
video camera back and shoot it all,” but that there are clear
historical references in it that can with studying that time pe-
riod. The Bible is a religious document for Christians as well,
and should be studied and understood through that context.

Recently, students enrolled in Humanities 150 have been ana-
lyzing and discussing various portions of the Bible’s Old Tes-
tament. Having interviewed several of these students, I’ ve found
that many of them have actually increased their faith due to this
analysis. As Freshman Sarah Allen said, “Faith can grow stron-
ger as aresult of questioning.” In addition to linear discrepan-
cies, students in Humanities have also discovered some very

disturbing aspects in God’s character during their studies. Of-
ten God will obliterate a town in the name of a form of justice
that is more than a little unclear or He will grossly favor the
Hebrews in battle against people of a more innocent demeanor.
Freshman Mac Meese explains these peculiarities by the fact
that “you have to look culturally at many of the situations.”
On the other hand of the issue, one could argue that faith is
the ultimate form of denial. Whenever a contradictory or ques-
tionable situation arises, a good Christian will claim it’s not
wrong in the least. Why? Because they have faith that, although

In a way, faith is an excuse for
every fallacy in the theory of
Christianity.

they might not understand the reasons, God does. In a way,
faith is an excuse for every fallacy in the theory of Christianity.

Considering all this, what are the real advantages of studying
the Bible in an academic nature? In my opinion, I feel that doing
so allows you to cope with the reality of your beliefs. Inevita-
bly, an in depth study of the Bible, whether new or familiar to
you, will change the way you think about Christianity. Whether
atheist or Christian, looking at another perspective influences -
the way you treat a certain topic.

For me, I feel that studying the Bible has solidified my Chris-
tian views, while oddly devaluing the accuracy of the Bible. I
feel that I better understand the complicated ways in which
God works, but have grown to see the Bible as merely a literary
work of fiction through which individuals struggle to explain
these complexities themselves.

President Bush, like Nixon, demands and then abuses public trust

By Ross MAcDoNALD
Staff Columnist

“Traq is a central part of the war on terror,” President George
While that might be true now, it was not true when he first started
; DE ISION saying it two years ago. That is the most
ay and my biggest problem with it. While the

President keeps saying that “We are making
administration is failing the American people and only com-
pounds those failures by refusing to take responsibility forthem.
beians, yet the Bush administration’s refusal to admit fallibility
and accept accountability cripples our country and our ability

W. Bushemphatically declared to the world last Thursday night.

‘extraordinary quirk of this administration,
progress,” as he did on Thursday night, the truth is that the
Nobody is perfect, and that goes for politicians as well as ple-
to successfully fight the war on terror.

When it became clear that the Abu Gharib prison scandal

was not an isolated incident caused by one or two twisted, low-
level soldiers, but rather a result of a system-wide policy and
problem, why wasn’t anyone at the Defense Department held
responsible? When America finally realized that we would, in
fact, not be greeted with roses and rallies in Iraq, why didn’t the
administration question its policy makers? Why didn’t the
President apologize to the American people and to the families
of the soldiers he forced into the Iraqi quagmire without an exit

strategy?

When the ties between Saddam and Osama turned out to be
non-existent, why is it that Dick Cheney still insisted that there
was a link? Why does the President continue to assert that there

‘were weapons of mass destruction? Why can’t the President

admit that sometimes he might be wrong? Why as our situation
in Iraq and the world continues to-degenerate, does the Presi-
dent still insist that we are making progress? Why is he still
deceiving us?

Truth is blind and it hurts, and the truth is that we are not
making progress in Iraq. After over 1,000 dead Americans, and
close to 15,000 dead Iraqi civilians, we control less of Iraq now
than we did, through no-fly zones and sanctions, when Saddam
was still in power. The truth is that we went into Iraq with no
plan to secure the country, to stabilize it and foster its recre-
ation, and because of that, we need to begin questioning whether
there is something worse than Saddam? Could a chaotic state
pose a threat far more potent than Saddam ever did? Before we
invaded Iraq there were no foreign terrorists, jihadists or sui-
cide bombers roaming Baghdad’s streets. The truth is that the
Iraq war has vastly increased our vulnerability and done more
for Al-Qaeda than Osama ever did. The Bush administration
needs to admit its faults and accept reality if we are ever going
to start to make progress.

The truth is that the Defense Department ordered the policies
that led to Abu Gharib and understood what was happening

there far before the media did. And still, nothing is done to the
real perpetrators of those horrific acts, Donald Rumsfeld and
Paul Wolfowitz. Why don’t they say that they made a mistake?
The administration can claim that these were isolated incidents,
butisolated incidents don’t occur at almost every prison in Iraq.
The truth is that, as Paul Krugman said, “From the day his
administration took office, its slogan has been ‘just trust us.’
No administration since Nixon has been so insistent that it has
the right to operate without oversight or accountability, and no
administration since Nixon has shown itself to be so little de-
serving of that trust.” I am not saying that we should not have
invaded Iraq, nor am I explicitly blaming the President for his,
mistakes, because as I earlier stated, everyone makes mistakes.
However, his refusal to be honest with the American people
and to admit his mistakes only makes our country suffer more.
As he storms the campaign trail purporting lies about Iraq
and the war on terrorism, our chances of fixing these problems

‘grow slimmer. While this deceit may aid his chances of reelec-

tion, it only hurts our country. Living a lie doesn’t solve the
problem. Foreveryone who vilified Bill Clinton for lying to the
country, what is worse, lying about you sex life or about a war
that has caused the deaths of thousands of soldiers and civil-

ians? We need the truth and accountability for our government

if we want to win this war on terror and save our country, and
if the President is not willing to change his ways and accept
reality, then we need a new man for the job.
