12

FO ¥
Sports fans...
ie tik > PiCks OF

THE WEEK

you

Wildcat game of the

week:

Women’s Tennis vs. UNC-G
Tuesday at 2:00 on the Covington courts

Having recently pulled off three straight
wins, all versus conference opponents, the
Cats look to continue this streak of play
against UNC Greensboro this upcoming
Tuesday. With a 4-1 record in the Southern
Conference, Davidson should be able to pick
‘apart the 1-3 Spartans and remain just a single
game behind undefeated Furman. Although
this one should be a blowout, it’s always fun

SPORTS

As we’ve noted on the sports cover, last
week’s column here created a great deal of
confusion among some of our readers. While
many people got the joke (regardless of
whether or not they found it funny), a failure
on my part to make it clear enough caused
others to become concerned that the events
depicted were real and there was in fact a re-
cruiting scandal at Davidson College. Please
take my word: there was not.

In fact, the degree of concern and even
anger expressed by those who took the col-
umn seriously speaks to the high standards
that Davidson College — its students, faculty,
athletes, coaching staff, and alumni — holds
for itself and, particularly, its athletics.

The point of the satire, in part, was to ex-
press that even if the fictional story were to
take place (let me restate again that it was
entirely fabricated), it would probably not
be scandalous. The events described pale in
comparison to those that have been noted at
other Division I schools, and they would likely
be given no attention and meet with no
reprecussions were they true.

The idea of host athletes buying recruits
meals at Fuddruckers and a Pizza Inn contrasts
sharply with allegations that Alabama recruits
were given five-figured monetary gifts from
boosters, for example. Giving a recruit a few
beers pales in comparison to the reports of

More streakers in the lineup this week.
This time the game was the Cheshire Senior
Cup soccer final in London between Whitton
Albion and Woodley Sports. Brian Pritchard,
a member of Whitton Albion who is also a
police officer on the side, took matters into
his own hands and tackled the streaker to pre-
vent the fans from wit-
nessing such ridiculous
behavior. The referee
found the tackle to be il-
legal, however, and sent
Pritchard off with a red
card. Unfortunately, the
hero blamed himself as
his ten-man team lost 2-1

. Now for local news:
sixty miles north on I-77
in Mount Airy, N.C. a
football coach has been
charged with drug traf-
ficking. Police raided the house of John
Martin, head coach at North Surry High
School, early Friday morning. There they
found methamphetamine, marijuana, pre-
scription pills, cash, and drug parapherna-
lia. Martin, who has been a teacher for twenty
years as well as a wrestling coach, was re-
leased from jail on a $25,000 bond. His wife,

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Baseball is America’s national pastime. It’s
the sport any red-blooded American worth his
salt plays growing up and watches for the rest
of his life. Charlotte has become one of
America’s foremost cities. Its people love
sports and, aside from the-fallout with the Hor-
nets two years ago, are dedicated to their
teams. But baseball in Charlotte is like a keg
on campus or good food in Commons: it
doesn’t exist. 4

Charlotte, of course, has baseball fans, but
these fans are stuck in the middle of a desert—
an enourmous, never-ending desert. Many
small pools of water exist to drink from, but
nothing big enough to satisfy the immense
thirst Charlotteans, as Americans, have for
baseball.

To the South, though, many miles away,
there is a lake, which has quenched the thirst

. alcohol abuse on recruiting trips that have been e

4

noted in the news of late. Similarly, last week’s
tale of the Davidson recruit making out with
a girl on a dance floor is a far cry from the
devastating reports of sexual misconduct com-
ing from the University of Colorado, among
other schools.

Yet many responded with dismay at the

BY MIKE GIGLIO

events I made up. Even the slightest bit of
transgression is intolerable here. Some people
demanded that I prove my “allegations,” while
a number of others were disgusted at the
thought of my story being true. Clearly, stan-
dards here are much higher than at many other
D-I schools. It’s just another unique aspect of
our athletic program, one from which those
concerned can draw confidence that a true
scandal is unlikely to surface and embarrass
our college.

who was responsible for most of his sales, was
released on a $55,000 bond. Martin has been
suspended with pay while the investigation
unfolds, though he will probably not be paid

in cash .. . Richard Simmons, famous for
his ostentatious workout videos, got a work-

“Brian Pritchard, a mem-
ber of Whitton Albion who
is a police officer, tackled the
streaker...the ref found the
tackle to be illegal and sent
Pritchard off with a red
card...Unfortunately, the
hero blamed himself as his
ten man team lost 2-1.”

out in while waiting for his plane in a Phoe-
nix airport. When a 255-pound Harley
Davidson salesman made fun of Simmons,
the frizzy-haired calorie burner reacted
violently. Simmons yelled, “It’s not nice to

of those suffering in Charlotte for many years
now. Not so long ago, this lake was the best
in all of
America.
There were
giant trees
surround-
ing its
shores and
a steady ro-
tation of
five life-
guards who
kept every-
one safe. In
recent
years, however, the water level has declined,
the trees have been cut, and the lifeguards
headed for bluer waters. Now, travelers are
not sure what to expect from this lake, known
to all as the Atlanta Braves.

To the North, even further away, there is

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 31, 2004

In addition, I’ ve noted before how athletes

here don’t receive special treatment, particu-
larly where academics are concerned. Noth-
ing can better attest to us than the response I
got from a teacher who was upset at the
thought that I might have been referring to his/
her class in my column. The account that I
gave of the class, claiming that it was easy
because the students “don’t even have to do
the reading every day” and that one athlete
got a paper extension because he was out
with mono for two weeks, hardly calls for
concern. But this obviously does not meet
the standards that the teacher has set for his/
her classes and those that the school has set
for its athletes. This certainly stands out
against true instances of academic fraud that
have been discovered at places such as UGA,
where assistant basketball coach Jim Harrick
Jr.’s “Principles and Strategies of Basket-
ball” course has brought incredible
embarassment to Georgia’s athletic and aca-
demic programs.
- Rest assured that the state of athletics and
academics at Davidson is fine and up to the
standards of even the oldest alumni who called
to voice disapproval. And they promise to re-
main that way, at least until the next time a
wayward sports editor decides to make up a
controvsey.

Apologies again for the confusion.

make fun of people with issues,” and slapped
the heavyset ex-cage wrestler on the cheek.
Chris Farney, 23, the victim of the assault,
commented that it would be unfair to have
struck back. Chances are- he could have
slapped Simmons straight to his arrival gate .

. So you can best understand this unbé-
lievable behavior, I will do my best to ex-
plain what was caught on tape. First of all,
it takes place at a junior high school football
game in Waterloo, Nebraska. As a brawl
breaks out between the two teams, Angela
Louise Toles runs on to the field where her
two sons are involved. (Mom to the rescue!)
She then proceeds to grab a helmet (I’m pretty
sure it wasn’t her own) and swing it at the
opposing team attackers. Toles has pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor charge and has yet to
accept an invitation from the school’s base-
ball team to give a clinic on proper swing tech-
nique .. . Sexual barriers have been broken
in Mexico, as they have announced the es-
tablishment of a Mexican Gay Soccer
League. Players will all be homosexual, and
it is mandatory that the officials all be gay
as well. The team names include The Clan,
Fashion Team, G Strength, and (my favorite)
Your Mother. No prediction has been made
about the success of the league.

another lake, which in the past has
dissapointed many travelers. While there have
been times of immense
rainfall, and even a pe-
riod when a beautiful
waterfall flowed with-
out end, in recent years
most travelers have
kept away.

Over the winter,
though, there was a lot
of action up North and
folks there are brag-
ging about how won-
derful their lake will
be in the summer and,
hopefully, fall months. So this year, despite
the slightly longer hike, travelers stranded in
Charlotte have loaded up the bandwagons and

see Baseball, page 13
