THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 7

Battle over the boob: Janet, Justin, CBS (and TiVo)

By KayLeeN HARTMAN
Senior Staff Writer

If our modern political atmosphere can be
divided into Pre-9/11 and Post-9/11 spheres, I
think it fair to assume that in the entertainment
industry we can identify two distinct eras of
pop culture: Pre- and Post- Boob. Just as the
attacks of September 11 have been pivotal in
the identification of our nation’s political en-
emies—Saddam Hussien, Osama bin Laden et
al.—the exposure of Janet Jackson’s breast to
140 million American victims has been instru-
mental in creating opposing camps within
entertainment and pop-culture. Boobs, it seems,
are the national enemy and we must unite to
keep mammary glands and all that they repre-
sent out of the public eye.

Startlingly, the 9/11 comparison isn’t one of
my usual thinly constructed metaphors. As a
society, our level of disturbance over the un-
sheathing rated comparably to 9/11 and its
wake. The Lycos 50 Daily Report (published
shortly after the Big Boob Incident) suggests
that the total number of internet searches re-
lated to the unfortunate “wardrobe malfunc-
tion” is equaled only by the total number of
searches related to the September 11 attacks.
If this is the train wreck of morally catastrophic
proportions that the reactionaries would have
us believe, it is clearly one we are unwilling to

ignore.

The Monday morning following ‘the MTV
Super Bowl Halftime Show, Michael Powell,
the Chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, announceg an investigation into
the evening’s shocking events to establish the
extent of the law that had been violated.“We
all as a society have a responsibility as to what
the images and messages our children hear
when they’ re likely to be watching television,”
Powell pontificated.

He went on to explain how the incident fol-
lowed America’s greater struggle for the moral
high ground. “I don’t think I’m being moralis-
tic, and I don’t think that’s government trying
to tell people how to run their business. I don’t
think you need to be a lawyer to understand the
basic concepts of common decency here.”

CBS, of course, denies any prior knowledge
of the incident, Justin claims all he expected to
unleash was ared lacy corset, and Janetis very,
very sorry. Country, corporation, and coquette
grapple together to support and mold the
nation’s threshold for public indecency in the
name of good showmanship—and salesman-
ship.

Incidentally, the stock price of Viacom, the
parent company of CBS, rose more than 1
percent the very next day. Janet’s “Miss Janet”
international fan club website received so many
hits that it was temporarily taken down. E-bay

‘Capacitor’ dances in Duke

By CuristiINE HAYCOOK
Special Contributor

Critics would agree that this Friday night at
8pm in the Duke Performance Hall will be an
overwhelmingly stimulating sensory perfor-
mance.

“Capacitor” was originally established in
1997 in San Francisco through the creative
minds of professionals from varying fields —

_ dancers, engineers, scientists, and philosophers
— to develop understandings of science, tech-
nology, and human form coexisting in the
modern world. The creative laboratory behind
the scenes focused on the design of the show as
one meant to “stretch the limits of physical po-
etry.” The repertory of performances, of which
there are several —‘‘Digging in the Dark,”

“Avatars,” “Within Outer Space,” to name a
few — embody different ideas (ranging from
the creation of the universe to the modern phe-
nomenon of video gaming) that are all con-
structed to provoke intellectual thinking and
encourage dialogues on the subject matter. This
type of theatre is made to engage the audience:
to provide not only a visually entertaining and
stimulating performance, but to stimulate the
mind of the audience, not only during the per-
formance, but well after the show has ended.
“Capacitor” utilizes performances in dance,
martial arts, fire stunts, circus juggling, acro-
batics and large-scale props to create a setting
that spellbinds the audience and stands apart
from this usual world. By creating somewhat
of a separate “other world,” the artists are given
a platform on which to raise questions and
promote discussions on the bounds of technol-
ogy within this world.

“Capacitor” is a performance not to miss. If
you have not, nor have you any intention of
seeing an Artist Series production at Davidson
College, let this be your exception. “Capaci-
tor” is not a show, but an experience - some-
thing so different and unique that it can only be
adequately described through the eyes of the
audience.

Tickets are still available for the one show-
ing at 8 p.m. on Friday, February 13 inthe Duke
Performance Hall. Master classes in modern
dance and ballet and Capoeira — a martial arts
form— will be offered free of charge on Sat-
urday, February 14.

Grammys, from page 6 ~

appearance.

Or consider the mirage-like appearance of
Andre 3000, accepting the award for Best Rap
Album. The camera swung around the audi-
ence searching for Andre as if a drunken “Price
Is Right” cinematographer directed it. When
he finally made it to the stage, he thanked no
one. So thank you, Andre 3000.

Celebrity car wrecks also occur with far more
alacrity on the red carpet. In fact, the red carpet
is fashion’s answer to our own Interstate-77.
Setting the standard for all time is JLo’s sheer
jungle-print housecoat that buttoned solely at
the crotch—you think they would’ ve noticed
that at the couture factory, but no.

But this year, instead of spearheading the
next big trend in chinoiserie/Goth/Kabbalah
strings; Madonna actually looked good in an
already-trendy pink satin slip dress. Lil’ Kim
went her usual route of choosing an outfit by
first smoking crack and then opening up her

closet. And John Mayer remained the world’s
most boring man by accessorizing his tux
with—gasp! ‘A pale pink tie!

Unfortunately, no real entertainment value
could be gleaned from this year’s Grammys
because the whole thing was on a five-minute
time delay (in case of the need for censorship).
Damn Janet and her errant boob. In a post-
award’s show press conference, however, CBS
reps stated that after a careful five-minute de-
liberation, Beyonce’s panties were deemed a
necessary and decorous addition to her ostrich-
feather miniskirt.

But despite the sublimely ridiculous nature
of award’s shows, despite ugly trophies for
doubtfully “best” performances, despite Chris-
tina Aguilera’s hair looking much like mil-
dewed anchor rope, the Grammys went on. The
show could not be conquered, not by rain, wind,
nor snow—and it certainly was a nasty winter
night out in California. Wait, wait, that wasn’t
real snow. Just Adelphia.

now sells “Janet’s breast nipple solar-time jew-
elry” for $14 and, onthe pricierend, the “Nipple
Medallion” sells for $19,995 out of Palm Bay,
FL. So far no one has actually bid. It seems like
the old maxim “‘there’s no such thing as bad
publicity” retains increasing value.

So who, besides a slowly recovering Ameri-
can public, will really suffer as a result of Jus-
tin and Janet’s indiscretion? Well, Janet lost
her gig on Sunday night’s Grammy’s and once
this FCC investigation business is all said and
done, CBS is looking at fines reaching
$550,000. The FCC, which received a total of
240,000 complaints all last year, received
200,000 in response to the halftime show alone.

Fear not, Congress has already set the wheels
in motion to release a brand new set of decency
standards to protect America’s children from
nipples and nipple medallions alike. The FCC
has already been facing pressure to justify

, wwiv.drudeercport.com
Jackson and Timberlake, caught
mid-Incident |

former rulings based on current standards. One
of the cases in question involves performer
Bono using the word “f—ing” on cable T.V.
and getting away with it. The explanation
given? The word was used as an adjective and
not as a synonym for copulation.

And ofcourse, there is NBC who, in the wake
of last Sunday’s nipple attacks declined to air
a segment of “ER” that inadvertently showed
the bare naked breast of a 60-year-old woman
on an operating table. Mammary moralists of
the world, unite!

Although executives and producers agreed
that the scene in question was “appropriate and
in context,” the atmosphere in the entertain-

1 HAD THE
SAME OUESTIONS.

Can | get my MBA without
a business degree?
Can | study abroad?

Gant atfond it?

Can | reach my g

ment industry was enough to make them think
twice about giving the kiddies an eyeful of
grandma’s teat.

CBS’s notion of censorship can only be
described as arbitrary. Just months ago, they
refused to air a movie based on the life of Ronald
Reagan because they found the biography more
critical than the current climate would allow.
More recently, during that same Super Bowl,
the network refused to air an ad critical of
Bush’s tax cuts sponsored by MoveOn.org.

The ad was deemed controversial and criti-
cal of the Bush administration, and the network
claimed they had a blanket policy against “‘is-
sue” ads. The network then agreed to air a tax-
payer-funded ad supporting the Bush
administration’s Medicare plan. When
MoveOn.org crafted a response ad, CBS re-
fused to air it.

I watched the halftime show while
babysitting. I was sitting in the living room,
flipping through an issue of “People,” nestled
in between a five year-old, two eight year-olds,
a 12-year-old and a 13-year-old. I am in gen-
eral, a Janet Jackson fan—particularly of the
era of music from which she performed—but
the performance was so thoroughly lacking in
entertainment value, that by the time she
popped out her boob, none of us even noticed.

Which brings me to my nagging suspicion
that the barrage of media events we've been
subjected to, from the Britney/Madonna kiss
to the Bennifer breakup, are just the smoke and
mirrors covering up the really big scandal in
the entertainment industry.

My hypothesis, confirmed by the recent self-
aggrandizing hollow antics of this week’s
Grammys, is that we’ ve simply run out of tal-
ent. We’ve placed such dire importance on
whose fireworks explode the brightest and
whose bums and biceps are the tautest that we
forgot to make sure we had something to listen
to while we’ re watching all the glitz and glam-
our flash before our eyes. Sure, sure, we’ re all
going to hell in a hand basket, but even Nero
had a decent musical accompaniment as he
watched his empire burn.

Shrug. Too bad for our generation. At least
we’ ve got TiVo.

