12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

.. SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Darryl Childers ’04 receives recognition for his outstand-
ing season with I-AA Mid-Major All-American honors

By WALKER SaIK
Senior Staff Writer

After tying the Davidson single-season
record with 11 sacks, recording 59 tackles, and
forcing three fumbles, senior Darryl Childers
was “surprised” to be named. to The Sports
Network’s prestigious I-AA Mid-Major All-
America Team this past Friday.

So what did the humble athlete have to say
for himself?

“This award] is a tribute to our defense [as
well]. It might seem like it, but this isn’t re-
ally an honor about individual effort. It takes
a lot of different people on the team doing their
jobs for anybody to be successful.

“J’m just glad I had the people around me
that I did, including a great group of coaches.
I’m not sure if me making the [All-America
Team] says anything about the season or my
career here at Davidson, but it is definitely a
credit to them.”

The defensive linemen from China Grove,
NC finished his career with an eye-gauging
167 tackles, including 37 for a loss, and 23
sacks. He was named 2003 Pioneer Football
League’s Co-Defensive Player of the Year for
the South Division and had a Co-Defensive
Player of the Week honor for his efforts against
Dayton during the homecoming nail-biter.

While Childers sees the award as a great
culmination to his career, he admits that he’s
“going to miss [football] a lot... so you never
know what I might end up doing if a good
opportunity to keep playing presents itself.”

Don’t expect to talk to the excitable
Childers, though, without a plug about
Davidson football.

“TI want everybody to know that it was a
rough season, but don’t count Davidson foot-
ball out,” he said. “The team’s already work-
ing hard and getting ready for next year. Ex-

st

Childers finished his Davidson career in style, tying the single-
season school record for sacks with 11 in 2003

pect a much better season. If everybody comes
out in support of our team, it can make for
some really exciting games.”

Along with tight ¢nd Mike Chase ’03,
Childers. is only the second Wildcat to ever
receive this honor.

“I’ve never received any type of recogni-
tion like this,” he continued, “so this is really
something special.”

from Wrestling, page 16

and earned a pin at the 4:57 mark.

Henry Blue ’06 showed some heart by com-
ing from behind in his first two matches of
the day to earn a pin and a decision for the
team. He ended the day with a second-place
finish after a loss in the 149-pound final.

Co-captain Adam. Sperling ’04 gave the
team another spark with his 10-0 major deci-
sion in the 157-pound final. Marcus Boyd ’07
wrestled in one of the most exciting matches
of the day, earning a clutch 11-9 overtime vic-
tory in the 165-pound final. Mark O’ Hair ’04
had a nail-biter of his own, riding out his op-
ponent in the final seconds of the third period
to hold on to a 9-8 lead in the 174-pound fi-
nal.

The team finished with a total of nine wres-
tlers in the finals, six of whom took first place.

Winning the tournament is a major boost in
confidence for the team, yet with this win
under their belts, the Wildcats head into an
even tougher weekend of serious Division I
competition. :

“The team morale now is high,” said
Leonard, “but we realize that this past week-
end is behind us, and we are already focused
on this coming weekend, when we’ Il be wres-
tling much bigger and better teams like UVA
and UNC.”

The Wildcats head back to Lexington on
Friday, January 23 to face VMI.

Half.com

Retail

You do the math.

How smart is this: All the textbooks you
need for up to 50% off retail prices. New or
used, all you have to do is go to half.com
and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers.
Gotta love that new math.

a

Retail Price of a Used Textbook based on data from Manumert information Resources. Average Hatt.com Price for New ard Used texibooks based on an Aug
Quarantesd and will very due to supphy and dernand. Coupon is for first-time buyers onty. Limited tre offer: exchudes shipping and handling; offer suf)

2003
to change or ‘ Gh

prior notice.

Same textbooks.

Copy ight 2000-2004 Hall com. Hall.com, the Half.com logo, sBey and the efey logo are trademarks of eBay Inc. All right reserved. *Average Reta Price of » New Textbook based on data from Follett Corp ise reported by The Associated Prose in January 2003). Average
of over 500,000 books sold on Half.com. Oy p

NEM com:

Smarter prices.

ng and are neat

