THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, ApRIL 28, 2004 13

Tillman deserving of : Fleeting time and the flow of college life

unwanted attention

By WiLson McCrory
Guest Columnist

After the September 11 attacks, most of us went out and
bought an American flag, or sang the Star-Spangled Banner a
little louder. We watched CNN for a few days, worried about
what would happen to the stock market, and soon went back to
our pre-9/11 lives.

Pat Tillman, a safety for the Arizona Cardinals of the Na-
tional Football League, decided to enlist.

There were certainly many others like Tillman, idealistic
young men and women who felt a surge of patriotism after the
attacks on our country.

But Pat Tillman wasn’t a run-of-the mill type of guy. Tillman
was the consensus Pac-10 Defensive Player of the Year at Ari-
zona State in 1997, despite his 5’11”, 195 pound frame.

The star linebacker was drafted by the local Arizona Cardi-
nals in the seventh round of the 1997 draft, and was soon cons
’ verted into the starting safety for the moribund franchise. In
2001, he was offered a $9 million contract by the St. Louis
Rams, but turned it down for a one year, $500,000 deal with the
hometown Cards out of loyalty to the team.

A year later, when the Cardinals came back to him with a
three year deal worth $3.6 million, it appeared Tillman’s rise to
success was complete. But the effects of 9/11 still rang strong
with Tillman, and when he returned from his honeymoon with
new wife Marie in 2002, he decided to do something about that
itching patriotism that wouldn’t let go.

So Tillman, along with his brother Kevin, a former pitcher
for Arizona State and the Cleveland Indians organization, de-
cided to enlist in the U.S. Army, hoping to join the elite Ranger
forces.

The former Card granted no interview requests before his
deployment, nor did he indicate to anyone beyond his family
and friends why he was turning down a lucrative football ca-
reer to make $17,000 a year in the military. According to his
wife Marie, he felt he owed a debt to society for having lived
such a comfortable life to that point.

He just wanted to be like every other soldier in the military,
another guy with a buzz-cut fighting to serve his country. Like
it or not, though, Tillman was a story. In a time when profes-
sional athletes litter the headlines for all that is wrong in soci-
ety, Tillman was the poster-child for what a role model should
be. '

He made the war real again

But just as Tillman wanted, his story faded from the head-
lines, replaced by the likes of Kobe Bryant and Jamal Lewis
and their respective rape and drug charges.

On Thursday, though, Tillman became the story again when
news reached home that he had been killed in Afghanistan,
searching for the Al-Qaeda units that have eluded American
forces since September 11.

That morning, as headlines graced CNN and ESPN alike, Pat
Tillman was able to do what two years of war have been unsuc-
cessful in accomplishing: he made the war real again.

With Tillman, the war finally had a tangible image, instead
of an anonymous list of names, faces, and tears. Staring at us
was the picture of a man, clad either in his cocked
beret or his red #40 jersey, who had given up so
much for the altruistic pursuit of fighting for
his country.

Tillman’s death forced America to confront
the fact that we are still fighting a war on so
many fronts across the Atlantic, one that con-
tinues to mountin cost and casualties. The head-
lines haves faded, and politicians continue to
downplay the events oversees, but men and
women are still giving their lives for this cause.

For good reason, the rightful attention was
again thrust towards the Middle East.Perhaps
more importantly, though, the former Cardinal
helped remind us what sacrifice truly is.

Sacrifice is not giving up an extra hour of
sleep to finish up that paper, or even getting up
at 8:00 in the morning to work on the Habitat
house. Those are good things, and actions that .
should be valued in society, but they aren’t re-
ally a sacrifice of you as a person.

Sacrifice is sleeping in a foxhole thousands
of miles away, with bullets whizzing over top.
Tillman sacrificed himself, just as countless oth-
ers have for their country.

Pat Tillman didn’t want to be a story, but he
should be for all the right reasons. And with
that story, he continues to serve his country, and
those he fought with, despite his absence on the
battlefield.

It is hard to believe that out these Chambers windows we
were just watching snow sink and settle outside, harder to be-
lieve that all that snow will be sailing around again in a few
moments after the big. hand of November shakes our Davidson
/ bubble, and hardér still to believe that this
spring will be amemory we’ ll share with our
children when they’ re graduating/when they
graduated a few moments from now/a few
moments ago. You now remember starting
this paragraph; soon, you'll remember fin-
ishing this column.

(Then you'll forget. You'll forget last
weekend if you stayed in, as too many of you
did. You’1l forget the seven out of seven and
even the forty-seven of fifty.)

Weeks and weekends will walk,

then jog, then sprint by and the

beginning-of-the-year will be-
come the year.

Next fall, as you’ll remember, will begin hot. You'll look
both ways before crossing the asphalt of dorm row as your
neighbors begin their ill-fated rooming experiment (they won’t
be speaking by Halloween). Syllabi will weigh on the same
faculty you’re employing now. Imagine how you'll use your
imagination to feel the stress and the dread of due dates even
as they’re given.

Weeks and weekends will walk, then jog, then sprint by and
the beginning-of-the-year will become the year. Your first choice
on web tree just a few days ago is essentially half-over. You are
in the flow. The mornings are getting crisper and the ’Cats fi-
nally win a home game.

Forget fall break, it’s already Thanksgiving but the skies stay

_, blue even as the noon sun slants a little. The holidays are com-

ing but we’ re all too stressed to notice till hurrying to Chambers
a brown skeletal leaf flies in our face.

We don’t eve notice how our hot bodily air mixes with the
frigidity around us when we exhale; it shoots fast for the first
foot and then slowsas it bloomingly, organically expands there-
after.

We don’t notice because even as we sit here in April, the cold
air of November is old news.

Last Christmas was one-hundred and twenty-four days ago,
which says to me that this break slows down our pace to a near
stop as it lasts so long all the way into the first half of the year’s
first month though it does seem to go on too long at times.

And then its already spring break. Did you make plans? For
the summer?

It’s still cold when you get back which is bad, but at least it
keeps the skies blue, the nights sharp. As soon as the heat comes
its humid haziness will wash out, fade out the winter’s blue jean
sky.

In about the time it takes to walk up the hill from Hart, we are
where we are now, a year later and how fast it went, how soon
it will._go. Already, like this year’s seniors, we’re gone with it.
I hope they had, we’ll have, we had, they’ ll have memories of
this, that, the year ahead and behind and all around us all the
time.

Local elections important in November

By JosEpH ADAMS
Staff Columnist

In a presidential election year, it is all too easy to overlook a
number of important elections also being held this fall. While
everyone is aware of'the presidential contest between Presi-
dent Bush and Massachusetts SenatorJohn Kerry, on Novem-
ber 2, North Carolinians will cast votes for a vacant seat in the
United States Senate, the governorship, thirteen congressional
districts, state cabinet positions, judgeships (including a justice’s
seat on the N.C. Supreme Court), and every one of the North
Carolina Legislature’s House and Senate seats.

Allof us here at Davidson can certainly benefit from follow-
ing these races—including those of us who are not from North
Carolina.

Despite the unceasing growth of the federal government's
power, it remains the case that the politicians whose decisions
most directly affect us are those whom we elect at the local
level.

For North Carolina natives at Davidson, then, the importance
of races such as those for the governorship, U.S. Senate, and
our state legislators seems clear enough. As residents of this
state, we have an opportunity and a duty to speak out about
what we expect from our government. Many of us are doing
this by participating in local campaigns, speaking out about
what we believe and ensuring that our fellow North Carolin-

~ jans are registered to vote.

For those Davidson students who do not call North Carolina
home, political campaigns here are still worthy of your atten-
tion, interest, and participation because the outcome of four-
teen elections here will affect all of you. When your local con-
gressman casts a vote on the floor of the United States House,
his vote counts no more than that of a North Carolina congress-
man.

The United States Senate remains
as closely divided as ever...we can
choose to make a difference

In a closely divided U.S. House of Representatives, every
seat—and every election—matters. The makeup of the U.S.
House determines the outcome of votes and the fate of laws and
policies that apply to every state in our Nation. It is for this
reason that involvement with a North Carolina political cam-
paign is worth considering; and it is also why we should all at
least pay attention to these important races.

The United States Senate remains as closely divided as ever
and this year in North Carolina we appear to be entering a very
close race for the seat being vacated by Senator
John Edwards.

Yesterday, Winston-Salem Congressman and
U.S. Senate candidate Richard Burr visited
Davidson to participate in MTV’s “Rock The
Vote” initiative at Ben & Jerry’s. Some of you
met the Congressman as he scooped ice cream
and talked to voters.

His opponent in the Senate race is Charlotte
native and former Clinton Chief of Staff Erskine
Bowles, who unsuccessfully ran against Eliza-
beth Dole for the seat of retiring Senator Jesse
Helms.

At a fundraiser in downtown Charlotte last
evening, Congressman Burr told an audience of
supporters that he believed the elections being
held in 2004 are the most important of his life-
time.

He also pointed out the historical closeness of
North Carolina’s senate elections and how this
November’s elections are expected to be in keep-
ing with this tradition.

We can approach a year of so many close and
important elections in one of two ways. On the
one hand, we could simply do the easy thing,
which is to leave politics to others and let the
chips fall as they may. On the other hand, we
can choose to make a difference. This choice
should be easy for those who care about our
future.
