THE.DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004 3

Club baseball funding
issue remains unresolved

By Ben WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

For the second week in a row, controversy
over the newly-chartered club baseball team
remained the dominant issue at last Thursday’s
SGA meeting.

Aftertwo extensive discussions among SGA
members, the matter is still unresolved.

The first-year-club baseball team has re-
quested $3954 worth of funding from the Ac-
tivities Tax Council.

Currently, SGA bylaws limit first-year or-
ganizations to $250 in direct funding from the
ATC.

“It is a significant request, but consists of
only a portion of our anticipated operating
expenses for the year,” said Roland Foss ’05,
the team’s founder. “It is a conservative re-
quest.”

Club baseball claims to need extra funding
due to a high operating cost. Davidson’s lack
of adequate field space forces the team to rent
out field space, and league fees will alone cost
$1500.

“T.can’t believe SGA and ATC are even con-
sidering denying the baseball team funds,” said
Senator Mac Skelton ’07, a supporter of the
extra funding.

“The ATC allocates thousands of dollars
every year to things that are in my opinion of
little benefit to the student body. How can we
do this and then deny a mere $1,000 to the
baseball team? It just doesn’t add up.”

The current $250 cap on funding for newly-
chartered organizations was upheld in a simi-
lar situation with the club lacrosse team last
year. The SGA refused the lacrosse team’s re-
quest for more than $250.

ATC chairman Adam Gerstenmier ’05 ex-
pressed concern that providing club baseball
with extra funding will undermine the current

é

precedent that limits funding on first-year pro-
grams. ;

“If the SGA does decide to give them extra
money, then it would eliminate the precedent
that we used for lacrosse last year and for other
organizations as well,” he said.

Thursday’s discussion lasted 4n hour and
both sides of the argument were presented.

Senator Chris Burks ’07 proposed an amend-
ment to the bylaws that would allow for the
first-year organizations to get extra funding.
The amendment was voted down by a small
margin.

Still, the club baseball team might get their
extra funding through a loophole.

“This does not preclude club baseball from
getting more than $250 because technically
they fall underclub sports charter rules and not
SGA’s rules,” said SGA president Katharine
Hubbard ’05. “Club sports as a whole are char-
tered by SGA, not each individual club.”

The club sport charter’s position as a middle
man creates a potential loophole for the club
baseball team. SGA bylaws only disallow fund-
ing in excess of $250 for newly-chartered or-
ganizations that are funded directly by the SGA.
Since club baseball falls under club sport char-
ter rules, they are potentially eligible for more
than the current limit.

The club baseball organization, however,
will not depend entirely on funding from the
SGA.

“The portion of the funds that ATC does not
grant us, and those future expenses not outlined
in the budget request, will be taken care of by
fundraising,” said Foss.

The club baseball team has attempted to limit
costs by using their own gear.

“We are already shouldering a significant

amount of the burden,” said Foss. “So it is not —

as if we are asking the ATC to give us money
for everything.”

LEARN
ONE OF 21
LANGUAGES

teeth

RSC visit to cost $1 million

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

The Royal Shakespeare Company’s visit to
Davidson College this March comes witha one
million dollar price tag. The visit is one of four,
which have a total cost of $2.5 million.

The high costs will exceed ticket revenues,
and the school is already busy with the
fundraising effort. School officials express
confidence in their ability to raise to the funds.

“We’re bumping up against our deadlines,
but I feel confident that we’ll reach all of our
goals,” said Kristin Bradberry, Davidson’s Vice
President of College Relations.

Members of Davidson’s administration and
theatre department insist that the unique oppor-
tunity to attract the highly-esteemed RSC jus-
tifies the expense.

“The Royal Shakespeare Company is the
foremost producer of Shakespeare,” said
Bethany Prestigiacomo, the Director of Artist
Residency Programs. “The study of
Shakespeare is such a liberal art and to attract
[the RSC] is a special treat.”

President Bobby Vagt is largely credited for
successfully bringing the RSC to Davidson.

“It is important for the academic mission of
the school, it’s important for the liberal arts
mission of the school because of the interdisci-
plinary nature of what they offer, and it’s im-
portant for the community at large since we’ re
bringing Shakespeare to them,” said Vagt.

Attracting the RSC came down to proper
facilities and financing.

“We appealed to them and they liked what
they saw,” said Professor Joe Gardner, chair of

the Theatre Department. He said that the RSC_

found Davidson’s theatre facilities compatible
with their artistic direction and agreed to come.
Still, money was an important factor.
“A lot of it comes down to money,” said
Gardner, “and we were willing to pay to bring
them over.”

Supplying those funds will largely rely on
fundraising efforts as ticket sales will not ap-
proach the visit’s cost.

So far, the school has been unable to find a
single donor willing to provide for the full cost
of the upcoming visit.

“Our preference would have been a single
big donor,” said Bradberry, “but right now we
don’t have one individual or company willing
to pay the total expense.”

Current efforts are looking at smaller spon-
sorships that range from $5,000 upwards.

Bradberry added that the school is especially
focusing the fundraising effort on “local com-
panies that could use the publicity, companies
that do business with Davidson, and alumni.”

While ticket sales will help cover some of
the costs, the fundraising effort is not count-
ing on any predefined ticket revenue.

“Ideally, the ticket revenue will supplement
the fundraising effort,” said Bradberry, “but
we’re approaching our fundraising like we’ ve
got to get the full million.”

Despite the high costs, supporters argue that
the RSC will help advertise Davidson and
provide a unique cultural experience to both
the school and the surrounding community.
The community has agreed to promote a
Shakespeare-themed March with the college.

“The Davidson Public Library agreed to do
a month-long Shakespeare book club, schools
are doing a month-long focus on Shakespeare,
and 5" graders will rehearse Shakespeare
plays,” said Prestigiacomo.

Davidson will also provide an Academic
Symposium involving public speakers of na-
tional renown.

Beyond efforts to maximize the cultural
experience, supporters point to the simple
quality of the RSC.

“Every student owes it to himself to go see
these plays,” said Gardener. “It’s like the Red
Sox coming to campus. To see the best of any-
thing at this level is truly amazing.”

\
‘

/

i
F

CAT CUPPS ARE HERETIIT

Pick up your Cat CUPPS on Monday, November 15th
and Wednesday the 17th at (or near)
the Union Ampitheater around 10:30 to 3:30.

FREE CUP FOR ALL NEW STUDENTS,

_ suggested donation of

$3 for upperclassmen and faculty.
FREE HOT CHOCOLATE AND
BAKED GOODS INCLUDED

Reasons to use your Cat CUPPS

1. Discount in the Union Café
2. Use as a to go cup in commmons
(can't do that with other mugs)
3. Earth friendly solo cup

4. Look cooll!

5. ‘Cause every other liberal arts
college uses one

As a Soldier at the Defense
Language Institute in Monterey,
California, you’l!l learn one of 21
languages. And you don’t need to
speak a foreign language to qualify.

It's that time again!
If you like to reduce waste
(or dig through other people's trash), come out to
the WASTE AUDIT on November 16th
from 10-3 in Baker Parking Lot.
Forty cubic yards of trash will be sorted
and categorized.
_Our waste audits help us determine how well
Davidson's recycling program is performing.

>> Call Sgt. Ist Class Boyce at 563-0560
to find out about college ioan
repayment and more Army benefits.

