THE DAvIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Field Hockey loses in first round of NorPac

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Last year, the field hockey team was perched
atop the East Division with a 4-2 conference
record heading into the NorPac tournament.
Unfortunately, they were upset by Southwest
Missouri State, the No. 4 seed from the West
Division, in the first round of the NorPac Con-
ference Tournament.

This year, things turned

out a little differently than
the team expected, as
Davidson struggled to a 1-5
record in the conference.
. The Wildcats hoped to play
the spoiler role this year,
however, as their first game
in the tournament came
against the University of
California at Berkeley, the
- top seed in the West Division
with a conference record of
5-1.

The hopes for an upset,
however, did not materialize.
Situations were less than
ideal last Thursday at Belk
Turf Field, as wet weather
caused problems for the.
players on both teams. The
Golden Bears were able to
shake off the weather first,
however, as they managed to
find the net less than ten min-
utes into the game. Califor-
nia converted on two more
offensive opportunities to
finish the half with a commanding 3-0 lead.

The second half turned out to be much of
the same, as the Golden Bears dominated. They
were able to add two more goals early in the
half to squash any chance of a comeback’ by
Davidson.

Eleanor Cowley ’08 prevented the Wildcats
from being shut out with her fifth goal on the
season, but California succeeded in shutting
out Davidson the rest of the way. The Golden

Bear defense smothered Davidson’s offense,
as they limited the Wildcats'to only five shots
to relieve goalkeeper and West Division
Player of the Year Kelly Knapp of significant
pressure. j

Sarah Nolan ’05, named Defensive Player
of the Year for the East Division, fared worse
than her counterpart, although"she did make
eight saves on 22 shots by California. When

asked about the game, Coach Lisa Thomp-
son replied, “The game was tough. They re-
ally outplayed us in the first half. We came
out strong in the second half, but just didn’t
have enough to make such a big comeback.”

With the loss to the Golden Bears, the Wild-
cats were eliminated from championship con-
sideration and could have quit with one con-
solation game to play. Their last game St.
Louis did not actually count toward anything.

Davidson swimmers finish
well in George Mason quad

By AMANDA FINN
Staff Writer f

The Davidson swimmers took on a four-
team meet at George Mason this past Friday
and Saturday, competing against the College
of Charleston, Drexel College and George
Mason University. The women pulled in two
wins against Charleston (190-155) and Drexel
(218-124), but fell to George Mason (106-
240). The Wildcat men out-swam the College
of Charleston (247-89), but lost to Drexel (168-
176) and George Mason (126-225).

Senior Melissa Marquez ’0S5 and senior co-
captain Trisha Blackwell ’05 stepped up for
the women’s team and pulled in inspiring per-
formances.

Marquez, a swimmer returning from an en-
tire junior year abroad, swam a remarkable
time of 2.27.53 in the 200 breast, placing sec-
ond overall. Blackwell had an impressive swim
in the 200 back, placing second with a time of
2:08.79. : .

Marquez joined fellow senior Jenny
Hoekstra ’05, sophomore Brigit Barry ’07 and
freshman Kirsten Allen ’08 in the women’s 200
medley relay. The relay team finished with a
time of 1:52.04, surging past Charleston and
Drexel with full seconds to spare.

Another freshman, Maddie Stough ’08,
pulled a third-place finish in the 200 IM, prov-
ing yet again the strength of the new team
members. Despite severe shoulder pains, the

women’s best distance swimmer, sophomore
Eli Trefzger 07, captured an extraordinary
first-place finish in the 500-yard freestyle with
a time of 5:11.67.

- Marquez was in awe of Trefzger’s perfor-
mance and remarked that “Eli has been a true
leader for the women since her first day on
the team. She has an incredible attitude and
her ability to swim both the 500 and a mile
under such scrutinizing pain only goes to
show the level of commitment and dedica-
tion that she has for our team.”

The underclassmen proved victorious for
the Wildcat men as well. Freshmen Fiete
Stegger ’07 and Will Broughton ’07 pulled in
strong performances with top finishes in each
of their events. Stegger won the 100 free with
a time of 47.63 and notched a second-place
finish in the 200 IM (1:56.99). Broughton’s
time of 4:41.55 gave him a second-place fin-
ish in the 500 free.

Junior co-captain Brad Poole ’06 achieved
a second-place finish in his top event, the 100
fly, with a speedy time of 52.92. Senior
Michael Flowers ’05 was highly complimen-
tary of the freshmen performance, comment-
ing that Steggar and Broughton, as well as
the six other freshmen, were going to be huge
assets for the team for the 2004-05 season.

Swimming fans will have a chance to see
their Wildcat men and women dominate the

pool in a six-team invitational meet hosted .

here at Davidson on Nov. 19-21.

Instead of giving a lifeless effort, however,
the Wildcats’ final game was arguably their
finest performance on the season, as they put
away the Billikens with a 2-0 victory. Thomp-
son was happy with the performance of her
team, saying,’ “The game was a great way to
end the season. The girls played strong and
aggressive field hockey. I was very proud of
our athletes.”

Despite being eliminated, Davidson beat St. Louis in their final consolation game.

The game was close, as the first half ended
without a score by either team. Cowley,
though, ended the stalemate quickly in the sec-
ond half with her second goal of the tourna-
ment. Later in the half, Molly Blackman ’06
ended the Billikens’ hopes for a victory with
her third goal of the season, and the defense
took control the rest of the way.

Nolan recorded her first shutout of the sea-
son, and she also improved her save total to a
school-leading 542 with an eight-save effort.
Defender Courtney Hughes ’05, who led the
team in defensive saves, was named to the All-
NorPac Tournament team.

With the win, Davidson ended the season
with a 2-6 record in the NorPac and a 7-13
record overall.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004 B

from SoCon, page 16

the all-time Davidson mark for career saves,

“In beating UNC-G...We showed our re-
silience. That characteristic was something
that we set as a goal during preseason, and it
really shone on Friday. Last time we played
them, it was such a disappointment...This
time, in the second half, we came out on a
mission, determined our season wasn’t going
to end with a loss to UNC-G. I have never
been a part of such a great match.”

Championship: Furman

On Sunday, Davidson returned from the
emotional win to play the Furman Paladins.
During the regular season, the ’Cats beat the
Paladins for the first time in eight years, shut-
ting out Furman 1-0 at home.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to
duplicate the regular season finish, falling 3-
1 to the 2004 SoCon champs.

After a hard fought first half, Furman net-
ted the game’s only goal to give the Paladins
a 1-0 lead at the break.

In the second half, however, Furman scored
twice more in the first ten minutes of play to
take a commanding 3-0 lead.

Finally, with twenty minutes left to play,
Kara Koehrn scored unassisted to make it a
3-1 game, but the Wildcats would get no
closer in the contest.Hobart had two more
saves against the Paladins, which brought her
career total up to 402.

The Koehrn sisters led the team with seven
shots combined, and the Wildcats actually
out-shot Furman 11-10 in the contest.

Looking to 2005

While the loss was a disappointing finish
to the season, there was certainly reason for
optimism regarding both this year’s success
and the future of the soccer program.

Davidson loses Hobart, Stephanie Bouts
’05 and Liz Mannino ’05, but returns every-
one else for the 2005 season.

“Now that [Davidson} has reached the
SoCon Championship we need to make sure
those standards are met and surpassed from
now on,” said Kristen Koehrn. “{Coach
Ashton] is an amazing motivator and puts the
game into perspective, allowing us to believe
in ourselves in a way that produces results.”

“Next season will be a challenge,” con-
cluded Kara Koehrn. “This year we were the
underdogs. Next season we will be respected
by more teams, and people will be gunning
for us. We need to be prepared mentally to
handle the pressure of being one of the top
teams in the conference.”

Volleyball loses to Georgia
Southern in SoCon match

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Volleyball fell 3-0 to Georgia Southern on
Sunday, falling to 9-21 on the season, includ-
ing a 6-8 mark in Southern Conference play.

The Eagles rolled to 30-21, 30-23 victories
in the first two games, but the Wildcats came
back after the break with a revitalized deter-
mination. Davidson eventually fell to Georgia
Southern in the third frame as well, but only
after twenty ties and nine lead changes in the
game. Davidson actually held a 27-26 lead late
in game three, but four straight Eagle points
closed out the match.

On the day, Liz Williamson ’07 and Katie
Pierucci ’08 led the offense with 15 and 10
kills respectively, while Tam Gallen ’05 held

.down the defensive side on 17 digs. Says

Gallen of the match, “We really wanted to win,
and after that third game, we knew we could
have taken them. I think that if we play them
in the SoCon, they should be worried.”

The other noticeable feature of Saturday’s

game was the presence of many different jer-
seys on the court. Balak says, “Our freshmen
and sophomores have done an outstanding job
of taking on the responsibility with a great
deal of maturity. They have shown an increas-
ing amount of leadership that has been a vital
part of our chemistry as a team.”

After the loss, the Wildcats’ attention is now
turned to the double-header at Belk Arena this
weekend against Wofford and Furman. “We
all are focused and ready to finish the regular
season on a high note. I think our intensity is
not going to be a question in the coming week,
but we are going to need support going into
this big weekend to play at our highest po-
tential,” says Gallen.

Davidson has not yet qualified for the
Southern Conference tournament, but with
wins this weekend the Wildcats would qualify
for the tournament in Colowhee, N.C.
Davidson will play Furman on Saturday at
5:00 p.m. and will close out the regular. sea-
son against the Terriers at 2:00 p.m. on Sun-
day.
