THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

13

from McCrory, page -12

rivals in Jacksonville, Austin Peay and
Morehead State. While our opponents were
not rivals in the traditional sense of Tennes-
see/Florida or Oklahoma/Texas, they were ri-
vals nonetheless, and match-ups that people
cared to see on fall afternoons.

Games now harder to come by

But after the successful run from 1998-
2000, the local Division III teams such as
Hampden-Sydney and Sewanee that made up
a large part of our schedule began to reject
future match-ups with the Wildcats accord-
ing to Murphy.

With those local teams no longer in the pic-
ture, Murphy says it is now much more diffi-
cult to create a full schedule of games each
year. “To put together the schedule, we are
forced to put together scholarship teams from
Division II and-D-IAA. Division III teams
won’t play us anymore because they feel our
Division I status places us ahead of them.
That’s really not the case,” says Murphy.

“Tt doesn’t hurt to play a [scholarship] team
like VMI, but we can’t play those teams
exclusively...In my mind, the ideal schedule
would include our non-scholarship conference
opponents and some other geographic rivals
like Washington and Lee, Randolph-Macon
and Centre, but right now they won’t play us,”
continues Murphy.

With the local D-III teams refusing to play
the Wildcats, Davidson is now in the no-man’s
land of college football; stuck. between well-
endowed scholarship programs and D-III pro-
grams that feel games against a D-I school are
an uneven match-up.

Every year, Davidson is guaranteed games
against PFL South opponents Austin Peay,
Morehead State, and Jacksonville, and is able
to schedule other contests against PFL North
members as well as Patriot League teams like
Georgetown. Still, there are not enough D-IAA
non-scholarship teams in the southeast region
to comprise a full schedule.

Weekly schedule now lacks intriuge

Unfortunately, Davidson cannot play mean-
ingful games every Saturday when it has to
travel to places like San Diego and Dayton,
Ohio, or when it has to host schools with
anonymous names and faces. Even worse,
Davidson is now forced to play a handful of
scholarship teams each year that have a huge
competitive advantages against our non-schol-
arship program.

Furthermore, only three regular season
games per year against. the aforementioned
PFL South opponents have any bearing on the
Wildcats’ postseason hopes. This season,
Davidson was essentially eliminated from title
consideration after losing to Jacksonville in
the final minutes of play earlier in the year.

With only a handful of important confer-
ence games each year, there is a very small
margin for error in league play, and we rarely

have a team that can compete for a champi--
onship.

Therefore, without a title contender, oreven -

the possibility of a bowl game, the only way
to sustain interest is to have intriguing match-
ups throughout the season whether or not the
team is in contention for postseason play.
Without geographic rivals to continue inter-
est in the program, it is difficult to maintain
support amongst the student body and local
community for a team that continues to
struggle on the field.

Murphy says, “Students’ attention wanes as
wins fall off in any sports, and we have to ac-
cept that...It’s up to us to create a fun envie
ronment, and we think students will follow.”

Still, students show up in the stands every
year to see SoCon rivals Furman, Wofford and
College of Charleston in other sports, no mat-
ter what the sport or record. There is a certain
intimacy with those teams since we see them
year after year, and the rivalries inspire both
players and fans alike.

It’s hard to get similarly excited about the
“big” rival game against Coastal Carolina or
Jacksonville.

Sticking by non-scholarship status
Davidson has made a commitment to stick-

ing with D-IAA football, as Murphy says, _

“Football is in many ways the link to this
school’s past and present...I truly believe it
serves the goal and objectives of this school.”

I too would never want to see Davidson dis-
card its football program, as every college
needs to have a few afternoons every fall dedi-
cated to gridiron.

It also makes sense to stay in the D-IAA
non-scholarship classification, as a move to
the scholarship division would drain resources
from the rest of the athletic department and
place an undue emphasis on football and the
recruitment of athletes instead of student-ath-
letes. The players that come here can hack it
both on and off the field, and at a school as
small and academically strong as Davidson,
that quality is a must.

Change is necessary

But in making the commitment to our non-
scholarship classification, we must again find
a way to.again incorporate local, competitive,
and meaningful games back into our sched-
ule instead of continuing to cross the country
in search of teams to play.

Instead of boarding a flight to San Diego,
we should be boarding buses to colleges in
North Carolina, Virginia and Tennessee to play
teams that are both our rivals and our equals
on the field.

With local rivals coming to Richardson Sta-
dium year after year, we might again generate
excitement and fill the stands with students
and those from the surrounding community
whether our team is PFL champ or an also-
ran.

The problems between the hashes, unfortu-
nately, are another matter entirely.

from Connolly, page 12

Boston practically handed the game to St.
Louis on a silver platter, but the Cardinals re-
acted like we were offering anthrax. The Ja-
maican bobsled team would have beaten Bos-
ton on Saturday, but we woke up Sunday with
a mysterious one game advantage.

As for game two of the Series, I need to get
my hands on whatever painkillers Curt
Schilling is taking. The man’s ankle tendons
have been held in place by staples, yet he’s
been throwing lights out. Doctors called ‘the
surgical procedure used on Schilling an “‘ex-
periment.” Sounds more like a fifth-grade arts-
and-crafts project. “Now class; be sure to
staple it down securely. If need be, we also
have paste.”

Once again, Boston tried to give the game
away, committing four more errors, but the
Cardinals missed bases, ran into double-plays
and left more crap on the field than Fenway’s
famed pigeons. ;

Last night the series moved to St. Louis

where the Cardinals were previously unde-
feated this postseason. We let Pedro out of the
loony bin for the start and an entire Nation
prayed he wouldn’t go loco. Tell you what, if
I was a Cardinal I’d have been more scared of
Pedro at the plate than on the mound. Giving
that nut a bat is like giving Pete Rose the num-
ber of your bookie: someone’s going to get
hurt: Fortunately, for everyone, the bat hardly
left his shoulders, as Pedro struck out twice
and walked once while holding the Cardinals
scoreless over seven innings. Of course, my
dog would have run the bases better than St.
Louis did last night. Don’t get me wrong, I’m
as cautious as the next guy, but the discrepency
in talent between these two teams reminds
me of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson.

With the 4-2 win, Boston becomes the 27th
team in baseball postseason history to take a
3-0 advantage. Tonight Derek Lowe battles
Jason Marquis at 8pm in game four. My hands
cannot physically type the sentence that be-
longs here.

Enjoy the game.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

nh ne oe ee ee ee

I

7 OON e~ \ q i"
P\YMYt OP)

\ i p~ PANY Vy rm ky PA / f

> se

ER
at

7 4

704-987-O4,

