Tue DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Oppurtunity ignores Do Not Disturb signs

By Rosert Ruscu
Staff Columnist

As an individual requiring the use of a motorized
wheelchair, I have experienced the timidity which op-
portunity can sometimes bring. No matter how a handi-
cap is viewed, it inevitably inhibits one’s choices and
Opportunities in some form or fashion.

About two years ago now, opportunity screamed at me
from the soft rustlings of the classifieds in a daily
newspaper. At the time it was more of a murmur, its real
significance lost in the simple black ink with which the
ad was printed. It was an ad printed by a handicapped
individual living in the Raleigh area who was attempt-
ing to organize a wheelchair hockey team in North Caro-
lina. :

Conquering a pervasive reluctance, I joined the team.
Several practices later, vitalized by wheelchair crashes
and my competitive spirit, I realized I loved this sport. I
had defied the common preconception that, as one ina
wheelchair, I “couldn’t.” The team developed. We lost
several players due to hectic schedules and ailments
arising in families. So I rode the storm, wondering al-
most selfishly the entire time: What could be more
important than this? I couldn’t see how one*could suc-
cor the costs of losing such an opportunity in life.

One day, about three weeks ago now, the Carolina Fury,
the first ever wheelchair hockey team in North Caro-

lina, attended their very first wheelchair hockey
tournament. They traveled to the chilly precipice of Min-
neapolis, Minnesota. They lost as a team and they ful-
filled adream. They witnessed the true competitive spirit
of wheelehair sports. They learned of fully operational
leagues with upwards of 80 wheelchair hockey players.
Most importantly, they learned what it meant to shake
the hand of Mr. Opportunity and bid him a most gra-
cious “Thank you.’

Vitalized by wheelchair crashes
and.my competitive spirit, I real-
ized I loved this sport.

Opportunity is fickle and nearly incomprehensible.
It is nigh impossible to track the steps opportunity takes
in the course of a lifetime and the paths it drags us down.

Yet, I believe it is possible to name
opportunity. Opportunity is the person who put an ad
for wheelchair hockey in the classifieds. Opportunity is
each and every one of us that tries to be more than he or
she was ever supposed to be and becomes just that. Just
as it is our prerogative to accept opportunity, it is our
determination and sense of duty that creates opportu-
nity for others.

Whether serious or not, get out there and vote

By HALLEY AELION
Staff Columnist

It’s a free country. How many times have you heard that
phrase? It can act as a celebratory cry, a heated defense, or a
thoughtless retort. But do you ever think
DECISION about what keeps that phrase true?

200 Or, better yet, who keeps that phrase true?
The answer may hit closer to home than you
expect. It’s you. It’s your roommate. It’s your professor. It’s
your parents. It’s Julia Roberts and the woman who scans your
groceries. As citizens of the United States of America, it is up
to us to make sure the land of the brave remains the land of the

_ free. How do we do this? Quite simply, we vote.

It’s you. It’s your roommate. It’s

your professor. It’s your parents.

It’s Julia Roberts and the woman
who scans your groceries.

If voting is not something you’ ve thought of doing recently,
I beg you to reconsider. Yes, classes have started and yes, the
Olympics were on, and yes, there a hundreds of new people to
meet and events to attend here at Davidson. It is very very easy
to get lost in the world you have found or returned to on cam-
pus. But one of the things Davidson strives to impart on its

students (a lesson even the freshmen learn in the first few days
of their Davidsonian careers) is that we exist in a much larger
community, and we should strive to be responsible citizens not
only on campus, but around the world.

The simple act of registering to vote and placing your ballot
in November fulfills this goal. By casting your vote, you show
you care. By casting your vote, you are heard and you make a
difference. You pick the leader of the superpower of the mod-
ern world.

You can be as involved as you wantto be in this choice. If you
decide to vote for John Kerry because the Bush bumper stick-
ers clash with your car color, so be it. If you campaign for one
of the candidates through a school group, even better. Being
involved in politics does not have to be a totally serious expe-
rience.

Canvassing a neighborhood in support of a candidate’s cam-
paign or putting up fliers with other students can be an event
that leads to new friends and new ideas. The results of your
work, the one vote you won, or the many, can prove to be a
secondary reward to the new people you meet.

So next time you see election coverage on the TV or hear
something on the radio, take the two minutes to listen. Medi-
care, affirmative action, abortion, taxes, the war in Iraq; all these
issues affect us.

If you become involved in the 2004 election, get educated,
get active, then place your vote; you can make sure you never
have to figure out if you-would be the lucky one or not. We can
all benefit from participating in the politics around us. Take the
time, secure your ballot, and think about what path you want to
see America start down in the next four years. It’s your call.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1,

have allowed the weak among to procreate and pass on
genetic impurities. We: have acted, of course, in the
most compassionate manner: allowing the individuals among
us whom nature: deem unworthy of existence to not
only survive, butevento bear offspring, Inmany ways, medi-
cal technology’ created more problems than it has solved.

Children are born with a higher risk of contracting or de-
veloping diseases and disorders such as AIDS, cancer, atten-
tion deficit disorder, Down syndrome, dyslexia, anemia, an-
orexia, bulimia, Parkinson’ s disease, Alzheimer’s disease,
herpes, and a host: of others. Under a natural evolutionary
state—that is—without the so-called benefit of modern
medicine—such ailments would be limifed to a few indi-
viduals who would not survive long enough to pass on the
genetic tendencies or deficiencies. With stronger genes in
general, humans would be less susceptible to such illnesses.

Thus, we arrive at the solution to all four problems. With
the capacity now to determine the function and resultant trait
of every individual gene in a human, scientists could very
easily identify those people with genetic codes that are quali-
tatively weaker than average. These people, though it is
through no fault of their own, threaten to further weaken the
overall gene pool of the human race. We have to mandate
that these people be rendered sterile. It is perfectly humane,
and a far better alternative to watching their children suffer
needlessly. Hunger and overpopulation will virtually solve
themselves with this action. Within two generations we will
have a world far less diseased; the population will remain
under control.

Such a policy would indeed aid us in far more respects
than those well-meaning but ever so silly idealogies and re-
ligions which hold that we should make every effort to save
every life. And besides, doesn’t Roe vs. Wade already grant
the individual a similar method of controlling population, if
they so choose? Can anyone say that having a scientific and
reasoned analysis of whether or not a child should be born
is less humane than leaving the decision to the whim of a
‘single person?

Free speech spoken here and only here (right where I can see you)

By J.C. Boye
Staff Columnist

George W. Bush has never liked dissent. During his first
presidential campaign he spoke out against a parody Web
site, expressing his belief that “there ought to be limits to

freedom.” Most observers saw this as a

DECISION verbal gaffe, but recent events prove that

200 he felt it was a campaign promise. For this

year’s election, President Bush has en-

listed the Secret Service, the Republican National Com-

mittee and the FBI in an effort to set those-limits in an
Orwellian effort to silence differing opinions:

The most frequently employed and euphemistically
named method is through the establishment of “free speech
zones,” which Clinton began but Bush perfected. When the
president comes to town, his Secret Service finds an area
several blocks out of sight from the main event, garnishes
it with razor wire and names it after the first amendment.

When pressed to explain the restrictions, the Secret Ser-
vice stays remarkably on message for an idea so off base.
They insist that rules, like everything George Bush does,
are in the interest of safety. Protesters, one Secret-Service
agent told National Public Radio, “inadvertently may walk
out into the motorcade route and be injured.” Those in fa-

. vor of Bush’s policies, of course, are not as stupid.

Péople who refuse to be segregated have been charged

with trespassing, obstructing without violence, and “enter-
ing a restricted area around the President of the United
States.” Local courts have dismissed the cases on laws
derived from the freedom to peaceably assemble.

In a clear-cut case of unconstitutional activity, Jeff and
Nicole Rank were arrested for wearing anti-Bush t-shirts.
Both ticketholders to a Independence Day Bush rally in
Charleston, W.V., the Ranks found themselves in handcuffs
for refusing to cover up clothing that read “Love America,
Hate Bush.” Since state law says there is no such thing as
trespassing on public property, the case was thrown out of
court.

“Protesters,” one Secret Service
agent told National Public Radio,
“inadvertently may walk out into

the motorcade route and
be injured.”

Those responsible refused to apologize. “They were there
to get arrested,” Charleston mayor Danny Jones told the
Herald-Dispatch (W.V.), ignoring the. Ranks’ actual con-
duct; neither had protested in a violent, disruptive, or even
audible way.

Shortly after the Ranks were charged, the Republicans
found a new way to keep political opponents from express-
ing discontent. Attendees at a July 31 RNC-sponsored rally
were issued hastily produced, typo-afflicted loyalty oaths.
To achieve admission, ticketholders had to pledge to vote
for Bush. Apparently the RNC deems undecided voters to
be just as unsavory as protesters.

But the most heinous misuse of executive power has to
be the FBI policy of intimidating possible protesters. FBI
agents have interrogated citizens for conspiring to commit
a fully legal act. The Justice Department blessed the activ-
ity and further outlined procedure in different memoranda
which tell FBI agents to descend on would-be protesters.

In the words of administration critic and former Repub-
lican congressman Bob Barr, the agents begin by “casting
suspicion upon them in front of bosses, colleagues, family,
friends and neighbors” and proceed to question them as to
their involvement in past and future events, seeking infor-
mation about their friends and movements. Right before
leaving, they inform the bewildered activists that withhold-
ing information about the protests is a prosecutable crime.

Strikingly absent from each new method of silencing
critics is even a modest attempt to persuade. By keeping
protesters from rallies and barring entrance to those unwill-
ing to sign loyalty oaths, the president ensures that he will
be preaching to the choir at every stop. By aiming to silence
dissent through intimidation, he follows Caligula’s govern-
ing credo — “Let them hate, provided that they fear.”
