THE DAVIDSONIAN

Om \/ Oil
SPOrts fais...

Peek > PICKS OF

Wola

W EIBIK

By WiLson McCrory
Staff Writer

As Jake Delhomme downed the bail for the
final time against the Philadelphia Eagles and
the clock reached all zeros, I still couldn’t be-
lieve what was happening; in dominating fash-
ion, the Carolina Panthers were going to the
Super Bowl. The Panthers, the same team that
had gone 1-15 only two shorts seasons ago,
had beaten Bill Parcells, the Greatest Show
on Turf, and Donovan McNabb in successive
weeks and would be going to The Game in
Houston, TX. With them, they would also
bring a sparkling new bandwagon, stuffed to
the brim with a throng of “fans.”

Since Carolina’s opening-round playoff vic-
tory against the Dallas Cowboys in early Janu-
ary, the Panthers’ fan base has grown consid-
erably. The Sports Authority and Dick’s Sport-
ing Goods have been flooded with young and
old alike, and shoppers have left with a freshly
printed jersey of Julius Peppers, Stephen Davis
or Delhomme. At the very least, they leave
with a new Panther sweatshirt or hat. Sud-
denly, all of the talk throughout the region has
been diverted from ACC basketball for five
minutes. Thousands of fans now flock to
downtown Charlotte simply to send the Pan-
thers off to Houston.

ee

By JacksON HERLONG
Staff Writer

The only way I could see the Panthers’ fans
getting any more grief from this school’s popu-
lation is if the New England Patriots weren't
in the Super Bowl. For all the resentment
tossed at Panthers fans from around this cam-
pus, you’d think Davidson was located in New
York or something, not twenty minutes down
the road from Ericsson (now Bank of America)
Stadium. The Carolina Panthers, lovingly re-
ferred to by the media as the “Cardiac Cats,”
have been on Fox almost every weekend here
at school, so chances are you’ve seen them
play at least once if you go to school here.

There are a lot of Carolinians at school here
at Davidson, and I count myself among their
number. The statement that Panthers fans are
all fair weather fans is not a fair assessment;
my hometown of Greenville, SC, follows the
Panthers as closely as anyone from Virginia
or Maryland follows the Redskins, or some-
one from Maine follows the Red Sox. I think
that a lot of this resentment towards Panthers
fans comes because no one expected them to
be competitive this season, let alone make it
to the Super Bowl. Everyone else is just jeal-
ous and looking for ways to discredit the Su-

er Bowl underdogs

By PATRICK BRAXTON-ANDREW
Guest Contributor

As a Panthers fan, I have no problem being
a seven-point underdog to the Pats, a proven
championship contender. What is killing me
are all the idiot media members and other foot-
ball “experts,” like those among any given col-
lege student body, who continue to deny the
Panthers even a tiny sliver of credit. Is it just
that these morons can’t swallow their pride
and admit that we’re the better team? Sadly,
that seems like the only logical answer.

Yes, Carolina was 1-15 two years ago. But
this year’s team is obviously a different one,
in both character and the personnel, which
now wins close games instead of squandering
countless victories. Early in the season, I
wouldn’t have been so adamant in my defense
of the Panthers against doubters, but they won
their division. This didn’t silence the critics,
though, despite the fact that the Panthers out-
played and out-coached their opponents all
season long.

Entering the playoffs, the Panthers contin-

As a result, the Panthers “fans” have been
ripped by the media and casual observers
alike, claiming that the team’s supporters are
no match for the ever-loyal fans of St. Louis,
Philly and Boston, and that they don’t really
deserve to revel in the new-found success of
their franchise.

And for the most part, those critics are right.

But the bandwagon fans can’t truly enjoy
this success as much as those of us who have
weathered the losing, the six years without
even a sniff of the postseason.

For the most part, my teams have all found
winning to come relatively easily. The Tar
Heels, Braves, and Charlotte Hornets of old
all enjoyed at least moderate success since I
have followed them. Each is a fixture in the
postseason, and the only question is whether
a championship is in the cards in a given year.

In 1996, when the Panthers went to the NFC
championship against Green Bay after a 12-4
season in only their second year of existence,
I thought they too would enjoy similar suc-
cess. But after going 34-62 over the next six
years, I learned that wasn’t the case.

I learned to enjoy every victory, whether it
had playoff implications or not, because I
knew how hard they were to come by. De-
spite our losing ways, I looked forward to
every Sunday contest and was optimistic that

“They’re not going to win because their fans
don’t really care that much about their team,
they’re just happy they’re winning.” So what?
It’s okay to be a passive fan, just as much as
it’s okay to be a die-hard fan. Trust me, your
team isn’t going to win or lose any game based
on how much YOU know about how many
pounds per lineman your offensive line is giv-
ing up that day. They won’t win because of
any long-standing game-day traditions.

The Panthers are one of the youngest teams
in the NFL, and in a city that has suffered a
considerable amount in recent years, it’s a
wonder that the Panthers have any fans at all.
Take Rae Carruth, the former Panther who
killed his pregnant girlfriend and hid fromthe
FBI in the trunk of his car. George Shinn, the
owner of the Hornets, took his team and ran
when the city shunned him after his sexual
harassment lawsuit. Kerry Collins, the same
quarterback who proclaimed the Panthers as
“the new dynasty” after they reached the NFC
championship game in their second season,
was run out of town after drinking problems
and alleged racism alienated him from his
team and fan base. Bobby Phills, one of the
favorite players on the Hornets, was killed
while street racing with teammate David
Wesley outside the Charlotte Coliseum.

I know, I know . . . this doesn’t compare to

BANS

ued in their role as the underdog, but in the
Wildcard round they pulverized the Dallas
Cowboys with a stifling defense and suddenly
explosive offense. But by the media response,
you would have thought that the Panthers were
simply a figment of the collective imagina-
tion of those in the Carolinas. “The Who?
They did what?”

Would a victory the next week over the
heavily favored Rams help that? Nope. De-
spite the fact that the Panthers earned a huge
upset, the focus of the following week was
Mike Martz’s play-calling at the end of regu-
lation. Apparently the so-called “experts” had
another mental lapse and forgot about the sev-
eral interceptions that Bulger had thrown.
Again the Panthers were given no credit for
their victory. They were 11 points ahead until
a late Rams flurry tied the game. And the Rams
weren’t the only team.to miss the a potential
game-winning field goal.

Next up, Philly. “A sure loss for the Pan-
thers.” “Not a chance.” “‘Can’t stop McNabb.”
Except once again the Panthers’ defense domi-
nated. In fact, it was as dominating a perfor-

we would win every week. When the Panthers
were nowhere to be found on TV in Chatta-
nooga, TN, I would sit at my computer and
listen to the internet radio broadcast, then fas-
tidiously watch the highlights later in the day
just to catch a glimpse of my team.

The only time I questioned my devotion to
the Panthers came just over two years ago, on
a dreary January day, as the Panthers finished
out their 1-15 campaign in Ericsson Stadium.
A few weeks later, I hardly even noticed as
that Tom Brady-led New England Patriots
team marched on to Super Bowl victory.

In only a matter of days, the Panthers will
have a chance to avenge that ultimate blem-
ish and become the 2004 version of that same
Pats team. The Panthers too sport an unher-
alded quarterback in his first year as a starter,
a defense that is recognized among the
league’s best, and a defensive-coordinator-
turned-coach that is quickly turning heads as
one of the best tacticians in the game.

Fans new and old will soon don their favor-
ite Panthers regalia, cheer wildly for
Delhomme, Davis, Steve Smith and Mike
Minter, and enjoy the Panthers’ first-ever ap-
pearance in the Super Bowl.

But it is those who have stuck around for
both the struggle and the glory that will truly
reap the rewards of Sunday evening.

ll Panthers fans welcome

the “Curse of the Bambino” or whatever you
Red Sox fans call it. But Charlotte finally has
something to cheer about. So instead of dump-
ing on the fans for being apathetic during the
Panthers’ woeful seasons up until this point,
jump on the bandwagon. There’s room for
plenty more, and us “die-hard” Panthers fans
(I was at the team’s first game ever, -vs. the
Jacksonville Jaguars at Clemson Univeristy)
aren’t nearly as exclusive a club as those
Bostonians.

When I came to this school, I was amazed
at how many Red Sox hats there were at a
school in North Carolina. Those things are
almost as ubiquitous here as North Face
fleeces or Nalgene bottles. I was really dumb-
founded by this, until I realized that the school
assigned these hats to the losers.

Just kidding. I actually love Boston, but who
wants a team from Boston to win a champi-
onship again, anyway? Even Boston fans,
come on. That’d take away from the city’s
“‘loser-chic” charm. Honestly, if you’re a New
England fan, you should want your team to
lose. If they win, you won’t have much to com-
plain about, and then there will be this gaping
hole in your lives.

But seriously, I’m excited for a great game
on Sunday, and I won’t be aggravated by any
“bandwagoners” rooting for my team.

: é

mance as they have produced all year. The
offense was also strong, scoring needed touch-
downs and possessing the ball. But as usual,
there is some detail for the media and every-
one else to harp on, and this week it was the
Panthers turning McNabb into McScab. Yes,
McNabb was initially sacked on the now in-
famous play, as replays revealed, but Greg
Favors was simply doing his job when he con-
tinued playing and hit the fallen McNabb. As
the play had not yet been blown dead, Favors
had no way to know that McNabb was down.
For Favors to let him lay there untouched
would have been completeiy insane, as any-
one watching the playoffs has seen what can
happen if a fallen player is not tagged.

- The rest of the nation still wants to explain
the Panthers season with one word: luck. If
continually beating opponents on both sides
of the ball, often as an underdog, is luck, then,
yes, luck is the right word. All year, the rest
of the nation has waited for the Panthers to
stumble so they could turn to the Carolinas
and say “We told you so.” Now it’s our turn
to laugh and say “We told YOU so.”
