. J#RTS

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
APRIL 28, 2004
Pee, .

Lupie’s Cafe: skip the chili, go straight for the dessert

By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Critics

This week we ventured to Huntersville in
hot pursuit of chili, burgers, and the promise of
a true gouthern dining experience at Lupie’s
Cafe. While Lupie’s facade fails to impress,
the interior’s large wooden booths, black and
white pictures, and exposed brick walls give
Lupie’s a fun, funky flair. A myriad of multi-
colored Christmas lights and a maroon. and
white tiled floor complete the casual, if stark,
ambiance. We found large portions and a se-
lection straight out of “Southern Living Maga-
zine.”

However, several minor flaws with our meal
left us dissatisfied with what we expected to be
hearty food full of fat and flavor.

Guadalupe Duran opened the original

Lupie’s Cafe in Huntersville - a place for good old-fashioned chili.

Lupie’s fourteen years ago in Charlotte and in
November of 2002 decided to open its only
offshoot in Huntersville. The people working
at Lupie’s intend to be the restaurant’s prime
ingredient for success. Larry Wu, manager of
the Huntersville location and longtime em-
ployee of Guadalupe, informed us that he en-
courages his servers to sit down with custom-
ers and catch up with the cafe’s regulars.

He said that there are no chefs at Lupie’s,
only experienced cooks who bring to the table
home-style recipes that are meant to reflect
traditions of the South. Chili is the word du
jour at Lupie’s, and the menu features three
regional versions.

In fact, chili was also one of the most con-
vincing of the.dishes that we tried. Both the
Cincinnati chili and the Texas chili are essen-
tially stewed ground beef with a variety of

spices. We preferred the Cincinnati with its
smoky, tangy barbeque undertones and subtly
sweet aroma. The texture was smoother than
the chunky, spicy Texas chili. While bold, the
Texas chili’s heat dominated all other flavors.
The vegetarian chili received mixed reviews;
however, the overall consensus was that it did
not have much of a kick. The same can be said
about the accompanying hunk of cornbread,
which was slightly dry, but did serve as a help-
ful tool for cutting the Texas chili’s zing.

While Lupie’s menu glorifies their ham-
burgers, claiming, “Poor folks can live on one
of these a day,” the patty seemed out of place
onsucha large bun. It was automatically served
well done, and the dry meat required a dousing
of ketchup. The vegetable plate, which to our
surprise could have included macaroni and
cheese or potato salad, was nothing to write
home about. Our tossed salad was mostly ice-
berg lettuce with a few tomatoes and carrots
thrown in for color, but it was partially re-
deemed by the homemade vinaigrette. We
found the marinated cucumbers cool, refresh-
ing, and flavorful, but the macaroni and cheese
and steamed squash were both fairly standard
and unimpressive.

The Charlotte wings were another highlight
of the meal. They came by the dozen, and more
emphasis was placed on the meat than on the
sometimes-overbearing sauce. Served with the
customary celery and a choice of ranch or bleu
cheese dressing, the wings were lightly sea-
soned and served atop a traditional, tangy buf-
falo wing sauce.

Though much of our meal left us unim-
pressed, a hefty portion of homemade kuchen

- for dessert won us over. Kuchen is a German

derivative of peach cobbler. Peaches are lay-
ered between cake and custard before being
covered in cinnamon-sugar and served piping

hot. The nice, smooth texture hnd multitude of
flavors was nofoverly sweet, even when drown-
ing in whipped cream. We would bet that the
banana pudding would be equally impressive,
but our appetites did not hold up to the test.
Lupie’s is the type of place that draws a

crowd for a handful of tried and true favorites.
One cannot go wrong with Lupie’s sweet tea
(one of their signatures served in Mason jars).
For chili connoisseurs, Lupie’s is worth a try,
though their three distinct versions will most
likely not broaden horizons. While the chili and
burgers that Lupie’s boasts as its staple items
failed to live up to our expectations, we agreed
that the kuchen alone merits the trek to this
Huntersville establishment. So go for dessert.

Lupie’s Cafe in Huntersville is open Mon-
day through Thursday from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.,
and from 11 a.m. until late on Fridays and Sat-
urdays. Rotating specials are served nightly,
and a number of domestic and imported beers
are also available.

Lupie’s Cafe

101 Old Statesville Road

Huntersville, NC 28078

704-948 3959

www.lupiescafe.com

Average price of a meal for one person (ex-
cluding tax, tip, and beverages): $8.00

Restaurant Report Card

Food: B-/C
Atmosphere: B
Service: B+

Value: B+

Range of music incorporated into a capella CDs

By MEGAN SPARKS
Special Contributor

Everybody knowsatleast one. You may have

_ shared a class with them, lived with them in

the same dorm, or perhaps fallen deeply in love

with one (or two... or three... or... well, you
get the point).

Even if you haven’t had any of these expe-
riences, you’ ve at least attended their concerts
and heard their music. These are the men and
women of the Generals and the Delilahs, two
of Davidson’s three distinguished a capella
groups.

Generals and Delilahs fans both have much
to anticipate in the coming week. Both groups

recently completed recording brand new CDs.
“Three Piece Suit” from the Generals will be
available on Saturday after their “Really Big
Show,” and the Delilahs “Head Over Heels”
will be released during a concert on Monday.

Davidson’s 15 generals spent several mara-
thon recording sessions in Charlotte in order
to produce the various tracks on their album.

Even if you think that you’ ve heard all that
the Generals have to offer, you will be surprised
by this album.

“Three Piece Suit” features several brand
new songs that have not yet been performed
and it includes music originally performed by
a diverse range of artists like Coldplay, Sting,
Vanessa Carlton, Rascal Flatts, and Oasis.

sy

Because it was professionally recorded and
mixed, familiar songs often sound slightly dif-
ferent than they doin performance. Some have
slower rhythms or additional percussion.

Rush Beam ’04 emphasizes the technical
skill and complexity that went into their album.
“It shows our growth and our roots at the same
time,” he said. “This time we’ re a bit more ma-
ture, sounding a little more polished, but
[we’re]still having a good time.”

The Delilahs also have been working dili-
gently this semester to produce their new al-
bum, “Head Over Heels.” Hours and hours
have been invested, both in the studio and in
long drives to and from their recording studio
in South Carolina. :

“Head Over Heels” features an amazing ar-
ray of musical genres, ranging from Michael
Jackson’s classic rock to Aretha Franklin’s
soulful sounds to the Dixie Chick’s country
songs and Broadway’s show tunes.

The Delilahs put their own twist on these
familiar favorites, adding new melodies,
rhythms, and percussions to their versions of
the songs.

Alsorecorded professionally, this album has
a much fuller sound than some of their perfor-
mances, and it too includes several brand new
songs.

Six new freshmen joined the Delilahs in
January, and the whole group sang hours at
their annual retreat in order to prepare for re-
cording select tracks on the disc all together.

This experience was priceless for Lauren

, Heinze ’07.

‘There is such a sense of camaraderie in the
group,” sHe said. “As a freshman, getting todo
some work on the last couple of songs of ‘Head
Over Heels’ was a great experience. Making

music with these ladies is just too much fun!” _

These women have performed at events all

over campus, ranging from the annual Bosom
Buddies benefit dinner to the recent Celebra-
tion of Service.

No matter how many times they perform, the
women of the Delilahs always value their time
together. ;

“Sometimes, it feels more like a family of
sisters than an extra-curricular group that meets
twice a week,” Maggie McDougall ’04 com-
ments. “I would not have traded the Delilahs as
apart of my Davidson experience for anything
in the world.”

The Generals will perform on Saturday, May
1, in their second annual “Really Big Show” in
the Duke Family Performance Hall at 8 p.m.
Tickets are $3 for students and $5 general ad-
mission. Copies of “Three Piece Suit’ will be
sold afterward for $10 apiece.

The Delilahs will perform on Monday, May
3, at 10 p.m. in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room.
Admission is free, and the bar will be open for
all those 21 years and older. They will pre-sell
copies of “Head Over Heels” for $10 each
which will be available on May 3.

hree Piece Suit’
comes out Saturday.
