THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

17

Schmader and Snoopy on distance running

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

So there’s this Peanuts comic where Snoopy
goes out on a run. He’s zipping along paths,
past trees, up hills, down rocky pathways,
across grassy knolls, and so on.

The whole time various body parts are talk-
ing to Snoopy. “Why do we feet have to do all
the work,” or “Lips are made for kissing, not
running... , We need more kissing,” or “How

about noses? I hate jokes about running
noses.”

Naturally, the
punch line is,
“How can the
long-distance run-
| ner ever get
» lonely?”
> Funny? Per-
) haps not, but to
any runner who

» to Alan Sillitoe’s
»- novel “The Lone-
liness of the
Long-Distance
Runner,” it’s at
least a little cute.

But to someone
like senior Chris
Schmader, it’s a
bit more appli-
cable. Schmader runs the 10K.

That’s right, they have a ten-kilometer event
in outdoor track. That’s code for running a long
ways.

There’s also a little side note to this whole
Snoopy business. Schmader runs like him.

With his low-to-the-ground, short strides,
Schmader will sneak up on you like that 55-
year-old man in the Town Day 5k, leaving you

Co-captain Chris
Schmader ’04
runs the 10K for
Davidson’s track
and field team.

from Lacrosse, page 18

an unassisted goal, and the two teams traded
goals over the next few minutes to bring the
score to 15-5 with 14 minutes to play.

The ’Cats then went on a scoring run, tally-
ing five unanswered goals by five different
players over the next 12 minutes to cut the
lead to 15-10 with 2:22 remaining. The Buck-
eyes responded with two more goals for the
final 17-10 score.

Although the ’Cats lost the game, they
gained some confidence after a difficult week-
end of play. Captain Millie McKeachie ’06
said of the match-up,

“We played very well during the second half
of the Ohio State game, and we capitalized
by feeding off of each other. The score for the
second half of that game was tied, and we held
our own against a large state school. We just
need to dominate from the first whistle.”

The ’Cats at 3-9 overall remain winless in
conference play at 0-5. The team will host
conference rival Vanderbilt at noon on Easter
Sunday for their next game.

gets the allusion”

- shocked and appalled that you just got refed

in like a fat flounder.

But how did Schmader end up in this posi-
tion? What makes him so special that-he can
cope with running 26 ovals before calling i ita
day?

“Certainly, the 10k has been in the cards
[for Chris] the entire time, because he’s not
blazing fast but he has great endurance,” says
head coach Gary Andrew. “He’s very consis-
tent, and that’s a plus for a distance runner.

Chris is definitely Mr. Consistency, and
that’s one of the keys to success.”

And for those that are frantically checking

’ the face book, this is indeed the same guy who

crushed the competition in DO’s Team
Triathlon at the Lake Campus this past Sun-
day. And, no, he probably wasn’t trying that
hard.

Schmader, who has been running 70 miles
a week this season, has never backed down
from the intimidating 10k race.

“I came to college thinking I’d run what-
ever I was needed to run, and that ended up
being the 10k because my talent was running
long distances,” says the co-captain who just

set his PR in the 10k this past weekend with a.

32:01 performance. “‘As soon as I found out I
was running it, I was pretty excited. I never
dreaded running it.”

But wait a minute. That’s 26 laps. He ran
that in 32 minutes. That’s like a Seinfeld epi-
sode. Doesn’t he get bored? What does he
think about that whole time?

“This past weekend, I was basically think-
ing, ‘Hold on. Hold on. Hold on,’ the whole
time throughout the 3rd and 4th miles, and if
I ever began thinking about how many laps I
had left, I just focused on the guy ahead of
me and the lap I was on. I didn’t wasn’t to
psych myself out by thinking I had three miles
left after running three.”

Want our jobs?

Schmader is the type that gets excitable eas-
ily. Talk to him about music or movies and
his eyes light up, and his mouth gets rolling
about all the latest music hits or movie genres.

Perhaps this is the attitude he takes to run-
ning. Excitable, yet focused. Ready to go, but
waiting for the moment to let loose.

Certainly, though, opening up with a bang
would be a mistake, so Schmader has to keep
it cool at the start.

“T think about how I want to stay relaxed
throughout the first mile,” he says of his men-
tality at the starting line. “Because if I go out
too fast through the first few laps, the race is
basically over. The last five miles will be ab-
solutely miserable.”

Ok, wait. Back
up. Six miles where
even the slightest gq
mishap early on
could lead to five
miserable miles?

Why would some-

one do that to him- ¢,
self? Why run in the

first place?

“T think running as a sport is an exercise in
willpower that has few rivals among other
sports,” responds Schmader, who is shooting
for a top-five in Conference.

“I think there’s a purity to the sport that
makes competition that much more intense
and that much more beautiful.”

But the paper deadline is fast approaching,
so let’s wrap this up. Bobby vs. Schmader in
a treadmill contest. Bobby picks the pace. Who
stops first?

“T’m going to have to say Bobby stops first.
I know he’s a monster, but I think I’ve put in
the miles to get the job done.”

Sounds like a challenge in the making:
Snoopy vs. The Prez.

from PGA Golf, page 16

seen the best, then everything else is second-
rate.

On the other hand, look at the LPGA. While
the PGA had one of their worst years ever last
year, the LPGA had their best. Why? Because
they were pushing boundaries, and, in the form
of players such as Annika Sorenstam and
Michelle Wie, driving the women’s game to a
new level and playing against men.

It was the competition between the men and
the women that drove the new interest, and
the women had the spotlight.

The PGA needs to revive its tradition of
great competition. Until that happens, we’ ll
be left wanting something more. The moral
of this story applies to a far wider field than
golf.

Winners are fun to watch, but competition
is what makes sports great.

from Women’s Tennis, page 20

won all three doubles matches once again,
before the match was moved indoors due to
rain. The women maintained their momentum
in the singles matches, sweeping all six in
straight sets for the 7-0 win. Erin Moakler ’07
made an impressive debut in the starting
lineup, winning 6-0, 6-0 at number-six singles
in her first starting action of the season.

After three consecutive shutouts against
several lower-tier Southern Conference teams,
the Wildcats knew their match with Charlotte
would be anything but easy. The 49ers had
already taken out the SoCon defending cham-
pions, College of Charleston, earlier this sea-
son, playing with a team much improved from
the one Davidson squeaked by 4-3 last year.
The doubles matches ensured that the ’Cats
would not post a fourth consecutive shutout,
as Charlotte dominated all three matches.

“They thumped us,” said head coach
Caroline Price. “With their unbelievable serv-
ing, their doubles teams would be at the top
of the Southern Conference.”

Despite the tough doubles losses, the singles
competition would be a different story. After
a loss at number one singles put the ’Cats
down 2-0, Sarah Borkowski ’05 put Davidson
on the scoreboard with a 6-1, 6-4 win at the
number six position. Borkowski, who has
filled in capably for the Wildcats through vari-
ous injuries to other starting singles players,
earned her fifth consecutive win.

“Sarah has done a great job of stepping up
in the lineup when our (singles] starters are
out,” said Price.

A subsequent 7-5, 6-1 win from Meghan
Fillnow at number three offset Kate Levitt’s
(07) loss at number four, bringing the overall
match score to 3-2 in favor of Charlotte.
Levitt’s loss brought an end to her ten-match
winning streak, though she remains unde-
feated in conference play and was honored as
the SoCon Women’s Tennis Player of the
Month for the month of March

After winning a tough first set, Patterson
dropped the second and was forced to battle it
out in the third to keep the ’Cats alive. Sev-
eral questionable calls from her opponent re-
sulted in overrules from the official, bringing
an air of controversy to the match. In the end,
the controversy created by her opponent com-
bined with the Charlotte player’s solid shot-
making proved to be too much for Patterson.

Her 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-4 loss gave Charlotte it’s
fourth point and the victory, with only
Katherine Hatch ’04 remaining on court for
Davidson. Leading 4-3 in the third set of her
match with the overall outcome already de-
cided, Hatch’s match was suspended due to
darkness, leaving the final margin at 4-2.

With Charleston’s recent loss to ETSU, the
Wildcats now have a chance to finish atop the
conference. If Davidson can defeat Wofford
next Thursday, Saturday’s match with Furman
will determine the regular-season SoCon
champions.

° If you are going: o be
. If Sit aren g } le 5

Sayer or-on a weekly

petitive. rates. Rent

