THE DAvIDSONIAN

SPORTS _

Men’s tennis season ends at
SoCon with sweep by ETSU

BY ERIK SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Entering last weekend’s Southern Confer-
ence tournament without two singTés starters
and on a four-match losing streak, the men’s
tennis team knew they were in for a challenge.
By virtue of their 2-8 regular season confer-
ence record, the Wildcats earned the ninth

seed, setting up a rematch with the eighth-.

seeded UNC-Greensboro team that narrowly
defeated Davidson less than a week earlier,
with top-seeded East Tennessee State loom-
ing in the next round.

Especially impressive performances from
the team’s young players led the ’Cats to a 4-
3 revenge victory over Greensboro, but ETSU
proved to be too tough in the next round, ex-
tending their perfect conference record with a
one-sided 4-0 win over Davidson in the
quarterfinals.

Thursday morning’s match against Greens-
boro was a great one for the Wildcats. De-
spite losing to UNC-G less than a week ear-
lier, the "Cats knew they could beat the Spar-
tans and extend their season at least one more
match. Davidson played with this confidence
from the start, earning consecutive victories
at the one and three doubles positions for the
doubles point and the 1-0 advantage. Rob
Haywood ’04 and Russ Burns ’05 rallied from
an early deficit to a 9-7 win in the top doubles
match, while Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Porus
Jetli ’07 cruised to an 8-2 triumph at number
three.

“The doubles point was absolutely crucial
for us,” said head coach Jeff Frank. “Winning
that point gave us momentum and got them a
little down on themselves.”

The singles competition produced much
more mixed results. Stonestreet and John
Bolton ’07, at positions two and six respec-
tively, dominated their opponents to gain a
quick 3-0 lead for the ’Cats. Greensboro re-

phoia by Dersent Clark

Burns 05 and the ’Cats were left
spinning after numerous injuries.

fused to give up, though, recording straight
set victories over Haywood (#1), Burns (#3),
and Jetli (#4). With the match tied at 3-3, all
eyes turned to Daniel Bermeo ’06in the num-
ber five slot.

After Bermeo lost a tight first set in a
tiebreaker, the Wildcats were precariously
close to a second consecutive loss to the Spar-
tans. But Bermeo, playing only his fifth match

_ at the number five position, elevated his game

when it mattered most, winning the next two
sets to clinch the 4-3 victory and a berth in
the quarterfinals for Davidson.

“Stonestreet played awesome, one of the
best matches of his career,” Frank commented,
“and Bolton’s win was a great turnaround from
his loss to that guy last week. The win for
Bermeo was great for him, especially coming
into the lineup recently without being a starter
for most of the year. The team showed a lot of
resiliency coming back and beating Greens-
boro six days after losing to them.”

Twenty-four hours later, ETSU made sure
the excitement was short-lived for the ’Cats.
After narrowly losing two doubles matches
in tiebreakers against the Mocs a week and a
half earlier, Davidson’s best chance to secure
a point was the doubles competition. The
Wildcats were not able to push ETSU to the
brink this time though, falling at positions two
and three by scores of 8-5 and 8-6, respec-
tively, to give ETSU the early lead.

The Mocs continued their strong play in the
singles matches, rolling over Davidson’s men
at positions two, four, and six to quickly clinch
the 4-0 win. Unlike several of the substantially
closer matchés remaining on court, the three
singles matches to finish were decidedly one-
sided. Stonestreet’s match at number two
proved to be the closest of the three, and even
he only managed four games in a 6-1, 6-3 loss.
Despite not finishing his match, Haywood was
playing some of his best tennis of the season
at number one, leading 4-1 in the second after
losing a close first set. .

The Wildcats can be reassured by the Mocs’
subsequent run to the championship, but the
season obviously did not end the way the team
envisioned back in January. “I feel bad for the
seniors, because this should’ve been a great
year for us,” Frank said. “But I’m proud of =
the way the guys bounced back from the set-
backs and played hard in the conference tour-
nament.”

With three singles starters and four doubles
starters graduating this year, the team will have
a very different look next season. Donald
Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05 will lead a team
full of talented young players who gained
valuable experience this year.

“The underclassmen got to compete in the
SoCon tourney early in their careers, seeing
what it’s like to compete in this conference,”
said Frank. “Hopefully all the guys realized
the things they need to work on to improve
their games this summer, so they can come
back ready to play.”

WEpneEspay, APRIL 28, 2004

Sarah Carter ’07 played in her first Senior Day game, while Lauren

s by Peter Roady

Williams ’04 , the team’s captain and lone senior, played in her last.

Loss to William and Mary
drops lacrosse to 3-13 overall

After Senior Day defeat,
‘Cats take on Division II

Lees-McRae on turf field
for last game of season

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Davidson faced no. 17 William and Mary
at noon last Saturday, Senior Day. The "Cats
played for their lone senior teammate, co-cap-
tain Lauren Williams. Williams had one as-
sist and four draw controls for the day.

The ’Cats made a valiant comeback in the
second half against the Tribe, scoring four con-
secutive goals in only two minutes, but it was
not enough to combat the William and Mary’s
first half dominance.

Davidson lost. 19-9 in their second-to-last
contest of the season.

William and Mary quickly gained the lead
in the first half, scoring the first seven con-
secutive goals by six different Tribe members.
Eloise Grose ’06 cut their streak with the first
of her four goals in the game at the 16:12 mark.

For the remaining ten minutes of the first
half Davidson and W&M traded goals, leav-
ing the score 11-2 at intermission.

The Tribe dominated the first half with 25
shoots to Davidson’s six. Davidson also gave
up 10 turnovers while W&M only handed over
just three.

Visibly fired up and ready to show their true
colors, Davidson entered the second half with
a new presence on the field. Both teams

battled, and the defenses held strong, with —

neither team finding the net for the first eight
and half minutes of play.

Grose finally notched a goal at the 8:39
mark. The two defenses did not relent, and no

one scored for another seven minutes, until
Lindsay Frank ’05 scored with 15:55 remain-
ing.

The ’Cats then went on a scoring spree.

Within the 20:11 to 22:09 mark Davidson
scored four goals, with McKeachie, Ruthie
Hill ’07, and Grose (2) finding the net. W&M,
stunned, knew that they had to stop Davidson’s
momentum; their lead had been cut to 14-8,
with the ’Cats outscoring them 6-2 in the sec-
ond half.

The Tribe responded by scoring two goals
in under a minute. Frank notched her second
goal of the day a minute later.

With the score at 16-9 with less than five
minutes remaining, the Tribe then took off.
Five different W&M players scared to increase
their lead to 19-9 at the.end of play.

To honor Williams, posters lined the fence,
and some players even wore socks with “LW”
to pay tribute to their oldest teammate.

“Lauren’s impact on Davidson lacrosse will
remain strong after she graduates. We admire
her hustle and tenacity on the field, we respect
her dedication to the team, and we thank her
for her leadership,” said co-captain Millie
McKeachie ’06.

The ’Cats have their final regular season
game against Lees-McRae on Friday, April 30
at 5 p.m. on the turf.

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to
: start a career as an Army Linguist. This

experience will help prepare you for a
future in business, government agencies,

F embassy work and more! You'll also get
English training (if needed) and receive:
quick advancement in rank. 3
See your local Army Reserve Recruiter |
or visit arabic.goarmy.com/2

i ed

AN ARMY UF ONE

