Staff Editorial

Trust necessary
for a safe campus

Davidson has always taken an enlightened position with its
alcohol policy.

While the College certainly does not condone underage drink-
ing, the administration realizes that college students do drink,
and that if we are going to drink it is best to do so in an open and
safe environment.

However, as The Davidsonian reports this week, members of
Patterson Court houses have recently complained to Campus
Police and the administration of what appears to them to be a
stricter enforcement of the alcohol policy this year.

These complaints are not new. In fact, it seems as if every
year we hear students complain about how the College is trying
to crack down on drinking, or even that they are plotting to
secretly get rid of fraternities.

While we do not believe the College is purposefully trying to
create a stricter policy regarding underage drinking, there is
clearly a feeling among Davidson students, and particularly
members of fraternities, that the Campus Police have become
too strict in their enforcement.

According to a recent survey of Davidson students, 26 per-
cent of all students, and 54 percent of students in fraternities,
feel the current enforcement of campus safety policies are too
strict.

Even if the College is not purposefully re-emphasizing its
enforcement policies, this situation may be a case in which per-
ceptions are just as important as reality.

As long as a large group of students sincerely feel that Cam-
pus Safety is out to get them, rather than to protect them, stu-
dents will likely start going off campus to party and drink be-
hind closed doors.

These activities are almost certain to result in far more nu-
merous and more serious alcohol related problems for the col-
lege since students are more likely to drink and drive and to
consume alcohol in closed dorm rooms out of the watchful eyes
of others.

The most important job for Campus Safety is to make sure _

students are safe, and they will never be able to accomplish that
mission as long as students fear campus police officers.

Today’s meeting between students, administrators and Cam-
pus Safety is the first step in alleviating this problem. However,
it must not be the only measure taken.

Only when a clear and open dialogue between students, ad-
ministrators and Campus Safety is both initiated and maintained
can we all reach a mutual understanding, respect and trust re-
garding how best to keep Davidson students safe.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief.
David Grow
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior,Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
cok Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor .
Brendan. epi

“Adve rt

sing & Circalation Managers
“Se Rous wt Sa Boe

gt

PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 10, 2004

Golf cart
theft an

|honor Issue

“Each ©

The Honor Code states,
Davidson student is honor bound to re-
frain from stealing, lying about College
business, and cheating on academic
work.

Stealing is the intentional taking of any
property without right or permission.”

Both the Honor Council and Student
Conduct Council have recently dis-
cussed the consistency with which we
have been considering cases of stealing.

If a student takes a book from the li-
brary or a car from the parking lot, both
situations could be considered stealing.
However, the taking of golf carts (an un-
fortunately frequent occurrence on our
campus) has been handled as a Code of
Responsibility, not Honor Code, viola-
tion.

A recent decision by the Student Con-
duct Council, which was affirmed by
President Vagt, maintains that any tak-

ing of property without right or permis-
sion, including the taking of college-
owned golf carts, ought to be considered
stealing.

Therefore, if a student steals a golf cart,
he or she may be charged with an Honor
Code Violation.

Let me be clear: this is not a change to
the Honor Code. Rather, it is simply an
effort to be historically consistent with
the regulations within the Code itself.

Chris Knowles ‘05
Chair, Honor Council

Campus
Cops better
than others

I would like to respond to Jim
Rastetter’s letter in the Nov. 4
Davidsonian regarding the oppression of
fraternities, specifically his repeated in-

Letters to the Editors

' I was almost amused that he would
claim that Campus safety officers use
“Gestapo tactics” when they are only try-
ing to enforce school policy; in my ex-
perience officers would much rather
leave students to their reveling if no one
is in danger and no one is flagrantly
breaking any rules.

I would like to point out that no, a stu-
dent may not “take the Fifth” on campus
because this is a private institution and
private property and, thankfully, students
are not usually dealing with town police
who tend to be much less forgiving of
obnoxious drunken college students.

Because of previous incidents involv-
ing alcohol and the threat of potential
lawsuits from angry parents, the institu-
tion has put into place certain guidelines
concerning alcohol.

It.is not the case, as Rastetter seems to
be insinuating, that Campus Safety is out
to get any of us.

After meeting several of these offic-
ers at the Martin Court cookout recently
I came to appreciate that these guys re-
ally do have our best interest at heart,
and if they are shown respect then they
will return the favor.

If astudent is obviously inebriated and

sults to our Campus Safety organization.

underage or has alcohol outside the

house then he should be prepared to pay
the $25 fine and get a lecture about alco-
hol abuse - in the real world underage
drinking is not dealt with so leniently.

Margaret Megerian ‘05 —

When class earicoaned becomes; forced

We knew that it would be expected of us. After all, Davidson is
a small liberal arts college with a slim student-to-faculty ratio,
and its community-like atmosphere provides us students with
access to special one-on-one opportunities 24/7.

But when did forced class participation become so prominent
in what college pamphlets often describe as an “enriching” learn-
: ing environment?

Casie Hermes & Let’s facet: we’ ve all been in
Janelle Milanes that scenario. You’re attentive
. and engaged in class as you fu-
rious scribble notes onto a piece
| of looseleaf.
s = All of a sudden, the room is
silent; you look up from your
desk to notice 22 pairs of eyes,
including the professor’s, star-
ing intently in your direction.

Yes, my dear: you’ ve just been
called on to answer the question of the day. Now what? You’ll
probably stutter for a few seconds, pee yourself, and answer the
question as quickly and as vaguely as possible.

After all, you have no idea what the teacher is asking, and even
if you did, you probably have no idea how to answer it. We’re
pretty sure that teachers receive some secret and twisted pleasure
from making students look like complete fools as they squirm in
their chairs.

Has it ever occurred to professors that some of us don’t partici-
pate in class because we honestly have nothing to say?

It’s as if the teacher thinks he’s doing you a grand favor by
forcing you to voice your opinion. Look Mr. Prof, I don’t have
anything profound to add to your discussion, and I don’t know the
answers to your incredibly-complex questions; frankly, I’m just
trying to keep my vomit down after that Erousing tied of beruit
last: night. rier fees a) bats is

And what about the constant talkers, the students who can’t
seem to stop participating? We all have at least one in our
classes; these are the people that teachers pretend not to see
the minute they raise their hands. The people whose voices
have become so frequent and grating, they make their pres-
ences known in our worst nightmares.

As these talkers spout off their usual and unnecessary
rantings during class, we tend to wonder: why has listening
become so underrated? Must we be expected to speak up at
all costs because 15 percent of our gradetells us so? We work
hard; we get good grades.

Isn’t that enough? We cannot understand the overachiev-
ers who mull over the daily-assigned readings in order to
offer pretentious insights that few honestly care anything
about.

Perhaps the underachievers like us should thank our lucky
stars to have such huge fans of participation in our midst;
after all, they take the ever-present pressures of speaking off
of us. However, because of these few, teachers expect the
non-talkers like us to participate frequently and actually enjoy
it.

When did teachers decide to start shutting up in order to let
students talk? Who are we paying to teach us, anyway? This
isn’t the Twilight Zone; this is college.

We want to learn from those who have years of experience
in their chosen fields. You know, the ones with the Ph.D.s —
—not our peers who hold only high-school diplomas and the
false notion that they actually know what the hell they are
talking about.

Don’t get us wrong, we appreciate our professors’ efforts
to elicit some genius from the student body, and those “talk-

rs” do provoke a decent amount of intelligent discussion.
All we’re saying is that it’d be nice to hear more from the

- experts and Jess from the peanut gallery. -
