By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

Mention the word sushi at Davidson and
most people immediately think of Joel’s and
Sushi at the Lake. Out of curiosity, however,
we decided to break the mold this week and try
a different venue for Japanese food- Sekisui.
Located just west of Exit 23 in Huntersville,
Sekisui is a refreshing change with a unique
atmosphere and an extensive menu that offers
everything from sushi to noodle bowls.

The first thing that caught our attention when
we entered the restaurant was the fountain of
water running smoothly down a rippled, me-
tallic wall. A mission statement in the menu
explains that Sekisui means water and stone in
Japanese, and these natural elements are inte-
grated into an otherwise modern decor. Red

_ beams radiating across the ceiling contrast with
black and white Japanese prints that adorn the
gray walls. Small light fixtures of different
colors extend down from the ceiling, shedding
just enough light on the table to read the menu,
but they are not so bright that that they over-

Sekisui’s sushi bar provides
unique variations of the Japa-
nese cuisine.

power the restaurant’s sophisticated, dim at-
mosphere. Despite its boring brick-box exte-
rior, the interior’s unique ambiance hardly
suggests that it is part of a family of restau-
rants.

After we were seated, our server quickly
brought warm towels to wipe our hands with
before we began our meal. The service was
attentive but not intrusive. The timing between
the presentation of our soup, appetizer, and the
entrees was just right. This reinforced the se-
rene atmosphere created by the waterfall.

Our server was knowledgeable about the
menu, and he proficiently answered the ques-
tions we had about some of the sushi rolls.
When we asked if we might speak with the
owner or manager to learn more about Sekisui
after our meal, he quickly ushered us to the sushi
bar, where-manager and chef, Yoshiyuki
Takusagawa, was hard at work preparing sushi.

Sekisui prides itself on integrity to Japanese
cuisine perhaps more than any other restaurant
in the area. As Takusagawa pointed out, hiba-
chi grills that Sushi at the Lake, Kobe, and
others flaunt for their entertainment value do
not exist in Japan. Sekisui foregoes them in
favor of more authentic cookery like sushi and
tempura, while other specialty entrees like
teriyaki, skewers, and udon noodle soups com-
plete the menu.

With tempura, lightly battered vegetables are
fried quickly at a high temperature so as to
maintain the integrity of the ingredients. Our
appetizer portion was perfectly cooked and
came to the table almost too hot to consume.
To our surprise, Sekisui includes ‘asparagus
among its tempura vegetables, adding flavor
and color to the dish. Japanese eggplant, sweet
potato, and onion were also fried to golden
perfection.

As at Joel’s and othér Asian grills, most of

the entrees are served with soup and a salad.
The miso soup was excellent and not too salty.
Small cubes of tofu and pieces of seaweed ar-
ticulated the hot, cloudy broth.

The salad appeared standard. Iceberg lettuce
topped with shredded red cabbage and served
in a glass bowl. However, Sekisui’s ginger
dressing was more complex and less watery
than we have come to expect of Japanese res-
taurants. It was a pale yellow in color, and the
tangy flavor hinted at soy and miso paste. Each
of the appetizers we tried satisfied us com-
pletely.

While neither of us claims to be a sushi ex-
pert, we were impressed with the quality of the
fish in our sampling and the creativity of some
more adventurous maki rolls. The Huntersville
roll stood out, a unique combination of crab
and sweet chili sauce and topped with shrimp
and avocado.

Other special rolls mix various raw fish with
shrimp tempura, steamed blue crab, and even
Japanese chicken nuggets. The more traditional
rolls and nigiri sushi offer a range of raw fish,
from sea urchin and conch to scallop and
salmon.

Wealso tried Kushiyaki, skewers of chicken,
beef, or shrimp grilled with mushrooms and
onions and served with tempura sweet pota-
toes.

Steamed sticky rice dusted with black sesame
seeds also accompanied the skewers. Oranges
sliced arranged to look like butterflies deco-
rated the blue glass plate and were further evi-
dence to the restaurant’s authenticity. Japanese
cuisine emphasizes presentation, namely con-
trasting color combinations like blue and or-
ange and representations of nature like butter-
flies.

Sekisui’s other offerings were expected
dishes with somewhat unexpected ingredients.

For example teriyaki versions of yellowtail and
salmon are offered along with the predictable
beef, chicken and shrimp. There are a few
noodle soups and stir-fried items on the menu
as well as grilled eel over rice. If the choices
seem overwhelming, order a bento box which »
includes a sampling of sushi, teriyaki, and
tempura and is served with rice, soup, and a
salad. .

Tocomplement the meal, Sekisui offers a
selection of Japanese beers, wine, and unique
cocktails. The sake menu highlights a handful
of the rice wines with detailed descriptions of
each one’s bouquet.

For those who save room for dessert, the
mango, green tea, and red bean ice creams are
alight, refreshing way to end the meal. Off the
beaten path, Sekisui promotes a more relaxed
and refined alternative to the more familiar
Japanese restaurants to which students go. We
left Sekisui happy to have discovered a restau-
rant that prides itself on fresh ingredients and
authentic cuisine. ,

Sekisui
14211 Reese Blvd W, Huntersville
(704)-992-1234
www.sekisuiusa.com

Advanced First Ai

Irs

Jany2-S
t Responder:
