THE DAVIDSONIAN

Young Life, from page 1
in some crazy way bring kids to Christ,” Evans
McGowan ’05 said.

For participants interested in exploring
Christianity further, “campaigners” meet
weekly to study the bible on a deeper level,
drawing practical applications between faith
and everyday life.

“We try to make Young Life as accessible as
possible,” Presley said. “We stay away from
church language and try to make Christianity
real and relevant to each kid’s life.”

One of the most rewarding aspects of Young
Life is having the opportunity to form strong,
lasting friendships with teenagers struggling
with the pressures of high school.

“It’s about being a constant and accepting
presence in their life, regardless of what they
do or say or think,” Lauren Law ’07 said.

Young Life leaders increase their visibility
by visiting area high schools during lunch and
after school.

Contact work allows leaders to build and
maintain relationships with the students.

There is ateam of leaders foreach high school
in the area.

Club and campaign groups are divided by
gender, but many activities are co-ed and led
by both male and female leaders.

Presley emphasized that the depth of Young
Life is often difficult to verbalize.

“A lot of it sounds really contrived when it
comes out, but it is more natural in reality,” she
said.

Young Life enables college students to re-
connect with the high school environment from
a fresh perspective. /

“T was experiencing high school again, but
from the outside looking in,” Presley said of
the recent Young Life bonfire attended by over
50 high school students. “I was reminded of
how hard it is to be yourself in high school,
how you are constantly worried about your
place in the social scene.” :

Many current leaders had positive experi-
ences with Young Life during high school.

For Alison Wheeler’05, participation in
Young Life proved instrumental in her spiri-
tual growth, prompting her to become a leader

Emails, from page 1

Allison Amore ’05 who sent out a survey for
a biology project. .

“People were fine with it since it was a sur-
vey for a class,” said Amore. “We got a lot of
input from the student body.”

The unauthorized emails, however, have
annoyed Amore.

“T had to delete a ton of them the other day
to get my email working again,” she said.

The ITS user agreementexplicitly disallows
students from sending out mass emails with-
out authorization. Account suspensions gen-
erally last three days, although they are occa-

’ sionally extended for particular instances.

Both Hardesty and Zaman had their email
accounts suspended.

Hardesty’s email was suspended for a pe-
riod of three days. She understood that her
account would likely be suspended before send-

during college.

“High school was a really hard time for me,
and I know that girls in general go through a lot
of hard stuff in high school,” Wheeler said. “I
want to be able to hopefully touch some girls’
lives.”

Young Life leaders try to remain hopeful
even when their efforts seem futile.

“Sometimes you pour so much of your life,
your time and energy into a kid and it doesn’t
seem like they even care,” Law said.

“But it’s just a matter of trusting that there’s
areason you felt called to become a Young Life
leader, and that whether you can see it or not,
that reason will come to fruition.

Trey Akers ’06 emphasized that, contrary to
common misconceptions, Young Life is not a
church youth group but rather serves as an
“outreach ministry to kids who have given up
on church or perhaps haven’t heard the Gospel
in a way that’s meaningful to them.”

“Young Life seeks to get kids involved in
church, should they choose to pursue their faith
in a way that they desire to learn more,” said
Akers.”“It’s not impersonal, brimstone and
firebrand, it’s relational. Many kids we hang
out with or talk to don’t even come to Young

Life, but that doesn’t stop us from pursuing

them in relationships and just simply being their
friends.”

Juggling Young Life commitments and the
demands of the college workload is achallenge
that many of the Young Life leaders face
weekly.

Wheeler regrets that she does not have more
time to spend developing one-on-one relation-
ships with the girls in her group.

“T wish I could have more time to invest in
Young Life,” Wheeler said. “But Davidson
calls, and itis hard to balance work with Young
Life, very hard.”

Despite the large time commitment, Young
Life work provides perspective on Davidson
life.

“After spending a Tuesday night having din-
ner with a high school kid, you return to
Davidson and realize that some things are so
much more important than papers and tests,”
Law said.

ing the email and even described Associate
Dean of Students and ITS representative Kathy
Bray-Merrell as “really nice.”

Zaman received an email suspension for an
extended period of time for his first offense.
His account was suspended a second time af-
ter he replied to Hardesty’s email.

“When a student sends out a mass email like
that, it is a violation with his yser agreement
with ITS,” said Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, “and it’s annoying to everybody.”

According to Shandley, the Davidson com-
munity experiences around three or four mass
emails per year.

The Dean’s office only becomes aware of
the emails through complaints by students.
There has been no shortage of student com-
plaints about mass emails this semester.

“A lot of students have complained,” said
Shandley.

-

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

“weg &

ee ee ee ee ee ee

aE A]

/ CATAWBA AVE. (EXIT 28)
704-987-0479

/SIT WWWALGIARC

