“THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws |

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004 5

Davidson even with ACS, below Ivies on grade inflation

Compared to some closer peer institutions,
Davidson has remained consistent with their
trends of low or no grade inflation. In presti-
gious private schools like the Ivy League, how-
ever, evidence abounds of grade inflation.

Comparing and analyzing data from a vari-
ety of schools presents difficulties, and con-
clusive studies are few and far between. There-
fore, impressions of national inflation trends
and Davidson’s place in them vary.

Davidson in lock-step with ACS peers

“Tf you take out the exceptions like Harvard,
I don’t think we are far out of line with the rest
of the country,” said Dr. Hansford Epes, Reg-
istrar and Professor of German and Humani-
ties.

The registrars of five schools from the Asso-
ciated of Colleges of the South (ACS) meet
informally to share information at a level of
detail uncommon between schools. Compar-
ing GPAs from 1996-2002, Davidson has re-
mained “pretty consistently in the middle,”
according to Dr. Epes.

This group consists of Furman University,
the University of the South (Sewanee), Rhodes
College, Washington and Lee, and Davidson
College.

nota faye classi based exercises. ” And
even if they are integrated into aclass, they
are not measured directly by GPA.
_“Students should sell their abilities, not
titles and not their GPAs,” he said.
Graduate schools also often use GPA for
preliminary screening but only coupled with
other standardized test scores, such as the
LSATor MCAT. Adams said thatoftenthese

The ACS is composed of 13 schools in all.

Though we may be in sync with this small -

group, the data is not extensive enough to draw
conclusions about long-range trends.

Ross noted that, “Compared to some other
ACS schools, our grading is really not that
different.”

The interaction of this sort between institu-
tions is rare. Many universities are fiercely pro-
tective of their data. Even the ACS numbers,
which Davidson
has, were only
provided to the ™
Davidsonian on —
thebasisthatthe ~~.”
specific univer-* >.
sity and specific ~~”
GPA were not
linked. Regis- |
trars at other na-
tional liberal
arts colleges
contactedbythe ~
Davidsonian. ”
including =*

* In2002the Academy of Arts & Sciences pub-
lished a report that found “clear evidence of
grade and evaluation inflation at U.S. univer-
sities.” It based its analysis on the statistics
gathered by a number of older studies that
traced grade inflation to its start in the 60s.
In January 2003, Duke Professor Stuart
Rojstaczer wrote an op-ed piece in the Wash-
ington Post entitled “Where All Grades Are
Above Average.” He collected official data

Swarthmore Davidson's GPA over the ‘past few years versus ‘Sewanee,
and Williams, Furman, W&L, and Rhodes (in random order).

declined to re-
veal their own internal statistics.

Beyond Mason-Dixon

Yet when taking in a bigger picture than the
ACS, evidence exists of grade inflation at top
universities, as do detractors of those studies.

“Tt’s one of those things that we can take pride
in... where some of the better schools are mov-
ing towards where we are,” Dean of Faculty
Clark Ross said.

“With a paucity of data... my notion is that
our grades have not inflated at anywhere near
the rate of our peer institutions,” said Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt, referring to those top private
schools.

shared by about 85 colleges and universities
on their average GPA trends.

His conclusions, available on the Web,
showed that GPAs at both public and private
institutions rose roughly 0.2 grade points from
1982-2002. However his analysis was based
ona sample of only 29 institutions, limiting its
effectiveness as an argument in favor of infla-
tion.

The Christian Science Monitor reported on
a portion of that national study: “About 34
percent... earned C’s and D’s or worse, the study
reported. About 41 percent earned B’s and C’s
or mostly B’s. Meanwhile, 26 percent earned
A’s and B’s or mostly A’s.”

A spokeswoman for the Association of

American Colleges and Universities told the
Chronicle of Higher Education recently that
the new report “debunks all the furorover grade
inflation.”

But even if national trends are debated, in-
flation trends at the Ivy League schools seem
self-evidently high.

Princeton University recently gathered data
from seven other Ivy League institutions,
Stanford University, the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology and the University of Chi-
cago and reported the following: “recent per-
centages of A grades given in undergraduate
courses at these institutions range from about
44 to 55 percent A’s.” For Princeton, that
marked a 31 percent rise since the mid-70s.

The controversy at Princeton

Monday’s-decision by Princeton faculty to
give less than 35 percent A’s in undergraduate
classes has divided the students. The 35 per-
cent figure mirrors grade distributions at
Princeton from 1987 to 1992, Princeton’s
website reported.

Vera Dadok, a Princeton freshman from
Durham, NC, said, “I’ve talked to a few stu-
dents on the matter, and I think that a majority
are not in favor of the proposal. Most agree
that grade inflation may be a problem, but think
that setting quotas for different grades is not
the answer.

“TI feel that, on principle, it should be pos-
sible for all the students ... to deserve an A for
the course.” Dadok also feared capping top
grades would make students more competitive.
“It'll be like the nuclear arms race, but with
people hoarding A’s instead of weapons.”

Charlie Stone, also a Princeton freshman,
disagreed, though ceding he was in the minor-
ity. “I think it is perfectly reasonable that the
faculty should say that only around a third of
work generally deserves an ‘A’, and ta
recalibrate grades to that standard,” Stone said.

100%

F5%

rticipat

hosted by

Senior Class Gift Update

The class of 2004
has seta
new Davidson Record!

Come celebrate this accomplishment
with strawberries and champagne

on Wednesday, May 5th.

If you haven't participated in the Senior Class Gift

Please visit our website at
www. Davidson.edu/giving
or contact Maria Tardugno.

Ss
fe): =

%o

in th nior ift!

President and Mrs. Vagt

but would like to,

