THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Gay marriages don’t have to lack sanctity

By Brent Byars
Guest Columnist °

In the third century in Rome, there was a priest named Val-
entine. As the story goes, Emperor Claudius II was having dif-
ficulty raising an army to support his unpopular military cam-
paigns. He knew that single men were more likely to join than
those encumbered by romantic entanglements. Believing that
he could decree an end to love, Claudius the Cruel cancelled all
marriages and engagements in the city.

Valentine knew that what Claudius was doing was wrong; he
knew people would fall in love no matter what the Emperor
legislated. So he continued to marry men and women in secret,
bringing sets of-young lovers into secluded passageways or
rooms and mumbling the wedding rites.

Claudius discovered what Valentine was doing and sentenced
the priest to be stoned and beheaded. While in jail, Valentine
fell in love with the jailkeeper’s daughter. Though the daughter
was blind, on the day of his death Valentine sent his lover a
card. It read, “From your Valentine.”

If you believe in miracles, you can believe that the power of
Valentine’s love brought back the young woman’s sight, that
the very first Valentine Day card was the first thing she saw.

This Valentine’s Day, our own Emperor embarked on an at-
tempt to legislate love. But he’s not defending Rome or its
possessions from invasion; he’s “defending” marriage from
“activist judges” and “liberalism.” He’s not trying to raise an
army of dedicated soldiers; he’s rallying the troops of oppres-

sion and extremism. If need be, he’s going to use the Constitu-
tion todefine marriage as between aman and a woman, to “codify
that.”

The fight for gay rights isn’t about compromising the “sanc-
tity of marriage.” Marriage is not an institution that needs “pres-
ervation” from hordes intent on anarchy. Words like these are
religiously motivated‘and don’t belong in jurisprudence.

The people fighting for the right to marry their loved ones
aren’t cultural crusaders or social anarchists, but highly con-
servative people. Most care less about recognition than they do
about the protections marriage affords: inheriting the home you
share with your spouse, raising children together, and visiting
your loved one in the hospital.

Our Emperor is set-on cultural crusades, while real people
just want to get on with their lives.

IwishI could be a modern-day Valentine. I would take couples
to dark passages and candlelit rooms, have them exchange rings
from Cracker Jack boxes and tell them they could start taking
two deductions on their taxes. Of course, I may not need to
since the mayor of San Francisco has upended state law and is
marrying gay people in the lobby of City Hall. —

I don’t know if I will ever end up in City Hall. But one day,
I just might find someone with whom I can navigate this unpre-
dictable life and strive towards the elusive eternal. I want to be
able to marry him. I want to know that the law won’t discrimi-

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004 11

Primary fervor
strangely absent

To many Davidsonians, politics may be a boring topic in-
volving nothing more than the over-hyped rhetorical give-and-
take between a pack of sleaze balls whose illicit private lives
contradict public lives of supposedly idealistic “social service.”
Indeed, politics can sometimes be reduced to such generalities.
But during primary season, such political indifference is espe-
cially dangerous. Tobe particularly (but not unnecessarily) dra-
matic, it is a rejection of every citizen’s re-
sponsibility towards furthering and protect-
ing our fragile democracy.

The Davidson “bubble” has shown yet
another of its negative impacts on the minds
of this campus’s students. There has been
virtually no activity on campus concerning
one of this country’s most volatile political
seasons: the primaries. Howard Dean,
largely known as the one time hero of
internet-obsessed college students across the
country, has fallen disastrously from his front-runner position .
without any public concern from the Davidson community.

We’ ve all seen the stats from the past few years. This campus
is supposedly diyided equally between Republicans and Demo-

musings

ZACH WILLIAMS

nate against our desire to share a home or children. That’s my ( crats. And yet“ fit weren’t for afew grumblings in the Libertas,

view of family values.
So Mr. Bush: codify that.

Outsourcing works: more people win

By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

In recent months, the public has become increasingly wor-
ried about American jobs heading overseas. There are many
reasons for this — steel tariffs, the farm bill, immigration de-
bates, and our current “jobless” recovery. Unfortunately, the
rising concern over outsourcing could severely hamper the
global economy if policymakers revert to protectionism.

Outsourcing occurs when American companies shift jobs to
a destination overseas to cut production costs. The result is a
product of similar quality at a considerably lower price to the
American consumer. A related topic is American companies
being undersold by foreign competition, and hence forced to
close shop. For now, let’s deal only with the outsourcing issue.

Opponents of outsourcing — who also tend to be allies of
protectionism and/or anti-globalization types— cry foul at the
loss of American jobs that inevitably results. Jobs are not the
only concern of protectionists, however. Some claim pity for
workers in Belize and Calcutta, who work long hours for low
wages relative to unionized Americans. Others simply seem to
think that capitalism is the root of all evil; since trade is a
manifestation of capitalism (some might argue it is the defini-
tion thereof), it is bad.

* Some seem to think that any profit-maximizing decision made
by corporate America is wrong, and so impulsively oppose job
outsourcing.

There are some problems with these arguments. The space
here is insufficient to investigate them all in detail, but a basic
analysis can be undertaken. If you’ve taken Common Sense
101, what follows should make sense; if you’ ve had Econ 101,

it'll be second nature.

When a firm chooses whether to send jobs overseas or not,
ithas one consideration — the bottom line. For simplicity’s sake,
let’s say our company makes something virtually everyone
consumes; we’ll say its cola. If people in India are willing to
bottle sodas for half the price as people in Minnesota, the ratio-
nal CEO is likely to shift some jobs (for ease, assume transpor-
tation is free; assuming otherwise does not seriously alter the
situation).

The most obvious result is the loss of 500 American jobs; this
part of the story also makes a better headline than “‘PepsiCo’s
Profits Rise in 3rd Qtr,” and so tends to get greater media ex-
posure. The people of India also have no congressman, so Joe
Representative doesn’t rush to introduce a bill for them.

Although CNN and Joe Rep’s press secretary give a different
impression, everybody except those 500 laid-off workers is
better off. If you don’t believe this, consider the broader pic-
ture.

Once the company has shifted part of its operations to the
Eastern Hemisphere, 299,999,500 (out of 300,000,000) Ameri-
cans have greater purchasing power, because they can buy the
same basket of goods they used to consumer for less money.
PepsiCo is happy because it is making more money, and
PepsiCo’s shareholders are happy because they are earning more
dividends. Also, 500 Indians are happy because they have jobs.

In others words, there appear to be more winners than losers
as a result of this outsourcing.

That’s all for now, but more columns on this topic may be
forthcoming. Until next time, remember: most international
trade helps society more than it hurts. Itwouldn’t be so popular
otherwise!

an outside observer of the student body might think Davidson
was either one of the most apathetic political populations among
colleges in this country, or one of the most conservative.

C’ mon liberals! I know you’ re out there. Show your face and
make some noise. This perspectives page is jammed with ar-
ticles promoting the Republican party line every week. Does
anyone like John Kerry? Does anyone care that he might be
destroyed by an intern catastrophe akin to Clinton’s? Who even
is John Kerry anyways? -

C’mon liberals! Show your face.

For Democrats, it is an understatement to say that there is a
lot riding on this election. A recent article in The New Yorker
briefly pointed out what the next four years might look like if
the Dem’s screw up this November: “George Bush with no
concern about re-election, a filibuster-proof Senate, a G.O.P.
able to raise a billion dollars a year, packed courts, government
shrunk to whatever level they like, gerrymandered districts.”
In other words, the next four years could be a dream-come-true
for the pro-globalization capitalist with a neo-conservative set
of international ideals and a disliking for both abortion and gay
marriages.

And you’re telling me you couldn’t care less? If it weren’t
for the daily New York Times available in the Union and dorm
rooms, this campus would be almost completely in the dark in
regards to national events happening outside the confines of I-
77 exits 25 through 36.

It’s really kind of sad. The well-being of our democracy
depends on the educated, on the intellectuals of our society (that’s
us everyone) to make the informed vote that is demanded of us
come this November (that’s when the presidential election
happens).

Hopefully, next fall students will begin to take a vested inter-
est in the future of our country and, for that matter, the future
of the world order.

Value of pornography not static; depends on personal ethics

By Tim KELLEY
Guest Columnist

I’m a feminist and I watch porn. By feminist, I mean that I
think that everyone should have equal rights (human, social,
economic) regardless of what sex they are. Just because I don’t
agree with anti-pornography feminists doesn’t mean I’m nota
feminist. How many politicians out there agree with every stance
or policy their party maintains?

The Libertas was on the right track when Sterling Rozear
mentioned pro-porn feminists. They fall under the category of
pro-sex feminists. These feminists are for pornography and
against censorship. Censoring pornography undercuts efforts
to strive for equality - women can be sexual beings just like
men.

Betty Friedan said that the “current move to introduce cen-
sorship in the United States in the guise of suppressing pornog-
raphy is extremely dangerous to women.” Nadine Strossen,
pro-sex feminist author and president of the ACLU agrees,
“Given that there is an inevitable subjectivity, thatno two people
are going to agree on what is liberating versus degrading, we
necessarily hand over to whoevers is SntOreing, the law an enor-
mous discretionary power.”

What one person finds degrading another may find invigo-
rating.

Explicit material has always been controversial, and enact-
ing alaw to regulate it would be no different than the laws used
to ban James Joyce’s “Ulysses” in the 1930s, or the laws used
to arrest Margaret Sanger and Emma Goldman for distributing
information to lower class women concerning birth control.

If you agree that sex and sexual pleasure are an intrinsic part
of being human, then you’ ll agree that pornography’s effect, to
titillate, is just an acceptable as mainstream movies and litera-
ture intent to produce other human emotions such as sadness or
joy. All pornography does is stir up existing instincts. I think
America is too sexually repressed.

What one person find degrading
another may find invigorating...
Porn is not going away

Pornography can be used as a tool to teach men and women
about sex. Too many women today reach adulthood without
ever experiencing an orgasm, be it through sex or masturba-
tion. Pornography can even be an outlet through which couples
open up a line of communication regarding their own sex life.

Porn should not be regulated. If you have a problem with it,
voice your opinion or have a penetrating intellectual conversa-

tion with a friend, but don’t discourage others from making
their own choices.

Some interesting facts and ideas to consider:

-Men are objectified i in porn films more than women. You
often see women’s faces and entire bodies while men are re-
duced to one single body part.

-Men, just like women, feel inadequate when comparing
themselves to porn stars. Tanned, toned muscles and 12-inch
“shafts of manhood” would make anyone feel deficient.

-Singapore, which strictly restricts pornography, has higher
rates of rape than does Sweden, where laws regarding pornog-
raphy are more lax than in the U.S.

-The adult film industry is one of the few where women make
more money than their male counterparts and get to call the
shots.

-Pornography does not promote rape or violence towards
women. The 1980s Meese Commission’s report, often cited by
those proposing this argument, is not based on experimental
evidence but rather on anecdotal experiences.

-Porn is not going away.

According to 60 Minutes, in 2002 alone, over 11,000 movies
were made employing an estimated 20,000 people and the
American public spent over $10 billion on adult entertainment.

Porn isn’t smut. Everyone should have the right to determine
for themselves what is obscene or not.
