found in closet
SEE PAGE 14

8:30 skipped

Fe Ee steno

Well still old

14
«

Court-goer
likes it when
you shake it
right thurr

SEE PAGE 17

Angry music
major has
scores
to settle
| SEE PAGE 23

ORTA

UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

VOLUME ONE NO. TWO

Illusion of real cable
to shut students up
about wanting cable
for at least a while

SPRINKLE ROOM~—In a decision nearly
two years in the making, the Student Gov-
ernment Association confirmed plans last
week for the campus-wide installation of
fictitious mystery cable. While school
administrators have no intention of ever
installing real cable on campus, the illu-
sionary prospect of cable is expected to
pacify those making a stink about it just
long enough for them to graduate.

“The President Bobby Vagt has ap-
proved the SGA resolution for Cable in the
dorm rooms,” wrote SGA President
Charles Washington in a recent campus-
wide e-mail entitled “Cat cards! Cable!
Elections! Tee-shirts!” “Installation will
begin shortly.”

Just seeonds later the student body
received a second e-mail, intended as
clarification of Washington’s original
statement. “Installation will begin
shortly’ isa bit-misleading [...] New cable
service will not be available in the dorms
before next semester ~ at the earliest!”

“This doesn’t surprise me at all,” com-
mented Robert Turner, a symbologist in
Davidson’s anthropology department and
long-time follower of the student political

BRIEFLY

February 4, 2004

scene. “What Charles is trying to say is
that there is no intention for the installa-
tion of actual cable on campus. His use of
this symbol: ~ is in fact code for ‘don’t fool
your damn selves.’ Fictitious mystery
cable is what you kids are getting.”

According to SGA officials, however,
the installation of actual cable couldn’t be
more on schedule. In fact, Washington’s
e-mail stated that the school merely needs
to “explore an array of options before
committing to a carrier for cable service.”

“We are currently conducting a careful
weighing and analysis of the sole cable
provider in the greater North Carolina
area,”. explained SGA Senator Josh
Bedford ’05, sponsor of the cable resolu-
tion. “We just want to make sure that
when we eventually go with that one op-
tion, we’ve adequately weighed it against
the complete lack of other possibilities.”

Despite the SGA’s optimism, Turner
feels students shouldn’t start reaching for
the remote just yet. In fact, he suggests
that the current situation is representative
of a long-standing tradition of conducting
campus business.

According to Turner’s theory, which
he’s currently terming the “Outpost Ef-
fect,” the administration will clumsily
defer on a concept that is highly popular
with the student body, allowing class after
class to graduate until no one on campus
can remember what it was they were
originally so in favor of. “This tactic has
been used again and again by high level
administrators on any number of issues,”
explained Turner. “Students often fail to
realize that they have a relatively short life
span on this campus. In the end, the
house always wins.”

“I mean, think about it,” Turner contin-
ued. “Do you really think we have eating
houses because they’re popular? God no,
seniors hate them. But freshmen love
them—and seniors are graduating.”

While the administration had at-
tempted to beat around the issue of cable

over the past years, the large-scale fuss
created by the SGA forced them to take
more drastic measures of pacification.
Fictitious mystery cable provided the
ideal solution.

“There’s no question about it,” said
Turner. “You kids are getting played like
a two dollar banjo. The only people get-

ting actual cable out of this thing are the-

juniors living in hall lounges.”

Concerns over bringing cable to cam-
pus in the first place were, in fact, numer-
ous. Some fears were raised, for instance,
that cable would monopolize students’

You kids are getting
played like a two
dollar banjo.

free time, causing them to zone out in
front of a television set instead of actually
talking to one another. To assume they
would do otherwise is to take any number
of unorthodox risks, such as, for example,
actually treating students like adults.

Further concerns were expressed over
the effects cable watching will have on
students’ academic performance, possibly
leading to lower GPAs. Fortunately, such
worries were quelled when people real-
ized that GPAs at Davidson can’t realisti-
cally get any lower.

Ultimately, the pro-cable camp won
out. Chief among their arguments were
the numerous benefits associated with
cable television, such as The Bird Chan-
nel, and the long-term honing of students’
valuable looking skills.

An additional argument proceeded
from the logic that offering students cable
is simply extending them a service they
were accustomed to enjoying before arriv-

WEATHER WATCH Se se

Freak snowstorm creates
dangerous Walk of Shame

School to upgrade

preparedness

MARTIN COURT—Unexpected snowfall
on the morning of Sunday Jan. 25 left
campus Walk of Shamers with two
equally unpleasant options: either brave
the harsh conditions outside or brave con-
versation with their drunken hookup
partners.

Of course, virtually everyone was out-
side by 10:00 a.m. “It was basically brave
the ice or break the ice,” commented
Vicky Garson ’07, a first-time walker de-
parting Ryburn for Richardson. “Well, I
certainly was not about to talk to whoever
that was I'd just had sex with, so I braved
it. Little did I know how dangerous a few
inches of snow could be when you're in
heels and a mini-skirt.”

Julia Peters ’04,who makes it a point
to watch every Walk of Shame from her
third Flowe balcony, described the scene
below. “God, it was horrible,” she recalled.
“People falling everywhere, bodies strewn
from here to Commons... and nota single
one of them in a coat.”

While the majority of the damage was

- limited to colds and sprained ankles, the

most serious injury befell veteran walker
Jonathan Olson ’05, who lost his pinky ,

ina litter of St. Bernards. _

finger to frostbite. “People keep asking
me, ‘Jon, why didn’t you just put your
hand in a pocket?” said Olson, resident of
first Duke. “I have to tell them that, duh,
I would have lost my cowboy hat other-
wise. I mean com’on, it’s not my pinky
Jinger that’s getting me laid.”

The small minority who decided to stay
in bed were greeted with late-morning
surprises of their own. “Yeah, I was really
stunned to see Mike [Colvin ’04] when I
woke up,” said Shelly Swendiman ’06.
“Honestly, I thought I was going home
with one of his roommates. But hey, it
turns out we have a class together.”

Jimmy Taft ’06 had a different experi-
ence. “I didn’t think it would be that awk-
ward to talk to Janice [Black ’04] that
morning,” he recalled. “But after a few
hours of silence I-got the hint and went
back to Wes...I mean Tomlinson.”

Responding to the crisis, school ad-
ministrators have embarked on an ambi-
tious new program to make sure such di-
saster never happens again. Every Senior
Apartment will now be outfitted with
plenty of heavy coats and walking shoes,
and the Dean of Students Office is consid-
ering submitting Walk of Shame snow
delays for announcement on local radio.

Experts are also looking into investing

see eeeee

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA states plans for fictitious mystery cable

ing at college. Proponents of this line of
reasoning have also encouraged the SGA
to pursue immediate legislation for more
fruit roll-ups and recess.

“I’m just honored to say our cause won
out,” said a cheerful Bedford. “There’s
now no question about it: the Davidson
political machine works.” He then added
something about sending his opposition
all the way back to Crrrrrrrawford, Texas.

Still, there are concerns on the horizon.
“J just think it’s amusing that they were
once again unable to screw the freshmen
class out of getting a service provided to
everyone else,” said Turner, referring to
President Vagt’s overturn of the SGA’s
original resolution which gave cable to
everyone but ‘smelly freshmen.’ “I was
actually surprised they didn’t tack ona
clause requiring them all to park in Satel-
lite. Or at least wear beanies or some-
thing.”

While most on the SGA are embittered
about having to once again treat freshmen
as equals, they are now being forced to
deal with the myriad cable-watching
needs of the campus’ first years. Will
freshmen guys have access to late-night,
scrambled Cinemax, for example.

Fortunately, all of these concerns will
eventually become obsolescent thanks to
the glorious self-deception that is ficti-
tious-mystery cable. For the moment,
however, the main theoretical question
appears obvious: will cable present a
large-scale assault on students’ already
scare free time?

“I’m just confidant that the right
people were on board to work through
these concerns,” said Jeff Franks '07. “Af-
ter all, who knows more about wasting
time than the SGA?”

Dear readers: Last issue THE YOWL,
your Davidsonian Humor Section, ran
this picture of the sign marking the en-
trance to first West parking lot, which had
remained on campus for a whole five
months despite West’s rededication as
Tomlinson last fall. Fortunately, within
just days of publication, the sign was re-
moved. Actually, we're told it was hit by a
car. But in any event, we must suspect a
new one will be up soon—to confirm for
all that Mr. Tomlinson was in fact not jok-
ing about the whole building rededication
thing. Come to think of it, we bet he’d
even thank us. You’re welcome, Nelson!

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Tom Anstrom
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan
Erin Thompson

Students with story. suggestions or
interested in writing should contact the
editor at coeagan@davidson.edu

