THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDpDNESDAY, Marcu 31, 2004 3

ATC approves funding
for Goldberg lecture

By Joun HELMs
Staff Writer

At the SGA meeting on Thursday, the ATC
proposed several expenditures.

* One of the more notable items on the ATC’s
list was the approval of funding for guest
speaker, Jonah Goldberg, of the National Re-
view, to come to Davidson on April 7.

The proposal asked for $1,500 to go towards
the $6,510 that is needed to bring Goldberg to
campus. The original amount requested was
for the full $6,510.

Some suggested that the rest of money be
raised from sources such as the Union Board,
but the Union Board is not planning to allocate
any more funds until after the Ben Folds con-
cert in April.

SGA senator Jack Hubbard’ 06 emphasized
the need for more conservative speakers on
campus. “There is a drought of conservative
speakers on campus,” he said.

The speaker was invited and paid for by the
College Republicans. The overall impression
was that the members of SGA wanted assur-
ance that they were dealing with funding for
the College Republicans in the same way that

they allocate funds for the Young Democrats.

Little opposition to the proposal was ex-
pressed when the vote was taken. Most of the
SGA members voted for the proposed funding
and a few voted against it or abstained from
voting.

“Tam very pleased that Mr. Goldberg will be
coming this month,” Hubbard. “I think SGA

made the right decision and I stand by my vote.” »

Jonah Goldberg of the National
Review .

Category II Election Results

SGA Senior President
Claire DeBord

Senior Senators
Maria

Tess Leppert

B CCl \

SGA Junior President
Jack Hubbard

Junior Senators
Annie Butler

anh ot pap oes ee D:
Cnristina bDOYEeE

SGA Sophomore
President

|

lac Skelton

Sophomore Senators
Bill Moore
Wilson McCrory

Senior Honor Council
Megan Lyle

Junior Honor Council

David Crane

Oliver Foley

Sophomore Honor
Council
Joel Hewett
Bryant Kirkland

Elizabeth Ireland

_ Trespassing incidents raise
questions about college policy

By ZaAcH Kazior

Staff Writer

Five incidents of trespassing in the last seven
months have raised questions over whether
there is an official policy about non-Davidson
people coming onto the campus.

According to Campus Police Chief Foun-
tain Walker, Dean of Students Tom Shandley,
and Associate Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano, there are no policies that prohibit
a visitor from coming on campus, as long as
they are law-abiding and don’t cause distur-
bance.

However, President Bobby Vagt describes
college policy a little more strictly. “‘Solicita-
tion of students on campus is strictly forbid-

, den,” he said.

Vagt said, “We like to be generally open to
the community to the extent that it doesn’t
impinge upon the students and faculty.”

There are a large number of visitors on this
campus every week, said Shandley, especially
with admissions tours, concerts, and other
events going on all the time.

Although there is no official policy concern-
ing visitors in general, there is a 72 hour/4 nights

‘a month limit to how long a guest may stay in

a residence hall. Furthermore, any guest is the
responsibility of the hosting student.

Dean Marsicano believes that it is a good
thing that the college has no policy limiting the
amount of visitors on campus.

Marsicano said that we would be isolating
ourselves from the world and all the interest-
ing and challenging people in it if we were to
limit visitors.

“We can hardly train students for lives of
leadership and service if they never experience
the world they are training to lead and serve.

As acommunity, we are willing to accept some
risk of dangerous or dishonest people coming
to campus because that is the only way we can
let the interesting, inspiring non-Davidson
people have access to the campus.

“We can all work together with the Campus
Police to limit the risk,” Marsican said.

The Honor Code, Marsicano said, is both
aspirational and realistic, articulating what we
hope and strive for, but at the same time recog-
nizing that humans make mistakes and requir-
ing that violators be turned in.

Students must appreciate the special free-
doms the Honor Code affords, while at the same
time taking common sense steps to protect
themselves, such as locking rooms and mak-
ing sure valuables are safe.

Walker said that students can do a lot to pre-
vent trespassing by communicating suspicions
to the police.

“Information sharing is very important to law
enforcement agencies as well as the communi-
ties they serve. We are better able to locate
individuals suspected of criminal activity or
charged criminally,” Walker said.

Walker said that it is the goal of the Campus
Police to promote and provide a safe environ-
ment for the campus community as well as
Visitors.

To be consistent, sometimes even relatively
harmless visitors are asked to leave. Recently
Vagt told Walker, “The ice cream man on cam-
pus has got to go.”

“The Public Safety and Police Department
encourages collaboration and participation of
students, faculty, and staff to identify such
persons so that this Department can resolve any
issues if they exist,” said Walker.

see Trespassing, page 4

Rape Awareness Week

April 1-8, 2004

Thursday April 1st:

Carnations will be placed around
dorms to represent victims of
rape or sexual assaults that occurred there.

Tuesday April 6th:
Take Back the Night

7:30 in the 900 Room

Take Back the Night is a forum where women and
men who have been raped or sexually assaulted are
given the opportunity to speak about
their experience. It is a large step in the healing
process for many individuals. If you are a survivor
of rapeor sexual assault and wish to share your story,

please email either
bedashabebdavidsotedu, krlothman @davidson.edu,

or geringle@davidson.edu to get more information.
Thursday April 8th:
“No Visible Bruises"

7 pm in the 900 Room
part of the Bean Bag Series

Rape Awareness Week is sponsored by
the Rape Awareness Committee and RLO.

