14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 22, 2004

Se

Women’s Cross Country competes well at Wake Forest

Kelly Fillnow places ninth
for ‘Cats against ranked
UNC and Wake teams

By Pierce TRUMBO
Staff Writer

Amidst high expectations for a successful
2004 season, the women’s cross country team
opened up the new campaign this past Satur-
day in Winston-Salem at the Wake Forest In-
vitational. There, the Wildcats squared off
against four other squads, including nation-
ally ranked teams rom UNC-Chapel Hill and

Wake Forest.

Kelly Fillnow ’05 led the charge for the
’Cats, placing ninth overall with a time of
18:04. She was followed by Brenna Burns ’08
(18:31, 13th), Brittany Crawford ’08 (18:41,
18th). Rounding out of the top six were; Annie
O’Donnell ’08 (19:24, 29th), Meghan Fillnow
’05 (19:26; 30th), and Anna Brew ’05 (19:30,
31st).

As a team, the women placed fourth out of
a field of five teams, a respectable showing
considering the strength of thejr opponents.
UNC won the event, beating the host Demon
Deacons, who placed second.

The freshmen, in their first collegiate race,
made an immediate impact as Burns,
Crawford, and O’ Donnell all placed in the top

six for the team. O’ Donnell in particular was
impressive in the meet, shattering her previ-
ous personal best by 45 seconds. Said Brew
of the team “There is no established pecking
order,” implying that the same runners will

not be consistently finishing in the same -
_ places. This ability to change, interchange, and

improve appears to be an important compo-
nent to the team’s.chances for success this
season. _ :

In general, reaction from the meet was posi-
tive. As the team’s first official 5K, the rela-
tively hilly course at Wake Forest provided a
glimpse of what conditions the squad may see
later in tlie season, and even what they may
experience competition-wise as they advance

‘into the postseason. Co-captain Ashley

Veteran defensive backs ‘click’ as a squad

By Bossy DEMuro
Staff Writer

There are few positions on the football field
that can be as nerve-wracking as being a de-
fensive back. For the defensive backfield unit
at Davidson this fall, that is all the more rea-
son to fall back on each other as a unit.

“They’re a tight bunch and have worked
hard together — they push one another,” says
head coach Mike Toop.

Luckily this year, there are more than
enough veterans, including three seniors, three
juniors, to lead this group on the field.

“Our [upperclassmen] have been through a
lot together, and they all have quite a bit of
game experience. These guys know what we
expect of them and they also expect a lot out
of each other,” says defensive backs coach
Ryan Crawford ’00.

Crawford should know a thing or two about
the position; he played in the defensive
backfield at Davidson and then went on to
have a successful professional career before
returning to lead the defensive backfield as a
coach.

Learning from Crawford and experiencing
the game together has brought the unit’s vet-
erans to a new level.

“T think the biggest and most important rea-
son that this group ‘clicks’ as a unit is the lead-

ership of the upperclassmen. All of these guys

are very unselfish and will do whatever we
ask them to do to help the team,” Crawford
adds.

Hazards of the job

Attitudes like this are a necessity for the
demands of the job. As a defensive back, these
Cats are the last line of defense before the end
zone.

“Throughout the course of a football game,
chances are you are going to get beat at least

once. The next play is coming in 25 seconds, .

so you quickly have to move on because once
a team thinks they can beat you on a certain
route, they will definitely come back at you,”
says defensive back Zack Drozda ’05.

A common theme in their talk seemed to be
of a ‘short memory.’

As Yeatts Anderson ’06 said,“A short
memory makes a DB successful. You get beat
and everybody sees it. You have to forget about
it and play the next play. Preparation is the
key to success. Watch film and learn what to
expect from the guys lining up across from
you. The hard part is getting yourselt into a
Position to make a play; once you’re there it’s
easy.”

Not only is a short memory key, but quick
feet are a necessity.

“It’s different in that you have to back pedal,
which is essentially running backwards. Ev-
eryone else on the field has the advantage of
running forwards,” says Frankie Jones ’05.

In terms of athleticism and confidence,
Anderson adds, “When you play DB, espe-
cially corner, you’re out on an island by your-

ee

Kevin Saunders ’05 calls all the plays on defense. The hard-hitting
free safety leads a veteran backfield that could dominate this year.

self. There’s not a lot of help on the outside
and you have to make plays because you are
the last line of defense.”

Teamwork

Without help from their secondary mates,
not to mention the rest of the defense, the po-
sition would be even more difficult.

“Luckily, we play a lot of zone coverage
where we all work together and pass routes
off [to each other],” says Drozda.

Leadership and working together under that
leadership can make this unit be as success-
ful as it wants to be.

“The free safety, Kevin Saunders ’05, is the
quarterback of the secondary and the defense
as a whole,” says Anderson. “He makes the
calls and we play what comes out of his mouth.
We’re lucky this year to have a lot of experi-
ence in the defensive backfield, and we’ ve all
been around each other for a while so we gel
together nicely and know what to expect.”

Clearly, Saunders’ role is an important if
not often overlooked one; though he may not
look like a quarterback, he has the same re-
sponsibilities on the other side of the ball.

“We have to talk and call out routes,” says
Jones. “[Saunders] gets us lined up every play
and calls out the coverages. Free safety is the
toughest job on: defense because you have to
get everyone else lined hy as well as make
plays.”

Crawford realizes how good his secondary
could be this year. With the hard-working vet-
eran presence on which to feed, “I challenge
these guys to be great and to have confidence
in themselves and their ability. That’s what I
try and relate to my guys more than anything.
We have some great athletes in our secondary

and once they realize how good they can be,
then the sky is the limit,” Crawford says.

Keys to success
' Although the season has not started off as
intended, or expected, Crawford, Toop, and
the unit as a whole have reason to be optimis-
tic and excited. With this much of a veteran

presence in the defensive backfield, success

could easily come as the Wildcats get deeper
into the season.

When asked, Toop said success would de-
pend on, “pass rush and an improvement in
basic defensive back play — reading the proper
keys, maintaining proper leverage and better
communication.”

Crawford also had specific goals in mind
for success in the rest of the season. “‘The big-
gest key for us this year to effectively stop the
pass will be consistency,” Crawford noted.

“We have experienced players who know
the defense and understand how they will be
tested. We have to come to play every week
and make all of the plays we are supposed to
make. Then, we also have to find a way to
make some plays that weren’t necessarily de-
signed for us to make.”

The unit as a whole realizes the importance

of a good showing in the coming weeks and

its impact on their goal of winning a Pioneer
Football League crown.

Though team mistakes and miscues as a
whole have had negative consequences the
past two weeks. in Wildcat losses, the veter-
ans in the defensive backfield realize the need
to take it up a notch and play a complete foot-
ball game. Perhaps the home opener this week-
end will be the game when it all comes to-
gether.

Griffith ’05 called the meet “a strong perfor-
mance,” and her counterpart, Brew ’05, also
noted the teamwork displayed in the season-
opening race.

_ Both captains agreed that the meet will serve
as building block for the’ rest of, the season.
According to Brew, head coach Jen Straub has

" been stressing to the players that they should

“believe that we are as good as we are.” Said
an optimistic Griffith, “Overall, [the outlook
for this season is] exciting with a lot of new
people and a ton of talent.”

The women will continue training this week
before heading off to Bethlehem, Pa. for the
Paul Short Run at Lehigh University on Sat-
urday. The men’s cross country team will also
run at Lehigh this weekend.

3), ‘and turnovers and peonenens: contin-
ued to plague the team as they fell to.0-2 af-
tera26-3loss..

The tone of the game was set early after a
promising. drive to the 15 yard-line ended
with a fumble by wide receiver Brett
Dioguardi *07. The ’Cats defense held, forc-
ing the Bears to punt the ball away, but the
resulting ” Cats drive again ended

