4 _ THE DAvIDSONIAN

Survey, from page 1

“We won’t know for another twenty years,”
Thornberry said.

In comparison to comparable liberal arts
schools, especially those in the Northeast,
Davidson has a much higher level of political
diversity.

According toa survey compiled by Williams
College’s student newspaper, the Williams
Record, an overwhelming 78.4 percent of stu-
dents intended to vote for Kerry, compared to
only 13.6 percent for Bush and 5.6 percent
undecided.

President Bobby Vagt said there are many
advantages to having strong political diversity
on campus.

However, he said that students should strive
to avoid the “common tendency, at Davidson
and in our society at large, to interact only with
those whose opinions mimic our own.”

“] think the level and intensity of interaction
is much more intense when there is difference
in points of view,” Vagt said. “I also believe
that stark differences force us to think more
clearly about what we believe and why. We are
not going to get by with the easy answer that
we might if we lived in a group that is homog-
enous in its opinions.”

Skinner said that the survey results alone are
only a superficial measure of political diver-
sity on campus.

“Diversity is more than just balanced ra-
tions,” he said. “Having people with many
different backgrounds and beliefs is important,
but that cannot be represented in a three way
political party breakdown. There are important
differences within these groups.”

Satisfied with the political discourse on cam-
pus, Bill Riggs ’05 said that the wide ideologi-
cal spectrum of Davidson reflects the spirit of
the liberal arts education.

“With a solid representation of Democrats
and Republicans oncampus, we are able to look
at our country and the international commu-

NEws

nity through several different lenses,” said
Riggs.

High levels of activity among political
groups on campus and organized events such
as student debates and faculty panels explor-
ing political issues have helped increase po-
litical discourse on campus.

“There are very articulate people on both
sides,” Thornberry said. “Here at Davidson, to
some degree, we listen to one another. In the
nation as a whole, that isn’t happening right
now and that is really hurting our country.”

“T think there has been a great growth in

60% pe

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

Political affiliation of Davidson students
over the past three years

(m Democrats
he Republicans
\OIndependents

political dialogue among students on campus,”
Lauren Martin ’05 said. “Events like the de-
bates help keep the elections a high profile
topic.”

Other topics that the survey addressed in-
cluded the war on Iraq, gay marriage, interest
in current events and general political knowl-
edge.

According to the survey, 15 percent of stu-
dents did not know how many four year terms
the President of the U.S. can serve.

Sixteen percent did not know which party
has the most members in the House of Repre-
sentatives.

Even more shocking, 44 percent of the stu-
dent body answered the following question
incorrectly: “In general, thinking about politi-
cal parties in Washington, would you say that
Democrats are more conservative than Repub-
licans or Republicans are more conservative
than Democrats?”

Dr. Pat Sellers, who conducted the survey
with the students of his “Public Opinion” class,
suggested that the reason for the large number
of incorrect responses to the question might be
that many Davidson students who don’t fol-
low politics closely are simply most familiar
with conservative Democrats or liberal Repub-
licahs.

“Tf you turned on the TV and saw Zell Miller
speaking as a Democrat you might think all
Democrats think like him,” said Sellers, refer-
ring to the conservative Democratic senator
from Georgia who spoke at the Republican
National Convention.

Yet overall Sellers was not upset by the po-
litical knowledge results.

THursDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

“T don’t find it particularly troubling because
Davidson students are generally. well in-
formed,” he said. “They just may know more
about topics other than politics.”

However, other members of the administra-
tion and faculty were not as understanding of
the political knowledge results.

“T am more than a bit stunned by the figures
about political awareness,” Vagt said. ““There’s
no excuse, really. Each of us bears a responsi-

‘bility to know what is going on around us, and
not being aware of presidential term limits is
one example of what all of us should know
well” Vagt said.

Riggs said that he thinks overall students are
well informed politically.

He also cites the addition of cable to the dorm
rooms has enable students to have greater ac-
cess to the main media outlets for up to the
minute news.

“Even still,” he said. “Many Davidson stu-
dents are more concerned with the Red Sox
winning the World Series.”

The survey was distributed toarandom sam-
pling of half the student body.

Approximately one fourth of the student
body, 481 students, responded to the survey.

The margin of error for the survey was plus
or minus 3.85 percent.

To elicit the most accurate and representa-
tive responses possible, the students in Seller’s
class used the same procedures that profes-
sional pollsters use in writing survey questions.

Although no survey can be perfect, Sellers
said that the results of the survey do provide an
accurate representation of Davidson’s student
body. : .

| i. :
202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.

, 704-892-0604

