Rs

Staff Editorial

Race relations
without relations

Davidson takes great pride in the ability of its graduates to
communicate effectively. So why is it on the issue of race it
seems like we’re talking past each other?

On Monday, Davidson students and members of the commu-
nity commemorated the memory of Rev. Dr: Martin Luther King,
Jr., through small group discussions, panel debates and speak-
ers. The day’s events challenged students to think about and
propose solutions for improving race relations on campus.

Yet when some voiced an unpopular opinion, understanding
and openness seemed to crumble before our eyes.

In Monday night’s panel discussion the speaker opposing
affirmative action became subject to intense and disruptive
criticism. Regardless of his ability - or inability, as it turned out
- to articulate a single point supporting his position in the de-
bate, the disrespect shown to Mr. Moxley may have deterred
future dialogues on race relations.

Discussions on race almost always make for prickly conver-
sations. Within the Davidson bubble, students tend to find even
more security by seeking out groups with which they can easily
identify with — bubbles within the everlasting Bubble, if you
will. Discussions on race disrupt this perfectly tranquil world
by requiring all students to essentially pop their own bubbles,
step beyond their comfort zones and speak candidly to their
peers about a topic not usually brought up over sodas and tur-
key grinders at the Union Cafe.

Yet only after individuals on both sides of the issue feel com-
fortable taking risks can they step outside their protective
bubbles and begin a true dialogue. When that dialogue evolves
into consensus between the preacher and his or her choir, like
so often happens during conversations on race, little is accom-
plished other than scaring away the very people who should
make their voices heard.

After witnessing the atmosphere of Monday’s discussion,
many students may now run back to their comfort zones and
deadlock the door. Why put themselves on the line, they ask.
How can scaring away the other side possibly lead to positive
results?

For a successful dialogue to take place, both parties need to
feel comfortable expressing their views. A one sided debate
does little to alleviate the obvious problems of race at Davidson.
Until we are all willing to listen to one another, regardless of
how much we may agree or disagree, we will never see past our
differences.

After all, what is a discussion on race relations if there are no
relations?

The Bavidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIB] ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David:Crow
Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll. & Amee Patel
News Editors
Darcie Draudt & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams
Arts. & Living Editors
Canrion Hodge & Chris‘Schmader
Sports Editors
Peter Allison &Mike Giglio

IA DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

Patent Sweater

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 21, 2004

Ali Fitzgerald —

es THIS YEAR

WILL ‘Ge “DIFFERENT-
NO MORE “CREEPY!” CLANCY
OR DIRK THe “DRIP!

Vo ‘bu Smee Thar DIRK 7
THATS THE SWEET AROMA
OF & NEW ‘SCHoo, YEAR.

P
“You WERE SAYING )
NOSTRADAMUS 7

(Gesu VRIPPY .

WeRe GOING To meer
NEW PEORE, MAY GE EVEN
rte A CHEERLEADER on 2
YESSIR, SOCIAL Success
iS IN THe AR. -

How the Bike Cop
saved Christmas

Among friends and family, forgetfulness has become my
trademark. My most recent fiasco, however, did not run so
smoothly. This incident occurred at the home of my aunt and
uncle, in Dallas, the night before I was scheduled to leave for
Indonesia. My family has resided in Indonesia for a year and
a half now. I couldn’t waitt& see them.

Now, bear in mind, at this point I was pretty cocky. I mean,
let’s be honest here. I was a Davidson college student; I had just
finished exams and thought, as we like to say at Davidson, “I
had everything together.” But you know what; God always had
a way of humbling those He loves.

My amazing friend Katherine
Sorrell had flown in from Houston
that night, ready to make the trip with
me. Around 10:30 that night,
Katherine casually said, “Oh, I think
I'll photo copy my passport.” “That’s
a great idea,” I thought, “I'll do the

i same.” Before leven moved towards
the door I suddenly became very nauseous. I had forgotten my
passport. Only the single most important thing I needed to take
with me. As usual, traveling with Ashley is never without some
sort of a crisis.

I decided to call the Davidson College Police and ask some-
one on night duty to go into my dorm room and hunt down my
passport. After explaining my bizarre story, a kind policeman
offered to search my room and found my passport. “Thank you,
thank you!” I cried. Then, in an explosion of disbelief I cried,
“Oh my gosh sir, you don’t understand, I love you, I love you,
I love you! I will find some way to pay you back.” “Just tell
everyone that Bike Cop helped you out,” he quietly replied.

Over the phone, he volunteered to personally deliver my
passport to the airport after his shift ended at 6:00 am. Sherry,
my aunt, and I awoke at 6:00 the next morning to the phon
ringing. I had overslept.

“Of course,” I thought, “why should anything else go
smoothly now?” I heard Bike Cop on the line, explaining that

the passport was on its way to Dallas. “Well, how did it go?” .

Sherry asked. She received nothing more than a simple, “Oh,
just fine.” Sherry inquired, “Did you have any trouble?” He
reluctantly replied that American Airlines had asked him to stand
in two wrong lines before he could finally put the passport on
a counter.

“Ts that all?” Sherry persisted, “Did you have to pay a fee?”
“Oh, just a small one,” bike cop shyly answered. At this point
I could see Sherry losing a bit of patience. Why wouldn’t this
man tell her the details? Finally, Sherry pried the truth out of
the silent hero. As it turns out, this man also personally paid a
shipping tax of $70 to ensure the passport arrived in Dallas.

When I heard the news, I grabbed the phone and assured him
we would be repaying him for this sum of money. No matter
how much I insisted, he quietly replied, ““We’re not going to
have any of that, it’s Christmas. Have a good trip.”

When I hung up the phone, Sherry and I shared a few mo-
ments of silence. Bike cop never had any intention of acknowl-
edging his sacrifices. If Sherry’s inquisitive nature had not taken
over, the truth about long lines or money from his wallet would
never have surfaced.

“What kind of a person would be willing to do that?” I asked.
Sherry just shrugged her shoulders. So, Katherine and I boarded
a plane, and I spent a wonderful Christmas break with my fam-
ily. All of this happened due to the sacrifice and humility of one
person. By the way, he may be knownas bike cop, but his name
is Sergeant Williams.

Ashley Willis 06

Teach For America
coming to Davidson

During the week of January 26 through January 30, Teach
For America will be hosting a “Blitz Week” on campus with
four Davidson and Teach For America alumns to help publicize
the final application deadline on February 15.

The four alumns returning to campus are Kendra Berner ’02,
Adam Brown ’02, Aaliyah El Amin ’00 and Alyssa Sinclair
’03, and they will be busy all week presenting to classes and
student organizations, hosting lunches and meeting with stu-
dents interested in Teach For America.

Also, Aaliyah El Amin will be speaking about Teach For
America and her personal experience at an Information Ses-
sion on Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:00 pm in the Sprinkle Room.

All of our alums are looking forward to their return to
Davidson and are excited about sharing their Teach For America
experiences with all of you.

Please join them at the Information Session or one of the
many other events that will be publilcized around campus this
week.

If you would like to meet individually with one of the alums
or have any questions about Teach for America or “Blitz Week,”
please contact us (Elizabeth Devlin at e/devlin @ davidson.edu,
X6614 or Mary Carpenter at macarpenter@davidson.edu,
X6577), your Teach For America recruiters on campus. And
make sure to check out the Teach For America website at
www.teachforamerica.org where you will find general infor-
mation about the movement, corps member stories and the Teach
For America application.

Elizabeth Devlin ‘04

Ths new classroom iS
| SO technically Qadvanced,

FE cant figureour now
Get The Nonts back on. |
pany ideds? 4

’ Does this mean! ee
peice Cancelling class?

