2 Tue DavipsonIAN | NEws
Davidson celebrates Muslim

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

holiday with feast, lecture

By ADAM MartTIN
News Editor

Over 100 people crowded into the Davidson
Guest House last Sunday evening to celebrate
the Muslim holiday, ’Eid Al-Fitr (the Festival
of Fast-Breaking).

The three-day festival, beginning with the
appearance of the new crescent moon, marks
the end of Ramadan, the holy month of fasting.

Most of those in attendance were not Mus-
lim.

“It was magnificent, all the people that
showed up,” said Al-Mazrui, president of the
Muslim Student Association (MSA).

“T really felt diversity encouraged.”

There are only about 14 students currently
in the MSA, a student group that began last
year. .

Yet, a diverse array of students, administra-
tors, faculty, staff, townspeople and their fami-
lies gathered for the feast of home-cooked
Lebanese food and the lecture given by Pro-
fessor of Religion William Mahony. Several
Davidson faculty and staff have Muslim
spouses, who also came to celebrate.

“I’m really struck by how many different
people from the community are here,” said
College News Director Bill Giduz, who was
not there on official college business.

The celebration was collaboratively spon-
sored by the Middle-Eastern Cross Cultural
Association (MECCA), the MSA, Davidson’s
Chaplain’s Office, and Interfaith.

Last year, the MSAsponsored a similar event
in the Guest House that turned out about 40
people. Due to this year’s large showing,

MECCA President David Jemison’ 04 and Al-
Mazruisaid they hope to move to the 900 room
next year, a more accommodating location.

However, the long, slow line for food didn’t
dampen the spirit of Dean of Students Tom
Shandley.

“Look at this, I just love this!”

The man behind the food was Bassam
Halaweh, who spent over 13 hours cooking,
mostly by himself, for the approximately 100
guests that RS VPed.

“The best reward was to see people’s faces
and their appreciation,” said Halaweh.

A former restaurant owner, Halaweh in-
cluded his own lamb recipes as well as tradi-
tional Lebanese dishes of falafel, hummus, and
tabouli. Al-Mazrui, David Jemison ’04, and
Nabil Ismail ’08 helped cook some through-
out the day. Around $700 worth of food was
cooked, including one whole lamb and a half.

Mahony’s lecture was entitled

“There Is Wonderful Laughter and Prob-
ably Precious Tears’: The Opening into Divine
Love in Sufi Islam.” He spoke about the move-
ment from Ramadan into Eid, as a movement
from atime of “spiritual discipline inthe desert”
to a time of “divine celebration, allowing an
opening to divine love.”

He read and spoke about poems by Sufi
mystic, Shams ud-din Muhammad. In Islam,
there are 100 names for Allah, or God. The
poems Mahony read focused on two names for
God: The Beloved and The Inner.

Ismail said if he were home for the holidays
in the United Arab Emirates (country on the
tip of the Arabian peninsula, on the Persian Gulf

_see Eid Al-Fitr, page 3

11/12 Martin Court Fire Alarm

Officer responded to a fire alarm activation at approximately 7 p.m. at Jamison. Student
stated that the alarm was activated-when the student accidentally burnt a sandwich.

11/12 Martin Court Drinking Game

Reporting officer was advised there was a drinking game in progress on a balcony of
Jamison at 10:30 p.m. On arrival reporting officer took pictures and had students dismantle

the game.

11/14 Little Library Property Theft

Student reported that his laptop computer was stolen from the 24 hour room in the li-
brary. The laptop was last seen on November 12 at 3 p.m. and was found to be missing on

November 14 at 2 p.m.

11/14 Patterson Court Alcohol Poisoning

Student was found passed out on the back of the Phi Delta Theta house and was trans-

ported to Lake Norman Hospital.

11/14 Satellite Parking Lot Drunk Driving

Officer observed a truck spinning its tires in the satellite parking lot. Officer arrived at

the vehicle just as the driver was exiting. Driver had a strong odor of alcohol on his breath
and was unsteady on his feet. Driver said he has consumed three beers. When officer asked
if they were 40 oz. beers, the drive said they were “way bigger than that.” Driver failed
two out of three sobriety tests taken at that time and was instructed not to drive for the rest
of the night.

11/15 Little Library Property Theft

Officer spoke with student who stated that she left her laptop computer in the library
around 9:30 p.m. November 13. When she returned to the library, her computer was gone.

11/15 Chambers Building © Handing Out Flyers

a

Around 12:30 p.m., officer responded to a call saying a woman was handing out candy
and “love” pledge cards to try and get students to abstain from sex until marriage. Officer
advised her she was not allowed to pass out the cards without permission and she left.

