is

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OST ™

Senior Staff Writer

Boasting eight teams among the top-S0 in
the nation, the Southeastern Conference is
arguably the strongest in collegiate women’s
tennis. Last Wednesday, Davidson went head-
to-head with No. 47 South Carolina in Co-
lumbia and garnered newfound confidence in
putting up a fight in the Gamecocks’ first
match of the season.

Though the 7-0 final score seems lopsided,
the numbers do not reflect the positives that
came out of the match for the Wildcats.

Davidson got off to a great start in the
doubles competition, taking early leads of 3-
2, 5-2, and 3-2, respectively, in all three
matches. But South Carolina fought back, with
the three Gamecock doubles teams combin-
ing to win 18 out of the next 19 games and
steal the doubles point from the Wildcats.
Despite losing all three matches, Davidson’s
competitiveness illustrates the team’s im-
mense doubles talent.

“We put a scare into them at the beginning,”
commented head coach Caroline Price, “but
[South Carolina] started making adjustments
and converting opportunities.”

In singles, the Wildcats had mixed results,
with some matches more competitive than
others. Most encouraging of the singles com-
petition was junior Meggie Patterson’s per-
formance at the number two slot. After spend-
ing the fall studying abroad, Patterson has been
steadily regaining the form that carried her to
a 14-7 record at number two singles last sea-
son. Patterson lost the first set 6-3 and fought
hard to force a third before losing the second
set 7-5.

Price called the match “a great opportunity
for Meggie to gauge her level of play at this
early stage of the season.”

Other highly competitive singles matches
for the Wildcats included junior Meghan
Fillnow’s 6-4, 6-3 loss at number three and
senior Katherine Hatch’s 6-4, 6-2 defeat at the
sixth position. Davidson earned praise from
South Carolina for the hard-fought match, with
the Gamecocks head coach describing the
Cats as “a good team” and “scrappy.”

Price praised the team’s effort as well: ““We
were able to stay on the court and compete

photo by Willis Glasgow
Katherine Hatch ’04 is the lone senior on a young and talented team.

Women’s tennis drops two
of three after strong start

By Erik SWANSON

with them, but they were just a little more tal-
ented and a little stronger than we were.”
The women had little time off following
their effort against South Carolina. On Friday
afternoon, they departed for Virginia Com-
monwealth University in Richmond and the
VCU 4-1 Women’s Tennis Invitational. An
unusual format (each match consists only of
four singles matches and one doubles match
played simultaneously), the tournament fea-

tured round-robin competition between ten.

schools representing several conferences.
Davidson was scheduled to play only two
matches, both on Saturday. In the morning,

- the Wildcats kicked off the day’s competition

against Campbell. They were sluggish out of
the gates, though, and despite winning the
doubles match fairly easily, Davidson fell to
the Camels 3-2.

The Wildcats entered the match feeling con-
fident about their chances, but their slow start
gave Campbell the boost of confidence they
needed to stay in the match and upset the fa-
vored Davidson team. Even in the disappoint-
ing loss, Coach Price remained optimistic:
“We didn’t play as well as we know we can,
and we still almost pulled it off.”

The afternoon match pitted Davidson
against George Mason University, a much
easier test for the Wildcats, who emerged vic-
torious with a 5-0 win.

Simply put, Davidson was much sharper in
its execution in this match.

Notable achievements from the victory were
the contributions from Kate Levitt ’07 and
Shelby Rooke ’07, who continue to perform
well as they gain experience on the collegiate
level.

After a couple of days of ups and downs,
the Wildcats will have a full week to recuper-
ate and prepare for their next stern test of the
season, ACC representative N.C. State.

” “We feel like we belong on the court with
[these top teams],” remarked Price. “The key
is to seize the opportunities we get.”

Like South Carolina, N.C. State is another
major conference team that the Wildcats have
not played in recent years. The willingness of
larger, more renowned tennis programs to play
Davidson this year speaks to the ’Cats talent.

“Apparently now we’re scrappy and wor-
thy,” joked Price.

o
MER are a Mea ee RTE i ENT REE AMES SEAL ARE a

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

For the first time all season,
both swim teams get the W

After a stellar weekend, teams look for repeat in CAAs

By ASHLEIGH FINN

Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s swim teams trav-
eled to Radford, Virginia this past weekend
and created a huge upset by defeating both
VMI and Radford in their last meet of the sea-
son. The men thrashed VMI 153 to 76, while
the women’s victory was just as impressive at
179-72.

Led by captains Robert Koch ’04 and
Charlie Hunter ’04, the men were victorious
irralmost all of their individual events and set
six season-best times. Hunter won the 100 fly
and Koch won both the 100 and 200 free,
breaking his former season best times in both
events.

In addition, Charlie Raver ’07, Jamie
Hopkins ’07, Steve Tolson 06, and Adam
Secrest ’06 all won their individual events.
Raver and Hopkins both won in the 50 free.
Tolson was first in the 100 back and Secrest
won his 100-yard breaststroke event. Michael
Flowers ’05 has made an impressive come-
back after returning from a fall semester
abroad. He placed second in both the 500 and
1000 free, trailing his opponents by seconds
on the clock.

The victory was “especially rewarding near
the end of a tough season,” commented Koch.
“We dominated the meet and everyone con-
tributed. Ending the regular season on a high
note will help us carry momentum to the
championship meet and post some impressive
performances. We have put in the work all
season, SO now it is time to really enjoy it all
and make our final mark in the conference.”

| HAD THE
SAME QUESTIONS.

Can ! get my MBA without
a business degree?

Can | study abroad?
Can | afford it?

Can i reach my ¢

After a-stellar weekend against UNC
Wilmington, Old Dominion and William
&Mary in which the Davidson women de-
feated all three teams, the women stayed
strong versus Radford. They won all of their
individual events except one. Eli Trefzger ’07
and Brigit Barry ’07 placed first in the 200
and 100 free, respectively. Sophomore Kristen
Shields’ strength and endurance as a distance
swimmer enabled her to achieve victory in the
1000 free. Megan Hollar ’06, another top
underclass swimmer, won her 400 IM event
as well. Sara Laws ’04 was victorious in all
of her events, placing first in both the 200 IM
and the 500 free. Jenny Hoekstra ’05 (50 free)
and Vanessa Witt ’04 (100 breast) also placed
first in their individual events.

Co-captain Joanie Gidas ’04, who won the
100 fly, was excited about the team’s winning
season: “Radford was a great meet because
we were able to follow through with our wins
from the previous weekend to make our 6-5
winning record official. It has been our goal
for the past four years to have a winning sea-
son, and the whole team has put forth tremen-
dous effort to accomplish this. People swam
events that they don’t usually swim, and I think
we impressed ourselves with our versatility
in that respect.” ;

Co-captain Ashley Cain ’04 added, “We’re
all looking forward to CAAs at this point,
where we aim to place in the top three, and
we have a strong possibility of accomplish-
ing that goal”.

The men and women will travel to George
Mason on February 17 for the three-day Co-
lonial Athletic Association Championships.:

