12

By WILSON McCrory |
Sports Editor |

It came as no surprise last Sunday to see that
Vijay Singh had claimed yet another tournament
victory in 2004, this time beating lefty Mike
Weir in the Canadian Open after taking his first
lead of the tournament on the 72nd hole of play.

Singh has had a remarkable run this year,
winning six PGA events, including the 2004
PGA Championship, his third career major
championship win. The golfer from Fiji is the
leading money-winner on tour, will soon be
named Player of the Year, and recently stole
Tiger Woods’ 264-week reign as the number one
player in the world of golf. He finally overtook
Tiger’s reign by beating him head-to-head in
» the final round of the Deutsche Bank Champi-
onship two weeks ago.

His accomplishments are remarkable, espe-
cially for a 41-year old man that should be past
his prime. His swing looks effortless, and the
results are even better. Still, I am not rooting
_ for Vijay, nor will I cheer for Ernie Els or Phil
_ Mickelson.

THE WEEK AHEAD

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

At the risk of sounding too much like ESPN’s
The Sports Guy, I’m going to tell you about my
Fantasy League draft. Initially, I wasn’t going
to do it. After all, what do you care about my

friends and me?

_ But, then I realized all sports fans—well
' males at least—love fantasy sports. In fact, of
the roughly 15 million fantasy players, 93 per-
+ cent are males. What’s more, Sports Illustrated
| recently reported that only pornography is more
| profitable on the internet than fantasy sports.
© Now there’s a shocker. That’s like saying the
only thing more profitable than hookers in
Amsterdam are drugs. But, I’m getting side-
tracked here.

We had all agreed that the draft would begin

FOr Vou
SIDOIGES HBS, 5.
BROOKIE’

a testament to how little else happens in our
lives) we all arrived on time. If you told this
same group of guys to be anywhere else—say,
class—three would have been tardy, two would
have simply forgot, three more would have sent
an email with a bogus excuse and, inevitably,
one would have mistaken “class” for
“Brickhouse.”

Our team names speak volumes to the level
of maturity present that night. Imagine sending
a group of fourth-graders to sex-ed, then ask-
ing them to come up with the most offensive

» PICKS

sBele WEEK

OF

the week:

_ Field Hockey ' vs. Longwood
Sunday, 9/19 at 1:00
Belk Turf Field

The Wildes are Soll playing at home

By Drew BrRooKIE
Sports Editor

New York Yankees ace pitcher Kevin Brown
., recently punched a wall in frustration during a
_ game against the Orioles, breaking his hand and
putting him on the disabled list for the rest of
_ the season.
_ With the Boston Red Sox nipping at the Yan-
kees heels like Jack Russell terriers, Brown’s
injury could not have possibly come at a worse
time for the Yankees. Or, perhaps you are a Red

_ should join me by. sending thank you notes,
_ flowers, and “Don’t get well soon!” cards to
Brown.

At least, for the Yankees and Brown, the
pitcher thought enough to punch with his left,

pennant race, or when you work for George
Steinbrenner. Not when you get paid over 15
million dollars a year in order to throw a ball.
Not ever.

The Yankees are sliding fast. First, they
dropped from 10 1/2 games ahead of the Red
_ Sox to 2 1/2. When they lost Brown, the Yan-

SPORTS

by 8pm, and by some small miracle (or perhaps -

- Sox fan, such as myself, in which case you _

non-pitching hand. But you can’t do that ina |

kees had to promote Estaban (Where Have you. .

Admittedly, I have always been a big Tiger
Woods fan since he stormed onto the golf
scene with his record-setting victoryvat the
1997 Masters. He is everything golf could
have hoped for; a vivacious force who has the
star-power golfers have lacked for so many
years. When Tiger plays, people show up in

combination of.words they could, multiply this
by ten and you’re halfway to understanding
how our creative minds work. Somehow, sev-
eral of us have girlfriends.

Anyway, prior to the draft I had spent the
better part of an hour concocting a list of all
the NFL players that I knew. As a hockey and
baseball guy, creating said list was like Jes-
sica Simpson trying to prove Pythagorean’s
theorem. So I show up to the draft room proud
that I had actually named more than a handful
of guys at each major offensive position, only
to discover that everyone else had simply gone
to ESPN.com and printed the fantasy rankings.
I felt like Lloyd Christmas when he discovers
Harry Dunn went skiing with Mary
Swanson—completely heartbroken and ut-
terly betrayed. (If you don’t understand that
analogy stop reading now. Seriously, stop.)

I draw the eighth pick, so I must sit there
while my buddies employ the “‘best-available”
tactic, meaning they simply take the highest
ranked player on ESPN’s list. This coming
from a bunch of guys who none of you will
see on Sundays until early February.

And remember when you were little and
couldn’t sit still on car trips so you incessantly
asked, “‘Are we there yet?” Well, my buddies
have yet to evolve past that stage, so for two
hours all you heard was, “Is it my turn yet?” I
mean, it wasn’t exactly rocket-science: nine
guys pick in order, and then the ninth man

Gone) Loaiza and Brad (Who?) Halsey back

to into the starting rotation.

While Brown’s action was undoubtedly stu-
pid, I can think of some other baseball inju-
ries that far surpass Brown’s for idiocy. As
much as I would love to take the rest of this

Kevin Brown’s injury cost his
team greatly, but it wasn’t the
stupidest baseball injury ever.

column to berate Brown and the Yankees, it
would be much more amusing to see how
Brown’s injury ranks.among the stupidest ever.

. .Soletme create a comipletely-arbitrary new -

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 15, 2004

droves, and ratings storm skyrocket.

There is no coincidence that the PGA and
the game of golf in general have reached a
golden’era of success since the emergence of
Tiger. After his stunning success in the ’97
Masters and his subsequent rise to the top of
the golfing world, the PGA was able to nego-
tiate a new TV package that was twice as high
as the previous best. According to the Sport-
ing News, since Tiger’s arrival on the PGA
Tour, attendance, sponsor interest and tour-
nament purse money have all increased Ate:
matically.

Tiger is the frorit-man for Nike Golf, head-
lines his own EA Sports game, and makes
more than $50 million away from golf annu-
ally.

At the Wachovia Cup i in Charlotte this past
May, when people heard that Tiger was com-
ing, there was an immediate buzz about golf.
Tiger overtook Tar Heel basketball at the wa-
ter-cooler, if only for a week.

Woods is still the #2 player in the world

see e Woods, page 13

turns around and begins the next round. Yet
absolutely no one in the room could figure this
out. Davidson, a self-proclaimed “highly se-
lective” institution admitted these guys. You
tell me. Our draft finally ends with all of us
hating each other, and some guys hating their
teams.

Not me. You see, I adhere to a certain set of
guidelines when it comes to fantasy drafts.
First, never print a list; lists are for attendance
and food-shopping. You don’t show up to a
party with a list of girls to talk to; you just
pick and hope for the best. Same goes for fan-
tasy.

Second, as a Bostonian, never select a New
York Jet. Giants, though frowned upon, are
acceptable here, much like a Met would be
and not a Yankee.

Third, when in doubt go with Brett Favre.
The man was once addicted to pain-killers, so
there’s no way he gets injured. He has
ibuprofen coursing through his veins, and
that’s why he’s my backup QB.

Which leads me to my final point. When
Tom Brady is on the board in the 8th round,
do as Harry and Lloyd would: pick him up!
After all, you just never know when the guy
will go 26-for-38 for 335. yards and 3 TDs.
Sorry, Colts. And a heartfelt apology to my
friends. The league is back together and to
paraphrase Celtic great Larry Bird, “Who
wants second place?”

statistic called the Kevin Brown rating, start-
ing at five for number of fingers on his left
hand. I will also count down the five dumb-
est baseball injuries, with Brown’s just mak-
ing the list.

4. Earlier this year Sammy Sosa sneezed
his way onto the 15-day disabled list. The slug-

_ ger strained a ligament in his lower back after

suffering from a violent attack of the sneezles.
How coulda man that strong strain his back
sneezing? One popular theory is that he may
have had sawdust in his nose from carving bat
barrels he was corking.

When it actually happened, an embarrassed

Sosa said, “It would have been better if I had

run into a wall or had a fight with somebody.”
What about a fight with a wall? Kevin Brown
can attest that Sosa was wrong, it would not
have been better.

Kevin Brown Rating: 7

3. Back in 1990, another burly Guthielder,
Glenallen Hill, was sidelined by imaginary
spiders. No joke, the man was having a night-
mare about spiders, aid tried to run from the
creepy crawlies in his sleep. He fell through a

: _ see Brown, page 15
