THE DavIDSONIAN

Rowdy Cat Pack takes part.
in undefeated home record
Cat Pack comes to Davidson football next fall

By WALKER : Salk
_ Senior Staff Writer

In Case-you missed it, the Cat Pack has been
blowing up lately.

(That’s a good thing.)

From having a little fun with UNCG lead
coach Fran McCaffery (“Fran’s a girl’s name”)
to a little friendly taunting towards Western
Carolina’s diminutive, curly-haired point
(“FROOOO-DOOOO”) to mockery of the
Elon forward who wore a sock on his forearm
(“the SLEEVE!”), the Cat Pack has been fill-
ing up early and often to make that deciding
home-court advantage.

What’s the Cat Pack?

Well, a bunch of people (314 to be exact)
paid five bucks to get a sweet t-shirt, priority
seating behind the basket, and out-of-this-
world deals (i.e. free food at the Brickhouse).
Basically, it’s Wildcat Basketball at its best,
and students come out in droves to cheer their
team to victory.

But while it was nearly as much of a hit last
year during sign-ups, attendance began to
dwindle as the long season wore on.

This year seems to be different, though, as
recently-graduated John Marshall and the Cat
Pack Council have kept the ball rolling.

From paper signs haunting you at every
table to weekly e-mails for Davidson athletic
events to SGA-sponsored Wildcat Red Day,
the campus hasn’t had the chance to forget
about Davidson basketball.

And don’t forget the awesome deals.

Last year, the Brickhouse offered discounts
on game-day meals, but this year they’ve
opened the floodgates a little. Before last
week’s game, they offered free wings and
pizza to Cat Packers, and Marshall is work-
ing On more pre-game functions at the
Brickhouse for this Saturday’s game against
College of Charleston and Senior Night.

Marshall, who is now on staff with

Davidson athletics, gives a lot of the credit to
the newly-formed Cat Pack Council, consist-
ing of a number of wild and crazy students
who just want to pack the stands and make
some noise.

“The Cat Pack Council has really been the
driving force behind the club’s momentum this

- season,” said Marshall. “First of all;they gen-

erate ideas for anything that we use during the
games. For €xample, the posters that are now
in the lobby outside the arena during the games
came straight out of a meeting last week.”

That’s right. The Cat Pack is now provid-
ing markers and poster board for students to
make signs with. Ah .. . the ideas are endless
(but keep it clean; this is a family event!).

Mac Skelton ’07, a fellow Council mem-
ber, sees the Cat Pack as making up for the
rest of the subdued crowd.

“With maybe two or three exceptions, the
season-ticket holders are like spectators at a
golf tournament; they’ Il put down their drinks
or cell phones to clap a little after a three
pointer or a rare dunk, but that’s it,” said
Skelton. “That being the case, the Cat Pack
has to make a lot of noise to produce any kind
of energy in Belk Arena.”

The key thing to remember, though, is that
the Cat Pack is not just a group of kids sitting
down watching the game. It’s the only place
where perfect strangers are jumping over each
other, high-fiving, leading in cheers together,
and genuinely just having a good time.

Don’t think the Cat Pack is a one-hit ex-
travaganza. The women’s team, which is hav-
ing a terrific season, will hopefully feel the
brunt of the Cat Pack during a daytime double-
header on Valentine’s Day. Davidson football
wilf also have its own Cat Pack in the fall, a
project to be headed up by Skelton.

“Although it will take time, the goal of the
Cat Pack is eventually to promote school spirit
and enthusiasm for all the school’s sports,”
commented Skelton on the expansion. “But
until we can get students to come and be ex-
cited about basketball, which is unquestion-
ably the school’s most popular sport, it will
be hard to do the same for others.”

Don’t think that Marshall and the Cat Pack
Council is done with its trickery, though, as
Marshall admits to having “a couple cards up
our sleeve.” He puts it on the students to keep
up the effort, though.

“There is still a lot of room for the Cat
Pack’s improvement, but ninety percent of that
can be accomplished if students decide to
throw on their red, come to the game early,
get loud, and stay loud.”

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

“PANINI” $4.99

FERRUCCI'S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET

ops on the Green * 177@ Exit 28
piv 896- 3190 ° www. ferruccis. com

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

15

Photo by Willis Glasgow

Rob Haywood ’04 sets the tone for the tennis team at No. 1 singles.

Men’s tennis takes two of
three to start spring season

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Three months ago, the men’s tennis team
hosted three Southern Conference foes for the
Davidson/Jim Causey Invitational, and the
Wildcats came away from the weekend-long
tournament with solid results and renewed
confidence. In their first team competition
since, the ’Cats opened their spring campaign
last Saturday in Chapel Hill against North
Carolina, most likely the second toughest op-
ponent the Wildcats will face all season be-
hind South Carolina. While the results against
the Tar Heels, ranked 50th in the nation, do
not mirror the success Davidson experienced
three months ago, the Wildcats’ two subse-
quent wins in the following days started the
season Off in the right direction.

Facing a Chapel Hill team that is not as for-
midable as in years past, the Wildcats were
optimistic about their chances against the ACC
opponent.

The coaching staff believed that the ’Cats
would match up well with UNC in both singles
and doubles, with the Wildcats potentially
even the favorite to win the doubles point. In
their first match of the spring, though, the men
started slowly and were not able to catch up
to the experienced Tar Heels, ultimately los-
ing the match 7-0.

“Tt was our first match of the season, and
you could tell,” said assistant coach Scott
Briggs, commenting on the ’Cats’ overexcite-
ment and subsequent slow start.

The doubles matches especially exhibited
the Wildcats’ sluggishness, with all three
Davidson doubles teams falling behind early.
While each Davidson team fought hard to keep
the matches close, only Jonathan Britt ’04 and
Rob Gould ’04 prevailed, winning a tight
match at the number two position 9-7.

Davidson’s slow start carried into the
singles matches as well, with only one

Davidson player, Porus Jetli ’07 at the sixth
slot, winning a set. Rob Haywood ’04 faced
UNC’s Nick Monroe, ranked 23rd in the na-
tion, at the top position but was unable to rep-
licate his impressive three-set near upset of
Monroe during the fall season, losing 6-4, 6-
2.

Jetli, the only freshmen in the starting lineup
for the ’Cats, won the first set of his match in
a tiebreaker, but his opponent rebounded to
take the second set 6-1. Because the overall
team match had already been decided, the
competitors played a tiebreaker to decide the
third set, with Jetli nearly pulling out the vic-
tory on several match point chances before
succumbing to his opponent.

A day later, the Wildcats returned home to
host North Carolina A&T. While boasting sev-
eral solid players at the top of their lineup, the
Aggies were no match for the Wildcats on
Sunday. Davidson did not lose a single game
in doubles, and the men followed up their
doubles mastery with only two ’Cats losing
more than three games in singles, coasting to
a 7-0 sweep.

“The match against A&T gave us an oppor-
tunity to get the taste of the Carolina loss out
of our mouths,” commented head coach Jeff
Frank.

On Monday afternoon, the Wildcats played
their third match in three days, hosting
Gardner-Webb. Despite facing a much stron-
ger team than the day before, Davidson
handled the Bulldogs almost as easily as the
Aggies, winning every singles and doubles
match in straight sets for another 7-0 sweep.
Britt and Gould were victorious at number two
doubles once again, bringing their record on
the season to a perfect 3-0.

After their demanding three-day schedule,
the men have five days off before they host
Belmont Abbey and Queens for a Saturday
doubleheader in which the Wildcats swept all
fourteen matches last season.

from Women’s, page 16

tered halftime up by only one, 37-36. They
stormed out of the locker room to score seven
unanswered points, and on a bucket with nine
minutes to go, Western extended their lead to
ten 2 3

Davidson slowly chipped away, and with
one minute left had a chance to tie the game
after Bryant forced a Western turnover. Un-
fortunately, her jumper on the other end fell
short, and Western made their remaining free
throws. Whereas Western was an impressive
18 of 19 from the free throw line in the sec-
ond half, the ’Cats were a measly 5 of 6.

Luckily, the Wildcats moved past the loss
and finished the week strong with two wins.
Davidson travels to East Tennessee State on
Saturday for their second match-up of the sea-
son. In the first game, the ’Cats trounced
ETSU 74-59.

The Wildcats used all 14 players
in their victory over App. State.
