THE DAvIDSONIAN

News

Sigma Chi fails to receive charter
Return of Kappa Sig now pitted against Outpost

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

After the Kappa Sig fraternity lost its char-
ter and its house last year, there has been an
empty spot on Patterson Court. Despite the
vacancy, the administration does not plan to
make any immediate changes to the Court’s
present structure.

Although currently banned from the court,
Kappa Sig is still eligible to return to the court
next year. The group has not yet contacted the
administration, and their silence tentatively
leaves an empty space on the court.

A group of students attempted to fill the void
by proposing a Davidson branch of Sigma Chi.
The administration, however, has not expressed
interest in expanding the Court.

“The school is not interested,” said Ryan
Aponte ’07, one of the students attempting to
found a Sigma Chi branch. “They think bring-
ing another frat would weaken the Court.”

Dean of Students Tom Shandley explained
the administration’s stance on the push for
Sigma Chi.

“A fraternity must be invited by the institu-
tion. They don’t come without an invitation.”

The Davidson administration has sent no
such invitation to Sigma Chi’s national chap-
ter.

“We’re not looking to expand,” said
Shandley, who has been in contact with the

Residents of 4th Rich unsuccessfully sought a Sigma Chi charter.

students. “We’re trying to make the current
groups as successful as possible.” -

Shandley noted that Court membership h
increased over years past and hopés to see the
trend continue.

The administration’s negative response has
not ended the push for Sigma Chi. Its support-
ers enjoy strong backing from the national
chapter and are formulating other proposals that
would land the fraternity off the court.

The second possibility for the empty house
is the Outpost. While widely discussed, the
Outpost’s return still faces a few challenges.

“There is no plan to build additional struc-
tures on the Court,” said Shandley.

This stance has lead to talk of pitting Kappa
Sig’s return against the Outpost.

“If it’s a matter of aconvenient quesadilla or
giving Kappa Sig a place to come back to, I
think I can manage to walk up the hill,” said
Warner President Rachael Voyles ’05.

Kappa Sig’s return will leave no existing
structure to house the Outpost. Still, Shandley
discourages viewing the situation as “Kappa
Sig versus the Outpost.”

“It is not fair to pin the existence of the
Outpost against Kappa Sig,” he added. “‘We’ re
notruling out anything. All will be considered.”

The situation on the court is still uncertain.
Summing up the administration’s current out-
look, Shandley offered four words: “We have

no idea.”

Phe / R n Then

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004 3

Letter from the president

Dear Students,.

As the spring winds down, the Davidson community reflects the happenings of the past year.
Freshmen say goodbye to their first year of college, and seniors say goodbye to Davidson. It has
been a good year. This semester the Student Government Association built on our success from
first semester. CatCard use off campus is finally available and cable will be an option in the fall.

SGA’s Athletic Committee was very busy. We took five packed buses to the UNC -Chapel
Hill basketball game in Charlotte to support our Cats. We also co-sponsored a fundraiser during
the baseball and lacrosse games with Turner House and Phi Delta Theta, raising around $2,000
for the Ada Jenkins after-school enrichment program.

As the weather warmed up, “April at the Lake” became a reality. Hundreds of students gath-
ered at the lake to eat burgers, listen to a band, swim, play volleyball, and socialize with those they
already knew and those they might not have known so well before.

Academically, we pushed for the extension of the pass/fail deadline recently passed by the
faculty. Students now have an extra three weeks to declare their intention of pass/fail.

We also strove to find a compromise between those students who believe that candidates for

‘Honor Council should be allowed to campaign and those who think the regulations should re-

main as they were. After amendments, the SGA bylaws now allows candidates running for
Honor Council to submit a 100 word statement to be distributed via email to the student body.

SGA strives to fulfill the desires and needs of students in all facets of student life ranging from
athletics, social life, and academics. The above are visible changes that students can see. How-
ever, there is much hard work that goes on behind the scenes. I would like to thank all the people
involved in SGA this year for their dedication and enthusiasm.

Good luck with exams, have a wonderful summer, and please let me know if there is anything
I can do to make this amazing community we live in even better.

Sincerely,
Katharine Hubbard
SGA President

Cable, from page 1

After considering eight or nine companies,
Campus Tele Video was decided on because it
focuses on colleges and provided the most
service for the least amount of money.

Its “technical and customer support are much
more expansive,” said Marsicano. “For obvi-
ous reasons we are not satisfied with Adelphia.”

Marsicano described the reception in Mar-
tin Court as “perfectly terrible.”

Adelphia also just finished a repair last week
that they were notified about in October.

By Lestiz HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano said that far fewer students were
placed on this year’s waitlist for on-campus
housing than last year’s.

Although only 20 students, all men, cur-
rently occupy a spot on the waitlist, at this
point last year, 70 to 80 students had re-
quested an on-campus room but did not re-
ceive one.

Marsicano said that RLO had already spo-
ken with Physical Plant about the possibility
of placing some of the 20 wait-listed students
in two or three off-campus homes owned by
the College next year.

This year, RLO requires the use of seven
off-campus homes owned by the College.

According to Marsicano, RLO granted off-
campus housing permission to every student
who requested it this year. That, when com-
bined with the greater number of students
studying abroad next fall, might have con-
tributed to the relatively small waitlist.

RLO must wait until May 1, the deadline
for accepted students to inform the College
that they will be attending school here in the
fall, before it can more accurately determine
how many beds it will have available for up-
per-class students.

Housing waitlist notably shorter than before

Last year, more acceptees than expected
decided to enroll at Davidson, and as a result,
RLO had to scramble to find enough beds for
everybody who had requested on-campus
housing.

RLO has set aside exactly 464 beds for pro-
spective first-year students. Marsicano said if
the college does not exceed its target of 460
first year enrollees, there should be 36 to 40
additional beds available for upper-class stu-
dents on Ist Belk.

lst Belk rooms are not assigned during the
regular housing lottery as a precaution against
an unusually large first year class.

Wait-listed students will receive an e-mail

from RLO towards the beginning of the sum- ~

mer detailing the rooms and beds that will be
available next fall. Students with the highest
lottery numbers will get to pick first, followed
in order of descending lottery number by other
students on the waitlist.

RLO will notify all wait-listed students by
June 15 of theirroom assignment for next year.

Marsicano expressed confidence that the 20
wait-listed students will likely receive on-cam-
pus housing. She said that each summer, about
40 students decide not to live at Davidson in

the fall because they plan to transfer to another °

college, take a semester off or go abroad.
Most students on the wait- list expressed little
anxiety about not having a room.

Sarah Boyce ’07 said, “I’mnotreally con-
cerned at all about it. From what I’ ve heard,
we’ ll probably getaroom either on Ist Belk,
in an upperclassman dorm, or off-campus,
all of which would be fine with me.”

Lindsay DeCastrique ’07 agreed.

“Tt is impossible to make everyone happy
with their room assignment. [My roommate
and I] simply had bad numbers this time, yet
I’ve heard that the waitlist can sometimes
work out for the best,” she said.

Ted Emerson ’06, who did not receive a
roomin last year’s housing lottery, expressed
mixed feelings about his own experience
with the waitlist.

“Being on the waitlist actually improved
our ability to get a better room. Because
many students found out late about study-
ing abroad or off campus housing, we were
able to have choices for living up the hill.
However, we ended up living in a former
lounge because our standing on the waitlist
was not that high and soall of the betterrooms
were already taken by people higher on the
list,” he said.

Marsicano said, “I know it’s hard for stu-
dents to wait, to not know where they’re
going to live next year, but we really are
doing our best to [first of all], find a bed for
them and [second of all], find a bed that they
like.”

Concert, from page 1

attend the concert with another 200 saying they
would probably attend. Ben Folds also received
more votes than other groups such as Live and
O.A.R. in previous surveys.

Brown described the cost of the concert as
“less than the John Mayer fee, but nothing like
Bill Cosby or Dave.”

Public safety and Show Pros will regulate
crowd management, and one of the athletic
teams will direct parking. Because the 650 in
community ticket sales translate to approxi-
mately 300 cars, Brown does not anticipate that
parking will cause any significant conflicts.

MTVu, the college-based extension station
of MTV, will also be at Davidson in order to
film Ben Folds’ performance for a new televi-
sion show called “The Road Trip Tour.” The
premise of the show consists of broadcasting
the performances of various artists, including
Wyclef Jean, O.A.R., and Kanye West, as they
perform at different campuses across the coun-
try. Davidson has been chosen as the setting
for the Ben Folds section of the show.

In addition to filming the concert, MT Vu will
be at Baker Sports Complex throughout the day
getting behind the scenes footage of the show.
They will also conduct an interview with the
talent and possibly others involved with the
concert, including students. The performance
will likely be broadcast on MTVu this sum-
mer. Several students have shown enthusiasm
for the event.

“I’ve been waiting to see Ben Folds for
awhile,” said Lauren Conn ’06.

Many others have expressed disappointment
at the Union’s selection for a performer.

“Last year’s concert was great having Dave
Matthews come, but this year it’s hard for me
to get excited about Ben Folds, someone who
I don’t know all that much about,” said Chris-
tian Davis ’06.

Thomas Jeter ’06 agreed. “‘Davidson’s con-
certs have no diversity, and are all geared for
the same audience, leaving a large group of
students desiring to hear alternate genres of
music.”
