16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOL yOu
SIDOIGES HAUS
PEIN S PICKS Ol

PEE WEEN

dcat ame of the

SPORTS

Spring has finally found its way back, and
with it, as usual, is the start of the baseball
season. As usual, there was a lot of buildup to
opening day this year. The focus of all the at-
tention, though, was on all the wrong things:
rich teams getting richer, poor teams getting
poorer, and, worst of all, steroids.

Allegations of steroid abuse resurfaced,
along with the realization by players and fans.
that the league is doing nothing to stop it.
Instances of clean and frustrated players
coming forward and demanding increased
testing and penalties only highlighted the
unwillingness of the players’ union to do
anything at all to save the integrity of the
game. The response from the union’s chief
operating officer was that keeping players
from doing steroids was like keeping them
from smoking cigarettes. Statements like
these speak for themselves.

Stories like this, however, are unfortunately
becoming the usual.

Yet in front of the television in the Union
on Sunday night, a small group of students
sat and eagerly watched the Orioles and Red
Sox play their season opener. Talk around the
tube ranged from pitching strategies to player
assessments to the states of the respective
teams. Nobody brought up salaries, and no one
uttered the word steroids.

I walked into a lounge on Monday after-

The Australian Football League is recall- _

ing more than 200,000 CD-ROMs that were
made to promote football to youngsters. The
tapes included highlights of the 2003 season
and skills tips from the league’s top players.
Roughly 30,000-40,000 CDs are in the hands
of kids aged 5-12 years old. One little Aussi
boy found a special tip
but not from a football
player. What he found
was a picture of a naked
woman. The picture was
put there by a designer
worker for the company
that published the CD,
George Patterson. The
culprit has lost his job for
the premature lesson in
sex education ... Wayne

job as volunteer tee-ball

coach that he got from the Southside Youth

Athletic Association (SYAA). When parents
of the Jacksonville team found out that
Elliot had killed a man two years ago by
hitting him on the head with baseball bat,
they abruptly demanded his resignation.
Oddly, the SYAA president gave Elliot the job
knowing of his history with baseball bats.

Elliot, 29, has lost his:

noon to find a hapless Cubs fan stretched out -
in front of the game without a single thing on
his mind except the next pitch to leave Kerry
Wood’s fingertips. Steroids and salaries
seemed as far from his train of thought as
whatever homework he was putting off to
watch the game.

What are you so happy about?

“The Cubs, baby. We’re gonna have back-
to-back winning seasons for the first time since
1971-72. That’s the longest drought in the
majors — since before disco. That’s just ter-
rible.”

Interesting...

“The division races should be better this
year than they have in a long time, and it'll be
great to laugh at the Yankees and Red Sox
when they start fighting again.

was atee ... When you hit your ball into an
alligator-infested lake, do you a) take the
one-stroke penalty or b) risk your life to

“When you hit your
ball into an alligator-
infested lake, do you
a) take the one-stroke
penalty or b) risk your
life to retrieve the ball
yourself? Answer:
neither.”

retrieve the ball yourself? Answer: neither.
You make your fitness coach get the ball for
you. This is was golfer Ian Poulter did on the
fourth hole at Sawgrass in Florida for the Play-
ers Championship. In a happy Gilmoresque
rescue, Kam Bhabr plunged into the lake and

Maybe he thought it would be different if there

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

Plus, we’ll have a potential Triple Crown
winner in Albert Pujols, which should be re-
ally exciting.”

After all the crap this year, what do you think
of once baseball starts? ~

“T think of Old-Style [the beer they serve at
Cubs games], hot dogs, and Wrigley. We al-
ways say wait ‘til next year, and it’s next
year. You put all the heartbreaks and all the
winter garbage behind you and enjoy the
new season.”

What makes the game worth watching
these days?

“T don’t know; I just like it. There isn’t a
better afternoon than going to the ballpark
and sitting in the sun. Just six hours with
nothing on your mind and nothing to do but
relax and watch the game.

“Wow [a player. makes a diving catch on
the screen]. And there’s plays like that.”
Besides, as our friendly neighborhood —
Cubbie Bear pointed out, the players. them-
selves have been pushing harder and harder
for change recently. And the CBA runs out
soon. So for that, there’s always next year.

My dad called today to talk about the
games, just as I was about to pick up the phone
to call him. We’re going to see the Yanks play
when I get home on Saturday. I can’t wait.
The Stadium should be buzzing, as usual. I’m
sure I'll have a great time. I usually do.

found Poulter’s ball. Bhabr had this to say
about his heroics: “I was a bit worried about
the alligators, but duty called” . . . Chris
Duhon hit a 38-foot three point shot as time
expired in Saturday’s semi-final versus
UConn. This remarkable shot did nothing
but make Duke lose 79-78; however, it did
have a substantial impact on the betting
world. The one-point defeat meant that the
underdog, Duke, covered the spread, which
was set between 2 and 3 points in favor of

* UConn. Thanks to Duhon, somewhere be-

tween $30 and $100 million dollars is esti-
mated to have transferred from those who bet
on UConn covering the spread to those who
took Duke to cover. If Wooden Award panel-
ists bet on UConn, you can count out Duhon
for player of the year... A new theory has
been developed involving the size and shape
of jockeys’ rear ends and the ability to land
jumps in Equestrian. Ian Johnston, from the
Open University’s Faculty of Technology
claims, in his own words, that jockeys with a
“well-damped” bottom minimize the chances
of falling off the horse and onto the ground.
The theory is known as Resilient Underbody
Modeling Protocol — for short, RUMP. It takes
the focus off of being ahead and puts it be-
hind.

By MEerIN FRANK
Staff Columnist

As I sat down to write this article, I was at a
loss for what to write about. Sports, it seems,
are boring these days.

Really, it’s too early in baseball season to
start praying for the Red Sox and Cubs or hat-
ing the Yankees. And, let’s face it, there wasn’t
anything exciting about the UConn-Tech
game. I know nothing about hockey or
NASCAR, so that rules them out. Which left
me thinking: what ever happened to golf?

Golf has nearly disappeared from the radar
this year, and much of that is due to Tiger
Woods.

When Tiger has a slump, so does golf. The
PGA’s television ratings are dramatically
lower this year than in past years, and much
of it has to do with Tiger. When he wins,
people watch. When he doesn’t, there go the
viewers. Why, you may ask, is this important?

The PGA took a large gamble by focusing
so much attention _
on-Tiger.

Yes, he
brought amounts
of public atten-
tion to the game
that it had never
before experi-
enced. He also in-
troduced golf to
kids who thought -
it was only a bor-
ing sport that
their dad played.
What the PGA
did, however,
goes against the

grain of sports tradition. When you manipu-

late the dynamics of a game, you change your
final product. =i
«Why, do.people.watch spots? Many.have

an allegiance (regional or otherwise) to a team.
But most do not. Most
people watch and care be-
cause when you have a great
competition it brings more to
the table. Sport is competi-
tion among many to be the
best. It is driven by the
struggle of people or teams
to rise to the top. If one per-
son wins all the time, sport
loses it magic.

This is the problem that
the PGA has run into. By
hyping Tiger as the most
dominant player today, and
possibly of all time, they lost
the point. If Tiger is the best,
but he isn’t wintiing (like this year and last
year), then why watch? If you have already

see PGA Golf, page 17
