12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOr you

sports fans

DROOKIE:

> HICSS

OF THE WEIS

Wildcat game of

the week

Men’s Basketball vs. Charlotte
December 8, 7:00 PM
Belk Arena

I usually like to spread my picks around

to all the teams; however, this week the

men’s basketball team is the only one

Wait, what? Carolina is back in the

playoff chase? This is not supposed to -
happen for a team that started the season

with a 1-7 record. Despite the injuries and
the poor start, Carolina will face the St.

Louis this week with a chance to catch the
Rams in the race for the final NFC wild-

card berth.

- SPORTS

By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

While disheartening, it was no surprise
when Jason Giambi and Barry Bonds graced
headlines last week for their connection to
BALCO and illegal performance-enhancing
steroids. Rumors had circulated for years that
steroids had an alarming presence in Major
League Baseball, especially after players like
Jose Canseco and Ken Caminiti admitted to
having used the illegal substances
during their playing careers. Canseco
even estimated that over 85 percent
of players used some type of illegal
steroids.

In the end, the news of Bonds’ and
Giambi’s grand jury admissions was
really just a matter of time.

The fallout of the steroid investi-
gation, however, is more far-reaching
than Barry and Jason, or baseball in
general.

In a footnote to the breaking news
last week, Americans Marion Jones
and Tim Montgomery, once two of
track’s biggest stars, were also impli-
cated by Victor Conte, head of the
same BALCO lab made infamous by Bonds,
for taking steroids in preparation for the 2000
Olympics in Sydney.

In those same Olympic games, Jones be-
came the first female to win five medals in
one Olympics, including three golds. Mont-
gomery, on the other hand, went on to set the
world record in the 100-meter dash in 2002.

Rumors of drug use had also dogged Jones
and Montgomery, but there was never any
credible link to the sport’s biggest stars; Jones
and Montgomery had repeatedly passed all

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Columnist

With first semester coming quickly to a
close, many seniors have begun thinking about
what they want to do following graduation.
Some want to be investment bankers or Ivy
League graduate students, while others want
to teach or write. Many of my friends, it seems,
simply want to be unemployed or in college
for another year. As for me, I want to go back
to high school. ,

In high school I was cool; I played varsity
sports; I had a girlfriend; I got la[ edited due
to a blatant lie].

In college, I have a column in the student
newspaper.

From Boston to Charlotte and from Johnny
Moxen to Steve Urkel.

Don’t cry for me, Davidson.

Gene Forrester, narrator of “A Separate
Peace,” once said, “Sixteen is the key and cru-
cial and natural age for a human being to be,
and people of all other ages are ranged in or-
derly manner ahead and behind you as a har-
monious setting for the sixteen-year-olds of
this world.”

And so, in an effort to reclaim my throne
on top of the world, I ventured down to Char-
lotte on Friday to watch USA Today’s second-
ranked team in the nation, Independence High
School, take on powerhouse Richmond Senior
in the North Carolina 1-A West Regionals.

High school sports promised to be a wel-
come diversion from what’s been going on
lately at the collegiate and professional ranks:
What happened to the good ole days when
Tyson was eating ears and Sprewell was chok-
ing his coach?

But I digress...

We arrived 20 minutes before kickoff and
were lucky to get tickets, as the game was
nearly sold out. The 15000-seat stadium is U-
shaped with impressive brick walls, impos-

drug tests for steroids, and Jones even suc-
ceeded in a lie-detector test claiming her in-
nocence in any performance-enhancing mat-
ter. ,

Apparently, there’s a good reason those ath- ©

letes were able to pass multiple drug tests
showing their “innocence”; Conte had de-

signed steroids that were undetectable to the

outdated tests administered to the runners.
In fact, as Conte told ABC’s 20/20, “There

are thousands of letters that athletes have [in-

What should we do about juiced athletes?

forming them of successful tests], and I’m sure
they chuckle every time they get them.”

This is surely hyperbole, but the statement
deserves more than a cursory glance.

The tests for performance-enhancers are
getting better; it is now possible to test for
THG, the steroid derivative for the “clear” and
the “cream” supplied by BALCO. With the
newest waves of allegations regarding drug
use, sports will also undoubtedly try to bol-
ster future drug-testing programs.

Baseball is already in talks to renegotiate

ing concrete stands and the open end protected
by the impressive Charlotte skyline. Bath-
rooms are basically nonexistent, and while
waiting in line at the port-o-potties my buddy
was forced to stand in the freezing cold while
a larger woman—and complete stranger held
her hands in his armpits to warm themi up. No
joke.

Nearby, I was cut in line by a guy wearing
a hat that read ‘I Only Date Crack Whores.’ I
swallowed my pride, as otherwise I probably
would have swallowed his fist.

Entering the game, we discovered a world

Gene Forester, narrator of
A Separate Piece, once
said, “Sixteen is the key
and crucial age for a hu-
man being to be.

where the cheerleaders all had braces and
alumni proudly wore letter jackets and state
championship rings from days long past. In-
deed, we established our place on the Rich-
mond side not far from a guy sporting his
puke-green 1978 State Champs jacket—50
percent nylon, 50 percent eye-sore—and a ring
the size of my big toe. We concluded that the
woman next to him was the 1978 Homecom-
ing queen.

Texans claim high school football lives and
breathes in the Lone star state, but these are
the same people who feel the need to make t-
shirts telling the rest of America not to mess
with them (ooooh). Don’t be fooled: prep
football thrives here in North Kakalaki.

Richmond Senior is the lone high school in
Richmond County. Football games there are

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

the collective bargaining agreement to imple-
ment more frequent testing and harsher pen-—
alties. Other sports, like track and field and
cycling, have already enacted harsh penalties
such as multi-year pams on convicted drug
users. _

Hopefully, the new movement towards drug
awareness and harsher penalties will help curb
the problem of performance enhancing drugs
in sports, but can it really contain the prob-
lem?

Of the 1,400 steroids tests admin-
istered by Major League Baseball,
five percent to seven percent came
back positive. In the Olympics this
past summer, numerous athletes, in-
cluding the famous Greek sprinting
duo Kostas Kederis and Ekaterini

-Thanou, were banned from compe-
tition for failed or missed drug tests.

We are catching some cheaters,
but that doesn’t mean the drug tests
are necessarily successful.

The International Association of
Athletics Federations, the organiza-
tion that oversees drug-testing at the
Olympics, recently admitted its anti-
drug measures have failed to stop

users due to weak rules, policies and a subpar
enforcement of rules despite a slew of posi-
tive tests during the most recent Olympics.

Charles Yesalis, an epidemiology professor
at Pennsylvania State University, claims that
a “large percentage” of world-record holders
likely doped their way to the record. As he
told Forbes in 2002, “‘A lot of experts, at least
in private, feel that way.”

The exploits of Jones and Montgomery, at

see McCrory, page 15

events, and on Friday at least 7,000 rabid fans
made the 2.5 hour drive to support the Raid-
ers. Virtually the whole county, gone. We’re
sorry, the hospital is closed for the evening.
We all left to go watch Alice's neighbor's best-
Jriend’s kid play third-string punter. Good luck
sewing your finger back on with a shoelace.

Further, imitating Alex Grady from Best of
the Best, RaDon Ingram, Independence’s
third-leading receiver, dislocated his shoulder
in the first half only to have it popped back
into place simply to’ hold extra point attempts.
Who needs steroids when you’ve got youth-
ful ignorance combined with raging
hormones?’ Coach, if I don’t see the field
Heather's never gonna return my text mes-
sages! Come on, I need this.

Independence (14-0) won easily, 47-18,
earning its 76th straight victory, the longest
current streak in the country and the second
longest in U.S. history. Last year, Indepen-
dence barely edged Richmond in the same
game, 20-18. Since, the Patriots baven’ t won
by less than 27.

We left after the Patriots took a 40-7 lead,
and in donig so left behind the youthful inno-
cence of a high school game, with its letter
jackets and untainted dreams. We returned to
our world of job applications, speeding tick-
ets (word of advice: don’t go 23 over in a work
zone), annoying neighbors and memories of
our own glory days.

Towards the end of the first half, when Rich-
mond had recovered an Independence fumble,
a young Richmond fan started high-fiving his
dad right in front of us.’““That’s how we play!”
he screamed. The joy and excitement in the
boy’s eyes was pure and real. One could
plainly see he wanted nothing more than to
be a Richmond Senior Raider, performing in
front of 13,000 adoring fans, immune to ev-
erything’ else in the world except maybe an
{independence linebacker.

And on Friday night, I felt the same way.
