THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 3

Admissions, from page 1

Rosenstein ’07. “I would have to say that they
do not outwardly state their religious affilia-
tion, or how religious the school is.”

Other students felt that they were aware of
Davidson’s religious affiliation when they
applied, but once they arrived they were sur-
prised at how religious life plays out on cam-
pus.

“This school does have a strong Christian
tradition so it would be naive to think that
Christianity wouldn’t be a huge part of this
campus,” said Oliver Curtis ’07. “But for me
in particular I was a little surprised by how
many church goers there are and I think there
is a split between church goers and non church
goers.”

Members of the Admissions Office said that
most prospective students are notinterested in
religion. Therefore the Admissions Office does
not make a point to discuss the issue with ev-
eryone who applies.

“It’s notup to the admissions office to de-
cide what’s important to say about Davidson,”
said Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable. “It’s
up to us to be responsive to [prospective stu-
~ dents].”

The Admissions Office stresses the academic
aspects of the school, including the Honor Code
and strong faculty-student relationships that
Cable says are “truisms at Davidson.”

“Some prospective students have interest
only in our academic or athletic programs,”
Cable said. ‘““We never make the assumption
that all students need to know all pieces of in-
formation.” :

If prospective students do express interest
or concern about religion on campus, the Ad-

missions. Office provides them with the infor-
mation they need to make an informed deci-
sion about coming to Davidson. ‘

“We try to put students in touch with [Col-
lege Chaplain] Rob Spach and with students in
leadership positions. We put them in touch with
students who have the information they want,”
said Cable. ‘ ae

Spach speaks with a variety of prospective
students, from Jewish and Catholic students
who wantto make sure they will not encounter
hostility to their religious perspectives to evan-
gelical Christians who are searching for a vi-
brant Christian community at college.

Davidson students who work with the Ad-
missions Office also field questions that pro-
spective students have about religion on cam-
pus.

“When addressing this concern, the first thing
I say is that Davidson is affiliated with the
Presbyterian Church,” Admissions Fellow
Erika Dean ’05 said.

“However, this does not mean that religion
is forced upon our students, but it can be some-
thing that students are mindful of. We have
some students who go tochurchevery Sunday.
Then, we have some students who go every
blue moon. It really depends on your personal
preference.”

Senior Admissions Fellow Justin Hartanov
’05 has not found religion to be a major con-
cern for most prospective students.

“After working around the office for four
years, I do not feel that many students feel that
religion is a major factor in their decision to
attend Davidson.”

Yet many of The Davidsonian sources for
this article acknowledged the difficulties of

talking about religion in the context of recruit-
ment efforts.

Spach realizes that prospective students can
potentially misunderstand what Davidson’s
Presbyterian heritage actually means.

“The problem is that Presbyterians are a very

small minority, only two million in the U.S.,”

Spach said. “The way that Presbyterians think

“I was never made aware of the
fact that Davidson was
affiliated with the Presbyterian
Church. I would have to say
that they do not outwardly state
their religious affiliation, or
how religious the school is.”

- Ross Rosenstein ’07

about the interaction of the mind and spirit is
not necessarily shared by all Christians. If pro-
spective students and their parents don’t un-
derstand, they may hear that it’s church-affili-
ated and make assumptions that are incorrect.”

Some students acknowledge that Davidson’s
religious affiliation make it harder to attract non-
Christian or non-religious students.

“Some of my Jewish friends didn’t even look
here because of its affiliation and because there
aren’t many Jews here,” said Curtis. “It seems
like in this day and age the college isn’t ashamed
of their heritage, but I don’t feel like they em-
brace other religions as much as they should.”

Trails, from page 1
ing the young woman’s directions to the couple
and thought at first that the young woman had
played a trick on him.

He eventually found the couple on the inner
loop of the trails (about 3k into the 5k) with
ROTC members who had arrived.

Atleast half an hour passed between the time
of the man’s collapse and the arrival of a pick-
up truck with three trained medics.

A little later, the ambulance reached the vic-_

tim, only after Professor of Military Science
Major Patrick Leslie called the physical plant
to open the back access gate to the trails.

The man was neighbors with Associate Pro-
fessor of Political Science Patrick Sellers and
Dr. Tim Beach-Verhey, Director of the Lilly
Programs. He was aregular runner and in good
health.

Emergency personnel pronounced the man
dead for some time.

“It was quite a while before we got out there,”
said Frank Mollaneck, one of the medics who
arrived on the scene.

He said that after a heart attack a person’s
chance of resuscitation diminishes ten percent
each minute, and even more rapidly after 7 or
8 minutes.

The young woman’s difficulty in finding help
and then describing an exact location on the

trails, which led to a dilatory emergency re-
sponse, shows the desperate need for new safety
measures on the trails.

Mollaneck said that the issue is two-fold:
first, how does someone find help, and then
how does help find the person in trouble.

Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety
and Police, said that the short-term goals in
addressing the issue of safety on the trails in-
clude signage and maps as well as widening
the trails for emergency vehicles.

The mapping of the trails has recently been
completed. Maps will be color-coded and in-
form people of their exact location. The wid-
ening of the trails should be complete by spring,
he said.

In the long-term, blue phones will be placed
at intervals along the trails so that fire and medic
first responders can reach emergency situations
faster.

The blue phones will enable emergency
crews to pinpoint locations. Walker also plans
to ask for safety suggestions from the fire and
medic first responders.

Walker also plans to have all campus police
trained to the first responder level so that they
can use AEDs (Automatic External
Defibrillators), put people on stretchers, and
basically “perform a higher level of medical
service,” he said.

RIAA, from page 1
music downloading.

Students at Boston College, James Madison
University, and other institutions have been
charged with music piracy by the RIAA.

“I understand the seriousness of violating
copyright laws and the problems it causes the
recording industry, but downloading is some-
thing everybody does and abetter system needs
to be developed to control music pirating,” said
Wilbrandt.

The Student Government Association,
Internet Technology Services, and Shandley are
planning to meet to discuss ways to curb the
illegal music sharing problem and to protect
students against further legal action.

One possibility is purchasing a legal down-

loading source, such as wes for the entire -

Davidson student body.

Cornell, Middlebury, and George Washing-
ton University, along with a handful of other
institutions, have already purchased Napster
for their students.

Until a solution is reached, the RIAA real-_
izes that the potential for music piracy among
college students is high since many college
students are enthusiastic music fans with ac-
cess to their own computers.

“I would expect we are going to get more of
these,” said Shandley.

Some AADA alumni...

K

Audition

Other students feel that non-Christian and
non-religious students should not be deterred
by Davidson’s religious affiliation.

“Overall, I believe the school could do a
better job portraying the influence religion has,
but I would not say that this would deter a
minority in any way, as long as they under-
stood that the student body and the school
prides itself on being diverse and accepting
those with different beliefs,” said Rosenstein.

President Bobby Vagt believes it is more
important for prospective students to under-
stand Davidson’s ties to the Reformed Tradi-
tion rather than its Presbyterian heritage.

“What does get marketed is that while we
do not, will not, and have not force-fed a par-
ticular set of tenets, we will make occasion to

_ nurture the development of the spirit as well
as the mind,” Vagt said.

Spach believes that Davidson’s Reformed
heritage is important in many more ways than
just religious life on campus, and in fact it
influences many of Davidson’s core values.

“Ttunderlies things like the Honor Code and
the educational vision of the institution,” Spach
said. “That vision is rooted in a Reformed un-
derstanding of the fact that our lives are lived
in the context of the community, in which we
are called by God to use our gifts for the com-
mon good, and the fact that we are an institu-
tion that values and supports religious life.”

Vagt went on to emphasize that Davidson's
connection to the Reformed Tradition actually
should make Davidson an institution especially
open and accepting of students of different
faiths and backgrounds.

“The importance is not the relationship to a
specific church, which I think drives people
away,” Vagt said. “There’s an openness to
whatever tradition you come from because
that’s part of the Reformed Tradition.”

LEARN
ONE OF 21
LANGUAGES

xk kK kK kK K€

As a Soldier at the Defense
Language Institute in Monterey,
California, you'll learn one of 21
languages. And you don’t need to
speak a foreign language to qualify.

>> Call Sgt. 1st Class Boyce at 563-0560
to find out about college loan
repayment and more Army benefits.

Ke

goarmy.com ©2001. Paid for TAN ARMY OF ONE

by the U.S. Army. All rights reserved.

in Charlotte, January 29

800 463 8990
| 800 222 2867
Www.aada.org

)
cor) Progt Lnis

| | ne America
Academy

lt yD

ay

New York & Hollywood
