THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004 11

Dear Mr. President, Protestors should keep liquids to themselves

you're fired

By HA.iey AELION
Staff Columnist

George. George W. Bush. How’s it going? The White House
treating you well? How are the twins? You’re staying away
from those pretzels, right? Well, enough of the small talk.

There’s a serious issue I think we should

Py talk about. Mr. Bush, don’t take this the

wrong way, butI think you may beconfused.

Believe me, I know all too well you’ ve been

in office four years now, but there are just some things I’ve

noticed during your first term that seem to indicate you might

be a little unclear about how the President of the United States

of America (that’s the country surrounding Texas’s northern
boarder) is supposed to act.

In all fairness, I guess some issues can be confusing for aman
as busy as you are. Golfing, jogging, posing for pictures, Lord
knows this stuff takes time. So I’ll keep my thoughts short and
basic.

Start over. Make sure your Bush
merchandise is “union made in
America.” Sounds good, right?
Unfortunately, you can’t use that
exact phrase, it’s already on the
Kerry website. Sorry.

Let’s start with the economy: people need jobs. Let me hand
it to you, your massive reelection campaign has succeeded in
creating a lot of job opportunities. Incredible quantities of shirts,
hats, stickers, and other paraphernalia must be created to spread
your name far and wide.

This paraphernalia has to be made by someone, and if you’ re
paying someone to make something, you’ ve employed them!
But don’t congratulate yourself yet, Mr. Bush.

’ Soclose to doing good, you let the ball drop. Instead of keep-
ing your business in America, you bought products made in
Burma, Mexico, and other foreign nations to sell here, to
American voters.

Two little problems there. First, you created a law yourself
last year, banning Burma’s products from the USA as punish-
ment for their military dictatorship. Woops. Second, you’ re the
president of the United States of America. Over the past three
years of your presidency, 2.2 million jobs have been outsourced
overseas. Bring the jobs back home, Mr. Bush!

Maybe you should reconsider. Start over. Make sure your
Bush merchandise is “union made in America.” Sounds good,
right? Unfortunately, you can’t use that exact phrase, it’s al-
ready on the Kerry website. Sorry.

I don’t mean to be too harsh here, the economy is a very
complicated thing. Let’s try something a little more simple.
How about taking responsibility for our own actions? That’s
something we all should know a little about, especially if we
are the head of the world’s superpower (that’s your job, Mr.
Bush).

Here’s a story to show you what I’m talking about.

Say you want to do something nice for your friends. Your
friends, like you, are incredibly wealthy and they love their
money. So, as leader of the free world, you think about cutting
taxes. It would benefit everyone a little, but it would really make
your friends-those living in the top socio-economic bracket—
ecstatic, because they would receive the biggest break.

Sounds good, right? But before you do that, you realize some-
thing, something that does not make you so happy. If you cut
taxes as much as you want, there will be less money coming
into the American government. A lot less. Acouple trillion less.
Darn.

Sosomething hasto be sacrificed, but what? Now here’s where
it might get a little tricky, so read carefully. The responsible
thing to do would be to think before you act, and consider the
fate of all American citizens before rewarding an elite few. Then
either decide not to cut taxes, or,do it in a way that benefits the
oY of Americans, and especially those in economic
troubie.

The irresponsible thing to do would be to go ahead and push
through the tax cuts that benefit your friends, then make up
your debt with money reserved for Social Security funds. Good
example, right? Proves my point? Too bad you already took the
second route.

I don’t know, Mr. Bush, maybe you’re right. As you said in
July of 2001, “a dictatorship would be a heck of a lot easier,
there’s no question about it.” Unfortunately, that’s just not the
American way. So maybe you can go somewhere else, I hear
Burma may have a position, and we’ Il just let John Kerry take
over from here. __

By RIcHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

I must admit, all those protestors up in New York have made
cable news more interesting — its not, after all, every day that
Hardball looks like a scene from Braveheart. Of course, it was
only fake blood those wackos were throwing at delegates, but
the visual effect was good enough.

Admittedly, this has been a fairly entertaining week in and
of itself —I.m sure nobody wants to be an economic girlie man
right now. Of course, the intrinsic entertainment value of the
convention has lessened my dependence upon protestors for
diversion...but this is aside from the point. For entertaining
though these crazy neo-hippies may be, they are not good for
society and are acting well beyond their rights.

Now, before you dash off an angry email reminding me about
that First Amendment thing, know that there is no trouble with

_groups trying to convey their message to a broader audience.

Well ordered, properly registered protests and marches are just
fine. I may not agree with the causes advocated at such dem-
onstrations, and people do write the dumbest things on those
big placards, but this is an acceptable by-product of living in
a liberal democracy.

However, some things are unacceptable, such as people who
throw nasty liquids at delegates, assault dinner parties at the
Four Seasons, sneak onto the convention floor intending to be
dragged away by the Secret Service (with cameras rolling), or
lie down in front of traffic on Madison Avenue.

Mary Ann Glendon, a scholar of note at Harvard, has ob-

served that societies can remain functional only so long as
they remain well ordered — and they cease to be well ordered
when certain minorities (often quite small) decide that their
agenda is so important, and so nonnegotiable, that it must be
forced upon an unwilling majority. Protestors such as those
we see in New York clearly think that their narrowly construed
goals trump all other social concerns.

They have no right to attempt to
impose their will on the rest of us
by shutting down society.

These people may have some good points to make but they
have no right to attempt to impose their will on the rest of us
by shutting down society.. Their right to wave their arms in
protest of war ends where a Republican delegate’s nose begins
(actually, I think, it ends a few inches before that, but you get
the point).

Society has devised ways to accommodate dissent and let
the dissenters be heard. Disgruntled folks can call the NYPD
and register a perfectly legal march down Seventh Avenue (as,
in fact, many of the more rational demonstrators did earlier
this week). But as soon as they exit these bounds and attempt
to impose their agenda by fiat, they threaten the delicate order-
ing of society which allows for a free flow of ideas. This is
unfair to the rest of the populace and threatens the institutions
which protect the right to dissent.

I fled in. Save pm rw the need to relieve o

over this campus. One out of the two people I interviewed for
this article admitted to having done it on occasion. And one
was so bold, yes, so bold as to ask what was wrong with it.
I’ll tell you what is wrong with it. I take showers barefoot
as I always have and as is my right and the right of every other
individual in our society. Shower urinators are depriving me

ing it in three ways. Firstly, after multiple crimes against a
ee sagt a yellow stain will appear which nobody wants

Peeing i in the shower is an all too common plague washing

and people like me out of our basic right to be barefoot while -
washing. By urinating in the communal shower they are soil- —

nating in the shower

and which so far seems impenetrable to washing. Secondly, it
‘prevents others from using that shower in the way they choose.
- May

ry| you don’ thave a problem with your pee, but I sure the
do, And thirdly, it’s j just icky. Shudder.

‘Someone taking a shower this

late?’ I pondered to myself...1

turned to go about my routine.
Wait. I noticed something a little
bit strange. The shower wasn’t.on.

There are certain forms of bathroom etiquette that need to
be respected by all for the benefit of all. What I have given you
is not a list of suggestions for your fancy, but a list of rules for
-your following. I’m not telling you how much to shower, or to
do yourlaundry orchange your sheets—that’s your business—
but what goes on in that bathroom is our business. So let’s
respect the bathroom and each other. Not all drains are the
same.

The- commonplace ~
sneeze. You, lovely reader,

» Hermes
le inelle Milanes

rv

ne act of sneezing in the aacsiobin

Tieve that we are eipicing a simple “Thank you” in return.
‘There are, of course, other factors that can restrict one’ sbless-
ing abilities; the most prominent of these is the proximity of

| the Sneezer and Blesser. Let’s imagine rabid sneezing girl i is
- now all the way on the other side of the classroom. Your only
e... option i is to project your blessings in an obnoxiously loud,

comes with the risk of interrupting the
2 you fellow classmates from their

