THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 7

Diet dilemmas and nutritional nourishment cause at Davidson

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Davidson students are known for having a
bit of everything “on their plates” when it comes
to academics, athletics, and extracurricular ac-
tivities, but how are they faring in regards to
health and nutrition? With the holiday season
and final exams right around the corner, the
stress level often goes up and the dietary aware-
ness goes down, as many students pull all-
nighters and chow down on festive—but fat-
tening—fare.

These are only a couple of the unhealthy
habits that Davidson’s resident nutritionist,
Theresa Logan, often sees contributing to stu-
dents’ poor nutrition and weight gain. Other
factors include the tendency to eat late, when
calories are stored and left unused as one sleeps, -
and to skip meals, which interferes with me-
tabolism.

The dreaded “freshman 15” can creep on
unexpectedly, especially as students are pre-
sented daily with a variety of dietary choices
unlike those at home. “Some of the food is even
cooked much differently and is more fattening
then I’m used to,” claims Harper Addison ’08,
“though it can still be pretty basic stuff like
chicken and salmon.” With such a diversity of
dishes available, many students question how
to choose wisely and maintain healthful eating
habits. Insuch acase, a visit toa nutrition expert

Photo by Sarah Robinson

Lack of sleep can cause students to neglect eating habits.

would certainly be a first step.

Logan, who serves three days as a week as
Davidson’s own campus nutritionist from her
office in Vail Commons, feels that her posi-
tion is unique and beneficial to the school,
“What I’m offering is essentially a free ser-
vice, which you don’t get at rhany other col-
leges, and many students don’t even know I’m
here,” says Logan, who primarily acts as a
counselor for those with dietary and body image
issues. She also creates the “Dietician’s
Choice” menu option plan from the selections
available at Commons on a particular day. This
menu varies in caloric content, but is generally
“a moderate combination of proteins, carbo-
hydrates, and is lower in fat then some of the
fried or sauced options.”

Logan also highlights some important nu-
tritional issues pertaining particularly to col-
lege students on the Davidson website, under
the link “Nutrition” on the Dining Services
page. The site offers tips on how to avoid the
dreaded freshman weight gain, along with ideas
for “late-riser” breakfasts and healthy snacks.

When it comes to meals, Logan emphasizes
the importance of having “‘five to six different
food groups on your tray,” which includes meat,
vegetables, dairy, and fat.

“A lot of people mistakenly think that fat is

Ars Longa, the newly chartered Davidson stu-

dent organization devoted to promoting the arts
Q asked Jessica immediately \ what

bad,” says Logan, “but we all need some in our
diet, especially monounsaturated fat and
Omega 3 fatty acids.”” Some other misconcep-
tions that Logan wishes to clarify are those
relating to food and assistance provided by
Davidson’s dining services. “You can email
the executive chef 24 hours before a meal and
request a grilled chicken breast, and it will be
ready for you by that next day,” she states.

Logan also mentions the “Behind the Scenes
Kitchen Tour,” a thirty minute hall program
that she and the staff of Vail Commons devised
in response to some concerns brought up by
RLO. “Some of the hall counselors said that
people on their floors were concerned about
quality of food and food preparation in Com-
mons,” says Logan, “so we created this pro-
gram to clarify those issues and address nutri-
tional concerns.” The program involves a 15
minute walk through Common’s immense
kitchen, where students are invited to observe
meal preparation and ask questions of the chefs.
“Many students are not aware that everything
in Commons is prepared from scratch,” says
Logan, “except forchicken parmesan, eggplant
parmesan, and tomato soup.”

Students spend the last fifteen minutes of the
program discussing nutrition and health with
Logan, who invites anyone with additional

bers statuary with the aid of a mechanical lift.

“David Holthouser, the physical plant direc-
tor, said one of the guys almost fell off the top
wo” ad Conley they were oegedeenrs

questions orconcerns back fora personal coun-
seling session. “I am in the office from nine to
three on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thurs-
days,” she mentions, “and am available to talk
about anything from designing a nutritional or
fitness plan to eating disorders.” She also re-
fers students with concerns about eating disor-
ders or difficulties with body image back to
that Nutrition site, where several warning signs
of such disorders are posted. Logan stresses,
however, that “if you are 18 or older, you are
an adult, and admitting to someone that you
need help is the first step.”

Eating disorders are typically not the main
issue that people on campus have with regards
to nutrition. Some students instead complain
of a lack of healthful options available in Vail
Commons and the Union Cafe, which they say
impedes their ability to eat right. “The desserts
are pretty much consistently good, but some-
times the stuff on the salad bar and in the hot
lines doesn’t appeal to me,” states Ashley
Cramer ’08.

Logan summarizes her opinion on the mat-
ter this way, stating that “Commons offers a
variety of choices, but we all have to make our
own choices.” Logan also has opportunities to
suggest certain options to the chefs of
Davidson’ s dining hall, who come to her with
questions or concerns over vegetarian options
and protein variation. She reiterates, however,
that students are ultimately the ones respon-
sible for their own diets. “Healthy options are
always there.”

Though this week and the next are sure to
prove stressful, Logan reminds diligent
Davidson students to adhere to a few basic
guidelines when it comes to maintaining their
diets and their sanity. “Choose healthy snacks,
take study breaks, and most importantly, get
adequate rest!” That sounds like some good
and guilt-free advice.

Got Art?

Want to write for
A&L?
Contact elburkhead
or anmartin.

ith hout Art” inaugurates Ars Longa, new art club

first of what Cooley describes as an array of
art related activities and events.

“It’s aproblem with the rules that are set up
rightnow. Club baseball can goand get $1,400

as a first year organization and ‘Woodrow’

received a significant amount, but since we
donothavea ‘product’ we cannot get that kind
of money, But we have a product to produce.
We have ceramics to produce. We have pho-

tography to produce. But now we don’t even

have the money to do ceramics.”

‘Ars Longa originally requested $300 from
the ATC for the “Day Without Art” alone.
Much of this would have gone to cover fabric
ang RONG. RAT though, mandated
