THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES _ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3 2005 - 9

Never forget those

Stop ignoring progress toward freedom

By JosEPH ADAMS
Guest Columnist -

Two years ago, a U.S.-led coalition overthrew Saddam
Hussein’s Iraqi regime, which many of us forget was one of
the most heinous dictatorships in modern history. Since the
bulk of this week’s campus commemorations of the war
deliberately wax over the pre-war situation in Iraq and over-
look the incredible progress that has been made there over
the past two years, it is perhaps most important this week to
take a look back at how far the Iraqi people have come along
the difficult path from dictatorship to democracy. We cannot
credibly praise or criticize the rate of progress in Iraq with-
out understanding the nature of both our mission and our
challenges.

Transitions from dictatorship to democracy have never
been facile or fast. For example, Alfredo Stroessner acceded
his dictatorship in 1989, yet Paraguay is still years away
from becoming a consdlidated democracy. Throughout
Saddam’s decades in power, the Iraqi people suffered innu-
merable offenses and cruelties, and the culture of tyranny
that he ingrained in the Iraqi people’s conscience is perhaps
the greatest challenge we must overcome in securing Iraq’s
future. Although torture chambers, rape rooms, acts of geno-
cide, and the other crimes against humanity perpetrated by
Saddam Hussein are gone from Iraq, they are not forgotten
by those who survived or witnessed the past cruelty of their
government.

In order to appreciate the progress that has been made in
Iraq and understand the difficulty with which it has been
achieved, we should remember where the Iraqi people were
just two years ago: abused, subservient, and all too frequent-
ly ignored. Just as often as the Iraqi people’s condition was
overlooked by the American government and international
organizations such as the United Nations, it was also used as
a political tool by the anti-American elite. While we shame-
fully overlooked the danger that Saddam Hussein posed not
only to his own people but to the greater Middle East, others
used the suffering of the Iraqi people as a means to churn
popular disdain for the United States and hostility toward its
Middle East policies.

Saddam Hussein has been gone from power for more than
two years, but unfortunately many critics of the war in Iraq
continue to steadfastly denounce the U.S. invasion and occu-
pation; indeed, their desperate fear of a successful Bush

Doctrine causes them to hope against hope. Some on our
campus have argued that Iraqis were better off under Hussein
than they presently are under the transitional government.

Indeed, following Dr. Jim Zogby’s coordination of a satel-
lite dialogue between Davidson and Iraqi students in the run-
up to the war, many on campus became readily and irrevoca-
bly convinced that Iraqis were happy to live under a reign of
terror, and the fact that the Iraqi students with whom they
spoke were surrounded by government “minders” was irrel-
evant. Even now that insurgents have resolved to undermine
public support for Iraqi democracy by targeting civilians, the
Iraqi people continue their brave march onward to freedom.

In an effort to distract from both the tyranny that preceded
the war and the progress that has been made in its aftermath,
one student organization has promoted a war casualty survey
released by the British medicine journal Lancet, which states
that between 8,000 and 200,000 Iraqis died in the war. Not
only have this survey’s methodology and findings been dis-
credited to the point that they no longer carry any weight, the
shock value of claiming the U.S. invasion of Iraq killed more
people than the nuclear bombing of Hiroshima mitigates the
truthfulness of the survey.

Why does this group avoid talking about the tyrannical
regime of Saddam Hussein? Why does it overlook all the
progress that has been made over the past two years? Had
they to decide whether the United States would liberate the
Iraqi people, Saddam Hussein would still be in power, and
the Iraqi people would still be enslaved.

The enjoyment of the basic freedoms we take for granted
daily in America was an inconceivable notion to Iraqis just
two years ago. Over the course of less than 800 days, a new
birth of freedom has occurred in one of the: least likely yet
most needful places in the world: the heart of the Middle
East. From the anarchy that immediately followed Saddam’s
ouster in early 2003 to the celebration of Iraq’s first free elec-
tions last month, the Iraqi people’s enduring hope for a
secure and free homeland has inspired our contingent of
more than 125,000 American troops stationed in the country.

Indeed, Iraqis’ hope for a better tomorrow has united our
nation behind the instrumental and noble goal of helping to
securing Iraq’s future. We must finish what we have started
not only for our own benefit, but for the good of humanity.

Joseph Adams is a junior political science major from
Angier, N.C. Contact him at jsadams@davidson.edu.

‘Fight the old lie’ of blind patriotism

“If you could hear, at every jolt,
the blood / Come gargling from the
froth-corrupted lungs, / Obscene as
cancer, bitter as the cud / Of vile,
incurable sores on _ innocent
tongues,— / My friend, you would
not tell with such high zest / To
children ardent for some desperate
glory, / The old Lie: Dulce et deco-
rum est / Pro patria mori.”

We now know—and should
have always known—that ideas
have consequences. The great
calamities of the 20th century
came from abominable ideas that
otherwise decent men and women let fester too long. The
appeal of ideologies that reduce individuals to instruments of
the state has a dark allure sometimes; these systems appeal to
societal virtues of a sort that few could object to in the
abstract, but everyone should object to when instantiated by
the eerie music of jackboots in the streets.

Wilfred Owen. wrote the lines above during World War I,
when for a brief while and for a great many young men, the
triumphalism around Western civilization’s system of
thought was revealed as rotten to its core. Cataloguing the
horrors of the past is an easy enough task for even the most
dilettante historian: Hitler was bad, the Vietnam War was
bad, etc.

But what requires more introspection is what most people
’ are unwilling to do—identify the ideas of their own time that
burn with frightening potential and stamp the incipient fire
out.

For us, at this moment, the most ominous and brightest fire
flickers in hues of red, white, and blue. In the immediate
aftermath of 9/11, it was almost impossible to go a day with-
out hearing or seeing the words “United We Stand.” I always
found that phrase a little unsettling, but I could never
describe—or I didn’t think it polite to describe—why. I’real-
ized some time later that-a nation should never “‘stand unit-
ed.” We are told, these days, by anti-war activists of every

stripe that “dissent is patriotic.” Well, yes. But that is a fair-
ly mundane proposition. What, I would pose to the peacenik
in a march, is the corollary to that?

Patriotism is a trait so uncontroversial that the dispute is
really over which political faction can lay greater claim to the
mantle, not .whether patriotism itself is worthwhile. This is
unfortunate. Patriotism, we should remember as citizens of
the most individualistic industrial country in the world, sub-
ordinates the individual to an entity (the state or nation) to

“For us, at this moment, the most
ominous and brightest fire flickers
in hues of red, white, and blue.”

which he or she need not owe any allegiance.

People are born where they are out of pure chance, but
pride and loyalty normally come from something you have
control over. Believing one to have some deep bond to that
which one did not voluntarily join seems odd. In its most vir-
ulently unreflective strain, it seems love for one’s country
amounts to affection tied to an accident.

Patriotism’s implications are also troubling these days
because of their hostility toward a healthier view of the value
of human life. It is only through the prism of the America-
firster that we can shed tears over the lives of the almost
1,200 American soldiers but simultaneously shrug off the
100,000 Iraqi fatalities our splendid little war has produced,
as estimated by the British medical journal The Lancet.

There is nothing inherently wrong with loving one’s coun-
try. But when this love trumps one’s faith in the equality of
men and women of all times and places, we lose sight of the
shared nature of our experiences on this planet.

Lest we send our children and the children of innocent
others to their graves for the “desperate glory” of which
Owen spoke, let us keep the flag one place and our ethics
another.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, N.C.
Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu.

slain in the war

By SAMI JARRAH

Guest Columnist

Two years ago, President Bush announced on national tel-
evision that the U.S. would declare war on Iraq. Bush told
the nation that American “military operations [were] to dis-
arm Iraq, to free its people, and to defend the world from
grave danger.”

We all wondered those first few weeks what exactly our
leader meant. And we all watched anxiously as the bombs
dropped on Baghdad, and Iraqis and Americans, among oth-
ers, began to die.

From the very beginning, Bush’s speech on March 19,
2003 made clear that this war would be a case study in the
power of rhetoric to manipulate the American people. To dis-
arm, to free, and to defend didn’t bring to mind the actuality
of the war we have all come to know.

Did we disarm Iraq? If disarming a nation can be preemp-
tive, we may have, but we also changed the definition of
modern war in the process. Did we free Iraqis? We did, but
only for the survivors. We must continually ask ourselves if
any life has been lost in vain. As a study in the British jour-
nal The Lancet finds, this war has seen the deaths of up to
100,000 Iraqis who will never know freedom.

Did we defend the world from grave danger? Well, it’s
unclear what that phrase really means, and “grave danger”’
apparently need not mean “imminent danger” or anything
resembling other worthless Constitutional jargon. Bush, in a
thinly-veiled way, justified this war two years ago “‘so that
we do not have to meet it later with armies of firefighters and
police and doctors on the streets of our cities.”

Good thing our leader didn’t play off of our well-founded
fears from the disasters of September 11, 2001. And too bad
so many of us forgot that there never was a connection
between Iraq and Al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, or 9/11.

More than being disappointed at my government’s manip-
ulation, I am awed at-how rarely I am confronted with the
war’s grim reality. This second anniversary has caused me to
look inward and ask myself some painful questions. How
often does the war in Iraq weigh on my mind anymore?
Certainly not as much as it did a year ago or even on
November 2. Should it be as important now? Is the war less-
ening in intensity? No. ©

Did Bush’s “Mission Accomplished” stunt fool me?
Perhaps, but numbers don’t lie. Since Bush declared
“Mission Accomplished,” which apparently meant the end of
major combat in Iraq, over 1,400 Americans have died. In
fact, the most recent six months have seen nearly twice as
many American deaths as the first six months of the war.

Did you know that five of the ten most deadly months in
Iraq have occurred since we’ve been back at Davidson for
this academic year? I certainly didn’t. Why didn’t I know? I
have a feeling it had something to do with mainstream
American media. But how many of us turn to alternative
news sources, or do we obediently consume what NBC-
Times-CNN has to offer?

I wonder sometimes where our attention has been directed
throughout this war and who points us there. I’m as guilty of
it as anyone else.

Here’s the shocker: while we were all focusing on our
national election and deciding between Bush and Kerry,
November 2004 saw the most American deaths in any month
since the war began. The second-most deaths in a month,
averaging four-per day, occurred as we all watched Bush’s
$40 million re-inauguration festivities. Is there something
wrong with this?

I continue to ask myself what I want to become of this war.
What does it mean to have peace in Iraq? The answer certain-
ly seems unclear. Captain Russell Burgos, an Army reservist
who returned from fighting in Balad, Iraq, has a bleak but
honest viewpoint: “The ‘peace’ has been bloodier than the
war.” And if peace, whatever that means, comes to Iraq in
our lifetime, will it have been worth it? I’m just not sure

My biggest fear, though, is forgetting—forgetting what it
feels like to be an unwilling supporter of a foreign policy
with which I disagree; forgetting what it feels like to know
men and women my age are not cramming for tests or going
on spring break, but are fighting and killing and dying; main-
ly, forgetting that this lesson has been learned countless
times before.

The words of Siegfried Sassoon’s 1919 poem “Aftermath”
resonate in my mind: “But the past is just the same—and
War’s a bloody game... / Have you forgotten yet?... / Look
down, and swear by the slain of the War that you’ ll never for-
get.”

Sami Jarrah is a sophomore English major from Lakeland,
Fl. Contact him at sajarrah@davidson.edu.
