10

Staff Editorial

Green light for NPHC sorority

For all the effort Davidson puts into attracting a diverse appli-
cant pool, getting students here is only the first step. To truly learn
from diversity, that student body must mix.

Indeed, an area of major concern at Davidson remains social
interactions along racial lines on Patterson Court. Alpha Phi
Alpha’s addition in recent years is a start toward addressing this
problem. Now, a group of women want to bring a historically
black sorority to campus.

While the support for their effort has been overwhelming, the .

student body remains firmly opposed to sororities in general. How
can this paradox be explained? If sororities are not wanted, what
would adding a historically black sorority mean for Davidson?

This editorial board, members of the group, and several eating
house presidents conducted a round-table discussion last Sunday
evening to address the concerns that have arisen from this effort.

The gains of the new addition are promising. Participation by
black women on the.Court has been minimal. A historically black
sorority would open a big part of Davidson—its social life—to a pre-
viously-excluded portion of the student body. Because the pro-
posed sorority would not have a house on the court, co-sponsor-
ships with existing court organizations might abound.

It is also hard to ignore the implications of the proposal for
admissions. Prospective students who inquire about historically
black sororities at Davidson—an important consideration to
many—will be told that this option does exist here. To whit, we
are concerned that Davidson will no longer be able to boast being
“sorority-free,” which was a factor in the decision of many women
to come here.

More important than the quantity of minority women that apply
to and potentially attend Davidson is the potential for a higher
quality experience for those women.

While we are convinced that a historically black sorority would
be the appropriate means of addressing diversity on the court at
this time, we are concerned about what the addition will do to
diversity within houses. In the future, will minority women feel
social pressure to join this sorority over current eating houses?

Proponents of the effort can claim that women have the option
to join both the eating house and the proposed sorority, thereby
eliminating any concern of reduced diversity within eating hous-
es. The claim is simply not credible.

Yet concerns that this would open the door to other sororities
are unfounded. College regulations and national “‘white” sorority
policies are currently incompatible. Patterson Court Council,
which voted 24-2 to endorse the addition of a historically black
sorority, would retain veto power over any further sororities. That
approval does not seem forthcoming.

The women heading this initiative have addressed an issue that
the campus should be concerned with resolving. Their proposal
represents a much-needed step in the right direction. For these rea-
sons, our editorial board endorses the proposal for a historically
black sorority.

(Dhe Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LLULX UBL ORTA LIBLRIAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman
Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor —
Jessica Hodge
B ine
Advertising & Circulation Managers
‘Sarah Bogue & Jarielle Milanes

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 9, 2005

+ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Religion not sole
source of ethics

Carey Baxter asserts that my lack of
religion should leave me full of
“uneasiness or shame” (“The Danger of
a Liberal Mind”, Nov. 2). This attitude
is a prime example of why so many
people are eager to identify themselves
as “not religious.”

It’s wonderful for Ms. Baxter that
she has found one creed that satisfies
her. But for many people, that simply
isn’t the case.

New ideas force us to examine and
evaluate our personal faith, so that we
can truly be invested in our beliefs
rather than swallowing someone else’s
down whole. The “light rejection of
God” that she refers to is no worse than
a light acceptance of God. A faith that
cannot stand up to questioning is on
shaky ground indeed.

She creates a false dichotomy
between morals and free thought,
claiming ethics as solely the province
of organized religion. The school
shooters showed a lack of morals, cer-
tainly—but to blame that on lack of
religion presupposes that there is only
one path to morality.

Ms. Baxter implies that rejecting
religion is an act of laziness and fear. I

could easily argue that embracing it is
as well. But I won’t, because I don’t
believe that. I respect Ms. Baxter’s
faith. I am simply asking for the same
respect in return.

Cecily Stokes-Prindle ‘06

GSA neither ‘trite’
nor ‘shallow’

I would like t o respond to Joe
Taylor, who states that he found
National Coming Out Day “trite and
shallow” and did not see how signing a
banner helped promote awareness (“A
Critical Mass of Campus Awareness”,
Nov. 2).

Before there can be education, peo-
ple must be aware that there is a prob-
lem. Handing out ribbons and signing a
banner raises awareness of the Gay
Straight Alliance on campus and high-
lights issues that need to be confronted.

We want students to know that GSA
supports all sexual orientations on cam-

pus. We would like prospective stu-

dents to know that there is a gay com-
munity and straight allies to feel com-
fortable expressing their support. We
feel that a banner accomplishes all

three of these goals. Many more stu-
dents are now aware of GSA and will
hopefully attend our events.

We have a lot of educational events,
and we would like for more people to
be involved. We have already spon-
sored one movie and discussion about
transgendered issues, National Coming
Out Day, and Barbaqueer—where there
was thought-provoking discussion
about sexual orientation issues.

The last GSA- meeting included dis-
cussion of Margaret Spellings as a
commencement speaker, an article
about how gay teens are coming out
earlier, scholarships for gay students,
and religious groups that claim to turn
gay people straight. We encourage all
students and faculty to come to our
meetings and tell us what issues they
are interested in.

Meaghan McFadden ’06

The Davidsonian wel-

comes letters to the edi-

tor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of less than 250
words to davidsonian

@davidson.edu by Sunday

night. We reserve the right

to edit for content, brevity
and grammar.

Thin line between facts and racism?

Last week, Penn State football
coach Joe Paterno stated in a
press conference that “the black
athlete has made a big differ-
ence. They have changed the
whole tempo of the game.”

This comment came a week
after Air Force coach Fisher
DeBerry was officially repri-
manded for saying that “Afro-
American kids can run very
well.”

Both of these remarks resulted
in the coaches being labeled as
racially insensitive. But these
claims, while taboo, are justifiable.

According to the NCAA, African-Americans constituted
47 percent of Division I football players in 2003-04. This is
far higher than their representation in the normal population,
which hovers around 13 percent.

Why, then, is it not appropriate for these coaches to con-
clude that African-Americans are superior athletes, when
they compete at a rate of nearly 3.5 times what they should
if all ethnic groups were represented proportionally?

These episodes pale in comparison to the backlash result-

CEE a . ing from former
- ’ Secretary of
Education William
Bennett claiming on
his radio show that
“If you wanted to
reduce crime, you
could—if that were
your sole purpose—
you could abort every
black baby in this
country and your
crime rate would go
down.”

While this state-
_ ment sounds blatantly
racist, Bennett did
gualify that comment
by reminding the
audience “that would
be an impossibly ridiculous and morally reprehensible thing
to do.”

the tao of scott

ih

Penn State football coach Paterno

As in college athletics, African-Americans are dispropor-
tionately represented as prison inmates. According to the
Bureau of Justice Statistics, around 40 percent of inmates are
black. However, studies have shown that socioeconomic and
family background, regardless of race, is a better determi-
nant of one’s predisposition to commit a crime.

Dr. Bennett would have a stronger position to argue had he
cited those factors rather than the social construct of race.

Part of the reason these types of comments seem so incen-
diary is due to the way the media chooses to cover them.

In Dr. Bennett’s case, media coverage took his claim out
of context and neglected to acknowledge that he, as an
ardent pro-lifer, would hardly support aborting babies.

Paterno, on the other hand, was ‘given a free pass com-
pared to his friend DeBerry; however, when the story first
broke, it appeared to be heading in the same direction.

The original headline to the ESPN.com story read,

White athletes ought to be insult-
ed at the implication that. no .mat-
ter how hard they work, they will
be automatically less desirable
due to the color of their skin.

“Paterno links black athletes to increased scoring,” which is
far more inflammatory than the revised headline, “Penn
State coach offers his take on black athletes.”

Something as simple as a headline changes how the story
is read. If either DeBerry or Paterno were truly racist, it
would have manifested itself during their combined 55 years
of head coaching experience.

Their statements were hardly a dig on the abilities of
African-Americans; if anything, white athletes ought to be
insulted at the implication that no matter how hard they
work, they will be automatically less desirable to coaches
due to the color of their skin.

Nevertheless, the comments of Bennett, Deberry, and
Paterno are inconsequential. Rather than wasting energy
debating political correctness, we ought to focus on remedy-
ing more institutionalized forms of racism.

Scott Saldafa is a freshman from Dallas, Tx. Contact him
at scsaldana@davidson.edu.
