8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By AriEL BuGosH

Special Contributor

In this compelling non-fiction book, Caroline
Alexander has created a masterpiece of inves-
tigative reporting, not just because of good
research, but also because of good writing.
Alexander also wrote “The Endurance” about
the trials of Antarctic explorer Ernest
Shackleton, so she is well equipped to talk about
men in boats facing impossible voyages. Yet
the story of “The Bounty” goes deeper than
man versus nature; it also involves psychol-
ogy, drama, and romance.

Captain Bligh set off in 1788 ona voyage to
the South Pacific to
buy breadfruit to
grow in the Carib-
bean. He stayed in
Tahiti for several
months while his
men enjoyed the re-
laxed island lifestyle
and the uninhibited
Tahitian women.
When all the trees
had been carefully
stored, the ship set
off again for En-
gland. Only a few
days out, tensions
grew to the breaking
point when the cap-
tain accused some of
stealing coconuts.
That night, several
sailors under the
leadership of
Fletcher Christian, a
charismatic officer, §
dragged Captain Bligh out of bed and dumped
him in a small, cramped boat with 18 crew-
men. Bligh and his men miraculously survived
a 48-day voyage. Christian and his men threw
the trees into the sea and went back to Tahiti,
where some remained and were later captured.
The rest sailed to Pitcairn Island and created a
short-lived utopia.

Most people who have read about the story
of “The Bounty” have read the classic histori-
cal fiction trilogy by James Hall and Charles
Nordhoff, published in the early 1930s. These

. Arts & LIVING
aaa iia

~ Save Our Ars

“The Bounty”: The making of a legend ©

books (“Mutiny onthe Bounty,” “Men Against
the Sea” and “Pitcairn Island”) portray Cap-
tain Bligh as an arrogant dictator and Fletcher
Christian, the initiator of the mutiny, as a bril-
liant anti-hero.

Alexander provides a different perspective
of those events. She explores the history of
many characters, including Bligh and Chris-
tian. She also provides a background on arela-
tively unknown character, Peter Heyward, a
well-connected teenager who participated in
the mutiny and was brought back to England
for trial. She shows how Heyward’s connec-
tions strongly influenced the public image of
the mutiny in an at-
tempt to save him and
salvage their reputa-
tion. In truth, Bligh
was no worse than
most captains of his
day; the problem lay
with Christian, in
love with Tahiti, who
betrayed his captain
and sent him to al-
most certain doom.
Drawing on copious
letters and ship’s
et logs, Alexander de-
scribes the origins of
the voyage and the
time in Tahiti. She
uses several different
accounts to recreate
the scene of the mu-
tiny and then de-
scribes the agonizing
3,600-mile journey
of Bligh and his men

in their open boat.

The best part of the book, in my opinion, is
the courtroom drama surrounding the trials of
the captured mutineers. The characters of these
long-dead figures come to life and the reader
identifies with some of them. You can feel the
force of personalities across the centuries of
silence, the opposing pulls of justice and com-
Passion.

I wish she’d spent a little more time on
Pitcairn Island, the isle where the mutineers
ultimately ended up with several Tahitians.:

They destroyed the ship and created a new life,
but their paradise degenerated over racism and
women. All ‘but one of the mutineers died in
the ensuing conflict. “Pitcairn Island” describes
this fascinating tale (“Swiss Family Robinson”
gone horribly wrong) in all of its adventure,
although probably without much historical ac-
curacy. Even so, Alexander describes what hap-
pened when Pitcairn Island was rediscovered,
and that in itself is a telling story about com-
mercialism.

The strength of this book lies in Caroline
Alexander’s ability to tell a story. She moves
beyond dry facts to show how truth can be, not
just stranger, but better than fiction.

“The Bounty: The True Story
of the Mutiny on the Bounty”
by Caroline Alexander
$10.50 on Amazon.com

512 pages
He He Hr

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

By ELizaBeETH BURKHEAD
Arts & Living Editor

Davidson’s visual arts society, Ars
Longa, has finally received funding from
ATC. With its charter complete, it is ready
to start planning events andactivities. The
organization is driven by student demand,
particularly in the fields of photography
and ceramics. Although Davidson does not
offer classes in these disciplines, facilities
exist on campus for their pursuit if there
were enough student interest.

The campus was first introduced to Ars
Longain December through “A Day With-
out Art,” which helped raise awareness of
the way AIDS has affected the artistic
community.

Future events planned include work-
shops, gallery crawls, and a mural in the
Union.

In March, Kendall Buster, a sculptor
whose work has been greatly influenced
by her studies in microbiology, will visit.

Despite the costs of the organization, it
only received $250 from ATC, which
means it will have to do a substantial
amount of fundraising.

Hey Mister Postman ...

By Darcie Draupt
Special Contributor

As a last-minute favor to a friend, I volun-
teered to write this article about intracampus
mail. So beware, it may not be full of witti-
cisms or insights. I decided to start this article
in what I realize is my characteristic self-aware
line of attack because she gave me a topic and
little time to write it. What do I write about
intracampus mail? I’m an Outlook junkie, and
even stray from using that archaic telephone
system to communicate. Witness the fact that
her plea for help transpired via Instant Mes-
senger.

Okay ... think intracampus mail ... think
simple pleasures in life ... think pony express
... Oh, no ... running out of clichés ...

I love getting mail. The thing is, I don’t have
funny anecdotes about receiving mail, nor do
I frankly send intracampus mail that much.
Most of my friends don’t have any good snail
mail stories, either. Some of my thoughtful
friends drop me a Hallmark from the bookstore

Public Policy
Literature
Economics

Film

Psychology
History
Sociology
Art History

Women’s Studies

Politics

Environmental
Studies

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323

(315) 737-0123

www.swedishprogram.org

every now and then, but mostly I look forward
to the Pottery Barn Teen catalog to which I
subscribe simply on the basis that they’1] send
me colorful free mail with no personal or fi-
nancial obligation.

But when I do get letters, it is pretty excit-
ing. Several months ago I received a ridicu-
lous chain letter from my roommate, which,
while it didn’t include “Send this to 5+ people
or experience bad luck in love,” did involve
sending a new pair of underwear to her sis-
ter—extremely girly for my tastes, but very
funny to send.

Last year, I received an anonymous note that
included heartening things about me. What an
unusual thing to receive in the mail! But for an
awkward freshman girl getting settled into
spring term, a complimentary letter was a
wonderful thing to get. ;

I guess I have received a couple nice things
in my little steel 6078. And because I feel the
post office gods operate on a correspondence
karma basis, and because I think so many (non-
felony) mischiefs could be pursued by just
writing four numbers ona blank envelope, I’m
resolved to utilize this free Davidson service
in the future.

I mean, who wouldn’t want to receive an
anonymous letter from a secret crush? Hey, it
seems juvenile and hopelessly romatic-com-
edy-esque, but wouldn’t you get a fuzzy feel-
ing from knowing that someone cares even if
they’re not following up? Under my unsenti-
mental exterior, I like to think I house a pen-
chant for mystery. . .

And even though some emailers are pretty
keen on those inbox-clogging mass emails,
doesn’t the “Reply to All-insult someone’ s
mother-Send-Annoy” process lack certain cre-
ativity? And actual humor? Imagine what you
could do with a stack of envelopes and some
random trinkets in your room. Mailing a cat-
shaped eraser has never been less expensive,
or less arbitrary.

Now that I’ve done this paper-based favor
for my friend, I think I can handle sending a
30-word note viaintracampus mail. Ijusthope
Ican be a little less cliché and be more inven-
tive for the thrill of anear-extinct mode of com-
munication.

Questions? Comments? Address concerns
to Campus Box 6078.

Like Arts?
Like Living?

Email elburkhead.

