2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS
‘Muchane becomes ITS Director

on he ae aE "i *Y * —_
Several white oak trees planted in the area between Chambers and the library died
this summer, leaving gaping holes in the ground such as the one above.

Drainage problems, heat
possible causes of tree deaths

By ALEX GREGOR
Staff Writer

A number of white oak trees planted dur-
ing the winter of 2004 in the newly-renovat-
ed area between Chambers and the library as
part of the Chambers Renovation Project
died within a period of one month during the
summer.

Though the exact reason for the demise of
the trees has not been determined, several
possible factors may be to blame.

White oaks are difficult trees to transplant,
and drainage problems and extreme heat
were probably among the primary causes of
their death.

Also, much of the area under renovation
was re-graded, a process that changes the
slope of the ground, before the trees were
planted.

“T think that part of the problem might
have been that because the grade changed,
we changed the drainage ... we also had
some extreme heat this summer,” said
Assistant Director of Grounds and Planning
Joy Cleary.

Cleary said the trees were planted proper-
ly and at the ideal time for transplanting such
large trees.

In her nine years of work for the College,

during which time nearly 800 trees have
been planted on campus, Cleary said she has
never seen such a high mortality rate.

The Chambers Renovation Project during
the winter of 2004 was aimed at remodeling
a space that was “underutilized and awk-
ward,” filling it “with an abundance of trees
and grass, more typical of the balance of the
grounds that the campus enjoys,” said
Director of Facilities and Engineering David
Holthouser.

“Our landscape plan was to strategize
around the four monumental oak trees with-
in that space ... creating a sidewalk system
that navigated around them, and plant new
undergrowth to eventually mature into the
inverse of what is there now. We planted a
row of white oak trees on both sides of the
new park space,” Holthouser said.

There are plans to replant the trees, which
are covered under warranty, this winter, after
the proper steps have been taken to prevent
another mishap similar to that of this sum-
mer.

“We might have to do some drainage pip-
ing or something, but it won’t be apparent,
from the top side anyway. Probably we will
be planting back in the same kind of config-
uration,” Cleary said.

By DUNCAN BOWLING

Staff Writer
Mur Muchane, Davidson’s former
Director of Instructional Technology,

assumed the position of Executive Director
of Informational Technology this past July.
Muchane plans to strengthen relations
between Information Technology Services
(ITS) and the college community, as well as
increase overall efficiency in computing at
Davidson.

Under Muchane’s new leadership, ITS has
launched into a year-long effort focusing on
service and relationships within the

Davidson College community.

“It’s important to have good relationships
in place with students, faculty, and staff,”
Muchane said. “Relationships provide the
foundation to collaborate on important
issues.”

Director of ITS Mur Muchane

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

ITS will have a more visible presence on
campus in the coming year, with several
events planned to build stronger bonds with-
in the college community.

ITS hosted early computer set-up fairs to
accommodate freshmen who arrived on cam-
pus the week before orientation. The fair
helped new students get connected to the
campus’ network and reduced the usually
heavy attendance at the annual set-up fair on
Friday of orientation week.

ITS has also increased the ResNet office’s
hours by 33 percent. The office is now open
from 7 to 11 p.m. Sunday through Thursday.

While Muchane’s current focus is on
building and’ strengthening relationships
within the college community, the depart-
ment also has several long-term goals that
aim to increase overall efficiency in comput-
ing at Davidson.

However, Muchane said planning into the
future while taking into account rapidly-
changing technology can be hard. “There’s a
constant revision of goals to take advantage
of changes; there’s always something newer,
cheaper, and faster.”

Muchane grew up on his family’s dairy
farm near Nairobi, Kenya. After attending

British international schools where he

became fluent in Swahili, Kikuyu, and
English, Muchane came to the United States
and attended Warren Wilson College.

After receiving his bachelor’s degree in
economics from Warren Wilson in 1987,
Muchane spent the following year working
in the college’s development office, where
he instituted an information technology sys-
tem to keep charge of donations to the
school.

See Muchane, page 3

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/2

Martin Court

Larceny

Student reported that unknown person(s) unlawfully removed her hood ornament
from her vehicle. The ornament is described as a bleached goat skull with the horns
intact but no bottom jaw; however the upper jaw is intact with four visible teeth.

9/7

Laundry Building

Larceny

Complainant advised that approximately $320 was unlawfully removed from the
laundry safe. Complainant stated that the safe is always locked, and it is most likely
someone with the combination gained access and removed the money.

9/8 Patterson Court

Briejly

A Cappella Benefit Concert

Property Defacement
= A white male was observed walking out of the SAE house and urinating on the lion
statute in front of the steps. An unknown person was heard telling him to try to get it
in the mouth. An officer approached the subject and asked why was he urinating out-

The Delilahis Genetais aan Androgyny will have a Hurricane Katrina Benefit C ie side; he stated that he did not feel like walking back inside to use the bathroom.

on September 15 at 5:45 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $3, but

higher donations will be accepted. 9/9

Concord Road Harassment

Officer was contacted by a student who advised that she was walking down Concord
Road when a vehicle with four black males who were making sexual remarks and
appeared to be drinking. The student stated that she walked to the opposite side of the
street, and the vehicle stopped and one of the men got out. Student stated that she then

walked into Jackson Court, and the car left.

Poetry Talk

Henri Cole, a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in poetry, will speak on September 15 at 7:30
p.m. in the Carolina Inn.

‘Musical Interludes

Suspicious Person

9/10 Sentelle Dormitory

o Spee Wa pare ee hy Officer arrived at Sentelle Dormitory at approximately 3:35 a.m. in response to a call

Paes about a suspicious person. The complainant stated that a male student wearing only
boxer shorts entered her room, got into her bed with her, and went to sleep. The sub-
ject was still asleep in bed when officer arrived. The officer awakened the subject, who
was confused about what was going on. It took him several minutes to realize that he

was not in the room he thought he was in or with the female he thought he was with.

Race Relations Lecture

shies Hinsigoia Haake Wil speck on “Discrimiaation, Racial Identity, ti) Benanive
ee eee visemes datas w

146 of Dana Science agree
08 9/ ll Patterson Court Assault on a Female
Victim stated that during a conversation with a friend, a male subject walked up to
her and grabbed her arm forcefully, then yelled profanity at her. The victim’s friend
attempted to intervene and was pushed by the suspect; subsequently the suspect ran

away. Officers have identified the individual are conducting an inyestigation.

| Concert on the Green

Gavidaom' Cotvopesmsicat eaeeaiie WIA GHIA ten Cidace nm Gn Gece’
September 18 at 6 p.m. at the saeie oF Plame Orterr ae Concand Kova:

