THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005 = 11

Congressmen strike out on DC Baseball New energy crisis?

By JC BoyLe
Staff Columnist

It’s rare to find Republicans against the prospect of a
wealthy businessman buying something, but apparently
since they dominate the media and control all three branches
of government, it’s now time to regulate Major League
Baseball.

Already in the habit of needlessly interfering with the
internal workings of the sport from this spring’s steroid hear-
ings, congressmen like Tom Davis of Virginia and John
Sweeney of New York have decided to bully the sport into
picking only owners they approve of. By threatening to
revoke baseball’s antitrust exemption if they don’t approve
of a sale, these so-called fans are trying to give government
veto power over a sport’s internal decisions.

The problem, as they see it, is George Soros’s bid to pur-
chase the Washington Nationals. “It’s not necessarily smart
business sense to have anybody who is so polarizing in the
-political world,” Sweeney said in June, according to the
Washington Post. “That goes for anybody, but especially as
it relates to Major League Baseball because it’s one of the
few businesses that get incredibly special treatment from
Congress and the federal government.”

These so-called fans are trying
to give government veto power
over a sport's internal decisions.

Political polarization has never been a problem with base-
ball before, which has had more than’ its share of colorful
owners. Take Marge Schott, who owned the Cincinnati Reds
for nearly two decades, in between her frequent suspensions
for racism, Nazism and homophobia. Then there’s George
Steinbrenner, who pled guilty to obstruction of justice and
making illegal campaign contributions to Richard Nixon in
the year the Watergate scandal began. And who can forget
both Ted Turner and Rupert Murdoch, equally insane media
moguls from opposite sides of the political spectrum, both of
whom owned baseball teams either personally or through

Televangelist Pat Robertson
recently took the controversial
step of suggesting that the United
States “take out” polarizing
Venezuelan president Hugo
Chavez. In addition to the subse-
quent media outrage, Rev. Jesse
Jackson felt it necessary to make a
trip to meet with Chavez and
declare that he posed no threat to
America.

Sorry Rev. Jackson, but despite
his lack of a nuclear arsenal,
Chavez remains one of our
biggest threats.

The former army officer assumed power just four years
after being released from prison for coordinating a failed
coup. The Venezuelan people actually held a recall of
Chavez’s election last year, in which he won again in a land-
slide. The Atlanta-based Carter Center certified the election
as legitimate.

Then again, we ought to be hesitant to accept Jimmy
Carter’s word as fact, considering he also assured our nation
that Kim Il-Jong would never pursue a nuclear weapons pro-
gram.

And, sure enough, a study conducted by a Harvard and
MIT professors found that the chances the recall election

as “clean” were less than one in 100.

Chavez embraces a radical ideology, involving gargantuan
social programs, similar to that of his closest ally, Fidel
Castro of Cuba. One of his highest priorities has been reallo-

Chavez embraces a radical ideol-
ogy ... similar to that of his closest
ally, Fidel Castro.

cating land from the hands of foreign “imperialists” to peas-
ants. ;

According to a recent Wall Street Journal article, the eco-
nomic effects of Chavez’s indifference to the festering issue
of squatters occupying private farmland have been devastat-
ing. So as in Cuba, most Venezuelans remain impoverished.

But unlike Cuba, Venezuela cannot claim to be the victim
of economic sanctions. Much to the contrary, Chavez claims
to export around 1.5 million barrels of oil to the US a day.

' government’s support of an

their companies?

The only things a polarizing owner should have to deal
with are fans and players, but, unfortunately for the rest of
Washington, Congress happens to have its share of baseball
fans, and their idea of fandom is to make baseball into as
much of a mess as the country is in. (Not that Bud Selig
needs any help.)

“Major League Baseball understands the stakes,” is the
threat Davis has given regarding Soros’s attempt to purchase
the Nationals. “I just don’t think we need or want that in the
nation’s capital,” he said of Soros’s politics, adding, “I don’t
think I’l.be getting season tickets if he gets the team.”

Their idea of fandom is to make
baseball into as much of a mess
as the country is in.

What are Soros’s politics? As a.teenager he fled
Communist Hungary for the London School of Economics.
After making his millions he started a philanthropic effort
aiding black students in apartheid South Africa.

Two years ago he helped finance the democratic revolution
in Georgia. None of this, of course, is at all relevant to his
status as a minority shareholder in a group aiming to pur-
chase a baseball team. All that really matters is his money,
and he certainly has that.

Also irrelevant is the.$23 million he spent last year trying
to defeat President Bush, former owner of the Texas Rangers.
It’s especially meaningless because, unlike Steinbrenner, his
campaign contributions were all legal.

Major League Baseball will decide after the season which
group gets to buy the Nationals, and they should be able to
make that decision without the interference of the federal
government, which surely has better things to worry about.
It’s not clear who’s a frontrunner at this point, but Soros does
have one thing going for him: if he buys the team, no one will
have to sit next to Tom Davis.

JC Boyle is a sophomore classics major from Atlanta, Ga.
Contact him at jcboyle@davidson.edu.

Venezuela’ Ss Hugo Chavez: a threat?

Due to the large: volume of oil traded, and skyrocketing
prices, Venezuela has amassed large revenues.

Rather than using that money to rescue his citizens from
the throes of indigence, however, Chavez has made several
military “investments”. He has been accused of supporting
narco-terrorist rebels in Colombia, in opposition to the US
government’s backing of the current democratic regime of
that nation. According to the Weekly Standard, he also
ordered 20 MiG fighter jets and 100,000 AK-47 rifles from
the Russian government, a surprisingly large quantity of
arms for a nation without any international military commit-
ments.

Besides publicly aligning himself with
countries Libya, Syria, and ‘
Iran, Chavez is an avowed
enemy of President Bush.
This is a result of both polit-
ical differences and the US

orist-harboring

attempted coup in 2002.
Chavez has in turn become
paranoid about being assas-
sinated, and made several |
threatening remarks toward
Bush.

The frightening proposi-
tion of him ordering an at
attack on one of our allies in Venezuelan president Hugo
Latin America does not Chavez.
seem far-fetched. Despite threats to cut off Venezuelan oil to
the US, Chavez has yet to even approach that point. This is
because, according to the Inter Press Service, the US consti-
tutes 60 percent of Venezuela’s oil exports.

It seems illogical to keep funneling cash into the accounts
of foreign dictators who hate America. But that is the nature
of our current energy needs, which rely heavily on oil con-
trolled by our biggest enemies in the war on terror. If we can
move toward a more self-reliant energy program, we will no
longer abet efforts in these: nations that run contrary to our

wn interests.

Even though Robertson’s remarks were rash and poorly
thought out, they managed to bring attention to one of the
developing threats in the world.

Scott Saldajia is a freshman from Dallas, Tx. Contact him
at scsaldana@davidson.edu.

In light of the recent hurricane
in New Orleans, three facts of
American life have become
painfully obvious.

First, we as a people are danger-

ously reliant on oil. Second, some-
thing needs to be done in order to
check -rising domestic gasoline
consumption. And third, the cur-
rent administration and Congress
, are not determined to take action
j to resolve this national crisis.
., Before last week’s hurricane,
gasoline prices had been steadily
rising throughout the summer. The
storm’s destruction of America’s largest energy hub has
served simply to accelerate a situation that was bound to
unfold at some point. With a reduction in the supply of gaso-
line; prices have skyrocketed to almost $4 a gallon in some
areas of the country.

The reasonable response would be to reduce consumption
as during the energy crisis of the 1970s. But the Bush admin-
istration, in its unflagging support of big business, has flood-
ed the market with supplies from the nation’s stash of crude
oil and lowered environmental standards for gasoline refiner-
ies.

The president has thus forgone an opportunity to improve
both his domestic and international standing by refusing to
responsibly confront America’s dependence on oil.

The lack of any feasible energy program from the Bush
administration demonstrates an unsettling lack of effort in
the White House and a lack of concern among the. American
public. America’s security and foreign and domestic policy
are compromised by a reliance on petroleum that strains the
economy, squanders taxpayers’ money and places American
stability at the whim of other nations.

Moreover, the air pollution generated by combustion puts
humans and the rest of the environment in considerable dan-
ger. Energy consumption and harmful emissions have
increased dramatically in recent years as people have begun
to drive less efficient automobiles, requiring greater govern-
ment spending to repair damage done to the environment.
The time has surely come to recognize our nation’s vulnera-
bility and demand a change.

As the leaders of our nation, President Bush and members
of Congress ought to muster the political courage to impose
emission limitations on automobile makers and offer incen-
tives for the implementation of fuel-efficient technology.

talk turkey

Higher taxes on gasoline would also encourage individuals

to limit their consumption.

Furthermore, the President should call on America’s youth
to explore the field of science in hopes of finding a renew-
able energy source.

Effective change cannot come exclusively from the top:
Americans have a civic duty to be aware of their personal
gasoline consumption and reduce it through the use of pub-
lic transportation, carpools, bicycles and other environmen-
tally-friendly means.

Americans have a civic duty to
be aware of their personal gaso-
line consumption and reduce it
through the use of public trans-
portation ... and other environ-
mentally-friendly means.

Oversized vehicles in particular drain the country’s
resources and pollute the air that we all breathe. The
American culture of excess, exemplified by the abundance of
McMansions and SUVs, has encouraged many people in
recent years to disregard the effects of their actions on oth-
ers.

The notions of sacrifice and caution that sustained the
nation through the Great Depression and the energy crisis of
the 1970s seem to have disappeared.

Finally, as Davidson students we are in a unique position
to improve our country’s condition. In addition to reducing
our own gasoline consumption, we must encourage others to
do the same and demand that our government follow suit.
America’s youth has the intellectual capacity and political
influence to alter the current course of the nation through
awareness campaigns, activism and perhaps most effectively
at the polls.

We must use this power wisely.

Stephen Kalin is a freshman from Tappan, N.Y. Contact
him at stkalin @davidson.edu.
