THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

College officials unconcerned
about drop in ranking

By Karte GILLESPIE & CAITLIN RAWLES
News Editor & Staff Writer

Davidson College tied for 10th place with
Claremont McKenna College in the U.S.
News and World Report magazine’s annual
ranking of the top liberal arts colleges in the
nation. Although Davidson dropped three
spots from last year’s ranking of seventh,
college officials are not concerned about the
effect the change will have on the school’s
academic reputation.

“Just as we don’t gloat when we move up
three spots, we don’t mourn when we move
down three spots,” President Bobby Vagt
said. “It continues to be nice to be recog-
nized in the same group with top liberal arts
colleges. When you look at the formula and
the compression of the variables, at what
separates number two from number nine,
we’re pleased to be where we are.”

According to Director of Institutional
Research Linda LeFauve; it is difficult for
Davidson to even compare its rankings over
the years.

“U.S. News won’t even compare changes
from year to year because they change the
algorithm [used to score institutions] almost
every year,” LeFauve said. “It’s comparing
apples to oranges.”

The rankings result from a percentage sys-
tem comprised of seven factors, including
peer assessment, faculty resources, and stu-
dent selectivity.

The, peer assessment ranking, which
counts for 25 percent of the total score, is
determined by surveys in which the presi-
dents, admissions officers, and chief aca-
demic officers of other liberal arts colleges
rank their peer institutions. Over the past ten
years, this ranking has changed from a per-
centage score to a four-point scale to a five-
point scale.

“The scale is outstanding to marginal,”
LeFauve said. “How any one respondent
defines academic quality could be different
from how another respondent defines it. It’s
in part [about] name recognition.”

Another problematic area for LeFauve is
the graduation rate performance ranking,

which counts for five percent of the score. °

The magazine uses variables such as admit-
ted students’ standardized test scores and
high school GPA to predict a percentage of
students that it believes should graduate
from the college within six years. The rank-
ing is then computed by comparing this per-
centage to the school’s actual six-year grad-
uation rate.

“They put the variables into a formula that
says your graduation rate should be ‘X,’
based on the type of students you have, and
then compare it to the actual graduation

RIBS...EAT IN OR

«

rate,” LeFauve said. “They’re looking strict-:

ly at inputs [things the students already have
when they enroll in the college], which is
what they keep saying they don’t want to
do.”

The possibility of tied scores further com-
plicates any effort to compare a school’s
movement in the rankings Over the years.
When two schools have the same score, they
share a ranking on the list, but the next
school moves down two spots. A college’s
ranking can thus be lowered if the schools
ahead of it tie, even if its overall score is
almost as high.

Because it is difficult to interpret these
rankings, Davidson chooses to emphasize its
academic quality through the increase in
applications, annual giving, and faculty
salaries the school has experienced over the
past several years. Davidson was also includ‘
ed this year in an unranked listing of 36 insti-
tutions nationwide with the best undergradu-
ate research programs.

“U.S. News won't even compare
changes from year to year because
they change the algorithm almost
every year. It’s comparing apples
to oranges.”

--Linda LeFauve,
Director of Institutional Research

“The types of things that we want to see
happening in a positive way are happening,”
said Dean of Academic Affairs Clark Ross.

Yet students acknowledge that these rank-
ings play a role in the college decision
process.

“My mom compulsively checked those
rankings all the time, and when we first
heard about Davidson, we looked it up and
saw it indeed was at the top of the list,” Ali
Cundari ’09 said. “I probably would not have
considered Davidson too much, unless I
heard rave reviews about its academic supe-
riority from someone who attended here, if it
was not rated on a list like that, because I
would have just assumed it didn’t appear for
a reason.”

Cundari’s final decision to come to
Davidson, however, was based on more than
just numbers.

“Although the numbers are what got me to
consider it as a competitive and highly
respected school, the environment here is
truly like no other,” Cundari said. “Davidson
really is a warm and inviting place, and in
my opinion, transcends far beyond its close-
ly-ranked competitors’ mere names and sta-
tistics.”

This year’s rankings of the top liberal arts
colleges included 215 institutions.

TAKE OUT...RIBS

9709-8 SAM FURR RD HUNTERSVILLE, NC
1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/ EASY ON”
Hours~Dally 11AM~SPM; Closed Sunday

Phene Number: (704) 895-2692 —

159 o¢F WITH CATCARD}

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HoT DOGS
SERVED ONGRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,SWEET
ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &OUR OWN PORK
BAR~B~QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY

CHEES ESTO & CHICKENSTEAKS

www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005 3

Committee formed to challenge
revisions to Alcohol Policy

BY COLLEEN McKown
Staff Writer

Davidson’s new Drug and Alcohol Policy
has been a major concern of several SGA
members, who feel that the new restrictions,
as well as recent enforcement, are somewhat
extreme.

Due to dissatisfaction with the changes,
SGA Treasurer Jack Hubbard ’06 and SGA
Vice President Bridget Kane ’06 are spear-
heading a committee to re-evaluate the new
policies.

One major concern was the new drinking
game rules, especially the consequences
imposed on the roommates of the game’s
host.

The new rule states that students of legal
age are allowed to play drinking games, but
if underage participants are caught partici-
pating in the game, the host and any other
residents in the dorm room or apartment are
placed on social probation for a semester. A
second offense results in eviction from
Davidson residence halls.

“I could be writing a paper in the next
room and get penalized for the drinking
game,” Hubbard said. “It is absurd that I can
get in trouble for something I was not even
involved in.”

Another of the new rules is that students
can only drink alcohol on the overhangs in
Martin Court, not on the grassy areas by the
senior apartments. Hubbard cited a recent
incident, in which a senior student was told
by Campus Safely to pour out his solo cup
when he was “ten inches away from the
overhang.”

“The new rules make it a lot harder to have
a party. They discourage court parties and
are pushing drinking into rooms and off
campus,” Hubbard said. “Pushing drinking
off-campus causes more tragedies, due to

binge drinking and drunk driving. It is much
safer to keep drinking on campus.”

According to SGA members, students
have had a higher than usual number of run-
ins with Campus Safety this past week,
which indicates that they are very suspicious
of underage drinking and are closely moni-’
toring all drinking.

Rusk representative Jordyn Griffin °06
said it is important to have direct communi-
cation with those enforcing the rules.

“We need to take a proactive approach to
get everyone on the same playing field,”
Griffin said.

Some SGA members feel it is important to
wait until after First Night Down before try-
ing to negotiate changes to the policy.

“T don’t think we should sit down with
Campus Safety until we have the whole pic-
ture,” said Michael Gordon ’08, chair of the
SGA charters and bylaws committee and Phi
Gamma Delta representative.

Gordon and others said that it is best to let
the issue go for awhile, until the semester is
further along and Campus Safety’s expecta-
tions are more clearly observed.

“There is definitely a reason for the new
policy. Oklahoma State University became a
dry campus just recently after a sophomore
student was found dead through alcohol poi-
soning. ” Senator Joshua Choi ’08 said. “If
we continue to have a need for the revision
of the new alcohol policy, SGA should con-
sider holding a discussion panel with the
enforcement; however, for now, we should
let it sit for a while before making a rash
decision.”

SGA also discussed its plans for selling
plastic “Davidson Pride” bracelets as a
fundraiser for hurricane relief efforts. The
bracelets will be sold until Friday. Students
will also be able make monetary donations at
the same table.

EXPERIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME.
MONEY FOR COLLEGE. ©

Strengthening your personal skills is not the only
henofit of joining the Army. You can also receive

- cash bonuses and money for college. If you qualify,
you can receive a $20,000 Enlistment Bonus, $65,000
College Loan Repayment or $70,000 from the Army

Now Offering Up to
$20,000 Bonus
If You Qualify

; College Fund. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or

; 1-800-USA-ARMY.

i Where: U.S. Army Recruiting Station
When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday

5

WA ECT BT BL TILT RIS I

Who: Sgt. 1st Class Powers, 704-563-0560

