. ARTS

LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 20, 2005

Speaking up for the artform of spoken word

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

“What is slam poetry if it is not in your-
face, banging words, thrown at rapid speeds
with a high infiltration of curse words and
derogatory terms?” people often ask me.

And I see how any phrase that includes the
aggressive descriptor “slam” and is closely
associated with teenage angst overflowing
on stage might provoke such a definition.

But there is an aspect to performance poet-
ry—and to the community of performing
poets created by poetry slams—that is lost in
this common conception.

Vers Libre Slam Poetry Club, Davidson’s
first organization of performance-poet-word-
hoarders, aims to “educate, to enlighten, and
to promote and celebrate the art of spoken
poetry” here on campus. These lofty goals
include helping writers perform without
leaning too much on vulgarity and maladroit
energy.

’ So what is slam poetry, this spoken word

phenomenon? It began roaring in the early
1980s in Chicago, culminating in a style of
poetry that, according to its founder Marc
Smith (in the recently published “The
Spoken Word Revolution”) is “about all
styles... about expanding the possibilities of
poetry instead of limiting them.”

As a poet, I often cringe in response to per-
formances featured in slam-natured exhibi-
tions (as in, for example, the Def Poetry Jam
showings Vers Libre featured in the 900
Room); I can be irritated by the absence of
word value and the performer’s oft mis-
placed emphasis. I identify with those slam
poets who have called out themselves the

tendency to drift towards angrier, less sub-
stantial poems.

For example, in “How to Write a Political
Poem,” Taylor Mali begins his piece by pok-
ing fun at the too many angst-filled political
poems: “However it begins, it’s gotta be
loud!/ And then it’s gotta get a little bit loud-
er. / Because this is how you write a political
poem / and how you deliver it with power.”

Traditional poets do often scorn slam poet-

example, making fun of other slam poems).

Repetition can play a powerful role, rather
than one of redundancy, and the response
from the audience plugs more vibrancy into
the words than a poem on a page might be
allowed by the silent, solitary readings of
passerby.

And all good poems have a performance
aspect to them. Any poet that has played with
the way words roll off their tongues, with the

ry __—per- rhythm
for - their con-
mances, coction
claiming of sylla-
that they bles cre-
overcome ates—is
what they keeping
lack in in mind
substance what it is
by loud- to read
ness. the poem
But aloud.
with all I can
the criti- pop. in
cism there my
is to be “Poetry
found Speaks”
about compact
slam poet- disc that
ry, there is features
something t h oe
more record-
involved photo by Sara Sams aS
— — Darryl Ratcliff 708 performs his poem “Two Shadows.” ‘litho . . l

of carefully crafted. words that makes me
shiver rather than cringe.

A poem can come alive on stage, and a
slam poem has limitless possibilities (for

poets and be blown away by poetry uttered

-aloud.

Darryl Ratcliff ’08, co-founder and co-
president of Vers Libre, comments on what it

is like to take this rhythmic power and deliv-
er it to an audience. “Once one becomes
involved in performing slam poetry, it
becomes addictive,” he said. “There is a rush
and feeling of excitement as you watch your
words register with the audience as each per-
son responds to the poem.”

And one of the most important things
about poetry slams is the sense of communi-
ty created in such intense deliveries of per-
sonal poems; Ratcliff likens it to a “call and
response” atmosphere. To share a personal
poem is always an intimate event.

Any soul graced by Wanda Coleman’s
reading last Thursday in the 900 room expe-
rienced such an intense event.

Her breath-taking performance featured
luscious.speech that often broke into song. In
every lull, the heart-gasps of the audience
members were palpable. I shivered in my
seat, recognizing the power of poetry.

So do not let the title “slam” dismay you
or close any doors to the performance poetry
world. There is, on top of vibrancy and sense
community, much literary loveliness to be
found in the art of spoken word.

The folks of Vers Libre have tested the
waters of performance once already, bring-
ing their words. to the talent show hosted by
the BSC last month.

Now the group is in the process of plan-
ning workshops, hoping to “provide a forum
for discourse as well as a mutually support-
ive and positive learning environment” in
which members will have the opportunity to
develop writing and oral delivery skills.

The club’s goals include hosting slam
competitions at Davidson and preparing
teams for competitions elsewhere.

‘Much Ado’ about a dynamic performance

By Curis CATANESE
Special Contributor

After attending the Saturday night produc-
tion of Much Ado about Nothing, the culmi-
nation of a semester of textual analysis, the-
atric interpretation, casting, and rehearsals

Dr. Lewis directs students at a dress rehearsal for “Much Ado About Nothing.”

for Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s Performing

Shakespeare class, applause was not enough

to signify how much I enjoyed their show.
They took a classic comedy and did it

complete justice with a performance that
caught me by surprise with its bold design
and impressive execution.

It is such a pleasant surprise to attend a
performance with such natural delivery of
the Shakespearean language, dynamic block-
ing, and deep understanding of the motiva-

tions of each individual character. The will-
ing suspension of disbelief came so quickly
and the characters each acted so convincing-
ly that it wasn’t until afterwards that I real-

ized how well each actor had been cast in
their respective roles.

Some of the modernizations risked com-
ing across as gimmicky-there were substitu-
tions in the script to reference Patterson
Court and Fountain Walker, and the delight-
fully drunken Borachio wore an orange pen-
itentiary jumpsuit and carried a six-pack of
Natty—but the interpretation was overall
excellent and the little Davidson-isms were a
lot of fun. —

One of the only things that I could find
against this impressive production was the
tendency to exaggerate some of the manner-
isms and personalities of the characters.

Indeed, several of the central figures
seemed almost caricatures of themselves.

Still, though subtlety in acting was not the

play’s strongest characteristic, the outra-
geous embellishment by the actors was often
hilarious and always endearing in its own
right.

Occasionally traversing almost into the ©

realm of slapstick comedy with a few of the
eavesdropping scenes and the bumbling
guards wearing “I Love Campus Police” T-
shirts, the moments of sincere anger and the
inevitable Shakespearean tragic misunder-
standing managed to grip the audience with
their sincerity and earnest emotion. Claudio
and Hero in particular managed to portray
their conflicted feelings of love and betrayal
superbly.

Both the configuration of the stage itself in

athe middle of the audience and the move-

ment of the actors as they entered and exited
from all corners of the Gallery resulted in an
engagement of the audience that was a new
and enjoyable experience.

As Beatrice hid, eavesdropping from a
chair in the middle of the audience, or as

Phil Messier ’05

Benedick strutted around the stage, sniveling
and boasting in monologue, or as Leonato
shook with rage at his daughter’s betrayal, it
was impossible not to give the performers
your full attention.

I could go through the entire cast, comple-
menting each and every one of them for far
longer than my word limit for this article
allows.

Hero was radiant and vulnerable; Beatrice
sharp as a tack; Don Pedro charmingly
smirky; Benedick as snotty as Claudio was

‘sincere; and so on and so on. But what real-

ly made the play so fun to watch was seeing
the actors enjoying themselves on stage.

I took genuine pleasure in watching the
production. The honesty and excitement of
the cast made the full-length running time of
two and a half hours fly by in a rush of beau-
tiful lyricism, cunning interpretation, and
artful delivery.
