THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 13

Hoak’s goal gives Wildcats win against
Wofford; one goal not enough vs. Wake Forest

By BRENT McCorMIckK
Staff Writer

Coming off back-to-back losses for the
first time all season, Davidson needed a big
win and a big goal to get back to winning.
On Saturday afternoon against a visiting
Wofford squad, the ’Cats got that win on a
goal courtesy of Robby Hoak ’08.

The win was a big confidence boost for the
*Cats, who improved to 6-3-1 overall as they
took their Southern Conference opener.

Hoak scored the eventual game-winner in
the 64th minute of play, leading Davidson to
a 1-0 win in their over the Terriers at Alumni
Stadium.

The ’Cats Marco Antunez ’07 set up the
goal, sending a through ball to Hoak, who
scored his team-leading fifth goal from
directly in front of the goal.

It was Antunez’s second assist of the sea-
son, but according to coach Matt Spear, fans
should expect to see more to come.

“Marco has a surging confidence that we
need to continue to use. We know he can take
over games,” said Spear.

“He stepped forward with the answer and
some creative magic to break down the
Wofford defense and found Robby for the
game-winner.”

The Terriers threatened late in the game
with two huge scoring chances in less than a
minute’s span. With 4:25 remaining,
Wofford’s shot from about 18 yards out was
stopped by a diving Ben Ashton ’08, helping
to preserve the Davidson lead. The Terriers
attacked again, and a Wofford offender’s
blast just 35 seconds later that hit the right
post ended the Wofford threat.

Ashton played the entire 90 minutes and
recorded two saves for his third shutout of
the season.

“Wofford packed it in, but with Marco’s
individual prowess to take people on in the
final third, we were able to get a goal. After
the goal, things opened up significantly,”
said Matt Allen ’06.

Wofford made a late run to tie the game,
but Davidson also had its own chances to
close out the game.

The ’Cats had a great opportunity in the

69th minute for an insurance goal when a
corner kick was headed by Hoak, but unfor-
tunately it was batted away by Wofford’s
goalkeeper. The Terrier goalkeeper finished
the game with 16 saves to bring his save total
to a league-leading 50 in the losing effort.
Despite the low scoring, Davidson outshot
Wofford 17-8.

“They were able to knock on the door at
the end with a couple opportunities, but our
defense held tough to preserve the shutout,”
said Spear.

With the loss, Wofford falls to 0-10 life-

time against the Wildcats in Southern .

Conference play.
Davidson traveled to Wake Forest’s Spry
Stadium last night to take on the No. 16

peices

Cass Baltz ’07 plays in the ’Cats 1-0 win over Wofford on Homecoming.

Demon Deacons. The ’Cats fell to Wake 2-1
despite many opportunities to take the lead.
the loss caused Davidson to drop to a 6-4-1
record overall.

“Tonight is a great opportunity to knock
off a ranked team from the ACC on their own
field. You can’t ask for much more of an
exciting challenge,” said Spear before
Tuesday night’s game.

“We need to play with composure, chem-
istry and confidence. We need to endure their
pushes forward and find a way to make plays
to score a winning goal.”

The Deacons entered the contest with a
seven-game winning streak, which was
extended to eight after defeating Davidson.

Wake Forest's first goal came from a head-
er off a goal kick in the 15th minute of the
game. The ’Cats were unable to make up the
deficit in the first half, although a cross from
co-captain David Sartorio 06 to Hoak had a
possibility of seeing the back of the net.

Another Wake Forest goal occurred 13
minutes after the first, when an opposing
player beat two Davidson defenders and shot
from 10 yards out. Ashton could not save the
play, and the score became 2-0 in favor of
Wake Forest.

The only Wildcat goal came in the 72nd
minute when Mac Wilkie ’07 passed wide to
Hoak, who scored. ;

A couple of free kicks just outside the box
late in the game could have given Davidson
the advantage it needed to get the victory.
Hoak missed both, one in the 81st minute
and one in the 88th.

Davidson was also outshot by Wake 13-5,
and Ashton contributed two saves.

The ’Cats will take to the field next against
another nationally-ranked team, the No. 24
Spartans of UNC-Greensboro. Play begins at
7 p.m. on Oct. 7 at Greensboro.

Jim Fuller

B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—’05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Bie

LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
].D.University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
83-85; 88'.’97 -

Town of Davidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate

Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

