THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

’Cats complete road trip; now ranked 20th.

Football comes up five yards

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

Davidson faced a second and goal from
the five yard line with the tying score hang-
ing in the balance. After a spike to stop the
clock, the scoreboard showed five seconds
remaining. On the final play of the game,
Ryan Alexander ’08 looked for Jordan
Sundheim ’06 on a quick slant across the
middle. The pass fell incomplete and no
flags were thrown, despite the Davidson fans
calling for possible pass interference.

The disappointment of the incompletion
‘quickly turned into hope as the whole stadi-
um looked to the clock and saw 0:01 remain-
ing. The play was over and whistles had
blown, but that one second ticked off the
clock. This run-off was met with outrage by
the Wildcat faithful.

Coach Merritt was in the face of the chief
referee arguing on behalf of the ’Cats, but no
time was put back on the game clock. The
referee crew escaped off the field quickly to
a chorus of boos as the controversial ending
closed the book on a 16-9 ’Cats loss to
Lenoir-Rhyne.

Things were rough going early for the
Davidson as Lenoir-Rhyne recovered a
Wildcat fumble on the second play from
scrimmage. The Bears used just three plays
to march down the short field to take an early

| Photo by Richard Shayegan
John Latting ’06 has anchored the defense for the ’Cats.

By BRENT McCormick
Staff Writer

After stepping back onto
Davidson soil after five
consecutive away games,
the ’Cats bring back with
them an impressive 3-1-1
record, bringing their over-
all total to 5-1-1.

_ “The team was able to

_ put all of that aside and get
the job done. Two sound
wins, and _ two solid
shutouts says a lot about
what this team is capable

. of,” said goalkeeper Jordan
Hauser ’06.

~ “Both teams we played
this weekend were good,
strong teams,” he said.

“The UCF game in par-
ticular was a big one as we
had to rebound from a
tough loss early in the
week to play a good team
on their home field. Their
goalkeeper made some big
saves and kept them in the
game, but in reality we had
four or five great chances

ay

to blow that game up.”

Heading into play Friday night at the
Adidas Classic, Davidson. stepped onto the
field against a previously unbeaten UCF
squad. Coming into the game at 3-0 and
playing on their home field, coach Matt
Spear knew this would be a pivotal game.

“The Golden Knights are a tough team to
keep scoreless on the road. Ben [Ashton ‘08]
made some important and very critical saves.
We were sharp and very organized, which is
something we had been looking for on the
defensive end,” said Spear.

Davidson came out hard, and with a strong
defensive showing from both David Sartorio
06 and Nahum Navas ’06, took the game 1-
0, with a little help from Ryan Adeleye ’09.

Adeleye netted his first goal in a ’Cats uni-
form and cemented Davidson’s lead and vic-
tory. Midfielder Marco Antunez ’07 started
the offensive play with a quick cross pass to
Matt Allen ’06 in the box, whose shot
deflected to an open Adeleye for the goal.

Allen was given the assist, raising his sea-
son point total to 8, with three goals and two
assists.

UCF’s best scoring opportunity came on
an indirect kick from six yards that was
touched quick to the right and sent to the
goal, but it was ultimately saved by Ashton.
This shutout was the second of the season for

Ryan Alexander ’08 threw for 185 yards on 20-46 passing in Saturday’s 16-9 loss.

7-0 lead over the ’Cats. Both teams traded
possessions until free safety Zach Long ’08
picked off his second pass of the season.
The ’Cats defense forced yet another
turnover, which has become a trademark of

this young season (10 forced turnovers
through three games).

The key play on the ensuing drive was a
second and three where Chad Barnes ’09
carried the ball for 22 yards before it was

Ashton, with his first coming in a 2-0 win
over UNC-W earlier in the season.

“It is very tough to play a lot of games on
the road in succession: you can’t train much,
your stuck on a bus for countless hours, you
fall behind in your work, and you have to
play in someone else’s ‘packyard,” said
Hauser. ;

Following a big win over UCF, the ’Cats
set their sight on a strong Jacksonville squad,
who brought a lot of momentum after a big
win against Hofstra on Friday.

With two goals from Tom Lavan ’08 and a
goal by Robby Hoak ’08, Davidson dominat-
ed Jacksonville with a 3-0 shutout on
Sunday.

Lavan scored his first goal in the 21st
minute of the match on an assist from
Antunez to give Davidson an early 1-0 lead,
one that remained intact through the rest of
the period.

After the break, Hoak added a goal on an
assist by Mac Wilkie ’07 to extend the
Wildcat advantage to two at 62:18. ,

The third and final goal came for the ’Cats
with just over six minutes to play in the sec-
ond half. Hoak served up an assist to Lavan,
who sent the ball into the net.

See Soccer, page 15

short on last drive

knocked loose by Lenoir-Rhyne. With the
ball on the ground, wide out Ryan Hubbard

. ’08 picked up the loose ball and ran it all the

way down to the Lenoir-Rhyne five yard
line. The ’Cats could not put the finishing
touches on the 12-play 80-yard drive, but
Brad Smith ’07 split the uprights on his 21-
yard field goal yard attempt.”

The first half was a battle of field position,
and Davidson benefited from a key intercep-
tion by strong safety Ricky Childers 06 and
great execution from specialist Kirk Konert
09 who took a fake punt nine yards for a
first down and pinned Lenoir-Rhyne on the
one yard line with a 46 yard punt.

Davidson took advantage of this field
position late in the second quarter following
a turnover on downs by the Bears. The ’Cats
took the ball 46 yards via the air and ground
and capped off the drive with a 27 yard field
goal from Smith. The 7-6 score held as the
teams went into the locker room at half.

Lenoir-Rhyne came out in the second half
and answered the ’Cats two field goals with
two of their own. Kicks of 20 and 36 yards
extended the Lenoir-Rhyne lead to 13-6.
Still a one possession game, the defense
knew it couldn’t allow any more scoring, In
fact, it did one better as Jeffrey Scott ’08

See Football, page 15

Austin Mercadante ‘06

Cross Country

Hometown: Winter Park, Florida

Major: Biology

One of three Davidson runners who finished in the top 10
last weekend at the Winthrop Invitational, Mercadante ran
a 26:49 in the 8K race to lead the ‘Cats to a second place

finish.

“PLAY OF THE WEEK

Kristin Koehrn’s game-winning

penaity kick

The game locked in a 0-0 tie, Koehrn ‘o8 scored ona
penalty kick with 4:29 remaining to.give the ‘Cats the
win against UNC Wilmington and their first home win

of the year.

eee

