2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Watson, from page 1

tics. Clunie plans to visit South Africa, Italy,
Argentina and Japan.

Clunie will study organizations like
Playing for Peace in South Africa and
Basketball Without Borders in Italy.

“The inspiration behind this topic was
basically my love for basketball and my
interest in international politics. Basketball
has impacted my life in so many ways and I
am eager to see how it is having a greater
influence beyond being just a game in the
U.S and seeing its cultural, social, economic
and political impact throughout the world,”
Clunie said.

Kilby, a religion major, plans to visit India,
Morocco and Ukraine. Her proposal, entitled
“Embodying Prayer: Reading the Human
Body as Ritual Text,” will study the way
people use their bodies to pray.

In an effort to understand different reli-
gious traditions, Kilby will spend time with
monks, learning about their prayer styles and
interactions with pilgrims and worshippers.

“My classes in the religion department and
religious life activities at Davidson have
introduced me to the monastic world. I great-

photo cour}
Christie Kilby ’06

ly respect men and women who devote their
lives to embodying a sense of the sacred. I
think they have a lot to teach us about
achieving peace and understanding,” Kilby
said.

Martin, a political science major, plans to
study the globalization of the Presbyterian
Church tradition in South Korea, Ethiopia
and Brazil.

NEWS

“In 25 years, most Christians in the world
will not live in the U.S or Western Europe.
Therefore, I think understanding the
Christian experience in these parts of Asia,
Africa and Latin America will be important
for any real ecumenical movement to take
place,” Martin said.

Marcil, a Center for Interdisciplinary
Studies major in Public Health, plans on
studying community responses to infectious
disease in Zambia, Peru, and China, focusing
on a different disease in each country.

“Often international organizations devise

“seemingly good plans to treat disease on

paper but fail to successfully implement
them and reach their goals. Thus, I am pre-
posing to study how we can bring effective
programs offering treatment, preventive
medicine, and social support to resource
poor settings,” Marcil said.

One of the requirements for the Watson
fellowship is that awardees cannot return to
the U.S. for a period of one year.

“T feel great about leaving the U.S for a
year, and I feel that this is the best time in my
life to travel and would look forward to the
challenges and experiences that await me on
my journey,” Clunie said.

Kilby had similar feelings and said, “On
the Classics trip I discovered that I thrive

.while ‘on the road’ and experience tremen-

dous growth and friendship when I am out of
my comfort zone. I am -not anxious about
being away for a year.”

“T imagine some lonely times, and I worry
about missing significant moments in the
lives of people I love,” Martin said. “I think
my guitar may become my best friend.”

Marcil said, “I definitely think parts of it
would be very difficult and lonely; however,
I also think it would be amazing and that it
would be completely worth it. I would get to
travel to three continents, learn a significant
amount about three different cultures and
learn some of their languages.”

The Thomas J. Watson Foundation was
created in 1961 as a trust dedicated to
numerous charitable purposes. In 1968, the
Watson children decided to make the Watson
Fellowship the primary activity of the
Foundation because of their parents’ interest
in global affairs and education.

The Watson Fellowship Program has since
granted more than 2,300 awards, totaling
more than $29 million. Davidson has partic-
ipated in the Watson Fellowship since 1968
and has had at least one Watson fellow from
every graduating class.

Briefly

The Brian Brooks Moving Company will perform in the Duke Family Performance
Hall at 8 p.m. on Thursday, November 11. Tickets are $20 and can be purchased from

Artist Series

the Union ticket office.

is Biles Sst Mieisiilion’wil wae a dota

Ramadan on Sunday, ‘November 6 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in the Car 5) toes ca Be

- WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Philosophy professor and Director of the Medical Humanities Program Lance Stell.

Stell awarded for contributions
to public health and medicine

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

Charles A. Dana Professor of Philosophy
and Director of Davidson’s Medical
Humanities Program Lance K. Stell received
the John Huske Anderson award from the
North Carolina Medical Society (NCMS)
this past month.

The award recognized Stell as a “North
Carolinian whose contributions have had a
positive impact on the medical profession
and public health.”

For the past two years, Stell has been an
influential member of the NCMS Committee
on Ethical and Judicial affairs. He credits his
contributions to the NCMS statement on the
use of long-term feeding tubes as one of the
probable reasons for his winning the
Anderson award.

The statement provides succinct and clear
guidelines for physicians to consider when
counseling patients and families about the
benefits and risks of long-term feeding tubes
in cases of advanced dementia.

He believes long term feeding tubes are
not as beneficial as many people think and
that their use may not be appropriate in all
situations.

Stell did not begin his career teaching
medical ethics. Instead, he began teaching
traditional philosophy at Davidson in 1976
and served as the chair of the philosophy
department from 1983 to 1998.

“Professor Stell is a longtime and distin-
guished member of the Philosophy
Department; we are quite excited about this

award,” said current Chair of the Philosophy
Department David Robb.

In 1988, Stell developed a new interest
when he was asked to serve on the Ethics
Committee at the Carolinas Medical Center
in Charlotte.

He continued classroom teaching and
accepted the position, where he dealt with
issues like removal of feeding tubes, patient
autonomy, and end of life decisions.

After enjoying his work on the Ethics
Committee, he decided to spend his 1989-
1990 sabbatical working at the Medical
Center under Dr. Bill Williams 69, where he
learned about the center’s education curricu-
lum, observed surgeries and procedures, and
talked with patients and their families.

“Trying to learn how to speak the lan-
guage of medicine and health care was quite
a challenge,” said Stell. “But I worked hard
and found physicians who were willing to
teach me.

“The most important thing I learned is that
details matter. The ability to understand
what’s really important in medical ethical
controversies is going to be strongly influ-
enced by knowing the details.”

Stell has since dedicated tremendous time
and energy to the field of medical ethics. In
1998, he was asked to head up Davidson’s
new Medical Humanities Program, which he
still runs today.

The Medical Humanities program pro-
vides students with an interdisciplinary aca-
demic program that teaches appreciation for

See Stell, page 3

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/30

Patterson Court

Weapon on School Property

_The officer working a party at Warner Hall requested assistance in regards to a report
of someone with a knife. Upon arrival of the assisting officer, the subject was
approached and asked to step out of the building. The individual was asked if they had
a knife in their possession and replied in the affirmative. The weapon was removed
from the subject’s person without incident, and they were taken to the Campus Police

Department for further investigation.

10/28

Patterson Court

Breaking/Entering, Larceny

Officers responded to a report of breaking\entering and larceny from Rusk House.
Reporting person said they observed two white males running from the house with one
24-pack and four 12-packs of Milwaukee's Best beer. The beer was dropped as the sus-
pects fled; subsequently, the beer was recovered and returned the kitchen of Rusk. The
reporting person discovered five cases of Milwaukee's Best and six bottles of cham-:
pagne missing after inventory. One of the suspects is a white male who weighs around
ag to 200 pounds and is at least six feet tall with curly black hair. —

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

