THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 3

Students ‘unusually generous’
in philanthropic efforts |

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

The widespread response to Hurricane
Katrina within the past few weeks has high-
lighted philanthropic efforts on campus.
Student groups have raised thousands of dol-
lars for the Red Cross and The Salvation
Army and continue to look for ways to help.

“Students are unusually generous [here],”
Director of the College Union and of Student
Activities William Brown said. “They
respond to critical issues of life in the world.
They respond to individual needs in ways
that we sometimes know about and in ways
that we aren’t really aware of.”

Since its founding in 1837, Davidson
College. has committed itself to helping stu-
dents gain a better understanding of what it
means to be active and aware world citizens.
As a result, philanthropic efforts on campus
are prevalent.

According to Community Service Dean

Kevin Buechler, there is a difference
between philanthropy and community serv-
ice. - ;

“There’s a lot of crossover, but some of the
distinctions are that the key to community
service is that you are addressing a definite
need, a community identified need ... and
working with [the community],” Buechler

said. “In some ways, philanthropy is work-
ing outside of the part of the community you

_ may be helping. Fundraisjng is a perfect

example.”

This year, already, students have proposed
12 different philanthropic projects. Last
year, they completed 53. ‘

“[Students] respond to critical
issues of life in the world. They
respond to critical issues of life in
the world. They respond to indi-
vidual needs in ways that we
sometimes know about and in
ways that we aren't really aware
of.”
--William Brown, Director of the
Union and Student Activities -

Student-planned fundraisers have benefit-
ed the Domestic Violence and Rape
Awareness Center of Scotland County,
Habitat for Humanity, the Davidson Housing
Coalition and CROP

“The largest single financier is the Red
and Black Ball that sends donations to AIDS

See Giving, page 4

Studying, from page 1

istry and biology majors who really depend
on these buildings because they need the
group space to study or because they need to
run an experiment in the middle of the night
,and this policy is clearly detrimental to their
education and not in line with the overall or
academic mission of the college,” said biol-
ogy major Mac Cowell ’06.

Sean Sonni ’06 said, “As the semester
gets busy, it becomes necessary to use a
computer lab other than the 24-hour Belk
Computer facility due to overcrowding. This
new policy hits science students hard
because we need more specialized equip-
ment and because of the regularity with
which we take part in late-night work ses-
sions.”

The students’ views are also supported by
some members in the science faculty.

“J don’t understand why advanced stu-
dents have to stop doing academic work after
1 am.,” Biology Professor Malcolm
Campbell said. “They seem safer behind two
sets of locked doors than wandering around
campus.”

“And I find it hard to believe that an occa-
sional student working in a lab, as opposed
to his or her room, costs much money in
energy expenditures since the buildings are
already heated/cooled even when empty. My
research students must conduct their

research in the specially-equipped labs.”

Non-science students have also been
impacted by the loss of Chambers, a popular
place to study on campus.

Many science majors are concefned about
the academic buildings closing at 1 a.m.

See ee ee we ee ee me

ve me ee Bed

“If you need to pull an all nighter and the
24 hour room in the library is full and you do
not have an atmosphere conducive to study-
ing in your room or apartment because of
your roommates or other reasons, where can
you go?” said Alim Jinnah ’07. “Also, don’t
the rooms in Chambers have sensors that
switch off lights automatically?”

Ross does not believe closing the build-
ings will harm students’ studying habirts.

“Students have other places to study, I
assume,” Ross. ““While I am not naive, I also
feel students do better studying in incre-
ments rather than staying up all night. Also at
the end of the semester, buildings are open
24 hours.”

Vagt emphasized that allowing science
students to study past 1 a.m. would be unfair
to other majors.

“This is a piece which affects students, but
there are pieces all over this campus that
affect others. We’re making choices based on
the number of students relative to other pri-
orities. Closing the buildings from one to six
and opening them two weeks before exams
is not bad for the students. I long for the day
when we will have an endowment that will
not force us to make these sacrifices.”

The Student Government Association
(SGA) and the faculty committee on
finances are looking at ways to resolve this
problem. SGA senator Sam Spencer ’07
believes that science majors have a right to
request additional access.

“Science majors often can’t study or work
during the afternoon because they’re in lab,”
Spencer said. “As soon as lab ends, you hit
the 6-11 p.m. period in which students have
dinner and organizational meetings, and a lot
of the assignments science majors get take
more than two to three hours, and often you
can’t measure how long a certain assignment
is going to take.”

Spencer favors 24-hour access for the sci-
ence buildings and Sloan.

“T believe the cost would be well within
reason to keep the lights and equipment on in
five to seven rooms in Dana, Watson, and
Martin and a few practice rooms in Sloan,”
Spencer said. “The administration may argue
on the slippery slope and say that-if you open
the science buildings you have to open
Chambers all night as well, but I don’t think
many Davidson students working toward
their artus baccalaureate need 24-hour access
aside from the Belk Lab.” —

ae eee ore e or ee oe aren we ee ee Wier er alot te Sree %

Vagt addresses student concerns
about closing buildings at night

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA) discussed academic building hours,
the Vamanos Van, and the potential for estab-
lishing a historically black sorority at
Davidson during last Thursday’s meeting.

Science students concerned over the
enforcement of a six-year-old policy made
up a large contingent at the meeting. They
expressed their frustration over a require-

Ament that all academic buildings, including
Martin, Watson, and Dana, remain closed to
students from | a.m. to 6 a.m. every day.

“We had the most incredible student atten-
dance in four years at the building closing
discussion,” SGA Vice President Bridget
Kane ’06 said. “Francois Trappey [’06] was
very proactive in gathering those science
majors affected by the policy and bringing
the complaint directly to Bobby--he truly
served as a student representative.”

The students’ main frustration concerned
their lack of access to computer programs
located in the science buildings, which are
required for assignments and not available
elsewhere on campus.

President Bobby Vagt was at the meeting
to address the students concerns. He said that
he was distressed when he found out the pol-
icy was not being enforced and was sympa-
thetic to students who thought it was a new
rule being imposed without student opinion.

“One of the things I love and admire about
Davidson students is that they have a point
of view and don’t mind saying what it is,”
Vagt said. “If you present the facts, they
don’t necessarily say they’re fine with it, but
they say they understand.”

Vagt explained that the buildings couldn’t
be kept open 24 hours because heating, cool-
ing and lighting them is too expensive. In
addition, a full-semester study showed that
few students used the buildings between
those hours and that having them closed five
hours a day would save between $300,000
and $400,00 a year.

He apologized for the policy but said that
at this point it could not be changed. The
possibility of adding the software to other
buildings’ computers, however, is currently

=
'
“ry ™ 8

2" hu

being discussed.

Students interested in bringing a histori-
cally black sorority to campus also attended
the meeting. The women were not seeking
official approval from the SGA, but wanted
to present the idea to add to discussion that is
already taking place.

Ashley Moore ’07 and four others
expressed their concerns about the lack of
minority women in eating houses and said
that adding a historically black sorority will
make Patterson Court a more inviting atmos-
phere for women of all races. SGA members
generally agreed and applauded the young
women, wishing them luck.

In addition to discussing student organiza-
tions, issues of transportation were also on
the agenda this week. Evan Kreutzer ‘08
described the changes to Davidson’s
Vamanos Van service to the SGA.

The transportation services will be run-
ning on Thursday nights and will serve more
stops than last year. The service also
acquired a new vehicle, which the Vamanos
Van committee hopes will be more reliable
and safe.

Senator Sam Spencer ’06 proposed anoth-
er idea to help Davidson students get around:
ZipCars. The ZipCar service provides com-
munity cars to students, who can reserve
these cars for a small fee. Spencer believes
this will alleviate problems of parking and
help students get around more easily.

“ZipCar has worked on other campuses to
provide a cheap, convenient transportation
option to students,” Spencer said. “Each
ZipCar reduces the number of cars on a cam-
pus by seven to 10, and at Davidson it would
give students a transportation option more
flexible than the motor pool.”

The idea of ZipCars, however, is still in
the preliminary stages, and many considera-
tions still need to be made before it can
implemented at Davidson. The senators
voted to create a committee for discussing
the idea.

The meeting also resulted in the unani-
mous approval of a new student organization
called Changing Minds, a group dedicated to
raising mental health awareness on campus
by creating dialogue about these problems
and reducing the associated stigma.

i a ie oe

curiosity + adventure + knowledge

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad
Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come
soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the exp 2.
We offer personalized attention from start to finish.

© Summer, semester and yearlong programs

© Wide range of academic courses ¢ Internships

© Language courses at all levels © Field trips and tours

© Small dasses © University credit ¢ Scholarships © Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.
Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.

LeetMM EY A A
Se OAC
soesuesiins Wo bt NN

‘ona Mane + ee

re oo ees
