10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 5, 2005

Staff Editorial

Mid-term evaluations

With Fall Break almost upon us and the semester coming to its
halfway point, our editorial staff feels it’s appropriate to give out
some mid-term evaluations of our own. Here’s how we grade
some big and small campus issues so far this year:

Substance-free policy: B+

Last semester’s controversial sub-free plan, scattering the halls
throughout dormitories instead of lumping them in one building,
appears to be working well this year. Relatively few complaints
have surfaced in the plan’s first stages; let’s hope that’s a sign of
progress, and either CCRL or SGA should do a thorough review
next spring.

Dormitory problems: C-

Despite constant complaints throughout the last few years, the
sophomore apartments have continued to disappoint. Problems
with the air systems led to many nights of sweat or shjvers, and

_though the issue was resolved for now and the affected students
compensated with some bonus bucks, we can’t help but wonder
if problems will still persist. Recent problems with mold in
Sentelle do not breed much optimism.

Katrina Relief: A-

Davidson’s response to Hurricane Katrina was prompt and
deserves recognition. The variety of events — an a cappella ben-
efit concert, food drives, Operation Backpack, student CD sales,
music department concert marathon — has raised over $21,000 as
of last Wednesday. But the low turnout at last week’s ‘A Night
for New Orleans’ event suggests that student participation may
be in need of a boost.

Sprinklers: C

Physical plant means well, we know they do. But water the
lawn, not the sidewalks!
Homecoming humiliation: D

The third annual Homecoming loss in a row is disheartening
for fans, alumni, and players. We appreciate the effort of the
team—but what are the coaches thinking? Let’s schedule an eas-
ier opponent next year and increase the chances for some
Homecoming cheer.

Vamanos Van: B+

The SGA and President Ryan Arnold ’06 have made an
admirable effort to revamp the once-faltering student shuttle sys-
tem. While the plan is just underway, professional drivers and
improved vehicles bode well for the college’s weekend warriors.
With the new alcohol policy putting a premium on off-campus
parties, the van service provides an important opportunity to stay
safe.

Student initiatives: A

From ‘Changing Minds’, a mental health group, to ‘P.S.’, the
new student-run restaurant, we salute Davidsonians proactively
addressing important issues and adding new opportunities to the
College community.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORLA LIBLRIAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman
Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

the Deuiancnionse pebied Wetocsiays during the academic year

¢ LETTERS TO. THE EDITOR °

Look at individuals,
not race

’ Several articles were written last
week concerning the “movement” to
establish a historically black sorority
on the Davidson campus; however, not
everyone agrees with this movement.
Specifically, I am commenting on the
letter to the editor written by Ryan
Clark ’07 (Sept. 28). Mr. Clark is great-
ly mistaken and needs some clarifica-
tion on issues of gender, race, and indi-
vidual rights.

I find it quite interesting that this
“movement” is “controversial.” Why
should any student feel threatened by
the formation of another social institu-
tion that doesn’t concern them? Why
should I care if you are in a fraternity?
Every student has the individual right
to choose who and what they want to
affiliate themselves with.

The very presence of any social insti-
tution here at Davidson creates walls,
but they also serve a purpose. Women
in eating houses share a bond of sister-
hood — something that could only be
gained in an all-female setting.

So why worry if African-American
women want to establish a sorority
(which would accept qualified appli-
cants of all backgrounds) as a “cultural
alternative” to the eating houses on
campus?

Finally, if you were so colorblind
you wouldn’t notice and furthermore,
you wouldn’t care about the demo-
graphics of a sorority. You would look
at individuals with separate and distinct
traits, and respect their personal right to
or not to associate with certain persons
who look like themselves.

Candance Coleman
08

Don’t create sorori-
ty for one race

I too was appalled by the attempts to
create a historically African-American
sorority (in response to Ryan Clark’s
letter, Sept. 28). I thought we were try-
ing to get rid of discrimination, not cre-
ate an organization that promotes it.
The main point is: Davidson College
does not have sororities; the campus
has voted on that many times. So why
should we create one for a specific cat-
egory of students? Because we want to
show that we are not racist? To pro-
mote minority applicants to eating
houses? But what about racism to all
the other groups?

Prejudice does not mean discrimination
between blacks and whites. The word
means to judge someone or something
prematurely and irrationally. Nowhere
in there does it state that this is some
idea between certain races. Asians are a
minority here, so are Hispanics. To
appease them all should we create
sororities for them too and leave other
people out? Should we then make
whites a minority in sororities, because
that’s what will happen. We should be
promoting integration in the eating

houses. It’s best to come together and

not stand divided. The point-of a liber-
al arts college should be liberation, and
we can’t do that if we separate the

races. If the college doesn’t want soror-
ities, no one should have them, not
blacks or whites or Asians, or Latinos.
By only creating a sorority for one
race, you’re discriminating against
another, and then we’re just back
where. we started.

Marian Schembari ’09

Why only protest
female stereotypes?

In his Sept. 28 editorial, “The mis-
guided and the (not) misogynist,”
Nathan Bradshaw wanted us to be ran-
domly “outraged that women play with
smaller basketballs” (along with their
smaller crowds and paychecks, which
he didn’t bother to mention). For a guy
who “consider[s] those who feel
offended by The Yowl to be overreact-
ing severely,” Bradshaw voiced quite a
tangential, severe overreaction of his
own.

Wouldn’t it have made a lot more
sense if he’d just expressed outrage
over the fact that men were also objec-
tified in that now-infamous, Sept. 7
issue of “The Yowl?” The satire,
“Ranking drop caused by attractive ’09
class,” doesn’t even mention women
but features a photo of a shirtless guy
with muscles, a nice tan, and a flat
stomach. He’s meant to represent a
dumb, hot freshman. This photo is jux-
taposed with another photo of a shirt-
less male, who’s labeled as a “fat,
drunk student.” Considering that the
DWC’s (Sept. 14) complaint was that
Davidson women were. depicted “as
confused, anorexic, easy bimbos wait-
ing for the next ‘hook up[,]’” why did-
n’t Bradshaw just point out that
Davidson men were also sexually
objectified and labeled as sketchy,
scary, fat and drunk, and sexually des-
perate? He could have just asked why
the “feminist” faculty didn’t challenge
these negative images and photos, and
only focused on the satires that dgni-
grated women. (I mean, it makes sense
to do that if you’re a member of a
women’s committee, but for the “femi-
nist” faculty, not so much).

Aparna lyer ’06

Private insurance
no solution for
Katrina woes

- Matt Bandyk’s op-ed (Sept. 28)
states that government is innately
flawed because it is run by imperfect
persons. I accept this statement but
argue that the federal government pro-
vides ‘a better form of relief than pri-
vate insurance (the form of relief Mr.
Bandyk suggests will solve “big gov-
ernment”).

Mr. Bandyk claims that “big govern-
ment” is not a proper form of providing
relief because the leadership might not
be adequate. And as we have seen,
President Bush has accepted the blame
for this tragedy.

However, in a government, elected
by the people, the leadership, including
the president, is held directly account-

able for their failed efforts. Public pres- -

sure, including the media’s, led to the

leadership’s spology and subsequent
response. There is a system of account-
ability.

Businesses are self-serving. Unlike
the federal government, which is held
accountable through election, insur-
ance companies lack a system of
accountability. They are accountable to

. those who can afford their insurance —

not those who are marginalized or poor.

The people most affected in New
Orleans were people without private
insurance — why? — because they could
not afford it. So unless a private insur-
ance company is willing to cover low-
income families, this plan does not
solve the problem.

Thus, I am inclined to believe that
the federal government is a better solu-
tion for providing disaster relief. I will
grant that the system failed in Katrina’s
instance, but the individuals who
caused it to fail have been openly rec-
ognized and criticized. As a result,
changes have been made to respond to
Hurricane Rita.

Davis Greene ’09

Party themes carry
troublesome labels

I, for one, would like to congratulate
Davidson women at being so comfort-
able with their self-image that they
willingly cosponsor and attend last
spring’s golf pros and tennis hos party
and this fall’s pimp and ho party. There
was a time when we were concerned
with labels and with how our actions
would reflect upon us. Concerned with
how we would be viewed and, there-
fore, treated by others (of the same or
opposite gender, of our peer group or
by faculty and staff.) It is good to see
that those days have past.

In the spring Davidson men showed
they can be comfortable emulating
Tiger Woods or Kevin Costner (Tin
Cup) and Adam Sandler (Happy
Gilmore), while Davidson women can
openly embrace the opportunity to be
seen as hos. This fall Davidson men
showed they could wear a little bling,
and Davidson women can openly
embrace the opportunity to be seen as
hos. So a few short shirts and skimpy
tops were worn. It’s not like the invita-
tion said you had to do anything illegal.
Just act like a ho. And the golf pro and
pimp guys were poking fun at them-
selves too (Izod shirts are so 80’s and
most Davidson guys just look silly in
Fubu knock offs). I mean, really, it’s all
in fun. It’s not like anybody remembers
it on Monday. As they say—what hap-
pens on the court, stays on the court...
Davidson has definitely come a long
way.

Karen Bernd, Associate
Professor of Biology

The Davidsonian wel-
comes letters to the editor.
Please e-mail submissions
of no more than 250 words

to davidsonian@david-

son.edu by 6 p.m. on
Sunday. We reserve the
right to edit for content,

brevity and grammar.
