12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

FOr you
SPOLIS Tans...

BROOKIE S PICKS

mos Mahe Ons a

the wea

Wrestling vs. UNC-Greensboro
January 19, 7:00 p.m.
Belk Arena

The wrestling team has somehow
managed to stay focused and thrive amidst
a cloud of controversy that emerged with
the arrest and firing of former Coach TJ
Jaworsky. Under interim head coach Bob
Patnesky, the Wildcats will try to build on
their best start in four decades in

Wednesday’s home dual. Last week’s
performance at the Virginia Duals cost the

grapplers their perfect 6-0 record, and they
will be looking for a chance to bounce

ck into the win column. —

- Charleston continued Davidson’s

“ against the likes of Duke, Missouri and

Consistency doesn’t come from behind arc

Saturday’s win against College of

strong early run in the Southern Con-
ference, as the Wildcats extended their
regular-season SoCon winning streak
to 13 games after starting 5-0 this year
in conference play.

The Wildcats again used clutch per-
formances down the stretch, including
another huge last-minute three from
Matt McKillop ’06, his third in as many
games, and timely foul shooting to put
away the Cougars. The recipe for vic-
tory was the same against recent SoCon
opponents Appalgthian State, Elon and
Furman.

Davidson’s ability to close out those
close games is encouraging, and it is
what a veteran team that starts a senior
and four juniors should be doing. Cer-
tainly, the tough early-season stretch

Georgetown has come in handy as the
Wildcats enter the truly meaningful part
of the season. Hopefully, the momen-
tum the team has built from these vic-
tories will continue to spill into February, and
more importantly, March, when the Wildcats
will truly define their 2004-05 season.

But while there are a lot of encouraging
signs to take from the recent surge, including
the play of McKillop, freshman Boris Meno’s
emerging presence, and the continued domi-
nation of the glass, these Wildcats are also
creating a trend that may come back to hurt
them when they have to win at least three
games to continue their season deeper into
March.

At times, the offense looks virtually unstop-
pable, as it did this past week when Davidson
-built consecutive 25-12 leads against the
Mountaineers and Cougars at Belk in the first
half.

Davidson has a solid combination of guards
and post players that can be lethal, especially
when the ’Cats rely on an inside-out gameplan

shots. With Logan Kosmalski ’05, Ian

_ Johnson ’06 and Conor Grace ’05, the
Wildcats have a group that can pound
the ball inside on any team in the South-
ern Conference, and the trio has been
effective on the blocks and at the line.
Kosmalski, in particular, has improved
from the charity strip by over 10 per-
ceritage points since last year to make
himself a viable threat inside.

Yet, in those two scoring droughts
against the Mountaineers and Cougars,
Davidson went a combined 0-7 from
three point territory and registered only
one free throw attempt during over 13
minutes of action.

Sure, the Wildcats missed other op-
portunities and turned the ball over
multiple times during those stretches
to contribute to the offensive futility,
but it seems as if the Wildcats get away
from what has been their strength when .
the offense begins to falter. |

Davidson has great shooters, includ-
ing Brendan Winters ’06, McKillop and

that forces opponents to honor the play inside
and allows the shooters plenty of time to set
themselves and deliver on the perimeter.

Once Davidson built those double-digit
leads, however, the wheels immediately came
off of any offensive flow in the game. To fin-
ish out the half against the Mountaineers,
Davidson netted just four points as Appala-
chian State closed to within six points.

Against College of Charleston, Davidson
scored just two points over the next six min-
utes of the game as Charleston closed to within
one.

A closer look at those stats reveals what may
have happened to allow the opposition back
into the game.

Davidson has been extremely successful
inside the arc this season, scoring at a 50.5
percent rate from within the three point line
and converting on almost 74 percent of its foul

# Help admissions, watch

By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

When I applied to college, I always envi-
sioned going to a big school with big classes,
big parties, and big sporting events. Somehow
I ended up at Davidson ... go figure.

Most of it has to do with this being the only
school I got into; the rest of it has to do
with ... this being the only school I got into.

My parents both went to UNC,
and I have always had a particular fondness
for the Tar Heel sports teams, but something
about being an out-of-state applicant and
my college board scores made that a not so
simple feat.

Alas, I settled in at Davidson in the fall of
2001, and there is nothing wrong with that,
other than the fact that we haven’t drawn 6,000
people to a sporting event on campus in over
10 years, and our tailgate parties lack a little
something I like to call alcohol.

Oh yeah, and the academics make me feel/
look like a fraud (especially music classes).

’ Otherwise I am happy, healthy, and

excited heading into my last semester (fingers
crossed on that one) of college.

These days I often preach to prospectives .

sand freshmen about the merits of Davidson,
giving them my side of the story and assum-
ing they all shared my high school opinions
of Davidson: dorky, docile, and devoid of fun.
I have come to realize that not everyone thinks
that way before arriving here, and certainly
we have forgotten that stigma by our first
“First Night Down.”

Where am I going with this you are prob-
ably wondering, but it all filters down into two
things. First, me wanting to have a wonder-
ful, memorable, final'semester, and second, me

Photo courtesy Sports Information

Last time Davidson made it to the
Dance, Peter Anderer ’03 worked
his magic against Ohio State.

wanting to include all of you in it. Since Iam
filling in for my roommate “the sports colum-
nist” who often tarries from sports topics to
deliver you his latest drinking exploits in text,
I will now discuss the Davidson basketball
program.

When I was a freshman, our basketball
team (yes, Davidson) won the Southern Con-
ference Tournament and advanced to the
NCAA tournament (yes, that 64 team tourna-
ment you fill out the brackets for). We almost,
could have, should have beaten “THE Ohio
State University.”

Well, we haven’t made any appearances in
the tournament since then, but I am telling you
all right now we have a great chance of doing
it this year, and then hopefully spoiling some

Jason Morton ’06, and their hot hands
have contributed to what has become a con-
sistently hot start for Davidson of late.

But if the Wildcats continue to rely on an
outside-in philosophy that depends on solid
shooting from the perimeter, consistency will
be hard to find on a 40-minute basis. Three-
point attempts account for more than 41 per-
cent of their field goal attempts this year, com-
pared-with only 38 percent last year.

There will be times when Davidson cannot
miss, and that’s when the team will build leads
like the 25-12 advantage in both games last
week. Davidson is also a team that is good
enough to overcome those scoring droughts,
as the team has shown in its early season play
in the Southern Conference.

To win three games in a row in March, when
everything is on the line, however, will take a
far more consistent — and balanced — effort
for the entire 40 minutes.

basketball

bigger school’s grand ambitions. Being a
spoiler is a great role for our school to play,
not just for our own visceral satisfactions, but

for the general quality of our college’s exist-

ence.

I know the hard-working admissions office
would like to take much of the credit for
Davidson’s ever-increasing national name rec-
ognition, but the truth of the matter is that more
people will learn about Davidson College with
one win in the NCAA basketball tournament

‘than the admissions staff could alert in a 10-

year period.

Alumni donations also correlate directly to
athletic successes.

I guess what I am saying is that if you are a
basketball player, there is a lot of pressure on
you. This school needs you to assist it. Ironic,
isn’t it?

Now, most of you aren’t going to make it to
the NCAA tournament game, which will prob-
ably be halfway across the country. I will, so
I'll fill you in on that later, but this is what
you can do for now. Go to every Wildcat home
game you can. Fill up the friendly arena that

‘was built for us by the magnanimous Belk

family. It’s really not that large, so come ready
to yell at opposing players (and be heard) and
bring a general ruckus level to Davidson ath-
letics that has not been seen before.

We need this to support our players. We
need this to help our school. We need this for
ourselves. :

Get out of the library for a couple hours on
Tuesday night; it cannot possibly be that great,
although, I wouldn’t know. You don’t even
have to drive anywhere or pay anything to go
to a game. I’ll be in my usual seat in Section
Three, observing proudly as we defend our
home court and march on to “The Big Dance.”
