THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWs_

CCRL reforms risk
management policy

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

On Tuesday, April 12, the Council on
Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) con-
vened to discuss the Alcohol and Drug
Policy Review, which was written by a group
of students and staff commissioned to revise
current drug and alcohol policies at
Davidson.

CCRL members spent the majority of
Tuesday’s meeting deliberating over one of
the Task Force’s seven recommendations—a
proposed reformation of risk management
policies.

Rather than basing risk management
requirements on party type, such as open
parties, impromptus, guest-list or date func-
tions, the Task Force proposed to base risk
management requirements on attendance.

A student Risk Manager would be
required when party attendance reached 30
people; an additional student Risk Manager,
ID Checker, and bartender would be required
when attendance reached 60 people; and a
police officer would be required when atten-
dance reached 80 people

Many student CCRL members expressed
concern that costs of additional officers
would burden smaller houses and limit their
ability to hold less significant’social gather-
ings, such as brother- or sisterhoods.

In order to off-set these costs, the Task
Force agreed to an amendment which allows
the student Risk Managers, [D-checker, and
bartender to be members of the host organi-
zation.

The house may look to its own members to
work parties rather than pay members from
other houses.

Director of Residence Life and Associate
Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano chairs

the Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task
Force.

Marsicano suggested a possible sanction
for a future house alcohol violations would
be to require the house to have party workers
from other organizations.

Other CCRL members stressed the need
for a distinction between members-only and
open parties and pointed out how the pres-
ence of a police officer would affect the inti-
mate atmosphere of a brother- or sisterhood,
for example.

“To be perfectly honest,” said Meghan
O’Grady ’06, “it would be awkward for a
cop to be present during a sisterhood.”

However, faculty and staff representatives
expressed reluctance to allow an exception
from policy for members-only parties in fear
that students would take advantage of the
lack of supervision and the gathering would
morph into a much wilder party than
planned.

“We don’t want to clamp down,” said
Economics Professor and Task Force mem-
ber Fred Smith. ‘““We don’t want to drive you
off-campus. We don’t want you not having
fun. But we don’t want you dead.”

Ultimately, student and faculty CCRL
members compromised and agreed that
while student Risk Managers would be
required for members-only parties, police
officers would not.

With these amendments, CCRL approved
the Task Force’s recommended reformation
of risk management procedure.

Marsicano, along with other members of
the Task Force, emphasized that the Task
Force’s objective was not to make it more
difficult for students to have fun, but rather
to keep the parties on-campus and safe.

“The goal of this policy is to get students
to plan ahead,” she said.

Briefly

Charlotte Symphony Orchestra Performance

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will have a concert on April 21 at 8 p.m. in the
Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets aré $5 for students and $15 general admission.

Disability Rights Production

-“A Thirst,” an original production about disability rights, will be performed on April
23 at 8 p.m. and April 24 at 2 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $5. ©

Classical Indian Music

A South Indian vocal recital wil beheld on Apil 24 from 2 to 5 pam. in Tyler Tallman
Hall. Tickets are $15 for adults, $12 for seniors, and free for students.

on
ces Ozment will

sinicot tonal: Roly: ection wo “apie. thw Wiciodtcia

a a

Europe” 00 Apel) 26 7:90 pan, io ea

Biology Lectures

Pvc apelin ea grey

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

Sophomores Robert Stewart, Sarah Bogue, and Page Persons enjoy the Union
Board-sponsored “After Midnight” program on Halloween.

Union Board provides students
with variety of activities

By KATE GILLESPIE

Senior Staff Writer

Students who are not interested in
Davidson’s party scene often go to the Union
on Friday and Saturday nights to watch con-
certs and movies and participate in a variety
of activities.

Yet many students are unaware that these
alternatives to Patterson Court are the
responsibility of one large, dedicated group
of students, the Union Board.

“Students don’t even realize that the
Union Board is behind these events,” said
Union Board president Steven Gentile ’06.
“They just know that something cool is
going on in the Union, but every event in the
Union has to be approved by the Union
Board.”

These events include concerts, films, stu-
dent performances, Spring Frolics, coffee-
houses, and various freshman orientation
activities.

The Union Board is also behind the annu-
al Artist Series, which this year brought the

Koresh Dance Company, the comedy troupe .

Chicago City Limits, the Bruce Wood Dance
Company, and the Poncho Sanchez Latin
Jazz Band to the Duke Family Performance
Hall.

“Our mission is to provide student activi-
ties that are diverse and fun for the entire stu-
dent body and give students something to do
on Friday and Saturday nights,” said Union
Board vice president Katherine Cox ’07.
“We reach out not only to the student body
but also to the community because there are
no other events that bring professional dance
and music to Davidson.”

The Union Board consists of a president
and vice president elected by the student
body, as well as 15 appointed students who
serve as chairs of the Union Board’s various-

committees.

Although this group makes the executive
decisions, the Union Board also. relies on the
students who volunteer to serve on the differ-
ent committees at the annual fall activities
fair.

“T had 96 people on the email list for my
concert committee,” Cox said. “Some people
are more involved than others. Thirty-one
people helped out at the Black-Eyed Peas
concert.”

The mission of the Union Board has
expanded in recent years and continues to
change based on the interests students
express.

“It really depends on the feelings of the
board and the students themselves,” Cox
said. “Concert tastes change for one. The
Magical Mystery Tour is something students
used to be excited about, but now they’re
not. We’re going to cut that out and use the
money for something else.”

This year the Board’s most popular events
were the showings of the films “Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” “Garden
State,” and “Hotel Rwanda,” each of which
drew over 200 people to the 900 Room.

The Union Board planned for over 500
people to attend each of the three After
Midnights they sponsored. Paint Your Own
Pottery night, pancake breakfasts, and the
Dukhs concert were also popular with stu-
dents.

“We pride ourselves on not being a suit-

_ case school where people don’t leave on the

weekends,” Cox said. “Part of the reason for
that is the Union Board.”

The Board’s budget of over $200,000,
which comprises over half of the student
activities budget, allows them to sponsor
these events and to aid other student organi-
zations in financing events.

See Union, page 5

Excellent Employment Opportunity

Come join our team at
THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB!

The club is looking to employ persons for the
wait-staff. Individuals applying for this
position should be team players that
have high energy. Those with

experience will be given preference.
Come by the club and apply in person:
THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB
w 18501 HARBOR LIGHT BLVD.
CORNELIUS, NC. 28031

Further questions can be directed to : 704-892-9858

,
