THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alpha Phi Alpha
demands attention

By DArRYL RATCLIFF
Guest Columnist

It is ironic that in the midst of a maelstrom of rhetoric
about diversity at Davidson College, The Davidsonian has
completely failed to cover the recent history of the Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

The Davidsonian did do a good job covering the inception
‘of Alpha Phi Alpha at Davidson College, but in the time I

- have been a student at Davidson, the paper has simply failed
in its coverage of Alpha Phi Alpha. As a Senior Staff Writer
for this paper, I am ashamed that I can make such a state-
ment. However, this failing is not merely limited to The
Davidsonian. It seems that almost every major institution,
from the administration to SGA to PCC has decided to will-
fully ignore the achievements of Alpha Phi Alpha on this
campus.

I am well aware of the boldness of this statement. Yet, I
believe it seems even bolder because of the truth behind it.
When I became chairperson of the SGA Charter and Bylaws
Committee, Alpha was not even listed as a fraternity on this
campus. In my dealings with PCC, Alpha is routinely either
overlooked in terms of distributing information, in calling
roll, or assigning shifts at PCC events. When one walks into
the RLO offices there are pictures of all other fraternities on
campus except Alpha. If we didn’t wear our shirts and have
dress up days, we might as well have been invisible.

Please allow me to make a bolder statement:

Alpha Phi Alpha won Fraternity of the Year.

Unfortunately this is probably a newsflash for many
Davidson students and faculty alike. For those who don’t
know, Fraternity of the Year is the highest honor Patterson
Court can give to a fraternity. One wins fraternity of the year
by having a combination of highest fraternity GPA, most
community service hours, best programs, and most partici-
pation at PCC events.

If we didn’t wear our shirts and
have dress up days, we might as
well have been invisible.

I simply cannot understand how after only two years of
existence Alpha Phi Alpha beat every other fraternity on the
court to win Fraternity of the Year, and this extraordinary
achievement received zero coverage in any publication, stu-
dent run or otherwise, at Davidson College..

Neither can I understand how o-ur coming out event in
April which the Admissions Office decided to make its key
event on Saturday night of Decision Davidson did not
receive any type of coverage as well. This was an event that
Admissions has put thousands of dollars into and that hun-
dreds of Davidson students attended, yet The Davidsonian
somehow didn’t know about it or didn’t think it was news-
worthy enough.

There is only one word to describe The Davidsonian’s
treatment of Davidson’s first historically black Greek organ-
ization: unacceptable.

The Davidsonian’s lack of coverage of the Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity, Inc is an injustice not only to Alpha, but
also to The Davidsonian’s journalistic integrity, and to the
entire Davidson College campus. .I ask for an apology from
~The Davidsonian and a pledge to do better in the future in
covering not just Alpha Phi Alpha but all minority events and
organizations on Davidson’s campus.

I also urge that The Davidsonian have a forum with at
least the presidents of all organizations whose main purpose
is to foster and support diversity at Davidson College, with
the Diversity Coordinating Committee, and with Dean
Shandley, Dean Jeffries, and Kema Gadson, in an effort to
help fix The Davidsonian’s ongoing struggle to cover diver-
sity at Davidson College.

Finally, I would like to urge minority students to take up
the challenge of writing for The Davidsonian in an effort to
make its staff more diverse. In order to tackle the challenge
of diversity it will require both sides making strides toward
each other, and if The Davidsonian does call for a forum and
no one responds, then diversity-oriented organizations on
campus and other interested minority students have failed
themselves.

I believe it is up both to The Davidsonian and diversity-
oriented organization to learn from the past and to make a
better future.

To do so we must all first learn to listen to the truth, even
when it hurts.

Darryl Ratcliff is a sophomore from DeSoto, Tx. Contact him
at daratcliff@davidson.edu.

almost

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005 7

The misguided and the (not) misogynist

I have a penis.

Anyone who has a problem with
that statement will do both him or
herself and me a favor by stopping
| reading right now.

In addition to a penis, I have a
severe problem with all the flak
that The Yowl has been catching
recently for having a few articles
that were considered offensive by
some members of the Davidson

face the nathan

least one of those two makes me a
coward. Before you ask, yes, I
write regularly for The Yowl; no, I
did not write any of the articles in question, so I’m not just
defending my own work.

For reasons I will expound upon for hours if you let me, I
consider those who feel offended by The Yowl to be overre-

NATHAN BRADSHAW

community. Apparently, having at °

rized was, in fact, based on stereotypes that men perpetuate,
actions that men take, and the low standard of morality of
men.

I was mildly offended by the idea that Sketchy Steve is a
member of my sex. But I don’t know what you people are
complaining about. Not to make The Yowl seem less social-
ly educational or anything, but the purpose of it is not to
undercut those who abuse power (although RLO might dis-
agree) or to bring about social change. It is published to
make you laugh.

As for where we might learn about the struggles of
oppressed peoples in our society against established power
structures, I have one suggestion for concerned professors to
explore: the classroom. And if you didn’t find The Yowl
funny, why don’t you submit something that is funny? Bobby
and Jeff can use the material, I promise you.

Incidentally, I did say that there are oppressed peoples in
our society. Equality is not d reality. So if all of you “femi-
nists” wish to be “equalists,” that is, people who support

acting severely, and with an
mercenary motive to
scapegoat the satire page as the
symbol of all that is archaically
misogynist. I’m here to address
the second issue.

Before I continue, let me take
my hat off to Jack Hubbard,
Professor Suzanne Churchill, and

You are indeed feminists. You
support both halves of the defini-
tion of feminism, but somehow
“women’s interests” are more
important than true equality.

equality, why aren’t you
outraged that women play
with smaller basketballs?
Where are you when a
man finds himself in a sit-
uation where he feels that
being male is morally
wrong?

And who among you

the Davidsonian editorial staff;
your words last week addressed the controversy in a useful
manner, and the editorial was particularly on target.

With all due respect to every several professor and student
who has published his or her notion of the word feminism, let
me cut and paste from Merriam-Webster Online. If you go to
m-w.com and look up the definition of feminism, this is pre-
cisely what you will find:

1 : the theory of the political, economic, and social equal-
ity of the sexes

2 : organized activity on behalf of women’s rights and
interests

I'd love to think that you simply forgot about the second
half of the definition, but the bottom line is that you deliber-
ately leave it out so that your cause appears to be one of
equality. In The Yowl, nobody even suggested violations of
political or economic equalities. With regard to social equal-
ity, the fact is that it is a work in progress, even at our pro-
gressively beloved Davidson. Nothing The Yowl satirized
was factually inaccurate. Nothing The Yowl satirized was
based on something women do. Everything The Yow sati-

will write a loud, angry

dour to The Davidsonian, full of pomp and huff, about the

fact that women are not subject to the draft?

The answer, I would argue, is that you are indeed femi-
nists. You support both halves of the definition of feminism,
but somehow “women’s interests” are more important than
true equality.

You know what I think is funnier than an overweight fresh-
man being used by an upperclassman who got her drunk
because he sexually objectifies her? Nothing. Unless it is, of
course, a young man, being told by his government to kill
another human being, who dies or at least is crippled in bat-
tle.

Inequality has always been a reality, and maybe men do
owe women some socioeconomic and political reparations.
But if they do, then American women owe American men
407,000 lives for World War II alone. 407,000 fatalities. How
the boys on the hall love that punch line.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore English major from
Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.

» Dating-phobia polarizes relationships

Our generation can’t hit a happy
medium when it comes to relation-
ships. The only two kinds of cou-
ples are those who are using each

baxter’s banter

are practically engaged. The nice
moderation of casual dating has
become almost obsolete. Of course
as soon as I started writing this
article I was informed that a few
people at Davidson are dating the
old-fashioned way, but the general
trend is definitely to one extreme
or the other.

For many of us, the lack of dat-
ing is frustrating. Some see dating as “a situation represent-
ing the worst of both worlds ... it requires work and commit-
ment but brings no assurance of sexual favor,” says Barrett
Seaman in his new book Binge: Campus Life in an Age of
Disconnection and Excess. But I think the fact that we are
left with no middle ground to work with is unfortunate and
unhealthy.

Davidson is certainly not unique in this phenomenon of
relationship-phobes and married old farts. It is a nationwide
trend among college students. And, happily, we can for the
most part blame the environment of college rather than our-
selves for our awkward, untraditional college mating culture.

Up until about 30 years ago most colleges were single-sex
institutions, so the only way to meet members of the oppo-
site sex was through scheduled mixers. And then if a guy
found a girl particularly pleasing, he asked her on a date so
he would be sure to see her the next weekend.

Today, with all the hanging out that goes on in co-ed col-
leges there is really no need to set a firm date for a future
meeting if you only need to walk upstairs or to a nearby dorm
to see your latest crush. Not only does this mar the mystery
and allure of someone you can only see once a week, it
squelches the giddy anticipation of an upcoming get togeth-
er.

other for the evening or those who-

Something else to factor in: most of today’s female under-
graduates have much more on their minds than finding a hus-
band. “Today’s female undergraduate is more focused on
career and fearful of letting a relationship interfere with her
career trajectory,” writes Seaman.

Hooking up is truly hard to avoid since hanging out one-
on-one at night on campus almost always means in a dorm
room with an oh-so-inviting bed. And, hey, this way you can
reap all the benefits of a real relationship without the emo-
tional risk and plain old bother of awkward dates. Cool deal!
But doesn’t this set us up to become frighteningly numbed
recluses?

Our communication and social

interaction is becoming increas-

ingly impersonal and computer-
ized (or drunken).

If lonely physical gratification becomes unfulfilling, peo-
ple tend to plunge into really serious “‘let’s live and breathe
each other” relationships to find something meaningful in
their lives. This is great, but it doesn’t leave much room for
opening up a little to different people to see how the chem-
istry works. We could all use some social skills practice since
our communication and social interaction is becoming
increasingly impersonal and computerized (or drunken). And
dating casually might just lead to a really great friendship.

Without risking our pride and asking someone on a date,
we are forced to surrender to the whims of weekend nights or
to vainly hope that a hook up or friendship will somehow
lead to something more committed. Now it’s not only the
guy’s job but sometimes the girl’s to take the initiative and
ask someone out. So go for it, or you’ll always wish you did.

Carey Baxter is a sophomore English major from Monkton,

Mad. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.
