THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fall semester is here again, and while stu-
dents are thinking about new beginnings,
the sophomore apartments got some of their
own. With the entire school focused on the
renovations to Commons and the football
stadium, the less publicized changes in
Knox, Akers, and Irwin have left a lucky few
reaping the benefits of Davidson’s most
extensive renovation project.

About 120 of last year’s freshmen left for
vacation last May thinking that when they
returned, they would be subjected to the
nightmarish experience of living next door
to Patterson Court in buildings that are both
.decomposing and uncomfortable.

Much to their surprise, however, the
down-the-hill gang arrived to-a plush new
setting. “I had already made plans with one
of my friends who got a single in Duke so
that I could sleep up there when I had a test
the next day or something,” said Joseph
Vitriani ’08. “I never thought that when we
got back, he’d want to sleep in my room.”

Bunk beds are lined with golden threads,
feather mattresses hang over bronzed
futons, and the air conditioning has a new
‘Super High’ setting.

_ The common room has been turned into

an exquisite ballroom. Walk down the hall
and refresh your palette by stopping off at
the aged, perfectly cooled champagne water
fountain. Turn the corner and enter the
bathroom, with ivory toilet seats and an
Olympic-sized bathtub.

Lauren Lammers ’08 wrote to RLO to
thank them for making such improvements
to the apartments. “First of ally” she wrote,

“the room service is fantastic. Vacuuming,

fresh sheets, and mints on the pillow every ”

day. I come back from class and I see.a
sparkling room, not a spot on the walls, my
bed perfectly made, and I smell'just a touch
of lilac. That is not even to mention the
kitchen and hot‘tub for each building. You
have truly outdone yourselves.”

RLO employee Michael Griegson
explained that the renovations were initially
intended to be only exterior. :

“You know, we had planned to clear out
most of the trees and turn that space in the
middle of all the buildings into kind of a
lawn or courtyard for throwing frisbees. We
also planned to clean up the interiors a little,
enough so that students would stop asking
about Health Codes. But after we got start-
ed, well, the project sort of became a pas-
sion.”

According to Griegson, the renovation of
each building was a work of pride for every-
one involved. But he does not want to turn
his pet project into a hot topic.

“So often, we make a big deal out of every
little renovation, every little improvement
we make. I figured that this time, we would-
n’t have a big to-do about it but instead qui-
etly make three of our buildings truly-nice
places to live.”

The air conditioning and heating systems,

oe
A peek at a newly refurbished room in the
Knox dormitory.

notorious for breaking down at the hottest
or coldest points of the year, has been
entirely replaced and may now be set with
digital accuracy in each room.

The number of bathroom stalls per hall
has doubled.

For students who want more privacy and
quiet at night, the walls have been given an
extra layer of soundproofing, so that a
neighbor’s music or conversation is all but
impossible to hear through a wall.

With the addition of new furniture, which
should be any day now, in the lounges, the
changes will be complete.

“Sophomore slump? I don’t think so. This
is a sophomore celebration!” Vitriani said
enthusiastically.

Davidson falls in national rankings, still better than Grinnell

The latest U.S. News and World Report
rankings of liberal arts colleges place
Davidson in a tenth-place tie with
Claremont McKenna College in California.
The ranking marks a three-place drop for
Davidson since last year, when the college
was rated seventh. Some people attribute
the fall to the resignation of former trustee
board members John Belk and Stephen
Smith.

Administrators, however, were unfazed by
the news. “First of all, you can not get too
wrapped up in something as arbitrary as
rankings,” said Assistant Director of Alumni
Relations William Scott. “Following the
numbers is childish and short-sighted. The
important thing to keep in mind is that we
are still ranked higher than Grinnell.”

Scott is referring to fifteenth-placed
Grinnell College in Iowa, whose lower posi-
tion has recently become the focus of
Davidson’s higher-ups.

The administration has just introduced
the “Still Better than Grinnell” fund raising
campaign, which they hope will make up for
some of the lost Belk and Smith money and
stir up the student body and Alumni.

“We think that
this campaign will

the “Still Better than Grinnell” campaign.
“Finally,” said Trustee Blanche Merrier
81. “I feel like it’s been forever since some-
one at this college looked around and said,
‘You know what? We're better than Grinnell.
Way better.’ Now, to see the college embrace
our superiority like this is refreshing.”
Merrier is not the only one embracing the
anti-Grinnell
movement; the
Davidson foot-
ball team is sell-

Sociology at Hamilton College. “Liberal Arts
colleges tend to feel inferior because of their
small size and lack of name recognition, so
they sometimes attack each other to build
themselves up. Haverford did it to Scripps in
’96, and Bryn Mawr hated on Kenyon in ’89.
It usually is quite effective. Except when
those dirtbags at Pomona tried it and the
whole thing
backfired on
them. It’s proba-

bly because their
ing ‘Undefeated women are so
Against homely.”

Grinnell’ t- Davidson
shirts. ; Warner Warner is selling ‘Grinnell Sucks’ wristbands for two declined to
House is selling goyjars to raise money for charity. describe _ their
$2 Grinnell actions as

Sucks’ red wrist-

bands for charity. “They’re so cute,” said
Warner member Caitlyn Bleacher ’08. “They
are bright Davidson red so they really show
your school spirit. All the profits will go to
help people with blind pets.”

Mark Worrell, the President of Grinnell,
was shocked to hear about the Davidson
campaign slogan. “This whole thing came
out of left field, we’ve
always been on fairly

be even bigger than
Let Learning Be
Cherished, which
raised over $250
million,” said Scott.
“We want to
remind our distin-
guished alumni

“its about Davidson, and our 2°°¢
assurance that we are, and
will continue to be, much het-
ter than the godless cretins at said.

Grinnell.” |

terms with
Davidson. They are just
trying to deflect atten-
tion from their own fall
in the rankings,” he

If Worrell’s accusa-
tions are true, then this

that we still cherish
learning, and that
we cherish it way more than those girly-
armed communists at Grinnell.”
Both alumni and current Davidson stu-
dents have been reacting favorably towards

would not be the first
time that a liberal arts
college has belittled another to downplay its
own failings.

“It’s called the ‘Taunting Tactic,” says
Raymond Durnbach, Associate Professor of

“taunting,” but
say that their assault on Grinnell will contin-
ue.

“Listen, as much as those narcissists at
Frownnell would like to make this issue all
about them, it’s not. It’s about Davidson,
and our assurance to the student body and
alumni that we are, and will continue to be,
much better than the godless cretins at
Grinnell. We’re better academically, athleti-
cally, and quite frankly, we’re much snappi-
er dressers,” said Scott.

There is little telling what Davidson’s bar-
rage of insults will have on its ranking next
year, but if the “Still Better than Grinnell”
fundraising effort succeeds, expect the hate
to keep on flowing.

will u help me K-ry my 74
boxes up to da room. lol!1

Girls make no
sense at all.

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005 9
BS EATER SEIS LE OE pints Fonts perenne i

;  ]
il ass 0

According to a recent Yow! poll, taken
during the first week of classes, listed
below are the Top Five Best Girls in the
first-year-class. They are listed in order
from top to bottom, with number one
being The Best and number five, being
The Fifth Best.

Alicia Switzer
Annapolis, MD
Belk 203
HS Cheerleading Captain

Jenny Hu
Seattle, WA
Richardson 317
Won Nat'l Kickboxing Tournament

Karen Mills
Dayton, OH
Richardson 117
Can Hold Her Breath for 3 Minutes

Michelle McKenna
New York, NY
Little 204
Scored 1600 on the SAT

Jaime Smith
Des Moines, IA
Watts 412
Has a Good Personality
