THE DAVIDSONIAN

$1,500 allocated for
April at the Lake events

Spring concert canceled due to schedule conflicts

By LAUREN CONN
Staff Writer

SGA members discussed plans for the sec-
ond annual April at the Lake, a series of
Friday afternoon events to be held at the
Lake Campus.

Although the final event schedule has not
yet been finalized, Senator Wilson McCrory
°07, one of the event coordinators, proposed
to have food and entertainment each after-
noon.

Because of complications with ATC fund-
ing, McCrory was unable to receive his pro-
posed maximum funding for the event.

SGA approved an allocation of $1,500 for
April at the Lake to assist with the costs of
food and entertainment.

SGA will use the Vamanos Van to provide
transportation to the Lake Campus; plans are
still being finalized about other modes of
transportation for students.

Townspeople will be invited to join in the
afternoon activities and to meet students dur-
ing one of the weekends.

SGA also announced that there will be no
spring concert this semester due to conflicts
in coordinating with band tour schedules.

SGA approved plans for Wildcat Red Day,
which is co-sponsored by SGA and Turner
House, to be held on Saturday, April 2.

SGA will provide $550 out of its $800 ath-
letic budget for the event.

The event serves the double role of
fundraising for Ada Jenkins as well as pro-
moting school sports teams. Plans for the
day include a mid-afternoon barbeque.

In addition, SGA will take a break from its
involvement with the substance-free housing
issue, since President Vagt did not adopt the
SGA committee’s proposal.

“We are taking a step back from the proj-
ect because housing lottery is next week. We
do hope to bring it up again next year,’ SGA
President Ryan Arnold ’06 said.

In order to improve communication
between SGA and the student body, a

newsletter, tentatively entitled “The
Filibuster,” will be posted in bathroom stalls
around campus. The publication will include
current SGA business as well as upcoming
SGA events.

The newsletter, which started last semes-

‘ter, will be published according to the

amount of information SGA is discussing at
the time.

“We want to get students more involved
with SGA, whether they are helping with
events or offering new ideas,” said Sarah
Allen ’08, who is heading the newsletter
project.

SGA’s project to bring more outdoor seat-
ing to campus also continues. Four green
Adirondack chairs, which cost $350 each,
have already been placed around campus,
and more will come.

Mac Cowell ’06, who created and initiat-
ed the chair plan, anticipated the purchase of
more chairs once organizations see their
positive impact on students. - ;

Any academic department or student
organization may sponsor a chair by pur-
chasing and painting the chair.

SGA will sponsor a chair, which they plan
to decorate within the next two weeks.

An SGA sub-committee is working on a
project to build a water fountain, potentially
funded by the Board of Trustees and alumni,
in the grassy area between the library and
Chambers Gallery.

An online survey will be sent to students
in the near future to weigh interest in such a
project.

Other business included an update on the
CAT-TV programming for campus. The final
draft of the proposal will be given to Vagt
and Dean of Students Tom Shandley for
approval.

“If the proposal is approved, we hope to
have the service up and running by August,”
said Christina Boye ’06

SGA also approved the creation of a new
student organization, Davidson
Breakdancing Club.

NEwsS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005 3

2006 RSC Residency
to be education-based

Student production will
highlight return visit

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

Although the Royal Shakespeare
Company’s 2005 Davidson residency just
came to a close Sunday, preparations are
already being made for its return visit in late
January and early February of 2006.

Over the next four months, Davidson fac-
ulty and RSC members will be evaluating
the RSC’s 2005 stay and determining areas
that need improvement. Director of Artist
Residency Programs Bethany Prestigiacomo
hopes that the details of the 2006 residency
will be in place by July.

“Nothing is firm yet, but we anticipate a
lot more student involvement. There will
still be lectures, in-class workshops, and
community involvement as well,” ” she said.

Unlike this year, the RSC will not put on
a production in 2006. Instead, the residency
will be entirely educational, and company
members will direct a student production.
The production is yet to be decided.

“The residency for next year is in its form-
ative stages,” President Bobby Vagt said.
““The Taming of the Shrew’ may be the stu-
dent production that is directed by the RSC
folks next year, and the production for 2007
has not been discussed.”

Prestigiacomo discussed the advantages
of omitting a professional production.

“Because RSC members will not have the

huge time commitment of a performance,
they will be completely focused on students
and education,” she said.

The number of RSC company members in
residency will also be significantly reduced.
Prestigiacomo expects five to seven actors
and educators to be on campus.

The 2006 residency is part of a four-year
partnership between the RSC and Davidson.

The 2007 residency will consist of anoth-
er performance, while the 2008 residency
will once again have a focus on education.

Prestigiacomo praised both RSC members
and students for the success of the residency.

“It was great,” she said. “From Davidson
College’s standpoint, I’ think it exceeded
expectations.”

Students of Dr. Cynthia Lewis’
“Performing Shakespeare” course described
the benefits of being able to work directly
with RSC actors.

“They all made me realize how much
there is in even the slightest minutia of the
text and how playing with the words and not
the movement could be so much more pow-
erful,” Nate Bradshaw ’08 said.

Prestigiacomo commended students for
their proactive involvement with the RSC. “I
saw students and RSC members having din-
ner at the Union, drinking coffee at Summit,
and chatting in the 900 Room every day,”
Prestigiacomo said.

“The RSC was so impressed with stu-
dents’ willingness to welcome them and
bring them into the community. They fell in
love with the students and the town. Many
were crying as they said goodbye.”

Williams, continued from page 2

some of the participants in or witnesses of
the “Greensboro Massacre” to participate.
Many Greensboro citizens believe the com-
munity has already achieved reconciliation
and overcome racism and are suspicious of
the commission because they see it as biased
toward the victims’ families, who were the
motivating force behind its formation.

“We just have to model for them that we
really are interested in listening and hearing
from the community,” Williams _ said.
“People just want to talk, and they have so
much to say on this issue. Even with the
police officers who are initially skeptical, we
can just model to them that we don’t already
have an idea of what the truth is.”

Reconciliation of the shootings is espe-
cially important because two criminal trials

‘failed to punish the accused Klansmen and

American Nazis.

In the early 1980s, all-white juries in a
state and a federal criminal case acquitted
the participants on trial.

aol

In 1985, the city of Greensboro paid
$350,000 after a civil suit found the city, the
Klan, and the Nazi Party liable for violating
the civil rights of the demonstrators.

Many view the absence of the police at the
demonstration as another sign of failed jus-
tice.

Marshall, however, stressed that the com-
mission is not interested in using the justice
system to bring about reconciliation.

“Bringing another criminal case is not an
objective of the commission,” she said.

Both Marshall and Williams believe that
the formation of the first Truth and
Reconciliation Commission will improve the
way the rest of the world views the United
States.

“The U.S. doesn’t recognize most of the
human rights laws,” Williams said. “It’s not
a part of our everyday conversations, and we
don’t buy into the concept that the interna-
tional community can tell us what human
rights violations are. There are people that
are really heartened by the U.S. embracing
this policy.”

_ SGA Category Three Election Results

: : Junior Class President Senior Class President

Christina Evans

