2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALI KARAMI RUIZ
Staff Writer

Warm, humid weather, coupled with con-

densation formed from air conditioners cool-
ing rooms, caused mold to grow in Sentelle
Hall during the first few weeks of the school
year.
Although the problem was not wide-
spread, Joel Hewett ’07, who lives on the
third floor of Sentelle, found mold accumu-
lating on his room’s ceiling and experienced
sore throats, headaches, and severe pressure
in his ears as a result.

“In my interactions with RLO, it
felt as if my demand for a mold-free
room was unreasonable ... Nobody
seemed to think that mold was haz-
ardous, but only a nuisance.”
--Joel Hewett ‘07

Since the problem was present in several
Sentelle rooms, the Residence Life Office
(RLO) checked the ventilation ducts and
looked for plumbing leaks.

Although there were no leaks, RLO found

NEws
Hot, humid weather results in mold growth in Sentelle

with a chlorine solution to trap it where it
was growing, in a crack between the ceiling
and one of the wooden partitions. The air
conditioner was cleaned with the same chlo-
rine solution to prevent future growth of
mold.

Hewett also received a dehumidifier and
an ionizer, which removes mold spores from
the air. These measures were successful in
removing the mold, although a musky smell
remains in Hewett’s room.

Hewett, however, was not satisfied with
RLO’s responsive to the mold problem.

“I was displeased with the entire process,”
Hewett said. “In my interactions with RLO,
it felt as if my demand for a mold-free room
was unreasonable. It took multiple attempts
and many days for the problem to be fixed.
Nobody seemed to think that mold was haz-
ardous, but only a nuisance.”

The mold accumulation in Hewett’s room
was So strong that one day when he had a cup
of coffee, he could actually smell the mold
that had been building up in his nostrils.

Hewett was offered a single in Tomlinson

but declined and instead stayed with friends.
He did not believe that a room change was an
appropriate solution to the problem.

“Instead of a reactionary policy, RLO
must make mold prevention a top priority,”
Hewett said.

Marsicano stressed that students should
not “think that they have to put up with

Classical Guitar Concert

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

mold.” She recommended that students
report mold and other problems as early in
the day as possible so RLO and the physical
plant staff, who work from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
can reach a solution.as quickly as possible.

“The students~can contact RLO anytime
there is a problem that heeds to be brought to
our attention,” Marsicano said.

Classical Spanish guitarist Francesc de Paula Soler will give a concert entitled “The
Knight of the Sad Countenance/El Caballero de la Triste Figura” on October 14 at 8 p.m.
in Lilly Family Gallery of Chambers Building. ©

that air flow from the ventilation ducts need-
ed to be increased so condensation would not
happen.

Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano acknowledged that the insulation
in Sentelle needs to be replaced and that
damp conditions in old college buildings
promote mold growth.

“I am confident that we are not only get-
ting rid of the mold with the measures we are
taking, but we are also getting rid of the con-
ditions that encourage the growing of mold,”
Marsicano said.

The mold on Hewett’s room was treated

Environmental Studies Lecture

Norman Myers, a fellow. at Oxford University and adjunct professor at Duke
University, will speak, about “The U.S. Stake in the Global Environment” on October 17
at 7-p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall of the Sloan Music Center.

McGee Professor Presentation

courtesy photo

Hewett ’07

McGee Professor of Creative Writing, Diana Hume George, will give a reading of her .
creative writing on October 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/28 Chambers Building Theft

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

The ITS department reported that a network cable had been removed from Chambers
1062 at 8:20 p.m. Officers are following up with anyone that may have used the com-
puter.

9/28 Carolina Inn Trespassing

Earn your MPA in Environmental
Science and Policy

Police were advised about a white male outside the Carolina Inn wearing nothing but
a cowboy hat and underwear. Upon arrival, the officers were able to identify the sub-
ject, who was from Mooresville. He was extremely intoxicated but cooperative and
said he had left his clothing in some bushes near the Inn. The subject was informed
that he was trespassing, and someone was called to take him home.

The Master of Public Administration

9/30 Belk Dormitory Theft

Program in Environmental Science

Student reported that unknown person(s) had unlawfully removed prescription med-
ication from their dorm room. The bottle of Codeine and a bottle of Amoxicillin taken
were valued at $100.

and Policy combines Columbia
University’s hands-on approach

to teaching public policy and

9/30 Patterson Court Drive

Disruptive Behavior administration with pioneering

Officer arrested a subject at 126 Patterson Court Drive for intoxication and disrup- thinking about the environment,
tive behavior. The subject was taken to Mecklenburg County Intake for arrest process-

ing This twelve-month program cakes

place at Columbia University’s

10/1 Baker Parking Lot Vandalism New York campuses,

Subject reported that unknown person(s) had smashed the taillights of their vehicle,
which was parked in Baker Parking Lot. Officers are conducting an investigation.

For more information, please call 212-854-3142,
e-mail lar46(@icolumbia.edu, or visit our Web site.

10/1 Knox Dormitory Other

Officer observed a black RCA TV dismounted from its wall moorings on the first 2
floor of Knox in the lounge.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

Application deadline for early decision: November 1

