. ARTS & LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
AucGust 31, 2005

A ‘Virgin’ worthy of sympathy Go WALTzing

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Steve Carell is an unbelievably talented
man. In terms of pure comic instinct, he
ranks at the top of film and television actors
working today.
Whether playing a
smarmy anchorman in

“Bruce Almighty,”
anchorman Jon
Stewart’s pseudo-

informed expert in
“The Daily Show,”
anchorman Will
Ferrell’s intellectually
vapid weatherman in
“Anchorman,” or an
obnoxious paper dis-
tributor with the self-
perceived charisma of
an anchorman in “The
Office,” Carell exudes
easy, nuanced comic
confidence.

In the charming,
chuckle-filled “The
40-Year-Old Virgin,”
however, Carell gives
us hope that the range
of his comic virtues
may one day surpass the anchormanish
showiness of such “frat pack” counterparts
as Vince Vaughn, Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson,
and even Will Ferrell. As absurdly funny as
those men are, they have never quite infused
their characters with the same vulnerability
and sincerity that Carell accomplishes in his
debut leading role.

Because the “American Pie” model of the
modern sex comedy has conditioned movie-
goers to equate quality with the quantity of
gut-busting, gratuitous laughs, many viewers
have already found “The 40-Year-Old-

Virgin” a disappointment. I disagree. While
this new entry in the resiliently popular
genre indeed lacks the rolling-in-the-aisle
moments of some of its predecessors, it
leaves you with a more satisfied feeling, and
this is almost entirely because of Carell.

Steve Carell is endearingly contemplating life’s mysteries in ‘The 40-Year-Old Virgin.’

His portrayal of Andy Stitzer, a kindheart-
ed but lonely techie with a penchant for vin-
tage action figures, touches the viewer more
than a performance in such a blatant comedy
has any right to. As his quest to shed that oh-
so-burdensome stigma of virginity rages on,
we sympathize with his devastating loneli-
ness, his stoutly positive attitude, and his
fragile determination.

While very few people will identify with
the movie’s overt conflict, everyone will
understand through Carell’s endearing work
how such a conflict feels.

With these considerations in mind, the
movie’s other strengths and weaknesses are
not difficult to pinpoint. Andy’s libidinous
trio of coworkers, led by the wastrel David
(Paul Rudd), falls flat; we’ ve met these one-
track minds in dozens of other movies, and
here they blend
awkwardly with
the film’s pre-
dominantly
sweet tone.

On the other
hand, the sexy,
sophisticated
T ri os h
(Catherine
Keener), the
type of woman
who is miles
away from the
buxom ,bimbos
we've grown
accustomed to
in these films,
strikes the same
encouragingly
honest note as
Carell. As
Andy’s premier
potential love
interest, Keener
does not inspire a lot of laughs, but she does
make an impression that will last several
days longer than any of the goofiness we saw
in “Wedding Crashers.”

In short, trust the surprising critical raves
of “The 40-Year-Old Virgin.” Enter with
high expectations. Just don’t expect to hurt
yourself laughing.

RATING:

Kk IK

with students
DJs new and old

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Senior Staff Writer

If you were diving, eating, or basking at
Lake Frolics last Saturday, then you heard
tunes put on by the DJs of WALT.

WALT is the student-run radio station of
Davidson. Student-run means just that. All of
the board positions, like Program Director
and Tech personnel, are occupied by music
fanatics between the ages of 18 and 23.

WALT streams online at walt1610.com
and on air at 1610 AM. Upperclassmen
might be familiar with some of last year’s
shows like “Nick Fell’s Love Line” and “The
Beach Blondes.” You might have noticed
some t-shirts sporting a witty tribute to the
sexy DJs, or pins with Carebears on them.
This paraphernalia proves that students are
active in the rhythm and voice of Davidson.

CHECK
OUT WALT1610.COM
OR 1610 AM

Station Manager Ward Long ’06 - said,
“We’ve got tons of active members, and
we’ve had great leadership in the past. Will
Lamborn rules.”

Will Lamborn ’06 is the Program
Manager; he and Ward, along with other vet-
erans of the station, have recruited at least
sixteen new DJs to the radio legion.

So keep your eyes and ears open for fresh
sounds crossing the AM airwaves and rock-
ing court parties. Posters will be advertising
weekly shows, and if you are in a band or
part of a fan club, WALT is the place to go to
ask questions and get plugged in.

Ditch low-quality beer for a good glass of wine

By RICHARD ELLIS
Staff Writer

“Beast!” I exclaimed as I briefly felt like
Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman screaming at
her longhaired, Indian lover.

I somehow avoided that devilish brew all
summer and now my ability to drink
Milwaukee’s Best (or Beast as it is affection-
ately called) without coming up for air

There is a third option, wine, which allows
partygoers to drink for any of the three rea-
sons. However, most people shy away from
wine either because they think it costs too
much for the buzz, they are intimidated by its
boundless selection, or they tasted a bottle
adorned with a kangaroo that a pre-pubes-
cent Crocodile Hunter could have drawn as
he waited for the short bus.

equivalent to saying you don’t like food. If
you taste a good pan of lasagna and don’t
like it, firstly, you might be crazy, but sec-
ondly, you might not like Italian food or red
sauces. It doesn’t mean you won’t like an
apple or some sushi though.

If you fit in the second scenario, there is
good news. That same daunting variety of
wine drives its price down. I promise great

into your mouth as you and your friends
curse the refs at the Panthers game.
Nevertheless, I think you’ll find a few inex-
pensive bottles can make for a nice change
of pace at your next party. Try it and enjoy.

Tips:

If you’re on a budget, buy anything
Barefoot. Barefoot is a vineyard that truly
excels in the $5 range, winning multiple gold

between sips has apparently A Comparison of Wine and Common Beers medals. I particularly like
vanished. their chardonnay and merlots
Look, I know it is the Alcohol % Alcohol by Volume} Milliliters Cost* Units Alcohol Units Alcohol for Cost If you’re just starting to
cheapest legal buzz on the IHeineken 5 2130 1.79 106.5 13.67 drink wine, start with whites.
planet, and that justifies a fra- L They are generally lighter,
ternity or eating house’s pur- eaker Wine 10 750 5 75 15 sweeter, and more drinkable
h f ime, ; ; : =
any ollie. palrressecen Yuengling Light 3.8 2130 4.69 80.94 17.26 na ‘el waa Ths ae caer
nies saved fails to justify my [Killian's Irish Red 49 2130 5.79 104.37 18.03 enhance the flavor and experi-
alcohol tasting like moldy ence of your wine. I got a set
paregoric on the rocks. Typical Wine 12.5 750 5 93.75 18.75 of six tea cayiaal’ glasees
In -my experience, people Yuenglin 44 2130 4.89 93.72 19.17 from Total Wine on exit 28 for
drink alcohol at Davidson ee $15.
parties for three printable rea- Cee Wine 14 750 5 105 21 Buy a decent bottle opener.
sons: first, to get drunk; sec- If you have the money, a $20
ond, for the taste; and third, as peice 23 ale a7 uz 24-46 screwpull from Total Wine
a social lubricant. [Milter High Life 4.7 2130 3.79 100.11 26.41 makes is insanely easy.

While I have witnessed
plenty of people drinking
Beast for the first reason, and sympathized
with fewer who were grimacing through the
third, I have never seen it done for the sec-
ond.

Many Davidson students believe avoiding
this problem at their own social gatherings
involves either turning to mixed drinks or
spending much more money on their beer.

Wrong!

Listen, if you fit into something like the
third scenario, there are far too many vari-
eties of grapes, vineyards, vintages, climates,
grape growing styles, landscaping styles, fer-
mentation styles, pairing styles, aging
processes, master wine makers et cetera for
any one person to rule out wine after only
tasting a handful.

In a sense, saying you don’t like wine is

* In dollars from Food Lion as of Aug 28

bottles are available for fewer than 10 dollars
with some as low as four or five.
“ Finally, if you’re worried about wine’s
multiplicity of selections, every wine store’s
salesperson will cheerfully help you find
exactly what you want.

Don’t get me wrong. I’ll grant a glass of
wine would seem out of place at times, say
whilst shoving 36-hour-old Chinese takeout

