14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The women’s tennis team rebounded
from a tough season-opening loss to UNC
Chapel Hill this past weekend, handily
defeating Gardner-Webb in a 7-0 sweep
on Saturday. -

. Playing: without two of their top play-
ers, the Wildcats still blew by Gardner-
Webb and displayed their depth from top-
to-bottom.

Veterans Kelly Fillnow ’05 and Maggie
Paterson ’05 helped lead the Wildcats at
the top of the roster, but the freshmen also
proved their mettle in the Wildcats’ first
win of the year.

Kelsey Linville ’08 recorded a 6-0, 6-1
win at the third singles spot, while first-
year players Kim Whelan ’08 and
Meredith Skeeters ’08 were also victori-
ous on the day. Whelan is also the only
Wildcat freshman with an unblemished
record on the year, as she also won her
first-ever collegiate match last week
against UNC.

“[The match] went really well,” said
coach Avi Kigel, who in particular credit-
ed the freshmen for the victory. “It’s good
to get our first win.”

Men ,

The men’s team had a tough opening
weekend on the other hand, losing both of
their matches to perennial ACC powers.

To open the weekend, No. 17 UNC out-
played the ’Cats in all seven matches en
route to a 7-0 sweep.

“That was a typical first match,” said
coach Jeff Frank. “The kids just are not
match-tough yet.”

Despite the winless defeat, the short-
handed ’Cats had some notable perform-
ances. “We did not play nearly our best
singles,” Frank said, “{but]. Flav
Simihaian ’08 played well at No. 2 and
John Bolton ’07 played well at third sin-
gles for us.”

On Sunday the Wildcats played much
better tennis, but again fell to a tough
opponent in N.C. State. Davidson collect-
ed the opening doubles point by winning
the second and third matches, but the
*Cats then fell in all six singles matches.

“Their top three singles are very good,”
Frank said. “Russ:Burns ‘05, playing No.
five singles, had by far our best result.”

The now have a week off from play,
while the women have almost three weeks
before they take the court again.

WRITE
SPORTS

email

wimccrory

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Wrestlers lose momentum after fast start

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

After a 6-0 start to the season, the
wrestling team has now lost three dual
matches in a row after falling 39-6 to UNC-
Greensboro in the Wildcats’ Southern

The wrestling team has fallen on a three match losing-streak, partly due to

Conference opener last Wednesday.

The Spartans scored the first 33 points to
put the match away, but the ’Cats did pull out
two wins when Matt Pendle ’08 and Trebor
Clavette ’08 took down their opponents at
the 157 and 165-pound classes, respectively,
to account for the six Davidson points.

the fact that it has had to forfeit matches at the 184-pound weight class.

-Pendle won 7-2, while Clavette was victori-

ous by a 5-2 decision.

“It’s hard to win against tougher teams
when we have to give up six points [due to a
forfeit at 184] every match ... I wouldn’t call
our losses a slide, because we still have guys
wrestling well,” said to-captain Matt
Leonard ’06;- —

The ’Cats hope to regroup after a long
stretch of practices this week, and the next
match will be at home against Franklin and

_ Marshall on Jan. 30. “We should beat

Franklin and Marshall as long as we get
bonus points where we’re strong and they’re
weak,” said Leonard. “Appalachian State
should match up better for us than UNC-G
did. We almost beat VMI last year, and they
are nowhere near as strong this year.”

Finally, Leonard said, “We all want to win
some Southern Conference matches, as well
as matches against Franklin and Marshall
and James Madison. Individually, I want to
see some of us at nationals this year.”

The greatest strength of this Wildcat team
is still acknowledged to be its cohesiveness
as a group, which seems unusual for a squad
in which four freshmen play a key role.
Leonard said, “We all push each other in the
room. We all know our roles and what is
expected of us.”

Women’s basketball pulls out 65-63 win
over WCU with last-second free throws

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Women’s basketball came out strong this
week to beat the College of Charleston on
Saturday and Western Carolina in a true nail-
biter on Tuesday, bringing their record to 8-
4 in the Southern Conference.

Saturday’s match-up resulted in a 62-43
Davidson victory, the sixth consecutive time
the *Cats have brought home a win against
the Cougars. A Danielle Hemerka ’08 three-

Tuesday’s win over Western Carolina came down to the wire.

pointer spurred the Davidson offense in the
first half, and she was quickly followed by a
Jessica Mitchell ’07 lay-up and a three from
Emily Callahan ’05 to push the lead into
double-digits.

Charleston came within three points, the
closest they would get for the rest of the
game, but the first half ended on a break-
away lay-up from Tia Washington ’07, and
the ’Cats headed into the locker room up 33-
21. :

Katie Hamilton °07 led the women with 15

points and 11 rebounds, her second-ever
double-double as a Wildcat, and Callahan
and Janell Crayton ’06 contributed 13 points
each.

“Once again we played with only eight
players due to injuries,” said head coach
Annette Watts, “but [we] never missed a beat
and had fun.”

Tuesday’s win was not nearly as easy for
Davidson, as the Wildcats posted the game:
winning points with less than a second left in
the contest. With the score tied 63-63,
Jessica Mitchell ’07 scored her only two
points of the game to give Davidson the lead
and the win.

The Catamounts began the contest strong-
ly, making six of their first seven shots to put
the home team at a quick disadvantage. After

“Callahan now needs
only 14 points to reach
the 1000-point mark.”

only five minutes of play, Davidson was
already down 15-4. :
Help was on the way, however, and thanks

_ in part to a last-second shot by Brynn Kelly

°07, the Wildcats were down by only one at
halftime, 34-33.

Kelly has been out since Dec. 21 with a

broken hand. It’s ironic she returned to play
against Western CarolinaOthe same team she
was injured against,i said Watts.
. A 10-point spurt built a cushion for
Davidson. at the start of the second half, but
the Catamounts scored six straight points in
the closing minutes to pull into a tie at 63
with just 26 seconds to play.

Davidson had the last possession, howev-
er,.and Mitchell was fouled on a drive to the
basket with 0.5 seconds left and sank the two

' free throws to give Davidson the 65-63 lead.

Western tried a quick in-bounds pass, but the
’Cats intercepted it to seal the win.

Callahan led the team with 17 points, and
she now needs only 14 more to reach the
1000-point mark for her career. Crayton
added 14 points and six rebounds, while
Washington scored 10.

Davidson will next take on Georgia
Southern at home on Saturday in another
conference match-up.
