THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Katie HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

This past Wednesday, Davidson’s interna-
tional students and study abroad returnees
dined and discussed their experiences from
near and far at the annual Dean Rusk
“Welcome Back” dinner, held behind the
Dean Rusk Program Office on Main Street.
Feasting on Chinese-style fare like beef and
broccoli and scallion chicken, students
shared stories about their semesters, sum-
mers, and distant home towns in places scat-
tered across the globe.

Amanda Kuker ’08 spent her summer in
Tours, France, living with a host family and
taking French language courses at the
Institute of Touraine. “By living with a host
family, you really got to see the lifestyle dif-
ferences between Americans and_ the
French,” she said. “The French put a much
greater emphasis on family time, especially
dinner.”

Omer Hashmi ’07 spent six weeks in
England as part of Davidson’s Cambridge
Program. A history major, Hashmi relished
the “study” part of his time abroad, saying
the greatest part of his experience was
“being taught by some of the greatest profes-
sors in the world” at Corpus Christi College.

Hashmi took advantage of the sites as
well, taking time to hike nearly a third of
Hadrian’s Wall, a structure built by the
Romans 2000 years ago that stretches across
England for almost 30 miles. Hashmi and
Kuker both benefited from a Dean Rusk
grant.

Carving their own routes, many students
opted for programs other than Davidson’s to
accommodate their study-abroad plans,
including Jesse Sharp-Williams ’06, who
spent her summer in Jamaica and Belize
studying African spirituality under the
School for International Training (SIT).

“It was interesting studying something

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005 7

Cultural immersion
abroad and on campus

that not many people know or write about,”
she said. She spent time: among the small
population of Garifeuna péople in Belize and
broadened her cultural experience by trying
new things, like “eating cold fish with the
head and eyes still on.”

“It was weird eating something with the
eyes staring at me, but it was really good!”
she said.

Assimilating oneself into a new place and
culture can be challenging, especially for
international students coming to study for a
year or more in a foreign country. Maria Jose
Mejia ’09, a native Spanish speaker who
hails from Ecuador, said the most difficult
part of being at Davidson has been “having
classes that are all in English.”

She said, however, that “international stu-
dent orientation was really helpful, because
it made it easier to bond with other people
here.”

Though studying abroad can take one to
places as different as Chile and China or
Canada and the Carribean, one common
aspect of it is the undeniable impact of inter-
national experiences on each student.

Jennifer Heath ’06, who spent the summer
of 2004 in Ghana, said, “Seeing students in
Africa who have worked for two years to
earn enough money to go to college really
makes me appreciate the opportunities I have
here.”

Heath highly recommends any type of
study abroad experience to Davidson stu-
dents, “It really makes you come to appreci-
ate and understand other cultures and how
other people live, while at the same time
teaching you to appreciate your own home
and culture as well.”

For anyone interested in studying abroad,
mandatory one-hour group information ses-
sions are held on Monday and Thursday
afternoons in WDAV’s Boswell Community
Room.

ke A

LAKE NORMAN

Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired?

is your “One Stop Repair Shp"!
We value all our customers and gurantee all work for
14 monts or 14,000 miles.

Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for “free” consultation
on any problem you may have with your vehicle.

Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a
10% Labor Discount
to ALL DAVIDSON Students,
Faculty, and Staff!
Additionally, we will provide shuttle service
back to campus.

Give us a Call at
704-892-6590
or email at
service @lakenormanauto.com
for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596

Tire Cente

Theodyssey: Christian student seeks faith in service

By Conor MOONEY
Special Contributor

Is it obvious that faith and service go
together?

Faith is a philosophical and spiritual con-
cept. Service, however, is tangible and evi-
dential work in our lives, something visible
and qualitative. So how do the two tie
together? I used to be in the mentality that
the two were very distant from one another. I
have learned that the two are nearly insepa-
rable.

Peninsula China Bistro
‘ 704-937-2299 | t

ee

1$)5 Anniverary Special Coupon($!

1 20% OFF

(Take Out & Dine in Only)

I came to Davidson as a Bonner Scholar
and a young man curious about this faith
issue but not fully committed to pursuing
God. I began my service experience without
an absolute belief in a God nor in a savior. I
was serving~out of a curiosity to see what
would change inside of me as a result of my
service in the community.

What I was looking for was, in fact, faith
— trust, belief, certainty in something out
there that gave me the desire to serve others.
Résumé-building and scholarship were grad-

fe |

19) Not to be combined with other coupon
5 San Sas wee Gets eam eses Crm wen Gand GUMS mom ee sa come ee ee
-, ba Sl ake ba pee Ks Re

ually failing in giving me the satisfaction I
desired.

My life started to change as I learned that
service, though a positive activity in my life,
wasn’t enough to fulfill me as a college
freshman. I came to a point where I saw that
my life wasn’t founded in a relationship with
Christ.

I therefore began an inspired endeavor to
make God’s will mine, and I started to live
for God. From that point on I recognized
service not as life credit but as a privilege to
serve God. My reasons for serving came out
my faith that God calls us to be servants.

I came to realize quickly that my service
would only be genuine if I put my faith in
God, and more specifically, in His Son. I
accepted that I alone could not serve humbly
nor selflessly. I saw that my motivations
started to change as I turned to a faith in God
to serve others, and I noticed my faith
becoming an essential part of my communi-
ty service. Why? I was finally doing it for
someone other than myself. When I serve out
of faith the focus all of a sudden is taken off
of me and put onto God and the people I am
serving.

Hebrews 11:1 touches on the untouchable:
“Now faith is being sure of what we hope for
and certain of what we do not see ...”.
Intriguingly, it takes an unseen, even illogi-
cal, idea to make the act of service become
very real.

My faith in God as a Christian has intensi-
fied my service experience because I now
know that it’s not about the riches we gain
here on earth, but instead about the riches
that God promises in Heaven.

\ letter from the editors on

aX

Lhe MS S(MUs

— Mes

Dear readers,

The seekings of the soul are, to
many, essential in living, and we
feel they have been as of yet under-
represented in this section.

We wish to feature here a diverse
array of religious experiences, reac-
tions to cultural schisms, and spiri-
tual endeavors of any. and all sorts.

We emphatically encourage voices
often whispered to shout and those
less often heard to share words.

Please enjoy and/or discuss this
religious column (religumn/coli-
gion) with an open mind.

speak of souls,

Sara Sams and Reid Wildman
Arts & Living Co-Editors

If you are interested in

writing, please contact

SaSalllS
or

rewildman
