THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Wildcats get their
paws wet at home

Pitching lets Davidson down in games
one and three of series vs. Georgetown

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

The Wildcats persevered through rainy
weather this weekend to battle the visiting
Georgetown Hoyas in a three-game series.
The Wildcats let the first game slip away by
allowing a ninth-inning, game-winning
grand slam, but Davidson returned the favor
the very next day when Alex Entrekin’s (°06)
third-inning slam led the ’Cats to victory.
Unfortunately, Davidson could not win the
series, as it fell 17-12 in Monday’s slugfest at
a damp Wilson Field.

Davidson was in control for the entirety of
the opening game, and the ’Cats led 7-4
going into the ninth. A ont-out Davidson
error propelled Georgetown’s rally, however,
and after getting into trouble, Davidson sum-
moned relief pitcher Jay Heafner ’06.
Heafner issued a full-count walk before the
next Hoya lofted his first pitch into the trees
down the left-field line.

The late-game bullpen problems were not
an unfamiliar sight to the Wildcats, who had
trouble putting away Wake Forest last week.
“We’ ve got a lot of guys we’re trying to see,”
said coach Dick Cooke. “It will be a little
mix and match. We like to keep [Heafner] at
third defensively, and we need to keep his
arm fresh.”

The ’Cats started off the game with a bang

Grant ’05 leads the conference with 5.2 apg.

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

With a 75-68 victory over The
Citadel at McAlister Field House, a
* mere three miles from last Monday’s
thrilling victory over College of
Charleston, Davidson moved one
step closer to a perfect regular sea-
son conference record at 15-0.

The win marked the ’Cats’ 23rd-
consecutive conference victory and
keeps them in the company of
Illinois and Pacific as the only teams
in the nation with a perfect confer-
ence record.

The win, like so many others, did
not come easily for the Wildcats.
Davidson held a 20-point lead for
much of the second half, but the
Bulldogs managed to make the game
close down the stretch.

Over the final five minutes of the
contest, The Citadel cut a 17-point

when leadoff hitter Ronnie
Shore ’06 cleared the first
pitch that he saw over the
fence to give the home
team an early 1-0 lead.

In the third, Andrew
Mushashe ’0S led off the
frame with a double, went
to third on a wild pitch and
scored on a sacrifice fly by
Shore. A single and a stolen
base by Michael Muniz ’05
led to an RBI single off the
bat of Heafner, and after
Heafner stole second, Eli
Benefield ’05 delivered a
two-out RBI single to give
Davidson a 4-1 lead.
Unfortunately, that would
not be enough for the ’Cats
in the ninth-inning loss.

Davidson did not have
much time to worry about
the late-game collapse,
however, as it returned to
Wilson Field on Sunday for game two of the
series. Again, the ’Cats dominated play on
the afternoon, but this time their efforts
would prove to be enough for the victory.
After Alden Crissey ’07 doubled to start the
third inning, two more Wildcats walked to
load the bases with two outs. Entrekin then

the Week

Wildcat lead down to three
to make it a free-throw con-
test down the stertch.

Two Brendan Winters
06 free throws made it a
two-possession game, and
the Bulldogs were forced to
continue fouling.

The Wildcats made the
free throws when it count-
ed, as they have so many
times, and came out with a seven-point vic-

- tory.

When asked how a team can beat a squad

like Davidson’s, Citadel coach Pat Dennis .

responded, “I don’t know. Nobody has.”

After being down 15-11 in the first half,
the ’Cats went on a scoring frenzy with mul-
tiple three-pointers from Jason Morton ’06
and Ian Johnson ’06, along with some quali-
ty points from reserve Eric Blancett ’06.

By halftime, the "Cats had built a com-
manding 46-31 lead, powered by 14 points
from Johnson and 9-16 shooting from behind

Wilson ’07 allowed just three runs on seven hits.

stepped up to the plate and crushed a 1-0
fastball into the left field trees. The grand
slam was the first in nearly three years for
the ’Cats.

Musashe continued the offensive
onslaught, launching a two-run home run in

see Slams, page 11

Road to perfection

SoCon Previews

See pages 13-15 for
—Complete analysis of both tournaments
Building the perfect Wildcat
—Logan Kosmalski: Double-double machine

--At-large bid chances?

the arc. ,

Johnson finished as the ’Cats’ leading
scorer with 16, while Morton chipped in 16
of his own. Those two also combined for
eight of Davidson’s 12 total three-pointers.

The ’Cats’ final regular season game will
take place on Saturday, as they will host the
Terriers from Wofford. Davidson defeated
Wofford earlier in the year, but just barely in
a 70-66 down in Spartanburg.

If Davidson can win at home, it will cap
only the fourth undefeated conference séa-
son in school history.

Women cruise
to 87-59 win
VS. Wofford

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

A quick start and continued effort translat-
ed into an easy 87-59 win for the Wildcats
last Saturday against Wofford. The victory,
the second-to-last in the regular season for
Davidson, ensured that the team will be at
least the third seed going into next week’s
Southern Conference tournament. The
Wildcats shot 55.6 percent, a season high,
and they beat Wofford for the seventh-con-
secutive time dating back to 2001.

Davidson stormed out early against the
Terriers, as the Wildcats finished the first
half ahead 49-26, and Wofford would get no
closer than 18 points for the remainder of the
game. Katie Hamilton ’07 led the ’Cats in
scoring with 25 points, including four three-
pointers, and Danielle Hemerka ’08 added
21. The two combined for a 75 percent field-
goal, average, and both players fell just one
point short of career highs. This was also
Hamilton’s ninth time finishing above 20
points this season.

The victory began to take shape as soon as
the ’Cats hit the floor, as Davidson sank six
of its first seven shofs to jump out to a 15-2
lead just minutes into the game. The ’Cats hit
all nine free-throw attempts in the first half,
and they would continue to excel in that cat-
egory, making 19 of 23 by the end of the

see ’Cats, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Katie Hamilton ‘07
Basketball
Hometown: Lilburn, Ga.
Major: Undeclared
Hamilton led the Wildcats to an 87-59 win over
Wofford on Senior Day. She went 9 of 12 from the field
and 4. of 6 from the three-point line to score 25 points.
The point-total was one shy of Hamilton's career high
and was the ninth time this season that she reached
the 20-point plateau.

Entrekin ’06 blasts grand slam

Junior catcher Alex Entrekin blistered a two-out grand
slam in the third inning to lead the Wildcats to an 8-5
victory over Georgetown on a wet and soggy Sunday
afternoon at Wilson Field: He hit a 1-0 fastball into the
trees for the first Wildcat grand slam since the renova-
tion of the new Wilson Field, and the first grand slam
in nearly three years for Davidson.

