. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Visiting professors bring new
experiences, passion to classes

By LAUREN CONN
Staff Writer

Two endowed professorships this spring,
the Batten Professor of Public Policy and the
McGee Professor of Writing, aim to bring
experienced professionals into the class-
room.

“Due to the professional aim of the grants,
these two professorships contribute special-
ized skills and expertise to a course which is
not typical of the college curriculum,” said
Dean of the Faculty and Vice President for
Academic Affairs Clark Ross.

The Batten Professor of Public Policy was
awarded to Charles Hauser whose two
courses, “Journalism and Media Law” and
“Journalism Ethics,” are sponsored by the
Center for Interdisciplinary Studies.

Hauser has served as a reporter, columnist
or editor for The Chapel Hill Weekly, Chapel
Hills News, The Charlotte Observer, The
Greensboro Daily News, The Norfolk
Virginian-Pilot and Providence Journal-
Bulletin.

His career also includes two years as the
foreign correspondent for United Press
International in Paris and London, reporting
on the press conferences of former French
president Charles de Gaulle.

Hauser was honored for his professional
success through the Yankee Quill Award as
well as regional awards for his newspaper
columns. The writer is also a member of the
North Carolina Journalism Hall of Fame.

Even though he has taught part time at
Brown and the University of Rhode Island,
his semester here at Davidson will be
Hauser’s first full-time teaching position.

Experienced novelist Douglas Glover
received the McGee Professor of Writing
position in the English department. His two
classes this semester are “Writing Fiction II”
and “Introduction to Writing Fiction.”

Glover has written five short stories col-
lections, four novels, a book of essays and
extensive criticism appearing in The New
York Times Book Review, The Washington
Post Book World, The Boston Globe Books,
and The Los Angeles Times.

His novel Elle received the 2003
Governor General’s Award in Fiction, the
Pulitzer of Canada.

Glover has twelve years of classroom
experience, yet he brings the specific expert-
ise of creative writing to the professorship.

Many students steer clear from liberal arts
classes due to the emphasis on reading, writ-
ing and thinking instead of job-related skills.

Despite Davidson’s commitment to broad-
based liberal arts, many classes with a more
practical focus already exist in the curricu-
lum.

Ross said, “Courses fall along a continu-
um. We want all of our courses to promote
intellectual attributes of questioning and
allow room for students to explore them-
selves within the realm of the course. We
want to offer technique-related courses but
at the same time would never allow a class
that was ‘too practical’ according to the con-
tinuum.”

Some of the more practical courses
include: Political Science 324
“Philanthropy/Non-Profit Sector,”
Economics 211 “Introductory Accounting,”
and Communication 101 “Introduction to
Principles of Oral Communication.”

Elizabeth Mills, Professor and Chair of
the English department, and other selection
committee members seek out a professional
who is also an able professor for the McGee
Professorship.

Mills said, “While a candidate is evaluat-
ed on three things--teaching ability, prior
professional experience and service--he or
she must demonstrate teaching ability to be
hired for the position.”

Mills makes the distinction between an
endowed professorship and a temporary vis-
iting professor who is filling in for a profes-
sor recently retired or on leave. Visiting pro-
fessors who fill a vacant faculty position are
evaluated mainly on their teaching experi-
ence, unlike the requirements for the Batten
and McGee professorships.

“Andrea Gazzaniga, for example, joins the
English department because of her academic
credentials, prior teaching experience, and
expertise in the open position due to Dr.
[Gill] Holland’s retirement,” said Mills.

The more career-oriented professors are
popular among the student body.

Matt Hanson ’05- has_ Hauser’s
“Journalism and Media Law” course.

“Not many students can say they learned
their First Amendment rights from a man
who stood in front of the Supreme Court
arguing about journalistic freedoms,” said
Hanson.

Not all endowed professorships focus on
practical skills, however.

The college has an endowed position, the
Kemp Professorship, that is given to a distin-
guished academician in contrast to the
Batten and McGee.

The Kemp shifts from department to
department. This spring, the Kemp was
awarded to a visiting professor for the Art
department.

“Because we are all trained in Western
European Art, we have been very fortunate
to have Arturo Lindsay’s expertise diversity
the department,” said Nina Eugenia
Serebrennikov, Associate Professor and
Chair of the art department.

In departments such as art history and reli-
gion, it is difficult to bring in visiting profes-
sionals to teach courses.

Chair of Religion and Vice Chair pro tem
of the Faculty Karl Plank agrees with this
difficulty in the discipline of religion.

“We would not hire someone who has
been a minister his entire life to come to
Davidson and teach how to be a minister,”
he said.

Reverend Katie Cannon is this spring’s
Lilly Distinguished Professor of Religion
whose background includes classroom expe-
rience as well as professional experience as
a minister, writer, and editor.

Visiting professors bring two primary ben-
efits to Davidson. :

Some. contribute their teaching expertise
in a specific field to supplement the normal
offerings of the Davidson faculty.

Others bring a rich background in a pro-
fessional field. Annie Ingram, Associate
Professor of English and the Director of
Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, works
with the Batten professors placed into the
Center department who have had little class-
room experience.

“Even if they have not taught before, they
must have a genuine interest in being in the
classroom,” said Ingram. ‘“‘What they lack in
classroom experience, they make up in pas-
sion.” -

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com

Rwanda, continued from page 1

cide and Western complacency toward state-
sponsored violence against one’s own popu-
lation began with. Samantha Power’s A
Problem From Hell, which I read in

Professor Crandall’s International Politics

class.”

Shestak managed to get into contact with
Rusesabagina’s agent after deciding to
“google” the Rwandan hero just over a
month ago.

“Tt started off as a pipe dream,” Shestak
said.

Shestak raised $10,000 by soliciting funds

from various groups on campus. The
Davidson International Development
Initiative [DIDI], Gender Resource

Committee, and Dean Rusk were the major
contributors. Assistant Dean of Student Life
Ernest Jeffries also assisted Shestak in work-
ing with Rusesabagina’s agents.

Rusesabagina’s message is especially
striking in its relevance to the African situa-
tion today, said Chris Alexander, Director of
Dean Rusk International Studies and
Associate Professor of Political Science.

“This is an important event because the
horrors of Rwanda are more than history,” he
said. “They provide powerful lessons to an
international community facing a similar cri-
sis in Darfur. Talking about Rwanda also
means talking about what we must do when
faced with other cases of genocide.”

Until April 1994, Rusesabagina, a member
of the Hutu tribe, had led a peaceful life with
his wife Tatiana, a member of the Tutsi tribe,
and their four children, while working at the
Hotel Des Milles Collines in Kigali,
Rwanda.

“Mr. Rusesabagina was not a _ policy-
maker when Rwanda slid into its horrendous
crisis,” said Alexander. “He was simply a
man who was willing to run tremendous per-
sonal risk to do the right thing.”

After the death of the Rwandan president
was blamed on Tutsi rebels, violence erupt-

ai
Sy

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

5

ed. Extremist Hutu groups, armed with
machetes and clubs, murdered Tutsis and
moderate Hutus, sparing no man, woman or
child.

Rusesabagina’s home was filled with
almost 30 neighbors seeking safety.

Because he was needed by the govern-
ment, he was allowed to take the people with
him to the Hotel Des Milles Collines, which
became a shelter for more than 1,200
Rwandans.

Rusesabagina’s heroic story illustrates the
strength it takes to overcome the harrowing
conditions of genocide.

“Mr. Rusesabagina was not a
policy maker when Rwanda slid
into its horrendous crisis. He was
simply a man who was willing to
run tremendous personal risk to
do the right thing.”

--Chris Alexander, Director of
the Dean Rusk International
Studies Program

“Sometimes the same conditions that
allow us to see clearly what is right also
make it very challenging to do what is
right,” Alexander said. “Talking with a per-
son who would. not turn away from his
humanity when so many did will provide
powerful inspiration to all of us. I hope that
his message, combined with the fact that a
student like Nate took the initiative to make
this happen, will empower others.”

Rusesabagina is currently campaigning to
encourage intervention in the genocide in
the Darfur region of Sudan where the
Janjaweed militias pillage villages, rape
women and children, and kill innocent civil-
ians.

He is also starting the Rusesabagina
Foundation to aid Rwandan survivors,
which will have a Web site‘soon.

-If you are planning to do research/work
on campus, OR
-If you are going to be employed in the area, OR
-If you are attending classes at UNCC...

Davidson can provide housing for the entire summer
or ona weekly basis in the Martin Court
apartments at very competitive rates.

Rent includes utilities, cable, and internet hookups,
kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom.
Phone service includes one common line
for all four residents.

‘Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $972,
weekly $86, and daily $15.75.

Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07,
in Belk Basement beginning March 1st.
They will be accepted until-April 15th,
ona first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit
(1) A completed application, along with (2) A $100
refundable damage deposit, and (3) A letter/email
from your professor/supervisor/employer
stating your beginning and ending dates
of employment and nature of your work for
your application to be complete.

Roomate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed.

Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341
or juklein@davidson.edu
