THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS
CAN HOCKEY BE SAVED? A FAN’ $ PROPOSAL TO SALVAGE THE NHL

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005 13

By BRENT McCormick
Guest Columnist

At the ripe age of three, I learned how to
ice skate. Carrying a hand-me-down pair of
skates and a rusty metal folding chair, I pro-
duced in one afternoon of chair-aided circles
a lifelong love of all things hockey. In a fam-
ily made up of three hockey players and a
figure skater, I spent the better part of my
younger years, in some capacity, inside an
ice rink. I remember my last high school
hockey game more vividly than my high
school graduation. When famed Boston
Bruins forward Cam Neely retired, I took it
upon myself, as a nine-year-old, to personal-
ly retire his number in reverence. Needless to
say, I pretty much cannot live without hock-
ey.

When the NHL lockout proved to be a
reality, I was shielded from the initial sting
of it by being in London. Upon my return,
however, I found what I feared to be fully
realized. There was no NHL season, and
worse, nobody cared. As Bobby Kenner,
goaltender for our own Davidson roller
hockey team _ sardonically expressed,
“Lockout? More like ‘who cares’-out.”

Plagued by poor ratings and. returns, the
lockout stems from granting player.contracts
larger than what their product warrants. “Our
game is great, our game is popular, but not
popular enough to control $8, $9 or $10-mil-
lion salaries going out,” said Jeremy
Roenick, a perennial — NHL all-star.
Essentially, big contract players want their
money, and owners: won’t pay that without
increased revénue that can only come from
increased popularity of the sport,

In an effort to save the NHL and hockey i :
a mildly self-serving, yet! humble, ~~
have devised a list of ways ta
of hockey by making it a better, more Mnar-
ketable be :

In interna nis su
or the World Cup of Hock
tially what Cai

a nation through
largely disregardes
...), the rinks u

attention span abo _of this sen-
tence. Ooh, look, blue An 82- -game
schedule is much too
the season is vital to maii
appeal.

The NHL playoffs are the most grueling

and (extreme bias inserted here) without a .

doubt most entertaining playoffs to watch in
professional sports. Unfortunately, with the
current season length, these playoffs conflict

sprobably has an

The NHL needs to take drastic measures to bring fans back to the game.

with the extreme popularity of a renewed
baseball season as well as the lackluster
NBA playoffs (which, despite usually suck-
ing, detract from the appeal and coverage of
the Stanley Cup playoffs, the oldest, most
enduring trophy in all of professional sports).
By shortening the schedule, you increase the
importance of each individual game;

Frankly, there are too many teams. Some
teams exist in cities that just shouldn’t have

them, and relocation has further confused the :

geographic make-up of. the league. The
excess of teams dilutes talent tevel, and it is
this influx of mediocre players that makes

the game so unappealing to many fans. With -
the decrease in teams, the skill level and thus.

the pirice product rises. -

y have. Elvis aad silly

Bios alin tong ee
have a problem rooting for the

an exorbitant payroll G la the }

rent role as a beaks

in re-enter the o v

_ player “tags-up’ ’ (crosses back over the blue
line), they are then given the Opportunity to
_ Maintain the offensive momentum that they
achieved (for those that don’t know what that

Canada. Just root for Ottawa, Toronto, or
Montreal, because they are all better teams
anyway. Plus the new uniforms are crap.

-Columbus Blue Jackets: Because no one
really cares.

-Phoenix Coyotes: Again, because no one
really..cares.

~Dallas Stars: Because it is only a matter
of time before Texas annexes itself and
secedes from the Union.

-Tampa Bay: Because the senior discount
absolutely kills ticket revenue.

Players:

Several rule changes can be applied to
make hockey enjoyable even to those people
who watch the game and never successfully
follow the puck. For one, shrink the goal-
tender’ s padding, The average goals-against-

_ average for the top five NHL goalies last sea-
__son was the lowest it has ever been, and the
ast four years were the first four ever where

eading GAA was below 2,00.
means goals aren’t going in,
D secre once eer:

ily two ‘hines before being received by
r. This means that'when crossing the

do two Dlue-lines and red-line, a-player’s pass

cannot go further than some ten feet.

This offensive handicap : causes the lulls in
hockey games where the puck ‘merely
changes possession while remaining in the
neutral zone and neither team achieves sub-
stantial offense, By eliminating two-line
*s, we create a more open ice surface

players can spread out and ¢reate ade-
Scoring opportunities and offense.

‘slow it down. When pla:

momentum of the
game. If the 0

zone after the off-sides

“Means, just simply nod in agreement, you~

ear very smart to those around you).
~ Touch-up i icing is a phenomenon exclusive
to the NHL. Only after a defensive player is

forced to. skate back into the defensive zone

i oes called, Nabouy does this rule put players
_ in needless danger by toring theme to race.

: diate y calling icing, the ben-
is blatant stall-tactic are complete-

__ A large part of hockey’s appeal ‘is the
ties! with which it is played, and certain

ed off-sides, the

ayers are allowed to :

In a league where players keep playing
despite six concussions and bouts of post-
concussion syndrome, it is only a matter of
time before dangerous rules such as touch-up
icing result in injuries that turn fatal. Upon
adopting these rule changes, the game will
be more fast-paced, momentum driven, and
offensive and visibly appealing, with a
smaller chance of death.

Induce Fan Loyalty:

There are several ways that the NHL can
induce fan loyalty, besides the obvious
option of ending the lockout. For one, they
need to strengthen the sense of rivalry
between, well ... rivals. By adopting a sys-
tem similar to baseball, there would be vari-
ous blocks of the schedule devoted to three
or five-game series against established
perennial rivals. The immediate impact that
these mini-series would have on the league
standings would add to the sense of impor-
tance attributed to each game. With a short-
ened schedule of 62 games (20 less), a three
or five-game series against a divisional rival
could very well determine the fate of an
entire season.

Fans need to feel a connection to the play-
ers. Any true fan knows the roster of his
favorite team, and probably has a replica jer-
sey. of his favorite player, with the name on
back and everything.

However, with the trend of one-year con-
tracts and renting players for a playoff run
becoming more and more prevalent, fan
favorites are traded almost as soon as their
merchandise is made available. By institut-
ing a minimum-year requirement (say three
years) for contracts above a certain value
(say $1.5 million), the fans are given suffi-
cient time to make a connection with those
Players.

~ By fequiring a player to stay with one
organization for that set period, you also
instill a sense of team loyalty among the
players. A player with a team-first, incen-
tives-latent contract and a minimum-year
requirement will have no motive other than
winning. After all, you can never have too
much memorabilia commemorating your
team ’s championship victory.

Additionally, lower ticket prices. High
ticket prices cause fans to purchase the
cheap, upper-deck seats to a hockey game,
seats that often are less appealing than the
view from a TV screen. By lowering the
prices of the more premium seating and
making the upgrade more palatable to fans,
premium seats will be sold and the game will
be enjoyed by the fans up close, as it should
be, while still providing easily affordable
upper-level seating. Players never look as
big as they do when you sit front row, hits
seem bigger, shots seem harder, and it is only
when seen up close that you truly realize
how much talent and skill is required to be a
hockey Player.

‘The: ieeciae has. ‘truly hurt the future

: _ prospects of hockey and those who rely on it

for a living. Not only are bench players suf-
‘fering due to the greed of a few overpaid
players who fear a salary cap (i.e. response
to their current, overpaid status), but those
most vital to the game’s existence also feel
the absence. © _~

If and when the NHL returns, it has to
make its priority those who are the source to
its vitality: its fans. Roenick, an outspoken
advocate for the game of hockey, propheti-
cally summed it all up. “Because of all this,
the owners and the players are going to have
to find a way to give back to the fans,
whether it’s lower ticket prices, offering
more | ckages, offering more TV exposure
«= There has to be something so fans can say,
‘This lockout was worth it because I got
somethi “out of it.’ If we take the hockey
the wait } during this period of time and
keep it as-is; it’s going to be hard to get peo-
ple back.”
