THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 9

Becca Johansson ’08 with her new piece of cold steel.

In the aftermath of the altercations at
Warner Hall over Halloween weekend, the
eating house held a mandatory meeting to
discuss ways to protect themselves and to
keep their parties clear of weapons and vio-
lent behavior in the future.

Several strategies were discussed, such as
installing metal detectors or cutting down
on the amount of violent weapons available
on campus through a ‘Knives for Candy’ pro-
gram.

In the end, however, Warner decided that
the problem was not that there were too

many knives on campus, but that
they were in the hands of the
wrong people. :

That is why Warner Hall voted
to begin requiring their members
to carry knives at all house or
social functions, and has peti-
tioned the administration for
licenses to carry concealed
weapons.

President Sara Oldmann ’06
said that the girls of Warner have
decided to get tough on this
recent rash of hooliganism, and
that they are going to look good
doing it.

Oldmann announced yester-
day that by: the next house meet-
ing, all of her members will be

. packing. .

“I ordered them from J. Crew,
so they'll be easier to accessorize
and they'll be totally cute,” she
said.

The house took a vote on knife
designs during their weekly
Monday meeting and decided
upon pink and white polka dot
handles, with an available knit-
ted carrying case to be worn ona
belt or just a really cute sash.

There are mixed opinions on -

the issue, but many of the faculty and stu-
dents are on board with Warner’s decision
to roll heavy.

“Based on CORE survey results, 98% of all
knife fatalities occur when only one student
in the fight has a knife,” said Health and
Safety Advisor Molly Jeffries.

“In short,” Jeffries said, “a knife-carrying
student is a safe, happy student.”

Warner sees this new direction as a neces-.

sary step in making Patterson Court a safer
place. “A lot of our girls have some serious

SNAPSHOTS OF DAVIDSON

Steven Wilford ’09 and Josh Yarbrough ’09 celebrate after announcing that they are

‘buddies for life.”

Jam Mondo The Dowidsoanion OFFice

and now A BGSA FALBSA q..-.-n00.
To

pumpkin-carving skills, so we can handle
ourselves with a knife,” Oldmann said. “If a
knife is pulled again, they'll soon regret they
did-it at Warner.”

Members of the house have also arranged
training sessions with a local weapons
expert in order to familiarize themselves
with their new cutlery.

conversation, he was impressed with the
logic. “At first I wasn’t down wit no ladies
packing no knives, but when some haters
come hatin’ all in your house, you gotta
throw down,” Thugg said.

Dean of Students Jake Hamilton dis-
agreed. “One knife on campus is too many.
In fact, I think the

Stabmaster Thugg,
a platinum hip-hop
recording artist and
master in all things
sharp and steel, will
assist the girls in han-
dling the knives and
defending themselves.
He is also one of
Warner’s biggest pro-
ponents.

“Warner Hall took a vote
on knife designs, and
decided upon pink and
white polka dot han-
dies.”

knives in Vail
Commons are much
too sharp and are a
security threat as is,
but that is a whole
different horse,” he
said.

Hamilton said he
-has been keeping a
close eye on Vail
Commons’ knife

“You gotz ta have
somethin’ to stab wit. I got three up in the
Escalade, two tricked out with diamonds,
and one I got from my boy done up with
spinners and whistles, Fam truss,” he said.

When Oldmann had first approached
Thugg, he wasn’t convinced. But after a long

users and personally
counts the silverware after every meal.
“All it takes is one knife to start stabbing
people,” he said.
Ironically, just hours before this article
went to print, Hamilton was stabbed.
Campus Safety currently has no suspects.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

11/2 Knox Dormitory

pong.

11/4

Seventh Inning Fetch.”

11/4 Satellite Parking ~

- with a shotgun.

11/5 Satellite Parking

11/5 Patterson Court

dent replied, “Shotgun!”

11/7 Student Union

While patrolling the dormitory, an officer noticed loud music and talking
coming from one of the rooms. When he approached the door he heard the
sounds of ping-pong balls bouncing on a table and joyous cheers and
laughter after each bounce. It turned out the students had stolen one of the
ping-pong tables from the Union and were playing normal, everyday ping-

Chambers Building

An officer heard sounds coming from the top floor of Chambers. After
investigating the officer discovered that several students were wantonly
disregarding the rules and regulations of proper Chambers classroom use
by recklessly endangering the expensive audio-visual equipment as well as
stealing valuable future class time. The students were watching “Air Bud:

Students reported being tailed by a suspicious vehicle as they turned onto
campus on Ridge Road. The vehicle followed them to satellite parking
where they parked their car. The occupants of the vehicle then emerged
from within and revealed themselves to be living undead creatures. They
began shaking the students’ SUV and chanting “brains” over and over
again until an officer arrived on the scene and dispatched the perpetrators

Police responded to a student’s report of a stolen bicycle from Patterson
Court. The suspect was found disassembling the stolen bicycle in satellite
parking and attempting to sell the parts to another man who was not a
Davidson College student. The student claimed he was intoxicated and
was merely borrowing the bicycle with no intention to keep it. Also the
student claimed to have mistaken the bicycle for a Red Bike.

An officer noticed a student having trouble walking in a straight line and
carrying an open beer can. The officer approached the student and asked
for identification. The student then informed the officer that he didn’t have
any ID because he wasn’t wearing any pants. The officer offered the stu-

~ dent a ride in his vehicle'up to the Campus Safety office. To that the stu-

An officer noticed a student remove some yarn from the Knit-a-thon box
near the Union amphitheater. The officer asked the student if he was going
to knit a scarf or hat with the yarn. The student replied, “Hell no.” The
officer then inquired as to what he was going to use the yarn for and the
student replied, “to lure kittens into my traps.”

Theft

Damage to Property

Zombie Attack

Larceny

Alcohol Violation

Theft

