16

TS

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 2, 2005

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team locked up their first reg-
ular season SoCon title in nine years this past week
with two victories over College of Charleston and
Western Carolina. The ’Cats (13-4-2, 9-0-1 SoCon)
extended their unbeaten streak to 13 in dramatic fash-
ion, netting game-winning goals against both the
Cougars and the Catamounts.

The victory against Charleston was particularly
thrilling, with co-captain Kara Koehrn ’06 scoring
five minutes into overtime to give the "Cats a 2-1 win.

Koehrn’s goal, her 17th of the year, punctuated an
already impressive week in which she was named to
the Soccer Buzz Elite Fleet national team.

“Tt isn’t an honor I ever expected,” she said, “‘but it’s
nice that Davidson is getting some well deserved
national recognition.”

Koehrn leads the SoCon in scoring with 38 points
and is eighth in the nation in goals-per-game average.

Davidson’s other goal came when Jessica Lahre ’07
finished a corner kick feed from Chloe King ’09 in the
94th minute to match a Cougars goal recorded in the
77th minute.

With the win, the team officially wrapped up the
regular season title and celebrated World Series-style
in the locker. room with champagne (fake champagne
of course).

There was no hangover for Sunday’s game at
Western Carolina, however. The ’Cats took care of

business again, despite being down 1-0 at halftime
after giving up a goal in the 18th minute. Once again,
Kara Koehrn struck, this time on an assist from
Brittany Eddy ’09. The goal put Koehrn at 19 for the
season and 39 for her career, both one goal away from
school records.

The game remained tied until the 82nd minute,
when defender Tracy McCausland ’09 netted the first
goal of her collegiate career, hitting the corner from
about 25 to 30 yards out on a feed from Anne Stevens
07.

The score couldn’t have come at a better time,
allowing Davidson to take the game 2-1 and, for the
first time, finish the regular season undefeated in con-
ference.

The nine wins also tied for the most in-conference
victories in school history.

Asked what the main factor in the team’s historical
success was, coach Greg Ashton pointed to hard work.
“T think that it stems from last spring and our approach
to training,” he said.

“We took the time over the summer to get first-
years that make this team deeper. The internal compe-
tition that they bring on a daily basis makes this team
sharper. And, also, we learned a lot from our losses
earlier in the season to the ACC teams (Wake Forest,
North Carolina, and Duke),” said Ashton. “We learned

See Soccer, page 13

fa

Maggie Womack ’07 plays in a 2-2 (20T) tie vs. UNC Greensboro.

’Cats get two wins; gear up for SoCon tourney

By RIcKY DIMON
Staff Writer

After two wins last week, men’s soccer
has regained their confidence heading into
postseason play. With narrow victories over
Appalachian State and Georgia Southern, the
’Cats rebounded nicely from their only con-
ference loss of the season to Elon on Oct. 22.

Last Wednesday, Davidson treated the
Alumni Stadium faithful to a thrilling 2-1
victory over Appalachian State on Senior
Night.

The ’Cats grabbed the lead only 12 sec-
onds into the contest when Matt Allen ’06
knocked in a rebound off a deflected shot by
Jeff Davis ’06. Allen controlled the rebound
and lofted a shot from 15 yards out past the
Mountaineer goalie.

Behind a superb defense that allowed a
total of only nine shots, Davidson preserved
the 1-0 lead throughout the first half and into
the waning moments of the game. With only
1:17 left on the clock, however, the
Mountaineers finally booted one past goalie
Ben Ashton ’08 to tie the score at 1-1.

But the ’Cats were not about to settle for
overtime. Just 26 seconds after the
Mountaineer score, Marco Antunez ’07

Kerby Teller ’08, seen above, helped the ’Cats to finish 5-1 in SoCon play.

received a pass from Mac Wilkie "07 and Southern on Sunday. Davidson once again _ halftime.

nailed a low shot from nine yards out for the
dramatic game-winning goal.

The Wildcat seniors resumed their win-
ning ways when the team visited Georgia

jumped out to a lead, but this time it took 43
minutes to find the back of the net. Wilkie
controlled a loose ball off a corner kick and
drilled it home to give the ’Cats a 1-0 lead at

Six minutes into the second period, Allen
notched his sixth goal of the season when the
forward drilled a shot past the Eagle goalie.
It proved to be the game-winner, as Georgia

Southern managed to get on the scoreboard
in the 77th minute of play. Ashton, however,
surrendered nothing more as the ’Cats held
on for the 2-1 victory to close out the regular
season. .

The ’Cats have put together a nice mix of
offense and defense recently, outshooting
their opponents in each of their last seven
contests. Ashton, meanwhile, has not
allowed more than one goal in four straight
games.

Davidson takes a stellar 5-1 conference
record into the Southern Conference
Tournament and will host an opening round
game at 2 p.m. on Saturday afternoon.
Should they prevail, the ’Cats will travel to
Charleston, S.C., the following weekend for
the tournament’s conclusion.

Davidson won the conference’s automatic
bid to the NCAA tournament in 2003 but lost
in the conference championship to College
of Charleston last season. So the ’Cats know
what is at stake and are hungry win back the
title.

Said Allen, “The wins over App. St. and
Georgia Southern were huge for us going
into the Conference Tournament. However,
we are now in the exact situation as we were
in last year. I feel as if the senior leadership
and team cohesion and unity will help us
prevail. It’s been an unbelievable season, and
now it’s finally post-season time where you
either win or wait another 8 months—or
never—to play in a similar situation again.”

| 2 Se eee
Player of the Week

Lance Harden ‘o9

Cross Country

Hometown: Apex, North Carolina
Major: Mathematics

Harden ran a 25:56.07 8K to lead the ‘Cats to a fourth place
finish in the Socon Championships. He was also named
Socon Freshman of the Year. The team will next run at the
NCAA Regionals on Nov. 12.

q

CORRECTION: Kristen Koehrn’s
game-winning goal
It was actually Kristin Koehrn ‘o8, not Kara Koehrn
‘o6, who recorded last week's game winning goal
against Wofford. Kristin has had five goals this year to
- help the ‘Cats finish the season 13-4~-1 overall and give
them a number one seed heading into the Socon

Tournament.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

eterete, MeO MEL WOME SOME

