THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, aise 16, 2005 7

Las Brizas: more than meets the ojo

Mexican restaurant establishing reputation among competition

By VIRGINIA GREGORY AND ANDREW SCHAPIRO
Senior Staff Writers

Amidst the sea of Mexican restaurants that
stretch along I-77 from Huntersville to
Mooresville, few hold ground like Las
Brizas Grille in Cornelius.

Situated off Highway 21, about one mile
south of exit 28, the unassuming exterior
looks like something like a converted Pizza
Hut with its low-sloping roof and unadorned
windows. Las Brizas (which must be derived
from las brisas, or breezes) makes up for its
lack of charm with very good, authentic
Mexican cuisine and efficient service. Only a
year old, the restaurant has begun to create a
name for itself.

$4 lunch specials draw a crowd in the day-
time, and manager Evaristo Figueroa admit-
ted that the weekends are now almost too
busy for his taste. What keeps people coming
back is the expectation of consistent food
with a few appealing twists.

The menu at Las Brizas is simply daunt-
ing. About six pages long, it includes sec-
tions for seafood, pork, especialidades, and
fajitas, among other items. We had more dif-
ficulty just reading through and narrowing
down our options than we did finding tempt-
ing dishes.

Our server recommended the plain cheese
dip over the one with spinach as a starter.
Though not particularly striking in appear-
ance, the dip had a distinct flavor and light,
creamy texture. Combined with the compli-
mentary fresh salsa and tortilla chips on our
table, it made for an excellent start.

Before we could make a noticeable dent in
the dip, a sizzling platter of fajitas arrived
along with standard toppings like gua-
camole, pico de gallo, and sour cream. The
warm flour tortillas for our fajitas arrived a
few minutes after the rest of the meal, keep-

ing us from enjoying the dish while the beef
and chicken were still sizzling. __

Fajitas come with chicken, beef, or shrimp
marinated and sauteed with bell peppers,
onion, mushrooms, tomatoes, and zucchini.
Unlike at other Mexican restaurants, the
meat and vegetables at Las Brizas do not sit
in a pool of grease, and tortilla wraps hardly
turn into a messy production. Though the
beef was tough as a result of being cooked
through, the meat was well-seasoned and

LAS BRIZAS
18341 STATESVILLE ROAD.
CORNELIUS, NC 28031
(704) 655-0602

Service: A-
Food: B+
Atmopshere: B-
Value: B+

Price of an entree:
$7-15 (dinner)
$4-10 (lunch)

very flavorful.

Our chimichanga and chalupa contained
only white meat chicken, shredded and light-
ly seasoned. Simple in ingredients as well as
presentation, the chimichanga served as a
welcomed change from what tends to be a
heavy dish.

Likewise, the fried tortilla holding our
chalupa was light and crisp without the oily
taste we have become accustomed to. Pico

de gallo and sour cream atop the chalupa
complimented the chicken, beans and tor-
tilla,; furthermore, while we tend to avoid
iceberg lettuce, its crunchy texture was
refreshing.

Las Brizas’s margaritas were good, but it
was clear that they were not made from
scratch. The sangria-blended wine and subtle
fruit flavors without including actual pieces
of fruit. If you are a margarita connoisseur,
it might be safer to stick with one of the
many international beers than to order a
mixed drink.

The service was up to par with the food
and proved to be a team effort. Our primary
server was attentive, and drinks and food
arrived in a timely yet unhurried fashion.
Another server attended to us sporadically,
refilling water glasses and delivering extra
tortillas for our fajitas unobtrusively.

The manager even stopped by the table
during the meal to make sure everything was
to our liking. Everyone on the staff was
friendly and eager to make our dining expe-
rience enjoyable.

The decor at Las Brizas is sparse yet com-
fortable. Colorful Mexican paintings in
wooden frames adorn electric blue stucco
walls. Table settings were not elaborate, with
the most interesting feature being salt and
pepper shakers made from Corona bottles.

In addition to a few booths, thick, block-
shaped wooden tables and chairs fill a num-
ber of small dining rooms, which make the
restaurant feel much smaller than it actually
is. A few televisions showing soccer and
news are scattered throughout the restaurant
for additional entertainment.

While there is nothing that compares to the
elaborate fountain found in the dining room
of Zapata’s, such a piece would seem preten-
tious in the casual, family-oriented atmos-
phere of Las Brizas.

SNAPSHOT OF DAVIDSON

photo by Rachel Andoga

Students rehearse the “Vagina Monologues.” Part of a nation-wide Valentine’s Day movement to raise awareness
of abuse of women and girls, Davidson’s performance raised funds for Scotland County Women’s Shelter.

Great heights
By Sarwar

With the advent of indoor climbing gyms
and outdoor entertainment television, climb-
ing is quickly gaining popularity as one of
America’s favorite active sports.

Your Outdoor Advisor is here to help you
experience high thrill climbing without ever
leaving campus.

Davidson Outdoors (DO) employee Will
Gwaltney ’08 is quick to point out, however,
that snowy mountain expeditions that we
hear about in the news are more specifically
known as mountaineering.

“All the trips you, hear about in the news,
to places like Mt..Everest, Denali, and
McKinley, those are all mountaineering
trips. You’re walking on snow and ice with
crampons (a special type of boot with big
spikes) and ski poles. Mountaineering is a
type of mountain climbing.”

Phil Henderson, a mountaineer and
National Outdoor Leadership School guide
in Utah, will be on campus this Thursday .
and Friday to share his experience preparing
to. climb Mt. Everest. Next month,
Henderson will be part of the first all
African-American team to attempt to sum-
mit the tallest mountain in the world.

Henderson’s visit to Davidson includes a
special appearance as a barista at Summit on
Thursday morning and a cookout at the BSC
at 5:30 p.m. the same day, followed by a
presentation and slide show at 7 p.m. in
Chambers Gallery. Henderson will return to
Summit from 9-11 p.m. to chat and answer
questions about his outdoor experiences and
upcoming trip.

After Henderson’s visit whets your
appetite for some climbing, the Outdoor
Advisor recommends heading on down to
DO to polish your own skills.

The climbing wall is open from 3:30-5:30
p.m. Monday-Friday and 7-9 p.m. Monday-
Thursday.

Laura Beach ’07, DO President, explains
the ease of climbing on campus. “Our staff
goes over basic safety procedures and you
sign a waiver. There’s no need for you to
have any climbing experience. We’ll show
you what you need to know. You can boul-
der, or they can belay you (or teach you to
belay). We provide the shoes and gear you'll
need.”

Not only is climbing an exhilarating activ-
ity, it also provides a great workout. Leah
Swaney ’08 describes her climbing experi-
ence: “I had always seen people playing on
the climbing wall when I was working out
and decided to go to DO and give it a try the
other night. I discovered muscles I didn’t
even know I had. The staff was really friend-
ly and taught me what to do.”

One of the great benefits of climbing is the
camaraderie between climbers.

For instance, five Palestinians and five
Israelis recently climbed an unnamed moun-
tain in Antarctica. That mountain has since
been renamed the “Mountain of, Israeli-
Palestinian Friendship.” The group will be
on campus Feb. 23 to discuss their powerful
uniting experience.

For the more adventurous souls, Looking
Glass Rock in Pisgah National Forest near
Brevard offers superb rock climbing within
an easy drive. -

For directions and route suggestions, stop
by DO between 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and
1:30-5:30 p.m.
