12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

| The Week Ahead _.

EO y/o
SOOMIES TBDGIS,,
TRUMBO’S PICKS

OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of
the Week

Monday 10/23 at 2:00 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. UNC
Greensbooro

The women’s soccer team has won
their last seven games by a combined ~
score of 20-1 to improve to 6-0 in the
SoCon and 10-4-1 overall. Come sup-
port them in their second to last home

game when they play a good UNC

Greensboro team that has iteself won

three of its last four games.

Outside the Den

National League te gl
Astros at Cardinals
Wedneday me at 8:28 on FOX

Albert Pujols said he wanted to go back
to St. Louis in the form of a 3-run HR
in the the ninth inning to give Houston
a 5-4 win. Now, in another must win

Smoother surface poses problems

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

Normally a driver would say that bumps
and ruts and debris cause a track to be as

dangerous and unpredictable as it can get, —

but on Saturday in Charlotte, smooth sur-
faces led to a record number of crashes and
some seriously incensed teams.

Before a NEXTEL Cup race last May, the
historically bumpy 1.5 mile ring of asphalt
known as Lowe’s Motor Speedway in
Concord, N.C., was levigated by the track’s
president, “Humpy” Wheeler. (“To levigate:
to rub, grind, or reduce to a fine powder, as

, ina mortar, with or without the addition of a

liquid.”’)

Unfortunately, this action led to a record
number of crashes and left Humpy with the
dilemma of managing a dangerous track.
Rather than resurface Lowe’s, he chose to
repeat the $250,000 levigation process in the
hopes that it could weather this Saturday’s
Cup race.

I guess he’s never heard that the definition
of stupidity is doing the same thing twice
and expecting a different result.

Instead of a fun and competitive Chase
event, 15 caution flags waved at various
points during the UAW-GM Quality 500 and
inspectors set up camp in pit road, policing
tire pressure as NASCAR officials scram-
bled to save the race.

The most problematic part for the crews
came in the form of the right-front tire.

After 30 laps and numerous blowouts, the
officials called a “competition caution” to
allow teams to see how their cars were han-
dling the new surface. It was determined that
after only about 50 miles of green flag, the
tires would explode as their pressure
dropped.

Since the majority of the 12 accidents
were caused by bursting rubber, partway

From the Sideline

SHPAOURIESS (EC

IMMIMENTARY

through the race the crews were ordered to
maintain a higher tire pressure when the cars
came in to pit. Points were deducted from the
teams who chose not to follow the mandate;
lower pressure means faster cars, and crew
chiefs will do just about anything to get the
advantage.

The high speeds, however, are extremely
dangerous, both for the drivers’ best cars and
their lives. Pace was increased to an unsafe
rate not only by the smoother surface, but by
the bits of rubber scattered over the track
pre-race in an effort to grab tires as they spun
over the newly leveled asphalt.

After the race, many drivers said they felt
they couldn’t push their cars over about 85
percent of their abilities because they were
too worried about wrecking and ruining their
cars. In all, 16 drivers, including five Chase
contenders, popped their shoddy Goodyear-
provided tires.

Kevin Harvick, driver of the No. 29
Chevy, called for the checkered flag before
the race ended, asking NASCAR to resume
play when the surface was'fit to be driven on.
The veteran driver crashed during both
Friday’s Busch event and Saturday’s NEX-
TEL Cup race.

Harvick said, “This is the biggest joke in
racing I’ve ever seen.”

He wasn’t the only one to complain.

Tony Stewart, who came back from
Kansas last week with a 75-point lead,
crashed into the wall after—surprise—a flat
tire with 117 laps to go and finished 25th for
the night. He’s now tied with Saturday’s win-
ner, Jimmie Johnson, for first in standings.
Before meeting the wall, he radioed his team
to get him “a renewal of my life insurance
policy.”

Though Jimmie Johnson experienced sim-
ilar malfunctions, mostly involving his elec-
trical system and a failed alternator, his
patience and determination gave him a leg
up on the rest of the drivers.

Even a start way back in 41st, the result of
engine failure during qualifying, couldn’t
keep him behind, and he sailed by Kurt
Busch and Greg Biffle to get the victory, his
fifth in the past six events at Lowe’s.

Officials from both Lowe’s and NASCAR
defended their positions on the race, saying
they’re glad they weren’t so extreme as to
shorten or postpone the competition in the
Charlotte suburb.

The drivers hope that by next year, the
track, situated close to many of their race
shops, will be fixed and drivable once again.
Humpy recently told reporters that he plans
to resurface the quad oval track this winter,
while NASCAR is not in season. Still, some
believe he is to blame for the numerous poor -
performances and crashed cars.

Said Harvick about the race, “It’s pretty
embarrassing for our sport.”

Angels deserve Edding’s head on a plate

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

The Angels deserve Eddings’ head on a
home plate.

Just when the world had forgotten about
the snowy day in January of 2002 when Tom
Brady’s arm may or may not have moved
forward, it happened. We
had made it nearly four
years without a controver-
sial call of that magnitude.
And Doug Eddings blew
it.

Yeah, I’m bitter that I
picked the White Sox to
look like a chicken after
passage through a
Japanese steakhouse, anda
they turned around and ars
swept Boston. But more
importantly than that,
Chicago won Game Twog
of the ALCS on a reallyé
bad job by home Plate pape
umpire Doug Eddings. Ifee
you weren’t watching that! i a
night or deleted every fla-; =a

arrived there without any real attempt on Los
Angeles’ part to tag him. After more than a
little heated debate, he was called safe at
first, the inning continued, and the Sox won
on a Joe Crede double for an RBI.

The rule is that if the catcher does not
make the catch on a third strike (i.e., the ball
hits the ground before he catches it or he

vor of ESPN from your “Doug Eddings found controversy srsy in ‘the > Whitesow- Angele game.

channel list the next morning, here’s the

‘Scoop.

A.J. Pierzynski, a fantastic catcher and
(now) possibly considered one of the
smartest players in baseball, swung and
missed at strike three with two outs in the
bottom of the ninth. Doug Eddings called the
strike, called “no tip,” meaning the bat did
not foul the ball, and clenched his fist in a
slight pumping motion. Angels catcher Josh
Paul, and all the Angels in the outfield and
the infield, started to trot to the dugout to
prepare for extra innings with the score tied

at one: Pierzynski took off for first base and.

but instead, in his own words, was “watching
Josh Paul, seeing what he’s going to do.”
Well that’s nice, Doug. How about this. In
Game Seven of the NBA. Championship,
when I make the winning shot at the buzzer,
you can come over and wave off the basket
because I pushed off at the beginning of the
play and you forgot to tell me.

I like the third strike no-
catch rule. In fact, my first at-
bat in Babe Ruth recreational
baseball was a strikeout that
got by the catcher, and I
hauled my butt down the line
and was safe at first. And yes,
I’m proud, muchas
Pierzynski deserves to be, of
my heads-up _ thinking.
Eddings should be ashamed
~~ for his lack of thinking.

Of course, Josh Paul proba-
bly should have thrown to first
or tagged Pierzynski, just in
= case. I mean, it is kind of the
“second most important series
in baseball. I certainly would
mee not take chances. But the fact
aremains that Eddings needed

drops the ball), when first base is unoccupied
or there are two outs, the batter is not out
until the defense either tags him with the ball
or tags first base. Eddings claims he did not
see a clean catch by Paul, and he and his
entire crew stand by that statement after
watching the replay postgame. After watch-
ing forward, reverse, slow, freeze-frame, and
upside-down replays, I still do not see where
the ball hit the ground. It’s controversial.
Decide for yourself.

What I believe to be indisputable is that
Eddings made an error of Oedipa] propor-
tions. He did not call “‘no catch” on the play,

to vocalize his call, rather than
become a hot dog and foam finger short of
being a spectator.

Personally, I find it interesting that the
boys in blue were so confident in the replay
supporting their decision. I certainly cannot
say that I am sure whether the ball was in the
glove or not. But the umpires—who, as a
group, have generally objected to such things
as digital strike zones or instant replay—
maintain that the unofficial replay supports
their call. So if you’re Doug Eddings and
you look at that tape in the locker room after
the game and you see something that means
you were wrong, what would you do?
