2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Board, continued from page 1

rejected that proposal.

This time, the Board’s talk of the Christian
requirement grew out of discussions at last
year’s Trustee retreat that focused on “What
it means to be a Church-related college in the
Reformed Tradition.”

After examining what the Reformed
Tradition means and looking at what steps
Davidson could take to make the College
more in line with the teachings of the
Reformed Tradition, the Trustees decided
that allowing non-Christians to serve on the
Board would bring Davidson more in line
with its Reformed heritage.

Vagt stressed that this decision grew out of
the Trustees’ understanding of Davidson’s
religious heritage.

“Last time the focus was on a sense of
equity for alumni,” said Vagt. “This time the
issue grew out of the Board’s study aand

NEws

reflection of what is the Reformed Tradition.
This is consistent with who we are.”

College Chaplain Rob Spach also believes
that the decision is in line with the Reformed
Tradition.

“The Reformed Tradition claims that it
finds in Jesus Christ the Revelation of God,
but God is not bound by any Church or
creed,” Spach said. “Christians are called by
Jesus to love their neighbors, and as Jesus
tells it, that includes not just the person like
you who lives next door, but also the person
very different from yourself, including those
of other religions.”

Despite the fact that the Trustees did not
make this decision in order to increase equi-
ty or please students or alumni, an over-
whelming majority of students expressed
support for the decision.

In a survey conducted last fall in Dr. Pat
Sellers’ Public Opinion class, 78 percent of

students said they did not think members of

the Board should have to be “active mem- °

bers of a Christian church,” 13 percent
expressed support for the requirement, and
nine percent said they did not know.

Of those students who identified them-
selves as atheists, agnostic, or belonging to a
religion other than Christianity, 96 percent
said they do not approve of the requirement.

“T think this shows that the school can
maintain whatever identity it chooses while
still allowing anyone to serve on the Board,”
said Mike Kaufman ’06, the Vice President
of the Jewish Student Union (JSU). “This
shows that there is more to a school’s iden-
tity than the members of its board.”

“T love Davidson and when I leave I want
to give back, and the fact that there is an

option for someone like me to be on the’

Board makes a big difference,” said Alaa’
Odeh ’05, a member of the Muslim Student

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Association (MSU).

Students also felt the decision would have
a positive impact on prospective students.

“Prospective students may see this deci-
sion and be encouraged by it,” said
Kaufman.

The alumni reaction to the decision has
been more mixed. The college sent letters to
over 17,000-alumni explaining the decision
and received 120 written responses as well
as numerous phone calls.

According to Vagt, many of the letters
expressed support for the decision, while
many others expressed disappointment.

Despite the mixed reactions from alumni,
Vagt is still hopeful that this decision will
not significantly affect alumni relations.

“Givén there is a decision my hope and
expectation is that [the alumni’s] affection
for Davidson [will be] undiminished,” Vagt
said.

- Douglas Glover Presentation.

Novelist Douglas Glover, Davidson’s 2004-05 McGee Professor of Writing, will pres-
ent his works on February 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union. Call (704) 894-
2441 for information.

Dean Rusk Lecture

Dr. Zachary Abuza, Associate Professor of Political Science at Simmons College and a
Fellow at the US Institute of Peace, will be speaking on “Post-Tsunami: Impact on insur-
gencies in Sri Lanka/Thailand/Aceh” on roo. 10 at 7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman aa.

Knit-A-Thon ay 2

Political Science Lecture

Assistant Professor of Political Sceave and Daecior Tor the Western Hemisphere
Russell Crandall will give a lecture about foreign policy-making i in the White House on
February ete in he Seegabie Bye fhe Unie,

In the column "Creationism: mistaking opinion for fact?" by Joe Taylor '06 from the
February 2 issue, due to an editing error a sentence read: "Religion is an interpretation,
not a choice or provable fact." It should have read: "Religion is an interpretation; reli-
gion is a choice and not a provable fact." The Davidsonian regrets the error. “

Campus Police Blotter

1/31 College Campus Stolen Tag

A car chase occurred on campus when two men were found driving a car with stolen
tags drove through campus in an attempt to escape officers. The two men were charged
with displaying a stolen tag and having a concealed weapon on school grounds.

2/1 Vail Commons Stolen Property
Student reported that his backpack was stolen from Vail Commons while he was eat-
ing. The bag had $50 worth of textbooks, a calculator worth $50, and $80 in cash.

2/3 Patterson Court Policy Violation

While patrolling Patterson Court, an officer noticed music coming from the KA
house. The officer entered the house and discovered people inside and music coming
from the rear patio. As it was 30 minutes past quiet hours, KA was written up for a quiet
hours violation.

2/4 Tomlinson Dormitory Open Alcohol

An officer saw a beer can propping open a door in Tomlinson and noticed the room
was set up for a drinking game. The officer was concerned about the amount.of alcohol
that had been set out, but students reassured him that much of it was leftover mess that
had not been cleaned up. An of-age student claimed the alcohol as his, and the officer
asked that the alcohol be removed from the common area and locked in his room.

2/5 Belk Dormitory

Alcohol Poisoning

Police responded to a call from Belk about a possible alcohol poisoning. Upon
arrival, officers learned that an ambulance was on the way. The student admitted hav-
ing consumed a large amount of alcohol in a short period of time but did not want an
ambulance. Medic determined that the student needed to go to the hospital and trans-
ported the student by ambulance.

2/5 Irwin Dormitory Alcohol Violation

Officer observed three students speaking quite loudly. The students smelled of alco-
hol and admitted to the officer that they were underage. The officer asked them to pour
out the rest of their beer and wrote them up for underage drinking.

2/6 Alvarez Student Union Disturbance

Workers at the Union Café contacted police when two students began throwing food
from the tops of tables. Employees of the café said that they had asked the two to leave
but the students had refused, saying since they were paying thousands of dollars to go
to school here, no one had the right to make them leave: Because it was after closing,
the officers forced the students to leave, although they were upset about having to do so.

2/6 Tomlinson Dormitory Alcohol Violation

Two students entering Tomlinson Dormitory made a poor attempt to conceal open
beer cans from an officer. Both students admitted to being underage. The officer noticed
that they seemed to be concealing more beer cans, and asked them to remove all other”
cahs. The total number of concealed cans was 23. Both students received alcohol viola-
tions, and the beer was destroyed by means of plumbing.

2/7 Little Dormitory Larceny of Artwork

Four black and white ink wash paintings were stolen from a lounge in Little. The
paintings were worth about $200.

