2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

. Banners such as this one were displayed all over Davidson last spring 3 honor of
Jo Anne Shackelford and her contributions to the community.

Grant established in memory
of Jo Anne Shackelford

By KATIE PFIEFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Office Support Staff (OSS) recently
established the Jo Anne Shackelford
Memorial Grant for students in memory of
Jo Anne Shackelford, who passed away in
April 2005 from lung cancer.

Shackelford) worked in the Admissions
Office of the college, was a member of the
OSS, and actively served the Davidson com-
munity.

As an active member of her church and
Davidson elementary schools, she served as
a crossing guard each morning before com-
ing to work for the college.

Always willing to help family, friends, and
her community, she remained a part of the
Admissions Office even after she was diag-
nosed in October 2004 with lung cancer.as a
nonsmoker.

She continued her commitment to service

in the following months, giving hope to peo-
ple and organizations in need of assistance
and volunteering tirelessly to create a safe
environment for youth.

Members of the OSS, whose annual dues
will go towards this scholarship, decided ear-
lier this year to establish the grant as a testi-
mony to their relationship with Jo Anne, who
periodically served on the social committee
of the OSS during her 13 years working for
the college.

The grant for the 2005-2006 academic
year consists of a $200 stipend to be directed
towards a specific service-related endeavor.

All applications for the grant should
explain the proposed service project in
detail, estimated costs, and suggest a time
allotted for its completion.

The town of Davidson showed its support
for Jo Anne throughout the past year by
hanging up “We Love You, Jo Anne” sheets

See Grant, page 4

Briefly

Chemistry Colloquium

Professor David R. Williams of Indiana University at Bloomington will speak on “The
Synthesis of Biologically-Active Substances of Marine Origin” on September 23 at 2:30

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

Committee looks to improve
Vamanos Van safety, effectiveness

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA), Physical Plant, and members of the
Davidson College administration are team-
ing up to improve the safety and overall
effectiveness of the student-run Vamanos
Van, which provides free local transportation
for students.

Director of Facilities and Engineering
David Holthouser and SGA President Ryan
Arnold ’06 have been cooperating with
President Bobby Vagt and Vice President of
Student Life and Dean of Students Thomas
Shandley to maintain the Van’s primary goal
of transportation of students while accom-
modating new financial demands and safety
concerns.

Arnold met with Holthouser and Associate
Director of Business and _ Property
Management Irvin Brawley over the summer
to discuss potential changes and appreciated
the consideration they, as well as Vagt and
Shandley, took in seeking student input
throughout the process.

“Although the Vamanos Van is a
vital part of Davidson College, it
has its problems. It is run by PCC,
but everyone uses it. Between
answering the phone and driving
the Van, the job is too much for
just one student.”

--Serra Aygun ’06

“We are hoping to establish a long-term
solution to a problem that arises almost
every year,” Arnold said.

The SGA rents the Vamanos Van from the
Davidson College motor pool for a daily rate
in order to provide transportation services to
students Thursday through Saturday, the cost
of which was about $2600 last year.
Fluctuating gas prices, paired with its yearly
cost in gas of close to $3000; and frequent
mechanical problems have begun to make
the vehicle itself more a financial burden
than a reliable shuttle service.

Purchased in 1998, the vehicle’s normal
running time of seven years has made it crit-
ical that a new van be purchased soon. While
no new van has yet been chosen, several fac-
tors, such as the size of the vehicle, will be

taken into consideration when choosing thea
new vehicle.

The current size of the )Vamanos Van con-
tinually proves to be a safety hazard for stu-
dent drivers who often have little experience
driving a large vehicle. Though it is suspect-
ed that the Van’s 12-person capacity some-
times falls short of transportation needs,
larger vans are too expensive to insure and
require a commercial driver’s license to
operate.

The Van’s evolution into an on-call shuttle
service providing transportation from Exit
25 to Exit 36 also amplifies the concern
about safety on more dangerous roads out-
side campus.

The shortage of licensed and willing stu-
dent drivers has also become a constant
issue. Members of Patterson Court are
responsible for finding drivers every week,
but the probability of recycling the same
drivers each weekend without an offer of
compensation is slim.

“Although the Vamanos Van is a vital part
of Davidson College, it has its problems,”
Serra Aygun ’06 said. “It is run by PCC
[Patterson Court Council], but everyone uses
it. Between answering the phone and driving
the Van, the job is too much for just one stu-
dent.”

Because of the lack of drivers, the
Vamanos Van sometimes has to suspend its
services, which causes problems for some
students.

“Tt would be nice to have a system where
the Vamanos Van runs more consistently,”
said Lindsay Ruderman ’06.

Hiring regular drivers, either from a non-
college affiliated service or as part of a
Davidson work-study program, has been
suggested in order to eliminate the need for
van certification training and ensure that the
Van is indeed running each weekend.

As of now, the Vamanos Van service will
run as usual and despite these potential
changes in operation, students will continue
to determine routes and operating times as
they do now.

Holthouser emphasized that the c¢

cess is attributed to its close association with
Davidson students as both drivers and pas-
sengers.

“It was student-originated, is student-run,
and should continue to be that way,” he said.

p.m. in Room G-10 of the Martin Chemical Lonny Refreshments will be provided at
2 p.m. in Martin lobby.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

Artist Series 9/12

Concord Road

Property Damage

Nnenna Freelon and her six-piece band will present “Blueprint of a Lady—A Tribute to

Officer responded to a personal property call. Victim advised that an unknown per-
Bune _sfintinage on September 23 at 8 P.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Freelon

son(s) had thrown a beer bottle through the window of his camper shell. The victim’s
vehicle was parked on the south side of Concord Road. Estimated damage is around
$200.

9/12 Traffic Violation

Concord and Main

Officer observed a Ford truck fail to yield for a pedestrian in the crosswalk at Main
and Concord. Officer stopped the vehicle; subsequently the driver was issued a cita-
tion for failing to yield to a pedestrian in a crosswalk.

9/14 Sentelle Dormitory Trespassing

Reporting person advised officers of two subjects with tattoos and body piercing
attempting to sell magazines on second Sentelle. Officer located the subjects in the dor-
mitory. Both were escorted to the Campus Police Department, advised that soliciting is
not allowed on college property, and informed that they had trespassed. Neither sub-
ject had any affiliation with Davidson College.» ,

w
9/18 Chambers Building _ Suspicious Person
Officer responded to a suspicious person call near Chambers building. Reporting

person advised an unknown white male around 30 years of age was walking around the
building. Officer was unable to locate this subject.

