. ARTS

IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
DECEMBER 7, 2005

DIDI focuses on international development

By Katie HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

The “community” aspect of service at
Davidson means much more than it once did,
especially as globalization continues to bring
nations and people closer together than ever.
Taking their service commitments literally,
many Davidson students now cross national
borders to make change in the new “global”
community.

From interviewing Bolivians about their
fight for clean water to researching agricul-
tural practices in African villages, many stu-
dents’ recent experiences have helped them
learn more about international develop-
ment—a field that targets third world coun-
tries and attempts to implement sustainable
solutions for their growth.

Working in international development,
students have the opportunity to improve
people’s lives in countries where basic polit-
ical stability and supportive social systems
often are lacking.

Those working in international develop-
ment, however, must also avoid “placing a
large burden on the lower classes, indige-
nous populations, and the natural environ-
ment,” said Brian Orland ’07.

Orland witnessed the effects of poverty
and some of the negative effects of efforts to
alleviate it while studying abroad in India
last fall.

Moved by his experiences, he helped
establish the Davidson International
Development Initiative upon his return to
campus. “Through DIDI, we hope to educate
the study body about issues involving devel-
opment, and through this education inspire
attention and action,” he says.

Emily Moore ’06, a co-founder of DIDI,
says that the organization is planning an
international awareness fair for January.

Moore and Orland also plan to attract lectur-

ers and alumni to campus who work in the
field of international development, in order
for students to make contacts for internships
and employment.

The college recently welcomed two such
individuals to campus.

Ann Tutwiler ’80, president of the
Agriculture and Trade Policy Commission,
prompted students interested in international
development to “get a strong background in
economics.”

Tom Frist ’67, former president of the
International Leprosy Organization, told stu-
dents that “knowing yourself and what moti-
vates you” is crucial in choosing a career,
and that “language skills” are a necessity
when it comes to working with people in
developing countries.

Both alumni acknowledged the potential
that Orland saw for “doing harm” in interna-
tional development, like giving so much
food aid to a country that it marginalizes
local farmers.

They maintained that “working with local
people” greatly reduces that threat. Each
speaker also advised students to look into
non-governmental organizations, or NGO’s,
should they be interested in finding employ-
ment or internships in the field.

Kendal Stewart ’06 and Laura Beach ’07
are already a step ahead.

Both have designed their own
International Development majors through
the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies,
which requires “taking lots of Anthropology,
Political Science, and Economics classes,”

1 Laura Be:

Beach ’07 spends some time with a friend at an orphanage in Kenya.

48 R + DELIVERY AVAILABLE
DAILY SPECIALS!

(704) 655-4444

18059-8 W. Catawba Ave. » Cornelius, NC

Zriees wail tigiapleze. :
5 alee. heeaie” BUFFALO WINGS

wigs Saag
_ oe a) antl

15% OFF

WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD
OR THIS COUPON !

¢ FRESH HOMEMADE

DOUGH & SAUCE

¢e HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
¢ FRESH SALADS
e OVER 20 VARIATIONS

OF BREADSTICKS

NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm

states Beach.

Beach, who took a wildlife management
course while in Kenya last summer, hopes to
get a grant or work for a volunteer corps
upon graduation.“I eventually hope to go to
grad school before continuing a career in
international development,” she claims, “but
I always want to.work at the grassroots
level.”

Stewart got that chance this summer,
researching the efforts of local citizens to
bring potable water into their communities.
She spent three months in the region of
Cochebamba on an Abernathy grant, inter-
viewing local residents and NGO workers.

“The public water companies don’t do a
good job of providing useable water, so peo-
ple have to do it themselves,” she explains.
These experiences were preparation for what
Stewart hopes will be a career working with
an NGO in Latin America. My main interests

are with providing’ basic necessities, like
food and water, to people?” she states.

Interest ~in international development
seems to'be growing on campus. Ellen
Giduz, Director of Career Services, says that
the office has received “lots of requests from
students and alumni wishing to contact peo-
ple in the field” over the past few months.

Career Services provides some contact
information through their office and data-
base, as well as guides to careers and _intern-
ships abroad.

It seems as if the “grassroots” of interna-
tional development will likely grow as stu-
dents realize they can unite career and con-
science

As Orland puts it, “the world is changing,
but we can influence the quality of that
change.”

“We can facilitate change marked by com-
passion and creative solutions.”

Restaurant finds warm
spot with students

An example of kudzu’s destructive power..

By Katie HUNTER AND MIKE WELLMAN
Senior Staff Writers

Covering over seven million acres in the
Deep South,Kudzu now occupies a coveted
spot on Davidson’s Main Street. New this
semester Kudzu On The Green offers a taste-
ful dining experience mere yards from cam-
pus.

Serving basic Southern cuisine with a
classy twist in a casual dining atmosphere,
the local restaurant puts no pressure on its
patrons to sport a tie or gown. With a warm
ambiance and classic décor, it makes for a

great date spot, especially for those without a

car.

The hostess’ warm greeting complement-
ed the simple, cozy charm of the restaurant,
with its pale green walls and classic oak bar.
We’d made reservations for that Saturday
evening, and highly recommend the same for
anyone hoping to get a table on the weekend.
For our first course, we selected a true
Southern classic, Shrimp and Grits.
Although not a complicated dish, the food
was tastefully presented and plenty for two.

The grits were not overly heavy or creamy,
and the shrimp were of a much better quali-
ty than those found in the grocery store
freezer. Although one reviewer was hesitant
to try the dish for the first time because of its
seemingly strange combination, ey found
it excellent.

The menu featured a variety of entrees,
rangimg from classic chicken to pasta to
steak dishes. Most plates tended to feature
meats and heavy cream sayces, but there
were a few lighter fish and vegetarian meals
for those seeking other options. There were

rstated.net

-maybe that’s not what this was about.

about ten to twelve entrees from which to
choose, and we eventually settled on the
salmon with fettuccini and asparagus and the
duck in fig sauce. Kudzu did not disappoint
here either.

The duck was served in a rich fig sauce
that complemented the meat’s flavor.
Prepared well and very tender, the duck
arrived in a large enough portion to satisfy a
hearty appetite. It was served alongside veg-
etables and a potato cake, which was spongy
and had a poor texture, compared to the rest
of the meal. Overall, this was the only com-
plaint that could be said about the duck, that
otherwise lived up to and surpassed expecta-
tions.

The salmon and fettuccini was served in
an alfredo cream sauce, topped off with a
few asparagus spears. It was a fairly basic
dish, but was tastefully presented and pre-
pared with fresh ingredients. The sauce was
heavy, making the dish much more than one
reviewer could stomach in one sitting.
Taking home leftovers, however, was no big

problem. With just a bit of spice, this dish

proved to be an elegant spin on a standard
fish and pasta dish.

For dessert, we ordered the Key Lime
Cheesecake, and again were very impressed.
Light with a sweet lime taste that was not too
tart, the cheesecake was an excellent way to
finish the meal and would satisfy any with a
sweet tooth. Authentic and drizzled with a
sweet fruit sauce, the cheesecake was good
to the last bite.

Kudzu received high marks from both
reviewers for its excellent food, warm
atmosphere, and good service at reasonable
prices.
