2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

College to launch first CAT-TV station next fall

By LAUREN CONN
Staff Writer

Davidson College hopes to have a TV
guide/student bulletin board station up and
running by August 2005. This station will be
one of two college-sponsored cable televi-
sion stations.

Programming for the channels is still
under discussion, but the Programmatic
Committee would like to see one station
become a student channel and the other an
academic channel.

While the committee has yet to decide the
details of the academic channel, they plan
for the student channel to resemble a TV
guide station.

“The guide will be a split screen similar to
existing guide channels on various cable
providers, but with a Davidson touch,” said
Christina Boye ’06, who heads the SGA
committee on Residence Life. She repre-
sents the student voice on the use of the local
CAT-TV Channels and is working specifi-
cally on details of the TV guide station.

According to Boye, the bottom half will
air a schedule of the day’s programming,
and the top half will function as a space for
local businesses to advertise.

Plans for the advertisement bar include
scrolling athletic schedules and daily cam-
pus announcements.

The committee suggests allowing RLO to
air free movies in the evenings.

Associate Director of Residence Life
Leslie Urban explained additional efforts for
an Emergency Alert System to appear at the

Mecklenburg County is in a case of emer-
gency.

“There are many decisions still pending
such as policies and procedures for advertis-
ers, costs of the system, and employing
someone to program the station before the
project gets going,” Urban said.

The committee: anticipates having the
policies and procedures forthe guide station
outlined by March.

They will present the administration with

the final plans and projected costs in April,
leaving the summer to complete the set-up.

Boye said that it would be at least two
years until both stations are fully functional.

“We have been able to stay on track with
our goals so far, but acquiring all of the
needed technology and equipment may take
some time,” she said.

Urban has a positive outlook for the future
of Davidson’s campus stations.

“Three, five, 10 years down the road, we

may see the addition of even more channels
for the campus to use. With the new film and
media concentration and the emerging com-
munication~ department, perhaps Davidson
could even have its own news channel to air
at 5 p.m. on Tuesday nights,” said Urban.

The Programmatic Committee working
on the CAT-TV project consists of Urban,
Coordinator of Technical Systems Jim Nash,
ITS Network Technician Brent Babb, Boye,
and Mike Jenks ’05.

Artist Series funding questioned

By AMANDA STEPHENS
. Staff Writer

Wavering student attendance at perform-
ances sponsored by the Artist Series
Committee has sparked concern about
future program decisions and the allocation
of ATC funds.

Each year the Artist Series Committee,
sponsored by the Union Board, brings four
performing arts groups to Davidson.

While community attendance has
remained strong, some committee members
are concerned that student interest in the
programs has diminished.

Community members by far outnumber
Davidson students at artist series events, a
statistic which has caused the ATC to won-

der why money from the college is being put,

forward to entertain the community instead
of the student body.
“The series can’t survive without the

bottom of all cable stations when
Bedroom Farce

The Theatre Department will be o praca ‘Bedroom Farce

” from: Feb. 16-20 in the

Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $6 for students, $10 for seniors, and $12 for
everyone else, Call the Ticket Office at (704) 894-2135 for show times ae to buy tick-

ets’

Anthropology Seminar

Jonathan Marks of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will speak about the
human genome project and race on Feb. 17 at 7 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Davidson Outdoors Lecture

community’s support,” said .Assistant
Director of Union Programs Lee Ann
Bannerman.

Because artists are booked one year in
advance, any changes in funding would
become effective in the fall of 2006.
Currently, there are no plans to cut back
funding, which exceeds $40,000 annually.

Union Board President-elect Steven
Gentile ’06 and ATC chairperson Adam
Gerstenmier ’05 speculate that poor student
attendance is due to factors such as schedule
conflicts with other weekend events, lack of
student interest, and Patterson Court events.

Although concerns have been raised about

‘poor student:turnout, the series continues to

be supported by members of the community,
faculty and staff.
In the past, student participation estimates
have fluctuated between 100 to 200 students::
“Whenever I go, there’s a good mix of stu-

dents and community,” said Amy Miller ’06. :

This year the committee has brought the
Chicago City Limits improvisation group,
the Koresh Dance Company and the Bruce
Wood Dance Company to Davidson.

The Artist Series offers students the
opportunity to experience performing arts on
campus at a reasonable price. Students pay
reduced ticket prices that usually range
between $10 and $25 a ticket, which is rea-
sonable compared to what students would
pay for tickets in any major city.

Bannerman urges students to take advan-
tage of the series, reminding them that,
“This is not a staff or faculty program, this is
a student program.”

The ATC is composed of students who,
along with faculty members, are responsible
for picking the acts that come to Davidson.

The Poncho Sanchez Latin Jazz Band is
the next scheduled group to perform in the

_artist series. They will perform on April 9,

2005.

Campus Police Blotter

2/8

Belk Dormitory

Alcohol Violation

While conducting a walk-through of Belk, an officer noticed a large bottle of Captain
Morgan’s Spiced Rum sitting on the refrigerator next to an open door. The officer also
found a collection of empty beer, wine and liquor bottles in the room. The student was

written up for an alcohol violation.

2/8 - E.H. Little Library

Attempt to Locate

Police received a call from a worried parent stating that they had received a call from
their student but only heard background noise. Officers began a search on campus for
the student, who was found unharmed and studying in the library.

2/11

Richardson Stadium

Drug Violation

Climber Phil Henderson will speak on his experiences as a minority working in the
outdoor industry and about g for his upcoming Mt. Everest climb on Feb. 17 at

Officer was called to Richardson Stadium in reference to a noise complaint and found
7 p.m. in the Lilly Family Gallery:

three students in a maintenance pit smoking something that smelled like marijuana and
called for more officers. By the time they arrived, they were unable to find marijuana
on the students, but did find apples with marijuana residue inside of them in the main-

Chemistry Lecture tenance pit. Two of the students were cooperative with officers, while the other was
insulting and obnoxious. The students were advised to return to their dorm rooms for
S. Bruce King of Wake Forest Unies. will speak on oN Hydroxjareas and hie the rest of the evening.
Niienee Comipcunie as ne Ses 2 me Ree eC PO as oui °
Feb. Bilas tape tnamccnciie so year tory.

2/12 Richardson Dormitory Disturbance
An intoxicated student was being loud and violent and refused to return to his dorm

room. When officers arrived at the scene, the student quieted down and went to bed.

2/13 Rescue

Martin Court

Police discovered that the elevator in the F apartments was out of order when a stu-
dent was reported to be stuck inside. Student managed to get out before police arrived.
The elevator was turned off until someone was able to fix it.

a

2/13 ‘Cannon Dormitory Suspicious Person

A student awoke in the middle of the night to the sound of someone unlocking his
locked door. A male, dressed in his pajamas, entered the room, but fled when
approached by the student. Another male who had been waiting in the hallway took off

with the intruder. No one was hurt.

