THE DAVIDSONIAN N EWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005 5
2 le a

Summer, continued from page 1 -

“scatter court,” which involves various food
stations and food prepared as you order.

Holthouser explained that the Vail
Commons renovation is directed by Director
of Dining Services Dee Phillips, who “brings
in the expertise of people, like designer
Reggie Daniel, who have done this kind of
work before.” '

For Holthouser, “Vail is a challenge, but
Belk dormitory was a larger time sensitive
challenge.” In order to expedite the construc-
tion process, the work is contracted out and
deadlines are set from the beginning.

Projects must be carefully orchestrated
and meticulously planned. Crews will work
seven days a week with long hours in order
to finish the project. July 4th will be the only
day off for construction crews.

Martin Court F presents another time chal-
lenge and is the only major dorm renovation
scheduled for the summer.

The physical plant is taking on more risk
with this project, acting as the general con-
tractor. In this role, they will build the sched-
ule and directly hire trades.

“We will do some things that students
probably won’t notice including upgrading

BE A LEADER
AMONG LEADERS

xk kk kK ok

With your bachelor’s degree, you can
become an Army Officer and be a leader
among leaders. In Officer Candidate
School (OCS), you'll learn management
and leadership techniques. Apply now.
Openings are limited.

>> Call Sgt. Ist Class
Summers at 704-563-0560
to find out about college
loan repayment and more
Army benefits.

*

Oarmy.com ©2001. Paid fo
goarmy weserved, AN ARMY OF ONE

by the U.S. Army. All rights reserved.

the wiring, installing a sprinkler system,
replacing gutters and washing windows,”
said Associate Dean of Students and Director
of Student Life Leslie Marsicano.

Other changes inyolve cabinetry, counter-
tops, carpeting, furniture and painting. New
water heaters and reffigerators’ will be
installed, and Marsicano, said that “students

will be most excited about the dishwashers.-

we are installing.”

Building manager Regina Hubard ’06
said, “Now I won’t get dishpan hands! I hope
that all of the renovations will be appreciat-
ed and preserved for future seniors so they
can also enjoy luxurious living on the
Davidson campus.”

Two barrier-free apartment suites will also
be completed. These suites will be brought
up to current handicap-accessibility levels.

Additionally, landscaping work and side-
walk construction will improve the appear-
ance of campus.

The sidewalks outside Martin Court F
have not been holding up well and will be
replaced and extended along Ridge Road. A
new sidewalk will also be constructed inside
Patterson Court, perpendicular to the exist-
ing sidewalk.

Maintenance work in all dormitories and
academic buildings will also be completed.
Marsicano said, “We hope to do significant
work in Knox, Irwin and Akers to address
continuing problems.” Projects will include
overhauling the heating and air conditioning
system, replacing ‘the windows, upgrading
interior lighting, and improving the lounges.

Students who live down the hill can also

look forward to new landscaping.

Holthouser said he looks forward to
improving the area by creating a lawn space
between the three dorms down the hill.

Parking in front of the sophomore dorms
will be reduced in an attempt to address ero-
sion and drainage problems and new side-
walks will be built to direct foot traffic in a
better manner. ;

Dormitories get a complete overhaul
approximately every eight years, according
to Marsicano. Holthouser described the
cycle set forth by RLO as a “very aggressive
renovation schedule,” and feels it is “unfair
to assume everything can be renovated at
once.”

Additionally, Holthouser said that one of
the most important, but overlooked, assign-
ments is going through each dorm room and
making repairs and completing maintenance
work, not once but twice through the course
of the summer.

Other areas of campus have been marked
for future attention, as determined by the
Capital Campaign.

Duke is slated to be renovated and an addi-
tion will be constructed to house the office of
International Affairs. Refurbishment of the
library has been discussed. Attention will
also be directed towards historic campus
buildings, both with regards to restoration
and preservation.

Holthouser cited many variables and con-
siderations when planning summer construc-
tion and renovation projects, but said he
looks forward to campus improvements.

Photo court. 1 Colla Conim

Commons will undergo its first renovation during the summer. -

LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84——'05

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D.University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson

‘83-85; 88"-'97

NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president

Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Town of Davidson Commercial and

Other Areas of Practice

North End Corridor Plan ‘O05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Surveys, continued from page 1

population.”

The large number of email surveys might
be partially responsible for lowered response
rates to the emails. For example, only 359
students completed the Dining Services sur-
vey that was sent out this past semester.

A total of 340 students clicked the link for
a survey conducted by sociology major Brad
Lifford ’05. Of those, only 280 completed
the survey. However, Lifford still found his
survey useful for his sociology thesis.

“Making the survey anonymous usually
helps with honesty, but sometimes people
just want to mess with the results,” said
Lifford.

“I would definitely use email again,” he
added. “I think email is the most efficient
way to get people to respond to your survey.”

Sociology theses must be approved by the
Human Studies Institute Review Board.
While their content is regulated, the date that
they are sent out is not regulated or coordi-
nated with other surveys.

Not all students are adverse to the surveys.
Most, however, show a preference for emails
that either concern or interest them.

“I wouldn’t go so far as saying I like the
surveys, but they’re interesting and it’s nice
to help someone out with their major,” said
Cisco Morales ’07. “I’ll answer the ones that
interest me.”

Student interest in the survey’s topic
seems determinative of whether or not they
complete the survey. Morales, member of the
track team, said the “sports-related” surveys
attract his attention.

“T usually just delete the emails unless the
survey explicitly states what it’s about and
it’s something that concerns me in some
way,” said Janelle Milanes ’07.

Milanes also said she finds many of the
surveys take a surprisingly long time to com-
plete.

“I took a few of the surveys but they took
so long,” she added. “Some seem like they
would be short but wind up taking half an
hour.”

Some students are openly critical of both
the number and content of the surveys. ~

“Not only is the sheer quantity of surveys
reducing the sample size, but also poorly-
worded questions bias a person’s response,
which makes the data worthless,” said
Laurin Ariail 05. “I think there should be
more collaboration within the departments to
limit the number of surveys that the student
body receives.”

Auxiliary Services remain hopeful that the
surveys will provide a chance to
receive feedback directly from
students.

“Any type of survey I feel is
benefical since it gives people a
chance to voice concerns they
otherwise might not have an
opportunity to express,” -said
Director of Dining Services Dee’
Phillips.

- Auxiliary Services sent out
surveys on the Bookstore and
Dining Services to the student
body and contracted outside
evaluation teams to analyze the
data.

Students rated satisfaction
with the bookstore at 3.59 on a
scale of 1 to 5 in the past survey.

Bookstore Manager Gwen
Gardner says that the bookstore
got some useful and mostly pos-
itive feedback with the first sur-
vey. The biggest complaint was
about the costs of text book and
merchandise, which will result
in a new “Cat Values” program
next semester.

As a result of the survey, the
_ bookstore will also start carry-
ing magazines. According to
Gardner, the bookstore will
send out a second survey next
year and continue with surveys
every other year after that.
