THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

U.N. needs reform, but not by: Bolton

Even before President George
W. Bush circumvented the United
Nations to launch an attack on
Iraq, it was evident that the U.N.
needed reform. In just over a
month, the global alliance will
celebrate its 60th birthday. ;

. Today’s world is dramatically
different from that of 60 years
ago, with the balance of power
shifting from the United States
and the U.S.S.R. towards modern
economies like Japan and
Germany, as well as the up-and-
coming economic giants of China and India. Globalization
and international terrorism have supplanted communism and
the end of imperialism as key political issues. But the struc-
ture of the United Nations has changed relatively little over
the past 60 years to keep up with the changing world.
Security Council membership is just one of the many key
areas that need restructuring in

global perspective

extremism and disease, humanitarian aid should be among
the highest priorities of developed nations.

Instead, Bolton is shying from committing to such goals
by rejecting compulsory documents such as the Millennium
Development Goals. Bolton also opposed binding language
on debt relief for African countries and financing for devel-
opment. A closér examination of Bolton’s editing reveals that
he struck out nearly all language that requires certain targets
or goals, making the proposed U.S. version of the report
essentially a hollow document.

While Ambassador Bolton has agreed in principle with
many of the proposed U.N. reforms, the amendments he sub-
mitted to fellow ambassadors stating the U.S. position are
remarkably non-committal, making the impression that the
United States does not place a high value on U.N. efforts.

Further contributing to that impression is the administra-
tion’s unwillingness to provide financial backing to support
reforms. In fact, our government has made a request to lower
its dues to the United. Nations for the upcoming year.
Currently, the United States’ dues cover about 24 percent of
the U.N. budget. Congress

order for the United Nations to
remain a viable organization
that is capable of dealing with
international problems.

No one is questioning the
need for reform. What is sur-
prising , however, is the way that
Ambassador John Bolton has
proposed to handle these
reforms.

At a time when reaching out to
third world nations is crucial to
winning the battles against extrem-
ism and disease, humanitarian aid ,, ropes fates needs

has rarely made these pay-
ments on time, sending a
signal that undermines U.N.
efforts to promote peace and
dialogue among all nations.

to provide a clear position

should be among the highest prior-0 the issue of its role in the
ities of developed nations.

United Nations. The current
administration has _ sent

On August 30, Ambassador

Bolton submitted to the U.N. member states a document con- —

. taining U.S. positions and amendments regarding proposed
U.N. reforms. Bolton opposed using the Millennium
Development Goals even though U.N. members had already
agreed to follow this document as a guideline in order to
reduce poverty and disease in developing countries over the
next 15 years.

Instead, Bolton encouraged the U.N. to adopt a less strin-
gent, non-binding set of goals. Bolton clarified that he does
not want the inclusion of this “more elaborate framework of
goals, targets and indicators.” At a time when reaching out to
third world nations is crucial to winning the battles against

mixed signals, eagerly seek-
ing Security Council involvement before launching a unilat-
eral attack on Iraq. John Bolton has continued in that tradi-
tion of ambiguity by taking a keen interest in U.N. reform,
and then making proposals that are remarkably unspecific.

Ambassador Bolton’s refusal to provide specific informa-
tion extends to an almost comical interaction with a reporter
at a press conference who asks him if he will take a question.

Reporter: A question on Iran?

Ambassador Bolton: No.

Aneesh Kulkarni is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C.
Contact him at ankulkarni@ davidson.edu.

Homes and Constitution under attack

“I’m sorry, you are being evict-
ed from your dorm room so that
CoHo may have an up-the-hill
branch to their office. RLO has
determined that this is in the pub-
lic interest. You will receive a
refund of boarding fees, and we
recommend that you use this
money to find a new place of resi-
dence. Have a lovely day.”

Sounds stupid, right?

Well so does the U.S. Supreme
Court.

The 5-4 ruling on June 23 that
urban governments have a right to
claim eminent domain over private property and seize it not
only for direct public use, but now also for private use that
somehow might benefit the public, is just awful.

If it sounds like something out of.a medieval feudal socie-
ty, guess what, it is. I would have preferred to avoid a return
to the Dark Ages, but here we find ourselves in a brave new
world that hath such laws in it.

face the nathan

NATHAN BRADSHAW

How many immigrants poured
into Ellis Island with the hope
that in this, the land of opportuni-
ty, they might finally have some-
thing to call their own, rather
than a tzar’s or a king’s?

For those of you who spent the summer abroad or in a
bomb shelter, Kelo v. New London is probably the biggest
Supreme Court decision of the 21st century.

The principle of what is termed “eminent domain”’ rests
solely upon a clause in the Fifth Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution, namely that nobody may “‘be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall pri-
vate property be taken for public use, without just compen-
sation.”

While the people who are paid to interpret the Constitution

probably know better, it sounds to me like the stance of this
clause is that government seizure of private property should
be avoided, and when it is absolutely necessary, reimbursed
somehow; however, it has somehow come to mean that tak-
ing property is just fine as long as you pay the person for it,
public use or not.

Old cases like Berman v. Parker (1954), which allowed the
District of Columbia to condemn whole neighborhoods
because they fall into categories such as “blighted areas” or
“slums” and have private developers build urban renewal
properties on that land, and Hawaii Housing Authority v.
Midkiff (1984), which essentially reaffirmed the Berman
decision, ultimately turned out to be mistakes, as their hous-
ing projects turned into gang and drug war zones.

At least this time the drugs will be legal. The 15 contested
homes are now condemned to be bulldozed for the sake of a
Pfizer research facility, hotel, and conference center (I hear
they’re offering free samples of Zoloft to anybody depressed
about having to leave his or her childhood home). Public
use? Somebody check whether James Madison is doing som-
ersaults in his grave.

Personally, I think the courts have their heads so far up
some legislational rear end that they have forgotten the basic
principles of American political rights.

How many Europeans came to America because they lived
under oppressive governments that engaged in such actions
as, say, seizing homes without just cause? How many immi-
grants poured into Ellis Island with the hope that in this, the
land of opportunity, they might finally have something to call
their own, rather than a tzar’s or a king’s?

I am completely in favor of economic development, for far
too many Americans are unemployed. But when the govern-
ment decides that the room where I stopped wetting the bed
needs to be the. Martha Stewart section of a new K-Mart, I
know where I will be. I will be sitting outside my house with
a picket sign and a copy of the Constitution.

Justices David Souter and Stephen Breyer, however, may
just have to deal with the cases that are in the works involv-
ing the urban renewal of their vacation homes into a hotel
and a park, respectively.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore English major from
Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at
nabradshaw @ davidson.edu.

11

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

Sheehan’ S fiction

Cindy Sheehan, mother of a sol-
dier killed in Iraq, just recently
ended a 26-day vigil on the road
leading to President Bush’s Texas
ranch at her self-proclaimed
Camp Casey (Casey being her
son’s name). The 48-year old
woman plans to take a group of
anti-war supporters across 25
states culminating in a march on
Washington on Sept. 24. Several
ms of her supporters have pledged to
#3) continue the vigil Sheehan began,
while she has vowed to spend the
rest of her Augusts protesting out-

Rob RUscH

side the ranch.

Thus far, this escapade has been cast in a very positive
light by the media as a whole. One cannot deny an individ-
ual the right to protest nor criticize him or her for the act in
and of itself. One can, however, question the motives behind
and the relevance of a specific protest.

Which, of course, is what I’m planning on doing.

Aside from protesting the war and bringing our troops
home, Sheehan’s primary motive seems to be an effort to get
a face-to-face statement from Bush describing the “nobility”
of the Iraq war. She claims that his refusal shows there is no
noble cause involved. How can we accept such blanket
assumptions?

When one employs common sense, one would not expect
a president to go out and talk to a mob of protesters who are
more likely to shout him down than to listen.

The act of protesting is very emotional and leaves little
room for common sense. One of the leading failures in
Sheehan’s movement is its reliance on emotion. In fact, the
protest is rooted in Sheehan’s grief over her son. She has
even cited it as her grieving process.

Sheehan has also
made the claim that a
removal of troops from
Palestine (Palestine
including Israel in her
opinion) and Iraq
would eliminate terror-
ism. I find it hard to
blame the events of
9/11 solely on the pres-
ence of Israeli troops in :
Palestine. The war in
Iraq is anything but a
cause of terrorism. It is
a reaction against ter-
rorism as it puts pres-
sure on the Middle East A”fiwar activist Cindy Sheehan.
as a whole, which is evident from the influx of terrorists
into Iraq. Passivity against terrorism would only breed and
encourage further terrorism.

Now the big question we have to ask is: Does this adven-
ture in the life of Cindy Sheehan deserve such massive and
supportive media? It certainly deserves to be mentioned. One
could even call it a part of history. But what good does mass
support for opposition do? If anything, the negative light it
puts on the Bush administration only makes it more difficult
for them to do anything productive.

In fact, Sheehan’s goal to bring our troops home is detri-
mental. Maybe it'll soothe the ailing emotions of a distraught
mother or two, but other than that, it'll only serve to plunge
Iraq into chaos and provoke a new wave of terrorism against
America.

photo by indymedia .org

She sounds excited to ‘fight the
power’ rather than disappointed
that she sees a need to do so.

One of Sheehan’s supporters stated that “It’s us versus
them [government]. I haven’t felt this since the Vietnam
War.” She sounds excited to “fight the power” rather than
disappointed that she sees a need to do so. It’s as if there’s a
need for conflict to be created just so something interesting
can happen. Something that’ll make the news in some loud,
obnoxious way. Something to challenge Hollywood for its
supremacy over drama. In fact, Viggo Mortensen of “The
Lord of the Rings” fame even stopped by Camp Casey to
lend his support to the grieving mother.

If nothing else, at least Sheehan’s following will be well
protected from the orcs and goblins threatening to topple her
empire.

Rob Rusch is a sophomore English major from

. Jacksonville, N.C. Contact him at rorusch@davidson.edu.
