THE DAVIDSONIAN
RAE

TRESS OLS

HUMOR

TR BEB TAO LPR NE ITE PILE II ETE S VE

bes berets te

__. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005 9

Students feel good about themselves after ‘Alternative Break’ service trip

Davidson students choose to spend their
fall breaks in a variety of ways. Some go
home to visit friends and family. Others take
beach or outdoors vacations. A few just

relax, play videogames, and do homework
on campus.

Many Davidson students, however, decide
upon service projects when choosing how to
spend their fall break.

“It just makes sense to me to
give some of my time to others,”
said Jack Brown ’07. “I have so
many things that I’m blessed
with that I feel the need to help
others who may not have been
as fortunate.”

Davidson offers a variety of
“alternative break” trips every
year. They are as varied as
building houses, working at a
shelter, or living as a homeless
person.

A new trip was instituted this
year called the Charlotte Urban
Beautification Project.
Students volunteered their time
and money towards improving
the quality of life in downtown
Charlotte.

Students spent three days in
downtown Charlotte doing
services to help the residents of
a neighborhod in the ghetto. “I
couldn’t think of a better way to
spend my break than helping
‘bring smiles to the faces of
those less fortunate,” said Kelly
Hurley ’o8. “It made me feel so

These students whitewashed the old hill logo of the ‘Seven good about myself.”

Hills’ diner and replaced it with a loving heart logo.

Out of the large group of 18

‘blue color to a bright,

students that went on the trip, the students
were then split into six smaller groups of
three each of which specialized on different
projects. One group was responsible for
picking out funny and heart-warming wel-
come mats for houses that were lacking one.
Adam Ford ’og said, “We picked out the
most hilarious mat for one of the houses. It
said ‘Bless This Mess’. And rhymes are
always funny. Except when they’re a song,
then it’s just good.”

Another group took up the task of paint-
ing all the mailboxes

song is so much fun.”

The remaining groups went around to
other projects and distributed things to
enhance the beauty, cleanliness, and overall
quality of the neighborhood. Students gave
out necessities ranging from lawn orna-
ments, pool cleaning supplies, and croquet
sets to rakes.

All in all, most students rated the trip a
success after it was over. Jennifer Blake ’07
thought the service trip made a tremendous
impact on the community. “It felt so good to
help out those less for-

in a_ neighborhood
from a dull, boring

Davidson red.
“I know painting a
mailbox is kind of a

menial service,”
explained Terrance
Jones ’08. “But it is

our hope that when
these less fortunate
people pick up their
bills from the mailbox

tunate than us,” she
said. “At the end of the
weekend we all got
together and wrote
them a really large
note on the street in
sidewalk chalk which
said ‘You’re Welcome
For Everything, We’re
Just Glad to Help,
Love Davidson
College’. I’m_ pretty
sure they really appre-

they'll remember that
someone out there cares about them.”

A third group traveled around with an
electrician to some houses and helped install
doorbells with enjoyable song tunes. “We
installed one doorbell, at the request of the
inhabitant, which played the melody of
‘Sweet Caroline’ by Neil Diamond,” said
Heather Grey 06. “On another door we even
installed the ‘Happy Birthday’ song. That

ciated that gesture.”
When asked if they’d like to do another
trip like that next year, most students
replied that they'd enjoy trying a new type of

‘service.

“The second time around on the same
service project you get less satisfaction,”
explained Jarred Grant ’o08. “I'd probably
prefer to try something new next year in
order to get that novel feeling again.”

The Davidson Parents’ Weekend
Committee announced on Monday its deci-
sion to abort plans for the usual orchestral
and choral concert, originally slated for
Friday at 9 p.m.

Instead of this concert, the Committee has
scheduled a freestyle rap contest, to be fol-
lowed at 10 p.m. by a parents’ open mic
night.

Committee chair Daniel Rutherford says
he hopes the change will create both closer
connections between parents and students
and a greater appreciation for Davidson cul-
ture among current parents.

“When you look at The Crier or posters
around campus, you see about twice as
many freestyle nights as you do classical

music concerts,” said Rutherford. “Open mic
night is a weekly occurrence now in the
Union. We decided that there is no need to
change Davidson routine for visiting par-

ents; we want them to see what college life is .

really like for their children.”

WALT disc jockeys have posted sign-up
sheets in the atrium outside Duke Family
Performance Hall for both the rap contest
and the open mic night.

Kristi Barnes ’06 explained that the deci-
sion to have students sign their parents up
for the open mic performance spots was
more out of practicality than anything else.
“We're anticipating a huge turnout at this
event. If we waited until the parents got here
to have them sign up, there would be a log-

“Boring. eT had to write a paper.”
Elizabeth James ’07

“Good.”
Becky Young ’08

HOW WAS YOUR FALL BREAK?

“Good.”
James Phillips ’06

“I don’t want to talk about it.”
Rob Smith ’06

jam, like, the size of the line for Student
Restaurant tickets. It makes a lot more sense
to have students sign up their parents.”
Several individuals have raised issues
about students signing up parents for a per-
formance without first informing their par-

cal Davidson quesadilla-at-the-Union week-
end.”

Most students seem to be excited about
the prospect of getting to show off their
rhyme-dropping skills in front of an audi-
ence perhaps unfamiliar with the beat-box

Students play foosball in the Union with parents after Open Mic Night. Planned

activities such as these give parents a peek into a typical college weekend.

ents. For the most part, however, both
WALT and the PWC remain unworried. Says
Barnes, “Open mike nights always have a
few joke sign-ups; people who decide it'll be
really funny to write in Bobby*Vagt or

_ Amanda Huggenkiss on a time slot. So while

I’m sure it will happen, it shouldn’t be more
than the usual.”

Some have voiced concerns about the
change in tenor for Parents’ Weekend, sug-
gesting that tradition is more what parents
come to see than is a realistic view of their
children’s average weekend.

Melanie Tipton ’08 said, “If I wanted to
give my parents a typical weekend at
Davidson, I'd ask them to come on a typical
weekend. Parents’ Weekend is supposed to
be about the special events we put on specif-
ically because of our parent’s being here.”

Rutherford assures those who hold simi-
lar opinions that they need not worry. “It’s
not like we’re having a theme party down at
Patterson Court, or holding a flip-cup tour-
nament at an off-campus house. We're just
trying to make the campus seem more natu-
ral. I think parents will appreciate the typi-

accompanied genre of music, as well as
about the opportunity to watch their parents
take the stage.

“My roommate says his mom looks just
like Mama Cass. I bet we can find enough
other people on my hall who will sign up
their parents to make a whole Mamas and
Papas act. It’s going to be a blast,” anticipat-
ed Bobby Linfield ’09.

The only issue yet to be resolved is that of
the after-party. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi
Delta Theta, and the Black Student Coalition
have all offered to host Friday night events
open to parents.

Rutherford says that the PWC is still
working on the details and negotiating
between the three.

Unconfirmed reports are that SAE, should
they be awarded the rights to the party, will
be carding all parents at the door and hand-
ing out wristbands to them.

“I’m all about making our parents feel
young and hip again,” Ivan Ilderton ’06, an
SAE brother, said. “A little jamming on stage
and then being forced to prove that they’re
over 21 should be just the thing."
