14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

7

The Wildcat Pulse: a slance at Davidson athletics

Field Hockey allows two
early goals.to Radford;
loses second straight 3-1

An early start for host Radford caused
field hockey to fall 3-1 in their Northern
Pacific Conference opener this Saturday.

Radford scored three times in two minutes
to secure its victory in the first half of the
game.

The opening goal entered Davidson’s net
unassisted by a Radford player at roughly
seven minutes into the first half.

The Highlanders went on to score on their
next shot a minute later. A deflection into the
goal off of a short corner shot put Radford up
2-0. A short 30 seconds later, the opposing
team scored their third and final goal of the
game.

After 27 minutes of play, the Wildcats
finally found the goal when co-captain
Emily Davis ’06 scored off of an assist from
Kayli Maxwell ’08.

Though the second half of the game
remained scoreless, it was not without pres-
sure. Radford continued to push and totaled
10 shots to Davidson’s two in the second
quarter.

Goalie and co-captain Rachel Kiselewich
07 performed well, making six saves to
keep the score 3-1.

Maxwell also contributed the first defen-
sive save of her career at Davidson.

Radford dominated the shot count, taking
the ’Cats 15-8, with over half of their shots
coming in the highly contested second half.
Each team was awarded seven penalty cor-
ners, although none of them resulted in a

goal.

“Tt was a really tough and physical game,”
said coach Lisa Thompson. “This was a frus-
trating game, but it will not be a setback. We
played strong all the way to the end. The
girls never let up.” >

“It is tough to rebound from three down.
But Radford was able to score three goals in
the first nine minutes, and so can we,” said
Thompson.

Davis said, “Saturday’s game was disap-
pointing because we let ourselves get behind
so early in the game. It was frustrating for all
of us, but I am confident that we are going to
bounce back and not let ourselves get behind
so early ever again. We are going to be work-
ing very hard this week to train for our
upcoming games in Ohio and are all very
determined to fix what we need to work on
in order to win our games this weekend.”

Davidson will next travel to Oxford, Ohio,
on Sept. 17 to play two noon-time games
against Saint Louis on Sept. 17 and Miami of
Ohio on Sept. 18.

Meghan Curtis, Staff Writer

Golf starts season with
16th-place finish at Mid-
Pines Intercollegiate

This week, Davidson’s golf team spent
three days at the Mid-Pines Intercollegiate,
finishing in a 16th-place tie with Marshall
University. As a team, the Cats shot a total
of 886 in three rounds on the 72-par course.
The score puts them three strokes above

what they shot last year at the same tourna- ,

ARGENTINA Friday, September 16
10:15am—12:30pm
AUSTRALIA = Student information Table
CHILE Outside Chambers Hall
in case of rain—Lower Level of Union
COSTA RICA
ENGLAND Meet IFSA-Butler representative:

Steve Seaworth

MEXICO
ZEALAND Outstanding student services
nn and 90 fully integrated
NORTHERN IRELAND university programs
Fully staffed overseas offices,
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND = onsite orientation, adventure trips,
SCOTLAND guaranteed housing, and a U.S.
university transcript for easy
SPAIN credit transfer.
immerse Yourselfl

ment.

Alex Knoll ’07 finished on top for the
’Cats, shooting a total of 216. This brought
him to a 24th-place tie out of 99 competitors.
Knoll qualified for the U.S. Public Links
Championship this summer for the second
consecutive year and also participated in in the
2005 U.S. Amateur.

With only one stroke behind Knoll, Tim
Dillon ’06 finished in a tie for 30th while
Steve Mayo ’07 came in tied for 40th.

In each round, Knoll’s strokes were strong
with a 73, 71, and 72. Dillon shot best in the
first round with three-under-par at a 69.
Mayo also shot at three-under-par in the sec-
ond round.

Chad Cocco, representing St. Mary’s
(CA), came out on top with a total of 206, a
full 10 strokes under par. The top finishing
team, Charlotte, shot 14 under par for a
three-round total of 864.

Davidson stood tied for 14th place, before
starting the final round on Tuesday.

Before the season began, coach Tim
Straub said, ““There’s a lot more depth on our
team now. We’ ve recruited kids who are seri-
ous about taking this team forward.” In fact,
players on the team must compete for a start-
ing spot as there is a full roster.

Dillon is perhaps Davidson’s most consis-
tent player. Last season, he put up top-20 fin-
ishes six times in just 10 tournaments. In
eight of them, he came placed first or tied for
first for the Davidson team.

The Wildcats hope to become stronger as
the fall season continues. Their next tourna-
ment, the Rains Development Group
Intercollegiate, will take place in South
Carolina on Sept. 18-20.

Suzie Eckl, Staff Writer

Volleyball loses two,
wins one in Classic

A 3-1 loss to East Tennesse State
University, the fifth in a row for the ’Cats,
began Davidson’s stint at the 2005 Mizuno
Wildcat Classic on Friday night.

Although the teams were tied at 13-all
early in the first game, ETSU won 30-24.
Game two ended better for Davidson, who
took a lead against the Buccaneers, 28-24,
and won with a kill by Liz Williamson ’07,
making the final score 30-24.

Unfortunately, ETSU had a high attack
percentage in the third and fourth games at
30-25 and 30-22, respectively, and the Bucs
took the match 3-1.

With 14 kills and 17 assists, Katie Pierucci
’08 was the offensive leader for the Wildcats.
Co-captain Erin Balak. 06 recorded 20
assists to lead Davidson in that area.

The team’s first win of the season came at
home against Howard on _ Saturday.
Davidson won the first and third games,los-
ing the second. Kittery Neale.’09 played well
for the "Cats, with four kills, while Balak and
co-captain Jenna Dykstra ’07 each con-
tributed five assists. Howard won 30-27 to
require a fifth game.

Despite an early stalemate, the "Cats took
command and won the deciding game.

Davidson fell to Duquesne 3-0 in its next
match. Though the first game was close
defeat for the "Cats, ending at 30-26, the sec-
ond game was a rout by the Dukes, 30-19. A
tie in the third game gave Davidson hope,
but witli-a five- -point run, Duquesne took the
match 30-16.

Monica Jamouneau, Sports Editor -

EXPERIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME.
MONEY FOR COLLEGE.

Strengthening your personal skills is not the only
benefit of joining the Army. You can also receive

cash bonuses and money for college. If you qualify,
you can receive a $20,000 Enlistment Bonus, $65,000
College Loan Repayment or $70,000 from the Army

Now Offering Up to
$20,000 Bonus
if You Qualify

| College Fund. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or

} 1-800-USA-ARMY.

| Where: U.S. Army Recruiting Station
| When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
4 Who: Sgt. 1st Class Powers, 704-563-0560

AN ARMY OF ONE

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~
Hours~Bally 11AM—S
Phone Numbor: (704) 895-2692

www.obuzzyandbearsgrill.com

15° OFF WITH CATCARD!

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HoT DOGS
SERVED ONGRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,SWEET
ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &OUR OWN PorRK

BAR~B~QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY
_ CRERSEST LARS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B SAM FURR RD-HUNTERSVILLE, NC

phy ee
