4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The sophomore apartments have been plagued with problems all year.

Heat; from page 3

Because the problems were the result of
the work done over the summer, Director of
the Physical Plant David Holthouser fired
the contractor in charge of that work.

“I then put our Davidson Physical Plant
people to work,” Holthouser said. “They
really care; they love this place and have a
vested interest in this school. We are aiming
to have this problem fixed for good. We have
been very disappointed because our Physical
Plant wants to do everything perfectly.”

Irwin, Akers, and Knox have a history of
problems with their heating and air condi-
tioning systems.

When these buildings were built in the
early 1980s, a central heating unit was put on
each of the four halls in each building.

The system functioned much like one in a
personal home would function; all seven
rooms on each hall were the same tempera-
ture at all times and there just was one ther-
mostat on the hall.

The system in Irwin, Akers, and Knox was
not ideal because students inevitably dis-
agreed about their desired room tempera-
tures.

Therefore, in 1996, Davidson hired a
mechanical engineering firm in Charlotte to
come in and completely change the ‘way the
system operated.

A thermostat was installed in each room
and regulation of temperature was done by a
simple “voting” system.

For example, if four rooms in Akers need-
ed cool air and three needed heat the circuit
board in the mechanical room, after receiv-
ing this information from the room thermo-
stats, would pump cool air into those four
rooms.

While cooling these rooms, the system
would not pump any air at all into the other
rooms on the hall.

After the temperatures of the cool rooms
matched the desired temperatures, the other
three rooms would then receive heat.

When a room was at an ideal temperature,
a damper in the duct would prevent any air
from coming in.

Furthermore, there were two furnace units

that controlled each hall. One controlled the
front three rooms and the other controlled
the back four rooms. This setup caused prob-
lems on a normal basis from 1996 to 2005.

“Circuit boards and limit switches on fur-
naces failed regularly, primarily because the
furnace units had to cycle on and off so rap-
idly to react to the individual room
demands,” said Holthouser.

On a cold night last winter, this issue
caused a furnace on one hall to fail. Since
that one furnace controlled half of the rooms
on the hall, those rooms were without heat.

Because of the problems last winter,
Holthouser decided the system was in des-
perate need of an overhaul.

Last March, a mechanical engineer from
Atlanta came to investigate the system.

Then, shortly after graduation, he and
another engineer were hired to do work on
the system during the summer.

The new plan was to tie the two furnace
units together, so that they could work
together to heat or cool all the rooms: On a
cold night, if one unit were to go out, the
other would take over, eliminating the prob-
lem of last winter.

New thermostats were installed in each
room, which communicated with a computer
in the chiller plant to regulate room temper-
atures.

By the end of the summer, the system was
thought to be working properly; however,
issues started coming up among residents of
the Sophomore Apartments.

Last week, the Physical Plant checked
each room in the Sophomore Apartments to
make sure the duct was communicating cor-
rectly with the computer system.

The plant finished this process on
September 22.

“T applaud the work of RLO in this chal-
lenge for me,” Holthouser said. “Dean
Marsicano and the RA staff have done a fan-
tastic job of communicating and coordinat-
ing the problems, which have greatly helped
us get to the root of de-bugging the system.
The Physical Plant staff has been working
diligently to iron things out, and I appreciate
everyone’s patience.”

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

war

GRILL

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HoT DoGS
SERVED ONGRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,SWEET
ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &OUR OWN PORK
BAR~B~QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY
CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

id

9709-B SAM FURR RD-HUNTERSVILLE, NC

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON”
Geurs~Bally 11AM~GPM; Clesed Sunday
Phene Number: (704) 895-2692

www.bouzzyandbearsgrill.com

Sorority, from page 1
posal significant encouragement.

“It’s really great to have the eating house
members voice their concerns and ask us
questions,” White said, “because it means
that they are thinking about what we are say-
ing. They’re not close-minded or rejecting
our organization before they understand
what its goals are.”

Eating houses on campus are generally
supportive of the effort!/ and have been circu-
lating a petition expressing approval of the
sorority to house members.

“The ladies behind the effort were very
respectful,” Turner Eating House President
Jaimie Matthews ’07 said. “They spoke to
the eating house presidents in advance to be

“We wanted to bring an organiza-
tion to campus that would
increase diversity at Patterson
Court, not exlude individuals for
superficial reasons.”

--Charisma Loney ’08

certain that there was no confusion and make
it clear that they were in no way trying to
compete against us.”

Indeed, many of the women instrumental
in bringing the organization to fruition say
that the term “sorority” is misleading. The
structure of the application process for mem-
bership to the organization does not entail a
rush component. Candidates would apply for
membership through a process based on
GPA, merits, references, and service. Young
women would then be selected at the nation-
al level by alumni, not locally by members

already involved in the organization.

“We wanted to bring an organization to

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

campus that would increase diversity. at
Patterson Court, not exclude individuals for
superficial reasons,” Charisma Loney ’08
said.

“People have enough to worry about at
Davidson without having the added pres-.
sures of a sorority rush process,” White said.

The planned sorority seeks to affirm inter-
personal relationships through service and
social events, including joyt projects with
the eating houses. ‘

Members of the organization could also
hold membership in an eating house simulta-
neously.

“It is important to us that our organization
fosters intellectual culture and fits in with the
objectives of Davidson College,” said organ-
izer Cherita Jeffreys ’08.

The process of making such an organiza-
tion a reality for the Davidson College com-
munity is a Herculean undertaking.

The women are currently gathering sup-
port in the by presenting their idea to various
campus organizations as well as a signed
petition.

The organization, in order to be. estab-
lished, will have to be approved by the
Patterson Court Council (PCC), Council on
Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), and
finally, President Vagt.

“Such a process,” Hamm said, “may take
more than one year.”

The colonization of a particular Greek let-
ter organization on Davidson College would
also have to go through various channels of
approval.

“Don’t attempt this process unless you’re
serious,” Moore said, “but we are serious,
and passionate about this organization. It
may not happen next year, and we are pre-
pared for that outcome. I’m proud of my
school, and I think this organization could
help to make it a better place.”

tL

LAKE, ORMAN

Quality repair by people who care!
Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired?

Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center

is your “One Stop Repair Shop”
We value all our customers and guarantee all
work for 14 months or 14,000 miles.

Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for "free" consultation
on any problem you may have with your vehicle.

‘Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a
10% Labor Discount
to ALL DAVIDSON Students,
Faculty, and Staff!
Additionally, we will provide shuttle service
back to campus.

Give us a call at
704-892-6590
or email at
service @lakenormanauto.com
for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
; | Fax 704-892-6596

