THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEwsS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16,2005 . 3

Students not taking full .

advantage of grant money :; :

By COLLEEN MCKOwNn
Senior Staff Writer

Students interested in research and cross-
cultural studies submitted their applications
for the George L. Abernethy Endowment
Grant last Friday. The Abernethy
Endowment has $50,000 available for stu-
dent grants. Last year, the Abernethy Grant
committee awarded about $40,000.

According to Vice President of Academic
Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross,
there are usually not enough projects that
“fully fit the criteria” to use all the available
money.

If enough students receive grants this fall
there will not be. another opportunity to
apply for the Abernethy grant. However,
there was a surplus of grant money after the
fall application round last year, so more stu-
dents were allowed to apply in the spring.

The project must be related to the human-
ities and social sciences, namely those
George Abernethy was interested in and con-
tributed to. These subjects include philoso-
phy, ethics, politics, economics, public
health, world affairs, and comparative reli-
gion.

Freshman, sophomore, and junior students
may apply for a grant to do independent
research in the U.S. or abroad, to study
cross-culturally, or to do collaborative
research with a faculty member. Seniors who
are able to complete their work prior to grad-
uation may also apply.

Projects can occur during the academic

George Abernethy

year or summer and, on average, last two to
four weeks. .

According to Ross, the committee looks
for “enthusiasm and a well thought-put proj-
ect, a proposal in which the student has
clearly researched a feasible project.” About
20 students receive funding each year.

Two of last year’s Abernethy grant recipi-
ents included Halley Aelion *08-and. Cristi
Hillis 06. Aelion’s project was entitled
“Understanding French Catholicism
Through Art” and Hillis’ was entitled
“Russian Orphan Graduates.”

Aelion, who researched’ French
Catholicism revealed through art, was inter-
ested in living and researching in Europe for
the summer; however, she knew paying for
living expenses would be a financial burden.

“The thought of not working and having to
finance a summer in Europe by myself real-
ly scared me. I really wanted to find a way to
minimize my financial loss while enjoying a
great cultural experience,” Aelion said.

The Abernethy grant enabled her to do so.
Aelion stayed in France for two months, liv-

ing in Tours for one month and Paris for the’

other.

“T learned a lot about iconography, French
medieval politics, and Biblical stories.
Writing the grant itself was a learning
process, as well. I learned to be careful when
making budgets and that it’s important to
plan ahead,” Aelion said.

Researching in France was not difficult for
Aelion. “Tour guides and employees work-
ing at the cathedrals I visited were always
more than willing to answer my questions,
and Paris had great public libraries I could
use to research for free,” she said.

Hillis traveled to Russia last summer for
two weeks to gather information for her sen-
ior thesis.

She interviewed Russian government offi-
cials and officials at the camps that college-
age orphans attend.

Hillis, a Russian Studies major, is writing
her senior thesis on the treatment of Russian
orphan graduates by the Russian govern-
ment.

Hillis’ interest in the Russian orphan cul-
ture began at a young age.

Her family began adopting Russian chil-
dren when she was 12, and she currently has
eight Russian siblings.

Hillis encouraged other students to apply
for projects they are passionate about.

“The Abernethy grant enables you to think
bigger and to do a project you wouldn’t have
the opportunity to do otherwise,” she said.

J ordan, from page 1

many police or ambulances were there yet.
The taxi driver and I assumed that there was
a fire, but we couldn’t see any smoke or any-
thing. But there were tons of people all over
the street running away from the hotel. There
was just lots of confusion, and no one really
knew what was happening.”

According to police and government offi-
cials, a suicide bomber blew himself up in a
car outside of the Days Inn hotel. Jordan’s
friendly ties to the United States may have
motivated the attacks.

For Jarrah, the attacks hit close to home.

“The hotel is literally within walking dis-
tance of where I live, and cars were backed
up all over the place. The police got there
quickly though and blocked off traffic and
cleared the streets for the ambulances and
fire trucks.”

Immediately following the attacks, Jarrah
and fellow: students on his program were
under strict travel restrictions within the city.

“I got messages from my program coordi-
nator saying that we were all to stay indoors
and not leave our homes for any reason,”
wrote Jarrah. “That was later lightened a bit,
but we are still not supposed to go to malls,
big restaurants, places foreigners frequent,
souks, or downtown.”

Molly Langer ’07 was also in Amman dur-
ing the attacks and is studying in Jordan for
the year. She wrote via email, “I was at home
with my host family when news of the
bombings broke on Jordanian TV. My fami-
ly was initially shocked, but seemingly calm
and unafraid.”

Langer and Jarrah both wrote that the
response by Jordanians has been in over-
whelming opposition to Zarqawi’s actions.

According to Langer, “While there are
many subjects on which Jordanians disagree,
every single Jordanian I have spoken with
has expressed grief and anger at Zarqawi’s

People carry a Jordanian flag through Am

man during a march protesting the attacks.

use of Islam as justification for the bomb-
ing of unsuspecting men, women and chil-
dren ... I wish I could adequately convey the
frustration I feel from the people around me
on this subject, frustration I now share as a
result of having developed a deep respect for
the way Jordanians practice their faith.”

As international media outlets report,
protests against the terrorism in Jordan broke
out in the streets the day following the
attacks.

“It’s eerily reminiscent of the days imme-

“I wish I could adequately convey
the frustration I feel from the peo-
ple around me on this subject,
frustration I now share as a result
of having devloped a deep respect
for the way Jordanians practice
their faith.”

--Molly Langer '07

diately following September 11, except on a
much smaller scale,” wrote Jarrah. “But just
talking to taxi drivers and random friends,
I’ve heard a lot of disappointment that terror-
ism is now appearing in Jordan, a relatively
safe haven in the turbulent region.”

While Jarrah was shaken by the attacks, he
acknowledged the possibility of encounter-
ing terrorism before he had decided to study
in Jordan.

“TI knew I was in a safe place [when I came
here],” he #vrote, “but calling home about
terrorist attacks was something I had imag-
ined I would do during my semester abroad
... I had to call home about terrorist attacks
while I was studying in England as well as
visiting Egypt, so it’s a universal experience
it seems. Sadly.”

Adam Martin contributed to this article.

New Testament scholar to deliver Staley Lectures

By COLLEEN MCKowNn
Senior Staff Writer

Lord Bishop of Durham of the Anglican
Church and prominent New Testament
scholar the Rev. Dr. N.T. Wright will deliver
the Staley Lecture Series this Wednesday
and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Duke
Family Performance Hall.

Wright entitled his two-lecture series
“Biblical Faith in a Postmodern World.”

“I am very excited about the lectures. N.T.
Wright is a world-renowned scholar who
takes seriously his responsibility to a wider
audience,” Director of the Lilly Program for
the Theological Exploration of Vocation and
Religion Professor Tim Beach-Verhey said.

In his first lecture, “It’s the End of the
World as We Know It: Apocalyptic Vision
Then and Now,” Davidson College Chaplain
and Rev. Rob Spach anticipates that Wright
will analyze current Apocalyptic literature,
comparing and contrasting’ this literature
with the Apocalyptic themes in the Bible.

“He is faithful to a Biblical way of under-
standing and really seeks to understand

Scripture critically,” Spach said. “Wright
speaks dynamically and personally. He is
very engaging and connected to the audi-
ence.”

In his second lecture, “The Lordship of
Jesus and the Empires of the World,” Wright
will speak from a Christian worldview about
the pressures from empires that fight to
claim peoples’ allegiances. The lecture will
also examine the U.S. role as a political and
cultural empire.

“Wright will help us view the ways Jesus
and Paul responded to the Roman Empire,
giving Christians today ways to grapple with
what it means to be.a powerful nation with
global reach,” Beach-Verhey said.

Wright will leave time for questions after
both lectures.

There will also be opportunities for stu-
dents to talk with Wright on a more personal
basis.

Twelve students have signed up for a
lunch with Wright, which will give them a
chance to engage with Wright and ask fur-
ther questions. Following the second lecture,
there will also be a “Fireside Chat” with

Wright in the Union.

As the Bishop of Durham since 2003,
Wright is the fourth highest-ranking official
in the Church of England.

Wright has written over 30 books, includ-
ing “The Challenge for Jesus,” “The
Resurrection of the Son of God,” and the
well-known “For Everyone” Bible series.

He graduated from Oxford University
with a degree in classics and theology.
Wright then went on to pursue a Doctor of
Philosophy degree.

Following his education he served as a
college chaplain at Oxford and Cambridge.

In 1994, Wright was appointed the Dean
of Litchfield, and in 2000 he was named the
Canon Theologian of Westminster Abbey.

Thomas F. Staley ’24 started.the Staley
Lecture Series in 1970 because of his inter-
est in furthering the Christian witness at
Davidson.

The series brings speakers: to Davidson
who have a strong background in Christian
scholarship and who can articulate a
Christian vision to a varied audience.

A committee chaired by Spach is in charge

of finding the Staley speaker each year. The

committee includes faculty, staff and stu-

dents.
Previous include

Staley lecturers

Frederick Buechner, Tony Campolo, James
Forbes, and John C. Polkinghorne.

eaeamies — COUPTOSN Dd me

Staley lecturer Rev. Dr. N. T. Wright
