THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005 3

Wetlands to be developed

Herp. Lab permitted to
research environmental
effects of construction

By Lexi HAMILTON
Staff Writer

Summers Walk, a 250-acre site encom-
passed in the 3.4 mile privately-owned
stretch of land bordering Highway 73 along
Davidson-Concord Road in Davidson to
Poplar Tent Road in Cabarrus County,
includes one of the largest wetlands in the
region.

The wetlands provide critical habitats for a

“The wetland is the only location
in the area where the Eastern
Ribbon Snake is known to live.”
--Michael Dorcas, Associate
Professor of Biology and
Herpetology Lab Director

highly diverse assemblage of amphibians
and reptiles and are an important research
location for Davidson College’s Herpetology
Lab.

ForestCity Enterprises, Inc., a $7.4-billion
dollar company has recently contracted to
develop Summers Walk,

Davidson’s Herpetology Lab has secured
the permission of the developers to continue
their research in this area, which will allow
developers and researchers alike to gain a
greater understanding of the environmental
impacts of housing construction.

“The lab will sample the stream and wet-
land after the construction of the housing

development,”
Biology Michael Dorcas said.
Dorcas discussed the abundance-of life in

this wetland area, saying that one’s steps into ~

the lower-lying parts of the region cause the
waters to ripple and splash as numerous
amphibians move below the surface.

The amphibious life is also as unique as it
is diverse.

“The wetland,” said Dorcas, “is the only
location in the area where the Eastern
Ribbon Snake is known to live.”

Eleven different species of toads and frogs
have also been identified in the area, along
with a variety of salamanders, turtles,
lizards, and other species of snakes.

North Carolina law requires that develop-
ment respect the perimeter of the low-lying
wetlands, but it does not prevent develop-
ment from occurring in the uplands sur-
rounding the wetland, which is critical for
the survival of amphibious species in certain
stages of their life cycle.

Development at elevations above the wet-
lands can also cause ordinary drainage into
the wetlands to become problematic.

A significant alteration of water flow into
and out of the wetlands would have consid-
erably negative implications for the amphib-
ians, reptiles, and other animals that inhabit
the area.

The developers of Summers Walk have
sought and received advice from the faculty
members of Davidson College who have
worked in the wetlands on how to best pro-
tect the area, though, at this point, it is uncer-
tain what specific systems the developers
have designed to maintain the integrity of the
wetland habitat.

Potential solutions to these problems
might include incorporating settling ponds

See Wetland, page 4

Associate Professor of |

Jim Fuller

B.A. Davidson College
: J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

ai

LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Other Areas of Practice

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 | Delburg Street, Suite 203.
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern) :

Sandy Carnegie

B.A. Davidson College
J.D.University of Richmond

Commissioner ‘for the Town of Davidson
83-85. 88.97
Town of Davidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate

Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Alcohol policy enforcement
reasonable, members say

Students work to extend CatCard usage around town

By COLLEN MCKown
Staff Writer

Newly-elected officers were sworn into
the Student Government Association (SGA)
last Thursday night. Issues discussed during
the new officers first meeting included the
Alcohol Policy, CatCard use, and the student
organization SISTAHS of Essence.

At the beginning of the semester, many
students said Campus Safety was being too
strict concerning the enforcement of the new
alcohol policy.

However, SGA President Ryan Arnold ’06
met with Director of Public Safety and
Police Fountain Walker to discuss student
concerns, and many SGA members said that
Campus Safety was reasonable in enforcing
the new alcohol policies on First Night
Down. ;

“I was very pleased with the interactions
between police and students on the court
during First Night Down,” Jack Hubbard ’06
said. “I believe a balance of reasonableness
and respect was achieved, and-I hope this
continues throughout the year. I would like
to thank Fountain Walker and his officers for
doing a great job this weekend.”

Darryl Ratcliffe ’08 agreed with Hubbard.

“I had RA rounds that night, and every-
thing went really well,” Ratcliffe said.

However, problems of a different nature
did occur during First Night Down. Groups
of students from the NASCAR Institute were
found attending Senior Apartment parties,
which violates the policy that uninvited,
non-Davidson students cannot attend
Davidson parties.

Two of these students were arrested for
trespassing.

Walker and Arnold also plan to go to the
Nascar Institute and discuss the problem
directly with the Institute.

On a different note, Peter Carolla ’06 has
been working to extend CatCard use to dif-
ferent organizations around town.

According to Carolla, CVS is ready to sign
acontract that will allow students to use
CatCards at the pharmacy and front desk.

Furthermore, Fuel Pizza is very interested
in taking CatCards.

There has also been extensive CatCard
negotiation between Arnold and _ the
Brickhouse.

The Brickhouse views the process as too

much of a hassle; a CatCard reader would
cost the restaurant about $2000, and it would
be difficult to keep track of the receipts when
using a new system:

The Brickhouse is proposing — that
Davidson students can buy gift cards for use
at the restaurant.

SGA also approved the right of SISTAHS
of Essence to be open only to women. SIS-
TAHS of Essence is an organization started
in the fall of 2004 whose purpose, as stated
in its constitution, is to “provide a support
system to all women of color.” .

“I was very pleased with the inter-
actions between police and stu-
dents on the court during First
Night Down. I believe a balance of
reasonableness and respect was
achieved.”

--Jack Hubbard ’06

SISTAHS of Essence participates in serv-
ice events such as making beauty boxes for
Ada Jenkins, and its members discuss issues
such as careers and interracial dating.

“Men attend our Women’s Teas and sup-
port our community service initiatives, but
membership is restricted to women,”
Whitney White ’08 said.

The newly elected officers sworn into the
SGA included Freshman Class President
Richmond Blak and Freshmen -Senators
Brian Aoyama, Ben Ferguson, Coleman
Hubbard, Omar Pickett, and Kate Sternstein.

Independent Senators Greg
Bartlomiejczuk ’08, Dana Jackson ’08, and
Shane Montoya ’08 were sworn in at the
meetingas well.

“My main goal is to listen to the needs of

- the freshmen class, because those 450-pluse

voices mean much more than mine by itself.
That said, I believe my job is to translate
their requests into feasible plans and
changes,” Sternstein said. -

Finally, the SGA elected Jack Hubbard
and Blake Poole ’09 as its members of the
month. .

“Jack is just a shining example of what
Davidson can do,” Sam Spencer ’07 said.

“Blake has just done so, much for
Davidson in the past month,” Josh Choi 08
said.

Turricane relief efforts continue

ures sens

Hurricane Katrina relief efforts continued on campus last week with a an \ auction of fra-
ternity brothers sponsored by Sig Ep last Wednesday. ae auction raised about $2,600 in

one-and-a-half hours.

- The highest bid was for Alex Libson 07. His hall, Third Belk, bid over $700 for a pri- :

vate serenade.

Mike Parsons 08 collected $260 for “a ee, serenade, bedtime story, room sirens
ora lap through 1 the Union in an outfit of the bidder’s choice.”

“The guy Bas be Son th the We and it was neat to see how such a fun
