4 THe DavsoniaN ; . : NEws Wepnespay, JANUARY 19, 2005.

Tsunami, from page 1

their experiences in India. :
“There have been so many different ven-

ues for response that I have felt overwhelmed VV a Nn T T O

at times,” Katherine Sorrell ’06 said. “That is .

why I have appreciated coming back to

Davidson and brainstorming with the group S Ss e "4 O U i

about tangible and effective options.”

Although the program participants spent ¢
most of their 14 weeks living at the Madras : Nn a mM e f Nn
Christian College, which is about five miles | :
inland, they made several trips the to coastal p rint ”
areas that were later devastated by the giant =
waves.

“Being in India made me even more aware
of the essential connectedness of human be- Re
ings,” Sorrell said. “I feel very strongly that Sctcninle .
we are all connected to this tragedy, although & s W ir : te fo ir
we may not feel it in tangible ways.” S ; 2 2a pr r, forjusta.

Participants of the India program stayed at ie in indo N
the Ideal Beach Resort for three nights while Be Na peas EE re ews a
they visited ancient temples in the coastal town
Mamallapuran. _

Many students had the opportunity to visit Ss :
the small fishing villages that surrounded the Boe iee er ee sel ‘ cE ma j : i i ba r ry
plush hotel. pr ee es Pree hea ,

Julienne Alexander ’07 re- :
calls the excitement of the vil-
lage kids when they met the ——-
young group of American tour-
ists.

“As soon as we left the resort
grounds, all these little kids
came up to us,” Alexander
said.“They showed us these
rotted fish and loved to watch
us get grossed out. After play-
ing with them for a while, some
of us went into the village and
visited their families.”

Professor of History and
Humanities Jonathan Berkey,
who led the India program, said
that the areas surrounding their
hotel were very poor. .

“If you got up in the morn-
ing, you could get out and see
fisherman coming in and un-

loading their catch. They went Wondering what To do after graduation? What about

out in small wooden skips and

an the FELLOWS PROGRAMI?

news outlets have reported that
a lot of fisherman around the
area were killed or are missing.

Although he has not leamed | Be full-time college employee for one or two years in a number of key areas

anything specific about the

Ideal Beach Resort, in- -wi r i i
Ideal Beach Resor. reportsin- | campus-wide. The program has been established to provide a variety of challenging

resorts in the area were shut opportunities to work in a higher education setting.
down by the tsunami. :

Even after spending several
months in India, Peyton Purcell

’06 says she still has trouble OPEN POSITIONS:

grasping the full extent of the

tsunamis desruction: * Information Technology Services * Bonner/Community Service

“T do not think I necessarily : . - . pi
have a clearer view of the dev- * College Union ” Davidson Athletic Foundation
astation and profound sense of . * .
loss that occurred than any other * Library Annual Fund

student on campus,” Purcell é . .

said. “But it is strange tohave | ™ Alumni Relations * Music/Theatre

visited India and to have such a
connection to it, and to know the
places they speak of on the
news.”

directly tachtheMadaschis, | FOr more information on the program and how to apply, please go to our website:

the city of Madras willbe pro. | it tp://www2.davidson.edu/administration/hr/hr_fellows.asp
fat gk Only the Davidson College Class of 2005 is eligible to apply

Sorrell learned about disease
control in Madras and other
urban areas during her public
health class in India.

“I have spent a lot of time
thinking about the disease that
will erupt into that entire me-
tropolis areaas aresult,” Sorrell
said. “Just when things look as j
though they cannot get worse,

‘it appears that the tsunami is
going to have utterly devastat-
ing long-term effects.”

