The Dahidso

First CLass
U.S. PostaGE Paip
Permit #1
DAViDson, NC

nian

@ “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” ©

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 13

Fighting Complacency § ss

Day’s events raise
questions of commit-
ment to King’s legacy

By LAuREN CONN
Staff Writer

Davidson College observed Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. Day Monday as
students and the surrounding com-
munity embraced the past, present
and future of civil rights.

This year’s agenda featured con-
vocation speaker Dr. Walter Earl
Fluker, a gospel choir concert and
several educational programs related
to the theme “Through the Eyes of a
Dream: A Look at Davidson.”

The day of celebration began with
the “Building the Dream 5K Race/
Fun Walk for Peace” sponsored by
the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity.

see MLK, page 3

Davidsonians explore College’s painful history of race relations

By Kate GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

On Jan. 17, Davidson alumni
Calvin Murphy ’70 and Tony Perez
*92 returned to discuss “The History
of the Minority Experience at
Davidson College.” The event was
held in the 900 Room of the Union
and was planned bythe college to
commemorate Martin Luther King
Day.

Murphy and Perez’s comments

© eH

were preceded by a talk from college
archivist Dr. Jan Blodgett, who dis-
cussed the impact of the civil rights
movement on Davidson in the 1950s
and ’60s.

“Complacent is one of the words I
would use to describe Davidson with
regard to change over the years,”
Blodgett said.

Blodgett gave a timeline of inte-
gration on campus, beginning witha
YMCA poll conducted in October
1954 that found that Davidson stu-

INP TSUNAMP’S WAI 1S raw

Clockwise from left:
Children’s activities,
dialogues and
panels, a ‘Walk for
je Peace,’ and a lecture
' by Dr. Walter Fluker
marked the day’s
events.

dents were equally divided on the
issue and ending with the Board of
Trustees decision in 1961 to admit
three Congolese students. She also
discussed the role that students
played in sit-ins and protests in the
surrounding cities of Durham, Rock
Hill, and Charlotte.

“The students who participated in
sit-ins felt ostracized on campus,”
Blodgett said. “There was the sense
that they embarrassed Davidson.

see Minorities, page 3

Let Learnin Be Cherished...

Davidson meets $250 million cal

in on-going capital campaign. A
statement from President Vagt,
page 4.

Wrestlers
regroup after
coach’s firing

By Bossy DEMuRO
Sports Staff Writer

Two days before wrestling’s dual
season-opener against Duquesne,
Davidson fired head wrestling coach
T.J. Jaworsky.

According to the Associated Press,
Jaworsky was arrested on Jan. 2,
2005 on charges of cocaine posses-
sion, driving while impaired and pos-
session of drug paraphernalia.

Furthermore, according to Char-
lotte police records, Jaworsky posted
a bond of $5,800 and was released
the same day.

Jaworsky, 34, had been head wres-
tling coach for the ’Cats for three and
one-half years, and he posted a 5-42
record while at the helm.

Despite the poor record over the
past few years, Jaworsky and his
team had shown signs of progress this
year after solid performances in the
pre-season tournaments, and that
success continued without Jaworsky
when the ’Cats opened a perfect 6-0

see Coach, page 14

(He Callcee 1c

By Liz Barry

News Editor

In response to the Dec. 26 tsunami that devastated coastal

areas in South Asia, student groups across campus have begun
to raise money for disaster relief efforts.
According to arecent CNN report, the tsunami killed at least
1 people in over 11 countries. In India alone, the current death
toll has reached 10,744, with over 5,600 people missing.
The SGA and Red Cross Club launched a joint fundraising

effort to take place over the next week. According to a campus-
wide e-mail, if at least 95 percent of students donate one dollar
to the cause, President Bobby Vagt will match the funds raised.

Dr. Job Thomas, professor of history and director of South
Asian Studies, has earmarked money from program funds to go

Before Thomas sends the donation, he will receive an in-depth
report from Madras Christian College concerning what the
money will be used for and who will benefit from it.

“Our goal is not to do something immediately to set sail and
smooth our conscience,” Thomas said. “We want to do some-
thing that is meaningful.”

For the Davidson students who participated in the Semester-
in-India Program this past fall, the news of tsunami has been
especially shocking.

“It was surreal knowing we had just been there and had con-
nections with kids who live in those villages,” Amy Miller ’06
said. “We had been to some of their houses, and they live very
close to the ocean. I just did not know how to react.”

While plans are not yet finalized, the India program partici-
pants want to compile a collection of photos, sketches, poems,

to long-term relief efforts organized by the Madras Christian Photo by Peyton Purcell and personal essays about their experiences in the villages.

College in India, Davidson has a long-standing relationship Elizabeth Pandolfi and Amy Miller ’06 stand They will sell the publication as a way to raise money for
with the Madras Christian College through the Semester-in- with boys from a coastal village in south India_ ‘relief efforts and promote awareness in the community about
India Program. hit by last month’s tsunami. see Tsunami, page 4

Wilson’s Wide » 7
World of Sports:
men’s basketball

season report
SPORTS, PAGE 12

Sounding off:
a look at y
national media

Make a
, statement,
@ knit a scarf

A&L, PAGE 7 PERSPECTIVES, PAGE I1
