THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

15

’Cats enjoy best finishes at Regionals

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

On Nov. 12, in Greenville, North
Carolina, the Wildcat cross country
teams finished out their seasons in the
Southeast NCAA Regional Meets. The
men’s team came in 20th out of 30
teams, while the women finished 11th
out of 28. The women achieved what
Coach Jen Straub says is the best result
for Davidson women’s cross country in
a regional meet.

Lance Harden ’09 said the men
improved dramatically from what he
heard of last year’s results. “Last year
we finished last, so we didn’t really have
anywhere to go but up. I mean, I guess
we could have finished last out of more
teams, but still.” As the first big meet for
either team since their midseason meets
at Lehigh, the ’Cats faced their toughest
competition since October 1.

On the men’s side of things, the
Wildcats were paced by captain
Jonathan Baker ’06, whose time of
32:17 in the 10K was good for 83rd place

overall. Harden, who was close behind him ~

in 32:32, said,““Baker ran the fastest time on
the Eastern Carolina course of any Davidson
athlete.”

Austin Mercadente ’06 finished his cross
country career with a time of 33:31, one sec-
ond ahead of Sam Morris ’08, and Alex Hoyt
’09 rounded out the top five for the ’Cats at
34:01. Douglas Noreen ’07 and James
Garrett ’09 took sixth and seventh positions
on the team.

Said Harden, “All season we’ve been run-
ning 8K races and this was a 10K, so that
was a bit of a challenge as far as pre-race
strategy. Baker’s strategy was to run an 8K

Brenna Burns ’08 ran a 21:13 at the Regional Meet.

team in 21:53 on the 6K course, behind
co-captain Brenna Burns ’08, who
completed the course in 21:13 and
whose 27th-place finish overall was
just shy of All-Regional honors. The
two co-captains, who have led the
Cats runners all year, were followed
in scoring by Caroline Sanker ’09
(22:16), Emily King ’09 (22:30), and
Annie O’Donnell ’08 (22:52). Also
running for the ’Cats’ top seven were
Kim Lang ’09 and Lucy Rogers ’09.
“Tt was an exciting meet, and I know
that Davidson will continue to place
better at the regional meet over the
next few years,” Martin said. “I believe
our season was very successful. We
accomplished our goal of winning con-
ference, and then we went on to place
highly at the regional meet despite
some adversities. This team is very
young, so the future looks exciting.”
Harden also commented on the
women’s future: “I’m really excited for
them because everyone except Allie is
coming back, so they’ve got some
opportunity for sustained success.”
The men’s future, Harden said, is also
bright. “Thad Sieraki ’09 has been out all
season with a stress fracture, so next year he

and then hang on for the last 2K, so he was
well ahead of me for the entire race. So,
unlike in some previous meets, we didn’t
work together. I started out more conserva-
tively, and I ended up passing about 20 peo- should be able to at least partly offset the
ple in the last 2K, so that was pretty satisfy- graduation of Jonny and Austin. He was the
ing.” most heralded recruit coming in, and he’s got
The women’s team ran the meet without a lot of talent.”
the services of their third runner and still Harden also anticipates a strong recruiting
managed a strong finish. class coming in for next year’s men’s team.
“We had some adversity going into the The teams celebrated their successes
meet but all of the girls stepped up and it was\\_together with a cross country party after
a great team effort. Many of the girls ran per-  r&turning to campus on Saturday. They plan
sonal best times,” “Seni enjoying joint team dinners at
Martin ’06. Commons, a tradition Harden says is sure to
Martin finished second on the Davidson _ last through the off-season.

said co-captain Allie

write for
sports:
email
pitrumbo
or
mojamouneau

All majors are encouraged to apply, but you must
have a bachelor’s degree by July 1, 2005.
Knowledge of Japenese NOT required!

Participants recieve a substantial stipend,
benefits, and free roundtrip airfare to Japan!

(404) 926-3020

Join the JET P 2052000
and Diseover> Japan

A once in a lifetime opportunity...
The Government of Japan Invites Young Graduates
to Spend a Year Teaching English in Japan!

Now accepting applications for the 2006
Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program!
Deadline: Nov. 29, 2005

For more information, contact the Consulate
General of Japan in Atlanta at:
www.japanatlanta.org or

