THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 5

Lilly, from page 3

that each individual faces or has faced, and
each benefits from the insights of the other.

Students are paired with their adult coun-
terparts based upon their personalities, the
things that excite them, and the issues that
they wish to address in their lives; however,
pairs are not necessarily assigned based upon
the adult’s employment and the student’s
vocational interests.

This year’s sophomore class includes 30
students in the mentoring program.

Sarah Allen ’08 described her mentor, for-
mer President of Davidson College Dr. John
W. Kuykendall, as “a great listener, full of
good advice, and a joy to get to know.”

“I’m grateful that the Lilly Programs offer
sophomores this opportunity to explore their
vocation while also getting to know a mem-
ber of the larger Davidson community,”

37 1.
Ln

Students work on a project during a .
Vocational Vertigo workshop.

a? a

Allen said. “There seems to be so little time
to do this in the midst of Davidson’s business

without a formal structure such as what Lilly“

offers.”

The Lilly Programs also-host monthly din-
ners that give sophomores a chance to
engage in dialogue about vocational choices
and other issues. °

The dinners also give sophomores a
chance to interact with people from different
cultures, religions, and societies.

According to Timberman, when one’s val-
ues are challenged by people who are differ-
ent, that individual is forced to ask difficult
questions and to take action.

“Students have to reorganize their senses
of who they are,” Timberman said.

For students interested in ongoing discus-
sions, the Lilly Programs also offer sustained
dialogue groups.

These groups, open to all students, meet
between two and four times per semester.

The discussions are facilitated by students
who have previously participated in a sus-
tained dialogue group.

The goal of the sustained dialogue groups,
according Timberman, is “to allow students
to deeply and passionately own a position
and yet to be open to other people’s posi-
tions.”

The groups discuss divisive issues, like the
recent clash between the women’s commit-
tee and the Yowl and racial and religious
issues.

There are currently about 25 participants
amongst the sustained dialogue groups, but
Timberman hopes to double that number.

The Lilly Programs, which are currently
transitioning from their initial outside
endowment to permanent college funding,
promote the idea that the exploration of
vocation from religious, moral, and ethical
perspectives leads to a more fulfilling life
experience and creates solidarity in group

settings.

>
hs

By Sorios presents

Sa

oS Gay J od
Monday, NoveMmDeridg, <u)

i ee a are Se ae eae aa ee a ae See

There is no chard
Shut they are required £6

eR,

ona

i

Young Life, from page 1

“The rub, of course, is figuring out how to
define what are ‘appropriate’ criteria for dis-
crimination,” said College Chaplain Rob
Spach. “And to do that, one must be rooted
somewhere, in some tradition, philosophical
or religious.”

All YL leaders must sign a statement to
abide by YL’s “Faith and Conduct Policies.”
This document includes, among other state-
ments, the organization’s principle articles of
faith and its sexual misconduct policy.

On the basis of Biblical interpretation,
these YL policies explicitly prohibit homo-
sexual “activity,” illegal sexual offences,
“sexual relations and activities with any per-
son outside of the marriage covenant,” and
“any other sexual relations or activities
which are contrary to the theological and
moral affirmations of YL’s ministry.”

These prohibitions, however, only apply to
leaders and volunteers, not to general partic-
ipants in the organization.

“We do not in any way wish to exclude
persons who engage in sexual misconduct or
who practice a homosexual lifestyle from
being recipients of ministry of God’s grace
and mercy as expressed in Jesus Christ,”
states the YL policy paper.

According to YL leader Kenzo Koike ’06,
requests to become a student organization
“all had been previously denied because
Young Life was selective in its leaders and
therefore not open to everyone.”

According to William Brown, College
Union Director and Coordinator of Student
Activities, the College has approved the YL
request based on the Quest program, a
semester-long Bible study and discussion
group open to all students.

YL will have to submit organizational
bylaws that stipulate the openness of the

Quest program.

Several years ago, the College informally
ruled that discrimination was “appropriate”
among organizational leadership when it
allowed InterVarsity to require its leaders to
sign its doctrinal statement. InterVarsity’s
bylaws, though similar to YL’s Faith and
Conduct Policies, do not mention or prohibit
homosexual orientation or activity.

President Bobby Vagt, after consultations
with Dean of Students Tom Shandley and
Davidson’s lawyer, decided that YL’s specif-
ic request does not violate the college’s poli-
cy of “non-discrimination.”

“It’s a hard issue,” said Vagt. “We make
our decisions in specific sets of facts as they
come forward.”

National fraternities may legally discrimi-
nate on the basis of gender, according to fed-
eral law, and therefore college policy.

Similarly, sports teams may discriminate

_against physically disabled persons based on

the nature and function of the sports team.

Spach said that “in these contexts, ‘dis-
crimination’ is not in and of itself an evil, but
a way for these communities to discern who
is appropriately a part of that community”

“From a Christian perspective,” he said,
‘discrimination’ can be evil when its pur-
pose is based not on appropriate discernment
but on keeping another group down or dehu-
manizing others.”

Koike said in response, “I am very excited
that Young Life is now recognized as an offi-
cial organization. Logistically it will be a
huge help to be able to use campus
resources, and it is great for the morale of
current and prospective leaders.”

The status of a student organization allows
YL to reserve campus facilities for meetings,
fundraise and post fliers on campus, and
apply for funding through the Activities Tax
Council.

Parties, from page 1

policy in the past,” Patterson Court Advisor
Joy Hamm said. “In two and a half years in
this position, this only became a problem
about three or four weeks ago.”

Patterson Court Council President Annie
Butler ’06 feels the policy has caused stu-
dents to become more serious about register-
ing impromptus.

“People are paranoid right now because of
the changes in the policy and are doing their
best to register so as to avoid trouble,” Butler
said.

Some students feel that the college is
excessively regulating weekday court activi-
ties in the name of their potential to disrupt
academic performance.

PCC Defense Advisor Jack Hubbard ’06,
however, believes that the frequency of
social life on campus should be independent
of the quality of academic life.

“As adults I feel houses have. the right to
have parties whenever they want insofar as
they abide by the risk management rules
appropriately,” Hubbard said. “We are ulti-
mately responsible for our performance in
class.”

“Tt is my understanding that the policy was
put into place to strike a balance between
competing interests of faculty, staff, and stu-
dents,” Hamm said.

Other students believe the impromptu rule
will cause weekday social functions to move
off campus. While PCC requires registered
parties to have risk managers, there are no
safety regulations for off-campus parties.

“If on-campus parties are restricted, stu-
dents will inevitably go to off-campus hous-
es during the week—where there is no offi-
cer to monitor trespassers,” SGA Vice-
President Bridget Kane ’06 said. “Non-
Davidson people will have an easier time
crashing the party, and if they cause trouble,
there is definitely a higher risk to our stu-
dents.”

This risk comes in part from the fact that
town police and the criminal justice system
usually handle incidents at off-campus par-

ties, whereas on-campus parties can be mon-
itored by the college’s Campus Safety force.
The reputation of the college and the crimi-
nal record of revelers are both at risk.

Another concern raised by SGA for off-
campus gatherings is that students put them-
selves in more danger when returning home.

This year’s changes to the alcohol policy
also enforced harsher punishments for stu-
dents who host parties in which underage
students play drinking games.

According to Dean of Residence Life
Leslie Marsicano, the alcohol policy is a
continuous renewal process based on the col-
lege’s needs.

Marsicano, who chaired the last alcohol
task force last semester, said issues with the
impromptu rule did not arise until this
semester. ,

“It’s possible that [pow] more groups are
trying to have weekday parties,” Marsicano
said. “It may be that they were better in pre-
vious years in planning ahead.”

Student leaders have said there was no dis-
cussion of these possible complications from
policy changes while the policy was being
formulated last year.

A group of students, faculty, and staff
appointed by Dean of Students Tom
Shandley reviews the alcohol policy every

‘two years to recommend changes and ensure

it adequately represents those it serves.

Changing the alcohol policy in between
reviews is possible and depends on the con-
sideration of both student welfare and effec-
tive operation of the college.

Four fraternity presidents—David
McManama of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Win
Smith of Kappa Sigma, Joe Cheaney of
Kappa Alpha Order, and Pat Nakahara of Pi
Kappa Alpha—have written to Shandley to
protest the policy and to seek clarification
about the extent of the restrictions.

“This rule is even more destructive this
semester when all of the [fraternity] houses
are rushing,” McManama said.

The Council for Campus and Religious
Life will take up the SGA’s concerns next
week.
