THE DAVIDSONIAN
RSC, continued from page 1

choices we make in the media to spin a story
and woo the masses.”

Costa thinks that Davidson students will
identify with the contemporary elements of
the play, including the media display, con-
nections to Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and use
of army fatigues in costuming.

“It was very modern although not set in an
exact year, high energy, and fast-paced,” said
Andrea Wood ’07, who attended the opening
performance. “By placing the story in a mod-
em setting, the themes became unavoidably
relevant to the political world of today. I
found myself continually reminded of mod-
ern political figures and pressing internation-
al issues. With this production, I saw Julius
Caesar in a completely new light that opened
my eyes to the timelessness of the themes.”

“The Two Gentlemen of Verona,” on the
other hand, is set in the 1930s and features
jazz music and a set that is reminiscent of a
New York City ballroom.

“It’s gorgeously designed,” said Davidson
English professor Cynthia Lewis, another
member of the RSC Advisory Committee.
“Fiona [director Fiona Buffini] came to her
own understanding about a lot of features of
a play that’s tough to crack.”

The modern interpretations of the plays
have led to different audience responses.

“With Two Gents, people find it easier to
follow, and it also takes some of the prob-
lematic aspects of the play and makes them
more palpable,” Costa said. “I think the
music makes the play more fun. You want to
get up and dance and boogie with them. With
Caesar, the audience is more mesmerized,
and it’s pretty quiet. It has that multi-dimen-
sional quality to it so when you’re watching

As part of the 141 events of their residency, RSC cast members visited local ele-
mentary schools to educate children about Shakespeare.

it, you’re watching the speaker but you’re
also watching something else. It’s very cap-
tivating.”

The RSC’s residency includes more than
just stage performances.

The actors, directors, and coaches are par-
ticipating in workshops, lectures, and panel
discussions open to the public, as well as
visiting specific classes to aid students in
their understanding and interpretation of
Shakespeare.

“There are 141 events draped around the
14 performances,” Lewis said. “They range
from a gallery exhibit in the VAC to lectures
on the topics of plays being performed and
periods to panel discussions related to the
topics.”

The events culminated with the Play On!
Symposium on Monday, which featured

oto courtesy of CollegeGiga
aac

wet ¢
*
§

“ a
“te da Soa
= fie}

cuucation

The University Studies Abroad Consortium, with programs in 24
countries, allows students to master languages and study disciplines —

including business, fine arts and history — at distinguished, overseas
schools. Soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the

© Summer, semester and yearlong programs ¢ Wide range of academic
courses @ Internships e Language classes at all levels © Field trips and
tours © Small classes © University credit ¢ Scholarships ¢ Housing

UNIVERSITY
STUDIES
ABROAD
CONSORTIUM

Wrote courtesy of €

Mary Fulton ’06 and Braxton Winston work on the set of Julius Caesar.

pege Conm

renowned Shakespearean actress Rosemary
Harris as the keynote speaker and lectures on
topics such as gender issues and politics in
the two plays.

The members of the company see them-
selves as teachers, and they are by and large
approachable,” Lewis said. ““We pride our-
selves on the approachability of our faculty,
and they very much fit. They seek to provide
outreach and an extending of themselves.”

Theatre and English classes in particular
have been taking advantage of the RSC resi-
dency.

Lewis’ Performing Shakespeare class has

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 5

participated in workshops on voice, move-
ment, and comedy. with RSC representa-
tives, and her Shakespeare survey class did
scene work from “The Two Gentlemen of
Verona” with the show’s director and assis-
tant director and will hold a question and
answer session with the actors this week.

“We looked at specific scenes, and they
gave us techniques and ways to look at get-
ting out of the limitations of staging,” said
Sarah Cantrell 06, a student in the class.

The sixteen members of the Performing
Shakespeare class believe that the RSC’s
residency will further benefit them by excit-
ing the campus for their production of
“Much Ado About Nothing.”

“I can’t imagine having this class without
the RSC,” said David McClay °08. “I’ve
been looking forward to this since I was a
prospective. The entire school is in
Shakespeare mode right now, so everyone
will be really receptive to our performance.”

Lewis also believes that the residency will
leave a lasting impact.

“It’s so hard to quantify the effects and
advantages and gain from a residency,”
Lewis said. “As President Vagt said, this is
not just a speaker who comes in for a couple
of days and leaves. This is a two-week resi-
dency, and they are living with us. They are
teachers all the time. They form friendships,
and these friendships are partly affectionate
and emotional, and they are partly educa-
tional. It’s permeating. It’s just so textured
and rich.”

Vagt credited for RSC residency

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

As the Royal Shakespeare Company’s
2005 residency at Davidson College is well
underway, many students question why
Davidson has been fortunate enough to
receive the revered acting ensemble not once
but twice.

The RSC is able to perform anywhere in
the world and does not frequently visit col-
leges in the United States. The 2005
Davidson residency is a one-stop residency,
and the RSC will return to England upon the
completion of its visit.

Currently, Davidson and University of
Michigan are two of the few colleges hon-
ored with RSC residencies.

English professor Dr. Cynthia Lewis has
been very involved with the RSC and credits
President Bobby Vagt for quickly realizing
the value of such a residency and taking the
necessary action to bring the RSC to cam-
pus.

“Our to host the

privilege

Royal

experience of living in a foreign land.

Shakespeare Company hinges on the deci-
siveness Of President Vagt,” Lewis said.
“When given the opportunity to express
interest, he did not hesitate. He saw the pos-
sibility of this happening, and his resolution
and effectiveness made it happen.”

Lewis also pointed out that the RSC’s
willingness to return might be a result of the
generous hospitality they were offered by
the college in 2002. Actors and directors of
the 2005 residency are staying at both the
Village Inn and Guest House.

RSC performances began last Wednesday
night with the premiere of “The Two
Gentlemen of Verona” and will continue on
an alternating schedule with “Julius Caesar”
for the next week.

When asked about ticket sales, Vagt said,
“I was not aware of this before, but to be
successful in the theatre isfor 60 percent of

_ tickets to be sold.”

Davidson has been far exceeding that.

Of an inventory of nearly 9,000 tickets.
sales have gone very well according to
Campus Center Fellow Leah Germelman
who is responsible for managing RSC ticket
transactions.

“] have received calls from people all over
the country who want to fly in to see the
Royal Shakespeare Company perform at
Davidson,” said Germelman.

“{The Duke Family Performance Hall]
has 629 seats and has had almost a full
house for every show thus far, other than
one matinee performance. The Friday and
Saturday evening performances were nearly
sold out.”

Germelman said the rush ticket policy,
which allows students and community
members to come to the ticket office and
purchase available tickets on the day of a
show, has also contributed to the strong tick-
et sales.

Rush tickets may come between 10 a.m.
and 4 p.m. or one hour before performance
time. Students pay $20 for rush tickets, and
community members pay $30.

Proceeds from ticket’sales will go to cover
the costs of the residency.

Germelman reminds students that tickets
are still available for shows, especially for
weekday evening performances.

The last of the 14 performances this year
will be the Sunday, March 20 matinee.

The RSC will return to Davidson for a
residency next year and in 2008, with two
additional performances in 2007.
