THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 16, 2005

. ARTS IVING

Listening closely to voices from Juarez

Student-organized exhibit to raise awareness of the deaths across the El Paso border

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

voices and protest of mothers, family members, and other women and activists,
reclaim the brutally taken lives of so many women in Ciudad Juarez.”

A photo exhibition will be open from March 7 until March 13 in the 900 Room.
While the images will be powerful, they’ will not stand alone.

At 7 p.m. on Monday, March 7, a segment of the project Sindler and Van Stone

Femicide seems a distant
inhumanity—the extreme end of

anti-female terror far too incon-
ceivable for the proximity of our
country’s door-holding south.
But right across the border that
many Davidson students venture
far past for spring break, women
of Ciudad Juarez have been bru-
tally raped, kidnapped, and mur-
dered in barbaric numbers.

As recently touched on in Eve

powerfully titled “Body of Evidence”
_ will feature a documentary by
Lourdes Portillo, “Sefiorita
Extraviada,” and the photos of Julian
Cardona, “Border Lenses:
Documenting Women’s Lives.”
Portillo’s “Sefiorita Extraviada,”
(in English, “Missing Young
Woman’) aired on PBS and is a strik-
ing investigation of

Ensler’s “Vagina the chaos that has
Monologues,” the overwhelmed Juérez.
Juarez struggle The documentary

reflects not only
repulsive cruelty, but
also the apathy of the
area’s local govern- ,
ment.

To date more than
300 women have been
murdered, more than
600 have disappeared,
and (after more than
10 years) bodies are
still being found with

no end in sight. The lack of response to these killings
from the police and government and the resulting injus-
tice has led the families of victims to join together to
fight for their daughters, sisters, and loved ones who

were victims of this inhumanity.

Rape is often a silent struggle; Kelly Sindler 05 and
Larkspur Van Stone ’05 realize that in order for students
to find an understanding of the brutality that the Judrez
women are exposed to, they must hear their voices.

Hoping to bring this understanding to campus, Sindler, Van Stone, and Professor

Magdalena Maiz-Pefia have organized an awareness campaign for the week of March 7

(March is, appropriately, Women’s Month).

Their purpose explains that “the documentaries, photos, poetry, letters, writings, and the

photos by ©
Julian Cardona

picks up a testimony
of an attack survivor
that the police shock-
ingly dropped. The
film presents ques-
tions concerning the
corruption. and law-
lessness as well as the
degradation of life as
worsened by poverty
and a_ globalizing
economy.
.. Voices From Judrez” on
Mar. 8 from 8-8:30 p.m.
presents testimonials by
Ramona Morales Huerta,
the mother of victim Silvia
Rivera, and Nakar Oritz.
The project’s organizers
» related that they “hope to
not only gain awareness on
campus, but also illustrate
how the empowerment of

other women, family members, and mothers fights against further injustice.” This, they
hope, will give a voice to the victims of Ciudad Judrez.

By Ty WHITE
Staff Writer

North Carolina is rarely thought of as a
hockey hotbed. Yet Charlotte is home to one
of the best minor league teams in the coun-
try: the Charlotte Checkers.

And with the NHL out of commission this

to go, for those
without incredi-
ble scoring talent,
is to be a tough-
guy. This means
getting in, and
winning, as many

Checker?), will gladly come
give you a bear hug.

There’s a “chuck-a-puck”
contest between the second
and third periods, where the
puck (available for purchase

* for $1 upon entering the arena)

behind the goals (don’t worry, hanging nets
protect you from flying pucks).

Most games are on Friday and Saturday
nights, and you’ ll be back in time.to hit the
court.

If you’ ve never been to a hockey game, or
haven’t been since you came to college (for

fights as they can. that lands in the target at cen- YOU Northern folks), don’t drop the puck on
year, what better time to watch the minor At the January ter-ice wins $600. your ‘chance to see minor league hockey at
leagues? 28 game against Advice from a chuck-a- _ its best.
The NHL lockout has pushed the young the Carolina puck veteran: throw lightly—

and upcoming players of the NHL to the
American Hockey League, thus pushing bet-
ter players to the East Coast Hockey League,
where the Checkers play.

Okay, so you really don’t pay attention to
hockey and wouldn’t know Gretzky from a
Great Dane. The Checkers still have plenty
of fun for you.

The two most exciting things in hockey
are fights and scoring. Even people who

Stingrays, in the
first period alone,
there were four
goals scored and
four fights. How
can you beat
that?

On-ice action
not enough for

rubber + ice = lots of bounc-
ing.

Perhaps the most entertain-
ing off-ice attraction is a 30-
something man who dances
like a lunatic in the aisles
whenever a song comes on the
PA system. If you’re in his
area and are dancing along

Want to get

piss tine es you? The three with him, he’ll take off one of PAID to write for
on’t know a thing about hockey can appre- (yes, three) A his many, layered Checkers t- a ae
ciate the beauty of a puck beating a goalie cheerleaders Skinny on, the Charlotte . shirts and give it to you. It Arts & Livin 4 ?
and the raw humanity of one man’s bare fist standing in the Checkers: might be the easiest dance
smashes another man’s face, over and over crowd wear less contest you’ll ever win!
again until one of thein is left writhing on . than most people Cricket Arena: 2700 E. Despite all this fun, Cricket
the ice. oe would ever con- Independence Boulevard Arena rarely sells out, and

What most people don’t realize is that sider wearing toa Ti k 5 $8-20 there isn’t a bad seat in the
there is far more of both events. in the minor hockey game. ckets: house. Tickets range from $8
leagues. “Chubby,” the : (way at the top) to $20 (within

The young players (often college-age or Checkers mascot www.gocheckers.com feet of the ice).
recent college graduates) are trying to strut bear (get it? Some of the. better, lesser-

Ch ub by

_ stuff to get into the NHL. The easy way

known seats aré the $12 ones

