THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 26, 2005

ARTS & LIVING _.

The Jazz Band entertains the audience with a warm and sultry sound.

Jazz band wows 5 audience

By JARROD BLUE
Arts and Living Editor

Count Basie, Duke Ellington and the many
other legends of jazz would have been very
pleased with the performance by the
Davidson College Jazz Band this past week-
end.

The band played Friday evening, to cap
off the first day of the 2005 Family Weekend
festivities. The evening began with
“Moment’s Notice” by John Coltrane, which
was an up tempo song that showcased the
vibrant nature of the band.

The band continued the evening with
“Blues for Bubber,” which featured Josh
Knight ’08 and his smooth and sultry sound
on trumpet.

The evening was invigorated further by
the musical stylings of Michael Cavell ’08,
who played alto and soprano saxophone.

It was easy to become lost in Cavell’s
playing as he allowed his instrument to
speak to the audience.

Before the evening was over, Cavell had
the opportunity to improvise during “Rush

Self-instructional languages

By KatiE HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer *

Walking through Chambers, one might
expect to hear an “hola” instead of a “hi,” or
an “au revoir” instead of a “good bye,” com-
ing from the room of a language class or an
assistant teacher (AT) session. But what
about an “an nyung” or “namaste?”

For students enrolled in a_ Self-
Instructional Language course, .learning and
comprehending such commonly unknown
words is often part of a daily routine, one
which involves motivation and dedication to
a self-structured language study.

Courses currently offered range from
Beginning Arabic to Continuing Japanese,
but “each semester is different,” according to
SIL program director and _ Associate
Professor of French Carol Kruger.

Course offerings depend on “whether we
can obtain appropriate materials, native-
speaking conversation partners, and an
examiner,” which are vital components of
each SIL study. Once these are secured, how-
ever, any upperclassman who has already
completed the college’s language require-
ment can apply for permission to put the
course on their WebTree.

Students enroll in SIL courses for various
reasons, including the fulfillment of a CIS
major or preparation for study-abroad.

Kruger warns that SIL courses “are not in
competition with classroom instruction,”.
since so much of the coursework is self-

Hour Traffic,” effectively highlighting his
musical versatility.

The band opened up the second set with
“April in Paris” by Count Basie featuring
Matt Petit ’08 on trombone and Mario Silva
’09 on trumpet.

As this selection was played, the audience
cried out “one more time,” and the band
played the tag line of the song again. This
exchange was repeated two more times.

It became evident by the end of the
evening that the band meshed well together
and respected each other for their musical
talents.

Petit said it was “really fun” playing with
the band. The electricity of the band created
a fun and warm atmosphere for all students
and visiting parents.

If you missed the jazz band this past week-
end, you truly missed out. .

However, there are more opportunities to
hear this wonderful ensemble throughout the
year.

The band will be going on its annual win-
ter tour during winter break and will have its
spring concert on April 7.

taught. Being self-instructional, these cours-
es require participating students to make a
strong commitment to their studies, one that
they must keep up with in order to maximize
their weekly meetings with a “conversation
partner.” .

These sessions, an integral component of
each SIL course, usually take place two to
three times per week for a weekly total of
150 minutes, emphasizing “speaking prac-
tice and oral communication,” according to
Kruger.

Liz Dover ’07 considers them
between AT and class.”

The conversation partners themselves,

“a mix

typically drawn from Davidson’s own stu- -

dent body and the outlying community, are
required to be native speakers of the lan-
guage.

As far as the largely self-study component
of the courses, there appear to be both posi-
tive and negative sides. “While it is frustrat-
ing to study alone,” said Megal Atias ’08, “it
is more convenient to plan your own sched-
ule.”

Amanda Kuker ’08 says that personal
motivation is key in that respect, since “the
student must go one step further than in a
normal, beginning level, language class and
steadily learn the material.”

She adds, “Students cannot just routinely
cram before tests because there are none, and
to procrastinate studying until the night
before the final exam—the only grade for the
semester—is obviously just a really bad

By ARIEL BUGOSH
Staff Writer

Carlos Fuentes, a Mexican writer and crit-
ic with international success, was selected as
the speaker this year in the Z. Smith
Reynolds lecture series.

Each year, the Public Lectures Committee
considers a list of nominated individuals as
potential speakers. Speakers are chosen on
the basis of their appeal to the college and
local community.

Based on his work and background,
Fuentes is one of the strongest choices they
could have made.

Fuentes, the son of a Mexican diplomat,
was born in Panama in 1928. He grew up in
cities throughout the Americas including
Buenos Aires, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro, and
Washington, D.C. Fuentes then went on to
study law in Mexico and Switzerland. Most
of his career has centered on Mexico; his
international experience gives him the abili-
ty to look at Mexico from both the inside and
the outside.

Fuentes has always made politics a central
part of his writing philosophy and even
served as ambassador to France. He has
achieved great success as a writer with
works including “Where the Air is Clearer”

(1958), “The Death of Artemio Cruz”
(1962), “Aura” (1962), “Terra Nostra”
(1975), “The Old Gringo” (1985), “The

Campaign” (1990), and “This I Believe: A
Life From A to Z” (2005).

His work has enjoyed both critical and
popular success. For example, “The Old
Gringo” was made into a movie in 1989 star-
ring Jane Fonda and Gregory Peck.

Among other prizes, Fuentes has received
the Romulo Gallegoz Prize in Venezuela
(1978), the prestigious National Prize in
Literature in Mexico (1984), and the Miguel
de Cervantes Prize awarded by King Juan
Carlos in Spain (1987). When he received it,
the Romulo Gallegoz Prize had only been
awarded to two others, and those were the
famous writers Mario Vargas Llosa and

., Fuentes to deliver lecture

Fuentes will speak tomorrow at 8 p.m.

Gabriel Garcia Marquéz.

Fuentes has also held teaching positions at
Cambridge, the University of Pennsylvania,
Cornell, Princeton, and Harvard, where he
inaugurated the Robert F. Kennedy Chair in
Latin American Studies.

Fuentes’ work is important because of his
place in Hispanic literature and in chroni-
cling Mexico’s development. As Spanish
Professor Luis Pefia notes, “Fuentes wrote
during the 1950s, when the traditional and
provincial Mexico collided with the attitudes
of modernization.”

Fuentes’ work laid the foundations for
many other writers. His work has cross-cul-
tural significance because of his understand-
ing of the interaction of Mexican and
American culture. ,

Part of Fuentes’ talent is his cosmopolitan
background. His work appeals to many dif-
ferent people. Pefia says that, “he can navi-
gate from the poorest areas of Mexico to the
highest elites.” In addition, Fuentes’ ideolo-
gy shines through without obstructing his
art: “He is very loyal to his ideas; he is polit-
ical but not partisan.”

Carlos Fuentes will be speaking in the
Duke Performance center on Thursday at 8
p.m. on “Celebrating Cervantes and Don
Quijote.” The event is free to the public but
requires tickets. It will be simulcast in the C.
Shaw Smith 900 Room.

broaden student horizons

decision.”

The final exam, usually an oral interview,
“counts for about 90 percent of the student’s
grade,” according to Kruger. “It is adminis-
tered by an outside examiner who knows
what material has been taught, so the appro-
priate expectations are there.”

So, want to try your hand at Hindi, or
make an attempt at Arabic?

“Students interested in taking a SIL course

next semester are expected to submit their
applications, which can be found on the
Davidson website, as soon as possible,” says
Kruger.

Even if your interests lie with a language
not currently offered, “we will work with
students to identify speakers on campus,”
and find appropriate materials, which is
something that may or may not lead to
another course offering.

}
48

==

5 ae < Be:

x: we care Masons <
aes War. © ea Mas ve ~ a
15% OFF
WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD
OR THIS COUPON !

R DELIVERY AVAILABLE
DAILY SPECIALS!

rs www.turn4pizza.com

NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm

(704) 655-4444

18059-8 W. Catawba Ave. ¢ Cornelius, NC

BUFFALO WINGS

FRESH HOMEMADE
DOUGH & SAUCE

HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
FRESH SALADS

OVER 20 VARIATIONS
OF BREADSTICKS

