10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Staff Editorial

Going with the Outsider

“I think SGA underestimates its own reach and ..
it limits its reach.”

As we contemplated this newspaper’s candidate endorsement
for the SGA presidential election, President Vagt’s words echoed
in our minds.

Davidson needs an SGA president that understands the capabil-
ities of the organization. More importantly, however, it needs
someone who is ready and willing to extend these capabilities.

The president should be someone who will act on behalf of the
students, not react. It should be someone who will fight for the
issues that are important to the student body — even those that have
been exhausted before the administration in the past — with confi-
dence and passion, rather than conceding the fight as unattainable
under the limits of the SGA.

It is with this in mind that the Davidsonian editorial board
endorses Ryan Arnold ’06 in the SGA presidential race.

Monday’s forum, moderated by this editorial board, gave each
of the candidates — Mr. Arnold, Christina Boye ’06, Sam Spencer
’07 and Francois Trappey ’06 — an opportunity to explain their
positions on issues important to the student body, from substance-
free housing to ATC allocations to pushing back our early spring
break. In addition, the candidates outlined their planned methods
of leadership.

While some might argue that positions on the issues rarely var-
ied, differences in each candidate’s approach to SGA leadership
stood out clearly. Both Mr. Trappey and Mr. Arnold conveyed the
proactive vision essential for an SGA president.

Mr. Trappey’s impressive récord as the current vice president
complemented his clear comprehension of the issues. His articula-
tion on ATC allocations and the restructuring of SGA committees,
among other things, reflected the extensive knowledge gained in
his three years as a member of the organization.

Yet at times Mr. Trappey seemed confined about issues facing
the SGA based on his experiences. His answers cited the limita-
tions of the tangled and disjunctured SGA bureaucracy, and plans
for accomplishing student priorities extended only as far as the
existing reaches of the government.

We need a president who will go further, and Mr. Arnold clear-
ly established himself as the candidate most anxious to do so. He
brings some much-needed energy and optimism from the outside.
While Mr. Arnold has no previous SGA experience, he repeatedly
emphasized his desire to test the limits of SGA’s reach, especially
in regard to issues that many in the SGA have given up on.

Some might say that winning on these issues is impossible.
People once said that about getting cable in our dorm rooms.
Those are not the people we want running our government.

The SGA needs to stop underestimating itself and its ability to
affect meaningful change on this campus.

It doesn’t take experience to understand that.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

. by doing so,

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams
Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

Letters to the Editor

Be respectful of the
Code when dining

The Honor Code states, “Stealing is
the intentional taking of any property
without right or permission.” The
amount of property stolen is irrelevant
to whether or not someone is guilty of
an Honor Code violation. I am in no
way advocating a kind of fear-driven
system that petrifies us so that we are
afraid to take a quarter off the ground.
Yet the Honor System does extends
beyond the classroom and the Court to
all facets of life at Davidson.

I am convinced that the vast majority
of problems in Commons and the Café
occur on account of students’ ignorance
of official Dining Service policies, not
because of our intent to steal.
Therefore, my aim in writing this letter
is to inform students both of the details
of such policies and of problems which
have occurred recently.

First, there have been instances of
students eating in Commons without
having swiped their CatCard. Eating a
meal in Commons without swiping is
an act of stealing and therefore a viola-
tion of the Honor Code. I do not believe
that the Commons staff should have to
observe vigilantly all students who
enter Commons. There should be the
same kind of trust in the dining room as
there is in the classroom. However,
being that several employees have seen
students eat without paying, we must
earn back their trust.

Second, students are not permitted to
take large quantities of food from
Commons. One of the privileges that
we enjoy is the opportunity to eat out-
side while getting food from
Commons. However, students should
not provide food for those who have
not paid. Dining Services presently has
a policy that only those who come to
Commons to eat may stay, but the situ-
ation changes when outside (for exam-
ple, if a student walks to the sophomore
apartments and sits down with a friend

outside). The point of these rules: take
only what you can eat.

Third, there have been occasions of
students leaving the Café without hav-
ing paid. In such cases, the students
sometimes return to pay, and other
times do not. I understand that honest
mistakes -happen: it is possible to leave
the Café without paying for an item,
remember your oversight, and then pay
for the item. However, it is not accept-
able to leave the Café intentionally
without paying for your food or drink.
In response, some will likely say that
their food comes out at different times.
So, why can they not leave the Café
with some of their food, and then pay
for all of it later? Purchasing your items
each time you leave diminishes the pos-
sibility of forgetting to pay. It also
allows the staff to be more attentive to
their jobs and less watchful of those
who come in and out of the Café.

If you have any~ questions regarding
the specific policies of Dining Services,
Dee Phillips would be glad to answer
them for you. We need to protect the
spirit of the Honor Code, inside and
outside of the classroom. No one wants
a system of nitpicky rules, nor is that
what I am promoting. Rather, common
sense will serve us well when using the
Dining Services.

Chris Knowles ’05
Former Honor Council Chair

CoHo alive
and well

In the past few weeks since Zach
Kazior’s article about CoHo’s struggles
to maintain our presence on campus,
CoHo has already seen drastic
improvements. We are officially, out of
debt both to the school and to our for-
mer Treasurer, Anne Pearlstein ’06,
thanks to the membership board bills of
our 26 house members, including our

freshmen and transfers. Our commit-
tees have started concocting all sorts of
fun ideas for social gatherings, like our
housewarming party this Sunday at 9
p.m. to watch The Simpson’s episodes
and eat ice cream. And our pet fish have
returned to their home in our fireplace
aquarium and are enjoying our remod-
eled digs as much as fish with three
second memories can.

We are in the process of raising funds
via T-shirt sales at www.joberison.com.
There are some sweet T-shirts there,
including an “I Heart Campus Police”
shirt that Chief Fountain Walker him-
self has ordered. Orders must be sub-
mitted by Valentine’s Day. At the same
time we are using our house events to
help define us and open up the house to
let people get to know us (i.e. “CoHo
is... Movies” Wednesdays at 10 p.m. or
“CoHo is... knitting” Fridays at 3 p.m).

We would like to thank Dean Bray-
Merrell, Donna Hamm, Joy Hamm, the
e-board of Rusk, and President Vagt for
their tireless support, help and guid-
ance.

In short, my friends, it looks like
CoHo may not be such a question mark
on campus anymore. So come and
check us out.

Aubrey Groves ’06
CoHo President

The Davidsonian wel-
comes letters to the
editor. Please e-mail
submissions of less

than 250 words to

davidsonian @ david-
son.edu. We reserve
the right to edit for
content, brevity and
grammar.

A Modest Proposal: Keep Southern-free housing

By TREY SKINNER AND SCOTT BUCKHOUT
Guest Columnists

As students from the North, we are concerned to hear that
SGA is considering altering Davidson’s Southern-free hous-
ing option.

The prospect of good Northerners being forced to live next
to, or even with, Southerners makes us sick. It’s almost as if
the Civil War was all for naught.

SGA forgets the principals of self-isolation and exclusivi-
ty that this country was founded on and that our fathers
fought and died to defend. They forget that Davidson tries so
hard to make communities that avoid unnecessary mixing.

This potential policy change is an affront to the Davidson.

way.

It’s bad enough that we have to sit next to them in class.
Always coming in just as the bell is ringing, walking at an
unnecessarily leisurely pace, “sir” apd “ma’am”-ing every-
one along the way, reeking of moonshine and fried okra. This
just must be part of the college experience. -

At least we can rest assured that after we graduate \ we will
never have to deal with Southerners again.

As Northerners who are dedicated to living out the princi-
ples that the North stands for, we are upset.

We just prefer a different atmosphere. We feel that we
belong in the dorms closer to the library and tennis courts.

Southerners don’t read: Why would they want to be near the

academic center of campus? I’m sure the Southerners actual-
ly enjoy being down the hill; it’s closer to nature. It reminds
them of their rural plantation homes and the fields they used
to harvest when they were young.

Also we hate listening to songs like “Sweet Home
Alabama” and “Dixie” being blasted at late hours of the
night, on weekdays no less.

Of course, we have heard of some Southerners living in
Southern-free housing. It’s no secret. One simply needs to
walk down a Southern-free hall and listen to what is happen-
ing behind the closed doors...banjoes, fiddles and square
dancing!

Trey once went in a Southern-free battuoom and saw a
Southerner hooking up with his sister! This kind of stuff
should stay off our halls. That trash may fly in that Lect
they call Richardson, but not in Little. No sir!

We strongly encourage SGA to keep Southern-free fice.
ing. We Northerners require a quieter, more civilized and
unadulterated dorm.

It’s hard enough to succeed academically at Davidson. It
would be even harder if we were forced to live with
Southerners.

Trey Skinner is a sophomore religion major from Westport,
CT, and Scott Buckhout is a sophomore from Cincinnati,
OH. Contact them at trskinner@davidson.edu and scbuck-
hout@ davidson.edu.
