4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apartments, continued from page 1

this was not the first time Knox has had
problems with its heating and air condition-
ing systems,” George Kallop said. “I

‘resolved to call Davidson’s administration
the following morning.”

Resident advisors alerted RLO when heat-
ing systems shut down on the afternoon of
Jan.18. A physical plant technician addressed
the problem and heat returned.

Later that evening, a different malfunction
occurred, and the heat shut off again.

RLO did not receive notification of the
second failure until the following morning.

“On the night the heat was off, the moons
were aligned and several problems happened
coincidentally,” said David Holthouser,
Director of Facilities and Engineering.

In response to the overnight failure, a tech-
nician checked and repaired all eight fur-
naces. Associate Dean of Students Leslie

a

NEws

Marsicano sent out an e-mail to students that
explained the heat failure and provided an
emergency service-number to call in case of
another after-hours failure.

“T think that the administration did their
best once they knew about it,” Kallop said.
“What remains to be seen is what Davidson
will do to avoid similar problems in the
future.”

RLO has. received more than 40 mainte-
nance requests related to heat and air condi-
tioning in the sophomore apartments since
the start of the academic year. :

Since the Jan. 18 repairs, most rooms have
maintained a comfortable temperature; how-
ever, several students reported frustration
with unreliable room temperature control
during interviews for this article.

“Once the heat was fixed, it did a complete
180 and became unbearably hot,” Ty White
’07 said. ““That’s where we stand right now. I

Sophomore apartments have sinks in the bathroom and not in dorm rooms.

HELP WANTED

MATURE, RESPONSIBLE FEMALE TO HELP
WITH MY THREE YOUNG CHILDREN. MAY
INCLUDE SOME LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING.
WILLING TO SUBMIT TO BACKGROUND CHECK.
MONDAY THROUGH THRUSDAY,

4-6 HOURS A DAY.

DAYS AND TIMES FLEXIBLE BUT PREFER
MORNING HOURS.
$10.00 / HOUR
CPR EXPERIENCE PREFERRED AND BABYSITTING
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES REQUIRED.
MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION.
PLEASE CALL STACEY IF INTERESTED
704-894-0986

Make law school
a reality.

Higher LSAT score guaranteed
or your money back.

Planning to take the June 2005 exam?

Preparation begins February 20th
on the Davidson College Campus

Only Kaplan provides complete preparation for the LSAT.
Call or visit us online today.

KAPLAN

1-800-KAP-TEST

kaptest.com/isat
Test Prep and
*LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law S c **C and
SPY Cot Sore ere evarenes somnaey (29 -com/hsg. The Higher Score
So only Atco cigativyloendvemed acces grenly ern. Abie din gins Bye tele
CIEE SES

haven’t slept in my bed for a long time. I’ve
been sleeping on the couch with the win-
dows open.”

Marsicano emphasizes the importance of
reporting problems to resident advisors so
that RLO and physical plant workers can
promptly address the issue.

“Tt is not our intention for students to be
uncomfortable,” Marsicano said. “Once noti-
fied, we try to respond as quickly as possi-
ble.”

Resident Advisor Elizabeth Ireland ’07
said she has appreciated RLO’s responsive-
hess to maintenance requests and overall
accessibility; however, she believes that stu-
dents would benefit greatly from compre-
hensive renovation efforts.

“It’s frustrating that the sophomore apart-
ments do not have many of the amenities
offered up the hill, such as built in closets or
sinks,” Ireland said. “I think that there
should be more of an emphasis placed on
renovating these buildings.”

Students commonly refer to Akers, Knox
and Irwin by the nickname “Sophomore
Slums.”

In addition to air-conditioning and heat
problems, students cite small room size, poor
lighting, lack of sinks in rooms, poor air cir-
culation and poorly-ventilated windows as
disadvantages to living down the hill.

Furthermore, their proximity to Patterson
Court cause them to suffer additional dam-
age from intoxicated students.

“The sophomore apartments are the most
undesirable dorms on campus,” Matt
McCarville ’07 said. “There will always be
discrepancies between housing options—
that is why we have the lottery system—but
when it comes to sophomore apartments the
playing field needs to be leveled.”

Future renovation plans are not concrete,
but the sophomore apartments are among the
top items of consideration.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Budget constraints and the last summer’s
costly renovation of Belk will determine the
extent to which dorms can be modified this
summer.

Duke and Martin Court F, which have not
been renovated since 1992 and 1994, respec-
tively, are also under consideration for major
renovations.

“The sophomore apartments are slated for
renovation .sooner rather than later,”
Marsicano said. “It is ifportant for students
to understand that there are buildings that
need to be renovated more urgently than
Knox, Irwin and Akers, and they will be ren-
ovated first.”

The sophomore apartments were built in
the early 1980s to relieve housing shortages
on campus. “Those buildings are difficult,”
Marsicano said. “They were built as tempo-
rary structures. One was built in about 90
days. They are not the sort of thing we would
build again.”

When the sophomore apartments were
built, a single thermostat determined the .
temperature of all the rooms on a hall.
Davidson hired a mechanical engineering
firm in 1996 to develop a system that would
provide more individual control.

The heat system is an intermediate step
between no individual control and full indi-
vidual control. “This system is vastly better
conceptually because it recognizes and
responds to seven rooms wanting different
temperatures,” Holthouser-said. “The bad
news with this system is that there are more
moving parts, and that causes maintenance
staff to put in a lot of effort down there.”

According to Holthouser, the 1996 renova- |
tion was the best solution available at the
time. He attributes recent failures to the
wear and tear caused by years of use.

Most dorms on campus are on a 10-year *
renovation.cycle. The last major renovation
took place in 1996.

em
a

sae

Gn CHEESE ~
||

Navela

\frs

vel MELT ” VEGGIE BURGER - vel HONG
VEGEIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES CAESAR SALAD

Plas: FRESH SWEETED me JUICE
HOMEMADE awa raw AND 3 ,

tant think of 0s
vegetarian farel-—

TheSoa Sop

14'S Main ST, Davioson= HC

VEGETABLE SOUP v4
/ /f /

/

Eat-in Take-out
896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

