10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
MARCH 16, 2005

Staff Editorial

Students need one voice

The common complaint by students during the Student
Government Association campaign last month, as it is on an
almost annual basis, was that that SGA has tended to be highly
ineffective in facilitating meaningful change in this community.

But it seems SGA is inherently limited in its power because it is
not trusted to be the unified student voice on this campus.

Three weeks ago, for example, SGA weighed in on the sub-
stance-free housing issue in a 21-4-1 vote to end sub-free housing
for all classes beginning in Fall 2006.

Unfortunately, the SGA voice, supposedly representative of the
entire student body, was not the only documented student view on
the issue

After SGA approved its resolution, the Council on Campus and
Religious Life, a standing advisory committee to the president that
includes seven faculty members and 13 students, issued another
resolution on the matter.

CCRL looked at both SGA’s resolution and a proposal calling
for the adoption of sub-free halls interspersed throughout campus
before opting for the latter and going against SGA’s strong
endorsement to get rid of sub-free housing altogether.

On the surface, it appears that the CCRL recommendation indi-
cates a change in student perspective after working with faculty
and administration on the issue. Students have a clear majority on
the committee, and the representatives also represent a diverse
group of interests on this campus.

CCRL appears to be a logical extension of the SGA process, as
it provides collaboration between the student voice and the facul-
ty and administration.

In reality, however, CCRL does nothing more than distort the
student voice. While students may hold a majority on the commit-
tee, which gives the perception that it is another strong student
voice, the vote of the committee can often be controlled by a pow-
erful administrative presence that can easily overpower its student
- counterparts.

In the case of its recent meeting, for example, Dr. Fred Smith, a
vocal sub-free proponent, was the moderator. Minutes of the meet-
ing show that SGA’s proposal was never seriously considered.

The structure of the process, in which CCRL hears cases on
selected policy matters only after they get through SGA, implies
that CCRL’s student voice is actually above SGA.

Instead, the SGA must not only be the final student voice, but
the only student voice. We must recognize the CCRL as what it is:
a faculty board disguised as a collaborative effort.

CCRL should become a parallel process to SGA involving only
Davidson faculty. That would force the two sides to collaborate in
all phases of the policy process instead of for a few hours after so
many have been logged by SGA and. other student committees
prior to that point.

Furthermore, it would force SGA to respect its responsibility as
the unified student voice, and give the body much-needed power
in the process.

Then, SGA might finally be able to enact change at Davidson.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor

Mike Giglio

News Editors

Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yowl Editor

Brendan Parets

Sports Editors

Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

+ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR *

Trustees’ decision
misleading

David Crow’s_ recent article
(“Alumni split on Bylaw change,” Feb.
23) deals with, among other things, the
Trustees’ decision to establish an
endowed chair in Reformed Theology
in the Religion Department. Crow cites
and discusses President Vagt’s rationale
for the position—a rationale that I find
difficult and misleading.

The article ably renders President
Vagt’s explanation, noting that “Up
until 1998, Professor Sandy McKelway
had taught courses in Reformed
Theology. After his retirement, howev-
er, he was never directly replaced.”

Professor McKelway, a systematic
theologian, taught no courses that were
focused exclusively on Reformed the-
ology: past catalogs will show that he
taught an Introduction to Theology
(“Basic Christian Beliefs”), the
Reformation (both Luther and Calvin),
19th and 20th-century theology, and
modern critics of religion. His own
research and writing were clearly
informed by the trajectory of Reformed
theology that ran from Calvin to Barth,
but his teaching had breadth and a char-
acteristic concern for the foundations of
theological thinking.

It is also worth noting that, with one
exception, all of Professor McKelway’s
courses continue to be taught in the
Religion Department. Though these
courses inevitably reflect a different
professor’s own concerns and methods,
the department maintains as part of its
regular offerings courses in introduc-
tion to theology, modern Christian
thought, and modern critics of reli-
gion—and these with ample expertise
(that the article suggests was never
replaced).

Thus, I find it hard to understand the

perception ofa curricular gap left by
Professor McKelway’s retirement that
the proposed chair somehow needs to
meet. The President’s rationale, when
made on this basis, is misinformed on
both the department’s past teaching of
theology as well as its present curricu-

lum.
_ Karl A. Plank
Chair, Department of
Religion

C.U.’s Churchill
should be fired

Despite the arguments. made by
Ashish George in his “Lighten Up” col-
umn (Feb. 16), University of Colorado
Professor Ward Churchill’s comments
are indefensible.

There comes a time when freedom of
expression devolves into hateful and
disgusting rhetoric. Comparing my
neighbors and friends murdered on
9/11 to Nazis and arguing they
deserved to die lacks any academic
grounding.

Imagine similar comments directed
toward blacks, Muslims or the handi-
capped and envision the rightful moral
outrage that would ensue.

I do not question his fundamental
right to free speech, but I do challenge
the appropriateness of the forum in
which he is permitted to express him-
self. KKK members should not be pro-
fessors because of theif sadistic and
abhorrent beliefs.

For some reason a handful of
Americans -refuse to apply the same
logic to Ward Churchill because they
sympathize with his anti-American
self-loathing approach to our nation
and its people.

Jack Hubbard ’06

yo.
Lack of sororities
reveals gender
bias at Davidson

I’m glad that so many women are
happy with eating houses here, but we
should consider certain issues of
inequality in our social lives here at
Davidson.

Why should women settle for one
option when our men have two? There
is a coed eating house, and men can
choose whether they want to participate
in either Greek life or an eating house.
The only choice women have at
Davidson is the eating house.

Is it because we can’t handle the
pressures of catty bids versus Court
Selection? There’s no need for pater-
nalistic protection. If men can handle it,
I’m sure we can.

Some might ask, what about the
women who wouldn’t have chosen
Davidson if there were sororities? What
about the women who did not choose
Davidson because there are no sorori-
ties? Is Davidson afraid that its women
will suddenly become drunken, over-
sexed, and bitchy? Are you not making
assumptions about an entity based on
stereotypes? |

Why can we start any club or organ-
ization our hearts desire—except soror-
ities? People say there is little student
interest, but why isn’t it enough if five
people are interested? Could it be that
there is a gender bias within our dear
old Davidson’s policies?

Even if you have no interest in join-
ing a sorority, what does it mean that
even if you wanted to; you couldn’t?

Why not ask why?

Trenita Brookshire, Felicia
Brown and Phia Salter ’05

“Breast” lecture ignores the real issues"

By Joe TAYLOR

Guest Columnist

Students, local residents, and screaming babies alike were
in attendance for “Beauty and the Breast,” an analysis of our
cultural perception of breasts and breast feeding by Dr.
Kathryn Dettwyler of Texas A&M University. Unfortunately,
what they experienced was a gross oversimplification of an
important and interesting issue in our society.

Much like Dr. Hesse Biber did in her presentation “The
Cult of Thinness” one year ago, Dr. Dettwyler utilized ten-
year-old advertisements to present her ideas on the way in
which our culture perceives everything breast. By choosing
irrelevant slides and intentionally misinterpreting them in
order to support her position and make the audience laugh,
Dr. Dettwyler effectively eliminated any important dialogue
about the issues and the ways in which people can come to
understand the complexity of them.

Throughout her presentation, Dr. Dettwyler continuously
restated her insight that the purpose of the breast is to feed
offspring. In the most limited, physiological sense possible
Dr. Dettwyler is correct. Ironically, though, the professor of
anthropology failed to fully explore the cultural functions of
breasts and their undeniably important role in sexuality.
Stating that the purpose of the breast is to feed offspring is
analogous to stating that the purpose of sex is to pass on your
genes; there is more to the breast than physiological function
just as there is more to sexual intercourse than ensuring the
survival of the human race. The portrayal of breasts in media
is often grotesque, but Dr. Dettwyler is hot going to make
progress with her primitive position. The disgusting men
who drool over the Coors Lite twins are not going to have a
moment of revelation and think, “Gee, those are for feeding
children.”

Dr. Dettwyler seemed utterly amazed that the public could
be uncomfortable with a child feeding from an exposed teat

just as a piglet suckles a sow. I have no problem with breast
feeding in public, as long as it is done with as much privacy
as possible, but I understand that there are going to be issues
when a part of the body associated with sex is revealed in
public. People are not going to become spontaneously okay
with it, regardless of how many times Dr. Dettwyler repeats
her insight or flashes the picture of the naked woman from
Africa with a child latched onto her nipple. :

The worst part of Dr. Dettwyler’s presentation, however,
was the seemingly endless barrage of old advertisements,
health brochures, and pamphlets that purportedly showed a
negative image of breast feeding. Dr. Dettwyler explicitly
stated that subliminal messages in formula advertisements
such as the visibility of a wedding ring or the breadth of a
smile influenced women to choose the bottle over the breast.
Dr. Dettwyler went through slide after slide criticizing com-
panies for not denigrating their own products such as bottles
and baby formula. It was as if these companies were employ-
ing some incredibly powerful psychological tool that forced
people to make the morally reprehensible choice of feeding
their children with bottles.

After a painful two hours laced with predictable attempts
at humor and insight, Dr. Dettwyler failed to make any sig-
nificant points in her analysis of breasts in the same way that
Dr. Hesse Biber failed to make any significant points in her
analysis of body image; both speakers highlighted problems
in our society and shifted the blame from individual people
to some large, intangible construction of the media. In fact,
neither of these presentations empowered women because
they implied that their decisions can be attributed to nothing
less than mind-controlling subliminal messages. Ironically,
both Dr. Hesse Biber and Dr. Dettwyler empowered the very
thing that they chose to criticize the media.

Joe Taylor is a junior neuroscience major from Poland,
Oh. Contact him at jotaylor@ davidson.edu.
