. ARTS

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OcTOBER 5, 2005

International students adjust to college life

By KATIE HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

To many students, the idea of “studying
abroad” often produces exotic images of dis-
tant locations, where one can experience life
with people and cultures much different
from their own. Caught up in these overseas
fantasies, Davidson students often forget that
their own college serves as a foreign study
site for over 50 international students, who
hail from many far-off and fascinating
places.

Ranging from Quito to Mumbai, the
hometowns of Davidson international stu-
dents span the globe, encompassing an ines-
timable variety of cultures and ethnicities.
How these students assimilate into life at
Davidson is its own story.

Before starting classes, international stu-
dents are required to come for International
Student Orientation (ISO), a four-day long
program meant to help them adapt to
American life and form a support system
within the campus and community.

Though much of what goes on concerns
administrative issues like social security
numbers and immigration regulations, a
large component of ISO includes “providing
a time for people to talk about culture shock,
get over jet lag, and connect with each
other,” according to International Student
Advisor Anna Marie Siegel.

Davidson also coordinates an international
student host-family program, which Siegel
believes-“helps the students adjust to life in
the States upon arrival, since the families
pick them up at the airport and often house
them the first night.”

Maria Jose Mejia °’09, from Quito,
Ecuador, believes in the importance of these
programs. “The ISO and my host family
have become a great source of support,” she
states. “I feel that it

Americans.”

Jennifer Bienert, a 22-year old German
exchange student from the University of
Wiirzburg, thinks “having a host family is
great, because you feel like you took some
part of your family with you to America.”
Bienert, however, found Davidson’s general

Freshman Orientation to be “a little bor-
ing,” because she and other one-year
exchange students “were left out of the activ-
ities planned by freshmen halls.”

From left, Kwesi Fynn ’08 from Ghana, Peter Simov ’08 from Bulgaria, Evgeny

“T still find it strange that we have the
same class two or three times a week, and
only four courses,” says Bienert. “In
Germany, we usually have between eight and
twelve different courses, but each one only
once a week.”

Bienert also said that the workload is
“much, much greater” here than at her uni-
versity, but that the quality of courses at
Davidson “‘is better.” Mejia admits that it has
been tricky to “manage time wisely,” but she

Dengub ’05 from Russia, Anna Henig from Germany, and Ana Cristina Valencia ’08
from Ecuador at the 2005 host family picnic.

Overall, Davidson’s international students
do not encounter many problems when it
comes to campus acceptance and inclusion.

Many, like Mejia, have forged strong rela-
tionships with both American and other
international students. “I hang out with my
friends from the Odyssey, my hall-mates,
and my international friends,” she states,

made my transition

“and I have made

to college life so
much easier because
of the relationships
I’ve built through
them.”

My best friends here, and prob-
ably the closest friends I’ ve ever
had, are all American. The cul-
tural gaps are there, but I think
it just makes it even more inter-

friends with people
from other groups
too.”

Valencia main-
tains that even
though her friends
back home felt as if

Fellow
Ecuadorian student esting.
Ana Christina

Valencia °08, how-

--Ana Cristina Valencia ’08

“the cultures were
too different” for her
to form close rela-

ever, believes ISO
“makes it easy for international students to
segregate themselves. It is easier to keep
hanging out with the friends you first made
when you came here, especially if they were
part of a support network when you most
needed it,” she says, “but you are also miss-
ing out on many great relationships with

jt.
ie ee 8 Cink
ee
15% OFF

Win DAVIDSON CATCARD
~ OR THIS COUPON !

eo
sa Oe ptr

aby DELIVERLAVAILABLE (7Q4) 655-4444

DAILY SPECIALS!

gpZA =o

NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm

tionships with
Americans, “my best friends here, and prob-
ably the closest friends I’ve ever had, are all
American. The cultural gaps are there, but I
think it just makes it even more interesting.”

It has proven a little more difficult for
some of the international students to adjust
to other aspects of Davidson.

18059-8 W. Catawha Ave. * Cornelius, NC

BUFFALO WINGS

¢ FRESH HOMEMADE
DOUGH & SAUCE

¢ HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
¢ FRESH SALADS

¢ OVER 20 VARIATIONS
OF BREADSTICKS

has “always had a problem with that.”

International students also have to adjust
to different kinds of food and to a new room-
mate, which might present some digestive
and cultural conflicts.

For Nicolas Cisneros °09, the overall
adaptation to cultural differences has been
challenging, because “back home in Quito,

values about family, love, and relationships
are different.” He also finds that “some
American people are very open minded and
accepting,” but that “others are close-minded
and try to keep themselves within a comfort
zone.”

One way for the campus to promote
acceptance, he suggests, is for the
Admissions Office to recruit more interna-
tional students. If there were a larger foreign
student contingent at Davidson, overall cam-
pus integration and acceptance of interna-
tional students might be made easier and
more natural.

Valencia admits that if she was American,
“it would take me a long time before I ‘break
the order’ and go sit in the middle of the
international table at Commons. I think it’s

- easier for us as internationals to make that

first step because we’ve already moved to a
place outside of our comfort zone, and we

_ are not as caught up in stereotypes,” she said.

By appreciating newfound opportunities at
Davidson, many international students have
come to view the adjustment process in a
positive light. Bienert finds “all the possibil-
ities of sports, clubs, and associations on
campus” to be attractive, while Valencia val-
ues campus safety measures and the efficien-
cy of systems here to those in Ecuador. “For
the most part, things here actually work the
way they are supposed to work and people
follow the law.”

As far as encountering labels and preju-
dices, Valencia states “I think in the end
that’s the whole point of being here.” “If
there is a stereotype about Latin Americans
or Ecuadorians that I don’t agree with, then
the best thing I can do is get out and show
that it isn’t always true. I’m glad I can say
that I haven’t felt discriminated at all here at
Davidson, but it is different outside the bub-:
ble.” .

