THE DAVIDSONIAN

Service, continued from page 1

Molinary’s sudden resignation has had a
strong impact on many Bonner Scholars.

“T understand that Rosie has felt moved to
leave Davidson due to her, disagreement
with one of the college’s underlying princi-
ples,” Adam Gerstenmier ’05 said. “Rosie’s
decision was meant to make a statement
regarding this principle, and it surely will.”

Bonner Scholar Megan Roberts ’07 also
commented on Molinary’s departure.

“T think it is a shame that Rosie will be
leaving Davidson, however, I support her
decision to do so,” she said. “Rosie’s enthu-
siasm towards devoting our lives to our
community and to our beliefs has brought
inspiration to me and others. She will be
greatly missed.”

Ahsan Lee will complete her two-year
term as Community Service Fellow this
June. She plans on working for a nonprofit
organization in Charlotte next year.

Ahsan Lee has noticed the growth of var-
ious community service programs at the
College within the past two years alone.

“During my. time at Davidson, the service
programs have really come into their own,”
she said. “Since I have been working here,
we've started an internship program that
allows students to have a chance to work in

Pittard and Molinary (standing) will be leaving the Community Service office.

NEws

the office which has been really postive for
us and them.”

Pittard has watched the Community
Service Office grow and evolve from the
part time job it was 30 years ago to the suc-
cessful program it is today. “

Pittard and Molinary are confident about
the strength of the office they are leaving.

“We live in a place that believes and puts
its resources behind its beliefs,” Molinary
said.

A committee is currently trying to find
Pittard’s replacement. Once found, this per-
son will help select Molinary’s: successor.

Katie Lipsett ’05 will take the place of
Ahsan Lee in the fall.

Bonner Scholar Sarah Caitlin Mattingly
’06 is certain that the Community Service
Office will continue to be successful in
reaching out to students and enacting its
mission.

“T think what they [Molinary and Pittard]
are doing takes’a lot of courage, and I really
respect them for that,” Mattingly said. “Ruth

is leaving to travel around the country doing
service work, and Rosie is leaving because
of a college practice she disagrees with on
an idealistic level. We are all going to miss
them so much, but I think that they’ve
taught us well and are now called to be liv-
ing examples of their work.”

10 by Jessica He ulee

2005 Omicron Delta Kappa Inductees

Omicron Delta Kappa is a national leadership honor society which rec-
ognizes students for leadership in campus or community service, social
and religious activities, athletics, student government, journalism and the
creative and performing arts. Juniors and seniors who have significantly
contributed to campus life in one of these areas and who are ranked in
the top 35% of their class are eligible for membership °

Members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel
that the following students deserve to be recognized with this award.

Alison Marie Anderson
Christopher Yeatts Anderson
Ashley Elizabeth Barber
April Lynn Barnado
Rebecca Behizadeh

Kevin Kirby Bell —
Stephanie Bouts.
Sarah Ashcom Budischak
Yin Chow —

Erin Frances Cobain
_ Daniel Eppes « Coslett —
Brendan Michael Dete
- Kelly Erin Fillmow
Meghan Ashley Fillnow.
Laura Julia Filosa _
Michael Barton Flake
Amanda Sophie Green
Courtney Richter Hamilton:
Jessica Suzanne Heilweil
Leslie Hirst Hempson
Anderson Patrick Heston
Nupur Murugesh Hiremath
Frankie Taylor Jones, Jr.
_ Hannah.Kim —
Caroline Bryer Levy

\

Elizabeth Ellen Mannino
Lucy. Evelyn Marcil
Garrett M. Monda -

Elizabeth Anne Pandolfi

George Barratt Park Il!
Amee Govind Patel
Emily Annette Pinson
McLean Montgomery Quinn
- Walker Fleming Saik
Kevin O'Neil Saunders
__ Andrew Daniel Schapiro
‘ William Simon ‘Scheffers, Jr.
Leslie Michelle Smith
Sally Keirsey Stanhope ©
Kendal Anne Stewart
Joseph Jeffrey Taylor
Marc Orion Vinson
Rachael Jo Voyles
Brenda Marie Weigand
Katherine H Winter
Andrew Dennis Yancey
Heather Marie Yopp
Kathryn Linn Zeh  ~
Faculty Inductee: Fred H. Smith
Staff Inductee: James Nash

Religion, continued from page 1

to talk about meetings with departments.”

Ross did say that he recognized the poten-
tial difficulties of establishing a new chair
and believes that the meeting helped provide
some context for the decision.

“Departments should have a sensitivity to
these issues, so I take no offense that they
asked questions about the timing,” Ross
said.

Within the Religion Department itself,
reaction to the meeting was mixed. —

“There was a gaining of mutual under-
standing of the two views and I got the sense
that we said what can be said and that we
were understood,” Plank said.

Others still expressed disappointment
after the meeting.

“T think the President tried to convince us
that in the discussion the-trustees had there
was no perception that the religion depart-
ment was bad, which in some ways is com-
forting,” Foley said. “But I felt like you can
either be thought badly of or you can not be
thought of at all and both can be equally
hurtful, and it seems clear to me that the lat-
ter was what occurred here.”

_dhe faculty did agree that creating such a

“Chair might be appropriate for a school such

as Davidson, but they said that the timing for

such a chair is wrong.

“Creating a chair in Reformed theology
isn’t bad but it has to do with the timing,”
said Foley. “To add another position of the-
ology at this time gives us too much of one
thing, namely Christian thought, and makes
us short on others.”

Ross, however, believes that sometimes
such timing issues are hard to avoid. “There
is always the possibility of an issue associat-
ed with the timing of a proposal to establish
a chair,” he said. “Donors can well approach
the College before we have discussed a
prospect with a department.”

Implications for future growth

The move to create an endowed chair in
Reformed theology raises several questions
as to how the Religion Department will be
able to grow in the future.

This new chair is the second that was not
the result of a formal request from the
Religion department added in recent years .

The last chair added to the department

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005 5

was the Rolston chair in science and reli-
gion, which was created aftet a donation was
made specifically to endow an expert in that
area.

According to Plank, for both the new chair
in Reformed theology and the Rolston chair
in science and religion, the Religion
Department had little or no say in what areas
the new faculty members would teach.

The department was able to write the
advertisement and chose the finalists for the
Rolston professorship within the context of
the chair’s purpose, however.

With two new faculty members added to
the Religion Department in such a short
amount of time, there is a concern within the
department that they will not be able to offer
new courses in areas where they currently
lack expertise, such as Islam.

Vagt and Ross did try to assuage concerns
at the meeting that these new chairs would
not affect the department’s ability to grow.

“If there is a clear deficiency curricularly
within the offerings in religion and we have
the funds to address the issue, we will reme-
dy such a situation,” Ross said.

Some faculty remain skeptical of that
claim, however.

“While the President and the Dean tried to
assure us that this decision would not affect
our department’s expansion in directions of
our own choosing, I do think it will be hard
for us to make a fair case for such expansion
if there are other departments that have
classrooms consistently more packed than
ours,” Foley said.

Going forward

Despite the concerns within the depart-
ment, Plank feels it is important to try and
work with the administration and the
trustees as much as possible to ensure that
whoever is chosen for the position will be
the best fit for the department.

Among the best ways Plank sees to ensure
both the College and the department benefit
from the new chair is to have the department
play an active role in the search for the new
faculty member.

“The president assured us that the process
would be one of integrity and that we would
have a voice in the matter,” Plank said. ‘‘We

will try and find someone whose theological
interests don’t overlap too much with the
existing department.”

cl

iy

he

woot a VBs x
We oY bj

Just agg wate™

a)

4

aan

Sanaa’

university of north carolina wilmington

summer school 2005

Session I May 19 - June 21

Session Il June 27 - July 28

For more information,
call 910.962.3243 or 910.962.3876 or 800.589.2829

e-mail summer@uncw.edu

or visit our web site www.uncw.edu/summsch

ity/affirmative action institution
