. PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 26, 2005

Staff Editorial

Saving Davidson?

In the focus on preparing “disciplined and creative minds for
lives of leadership and service,” according to Davidson College’s
Statement of Purpose, a great deal of attention is placed on the
quality of the faculty-student interactions, the residence hall envi-
ronment, character-building athletics, opportunities for service
and leadership development, and vibrant religious life.

Is that always enough?

Specifically, this college must come to grips with the role that
the off-campus environment plays in creating the on-campus
experience.

An admissions viewbook will tout, justifiably, many betiefits of
Davidson’s locale: proximity to a fast-growing metropolitan city;
the comforts of suburbia, a quick drive down I-77 in the lake’s
communities; and a small Southern town—the kind of place where
everyone knows everyone, and where they go to church, too.

Unfortunately, that city is sprawling ever closer, that interstate
is clogged with congestion that routinely spills over onto Main
Street, and the small town feel is increasingly endangered by
growing populations.

The issue of growth is fraught with controversy. Landowners
want to realize the paper increases in their lands’ worth; environ-
mentalists want to preserve open and green space. College towns
make a far better recruiting pitch—but what fair way is there to
determine who does and who doesn’t get to live here, except pri-
vate markets? If markets price out the poor from among us, will
Davidson’s country club ethic be reinforced and its service ethic
be diminished?

As we report this week, restricting housing supply to fight
development increases the cost of living, potentially pricing start-
ing professors out of the market. But if professors choose not to
live in town—because of affordability alone—will that not reflect
negatively on the quality of after-hours student-faculty interac-
tion?

Years and years ago, the college used—perhaps sometimes
abused—its tremendous influence to shape Davidson’s growth.
Appropriately, it abandoned that goal to focus resources inward.
Aside from tailored policies like the land-lease program and pre-
serving the integrity of the Ecological Preserve, Davidson College
has no standing policies vis-a-vis development in the town.

When the college intervened in town affairs then, it was out of
luxury. Now it might be time to return to that approach in part, out
of necessity, to preserve the Davidson experience. We recognize
that the Davidson experience of 40 years ago meant rural, not col-
lege town, and daily Presbyterian chapel, not a Jewish Student
Union. The Davidson experience does change—but how it
changes is worth a conversation.

Growth is necessary and important, but if done too fast it can be
difficult to channel, outpacing physical or social infrastructure.

Only the college has the institutional resources and longevity to
tackle this problem.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie M¢Keon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman
Yow! Edit
Bobby Kenner, && Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
. Monica Jamouneau.& Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
(Jessica Hodge:
ee

Advertising en cians ‘Mstagers
Sarah Bogue & Janielle Milanes”

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Runaway growth
threatens town

As an alum and resident of
Davidson, I wish to affirm the concerns
about developers and new develop-
ments expressed by Sam Spencer IV in
his October 5 column, “Mini-Birkdales
to Change Community.” Like Sam,
“perhaps I’m just too old-fashioned to
savor the fruits of progress” brought on
by the runaway growth ethic choking
this region.

By the time Sam graduates, there
will be two new “mini-Birkdales”
directly impacting Davidson—a heavi-
ly commercial one at exit 30 and in the
northeastern edge of Cornelius. The
Davidson outlet at South Street for this
high density residential/commercial
complex will be ready well before
Cornelius’ own connection—even
though it is being built there!

Whose interests are being served? Of
course, it will add to the heavy traffic
that fills Main Street and will exert
even greater pressure on the Town
Board to “gut” old Davidson by con-
necting roads and tearing down build-
ings. The town as we know it may very
well disappear.

Students of Davidson, ask your-
selves: do you want to return in the
future to a small college town that

know? Do you want your children to be
able to see the college town you
remembered? Do you want parents and
prospective students to choose this
unique place for four years of their
lives?

Or do you want to see it swallowed
up by largely uncontrolled Charlotte
metropolitan sprawl? Wake up and
fight for the local quality of life that is
at risk!

William E. Jackson Jr. ’57

Swim team ts not
to be ignored

I am a member of the swim team
here at Davidson and supporter of all
the Division I athletics we have to offer
at our school. On behalf of the Men’s
and Women’s Swimming and Diving
team I would like to pass on this com-
plaint.

Reading the most recent issue of The
Davidsonian (10/19), I noticed some-
thing quite disappointing. On page 12
in the sports section, you include a list
of the results of athletic events in the
“Week in Review” and provide a
schedule of the up and coming sports
events in “The Week Ahead.” I was
surprised to find that you failed to men-
tion the results of the two Swimming

and Diving meets that we had the pre-
vious weekend against ourselves in the
annual Red and Black meet, and
against a strong Emory team. Even
more surprising, was the fact you failed
to include two swim meets that we had
over parents weekend. ;
Our swim meet schedule has been

available online for a couple of months
now, and I do not understand why it is
that these simple facts could not have
been included along with the results
and schedules of my fellow athletes.
The entire team is disappointed and
feels as though this is an easily avoid-
able injustice. I regret having to be so
harsh about this situation, but as any
athlete at Davidson, we work just as
hard in and out of the classroom and
feel we deserve the same respect, cred-
it, and recognition as the other athlet-
ics.

Andrew Edelman ’07

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor. Please

e-mail submissions of less
than 250 words to david-

sonian@davidson.edu by
Sunday night. We reserve
the right to edit for content,
brevity and grammar.

looks very much like the one you now

Defy the P.C. gods and thank America

You know, I’m insensitive. I
make crude puns, I half-jokingly
tout the benefits of dictatorships, I
- have claimed to be God from time
’ to time, and I even go so far as to
- support a number of right-wing
positions. If somewhere there’s
somebody who takes a thing seri-
ously, I have probably disrespected
ey it.

face the nathan

Except for two things.

I find myself incapable of ridi-
culing two tings: the national flag,
and the national anthem.

I can stand nothing less than dis-
respect for my nation from citizens within it. It seems almost
recommended that we stand ever ready to degrade American
principles, priorities, and people. Folks, diversity does not
mean exclusion of home field values and beliefs. No law but
that of the P.C. gods saith that a Helen Keller joke is less

NATHAN BRADSHAW

Germans? The Russians? And let me not forget Poland.

Now, to ask it with less tongue in my cheek, let me
rephrase the question. What would a French citizen in 1942
have said if you offered him a government that could guar-
antee his freedom, safety, and peace of mind? Whatever term
you use to describe the American condition, it is a given that
this country has granted its citizens more than any country in
the world has done for any other citizens.

And before we debate specific political issues, let’s look at
the basis of government. Let’s consider the foundation and
final word in our government—the Constitution. There is a
reason the First Amendment comes first. And just so you
know, regarding guaranteed freedom of speech and the press,
the score stands America 1, World 0.

I could get on a soapbox and lecture you about the respon-
sibility that you have to give back to those less fortunate than
us. But the truth is, you have no such responsibility. I’could
also tell you that you have no right to disparage the nation
that has kept you safe in your fledgling lives and will contin-
ue to do so.

acceptable than burning an
American flag.

The types of people who dis-
respect the Star-Spangled
Banner tend to have their rea-
sons: about taxes, about special

But the truth is, you have

Regarding guaranteed freedom of just such a right. You have
speech and the press, the score
stands America 1, World 0.

those opportunities, and you
have those freedoms. That’s a
hell of a lot more than many
of the world’s peoples have.

interests in politics, about the third world which has less
because the people with the American flag have more. My
typical. redneck, chest-thumping,. imperious American
response: “You don’t like it? Move to Somalia.”

‘If these self-righteous wish-I-weren’t-Americans were
willing to stand by their criticisms of the U.S., they would
gladly leave the country. By even residing here, a person
enjoys valuable resources unavailable to the majority of the

world’s population.

The most important of these is the resource of protection.
The nation has suffered precisely two attacks on American
soil since 1865. For 140 years, only thg bombing of Pearl
Harbor and the attack on the World Trade Towers have
claimed American lives at home. Every year we, as a nation,
mourn the deaths of so few Americans. I believe we do well
to remember the lives lost.

But what would happen if the French decided to have a day
of mourning for every day they suffered foreign attacks on
their own soil, even in the last century: alone..:What about the

And these values have been brought to you by the letters U,
S, and A.

Davidson strives to involve its students in service, giving
back to the less fortunate, and we seem to heed that encour-
agement rather well. My question is why we should not
simultaneously appreciate the very reason that we are so for-
tunate.

I ask that we remember encouragement from an earlier
source: our parents. Mine taught me to write thank you notes
to. people who help me or give me something if I cannot
thank them in person.

Whatever your opinions of their respective politics, I sug-
gest that Reagan, Bush, Clinton, and Bush—the presidents
within our lifetimes—deserve thank you notes from all of us,
whom they have kept safe.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore English major from
Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at es lca coe
son.edu. |
