2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Ozment speaks on changing role of family

By JACKIE MCKEON
News Editor

Steven Ozment, McLean Professor of
Ancient and Modern History at Harvard
University, delivered the Spring 2005 Kelley
Lecture “Inside the Preindustrial Household:
The Rule of Men and the Rights of Women
and Children in Reformation Europe” on
Sunday.

Ozment centered his lecture around three
questions: How patriarchical was the family?
How free were women and children? What is
the relationship between the preindustrial
family and modern family?

“[Ozment] challenges what had
been, until fairly recently, a strong
historical consensus that the pre-
modern was an institution born of
necessity that did not show emo-
. tional attachments”

--Robin Barnes,

Professor of History

“His work is important because it chal-
lenges what had been, until fairly recently, a
strong historical consensus that the pre-mod-
ern family was an institution born of neces-
sity that did not show emotional attachments
and relationships that we think are in com-
mon with the modern family,” said Professor
of History and Humanities Robin Barnes,
who is serving as the Faculty Director of the
Kelley program for the 2004-2005 academic
year.

In dealing with his first question, Ozment
discussed the role of the Reformation as the
“catalyst for domestic change.”

. Ozment argued that the Reformation, in

addition to creating religious reforms,
allowed for “enlightened domestic reform,
too.”

According to Ozment, the preindustrial
household was “not any more patriarchical
than the present when looked at with a wider
perspective.”

Ozment argued that a “soft patriarchy”
existed and that incidents of spousal and
child abuse may have been less common
than today.

“He made me think of the family in a dif-
ferent sense historically,” said Kate Dahl
’05, senior history major and Kelly Scholar.

The second aspect of Ozment’s lecture
dealt with the role of women in the preindus-
trial household. Women were denied many
rights but still played an active and essential
role as homemakers according to Ozment.

“What we do not see is women passively
sitting on the sidelines moaning their plight,”
said Ozment.

Instead, Ozment characterized the marital
relationship as being grounded in compan-
ionship and a “sharing of authority in the
household and workshop.”

Ozment concluded his lecture by drawing
parallels between the preindustrial family
and the modern family.

Family, according to Ozment, is the “first
and last social institution,” and because of
the “vital” nature of the fangily it should be
paid careful attention historically.

“He stressed the flexibility and resilience
of families as building blocks of society,”
said Barnes.

Ozment stressed the importance of family
archives and primary sources for a historian
throughout his lecture.

Studying family archives allow historians
to be “the proverbial fly on the wall of histo-
ry,” according to Ozment.

Some students, though interested in the

Briefly

The Community Service Office will be hosting its annual Celebration of Service din-
ner on April 28 at 5:30 p.m. on Chambers lawn.

Celebration of Service

Generals’ “Really Big Show”

The Generals will have their “Really Big Show” on April 29 at 8 p.m. in Duke Family

Performance Hall. Tickets are $3.

Theatre One Acts

Theatre students will perform “Wanda’s Visit” by Christopher Durang and “Rats” by
Israel Horovitz on April 28 and 29 at 7:30 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre. Admission is

$4 at the door.

Immigration Debate

The Dean Rusk International Studies Program will host a debate on “Changes to the
U.S. Immigration Policy: Is Immigration Good or Bad for our Country” on April 28 at
7:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Peter Brimelow of the Center for American Unity and
Theodore Ruthizer of Kramer, Levin, Naftalis, and Frankel, LLP in New York will
speak. all

Baccalaureate will be on May 14 at 4 p.m. in DCPC.

Commencement Ceremony

; Oss

Panhofer will perform on May 10 at 12:30 p:m. in Tyler-

sa
at eine Ses

ae

The Commencement Ceremony will take place on May 15 at 10 a.m. on Chambers .
. Lawn, or in Baker Sports Complex in the event of rain.

lecture topic, did not enjoy Ozment’s lecture
style.

“I thought that the topic was interesting. I
didn’t think that it was as well presented as it
could have been and at times it was a little
dry,” said Katie Levy ’07, a student in
Barnes’ Early Modern Europe course.

The Kendrick K. Kelley Program in
Historical Studies was established in memo-
ry of Kendrick K. Kelley ’63, a Davidson
College honors history graduate, who was
killed in the Vietnam War.

The Kelley honors program is a year-long
research and writing seminar for exceptional
senior history majors, which culminates in
the writing of an 80 to 100-page thesis.

In addition to supporting the Kelley
Lecture series, which occurs once a semes-
ter, the program also provides accepted stu-
dents with funds for travel and research.

courtesy pheta

2005 Kelly Lecturer Steven Ozment

Police, continued from page 1

Davidsonian, was not in last week’s issue of
the paper.

The Davidsonian will continue to publish
the blotter, but the information will now be
filtered through Campus Police.

Walker said that the concerns with allow-
ing open access to police reports stemmed
from the fact that the reports often contain
victims’ names and describe non-criminal or
medical incidents.

“Often, the items in the Blotter came from
our in-house reports which in most cases
were not criminal acts but college viola-
tions,” Walker said. “Some of these incidents
can be very embarrassing to those involved.
We are a small community and it does not
take much to piece together who may have
been involved in an act of youthful indiscre-
tion.”

Campus Police officials were also con-
cerned that many of the reports contained in
the blotter could be embarrassing to the indi-
viduals involved.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

EAC holds
Green Ball

- By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

Nearly 200 students, faculty, and staff
attended the first annual Davidson College
Green Ball this past Saturday.

The ball was held in Chambers Gallery
and hosted by the Davidson College
Environmental Action Coalition (EAC) and
the Davidson Lands Conservancy.

EAC president Liz Dover said the EAC’s
objectives for the ball were to celebrate and
raise awareness about Earth Day.

“This is a very highly-developed area— one
of the fastest-growing areas in the nation,
and the environment is going down the
hole,” said Dover. “The need to protect open
space is all the more great.”

Tickets were $10, and a silent auction was
also held to raise funds for the Davidson
Lands Conservancy, a trust in which land is
purchased so that it may not be developed.
Proceeds from the silent auction amounted to
approximately $3,500.

The ball consisted of contra dancing, a
dance similar to square dancing, and blue-
grass music played by Ben Nelson ’05 and
his family.

“We played for free because we love to
play, and because it was a real treat itself,
just to see our fellow students and professors
dancing,” said EAC member and band mem-
ber Jamie Ferguson ’06. “It was a nice,
respectable excuse to finally make a contra
dance happen at Davidson.”

Dover said she appreciated the financial
support of President Bobby Vagt and other
faculty members in helping launch the Ball.

She was pleased with the success of the
first Green Ball and hopes to hold two balls,
a smaller event in the fall and large ball in
the spring, next year.

“Most importantly an individual’s. self-
worth and dignity can easily be at stake if we
do not distinguish between criminal and non-
criminal acts when allowing access to report
information,” said Walker. “False or inaccu-
rate statements that damage reputations can
give rise to state-law defamation claims.”

According to Walker, the “information
sharing” between Campus Police and The
Davidsonian will continue, as staff members
will be provided with location, date, time,
and type of crime reported, as he believes
that the blotter still serves an important pur-
pose on campus.

“As a law enforcement tool it affords
policing agencies the opportunity to inform
the public of criminal activity in their area,”
Walker said. ‘Periodically readers will recall
a certain event and provide officers with
valuable information that sometimes leads to
apprehending a suspect.”

The Campus Police Department will con-
tinue to comply with federal and state laws
regarding the release of public records and
the report of campus crime.

CAMPUS CRIME BLOTTER

4/18

Belk Parking Lot

Hit and Run

Subject reported that a light-colored van hit a car in Belk Parking Lot, then left.

4/22

a Alvarez College Union

Vehicle Damage

Student reported that unknown person(s) broke the windshield on her golf cart while
she was in the Union. The golf cart had been parked in the amphitheater.

4/25 Martin Court

Vehicle Theft

Student reported that her 1995 Acura Integra had been stolen from the parking lot at
Martin Court F between April 24 at 2 p.m. and April 25 at about noon. The student
noticed the vehicle was missing on her way to class.

