THE DAVIDSONIAN

Survey, continued from page 1
community as a reason for opting for regu-
lar housing.

Among sub-free students, 33 percent
wanted to keep sub-free coed buildings, and
48 percent responded that sub-free housing

NEWS.

‘should be an option for both first-year and

upperclass students.

These respondents also indicated that they
chose to live in sub-free housing because
they thought it would be quieter and cleaner
and because they didn’t want to be disturbed

by a person who drank too much.

“Those of us who choose to live in sub-
stance free housing do so in order to avoid
illegal drinking behavior and to meet other
people who share the same opinions,” said
Ale Gutierrez ’08, who lives in sub-free

‘Little Hall. “But substance-free housing is

also especially important for those of us who
live with chronic illnesses, who need to go to
sleep early and have uninterrupted sleep, as
well as needing a peaceful and quiet environ-
ment.”

Respondents to the sub-free survey, how-
ever, admitted that there are disadvantages to
sub-free housing.

205 respondents agreed that there is a
social stigma to sub-free housing and 181
said that sub-free housing discourages mix-
ing between sub-free and non-sub-free resi-
dents.

“It cuts you off from the rest of the
Davidson campus and places you in a cate-
gory whether you want to be in it or not,”
said Blake Poole ’08, who lives on sub-free
Third Cannon. “For someone like me who is
not uncomfortable around drinking, it gets
old having to explain to people that they can
be who they are around you and not get
judged.”

Mac Skelton ’07, a committee member

* whose concerns about sub-free prompted the

committee’s formation, wants to create alter-
natives to sub-free dorms.

“Now that my comments cannot taint the
integrity of the survey, I can say what I think
about the issue, especially as it relates to
freshmen housing,” Skelton said. “In my
opinion, contractual sub-free housing should

’ be completely eliminated, but freshmen

should be able to request a non-drinking
roommate, and those non-drinking rooms
should be dispersed throughout the halls.”
Skelton’s involvement in the issue stems
from his experience with sub-free housing.
“As a freshman who lived on sub-free, I

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005 5

felt as though it divided the community in a
way that was unhealthy,” Skelton said. “It
also had sort of a polarizing effect because
non-drinking students were not spread
throughout the entire dorm system. It created
situations on our hall where there wasn’t a
mediating influence.”

The distribution of the survey, as well as
the discussion of the future of sub-free hous-
ing in the SGA, has prompted a response
from sub-free students.

Drew Carey ’06, a hall counselor on Third
Little, is circulating a petition of students
who support sub-free housing, and he also
presented a defense of sub-free housing at
the SGA meeting on February 10.

“{ think the biggest issue is ignorance,”
Carey said. “People on both sides of the
issue do not know the effects sub-free hous-
ing has on people on the other side of the
issue. Many people feel that sub-free hous-
ing has divided the campus by isolating a
group of people. However, there are people
both in sub-free housing and outside of sub-
free housing that do not feel separated.”

The issue has not gone beyond discussion
in the SGA, however. Senator Sam Spencer
’07 presented a resolution against sub-free
housing at the February 3 meeting, but the
SGA did not vote on it because Spencer had
not submitted it early enough.

Senator Joshua Choi °08, who lives in
Little, has written a resolution in defense of
sub-free housing and hopes to present it to
the SGA for a vote at this week’s meeting.

“After the [February 3] meeting, we had
an emergency meeting in Little,” Choi said.
“In that SGA meeting, I wasn’t really ready
with my arguments. I wrote down all the
arguments and tried to inform students in
sub-free so that they could defend them-
selves.”

_ The SGA hopes to sponsor a forum in the
coming days to allow both sides of the issue
to express their views.

APPLICATIONS INVITED
FOR THE
KEMP SCHOLARS PROGRAM

The office of the Vice President for Academic
Affairs encourages students from the classes of
2006, 2007, and 2008 to apply for the 2005
Kemp Scholars program. Sponsored by
Bank of America, up to four Kemp Scholars each
receive $2,000 in reimbursable expenses to
support independent study, travel, and research,
plus a cash award of $1,000. Frequently, projects
have had_an international focus with the award
sponsoring summer travel outside the U.S.,
however, doméstic projects are also welcome.
Research topics from any and all disciplines
are eligible.

Professor Mark C. Foley in the Department
of Economics is the current program
director and more information, including ©
the application form, can be found at
his website. (Navigate to the Department of
Economics home page.) Proposals are due

March 11th.
