10

PERSP!

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Staff Editorial

Re: Sub-free housing

One of the first the first choices new Davidson students
make is how they want to live— substance-free, or “normal”.

Under the current housing system, people can opt for an
environment with stricter alcohol-enforcement policies and
generally quieter halls or one that fosters a more diverse
experience that many associate with college life.

There is ample evidence that many have benefited from
this system. There is also plenty to suggest that many have
chaffed under it.

The variety of attitudes towards the subject is a valuable
aspect of the school’s diversity. How boring Davidson would
be if every night, every student was drunk at the Court, or
sober on his or her hall. The mix is good, the mix is healthy.

But the mix isn’t mixing.

At the start of our college experience we are exposed most
directly to our first-year hall-mates, and to some extent
dorm-mates. These will always be our first friends. It -is_
impossible not to learn from them, even in subtle ways that
we might not notice.

When we set up a residential environment where people
interact almost entirely with those who are like them, it can
be quite hard to learn. We do not come to college just to go
to class; we also come to learn to live with those who might
be different from us. The sum of this is a real education.

After extensive discussion on the points presented last
week and reflecting on our own experiences, we feel the
social education that comes with college life ultimately
trumps all other concerns.

We believe the most beneficial course of action for all stu-
dents would be the discontinuation of substance-free upper-
class housing, where many “pro” arguments hold much less
sway and there has been a consistent history of logistical
problems in the housing lottery. Many students end up in
environments contrary to their preferences. A pure lottery
would do better.

Furthermore, any plan to retain first-year substance-free
housing must be one that avoids the segregating effects it can
lead to, or the plan is a poor one.

On the Admissions value question, let visitors and inquir-
ers to campus understand that Davidson welcomes and
respects the lifestyle choices of all students and has sought
out a policy to accommodate these choices, but not at the
expense of the social education of those who go here.

Because college is so much more than a degree.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBIE ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Andy Martin
Yowl Editor
__ Brendan Parets
- Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor ~
“Dorsett Clark.
Business Manager
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

Each week, this paper’s staff editorial offers its opinion
on issues affecting students on campus. An event of signif-
icant importance will take place on Monday, February 14,
when the SGA holds its elections for next year’s president.

Next week, The Davidsonian will issue its first-ever
endorsement for a candidate in this election. That endorse-
ment, however, is not what matters most.

Sidewalk chalk messages will fill the campus walkways
and mass emails will flood our inboxes in the days before
the election, urging us to vote for one candidate or anoth-
er. Posters with bold, catchy phrases—some with rhyme and
alliteration—will line the walls and doors of our dorms.

Yet while the names of the candidates and their smiling
faces will stare us in the face when we go to class and
cheek our email, they will be all we have to go by when

THE DAVIDSONIAN TO SPONSOR FORUM,
ENDORSE CANDIDATE FOR SGA PRESIDENT

casting our votes in the election. :

The SGA plays an important role in representing the
students at Davidson. The election of its president should
be treated accordingly. The student body has a right and
obligation to know more about the person we put in charge
of our government and his or her plans for running it.

This paper will host a public forum on Monday,
February 7 at 8 p.m. in the Brown Atrium. Our editorial
board will question the candidates on the issues relevant to
our campus, and we implore you to join the discussion.

It will take more than some pretty pastel colors and
catchy alliteration to win our vote.

We hope it will take more to win yours as well.

~Davidsonian staff

Letters to

the Editor

What CRIP really
stands for

As a member of the disabled community, and one of the
few students in higher education with a brain injury, I’m used
to being stared at and causing commotion.

Despite this showmanship, I am somewhat unprepared for
misinterpretations, as was present in the SGA section last
week. It was reported “SGA... chartered CRIP, a student
support group for students in wheelchairs...the [point of the
name] is to reverse the negative connotation of the word
‘cripple.’” Sadly, the reporter was mistaken on several
accounts:

The name of the organization is “Campus Revolutionaries
Implementing Progress,” but will be called CRIP for short.

We are not a “support group for people in wheelchairs.”
First, our membership will continue to be made up of all
types of abilities and disabilities. Second, our goals are to
network people interested in disability rights issues, inform
the Davidson campus on human rights violations injuring
people with disabilities, and to encourage the college admin-

istration to pursue a least restrictive campus environment.

The point of the name is not to alter an entire culture’s per-
ception of the word “cripple.” What we do want to empha-
size is that we are a new breed of disabled student, unafraid
on attention, conflict, and revolution.

Americans with disabilities have watched as women, for-
eigners, and African Americans have been endowed with
equality by the American public. CRIP is an activists group,
seeking to change the campus and prepare its members to
change the face of disability.

Athena Stevens ‘06
CRIPS Vice-President

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
to the editor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of less than 250 words to

davidsonian @davidson.edu. We
reserve the right to edit for content,
brevity and grammar.

Davidson meets “Homecourt Security”

A few weeks ago, Davidson students returned to campus to
cheer on their undefeated Cats in Men’s Southern
Conference Basketball. Joining
them in comfort and support was
an entourage of professional
security guards, an inevitable
effect from the “elevated” terror
. alert indicator. But rest assured:
Belk Arena is now fully protect-
ed by Homecourt Security from
any potential terrorist threat.

Quite inconspicuous, the secu-
rity personnel wear bright yel-
low shirts labeled “Event Staff,”
diligently patrolling the mid-cor-
ridor separating the upper and
lower sections. Students stop-
ping to talk to friends are immediately accosted with a smile
and kind gesture to move aside and find a seat. But don’t
choose just any seat: make sure it matches the ticket you
freely received, or else you might be asked to move once
again.

A security system succeeds when it prevents harm to those
it protects while not being noticed. _

Unfortunately, these personnel have been far from incon-
spicuous, and many studerits have felt confused and dis-
pleased after interactions with security. Following one such
altercation, a student remarked, “I feel like a stranger in my
own house.”

By now we all have our own horror story of Homecourt
Security, where Sergeant Security intervenes to prevent a
potentially hazardous situation. With assigned seating based
upon arrival, no longer can sgudents meet friends at the
games or come and go as they please. Not being able to stand
or visit with friends in other sections limits conversation to
the townie to the right or That Guy in class to the left.

Whatever happened to peaceful, picturesque Davidson
with its loving, trusting community? Have there been terror-
ist threats from deranged students not wanting to come back

more than words

EVANS MCGOWAN

from being abroad? Did SGA hold their own midnight ses-
sion over break, passing the Wildcat Act to modify the Honor
Code and grant authoritarian jurisdiction to plug security
leaks?

My queries prompted an interview with the head of the
Athletic Department, Jim Murphy. Like all members of this
administration, Mr. Murphy is quite affable and makes sensi-
ble decisions, even if students begrudgingly accept certain
rules and regulations (like having only nine weeks to P/F a
class). Thankfully our president does thorough background
checks for his heads of departments. .

Apparently a (no-bid?) contract had been issued to a cer-
tain company specializing in event security in order to main-
tain town fire code restrictions. The aisles and mid-corridor
must be kept clear, especially behind the Wildcat section, in
case there is need of a mass exit (say, during Thursday games
at 8 p.m.). Also, since season ticket holders make up the
majority of the lower level’ seating, the college owes its
patrons the very seats they paid for.

Those security concerns aside, don’t we students deserve a
little more relaxed treatment?

Jim Murphy thinks so. In a special in-house meeting two
weeks ago, Mr. Murphy met with game managers and secu-
rity personnel, instructing therfi to relax the rules somewhat.
Students should be allowed to speak for a few minutes with
friends, but only if they are in the mid-corridor and not
impeding traffic flow. Student ticketing will no longer be
checked, unless a student vehemently pleads the Fourth and
demands the seat matching the ticket freely obtained.

If you continue to feel harassed or confused by interactions
with security personnel, please do not hesitate to contact me.
I would be happy to document the cases, and Mr. Murphy has
expressed his continued support in making Davidson basket-
ball a fun, safe and enjoyable community pastime.

As always, the college wants what is best for you, and this
time they are taking action.

Evans McGowan is a senior political science major from
Wilmington, DE. Contact him at evmcgowan@ davidson.edu.
