THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005 3

Participation, coordination

themes for tsunami relief _

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

On Thursday, SGA members discussed
how to both continue tsunami relief efforts
while still maintain public awareness.

The SGA also approved the new poetry
club Vers Libre, chartered the Campus
Revolutionaries in Action support group, and
announced a new program aimed at increas-
ing attendance at home basketball games.

The tsunami relief effort has been ongoing
throughout the semester and aims to produce
funds’ to help support the victims of the
tsunami that hit Southeast Asia on December
26.

“The SGA’s first goal with the tsunami
fundraiser is to raise money for the cause,”
said Senator Wilson McCrory ’07, “but per-
haps more importantly, we really want this
campus as a whole to unite behind the effort
and keep those people in their thoughts.”

_ The SGA has been attempting to get 95
percent of the student body to pledge a dol-
lar to the relief effort.

“It is important to raise the money for this
cause, but it is just as important for us to get
the 95 percent participation from the student
body to show our full support for all those
that have fallen victim to this tragedy,” said
McCrory.

Participation and coordination were the
two major themes of the SGA meeting.

“The emphasis is on getting as many peo-
ple as possible to donate to tsunami relief,”
said Senator Chris Burks 07.

The SGA also attempted to maintain pub-
lic awareness of the tsunami by creating a
type of memorial, where artwork and essays
relating to the tsunami will eventually be dis-
played.

“One worry that the SGA discussed is that
relief ends soon after the memory of the dis-
aster has faded from peoples’ minds,” said
senator Mac Skelton ’07.

The memorial, says Skelton, will help
keep the public aware and will feature a col-
lection jar where donations can be made in
the form of money or artwork.

The SGA also focused on coordinating the
school’s relief efforts with the local commu-
nities in order to be more effective.

“We are trying to coordinate Davidson
College’s effort with that of the town of
Davidson,” said Burks. ,

The ‘slam poetry” club Vers Libre was
also approved by the SGA. “Slam poetry”
refers to the competitive brand of poetry
readings where contestants read poetry and
are judged: based on performance and con-
tent.

The SGA also chartered CRIP, a student
support group for students in wheelchairs.
The organization recently renamed itself
CRIP.

“CRIP’s renaming came from a desire on
the part of leadership to make the name’s
connotation better understood,” said Skelton.
“The point is to reverse the negative conno-
tation of the word ‘cripple’.”

Finally, the SGA announced an attendance
drive for next week’s home basketball games
that looks to raise attendance.

“Seeing how our attendance at basketball
games is usually abysmal, especially at
women’s games, we are trying to get
Patterson Court organizations to come by
offering prizes to the houses that bring the
largest number of people,” said Skelton.

Attendance will be counted at the next
three men’s home games and two women’s
games.

Make law school
a reality.

Higher LSAT score guaranteed
or your money back.

Planning to take the June 2005 exam?

Preparation begins February 20th
on the Davidson College Campus

Only Kaplan provides complete preparation for the LSAT.
Call or visit us online today.

Test Prep and Admissions

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/Isat

*LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. **Conditions and restrictions
apply. For complete guarantee eligibility requirements, visit kaptest.com/hsg. The Higher Score
Guarantee only applies to Kaplan courses taken and completed within the United States and Canada.

Sub-free, continued from page 1
ideals of our institution and the personal
experiences of the students that comprise it.”
RLO randomly selected the focus group
participants from a list of students who have
lived in sub-free housing and a list of those

‘who have not.

Although turnout in the first set of focus
groups was low, Marsicano hopes that there
will be more participation in the set that will
be conducted this week.

“We are trying to find out how much of an
issue it is with the student body,” she said.
“There are some people who feel very
strongly that there should be sub-free hous-
ing, and there are some people who feel very
strongly that there should not be.”

Skelton believes that sub-free housing is
an issue that is important to Davidson stu-
dents. —

“With the survey going out soon, and
focus groups convening one more time, sub
free housing is inevitably going to be a hot
topic of debate in the coming weeks. I would
urge students to be open-minded and to
spend some time thinking about the issue

before jumping to conclusions. Students
must be willing to sacrifice personal prefer-
ences for the good of the whole community,”
he said.

According to committee member Steve
Gaultney ’07, however, it will be difficult for
the committee to make changes without
upsetting some people.

“Anyone on a sub-free hall their freshman
year most likely had the best experience
ever, they do not know what they would have
done without sub-free housing, it changed
their lives, or whatever,” Gaultney said.
“Conversely, anyone not on a sub-free hall
freshman year, even those who do not drink,
will say that they too would not trade their
freshman hall experience for anything. The
point is, there are a lot of toes to step on, and
any decision will be very difficult, but we
will attempt to make our recommendation
based on an objective evaluation of what is
best for the student body.”

Any decision recommended by the com-
mittee will have to be made before the mid-
dle of February, when RLO will begin the
lottery system for next year’s housing.

Substance-Free Housing

FOR,

-Bonding with similar
lifestvles and avoiding uncomfortable

lifestyles

people of

-Sub-free halls are considered quiete
and cleaner
-Students didn’t want to feel @

ed to care for a friend or r@

who drank too much

-Students with a history of
holism in the family don’t want f
have to deal with the problem here
-Some students are more attracted to
schools with a sub-free option

-Parental concerns

-Potential religious objections
-Underage drinking is illegal and
some students don’t want to be con-
fronted with illegal behavior

AGAINST

-Campus is prevented from being a
more diverse environment
-Creates a potential divide between
b-free and non sub-free students
ises housing lottery issues
parents choose sub-free hous-
ir sons/daughters
ms with enforcement:
ance use is still an issue in sub-
ee housing
-Forms housing stereotypes
-Having sub-free halls imply that
other halls are substance-permitted
-Polarized living conditions: Lack of
moderation may create extreme liv-
ing environments in both types of
dorms

Boost in Pell Grant unlikely
to affect Davidson recipients

By LEsLie HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

The U.S. Department of Education
announced last month that it was changing
the formula used to determine undergradu-
ates’ eligibility for Pell Grants, a change that
Senior Associate Dean of Admission and
Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson said was
unlikely to have a major impact on Davidson
students.

The Pell Grant program, a key source of
federal financial aid to college students, cur-
rently provides over five million undergrad-
uates with between $400 and $4,050 in
grants per year.

According to the American Council on
Education (ACE), the self-proclaimed
“major coordinating body for all the nation’s
higher education institutions,” almost 90,000
students will lose their Pell Grants when the
change comes into effect this fall. Another
1.3 million will see their aid reduced by an
estimated $100 to $300.

Education Department officials, criticized
by some Congressional Democrats for their
recalculation of the financial aid formula,
maintained that they were only following the
law. The Higher Education Act requires that
the department update every year the guide-
lines families must follow when applying for
aid.

Before December 23, however, the depart-
ment had not updated its tax deduction for-
mula since 1994.

An Education Department spokesperson

- cited in the Chronicle of Higher Education

explained that her department had been
unable to get hold of the necessary data until
very recently.

Although the students most likely to be
affected by this change did not receive large
Pell Grants to begin with, the ACE website
suggests that such individuals will “work
longer hours, borrow more money, or reduce
their academic course load in order to com-
pensate for any loss of funds.” It is doubtful,
though, that many students will drop out of
college entirely.

Opponents of the change insist that the
Education Department employed faulty data
when recalculating its formula. They argue
that taxes in many states have actually
increased since 2002, the last year for which
the department has tax data.

Supporters disagree that the department’s
calculations are faulty, pointing out that tax
data from 2002 is far more pertinent to the
present-day than the 1988 data used in the
1994 revision.

Besides, the Pell Grant program is already

suffering from a $4.3-billion deficit. The
updated formula will reduce that shortfall by
approximately $300-million.
_ President Bush proposed on Jan. 14 that
Congress increase the maximum Pell grant
by $100 annually for each of the next five
years.

The measure, which would cost $15-bil-

See Pell, page 4
