Tuer. DavIpsoNIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005 B3

Abroad last fall? Here’s what happened back on campus

-~ By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

For those Davidson students who went
abroad in the fall, welcome back to a school
that has very little to do with anything you
saw, whether it be Africa, New Zealand, Eu-
rope, or anywhere else you made it to. The
first week must have been rough, but the luxu-
ries of free refills, Diet Dr. Pepper, and a the
Vamonos Van have to be refreshing.

Considering, though, that most students are
busy island hopping off of Australia, diving
in the Caribbean, or eating cheese pies in
Greece, keeping up with Davidson athletics
can be a bit difficult. But then again, remem-
bering attendance at most Davidson home
events, following each
sport while on campus
may be difficult as
well.

So take this as a bit
of a review if you
were on campus and
as an informational |
session if you were
away. It’s just a bit of
a summary of what
happened around here
in the fall.

Football disap-
points with a 2-7 record despite a stellar sea-
son by running back John Leverett ’05, who
eclipsed 1982 graduate Ray Sinclair’s all-time
rushing record with 3,165 yards. Leverett was
the PFL’s offensive player of the year, while
linebacker Brendan Dete ’05 won the same
award for his play on the defensive side.

The season opened with a bit of a doozie
when QB Damion White ’05 passed for a
school-record 431 yards to nearly come back
from a 17-point first quarter deficit against
Coastal Carolina. After a touchdown with 1:38
on the clock to pull within seven, Davidson
recovered the onside kick and drove down the
field, but the Wildcats were stopped on fourth
and goal at the five.

On the bright side, homecoming brought a
dramatic victory, with several defensive stands

late in the game to preserve the 21-14 win over
Butler.

Otherwise, close losses to Austin Peay and
Dayton were matched with blowout losses
against San Diego and Georgetown. Davidson
was shut out in two of their last three games
after scoring a point in 56 straight games.

As one of those awful mass e-mails pointed
out, women’s soccer reached the Conference
Finals, becoming one of the most improved
teams in the nation according to an NCAA
ranking. ‘:

New coach Greg Ashton took over the squad
and led them to a 12-9-1 (7-3-1 SoCon) record
en route to becoming SoCon coach of the year.
Sarah Hobart ’05, Kara Koehrn ’06,:Nancy
Haskell ’08 also got all-conference recogni-
tion.

After not even
making the confer-
ence tourney in
2003, the ’Cats got
hot at the right time,
having a conference
stretch where they
went 5-0-1, with
© Hobart allowing
» only one goal. In
p fact, Hobart be-
fs came Davidson’s
~ all-times = saves
leader on the season during the SoCon tour-
nament.

The storybook season really came to life,
though, in the conference semifinal match
against top-seeded UNC-G, who had defeated
the ’Cats the previous seven times.

After not recording a shot and trailing 2-0
in the first half, Kara Koehrn took over and
scored the next two goals to knot it up at two.
The winning goal was set up by Kara, whose
shot was blocked and sent straight to sister
Kristen Koehrn ’08, who won it for the Wild-
cats, 3-2.

Men’s soccer (11-10-1, 4-3 SoCon), mean-
while, started slowly but nearly returned
to NCAA’s after a stellar conference tourna-
ment.

The team had an early six-game losing

Returning stars have tennis
teams looking to start strong

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

As the men’s and women’s tennis teams
prepare for a new spring season, results
against tough opposition and talented new-
comers have both sides looking optimistically
toward their futures.

The women’s team appears ready for a deep
run in conference play with a combination of
both talented freshmen and a strong return-
ing core including five seniors. Three of those
seniors have held the top three positions on
the team since their first year, giving this team
a truly tested line-up.

Last year’s team ran through SoCon play
with an 8-2 record, as well as a 17-10 mark
overall, but the Wildcats were not able to
translate that success into the conference tour-
nament, falling to College of Charleston 3-4
in quarterfinals action.

The mix of returnees and newcomers, how-
ever, has Meghan and Kelly Fillnow ’05 call-
' ing this group “the deepest team Davidson has
ever had.”

The success of the fall season lends proof
to the Fillnows’ claim, as the team posted im-
pressive results in the College of Charleston
Tennis Invitational, where Davidson women
were victorious in both Flight A and B singles
as well as the Flight A doubles. Davidson also
showed well at the Wake Forest Invitational
and at the N.C. State Fall Invitational.

The ’Cats opened up the spring season with

a tough 6-1 loss at No. 15 UNC, but that did
not serve to discourage the high hopes for the
2005 season. Particularly promising was the
play of the three freshmen, including Kim
Whelan ’08, who was the lone Wildcat win-
ner on the day.

On the men’s side, youth still reigns despite
five of six starters returning from a team that
advanced to the quarterfinals of SoCon play a
year ago. Despite the relative lack of experi-
ence, the team “fared better during the fall sea-
son than in the past few years,” according to
Joe Cheany ’06.

The ’Cats participated in several tourna-
ments this fall, including the Washington and
Lee Fall Classic and the Davidson/Jim Cau-
sey Fall Classic, where they posted impres-
sive results.

During the Washington and Lee Fall Clas-
sic in September, three singles players, John
Bolton ’07, Jay Chitty ’07, and Jared
McKiernan ’07, and the doubles team of Russ
Burns ’05 and Matt Hartman ’08 placed first
in their brackets, with Flav Simihaian ’08
reaching the finals of his bracket.

During the Davidson/Jim Causey Fall Clas-
sic in October, the doubles teams managed to
win 11 of 12 matches while three singles play-
ers, Burns, Chitty, and Simihaian, finished the
tournament undefeated.

“J think that, barring the injuries that affected
us last year,” says Cheany, “we should have a
great season and be in contention for the con-
ference championship.”

streak and couldn’t seem to find its old form
until it fought out three straight overtime vic-
tories against Furman, Wofford, and Elon. In
the game against Wofford, John Latting ’06
reminded people how
good he was by scoring
the tying and winning
goals in a game that
could have swung the
season.

Like the women’s
team, Davidson: upset
UNC-.G, ranked 2nd na-
tionally, in the semifi-
nals after Marco
Antunez ’07 fed the
winner to classmate
Cass Baltz ’°07. The
squad lost a 1-0 over-
time match, however, to

College of Charleston in
the finals.
Women’s__cross-

country notched an-
other solid 3rd place in Conference, despite
probably deserving a better finish.

With the pick-up of three solid first years
in Brittany Crawford ’08, Brenna Burns ’08,
and Annie O’ Donnell ’08, Coach Jen Straub
continued to find success with her team after
posting a conference championship last year.

A surprising down-season by top dog Allie
Martin ’06 proved to hurt the "Cats too much,
though, and most of the others had tough races

at the SoCon championships to prevent a

Championship repeat. Kelly Fillnow ’05 con-
tinued dominance in her senior year.

Men’s cross-country, on the other hand,
continued to struggle as several of their run-
ners went down early with injuries.

With a team that lacked much depth, losing

Matt Rhodes ’07 to a bout of mono really hurt
the team early on, but the emergence of Sam
Morris ’08 provided a bright spot for a team
that took home 6th at SoCons.

Volleyball had its second
straight rough year, finish-
ing 7-9 in the SoCon and 10-
23 overall. Their opening 2-

-12 record could have
wrecked their confidence,
although losing eight of their
last 10 conference match-
ups couldn’t have been good
either.

After opening his coach-
ing career at Davidson with
a stellar 23-11 season in
2002, Coach Tim Cowie has
suffered two straight sub-
.500 seasons and two first-
round conference losses.

Coming off of a first place
divisional finish in 2003,
field hockey never found
its old form and finished 4th in the East
Division of the NorPac.

The bright spot of the year, however, was
most certainly the play: of goalkeeper Sarah
Nolan ’05, who was one of four goalies in
the nation invited to play in the North-South
All-Star game. She holds the school record
for saves and will certainly be missed next
year.

Plenty else went on as well, with golf and
swimming warming up for their spring sea-
sons. Wrestling opened up to a historic 6-0
record, and basketball had a huge upset
against Missouri. So if you’re sick of study-
ing, which happens surprisingly quickly for
formerly abroad folks, head out to a game of
your choice.

GRILLED CHEESE

Soda 1951

VEGGIE MELT ~ VEGGIE puRGER VEGGIE HOAGIE.
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

Plas FRESH SQUEEZED dean Juice”
«, Howewane DMNA ay, AND 7, }

€ &
\ H
: j

&

‘bel you didnt think of US

Paint $/Matn ST. Davioson= HC

VEGETABLE SOUP

