THE DAVIDSONIAN
Training tomorrow’s
killers since 1837

I am, or rather was, a partici-
pant in the newfound obsession
~ (I mean, game) that has hit the
= Davidson campus like a sack of
. potatoes. I originally signed on
for this rousing game of water
guns and good old-fashioned
fun when I noticed the creepy
black poster in my 3rd
Richardson bathroom. The
eerie, ethereal white creature
appearing out of the darkness
beneath seemed to suggest play-
ful children running around with
water guns—I couldn’t resist.

I was instantly excited—my high school had instigated its
own little version of Assassins, and it was always fun to hear
about the crazy, funny things that people did to hit their
respective targets. One of my friends holed up in his house
and refused to leave for an entire weekend because he was
afraid of his assassin waiting outside. If that doesn’t sound
like fun, I don’t know what does.

We should feel bad for this
misunderstood hacker--not

everyone can do Pilates every
Monday.

assemble

ASHLEY SEMBLI

I signed up for Assassins and trudged over to the Ist Watts
lounge to receive my itsy-bitsy water gun on the eve of the
game’s commencement. The next day, Assassins began.

Actually no—it didn’t. Someone had apparently hacked
into the moderator’s computer and accessed certain assassins
and their targets.

If anyone skipped the last sentence, read it again, say it out
loud, and rejoice in the fact that this hacker actually attends
Davidson College and lives amongst us. This person might
also receive the grand prize of Assassins—the coveted life-
time PE credit. Violating the Honor Code, risking expulsion,
and ruining the rest of your life is more than worth this
checked box next to “Lifetime Credit” on one’s file. We
should feel bad for this misunderstood hacker—not everyone
can do Pilates every Monday.

The freshman weapon of choice.

I have to admit that I’ve been rather impressed by the
savvy and stealth of my fellow Davidson freshmen and hall
counselors. When the game finally began for real, I sat at
breakfast with an unnamed hall counselor while he scoped
out his target. When it was time to go to class, he proceeded
to shoot her with water, only to find that this was not his tar-
get. -
Now that is what I like to call junior stealth in action.
Some people truly are CIA agents in training—one of my
friends was shot at from the bushes as he walked out of
Chambers. Another tried to lure his target out of his hall by
screaming and faking an injury outside of his window. A
sophomore told me that she was shot last year when her
assassin jumped out from behind a wall at 5 a.m. when she
was leaving for crew practice.

I am so proud—nay, honored—that I attend college with
these brilliant Assassins in training.

The game plays on as I finish this article, though I am no
longer a part of this twisted web of water. I was actually shot
on the second day—that’s what I get for never taking my
water gun out of the plastic bag.

I wish everyone luck as they continue on their quests for
the holy Lifetime credit that has eluded so many starving
Davidson students. Go forth with honor, bravery, and duct-
taped teeny water guns. Make Davidson proud.

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact
her at assemble @davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

»

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006 = 11

Bring homosexuality ‘out’ on campus

By SAMI JARRAH
Guest Columnist

In last week’s Davidsonian, Paige Taylor expressed her
disapproval of the College’s Gay Alumni Weekend on Mar.
17-18 (“Gay alumni reunion creates segregation,” Mar. 22).

While Ms. Taylor’s comments come from a sense of
equality and an antagonism for exclusivity, we would like to
address several @f'her points to explain why Gay Alumni
Weekend is exactly the right decision for Davidson College.

Ms. Taylor argues that an alumni event exclusively for gay
graduates serves only “to alienate alums that do not belong
to a favored minority.” In fact, gay alumni are certainly not
a “favored” minority.

Perhaps Ms. Taylor is unaware of You Are Not a Stranger
Here, a confidential support group for the many “in the clos-
et” students on Davidson’s campus. If it were entirely easy
being gay on Davidson’s campus, every gay student would
be “out.” This is not even close to true.

Also, perhaps Ms. Taylor did not realize that Gay Alumni
Weekend was open to and, in fact, attended by straight allies
in addition to gay alumni. College representatives, including
Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell ‘84, have stated
that Davidson is willing to support any sustained interest
among graduates who wish to join together in
fellowship, including Jewish Alumni or African-American
Alumni Weekends as Ms. Taylor proposes.

“Given that we speak of a ’diverse’ community that wel-
comes individuals of different races, sexualities, talents, and
interests,” Dean of Faculty Clark Ross said, “it is perfectly
appropriate for black alumni, gay alumni, former choir
members or former football players to have meetings and
sessions at which they address issues of common concern.”

On the flip side, gay graduates, of course, also regularly
attend the alumni events and reunions which Davidson
organizes.

Ms. Taylor is absolutely correct, however, in stating that
homosexuality on campus is indeed a sensitive issue. It is so
sensitive, in fact, that many Davidson graduates have decid-
ed to live their entire lives “in the closet,” even to marry
spouses of the opposite sex in a facade-of conformity.

For most of its history, until quite recently, Davidson was
not a friendly place for gay students, and that alumni might
want to discuss this among themselves in an open environ-
ment of acceptance and of understanding seems not at all
wrong or undesirable.

Do most students, for instance, know that a young, gay
Davidson alumnus and employee of the college (one of us!)
killed himself on campus? When, one might wonder? In the
1920s? Maybe in the turbulent 1960s? Perhaps during the
AIDS scare of the 1980s? No. In 1997, not 10 years ago.

Gay Alumni Weekend involved an emotional outpouring

by alumni, a coming to terms with a place that caused a lot
of sadness and distress for so many graduates. The weekend
was not all wine and socializing, but it was also tears and

_ painful conversation.

If Davidson is to ask itself what embracing diversity
means, perhaps the first step should be realizing that a prob-
lem exists (or existed) and moving on from there. Several
alumni said how incredibly cathartic and healing it was to
return to Davidson and see an improved atmosphere for out
gay students; one man in particular stated that seeing out
Davidson students gives his degree more value, makes his
experience of Davidson somehow validated.

Do most students, for instance,
know that a young, gay Davidson
alumnus and employee of the
college (one of us!) killed
himself on campus?

If Davidson College has decided to devote a mere four
days to addressing the pain caused to those hundreds (thou-
sands?) of gay alumni, then how can that be bad?

Once again, the challenge of coping with minority groups
confronts Davidson College; here, though, the administra-
tion is taking responsible and exciting steps forward.

Perhaps such discussions should even expand from alum-
ni gatherings into the classroom, as Dean Ross suggests:
“My earnest desire is for our faculty to incorporate, when
appropriate, issues of sexuality and race within their cours-
es. It is a rare course that would not have some occasion to
raise such issues. When all students become more aware of
such issues, serious conversation spills out of the classroom
and into the dining hall or the dormitory.”

Davidson students, for the most part, are very accepting
of their gay peers, marking a huge institutional move in the
right direction. With student support, Davidson can one day
be a college so embracing and so open that all gay students
(and staff and faculty) can be out, eliminating the need for
any Gay Alumni Weekend, at all. This day can come, and
this day can be very soon, but until that day is here...

Written with the support of Richmond Blake '09, Amoura
Carter '07, Katie Cox '06, John Fry '06, Robert Galloway
'09, Sam Hotchkiss ’08, Robert Morris '08, Georgia Ringle,
Ali Karami Ruiz '09, Rob Spach '84, John Syme '85, Maggie
Thomas ’08 and Natalie Watson '09.

Sami Jarrah ’07 is an English major from Lakeland, Fl.
Contact him at sajarrah@davidson.edu.

Question the (dis-)information age

The “blog” is an interesting
contemporary phenomenon. You
see blogs mentioned frequently
in newspapers, magazines and
websites. Broadcasters and talk-
ing heads are constantly talking
about them. On television, we
hear lines such as “the bloggers
are at it...” etc. Some have said
that blogs are changing the way
news is being reported and the
ra way politics will work. I am one,

Marr HAL

influence.

Until very recently, I did not know what a blog was. I am
sure that some people reading this article are also unaware.
Wikipedia.org defines a blog as “a website in which items
are posted on a regular basis...Like other media, blogs often
focus on a particular subject, such as food, politics, or local
news.” So, in other words, it is like an online journal on
which the authors post their personal opinion or news.

I think we all should be careful of getting our news and our
information from sources such as blogs. Blogs, or at least the
ones I’ve heard about, do not have editors, they do not have
larger organizations or companies behind them (however,
there are some exceptions, such as blogs tied to the media).
They do not then have the structures in place that guarantee
information is accurate. They just have one person, or sever-
al people, who decide what millions can read. Sure, on many
blogs I am positive that accurate, accountable and reliable
information is available, but what about the rest of them?

Now I do not mean to condemn blogs or to suggest that
they are inherently bad. Blogs obviously serve numerous
worthy causes. They allow people to communicate more
effectively between one another. They can spread informa-

however, who is wary of their.

tion. They allow people to exercise their rights to free
speech.

Nevertheless, we, those who pick and choose what we
read, should think it over. If people eventually turn to blogs
for their news--and some have suggested that that is the way
the world is heading--what will happen? What happens if 95
percent of the information people have is accurate, but an all-
important five percent is subjective, or worse?

Do blogs come with
declarations? Do they tell you

it's absolute news or opinion?
Think about it.

Without safety nets and systems of checking information,
what are blogs but the subjective reporting or opinionated
writing of individuals who don’t know what they’re talking
about?

Take the column you are reading right now as an example.
It is in the Perspectives section. I do not pretend to report the
state of the weérld as it is or to know everything about blogs.
Indeed, I have much to learn about them.

I am, instead, declaring my opinion, my perspective. At
least in this newspaper you have the Perspectives line letting
you know that this is an opinion page. Do blogs come with
declarations? Do they tell you it’s absolute news or opinion?

Think about it.

I do not know that much about blogs, just general details.
It is my hope that you, the reader, will see for yourself what
news is becoming.

Matt Hall ’06 is a history major from Bennington, Vt.
Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.
