THE DAVIDSONIAN

Far mer, from page 1

Organization (WHO) in HIV prevention edu-
cation.

According to Farmer, Joseph’s work
exemplifies the importance of community-
based support.

PIH employs the local community in their
clinics, which is central to its philosophy that
the community must be involved in the fight
against HIV.

In Rwanda, where PIH has another health-
care center, this meant building sustainable
shelter and improving treatment facilities, as
well as providing primary and natal health-
care to HIV patients.

“We heard that AIDS draws attention
away from primary healthcare — what we
found was quite the opposite,” Farmer said.

In addition to discussing the logistics of
PIH’s humanitarian mission, Farmer also
addressed ideological issues regarding
healthcare and reinforced the importance of

“All of us know what it’s like to
be sick. The idea of not being able
to have care because you're poor
is offensive to many people.”

_ --Paul Farmer

humanitarian work.

“He helped students think of healthcare as
a human right, not simply as a policy issue,”
said Director of the Dean Rusk International
Studies Chris Alexander.

Farmer’s talk was well-received by stu-
dents.

“I admired his humility. Whereas most
people could become egotistical about their
achievements, Dr. Farmer only sees the good
he can do in the world,” Ben Van Dyke ’09

said.

Farmer’s speaking style was also appreci-
ated. ;

“He was definitely one of the best speak-
ers I have seen in my time at Davidson,” said
Mary Kathryn Wyle ’06. “His talk had the
perfect mixture of humor, anecdotes and
facts, which kept everyone engaged and left
me feeling truly inspired.

The effort to bring Farmer to Davidson
was a collaboration of several campus organ-
izations and academic departments.

The Biology department, Anthropology
department, Dean Rusk International Studies
program, Union Board Speakers committee
and Smith Fund all contributed.

In addition to being a physician, Dr.
Farmer also has a PhD in Anthropology and

Farmer talks with Bruce Henschen '07, who participated in last summer’s Zambia trip.

Photo court: College Comm.

is the subject of Tracy Kidder’s book,
“Mountains Beyond Mountains.”

PIH was founded in 1983 and provides
community-based healthcare to impover-
ished patients in Haiti, Rwanda, Mexico,
Guatemala, Peru, Russia and the United
States.

The mission of PIH is rooted in the belief

that all humans deserve reasonable health-
care regardless of their socioeconomic sta-
tus.”
_ According to its website, “PIH strives to
achieve two overarching goals: to bring the
benefits of modern medical science to those
most in need of them and to serve as an anti-
dote to despair.”

Ruchi Turakhia contributed to this article.

I

ad

AY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Work in Davidson This Summer!

Summer Employment in the Library

The Library is now accepting
applications for student summer
employees. Positions are avaliable

in several departments.

Interested students should come by the
Library Circulation Offfice
_ for an application.
