6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

rejects sensationalism

‘United 93’

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

The first time I saw a preview for “United
93,” one exceedingly clear thought came to
my mind: Why?

As this high profile film about 9/11 opens,
I am sure millions of Americans still share
this initial sentiment. Is it already time to
commercialize that awful day? Aren’t all of
those tragedies still too fresh in our minds?

After seeing “United 93,” however, my
apprehensions have vanished. An American
classic in every weighty sense of the word,
this brutal, heartfelt film deserves every
skeptical audience member ‘it lures into the
theater.

Director Paul Greengrass manages the
impossible: he takes memories that have
been spun and packaged into mawkish, flag-
waving facades of patriotism and completely
strips them of sentimentality.

courtesy phote

Omar Berdouni, as hijacker Ahmed Al
Haznawi, is waved through security.

So much political ugliness has resulted
from 9/11 that many have forgotten how, in
spite of the horror, the worst day for this
country also featured one of its best
moments.

Greengrass reminds us of our finest hour
in depicting the heroism of the ill-fated pas-
sengers aboard United 93, who comman-
deered their hijacked flight and kept it from
crashing into the White House,

Opting for a real-time, documentary style,
he gives the film two major focuses. One,
obviously, is of the scene aboard United 93,
and a second is of the escalating confusion of
air traffic control. Because the hijackers do
not seize the plane until late in the flight, the
first half of the film takes place almost
entirely on the ground.

Greengrass masterfully conveys the
authorities’ reactions as several flights lose
communication. At first perplexed, air traffic
control almost finds humor in the situation;
one member even exclaims “there hasn’t
been a hijack in 40 years!”

When the first plane crashes into the
World Trade Center, this good-natured pro-
fessionalism explodes into panic, dread and
tragic inefficiency.

In fact, much of the pain provoked by this
film results from the ground’s inability to
intervene as the terrorists’ ingenious plot
surges forward. In a typical Hollywood
hijack film, directors would most likely
answer our pleas of “Get the fighter planes in
the air!” with an inexplicably quick and
seamless response time.

Greengrass does not have that luxury here.
The morning of 9/11 paralyzed America all
the way through to its. deepest safety net.
Only the passengers of United 93 had the
ability to take action.

Reminiscent of the filming method he
employed in the blockbuster success “The
Bourne Supremacy,” Greengrass uses jerky,
handheld cameras to capture the visceral ten-
sion aboard the flight. Fear rattles everyone’s
nerves, even those of the four hijackers, who
feel as if they have no more choice in the
flight’s outcome than do their hostages.

The film’s treatment of these four Islamic
radicals is remarkable. Greengrass walks a
finer line here than Steven Spielberg did in
this past year’s “Munich.” Facing the risk of
serious backlash, “United 93” neither
humanizes nor vilifies these men beyond
plausibility. Chillingly led by actor Khalid
Abdalla, who plays Ziad Jarrah, this four-
some remains utterly true to its mission.
Greengrass leaves it to the audience to pass
judgment on them.

He portrays the passengers with the same
understatement. Todd Beamer and company
do not-board the plane as heroes; rather, their
bravery is momentary and entirely uncalcu-
lated. ; .

In other words, “United 93” triumphs for
one reason: Nothing in the film is more or
less than it deserves to be. I can only imag-
ine Greengrass’s temptation to hire John
Williams for the score, to use big-name
actors for the leads or to accompany
Beamer’s “Let’s roll” with a slow-mo close-
up and thunderous drums.

He refrains from all of these temptations.
The small feat of human nature aboard
United 93 resonates so magnanimously pre-
cisely because of its smallness. As the plane
careens toward the Pennsylvania country-
side, the audience can do nothing but trem-
ble. This stuff really happened, and Paul
Greengrass’s heart-wrenching masterpiece
captures it in all its harrowing truthfulness.

courtesy photo

What did you think
of the Bob Dylan concert?
“I really don’t know many Bob
Dylan songs. I’m glad I had the
experience and saw him, though
he really didn’t move much or
have much energy.”
-Colleen McKown ‘08

“Even though his voice hasn’t

improved in the past few decades,

the show was really good.”
-Arthur Etchells ‘08

“It was great. I was so excited I
finally got to see him!”
-Andrew Dunn ‘09

“It was excellent, though he was a
bit incoherent at times.”
-Melissa Gilkey ‘09

