THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006 = 11

Quit complaining,
Start taking action

Reading the Davidsonian’s
most recent issue, as I infrequent-
ly do, I came across the headline
“Skelton addresses Trustees.”
Upon reading this headline, after
my usual manner, I crossed my
leg, adjusted the oil lamp beside
my Victorian armchair, took a sip
of brandy and said “Cha! They
call that news?”

My personal cynicism aside,
the article raises an interesting
question. Mac Skelton, as our
elected SGA President, is the one
who officially has the authority to address the Board of
Trustees of Davidson College and voice student concerns to
them therein. And at another school, that might be the limit
of contact between the upper echelon of the administration
and the students.

But Davidson ain’t no ornery school. Here, we self-sched-
ule our exams. Here, we have an athletic program with high-
er average SATs than the rest of the school. Here, we look at
a bicycle that is yellow and call it a red bike.

And here, we have trustees who want to hear from the stu-
dents. They want to know what we think as they discuss the
policies that affect us.

face the nathan

NATHAN BRADSHAW

And yet, we apparently cannot
mobilize ourselves to communi-
cate with the Trustees except for
once ina year through a single
representative sent via SGA.

Guys, I say a lot of things in jest and a lot of things laced
with sarcasm, but this isn’t one of them: that is pretty freak-
ing awesome.

Now, in the- “Sucks” column is the student end of the
equation. If communication between students and Trustees
is front page worthy news, then we have a real problem.
Why do we, as students, not take a more active role in this
dialogue? Seems to me that SGA is spearheading more than
a few efforts to increase communication; my question is
why that doesn’t seem to be a wider effort.

The answers: work, extracurriculars, work, rain, work,
Chicken Parm day at Commons, etc. Poor excuses all.

J can’t go through a day at Davidson without hearing
somebody. saying, whether by complaining or just by
observing, that they wish something were different about
Davidson. Folks, guess who has the greatest chance to insti-
tute actual change here? And yet, we apparently cannot
mobilize ourselves to communicate with the Trustees except
for once in a year through a single representative sent via
SGA.

Six Trustees even took time out of their schedules to sit in
on an SGA meeting while they were here. But were students
beating down the doors of the Sprinkle Room? SGA is a
great tool for communicating student concerns, whether to
the community at large, the college administration or the
Board of Trustees.

But ultimately, they are only-one organization. We are
1,700 students. We are supposedly 1,700 active, involved
students. We attend protest marches, we campaign on behalf
of political candidates, we throw our efforts into Engage for
Change events, all in efforts to change the world. .

I suggest that the world, for us, should start with
Davidson. Let’s face it, most of us are lucky to make it off
campus during the school week. Our world, for better or for
worse, is largely limited to these brick paths and brick build-
ings and bricks in general. I feel like we have a responsibil-
ity to impact what gets built with said bricks. :

Yes, I use the passive voice: what gets built. Right now,
we are not the ones building. Issues of concern to us all
abound, and I don’t mean issues like abortion, Iraq, the
economy and American Idol. Issues on campus. Hint: read
all the other columns in Perspectives this week and tell me

_we as students shouldn’t be concerned about all of them.

So let’s quit being passive and start being active. Not only
will it help our grammar, it will mean that Davidson can be
more than college that we accept as is. It can be the college
that we want it to be.

Nathan Bradshaw ’08 is an English major from
Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at
nabradshaw @davidson.edu.

Where everybody knows your name

-By WILSON McCrory
$4 Guest Columnist

If I had another life to spend at Davidson, I would have
tried to start a hole-in-the-wall bar on Main Street.

At most college campuses, bars are a dime-a-dozen, and
they in fact compete intensely to win the student crowd and
its alcohol dollars. Bars are certainly not the perfect social
outlet, but I do think they serve a great role for colleges by
creating intimate social environments that slowly become
intertwined with the schools they serve.

The Brickhouse is the closest thing Davidson has to a col-
lege watering hole, but it is hardly the student-catered bar
that I envision for the Davidson community. Instead, it is a
non-descript bar and restaurant that tries to lure students in
once a week with cheap beer specials.

I think a true student-catered bar is a niche that can be
filled in this community, but with the lockdown on Main
Street property, it-doesn’t appear that Davidson will gain
such a social option near campus any time soon.

Fortunately, it seems, the school has a chance to rectify
that void through the much-discussed possible Outpost.

While the legend of the Outpost is likely far grander than
the late-night hangout actually was, it still seems the Outpost
filled a social niche that doesn’t appear to be present today.

Still, if anything like the Outpost were to come back, I
imagine it would hardly resemble the myth that still lingers
among the current students. At the very least, times have
changed, and the College would have to extend a degree of
institutional control over the building that wasn’t present

‘back in the mid-90s when the manager, Papa D, essentially

had free reign over the building and its operation. Such
restrictions would almost surely reduce some of the
ambiance that seemed to define the former Outpost and
make it so appealing to students.

Furthermore, while the concept of late-night quesadillas
and school-sponsored weekend entertainment were novel
before the construction of the new Union, the current build-
ing now creates almost the same niche that the Outpost once
filled. Granted, the intimacy and atmosphere of the Outpost
could make it a popular destination for students, but I’m not
sure the old Outpost model would add much to the current
social scene in light of what the Union already offers.

As a result, I think any new plans for some kind of Outpost
need to be noticeably different from the first model and that

the school should take the opportunity to finally create its
own on-campus bar with the new Patterson Court opening.

I don’t mean to imply that the school should try to create
a full-scale bar on Patterson Court, as I doubt there is enough

_ student demand, much less the need, for such a venture.

At the same time, I think the success of events like 21
Year Old Night and Thursdays at the Brickhouse show that
there is demand for more structured- social and drinking
options. Students have flocked to both events because of the
opportunity to socialize in a more intimate and diverse
atmosphere, and I think the demand is there to support a
more frequent option that also operates on the weekend.

While a weekend alcohol option would face competition
from PCC, I think it would still have a distinct and important
place on the Court.

For students who frequent Patterson Court and would pre-
fer to drink the free Beast in the basement, it could serve as
an alternative to the nightly dead time as they await parties.
For those that aren’t interested in the nightly bump-and-grind
of the Court, however, I think it more importantly creates a
welcoming social atmosphere that could integrate those that
want to have a casual beer and those that just want to come
down for nachos and Cokes and listen to a student performer.

In the end, | think a bar could fill the distinct void between
the Court parties and the Union Coffee Houses and add a
layer to the social scene that is currently sorely lacking.

An on-campus bar is also not as crazy as it sounds, as sev-
eral peer schools have or are in the process of developing
campus bar options as well. Rice University, in Houston, for
example, has had Willy’s Pub since 1975,- and student
demand remains strong even today. Likewise, Bowdoin and
Middlebury have established on-campus bars, and Harvard
and Princeton are in the process of dong the same despite
numerous bars in the respective college towns. Those are just
examples, but the venture is not without precedent.

This proposal certainly creates many questions, such as its
effect on the Union, the need for age enforcement and the
potential revenue issues, and it would constitute a huge
potential risk for the College.

If a student bar could make the social scene at Davison
more diverse and integrated, however, then I think it is a risk
well worth taking.

Wilson McCrory ’07 is an economics major from
Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at wimccrory@davidson.edu.

Duke: could it happen at Davidson?

Did you miss it? It’s very possi-
ble you did.

If you did miss the Duke panel
discussion on Sunday night, you
missed, to my mind, one of the
most provocative and gripping
programs to be put on at
Davidson College.

You missed students interrupt-
ing students, often forcefully and

without apology.
| You missed students aggres-
sively questioning higher authori-
ty.

You missed students contradicting our president, our chief
of police and our athletics director: accusing them of being
“naive” and “unrealistic.”

You missed students, faculty and staff bravely approach-
ing topics considered taboo on campus.

halley’s comment

HALLEY AELION

How do you take the discussion
generated at an event like the
Duke panel and communicate it
to the rest of campus?

Some of these issues were matters I have heard mentioned
briefly in other discussions, but never with the intensity and
frustration I saw on Sunday night.

There was talk of the unhealthy Davidson drive to be per-

’ fect, and the fact that sexual misconduct does go on on our

campus, although it is underreported--a phenomenon large-
ly attributable to the pressure of maintaining the pristine
Davidson image.

Other topics mentioned on Sunday were new to me and
completely caught me by surprise. Honestly, th ey made me,
and many students around me, surprisingly uncomfortable
and even angry.

For example, there was an open admission on the part of
some students that one of the main problems with the
Davidson culture is the “Davidson ego.”

Although many of us would not like to admit it, the con-
sensus on Sunday was that it is generally true that in discus-
sions with Davidson students, many express a sort of enti-
tlement or prestige because of the name of our institution.

Basically: mention NASCAR Tech to your friends and
you are bound to get a condescending laugh and rolled eyes.

The question raised on Sunday was the following: while
many of us joke about the delinquency of students at other,
lesser known institutions, is our attitude really a laughing
matter? Do we really deserve to feel this elite?

By assuming Davidson students would never “stoop to
the level of a NASCAR techie” (for example) are we possi-
bly ignoring actions of our own students which should
receive more disciplinary response and punishment simply
because “they have to be all right... they’re from Davidson,
after all?”

As an astute student pointed out on Sunday, the line
between the behavior of Davidson students and NASCAR
students seems to blur on the court at times, especially
when alcohol is involved.

While all these issues grabbed my attention Sunday and
have stayed with me throughout the week, I think the tough-
est question raised that night was the following:

How do you take the discussion generated at an event like
the Duke panel and communicate it to the rest of the student
body? In other words, if you missed it, is it possible to still
profit from the discussion?

- Although the 900 Room was about half-filled with stu-
dents and the conversation was lively and productive, no
one in the room could deny that only a fraction of the stu-
dent body was represented that night. Looking around the
room that night, I saw many familiar faces that attend most
of the discussions on campus and many athletes: all people
who have heard this type of thing before.

How do we expand the discussion? We didn’t come to an
answer last night and I don’t have one now. I just hope it
doesn’t take a tragedy like the one at Duke to motivate
those uninterested in programs such as these to finally take
notice and participate in important campus dialogue.

Halley Aelion ’08 is a French major from Bowie, Md.
Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.
