THE DAVIDSONIAN

12

|The Wook Acad |

FOr youl
SOLUS Lains..

TUM BO S PICKS
Ole Wale, Wee

Wildcat Game of

the Week

Men’s Basketball vs. Furman
' 2 p.m, Saturday

In what is effectively the team’s last
home game (the last one occurs during
Spring Break), the ’Cats will try to
avenge a 66-70 loss to the Paladins ear-
lier this season. A win. against Furman,
combined with another win at Georgia
Southern next Wednesday, would also
put the 'Cats in first place in the South

Outside the Den

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

Breaking all the rules when we get together

Driving a car is dangerous. I’ve had my
share of incidents on the road of life, but
luckily, I’ve mostly stayed to my own side of
the yellow lines and let others collide and
wreck. Would I intentionally do something
that has a high rate of causing accidents?
No—that’s just stupid.

Yet in each and every race on the
NASCAR circuit, even disregarding the
speeds, drivers use a maneuver called bump-
drafting, whose employment has caused its
share of problems and drawn a huge amount
of criticism from top drivers. In the begin-
ning weeks of the 2006 NASCAR season,
it’s angered one guy in particular: last year’s
champion, Tony Stewart.

He says, with perfect correctness, that
somebody could die one of these days. The
problem is that without the practice, a driver
cannot expect to win.

Bump-drafting occurs when one car
comes up close behind another car and phys-
ically touches the back bumper. In effect,
some sort of physics is involved—y’all over
in Dana can figure that one out—and the tail
wind of the first driver propels the second.
It’s just another form of cheating.

But in NASCAR, cheating is the only way
to compete.

Cheating is how crews get ahead of other
crews. The rule book is a vast and technical
thing, but everyday of off-season, and prob-
ably during the season, there are people try-
ing to figure ways to get around those pesky
laws. Take Jimmie Johnson’s crew chief for
example. He was fined and suspended for
messing with Jimmie’s rear window in a way
that would take usefulness away from the
rear spoiler. It worked as well as it could
have—Jimmie placed fifth in the poll. But
Knaus, the chief, was rooted out when his
car failed inspection.

Bump drafting, as Stewart argues, is dif-
ferent from Knaus’ case because it isn’t
being enforced. Dale Jr. says it’s a “neces-
sary evil,” and he’s no less right than

Why I don’t like the

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

“The most important thing in the Olympic
Games is not to win but to take part, just as
the most important thing in life is not the tri-
umph, but the struggle. The essential thing is
not to have conquered, but to have fought
well.”

These words constitute the Olympic
Creed. They explain everything that com-
petitors, coaches, spectators and countries
should understand about what the Olympics
mean.

These words, now as hollow as they once
were hallowed, have been forgotten. I put the
case to you: would anyone ever print the
Olympic Creed beneath a picture of Maurice
Greene turning to taunt an opponent as he
won the 100 meter dash? Would anyone
overlay a film clip of Amy Van Dyken spit-
ting into Inge de Bruijn’s swimming lane
with a voiceover of these words?

Obviously not.

Now a tougher question. Would anyone
ever hang a poster of the 1992 Dream Team
over an Olympic Creed plaque? To this ques-
tion, the answer is much more reluctant and
begrudging, but it is still “no.”

We all like to win. Heck, I’ll even go all
United-Nations-politically-correct up in this
mo and say that Americans particularly like
to win. We made it a habit from the get-go,
winning the Valley Forge Winter Games over
a heavily favored British team and later dou-
bling up on the German team, again with
poor odds. -

Clearly, the games in Torino are of equal

consequence and therefore should be played
with equal focus on victory. This is why we
send professional athletes every alternate
summer and winter to prove our national

From the Sideline

By Monica Jamouneau

Stewart. It would take somebody crashing
and dying for the officials to make any real
changes.

They listened to the irate No. 20 driver in
a closed 20 minute meeting —but Tony may
as well have complained to the media for all
it got him. At least they would have printed
it.

Stewart thinks the rules should be changed
so bumpers are made soft, and if bump-draft-
ing does occur, it would cause irreparable
damage to the cars involved. Would this
solve the problem of drivers using the
maneuver? Yes. Will NASCAR do it?
Unfortunately, an alteration of this kind
would affect more than just bump-draft
crashes—it could cause all sorts of issues
that nobody, not even Stewart, could argue is
worse than this “necessary evil.”

I will shrug if anyone asks me whether
bump-drafting should be permissible, and
I'll probably go along with Dale Jr. and say

superiority; indeed, every nation participat-
ing in the Olympics sends their very best ath-
letes, the ones who train year-round and are
paid up the wazoo to run a lap around a track
or serve a ball over a net or hold really real-
ly still while a sled carries them down the
luge.

I recognize the place of professional sports
in the world, but that place is not with its
hand on the Olympic Torch.

Once upon a time, Olympians were not
allowed to be professional athletes. They
were ‘amateurs. Amateur derives from the
Latin word for “love;” these competitors,
then, represented their countries for the love
of those countries and for the love of the
games.

The Olympian today represents his coun-
try for the love of mohey and for the love of
fame. I’d like to see anyone set “Chariots of
Fire” in 2006. “Miracle” would be no mira-
cle had the American hockey players been
professionals. But I, along with countless
other fans, await the release of the modern
Olympic film: “Ten Reasons Why Shaq
Didn’t Play.”

To our credit, America was not the first to
use professional athletes. As always, we can
blame Communism. The USSR, in its own
economic circumlocution, had “nonprofes-
sional” athletes in the Olympic Games for
many years. :

These athletes, however, had no jobs; they
were paid by the government as were all
other citizens, but not for being athletes.
After years of protests, during which some
countries refused to participate in the Games,
the final solution was to allow professionals
to compete in every event.

And so this proud tradition lives on today,
in the snowcaps of Torino, where we pay
homage to those Communists who changed

it’s something that will happen at whatever
cost. Even Stewart does it; like I said, you
can’t win without it.

One of the mofe veteran drivers told
reporters that it was mostly the younger gen-
eration who was committing the foul.
NASCAR told him, veteran drivers will be
punished with the same level of severity.

My problem with that statement is I have
not seen anyone punished to such a degree
that it would dissuade him from doing it
again.

Ever since the era of “The Intimidator,”
dirty driving has been a staple characteristic
of top drivers. Earnhardt wouldn’t have won
any Good Sportsmanship Awards, but even
without the imfamy surrounding his death,
he would be regarded as one of the greatest
drivers of all time.

The sheer number of victorious races gives
him that accolade. Could he have done it had
he not gotten a little rough with his oppo-
nents? Absolutely not.

Hamlin bump-drafted a lot to get the win
this past weekend. So did Michael Waltrip,
my favorite driver. So if he did it, and I trust
him implicitly, it must be okay, right?

A writer on ESPN made the valid point
that if Stewart really wants to make a stand
against this practice, he should stay home
and watch the race from his mega-huge big
screen TV.

This weekend, I will once again be watch-
ing the action from a local establishment in
which the clientele throw beer cans on the
set every time his or her driver gets passed.

.I will be among those inspired humans
whose tickets for this season’s Lowe’s events
in late May are tucked away securely in the
family safe with bonds and birth certificates.
I'll watch and perhaps participate as -they
cheer, albeit viciously, when a car is knocked
out or somebody loses a tire.

When it comes to fans, I’m sure that most
see the bump-draft as no “necessary evil,”
but a valuable part of the battle.

Olympics

the nature of the Olympics so long ago. We
also pay GE, NBC, and everybody’s favorite
scapegoat, McDonald’s. And we pay the
skaters, the gymnasts, the skiers and every-
one else. Seems to be a great deal of money
involved in this Olympic thing.

Was the word “money” even part of the
Olympic Creed?

Jim ‘Thorpe, winner of the 1912 Gold
Medals in the decathlon and the pentathlon,
was stripped of his medals when it was dis-
covered that he had been paid $25 a week in
minor league baseball. In 1988, the
International Olympic Committee lifted all
bans on professional athletes in the
Olympics. Personally, I’d rather see Thorpe
without his golds and the Games still just
that— games.

College athletes used to be the primary
competitors in contests like basketball, vol-
leyball, and hockey in the Olympics. The
Games were a chance for these kids, who
might not play professionally, to do what
they loved on the international stage. That
stage, it seems, is now reserved for only
those whose payrolls extol their athleticism.

I hope to watch “Chariots of Fire” at least
once this Olympic season so that I may
assure myself that once, a long time before I
was born, the Olympics were what they
claimed to be. But for any who do not know
the film or will not see it before returning to
the Kwan-less skating rink, I offer you some
food for thought, from two British politi-
cians, discussing Eric Liddell, 1924 Gold’
Medalist in the 400 meter dash:

“His speed is a mere extension of his life,
its force. We sought to sever his running
from himself.”

“For his country’s sake, yes.”

“No sake is worth that, least of all a guilty
national pride.”
