10

PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
MARCH 29, 2006

Staff Editorial
Reclaim the Outpost

From discussions with Bobby Vagt to the halls of
Chambers to the SGA’s Filibuster, the hot topic has been the
Outpost and whether it will return to Patterson Court. And
why not? The college needs to determine some purpose for
CoHo’s house next semester, and it needs to do so soon.

Frankly, the late night food options on campus could use
some variety. The choices present are the Union Café or the
Union Café.

The glaring fluorescent lights, the flyers stacked upon fly-
ers and the silent roar of studious Davidsonians make the
Union...the Union. It is, as Mac Skelton wrote in the
Filibuster this week, ‘“‘a place where they [students] can both
study and socialize.” But an extension of Patterson Court?
Certainly not.

Bringing the Outpost back to campus would provide a
mixing ground for students from different social circles.
More importantly, the atmosphere would be more casual and
student friendly. Simply the different venue would be an
improvement. According to legend (and alums), the old
Outpost had a certain ambience that just can’t be replicated
in the Union.

The Union as a late night snack location seems to cause
more problems than it ‘Solves. Bringing back the Outpost
could diminish tensions between Union Café workers and
students.

In a 2001 Davidsonian article, students expressed the con-
cern that the Union’s “bright lights and the underlying pres-
ence of the administration” might dissuade people from get-
ting food. What’s more, the menu is limited and the food is
overpriced. (Case in point: a quesadilla composed of two
flour tortillas and some grated cheese costs $4.95. That’s a
damn shame).

The new Outpost could be open Wednesday through
Saturday night. The operation would be best when run by
students, also providing work-study jobs. It could serve as
both a late night food joint and an alternative hang out option
for people tired of the court scene. Let’s face it, watching our
fellow classmates grind on the dance floor to the same over-
played music gets old.

The Outpost could also be relaxed venue for student musi-
cal acts. Whether it’s impromptu guitar playing or a planned
student performance, the Outpost could have a lounge-like
atmosphere that would break up the conformity of the court.

Let’s reclaim the late-night food scene. Let’s bring back
The Outpost and make it our own.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry:
Managing Editor
Ruchi-Furakhia
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie ai
a : Perspectives Editors
i * Halley Aelion & Nathan Bradshaw. \,
OF ies Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Mike Wellman
Yow! B

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Basketball team says
thank you, Davidson

To the entire Davidson College community:

Teamwork was a vital part of success during this past sea-
son. Because of you, that teamwork transcended the bounds
of the basketball court.

We send our thanks to all of you. To professors, adminis-
trators, staff, and, of course, to the cheerleaders and to D
Block for the significant and valuable role that you played
as part of our team.

The journey of this year will be a memory that we will
cherish for years to come. Please accept our heartfelt thanks
for the encouragement and support that you gave to help
create these memories.

Men’s Basketball Team

Gay Alumni Weekend
about celebration

Last week, I was somewhat saddened to read Paige
Taylor’s letter to the editor (“Gay alumni reunion creates
segregation,” Mar. 22), which attacked the recent Gay
Alumni Weekend on the grounds that an event so “dedicated
to a controversial issue” demonstrated “‘overreaching” sup-
port for “a favored minority.” Though I did not participate in
the events of Gay Alumni Weekend, I hardly feel comfort-
able allowing such a position as Ms. Taylor’s to pass with-
out rejoinder.

I will let slide her rather dubious description of
Davidson’s queer community as one “favored” in any sense
by its larger culture, especially at the expense of other
minority groups; indeed, I will even spare these pages my
smoldering discontent with the overt anti-gay harassment
I’ve witnessed here as recently as two weeks ago.

Nor do I have the space (nor steadiness of countenance)
to defend the “controvérsial” position that Davidson should,
at a minimum, provide for the well-being of its queer popu-
lation. I will, however, state my strong support for events

targeted at building community amongst members of any
social minority groups.

Ms. Taylor’s notion of egalitarianism is a lovely ideal, but
it hardly reflects the reality of the world in which we live. In
fact, her assumption of equality belies the very reason
why subculture-specific events like Gay Alumni Weekend
are constructive: a person of any minority identity derives
considerable benefit from a community of peers empathetic
to those day-to-day difficulties that are almost always lost on
those blinded by “majority privilege.”

I would also hurry to point out that the queer community
is unique amongst minority groups in that its members, here
as much as anywhere, are both able and encouraged to hide
their identities. As such, our queer community, historically
at least, tends to lack the sort of visibility and internal sup-
port that arise somewhat by default in many other minority
groups.

We’re proud to be up to a rough dozen openly gay stu-
dents here, but as recently as four years ago, that number
was somewhere between one and nil. Our ability to cough
up a handful of well-adjusted queer students is a sign of
“improvement,” yes; but to encourage those people to come
together and find a common set of roots in the Davidson
family: that is a real step toward humanely providing for the
queer minority.

I applaud the administration’s continuing efforts to stimu-
late and compassionately support diversity, in this and all its
forms, within both our student body and the Davidson fam-
ily at large.

Alex Wales ’08

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to
the editor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of fewer than 250 words to

davidsonian @davidson.edu by

Sunday night. We reserve the right
to edit for content, brevity and
grammar. Anonymous letters will
not be printed.

Keep New Orleans in headlines

By WALKER SAIK
Guest Columnist

In response to Carey Baxter’s article (“Re-New Orleans,”
Mar. 22), I’d like to thank Ms. Baxter for bringing New
Orleans back into the headlines. For the most part, the areas
devastated by Hurricane Katrina have received diminishing
attention each day.

Ms. Baxter told the truth when she described the Lower
Ninth Ward. The area was barraged by floodwaters from sev-
eral directions, and ‘the net effect was utter devastation.
Houses are ripped off their slabs and are (still) lying in pieces
all-around the neighborhood.

But Ms. Baxter also implied that the majority of the affect-
ed areas were poor. This is simply not true. Eighty percent of
the city flooded, including affluent areas in Lakeview and
Uptown. In addition, most of the surrounding metro area
flooded as well. Old Metairie, one of the richest suburbs, had
three feet of water in many homes.

And even for those whose homes did not flood, everyone
is greatly affected by the sudden decrease in living condi-
tions. Road conditions are hazardous, medical services are
overextended, phone lines are not all operating, stores close
by 8 p.m., the mail is extremely unreliable, restaurants offer
reduced menus and the list can go on.

Local businesses are taking a big hit as well. Hundreds of
small businesses have closed, and the city’s largest employ-
ers, Tulane University and Entergy Corporation, have under-
gone serious changes. —

Tulane laid off 233 professors and suspended eight NCAA
sports. Likewise, Entergy, the city’s only Fortune 500 com-
pany, is still undecided on if or when it will return its opera-
tions to New Orleans.

The hardest news for locals to swallow, though, has been

’ the numerous studies that have come out since the storm,

detailing just how and why the floodwalls broke. The fact is
that the Army Corps of Engineers (i.e. the Federal govern-
ment) had guaranteed that the city’s floodwalls would hold
up to a.storm of Katrina’s size.

To make a long story short, the floodwalls broke, the city
flooded, and now the federal government is talking about
making. new floodwalls that will actually be as strong as they
should have been last time. There is much more to this story,
so readers should do some research if they’re curious.

To get back to Ms. Baxter’s article, though, she at one
point criticized the Mardi Gras revelers “who came to help
none but themselves.” What Ms. Baxter fails to realize is that
the city needs tourism dollars as much as it needs structural
rebuilding. A successful Mardi Gras was essential for the city
so that it could show the nation that New Orleans was offi-
cially open for business.

As for Davidson College, though, it’s surprising how little
attention has been given to New Orleans in the classroom.
New Orleans is a walking, talking thesis topic for essential-
ly any major.

Interested in studying the psychological effect of a cata-
strophic event on a large population? How about urban
growth models? Sociology majors may even find interest in
studying why so many families refused to leave their homes
during and after the storm.

New Orleans is seemingly perfect for academic discus-
sion, but up to now there has not been a single speaker at
Davidson who discussed issues pertinent to New Orleans.
Likewise, professors seem to shy away from the topic as they
stick to their course syllabi. With that in mind, it was nice to
see New Orleans back in the headlines and good to hear
about students who want to help.

Walker Saik ’06 is an economics major from New Orleans,
La. Contact him at wasaik@davidson.edu.
