Easter egg hunt.

Faculty and students enjoyed the sun at the Lake Campus as April at the Lake
kicked off last Saturday with a cookout and performances from the Generals
and Androgyny. The next event is on Friday and will feature a cookout and an

Lisa Zook

College to stop mailing

grades home to parents

By KATIE PFEIFFER & NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer & Perspectives Editor

Parents and guardians will no longer
receive students grades in the mail after fall
2006.

Although Davidson has been mailing
grades home for decades, it has recently been
advised that there is a certain level of confi-
dentiality that must be maintained between
students and the college.

“We do feel, as a developmental
matter, that it makes more sense
for students and parents to com-
municate with each other about
grades.”
--Bobby Vagt
President

According to a memo sent to students, par-
ents and guardians on Feb. 24, federal law
indicates that grades may not be mailed.

It also states that “federal regulations pro-
hibit the Registrar’s Office and individual
faculty members from providing grades or
grade averages by telephone or email.”

The college administration suggested,
however, that the new policy has not been
enacted with the idea that grades will not be

shared with parents. Students have the
option of requesting that the registrar send a
transcript home.

Furthermore, students should not expect
serious issues, such as behavioral measures
or academic probation, to be kept from par-
ents. Letters detailing such occurrences will
still be sent home.

“We do feel, as a developmental matter,
that it makes more sense for students and
parents to communicate with each other
about grades,” President Vagt said. “‘We’ve
been in violation of the rules in that we are
only supposed to send grades to students
who are dependents.”

Since there are few students who are typi-
cally classified as independents in to
Davidson’s financial records, the issue of
mailing grades has not caused many prob-
lems in the past.

Most students are not opposed to their par-
ents seeing their grades anyway.

“If parents are going to pay 16-17 grand a
semester, I think they have a right to have this
part in their offspring’s education process,”
Ethan Case ’08 said. “If they put up the dough
and bake the bread, then sure as 2Pac is dead,
them parents are getting’ those grades.”

Robbie Squibb agreed.

“T don’t mind,” Squibb said. “I’m going to
show them anyway.”

Students can access their semester grades
online five to seven days after exams have
finished.

; se im, Te )
a. & Se | fk

All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums
wanting to get back to North Carolina!

We have numerous businesses for sale in the greater Davidson
College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop,
a franchise truck accessories store, and more.

A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a book store
with the following features:
-Well-established for over 13 years
-Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
-Increasing sales volume over the internet
-Large repeat customer base
- Some seller financing avaliable

For more information call CFC, Inc. at
704-650-6630

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006 3

Senators vote to fund Senior
Week, final tennis cookout

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA) voted to allocate funding for the first
annual Senior Week before moving on to
address several points of internal business at
last Thursday’s meeting.

Activities Tax Council chair Hanako
Kawabata ’06 suggested that SGA allocate
$1,000 toward the planned Senior Week.

Christina Evans ’06 said that the week,
which would feature different activities each
day, would be a chance for seniors to recon-
nect with friends.

“It will be a chance to renew bonds with
freshman hallmates and others whom people
don’t see often,” Evans said.

Although Kawabata estimated that the
week will cost $5,400, she explained that
President Bobby Vagt has offered to cover
the cost of T-shirts, which comprises a large
portion of the proposed budget.

SGA approved the allocation with two
members abstaining.

The body then turned to address internal
business, beginning with a suggestion by
Gagan Gupta ’07 that SGA appoint one
member as committee counsel.

The individual would be responsible for
acquiring an in-depth working knowledge of
the College Constitution, the Red Book, and
the bylaws of SGA, the Honor Council,
Patterson Court Council and other important
governing documents.

Gupta described the individual as a neutral
party to whom students could turn if they
were unsure of their rights.

The issue was tabled for more discussion.

Gupta then proposed a change in meeting
protocol, suggesting that all SGA recom-
mendations be codified in the form of reso-
lutions before they come before Davidson
administrators.

“In the past, SGA members have put forth
opinions as if they were opinions expressed
on behalf of SGA when in fact they were that
particular individual’s opinions,” Gupta said.
“Resolutions will state SGA’s opinions on
issues.”

He explained that requiring individuals to
bring resolutions would also ensure that
front-end research would be completed
before proposals come to the body, thereby

streamlining and clarifying discussions.

Business then moved onto a brain-storm-
ing session for the April 6 meeting, which
will be attended by College Trustees from
the Council on Campus and Religious Life
committee.

Suggested topics of discussion included
academic policy, co-ed housing, renovating
the sophomore apartments, bringing’ the
Outpost back to Patterson Court and con-
structing more outdoor basketball courts.

Vice President Chris Burton ‘08 then
announced the new committee chair
appointees.

Whitney White ’08 will chair the Charters
and Bylaws Committee, Kate Sternstein ’09
will chair the Public Relations Committee
and will serve as the Trustee Contact, Ersag
Keskin ’08 will chair the Rides Committee,
Scott Buckhout ’07 will serve as the Town
Liaison, Wilson McCrory ’07 will chair the
Auxiliary Service Committee, Brian
Aoyama ’09 and Richmond Blake ’09 will
co-chair: the Service and Community
Development Committee, A. J.
Hergenroeder ’08 will chair the Academics
Committee and Beaux Jones ’08 will chair
the Public Safety Committee.

Treasurer Chris Burks ’07 then requested
that SGA allocate $80 to purchase three-ring
binders and to cover copying fees to give
each member of SGA copies of the bylaws, a
template for resolutions and other important
documents.

Blake Poole ’08 then requested an alloca-
tion of $100 to sponsor half of the cost of a
pre-game cookout for the men’s tennis team
Senior Day match against Furman
University.

Both allocations passed unanimously.

Darryl Radcliffe "08 then requested that
SGA allocate $185 to cover the cost of a
Student-Faculty Relations Committee Easter
egg hunt at the Lake Campus on April 8th.

Before discussion proceeded, Burks issued
a warning to the body.

“This is a reminder to everybody to make
requests for money well in advance,” he
said. “If we request funds last minute, then
we have to pay a processing fee.”

SGA agreed to allocate the money in the
case that the Union Board receives a request
for the sum _and then denies Radcliffe the
funds.

Sororities, from page 2

promote sisterhood at all ages.

One such group is the Pearlettes, ages 4-8,
which centers on strong moral values. Zeta
Phi Beta also partners with Walk America for
the March of Dimes.

Cherita Jeffreys "08, another member of
the search committee, thought that the core
values of both sororities were similar.

“It is just the programs and events they
implement that differ. Elements such as the
importance of community service, the partic-
ular stress on high academic achievement,

fellowship towards all mankind and leader-
ship skills are values that I feel parallel
Davidson’s own,” she said. :

She added, “I was thoroughly impressed
with both sororities, their pride and love for
their organizations was quite admirable and
evident. There were not any obvious weak-
nesses to me in either presentation, which
will in turn make our decision as a commit-
tee so much harder. I look forward the next
presentation and hope that they will impress
us just like the other two.”

The third sorority, Delta Sigma Theta, will
present at 7:15 p.m. on Apr. 10 in Commons.
