2

Ww

CIS offers extra options

for academic majors

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

, For students who find none of Davidson’s
21 academic majors suits them, a 22nd
option, developing a major through the
Center for Interdisciplinary Studies (CIS),
exists.

CIS offers students the opportunity to pur-
sue a multidimensional, in-depth study of a
topic, issue, historical era, scientific problem
or region.

CIS students are majoring in East Asian
Studies, Public Health, Rural Poverty
Studies, Narrative Studies, Medieval
Studies, Latin American Health Care,
Medical Ethics, and: Creative Writing &
Theatrical Arts.

CIS director Scott Denham

According to Director of the CIS Scott
Denham, the CIS attracts “students who are
independent, self-directed, and good writ-
ers.”

Currently, there are 13 CIS majors in the
senior class, ten in the junior class, and one
in sophomore class.

The number of sophomore CIS majors
will increase steadily during the coming
months as the March 31 spring semester
application deadline for program proposals
approaches.

Like other academic majors at Davidson,
completion of a CIS major requires .ten
courses, including five 300 levels and two
senior-year thesis courses.

Pursuing a course of study through the CIS
also requires that a student undergo an exten-
sive proposal process before declaring a
major.

Denham encourages students who are con-
sidering designing a major through the CIS
to consult the program’s website before con-
tacting its staff. The student can then meet
with Denham and CIS Program Assistant
Linda Shoaf.

After the initial inquiry meetings, a
prospective CIS major begins to contact
potential academic advisors from depart-
ments relevant to the student’s proposed
course of study.

Every CIS major eventually chooses two
or three academic advisors, each from a dif-
ferent department, whose areas of expertise
correspond to the student’s planned thesis.

The academic advisors are integral to the
working of the CIS.

“T feel really privileged to be working with
__ these two fabulous, brilliant scholars [in ref-
.erence to her advisors, Associate Professor
of Russian Amanda Ewington and Professor
of Political Science. Brian Shaw],’” potential
CIS major Luci Hague ‘08 said.

The advisors benefit from the CIS majors
they advise as much as the students benefit
from the expertise of their advisors.

“T learn a lot when I advise CIS majors
because they know so much about areas that
I don’t specialize in,” Professor of Biology
Chris Paradise said. “Their interests extend
outside of my area of expertise.”

The advisors work closely with the student
sin drafting a proposal to be submitted to the
CIS during the student’s sophomore year or
during the fall of the student’s junior year.

The three or four page proposal includes a
personal essay, a description of the student’s
proposed course of study and an explanation
of the student’s intended thesis topic.

“The proposal needs to be specific enough
that the Director of the CIS and the Faculty
Advisory Committee know that you’re dedi-
cated to your idea, but they understand that it
will change,” said Latin American Studies
major Julia DeLozier 07. “I can see the
roots of my current thesis in my original pro-
posal, but I am in the process of refining the
specifics.”

After the student has submitted multiple
drafts of the proposal to Denham and to the
student’s academic advisors, a final draft is
circulated amongst members of the CIS
Faculty Advisory Committee.

The 2005-2006 committee consists of
Professor and Chair of Psychology Ruth
Ault, Associate Professor of Biology Karen
Bernd, Assistant Professor of Economics
Mark Foley, Assistant Professor of French
Leon Sachs and Assistant Professor of
Religion Anne Wills.

Some sophomores, like Hague, have
already submitted their proposals to the
Committee. .

“It’s really challenging to put everything
down on paper, to express your ideas clearly,
and to convince people that your idea mat-
ters,” she said.

If the committee approves the proposal,
the student presents it to Denham, the com-

“The proposal needs to be specific
enough that the Director of the
CIS and the Faculty Advisory
Committee know that you’re dedi-
cated to your idea, but they under-
stand that it will change. I can see
the roots of my current thesis.in
my original proposal, but I am in
the process of refining the specifics.
--Julia DeLozier ‘07

mittee and the student’s chosen advisors.

At the meeting’s end, the student will be
invited to join the CIS, asked to rework the
proposal or encouraged to declare a major
within a single discipline.

According to Denham, most submitted
proposals are accepted due to the rigorous
pre-proposal requirements.

Acceptance into the CIS is by no means
the end of the student’s journey, however.

“When I proposed my thesis, I intended it
to be the culmination of my CIS major in
neuroscience,” Joe Taylor ‘06 said.”’Since
then, however, it has evolved into the begin-
ning of a career rather than the end to one.”

All CIS majors write major theses in their
senior year under the direction of their advi-
sors.

Senior CIS majors must also submit an
annotated bibliography before leaving for

Thanksgiving Break to record their progress

on their theses.

EDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1,

ait ns tne 1a

Career Services intern Angela Soper ‘08 gives a student advice in the office.

Career services aids students

searching for summer jobs

By KATIE PFEIFFER

Senior Staff Writer

With the start of a new semester, the
Office of Career Services is assisting stu-
dents in networking, writing resumes and
cover letters and searching for jobs and
internships.

“In my experience, Career Services does a
great job organizing alumni to come and
visit campus so that students can learn about
different types of job opportunities,” Tim
Dillon ’06 said. “I’ve submitted numerous
resumes through the eCareers website and
I’ve also had several on-campus interviews
with different employers. In each case,
Career Services has done a great job organ-
izing the events and coordinating the appli-
cation process.”

Associate Director of Career Services
Monica White said January is usually the
busiest time of year for the office, and for
that reason, it has extended the accessibility
of resume critique services.

On specified days, students can leave their
resumes at Vail Commons to be critiqued
during their meal. This service is also offered
at the library on certain days.

White also advises students to take the net-
working workshop and to take advantage of

the career services website.

“Don’t wait until the last minute,” White
said, as the entire office has already been
booked with appointments.

Last Wednesday, the Office of Career
Services hosted the Summer Job and Camp
Fair from 12-3 p.m. in the Union Atrium.
About 38 organizations and 220 students
attended the fair.

Other important events taking place
throughout the spring semester are the
Metrolina Career Fair and the Big Apple
Recruiting Consortium (BARC).

The Metrolina Career Fair, which will take
place on February 10 at the Airport Sheraton
in Charlotte, includes about 80 employers
from a variety of fields.

Because few students typically attend, the
Career Services office is increasing publicity
through flyers and tables in the union. It
encourages students to take advantage of the
opportunity to sharpen interview skills by
interviewing for a number of positions.

BARC began in January and allows stu-
dents to apply for New York positions in the
biomedical, law and communications fields.
Resumes and cover letters can be submitted
through the ecareers website and students

See Career, page 3

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

1/29

Knox Dormitory

Vandalism

At 12:15 a.m., an officer responded to Knox Dormitory in reference to a report of
vandalism. A student reported that someone had knocked on his door and told him
there was smoke coming from the men’s second-floor bathroom. The student
checked the bathroom and discovered someone had discharged a fire extinguisher.
The entire interior of the bathroom was covered with white powder that also hung in
the air. The fire extinguisher had been taken from the female side of the dorm. There —

was no physical damage to the bathroom.

1/26

Baker Parking Lot

Vehicle Damage

Officer responded to a report of vehicle damage in Baker Parking Lot after an
unknown person(s) scratched her vehicle door between 7:45 a.m. and 2:15 p.m. It
appeared that a Jeep parked in the next parking space had scratched the vehicle and

transferred paint to the victim’s vehicle.

1/25

Little Dormitory

Drug Complaint

Officers were dispatched to the third floor of Little Dormitory in reference to the
odor of a controlled substance. A student on the second floor reported he could smell
the odor of marijuana coming through the vent from the third floor. The officers
checked the building twice but were unable to detect any odor.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

