Staff Editorial
Why the waste?

Reduce, reuse, recycle.

For a message that has been pounded into our heads since
elementary school, students are doing a good job of forget-
ting it.

Each week, large volumes of bottles, cans, paper and other
recyclables end up in a trash dump due to student careless-
ness. The company that handles campus recycling simply
cannot process it when over 30 percent is contaminated by
non-recyclables, such as trash or bottle caps.

We have to wonder why recycling is such a problem at
Davidson. Is it a question of students not knowing what can
and cannot be recycled? Do we not have enough recycling
bins on campus? Or is it simply laziness?

The middle 50 percent of our first-year class scored
between 1350 and 1490 on the SAT. We have a 90 percent
graduation rate.

Yet our recycling efforts are marred by the sloppiness that
we are so desperate to avoid in our term papers, midterm
exams and grad school applications.

The problem extends beyond contaminated recycle bins.
Campus participation in recycling efforts as a whole is lack-
luster. While groups like SGA and the Environmental Action
Committee (EAC) are working hard to improve the existing
recycling programs, the community has been less than recep-
tive.

The problem cannot be corrected until the Davidson com-
munity recognizes its severity. Until we realize the repercus-
sions of such waste, the work of groups like the EAC and
SGA will be in vain.

The programs currently in place are not sufficient, even
with increased community participation. While ideas such as
the incorporation of a recycling video into freshman orienta-
tion are admirable, they need to be systematically reinforced
by efforts from the EAC, SGA and other campus organiza-
tions if we wish to ameliorate campus participation in recy-
cling.

Increasing the number of recycle bins is another essential
step in rectifying the situation. But getting more bins will not
be effective if students do not start properly using the bins
that are already in place.

The process needs to start with a collective consciousness
among the entire campus community. Inadequate recycling
at Davidson is everyone’s problem, and everyone must be a
part of the solution.

Che Davidsontan

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

\

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor —
Ruchi Turakhia.
. _.News Editors ,
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie McKéon
Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Nathan Bradshaw
Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Mike Wellman
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel.
\ Mortis Jagoteaw Perce Thumbo /

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 22, 2006

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Vagina Monologues
Understanding VM's purpose

As producer of the 2005 and 2006 Davidson productions
of “The Vagina Monologues,” I was extremely saddened and
disappointed by the two articles written by males (“An unec-
essary vulgarization,” “Feminist ‘brainwashing’ logic exam-
ple of larger hypocrisies,” Feb. 15), which appeared in last
week’s Perspectives section.

These authors completely missed the point of the show; it
is not hypocritical or about shock value; the show is about
allowing these women, and thereby all women, to have a
voice. Every monologue was the real story of what a specif-
ic woman went through, as she dictated it to Eve Ensler.

By criticizing these stories, one is criticizing these women
for the experiences they encountered.

What right does anyone have to tell someone that her
experience was wrong when it is truly a part of her identity?

Each of these women, including the woman who recount-
ed a memory from when she was 16 years old, should be
entitled to tell her story — whether one agrees with it or not.
That is not the point. The point is the overarching message
of liberation and respect, which Eve Ensler attempts to gar-
ner for women throughout the world.

And let us all not forget the main point of this year’s pro-
duction: to donate thousands of dollars to the Fight against

~ Fistulas in hope to achieve liberation for women in Niger.

Heather Yopp ‘

VM critique crossed the line

As a man, reading Daniel Van Oudenaren’s screed against

the “Vagina Monologues” makes me more than a little
embarrassed for my gender.

I’m not insisting that Mr. Van Oudenaren should have
loved the performance. “Vagina Monologues,” as art, is a
play open for criticism and subject to personal tastes. But
Mr. Van Oudenaren’s critique went beyond the production,
the acting or even the play itself to make sweeping, judg-
mental generalizations that were entirely inappropriate.

Mr. Van Oudenaren accuses the play of promoting “a per-
verse notion of womanhood,” of denigrating women and of
being an improper “time and, place” for a discussion of
female sexuality. Seeing a fellow man preaching about the
proper portrayal of womanhood makes me as uncomfortable
as Mr. Van Oudenaren apparently was during the show.

To simultaneously decry denigration of women while call-
ing any connection between the female form and God “sac
rilege” and “insidious idolatry” seems to me to be hypocrit-
ical and possibly more offensive than any part of the play.

Yes, “Vagina Monologues” made men like me (and pre-
sumably Mr. Van Oudenaren) blush at times. It certainly
challenged the conventional perspective that dominates our
society. But maybe Bob Dylan said it best when he sang:
“Don’t criticize what you can’t understand.” I wish Mr. Van
Oudenaren had taken that advice and saved his rhetorical
venom for something he perhaps knows a little more about.

Taylor Ansley ’07

Shock has value in raising issues

Before many criticize Daniel Van Oudenaren’s column, I’d
like to recognize his interest in the monologues addressing
more “real social or medical problems.” Congratulations,
Daniel, you seem to care about woman’s issues.
Unfortunately, not too many other guys do: as apparent from

their (lack of) participation in the Yowl controversy.

Sure, I want the campus to witness more monologues deal-
ing with these “real” issues, but, like Halley Aelion states,
not too many guys would come to such a show. “Vagina
Monologues” needs the more humorous Oe value: it’s
entertaining.

So we only saw one main sanoleeae dealing with fistulas,
but there were many other monologues dealing with other
real issues. I don’t know about all the men out there, but I felt
ashamed of certain male behavior and ready to take action
(support women) when I heard the monologues dealing with
violent rape and sexual assault. Hopefully, most of the men
who saw the show got the same feeling: thankfully the shock
value brought men to the show and helped them process

}
these real problems! \

Finally, men, it’s long past time we shed our defensive atti-
tudes towards feminist movements. It seems that whenever
a gender issue affects this campus (Yowl, Vagina
Monologues, etc.) women are quick to react one way and
men the other. This is not necessary. Men, go against the
norm: women will appreciate your ability to see issues from
a less patriarchal point of view.

Steven Gentile ’06

PE credit qualified

I appreciate the staff editorial in last week's Davisonian
(“PE Credit off-base,” Feb. 15) regarding the Assassins
game and lifetime PE credit. We find the name of the game,
Assassins, to be reprehensible, and we have asked campus
organizers to consider a change.

Also, please understand that PE credit is being considered
based on the addition of physical challenges added to the
game in cooperation with the Union Board and Davidson
Outdoors. We have not received nor reviewed the proposed
challenges at this point, and final approval is contingent
upon the validity of these requirements as lifetime skills.

We intend to work with student organizers to appropriate-
ly respond to student interests and, in this effort, we must be
flexible in our reaction to student creativity. At the same
time, we have no interest in undermining the Physical
Education requirements nor engaging in an activity that
might be negatively misconstrued.

Jim Murphy,
Director of Athletics

False advertising is
disrespectful

A few weeks ago, Campus Outreach, a Christian fellow-
ship at Davidson, put up a banner in the Union advertising an
event they were sponsoring in the 900 Room. Written in a
huge font was the question “Is God relevant?” That’s a pret-
ty provocative question that I’m sure many of us have
thought about, regardless of our faith background. I definite-
ly have.

The sign didn’t include a speaker’s name or a format, and,
given that the title of the event was a question, I believed it
would be a forum where students could discuss the (ir)rele-
vance of God in their lives or the world at large. I had had no
experience with Campus Outreach, but having had great
experiences with dialogues sponsored by other Christian fel-
lowships in the past, I didn’t see a problem with attending the
event. :

Within a few minutes of stepping into the 900 Room, I
realized I had been misled. What the banner had not said was
that the event would not be a conversation, but a Christian
speaker who would answer the question for us. Campus
Outreach’s banner also did not mention that the event would
be strictly from a Christian perspective or would define
“God” in a way that excludes non-Christians like me.
Instead, Campus Outreach used catchy, misleading advertis-
ing that inaccurately portrayed what their event would be.

Don’t get me wrong, I have no problem with speakers or
any other type of event coming from a faith-based perspec-
tive. In fact, I think it could be valuable for students interest-
ed in the topic. But when the event is advertised to the entire
campus, I would hope the sponsoring organization would
make its intended format and purpose clear.

Doing that is a simple matter of respect.

Amee Patel ‘06

