THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

13

By ALEX ARINSMIER
Special Contributor

Dos and don’ts: the etiquette of pig

Super Bowl week is finally here. Football
fans from around the country and world,
coming off of a slight depression due to the
lack of football this past weekend, can
breathe a sigh of relief and feel the anticipa-
tion starting to mount for this Sunday’s
game. The culmination of the NFL season
will be watched by millions of viewers, and
has become the defining statement of
American sporting events. Therefore, it is
imperative for both the die-hard fan and
casual viewer to abide by a set of rules or
Super Bowl etiquette .to properly give Super
Bowl XL the respect it rightly deserves.

The key to Super Bowl etiquette is prepa-
ration. Thinking that one can wake up and
just watch the game is a slap in the face to
true fans and to the NFL. Obviously, you
must attend some sort of Super Bowl party to
watch the game. Hosting and attending are
two different things, but the responsibilities
are inherently the same. A large screen tele-
vision is a must, preferably one with high
definition. Don’t have the money for a new
plasma screen? Simply buy one the day
before at Best Buy and then return it the next
day. It’s that easy, so a 13-inch RCA will
simply not be tolerated.

Having the right assortment and amount
of food at your Super Bowl Party is another
major duty. There will be no time to shop
during Super Bowl Sunday, especially
because one must rise by 9 a.m. to dress (in
a jersey) and mentally prepare for the game,
followed by watching six hours of pre-game
shows, starting around 11 a.m.

Shopping must be done the day before.
Here are the essentials: 10 sticks of pepper-
oni, five pounds of buffalo wings, and
Tostitos Scoops with dip of choice. Pizzas

should be ordered the day before to ensure
delivery. The-standard here is all meat pizza,
with at least one pie for every one and a half
people present. There is no doubt alcohol is
required, but only beer. Beer and faotball are
like John Elway and the Broncos: they
belong together. :

Please note that only domestic béer should
be allowed, preferably old-fashioned
Budweiser or “Bud Heavy”, out of respect to
the seriousness of the day.

You must bet on the game. Period. The
chances that “your team” is in the big game
are very slim. (No, all west-coasters, the
Seahawks are not now “your team.”)
Because of this, it is not just enough to
watch and enjoy the game; you must have
big money on the Super Bowl to make it
interesting, to have a team to root for, and to
maximize the number of obscenities yelled
and objects thrown at the tube during the
contest. I like the Steelers at -4.

A final preparation is carefully selecting
the people who will be watching the game
with you. Large groups of over 10 have a
tendency to result in side conversations not
dealing with football, which is clearly unac-
ceptable, and smaller gatherings lack the
jokes and football insight required to fully
take in a game. Once you have selected the
right number of guests (I would suggest
eight to 10), the important thing is to select
exactly who will be allowed to partake in
your party on this holy day of football.
Please note that women are more than wel-
come to join in on the fun, as long as they
have an understanding of football and can be
counted on not to bring up any other subjects
other than football or Chuck Norris jokes.
Men too, for that matter, must follow this
requirement. However, this is not the time
invite the cute girl from your econ class who
giggles at the mention of a tight end, nor is it

the time to allow admittance to your buddy
from your freshman hall who questioned the
humor of the Peyton Manning commercial.
A quality guest is one who can describe how
to run the Tampa 2 coverage, is a willing par-
ticipant in beginning of the quarter shotgun-
ning activities, which are required, and can
deliver a Top 30 Chuck Norris fact on com-
mand. Choose guests carefully.

There are other requirements for the view-
ing of the game. You must stand up and sing
the National Anthem. You must also under-
stand that Super Bowl commercials are
funny, and therefore you are only allowed to
leave your seat to use the restroom if you
have a television in the bathroom. If not,
using Gatorade bottles to relieve yourself is
kosher. Other than the famous Janet Jackson

Celebrating Steelers: This is the scene many are predicting after SuperBowIXL.

skin parties

——

episode, halftime entertainment is usually
lame and a waste of airtime. This spot should
be filled in by reciting Wedding Crasher
quotes or watching classic Steven Seagal
highlights. Good talk with ridiculous and
outlandish claims is appreciated, and really
raises the social atmosphere. Any conversa-
tion that does not end with laughter or
knowledge of football strategy is grounds for
dismissal.

The proper etiquette will result in a won-
derful Super Bowl experience for all
involved. Remember, it is not about having
fun, but rather fulfilling a duty and code of
ethics. Prepare and then sit back while your
buddies compliment you on your football
manners.

Are you ready for some football?!?!

Student Spec
RENAISSANCE )

PULSED LIGHT HAIR REMOVAL

€

129 E-Williamson Road
Mooresville, NC 28117

704-799-2843

Offering 20% of f Hair Removal

AND
Acne Therapy Packages

Have Silky Smooth Skin for Good!!

Call Today for your FREE consultation

“Hair today, gone, tomorrow

o

~

