THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phones, from page 1

to consider every angle and possible impact
of the change. Under the new plan, on calls
made from campus phone lines the room
number, not the name of the resident, will
appear on caller ID.

Muchane said that Public Safety would
still be able to identify the location of incom-
ing calls.

Muchane discussed the proposed changes
with the Student Government Association
and felt they were understanding and sup-
portive of the new plan, offering positive
feedback.

Generally, students appear unconcerned
with the change.

“T never even set up my room phone this
year. I don’t anticipate this change will
affect me very much at all,” Page Bomar ’07
said.

Cal Nannes ’07 understood the rational
behind the new plan.

“Cell phones are becoming much more
popular and as a result, most students rarely
use their room phones. I know a few people
who don’t even have their land lines plugged
in or an active voicemail,” Nannes said.

Brian Helfrich ’07, however, had some

reservations about the new plan.

“I have used the personal landline phone _
a lot because of my poor on-campus cell
service,” Helfrich said. ;

He is also worried that a communal phone
will infringe on privacy for phone calls: -

Muchane is determined to continue. inves-
tigating better ways to serve. students with
cell phones. ;

Since students are not using landline
phones, he wants to improve the services
they are using.

He is looking into plans about the possibil-
ity of constructing a cell phone tower on
campus. ..

This addition to the campus would enable
students to receive better cell phone service
and reception from multiple carriers.

Additionally, Muchane is looking toward
the future of telephone technology.
Increasingly, technology is shifting towards
the convergence of telephone and data net-
works.

Costs will likely decline as a result,
because phone and internet services will use
the same network.

“It is unfortunate that we’ ve had to do this,
but it’s the march of technology,” Muchane
said.

%

Robin French ‘07 chats with a friend on her dorm phone.

Gordon discusses court cases
on school funding and prayer

By LExi HAMILTON
News Editor

University of Penn. Professor Dr. Sarah
Barringer Gordon delivered the annual
Kendrick K. Kelley Lecture last Sunday in
the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room on “The

Almighty Dollar: How School Funding and —

Prayer Came to the Supreme Court.”

Professor Sarah Barringer Gordon

Gordon outlined the role that the Supreme
Court plays in shaping history, particularly
the legal history of religion, in the United
States.“ =

While academics often speak of the
Supreme Court’s ability to interpret history,”

Gordon said, “few talk about the Supreme
Court’s role in making history.”

Gordon cited the Supreme Court decisions
in Everson v. Board of Education and Engel
v. Vitale. She said the cases highlight the
ways in which the court system impacts reli-
gion and “makes” history in the United
States.

The Supreme Court handed down a 5-4
ruling in the 1947 Everson case.

The case upheld the constitutionality of a
New Jersey law that allowed the state to
reimburse parents for transportation expens-
es to and from schools, many of which were
Catholic parochial institutions.

The controversial Everson case provided
greater definition to the establishment clause
of the first amendment.

It also incited conflict between Catholics
and Protestants. Protestants felt that the deci-
sion demonstrated Catholic favoritism.

The Engel v. Vitale case, however,.- illus-
trated that preceding case law would that
found favor with certain religious sects
wound not necessarily work to their advan-
tage in future cases.

In. a 6-1 decision during 1962, the
Supreme Court overturned the constitution-
ality of the New York law which would
require school children to recite a non-
denominational prayer at the beginning of
the school day.

The monumental decision sent shock-

See Kelley, page 4

NEwSsS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006 3

Honor Code concerns
brought to Senate floor

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA) heard presentations from Information
Technology Services (ITS), the Diversity
Coordinating Committee (DCC) and the
Activities Tax Council (ATC) at last
Thursday’s SGA meeting.

Information technology specialist Christy
Shi ’96 explained that ITS plans to redesign
the Davidson College website.

The project will provide the leaders of stu-
dent organizations with templates to add
content to the website in a uniform fashion.

“We want to create more of a presence for
student organizations,” Shi said.

The new website will target specific audi-
ences with links from the main page for stu-
dents, faculty, alumni and parents.

Additionally, a central campus calendar
will list all meetings, athletic events, con-
certs, lectures and other happenings.

After the ITS presentation, Brandon
Carroll ’06 spoke concerning potential mis-
applications of the Honor'Code by adminis-
trators in connection with the new member
violation investigations conducted against
Sigma Phi Epsilon last spring and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon this year.

He explained that students question how
the Code is applied outside of the classroom.

Carroll explained that some freshmen
pledges who were questioned by members of
the administration eceived the impression
that they were Honor-bound to answer.

According to Carroll, the Code of
Disciplinary Procedures only permits admin-
istrators to compel testimony from student
witnesses, excluding the accused, when the
Honor Council holds a trial hearing.

ATC Chair Wilson McCrory ’07 also
spoke.

“This is not a black arid white issue. The
administration does need to know what is
happening if there is hazing going on,”
McCrory said.

Following the discussion of the Honor
Code, Justin Eusebio ’09 and Nate Shestak
’07 asked SGA to support a resolution
encouraging the North Carolina state legisla-
ture to divest from state public funds, such as
the North Carolina Retirement Systems,

which invest in companies that operate in
Sudan.

Since February 2003, the Sudanese gov-
ernment has displaced 2.5 million of its citi-
zens and perpetuated genocide against over
400,000 of its people in the Darfur region.

SGA President Mac Skelton ’07 asked
Eusebio to bring a formal resolution to the
next SGA meeting so that the body may vote
on the issue.

McCrory then presented the ATC alloca-
tion recommendations for the 2006-2007
academic year.

ATC is responsible for allocating approxi-
mately 0.5 percent of the total tuition to stu-
dent organizations.

Due in part to an increase in the student
activities fee, ATC has more money to allo-
cate this spring than it did last spring.

According to McCrory, the number of
organizations requesting funding also
increased from about 40 to 52.

SGA will vote on the ATC budget at next
week’s meeting.

After the ATC presentation, DCC Chair
Whitney White ’08 approached SGA with a
resolution to alter the DCC’s structure.

She wants to change DCC from an
umbrella organization for the cultural diver-
sity groups on campus to an alliance
amongst its member organizations.

“Right now, it’s reactive, but we want to
become more proactive,” White said.

White petitioned SGA to create six spots
for DCC representatives, explaining that
DCC represents about a dozen campus
organizations. ;

Skelton proposed that SGA vote on the
resolution at its next meeting.

SGA representative Gagan Gupta ’07 then
presented a resolution to create an SGA gen-
eral council for the upcoming academic year.

The individual who fills the position will
be responsible for acquiring an in-depth
working knowledge of the College
Constitution, the Red Book, the bylaws of
SGA, of the Honor Council, and of the
Patterson Court Council and other important
governing documents in order to inform stu-
dents of their rights under specific circum-
stances.

The resolution passed by a unanimous
vote.

