_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Marcu 15, 2006

Talking rock wit

By PRESTON Davis
Staff Writer

The Walkmen, a New York based band
known for its unique brand of rock, took the
stage in the Duke Family Performance Hall
last Friday night.

Despite lead singer Hamilton
Leithhauser’s few awkward moments with a
faulty microphone, which caused some peo-
ple to leave before the set’s end, the hour-
long concert went smoothly.

The Walkmen, for the most part, delighted
those in attendance. The group played a
diverse set of songs from all three of their
albums, including the new “A Hundred
Miles Off,” which comes out May 23.

There were several notable aspects of the
concert. One was the band’s use of a piano
that seemed about the right size for a well-
trained monkey. While there was no monkey
to be found, the piano made for an intriguing
sound.

Drummer Matt Barrick kept the music

uesque presence and his Bono-like vocals,
was the group’s centerpiece. By adding in
some inexplicable guitar playing, the band
created a brilliantly bizarre musical calamity
that seemed to pour out of their instruments.

While it was easy to appreciate their dis-
tinctive sound, microphone malfunctions,
heavy feedback from the amplifiers and the
sometimes overly strange quality of the
music were some of the concert’s low points.
The band’s instrumental command was

strong, and by the set’s end, I finally appre-

ciated their break from the ordinary.

Responding to the applause of committed
students who stayed until the concert’s end,
The Walkmen retook the stage for a more
than adequate encore. They played some
crowd favorites like “The Rat,” as well as
more songs from “A Hundred Miles Off,”
which they described as a little bit softer in
sound than their last two albums.

Even though I cannot recall many
instances where I really felt “into” the show,

Duke, might be
appropriately
summed up as

unique but misun-
derstood.

I was fortunate
enough to get a
post-concert inter-
view with the band
members. The ©
Walkmen, who do
not typically tour
for long periods,
arrived in Davidson
to accommodations
that Leithhauser
said have been their
best yet. The band’s

lead singer, who
stated that The w Vassey
Walkmen’s ideal

audience is simply a Hamilton Leithhauser of The Walkmen rocks out In his unique style.

crowd who enjoys their music, claimed they _ poor attendance, Leithhauser apologized for

it was still entertaining, even if it just made
for a break from the usual.
The Walkmen, as well as their night in

engaging with his charismatic yet spastic
style. Leithhauser, defined by his blond, stat-

‘e ‘ sa ie me é , >
Students on the RUF trip to Mississippi catch some rays while building a house.

were happy to have a crowd that came out
and took pleasure in the show.
While I apologized for what I felt was

being unable to answer my questions with

See Walkmen, page 7

Students from Moscow enjoying their stay

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts and Living Editor Emeritus

Three students from the Moscow State
Institute of International Relations are cur-
rently at Davidson, participating in a five-
week exchange program established in 2003.
This summer, 10 Davidson students will take
part in the exchange by going to Moscow for
six weeks.

Ella Usacheva, Valeriya Slezko and
Nikolai Merkulov, who are all currently liv-
ing in off-campus housing, candidly dis-
cussed their first impressions of life on cam-
pus and in a different country. This is the first
visit to the United States for all three, who
hope to gain a better understanding of the
country’s dialogue, educational system and
college life during their stay.

Usacheva has already learned something
about the last aspect, due to the weight of her
current class workload.

“I had never before understood why peo-
ple in the USA are so keen on the weekend,”
she said.

The three are gradually learning how to
keep a steady course of studying, due to hav-
ing classes that require regular reading and
homework. The warm weather has brought
them some extra enjoyment, especially since
Moscow is still covered in snow.

The American educational system, howev-

er, has presented some challenges. In Russia,

professors often intimidate students and con-
trol their study habits. The faculties at
Russian universities often expect students to

. corroborate, even on tests, in order to reach

the high standards set by professors.

“I had never before understood why
people in the USA are so keen on
the weekend.”

--Ella Usacheva

The visiting students have all noticed the
ability of American students to work well on
their own. They were also impressed by the
willingness of Davidson professors to hold
open classroom discussions, since Russian
universities often feature a lecture and semi-
nar system that allows for little student input.

While at Davidson, Usacheva, Slezko and
Merkulov are taking a course taught by Jack
Perry, a director emeritus of the Dean Rusk
International Studies Program. The course is

a series of lectures exploring American cul-
ture and business. Each student is also audit-
ing two courses, which vary from Western
European Politics to French Cinema.

The Russian students have spent their
spare time doing homework and familiariz-
ing themselves with the town and campus.
Usacheva named the Alvarez College Union
as one of her favorite places, because “‘it pro-
vides much of what students need on a daily
basis.”

Merkulov enjoys the green chairs around
campus, which allowed him to bask in the
warm weather of the past week.

All three students named traffic and smil-
ing faces as the largest differences they have
witnessed between Russia and the United
States. Drivers in Moscow feel that they
have the right of way, even occasionally
going up onto sidewalks to find parking.

Slezko feels that the general speed of life
in the United States is much slower. “Cars
actually stop for pedestrians when they wish
to cross the street and there is even a separate
path for bicycles,” she said.

The living atmosphere in the United States
also presents differences for the students.
Apartments in Russia usually have large
metal doors that help keep out thieves and
the cold, while doors at Davidson often
remain open due to the trusting campus envi-
ronment. The Russian students feel that stu-
dents here are very open about their lives as
well, except in one respect,

“In Moscow, if someone asks you ‘how
are you doing,’ the answer would be ‘terri-
ble,’ and then we will tell you all about our
problems,” said Slezko.

The Russian students said they feel it is
strange that many people in the United States
frequently answer that they are ‘fine’ or
“great,” even when they are not.

All three students, despite any differences
they have seen between Moscow and
Davidson, have come to feel welcome on
campus. Amy Holthouser, the program coor-
dinator, even took Slezko shopping after the
airline lost her luggage to ensure that she had
what she needed. Luckily, her luggage was
found the next day. All three have been
grateful for the work Holthouser put into
making preparations for their visit.

They have also appreciated the warm wel-
come provided by President Bobby Vagt,
Perry, their professors and students. If the
weather stays sunny, the rest of their stay
should be just as enjoyable.
