2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mar ch, from page 1

everyone that we’ ve got to get out of Iraq.”

Casey and Just Peace’s outgoing president
Nora Goldberger ’08 decided to hold the
march on Mar. 26 to coincide with the third
anniversary of the war in Iraq.

“The march, for sure, won't be rev-
olutionary or groundbreaking, but
it means something to know that
fellow townspeople, students, pro-
fessors, staff members agree on
something which seems common
sense to many: that they way Bush
and the American government has
dealt with Iraq has at times been
rash, irresponsible, dangerous and
worrisome.”

--Sami Jarrah ‘07

The third anniversary was actually last
Sunday, but Goldberger decided to hold off
the march because there were already many
events occurring on campus.

Although Just Peace members plan to par-
ticipate in the march, the group decided to
advertise the event on campus as the “March

NEWS_

of Discontent” rather than endorse Casey’s
call for a withdrawal of American troops
from Iraq.

“We thought we’d give it a general,
umbrella idea, and people can come for their
own reasons,” Goldberger said. “We want
people to come for any reasons they think
the invasion and occupation were mishan-
dled.”

Just Peace has already hung a large banner
in the Union and fliers in dormitories around
campus.

The group also plans to send out emails.

Goldberger hopes that the march will
prove that there are members of the campus

community who are dissatisfied with the

Bush administration.

Just Peace member Sami Jarrah ’07
agrees.

“The march, for sure, won’t be revolution-
ary or groundbreaking, but it means some-
thing to know that fellow townspeople, stu-
dents, professors, staff members agree on
something which seems common sense to
many: that the way Bush and the American
government has dealt with Iraq has at times
been rash, irresponsible, dangerous and wor-
risome,” Jarrah said.

According to Goldberger, participants plan
to write letters to senators after the march to
“take this energy from coming together and
put it to good use.”

Clunie wins Watson

By JACKIE MCKEON
News Editor

Chris Clunie ’06, a political science major
and varsity basketball player, won the
Watson Fellowship last week for his propos-
al to study the link between basketball and
global politics.

The Watson Fellowship is a one year,
$25,000 grant awarded to graduating college
seniors to allow them to study and travel out-
side the U.S.

Clunie will spend his year abroad as a
Watson Fellow in Japan, South Africa,
Argentina and Italy.

Clunie won the Watson Felloweship.

Clunie’s inspiration for his proposal came
from his academic and athletic involvements
at Davidson.

“My inspiration definitely came from my
love for the game of basketball and my expe-
riences within a political science major that
have exposed me to the world of global pol-
itics,” Clunie said.

For Clunie, basketball is much more than
a game.

He has played basketball nearly his entire
life and has served as a counselor in inner-
city basketball camps.

“Basketball has the ability to transcend the
court and become more than just a game in
the sense that people use it for things such as
diplomacy, social and economic mobility,
international solidarity and cultural change. I
feel like the game has given so much to me
and I want to better understand and become

a part of using the game to give back to oth-
ers,” Clunie said.

Clunie’s first destination for studying bas-
ketball’s impact on global politics will be
Japan at the International Basketball
Federation World Championships.

As a volunteer at the event, Clunie will
study its effectiveness at creating interna-
tional solidarity between the 24 competing
teams.

Clunie will then travel to South Africa
where he will coach a youth team in the
“Playing for Peace” organization.

He plans to study how “Playing for Peace”
teaches leadership skills and helps the young
players understand and confront social issues
like AIDS.

In Argentina, Clunie will meet players in
the lower Argentinean basketball leagues
who believe that basketball will grant them
great fame and economic success.

Finally, Clunie will travel to Italy where
he will study “Basketball Without Borders.”

Basketball players from troubled countries
like the Balkans and Congo join “Basketball
Without Borders” not just to increase their
playing skills, but also to use their athletic
success as a tool to reduce the conflict in
their own countries.

Clunie expects his year as a Watson
Fellow to be a challenging and rewarding
experience.

“IT hope to come forth a changed person as

a result of these experiences with a greater —

sense of leadership, independence and abili-
ty to relate to different cultures and back-
grounds. I also hope to challenge myself and
becomes exposed to issues that are signifi-
cant to me and which are becoming signifi-
cantly more important throughout the
world,” Clunie said.

Clunie began his proposal in the fall and
received help from Head Basketball Coach
Bob McKillop and MacArthur Assistant
Professor of Political Science Russell
Crandall.

According to Clunie, McKillop was
instrumental in helping him locate basketball
sources in different countries while Crandall
served as an overall advisor.

“{Crandall] really worked with me and
challenged me to thoroughly express my
motivations and present a unique proposal
where I would be able to impact people and
I myself would be impacted, as well,” Clunie
said.

The Thomas J. Watson Foundation created
the Watson Fellowship Program in 1968 and
it has since granted more than 2,300 awards,
totaling more than $29 million.

Davidson has participated in the Watson
Fellowship since its inception and, on aver-
age, has had at least one Watson fellow from
every graduating class.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

Students and faculty line up in the Union to buy Bob Dylan tickets. Over 1,200 tick-

ets were sold yesterday at $35 each.

