THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006. 3

PCC to host Jambalaya Jamboree

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

A Jambalaya Jamboree will be hosted this
Saturday by Patterson Court Council (PCC),
the Community Service Office and Davidson
Athletics. to raise funds to: support the
rebuilding of New Orleans after Hurricane
Katrina.

Chefs from the PCC organizations will
prepare Cajun food and serve it in the Baker
Sports Pavilion preceding the men’s basket-
ball game against conference rival Furman
University.

Although the event is free, PCC suggests
that each person who attends donates $1. The
event’s proceeds will benefit Maplewood
Middle School in Sulphur, Louisiana.

“Everyone thinks of Patterson
Court as the center of partying and
noise on campus, but a lot of peo-
ple forget the fact that a lot of serv-
ice goes on.”

--Emily Zipperstein ‘08

Both the cookout and the basketball game
will be Mardi Gras-themed.

“Mardi Gras is basically the symbol of
New Orleans, and this event is about looking
forward from Hurricane Katrina,” Connor
House cookout organizer Emily Zipperstein
’08 said.

Zipperstein said that Patterson Court
organizations have been hosting individual
service projects to raise money for the vic-
tims of the hurricane throughout the year.

This weekend’s event, however, is a com- '

bined effort to raise money for a récovering
New Orleans. ;

Although the event’s foeus ig on rebuild- |

ing the Gulf Coast, photos taken in the wake
of the hurricane will be displayedto serve as
a reminder of its destructive power.

PCC leaders saidthey also envisions the
event as an opportunity to build relationships
between PCC members and non-PCC mem-
bers between Davidson students and mem-
bers of the community.

“Part of the mission of Patterson Court
Council is to connect students to the commu-
nity, both the internal Davidson campus
community and the external community,”
Turner House cookout committee member
Sarah Madison Davenport ’07 said.

Local publications such as The Lake
Norman Times will cover the event.

Such publicity may help to emphasize the
service performed by members of court
organizations.

Yolanda Carrillo ’08 said she believes the
event will foster a better image for the court.

“I think these [service events] do help
[Patterson Court’s.image] because the whole
campus gets to participate in a service event
that isn’t just an individual house project,-but
has a broader focus and reminds everyone
that the court isn’t just about parties,”
Carrillo said.

Zipperstein also believes that the cookout
will help reshape the court’s image.

“Everyone thinks of Patterson Court as the
center of partying and noise on campus, but
a lot of people forget the fact that a lot of
service goes on,” Zipperstein said.

The game starts at two, and the chefs will
begin serving food at one.

rte BUSINESS WORLD awaits.

YOU NEED TO STAND OUT.

SPEND THREE WEEKS THIS SUMMER
AT THE NATION'S TOP-RANKED SMALL,
PRIVATE BUSINESS COLLEGE.

Skelton assumes presidency,
Arnold administration evaluated

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

Former Student Government Association
president Ryan Arnold ‘06 welcomed new
president Mac Skelton ’07 into office during
the Feb. 9 SGA meeting.

The commencement of the new adminis-
tration provides an opportunity to reflect on
the effectiveness of SGA under Arnold’s
leadership.

Arnold was an unusual student body pres-
ident because he assumed office with no pre-
vious SGA experience.

“Ryan came in as an absolute newcomer to
SGA,” said Vice President of Student Life
and Dean of Students Tom Shandley. “What
he lacked in knowledge, however, he made
up for with an open communication style
that’s accessible to lots of members of cam-
pus.”

In addition:to his communication abilities
and his widespread connections to different
campus groups, Arnold embarked upon his
term as president endowed with another
major strength.

“Because [he] lacked experience, we all
wondered how he would do,” Shandley said.
‘However, what he did have was [SGA vice-
president] Bridget [Kane ‘06]. She was the
most involved vice president I’ve seen in a
long time, and she deserves an awful lot of
credit for [the administration’s] successes.”

Initially, the lack of experience in the
administration made Kane nervous.

She had been abroad during the fall of
2004, and, although she had maintained con-
tact with then-president Katherine Hubbard,
neither Kane nor Arnold knew exactly what
had been transpiring in SGA when they

Mac Skelton ’07 is the new SGA president.

assumed office in the spring of 2005.

- Kane said she soon realized that their com-
plementary: leadership styles would help to
smooth the transition.

“[Ryan] asked to be taught,” said Kane.
“He was very receptive to the things that I
told him. It was easy to teach him.”

After the initial transitional period,
Arnold, Kane, and the rest of the organiza-
tion’s members established six overarching
goals to achieve throughout the course of the
administration.

“T understand that a lot of what [SGA
does], like changing its bylaws, is not very
interesting, but we work to do a lot for stu-
dents,”’ Arnold said.

Throughout the Arnold administration,
SGA emphasized increasing communication
with the student body.

The organization worked to produce a reg-
ular newsletter and to develop an SGA web-
site, which is in its final stages of prepara-
tion.

The administration also focused on using
the SGA bulletin board in Chambers in order
to more effectively communicate with stu-
dents.

Another bulletin board will appear in the
Union in the upcoming weeks.

Arnold and the senators also worked to
revamp the SGA internally by evaluating and
improving its structure and efficiency.

According to Kane, one internal organiza-
tional shift that allowed the administration to
achieve many of its goals was a movement
from committees established in the bylaws to
committees. that focused on the specific
goals that the administration had set.

See SGA, page 5

