2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Adderall abuse is becoming more prevalent on college campuses nationwide.

ADD, from page I

been procrastinating on a paper and my
roommate said I should try Adderall. So I
went and took a pill,” an anonymous student
said.

At Davidson, Adderall is sometimes sold
or given away by students who have pre-
scriptions.

David McClay ’08 was diagnosed with
Adult Deficit Hyper-activity Disorder
(ADHD) in elementary school. Though he
has not been asked for his Adderall recently,
he has been approached for it in the past.

“The most troubling situation was being
approached by upperclassmen. I think they
were trying to play the senior card, which
made me really uncomfortable,” McClay
said.

McClay decided to start hiding his
Adderall after he caught a student attempting
to steal his medication.

“A guy on my freshman hall had
a prescription. One night I had
been procrastinating on a paper
and my roommate said I should
try Adderall. So I went and took
a pill.”

--Anonymous Adderall user

“One time, I came back to my room and
found my hallmate going through my medi-
cine. When I came into the room, he shoved
it into his pocket,” McClay said.

The extent of Adderall abuse at Davison is
uncertain. “It definitely doesn’t seem as ram-
pant. I feel like around here if you want it,
you need to search it out,” said an anony-
mous student who occasionally obtains
Adderall from a friend.

Though Adderall abuse has become a real-
ity on college campuses throughout the
nation, many students believe the issue is not
talked about sufficiently at Davidson.

Some students feel like this can be attrib-
uted to Davidson’s strict Honor Code.

“It’s talked about a lot less. This may be
part of the Honor Code because you feel like
you’re bound to say something about it,”
McClay said.

Using Adderall without a prescription vio-
lates the Code of Responsibility. Both the
student distributing the drug and the student
taking the drug illegally would be guilty of a
violation. :

“I don’t see why we wouldn’t treat it any
differently than any other drug charge,”
. Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest
Jeffries said.

Though a Davidson student. has never
been charged with using Adderall illegally,
the administration is aware that the issue

NEws

photo by Sarah-Grace Westev

exists.

“I’m under no illusion that it doesn’t hap-
pen. I’m concerned about it because it’s dan-
gerous and illegal,” Associate Dean of
Student Life Katherine Bray-Merrell said.

Adderall was first developed during the
1970s and was marketed as a weight-loss
medication under the name Obetrol.

In 1996, it was approved by the Food and
Drugs Administration (FDA) to treat ADD
and ADHD.

Adderall stimulates the central nervous
system and increases the flow of dopamine
and norepinephrine in the brain, which then
causes an increase in focus and concentra-
tion.

“The main thing for me is not getting tired. °

Come 3 a.m. or 4 a.m, you get tired. On
Adderall, though, it’s like its four in the
afternoon,” an anonymous student said.

The drug may cause negative side effects ,
such as loss of appetite, dry mouth,
headache, weight loss and difficulty falling
asleep.

“{Adderall] is addictive; it’s an ampheta-
mine, after all. It can be fatal if taken by
someone with structural heart anomalies,”
local psychiatrist Thomas M. Fitzgerald,
M.D. said.

According to the FDA website, Canada
removed Adderall from its drug market in
February 2005 after reports surfaced of sud-
den unexplained deaths in children using
Adderall who had underlying cardiac abnor-
malities.

Adderall returned to the Canadian drug
market in August 2005 with the warning that
patients with underlying cardiac abnor-
malites should not use the drug.

“Students who use Adderall without a pre-,

scription are walking on dangerous ground.
They should look at other avenues for get-
ting the work done,” Student Counseling
Center (SCC) Counselor Nance Longworth
said.

The SCC provides resources for student
who have ADD/ADHD, as well as for stu-
dents without learning disabilities who may
wish to improve their time management
skills.

According to Bray-Merrell, five percent of
the student body requests accommodations,
such as extended times for tests, because
they have been diagnosed’ with
ADD/ADHD.

This statistic only represents the percent-
age of students who request accommoda-
tions. Therefore, the percentage of students
with ADD/ADHD may be higher.

According to the National Resource
Center on AD/HD, ADD/ADHD. affects
between three to seven percent of schoolage
children and two to four percents of adults.

ADD/ADHD is characterized by problems
with attention, overactivity and impulsivity.

- Endowment,
_ Davidson, Duke, Furman and Johnson C.

Budget, from page 1
to the $1.2 million it receives from the Duke
the fund that supports

Smith University. A request for unrestricted
funds allows the college to spend the money
wherever it is appropriate.

Vice President for Business and Finance
Karen Goldstein said that the college also
expects to match all increases in tuition with
proportional increases in financial aid.

“My personal goal is to decrease
the percentage that students pay.
We can do this through gifts and
by endowment performance.”
--President Bobby Vagt

“We are continuing to try to offer more

financial aid to students. It’s important to be

accessible to ‘high-quality
Goldstein said.

Financial aid is given for merit and athlet-
ics, although the number of athletic scholar-
ships given by Davidson is typically lower
than other Division I schools.

The student budget increases at the same
level as the tuition increase.

The money for student activities is given
to the Student Government Association
(SGA). The Union Board also receives about
half of the student activities budget.

students,’

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Concerts, Spring Frolics, April at the Lake
and September at the Lake are some of the
activities sponsored by the Union Board.

Former Union Board President Steven
Gentile ’06 explained that each Union Board
president decides which activities to sponsor.

“The Union Board is considering taking
on PS. student restaurant,” Gentile said.

While 20 percent of the budget is spent on
student activities over 40 percent of the
budget is used for instruction. -.

The budget proposal asked for a 3.5 per-
cent increase in faculty compensation.
Because faculty salaries are nationally com-
petitive, it is necessary for Davidson to look
to comparable institutions as a standard.

Faculty salaries take into account certain
variables, particularly the rising cost of hous-
ing in the town of Davidson.

Davidson has proposed a solution to high
living expenses by making college-owned
houses available for faculty to buy at a lower
price. When the house is sold, it will become
college property again.

An additional 3.5 percent increase was
requested for staff compensation, though
determining sufficient salary increase for
staff is difficult because hiring takes place
locally rather than regionally or nationally.

The college also continually finds ways to
cut back on expenses.

It has created the Energy Savings
Program, through which it has saved money
by reducing and stabilizing the heating in
each academic building.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

02/14/06 Parking Lot

Solicitation

Officers were notified about several people putting flyers on vehicles in the lower
parking area at Tomlinson Dormitory. The reporting officer spoke to a student about
the fliers, and the student told him he was putting out flyers for a foam party to be held
at the NV Nightclub and Lounge. The officer informed the student that the college’s

solicitation policy did not allow this.

2/16/06 Ridge Road

Crime Prevention

The Campus Police Department received information about an unauthorized shack
located on College property. Officers located the building in the wooded area just off
the Duke Power right of way on Ridge Road. The building was made of plywood and
metal siding. The officers found a daily journal, a collection of books, a sleeping bag,
incense and several statues inside the building. Although no one was seen in the area,
but it appears that the building is being used as a place of religious worship.

2/16/06 Off-Campus-

Drug Possession

Officers reported to an off-campus residence because of a noise complaint and found
several people drinking and playing loud music outside. One of the officers-entered
the apartment to ensure no alcohol had been given to underage persons, and upon
entering, saw three marijuana bongs on a table in the common area in plain sight. One
of the residents allowed his room to be searched, but the other declined. However,
when an officer took this resident outside to use the bathroom, they threw a bag of mar-
ijuana into the woods. The officers put both students under arrest for possession of
drug paraphernalia and secured the residence to seek a search warrant. Both suspects
were taken to the Davidson Police Department for booking. The next day, the officers
secured a search warrant for the residence. During the search, they found a small bag
of marijuana under a nightstand and a plastic container containing several tablets of
different sorts in a book bag. The officers contacted poison control and found that
some of the tablets were a schedule II controlled substance. Further charges are pend-

ing on both suspects.

2/18 Patterson Court

Fire Alarm

An officer was dispatched to Kappa Sigma in reference to a fire alarm activation.
Upon arrival, an alumnus informed the officer that he accidentally set off the fire alarm
by smoking in the house. The Davidson Fire Department checked the house and reset
the fire alarm, and the alumnus was informed of the college’s policy on smoking jn

buildings.

3

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

