colatésy of Collexe Comm

Mills announced changes to the English major at a meeting last Wednesday.

English, from page 1

adhere, consisted of 10 courses, five above
the 300 level, with little concentration in any
one area.

“It was tough because there were so many
choices,” Mills said. “We didn’t want to
inundate you with possibilities because part
of the joy is figuring out your own possibili-
ties.”

“The new major offers more free-
dom. It’s in our interest to pick a
cluster and focus on it to give our-
selves more direction in the major.
Also, it’s good for those taking
writing classes because now those
courses help more in fulfilling th
requirements in the major.”

--Sara Sams ‘08

One of the changes will be the requirement
of majors to complete both 240 and 220 by
the end of their sophomore year.

“IT was one of those who advocated instill-
ing more literary history,” Charles A. Dana
Professor of English Cynthia Lewis said,
referring to the new 240 class, which will
focus on Early and Middle British literature.

Professors will alternate teaching 240, 260
and 290.

Another change comes in the form of a
requirement in writing or creative practice at
the 200 or 300 level.

The department is working toward allow-
ing a filmmaking course, more performance
art and classes

like the Shakespeare

Practicum to satisfy that requirement.

Also, each student has the responsibility of
creating a cluster of five electives in related
fields of study to bring focus within the
major.

Examples of clusters suggested on the new
advising form are Early British Literature,
Poetry and Creative Writing.

“The new major offers more freedom,”
said English major Sara Sams ’08. “It’s in
our interest to pick a cluster and focus on it
to give ourselves more direction in the major.
Also, it’s good for those taking writing class-
es because now those courses help more in
fulfilling the requirements in the major.”

Most students seem satisfied, though mild-
ly confused, as to the effect on their own
studies.

Specifically, the new major may make it
more difficult for sophomores who are dou-
ble majoring to complete the required class-
es in both departments.

“*Praise in departing’,” Lewis said, refer-
ring to Prospero’s “The Tempest.” “You
can’t compliment the food until you’ ve tast-
ed it.”

Lewis explained that the English depart-
ment will have to adopt a wait-and-see poli-
cy as to the results of their endeavor.

Registration for classes begins today for
all students.

English majors can expect to see an email
from the department outlining the new major
and explaining the requirements.

“I urge students to make appointments

with their advisors and think about their ©

clusters,” said Mills. “The main thing is for
students to take responsibility. We hope that
the changes will make the major original for
each student. It’s a great opportunity.”

Engage, from page 3

Engage for a Change is also planning a
campus sleep out on the night of Apr. 4.

“Students are asked to sign up to spend a
night outside without shelter as a very visible
demonstration of passion for this issue,”
Mader said. ;

Some events will also be ongoing through-
out the program.

These include a photography and art
gallery from the Artworks 945 program at

Engage for Change will raise money for the

Urban Ministry Center in Charlotte.

the Urban Ministry Center, a theatre residen-
cy by the Los Angeles Poverty Department
in conjunction with the Urban Ministry
Center and an advocacy campaign including
information and letter writing focusing on
two campaigns, the Affordable Housing
Fund and the ONE campaign.
_ The program will conclude with an SGA
sponsored talk back forum on Apr. 13.

The forum will provide students with the
opportunity to reflect on the program’s
events. ;

News

Category Ill Election Results

Junior Class President
A.J. Hergenroeder

Sophomore Class President
Richmond Blake

Junior Senators
Blake Poole
Ersag Keskin

Sophomore Senators
Brian Aoyama
Kate Sternstein

Sophomore Honor Council
Cary Wright
Lance Harden
Sally Stephenson

Junior Honor Council
Ginnie Fridell
Drew Patterson
Fiete Stegger

Senior Class President
Gagan Gupta

Senior Senators
Scott Buckhout
Bill Moore

Senior:Honor Council
Bruce Henschen
Meredith Prasse

Sara Madison Davenport

ON UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro - August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Web site: law.elon.edu
for complete information and online application = -

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW = E-mail:law@elon.edu

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED
LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

# Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and
skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study

= Learning experiences in the area‘s leading law firms, federal and state courts,
businesses, government agencies and nonprofit organizations

= Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation
in the school’s courtroom and facilities

® Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science
and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

