THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2 5

Houses comply with sanitation standards

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s 12 Patterson Court organiza-
tions are responsible for passing inspections
that evaluate the cleanliness of the house and
of the kitchen area each week.

According to Patterson Court advisor Joy
Hamm, eating houses and fraternities have
been doing a satisfactory job of maintaining
clean environments.

Every Monday morning, Hamm evaluates
each house. using a standardized set of crite-
ria. An organization can receive a maximum
of 100 points for the overall appearance of
the house and another 100 points for the
cleanliness of the kitchen area.

Once Hamm inspects each house, the
scores are then averaged together.

If a house’s average score falls below 75
points for two consecutive weeks, the house
is shut down and stops’serving meals until it
passes re-inspection.

During this time, the house’s CatCard
reader is disabled and only reactivated by
Hamm after members of the house clean in
preparation for the re-inspection. As soon as
a house passes its re-inspection, it reopens
for meals and social functions.

“T’'ll inspect again on Tuesday if the house
is ready,” Hamm said. “It can open again
within 24 to 48 hours if its members are will-
ing-t6 put in the work.

Although H will close a house after a
particularly low-scoring Monday, she has
only enacted this measure three or four times
within the past three years.

In each instance, Kappa Alpha fraternity
(KA) was the offending organization. The
low scores resulted not from sanitation
issues in the kitchen, but from violations in
the remainder of the house.

Some members of fraternities and eating houses are concerned with cleanliness.

“KA’s kitchen is usually immaculate,”
Hamm said, “‘but if it is unhealthy for people
to be consuming food in the dining area, I
will shut the house down.”

The last time that KA was shut down was
during spring 2004.

“Since then, we have enacted the appropri-

ate measures to maintain a sanitary environ--

ment,” KA president and former house
manger Mill Graves ’07 said. “We empha-
size that even during the week when we are
not being inspected, each brother needs to
clean up after himself.”

Because Patterson Court organizations are
classified as private clubs, serving only
members and guests rather than the public at
large, the State Health department does not
inspect them as it does the Union or Vail
Commons.

Like those employed by the State Board of
Health, the criteria by which Hamm evalu-

ates each house are standardized.

In the kitchen, sinks must be clear and
food preparation surfaces must be clean.
Floors must be mopped, and any remaining
party supplies must be thrown away.

Additionally, each kitchen has a sign
reminding chefs to wash their hands and to
employ safe preparation techniques.

Each newly hired chef completes a Safe
Serve program that covers appropriate food
storage temperatures and maintaining a sani-
tary kitchen.

Although there is no campus-wide proto-
col for reporting cleanliness problems, each
house is responsible for setting up a system
by which its members can report problems.

“My hope would be that if the situation
could be handled through the house, it would
be, but if a member’s concern were not
addressed, I hope that the student would
come to me,” Hamm said.

Student Specs
RENAISSANCE )

PULSED LIGHT HAIR REMOVAL

oe

129 E-Williamson Road
Mooresville, NC 28117

704-799-2843

Offering 20% of f Hair Removal

AND
Acne Therapy Packages

Have Silky Smooth Skin for Good!

Call Today for your FREE Consultation

“Hair today, gone tomorrow!”

