THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006 7

Porn not the
biggest issue

The majority of prominent fem-
inist issues, like abortion, women
in the military or sexual harass-
ment, have become more and
more visible as they become more
pressing matters in everyday life.

However, there is one, very
notable exception.

Pornography alone seems to
have an inverse relationship when
‘it comes to its presence in our
everyday experience and the
attention it receives as a matter of
controversy.

In 2001, The. Wall Street Journal’s Holman W. Jenkins Jr.
ruefully wrote “Porn has moved out of a few segregated pub-
lic spaces, the seedy book shops and triple-X theaters, and
become ubiquitous on the web, on cable, in neighborhood
video shops.” But is this really something to lament?

The most common and compelling feminist objection to
pornography is that it degrades women. I don’t think there is
really any getting around this.

Most pornography does treat women as mere means to an
end, and if porn’s camp aspect were excised I suspect it
would be far less enjoyable for virtually all its consumers. In
other words, when men click on a link online, they don’t
want to hear the life stories of the women they’re being
linked to.

Writing for Salon.com, Christine Smallwood thinks the
problem is even worse: “For instead of celebrating the diver-
sity not only of shapes, but of desires, Playboy and its kin
have commodified female sexuality into a series of recogniz-
able poses that have been reproduced and repeated until they
are now the very definition, the only definition, of sexiness.”

lighten up

When the government is

called in to save the day,

an illiberal emphasis on
“dangerous ideas” emerges.

This accusation seems fair when the finger is pointed at
Playboy, but to whom is Smallwood referring when invoking
the magazine’s kin? Maxim, FHM and similar men’s maga-
zines? Or pornography of every conceivable medium?

With more than one out of every ten websites on the
Internet devoted to pornography, the World Wide Web seems
to have gone in exactly the opposite direction as the maga-
zines in the supermarket checkout line: While the latter’s fare
is fairly stock, the former caters to a seemingly endless
stream of motley tastes.

It is probably true that there is a certain cookie-cutter
aspect to most Hollywood and television portrayals of
female sexuality, but it is hard to imagine how it could be
otherwise.

One trait of mass culture is that it is, well, a mass culture.

Portrayals of what’s attractive will be tailored to appeal to
the greatest possible number of consumers.

If Playboy-style figures and poses get the best reception,
who deserves a greater share of the blame: the people mar-
keting the predictable come-hither looks or the people who
demand them?

One problem with feminist critiques of pornography is that
the suggested responses to the industry tend to either appeal
to government censorship or a shake-your-finger-at-every-
one broadness.

When the government is called in to save the day, an illib-
eral emphasis on “dangerous ideas” emerges that downplays
the ability of intelligent people to. examine controversial
material with a critical perspective.

And when opponents of porn blame its consumers, pro-
ducers and participants with equal parts contempt and dis-
gust, they take a roundhouse swing at a swath of people so

great that any chance of healthy change will be hindered by
the animosity the critique has earned. .

To be sure, I don’t have the answers either. But at a time
when women are more respected, more free and more suc-
cessful than at any other time in American history, pornogra-
phy seems like a trivial affair.

Ashish Geroge -'07 is a philosophy major from
Greensboro, N.C. Contact him at asgeorge @davidson.edu

The issue of race has been in
the news at Davidson quite a bit

In the first Davidsonian of the
, Semester, poll results showed that
students perceive the Alpha Phi
Alpha fraternity, the Black
Student Coalition and the Kappa
Alpha fraternity as the most dis-
.criminatory organizations on
) campus.

A week later, President Vagt
approved the latest student
request to invite a_ historically

black sorority to campus.

The following week, Alpha Phi Alpha president Brendan
Watkins wrote to the Davidsonian in defense of his fraterni-
ty and in frustration at the ignorance and hypocrisy of
Davidson students.

In this column, I had planned to criticize President Vagt’s
decision to invite a historically black sorority to campus. I
considered accepting a sorority primarily for black women
while rejecting the same opportunity for white women a
double standard. I saw the same ireverse discrimination? not
in the policies but in the reality of the Black Student
Coalition and the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity.

Pee

STEPHEN KALIN

Rather than rectifying one
prejudice by introducing another,
we as a society should work to
eliminate the initial source of
discrimination.

However, Watkins’ column reminded me how marginal-
ized many ethnic minorities must feel at Davidson. The col-
lege’s admissions policy is to not discriminate against appli-
cants based on race, ethnicity or creed, yet a majority of stu-
dents here are white Christians of European descent.

Members of the racial and religious majority, myself
included, tend not to identify themselves as primarily as
white or Christian. However, I believe that minorities of all
kinds tend to focus disproportionately on those characteris-

Resisting the majority mindset

tics that make them a minority. From a sociological perspec-
tive, people seek acceptance from their peers and become
hypersensitive to any characteristics that set them apart from
the group.

Organizations like the Black Student Coalition and Alpha
Phi Alpha provide non-whites with an opportunity to cele-
brate their distinct cultures and heritages. They also allow
the entire campus to learn about and celebrate other tradi-
tions.

While this may seem self-exclusionary and segregationist
to some, there is a more important issue to be addressed:
why are non-whites so significantly underrepresented in
higher education?

This topic cannot be handled adequately by college
admissions officers and affirmative action alone. Rather, the
income disparity between whites and non-whites in America
must be remedied and the nationwide education policy that
allows rich communities to neglect the education of their

poorer neighbors must be revised.

The radical disparity between the non-white population
and non-white college graduates is both a result and a cause
of social stratification in this country. Rather than rectifying
one prejudice by introducing another, we as a society should
work to eliminate the initial source of discrimination.

We can most effectively integrate the Davidson campus
by embracing open-mindedness and communication.

Members of any majority on campus ought to be sensitive
to the precarious situation of minorities and act on their
curiosity or confusion by asking questions, attending meet-
ings and getting involved in the numerous events sponsored
by the minority organizations on campus.

Minority students should know that many people’s per-
ceptions of organizations like the Black Student Coalition
and Alpha Phi Alpha stem not from hate but rather from
worry. that such institutions only build up walls between
already stratified groups on campus. There need to be outlets
for all kinds of minority students to embrace their diversity
and be in the majority somewhere, but the line between that
and separation is a thin one.

I hope I speak for all students when I say that I want both
minority and majority students in the classroom, in my
Patterson Court organization, on my hall and in my extracur-
ricular activities.

Stephen Kalin ’09 is from Tappan, N.Y. Contact him at
stkalin@davidson.edu

Between a rock and a hard place

In a video clip I recently saw
of comedian Lewis Black, he
ranted about Republicans and
Democrats.

He said that Democrats were
the party of “no ideas” and
Republicans the party of “bad
ideas.” He went on to explain
our two-party system: “a
Republican stands up _ in
‘Congress and goes “I’ve got a
really bad idea!” and the
Democrat says, “And I can make
it worse!” (only he didn’t say

worse).

The audience of middle-aged adults loved it. A couple of
years ago, probably not more than two or three years ago,
even, I wouldn’t have enjoyed the joke nearly much. But
today, I love it.

I used to be a diehard Republican. If people joked about
Republicans or their policies, I would be right there to
answer the joke with a serious argument about policy.

Needless to say, this was not the most humorous or friend-
ship-building way of dealing with a political joke. But that
was me.

I was a Republican, political minded, and I thought all the
conversations, all the arguments, all the jibes and jokes were
part of a great debate between two sides: the Republicans
and the Democrats.

. That part of me is not all gone, but more and more these
days, I’ve felt older and less enthusiastic. Let me explain.
Most adults I’ve known in my life were, and still are, very
cynical about politics and politicians. If politics were

the resident hall

Marr HAL

_ brought up, either the adults would be quick to cast it aside

as being unimportant, or they would say there was nothing
they could do about it. Most of the time they would blame
politicians for what went wrong, not Democrats or
Republicans, just politicians.

I’ve started to feel like that’more and more. Look at the
current situation. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I still dislike

the Democratic Party. I mean, they’re starting to vote
against free trade. And really, why are they against it? I can
think of only two reasons: labor votes and union pressure. If
that is why they are going against free trade, God help us if
they ever get control of. Congress. Apart from free trade,
there is also talk of impeaching Bush if they win back the
legislative branch.

But the Republicans, my Republicans, have really let me
down. For years, you would hear Republican talk of lower-
ing discretionary spending or reforming government. They
spoke of making it leaner, making it work better. They fol-
lowed in the footsteps of Reagan and his words.

And what have they done? Well, they’ve been spending,
and spending and spending. And sure, there’s a lot to spend
on, a war in Iraq, fighting terrorism at home and abroad; but
maybe they should never have put those $500 million
Alaskan bridges in the budget. But it’s more than just
money.

There’s also stem cell research and abortion. Stem cell
research shows great potential, and who really thinks abor-
tion will be going away any time soon?

Republicans also seem to be positioning themselves clos-
er and closer to religion. And I don’t know, it just seems
unsettling to me. =

So that’s where I am now. I am no longer a Republican,
but something else. Because Republicans are spending like
there is no tomorrow and at the same time lowering taxes
(can’t we spend less so that we actually can lower taxes?)
and because they’re stymieing research and connecting
themselves with religion, I’m not really a Republican any-
more. Nevertheless, because Democrats are attacking free
trade; I am not a Democrat either.

For all of these reasons I now call myself a conservative.
Politicians on both sides of the aisle have frustrated me too
many times. The Republicans spend, and the Democrats
fight against logic. I’m a little more cynical and feel a little
bit older. Lewis Black is right.

Matt Hall ’06 is a history major from Bennington, Vt.
Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu
