THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

13

Davidson basketball more than just March

By WILSON McCrory
_ Sports Editor Emeritus

I loved every minute of the 2004-05
Davidson basketball season, right up until
the last few seconds against UNC-
Greensboro in the SoCon semifinals last
March.

From Matty’s game-winning heroics from
long range to Jason’s buzzer-beating
SportsCenter floater against Charleston to
the nail-biter against Duke in the Charlotte
Coliseum, almost every game provided great
basketball and ultimately a Davidson victo-
ry.
But as the final seconds of the heart-break-
ing loss in Chattanooga ticked away, all the
great moments from the undefeated year
were superceded by the disappointment and
even anger I felt toward the sad truth that
Davidson would not be wearing Cinderella’s
slipper that year.

Instead of being remembered as one of the
most successful teams in school history, I
was convinced that the season was defined
by what could have been.

I entered the 2005-06 season with a
renewed sense of excitement about Davidson
basketball, but only in the sense that it pro-
vided the opportunity to avenge the ghosts of
Chattanooga and send the seniors out with
their first-ever NCAA tournament birth.

That anticipation quickly gave way to
frustration, however, as an early-season
swoon punctuated by losses to UNC,
Syracuse and even Illinois-Chicago doomed
any thoughts of an At-large NCAA bid and
cemented the reality that Davidson would
again have to String together three wins in
March no matter how well it played the rest
of the year.

As a result, I just couldn’t get excited

about an endless stream of SoCon games
when the only thing Davidson needed’ from
the conference slate was a first-round bye in
the season-ending tournament; I went to
most home games and stayed for about half,
never ventured to an opponent’s court and
didn’t even think about turning on the radio
to see how Davidson was. doing when I
couldn’t make it in person.

Davidson, however, should not
define itself by March in*the same
way that the elite of college basket-
ball does. No SoCon team has ever
qualified for an At-large berth, and
just as the 16-0 Wildcats demon-
strated a year ago, even one of the
greatest teams in school history
isn’t guaranteed a Dance card.

The season was merely an extended tune-
up for March, and I was willing to wait for
the real games to start.

When the Wildcats finally put it together
in Charleston and then gave Ohio State a run
for its money in the tournament, though, I
didn’t feel the sense of contentment that I
had expected after waiting three years to see
Davidson get to that point. Sure, it was a fun
ride to see Davidson on a national stage for
the first time since I’ve been a student, but as
the season came to its inevitable end, I real-
ized that for me it’d hardly even begun.

For programs like Duke, Carolina, and
Kentucky that consider March Madness a
formality and are routinely gunning for
National Championships, I do believe the
unfortunate reality that March is the only
real legacy those teams can leave. For them,

LSAT Class Starts
April 19th
Davidson Village Inn
Meets Mon/Wed @ 6PM

$100 Rebate in March!

Seating is limited! Call or visit us online today to enroll.

KAPLAN

Test Prep and Admissions

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/Isat

H gher test sco
ranteed or y

money back

*LSAT is 9 registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. **Conditions and restrictions apply.
For complete guarantee eligibility requirements, visit kaptest.com sg. The Higher Score Guarantee applies only
to Kaplan courses taken and completed within the United States and Canada.

20-win seasons and conference champi-
onships are assumed, and the regular season
is merely a prologue.

Davidson, however, should not define
itself by March in the same way that the elite
of college basketball does. No SoCon team
has ever qualified for an At-large berth, and
just as the 16-0 Wildcats demonstrated a year
ago, even one of the greatest teams in school
history isn’t guaranteed a Dance card.

In the three seasons between NCAA tour-
nament appearances, Davidson was 47-31,
dominated the SoCon with a 28-10 mark and
claimed three regular season conference
titles. Each year ended with its share of dis-
appointment, but to disregard the successes
because of one loss in ‘March takes away
from the joy of being both a player and fan.

A season is about all of the small stories,
good and bad, that go together to create an
entire body of work.

This year was about a great start with wins
over St. Joe’s, UMass and Missouri and then

a frustratingly inconsistent conference run in
which Davidson could beat a team by 20 one
week and lose by 10 to the same group a
month later. As good as Davidson was at
Belk Arena, winning all but one, the "Cats
were miserable away from campus.

It was about Jason Richards, Boris and
Thomas developing into the reliable depth
the Wildcats needed, Ian’s emergence as an
All-Conference force inside and Jason
Morton practically carrying the offense on
his back over the final few weeks of the reg-
ular season,

It was also about returning to the real tour-
nament for first time in four years, and it was
certainly punctuated by taking Ohio State to
the brink of first-round elimination, but
those stories are merely part of what defines
yet another successful season for the
Wildcats.

To look at it any other ways means you’d
miss a lot of great basketball between
November and February. I know I did.

Forget your bracket,

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

For the average sports fan and cultural
observer, there is nothing more important
and exciting this time of year than March
Madness. In a three-week marathon that
seems to trump all yearly sports events, the
NCAA tournament captures the hearts and
minds of all Americans, sports fan or no.
Cultural cues tell us that this is the team for
miraculous victories, heart-breaking losses
and the spirit of competition. Nothing cap-
tures our
imagination
more than the
small school
that knocks off
the big dog.

However,
the last decade
has thrown
this _ tourna-
ment a kink
that has
become

‘root for the underdog’

College?” I asked. “Do you really like them
or the ACC?”

“Of course not,” answered one student.
“But I have them in my Final Four and
Pacific should stop being so uppity.”

This was a pretty pretentious claim com-
ing from someone who would certainly. be
pulling for the underdog the next day against
Ohio State.

The truth remains that brackets distort our
appreciation of the game. Normally, we
enjoy closely matched contests between two
teams we don’t care about and we must
always fol-
low the
American
Creed: pull
for the
underdog.

This senti-
5 ment is
preached to
us from
every great
sports movie
and cultural

unquestion- code. We
ably identified want to
as its most = chant Rudy
important when he
aspect: the Brackets and merchandise show the increasing com- finally
bracket At a modification of college basketball. Some fans feel the makes a pla

: emphasis on money is ruining the game. play
greater con- for Notre

centration

than ever, average Americans are filling out
their brackets, putting money in a pot, and
are watching the NCAA tournament as if
their financial well-being depended on it.
And sometimes it does.

Tournament bracket pools represent just a
part of the larger gambling aspect of fantasy
sports. The fans want to feel like they have
more riding on a game than merely the
appreciation of seeing their team win. While
this has certainly led to a larger fan base for
sports as a whole, I would argue that people
aren’t watching it for the right reason.

Last Thursday marked the beginning of
the first round of the NCAA tournament. By
nearly 3:30 p.m., an 11 seed had beaten a six
seed, and a 13 seed (Pacific) was about to
upset a 4 seed (Boston College). Sitting in
front of the Union television, I watched as a
growing number of students began to moan
as Boston College’s lead slipped away. The
Pacific Tigers had orchestrated a beautiful
comeback and when they forced overtime,
there was a general pall over the group
instead of appreciation of the great feat being
performed.

“Why are you pulling for Boston

Dame. We feel shivers when watching Gene
Hackman’s group of ragtag players win the
Indiana state championship. Our culture is
all about the underdog and for good reason:
America is a land of favorites amongst the
world of underdogs. We have to remind our-
selves how important it is to succeed when
the odds are set against you.

In light of this, brackets are in no way
about the underdog.

They don’t support the emotional attach-
ment felt to a team of overachievers. In fact,
I would bet that many people felt a conflict
of interest last Friday, as they had Davidson
losing to Ohio State in their bracket. In the
end, brackets are all About the self in a way
that sports fandom is not.

Sports fandom is about cheering for others
and learning the humility of being a support-
er instead of the supported. When we make
everything we do into how we can win, we
lose that humility. We lose the ability to
cheer for others and believe in the underdog.
With two more victories, George Mason
could become the first mid-major team to
make the Final Four since 1979. So let’s all
tear up our brackets and root for the under-
dog. It’s our civic duty.
