2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lucy Marcil ’06 is one of the 45 finalists for the Luce Scholarship.

Marcil named Luce finalist

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Luce Scholarship finalist Lucy Marcil ’06
will travel to Washington, D.C. tomorrow for
her final round of interviews. Marcil will
learn whether or not she received the schol-
arship in late February or early March.

The Luce Scholars Program grants intern-
ships and stipends to 15 Americans under 30
to live and work in Asia for one year.

“It’s a program that’s looking for people
who have no experience [with] Asia, who
haven’t studied it, who haven’t been there,
but who have very strongly defined career
goals and who show potential to be leaders
in whatever field [they choose],” Marcil
said. “If you get [the scholarship], they put
you in an internship in Southeast Asia for a
year and they match that internship with
your career goals.”

Marcil, who plans to attend medical
school, hopes that participating in the Luce
Scholars Program will help prepare her for a
career in medicine.

“In respect to health and healthcare, I hope
to gain a practical and emotional understand-
ing of issues, especially revolving around
diseases like HIV,” Marcil said.

Although Luce Scholars cannot chose
which country they work in, they can state a
preference.

“I’m particularly interested in China,”
Marcil said. “It has such a large population
and a horrible public health system.”

Marcil discovered the scholarship through
Davidson’s Graduate Fellowships
Committee. Select faculty and administra-
tors serve on the Graduate Fellowships
Committee, which assists students with fel-
lowship and scholarship applications.

Marcil began the application process in
early November. Her application included a
personal statement explaining why the Luce

Scholars Program was a particularly good fit
for her, as well as a copy of her transcript and
four letters of recommendation.

“There are about 200 applicants. Then,
you have a regional interview. Mine was at
Duke with a man who had been a Luce
Scholar,” Marcil said.

Forty-five finalists are hosen following the
regional interview. The finalists are split into
three groups at three different sites for the
final round of interviews.

“This time you have a panel of six inter-
viewers, and. have one-on-one interviews
with each for 30 minutes each. My interview
is in D.C.,” Marcil said. “The nice thing is
they pay for you to go there. I’m going
Thursday night. They have a get to know
you dinner. Then, the next day is all inter-
views. They pick six and then that’s it.

If Marcil receives the scholarship, she will
most likely begin intensive language training
that will prepare her to leave for Asia in
August.

Marcil is already well-prepared to travel
abroad.

“TI studied abroad first in high school for a
summer. I went to Switzerland for six
weeks. Then, my junior year, I studied in
Denmark in the fall for four months. I went
back in the summer of 2005 for my thesis,”
Marcil said.

The Luce Scholars Program began in 1974
and is funded by the Henry Luce Foundation.
In 1936, the late Henry R. Luce, co-founder
and editor-in-chief of Time, Inc., founded the
Henry Luce Foundation.

Currently, the Henry Luce Foundation has
nearly $700 million. In addition to the Luce
Scholars Program, the Foundation provides
funding for the study of interdisciplinary
education, religion and theology, American
art, environmental and public policy and
opportunities for women in engineering and
science.

Cingular, from page 1

at Davidson support the proposal of a
Cingular tower on campus.

“I came to Davidson as a Cingular/AT&T
customer, but was left with no choice other
than to pay extra money to switch to
Verizon,” Davis said. “The addition of a
Cingular tower would give some future stu-
dents an option and allow some of them to
save a little cash.”

Other students also complain about the
extra expense of switching cell phone servic-
es and using long distance calling cards.

“Because I was either roaming or could
get no signal from Suncom@AT&T, which
was later bought out by Cingular to form
Cingular and a separate Suncom company,
on campus, I switched to Verizon in the past
year,” Nia Pleasants ’06 said. “It just made
more sense to switch to a different cell phone
company so I could get reception on campus
rather than spend more money using my long

distance card number for Davidson.”

Director of Physical Plant Facilities David
Holthouser, who is working with Cingular
on behalf of Davidson, weighed the potential
advantages and drawbacks of the tower.

One major disadvantage to having a tower
is its visibility throughout the campus.

While the IMAC lights are 80 to 90 feet
tall, the tower’s would be a minimum of 120
feet tall.

“From the College’s perspective, it would
be better if four to six phone companies
worked here,” Holthouser said. :

Having the tower on campus would

require Cingular to pay rent for space used,

which would mean the college would make a

small profit from the tower.

However, profitability is playing a minor
role to the greater campus environment and,
especially, to students’ needs.

“The bigger motivation for us is getting
some cell phones to work,” Holthouser said.

NEws

Farmer, from page 1

tuberculosis are maintained.

“This grassroots approach allows physi-
cians to work within local cultures,”
Professor and Chair of Biology Verna Case
said.

Locals understand and explain cultural
needs to doctors, who are then able to med-
icate patients in a more effective manner.

Conventional wisdom had thought treat-
ment of infectious diseases in developing
countries was nearly impossible, but PIH has
shown that. with community involvement,
treatment can be successful.

Farmer’s visit is a result of desire
expressed by students involved with the
Davidson in Mwandi program led by Case

and Wessner’s HIV/AIDS seminar.
Farmer is also the subject of Tracy
Kidder’s book, ‘Mountains Beyond

Mountains,” which many students read.

“T realized the extent which disease and
poverty can drain a society of its stability,”
Davidson in Mwandi participant Wes Fiser
’07 said.

“[Farmer] proves that treating
diseas often involves more than
medicines, such as finding decent
living conditions for some of his
patients.”

--Wes Fiser ‘07

Joey Chow ’06 was also on the Mwandi
trip and read Kidder’s book.

“What inspires me most about Paul
Farmer is his compassion toward his patients
and the people he meets,” Chow said.

Farmer’s innovative approach resonated
with many Davidson students.

“He proves that treating disease often
involves more than medicines, such as find-
ing decent living conditions for some of his
patients,” Fiser said.

“A large part of why he’s been so success-
ful is his holistic approach, which encom-
passes community development and address-
es social justice issues,” Lucy Marcil ’06
said.

Marcil, who was already interested in pub-
lic health and medicine, said Farmer’s work
inspired her and helped clarify her career
direction.

The _ students

took Wessner’s

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

who

2/11

Martin Court Dr.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

HIV/AIDS seminar last semester, as well as
the current and previous participants in the
Davidson in Mwandi program, will have an
inforomal class with Farmer Sunday after-
noon. &

Seven of these students will have dinner
with Farmer before the talk.

“Tt will be an ‘amazing opportunity to
speak'with someone who is currently making
a major change in the way healthcare is
viewed in resource limited settings,” Krista
Heiner ’06 said.

While Farmer’s work is medical, his mes-
sage is relevant to the entire Davidson com-
munity.

“Many Davidson students share a desire to
help the most needy, and I think they will
find Paul Farmer’s example worthy of emu-
lation,” Fiser said.

Marcil also recommended that all students
attend the lecture.

“This topic is highly relevant to topics
beyond pure public health-social justice,
international development, globalization,
politics-basically topics that affect every-
one,” she said.

Farmer’s visit was expensive, and his invi-
tation to come speak at Davidson is the result
of a major joint effort.

Various Davidson organizations and
departments contributed, including the Dean
Rusk International Studies Program, the
Union Board Speakers Committee, the
Anthropology and Biology departments, the
Public Lectures Committee and the Smith
Fund.

The Mecklenburg County Medical
Society, through the auspices of the Dr. Elias
S. Faison Foundation, I.D. Consultants,
Dr.Ozzie and Mrs. Patsy Reynolds, Drs.
Shelly and Nate Spell and the Lake Norman
Regional Medical Center also provided con-
tributions.

Student enthusiasm also played a large
role in the successful effort to secure his
Visit.

Farmer’s speech has been widely publi-
cized throughout the community. Wessner
wrote an Op-Ed piece in the “Charlotte
Observer,” student volunteers have placed
posters advertising the visit on campus and
around the community and local.physician
organizations have been notified of the
upcoming visit.

Tickets are free, but those interested in
attending are encouraged to get tickets ahead
of time. Tickets are available at the Alvarez
College Union ticket office, which is open
on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Suspicious Person

While conducting a foot patrol near the baseball fields at about 12:45, an officer
heard someone striking an object with a baseball bat or stick. Upon approaching the
baseball bat house, the officer saw a male’s silhouette striking the fence. Upon arriv-
ing at the bat house, the officer did not see anyone, but saw that someone had hit the
fence with a field rake, which broke. The officer saw two white males walking in
front of the building. The subjects said they were not Davidson students but were
staying with a friend. They confessed to breaking the rake. The officer took the sub-
jects to their friend’s house and told the friend he was responsible for all damage.
The subjects were charge with trespass and escorted off campus.

2/11 DCPC

Fight in Progress

Officer received a call about a fight between two women in front of Davidson
College Presbyterian Church. One woman said she started the fight because she
would not help the other take down some beds, and as a result, the second woman
made racial comments and “got in her face,” then took a swing at her and started the
fight. A student heard the argument but did not see who threw the first punch. The

4 student broke up the fight and called 911. One of the women was transported to
Presbyterian Hospital in Huntersville with a laceration to the left ear. Both were

issued trespass warnings.

Students with’ information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police.
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

