THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006 5

New grants offered to encourage study abroad

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

The Dean Rusk International Studies
Program has created five new grants in addi-
tion to the grants already offered to students
every year.

The new grants are the Hanafi Award,
Fujita Award, Davidson Watson Alumni
award and the Morehead scholarship.

“All of the new grants are designed to
encourage students to develop long term,
individual experiences abroad,” Dean Rusk
Program Director Chris Alexander said.

The Hanafi and Fujita awards will reward
recipients with $2,500 each while the

Davidson Watson Alumni award provides a —

grant of $4,000.

All these awards emphasize independent
research; the projects should be self-
designed and individual.

The grants cannot be used for study abroad
or participation in a pre-arranged programs
or a group project.

Additionally, applicants should be willing
to travel alone for the projects that they have
designed.

The grants also focus on foreign language
use; recipients must immerse themselves in
an environment where another language is,
spoken and use their developing language
skills to conduct their research.

The study abroad proposals should entail a
minimum of two months outside the United
States.

The Dean Rusk Program is offering the
Rusk Travel Prize for the first time this year,
which recognizes distinctive and innovative
proposals and provides funds to expand the
project beyond what has already been pro-
posed.

Though the award is not tied to any specif-

Students who participated in the Semester in India program saw sights such as this one nearly every day.

ic region or subject, it requires a recipient to
spend the funds in a way that goes beyond
the original proposal.

The program encourages its applicants to
devise innovative proposals involving cul-
turally enriching activities.

“Proposals can involve a wide range of
activities,” Alexander said.

Some grants will be awarded to students

RUN FOR

will help you get

2712 W. Mallard

Is that New Year's Resolution
a distant memory?
Need a little motivation?
Nothing does it like a new pair of shoes!

running specialty store for a complimentary
gait analysis and custom fitting.

Whether you are a walker, a runner,
or a casual exerciser we

for your foot type.

All winter apparel on sale now! We offer women's
clothing sizes XS-3X and men's sizes S-2X.

Davidson students, staff and faculty receive
10% off every time you shop with us.

Run For Your Life- University
Cochran Commons Shopping Center

704-503-1105
www.runforyourlife.com

>)

SYOUR LIFE

Charlotte's ONLY

the correct shoe

Creek Church Rd.

seeking to develop specific interests abroad.

“The most specific grant is the Fujita
award which is specially designed for stu-
dent artists (broadly defined as musicians,
actors, painters, sculptors and so on) who
want to spend at least two months develop-
ing their artistic talent outside of the United
States,” Alexander said.

Last year the Dean Rusk program funded
student projects all around the world, in
countries like China, India, Germany,
Ethiopia, Denmark, Chile, South Korea,
Tanzania Bangladesh and Ecuador.

The focus of the projects ranged from the
democratic system in Argentina to Peace and
Conflict Resolution in Uganda.

“Receiving the Dean Rusk Travel Prize
was an unexpected honor,” said Noelle
Thomas ’06. “I felt as if my hard work and
preparation for my fieldwork actually paid
off, and my reward was getting the research
trip of my dreams. I was able to travel
throughout Western Australia and Jamaica

with a comfort that is unusual for most trips
of this nature. I made last minute changes,
accommodated multiple schedules, and max-
imized my time spent in both countries with-
out constantly worrying about breaking a
slim budget.”

The Dean Rusk International Studies
Program is a valuable asset to the college's
students.

““We have several accounts from which we
make awards,” AJexander said. “In each of
the past three or four years, the Dean Rusk
Program has made about 125 grants.”

Dean Rusk Fellow Ashley Griffith said,
“The program awards about $100,000 in
grants every year for scholarships ranging
from a few hundred dollars to thousands.”

Students should not worry if their propos-
al is not awarded one of the five newer
grants.

“If a student does not receive one of these
awards, he or she will still be considered for
a regular Dean Rusk grant,” Alexander said.

SGA, from page 3

The SGA Efficiency Committee, the
Environmental Policies Committee, the
Faculty/Student Relations Committee, the
Safety Committee, the Internship Credit

Committee and the Transportation
Committee are all products of the internal
reorganization.

The committees strive to achieve short
term goals that make a tangible difference
and also provide the groundwork for long
term endeavors.

The Environmental Policies Committee
worked this year to improve the current recy-
cling program so that it can tackle loftier
goals in the future.

The committee is currently developing a
recycling video for next year’s incoming
freshman class and working with the
Residence Life Office to establish a recy-
cling pilot program putting recycling bins in
all first year students’ rooms next year.

“We cannot gain the support of the
Physical Plant before we, the students, séart
using and taking the current recycling pro-
gram more seriously,” freshman class presi-
dent Richmond Blake ’09 said.

The Arnold administration also focused on
improving campus transportation. According
to Shandley, Arnold worked especially hard
with the Dean of Students Office to restruc-
ture the Vamanos Van program.

Working all summer from Charlotte,
Arnold negotiated a one-year pilot program
with Ragin’ Uptown that eliminated the
shortage of student drivers for the Vamanos
Van.

This spring, the new SGA administration
and the College administrators will evaluate
the feasibility of continuing Arnold’s pro-
gram.

“Ryan came in as an absolute new-
comer to SGA. What he lacked in
knowledge, however, he made up
for with an open communication
style that's accessible to lots of
members of campus.”
--Tom Shandley,
Dean of Students

Arnold also points to his administration’s
success in expanding CatTV and in extend-
ing students’ declining balances to cover
purchases at CVS and at Palermo’s Pizza.

Arnold was pleased with the progress that
SGA made throughout his presidential term.
“IT believe that the administration did an
excellent job of getting SGA on the right
track,” he said. “Now it’s up to the next
administration to step it up and finish what
we started.”
