THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006 7

The Classics Corner: Alfred Hitchcock

By MIKE WELLMAN
‘Arts & Living Editor

Alfred Hitchcock is a name that inspires as
much intrigue as the films he produced.
Renowned for his ability to thrill and enter-
tain, the director unites his films with his
unique visions and techniques. Hitchcock
leads the audience through twisting plots and

moments of terror at an expett pace.

Other Hitchcock trademarks are the use of
MacGuffins and cafmeos; MacGuffins are
plot devices that are not, important to the
audience beyond the fact that 'they push the
characters through the storyline. Hitchcock
also makes a brief cameo in the majority of
his films.

Hitchcock was largely snubbed by the

.Academy of Motion Picture Arts and

Sciences, the group more commonly known
as that which distributes the Academy
Awards.

He never won Best Director, and he only
won one Best Picture with his film
“Rebecca,” though four of his other films
were nominated

“North by Northwest” is one of
Hitchcock’s greatest films. One of his four
films to be named on the American Film
Institute’s list of the 100 greatest American
films, “North by Northwest” tells the story of
an innocent businessman kidnapped under a
mistaken identity.

When he proves to be of no use to his kid-
nappers, they try to kill him, and he only
narrowly escapes with his life.

He spends the rest of the movie assuming
the identity of a dangerous spy and attempt-
ing to clear his name, all while being trailed
‘by the police and bloodthirsty criminals.

Featuring fantastic visuals in a chase scene
that involves a cropduster plane and a fight
on top of Mt. Rushmore, “North By
Northwest” is one of Hitchcock’s most
thrilling productions.

ai

SMITH

A dark and amusing comedy, “Mr. and
Mrs. Smith” begins with a quarrel between a
married couple.

It starts when Mrs. Smith asks her husband
if he would still have married her looking
back on their many years of matrimony. Mr.
Smith answers that he would not, only to
find out later that day that his marriage was
not legal due to unusual circumstances.

Mrs. Smith finds out the same informa-
tion, but when Mr. Smith takes too long to
ask her to remarry him, she throws him out
of the house. The film builds itself around
Mr. Smith’s desperate attempt to win back
his wife, even after she begins to date his
business partner.

The film is funny despite its age, though
not a must-see for those looking for the best
of Hitchcock’s film.

Hitchcock’s take on a perfect murder,
“Strangers on a Train” begins by featuring
the meeting between a tennis star with mar-
ital troubles and a quirky maniac on a train.
The quirky stranger says that to commit the
perfect murder, they should simply switch
places, so that neither could be tied to their
respective crimes. -

The unique camerawork in the film is
truly its hallmark, especially when it follows
the feet of the two strangers as they board
the train at the beginning.

In a truly frightening carnival scene, the
film focuses with terrifying precision on the
silhouette of a man in a suit off in the dis-
tance. Another brilliant scene takes place at
a tennis match, where the heads of all the
spectators move to watch the ball except for
the one staring at the film’s hero.

Yellowcard, from page 6

ity of rock and roll, but in a predictable
style. It sounded much more polished than
some of Yellowcard’s. edgier, earlier
works, making it seem overly constructed.

The characteristic sound of Mackin’s
violin gets eclipsed somewhere in the
process, which also takes away much of
the music’s distinctive quality. When the
song comes to the bridge, the band relies
on an electrical guitar and drum collision
to rise up and reintroduce lead singer Ryan
Key.

Only at the end of the bridge do we
finally get a full throttle form of Mackin’s
violin, but the sound differs from the one
that characterized the band’s other releas-
es. The music coming from his strings has
essentially lost the sweetness of the past.

Additionally, Key’s voice is indistin-
guishable from that of many other musi-
cians who pop up on the rock scene. It
often falls flat and sounds processed, and
he never seems to give himself a chance to
soar. Going into the chorus of the song, the
band sounds like the Foo Fighters, minus
lead singer Dave Grohl.

This song, like much of the rest on the
album, seems to represent Yellowcard’s
transition from the past. One might say that
their sound has matured. If that is the case,
then I find it a bit bland.

All this being said, I can only speculate
at how hard it must be to follow up a solid
album like “Ocean Avenue.” The impor-
tant thing is not to let “Lights and Sounds”
deter you from giving them another
chance. This album, despite its shortcom-
ings, does have some good things to offer.

Though their style transition is awkward
at times, Yellowcard is just a band looking
to make a change. For better or worse,
“Lights and Sounds” is at least worth a
listen.

Student Spec
RENAISSANCE )

PULSED LIGHT HAIR REMOVAL

129 E-Williamson Road
Mooresville, NC 28117

704-799-2843

AND

_Aene Therapy Packages

Have Silky Smooth Skin for Good!!

of

- Offering 202 off Hair Removal

Call Today for your F REE Consultation

“Hair today, gone tomorrow!”

