2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duke, from page 1

will include the town home option. The town
homes will serve as non-senior housing
according to lottery number, which will give
underclassmen rooming options beyond the
standard single and double room.

Although the town home construction
demands a tight deadline, the Residence Life
Office (RLO) said they will be complete.

“We are all expressing great confidence
that building will be done,’ Director of
Residence Life Leslie Marsicano said.

The Main Street Town Homes will house a
total of 32 students in eight two-story units.

In each unit, four students will share two
double rooms and a bathroom on the second
floor of the home. The first floor will consist
of a kitchen with adishwasher, living room,
dining room, second bathroom and porch.

The administration is still discussing the
potential for laundry facilities in the town
homes.

“I’m an advocate of off-campus liv-
ing. I think it provides an opportu-
nity to improve college-town rela
tions.”
--Brad Demeter ‘07

Eight college-owned houses located on
North Thompson Street, Concord Road and
Lorimer Road will also be used to their max-
imum potential. Students can now cluster
with their friends, whereas previously, most
students at the end of the lottery, such as
those returning from study abroad, would
find themselves individually paired with
other students.

While the majority of off-campus housing
is close to the school, students have conflict-
ing views regarding off-campus living.

“Some people don’t have cars,” Nikki
Linn ’07 said. “It’s inconvenient, and it sep-
arates them from the Davidson community.
I think it’s a great opportunity if you want to
live off campus, but it shouldn’t be made a
requirement.”

Others support the off-campus option.

“I’m an advocate of off-campus living,”
Brad Demeter ’07 said. “I think it provides
an opportunity to improve college-town rela-
tionships.”

Plans for new town homes located on the corner of Main Street and Ridge Road.

NEws

"Vdd

Following the renovations, Duke will not .

only include additional student rooms, but
will also house the Dean Rusk International
Studies center.

Sixty-three students currently live in
Duke, but once it is renovated, 100 students
will live in the building.

Two large wings will be added to each side
of Duke, creating a shape similar to Belk
Residence Hall.

The right wing will be reserved for Dean
Rusk; the left wing will consist of rooms in
the form of suites—two doubles comparable
in size to Cannon rooms will share one bath-
room.

Because the site of the building extension
is on a hill, the wings will have basement
floors capable of housing 12 beds and, like
Sentelle, will be accessible by one entrance.

The wings will extend to the street in back
of the building, creating a courtyard in the
middle of Duke overlooked by a terrace on
the third floor.

The terrace can be used for studying and
for activities like small concerts. Two small-
er terraces will be built onto the front of each
wing facing the library.

Marsicano is excited about the terraces.

“I am already planning a band on the large
terrace for the grand opening party,”
Marsicano said.

Duke will also have a kitchen for student
use and a lounge, both located towards the
front of the building.

The Dean Rusk center will have its own
additional kitchen and lounge.

With’ so much building taking place in a
condensed time frame, the college wants stu-
dents to take an active role in making long-
term decisions regarding the new housing.

Several furniture vendors will be present
on the day of lottery doubles sign-up to dis-
play a variety of possible furniture options
for Duke and the town homes. RLO asks that
students give feedback regarding which fur-
niture they prefer.

RLO will conduct Lottery 101: “A Guide
to Getting a Room” to explain the changes in
the lottery process on February 16 at 7 p.m.
in Tomlinson Conference Room. Lottery
numbers will be available on February 20.

Interior and exterior’ views of the town
homes and off-campus houses can be found
on the updated lottery website.

sictosy

LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law Schoo!

Best Lawyen in America ‘84——'06
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Sandy Carnegie
B.A.Daridson College
J-D.University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
83-85; 88'-'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan ‘0S

Mecklenburg County Real Estare
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections,. Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

. Bradberry steps down as

VP of College Relations

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Vice President for College Relations
Kristin Hills Bradberry ’85 stepped down
December after more than 10 years at
Davidson.

A search committee is currently working’

to fill Bradberry’s vacancy.

Bradberry’s decision to leave Davidson
was motivated by her desire to spend more
time with her family.

“Davidson is very family friendly, and
[President Bobby Vagt] was the. best boss I
can imagine in terms of understanding
what’s important in life, but the combination
of the level of responsibility, the commute (I
live in Charlotte) and the notion that it was a
good time to leave all came together to make
me realize it was time for a change,”
Bradberry said in an email.

As Vice President for College Relations,
Bradberry led a 65-person staff in handling
alumni programming, communications and
creating opportunities to volunteer and
invest in Davidson. Bradberry also collabo-
rated with the president, other vice presi-
dents and the Board of Trustees.

Her most recent contribution to Davidson
was her management of the Let Learning Be
Cherished campaign, raising $272 million
and involved more than 34,000 donors.

Campaign money was spent on the John
Montgomery Belk Scholars Program, the
Chambers renovations, the Knobloch
Campus Center, the Alvarez College Union
and Tomlinson Residence Hall.

Director of Development Eileen Keeley
said Bradberry’s contributions extended
beyond her tangible accomplishments. In
2002, Bradberry led an office wide retreat.

“She was a great manager. She led us
through a retreat a couple of years ago where
we came up with working agreements — real-
ly basic things. She [had] everyone who
[worked] at Davidson College review [the
list of agreements], sign [it], return it to her,
and then a post a copy in their office,”
Keeley said.

Bradberry is currently working for the
Arts and Science Council in Charlotte.

“My new job is tp raise funds to support
exciting new cultural facilities, including a
new 1,200 seat theater, a new modern art
museum, a new. facility for’ the Afro-
American Cultural Center and a new. and
expanded Mint Museum,” Bradberry said.

19k COUrLeS WaFC ¢

Kristin Hills Bradberry with Dr. Holmes
Rolston ‘53.

The search committee stopped. accepting
applications on January 20.

Director of Athletics Jim Murphy,
Professor of Psychology Kristi Multhaup,
Professor of Physics Dan Boye, Director of
Residence Life and Associate Dean of
Students Leslie Marsicano, Senior Associate
Dean of Admission and Financial Aid
Kathleen Stevenson and Director of Human

“Resources Carl Sorensen have narrowed

down the list of applicants to individuals

_ Who will be invited to campus for interviews.

After these initial interviews, the commit-
tee will narrow down the list again and will
invite the remaining applicants to campus for
more extensive, full-day interviews.

The committee will then make a recom-
mendation to Vagt, who will then make a
recommendation to the Trustees.

“It’s our goal to fill this position by the end
of March at the very latest,” Sorensen said

Bradberry appreciates Vagt’s involvement
in the selection process. ;

“In deciding to leave Davidson, one.of the
things that was most important to me was
that Bobby Vagt be in charge of picking my
successor. I trust him to pick the right person
to take my place,” Bradberry said.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/4/06

Patterson Court

Disturbance

Officers responded to a request for police assistance at SAE. The two Risk
Managers said they had tried to break up a fight between two students outside the
SAE house. One of the students claimed the Risk Managers “got up in his face” and
tried to pick a fight. The officers separated the two parties and took them to the
Campus Police Office to take down their statements..

2/3/06

Richardson Dormitory

Suspicious Person

A student reported that a suspicious person male had been loitering near
Richardson Dormitory . The suspect was a 6’6” black male wearing a black hooded
sweatshirt and jeans. Reporting officers circled the area, but the suspect was not

located.

2/3/06

Sentelle Dormitory

Vice Complaint

An officer arrived in Sentelle in reference to a call of possible drug use. The offi-
cer noticed the odor of marijuana emanating from a room. All students in the room
admitted to smoking marijuana in the room. The students turned in two pill bottles
“containing a small amount of marijuana, four pipes and a small bong. A search of the
room did not reveal any additional drugs or drug-related items.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

