Staff Editorial

Friend me!

Every Monday and Tuesday night, a dedicated group of 13
editors works hard to finish the paper that is delivered to you
each week. In our cozy office, we bond over late-night que-
sadillas and a mutual love for grammar. Some of us have
even experienced glorious sunrises together. To commemo-
rate our last issue together, the Editorial Board has created its
very own Facebook profile.

Account Info

Name: The Davidsonian Editorial Board

Last Update: May 3, 2006

Basic Info

Interested In: Competent Writers, Whatever We Can Get

Relationship Status: It’s Complicated

Residence: Union 411

Birthday: 1914

Contact Info

Email: davidsonian@davidson.edu

Personal

Interests: printing the news, sofa-cuddling, writers who
meet deadlines, Sunday staff meetings, copy editing,
Pierce’s sense of humor, Quark, Nathan’s baking, Robert H.,
late-night Union Cafe forays, slow dancing, The Whiteboard

Jobs: Being the South’s Foremost College Weekly

Favorite Music: Boy Bands, Disney, Cast Iron Filter,
Shakira, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Kate and Mike’s V-Day
Mix, Bless the Broken Road

Favorite Books: The Associated Press Style Book, The
Davidsonian Code of Ethics

Favorite Quote:

“It is a newspaper’s duty to print the news and raise hell.”
-William Storey

“Tuesday? No, I can’t do anything on Tuesday. I’ve got
Davidsonian.” —Davidsonian Editors

“Seeing Douglas Noreen break the school record in win-
ning the 800 was second only to the birth of my baby broth-
er in the most exciting moments of my life.” —Lance Harden

“If they put up the dough and bake the bread, then sure as
2Pac is dead, them parents are gettin’ those grades.” —Ethan
Case

Friends at Davidson: 0

The Wall

“Liz, Pierce and I aren’t coming to staff meeting. Have
fun!” —Monica

“What are you doing for the Staff Ed this week? I’ve got
a great scoop!” —Brandon

“We need curtains.” —Ruchi

“It’s hot in here.” -Liz

“Good job, you guys are doing great!” —-Amee

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry
Managing Editor
Ruchi-Tarakhia
News Editors ,
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton.& Jacki¢é McKeon
Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Bradshaw
Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter &, Wellman
Yow Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff, Yeake}

Monica Jamouneaur ge" Trumbo

Business, Advertising, and ‘Clgcalatiga Manager

tk

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
May 3, 2006

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR :

A not-so-funny prank

Whether you are aware of it or not, there is a senior prank
here at Davidson that has gone on for some time. Every
Spring, some Davidsonians put together an expedition to
drive the length of the cross country trails in their car. You
may laugh, because I sure did when I first heard of it. You
may think nothing of it. An innocent prank, right?
Absolutely wrong.

Recently, yours truly decided he would be the immature
student that executed the senseless act of off-roading on the
college grounds. This type of joyride may have been a sort
of tradition for some years, but hopefully spreading my story
will put an end to it.

Not being terribly familiar with the territory, I missed a
sharp left turn and hit an owl’s nest and bird-feeder in the
Ecological Preserve. I also bumped into a tree that I don’t
think felt too great for my car. In a matter of seconds, a
laughing matter turned into a very dangerous situation.

Two of my friends that were in the car survived the mishap
without any harm (it wasn’t exactly high-speed). After
spending quite some time struggling and relying on some
assistance to remove my car from the woods, I finally got

back into my room to assess what I had done. Although my
intentions were never to cause any damage, I did just that. I
harmed the Ecological Preserve that Biology students and
professors spend so much time working on. I violated what
essentially serves as the Cross Country team’s home field. I
burdened the Physical Plant with extra work and repairs, and
most regrettably, I sacrificed the health and safety of two of
my very good friends.

Please put an end to this tradition/prank before more peo-
ple learn the hard way like I did: by violating the Codes of
Davidson and harming others’ rights, work and property.

Brian Purcell ‘06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
to the editor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of fewer than 250 words to
davidsonian @davidson.edu. We

reserve the right to edit for content,
brevity and grammar. Anonymous
letters will not be printed.

Stereotypes have no effect.on service

assemble As I prepare myself to vacate
> a my small Richardson dorm-
room, I can’t help but look back
fondly on this past year.

When I finally move my ging-
ham bedding, thousands of polo
shirts and collection of assorted
Andre bottles out of Richardson
318, a few tears might fall from
my eyes.

These tears will mourn what I
leave behind—the aroma of stale
beer, the immovable furniture
that has bruised thousands of
shins before me and the late night drunk visits by people
who are convinced that 318 is THEIR room.

(Actually Ill probably be crying because I have to live
down the hill next year).

ASHLEY SEMBLE

We all take extremely challenging
courses, and occasionally have
the urge to run screaming out

of a test where the letters on the

page seem to form the word
FAIL over and over again, and
we begin to envision ourselves
sleeping on our parents’ couch
into our middle age.

I don’t mind the prospect of living down the hill. Sure, the
heating/cooling systems get their seasons mixed up (who
needs the heat in winter when you can have it in summer?),
and it’s a 15 mile hike in the snow whenever you need to get
anywhere, but all those who reside in these “sophomore
apartments” feel each other’s pain and bond through the art
that is Beirut.

If anything, “down the hill” is a fairly accurate represen-

of luck!

_ al understanding that Davidson

This issue marks the last of the semester. This paper would not be possible without the invaluable
contributions of so many. We would like to thank all of our editors, writers, photographers and

guest contributers for their hard work this semester. And a major thanks to Bill Giduz and College
Communications, whose wonderful photos we could not do without.

We would also like to recognize the hard work of editors Kate Gillespie, Katie Hunter, Mike Wellman,
Halley Aelion; Pierce Tr'umbo and Monica Jamouneau, who will be studying abroad next fall. We will
miss you. And a special thank you to our only senior on staff, Yow! editor Bobby Kenner.

Finally, thanks to our predecessors Brandon Carroll and Amee Patel. From The Davidsonian Code of
Ethics to the SGA Presidential forum, your contributions have left a lasting mark on the paper. Best

tation of why we all came to this small college in southern
North Carolina. Now, before you throw the paper down in
disgust and vow to find and hurt me, allow me to explain
myself.

We all came to Davidson College for our own various rea-
sons, but those who stay and who grow to love this frustrat-
ing school share something unique. No, it’s not STDs, saliva
or terrible grades; at the risk of sounding corny, it’s the mutu-
community in which we
all play an integral part.

We all take extremely challenging courses, and occasion-
ally have the urge to run screaming out of a test where the let-
ters on the page seem to form the word FAIL over and over
again, and we begin to envision ourselves sleeping on our
parents’ couch into our middle age.

We all go to an extremely small school, where we see five
people we know on the way to class. You might even have
the honor of passing the person you made out with right in
front of your ex-boyfriend (who also happens to live in your
dorm) on the dance floor last weekend. If that doesn’t make
you throw up your arms and scream “I LOVE YOU, DAVID-
SON!” at the top of your lungs, I don’t know what will.

We all need to relieve the often unhealthy level of stress
that seems to settle around the campus every other week. I
know that before I came to Davidson, I had heard nasty
rumors that Davidson kids didn’t know how to party and that
everyone at this tiny school was an overachieving nerd.

If anything, we drunkards at Davidson know how to throw
down even better than those who started such nasty rumors.
Two tests and a 10-page paper in one week makes us
Davidson kids fight—fight for our right to party.

We all, as Davidson students, go through the same trials
and tribulations.

I could be hokey and corny and proclaim my intensely pas-
sionate love for Davidson, but I don’t think anyone wants to
read that.

I will, however, assert that what defines Davidson is the
bond it creates. Like the Golden Girls, we live together and
share years of our lives, for better or for worse.

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact
her at assemble @davidson.edu.

-Liz Barry and Ruchi Turakhia

